452 BONE, PATHOLOGICAL CONDITIONS OF. frequently met with in the neck, but when so situated it is easy to conceive how they may occasion dysphagia or ditiicult respiration. We have seen a case where such an abscess occasioned symptoms resembling .those of com- pression of the brain, and we have the notes of one in which death was produced in a very sudden and unexpected manner, the matter having burst into the sheath of the spinal marrow. They may also occur in connexion with disease of the dorsal vertebrae, and within the chest give rise to symptoms resembling the different forms of deranged respiration—tho- racic aneurism—and, under peculiar circum- stances, even of empyema. Such difficulties are now not so likely to occur, as we have auscultation to assist the diagnosis; but we recollect to have seen more than one case treated as a pulmonary affection, the real nature of which was caries of the dorsal vertebrae, complicated with abscess pressing forward within the posterior mediastinum. Abscess in the loins connected with diseased vertebrae is too familiar an occurrence to require any lengthened details. As far as our own observation can guide us, we believe the appearance of abscess as an accompaniment of spinal disease to be almost always a fatal symptom; and when, in the course of a wasting and protracted discharge, spiculae of carious bone, or portions of a sub- stance resembling ivory or enamel are seen to come away, the aspect of the case is still farther formidable-—very few, if any, ever recover under such circumstances. 2. " In other cases the vertebrae retain their natural texture and hardness, and the first indication of the disease is ulceration of one or more of the intervertebral cartilages, and of the surfaces of bone with which they are con- nected."* " There is still another order of cases, but these are of more rare occurrence, in which the bodies of the vertebrae are affected with chronic inflammation, of which ulceration of the intervertebral cartilages is the consequence." We shall now proceed to detail the results of our own observations, in order to see how far they coincide with those of the learned and accurate surgeon already quoted. In two instances we have, in the dissecting room, seen the intervertebral substance eroded at the anterior edge, the bodies of the adjacent bones remaining unaltered in shape or consis- tence, and to every appearance in a perfectly healthy condition. These were, at the time, regarded as specimens of the very earliest and incipient stage of the disease, and altiiough no clue could be obtained as to the history of the cases, it is worthy of remark that not a trace of scrofulous disease could be discovered in any other parts of the bodies. In general, however, it is otherwise. The body of the bone seems to be seized with scrofulous inflammation, and the peculiar ef- fects of this morbid action are produced within it. It becomes softer in consistence, in conse- * Brodie, loc. citat. quence of the absorption of its osseous parti- cles, and a deposition of the cheesy lymph in its stead. At this time, although so soft as to admit of being cut with a knife,, the bone ap- pears unaltered as to size or shape, but its absorbents begin to act upon the ligaments and intervertebral cartilages, and hence is it that the separation and ulceration of these are amongst the earliest appearances. In many instances the connexion between the cartilage and bone is so much impaired, that if we wanted to separate them with a knife, the former would come off in one entire flake. The edges then begin to be eroded and ulcerated, as if gnawed by a mouse; and at this period also the ligaments are often found thickened and softened, and matted up together into a confused and indistinct mass. The body of the bone then becomes carious, and the ulce- ration commences at the anterior part of it: . very rarely is the posterior layer of firm bone, that forms the front of the canal for the spinal marrow, affected; and never does the caries spread to the processes. Up to this period it may be, and often is, a specimen of purely dry caries, being unattended by the formation of a single drop of purulent matter. As the disease proceeds, and the bodies of one or more vertebrae are removed, those which remain approximate more or less above and below: the spinous processes project, and a bending of the body forward is produced. The character of this curve is influenced by the extent of the destruction that has been accomplished within; it is sharper and more angular when the body of one vertebra only has been removed; it is more sweeping and gradual when three or four have suffered. Never, we believe, is the angle so sharp as to permit the denuded surfaces of the vertebrae above and below to come into actual contact, the sound condition of the bony parietes of the spmal sheath effectually preventing this ; and hence, when recovery "takes place, it is not by the adhesion of these surfaces, but by the forma- tion of a quantity of new bone which fills up the vacant space, producing a perfect example of true anchylosis. The developement of such a curative pro- cess as this is scarcely to be expected in a scrofulous system, yet is it satisfactory to know that even under such circumstances the case is not utterly hopeless. We have seen repeated instances of angular curvature without the occurrence of abscess, in patients apparently deeply tainted with scrofula, one of which is so very remarkable as to deserve particular notice, because it illustrates a mode of union that frequectly occurs in scrofulous cases, and because the preparation is in existence to de- monstrate the fact. In July, 1830, a wretched young girl was brought into the Meath hospital with a very acute angular curvature of the dorsal vertebrae. Almost every joint in her body was diseased, and the knees so extensively that the eroded condyles of the thigh-bones were exposed, from the surface of one of which the mud of the street was wiped away after her admission. It need scarcely be added