CIRCULATION. 664 arteries of the extremities is a little later than the beat of the heart on the ribs and the pulse in the arteries in the immediate neighbourhood of the heart. This retardation has of late been more distmctly pointed out by Dr. M'Donnell of Belfast,* and by Weber of Leipsig.f It is much more marked in some persons than in others, and is always most perceptible when the circulation is slowest. With a little atten- tion we can thus observe a distinct succession in the occurrence of the beat of the apex of the heart at the ribs, the pulse in the carotid, facial, radial, and posterior tibial arteries, the interval between each of which, though very small, being yet appreciable by the finger. Weber states that the retardation of the pulse in the foot after that of the beat of the heart amounts to not more than one-seventh part of a second. We have ourselves confirmed by experiments on several individuals the most of these facts relating to the later pulse in the more remote arteries. The cause of the retar- dation is obviously the elasticity and yieldmg of the arterial panetes ; for were the arteries rigid tubes, it is manifest that the impulse of the heart would be felt at one and the same in- stant of time throughout the whole of the branches ; but as these vessels yield to disten- sion, that part of them to which the distending force is immediately applied is first dilated, and this dilatation does not reach immediately the remote parts. The pulse has been correctly compared to the propagation of an undulation or wave on the surface of water; for the successive im- pulses of the heart are first given to the column of blood m the commencement of the aorta; (his column communicates these impulses to the arterial parietes and tends to distend them. The parietes re-act against this distending force and compress the adjoining part of the column of blood, from which the impulse passes to the next part of the aorta; and so the pulse, gradu- ally passing on from the trunks to the smaller branches, becomes less and less perceptible as the force of the heart is equalized by the elastic resistance of the coats of these vessels.]: The pulse is still perceptible in very small arteries : Haller§ states that he was unable to perceive any in small arteries of one-sixth of a line in diameter,—an observation which does not, however, prove the flow of the blood to be uniform or without jerks even in vessels of this size, for Spallanzani || observed pulsations in arteries of this small size; and the microsco- pic observation of the circulation in transparent parts, by Haller himself, Spallanzani, and others, shews that the visible impulse of the * At the Meeting of the British Scient. Associat. in Dublin. t De pulsu in omnib. arter. plane non synchro- nico. Annot. Academ. Leipzig, 1834. I Young's Croonian Lecture on the Functions of the Heart and Arteries, in his Introduction to Me- dical Literature. § Mem. surle Mouvement du Sang. Laus. 1756. Translated. {{ Exper. sur la Circulation, in French, by Tour- des. Paris, An 8. In English, by Hall. Lend. 1801. heart is communicated to the blood in the smallest of those vessels, which have distinctly the characters of arteries. The pulse being nothing else than the beats of the lieart transmitted through the arteries, the consideration of the variations in force or frequency to which it is subject belongs more properly to the subject of the functions of the heart. In this place we shall only mention the mean of the usual number of pulsations of the arteries in the space of a minute as they occur at ditterent periods of life. Child before birth 140—150 Newly-born infant 130—140 Child one year old 120 Two years 108 Three years 95 Seven years 85 Age of puberty 80 Manhood 75 Old age 60—50 d. Vital properties of the arteries.—In the view we have hitherto taken of the arterial circu- lation we have considered the coats of the arte- ries as endowed with physical powers only, and we have alluded to no other phenomena of the motion of the blood than those which appear to be connected with their elasticity. We have now to direct our attention to the more strictly vital and contractile powers of the arteries, which constitute them an independent source of force, and to examine how far the operation of such powers may modify the flow of the blood. We shall here discuss more in detail the questions whether the heart is to be regard- ed as the only source of the power by which the blood is impelled, and the bloodvessels merely as the modifiers or regulators of the force generated by the heart's contraction—or whether the arteries do not, by their own inde- pendent power, contribute to the propulsion of the blood. Physiologists are very much divided in their opinions upon these questions, some regarding the heart as the sole moving power, some suppo- sing the bloodvessels to be the principal, the heart a subordinate cause of motion; and others adopting various modifications of these oppo- site views. Many who agree in considering the heart's action as insufficient to propel the blood through the smaller bloodvessels into the veins, differ as to the cause of the additional power supposed necessary for the maintenance of the circulation ; the larger and middle sized arteries being looked upon by some as highly contractile, and in consequence of this, the agents of propulsion ; the capillaries being re- garded by others as the most efficient promoters of the flow of the blood within the bloodves- sels. We must, for the present, confine our remarks to the first of these, or the opinion that the larger arteries are mainly or in part the agents of the propulsion of the blood. That the arteries have the power of changing, to a certain extent, the quantity of blood which passes through them, and of thus modifying the circulation by their own independent powers, there can be no doubt, from the occurrence of unequal distributions of blood, or of local de-