76 AGE in his career without passing those stages that prepare him for the cessation of his existence ; —what do we gain by such an explanation ? Nothing; for the term vital power which we employ is but a hypothetical cause, or if more closely examined, is scarcely even this ; it is but an abstract term applicable to a number of actions that do not occur in the inorganic world. The vital power of a body is but the collective manifestation of its vital actions, and to say therefore that only a certain quantum of vital power is inherent in it, is but to express in other words the simple fact that those actions are circumscribed. Discarding this explana- tion, shall we say that the fact must be referred to some deficiency in the media of the being's existence; that, although the aliment, the air, the light and caloric are competent to the pro- duction of a certain degree of growth, they cannot extend it, and that, were their conditions different, the animal development would be more perfect. It is easy perhaps to suppose this, but we do not see how it can be proved, nor indeed that existing analogies favour it. On the surface of our globe there is every variety in the temperature, in the humidity, and in the electric conditions of the atmosphere, and every diversity in the articles of food em- ployed ; in more limited spheres there are the greatest diversities in these several respects produced artificially by the various occupations of mankind ; and although we find, both among races and individuals, great varieties of deve- lopment, which may occasionally be traced to some relation with the media in which they live, these varieties are by no means in propor- tion to the differences of the media, and in the majority of cases the former are independent of the latter. In the temperate zone, with a due proportion of animal and vegetable diet, man appears to attain his most perfect deve- lopment, and with however great skill he adapts these circumstances, he never surpasses a certain point, and from what we know of his physiology no great alteration in any one of the external stimuli of his existence could be tole- rated. A different proportion of the oxygen, nitrogen, and carbon in the atmosphere, we know full well to be noxious; a larger or smaller quantity of aqueous vapour suspended in it will occasion many well-known maladies; the same may be said of alterations in the ba- lance of the electricity that surrounds us. Great extremes of heat and cold may be borne for awhile, but it is obvious that they are not so well adapted to a healthy state of the system, and therefore to its growth, as intermediate de- grees ; and consequently it is not easy to con- ceive any degree either above or below these limits consistent even with existence. Fami- liar enough also are we with the effects of full and sparing, of simple and mixed dietetics, and with the fact that between certain well- known bounds lie the salutary quantities and qualities. From all which it appears suffici- ently evident, that we cannot conceive any difference in the amount or properties of the known stimuli of life, that would be more favourable to the growth of man, than those which are to be found in the range of the known variations, whether natural or artificial. From the beginning there must have been established a direct relation between the organization of the body and the outward elements; the latter are nothing but stimulants adapted to co-exist- ing susceptibilities, or to put it more closely, man is not made by, but for or with, the sur- rounding agents; his lungs are fashioned in cor- respondence to the atmosphere which he breathes, his digestive organs to the food that is spread so plenteously before him, and his nervous system to the subtle imponderable agents that play about him ; consequently as his organs only act in concert with, and do not result from the media of his existence, a development be- yond that which he is known to acquire must proceed quite as much from the former as from the latter; and the supposition, the value of which we have been endeavouring to estimate, thus falls to the ground. If man could become a larger, more powerful, or more sagacious animal than he now is, he must not only live in different media, but must possess a different constitution; in other words, the characters that distinguish him as a species must be altered. The question, then, that offered itself remains to our apprehension unsolved by either of the hypotheses. The limitation of man's development is like the definite period of his duration, and a hundred other circumstances connected with his existence, an ultimate fact; no event that we are able to discover intervenes between its production and the will of the Deity. Maturity, though varying with every indi- vidual, may be said to take place somewhere between the ages of twenty-five and thirty. It is a general opinion that it is a stationary con- dition ; that when such changes have taken place in the frame, as render the human being capable of undertaking the various duties and occupations to which adults alone are adequate, there are no further alterations till the period of declining age ; that, in short, growth has entirely ceased. But this idea is not strictly correct, for there is in all probability no period when the system is absolutely stationary; it must either be advancing to or receding from the state of perfection. This is of course more obvious when we know that augmentation of bulk is only a part of that process which per- fects the organization. (See Nutrition.) It is true that at the adult age the determinate height and figure, the settled features, the marked mental and moral character, naturally give rise to the idea that a fixed point has been attained; but a little inquiry soon teaches us that the individual is still the subject of some progressive changes. It is the stature only tliat is stationary, for this depends on the skeleton, which ceases to lengthen before the period we speak of. But the capability of powerful and prolonged muscular exertions increases for some years; there must consequently be a change in the muscular tissue. The intellectual faculties have not attained their maximum, although we