732 CRANIUM. spine divides it in(o lour fossoe, the two supe- rior of whicli are the Jonsir cerebri for the pos- terior lobes of the cerebrum, tlie two inferior, the JlmcB cerebelli, for the hemispheres of the cerebellum ; the former being marked by the convolution of the brain, they are not so smooth as those which lodge the cerebellum. The lower limb of the crucial spine is prominent, and arises by a bifid root from the margin of the foramen magnum; the upper limb is grooved for the reception of the longitudinal sinus, and to its borders the septum cerebri is attached ; this groove is mostly directed to one side or the other, and generally to the right; to the lateral limbs the tentorium is fixed, and the grooves which are on them contain the lateral sinuses. At the point where the trans- verse bisects the vertical portion of the crucial spine, it is very prominent, is called the inter- nal occipital protuberance, ^nd marks the situ- ation of the torcular Herophili. In front of the foramen magnum, ascending obliquely towards the sphenoid bone, and nar- rowing in its ascent, is the upper surface of the basilar process, which is concave from side to side for the lodgement of the pons Varolii and medulla oblongata, and exhibits on each margin a depression (the sulcus basilaris) for the basilar or inferior petrosal sinus. On either side of tlie foramen magnum is a groove which advances from without inwards, and from behind forwards, and lodges the ter- mination of the lateral sinus. The anterior extremity of this groove turns downwards and forms a large notch {the fossa jugular is), which is bounded on the outer side by a strong rough process (the processus jugularis), and on the inner side by a smooth oval eminence which is situated between it and the sulcus basilaris, and below which is the orifice of the foramen condyloideum anticum for the passage of the motor linguae nerve. The external convex surface, in that part which is behind the foramen magnum, is di- vided into an inferior rough, and a superior smooth, triangular portion. The division be- tween the two is marked by a curved line (the superior occipital ridge), which abuts on the petrous masses of the temporal bones, and exhibits in its centre the tuberose process, or the external occipital tubercle, to which the ligamentum nuchffi is attached. From the ridge next to the tubercle the occipito-frontalis and trapezius muscles arise, and, still more outwardly, the splenius capitis and the sterno- cleido-mastoideus are attached. From the tu- bercle to the foramen magnum extends a longitudinal spine, which is bisected in its middle by a second curved line (the inferior occipital ridge), and constitutes, thereby, the external crucial spine. On each side of the spine and between the two ridges, there is a considerable rough depression for the attach- ment of the complexus, and, to the outer side of it, one which is smoother, for the trachelo- mastoideus. Between the inferior ridge and the foramen magnum, there are on either side of the longitudinal spine, indications of the attachment, in succession, of the recti capitis postici minores et majores and of the obliquus cajiitis superior. On the outer side of this region is the sulcus occipitalis, which runs backwards and upwards between the surfaces of attach- ment of the trachelo-mastoideus and the com- plexus, and is formed by the occipital artery. Underneath the anterior half of the margin of the foramen magnum are the condyloid pro- cesses, two elongated articulating eminences, convex in both directions, wider in the middle than at either end, inclined from above down- wards, from behind forwards, and from with- out inwards, and having their internal edges below the level of the external. On the inner side of each process is a rough surface for the attachment of the odontoid ligament; on the outer side is a ridge (the processus lateralis) which ends in the jugular process, and gives insertion to the rectus capitis lateralis; ante- riorly is the anterior orifice of the anterior condyloid foramen ; and posteriorly there is a depression in which is sometimes seen a fora- men (foramen condyloideum posticum) through which a vein of the scalp communicates with the terminal portion of the lateral sinus. In front of the foramen magnum is the under surface of the basilar process, which, by reason of the superior thickness of its an- terior extremity, is not so oblique as it appears on its upper surface. There is a slight tuber- cle on the middle line to which is fixed the middle constrictor of the pharynx, and behind it, on both sides, a transverse line for the su- perior constrictor, between which and the foramen are depressions caused by the recti capitis antici majores et minores. The superior angle of this bone is applied on the junction of the two parietal, and the serrated borders which extend from it to the lateral angles are articulated to the posterior borders of the same bones. The upper angle itself and more than half of the borders pro- ceeding from it, overlap the parietals, but in the remainder of their extent the latter bones overlap the occipital; in each case the arrange- ment being the same as that which exists be- tween the parietal and the frontal bones. From the lateral angles to the jugular pro- cesses, a rough but not denticulated border articulates it to the posterior border of the mastoid portion of the temporal bone. Im- mediately in front of the jugular process is the fossa jugularis, which forms, in common with the temporal bone, the foramen jugulare or foramen lacerum posticum in basi cranii, through which emerge the jugular vein, the pneumo-gastric, glosso-pharyngeal, and spinal accessory nerves. The rest of the border from the fossa jugularis to the anterior angle is in apposition with the petrous portion of the temporal bone, but the quantity of cartilage between them is too large to admit of there being any fixed articulation at this part. The anterior angle itself is truncated and presents a rough quadrilateral surface, which articulates, and, indeed, consolidates itself, at an early period of life, with the basilar process and body of the sphenoid bone. This union is so complete and so similar to the union