ARACHNIDA. 201 Of the external covering or tegumentary system.—Although the external covering of the arachnidans varies in consistence, according to the part of the body which is examined, yet it may be said in general to be more or less soft, rarely acquiring the solidity of the integument of certain insects, and still less the hardness of that of many crustaceans.* Where it is of the greatest consistency it is elastic, of a deep brown colour, and has an aspect analogous to horn. In chemical com- position, however, it is always widely different, as has been proved by the researches of M. August Odier, and some other chemists. It contains, in fact, a substance sui generis, called ' chitine,' which is insoluble in potassa, but, on the contrary, is soluble in waiTQ sul- phuric acid, does not turn yellow with nitric acid, and does not curl up when burnt, but leaves an ash, which, if the part experimented on is sufficiently thick, preserves the form of the organ. The solidity of the outer covering is gene- rally greater on the thorax than on the abdo- men. The genera scorpio, phrynus, theli- phonus, and phalangium, afford an exception to this rule, the rings of the abdomen being distinct and solid, especially on the dorsal aspect. In the spiders properly so called, (aranea,) and in the greater number of the mites (ucari), the skin of the abdomen is very soft, coria- ceous, papiraceous, or even membranous, transparent, and susceptible sometimes of be- ing greatly extended. It is on this account that the abdominal segment of the body shrinks and loses its form after death, and from the transparency of the integuments the same arachnidans present during lifetime the various markings and lively colours which depend on a kind of pigment situated in the interior of the body. The head, as we have remarked in our ex- position of the characters of the class, is always consolidated with the thorax; this is readily ascertained to be the fact in scorpions and spiders, and in order to express this dispo- sition, which obtains also in many of the Crustacea, the two united segments are termed ' cephalo-thorax;' the term abdomen is applied to the part properly so called, and thus the body of the arachnidans may i)e divided into two parts. The abdomen may be either sessile or pediculate, i. e. it may either inclose at its anterior margin the posterior part of the thorax, as in the scorpions, or it may adhere to the thorax by a very circumscribed part of that margin, as in the spiders properly so called. Anatomically speaking, the abdomen has a very simple stmcture: it is formed of annular segments sometimes distinct and hard, as in the scorpions; sometimes blended together and soft, as in the spiders and mites. The other division of the body or cephalo- thorax is not so simple. To facilitate the study * This composition being precisely analogous to that of the integnnnents of insects, we shall treat of it in the article relating to these animals. 79. of this part it is necessary to consider the cephalic portion separately from the thoracic division. This it is easy to do, where, as in many cases, the junction of the two parts is perfectly distinct, and made obvious by the ex- istence of a furrow along all the whole superior part of the line of union, (see the traces of it in the thorax of a pholque, pfiokus rivulatus, Jig-79.) But in every case the head(«) is recog- nizable by constant characters: it supports the eyes and all the pieces belonging to the oral apparatus, while the thorax (i), on the contrary, gives \^ f insertion to the four pairs of legs, which on account of their ex- treme length are repre- sented in the figure as Pholcus rhntlatw. truncated. The head is often as narrow as the chest, abruptly truncated anteriorly, and terminated by a point posteriorly, so that it appears by its backward prolongation to separate the right from the left side of the thorax, and to be placed between them like a wedge, (as in the pholcus.) The suture is very close, and sometimes so far effaced that it is no longer possible to decide where the head ter- minates and the chest commences. We have already observed that the head sup- ports the eyes on its upper part, and has the oral instruments attached to its lower surface. These consist, first, of a pair of mandibles or forciples; secondly, of a pair of maxilla:; thirdly, of a sternal labium. The number of annuli or segments which enter into the composition of the head of an arachnidan may yet be determined at some future period : we have made some attempts to unravel this subject, but our observations are not yet sufficiently matured to permit us to decide so difficult a question. Our researches on the thorax of articulate animals have led to more decisive results, which we shall now expound, but for the complete understanding of which we must refer the reader to the article Insecta, where a more general theory of the thorax, and a description of all the pieces that enter into its composition will be given. In the arachnidans many of these pieces are entirely wanting; and their thorax is consequently more simple than that of insects : it is even more simple than the thorax of crustaceans^ to which, however, it bears a great resemblance in many points. If, for example, we take a large spider, as a mygule avicularia, and strip off the hairs which clothe the thorax, we shall easily perceive a plate, or plastron, interme- diate to the right and left series of legs. This plastron is the sternum, or, to speak more cor- rectly, the union of several sternums, which, were it not for this union, would manifest themselves as four distinct pieces; that is to say, corresponding in number to the pairs of legs which arise from them. This sternal plas-