ARTICULATION. 250 intended to obviate the ill consequences which must have resulted from the violent application of the neck of the femur against the bony mar^^in of the acetabulum: for, where the margin of that cavity is ligamentous, viz., at the notch on its inner side, this fibro-cartilage does not exist. c. The most remarkable and beautiful variety of this structure belongs to the third class. It consists of fibro-cartilaginous laminss, generally of considerable thickness, which intervene be- tween two bones and adhere intimately to each. Examples of it are to be found between the bodies of the vertebra, (intervertebral sub- stance)—between the pieces of the sacrum in early life—between the sacrum and coccyx, and between the pieces of the latter—also, be- tween the ossa pubis at the joint called the symphysis pubis. In this class of fibro-car- tilages too, we may place that which is situ- ated between the scaphoid and lunar bones in the carpus. It is evident that these fibro-cartilages are useful, not only as very powerful bonds of union, but also as elastic cushions placed be- tween the bones to prevent the concussion which must necessarily result, did the unyield- ing bony surfaces come together with any de- gree of force. No where is this so beautifully exhibited as in that chain of bones which forms the spinal column in the mammiferous vertebrata, the strength and flexibility of which result from the fibro-cartilaginous discs, which, placed between the bodies of the ver- tebree, are commonly called intervertehral car- tilages. As to the structure of articular fibro-cartilage, we can distinctly observe, without any process of dissection, that it is compounded of fibrous tissue as well as of cartilage. As these fibro- cartilages generally assume more or less of the circular form, we find that the fibrous tissue is most abundant towards the circumference, and that the cartilage is most manifest at the centre. In the intervertebral substance, the fibrous tissue is arranged in concentric laminee, placed vertically behind one another. Each lamina is composed of a series of interlacing fibres, which have intervals between them; these intervals, as well as those between the lamina, are filled by cartilaginous tissue; towards the centre the fibrous laminae diminish in number, the inter- vals become large, and at length the fibrous tissue disappears in toto; hence the graduajly diminishing density towards the centre, which characterises the intervertebral substance. In fishes, there is such a diminution of density, that the central part is fluid, but here the sur- faces of the vertebree are excavated, not plane as in the mammiferous vertebrata, and the cha- racter of the articulation is thereby materially altered. The incompressible central fluid forms a ball, round which the cup-like excavations of the vertebrse play, while the fibro-cartilage at the circumference is made available in the la- teral motions of the spine. Of the three varieties of fibro-cartilage above enumerated, the menisci possess the most car- tilage in their structure, and the circumferential fibro-cartilages the greatest quantity of fibrous tissue. It may be questioned whether that peculiar structure which intervenes between the base of the skull and the condyle of the lower jaw in the whalebone whale, (balana mi/sticetus) be- longs to the class of fibro-cartilages, although it seems to bear a nearer resemblance to that than to any of the other structures employed in the composition of joints. The following is Sir Everard Home's description of it.* " Be- tween the condyles of the lower jaw and the basis of the skull is interposed a thick sub- stance, made up of a network of ligamentous fibres, the interstices of which are filled with oil, so that the parts move readily on each other. The condyles have neither a smooth surface nor a cartilaginous covering, but are firmly attached to the intermediate substance, which in this animal is a substitute for the double joint met with in the quadruped, and is cer- tainly a substitute of the most simple kind." 4. Ligament.—TUe term ligament, as it is used by systematic writers on descriptive ana- tomy, is by no means confined to portions of the " fibrous system" of Bichat, although all the articular ligaments (properly so called) be- long to that system. Weitbrecht comprehends under this term all fibrous structures in and about joints, including the fibrous sheaths of tendons, and also all membranous folds, which are in any way concerned in maintaining soft parts or viscera in pi-oprio situ. 1 apprehend, however, that a better definition of articular ligament could not be given than the following, which is that of Weitbrecht, the words printed in italics being added,—" Ligamentum est par- ticula corporis, plerumque albicans, interdum flava, ex fibris flexilibus, interdum elasticis, plerumque parallele concretis, in substantiam tenacem fibrosam, ruptioni fortiter resistentem, et solidam compacta, eum in finem creata ut duffi pluresve partes quae alias divulsae per se subsisterent, adunentur atque in situ respectivo determinentur."t Most of the articular liga- ments are employed to unite the bones which compose a joint; they also will be found uniting some of the inlerarticular cartilages within joints, or passing from one part of a bone to another (forming the " mixed" class of liga- ments of Beclard); and such is the vagueness with which names are applied in descriptive anatomy, that folds of the synovial membrane often receive this appellation without the least title to it. Articular ligaments are divisible as regards their forms into two species, the capsular and the funicular or fascicular.^ Capsular ligaments are generally cylindrical in shape, or rather barrel-shaped, being wider in the centre than at the extremes. Each ex- tremity envelopes one of the bones that enters into the formation of the joint, so that the arti- cular cavity is completely surrounded by and enclosed within the ligamentous capsule. Liga- * Comp. Anat. vol. i. p. 83. t Syndcsmologia, <5 5. } Ucclard, Anat. Gen.