620 CILIA. Fig. 301. in one of them, the D. cornuta, the ciliary motion was very strong on the club-shaped feelers; perhaps it may be the same in all. I also examined the Tritonia and Eolis belong- ing to this order, and found the ciliary motion in corresponding parts. b. Cyclobranchiata.— In the Patella or Lnnpet (fig. 302, representing the under surface), die gills form a series of simple Fig. 302. on each side of it, Fig. 303. diminishing in size as they approach its point. The currents on each of the gills are directed towards its apex, and also pass between the secondary laminae over their surface and along their edges : a, a, are the gills ; b one of the gills magnified, showing its laminse; c the same viewed endwise. The arrows mark the direction of the currents. c. Pectinibranchiata.— The common Buc- cinum (fg. 304) may serve as an example of Chiton. iuccinum Undatum. Patella. B. Portion inclosed between the lines c and d, magnified to show a, a, the branchial la- minae, and b, b, the circular border of the mantle. laminae (a, a) attached within the circular border of the mantle (b, b). The currents pass inwards from the edge of the mantle to tlie gills, then over the surface and along the border of each branchial lamina, from its outer or lower to its inner or upper edge, as indicated in the figure by the arrows. In the Limpet the ciliary motion is also found on the inner surface of the alimentary canal. In the Chiton or Oscabrion (Jig. 303), the only other genus of this order, the gills are situated as in the Limpet, but are of a more complex structure. Each consists (at least in the species examined by me) of a triangular lamina, with a series of smaller laminae set this order. The gills, as accurately described by Cuvier, are attached to the roof of a bran- chial cavity or recess formed between the man- tle («, a) and upper part of the body (6) in the last turn of the shell, and opening anteriorly by a broad slit. At the left end of the slit the edge of the mantle is prolonged in the form of a groove (c), which prolongation is called the syphon, and is lodged in a corresponding groove of the shell. On detaching the roof of the branchial cavity at the left side, and reflecting it (as represented in the figure), we find attached to it, first, the gills, consisting of a short double row (d) and a longer single row (e) of laminae, the latter being larger; secondly, to the right of the gills, the so-named mucous laminae (/,f); thirdly, still more to the right, the rectum (g). The water enters by the syphon, and issues at the right extremity of the branchial slit. The ciliary motion and currents take place on the gills, mucous laminae, and rectum, and on