623 CILIA. motion of the other set consists in a succession of undulations, which proceed in a uniform manner along the sides of the bar from one end to the other. It might be very easily mistaken for the circulation of globules of a fluid within a canal, more especially as the course of the undulations is different on the two sides of the bar, being directed on one side towards the edge of the gill, and on the other towards the base. But besides that the undulations continue for some time in small pieces cut off from the gill, which is incon- sistent with the progression of fluid in a canal, the cilia are easily distinguished when the un- dulatory motion becomes languid. When it has entirely ceased, they remain in contact with each other, so as to present the appearance of a membrane, {d, d, fig. F.) Besides the two rows of cilia just described on each side of the bars, others are placed in a less regular manner on their external and internal borders. The in- ternal (/(, fig. C) are exceedingly small; they extend upon the cross slips, {i,fig. C). Those on the external borders are very numerous and thick-set, and of considerable size, especially on the extremity of the bar at the edge of the gill (c, fig. C); their points are directed to- wards the edge of the gill. It is probably by the agency of these last-mentioned cilia that the particles of food or other foreign matter are conveyed along the surface of the gill to its edge, and then onwards to the mouth, while the others may serve principally to force the water through the interstices of the bars into the space inclosed between the layers, and from thence out at the excretory orifice. As in other instances, detached portions of the ciliated parts excite currents in the same direction as before their separation, or swim through the water in the opposite direction. It is very remarkable that when the parts are immersed in fresh water, the currents and mo- tion of the cilia are almost instantaneously stopped. The ciliary motion is equally apparent on the respiratory organs of the Oyster, River-mus- sel, and other bivalve MoUusca which have been submitted to examination. Purkinje and Valentin pointed out its existence also in the alimentary canal of the River-mussel, which observation I have confirmed, and I have found the same to be true of the Sea-mussel. The impulsion appeared to me in both instances to be chiefly directed onwards, that is, towards the anus. c. Tunicata (AscidiaJ.—In the paper pre- viously referred to, I stated that I had not been able to perceive the ciliary motion in the Ascidia, but added that the observation seemed inconclu- sive, as the specimens examined had been some time out of the water. Since then I have seen the phenomena as distinctly in the Ascidiae as in other Mollusca. The observations were made on a common species found adhering to rocks in the Frith of Forth at low water-mark, and as far as they go they agree with those lately made by Mr. Lister,* on a small aggregated * Phil. Trans. 1834, p. 378. species, the substance of which being nearly transparent enabled him to trace the currents more completely. For this reason it seems preferable to borrow his description. The annexed figures (A and B) represent Fig. 306. one of these Ascidis on its peduncle, with the fopening of the mouth (g) and the funnel (_/") in front. The outer covering f is a tough coat («), lined internally with a soft sub- stance or mantle {b). A great part of the interior is occupied with the branchial sac (c), whose cavity term inates upwards at the oral opening, and is closed at the bottom. It is united to the enve- lope or to the mantle above and behind; the juncture (e, e,) beginning in fiont of the oral open- ing, extends backwards on each side of it, and then downwards along the middle of the back («', fig. A.) A vacant space if,J',) is left between the sac and mantle at the sides and front, which ends in the opening of the funnel. The sac opens infe- riorly into the CESophagus (/i), which leads to the stomach (i), the intestine passing forwards and opening by the vent (k) into the funnel. On its sides and front the branchial sac is per- forated by four rows of narrow vertical slits or spiracles (/«, m), and through these the water, which flows constantly in at the mouth when its orifice is open, appears to be conveyed to the vacant space (/') between the sac and mantle, and it then escapes at the funnel. Tiie sac seems extremely thin between the spiracles, but their edges are thickened, and they are lined with closely set cilia, which, by their motion, cause the current of water. When they are in full activity, thfe effect upon the eye is that of delicately toothed oval wheels, re- volving continually in a direction ascending on