CONCHIFERA. guished into anterior and posterior, and they are frequently unequal. If we now turn to the particulars of the external surface of the shell of the conchi- fera, we shall find many points worthy of being attentively noted. In a very great numoer this surface is covered with a thin and frequently deciduous lamina of a sub- corneous and often filamentous substance, to which the title of epidermis has been given. This matter is secreted by the most external edge of the mantle, but observers have not yet stated in what manner the secretion takes place, and what means the creature employs to make this epidermis adhere so strongly to its shell. The epidermis often occurs both of considerable thickness and extent (Glycimeris, Solemya), and tlius constitutes an important portion of the shell. In other genera the epi- dermis appears to be wanting entirely, and in others bears some resemblance to velvet of thicker or thinner pile, and then consists of a large quantity of short hair, standing erect, and more or less closely set. In some species these hairs become more scanty, but increase greatly in length, as we perceive in certain Archidoe and Bucarides. When it occurs in certain species the successive growths of which are manifested by irregular ridges, the epider- mis is irregularly squamous. The epidermis is insufficient to furnish any generic character that can be depended on ; for there are certain extremely natural genera in which some species are covered with it whilst others are entirely naked. The other particulars of the external surface of the shell are soon glanced at: they consist of str-ia, ridges or 7-ibs, and furrows, which, according to their direction, are distinguished into lungitudinal when from the hook they run towards the inferior margin, and transverse when ihey follow an opposite course, that is to say, when they run from before backwards; they are oblique, again, when they follow a line in any way inclined to the longitudinal or the transverse. These stria, ridges, and furrows, mav cross one another, and the shell is then trelliscd. They may also severally present a great variety of particular appearances, the de- finitions of which may be found in the ordinary elementary works on Conchology, but which may all be learned much more rapidly from even a very moderately attentive study of the shells themselves than from any written description, however minute and accurate. Internal surface.—The inner surface of bi- valve shells is commonly smooth and polished, and often presents different colours which de- pend on the secretion of that part of the man- tle which produces the solid laminae of the inner surface. The greater number of shells are white within, and many of them are na- creous or like mother-of-pearl. Mother-of- pearl would appear to be the consequence of a molecular arrangement of the calcareous matter intimately united in a constant ratio with the animal matter by the combination of which the shell is formed. The pro- portion of the two substances docs not ap- pear to be the same in the non-nacreous and the nacreous shells; there are some which afford a much larger proportion of calcareous, and others which yield a much larger propor- tion of animal matter when analysed than is usual. Naturalists are now generally aware of the experiments, an account of which is to be found in the Philosophical Transactions, from which it appears that the nacreous lustre is owing to the decomposition of light by an infinity of asperities of excessive minuteness which beset the surface of the shell. It has, indeed, been found possible by means of an impression from a mother-of-pearl surface taken in sealing-wax especially, to transfer the power of exhibiting corresponding phenomena to the surface of the wax.* There is a variety of characters exhibited by the interior of the valves which it is of con- sequence to be familiar with. In shells which have belonged to dimyary mollusks, two muscular impressions of variable depth are constantly to be found in the interior. Some- times they are so superficial that they escape an examination which might even be charac- terized as minute. One of these impressions is on the anterior side of the shell, the other on the posterior. They are genei'ally sub- rotund ; sometimes, however, they are elon- gated, which serves as an announcement that the muscles were flattened. In some genera these muscular impressions are of a particular form, as may be observed in the Lucina for example. It is a circumstance worthy of ob- servation that the muscles of the animal shift their place and come forward in the shell in proportion as it grows, and it might have been concluded, a priori, that this could not be otherwise, when the mode of increment pecu- liar to the class is taken into consideration. On escaping from the ovum, a conchiferous mollusk is already provided with its shell, of course of very small size, and its two adductor muscles; and the relations of these muscles to the shell and the other internal organs are the same as at every subsequent period. When the animal has attained to some lines in length, and by the lapse of time to much larger di- mensions, did not the muscles undergo a gradual displacement the shell would be found as thin at the summit as it was on escaping from the egg, and the muscles prolonged into the interior of the hook. Now, not only does the shell go on increasing in thickness and the hooks fill up, but observation shows that the adductor muscles always preserve the same relations and the same proportions. To study in the best possible manner the successive dis- placements of the muscular impressions, the best mode is to saw a fossil oyster-shell length- wise in a line passing from the summit through the centre of the muscular impression. The impression will then be seen beginning towards * [VVe have heard this point disputed. The power which the sealing-wax had certainly gained in some instances of e^hibiling the mother-of- pearl lustre was afterwards shown to depend on the wax having detached a minute film from the sur- face upon which it had been pressed,—En.]