AVES. 337 miliary pile (cumulus) of white granular sub- stance, which is surrounded by a whitish zone, and is continuous witli the granular stratum applied to the internal surface of the niembiana vitelii, but not adherent to that membrane. The common envelope of the germinal vesi- cle, cicratricula, and yolk, is called the mejn- hrtinu vitelii. It is extremely delicate and transparent, without any perceptible organi- zation, and forms an entire or shut sac. it is at first scarcely distinguishable from the stra- tum of granules forming the periphery of the yolk, and at this period the germinal vesicle closely adheres to it. Subsequently, however, a separation is effected by an interposed stra- tum of granules. The external membranes of the ova are thick in proportion to the vitelline membrane, and can with difficulty be detached from without lacerating it. The part of the ovary in which the ovum is lodged is termed the mly.x (a, d, Jig. 185). It consists of two membranes; the external one is highly vascular; the internal one is somewhat smooth and pellucid, and is beset with equidistant, minute, and apparently glan- dular bodies. As the ovarian ovum advances to maturity, a pedicle is developed from which the calyx with its contained ovum depends, and which permits it to be brought in contact with the infundibular orifice of the oviduct (e, Jig. 185). The external vascular tunic of the calyx then becomes covered with a rich profusion of vascular twigs (l>,fig. 185) distributed in a pectinated manner, and converging towards a white transverse line, called the stigma (r, Jig. 185). This stigma begins to appear when the ova have attained the diameter of an inch, in the form of a whitish streak, which con- tinues to increase in breadth, and the membranes at that part to be thinned by absorption until tliey readily yield, and are rent by the compressing force of the infun- dibular opening of the oviduct, when the ovarian ovum escapes, and is received into the efferent passage. nie memijrana vitelii is at this period sufficiently strong and ductile to permit the ovum being compressed. into an elliptical form to facilitate its passage through the con- tracted part of the oviduct (J'), but during this process Purkingc conjectures that the germinal vesicle of the cicatricula is ruptured and its pellucid contents diffused. It is certain at least that it can no longer be de- tected either in the cicatricula of the ovum of the oviduct, or in that of the excluded egg. The further changes which take place in the generative product, now no longer forming a part of the maternal system, will be described in the article Generation; and we resume the consideration of the female organs. The calyx of the ovum, when emptied of its contents (d,Jig. 185) collapses, shrinks, and is ultimately absorbed, not forming a permanent corpus Inteum, as in Mammalia. In Birds that have but few young at a brood, as the Eagles or Doves, the number of enlarged yolks is correspondingly smalf; but in ihe more prolific species, as the Common I'owl, they are more numerous. The number of young pro- duced may be, by this means, in some degree inferred, if the female of a rare species happen to be killed during the breeding season. The oviduct commences by the infundibular orifice, where its parietes are very thin; as it descends, these increase in thickness, and the efferent tube gradually acquires the texture and form of an intestine. Like this, it is attached to and supported by a duplicature of perito- neum called the mesometrium, but which also includes muscular fibres, to be presently de- scribed. The oviduct in ti;e qu'escent state is generally straight, but at the period of sexual excitement it is augmented in length as well as capacity, and describes three principal convolutions be- fore reaching the cloaca. The lining membrane presents a different character in different parts of the oviduct; at the infundibular extremity it is something like the mucous coat of the intes- tine, then it becomes rugous, and afterwards, at the part where the egg is detained and the chorion calcified, it presents a number of long close-set villi (k,Jig. 185). This part is by- some anatomists termed the uterus, but by a loose analogy, as the ovum is developed out of the body of the parent. The rest of the canal, which, pari niodo, is termed vagina, opens into the urethro-sexual segment of the cloaca, anterior to the termination of the left ureter, and its termination {f,fig- 164, 176) is provided with a sphincter. The mesometry (m, Jig. 185) differs most from the mesentery when the female organs are in full sexual action. It presents at that period a true muscular structure. It is divided into two parts, one superior, the other inferior. The inferior mesometry has its point of attach- ment at the lower part of the uterine portion of the oviduct, and forms a somewhat dense and cruciform plexus of muscular fibres ra- diating from that part. The transverse fasci- culi are spread out on either side and around the uterus. The lower fasciculus surrounds the vagina more laxly, and contributes to the expulsion of the ovum. The upper fasciculus spreads out like a fan upon the oviduct from its insertion into the uterine portion to the com- mencement of the infundibulum. The superior mesometry commences by a firm elastic ligament, which is attached to the root of the penultimate rib of the left side, whence the muscular fibres are continued to the upper part of the oviduct, upon which they form a delicate muscular tunic, whose fibres embrace the oviduct for the most part in the transverse or circular direction, except at the infundibular aperture, where they affect the longitudinal direction, winch enables them to dilate that orifice. Longitudinal muscular fibres begin again to be distinctly seen in the uterine portion of the oviduct, whence they are continued along the so-called vagina. An in- ternal stratum of circular fibres is also situ- ated immediately behind the calcifying mejn-