CARTILAGE. 497 animal sensibility is exceedingly low, scarcely perceptible, yet it probably does exist, and will manifest itself whenever any cause is operating upon them which might destroy their texture. VVe may, indeed, cut an exposed car- tilage without pam, and the violent pressure it undergoes in a sound joint is unheeded. But the former is a kind of injury from which car- tilage may be said to be totally exempted, and the latter is that for which it is peculiarly adapted. In either case sensibility would be useless or inconvenient. Let but a foreign body however get into a joint, between its cartilages, such as might disorganize them, and then an alarm is set up too great to be attributed to the synovial membrane alone, and depending, we may suppose, in part at least, on the cartilage itself. C. Accidental CARTILAGE.—By this name we designate the cartilaginous concretions which are occasionally found in situations where they do not ordinarily exist. They present them- selves in several organs, under various forms, and in different stages of development. Laennec divides them into perfect and imperfect;* but it is not easy to point out any line of distinction between these two classes; they differ only in degree, the one passing gradually into the other as its development becomes more complete. We rarely, indeed, meet with accidental car- tilage which deserves to be called perfect ; in one part it is fibrous, or of a dense cellular nature, in another it is cartilaginous, while a third portion of the same piece is passmg into the osseous state. The forms and situations in which they occur, will permit an arrangement of them under three heads :— 1. The imulated or loose cartilages, which are found either (a) in joints or iU) in serous sacs. a. Tiiose of the joints are rounded or ovoid, usually flattened, sometimes lobulated, always smooth, polished, and lubricated witli synovia, frequently osseous in their centre. They vary in magnitude from the size of a mustard-seed to that of an almond; and in one instance JVIr. S. Cooper found in the knee a concretion of this kind, which was as large as the patella. They also vary considerably in numbers ; Haller saw twenty in the articulations of the lower jaw, and Morgagni met with twenty-five in a knee-joint. Their most usual seat is in the knee, but they have been found in the hip, jaw, elbow, and wrist. They are commonly " loose," moving freely in the cavity, but some- times connected to the synovial sac by slender membranous attachments. With respect to the origin of these bodies various opinions have been entertained. Haller and Keimarus supposed that they were frag- ments of the original cartilage, accidentally de- tached. Cruveilhier found fifteen of them in a hip-joint some years after it had been injured, and conceived that he saw an exact correspon- dence between them and certain depressions in the cartilages of that articulation. Bichat con- jectured they might be altered portions of the ^ Diet, dcs Sciences Med. VOL. I. synovial membrane. According to Johnllunter, they may have had their origin in a coagulum of blood poured into the joint from an injured vessel, and there becoming organized. This coagulum would, he thought, assume, as in all other situations, the peculiar organization of the parts in its immediate vicinity. Laennec and Beclard were of opinion that they might be formed outside the synovial membrane, and push it before them so as to form a pedicle, which in some cases remained, but more gene- rally was ruptured. Tiiis opinion Laennec sup- ported by observations made on similar sub- stances in serous sacs, where he traced them through all the degrees of their development, from the incipient stage, in which they formed a slight projection behind the membrane, to the period when they became perfectly isolated bodies. Sir Benjamin Brodie, whose autliority on this subject is of so much weight, remarks, " It is generally supposed that these loose bodies have their origin in coagulated lymph which has been effused from inflammation of the inner surface of the synovial membrane, and which has afterwards become vascular. In the majority of cases, however, which I have met with, no symptoms of inflammation pre- ceded their formation; and hence it is probable that, in some instances, they are generated like other tumours, in consequence of some morbid action of a different nature. They appear to be situated originally either on the external sur- face, or in the substance, of the synovial mem- brane ; since, before tliey have become de- tached, a thin layer of this latter may be traced to be reflected over them."* When inflammation is of long standing in a bursa mucosa, it is not unusual to find in it a number of loose bodies, of a flattened oval form, and of a light brown colour, with smooth surfaces, resembling small melon-seeds in ap- pearance. There seems to be no doubt that these bodies have had their origin in the coagu- lated lymph effused in the early stage of the disease.f From the resemblance which these concretions bear to loose cartilages, we might infer that they both have had a similar origin ; but, as there can be no doubt that loose car- tilages sometimes begin to be formed outside the synovial membrane, we must not conclude that this is the only mode. From the evidence before us, therefore, and from observations made on the second species of accidental cartilage, to be mentioned by-and- bye, we are inclined to admit two distinct sources from which these loose cartilages may have commenced. One, a deposit in the cel- lular tissue outside the synovial membrane; the other a deposit within this membrane. The ori- gin of both being lymph, which becomes cartila- ginous, and often proceeds to an osseous stale. b. Insulated cartilages are sometimes found in connexion with true serous cavities. They are seldom larger than a pea, rounded, floating, or attached by a pedicle to the inside of the * Pathological and Surgical Diseases of the Joints. Load. 1834. t Idem. •2 K