AVES. tlie fore-arm, just below the articulation in company with the nerve, and running along the inferior edge of the ulna, receives a branch from between the basis of each quill, is con- tinued along the ligament which sustains the rest of the quills to the extremity of the wing, receiving many veins of tlie joints from the opposite side of the fingers. Besides these large superficial veins of the fore-arm, there appears to be one, and sometimes two, small accompanying veins to the ulnar and interos- seous arteries (<;). " The inferior vena cava (k), before it enters the auricle (a), receives as usual the hepatic veins (s); these are numerous, and open into the cava as it passes behind tlie liver, or more frequently within the substance of that viscus in the back part. We have reckoned in the Cock two large and two small hepatic vems from the right lobe, and one large branch from the left lobe, besides six minute veins, which came indifferently from both lobes. " The trunk of the vena cava is very short in the abdomen; it separates into two great branches analogous to the primary iliac veins {t), opposite to the renal capsules; these turn to each side, and experience a very singular dis- tribution. On coming near the edge of the elvis each of these two veins forms two ranches; one of which collects the blood of the lower extremity, as hereafter described; the other passes straight downwards imbedded in the substance of the kidney, and admits the several emulgent veins, which are very large, and are seen to pass for some way obliquely in the kidney before their termination. Some- times the emulgent veins are double, as in the figure, (m). The descending branch of the iliac also receives the ovarian veins, and when arrived at the lower end of the kidney, divides into three branches; one transmits the blood of the muscles of the tail and parts adjacent; another accom- panies the ureter to the side of the rectum, and is distributed about the anus and parts of gene- ration, answering to the htrmorrhoidal veins; the third {v,v) passes inwards to the middle line between the kidneys, and there unites with the corresponding branch of the opposite side.* The vessel which is in this manner produced («) receives all the blood of the rectum from the anus to the origin of the ccEca, anastomosing below with the branches of the haemorrhoidal veins ; and at the upper part of the rectum, it becomes continuous with the trunk of the veins of the small intestines (j), forming the most remarkable anastomosis in the body, both on account of its consequences and the size of the vessels by which it is effected. By means of this communication, the blood of the viscera and the external parts of the body flows al- most indifferently into the vena cava and vena portae (w); for the anastomosing vessels are suf- ficiently large to admit the ready passage of a considerable column of blood in proportion to the whole mass which circulates in the body * It is these branches which Professor Jacobson supposes to carry venous blood into the kidneys, for the purpose of supplying material for the uri- nary secretion. of the bird; for instance, in the Goose the com- municating veins of the pelvis are equal in size to a goose-quill, and in the Ostrich and Cassowary they are as thick as a finger. The advantage which appears to result from this remarkable union of vessels, is the prevention of congestion,, or the overloading either the heart or liver with blood, as the one organ has the power of relieving the other. It would seem from this, as well as several other pro- visions of the same kind, that the circulation would be more liable to obstruction in birds than other animals.* It is difficult to say, how- ever, to wiiat cause such an effect ought to be ascribed. Is it from the compression sus- tained by the heart and other viscera, by means of the air-cells during respiration ? or, is the mode of progression by flight capable of impeding the motion of the blood ? " The anastomosis of the pelvic veins, in being the means of conveying common venous blood into the liver, goes to prove that the blood of the vena portae does not require any peculiar preparation by circulation in the spleen or other viscera, which has been conceived as necessary by some physiologists to fit it for the secretion of bile. " The vena porta (w) belongs almost exclu- sively to the right or principal lobe of the liver. It is formed by three branches. The splenic vein is the smallest, and is added to the vena portae, just as it penetrates the liver on the side of die hepatic duct. The next is made of two branches; of which one returns the blood of the posterior gastric artery, and therefore may be called the posterior gastric vein ; and the other is furnished by the pancreas and duode- num, and therefore is the pancreatic vein. The third and largest branch of the vena portae is the mesenteric vein (.r), which not only collects the blood from all tlie small intestines, but likewise receives the inferior mesenteric (z), or vein of the rectum, which forms the com- munication that has been described with the pelvic veins. " The veins of the left lobe of the liver are furnished in the goose by those which accom- pany the anterior gastric artery, and some branches from the head of the duodenum. " Theanteriorgastricvcins produce two small trunks, which enter at the two extremities of the fissure, in the concave surface of the left lobe of the liver, as it lies upon the edge of the gizzard; die veins from the head of the duodenum furnish a small vessel which passes backwards to penetrate the posterior part of the fissure in the left lobe. " In ihe cock the veins that the left lobe of the liver derives from the anterior gastric, are more numerous than in the goose. " The veins of the zone of gastric glands, and of the lower portion of the cesophagus, do not " Besides their anastomoses the principal vis- ceral veins are remarkable for their large size in the Diving Birds. Cuvier (Lemons d'Anat. Comp. iv. p. 274) has especially noticed the dilatation of the inferior cava of the Grebes (Colymbus), which reservoir he compares with that formed by the hepatic veins in the Seal.