309 AVES. in consequence of the connections of the ossi- culum, is a tensor, and draws the membrana tympani outwards. It is counteracted by two small tendinous cords that are extended to the internal parietes of the tympanum. The labyrinth of the ear of birds consists of the vestibule, the three semicircular canals, and the rudiment of the cochlea. These parts are included within the bones of the cranium, which form a dense vibratile case (d) around the whole internal ear. The vestibule is small in proportion to the other parts, but is more elongated than in the cold-blooded Reptilia. The semicircular canals have been termed by Scarpa, from their gradation in bulk, canales major, minor, and minimus. The largest is most superior, and has a vertical position* (h, fig. 141). The smallest is situ- ated horizontally (k,k). The canalis minor or second canal (i) is vertical, it ascends upon the horizontal canal, and opens into its side at m. They contain corresponding tubes of vascular membrane, and they also possess en- larged ampulla; (/), on which the nerves are distributed in the same manner as in mam- malia. The place of the cochlea is supplied by a short obtuse osseous conical tube (n, fig. 141), as in the Crocodile, very slightly bent, with the concavity directed backwards. Its interior is occupied by two small cylinders of fine car- tilage, each a little twisted, and united by a thin membrane at their origin and termination. They proceed from the osseous bar, which separates the two foramina, corresponding to the foramen ovale and rotundum. The sulcus, which is left between the cartilages, is dilated near the point, and accommodates the same branch of the auditory nerve, which is sent to the cochlea in mammalia. This nerve spreads in fine fila- ments upon the united extremity of the carti- laginous cylinders. Tlie tube is divided by the presence of the cartilages into two scalce, the anterior of which communicates with the vestibule and is not closed; the posterior scala is shorter, and communicates with the tym- panum by the foramen rotundum, which is closed by a membrane. Besides these parts the cochlea still contains a trace of the cretaceous substance which forms so conspicuous a part of the organization of the internal ear in Fishes. The Struthious birds manifest their close relation to the Reptilia by having the tube corresponding to the cochlea, very small in proportion to the other parts. The seventh cerebral nerve is received into a fossa, and there divides into five branches; one is the tacial, or portio dura, and the others are sent to the semicircular canals and the tube. The facial nerve receives a filament from the par vagum, which traverses the ear, and is afterwards distributed to the palate. Comparetti has described two canals leading * In the Insessores this canal is generally the smallest of the three. from the labyrinth of birds, which correspond with the aqueducts of the mammalia.* Organ of Smell.—The close affinity subsist- ing between the cold and warm-blooded ovipara is no where more strongly manifested than in the olfactory organs. The external nostrils are simple perforations, having no moveable car- tilages or muscles provided for dilating or con- tracting their apertures, as in mammalia. The extent of surface of the pituitary membrane is not increased by any large accessory cavities, but simply by the projections and folds of the turbinated bones. The olfactory nerve is sim- ple, as in the Tortoise, and passes out of the skull, as before observed, by a single fo- ramen. The external nostrils vary remarkably both in shape and position, and serve on that ac- count as zoological characters. They are placed at the sides of the upper mandible in the majority of birds, but in some species are situated at or above the base of the bill; the latter is the case in the Toucans; in tlie Ap- teryx Australis they are found at tlie extremity of the long upper mandible. In general they are wide and freely open to facilitate the inhalation of air during the rapid motions of the bird, but sometimes they are so narrow that, as in the Herons, they will scarcely admit the point of a pin; and in the Gannet they have been supposed, but erro- neously, to be wanting altogether.f In the Rasores the nostrils are partially defended by a scale. In the Corvidie they are protected by a bunch of stiff feathers directed forwards. In the Petrels the nostrils are produced in a tubular form, parallel to one another for a short distance along the upper part of the mandible, with the orifices turned forwards (a, fig. 142.) The septum narium is, in general, complete, and is partly osseous, partly cartilaginous. It is perforated in the Swan just opposite the external nostrils. The surface of the septum is very irregular in this bird, and the pituitary membrane which covers it is highly vascular. The outer side of each of the nasal passages gives attachment to three turbinated laminae. The inferior one is a simple fold adhering to the septum narium as well as to the side of the nose; the middle one is cartilaginous and is the largest. It is of an infundibular figure, and adheres by its base to the septum of the nose, and externally to the cartilaginous ala or side of the nostril. It is convoluted with two turns and a half in the Anserine Birds, but in the Grallatores it is compressed and forms only one turn and a half. The superior tur- binated lamina fm ?n, fig. 140) generally presents the form of a bell; it is also cartila- ginous, and adheres to the ethmoidal and lachrymal bones. It is hollow, and divided into two compartments, which are prolonged in a tubular form ; the internal one extends to * See Cuvicr, Le5ons d'Anat. Comp. torn, ii., and Macartney in Rees' Cyclopaedia, Art. Birds. t Sec Blontague's Ornithological Dictionary.