CAVITY. 502 inferior boundary of the epigastric region, and projecting partly into that region and partly into the umbilical below, the transverse arch of the colon runs with a slight curve concave backwards and downwards. The position of this important portion of the great intestine is always lower in the abdomen of a subject thus opened than it can possibly be during life. In fact, when the abdominal wall is unimpaired and the usual compression is maintained, the stomach and colon must be in very close appo- sition with each other, so that it must be diffi- cult, if not impossible, to make pressure from without on the one without affecting the other nearly to the same degree. The arch of the colon is loosely covered on its anterior surface by two laminae of peritoneum, which descend from the greater curvature of the stomach and entering into the umbilical region are reflected upwards after a descent as far as the lowest jiart of that region, forming a curtain which covers the convolutions of the small intestine beneath the transverse arch of the colon. This curtain is the great Omentum or Epiploon, (Omentum majus,) which, in the natural con- dition of the parts during life, there is every reason to believe is closely applied to the an- terior surface of the small intestine; much variety, however, may be observed as to the extent of its relation to this portion of the intestinal canal, and it is difficult to account for this variety. Thus we sometimes find the in- testine uniformly covered by this membrane more or less loaded with fat, descending as low as the upper outlet of the pelvis ; this may be regarded as the normal state in the adult. But at other times we find the omentum so crumpled up or contracted, that the small intestine is completely exposed, and it is only by pulling down the omentum from the arch of the colon towards which it is folded up or crumpled, that we can form an estimate of its extent. Again, in other cases we observe that it is only long enough to descend halfway or a little lower over the surface of the small intes- tine. It is said to have less extent in females who have borne many children than in any others; I cannot confirm this statement, inas- much as I have not unfrequently seen it of its full dimensions in such subjects. In the na- tural state of the parts, then, the whole of the central portion of the umbilical region is oc- cupied by the omentum, forming a moveable curtain over the anterior surface of the con- volutions of the jejunum and ilium. The iliac region of the right side is occupied by the coecum or caput coli, and in the lumbar region of the same side the ascending colon is visible, sometimes when distended projecting considerably, at other times so contracted as to appear sunk towards the posterior wall of this region, and to allow of being overlapped and concealed from view by some of the convo- lutions of the small intestine. In the corres- ponding regions of the left side the remaining portions of the colon are seen, and they too are very frequently, if not generally, closely applied to the posterior wall: in the lumbar region the descending colon is much more frequently in a contracted than in a distended state, and in the iliac region, not occupying it to the same extent as its fellow is occupied by the coecum, we find the sigmoid flexure of the colon winding its curved course over the psoas muscle, and sinking into the pelvis to assume the name of rectum. The lower convolutions of the small intestine invariably fill up the superior outlet of the pelvis, and are found to a greater or less extent in that cavity, in pro- portion as the bladder and rectum are empty or the reverse. Such being the position of the parts as they appear when the anatomist lays open the ab- domen in a recent subject, we proceed now to examine what parts are found in each com- partment of this cavity, and the relation which they bear to each other. We may observe, in passing, that there cannot be much difference in the position of the abdominal organs during life, even in the varied attitudes of the body, from that which we find them to possess in a body recently dead. Making allowance for the pressure which is maintained upon them by the abdominal parietes, it is obvious that the position of each organ during life will be higher in the abdomen than that which it occu- pies in the dead body; all the organs are more firmly applied to one another and to the pos- terior wall of the abdomen. It is not, however, unimportant to bear in mind that such is the nature of the contents of the hollow abdominal viscera, and such the rapidity with which they become accumulated, that changes of relation may be rapidly effected. Thus the stomach, or any part of the intestinal canal, may by a rapid accumulation of air or any other matter within it, occupy a much more extensive portion of the abdo- men than it usually does in the natural state. This is allowed by the extraordinary com- pressibility of the other viscera, a com- pressibility which is every day exemplified in pregnancy, aud in cases of ovarian dropsy, of ascites, &c. 1. T/ie epigastric region.—The right extre- mity of this region or the right hypochondrium is occupied almost entirely by the liver, which is connected with the diaphragm and anterior wall of the abdomen by the folds of perito- neum which form what are called the ligaments of the liver. When the left lobe of the liver is raised up, we see the lesser or gastro-hepatic omentum extended between the lesser curvature of the stomach and the transverse fissure of the liver. A defined margin terminates the gastro-hepatic omentum on the right side, just adjoining the neck of the gall-bladder: if the finger be pushed underneath this margin from right to left, it passes through an opening which leads into the cavity of the omentum, and if continued downwards behind the stomach will separate the laminae of the great omentum. This opening is commonly known under the name of the Foramen of Winslotv: the lesser omentum bounds it in front, behind it lie the supra-renal capsule, the venacava ascendens,and the psoas muscle, covered by a lamina of perito- neum which ascends towards the diaphragm,