394 BLADDER, ABNORMAL ANATOMY. Certain portions of the parietes of the organ are in such cases unprovided with the muscular fibre necessary to enable them to offer the usual resistance, and a similar effect is pro- duced to that which I have already described, the mechanism being somewhat different. These sacs may attain great size, even supe- rior to that of the bladder itself; commonly the point by which communication with the bladder is maintamed is only a narrow neck, and in consequence of this circumstance the organ has occasionally been described as dou- ble, triple, and so on. It is always easy to determine whether it be really so or not, first, by examining the parietes of each, and, secondly, by ascertaining the points at which the ureters are implanted. In the first case we shall find only one of these compartments invested by a muscular tunic : in the second an ureter has never yet been known to pene- trate directly the adventitious cavity. There is scarcely any point of the surface of the bladder in which such a state may not be produced, but there are certain regions where the affection is much more frequently met wjth than others. They are most commonly formed at the lateral parts, or at the summit, near the insertion of the urachus. Occasionally many of these sacculi are found in the same bladder.* A species of sacculi or appendices may, however, be produced by an extension, at a given point, of the whole of the vesical tunics; and even these may be a consequence of re- tention of urine, but more frequently of the sojourn of a stone, which forms a cell. Some examples of this species are given by Morgagni.f A woman, two years before her death, introduced into the urethra " a long hair pin ;" this instrument slipped from her grasp and passed into the bladder, where it became arranged transversely, so that whilst the point rested upon the left, its head rested on the right side of the organ. The head became incrusted with calcareous matter; a stone of the size of a nut was thus formed, which was contained in a quadrilateral sac produced by the extension of the whole of the tunics of the bladder. Cells or cysts may be otherwise formed at the expense of the vesical parietes. Calculous concretions may be formed in the kidney, and may pass unobstructed through the ureter into the bladder; but if the magnitude of the stone be disproportioned to the capacity of the canal of the ureter, it may sojourn at any point of the continuity of this canal, or at the point where it terminates in the bladder. If also the cal- culous matter be abundant in the urine, it will be deposited upon this nucleus, which will more or less rapidly augment in volume, and will be impacted at or near the point where it may have acquired this augmentation. The first author who speaks in a clear and precise man- ner of this affection is the celebrated Pierre * Heister. t De^ed. &c. ep. xlii. art. 18. Franco.* Since Franco, it has been described by by many others, particularly by Alexander Mon- rof and Iloustet.J The existence of this affection is certainly not frequent, but its occasional occur- rence is amply proved: formed in the way I have described, these calculi occasionally glide between the mucous and muscular tunics of the organ by means of an opening which they form at the point where the ureter obliquely pierces the bladder, instead of entering the bladder by the natural channel. The volume of these cysts is never very considerable, for such calculi do not acquire anything like the volume of those which are commonly found moving freely in the cavity of the bladder. The reason of this is ob- vious ; they are not exposed to the action of any considerable quantity of urine, and they cannot consequently receive a large accession of calcu- lous matter. Covillard§ and Garengeot|| have seen them of the size of a hen's egg, but such cases are rare. Commonly they are very little removed from the insertion of the ureters. The reason of this is not, however, that which was assumed by Littre,1[ because the contraction of the muscular fibres is made towards the fundus, and that in consequence the calculus would be forced towards that region, but by reason of the resistance offered by the membrane of the cyst by which they are surrounded. CHANGES OF CAPACIXy. The bladder may suffer certain modifications of capacity as consequences of disease. It may become so distended as to contain nine pounds of urine (in puella pro hydropica habita, Koenig)** novem chopines ab ischuria, La Motte;)tt or even twelve pounds, Felix Pascal: or it may becorrte so diminished that its volume shall not exceed that of a small walnut. In 1764, M. Portal found at Montpellier, in the dead body of a woman aged sixty, the bladder so small that its volume did not exceed that of a hazel-nut. Decrease.—In persons who pass urine fre- quently, the bladder is small; still more so in those whose kidneys do not perform their func- tions properly. It is small in those cases of irritation by which frequent contractions are excited. Lithotomists have frequently remarked that in calculous patients the bladder closely embraced the stone. Morgagni, X\ in opening the body of a girl of fourteen, found the bladder adherent to the parietes of the abdomen imme- diately above the pubis, and so contracted around a needle, which had been introduced sixteen months before her death, that this viscus could scarcely have contained anything more. * Traite des hernies, chap. xxxi. p. 107, Lyon, 1561. t Essays and Observations of the Medical So- ciety of Edinburgh, vol. vi. p. 257. t Mem. de I'Acad. des Sciences de Paris, ann. 1702. « Obs. 11. jl Mem. de I'Acad. de Chir., t. i. p. 411. 11 Mem. de I'Acad. des Sciences, an 1702. ** Lith. spec. Epist. 11. i \ Traite des Accouchmens, Obs. 44. XX De Sed. ep. xlii. art. 20.