ANIMAL. 128 the foi mer of any thing like those central organs found in the latter, which, from the interior of the body, and generally from the mesial plane, send oft'radii of communication to every atom of the organization, and prove the media that unite their several and often widely separated parts into a whole. We discover nothing like prolongations from central organs—from a heart, an artery, a stomach, and a spinal cord or ganglionicsystem,amongvegetabies. Hence the independence of the several parts of vegetables one upon another, hence then- susceptibility of being multiplied by cuttings, and even of some species arismg complete from their leaves. A third and very important peculiarity in regard to the mode in which the vital processes are performed in the animal and vegetable kingdom is that many take place with con- scioumeas or knowledge of their occurrence, in the one, whilst they all occur unconsciomli/ in the other. In vegetables the whole of the acts whose sum constitutes their vitality are perfectly irresistible, and take place in them without their knowledge, and uninfluenced by their will. A great many of the vital acts, in- deed, take place without consciousness among animals also, such as the circulation of the blood, the digestion and assimilation of the food, &c., but the moment the animal passes the sphere of its individual existence, whenever it has to act beyond itself, we find conscious- ness of the action superadded to the capacity to act. The very lowest animals select their food, search for and appropriate their aliment as it presents itself to them ; the most perfect vege- table, on the contrary, absorbs irresistibly, and without perception or will, the materials brought into contact with its roots in the earth, and its leaves in the air. The same wide differences are apparent in the act by which the species is continued: animals search for, and, by an inherent virtue denominated instinct, implying consciousness, distinguish the other individual of opposite sex, of which they have need in order to procreate their kind; in vegetables, on the contrary, all is passive ; the pollen or fecundating powder is projected or falls upon the pistillum, or is even left to be brought into contact with this part by accident, without participation in the act, without consciousness of or will in its performance. These two last named manifestations, the one subservient to the preservation of the in- dividual, the other to the continuance of the spe- cies, are accompanied with such circumstances in animals as presuppose in them other two peculiar faculties : these zxe perception and the power uf lucomotion. To preserve themselves as individuals and as species, they required powers which should make themacquainted with and enable them to establish relations between their own bodies and the world beyond them. By the faculty of perception, which may be taken as synonymous with sensibility in its widest acceptation, an animal is made aware of his individual existence, as well as of that of the material universe without him. This faculty also takes cognizance of all the internal sentiments, feelings, or desires of which by his constitution he ii susceptible, and which are always m harmony with tlie part he is destined to play 111 creation. Sensibility may therefore be defined: the faculty by which impressions from without as well as sensations, emotions, and intellectual acts from within are perceived. The organ of this faculty is by universal con- sent admitted to be the nervous system. The faculty itself, as the above definition indicates, is susceptible of-being considered under two heads : as the impressions perceived or percep- tions come from without, or as they emanate from within. The organs of the senses are the media through which external impressions reach the percipient principle which resides in the brain and medulla oblongata in the higher animals, the nervous ganglia in the lower, and these same parts are the instruments or elabo- ratories of the internal sensations. Both of these kinds or modes of perception were alike necessary to the beings endowed with them. The external sensations are the watchmen of the system, admonishing animals of the pre- sence of the objects they require for their pre- servation ; the internal feelings, in like manner, are centinels which admonish them of their wants and lead to the employment of the organs by which these may be supplied. By the faculty of locomotion, again, an animal accomplishes all the promptings of his inward nature; he places himself in relation with the beings and the things which he is ad- monished by his instincts or internal faculties are necessary to him for his preservation as individual and continuance as species. Made aware of his wants by perception, by the fiiculty of locomotion he is enabled to minis- ter to them. These two powers, let us ob- serve, always exist together; the one, indeed, necessarily supposes the other. Sensibility or perception is the monitor, locomotion the agent. VVidiout perception locomotion could have sub- served no end ; without some capacity of loco- motion perception would have been a vain in- heritance. Vegetables evidently possess no power of locomotion analogous to that inherent among the higher animals,—where the seed falls there the plant springs, there it attains maturity, and there it dies. Neither do they manifest any thing like sensibility in outward act that can be ascribed to volition or consciousness: their nature, in fact, made perception unnecessary to them; and having no power of locomotion, it would have been useless in the two great acts by which organized beings minister to their pre- servation as individuals and to their existence as species. Still it is impossible to deny every thing like capacity of outward motion to vege- tables. Although they have no power of trans- porting themsehes over the surface of the earth or through its waters like animals, many of them exhibit motions in their leaves and flowers in relation with the state of the atmosphere, and the diurnal revolution of the earth ; the sexual organs in several species move the one towards the other; and about the foot-stalks and petioles of the mimosa pudica and other plants we observe particular organs that con-