CARNIVORA. 479 others. The coecum exists, but is very small and short in the cats : f,^^'. 200 shews that of the Lion.) In Fig. 200. the dot;s it is spi- ral. The whole canal is almost destitute of vul- vula coiiniventes, nor is the large intestine tucked up into sacs as in other orders. The musteltda: generally have no caciun nor vaivula coli. A short comparative view of the structure thus hastily sketched, with that of the digestive system in the typical herhivora, the ruminant animals, will not be uninteresting. The Car- nivora feeding on aliment which requires but little elaboration to convert it into nourish- ment, the whole process of digestion appears to be as rapid as possible, and we find that every part of the organisation is admirably adapted to this object. The strength of the jaws, the form of the teeth, the structure of the maxillary articulation are all contrived for preparing the food by simple division. The stomach is sim- ple and almost straight, the intestines short, and without any structure to retard the passage of the food. In the ruminantia, on the contrary, the jaws are much elongated, the molar teeth flat and formed for affording the greatest pos- sible extent of triturating surface, the maxillary joint allowing of the most extensive lateral mo- tion, the stomach complicated, and a second and more complete mastication is performed after the food has been long macerated in the paunch. The intestines are exceedingly long, (in the ram twenty-eight times the length of the body,) very large, and tucked up into folds and sacs throughout their whole length. Here every thing is arranged for the thorough com- minution and maceration of the food, and for the greatest possible retardation of its passage through the body, as well as for an immense extent of absorbing surface for the extraction of every particle of nutritious matter. Tlie liver in the Carnivora is deeply divided into lobes, which vary in number in different species. Thus in many of the plantigrades there are five, as the brown bear, the coati, and the racoon ; in the otter also, and in the martens and generally in the dogs there are the same number. The Badger has but four. The cats generally have from five to seven, though that of the jaguar has but four, and that of the lynx eight. Tliis numerical variation appears, tlierefore, to have no reference to any physio- logical law, nor to any peculiarity of habit. The hepatic ducts offer some peculiarities worthy of notice. In the cats there are always several, which correspond with the different lobes of the liver. Before the ductus com- vrunis opens into the duodenum after passing the muscular coat of die intestine, it forms a considerable enlargement, divided by an in- ternal contraction into two cavities, into the first of wliich the pancreatic duct opens. In the dog the ductus communis enters the intes- tine with one of the pancreatic ducts. In the otter, the common duct forms a second reser- voir near the duodenum. The gall-bladder exists in all the Carnivora. It varies in some measure in form, being py- riform in most, elongated and almost cylin- drical in many of the mustelida, and rounded in the bear, the racoon, and some others. It is of great size in several of the plantigrades. The pancreas is similar in its general struc- ture to that of the other mammij'cra. It varies in form, but not in any way that can be sup- posed to give it a peculiarity in function. The pancreatic ducts vary also in number and in the situation at which they open into the liver. In some instances, as in the cats, the pan- creatic and common biliary ducts are united and enter the intestine at one orifice, though this circumstance is not uniform in the genus, nor even in all individuals of the same species. As a general rule in this order the ducts of these two important glands terminate together. The spleen requires also to be merely glanced at, as its characters and situation do not ma- terially differ from those in the other orders of the class. It is generally elongated and narrow, and either flattened or somewhat pris- matic. The chyUferous system.—The chyle in the Carnivora has always been remarked for its whiteness and opacity, a circumstance which greatly facilitates the tracing the course of the lacteals in this order, and which in fact gave rise to their discovery in these animals before they were seen in man. The inesenteric glands are united either into one large mass only, as in most examples of the order, into two as in mustcla, or the larger substance is associated with several smaller ones, as in the cats, the otter, the seal, and some others. This glan- dular mass has been termed Pancreas Asellii, from its having been erroneously mistaken for a pancreas by that anatomist. The thoracic duct in the dog is double, and in the Sea Otter it has been found by Sir Everard Home that two ducts go from the receptacuhim chyli to form this duct, which in its course sometimes divides into two, three, or four, again uniting at intervals. Organs of circulation.— The heart and blood- vessels offer but few peculiarities in this order worthy of particular notice. The heart varies but little in form; its parietes are remarkably strong in the larger cats, in the lion particularly. The general structure of this viscus does not differ materially from that of the other mam- mifera. There is, however, a question of some interest which has been often debated ; this is, whether the foramen ovale and the ductus arteriosus remain pervious in the seals and the otter. The testimony of Cuvier and of Blumen- bach goes to prove that, at least in many in- stances, these openings are closed. Cuvier states it to have been so in a seal, and Blumen- bach says that this is its general condition. On tlie other hand Sir Everard Home has given two examples in which \he foramen ovale remained pervious in the sea otter; Blumen- baeh also states that he possesses the heart of