246 ARTICULATION. connexion with the superior powers of loco- motion afforded by these appendages, the sexes are separate, and the organs of vision are well developed, and often highly complicated. With the exception of some genera, as the myriapoda, in which the body is divided into a number of nearly equal segments, and of the aracbnidu and many Crustacea, in which the head and thorax are blended together, the body of the condylopes of Latreille is divided into three principal parts, viz., the head, which bears the antennae, the eyes, and the mouth; the thorax, which supports the feet and the wings, when the latter are present; and the abdomen, which contains the principal viscera. These segments present different degrees of hardness in the different classes of condylopes, being most flexible in the arachnidans, firmer in the insects, and calcareous in most of the crustaceans. The origin of the insections or articulations of the body which form so marked an external character of these animals, is as follows :— The integument is composed of two layers or pellicles, viz., the epidermis and the coriura, and is originally of equable consistence, and presents an uninterrupted continuity, save by some slight transverse superficial wrinkles. The epidermis subsequently becomes solidi- fied, in arachnidans and insects, by the super- addition of a peculiar substance termed chitine, and in crustaceans by a calcareous deposition, so as to be divided into bands or rings. As the external development proceeds, these epidermic pieces are detached posteriorly from the inferior pellicle, or corium; and the intervals of the segments remaining membranous, and preserv- ing their flexibility, yield readily to the various movements and inflections of the body. The 11 Id class of articulate animals or In- sects (Insecta), are either myriapod orhexapod. Most of thelatter are furnished with wings, which they acquire at a certain age, after undergoing metamorphoses varying in kind and degree. In every state they respire by tracheae, or elastic vessels which receive the air by stigmata, situ- ated along the sides of the body. A dorsal vessel propels the circulating fluid, which is afterwards diffused throughout the cellular tissue of the body. They have conglomerate or compound eyes, and antennje. IV. The Arachnidans (Arachnida, Spiders, Scorpions, &c.), are octopod and apterous; they have no antennae, and have simple eyes. Their circulation is effected by a dorsal vasi- form heart which transmits arterial branches, and receives the returning blood from veins. Their organs of respiration vary, some pos- sessing true pulmonary sacs which open upon the sides of the abdomen, others receiving the air by trachese, like insects. In both cases, however, the air is respired by lateral orifices or true stigmata. V. The Crustaceans (Crustacea) have never less than ten feet; they have two compound eyes, and also antennae, which are generally four in number; their blood, which is white, is circulated by means of a muscular ventricle situated on the back. They respire by means of gills, and have no stigmata, or spiracles on the surface of the skin. In the Articulate sub-kingdom, as in the ver- tebrate, there may be traced one general plan of structure pervading all the classes, but with such variations in it as are, in each case, de- manded by the particular exigencies of the individual to which it is applied; but these variations are of such a nature, that a gradation of complexity or perfection may be followed through all the organic systems. With regard to locomotion, we commence with a class (the Cirripeds) as fixed and immoveable as the polypes and sponges of the Acrite sub-king- dom; and afterwards trace a series of forms adapted first to slow and tortuous reptation ; next to swifter progression, as creeping, run- ning, or leaping; and, lastly, to a rapid flight through aerial space. Generation, in like manner, is effected, in the lowest class, without the intercourse of separate individuals; afterwards by the reciprocal im- pregnation of co-equal hermaphrodites, and, lastly, as in the vertebrate division, by indi- viduals of distinct sexes. The perfection of the nervous system results from the approximation of many separate gan- glions into fewer masses of nervous matter. The organs of the senses also augment in number and complexity. The Articulata present, in the organs of the vital functions, as strongly marked differences as are met with in the vertebrate animals. With respect to the sanguiferous system, a gradation may be traced from a circulation in closed vessels to a diffused condition of the nutritious fluid ; and a corresponding pas- sage from the articulata which respire by means of circumscribed branchiK, to those in which indefinitely ramified tracheae carry the air to all the parts of the body. The amount of respiration thus produced occasions the same effects here, as in the Vertebrate sub-kingdom, and the Insects thus constitute, as it were, the Birds of the Articulate division of animals. (Richard Oiuen.) ARTICULATION (in anatomy), synony- mous joint. (Gr. apGpoy. Lat. articulus, arthrosis, junctura. Fr. articulation. Germ. Articulation, Gelenk. Ital. articolo). The power of motion, to an extent however limited, seems to be inseparable from our idea of an animal, and in looking through the animal series we find none which do not appear to be endowed with this power whether for the pur- pose of progression, or simply of altering the po- sition or condition of some part of their bodies with respect to the others. The organic structure which IS the immediate agent in this motive power (the muscular fibre), is one and the same throughout the whole chain of animals, va- riously modified according to the degree and force of the motions necessary for the particular individual. The mechanism by which this structure acts upon the different parts of the body varies considerably, and increases in complexity as the forms of the animals them-