AMPHIBIA. 93 still further illustration of the proximity of this class to the fishes. The lower jaw consists of three distinct pieces on each side, an anterior, a lateral, and a posterior or articular portion. The anterior bone supports the teeth in those genera which have teeth in the lower jaw, and unites with its fellow at the symphysis. In frogs the lower jaw is devoid of teeth, but they are found in tlie upper jaw, bordering the in- termaxillary and the maxillary bones; and the vomers are also furnished, each with a trans- verse row of teeth; but in the salamander, the menopoma, the proteus, and others, they are found occupying the margin of the lower jaw. In the toads there are no teeth in the lower jaw, but the edge of the jaw-bone is serrated. The second bone of the inferior maxilla occupies the side, and is larger even than the former. It has at the posterior part a coronoid process, behind and within which is placed the third bone, which forms the medium of articulation with the cranium. It is to the OS hydides that the principal interest attaches in the present class, as it is that bone which undergoes the most remarkable changes in its form and relations during their transforma- tion, passing from the office of supporting the branchial organs into a true os hyoides, and thus offering, as Cuvier has beautifully shewn, an elucidation of the true nature of this ap- paratus in fishes. As this bone, however, has a direct relation with the respiratory functions, I shall explain these changes while treating on that part of the subject. The spinal column varies exceedingly in the different forms of the amphibia. In the highest form the vertebras are fewer than are found in any other animals. In the common frog Fig. 16. there are but nine, and in the pipa only eight. Of the nine vertebrae in the frog, the first, the atlas, «, has no transverse processes ; there are two articular surfaces situated anteriorly, by whicli it is articulated to the two occipital condyles. In the seven following vertebrae the anterior articular surfaces of the bodies are concave, and the posterior convex. Tiiis con- vex tubercle, which enters the concavity of the next vertebra, consists of the intervertebral car- tilage converted into bone. In the tadpole condition of the animal (and this remains per- manently the case in the perenni-branchial forms, as the menobranchus, the proteus, &c.) this intervertebral substance retains the soft con- sistence which characterises it in fishes; and, as in that class, it is contained in the circum- scribed cavity formed by the cup-like hollows of the two articular surfaces of contiguous vertebrae. The elongated fish-like form of those amphibia wliich retain their branchiae throughout life, requires that this structure should also be permanent; and we have thus another beautiful example of that perfect chain of organisation which is manifested by this class of animals, from the fish upwards to the reptilia. The vertebrae of the adult frog have long transverse processes {fig. 16, V), but are wholly destitute of ribs—a class of bones which would be utterly useless in the particular modes of locomotion to which these animals are restricted, and the absence of which implies a peculiarity in the act of respiration, which will be described hereafter. The spinous pro- cesses are very short; the articular are oblique, the posterior of each being placed above the anterior of the following one. The last or sacral vertebra has large transverse processes (fig. 16, c) directed a little back- wards, to which the ilia (fig. 16, d) are at- tached; and to the body of this vertebra is united by two tubercles, a long single bone, extending backwards to above the anus. This bone (fig. 16, e) is considered by Cuvier as a second sacral vertebra ; but by Schultze, Altena, Dr. Grant, and others, it is regarded as the coccyx. The vertebral canal occupies the anterior third of a carina or crest, which runs along the upper surface of this bone, diminishing gradually in its course until it wholly disappears. The spinal column in the other orders of the class differs in a remarkable degree from that which lias been just described. In the salamander there are thirteen dorsal, two sacral, and about twenty-five caudal vertebrae, which in the genus molge or newt are increased to upwards of thirty. In these the anterior surface of the body is convex, and the posterior concave, a contrary an'angement to that which occurs in frog. The transverse processes are directed a little backwards, each, excepting the atlas, supporting a small rib, which is scarcely curved. The menopoma has a similar arrangement. In the silken are found forty-three vertebrae in the trunk, and forty-four or more in the tail. They all retain in a great measure the form of those of fishes and of the tadpole of the higher orders of this class, particularly in the existence of the intervertebral cavity or double cone, formed by the apposition of two hollowed surfaces of their bodies, and filled by a semi-cartilaginous mass or intervertebral substance. Eight only of the vertebrae, commencing with the second, bear ribs, which are extremely small, and in fact merely rudimentary. In the tail the trans-