700 CONCHIFERA. A remarkable phenomenon is observed in a great many of the Conchiferous mollusks : the eggs on escaping from the ovary, instead of being cast out alto;Tether, are deposited between the two membranes of the branchial laminae, and there undergo a kind of incubation, during which they acquire a considerable size. In some genera, such as the Unio, the shell is even developed wiihm the egg before this is cast loose from the branchiae, and this circum- stance has led several anatomists to mistake these small shells for parasites. As in all the other animals having branchiae, the organs of respiration are destined to restore to the blood the oxygen which it had lost in its circulation through the body. This necessary element to the maintenance of life is restored to it during its passage through an organ contrived so as to bring It almost mto contact with the ambient fluid in which a considerable quantity of atmo- spheric air, and consequently of oxygen, is found dissolved. Organs of generation.—The organs of ge- neration are of extreme simplicity in the Con- chiferous mollusks. They consist of an ovary included in the visceral mass. Not a trace of any other organ of generation can be detected, and the Conchifera must therefore be allowed to jjossess what has been called sutficieiit herma- ■phrodism, generation in them taking place without coition. The ovary is a glandular mass situated at the superior and posterior part of the body; it is in connexion with the liver ; and it often receives a portion of the intestine, if It happens to be developed laterally between the two fleshy laminse which form the walls of the foot. In thesiphoniferous acepha'a having the foot short and rudimentary, the ovary, in its state of complete development, forms a very great part of the abdominal mass, amid which It is easily distinguished by its soft consistency and yellowish while colour. In those acephala in which the siphon is short and the foot well developed, the ovary forms a mass less promi- nent at the superior and posterior parts of the viscera. In the Conchifera monomyaria the ovary resting upon the central muscle is situated in the upper and posterior part of the body, and in its state of development constitutes a whitish mass of considerable size, which is readily seen in the Ostracea through the walls of the mantle. This ovary occupies the whole .superior part of the animal, and it is seen de- .scending along the lateral and posterior parts when the animal is examined at the time of laying its eggs; a rent in the ovary allows a fluid of a milk-white colour to escape. This fluid under the microscope is seen to contain a very great number of small whitish granules, <iich of which is un egg capable of reproducing an individual similar to that from which it de- rives its origin. There is a singular genus placed by the generality of writers in alliance with the Oyster, and desijinated by the name of Ano-ffiia, in which the ovary forms no part of the common mass of the viscera, but extends between ihi? t\yo walh of the mantle, which it separates in proportion as it increases in size. This position of the ovary in the substance of the skin is analogous to what is observed in the Terebratulae, in which the ovary is divided into four segments comprised within the substance of the mantle and in the direction of the prin- cipal branchial vessels. Notwithstanding the minute dissections which have been made of the acephalous mollusks, there are a great many in which the oviduct remains unknown. In two of these animals in which it has been sought for in vain, it has yet been seen running to- wards the middle and anterior part of the branchia;, and opening to the right between the folds of this side. It is not yet known whether or not it be by this opening that the ova escape after they have undergone incubation in the branchice, or whether they escape by the edges of diese organs. M. Prevost of Geneva has made some important observations on the generation of the Uniones, which appear to prove that although coitus cannot take place between the acephala, it is nevertheless necessary to their propagation that a certain number of these animals be found together near the same spot. From these experiments we may infer that a fecundating fluid is diffused in the water and absorbed by the ovary, which is thus fecun- dated without the contact of two individuals. This phenomenon is comparable to that which we know takes place in the fecundation of the ova of fishes; these are deposited by the female, and afterwards sprinkled by the male, who places himself above them, with tlie prolific fluid. Before adopting definitively the results of M. Prevost's experiments, however, it were necessary to repeat them a great number of times, in order to leave no doubts on this ques- tion, so interesting to the naturalist as well as to the physiologist, touching the generation of the hermaphrodite mollusca. The number of eggs extruded by each in- dividual is very great, and explains the rapidity with which these animals are propagated in certain seas, and the production by accumulated generations of those extensive beds of shell.* . which are so frequently found covering the sur- face of actually existing continents. Organs of motion.—The organs of motion are of two kinds: one is destined to move the two vahes with which the animal is covered; the other is peculiar to a special organ, by means of which the animal moves its whole body. The muscles may therefore be arranged into two classes : 1st, adductor muscles of the valves ; 2d, locomotory muscles, or muscles proper to certain organs. Those fleshy and fibrous fasciculi attached between the two shells, and which by their contraction approxi.. mate and close these two shells, are denomina- ted the adductor muscle;;. In the greater num- ber of the conchiferous mollusca, two of these muscles can be demonstrated, the one anterior (c, ftg. 346; h,fig. 347; a,fg. 362) situated in front of die oral'aperture, and the other pos- terior (-/; fig. 346; /, fig- 347; b, fig. 362).