121 ANIMAL. ganic world, far from existing in the integral molecule as it does m the inorganic, can only be said to exist in the mass of integral mo- lecules united into that congeries of organs which constitutes a particular being. As a consequence of this independence on the one hand, and dependence on the other, we find, that whilst m the inorganic world the several parts may be modified without the others feeling the influence of the change in- duced, in the organic, implication of one part and modification of one action are commu- nicated to and manifested in the state and actions of all the other parts. Considered with regard to their duration, the objects composing the organic and the inorganic world differ essentially. In the former this period is determinate and definite, and, although it varies greatly, it depends in a great measure on circumstances inherent in the in- dividuals ; in the latter it is indeterminate and indefinite, and when the objects composing it cease to be, it is generally in consequence of circumstances exterior to themselves. Organized beings exist for a limited time and in oppo- sition to many of the physico-chemical laws; unorganized beings exist indefinitely, and only in harmony witli the whole of these laws. Orf;anic beings continue to exist in conse- quence of a kind of reciprocal action with external things, and especially by virtue of an incessant change and renewal in their con- stituent elements. The very condition of ex- istence of an unorganized body is quiescence ; any new action between its molec ules them- selves, or between these and others external to them, any addition to, or subtraction from, its component parts, implies the destruction of its individuality. In the organic world, new forms result from the act ons of forms already existing, which have the wonderful property of producing others similar to themselves ; and this in virtue of no general physico-chemical law, but of an especial power inhering in each organized being individually. There is nothing like this faculty of procreation or of generation in the in- organic world. When a crystal is produced, it is necessarily at d.e expense of one or of others that have already existed, or of a combination of the elements of these; destruction is here a necessary preliminary to production, and the process is simply one of re-formation, not of genenia or creation. Neither in the re-forma- tions of the inorganic world do we find that the forms are always necessarily the same as those which preceded them: the crystalline form does not depend on the nature of the integral molecules, but on their mode of aggregation and number. In the organized world, again, nothing is more certain and fixed than that the form of the new being shall resemble that which gave it birth. The last distinction w^e shall mention under this head of material composition and physical qualities between organic and inorganic bodies is, perhaps, less striking, though not less in- teresting on that account: it is this,—that whilst in inorganic bodies the composition is quite de- terminate, in organised beings, although con- stituting particular species, the composition may present individual diflTerences or modifica- tions. These are designated by the titles tc/n- perament, constitution, 4 c. There is no corres- ponding modification recognizable in the in- organic world. From what has now been said, it appears that organized and unorganized bodies differ essentially from one another in their general physical qualities and material constitution. The form of the organized being is determinate, and its outline is rounded or undulating; its size is limited; its duration is temporary ; its composition is an assemblage of heterogeneous parts, of solids and fluids, arranged so as to compose a variety of fibrous and cellular tissues, and aggregates of organs or parts differing from one another in their form, struc- ture, and functions, but all nevertheless mu- tually dependent one upon the other, and con- curring to a common end,—the preservation of the individual, which has place by virtue of an internal activity denominated li/e, amiJst incessant changes and renovations of the matter entering into its composition, and the continuation of the species, which is a genesis or creation, implying neither destruc- tion nor alteration in the mode of being of the individual or individuals from whom the new formation springs. Ac/ions of unorganized and of organized objects. — But form, size, material composi- tion, duration, mode of origin, &c. are not the only particulars in the history of or- ganic and inorganic bodies which are capa- ble of being contrasted, and in which differences may be made to appear. All that exists is active; every entity performs actions, or manifests forces by which its own ex- istence is continued, and by which it participates in the various phenomena of the universe. Of these actions or forces there are two grand classes, the one general, the other special; the first are the pliysico-chemical laws which per- vade space and include the universe ; the second are the vital laws, which embrace within their dominion plants and animals, or things organized and having life. The most general of all the forces possessed are those of attraction and repulsion, which inhere in, and are manifested by, all existing things, organic as well as inorganic. Every object gravitates or has weight, coheres in its several parts, exhibits chemical affinities, and yields to the expansive influence of caloric. Inorganic objects exhibit these general forces alone, and are absolutely under their control. Organized bodies are also subjected to the same general forces; but they are often modified, nay, they are sometimes even abrogated and set at nought by vegetables and animals alike, in virtue of the special powers inherent in themselves. These special powers have, in fact, the singular property of subtracting, in various degrees, the beings they actuate from the in- fluence of the general laws of creation. In-