CEPHALOPODA. 547 are concave towards the outlet of the shell, and are perforated by a siphon (6), the mem- branous tube of which is protected by a series of funnel-shaped calcareous sheaths (c), which are continued from the hole of one septum into that of the next, throughout the shell. The shell is white, lined with a nacrous layer within, and partially covered by a straw-coloured epidermis without. The organization of the Spirula may be expected to be in some respects intermediate to the Nautilus and Sepia, and an opportunity of investigating its internal struc- ture is therefore highly desirable. According to Lamarck the animal is a Cephalopod with eight feet and two tentacles, like a Cuttle-fish, all provided with suckers ; the body shaped like a purse and terminated behind by two lobes. Although the siphoniferous shells are not confined to the Tetrabranchiate Order, yet it is in this division, as in the Pearly Nautilus for example, that we find this singular testaceous production to have arrived at the maximum of its development: it is covered by an epidermis, and, in the living animal, is also probably partially overlapped by a reflected portion of the thin and extensible mantle; but no part of it is buried in the substance of the animal, whose entire body, on the contrary, is inclosed in the last large expanded chamber. The re- lative position of the soft parts to this cham- ber we had not the means of determining from the specimen dissected by us, as this had been removed from its shell by Mr. Bennett, its fortunate captor, before it was placed in spirits. According to this able naturalist's statement, however, the ventral surface of the body and funnel was applied to the concavity of tiie outer expanded wall of the chamber; and tlie concavity behind the cephalic disk was adapted to the involuted convexity of the shell, and abutted against the ridge which rises from that part.* The camerated portion of the shell, according to Mr. Bennett, contained water or a liquid; but the size, condition, and con- tents of the membranous tube were not ob- served by him. The external form of the soft parts supported Mr. Bennett's account of their relative position to the shell; but some cir- cumstances appeared to militate against the fluid nature of die contents of the deserted chambers. In the description of this spe- cimen, we accordingly stated our belief that the chambers are naturally filled by a gaseous exhalation or secretion of the animal, and that the liquid is contained in die dilatable siphon which is extended from the posterior part of the animal's body, and passes through the central apertures of the different septa of the shell. From the communication which this siphon has with the pericardial cavity, it can be influenced, as to the quantity of fluid which it * M. De Blainville, in a learned Memoir on the Structure of the Shells of Spirula and Nautilus, states his opinion that the true position of the ani- mal of the latter shell is the reverse of that de- scrihed above : this opinion has been adopted by some Naturalists of this country, hut the analogies by which it is endeavoured to be supported are too remote and vague to enforce conviction. contains, by the actions of the Nautilus itself. A pneumatic and hydraulic apparatus for effecting the rising and sinking of the shell and its in- habitant is thus established, and Dr. Hooke's ingenious conjecture of the use of the camerated part of the shell is confirmed;* but the relative positions of the gas and water would, accord- ing to the above opinion, be the reverse of what Parkinsonf supposed them to be. The full development of the Uieory of chambered shells, considered as hydrostatic instruments, is, how- ever, in abler hands than ours; and the reader will be gratified to learn that it forms the sub- ject of a portion of the forthcoming Bridge- water Treatise by Dr. Buckland. Nervous System.—In tracing the develop- ment of the Nervous System through the Heterogangliate or Molluscous type of Orga- nization, we find in the Gasteropodous genera which approach nearest to the Cephalopodous or highest division, that the ganglions which are concentrated about the head, are arranged in three groups : one, which is supraoesopha- geal, supplies the sentient organs, as the eyes and feelers; a second, which is suboesophageal and anterior, supplies the buccal apparatus; a third, which is suboesophageal and pos- terior, is the centre from which the sensitive, motive, and plastic nerves of the trunk ori- ginate. The anterior or buccal ganglions are united together, and to the cerebral ganglions, forming a nervous collar around the oesophagus; a similar collar is formed by the corresponding intercommunicating chords of the posterior suboesophageal ganglia. In the Cephalopods the nervous system is disposed on the same general plan, but the nervous substance is accumulated in a greater degree at the different centres of radiation, according to the superior development of the parts that are to be supplied therefrom. In the Tetrabranchiate Order the principal parts superadded to the structure which we observe in the Gasteropodous Mollusk are those locomotive and prehensile organs which sur- round the buccal apparatus; and the chief modification of the nervous system is therefore seen in the enlargement of the oral ganglia and collar, and their close approximation to the cerebral ganglion. This part is compara- tively little advanced, since the organs of sense which it immediately supplies, retain the same simple structure as in the inferior class of MoUusks, and are only augmented in bulk. The brain therefore is represented by a thick round tranversely extended chord {\,fig. 231), communicating at its extremi- ties with the anterior and posterior oesopha- geal collars (3, 4), and with the small optic ganglions (2, 2), which supply die sim- ple pedunculated eyes. Four small pairs of nerves (5) also pass from the supraoesophageal band to the fleshy mass supporting the man- dibles. The cranial cartilage seems in the Nautilus to be principally developed with re- ference to the strong muscular masses to which * Philosophical Experiments and Observations, p. 307. t Organic Remains, vol. iii. p 102.