105 AMPHIBIA. nostrils, the tongue, the eyes, and the ears were gone; the animal could therefore enjoy no relation to external objects but by the sense of touch. It nevertheless evinced conscious- ness, creeping cautiously and slowly about, occasionally raising the neck to the surface as if attempting to breathe. The process of cica- trization at length completely closed the aper- tures of respiration and of deglutition. It lived three months after the operation, and then died from accidental neglect. After all, this expe- riment proves only the respiratory function of the skin, a fact already sufficiently established by the observations of Dr. Edwards before detailed, and its cruelty does not appear to be compensated for by its results. XV. Oj'reproduction.— The impregnation of the ova in the amphibia, is effected without actual coitus; that is to say, it either takes place out of the body, as in the anoura, or the impregnating fluid is received by the mere contact of the external opening of the cloaca in the two sexes, as in the tailed forms. The only exception to this statement is in the land salamander, the male of which has a small intromittent organ. The act itself of impreg- nation therefore differs materially in these two divisions of the class. The generative organs of both sexes are double, and are placed sym- metrically in the abdomen. The testes in the higher forms of the class, the frogs and toads, are small globular oval bodies, having exter- nally a bright white appearance, from the tunica albuginea, and internally a somewhat loose texture, and a yellowish colour. They are placed behind the liver, attached to the vertebral column ; the vasa deferentia are numerous, disposed in pairs; they form a small epididymis, and passing on the outer side of the kidneys back towards the cloaca, dilate into vesiculse seminales, just before they terminate in that cavity. These organs, as in many other animals, become much enlarged at the breeding season. The ovaria are situated in the anterior and upper part of the abdomen, and are internally divided into numerous sacs, by duplicatures of the peritoneum, by which also they are bound to each side of the spine. These sacs are torn at the period of depositing the eggs, whether by the pressure of the arms of the male, as asserted by Prevost and Dumas, or otherwise, appears uncertain. The oviducts are small at their commencement, and become large towards their termination in a sort of dilated sac, which Altena terms the uterus; they are of a pulpy substance, having an in- ternal secreting surface; and the eggs during their passage through them become enveloped in a gelatinous mass. They dilate into a sort of uterine cavity just mentioned, which opens into the cloaca. The mode by which the eggs of the frog pass from the ovaries into the oviducts appears yet to be doubtful. The observations of Pre- vost and Dumas on this subject are generally received as correct, but their statements are denied in some particulars by Altena, and doubted in others. They state that the ova, detaching themselves from the ovaries, are seized by the opening of the tube, but they do not state the mode by which this act is effected. It is a question which was long since examined with great care by Swammerdam, and which brought him into a controversy; and he con- fesses at last his ignorance of the mode in which it actually takes place. The ovaries enlarge greatly at the breeding season, and the ova at the time of their depo- sition fill the body almost to bursting. At the time of impregnation the male placing himself on the back of the female, embraces the body with astonishing force with the anterior legs, which are pressed under the axillae, and the tuber- cular thumbs, which are at this period con- siderably enlarged to enable him to retain his hold, are so essential to this object, that if they be cut off, he can no longer clasp the female with the requisite force. The instinct which instigates the male frog to this act at the season of breeding is astonishingly powerful, and sometimes no less remarkably blind. Thus, it is recorded by Walter, and has been often observed by others since his time, though the object of this curious fact has been un- accountably overlooked, that frogs are occa- sionally found in the spring adhering with great force to different parts of the skin of pike ; and a near relative of the writer of this article has seen an instance of the same kind, where several frogs were so closely fixed to a large pike as to require some force to remove them. This instinct of adhesion is, in fact, sometimes fatal to its legitimate object. I have before now taken from the water a large con- glomeration of male frogs, amounting to per- haps twelve or more, with one solitary female in the middle of the mass, dead and putrid, and even some of the males, towards the in- terior, pressed into an almost lifeless and shape- less lump. While the male is thus closely embracing the female, an operation which sometimes lasts for more than a month, the eggs, to the num- ber of several hundreds, are gradually ejected from the cloaca, either in masses as in the frog, or in double chaplets as in the toad, an I impregnated by the sprinkling of the semen, as they pass out under the male. In some species, as the bufo ohstetricans, the female is assisted in the act of expulsion by the hinder legs of the male. When the eggs are thus deposited in the water, the jelly-like substance in which each is enveloped absorbs a large quantity of it, and the whole mass speedily enlarges to many times the size of the animal from which it was expelled. The male of the bufo ohstetricans just men- tioned, when, by his assistance, the eggs are excluded, attaches them to his thighs by glu- tinous threads, and carries them about with him until the young are ready to leave them, when he seeks a pool of water in which he deposits them, and the young shortly afterwards come forth. The impregnation of the tailed aquatic