CEPHALOPODA. 523 Octopods, besides wanting tlie long tentacula, are also cliaracterized by the absence of man- tle-fins, and consequently are limited to retro- grade progression while swimming ; their ace- tabula are sessile and unarmed; they have two oviducts, but without detached glands for secre- ting a nidamentum. Family TESTACEA. Body oblong, rounded; mantle adhering posteriorly to the head ; first, or dorsal pairs of arms dilated and membranous at the extremity; (c, 1, Jig. 206.) Funnel without a valve, but articulated at its base by two ball-and-socket joints to the inner sides of the mantle. Bran- chial hearts with fleshy appendages. No internal horny or testaceous rudi- ments ; but an external monothalamous, symmetrical shell, containing, but not attached to, the body of the animal; which also deposits its eggs in the cavity of the shell. Genus Argonauta, Linnceus. On the supposition that the shell is parasitically occupied by the Cephalopod, but formed by some other mollusk, some natu- ralists limit the above generic title to the shell, and call the Cephalopod Ocytho'e.* We shall, however, con- tinue to apply the term Argonauta to the Cephalopod in question, as the evidence. Fig. though strong, is not conclusive of its parasitic nature. The character of the Family is also that of the Genus. Ex. Argonauta Ai'go, Linn. (Jig. 206.) Genus Belerophon, founded on the fossil remains of a shell resembling in family characters that of the Argonauta. Ex. Belerophon apertus, Sowerby. Family NVDA. Body generally rounded, mantle broadly continuous with the back of the head. Arms connected at the base by a broad web : first pair elongated, and gradually narrowing to a point. Funnel without an internal valve or external joints; branchial hearts without fleshy appen- dages ; biliary ducts without follicular appendages. Shell represented by two short rudimental styles, encysted in the dorso-lateral parts of the mantle. Genus Octopus, Leach. The arms pro- vided with a double alternate series of sessile acetabula. Ex. Octopus vulgaris, Cuv. the Poulp or Preke, (Jig. 210, in which this species is represented in the act of creeping on the shore ; its body being carried verti- cally in the reverse position with the head downwards; its back being turned to the spectator, towards whom it is supposed to be advancing.) The Poulp, Octopus vulgaris, Cuv " Should Ihe above suspicion be, proved to be to designate the Cephalopod which navigates the well founded, we conceive that it would be more frail bark ; and revert to the original name of appropriate to retain the term Argonauta, in order Cymhium for the shell, which was applied to it by