BLADDER, ABNORMAL ANATOMY. 391 in one of the two compartments no such mus- cular investment is present. E.rlropliy or extroversion.—Extrophy of the bladder was, up to a comparatively late period, almost universally regarded as a hernia of that organ; and it was not until about the middle of the last century, and after Tenon had dissected two such cases, that this opinion was sliown to be erroneous.* Tenon dis- covered that there was a complete " absence or destruction of the whole of the anieviov parietes of the bladder; and that the tumour which is found at the hypogastrium is only the posterior parietes of th's sac, with the "trigone" pushed forward by die abdominal viscera, as if for the purpose of blocking up the opening caused by the deficiency of sub- stance below the umbilicus. On the surface of the tumour which is there presented, and at its inferior part, we see the urine almost con- tinually exuding through two holes, pie-'ced in the centre of two small nipple-like eminences, which are the orifices of the ureters. The insertion of these conduits of the urine at the inferior part of the lumour indicates that tlie portion of the bladder, which appears upon the exterior, is precisely that which, in the natural state, is found most deeply situated in the pelvic cavity, tlie internal surface of the posterior and inferior portion of the organ. The researches of anatomists have most posi- tively confirmed these indications, by shewing that in extroversion of the bladder the anterior part of this organ is more or less comp'etely wanting, and that the posterior part is pushed from behind forwards, through the large open- ing which results from this absence, causing a " herniii," either between the two pubes and the two recti muscles, or, which is very rare, only between the latler, the mucous mem- brane being presented externally. By this displacement the external posterior surface of the bladder forms a concavity in which some portions of the intestinal tube may be impacted, as in a true herniary sac, especiidly wlien (he abdominal muscles and the diaphragm are strongly contracted. The volume of the tu- mour is on this account variable, not only as between one subject and another, but in the same subject at difierent ages. Thus in new- born infants onlya slight projection is presented: the tumour may not occupy a larger space than from half an inch to an inch. In adults it may project to the extent of two or more inches and present a transverse diameter of four or five. The tumour is then smooth and frequently appears divided into two lobes. When extroversion of the bladder exists, the umbilicus commonly is, as in the embryo and the young foetus, not far removed from the symphysis pubis, nor consequently from the vesical tumour. The umbilicus is almost always found immediately above the tumour. Sometimes, however, the superior extremity of the latter is observed beyond the umbilicus, which is then entirely concealed ; and in con- * Acad, des Sciences, 1761, torn. cxiv. in 12mo. p. 67. sequence of this circumstance, some author have believed that the umbilicus was not pre- sent in infants affected with extrophy, and they have drawn from this fancied absence phy- siological consequences as erroneous as the facts upon which they were based are ground- less. This affection was until recently sujiposed to occur only very rarely in the female; this opinion, however, is incorrect. In many of the cases on record the sex is not specified, and it is not improbable that many women may from a sense of sliame be desirous of concealing such a disgusting deformity. Even with these reasons why the cases should be less numerous, we have been enabled to collect twenty-one examples. In women the affection does not produce so much derangement in the sexual functions as when it exists in man, by whom, the penis being almost constantly deprived of urethra, fecundation must be al- most impossible. In the other sex, on the contrary, the vagina being ordinarily free, though more or less contracted, coitus may have place, as in a well conformed female, and fecundation may follow, as in the case detailed by Drs. lluxham and Oliver and Mr. Bonnet, of a woman who lived at Laritglasse near Fowey ;* and that of Thiebault, in \ihich the delivery occurred thvough the perineum. Among the anatomical varieties by which it is accompanied, none are more singular than that mentioned by Bartholin.f in which there was neither anus nor penis, all the ingesta return- ing from the mouth during forty years. It has been over and over aguin maintained that this affection was incompatible with long life The child of which Ilighmore speaks]; was ten years old, and in good health; the case of which Montague speaks§ was at the time a person of thirty; that of Flajani {| was seventy. Baillie,^ Mowatt,*-' Innes,!"}- and Labourdette,it all describe the cases of adults. Quatrefages §§ describes the cases of a person of forty-nine and of another of forty- six. Most authors who have written on this sub- ject have strenuously maintained the constancy of the separation of the bones of the pubis. Duncan, even in spite of the case of Mr. Coates, with the details of which he was fami- liar, retained that opinion apparently unshaken. We are in possession of the particulars of cases in which no such separation existed, re- corded by Coates,|y| Denman, Roose,1[l[ * Phil. Transact, vol. xxiii. 1723, p. 408, 413, and vol. xxxiii. p. 142. t Hist. Anat. cent. iv. hist. 30, p. 293. t Disquis. Anat. part iv. cap. 7. § Acad, dcs Sciences, tome cxiv. in 12mo. p. 67. 11 Malattie Spettanti alia Chirurg. 1786. % Morbid Anat. p. 309. Mem. de Desgranges. tt Arch. Gener. vol. ii. p. 286. it Journal de SediUot. Theses de Strasbourg, 4to. 1832. [Ill Edinburgh Med. and Surg. Journal, vol. i. De nativo vesica? urinaria; invers. Sic. p. 19,