329 AVES. (8), whicli receive tributary absorbents from the surrounding muscles, and a large branch (9) corresponding to the deep-seated femoral vessels. The iliac trunk (10) accompanies the great femoral vein into the abdomen, which it enters anterior to the origin of the pubis; it there receives branches from the lateral parts of the pelvis (11) and afterwards separates into two divisions. The posterior division receives some lym- phatics from the anterior lobes of the kidneys, and tiiose of the ovary or testicles; it com- municates anteriorly with a branch from the absorbents which surround the great mesenteric artery, and posteriorly with large vesicular plexuses or receptacles (12, 13) surrounding the aorta and its branches, and which receives the lymphatics from the renal plexus, and those accompanying the arteria sacra media (14). The sacral or pelvic plexiform vesicles of the lymph are described by Panizza in the Goose as being two in number, situated in the posterior region of the body, in the angle between the tail and the thigh. Each vesicle is little more than half an inch long and a quarter of an inch broad, and is shaped some- what like a kidney-bean. Panizza laid them bare in several living Geese and punctured them, upon which the lymph issued in con- siderable quantity, and coagulated into a jelly like the lymph from ordinary lymphatics. Fluids thrown into the lymphatics leading to the vesicles not only filled these cavities, but passed from them into the veins. There are analogous vesicles in the Reptiles, which are endowed with a pulsatile power, and propel their contents into the pelvic veins per sultum ; but the recent researches of iVIiiller (Archiv. fiir Physiol. 1834, p. 300) show that the pelvic lymphatic vesicles of Birds are not endowed with a power of motion like that belonging to those of Reptiles, he having satisfied himself, by repeated examination of the living Goose, that the alternate contraction and dilatation of these vesicles in this animal, which Panizza conceived to depend on an automatic power within them, corresponds exactly vnth the motions of respiration, and no longer continues when they are interrupted.* The anterior division of the femoral lym» phatic trunk (16) accompanies the aorta, upon which it forms a plexus with the branch of the opposite side, and with the intestinal ab- sorbents (15). These vessels, which from the transparency of their contents can scarcely be termed with propriety ' lacteals,' commence from a plexi- form continuous network situated between the mucous and muscular coats of the intestine; they are larger here than when they quit the intestine to pass upon the mesentery. They accompany the branches of the superior mesen- teric artery, there being many absorbents for one artery, which by their anastomoses form plexuses surrounding the bloodvessels. Before reaching the aorta, these absorbents commu- nicate with the inferior or posterior division of * See Allen Thompson, in Edinb. Med. and Surg. Journ. No. 125. the femoral trunk, and with the absorbents of the ovary or testicles, after which they pass upon the aorta (16, 17), where they receive the lymphatics of the pancreas and duodenum, and terminate by uniting around the coeliac axis (18) with the lymphatics of the liver, the proventriculus (c), the gizzard, and the spleen, forming a considerable plexus, from which, according to Lauth, it is by no means rare to see branches passing to terminate in tlie surrounding veins. The aortic plexus (19), which may be regarded as analogous to the receptaculum chyli, always gives origin to two thoracic ducts (20, 20) of varying calibre, but often, as ni the Goose, exceeding a line in diameter. They are situated at their origin behind the oeso- phagus («) and in front of the aorta (6) ; they advance forwards, diverging slightly from each other, pass over die lungs (w lo), from which they receive some lymphatics, and terminate seve- rally, after being joined by the lymphatics of the wing, in the jugular vein of the same side. The left thoracic duct, before entering the vein, receives the trunk of the lymphatics of the left side of the neck; the right thoracic duct re- ceives only a branch of those of the same side. The lymphatics of the wing follow the course of the brachial artery, forming a plexus around it, especially at the elbow-joint. Their principal trunk, to which all the collateral branches are united about the upper third of the humerus, is here of large size, but its di- ameter soon begins to be diminished, and it is very small at the head of the humerus. When it reaches the parietes of the chest, it receives two or three large lymphatics from the pectoral muscles, and a branch which accompanies the brachial plexus. Soon after a small lym- phatic gland is sometimes formed on the trunk, which lastly unites with the thoracic duct of its own side. The lymphatics of the head accompany the branches of the jugular vein, and are readily dis- cerned upon those which are situated between the ramiofthelowerjaw. They form, by uniting with the cervical absorbents, two lateral branches on each side, which accompany the corresponding jugular vein, being situated, one in front, the other behind that vessel. These lymphatics communicate together, at the anterior and pos- terior parts of the neck, by transverse or ob- lique branches. They receive in their progress absorbents from the muscles, and from the peculiar glands which are seen beneath the skin of the neck. The internal branch on the left side receives also a considerable absorbent from the oesophagus. At the lower part of the neck both branches receive a notable branch which accompanies the carotid arteries, and a little further on they form on each side a lymphatic gland situated on the jugular vein. On the right side the trunk of the cervical lymphatics terminates in the jugular vein, after having furnished a communicating branch with the thoracic canal of that side; on the left side it terminates at once in the corresponding tho- racic duct. Vascular sj/sfcm. — Heart.—The heart in Birds is divided, as in Mammals, into four