790 CYST. become irritated and inflamed, and these tunics, at first characterised by so mucli tenuity, may, by the pure and simple effect of their rapid development, or as a consequence of their relation with very moveable organs, or by the effect of accident, to which they are exposed, become susceptible of almost unlimited trans- formation. We believe, therefore, that all the varieties composing this class owe their existence to irritation ; in the synovial the irritation is spe- cific and caused by pressure,—in the serous, we believe it to be of another kind,—in many of them it is similar to that which presides over the development of hydatids: the only difference between certain of them, those, for instance, which are so nearly isolated, having merely a vascular communication, and an hydatid, is perhaps simply, that their existence has not been sufficiently prolonged to permit with safety the rupture of this umbilical cord, if I may so term it, by which they are con- nected to die surrounding tissues. We must now endeavour to explain the circumstances under which these cysts are developed. The experiments and observations of Cru- veilhier shew, in the most convincing manner, that humidity, abundance, and the bad or ve- getable quality of the nourishment of an animal, are unequivocal means of producing acephalocysts. If by the concurrence of these circumstances acephalocysts may be produced, it must be evident that by the agency of the same causes a modification of existing tissues, —irritation, in fact, of a specific kind, has been excited by which a state favourable to their development has been produced. Admitting then that by such means a particular kind of irritation may be set up in certain tissues, we must go further; that irritation must be suf- ficient to cause the exhalation of a particle of lymph, that lymph, as in the case of a pseudo- membrane, becomes organised, acquires step by step an individual existence, it will be the minimum of organisation and independent vitality, but still, when its separation is achieved, it will be a living being. Supposing this idea to be correct, it may follow that a variety of modifications of such products, more or less independent, may be in a similar manner pro- duced. It is certainly difficult to reconcile the mind to the idea that the process of irritation or of inflammation can, under any circumstance, excite the development of an animal possess- ing to a certain extent an independent ex- istence, but this is not more difficult than to conceive that molecules of a plastic living substance may form organic membranes, and yet this is demonstrable. This has been clearly shewn in the article Adhesion; in fact, the more we study the phenomena of organisation, the more we are impelled to admit a proper vitality in certain products of living bodies. The analogy which exists between false membranes and hydatid sacs appears to be especially calculated to elucidate this subject. But whilst the false membrane remains in vital communication with the individual, the acephalocystic false mem- brane is detached and enjoys an independent life; the false membrane acquires a vitality rivalling that of normal tissues. We believe, therefore, that a cyst may be developed, which, as far as general appearances are concerned, shall be analogous to the ace- phalocysts, wanting, however, the one great attribute, independent existence, and having a vascular communication with the tissue upon which it is developed : are not those cysts which are often seen upon the cortical sub- stance of the kidney, and upon other organs; of this class or character? Dr. Hodgkin* has inferred that those cysts which are so often found on the surface of the kidneys owe their existence to the obstruction of an excretory canal; others have believed that this fact was demonstrated, because it was said that their contents had the odour of urine. Without denying this position, I may state that the smell of serum and that of limpid urine are not very dissimilar. If they were a consequence of the obstruction of an urinary duct, it is evident, from the size they some- times attain, that secretion has proceeded after the obstruction has been developed ; why then does it not go further ? why do they not attain considerable magnitude ? In the earlier periods of their existence the organisation of these bodies is simple, but in their progress they may experience many mo- difications. Their internal and external sur- faces are essentially different; the internal is usually smooth and polished like serous mem- branes ; sometimes it is soft, flocculent, and easily detached : the external is in contact with cellular tissue, and partakes more or less of its character, but frequently it acquires a density which distinctly separates it from the surround- ing tissue. There is scarcely any form of trans- formation which may not occur in these organs. The internal surface occasionally acquires a very complicated organisation ; it may be co- vered with hair proceeding from follicles de- veloped in its parietes, and it may present other anomalies. The external surface may acquire a very considerable density, and may present something like a fibrous appearance, but upon further investigation we find that it does not possess any fibre, neither does its texture ofler any linear or radiated arrange- ment. When once organised, the tunic which constitutes the cyst enjoys all the attributes of living tissues, and is susceptible of similar morbid modifications. It may become in- flamed, it may degenerate into a cartilaginous state,—may become incrusted with phosphate of lime, converted into erectile tissue,—may become scirrhous, and so on ; and the ex- halation or secretion may be so changed that cysts of similar origin may contain the most dissimilar products. Bibliography.—Cruveithier, Essai sur I'Anat. Path. t. i. p. 202 & seq. Gendrin, Hist. Anat. des Inflara. t. ii. p. 531. Begin, Diet, de Med. et Chir. Path. art. Kyste. (B. Phillips.) * Med. Chir, Transact, vol. xv. part 2, p. 270.