ARACHNIDA. 207 Fifr.9\. rectly termed the tail. In the Ai-an- ° idee the ganglions are fewer than in the Scorpionida: ti the first pair, or that which consti- d tutes the brain, (fig. 91, a,) is quite distinct from the ^ thoracic ; these are Jour in number but have under- gone a remarkable ^ degree of centrali- zation, being inti- mately connected together so as in- deed to form a mass in which all traces of junction are lost, except at 3 the sides, which have remained free and in the form of sraallconoid bodies directed outwardly so as to resemble, in the aggregate, the figure of a star. From the apex of each of these small cones the nerve is given off to each leg. In the abdo- men there does not exist any ganglion, but only a double longitudinal ner- vous cord(f),which swells out at its ter- mination. From this swelling (rf) a great number of nerves (ee)pass off, which are distri- buted to all the organs contained in the abdominal cavity. Organs of sense. —We have no- thing particular to observe with re- spect to the smell or hearing of the arachnidans, for we are ignorant of the existence of these senses in the class, or at least of the parts of the body in which they are seated. With re- gard to taste, the choice which the arachnidans make of their food sufficiently indicates that it exists in variable degree ; the organ is situated probably at the entrance of the pharynx. With regard to touch, the delicacy of that sense is in the ratio of the tenuity of the integument; but the extremities of the legs, and more especially of the maxillary palps seem to be expressly destined to bring the individual into relation with sur- rounding objects. The sense of sight is the only one respecting which no doubt can exist; particularly in the species which are the most perfect of the class, such as the spi- ders, scorpions, &c. The eyes belong to that kind which are termed simple, in op- position to those de- nominated compound, and which are found exclusively in insects and crustaceans. These simple eyes (ocelli) in arachnidans are tivo, four, six, or eight in number; they are situated on the an- terior part of the body either superiorly or la- terally. With respect to size they differ not only in different spe- cies, but in the same individual, as in the |92,) and especially in the Fig 92. In the Scorpions (fig. 93) there are two eyes (a a) situated on the dorsal aspect of the Fig. 93. cephalo-thorax, and closely approximated to the mesial line : these are of much larger size than the minute simple eyes {h b), which are placed on the sides and near the outer margins of the same segment. The two mesial eyes, on account of their size, have been selected by Miiller for the subject of his researches, which he published at Leipsic, and which have been translated by extract in the 17t!i volume of the first series of the " Annates des Sciences Natu- relles." The following are the principal re-