BONK, NORMAL ANATOMY. 436 bone in die living animal is a pale pink, which becomes much deeper in case of inflammation, whilst a deadened portion puts on a yellowish white appearance. When animals are drowned or strangled, their bones assume a darker hue ; and in cholera the colour is so deep, and so thoroughly pervades the osseous tissue, that no length of maceration will remove it. In all these cases the colour obviously depends on the blood contained in the osseous vessels. 2d. It was discovered accidentally by Belchier, in 1736, that the bones of animals fed on food h tinged with madder very quickly become red ; (a sensible change is produced in young ani- mals in twenty-four hours;) now, whether we explain this, with most physiologists, by saying that the earthy matter is coloured in the blood before it is deposited, or, with Gibson, that it receives its dye in the bone, the presence of bloodvessels is equally necessary to account for the phenomenon. (See Osteogeny.) 3d. The most satisfactory proof of vascularity in bone is afforded by injection. A young bone may be completely coloured in this way: the vessels are seen to enter it, and if the earthy part be removed by an acid, they may be followed in their fine ramifications through its tissue. Arteries are found to enter bone under three modifications. 1st. Numerous small vessels fill the minute foramina, which may be seen in the compact substance every where: 2d, a larger set enter the holes which we see on the short bones, and near the extremities of the long ones: and 3d, about the centre of the long bones considerable branches pass into the medullary canal, and ramify on the medullary membrane. These last have been called the nutritious arteries, a name to which they have no claim : they are destined for the marrow. The two first sets are the true nutritious ves- sels. All, however, freely anastomose with each other. The veins merit particular notice. They Fig. 187. Fig. 188. have been investigated by Dupuytren,* and their course in some of the bones, espe- cially tlie flat bones, splendidly figured by Breschet.f In figs. 187, and 188, copied from one of Breschet's plates, a indicates these veins in the diploe of the cranium: they may be very easily exposed in the cranium by filing away the external table with a coarse file. The first two sets of arteries have no accom- panying veins, but with the last there always are veins of a corresponding size. These do not appear large enough to return all the blood; we therefore have others leaving the bone by foramina, which are proper to them, and through which no artery passes. They arise in the spongy tissue by numberless radicles, re- ceive branches like other veins in their course, and, after issuing from the compact tissue by a constricted opening, empty themselves into the vessels of the neighbouring soft parts. The canals through which they pass have a lining of compact substance continuous with the external surface. The veins, while in the bone, have only one coat, the internal, which adheres closely to the osseous canal, and can enjoy no change of size or form. They are, notwithstanding, furnished with valves. Nerves, doubtless, exist in bone, although we cannot demonstrate them in the osseous substance. But it is not to be supposed that a part so highly vascular would be destitute of nerves. Nerves are seen to enter with the nutritious vessels, and minute filaments pass into some bones, as the frontal. These nerves, we may be sure, ramify through every part. The sensibility of an inflamed bone indeed settles the question. Lymphatics have not been found in the inte- rior of the osseous substance; but they may be seen on the surface.J In a tissue such as that of bone it would be no easy matter to * Propositions sur quelqiies points d'Anatomie, de Physiologie, et d'Anatoraie Pathologique, Par. 1803. t Rccherches Anat. sur le systerae veineux. Par. 1829. i Beclard. Grainger.