ALBINO. form of tlie features and in all other resjiects the individuals in question exactly reseu.ble the negro race. Another striking ])eculiari;y of the Albino is the state of the eye, which is of a delicate pink or rose colour; it is likewise so sensible to light as to be unable to bear the ordinary light of the day, while in the evening, or in a dark shade, its functions appear to be sufficiently perfect. We learn from Wafer, who accompanied Dampier in one of his voy- ages, and who relates his adventures in crossing the Isthmus of Darien, that Albinoes are not tinfrequently found among the inhabitants of this district.* We are also informed by various travellers and naturalists that they are often met with in some of the oriental isles, more especially in Java and Ceylon ;f in all these cases exhibiting the peculiar appearance of the skin, hair, and eyes, while, in other respects, they conformed to the external and physical characters of the people among whom they are found. The same circumstance occurs in this country and in the other parts of Europe, al- though, if we are to place any confidence in the accounts of travellers, the Albino is much more frequently met with in tropical climates, especially in the western parts of Africa, and in Darien, tlian in the more northern regions.J • Wafer's New Voyage, p. 134.. 8 ; Buffon, Hist. Nat. t. iii. p. 500; Wood's Trans, v. iii. p. 419, 10 ; Panw, Recherches sur les Americains, par. 4, sect. 1. t. ii. p. 1 et scq. ; Ilaynal, Hist, des Indes, t. iii. p. 288. The earliest account which we have of the South American Albinoes is by Cortez, in the narrative of his conquest of Mexico, which he transmitted to Charles V. In describing the palace of Montezuma, among other objects of rarity or curiosity which were found in it, he says, " In hujus palatii particula tenebat homines, pueros, fcemi- nasque a nativitate candidos in facie, corpore, ca- pillis, superciliis, et palpebris." De Insulis nuper invcntis narrat., p. 30 of " Nar. Sec.;" sec also Clayton, in Manch. Mem. v. iii. p. 261 et seq. t BufFon, t. iii. p. 399 and 415 : Wood's Trans. V. iii. p. 328, 9 and 344. We have not been able to procure the " Voyages de Legat," which is re- ferred to by BufFon and others, as containing the original account of the Albinoes, or, as they have been termed, Chacrelos, of Java. With respect to the Bedas of Ceylon, as originally described by Riheyro, Hist, de Ceylon, ch. xxiv., and more lately by Percival, Account of Ceylon, ch. 13, and by Cordiner, Dcsc. of Ceylon, v. i. c. 4, it seems evident that they are not to be considered as Albi- noes. The only remark which Ribeyro makes on their physical character is, " lis sont blancs comme des Europeens, et il y a merae des roux parmi eux," p. 178. Percival, who saw some of them, states that their complexions are fairer and more inclined to a copper colour, than those of the other inhabitants ; while all that is said by these writers respecting their habits and modes of life indicates that they are a distinct race or tribe. The term Beda, or Badah, appears to be a corruption of Vaddah, or Veddah, which Knox informs us is the name of the aborigines of the island; Accoimt of Ceylon, p. 61 ; see also Brown, in Brewster's Kncyc. art. " Ceylon," p. 704 ; Cordiner and Per- cival, ut supra. + Vossius and Ludolph, ubi supra ; Argensola, Conquist. de las Islas Malucas, lib. ii. p. 71, speaks of Albinoes as not uncommon in these islands; De la Croix, Relation de I'Afrique, par. iii. liv. ii. sect. ii. 4. 13, " Albinos, hommes blancs, ou We meet with a few scattered remarks in the writjigs of the ancients, which render it evident t'.iat tliis ]3eculiar state of the human body had fallen under their notice. We have the follow- in;^ passage in Pliny: " Idem " (Isigonus M icceensis) " in Albania gigni quosdam glauca ocu'.orum acie, e pueritia statim canos, qui n?ctu plus quam interdiu cernant."* The same circumstance is referred to by Aulus Gellius : " . . .. in ultima quadam terra, qu2e Albania dicitur, gigni homines, qui in pueritia canescunt, et plus cernunt oculis per noctem, quam inter diem;"t and by Solinus: he says that the Albanians " albo crine nascuntur ;" " glauco oculis inest pupula, ideo nocte plus quam die cernunt."J Pliny, in speaking of the inhabi- tants of a certain district in the interior of Africa, names them Leucasthiopes ;§ and, as it has been supposed that in this passage he referred to the Albinoes, the term has been applied to them by some eminent modern naturalists;II but it appears more probable that the Leucsethiopes were a tribe of negroes whose complexion was rather less dark than that Mores blancs," informs us that they compose a considerable body of attendants at the court of the king of Loango ; the same statement is made by Lijdolf, ubi supra, and by the author of the Hist. Gen. des Voyages, t. vi. p. 250 et seq.: Bowdich, Mission to Ashantee, p. 292, observes, that the king had at his court " nearly one hundred negroes of different colours, through the shades of red and copper to white;" he adds that they were " generally diseased and emaciated ;" some of these were probably Albinoes. Cook, in his first voyage, saw six Albinoes in the small population of Otaheite, v. ii. p. 188; in his second voyage he saw one in New Caledonia, v. ii. p. 113, 4; and in his third voyage, he met with three in the Friendly Isles, v. i. p. 381, 2. These, it may be remarked, must have belonged to the Malayan variety. See also Winterbottom, Account of Sicrre Leone, v. ii. p. 166 ct seq. ; Stevenson, in Brewster's Encyclopaedia, art. " Complexion," p. 41, 2; Bory St. Vincent, L'Homme, t. ii. §. " Hommes Monstreux," p. 143-7; also in Diet. Class. d'Hist. Nat. art. " Homme,"' p. 166 et seq.; Renauldin, in Diet, des Scien. Med. art. " Albino ;" Lawrence's Lect. p. 287 ; Is. St. Hi- laire, Anom. de I'Organization, t. i. par. ii. liv. iii. ch. i. p. 296, 314, 5, and art. " Mammiferes," in Diet. Class. d'Hist. Nat. p. 113. Some of the earlier writers did not hesitate to affirm, that they were confined to the offspring of negroes, Monge, Journ. Phys. 1782, p. 401 et seq. Suppl. We have no very distinct account of Albinoes among the Chinese and Mongols, but they appear to be as frequent among the Malays and native Americans as among the ^Ethiopians. * Hist. Nat. lib. 7. cap. 2. See the note of Cuvier, in his edition of 7th . . 11th books of Pliny, t. i. p. 18. t Noct. Attic, lib. 9. cap. 4. t Polyhistor, cap. 15. p. 25. See the remarks of Saumaise, Exerc. Plin. p. 134, and of Pauw, t. ii. note in p. 13. § Lib. 5. cap. 8. We also find the same term in Pomponius Mela, lib. 1. cap 4, and in Ptolemy, Geog. lib. 4. cap. 6; but it is not accompanied by any description of the people so designated. {{ Among others by Bhimenbach, Gen. hum. var. § 78. See Is. St. Hilaire, p. 297, note. We may remark that the term is objectionable, as indi- cating that the Albino is confined to the jEthiopic variety.