703 CONCIIIFERA. the shell, of various length and thickness, upon which the hinge occurs, is called its cardinal edge. In the hinge two structures are appa- rent : 1st, an elastic ligament, the position of which is variable; 2d, projections and corres- ponding cavities on either valve, destined un- doubtedly to give additional strength to their union. 1. The ligament.—-The ligaments of bivalve shells are distinguished into two kinds, accord- ing to their structure and their position: they are intei-nal when they are completely hidden by the cardinal edge of the shell; they are external when they appear on the outside be- yond this edge. The internal ligament is com- posed of a great number of highly elastic fibres, parallel to one another, and perpendi- cular to the valves they connect. They are secreted by a lamina of the mantle, projecting upon the back of the animal, and penetrating between the edges of the -two shells. The fibres of the ligament secreted when the shell is partially open, are of too great length when it is shut, so that when the valves are ap- proximated to one another these fibres are forcibly compressed, and their elasticity is brought into play, by which it is only necessary for the animal to relax its adductor muscles in order to have the fibres of the ligament, in their effort to regain their natural length, force the valves apart from one another to a deter- minate extent. When the ligament is external, it rests upon the prominent parts of the cardinal edge, parts to which the title of nympha has been given {a, u,fig. 365). When the ligament is of this kind, it consists of two distinct layers, one external, thin, and very strong, composed of transverse fibres, which extend from one nympha to the other, and are strongly inserted within a groove hollowed out of the base of each of them. The other portion of the external ligament is of precisely the same structure as that of internal ligiments, and is comprised between the nymphae and the outer layer, of which we have just made mention. The action of this ligament is also precisely the same : it forces the valves apart when the animal ceases to maintain its adductor muscles in a state of contraction. In the extensive series of Conchiferous mol- lusks, some modifications, as might have been anticipated, are met with in the conformation of the ligament, external as well as internal. If many members of the family of the Dimy- aria be examined, the ligament, very prominent outwards, will be seen bearing upon nympha; more prominent externally than the cardinal edges, but contracting gradually under this edge in proportion as the nymphae become shorter, until in some species we find that, still preserving the structure of the external ligament, the whole of this apparatus is never- theless entirely hidden under tlie superior edge of the shell. This point attained, the external ligament alters by insensible degrees into a ligament completely internal; that is to say, the exterior fibrous layer diminishes gradually, and at length disappears entirely when the ligament is much developed upon certain in- ternal parts of the hinge. Our own opinion is, that the ligament is internal when the nympha;, having undergone certain modifications, have been transferred to the interior, and have as- sumed the form of acetabula. The ligament is sub-internal when the nymphee, of less depth, still show a portion of the ligament externally; finally the ligament is external when the nymphae are situated towards the upper edge of the shell. This displacement of the ligament, and of the solid part which gives it insertion, is very well seen in the succession of the following genera: Solen, I'anupus, Thracia, Calcinella, Ainphidesma, Lutrariu, Maclra, My a, Crassutella. In those shells in which the beaks or hooks are of great size, and spirally turned to one side, the ligament, in keeping pace with the growth of the covering, bifurcates at its anterior part, and this bifurcated part then becomes useless. Tliis circumstance is particularly remarked in the Isocardium and the Chama. The ligament also presents a very remarkable peculiarity in the three genera of the Ai'ca family. The superior surface of the hooks in these genera (A/xa, Pectunculus, Cucidlcea) is of greater or less breadth, flattened, triangular, some- times furrowed, and has a thin ligament, re- sembling an elastic web, strongly attached to it. llie ligament in the greater number of the genera of the Monomyaria is situated within a triangular groove or depression of a breadth corresponding to its dimensions. In one fa- mily, that, namely, of the Malleacea of La- marck, several genera (Perna, Crenutulu), instead of having a single ligament, have a regular series of fossiculae, in each of which a ligament is implanted. Cardinal edge.—The cardinal edge presents a great number of modifications. Sometimes it is simple, and of various degrees of thick- ness, in which case the hinge is said not to be articulated; sometimes it presents projections and reciprocal cavities, in which case the hinge is said to be toothed or articulated upon the cardinal edge. These projections and hollows are remarkably regular in their formation, and every change in their appearance commonly coincides with one of greater moment in the organization of the animal. This remarkable coincidence, to which only a very few exceptions are yet known, has led conchologists to attach great value to the characters derivable from the hinge, and Lamarck, among others, has grouped several families and a great number of genera after them. We believe, with this celebrated naturalist, that the hinge supplies excellent characters for the distinction both of families and genera, but we have been led to this con- clusion by viewing the subject in a difl^erent point of view from that taken by Lamarck. Every conchologist knows the interesting genus denominated Pholus. In the interior of the valves of this genus there always exist two kinds of large curved processes, extend- ing from the interior summit of the hooks (o, fig. 364), and advancing nearly to the middle of the valves. According to our views