ARACHNIDA. 204 Now if the observations of M. Treviranus are correct, and the four vessels which he de- scribes are really analogous to the biliary tubes of insects, we do not hesitate to consider all the part which precedes and is intermediate to them and the four sacs, as the stomach, or chilific cavity. It would thus result, that the tegenaria domestica would be deprived of an intestine properly so called, and would pos- sess no part destined to transmit along a greater or less extent the residua of the digestive pro- cess. And, indeed, such residua must neces- sarily be very inconsiderable in an animal which is sustamed by juices, and these already animalized. We are, indeed, led to this con- clusion by the structure presented by the he- mipterous insects which are nourished, like the spiders, by suction, and which also have the intestines, properly so called, so short that the biliary vessels, which always accompany the posterior extremity of the stomach, are found close to the anus. We may form an idea of this disposition by casting an eye over the beautiful figures which our friend M. Leon Du- four has just published in his " Anatomical and Physiological Researches on the Hemiptera." Fig. 83. In the alimen- tary canal of the if we regard as coecums these kind of lateral ves- sels. For the alimentary canal presents a still more ramified condition in some crustaceans,— we would cite as an example the argulus studied by Jurine;* and in another animal of the same class which M. Milne Edwards and myselff have made known under the name of Nicotho'e, the intestinal canal sends out considerable lateral prolongations. In the leech, and es- pecially the Clepsina, there exist numerous coecums. Lastly, certain minute arachnidans (acaridae) are remarkable for analogous lateral dilatations. It is to be observed that all these beings are sustained by animal juices, and the great part, for the better gorging of the same, are fixed either momentarily or during their whole life upon the body of their victim. We now come to speak of the epiploon and the fatty globules which it contains. The fat, or the substance which appears as such, is ex- tremely abundant in the bodies of insects and arachnidans. In the latter it assumes the form of granular masses or globules of various co- lours, and sometimes these are united together by a thin membrane. In the araneae the fat is especially abundant in the abdomen, of which, indeed, it determines the form. The use of this fatty apparatus cannot be mistaken, and it has been placed beyond doubt by experiment, that it supplies the place of nourishment to the animal, either when the latter passes the winter in a state of torpidity, like the hibernating ani- mals, or when in particular seasons circum- stances are not favourable for catching prey. Respiratory system.—The division which has been established in the c\a.s& Aruchnida of Pul- monaries and Tracheuries indicates that there are in these animals two very different modes of respiration. In both cases the atmosphere penetrates to the interior of the body by orifices situated on different points of the body, and called stigmata. The stigmata of the Fulmo- nary Arachnidans, and especially those of scor- pions, are very conspicuous ; they occupy the inferior part of the abdomen, and are four in number on either side, (1, 2, 3, 4, fig. 84.) They are in the form of narrow fissures, sur- rounded as in insects with a circle of more solid substance than the rest of the integument, and to which we have given the name of pe- ritiema. In the spiders (aranes) not only do they differ in form but in number and position. Treviranus counts four pairs in the thorax above the insertion of the legs, four pairs on the upper part of the abdomen, and one pan- on the lower surface ; the latter is the most constant and important, (fg. 100, d.) The stigmata of the Tracheary Arachnidans are less easy to be distinguished, more espe- cially on account of the small size of the species constituting a part of that group. We have here carefully figured them in an Acaroid species (Ixodes Erinacei), where they are situated below the sides and on the lower part of the abdomen, (f g. 85, a,) in shape like a spherical tubercle, (Jig. 86, a,) perforated by * Annales dii Museum, torn. viii. p. 431. 1806. t Annales de-, .Sciences Naturelles, first series, torn. IX. pi. 49.