CARTILAGE. 495 We sometimes find the cervical portion of this artery in a tortuous state, but we rarely see in it those atheromatous and earthy deposits which are met with in other parts of it. In the dead body there is no difficulty in exposing the common carotid artery in any part of its course, but during life much em- barrassment is occasioned by the alternate di- latation and collapse of the internal jugular vein, correspondmg with expiration and inspi- ration, and sometimes by some small veins which lie in front of the artery. It may be cut down upon either above or below the omo- hyoid muscle, but in the former situation the superficial position of the vessel and the less complexity of its relations render it more easy to be got at. In both situations the anterior margin of the sternomastoid muscle forms a useful guide to the artery; but much more careful dissection is required when the operation is done in the region below the omohyoid muscle. Here great care is de- manded in dissecting back the sternomastoid muscle, and in drawing tiie sternothyroid inwards; the thyroid body and, on the left, the oesophagus must be avoided, and in pas- sing the ligature round the artery, the ope- rator must take care to avoid not only the vein and par vagum but also the inferior thyroid artery, the recurrent and sympathetic nerves and the cardiac branches of the latter, and on the left side the thoracic duct. As anomalies in the distribution of some of the arteries in the neck are occasionally met with, the surgeon should be on his guard against such an occur- rence, especially in operating in the low region where they are most likely to be met with. Two arteries may be found liere occupying pretty nearly the situation of the carotid artery. One of these will be the carotid itself, the other the vertebral, which sometimes passes high up in the neck in front of the rectus capitus anticus muscle, before it enters the canal in the transverse pro- cesses of the cervical vertebrfe. In a case related by Mr. Allan Burns,* the vertebral artery en- tered this canal only a few lines below the bifur- cation of the carotid, and in its passage up the neck, parallel to and behind the carotid, it was separated from that vessel only by its sheath. A low bifurcation of the carotid artery would be equally likely to occasion embarrassment; and the possibility of such a condition of the cer- vical vessels as well as of the anomalous course of the vertebral artery before alluded to are strong arguments in favour of the recommenda- tion of Mr. Burns, that, " when the surgeon has reached the sheath of the vessels he ought uniformly, before opening it, to press the carotid between the finger and thumb. If the pulsa- tion of tlie tumour be not in this way con- trolled, he will do well to pause before he pass a ligature round that vessel."f In fine we sometimes find the inferior thyroid artery cros- sing in front of the common carotid in the inferior region. * Surgical Anatomy of the Head and Keck, p. 170. t Loc. cit. It is very easy in the dead body to find the primitive carotid low down in the neck by cutting in the cellular interval between the clavicular and sternal portions of the sterno- mastoid muscle, but it is not so easy to pass a ligature round it; and this difficulty is greatly magnified in the living subject, in consequence of the necessarily limited space in which the operator has to work; the difficulty too is greatly increased by the contractions of the sternomastoid muscle. To expose the external carotid artery shortly after its origin, it is only requisite to follow the same steps as are necessary for cutting down on the common carotid above the omohyoid muscle. It is in general advisable to apply the ligature below the point at which the di- gastric muscle crosses the artery and below the origin of the superior thyroid. Some embar- rassment is likely to result from the plexus of veins which in this region often lies in front and on the sides of the artery. A ligature, however, may be passed round this artery above the digastric muscle, but it will be re- quisite that the external incision shall com- mence higher up. The needle must be passed between the parotid gland and the digastric tendon, the distances between these parts hav- ing been previously increased by drawing down the tendon of the muscle. CR. B. Todd.) CARTILAGE (Lat. cartilago, quasi car- nilago; Gr.^oi/^^o(;; Ft. cartilage; Germ. Knor- pcl; Ital. curtUagine) is a firm elastic sub- stance, of pearly whiteness, and uniform or homogeneous in its appearance. It bears a considerable analogy to bone, and is to be found in situations where less rigidity and more elasticity are required than the osseous system presents. Several tissues, differing a good deal from each other, were formerly comprehended under this term. These have been variously classified by modern anatomists; but the division of them into cartilages and Jibro-cartilages, proposed by Bichat,* is that which is now generally adopted. Although Bichat was happy in the choice of names for these tissues, yet, in arranging the individual pieces under the two heads just mentioned, he has not been found quite correct. Some of the true cartilages are placed by him amongst the fibro-cartilages, an error which Meckel perceived and rectified.! Cartilages may be divided into the temporary, the permanent, and the accidental. A. The TEMPORARY cartilages are substitutes for bone in the earlier periods of life, and after a certain time become ossified. We find them at birth forming the extremities and larger emi- nences of long bones, a great part of the short bones, and the margins of the broad ones. These gradually disappear, and at puberty cease to exist. It is unnecessary to say more of them here. (See Osteogem y.) B. PERMANENTcartilagesare met with under * Anatomie Gencrale, torn. iii. Par. 1812. t Manuel d'Anatomie, torn. i. Par. 1825.