CETACEA. 579 really is, on account of its deep position and the overlapping of the kidney, E. As it gets beyond this part it is seen to dilate. Two veins, corresponding to the verKe iliaca of Quadrupeds, (m, m,J return the blood in part to the tail, and join the vena cava near the kidneys. The vein corresponding to the caudal or sacro-median of Quadrupeds is not a simple vessel, but a plexus, which is surrounded and protected by the inferior spinous processes; it is seen at_/'. A venous plexus from the intestinal canal (g) terminates in the right iliac vein, which is larger than the left, and thus establishes a com- munication between it and the portal system. h shows a muscular vein, and i the termination of a hypogastric plexus. The more important plexuses which commu- nicate with the iliac veins are, first, the perito- neal plexus (/), which in older individuals, and especially at the season of sexual excitement, is much more considerable than is here repre- sented ; and secondly, the iliac or psoadic plexus Ck, k), which forms an immense reser- voir of venous blood. It is situated between the under surface of the depressors of the tail, which represent the psoas muscles, and the peritoneum, reaching from behind the lower extremity of the kidney to the posterior end of the abdomen, and forming a mass of closely interwoven veins, of an inch or more in thick- ness, and serving to bring the subcutaneous veins of the posterior part of the body into communication with the posterior vena cava. This plexus is fed, if we may use the ex- pression, by a, an inferior vein; i), a lateral; and f, a superior vein of the tail, which unite to form an ischiadic sub-plexus, d. Laterally the iliac plexus receives from five to seven veins, which return the blood from the dorsal and lateral parietes of the abdomen, and pierce the lateral abdominal muscles to join the plexus at e,e. On its internal or mesial edge the iliac plexus communicates by many and wide aper- tures with the iliac vein. At the anterior part of the abdomen the inferior cava receives the plexus phrenicus, o, o. The condition of the venous system above described, while it is admirably adapted to the mode and sphere of existence of the Cetaceans, presents a beautiful instance of that co-ordinate analogy to the condition of the veins in the embryo of the higher Mammals, which is ex- hibited in the general form of the animals composing this the lowest order of the class.] Organs of Respiration.—The organs and all the essential phenomena of respiration are the same in the Cetaceans as in the other Mammals. Tiiey have been made the subject of but few observations. [In the Dugong the lungs are of a very elon- gated and flattened form, resembling those which Daubenton has figured of the Manatee. They are, as Sir Everard Home has observed, one-fourth the length of the animal; those from the animal, eigiit feet long, which he re- ceived from Sir Stamford Raffles, measuring two feet. They are convex posteriorly or on the dorsal aspect, flattened on the opposite side, and along this surface the principal branches of tlie bronchi can be seen through the serous covering. The upper end of each lung is obtuse, thick, and narrow ; they gradu- ally become flatter towards the lower extremity, the margin of which is rounded. The whole surface of these lungs presents an appearance somewhat similar to that of the Turtle (Chelonia Mydas), in consequence of the large size of the superficial air-cells, which are a line in diameter (a, a, fig. 268.) The great extent of the lungs down the back, and the high division of the trachea, and consequent length of the bronchi, are further instances of this resemblance. Fig. 267. Cartilages of the bronchus <if ih, hugong. The cartilages of the bronchial tubes are continued spirally into one another ffig. 267) : the pulmonary artery lies to the outer side of the bronchus and is deeper seated; the pulmo- nary vein to the inner side, and is superficially situated. The,principal branch of the bron- chus (b, fig. 268) runs down near the inner margin of the lung, and continues distinct to within four inches of the end ; it then divides into smaller branches; the larger ramifications are given ofi' from its outer side, c, c. In all the branches the cartilaginous rings continue distinct and strong till their diameter is con- tracted to one or two lines; the rings passing irregularly into each other as in the main trunks. The lining membrane of the air- tubes is thrown into longitudinal rugae, in- dicating their dilatability. We have before mentioned the large size of the pulmonary artery: in this respect, as well as in the structure of the lung, the Dugong manifests a greater similarity to the reptile than the Porpoise does. In this animal the air-cells in no part of the lung exceed a sixth part of the size of the superficial ones in the Dugong; and