ARM. 216 The general result of these observations, and of many others of the same kind, is, 1st, that the legs of spiders can be reproduced when they have been torn oif; 2d, that this repro- duction can only take place when the limb has been detached as high as the moveable base ; for otherwise an hemorrhage supervenes which kills the animal; 3d, that the reproduction takes place only at the time of the moult, and that the new leg is at first slender, but with all its parts or joints, each of which increases pro- gressively, until the whole has acquired its natural relative size.* Bibliography.—Lister!^ Way, Obs. concerning the darting of spiders, Phil. Trans. 1669 and 1670. Homberg, Sac les araignees, Mem. de Paris, 1707. Clerck, Voin fangen und Evnahren der Spinnen Abh. d. Schwed. Akad. J. 1761. Boissier de Sauvayes Obs. sur une aralgue, Mem. de Paris, 1758. Ha- gedorn, De Araneis, Miscel. Acad. Nat. cur. Dec. IX. an 3, 1684. Valentini, Ciirlosa in araneis ob- servata, lb. Dec. ii. an 7, 1688. Durthes, Obs. on the structure and oeconomy of some curious species of aranea; Trans, of Linn. Soc. vol. ii. Paullini, De aranea rara. Misc. Ac. Nat. cur. Dec. iii. an 3, 1695. Garmann, Aranea aere nutriuntur lb. Dec. i. an 1, 1670. Wurmb, Beschryving van te groote tuin-spin van t'Eiland Java ; Verhand. v. h. Bataaf, Genoot. Deel 3. Latreille, Sur la famille des araignees mineuses, Soc. Philomathique, an 7. Preuust, Sur Ics araignees mineuses : Mem. de la Soc. d'Hist. Nat. de Paris, Cah. 1. Murtyn, Aranei; or, a natural history of spiders, 4to. Lond. 1793. Huhn, Monographie der Spinnen, 4to. Numb. 1820-22 Ej. die Arachniden liv. 1—10. Clerck, Aranei Suecici, 4to. Upsal. 1757. Muel'er, Hydra- rachse quas in aquis DanifE, &c. 4to. liips. 1781. Lister, Hist. Animal. Anglias, 4to. Lond. 1678; Germanics cum add. a Martini et Goeze, 8vo. Quedlingb. 1778. Meyer, Ueber ein. Spinnen d. Gotting. Gegend. 8vo. Gntting. 1790. Treviramis, Ueber den innern Rau der Arachniden, 4to. Nurn- berg, 1812. Heroldt, Exercit. de animal, verteb. carent. forniatione in Ovo Pars prima: De genera- lione araneaium, fol. Marb. 1824. Walckenaer, Faune Parisienne, 2 tom. 8vo. Paris, 1802; Ej. Tableau des Araneides, 8vo. ib. 1805; Ej. Hist, des Araneides, Fasc. 5, 12mo.; Ej. et de Blainville, &c. Araneides de France. Lyonnet, Rech. sur I'anatomie et les metamorphoses de differentes es- peces d'insectes, 4to. Paris, 1832. Roesel, Insecten- Bolustigungcn, 4 tom. 4to. Nurnberg, 1746. ( Victur Audouin.) ARM. (Surgical anatomy.) (The arm, Gr. B^apj^iwr. Lat. Brachium. Fr. jBz'<;s. Germ. Oberarm. Ital. Jiraccio.') The ancients ap- plied this term to the whole of the upper or thoracic extremity collectively, as most persons do in ordinary discourse, at the present day ; but in anatomical language the terra is restricted to that section of the upper limb included between the shoulder and the elbow. The arm taken in this limited sense is somewhat cylindrical, a little flattened, however, on its internal and external surfaces, particularly towards its middle ; it varies • Mr. Blackwall, in the paper already referred to, has related an accidental discovery of the power of some spiders to abstract respirahle air from water. Several individuals have preserved an active slate of existence imder water for six, fouiteen, or twenty- eight days, spinning their lines and exercising their functions as if in air, while others have not sur- vived for a single hour. —Eb. much in its proportions as to length and volume: it is more rounded in fat persons, and especially in females, in whom it assumes more or less of a conoid form, tapering to- wards its lower part. (See fig. 1 and 2, p. 3.) The arm is composed of a single bone, the humerus, several muscles, bloodvessels, ab- sorbents, and nerves connected together by cellular tissue, and inclosed in an aponeurosis, which lies immediately beneath the common integuments. Viewing the arm extended, the hand being placed in a state of supination, we observe at its superior and external part a prominence of a triangular form, the base of which is superior; this is formed by the deltoid muscle, and is bounded before and behind by two slight grooves, which unite below in a depression called deltoid fossa, situated immediately over the insertion of the deltoid muscle; this deltoid fossa is the most eligible part of the arm for the insertion of issues, as it contains a considerable quantity of cellular tissue, affording a favourable bed for the reception of peas or other bodies-in- serted for the purpose of exciting suppuration, while it possesses this additional advantage, that no muscular fibres extend across it, whose contractions might have the effect of deranging the surface of the ulcer or the dressings neces- sary to be applied to it, and thus causing an unnecessary degree of pain. From the deltoid fossa a superficial depression extends along the outer edge of the arm, and terminates in the triangular fossa in front of the bend of the elbow: along the course of this depression blisters are frequently applied by the Parisian and other continental physicians in inflam- matory affections of the thoracic viscera, a mode of treatment not generally employed in such cases by the physicians of this country. Another depression extends along the inner side of the arm from the axilla to the hollow in front of the elbow, where it joins the external depression. Between these two depressions there is an oblong prominence an- teriorly, formed by the biceps muscle, and a more flattened prominence intervenes poste- riorly, formed by the triceps which occupies the whole of the posterior surface of the arm. Skin und subcutaneous tissue.— The skin covering the arm is soft and delicate; sebaceous glands and hairs are not very evident on it, especially in front; it is thicker and stronger, however, on the posterior surface. The basilic vein is generally visible at the lower part of the internal brachial depression, and the pid- sations of the brachial artery may be felt along the whole of its course: the cephalic vein is sometimes visible, especially in thin persons, along the course of the external brachial de- pression. As the skin of the arm is loosely connected to the subjacent parts, the edges of simple incised wounds in this region are easily retained in contact. The subcutaneous layer of cellular tissue or superficial fascia contains more or less adipose substance, in greater abun- dance in women and children than iu men, and in greater quantity in the depressions than over the muscular prominences; the filaments