756 CRUSTACEA. fectly distinct, and differ but little from one another; and the seven abdominal rings, in like manner, remain moveable, and only differ from those of the thorax as they do from one another by a relatively inferior degree of deve- lopment. In the majority of the Isopods the structure of the tegumentary skeleton is essen- tially the same as in the Amphipods ; but there occurs a greater inequality of development be- tween the thoracic and the abdominal rings, most of the latter remaining more or less in a rudimentary state. In the Apus and the Nebalia we conti- nue to find the rings of the thoracic and abdo- minal portions of the tegumentary skeleton nearly equal in size and similar in form; but the cephalic section, instead of presenting the same conformation as these two portions of the body, constitutes superiorly an immense shield, which extends over the rings of the thorax and conceals them. This dorsal shield or buckler, which is denominated Carapace by zoologists, also occurs among the whole of the Podoph- thalmians, and more than all besides conspires to give to these animals their distinguishing peculiarities of shape. Inquiries, of which it would be tedious to give a detailed account in this place, have led us to discover that the carapace of these Crustaceans is neither more nor less than the superior arc of the third or fourth cephalic ring, enormously developed, and which in attaining its large dimensions laps over and modifies the conformation of a greater or smaller number of the neighbouring rings.* In the generality of the Storaapods the cara- pace does not quite cover and conceal the two first cephalic rings, which indeed continue dis- tinct and moveable; but in the whole of the Decapods these rings cohere with one ano- ther and with the following ones, and unite more and more intimately under the carapace, which then covers the whole of the head as well as the thorax. In the Macroura the anterior extremity of the carapace only extends over the ophthalmic or first cephalic rmg; but in the Brachyura it bends around this ring so as to include it, and to go to unite underneath with the next segment. As we ascend in the series of Crustaceans, we observe the carapace en- croaching more and more upon the thorax. In the Squilla; the three last cephalic and three first thoracic rings are nearly lost by becoming blended with those to which the carapace be- longs ; they scarcely retain any mobility, and protected above by this shield, unite intimately, and remain imperfect in their tergal portions ; the four last rings of the thorax continue, on the contrary, free, and are in almost every particular similar to those of the abdomen. In the Mysis this union of the cephalic shield with the seg- ments of the thoracic division of the tegumen- tary skeleton is carried further, for there are not more than two of these rings which remain distinct. But it is in the Decapods that the carapace attains its greatest development, and * See my Hist. Nat. Jes Crustaces, t. i. p. 23. that its influence upon the evolution of the thoracic segments is carried the farthest. In these animals the framework of the body does not appear at first sight to consist of more than two portions, the one anterior, formed by the carapace, and representing the cephalic and thoracic segments conjoined; the other poste- rior, formed by the abdomen. In reality, the first fourteen rings of the body are covered by this enormous buckler, and are so intimately conjoined as to have lost all their mobility; the whole of the thoracic segments thus hidden below the caitipace, are connected with it in their superior part, they are only joined with one another underneath and laterally; and their tergal parts having, in consequence of diis, be- come useless, are no longer to be found, being in some sort replaced by the great cephalic buckler; thus the whole of these rings, in con- formity with this arrangement, are imperfect and open above. Hitherto we have not been able to deter- mine whether the carapace of the Podophthal- mia is formed at the expense of the third or of the fourth ring of the tegumentary skeleton ; but we have the strongest reasons to conclude that this buckler is neither more nor less than the dorsal arc of one or other of these cephalic rings, and not of the two conjointly. In fact we cin here demonstrate a composition analo- gous to that which we have already pointed out as characteristic of every arc, whether supe- rior or inferior, of the different rings in their state of complete development, to wit, a tergal portion and two lateral or epimeral pieces. In following the embryo of the River-crab in its progressive stages of development, Rathke* observed the carapace to be formed of three pieces, which at length became consolidated so as to form but one. In many of the Deca- pods it is even easy to perceive this structure or Composition in the carapace of adults, inas- much as Uiere exist lines marking the conjunc- tion, and accurately indicating the. respective limits of the different pieces of which this great dorsal plate is composed. The general form of the carapace depends in great measure on the relative development of these different pieces; in the Macroura the tergal portion of the carapace extends but a short way backwards, whilst the lateral or epimeral pieces reach as far as the begin- ning of the abdomen, and being no longer kept at a distance by the tergum, meet in the median line of the back, and are there con- joined. In the Brachyura, on the contrary, the tergal portion is that which is especially deve- loped, so that it constitutes the whole of the upper part of the carapace, whilst the lateral pieces, thrust outwards and underneath, only form a narrow band above the bases of the ex- tremities. It is also in consequence of modifications analogous to those on which the existence of the carapace depends, that in other Crustacea the * Untersucliungen ucber die Bildung dcs FIuss- krebscs, &c. Tr. in Annales des Sciences Nat. t. 20,