CYST. f88 affords us any facility in distinguishing one kind of cyst from another, we hold them alike inadequate to lead to correct views of the sub- ject. The plan which we propose to follow may not afford any increased lacility in dia- gnosis, but it is, we apprehend, founded upon a more stable basis than either of those to which allusion has been made. We mean to consider cysts with reference to the mode of their developement; and although we do not pretend that this arrangement will afford much greater facility than at present exists for the diagnosis of the species, yet it appears to us to be the most natural classification which, in the present state of our knowledge, we are enabled to offer. A considerable assistance in the dia- gnosis of these organs may be obtained from the adoption of the following principles, which, though not unerring in then' application, will afford a very near approximation to the truth, in the majority of cases. Those eysts which are external, subcutaneous, and exactly glo- bular, with a thinning of the dermis, which seems to adhere to their surface, commonly contain sebaceous matter of a whitish colour, friable and semi-concrete ; those which occupy muscular interstices in the neck, the back, or the extremities, have, commonly, thin parietes, are cellulous, of irregular form, and contain either serosity or albuminous pus, in which are seen floating opaque flocculent particles ; those which surround articulations and ten- dinous sheaths—true appendices of synovial tissues—are strengthened externally by fibrous laminse, lined by a serous tissue, and contain a more or less pure synovial fluid ; those which are developed under the anterior annular liga- ment of the carpus sometimes contain small whitish bodies, in appearance not unlike a grain of boiled rice; those which occupy in- ternal cavities, attaching particularly to the liver, usually contain hydatids, and to the ovary contain a variety of products, sometimes serous, sometimes sanguinolent, sometimes gelatinous. Until a better method of diagnosis is pre- sented, the situation of the organ will therefore facilitate to some extent the knowledge of its contents. No one, however, will rest satisfied with this means, nor underrate the necessity of pursuing the investigation of these organs, until we are in a condition to state with more cer- tainly the elements for their diagnosis. We believe that all cysts may be ranged under one of the three following categories. A cyst may be a simple enlargement, or exagge- rated developement, or other modification of an existing organ. It may be produced by the irritation excited by the presence of a foreign body, whether that body be a shot or other substance introduced from without, or a tu- bercle or other abnormal product developed witlun the body. It may be a new formation not before existing in the economy, and pre- existent to the matter which it may be after- wards found to contain. The last of these categories has not usually constituted an element in the consideration of the mode of formation of cysts, and the sub- ject has in this way been divested of the difficulties which it must otherwise present. Many accurate observers have expressed a belief that cysts were a consequence of the irritation occasioned by a foreign body ; in this way a large proportion of these organs must be entirely excluded from consideration, or must be treated of under the term acephalocyst. Another class of observers, admitting the exist- ence of the foregoing, have added another variety :—they have assumed that the parietes of an alveolus of cellular tissue are attacked by some "morbid affection" by which all com- munication with the adjoining cells is cut off; that the parietes of this alveolus, under the in- fluence of irritation, acquire the power of secret- ing a product entirely different from that which they furnish in their natural condition; that the accumulation of this morbid product causes a progressive distention of this small cavity, and a thickening of the cellular laminas in the midst of which the tumour is developed : in other words, that the tumour so produced acts in the same manner as a shot or other body in- troduced from without. In the opinion that all cysts are so produced, they are fortified by the belief that, by the process of maceration, of inflammation, or of suppuration, it is possible to reduce the parietes of these organs to their " 07-iginal element, cellular tissue." Such was the opinion of Morgagni, Haller, Louis. The opinion propagated by Bichat, that a certain uniformity in structure obtains in all cysts, that they are all analogous to serous mem- branes, will, it is believed, be found incorrect; there are many cysts which in structure and function are essentially different from serous tissues, for instance, some are fibrous, cartila- ginous, osseous, others are cutaneous, others covered with hair. Our Jirst class contains the greater number of those subcutaneous tumours which are so commonly seen under the integuments of the cranium, the face, and some other parts of the body, and which contain meliceric, athero- matous, steatomatous, or other matter. It has been over and over again demonstrated that those follicles which open upon the surface of the body may have their aperture obliterated : the secretion from tiie internal surface of the organ may still proceed, and they occasionally attain a considerable volume; in this way "steatomatous" tumours are produced. The matter contained in these tumours has been analysed by Thenard, who obtained the fol- lowing results. One hundred parts submitted to desiccation were reduced to forty, which treated by alcohol were, in fact, dissolved : the alcohol in cooling deposited a fatty matter, which was easily melted and was similar to adipocire. The residuum, which formed sixteen parts, was of an albuminous nature; consequently there were twenty-four parts of adipocire. This adipocire did not crystallise like that of the biliary cal- culus in man; it was deposited in flakes like those of putrid animal matter dissolved in alcohol : yet, in the matter of the cyst, it was in the form of very brilliant micaceous lai^inae. These cysts frequently appear very thick, but this great thickness is a consequence of theu