164 ANNELIDA. it were, the excretory ducts leading from the interior, and conducting out the sanious and sabulous matter which proceed from the dege- nerated cartilages, synovial membranes, and bones of the diseased joint. The skin is thin, soft, and shining, and moveable on the sur- face, except where the fistulous orifices exist. The anatomical cl aracters of this disease in its advanced stage affecting this articulation we have many opportunities of observing. When the superficial coverings of the swelling are removed, the fat is remarked to be consistent and yellow, the cellular tissue interposed be- tween the ligaments, tendons, and muscles is infiltrated with a viscid, semi-fluid, spongy, homogeneous mass; sometimes this tissue be- comes .so thick, and is so connected with the lateral ligaments of the ankle-joint, and so in- terposed among their softened fibres, as to render a clean dissection of these last impracticable; so that the ligamentous and cellular structures around the joint appear to have undergone a species of fibro-cartilaginous degeneration ; the viscid glairy matter infiltrated around the joint with the tumefied ligaments are the parts which cause the principal swell ing, and give to the fingers examining it that deceptive feeling of fluctuation which characterises the white swelling wherever situated. The few muscular fibres to be found near this joint are pale and of a gelatinous appearance, being infiltrated with the same matter as that which pervades the more superficial structures. The tendons, nevertheless, preserve their natural colour and consistence. The periosteum will be found much thickened and easily detached from the bone. The bones of the joint, and those in its vici- nity, are very usually more or less atrophied, and have undergone a process of degeneration ; notwithstanding, however, what has been said on high authority to the contrary, these bones are occasionally enlarged and expanded ; they have lost much of their specific gravity, their spongy tissue is softened, yellowish, and easily penetrated by a knife, and filled with a matter resembling adipocere, or a yellow semi-fluid fat. The heel it has been noticed is elongated, and the foot measured from the tibia to the toes on the dorsum is shortened very generally, and pointed downwards. Dissection discovers the cause of this frequent phenomenon in a par- tial dislocation of the tibia forwards on the astragalus, the softened ligaments allowing the action of the gastrocnemii and solaei to drag the whole foot backwards. In the interior of the articulation, a more or less considerable quantity of a sanious matter is found ; while the cartilages covering the end of the tibia and fibula, and surfaces of the astragalus, are softened, adhere but slightly to the bones, and have been partially removed, leaving exposed the porous structure of the latter. The arteries, veins, and capillaries present no peculiarity, except that the naturally white ligamentous tissue is more freely supplied than usual with red vessels. The neurilema of the posterior tibial nerve is evidently much thick- ened, so as to give it an appearance of enlarge- ment; the small nerves around the joint seem also hypertrophied. (R. Adams.) ANNELIDA, (a generally adopted, but barbarous latinization of the French term ' Annelides,' from ' Annellus,' a little ring; ought rather to be written ' Annulata'or ' An- nellata.')—The natural group of Annelida comprehends all the invertebrated animals which have a soft body divided into transverse segments or rings; a distinct central nervous system disposed in the form of a longitudinal gangliated chord, blood coloured (generally red), and contained in a system of appropriate and very distinct vessels; and, lastly, organs of locomotion, consisting either of fleshy appen- dages provided with bristles, or of bristles only; or of a prehensile cavity situated at each ex- tremity of the body ; but never of articulated members, as in the Arachnida, Crustacea, and Insecta. The establishment of this class is due to Cuvier. Prior to him, Pallas, Miiller, and Otho Fabricius, had made observations of great interest on the animals of which it is com- posed; and we find in the writings of the author of the Miscellanea Zoologica the most happy ideas respecting the natural relations which these animals bear to one another. Nevertheless, these works had at first but little influence on the classification of tlie Inverte- brata, and for a long time naturalists persisted in following the method of Linnseus, who united under the term Vermes, the MoUusca, Zoophyta, and Annelida, and dispersed the latter in three diflferent sections of that great class; confound- ing some with the Entozoa (intestinal worms), others with the Acephalous MoUusca, and others again with the Testacea. It was in the work entitled " Tableau Ele- mentaire de I'Histoire Naturelle des Animaux," published in the years 1797-8, that M. Cuvier laid the first foundation of a natural distribution of invertebrated animals. He collected together in the class Vermes the species which more lately have constituted the groups of Annelida and Entozoa, and established in it the two divisions corresponding to those which are generally adopted at the present day. Having subse- quently determined the presence of red blood in the leech, and having investigated the circu- lating apparatus in these animals, Cuvier sepa- rated the " red-blooded" from the " intestinal" worms, and constituted for the former a distinct class, to which Lamarck afterwards gave the name of " Annelides," which has been gene- rally adopted, and is used at the present day by most naturalists.* This classification being based essentially on anatomical structure, has been adopted by Lamarck, Dumeiil, Savigny, Leach, Latreille, • See Cuvier, Bulletin des Sciences par laSociete Philomathiquo, an vii. et x. Lamarck, Discours d'ouverture du cours des Animaux sans Vertebres prononce en Mai 1806,et Histoire des Animaux sans Vertebres.