74 AGE. The evolution of the organs connected with this function marks the age of puberty; and tlie changes in which this evolution consists, both in the male and in the female, are too well known to require their specification here. The influence of this development on the mental and moral characters of either sex, is likewise sufficiently familiar even to the most superficial observer. The human being is related with the external world passively and actively, independently of those organic actions and reactions that are constantly occurring in his system with regard to outward agents. He derives perceptions from objects about him, and he reacts on them by his power of muscular motion. But in his growth we mark that the perfection of those organs, which are scarcely more than passive in his relative life, advances much more ra- pidly than those which enable him to take a more active part. Thus the eye and the ear attain a certain maturity of organization and function, long before the bones and muscles, which officiate in locomotion. The bones and muscles connected with the organs of sensation, and therefore partaking of the passive character, are also equally forward in their development. What is the probable final cause of this arrangement ? If all our voluntary motions were the immediate consequences of our sen- sations, as some of them undoubtedly are, such as those which close the dazzled eyes, or refuse the bitter food, or withdraw from pain- ful contact;— if all these followed directly on sensations, it would indeed be a strange ano- maly, if the systems that belong to each were not precisely on the same level of development. But this is not the case; all the more impor- tant motions, important as it regards that world in which man exists, as an intelligent and social creature, though less so as it respects his individual being, are the results of a mental condition, no less distinct from sensation than from muscular motion. This state is desire, or as it is commonly called when the antecedent of action, will or volition. Probably no men- tal state is more simple than this, and it may follow any other. It is tlierefore the more iieces.sary that it should be preceded by such intellectual changes as will give it a right direction; in other words, that it should come under the dominion of certain faculties. But in early life the faculties to which we allude are very imperfectly developed; those only have attained any thing like maturity which are in immediate relation with the senses; such are perception, memory, association, and imagination; while the reflective faculties, such as comparison, reasoning, abstraction, all in fact that constitute man a judicious expe- rienced agent, are rudimentary. The conse- quence is that the desires or volitions are pro- verbially vain and dangerous. Let us observe a child of seven years old ; his senses are suffi- ciently acute for all ordinary purposes, although they are deficient in precision and delicacy; he has seen many attractive objects, he has heard many wonderful stories, and tasted many exquisite delights; he remembers them vividly, he associates them rapidly, and often in shapes very different from those in which they were formerly combined. Desires follow which would prompt him to execute the most ridicu- lous and mischievous schemes. But happily the muscular system, by which alone he could accomplish them, is too immature and feeble for his puerile purposes. Here then is the final cause that we were in search of; the active corporeal functions of relation must not ad- vance beyond the governing faculty of the mind. But why, it might hastily be asked, should not the senses, the mental faculties, and the motive powers, all have been equally deve- loped? The question is absurd, if we consider but a moment the manner by which the mind accomplishes its growth ; that its higher powers result from the accumulation of innumerable sensations, by which in fact the former are nourished and exercised. We shall now introduce a brief account of some researches upon the height, weight, and strength of the human body, at different ages, prosecuted by M. Quetelet, of Brussels. Not having room for the numerical tables, or the particular observations, from which his general conclusions are derived, we must content our- selves with a statement of the latter, and refer those of our readers who may be desirous of seeing the former, to the author himself. His deductions as to the growth of human stature are as follows: (1) the growth is most rapid immediately after birth ; it amounts in the first year of infancy to about two decimetres (nearly eight inches.) (2) The growth dimi- nishes as the child advances towards the fourth or fifth year; thus, during the second year his increase of height is only half what it was the first year, and during the third year it is not more than one-third. (3) After the fourth or fifth year, the stature increases pretty regularly until the age of sixteen, and the an- nual growth is about fifty-six millim, (two inch.) (4) After puberty the stature still increases, though slightly ; thus, from the sixteenth to the seventeenth year, the increase is about four centiin. (13 inch); and in the two following years, only two centim, and a half (one inch.) (5) The stature does not appear to be quite completed even at the age of twenty-five.— These observations refer only to absolute growth, but if the annual increase of stature be com- pared with the height which has been attained, it will be found that the infant, after birth, increases in the first year by two fifths cf his height; in the second by one-seventh; in the third by one-eleventh; in the fourth by one-fourteenth; in the fifth by one-fif- teenth ; in the sixth by one-eighteenth ; &c. so that the relative growth continually dimi- nishes after birth. In addition to these statements M. Quetelet has ascertained that the rules of growth are not the same in both sexes; 1 st, because the female at birth is less than the male; 2dly, because her development is completed earlier; 3dly, because her annual growth falls short of that of the male. It appears likewise that the stature