CEPHALOPODA. 561 developed and proportionally large to direct its evolutions. Bibliography (Anatomical). Aristotle, Historia de Animalibiis, cur. Schneider, Lipsise, lib. iv. cap. 1, 2, & 4 ; lib. v. cap. 6 & 18 ; lib. vi. cap. 13; lib. viii. cap. 2 & 30; lib. ix. cap. 36. De Panibus Animalium, lib. iv. cap. 9. In these several parts of his extraordinary work Aristotle indicates nine different species of Cepha- lopods, with so much precision and so happy a se- lection of their distinctive characters, that modern naturalists have been enabled to identify almost all the species which were studied by the Stagyrite two thousand years ago. Of these we may first mention the Nautilus which adheres to its shell, and which we conceive may have been the Nautilus Pompilius ; second, the Nautilus which does not adhere to its shell, universally allowed to be the Argonauta or Paper Nautilus of the moderns; third, the Cuttle-fish (Sepia offici- nalis ); fourth and fifth, the great and small Cala- maries (Loligo vulgaris and Loligo media); sixth and seventh, the great and small Poulps; the former is regarded by Belon and Rondeletius to have been the Sepia octopodia of Linnaeus ; but the small species, which Aristotle states to have been variegated,* has not yet been satisfactorily deter- mined ; eighth, the Bolitcena, a genus of Oclopods ■which Aristotle characterized by its peculiar odour ; this is the Eledona moschata ol Leach; ninth, the Eledone, characterized by the single series of suck- ers, and to which the Eledona cirrosa of Leach corresponds. Respecting the living habits of the Cephalopods, Aristotle is more rich in details than any other zoological author, and Cuvier has justly observed that his knowledge of this class, both zoological and anatomical, is truly astonishing. Swammerdam, Biblia Nature, sen Historia In- sectorum, 1737,1738, or ' The Book of Nature,' he. translated by Thomas FUoyd and J. Hill, London, 1758, fol. Towards the end of this work there is a letter from Swammerdam to Redi, in which are given the first anatomical details, in addition to those of Aristotle, which appeared after the revival of literature : the external parts and struc- ture of the tongue are carefully described ; the viscera and the nerves with less exactness; and the organs of circulation erroneously. Needham, An account of some new microsco- pical discoveries, Bvo. London, 1745. At page 22 we find the first discription of the armed suckers of the Calamaries : Chapter V. contains the curious account of the seminal filaments of the male Cephalopods. Baker, An account of the Sea-Polypus; Philo- sophical Transactions, vol.1. 1758. Bohadsch, Dis- sertatio de veris Sepiarum ovis, 4to. Pragos, 1752. Josephus Theophilus Koelreuter, Polypi marini, Russis Karakatiza rccentioribus Grsecis oktuwouc dicti, descriptio. Nov. Comm. Acad. Petropol. torn. vii. p. 321-343, 1759. Lamorier, Anatomic de la Seche, et principalcment des organes avec lesquels elle lance sa liqueur noire ; Mem. de la Soc. de Montpellier, torn. i. p. 293-300, 4to. 1766. John Hunter on the organ of hearing in fish ; Phi- losophical Transactions, 1782. In this paper we find the first announcement of the existence of an organ of hearing in the class Cephalopoda. Nu' mcrous preparations in his Collection attest Mr. Hunter's extensive knowledge of the rich and singular organization of the Cephalopods : for his accurate description and beautiful figures of the circulating and respiratory organs, the reader is referred to the second volume of the Descriptive and Illustrated Catalogue to the Hunterian Collec- tion, 4to. and to the first volume of the same work, for the descriptions of his preparations of the hard parts and digestive organs of the Cephalopods : among the latter Mr. Hunter had placed the ' Pan- creas of the Cuttle-fish.' Monro (Secundus). The structure and physiology of fishes explained, &c. fol. Edinburgh, 1785. This work contains (p. 62) the anatomy of the Sagittated Calamary f Loligo sagittata, which the author terms the Sepia loligo), and from its organization he ably deduces its true place in the natural system, observing that ' by most authors it has been ranked among Fishes ; by Linnaeus it has been placed among the worms : but perhaps it may most justly be con- sidered as a link connecting the two classes of animals.' Monro confirms the discovery of Hunter of the acoustic organ, and figures the otolithe of the Calamary. He first published the true descrip- tion of the three hearts, and rectified the errors of Swammerdam on this part of the anatomy of the class : he notices the absence of the venae portae, and some ot the peculiarities in the structure of the eye; but his description of the generative system, and his notice respecting some other particu- lars, as the urinary and gall-bladder, are erroneous. Scarpa, Anatomicse disquisitiones de audita et olfactu, fol. 1789. The anatomical descriptions relative to the Cephalopods are limited chiefly to the organ of hearing, and the course of the nerves ; the account of the latter is incomplete and in part erroneous. Tilesius, in the Beitrage fiir die Zergliederungs- kunst von H. F. Isenflamm, B. 1. Heit. 2. G.Cuvier, Leconsd'Anat. Comparee, 1799 to 1805. These five volumes contain the results of numerous researches on the anatomy of the Cephalopoda, all characterized by the author's usual depth and accuracy. They are collected together with addi- tional details and beautiful figures in the celebrated ' Memoire sur les Cephalopodes et leur Anatomic,' published in 1817, in the Memoires sur les Mol- lusques, 4to. The type of organization illustrated by these researches is considered in the author's subsequent work (the Regne Animal), as charac- teristic of the class Cephalopoda ; but the chief pe- culiarities are found only in the Dibranchiate Order. De Blainville, De I'organization des animaux, ou principes d'anatomie comparee, torn. i. 8vo. 1822. Contains observations on the skin and organs of sense of the Cephalopods. Ejusdem, Manuel de la Malacologie, 8vo. 1825. Home (Sir Everard), Lectures on Comparative Anatomy, 4to. 1814-1828. On the distinguishing characters between the ova of the Sepia and those of the Vermes testacea. Philos. Trans, cvii. Leach, (W.E. M.D.) On the genus Ocytho'e. Phil. Trans, cvii. Appendix to Tuckey's Voyage to the Congo. Zoological Miscellany, vol. iii. Rathke, Ueber Perothis, &c. (on the anatomy of the Loligopsis); Mem. de I'Acad. Imp. de Peters- bourg, torn. ii. parts 1 & 2, p. 169, 1833. Roget (P. M. M.D.) liridgewater Treatise, on Animal and Vegetable Physiology, 8vo. 1834. Robert Grant, M.D. &c. Description of a new species of Octopus ( Oct. ventricosus. Grant); Edinb. Philos. Journal, vol.xvi. p. 309. On the structure and characters of Loligopsis, &c. and on the anatomy of the Sepiola vulgaris. Leach. Transactions of the Zoological Society, part i. 4to. 1833. Lectures, Lancet, 1833-4. Outlines of comparative anatomy, parts 1 & 2, 8vo. 1835. Delle Chiaje, Meraorie sulla storia degli animali senza vertebre del regno di Napoli, 1823-1829, 4 vol. 4to. San Giovanni, Giornale Encicl. di Napoli, 1824 ; Annales des Sciences Naturelles, tom. xvi. p. 305. ( His memoirs on the structure and properties of the colorific stratum of the skin of Cephalopoda are contained in the above works.) J. Coldstream., M.D. see Edinb. New Philosophi- cal Journal, July, 1830, p. 240 ; and. On the deve- lopment of the ova of Sepia officinalis. Proceedings of the Zoological Society, part i. 18^3, p. 86, Mayer, Analekten fur Vergleichenden Anatomie, 4to. 1835.