546 CEPHALOPODA. According to Aristotle the hard dorsal body of the Cuttle-fish was called by the Greeks ' sepion,' that of the Calamaries * xiphos.'* In Sepiola and Rossia the gladius does not reach half-way down the back, beginning at the anterior margin of the mantle, which in the latter genus is free. In Loligopsis, Cran- chia, Onycoteutltis, and Loligo, it extends the whole length of the posterior part of the mantle. In Scpioteutlns it rivals m breadth the Sepium or Cuttle-bone, but is horny and elastic, as in the Calamary. In the latter the gladius is multiplied by age, and several are found packed closely one behind another in old specimens. Fig. 229. J'/g.228. Gladim of the Calatmry. Rudimental Shell of the Cuttlefish. The Sepium or Cuttle-bone (Jig. 229) is a well-known substance, and formerly figured in the Materia Medica as an antacid. It is a light cellular calcareous body, of a peculiar form and structure; and, as it is confined ex- clusively to the genus Sepia, its presence alone serves to characterise that section of Cepha- lopods. Its form is an elongated oval, de- pressed, convex on the dorsal surface, partly convex and partly concave on the opposite side: it terminates posteriorly in a very thin, * " Tk fjitv oZti o-nw'ia, "at in T£i;9iSi KaX rS nvSw ivTo'c Ta o-TEpJ* h TM TTpavH Tou foifAaToc;, a xa- Xoua-i TO (U£V o-»7riov, Tt ^/<f>o?. Sub dorso firm a parsSepi^ Loligini ac Lolio continetur ; iWhis sepium, horum gladium vocant.—Hist. Animal., lib. iv., c. 1. 12rao. Ed. Sch ' ' dilated, aliform margin (a, a), partly calca- reous and partly horny, which becomes nar- rower as it advances forwards, and is gradually lost in the sides of the shell. As this margin is inclined towards the ventral aspect, it pro- duces at the posterior and ventral side of the shell a wide and shallow concavity, comparable to the chamber of the Nautilus shell which protects the body of that species : if the free margin of the sepium were in like manner produced beyond the previously deposited layers, it would advance from the posterior and lateral aspects of the animal, and cover the ventral surface, as in the Nautilus, leaving the convexity produced by the chambered portion projecting into the back. The thickened part of the sepium (6) which retains that situation, is in fact composed of a series of thin parallel calcareous plates, successively deposited and extending obliquely forwards from the ventral to the dorsal surface : the last formed plate is the most internal and the broadest, but not the longest also, as in the Nautilus ; its develop- ment being limited to the anterior part of the shell, so that the previously deposited layers appear successively behind it forming irregular sinuous transverse striae (c). The intervals of the plates are occupied by crystalline fibres, passing perpendicularly from one layer to the other: A is a magnified view of this structure. At the posterior part of the sepium, a little anterior to the thin margin, a pointed hooked process projects backwards: this differs in size and shape in different species of Sepia; but it is always characteristic of the peculiar production which has been described, and has served to identify some doubtful fossils. As our present observations are limited to the recent species of Cephalopoda, we pass over the Belemnites, which are fossil internal shells of extinct animals of this order, to speak of that of the Spirula. This is a small recent Cephalopod, respecting the precise form and organization of which nothing is yet satis- factorily known. The only entire specimen which has been brought to Europe was taken by Peron, a French Naturalist, as it floated dead in the Tropical Ocean, between the Mol- luccas and the Isle of France; it has been de- scribed and figured by Roissy, Peron, and Lamarck ; but both the figures and descrip- tions of these authors differ, and the specimen now no longer exists to determine the accuracy of either of the accounts. All agree, how- ever, in stating that part of the shell was concealed within the body of the animal; and this fact is confirmed by a mutilated specimen in ouv own possession, and by one in a similar condition in die British Museum. The shell of the Spirula (Jig. 230) is about an inch in diameter, symmetrical, con- voluted on one plane, with the whorls disjoined : it is composed of a succession of small regularly formed Fig. 230. Shell of the Spirula. chambers, separated by partitions («, «), which