iro ANNELIDA. sides (d), which are highly contractile. These ' moniliform vessels' are placed in a situation corresponding to the ovaries : they are directed downwards and open into a ventral vessel (b), which occupies the middle line of the inferior aspect of the animal, following the same track as the sub-nerval vessel, but situated less superficially. Its parietes are contractile, and it may be seen alternately dilating and con- tracting simultaneously at every part along the whole of its extent. The blood flows into this ventral vessel from before backwards, and leaves it to re-enter the dorsal vessel by passing through the branches (e) which ascend perpendicularly to join the latter, on either side of the alimentary canal, which they thus embrace, and to which they furnish a great number of ramifications. The blood con- tained in the sub-nerval vessel flows equally from before backwards, and ascends to re-enter the dorsal vessel by lateral channels (_/'), ana- logous to the anastomosing vessels which we have just described, but situated more superficially than those. These superficial transverse or dor so-abdominal vessels, as they are termed by M. Dugfes, severally receive a large branch from their corresponding deep-seated dorso- abdominal vessel, and distribute to the skin a number of ramifications which appear to be specially destmed to bring the blood into contact with the oxygen necessary for respi- ration.* In the genus nuis the moniliform vessels, which in the earthworm perform in some degree the office of a composite heart, seem to be re- placed by a single pair of wide veins, which are contractile and analogous to a divided heart, and both the superficial and deep-seated transverse vessels by which the blood ascends to the dorsal trunk seem to rise from one and the same ventral trunk; so that the circulatory appa- ratus is more simple in these annelida than in the earthworms. The same plan pervades the sanguiferous system in the other setiferous an- nelidans, in which the branchiae are distributed throughout the entire length of the body ; but when these organs are collected together at a determinate point of the anterior extremity of the body it is a little different. Thus in the terebellae the ventral vessel is seen to bifurcate and to form two lateral branches which have the form of an arch, and which, after having passed over the sides of the oesophagus, re-unite above that tube to form a single trunk. This trunk reaches the anterior extremity and gives origin to three pairs of primary branches, which descend to the vesi- cular receptacles at the base of the branchiae, and distribute the blood to these organs. In the leech-tribe the vascular system, on the contrary, is more complicated, for the san- guiferous circle is composed of four longitu- dinal trunks, and the branches which bring them into communication with each other. Of the four longitudinal vessels two occupy the dorsal and ventral aspects of the mesial * See Dupes, ' Recherches sur les Aanclides abranchcs,' Annales dcs Sciences Nat. t. xv. line, and two the sides of the body. The dorsal and ventral trunks communicate toge- ther by dorso-abdominal branches correspond- ing to each segment of the body. The lateral trunks also render to the dorsal trunk a series of dorso-lateral branches, and, moreover, mu- tually communicate by a series of abdomino- lateral branches which glide transversely be- neath the nervous chords. The dorsal and ventral vessels are evidently analogous to those which we have designated by the same names in the earthworm and nais; and the lateral vessels may be compared to the sub-nerval trunk of the earthworm, except that, instead of being single and situated in the mesial line, they form a circle in which the blood undu- lates sometimes in one direction, sometimes in another, but always pursuing an opposite course in the two canals. Lastly, in addition to the above ' general circulation,' there is observed in the leech-tribe something ana- logous to the ' lesser circulation,' (fig. 72) : Fig. 72. this is effected in the branches (6, e) of the dorso- lateral vessels (a), which are for the purpose of bringing the blood into contact with the aerated water contained in the small membranous vesicles (,/■) situated at the sides of each seg- ment of the animal, and opening externally upon the inferior aspect.* Respiration.—From what has been said of the mechanism of the circulation in the annelida, it will be seen that respiration must be effected either in the vesicles above mentioned, or on the surface of the body. Such in fact is the case; the skin is in general the seat of that function ; but in the greater number of instances, the integument, instead of maintaining the same texture throughout, and acting upon the air in the same manner at every point of its extent, presents at particular spots peculiar modi- fications, and thus gives rise to special organs of respiration called ' branchiae.' The branchiae of the annelida are almost universally membranous appendages, highly vascular, fixed to a certain number of the feet of the animal, or inserted upon the back near the base of these organs. In the neieida and some other congeneric annelida, the appendag;es which are designated branchiee, and which in fact seem to be in an * Sec Moquin Tandon, op. cit. Duges, op. cit.