CETACEA. 587 mediate organ (or labyrinth) and the tym- panum. " The immediate organ is, in point of situa- tion to that of the tympanum, superior and in- ternal, as in the quadruped. The tympanum is open at the anterior end, where the Eusta- chian lube begins. " The Eustachian tube opens on the outside of the upper part of the fauces : in some higher in the nose tlian others ; highest, I believe, in the Porpoise. From the cavity of the tym- panum, where it is rather largest, it passes forwards and inwards, and near its termination appears very much fasciculated, as if glan- dular. (A probe passes through the Eusta- chian tube in the figure, showing its nasal ter- mination at d.) " The Eustachian tube and tympanum com- municate with several sinuses, which passing in various directions surround the bone of the ear. Some of these are cellular, similar to the cells of the mastoid process in the human sub- ject, although not bony. There is a portion of this cellular structure of a particular kind, being white, ligamentous, and each part rather round- ed than having flat sides.* " One of the sinuses passing out of the tympa- num close to the membrana tympani, goes a little way in the same direction, and commu- nicates with a number of cells. " The whole function of the Eustachian tube is perhaps not known ; but it is evidently a duct from the cavity of the ear, or a passage for the mucus of these parts ; the external opening having a particular form would incline us to believe, that something was conveyed to the tympanum. " The bony part of the organ is very hard and brittle, rendering it even difficult to be cut with a saw, without its chipping into pieces. That part which contains the immediate organ is by much the hardest, and has a very small portion of animal substance in it; for when steeped in an acid, what remains is very soft, almost like a jelly, and laminated. The bone is not only harder m its substance, but there is on the whole more solid bone than in the cor- responding parts of quadrupeds, it being thick and massy. " The part containing the tympanum is a thin bone, coiled upon itself, attached by one end to the portion which contains the organ ; and this attachment in some is by close contact only, as in the Narwhale; in others, the bones run into one another, as in the Bottle-nose and Piked Whales (Hyperoodon and Balanop- tera ). " The concave side of the tympanum is turned towards the organ, its two edges being close to it; the outer is irregular, and in many only in contact, as in the Porpoise : while in others the union is by bony continuity, as in the Bottle-nose Whale (Hyperoodon), leaving a passage on which the membrana tympani is * " These communications with the Eustachian tube may be compared to a large bag on the bases of the skull of the Horse and Ass, which is a lateral swell of the membranous part of the tube, and when distended will contain nearly a quart." stretched, and another opening, which is the communication with the sinuses. " The surface of the bone containing the im- mediate organ (the petrous bone, p, Jig. 269) opposite to the mouth of the tympanum is very irregular, having a number of eminences and cavities." According to the Baron Cuvier* the petrous bone in the Delphinidte is permanently lodged between the temporal and contiguous parts of the occipital bone; it forms the upper and inner part; the tympanum the lower and outer. The petrous bone is brittle and very thick. It has a larger portion, an irregular ellipsoid, which gives attachment to the tympanum by its outer surface, and which contains the three semicircular canals; and another smaller por- tion in the form of a quarter of a sphere, which is separated from the first by a pretty deep de- pression, and is occupied internally by the cochlea. The acoustic nerves enter by fora- mina at the bottom of the depression. The tympanum is formed by a thick bony plate folded longitudinally, so as to form a canal, open anteriorly, whence is continued the Eustachian tube. It is closed behind, where it assumes a bilobate figure, and adheres above this part to the outer and posterior part of the petrous bone by a rough process, which is firmly wedged in, but does not anchylose soon. It adheres to it also by a part of the external margin, and it is between these two points of adhesion that we find the very irregular opening of the tympanum. The internal margin leaves a long interval between it and the petrous bone. Beneath the bilobate portion of the tympanum the styloid process passes, which is attached immediately behind it by ligaments to the de- scending plate, which represents the mastoid process. The bone of the ear of the Cachalot displays great relations with that of the Dolphins, only the tympanum is shorter and less lobated behind. The bone of the ear in the Bulanida differs from that of the Delphinidte by the enormous thickness of the tympanum {a, jig. 276), espe- cially at the inner side. This tympanum is a little more closed anteriorly, but "leaves between it and the os petrosum {b) on the inner side a proportionally stiorter and wider interspace. It is not bilobed posteriorly. The petrous bone is of a very irregular shape and knotty surface ; it gives off two large rough processes, of which one is situated behind and a little above, and articulates with a corre- sponding process of the tympanum, is wedged between the temporal and lateral occipital bones; and the other, situated anteriorly and below, is articulated by a squamous suture with the part of the temporal which descends to furnish the articulation of the lower jaw. This second process, which in the Bulana is as large as the other, is very small in the Bula- noptera; nevertheless the ear-bone of the Ba- lance is fixed more solidly to the cranium than that of the Delpliini. * Oss. Foss. vol. V. pt. i. p. 300. 2 Q 2