266 AVES. inent they quit the shell (Aves pnecoces); while in others the young are excluded feeble, naked, and blind, and dependent on their pa- rents for support (Aves aUrkes). ScopOLi, in his ' Introduction to Natural History,' published in 1777, proposed a diclio- tomous systematic distribution of Birds, found- ed on tl>e form of the scales covering the tarsus. The species which have these scales small and polygonal are the Hetepedes of this author; those which have the legs covered anteriorly with unequal semicircular plates are the Scutipedes. NiTzscH,* the celebrated professor of natural history at Halle, has synthetically grouped to- gether the feathered tribes under l/wee grand orders, according to tlie great divisions of the terraqueous globe which form the principal theatres of their actions.f The first order con- sists of the birds of the air par excellence, A ves aerea; (Luft-vogeln); the second order em- braces the birds of the earth, Aves terrestres (Erd-vijgeln) ; the third great division includes the birds which frequent the waters, Aves aqua- tica (VVasser-vogeln). The Ea^le and the Sparrow may be named as examples of the first; the Ostrich and the common fowl of the second; the Heron and the Gull of the third of these extensive divisions. A more definite arrangement of Birds, in which a similar principle may be traced, has been proposed by a distinguished naturalist of ourown country, Mr. ViGons. He divides the class Aves into Jive orders. The Jirst includes the birds which soar in the upper regions of the air, which build their nests and rear their young on the highest rocks and loftiest trees, and which may be regarded as the typical species of Nitzsch's Aerial Birds; this order is termed Raptorcs, from the rapacious habits and animal food of the species so grouped to- gether. The second order affects the lower regions of the air; the birds composing it are peculiarly arboreal in their habits, and are therefore term- ed Perchers or Insessores. The third order corresponds to Nitzsch's Aves terrestres, and is denominated Rasores, from the general habit which these granivorous species present of scratching up the soil to obtain their food. By dividing the aquatic birds of Nitzsch into those which frequent the fresh waters, and are limited to wading into rivers, lakes, &c. in search of their food, and those vf hich possess the power of swimming in the great ocean, we ob- tain the two remaining orders of the quinary arrangement of Mr. Vigors, viz. the Grullatores, or Waders, and the Natatores, or Swimmers. The merit of this system is not, however, confined to the defining of the different groups in as clear and readily appreciable a manner as the subject will admit; but it also aims at * See Schoepfs, in Mechel's Archiv fur Phvsio- logie, B. 12, p. 73. t Blumenbach more vaguely proposes a Binary arrangement of Birds on the same principle ; he divides the class into Land-Birds and Water-Birds, la Lawrence's Blumenbach, Comp. Anat, p. xxxiii. displaying the natural affinities by which the several orders and families are connected with and pass into one another. In the ornitholo- gical systems of other naturalists, who have made this branch of zoology their particular study, we find the greatest discrepancy both as to the number and value of the primary divi- sions of the class. Sandevvall has_/o«r orders or cohorts. Vieillot, like Vigors, has Jive orders. Linnaeus, Cuvier, Carus, and Dumeril have six orders. lUiger has seven. Scopoli, Latham, Meyer, Wolf and Blain- ville have nine. Temminck (1820) has sixteen. SchcefFer has seventeen. Brisson has twent//-eight, and Lacepede has thirty-eiglit orders. Where so many masters of tlie science differ, it is difficult for one less profoundly versed in ornithology to select the most unexceptionable system of arrangement, and as Kirby* ob- serves, ' the choice perplexes.' We have here adopted the arrangement proposed by that dis- tinguished naturalist as being the one which facilitates the expression of the leading ana- tomical differences which obtain in the class of Birds, and which may therefore be considered as the most natural. Orders. 1. Raptores, Vig. Syn. Accipitres, Linn. Cuv. Birds of Prey or Raveners.-j- II. Insessores, Vig. Fasseres, Linn. Cuv. Perchers. III. ScANSORES, lUig. Cuv. Climbers. IV. llAS0RES,lllig.Ga7/iH«,Cuv. Scratchers. V. CuRSORES, Illig. Brevipennes, Cuv. Coursers. VI. Grallatores, Illig. Gralla, Linn. Cuv. Waders. VII. Natatores, Illig. Palmipedes, Cuv.; Anseres, Linn. Swimmers. The following are the characters of these orders. Class Aves (Birds.) Animal vertebrated, oviparous, biped. Anterior extremities organized for flight. Integument plumose. Blood, red, warm. Respiration and circulation double. Lungs fixed, perforated. Negative charactei's, no auricles, lips, teeth, epiglottis, diaphragm, fornix, corpus callosum, scrotum. Order I. RAPTORES. Body, very muscular. Becik, strong, cur- Fig. 112. ved, sharp-edged and sharp-pointed, often armed with a lateral tooth; upper man- dible the longest. (F.g 112.) * Bridgewater Treatise, vol. ii. p. 444. t This word is proposed by Mr. Kirby as the English for Raptores ; it is the substantive of rave- nous, from the verb to raven.