CONCHIFERA. branchise are included. It is in this palleal sac that the animal establishes a current of water, destined to minister to the function of respiration, and to carry towards the mouth the alimentary particles with which it is fed. The median parts of the lobes of the mantle are ex- tremely thin and transjDarent, and a great number of vessels (c. Jig. 362), and a few nervous filaments (7, 8,3%. 360) are perceived ramifying through their substance, and running towards the anterior and inferior edges. These edges, which extend as far as those of the shell, are thickened, and it is at the point where the thickening begins that the mantle adheres to the shell by means of a great number of minute muscles (/, /, fig. 347; d,fig. 362), which leave a linear impression upon it. The thickening of the edges of the mantle is owing to the pre- sence of a great quantity of muscular fibres, fre- quently to several rows of contractile tentacular cilia (7n,m, fig. 347; e, fig. 361 &362); and, lastly, to that of an organ, which is the secerning apparatus of the shell. The muscular fibres are Fig.zex. Contractile cilia magnijied. distributed some to the edges of the mantle, and others to the tentacula with which it is fringed. The whole of these parts are extremely retractile, and are endowed with such sensi- bility that the slightest contact is perceived, as is evinced by their instantaneous contraction. Zoologists have taken advantage of certain modifications in the lobes of the mantle to establish divisions in their methodical arrange- ments of the conchifera. This artificial means is sufficiently convenient, inasmuch as no anatomical inquiries are necessary in order to get at the distinguishing characters which these modifications supply. Latreille, in his ' Fa- milies du Regne Animal,' as well as other zoologists, have also made use of the conjunc- tion or disunion of the lobes of the mantle to establish the principal divisions of their classifi- cation ; but they have perhaps given too much consequence to these characters, inasmuch as they bear no relation to the number of the muscles. Nevertheless, none of the Mono- myaria has yet been found which presents the lobes of the mantle conjoined, whilst the Dimyaria exhibit the two modifications which we have had occasion to mention, and vifhich gives an opportunity to divide them into two grand series, the first comprising the whole of the Dimyaria whose mantles are united, the second all those whose mantles are open, or unconnected one lobe with another. The con- chiferous Dimyaria which exhibit the lobes of the mantle united are modified in this respect in a remarkable manner, a circumstance which induces us to enter somewhat in detail into this part of the anatomy of the conchifera. In making the series of acephalous mol- lusca commence with those which have the lobes of the mantle completely distinct, we may place near them certain genera in which the branchis, conjoined in their posterior parts, form a kind of canal, within which the anus proceeds to terminate. This conjunction of the branchiae, extending as far as the edge of the mantle, forms a kind of band towards the pos- terior commissure; but, notwithstanding this, it may still be said that these animals have the lobes of the mantle altogether unconnected (Unio) (fig. 360); in other genera which have been held allied to this, the posterior band is not found, and already the lobes of the mantle appear united in the posterior part, to a very small extent, leaving a particular perforation for the anus. The mantle still continues open in its circumference (Mytilus). By-and-by neighbouring genera, and even particular spe- cies of the same genus, instead of a single per- foration, present two (f, g, fig. 362); the second is destined to carry the water directly upon the branchiae. When tliese two perfo- rations have the faculty of being projected beyond the shell in the form of fleshy and con- tractile tubes of various lengths, they have re- ceived the special denomination of siphons; and the term perforation has been reserved to be applied to the holes of the mantle, which never pass the edges of the shell. When the two siphons begin to appear, the lobes of the mantle still continue disjoined in a portion of their circumference; and this opening (6, b, fig. 356, /(, fig. 362), is destined for the passage of the foot. Fig. 362. In proportion as the foot is modified in its form, in proportion as it becomes more rudi- mentary, the two lobes of the mantle are ob- served in the succession of genera to become more and more extensively united, and it hap- pens at length that in certain genera (Mya, Saxicava, &c.) a very minute submedian or anterior perforation, corresponding to the rudi- mentary foot, is all that remains of separatiori