052 CIRCULATION. of the valves, by which it would appear that * Nova Acta Nat. Cur. xiv. p. 404. Fig. 325. Insects. any other parts (Jig. 325 a, v). A net- work of vessels is also distributed over the surface of the imperfectly formed wmgs. As the metamorphosis from tlie larval to the perfect state advances, and shortly after the insect leaves the water to assume the aerial condition, the circulation of the blood be- comes gradually confined to a more and more circumscribed space. The loops extend- ing into the wings, limbs, caudal processes, and antennae, become shorter; when the meta- morphosis is complete, they become entirely closed, and in general this change is followed by the disappearance of the inferior lateral or returning currents also. These remarkable changes in the circulatory organs at once indi- cate an interesting relation of their condition to the changes in the mode of life of the insect. In the aquatic state, the caudal and lateral laminae, antennse, and wings may be considered as serving the purposes of gills, for the blood is carried to them, and exposed upon their surfaces to the action of the water. The larvse of the neuropterous insects generally feed largely, but their lifie during the perfect condi- tion, when the circulation has ceased, is of short duration, and they either take very little food, or live in absolute abstinence. It has been also shewn that the dorsal vessel consists of different compartments, between each of which a valvular apparatus (7(V. 325*,.r) prevents the passage of the blood in a retrograde direction. There are lateral openings in the neighbourhood the blood is admitted into the dorsal vessel from cross branches (Jig. 325**, j/) passing directly from the lateral streams. It may be mentioned that the larger returning streams of blood, situ- ated on the lower side of the body, are said by Carus and Wagner, we cannot judge with what reason, not to be inclosed within vascular pa- rietes, but to run loose in the texture of the insect A complete circulation is not, how- ever, confined to the larvje of insects, having been discovered by Carus and others in some of the perfect insects. Carus saw it in the wings of the Sembbs developed for flight. The circulation has also been seen by Carus in the larvae of Water-beetles, Ilydrophilus, and Dy- tiscus, and by Ehrenberg and Hemprich in the Mantis, so that the circulation has now been discovered in insects belonging to four orders, viz. Coleoptera, Diptera, Orthoptera, and Neu- roptera. Crustacea.—In the Slomapoda, Isopoda, and Branchiopoda, or in the Squill, Oniscus, and Monoculus or Daphnia, the circulation is ge- nerally described as being of the same simple kind as that just stated to occur in the larva of insects, with this exception, that the blood is carried to gills for the purpose of undergoing a respiratory change. In most of them the venous blood which is sent to the gills comes directly from the systemic veins. From the description given by Gruithuisen of the circu- lation in the Daphnia,* it would appear, if his observations are correct, that the venous blood is sent to the heart before going to the gills,— a distribution very dissimilar from that which exists in the rest of the articulated animals. In this animal, Gruithuisen also describes an au- ricle and ventricle in the heart. The investigations of Messrs. Audouin and Milne Edwards have pointed out very clearly the structure of the circulatory organs and the course of the blood in the larger Decapodous and some other Crustacea. The aortic heart (Jig. 326, H), consisting of a single ventricuiar cavity, and situated below the posterior margin of the thoracic shield, gives off six systemic arteries {A, u), which convey the arterial blood to the various organs of the body and to the liver (/*). The venous blood, returning thence in the systemic veins (v, v), is collected on the lower surface of the body into sinuses ( V, V), from which the branchial arteries {B) take their origin ; the branchial veins (6) return the blood which has passed through the gills to the heart. Arachnida.—In those of the Arachnida in which the respiratory organ consists of tracheae like that of insects, the circulation has been supposed to be much the same as in these latter animals. The dorsal vessel, however, approaches to the form of a heart posteriorly, being there more dilated at one part than in the rest of its course, and considerable lateral vessels are known to be given off from it upon either side. In others of the spiders, in which the respiratory organ consists of pulmonary ca- tities admitting air, it is conjectured that the blood is distributed on the surface of the plates