264 ASPHYXIA. Gallois, Dr. Wilson Philip, Flourens, and others have shewn, injuries of the brain and spinal cord, (particularly injuries suddenly in- flicted on any large portions of these organs,) may directly influence, or even wholly sup- press, vital actions belonging to the head of organic life, for the performance of which we have no evidence of their furnishing any ne- cessary condition. As the function of respiration thus appears to be the only link by which the organic life is immediately and necessarily connected with animal life, it is naturally to be expected that the extinction of animal life should affect the organic functions just in the same way as the suspension of respiration does, and therefore that in the case of death beginning at the brain, as Bichat expressed it^ (t. e. of death consequent on the extinction of sensation and voluntary motion,) the circulation and other organic functions should be brought to a stand just in the same manner as in death by as- phyxia. And in what is strictly called death by coma, this is really the case; the sensations being gradually more and more impaired, the sense of anxiety in the chest, which prompts to the acts of respiration, is ultimately extinguished ; but even after the last breath has been drawn, the pulsations of the heart still continue, and the blood then gradually stagnates in the lungs, the circulation comes to a stand, and the blood is found after death congested on the right side of the heart, just as in the case of asphyxia already described. That this is truly the mode of fatal termina- tion in cases where death takes place strictly in the way of coma, was first unequivocally proved by Sir B. Brodie,* who found, by experi- ment, that animals poisoned by opium or other narcotics, and in which the acts of re- spiration had ceased, in consequence of the impression made on the brain and the gradu- ally increasing insensibility, might be recovered by the artificial respiration, just as asphyxiated animals may be. Indeed the same expedient had been previously employed with success (although not suggested by an equally accurate view of its mode of action) by Mr. Whately.f The reason why the same expedient cannot be expected to avail in cases of disease termi- nating by coma is simply that in these cases the cause of the coma is not temporary, like the effect of a narcotic poison, but permanent. It seems possible that it may yet be found successful in some cases of insensibility with convulsion, in children, unconnected with or- ganic lesion. In so far, therefore, as the extinction of the organic life is concerned, the death by coma, or beginning at the brain, resolves itself into the death by asphyxia, or beginning at the lungs, the difference lying merely in the mode in which the arterialization of the blood is ar- rested. But although this is strictly true as to cases * Phil. Transactions, 1812. t London Medical Observations and Inquiries, vol. vi. of violent death, produced experimentally in such a way that a single cause only is allowed to operate ; and although we occasionally meet with cases of equal simplicity in disease, and ought always to keep m view the principles which these simple cases illustrate in the treat- ment of disease, yet it ought not to be sup- posed that either the death by asphyxia, that hy coma, or that by syncope, often present themselves to the observation of the medical practitioner in the same simplicity as to the experimental physiologist. We can state from frequent observation, that it is only in a certain number of cases of disease, strictly belonging to the head, such as apoplexy or hydrocephalus, that death takes place exactly in the way of coma, as above described, or that the function of circulation can be observed to survive that of respiration ; and on the other hand there are many instances of disease of the lungs, particularly of phthisis, in which the ultimate extinction of life is rather in the way of syncope than of asphyxia. The simple principle, that the circulation, though not dependent on any action of the nervous system, is liable to be influenced in various ways by causes acting on the nervous system, enables us to under- stand that death may often take place, in the course of diseases, in a way different from that which the seat of the disease may lead us to anticipate. Nevertheless it may often be of real and practical importance, with the view of ac- quiring clear and precise ideas of the modes of fatal termination which are to be expected in the course of diseases, and particularly of such diseases as fever—where the symptoms immediately preceding death, and the causes evidently inducing death, are remarkably various in different individual cases,—to study atten- tively the phenomena, and causes, of the fatal termination, in the simpler cases of violent death, such as those which have been here considered. Bibliography.—Tfiito, Delia morte apparentc, 8vo. Firenz. 1780. Coste, Mem. sur les asphyxies, 8vo. Pliilad. 1780. Previnaire, Traite sur les as- phyxies, 8vo. Paris, 1788. Kite, Essay on the recovery of the apparently dead, 8vo. Lond. 1788. Goodwyn, The connexion of life with respiration, 8vo. Lond. 1789. Portal, Obs. sur les effets des vapeurs mephitiques dans I'homme, &c. 8vo. Paris, 1791. Coleman, A dissertation on suspended respi- ration, Bvo. Lond. 1791. Curry on apparent death, 8vo. Lond. 1792. Fotherqill, Preservative plan; or, hints, &c. 8vo. Lond. l'798. Graf, Dis. sur Tasphyxie, Strasb. 1803. Bichat, Sur la vie et la mort, Paris, 1805. Guillebout, Indie, des affec- tions qui produisent subiteraent la mort, &c. 4to. Paris, 1812. Colorini, SuUe varie morti apparent!, 8vo. Pavia, 1813. Lebel, Consid. sur la ir.aniere dont la mort arrive dans quelques maladies des organes de la respiration, 4to. Paris, 1815. Orjila, Sccours a donner aux pcrsonnes empoisonnees on asphyxiees, 12rao. Paris, 1818. White, A disser- tation on death and suspended animation, 8vo. Lond. 1819. Gwmmer, De causa mortis subraer- sorum, Groning. 1761. Recus. in Sandif. Thes. vol. i. Champeaux et Faisole, Exper. sur la cause do la mort des noyes, 8vo. Lyon. 1768. JDu Ckemin d'Etang, Mem. sur la cause de la mort des noyes : reponse a MM. Champeaux et Faisole, 8vo. Paris,