CETACEA. 577 gong previously mentioned, which was six feet in length, was three inches and a half long and three inches broad at the base ; the thick- ness of its parietes one line and a half; the carneae columnae are few, and resemble those in man. The tricuspid and mitral valves are of the usual form and structure, but the latter are broader than in man, measuring each one inch three lines across the base. The diameter of the orifice of the pulmonary artery (r) is one inch and a half. The capacity of this vessel is very great, according with the impediments to the transmission of blood through the lungs which must arise from the submarine habits of this animal. In the left auricle (d) the trans- verse pectinated muscular bands are equally if not more developed than in the right. The trace of the foramen ovale is more evident on this side the septum uuriculare than in the right auricle; it appeared as an oblique slit directed upwards, about three lines broad, but was com- pletely closed. The parietes of the left ventricle (e) are half an inch in thickness; there is nothing unusual in the mitral valve or the carneae columnsE connected widi it; the inner surface of the ventricle was as usual smooth below the origin of the aorta (f). The breadth of the semilunar valves here was ten lines, the dia- meter of the orifice being one-third less than that of the pulmonary artery. The ductus ar- teriosus was completely obliterated.] The heart in the Dolphins and Whales does not appear to have undergone any remarkable modifications; but their arterial system pre- sents a very important one in the infinite circumvolutions of arteries, and the vast ple- xuses of vessels, filled with oxygenated blood, which are found particularly under the pleura and between the ribs, on each side of the spine. [Of this remarkable structure, which was discovered by Hunter, we here subjoin the original description. " The general structure of the arteries re- sembles that of other animals; and where parts are nearly similar, the distribution is likewise similar. The aorta forms its usual curve, and sends off the carotid and subclavian ar- teries. " Animals of this (the Whale) tribe, as has been observed, have a greater proportion of blood than any other known, and there are many arteries apparently intended as reservoirs, where a larger quantity of arterial blood seemed to be required in a part, and vascularity could not be the only object. Thus we find, that the intercostal arteries divide into a vast number of branches, which run in a serpentine course between the pleura, ribs, and their muscles, making a thick substance somewhat similar to that formed by the spermatic artery in the Bull. Those vessels, every where lining the sides of the thorax, pass in between the ribs near their articulation, and also behind the ligamentous attachment of the ribs, and anastomose with each other. The medulla spinalis is surrounded with a net-work of arteries in the same man- ner, more especially where it comes out from the brain, where a thick substance is formed by their ramifications and convolutions ; and these vessels most probably anastomose with those of the thorax. " The subclavian artery in the Piked Whale, before it passes over the first rib, sends down into the chest arteries which assist in forming the plexus on die inside of the ribs; I am not certain but the internal mammary arteries con- tribute to form the anterior part of this plexus. The motion of the blood in such cases must be very slow; the use of which we do not readily see. The descending aorta sends off the intercostals, which are very large, and gives branches to this plexus; and when it has reached the abdomen it sends off, as in the quadruped, the different branches to the viscera and the lumbar arteries, which are likewise very large, for the supply of that vast mass of muscles which moves the tail. " In our examination of particular parts, the size of which is generally regulated by that of the whole animal, if we have only been accustomed to see them in those which are small or middle-sized, we behold them with astonishment in animals so far exceeding the common bulk as the Whale. Thus the heart and aorta of the Spermaceti Whale ap- peared prodigious, being too large to be con- tained in a wide tub, the aorta measuring a foot in diameter. When we consider these as applied to the circulation, and figure to our- selves that probably ten or fifteen gallons of blood are thrown out at one stroke, and moved with an immense velocity through a tube of a foot diameter, the whole idea fills the mind with wonder." *] It is to be presumed, as has been done, that this singular complication of vessels is caused by the necessity in which the Cetaceans are often placed of suspending their respiration, and consequendy the oxygenation of their blood, during a considerable time. These numeerous arteries form, therefore, a reservoir of oxyge- nated blood, which, re-entering the circula- tion, supports life throughout, where venous blood would only produce death. But how this blood is sent to this general system of arte- ries, or what is the peculiar force which acts upon it to this effect, is a point on which we are still reduced to the most vague conjectures. * Phil. Trans. 1787. p. 415. It must be supposed that M. Breschet, who has recently written on the arterial plexuses of the Cetacca, could only have known the preceding description by extractor refe- rence, or he would not have stated that the structure ia question had been 'observee par J. Hunter, inais indiquees irop sommaireraent pour pouvoir etre des lors comptcs au nombre des faits acquis a la sci- ence,' for we do not find in M. Breschet's paper any essential addition to the original account given by our celebrated anatomist, either with respect to the observation of additional facts, to their clearer description, or to the physiological inferences de- duced Irom them. It is agreeable to find that M. V Baer, whose observations on the subdivision of the brachial arteries, and on other parts of the vascular system of the Porpesse, are real additions to the anatomical history of the Cetacea, by no means considers it necessary to depreciate the value of the observations of his predecessors in the same field of enquiry.