ANIMAL KINGDOM. 110 around the anterior part of the body. They are termed rotifera from the appearance of revolvinq; wheels produced by the rapid move- ment of the cilia disposed around the mouth. F!g. 35 One of these minute wheel-animalcules, the hydutina senta, is represented highly magnified in jig. 35, where the mouth (a) is surrounded with long vibratile cilia (6 b). The oesophagus (c) leads to a capacious stomach {d), which becomes a narrow intestine below, opening into the cloaca (e), where the genital organs (i, i,g, g, h,) also terminate. Several ganglia surround the oesophagus, and a dorsal vessel (o o) is seen extending along the middle of the back and sending out regular transverse branches. All the rotifera are free, most are naked, many are sheathed or loricated, they exhibit no branchial or pulmonary organs, they are remarkable for their fertility and their tenacity of life. (See Rotifera.) 8. Cirrhopoda, aquatic, articulated, diplo- neurose animals, with articulated cirrhi, and branchiae for respiration, body covered with a fleshy mantle, and fixed in a multivalve shell. These animals are all marine, the branchiae are fixed to the bases of the articu- lated cirrhi, the mouth is provided with man- dibles and maxillee, there is a pulsating dorsal vessel, and a double longitudmal knotted sub- abdominal nervous chord. The cirrhopoda have been commonly placed among tlie molluscous classes from the form of their exterior coverings. (See Cirrhopoda.) 9. Annelida, with a long cylindrical body generally divided into transverse segments, and covered with a soft skin; the head commonly provided with anteimae and numerous simple eyes, and the mouth with maxillee ; the organs of motion in the form of simple setae or cirrhi extending from the sides of the body in a sin- gle or double row. The vascular system of the annelida consists of arteries and veins, without a distinct auricle or ventricle, and the blood is generally of a red colour. The re- spiratory organs are generally in form of external branchiae, sometimes of internal air-.sacs, and the alimentary canal passes straight thiough the body with two terminal openings, and with numerous lateral coeca developed in its course, as seen in that of the leech, liirudu medicinalis, Fig. 36. (Jig. 36.) These lateral coeca (/!>, c, d, e, f, g, h, i, k, m,) increasing in length and size from before backwards, are often much more lengthened and divided, as in the hulithea. Many of the red- blooded worms are fixed in cal- careous, arenaceous, or other tubes, and many are free and naked. (See Annelida.) 10. Myriupoda, with a length- ened articulated body equally developed throughout; the head provided with antennae and sim- ple eyes ; the segments of the trunk free, without distinction of thorax and abdomen; the segments furnished with one or two pairs of articulated legs adapted for progressive motion on land; the respiration is aerial, and performed by tracheae, which ramify from their commencement in stigmata which open along the whole extent of the body. They do not undergo me- tarmorphosis, nor possess compound eyes nor wings, and they have always more than six pairs of feet. (See Myriapoda.) 11. I«sec^a, with six articulated legs extend- ing from an articulated trunk, which is divided into a head, thorax, and abdomen; the head is provided with a labium, a labrum, mandibles, and maxillae, with compound and often also with simple eyes, and a pair of antennae and palpi; the thorax supports the six legs, and commonly one or two pairs of wings, and has attached to it the moveable segments of the abdomen, which embrace the principal organs of digestion, circulation, and generation. The respiration is effected by tracheae, which form continuous lateral trunks before they ramify through the body. The circulation is aided by a pulsating dorsal vessel provided with nu- merous valves, and the alimentary canal is furnished with salivary and hepatic, and often with pancreatic glands. The sexes are sepa-