158 ABNORMAL CONDITION OF THE ANKUvJOINT. oblique ligaments whicli pass before and be- hind from tlie fibula to the tibia. The proper interosseous membrane itself must be detached from between the bones to allow the astragalus to ascend along the outside of the tibia. While the ligaments which connect the outer malleolus to the tibia must be torn, those which unite it to the foot remain entire, the deltoid or internal lateral ligament must be completely torn across, as well as the synovial sac of the articula- tion ; nor should it be forgotten that the annu- lar ligaments and strong fascire at the lower part of the leg, must, in so severe and ex- tensive an injury, be lacerated; the tendons, muscles, and other structures may escape injury, the astragalus and outer malleolus are dragged up {jig. 54, a, b), their ascent being only limited by the lower point of the upper fragment of the fibula (f), which remains in its natural relation to the tibia, except that it must be somewhat approximated to it; the lowest point of the superior fragment of the broken fibula rest upon the summit of the articular pulley of the astragalus, as is well seen in a preparation preserved in the collection of St. Thomas's Hospital Museum, the delineation of which we have borrowed from Sir A. Cooper's work. The preservation of this specimen, which in oui mind is a true example of the complete dislo- cation of the tibia inwards, and of the external malleolus astragalus and foot upwards and outwards, is a new proof of the truth of the observation we have above made, that this severe accident had not altogether escaped the notice of English surgeons, although the " Annuaire" contains the first accurate account of the external signs by which it may be recog- nized in the living subject. Lvxation of tlie tibia outwards, complicated with simple fracture of one or both of the mal- leoli.—This, it is said, is one of the most dan- gerous of the dislocations to which the ankle is liable, for its production has been noticed to be attended with greater violence, and to be accompanied by more contusion of the integu- ments, more laceration of ligaments, and greater injury to bone, than we have occasion to ob- serve in the production of the other luxations of this joint. The astragal us in this accident is carried towards and below the external malleol us ( fig. 55), whilst the outer edge of the foot is turned downwards, its inner edge upwards, and the sole inwards, the tibial malleolus disappears, and is hidden at the bottom of a retiring angle formed by the inner side of the leg and foot, and the peroneal malleolus forms, with the astragalus, a salient angle rounded off on the outside. Looking only to the change of form, situation, and rela- tive position of the leg and foot, we might sup- pose the case one of congenital club-foot.'* The luxation of the tibia outwards, with inversion of the sole of the foot, is one of the most rare and most difficult cases to explain. Its pro- duction must be the result, we suppose, of co- incidences rare and unusual. There may be a certain obliquity in the line of direction of the * Dupuytren, Anuuaire. Fig. 55. I'ig.56. Lu.ration outwards of the Dissection of the luxa- tibia and fihida with ob- tion outwards (Museum lique fracture of the tibia. of St. Thomas's Hospi- tal ). [Fig. 55.] fracture coinciding with a considerab'e degree of resistance in the lower fragment of the fibula: thus, if we can suppose that a fracture shall traverse the tibia obliquely from above down- wards, and from within outwards, so that the point of the upper fragment be directed down- wards and outwards, and thelowerfragment point upwards and inwards, and if to this obliquity we suppose added a certain resistance on the side of the lower fragment of the fibula, it is plain that the foot being unable to turn out- wards, must be carried inwards by the action of the muscles, and with this inversion, &c. some little shortening of the limb, at least when measured on its inner side, may be ex- pected. If this accident be neglected, the cure which nature attempts is very imperfect, the ankle-joint becomes stiff and rigid (fig. 56), the interval be- tween the internal and external malleolus is much increased, the latter presses heavily against the integuments, which, when the limb is much exercised, have a strong tendency to inflame and suppurate, the outer edge of the foot throughout its whole line presses the ground, whether the patient be standing or walking, while the inner edge is somewhat elevated and curved inwards. In the dissec- tion of this accident, it will be found that the