234 ARTERY, PATHOLOGICAL CONDITIONS OF. circumstances is also available here, for if a wound of this species of vessel cannot heal whilst Its calibre remains open, neither can an aneurism be cured until the artery from which it springs is completely obliterated at the spot where the aperture into the sac exists. The complete closure of the vessel is to be accom- plished by placing its opposite walls in contact and under the influence of such pressure as will occasion inflammation and the effusion of coagulating lymph,—a pressure that can be applied either cib extenio by means of com- press and bandage, or from within, by placing the blood in the sac in a condition that will admit of its perfect and complete coagulation. Pressure on the tumour, if it could be ex- actly applied and firmly maintained, ought to succeed, and, in truth, has often been success- ful, particularly when the disease is consequent on a wound ; but there are so many difficulties to be surmounted and dangers to be encoun- tered in its use, that few entertain much confi- dence in it, and perhaps it never would be resorted to but from a dread of consecutive heemorrhage after a ligature. A bandage, if applied with sufficient firmness to operate with rapidity, occasions such excruciating pain that it can scarcely be endured ; and if loosely, it is liable to slip ; and if even it does finally work a cure, the progress of the case is so protracted that many patients become wearied with the trial. Again, the large trunks of arteries throughout the extremities are generally accom- panied by nerves and veins in such close apposition with them, that a compress can scarcely be applied to one without interfering with the other; and instances have occurred of dreadful mischief having been occasioned by interruption of the venous circulation in such cases, even in the course of one night. Finally, pressure has very frequently caused the rupture of the sac, and the aneurism, from being cir- cumscribed, has suddenly become diffused; and if there was no other source of apprehension but the possibility of this latter occurrence, it should make a surgeon pause before he adopted so hazardous a mode of treatment. Pressure from within is effected by re- moving the impulse of the heart from the blood within the sac for a suflicient time to permit of the sac becoming perfectly filled with blood, and for that blood to become coagulated. This object will be accomplished by interrupt- ing the flow of blood under the impulse of the heart through the leading trunk of the vessel for a given time : in cases of small aneurisms forty-eight hours being sufficient, but the larger and older requiring a longer period. A ligature placed around the vessel between the ttimour and the heart effects this purpose ; but it does more than is requisite, for it divides its in- ternal and middle coats, occasions the effusion of lymph and the obliteration of the artery there, and involves the risk of consecutive haemorrhage afterwards on its final separation. To avoid these inconveniences, the presse artcre of Descharaps and a number of other con- trivances for arresting the flow of blood through an artery, and admitting of easy removal after the object has been accomplished, have been proposed and tried, but success has not been so great as to warrant their general adoption, and the operation by ligature is still very generally preferred. It may be applied either at the cardiac side of the tumour, when it acts in the manner above stated, or between the aneurism and the capillary circulation, in which case the principle of its operation is somewhat different. In the former instance, when a ligature is applied to the trunk of an artery, the supply of blood to the limb below it is interrupted for a few moments; the aneurism loses its pulsa- tion, and sinks and diminishes in size more or less according as its contents had been fluid or coagulated. Soon the blood begins to flow through the collateral branches, and enters the aneuiismal sac also, but it passes into it slowly and without impetus, and no part of it is again forced back into the circulation. It coagulates and comes to press upon and close the ruptured vessel, which is soon obliterated by lymph, and in process of time becomes degenerated into little more than a ligamentous cord. A beau- tiful illustration of this entire process was seen in Mr. Crampton's case* of ligature of the com- mon iliac artery. The patient had two aneu- risms, one of very large size at the groin, the other in the popliteal space of the same limb, firmer, and of much smaller dimension. A liga- ture of catgut was placed round the common iliac, which either rotted or by some accident became detached on the sixth day : the pulsa- tion returned in the larger tumour, which soon afterwards burst, and the patient perished. The sac of the popliteal aneurism being so much smaller had time to become perfectly filled with blood, which was there coagulated and firm. The ligature had accomplished all that was necessary for it, and the cure, would have been complete even although the ligature had loosened—whilst the opposite was the fact with reference to the larger tumour. Sometimes, soon after the ligature has been applied, pulsation reappears in the tumour. This must always be considered as an untoward circumstance, but does not necessarily involve the failure of the operation; for it may take place under two different conditions of the parts. 1. In aneurisms of very long standing, in situations where there is a free and extensive collateral circulation, probably increased by the pressure of the tumour. In these the pulsation does not return for some time after the vessel has been tied, and is never so strong as before the operation. It may continue for several days, but gradually diminishes in force, and at last ceases. The progress of the case then resembles that of the ordinary forms of the dis- ease, except that in this the cure is much more protracted. Apparently, such was Sir A. Cooper's first successful case t of ligature of the common carotid artery, as also the case of carotid aneurism published in the fifth volume of the Dublin Hospital Reports.J It is not un- * Medico-Chirurg. Transactions, vol. xvi. + Medico-Chirurg. Transactions, vol. i. X Page 208.