CONCHU'ERA 697 sometimes globular, rarely elongated and narrow. V\ hen the cesophagus exists, it opens into the upper part of the stomach; but when that canal is absent, the mouth termi- nates directly in the stomach. Examined internally, the stomach presents several de- pressions irregularly dispersed over its surface, by means of which the bile is brought into its cavity; it is on this account that these minute depressions have received the name of the biliary crypts. The intestine {c, Jig. 347, e, fig. 348) arises from the posterior wall of the stomach, and a very singular ap- paratus is occasionally found in its vicinity {d,fg. 347), the use of which is not yet de- termmed. It consists of a small appendage which may be compared to the vermiform process of the ccecum in the higher animals; jt communicates with the stomach, and is filled by a horny process or stylet of different lengths and thickness, according to the genera and species examined. The anterior extremity of this body is attached to the parietes of the stomach by means of small extremely thin and irregular auricular processes (oreillett.es). It is to be presumed that quantities of the food may fall during the act of digestion between the parietes of the stomach and the horny body, by it to be pressed or bruised in some particular manner. Yet when those conchiferous ani- mals which are furnished with the apparatus just mentioned, are examined by dissection, no particle of food is found in such a position. We may therefore be allowed to conjecture that this part accomplishes some other purpose in the economy of the conchifera. Whatever this may be, it must, we should imagine, be connected with the function of digestion. The intestinal canal in the conchiferous Molkisca is generally slender, cylindrical, and from one extremity to the other almost always of the same diameter. After having made a variable number of convolutions within the substance of the liver and the ovary, the in- testine comes into relation with the dorsal and median hne of the animal's body. It con- tinues in this direction to the posterior extre- mity, there to terminate in the anus {e, fig. 347, f, jig. 348); the whole of this dors;d part of the intestine is named rectum. The rectum is generally longer in the Dimyaria than in the Monomyaria, because the anus is found above the superior adductor muscle in the former, ■whilst in the Monomyaria the rectum twists round behind the central muscle to terminate in an anus which floats between the edges of the mantle. The liver (f, fig. 347, g, fig, 348) is a bulky organ enveloping the stomach and part of the intestine. It pours the product of its secretion directly into the stomach by means of the biliary crypts. The liver alone con- stitutes a very large portion of the visceral mass, and consequently of the body of the animal; it consists of a great number of fol- licles connected together by means of lax and extremely delicate cellular membrane; this structure renders the organ very easily torn. We shall <;ee by-and-lne tiiat it is traversed in vol.. I. F,g 3n tlie greater number of mollusks by several muscles belonging to other parts, an arrange- ment which contributes to support and give it greater strength. The exposition which has now been given of the structure of the organs of digestion, affords a ready explanation of all that bears upon this function in the conchiferous mol- lusca. These animals not having the mouth armed with any hard part are unable to seize and swallow any kind of solid food, so that in general nothing more is found in their sto- machs than segregated particles, proceeding without doubt from the decomposition of aquatic animals and plants. - The lips, and unquestionably the labial palps also, are de- stined to give the animal perception of the aliment it takes. Once in the stomach, this aliment, impregnated with bile and probably also with a gastric juice secreted by the lining membrane of this pouch, is subjected to a first digestive elaboration; it next passes the pylorus when it exists, and then traverses the intestinal canal and supplies to the absorbent system the elements necessary to the nutrition of the animal. It does not appear that there is any par- ticular system of absorbent vessels in the con- chiferous Mollusca; the veins perform the office of absorbents, and they transmit with- out any intermedium, and withoiit their under-