CIRCULATION. «j65 terminations of that fluid which take place in blushing, inHamraation, and other states of the economy in which particular parts of the vas- cular system become more or less filled with blood than usual; for such variations in the distribution of the blood would be impossible, were an alteration in the powers of the heart alone the only means of modifying the circula- tion. The questions, however, whether such powers as are possessed by the arteries contri- bute upon the whole to the progressive motion of the blood or modify only Us distribution, are quite distinct from one another. In its anatomical structure the fibrous coat of the arteries differs considerably from muscu- lar substance, and appears to resemble more nearly the yellow elastic ligamentous tissue. Its fibres are less mixed with cellular substance than those of muscles ; they are also more dry, hard, and friable, less coloured, and, accord- ing to Hodgkin and Lister,* are destitute of those transverse strije or lines observed by the microscope in ordinary muscular fibres. The chemical constitution of the middle coat of the arteries differs also from that of muscle, for it is less soluble in acetic acid, and more easily so in mineral acids, and it is believed by Ber- zelius and Young not to contain the animal principle, fibrine, peculiar to muscular flesh. Although we fully admit the importance of these observations as establishing anatomical and chemical distinctions between muscular substance and the texture of the middle coat of the arteries, they do not appear to us to warrant the conclusion too hastily deduced from them by some, that this coat cannot be irritable, or does not possess any of the same properties as muscle, the existence or non-existence of which must be ascertained principally by physiologi- cal evidence. For the transverse stria; cannot be considered as characteristic of all muscular fibres; and were we to reason in this way from the result of anatomical observations only, we should be necessitated to deny the irritability of various other textures, the con- tractility of which from stimulation or without it, is universally admitted, although anatomists have not yet detected muscular fibres in them. The coats of the smaller arteries are generally believed to be proportionally thicker than those of the larger trunks, and John Hunter held the opinion that the yellow fibrous tissue exists in greatest quantity in the larger arteries ; while the smaller vessels, considered more active, are composed of a substance more nearly allied to muscular fibre. The grounds upon which the latter opinion rests are upon the whole not very satisfactory; and it appears to be opposed by those instances in which, after the closure by ligature of the principal artery of a limb, the smaller collateral vessels which maintain the circulation, after undergoing a rapid enlarge- ment, assume the structure and general appear- ance of the large arteries. The irritability of the smaller arteries, now very generally admitted by physiologists, though * Appendix to the Transl. of Edwards's Worl< »n the Influencft of Physical Agents, &c. p. 443. VOL. I. it seems by some to have been inferred from analogy, and to have been rendered probable by Dr. Wilson Philip's observations on the effect of chemical stimuli in removing the dilated state of the capillaries in inflammation, was first distinctly proved experimentally by Dr. Thomson of Edinburgh,* who caused the arte- ries in the web of the frog's foot to contract powerfully by the application of mechanical irritation as well as by chemical stimuli. His experiments shewed that the nature of the con- traction produced by stimulation of one of the smaller arteries varies considerably, occupying sometimes a greater or less space of the vessel, and being at other times confined to one place, sudden, and frequently so great as completely to stop the passage of blood. They also de- monstrated the fact that the contraction of the small arteries does not follow immediately the application of the stimulus, as occurs in the voluntary muscles, but that a period of from one to three minutes elapses before the contrac- tion begins, and that the vessel remains con- stricted for some time, and then returns to its original state, unless inflammation shall have occurred, in which case it dilates to a greater size than natural. The irritability of the small vessels has been fully established by experi- ments similar to those of Dr. Thomson, by Dr. Wilson Philip,! Dr. Hastings,^ Kaltenbrun- ner,§ and VVedemeyer,§ the last of whom suc- ceeded in causing the small arteries to contract by means of galvanic as well as of mechanical irritation. The constriction which follows the injection of styptic and irritating fluids into the arteries, observed by Hales|| in animals recently dead, and similar experiments by Wedemeyer, may be adduced as another proof of their irrita- bility. The stoppage of hemorrhage from cuts of the small arteries and capillaries, assisted t.s it is by cold or irritating applications, may be regarded as the effect of the same property. Contractions do not occur so readily or ob- viously in the large as in the very small arte- ries. Verschuir appears to have been the first who observed, in a manner not liable to fallacy, distinct contractions of the larger arteries to occur after the direct application of a stimulus. From an extended series of experiments upon this subject, described in his Inaugural Disser- tation De Vi Arteriarum Contractili, Verschuir was led to adopt the opinion that the arteries are possessed of irritability, or contract in the same manner as muscles do from irritation ; as he observed very obvious and powerful con- tractions to occur when, by means of a sharp point or chemical stimuli, he irritated the coats of the larger arteries of animals. Haller, though considering the middle coat * Lect. on Inflammation. Edin. 1813. t Introduct. to the second part of his work on F.ver. i Introduct. to his work on the Inflammation of the Mucous Membrane, &c. § Kxper. circa statum Sang, et Vasor. in Inflam- raatione. Munich, 1826. II Untersuch. iiber den Kreislauf des Blutes, &c. Hannover, 1828. See also Koch in Meckel's Archiv, 1832, p. 121. 11 Statical Essays, ii. p. 124. 2 X