ARTERY, PATHOLOGICAL CONDITIONS OF. 231 the neighbourhood are neither distended nor ruptured, and the blood within it passes through the general circulation, and of course does not coagulate. It is difficult to class this disease with aneurism in any form, yet is it termed the aneurism by anastomosis. No part of the natural history of any disease can be more interesting than that which has reference to its causes, whether predisposing and remote, or immediately exciting. Cer- tainly, when an aneurism has been formed, a knowledge of the circumstances that occa- sioned it will not he very useful in contributing to its removal, although it may often assist in forming a prognosis as to the result of an operation : yet if it can be made available in the prevention of the disease, it must prove of no inconsiderable value. It is admitted that aneurism frequently appears suddenly as the result of a blow, a strain, or some violent exer- tion, the patient being conscious of something having torn or'given way within him. With still greater frequency it occurs without any such consciousness on the part of the sufferer, and persons have borne this formidable disease about them for months, and even for years, not only without being themselves aware of its existence, but, if situated internally, without its being recognized by their professional at- tendants ;* and it often happens that a patient complains of the crookening of the fingers or the numbness of the foot, unmindful of the tumour under the clavicle or in the popliteal space. Without denying" that an artery, in a perfectly healthy condition, can become the seat of aneurism, because there are too many facts apparentlj'^in support of such an opinion, it may be remarked that if such was generally or even frequently the case, the disease ought to be much more common amongst the labouring poor, and also that it should prevail amongst some particular trades. These considerations lead to a belief, that previous to the occurrence of spontaneous aneurism, the artery has under- gone some change predisposing to it, although it may not be so easy to point out the nature of that change, or the causes that lead to its production. It is observed that aneurism is of far less frequent occurrence in woman than in man; a comparison between the numbers of hiternal cases proving this fact in a remarkable manner, and in cases of external aneurism still more so. It is very rare to meet with a popliteal aneu- rism in a female. Certainly, the more labo- rious habits and constant exposure to accident in the one sex may in some respects serve to account for this circumstance, but to those who know that in many places women are obliged to undergo at least as much hardship and fatigue, the explanation will be far from satisfactory. Again, it has been stated diat certain pursuits of life predispose to aneurism, inasmuch as it prevails amongst coachmen and postilions, but there never has been even a plausible reason ofiered to explain diis greater '* A very curinus case of this description is related iu the Dublin Hospital Reports, vol. v. p. 167. liability of particular callings. It cannot be the bent positions of the limbs of such per- sons, because many other classes, studious persons for instance, maintain similar postures for a longer time and with greater frequency, yet is not aneurism common amongst them. Neither will the sudden stretching of the limb by pressing the foot against the stirrup or foot- board in managing the horses throw any light upon the subject, for it is found by experiment that no force will rupture a healthy artery short of what would also tear asunder the ligaments of the adjacent joints. Allowing, therefore, the accuracy and truth of these observations, their explanation is still to be sought for. Some have supposed that old age, and the deposit of earthy material which is formed in the arteries at that period, are predisposing causes of aneurism ; yet, if this was the case, the disease should be very prevalent indeed among those advanced in life, whereas it is in reality almost as rare as in infancy or early youth. Of fifteen cases of large aneurism operated on, only two had exceeded the age of forty years, the average of all being but thirty-one and a half; and if a larger number of cases (inclusive of the internal forms of the disease) were collected and compared, it would probably be shewn to be considerably less. With respect to the earthy deposit alluded to, it is found between the fibrous and internal coats closely adhering to the latter, from which it can scarcely be separated : it is disposed in thin laminae or plates of different sizes, the largest being seldom greater than a spangle, and these earthy spots are distinct and separate, not running into or connected with each other, and never encircling the vessel with an un- interrupted bony ring. They are supposed to render an artery friable and brittle, and there- fore to predispose to aneurism, and have been considered by some to be the products of arterial inflammation. Unfortunately the origin and progress of this earthy degeneration have not yet been satisfactorily traced. Scarpa* seems to regard it as arising from the same cause that produces the steatomatous deposit, and states that it cannot be said to be proper to old age, as it is sometimes met with in patients who are not much advanced in life. I have seen these earthy depositions in the aorta of a female not twenty-five years of age, which was also highly inflamed and covered with spots of soft steatomatous deposit, but still that is far from proof of its being the product of active inflammation, or of its rendering the artery weak or disposed to aneurism. Of any number of subjects above the age of sixty brought into a dissecting-room, three- fourths will be found with this earthy dege- neration in some of the arteries, yet the in- frequency of aneurism amongst old patients has been already remarked. Again, this de- posit has been seen in the sac of a true aneu- rism, a circumstance that would shew it did not greatly interfere with the distensibility of the arterial tunics or render them more friable, * On Aneurism, page 90.