AGE. 77 do not hesitate to consider them mature; we must therefore infer that there is a correspond- ing organic development of some kind m the cerebral substance. Maturity then would, ac- cording to this view, require to be dated at a period much later than that which is usually assigned to it. It is enough, however, without referring further, to know that although at the adult period the organs of animal life are so developed, that we cannot consider them im- perfect instruments, they are even afterwards the subjects of a perfectiomiement. What is commonly meant then by maturity, is in strict- ness that period of human existence, during which the processes of growth and decline are passing into each other by such slow degrees as to be imperceptible. In this important era of the life of man, more important even than the season of adole- scence, we must leave him in the full posses- sion of all the faculties and energies which his Maker has allotted him, fulfilling his destiny of good and evil, encountering and triumphing over peril, toil, and pain, scaling the rough steep of ambition, threading the dark intricate paths of gain, labouring for the happiness or misery of his fellow-creatures, supported all the while by the consciousness of a strength that seems never to fail him, of resources never to be exhausted; we must allow a few years to roll by, and then return to him, when weary, wayworn, and broken with the storms of life, he has discovered that there are limits to his powers of action and endurance ; that of the objects which he proposed as the ends of his labours, while a few have been accomplished, the majority are either vain or unattainable; and that a race fresh in vigour, and high in hope, the images of his former self, are over- taking and thrusting him away from the scenes of his exertions. What are the revolutions that have transpired in his system ? The formative organs of all the tissues of the body are in reality the tissues themselves ; whether it be a muscle, or a gland, or the coat of a vessel, the parts which essentially produce its growth are nothing more or less than its own constituent molecules, the mutual attrac- tions of which in deposition and absorption constitute assimilation; for there is no proof that vessels are used for any other purpose than that of conveying the nutrient fluids to and from the places, where the ultimate mole- cules arrange themselves in the form of tissue. The altered qualities, then, which are presented by the tissues, in whatever organs, in the de- cline of life, must depend immediately upon alterations in their own molecular motions and affinities. The nature of these alterations will of course correspond to the nature of each tissue; and unless we mistake, they will all be found to agree in one character, viz. a sim- pler composition, a lower kind of organization than they formerly possessed. Butthe discussion of this point will be more conveniently deferred till we shall have briefly recited the principal changes in the more important parts of the body. As the nutritive secretions of the various structures are supplied with materials by the fluids in those structures, it is evident that they must at any time be increased, diminished, or otherwise modified by changes in the quantity and properties of these fluids. It is therefore a natural commencement of the subject to begin with the circulating system. Nothing is more obvious in the condition of the aged as contrasted with the young than the different ratio between the fluids and the solids, the former being remarkably deficient. There is not only a notable diminution in the quantity of oleaginous or serous secretions, which are generally contained in the cellular parts of the body, but it is manifest that the tissues are per- meated by a much smaller proportion of blood. This fluid moreover is very ditterent in quality from what it was in earlier life; it is less arte- rial, its colour has not the same bright red it once presented, it has a large proportion of serum, and its coagulum is less firm in con- sistence.* Correspondently with the defi- ciency of fluids, many parts whicii once contained them are shrunk or obliterated. The capillary system becomes infinitely less ex- tended than it once was ; many of the extreme branches of the arteries themselves are no longer to be penetrated, and those which remain per- vious, are far less distensible than formerly. There is indeed a remarkable change in the coats of these vessels ; they are not only con- tracted in diameter, but are become denser and more rigid in texture. In this respect they dif- fer from the veins, which in old age are more dilatable than in youth, and consequently con- tain a larger quantity of blood. The final cause of this is evident; in youth the arteries must convey a relatively larger quantity to sup- ply the increasing structures ; in the decline of life, when the latter are decreasing, there can no longer be any need for the same supply; the permission, however, of an accumulation in the veins, where it is less likely to be productive of injury, appears to be an accommodation to the diminution of the circulating powers. If we trace the arteries from their extremities back to the heart, we shall find their calibres every where diminished, their coats less elastic, less capable of adapting themselves to the varying quantity of their contents, in some places resembling the texture of ligament, in some that of cartilage, and in others studded with deposits of osseous matter. The heart itself presents marks of degeneration no less decided ; its cavities are shrunk, its fibres pale, and but feebly contractile, and fat will some- times seem to take the place of the muscular substance. Frequently, also, the coronary arte- ries are found ossified, and the same alteration is not uncommon in the valves. All these facts account for the slow, languid, staggering circulation characteristic of advanced life ; there is less blood to be transmitted to the various organs, and that which is sent is pro- pelled with a degree of feebleness that shows how little energy is required in its motion, when * De Blainville is of opinion that these changes arc exaggerated. Cours de Physiologie, i, 262.