PREFACE. tion of the articles was caused by an earnest wish on the part of the Authors to do ample justice to their subjects, and a praiseworthy scrupulousness in recording facts which they had not verified by actual observation. To this it must be added, that for a considerable period the continuance of the work was jeopardised, and its publication wholly suspended for two years, by the death, in rapid succession, of the leading partners of tlie publishing firm under whose auspices tlie work was conducted, prior to its passing into the hands of its present publishers, the Messrs. Longman. Nor will the Editor attempt to shield himself from blame as regards the tardy completion of the Cyclopajdia. He is quite ready to confess that, in other hands than his own, it would have been long since finished. lie is con- scious that he has been often dilatory, sometimes vacillating, occasionally appalled by the magnitude of the undertaking, and by the knowledge of the inadequacy of his powers to carry it on to a close. At the same time, in self-defence, he feels bound to plead that, soon after the publication of the first two or three parts of the work, certain onerous duties devolved upon him, which greatly curtailed the amount of leisure available for literary pursuits. In the first place, he was called upon, at short notice, to deliver a lengthened course of Lectures on Anatomy and Physiology of a kind quite new in this country, both as regards extent and nature, which demanded a large amount of study and of personal inquiry and investigation ; soon afterwards was added the responsible oilice of a Hospital Physician and a Teacher of Clinical Medicine; these were, at no long interval, followed by professional engagements, Avhich, although not more responsible, created more urgent and imperative claims upon his time and attention. With all these demands upon him, it will not excite surprise that literary work often became abandoned or postponed. At length, " per varies casus et tot discrimina rerum," the period of com- pletion has arrived. And the Editor, while he is impressed with a deep sense of gratitude that his own health and life have been spared till the completion of the book, acknowledges, with thankfulness and pride, the invaluable aid which he has obtained from all quarters. He looks back Avith much of the same feelings which fill the mind of an architect who has projected a large CI 2