489 CAROTID ARTERY. frontal branches of the ophthalmic and with the opposite temporal. The posterior branch passes upwards and backwards in a tortuous course, and supplies the integuments, tem- poral aponeurosis, pericranium, &c. These branches anastomose with the anterior branch, with the opposite temporal, the occipital, and posterior auris. 2. The internal maxillary artery, (a. maxil- laris interna,) is larger than the preceding; im- mediately after its origin it passes downwards and inwards under the neck of the condyle of the lower jaw; it then mounts forwards and in- wards between the temporal and external ptery- goid muscles, and usually passing between the two origins of the latter, it enters the pterygo- maxillary fossa, where it ascends as high as the level of the inferior wall of the orbit, oppo- site which it takes a horizontal direction. At this place it divides into numerous branches, which are distributed on one side inwards to- wards the nose, and on the other side to the external part of the face. The branches of the internal maxillary are, a. lltc middle meningeal, b. the inferior dental, c. the jxi.slvridr deep temporal, d. the masseterie, e. ijlcriiii,<id hniiichcs, f. the buccal, g. the an- terior deep leiiiiHirul, h. the alveolar, i. the infru-orbiLul, I. the superior palatine, ni. the vidian, n. the pterygo-pulatine, and o. the spheno-palutine: in addition to these the in- ternal maxillary artery gives several branches to the cellular tissue and other parts surrounding it. a. The middle meningeal artery (a. meningea media, spinusa) arises from the superior part of the artery and passes directly upwards on the inside of the external pterygoid muscle, to which, to the superior constrictor of the pharynx and muscles of the velum palati it sends branches, and passing between the tensor palati muscle and internal lateral ligament of the temporo-maxillary articulation, enters the cranium through the foramen spinale of the sphenoid bone, and immediately gives off some small branches, which pass through the hiatus Fallopii to the cavity of the tympanum, where they anastomose with the stylo-niastoid artery; other branches pass forwards towards the orbit into whicli some of them occasionally enter by the foramen lacerum. The meningeal artery then divides into two branches, an anterior and a posterior; the anterior, which is the larger, might be considered as the continued trunk; it mounts forwards towards the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone, where it is lodged in a groove, and sometimes in a canal in the sub- stance of that bone. This branch at first gives twigs to the foramen lacerum, which anastomose with the lachrymal; after wliich it mounts on the parietal bone, principally following the course of the coronal suture, sending its bran- ches upwards and backwards between the dura mater and the inner surface of the parietal bone. The posterior branch passes backwards in a curved direction on the inner surface of the squamous portion of the temporal bone, and advancing towards the inferior border of the parietal bone, is expended on the posterior and lateral part of the dura mater. The branches of the middle meningeal artery spread over the external surface of the dura mater, and occupy the grooves which are disposed in an arbores- cent form on the internal surface of the parietal bone. The middle meningeal artery anasto- moses with that of the opposite side and with the other arteries of the dura mater. b. The inferior muxillury or inferior dental artery sometimes coming from the middle me- ningeal, descends to the posterior dental hole by which it enters the dental canal, passing be- tween the inner surface of the ramus of the jaw and the outer surfaces of the internal pterygoid muscle and the internal lateral ligament of the temporo-maxillary articulation, to which it gives small twigs: before it enters the dental hole, it gives off a small branch, which passing down- wai-ds and forwards in a groove on the inside of the lower jaw, is distributed to the mylo- hyoid muscle and mucous membrane of the mouth. In the dental canal this artery passes forwards beneath the alveoli of the molar teeth, sending upwards in its course several branches which penetrate into the alveoli, and enter the cavities of the teeth by the holes in their roots ; having arrived opposite the mental hole, it sends a branch which passes onwards beneath the alveoli of the canine and incisor teeth, to which it is distributed ; while the continuation of the artery coming out through the mental hole is distributed to the muscles of the lower lip, where it anastomoses with the labial. c. The posterior deep temporal artery arises after the dental; it passes upwards between the temporal and external pterygoid muscles, and sinking into the substance of the former, divides into a great number of branches, which spread over the squamous portion of the temporal bone, and are distributed to the temporal mus- cle and pericranium. This artery anastomoses with the anterior deep temporal, the middle, and the superficial temporal. d. The masseteric is a small branch often arising from the posterior deep temporal; it passes outwards between the posterior border of the temporal muscle and the condyle of the lower jaw, and enters the masseter muscle, where it anastomoses with the transversalis faciei. e. The pterygoid arteries are irregular as to number, size, and origin; they either come from the trunk of the internal maxillary or the posterior deep temporal, and are distributed to the pterygoid muscles. ./■- l^he buccal artery does not always arise from the internal maxillary itself; it sometimes comes from the anterior deep temporal, the alveolar, or infra-orbital. It passes downwards and forwards between the internal pterygoid muscle and ramus of the lower jaw, and ad- vances over the surface of the buccinator mus- cle, to which it gives branches, as well as to the zygomatic and other muscles of the lip: it anastomoses with the labial, infra-orbital, and transversalis faciei. g. The anterior deep temporal arises from the internal maxillary, near the outer wall of the temporal fossa beneath the temporal mus- cle, 10 which it is distributed ; suine of Tt^'"^