BONE, PATHOLOGICAL CONDITIONS OF. 463 orhit, projecting forwards on the eye-ball and backwards on the brain, both of which organs it must have destructively compressed.* We have seen an osteo-sarcoma of the lower jaw in a young boy occasion death by suffocation ; and anotlier in a young female impede deglutition so entirely that she died or seemed to have died of actual starvation. This, however, was at a period before an operation for the removal of the jaw had been attempted, at least in this country, and both were considered as specimens of fungus heematodes. When the tumour re-appears after operation, it does so in a very short space of time, often before the wound has cicatrized and healed; and as its situation is in the immediate neigh- bourhood of the former disease, the fungus protrudes through the wound, and seems to grow from it. In these cases the progress to a fatal termination, which is inevitable, is per- haps, fortunately for the patient, extremely rapid also. Indeed in all cases of relapse, the growth of the tumour goes on much more quickly than in the original disease, and the patient's sufferings are considerably augmented also. We have seen cases in which the pain was so intense and so unremitting, that, night or day, not a moment's rest could be obtained, even under the influence of the largest doses of opium that could be administered with safety. Cancer. Fungus /iarnatodes.—~\Ve have al- ready more than expressed a doubt that either of these diseases ever originated in the osseous structure, or could be considered as properly appertaining to it, although it must be conceded that, in a few insulated cases, a cancerous dis- position has seemed to produce a fragility of bones, and that this ;oss of the power of resist- ance lias preceded the development of the dis- ease in the softer structures. But with the utmost diligence of research we have not been able to discover one case in which a morbid alteration of structure, analogous to those chan- ges in the soft parts which we call cancer, and which contaminate the system through the me- dium of the soft parts, has been found within the bone itself, or indeed to have existence therein, independent of some similar degenera- tion in the adjacent structures. On this sub- ject, however, our knowledge must be extremely limited. We do not well know what cancer is, or what is meant by a cancerous diathesis. We know not how to define or even to describe it as a generic form of disease. The dissection of these tumours exhibits an almost infinite diversity of structure, and during life, previous to the actual contamination of the system, when the information too frequently avails but little, it is difficult to say whether any given tumour possesses this quality of malignancy or not. We therefore do not offer a very positive or de- cided opinion on this subject. But that the bones in the vicinity of can- cerous disease often suffer from a malignant and incurable species of caries, quite distinct and separate from that absorption which might be the result of pressure, and that this caries Dub. IIosp. Reports, vol. iv. illustrates Mr. Hunter's position of tlie exist- ence of a cancerous disposition in parts ap- parently sound, which will afterwards become developed even though the cancer is removed by operation, admits, we think, of most irre- fragable proof. Several years since, we re- moved a very large cancerous ulceration in- volving most of the under lip, the angle of the mouth, and part of the upper lip also. The diseased parts were most unsparingly taken away, and a minute and careful examination could not detect the smallest hardness in any part of the extensive resulting wound. Never- theless, in less than a year afterwards a tumour appeared at the angle of the jaw, with a hard and unyielding band striking from it deeply into the neck. The tumour increased and pressed deeply: an operation was altogether out of the question, and the man died of open cancerous ulceration. On dissection the bone was found to be deeply and extensively eaten away by caries : its entire structure was pre- ternaturally softened, and on attempting to dry it, as an anatomical preparation, its earthy material crumbled away and was altogether lost. At this moment we have another case affording a similar example of cancer attacking the lower jaw after being apparently removed from the lip. The bone is swollen, hard, nodulated, and extremely painful; but not- withstanding the urgent entreaties of the poor man, no operation can be performed, and he too will die of open cancer. But the point is too well understood by operating surgeons to require further elucidation. Every one must have met with cases of extirpation of the breast where the ribs had been found softened and diseased, althous^h little indication might have previously existed of such an unfortunate complication. But with reference to fungus hamatodes the question is by no means so easily settled. In very many cases of extirpation of the eye in consequence of this disease, the bones of the orbit, even at a very early period, have been found softened, altered, and spoiled, new and more irritable growths have sprung from their substance, and the affection has re-appeared in a worse, because a more incurable form. Operations about the upper jaw have too fre- quently proved failures from a similar cause. Again, although the immediate points of re- ference have escaped our recollection, we have read of cases of fungus liaemotodes, the very first and earliest symptom of which was a fracture of the bone or bones of the member in which the disease afterwards was extensively developed. In our own note-book are two such cases. One, a poor boy admitted into the Meath Hospital in the year 1820, with the most frightful enlargement of the thigh per- haps ever witnessed, the circumference of the limb being much larger than that of the body of an ordinary man. He attributed the dis- ease to the almost spontaneous breaking of the thigh-bone whilst he was riding on an ass. The tumour never ulcerated, but as an ope- ration, even at the hip-joint, was decided on in consultation to be practicable, he left the