CARNIVORA. 478 system, will be found altogether subservient to the office of procuring that peculiar kind of food to which these animals are restricted, and the modifications of that structure which have been described as appertaining to different types of form in the order, are equally con- sonant with the modified nature of their ali- ment. Thus, whilst the powerful yet active and flexible movements of the typical Carni- vora are adapted only to the pursuit and de- struction of living prey,the more sluggish habits of most of the bear tribe, their peculiar mode of progression, and the modified structure of the skull, the teeth, and the limbs, are all equally applicable to the mixed nature of their food ; and the third principal type—that of the umphihious carnivora, the Seals—exhibits an arrangement of these organs not less admirably fitted for the pursuit and capture of their aquatic and scaly prey. The digestive organs of each of these prominent groups are not less perfectly formed for the digestion of their vari- ous food, than the organs which have already been described are for its capture. The teeth have already been slightly alluded to, but they deserve a more particular description. In the cats, the character of the teeth is typically car- nivorous. The incisores are very small, as indeed they are throughout the whole order. The canine teeth are, on the contrary, pre- eminently strong, long and sharp, and are evidently adapted for seizing and holding their prey and afterwards tearing in pieces the flesh and other soft parts of the animals. These teeth are conical and very slightly curved, a form which, united with their sharpness and strength, is the best that can be imagined for effecting this object. The cheek teeth, instead of having flat grinding surfaces, have, for the most part, only cutting edges; and those of the lower jaw shut within the upper, passing them so closely as to form an accurate instru- ment either for shearing off pieces from the flesh or for cutting into morsels the portions which have been torn by the canine teeth. On each of them are sharp triangular processes which much facilitate the entrance of the tooth into the flesh. The range of these teeth is short, as is also the whole jaw, by which great power is gained in this particular direction. The articulation of the lower jaw is also cir- cumscribed to a perpendicular motion, the only one which the structure of the teeth would permit. The strong muscles of the lips also enable the animal to raise them out of the way of injury during this process. The animals of the bear tribe, on the other hand, have an elongated jaw, canine teeth, although very large and strong, yet less so than in the cats, and molares, the surfaces of which, instead of being raised into cutting edges, are depressed, tuber- cular, and require a certain degree of lateral motion in the jaw to bring them into action. In the seals a very different structure of the teetl\ is observed. The canines are not par- ticularly large and prominent; and the molares, neither adapted on the one hand for shearing nor on the other for grinding their food, either of which actions would be unavailable in their particular case, are numerous and furnished with several angular points, which are fitted for holding the slippery, scaly surface of fish, and equally so for crushing them before they are swallowed. The teeth of the Walruses, however, are very different from those of many other of the Fhocida. The tusks f fig. 195) which are enormous canine teeth of the upper jaw, are directed downwards, and constitute formidable weapons of defence, and the mo- lares are formed rather for grinding than for merely holding their prey. Tiie food then being tluis variously prepared by the different groups of this order, passes into the stomach more or less masticated. The salivary slands in the meantime have been performing their important office. The vari- ations in form and situation of these glands are slight and unimportant. The submaxillary glands are generally as large as the parotid, which in the dogs and cats are of a crescentic form, embracing by their concave margin the conch of the ear ; and in the dogs the inferior portion is distinct from the rest. The sub- lingual are wanting in the cats. The stomach in all the animals of this order is perfectly simple, and its interior smooth, with the exception of that of the Seal, which has a villous coat. In the cats (that of the Lion is shewn alfg. 199) it is elongated, and Fig. 199. the two openings are placed nearly at each end : there is a small pouch however at the cardiac extremity. In the Wild Cat it is somewhat pyriform, the pyloric portion being, as in the Lion, doubled upon the other part; and in the Lynx the cardiac and pyloric openings are more distant than perhaps in any other species. In the other genera the form varies a litde. It is nearly globular in the Racoon ; that of the Hyena is large and short. In the seals it is elongated from before backwards, the pyloric portion being turned forwards upon the other; at the bend there is a pouch, at which point a glandular layer is found between the internal coat and the cellular. T/ie intestinal canal is in these animals re- markably short, particularly in the cats; in the Lion and in the Wild Cat the whole alimentary canal is but three times the length of the body. In the Seal it is much longer. The distinction between the small and large intestines varies considerably. In the Badger this distinction can scarcely be said to exist: in the Lion it is considerable, and still more so in the seals and