153 JOINT or THE ANKLE. ligament is rendered tense; hence it appears designed to limit motion in this direction : in extension it is of course relaxed. 5. The teriorJibulo-tm-sulUgSimem( lig. fibula postcrius, 'We'ith., pocferim- external lute?-a/, Boyer) arises from the little fossa upon the inner and back part of the outer malleolus; it passes backwards and inwards almost horizontally, or at least de- scends very slightly, and is inserted upon the back part of the astragalus into the outer edge of that groove which transmits the flexor longus poUicis tendon. This ligament is stronger than either of the two preceding, and is frequently divided into several distinct fasciculi. From its superior edge an accessory band sometimes passes upwards and inwards over the synovial capsule to be fixed into the tibia. Walther has described this band under the name of the oblique ligament, and it is well represented by Weitbrecht (fig. 65, tab. xxii.) The sijnovud memhrane of the ankle-joint is of very great extent: it lines not only the articular surface of each malleolus, the several ligaments we have just described, and the articulating cavity upon the lower portion of the tibia, but it is prolonged upwards between the tibia and fibula, forming in that situation a little cul-de-sac : this, however, is merely for the extentof a few lines, for its further progress up- wards is interrupted by the inferior interosseous ligament, (fig. 61.) From the circumference of the tibio-fibular mortise the synovial mem- brane passes downwards upon the astragalus, covers its superior articulating eminence, and sends prolongations upon its lateral articulating surfaces. It is remarkably loose upon the anterior and posterior parts of the joint, and is said to contain a greater quantity of synovia than any other synovial membrane in the body. Certainly its strength is much increased by those scattered fibres to which we have given the name of anterior tibio-tarsal ligament : posteriorly it is weakest, for here few if any ligamentous fibres can be detected, though Boyer and Weitbrecht speak confidently of such. c. Mechanism andfunct'wn of the ankle-joint. —To understand properly the mechanism and function of the ankle-joint, we must carefully contemplate it in the opposite conditions of rest and motion. 1. Viewing it, then, in the first place, as the individual stands at rest, we observe that the leg and foot meet each other in the ankle-joint at a right angle, and we are particularly struck with this fact \ipon finding that this disposition occurs in scarcely any other animal than man. This interesting fact in comparative anatomy is by no means an accidental arrangement; its design is obviously in reference to the proper position of the body in each animal. It has, for instance, frequently been alluded to as one of the many anatomical proofs that the erect position is natural to the human subject: had the leg and foot been articulated at any other than a right angle the upright position of the body could not be maintained, at least without great and incessant muscular exertion. Another point worthy of our attention is that when tlie ankle is at rest and the body in the upright position, the fibula plays no part in the func- tion performed by the joint: it is the tibia alone which receives the weight of the body, and transmits it to the astragalus. This fact should be carefully borne in mind, for it has considerable influence upon the accidents so frequently occurring here. The astragalus, from the way m which it supports the body, has often been compared to the key-stone of an arch, the arch being represented by the foot. That the foot presents an arched concavity at its lower part cannot be doubted ; but it is by no means so certain that this is designed upon the prin- ciple of the architectural arch to support the weight of the body : in fact, the astragalus, which receives the entire weight, does not cor- respond to the centre of this arch. The true design of tiie vaulted form of the foot is to permit its accommodating itself to the several irregularities of surface which, both in standing and progression, it must encounter. The motions of flexion and extension are the only ones permitted at the ankle-joint. In flexion the astrasjalus rolls from before back- wards in the tibio-fibular mortise; it maybe continued nntil the foot and leg form with each other an angle of about sixty degrees; at this point further flexion is prevented, partly by the tension of the middle fibulo-tarsal liga- ment, and still more effectually by the neck of the astragalus coming into contact with the lower edge of the tibia. In flexion the anterior tibio-tarsal and fibulo-tarsal ligaments are both relaxed ; the posterior and middle fibulo-tarsal are rendered tense; the internal tibio-tarsal ligament has its posterior fibres stretched and its anterior ones loosened. 2. In extension the foot not only returns to its rectangular posi- tion with the leg, but may even be carried beyond this, so as to form with the tibia an obtuse angle of about one hundred and fifty degrees.* Further extension is at this point prevented by the tension of the ligaments which lie in front, and also by the astragalus behind coming into contact with the lower edge of the tibia. During extension the astragalus rotates forwards in the tibio-fibular mortise; the pos- terior ligaments are relaxed, the anterior are put upon the stretch, the state of each individual ligament is, in short, reversed from what we have just described as its condition in the opposite motionof the joint. 3. A slight degree of lateral motion of the ankle is perceptible in the dead subject, but during life it cannot be said to exist: hence, in the classification of Cloquet and Bichat, the joint is properly ranked under that variety of ginglymus to which we apply the term "perfect." The ankle is the analogue of the wrist-joint in the superior extremity, and accordingly, though there are certain points of difl'erence between them, the general character of both is * According to Hildebrandt the angle of flexion is 45°, and the angle of extension according to Rosenthal (Handb. der Chir. Anat.) is 175°.—Ed.