CIRCULATION. 654 iiiosing vessels. The larger parts of the longi- tudinal vessels have been observed to contract and dilate; but neither a regular progressive circulation, nor a connection of the vascular with any distinct respiratory system has as yet been detected. Entozoa.—In the Entozoa, organs of circu- lation somewhat similar to those just mentioned in the PlanarijE have been found by Bojanus and Mehlis in the Distoma and Tristoma, and by Nordmann* in those remarkable small Entozoa inhabiting the aqueous chamber of the eyes of some quadrupeds, the Diplosto- mum, and in the Diplozoon. In the first of these animals, the motion of fluid in the vas- cular system is exceedingly obscure; but in the Diplozoon (Jig. 328), Nordmann saw, with Fig. 328. Diplozoon. a high magnifying power, currents moving in opposite directions in two sets of vessels («, v) placed on each side of both limbs of the ani- mal. These vessels, termed external and in- ternal, are said to termmate posteriorly in a dilated bag, to which Nordmann gives the name of receptacle of the chyle. The organs of circulation of the Diplozoon differ, there- fore, in this respect from those of the Planaria, to which otherwise they bear considerable si- milarity; for, in the latter animal, the vascular system appears to be entirely closed. Accord- ing to Nordmann and Ehrenberg no contrac- tions or dilatations of the vessels are visible. Acalepha.—In some of the Medusa tribe, or Acalephffi, there appears to be no distinct circulatory apparatus; and we observe that in these instances, the alimentary cavity is of great extent and is often much ramified on the surface of the animal. In others there are distinct vessels with a " Micographische BciU-age, p. 69. Berlin, 1832. circulation of fluid within them. The distri- bution of this very simple kind of vascular system was first discovered by Esclischoltz, who has described its form particularly in theCestum and Beroe. In the latter animal, it is stated that eight arterial vessels and two veins unite with a large annular vessel which surrounds the mouth, and, according to Eschscholtz's* conjec- ture, another vascular ring, situated at the pos- terior extremity of the body, forms the means of communication between the arteries and veins hi that region. Branches pass from the external or arterial vessels, and from the in- ternal or venous vessels to the fins, which organs seem to serve at once for respiration and for locomotion. Although the motion of a yellowish fluid containing globules has been seen in these vessels, the complete circulation does not appear to have been made out in a satisfactory manner. InJ'usui'ia. — Some kind of circulation is stated to have been observed by Ehrenberg in some of the Infusoria; but this is an observa- tion which, with every confidence in the ac- curacy of this celebrated microscopic observer, we feel inclined to consider as liable to fallacy, on account of the prevalence of various kinds of ciliary currents in the interior of many of these animals. Folypi.—We would extend the same remark to the last kind of circulation to which we shall allude, viz. those singular currents of fluid, which were discovered by Cavolini and recently observed by Mr. Lister in some of the Polypiferous Zoophytes. According to the latter observer, in each of the divisions of the stem of the Tubularia indivisa, a cur- rent of fluid carrying globules along with it is seen proceeding up one side and down the other. In various Sertularise, the direction of the current becomes reversed from time to time. Similar phenomena are to be observed in Campanularise and Plumulariee. The striking analogy which these currents bear to those occurring in the stems of some plants, as Chara and Caulinia, seem to us to bring them under another class of phenomena than those of the vascular circulation of the higher ani- mals. We do not, however, intend to enter upon the consideration of this subject, as it is already fully treated of under the article Cilia. In concluding our notice of the simpler forms of the circulatory organs, we would re- mark that one of the great diflSculties which retards the acquisition of an accurate know- ledge of the function of circulation in the lowest classes of animals, ])roceeds from our inahility to determine, whether currents moving within e-Bclosed spaces in these animals belong to the circulatien of their blood and nutritious fluids, or are connected with respiration, loco- motion, and other processes of their economy; and this is an obstacle to the progress of the investigation which from its nature we cannot hope soon to see removed. * System der Acalephen. Berlin, 1829. See the article Acalephie, p. 43-