271 AVES. during tlic pursuit of prey. This structure and its uses were tirst pointed out by Mr. H. Earle. The bodies of the anterior dorsal vertebree send down processes from their inferior or ventral surfaces for the advantageous origin of the recti antici majorcs muscles of the neck. These processes differ from the inferior spines of the tail in not being perforated for the passage of an artery. This part of the spine is further strengthened by the extension of osseous splints from the transverse processes, which unite those of contiguous vertebrae to- gether, and also by the anchylosis of the spinous processes. But where a similar ne- cessity for the fixation of tlie trunk does not exist, as in the Struthious birds and Penguins, which cannot fly, all the dorsal vertebrae are moveable upon each otlier. When it is con- sidered that the head, posterior extremities, and viscera are suspended in flight from this central portion of the trunk, and that it has almost exclusively to sustain the shock of the violent contractions of the principal muscles of the wings, the necessity for the mechanism consolidating the dorsal vertebra will be readily appreciated. Immobility and strength are still more ob- viously required in that part of the spine by which the weight of a horizontal body is to be transferred to a single pair of extremities articulated to the trunk behind die centre of gravity. The anchylosis of the bodies of the vertebi-cE, which already begins to appear in the last dorsal, is, therefore, continued through all the sacral vertebrae as far as the caudal region; and this consolidated mass (b to c) is united laterally to the iliac bones. Hence it is always difficult to determine the number of vertebra of which it is composed. We have made sections of the sacrums of many different birds with a view to determine this fact, and have generally found the number greater than that which is indicated in the tables of Cuvier. Thus the Stork has twelve, instead of eleven sacral vertebrae; the Coot thirteen, instead of seven; the Kingfisher eleven, instead of eight: while the Ostrich, on tlie other hand, has but seventeen, instead of twenty bones of the sacrum. Tire bodies of the sacral vertebrae are broad, but shallow, and towards the tail the floor of the vertebral canal is formed by a mere lamina of bone : the canal is remarkably dilated in this part of the spine for the enlargement of the cord which gives off the nerves to the posterior extremity. It is a curious fact that the roots of these nerves pass out of the osseous canal by separate orifices, the ganglion on the posterior root -and the union of the two being external to the spine. The aspect of all these orifices is la- teral, in the intervals of the transverse pro- cesses of the different vertebra;, which are not united together as in the mammalia. The first four or five sacral vertebrae give off two sets of transverse processes, one ventral, the other dorsal; the ventral ones are wanting in the succeeding four, and then suddenly reappear to abut against the symphysis of the ilium and ischium, and aic so continued double to the end. Tiie spinous processes which are prin- cipally developed from the anterior sacral ver- tebra-, give off from their extremities lateral expansions, which anchylose with the iliac bones, and form an osseous roof, arching over and concealing the transverse processes. The coccygeal vertebrae of birds, tiiough never prolonged into a conspicuous caudal appen- dage, are in general moveable upon each other, and are frequently nine in number. With the exception of tlie last, they are broad and short and perforated for the lodgement of the spinal marrow. With the exception of the last also they have spines on both the dorsal and ventral aspects ; and the anterior vertebrae have also transverse processes. The last caudal vertebra {d, Jig. 125) is so singularly shaped, that were it found alone in a fossil state it would hardly be recognized as a bone of the spine. It has no medullary canal and no processes ; but is compressed laterally and terminates above and often also below in a sharp edge ; its posterior extremity is obtuse. It supports the coccygeal oil-gland, and affords a firm basis to the tail feathers, which, from their use in guiding the motions of the bird through the air, Linnaeus termed the 7'cctriccs.* In the Toucan the three last caudal vertebrae are anchylosed together; the six anterior ones are articulated by ball and socket joints, the ball and the socket being most distinct in the two last of these joints; that between the sixth and seventh vertebrae is provided with a capsule and synovial fluid, the others have a yielding ligamentous mode of connexion. The spinous processes of these vertebrae, both superior and inferior, are of moderate size, but smallest in the sixth, where the greatest degree of motion takes place; the transverse pro- cesses on the contrary are large and broad so as almost to preclude lateral motion. We have given a more particular description of tliese vertebras because of the singular move- ments observable in the tail of the Toucan ; it can be inflected dorsad till the superior spines of the vertebrae are brought in contact with the sacrum ; and in the performance of this motion the lateral muscles, which at first tend rather to oppose the elevators, become, at a certain point of inflection dorsad of the centre of motion, elevators themselves, and thus com- bining with the elevators jerk the tixil ujjon the back; it is thus that the tail turns as if on a hinge operated upon by a spring. As the prehensile functions of the hand are transferred to the beak, so those of the arm are performed by the neck of the bird; this portion of the spine is therefore composed of numerous, elongated, and freely moveal^le ver- tebra;, and is never so short or so rigid but that it can be made to apply the beak to the coccy- geal oil-gland, and to every part of the body for the purpose of oiling and cleansing the plumage. In birds that seek their food in * In the tail-less variety of the common Fowl the coccygeal vertebr.e have degenerated into a single unshapely knotiy process.