25 ABSORPTION. against, Uie supposed connexion between the two sets of vessels could not be demonstrated.* In those experiments, wliere the thoracic duct had been artilicially obstructed, or in the cases where the same thing had occurred as the result of disease or malformation, tliey were enabled to detect some supplementary vessels or some indirect channel, by means of which the chyle had been conveyed to the veins. With respect to the parts of the body, or to the animals of an inferior order, which were supposed not to be furnished with ab- sorbent vessels, by prosecuting their examina- tion with more care they gradually detected the existence of these vessels in many cases where they had not been previously known to exist; and they were discovered in so many new situations that it became a fair inference that every part of the body, and every animal whose structure is generally analogous to that of the mammalia, is provided with an appropriate apparatus of absorption, although, from the texture or the peculiar nature of the vessels, it may be very difficult actually to demonstrate their existence. In this train of investigation the labours of William Hunter and Monro were ably seconded by various anatomists, both in this country and on the continent, among whom we may select the distinguished names of John Hunter, IIewson,t Cruikshank, and Mascagni. * We must, however, bear in mind that we have the high authority of Meckel in favour of the com- munication between the lymphatics and the veins; " Siir Resorption," Nouv. Mem. Acad. Berl. ann. 1770, p. 19 et seq. The researches of some of the most accurate among the anatomists of the present day seem also to show t!iat occasional communications exist be- tween some of the lymphatics and the contiguous veins; but this is a different kind of relation from that which was contemplated by the older anatomists between the sanguiferous and the absorbent systems. 'I'his point is fully discussed by Fohmann, in his late work, Sur le commun. des vaiss. lymph, avec les veins," where we have an account of his own observations, as well as those of preceding anatomists ; he conceives that the observations of Lippi, of which an account is given in his " Illus- trazioni fisiol.", are not correct : see also the remarks of Antommarchi, Ann. Sc. Nat. t. xviii. p. 108, 9. The observations of Fohmann have been confirmed by Lauth, in his " Essai sur les Vaisseatix Lymph." We may here refer to the observations of Bleuland, which were made fifty years ago, on what he styles the arterioUe lym- phatica^, by which a communication was supposed to be maintained between the sanguiferous and absorbent systems; see his " Experim. Anat." Panizza of Pavia also opposes the doctrine of Lippi ; Osservazioni, c. 3 and 5. Mr. Abernethy, in examining the vascular system of the whale, discovered certain communications between the sanguiferous and the lymphatic vessels; but the nature of the connexion is perhaps a little doubtful ; Phil. Trans, for 1796, p. 27 et seq. For further information on this subject, see a lecture on the lymphatic system lately published by Dr. Graves. Mr. Kiernan, in his elaborate researches into the anatomy of the liver, gives it as his opinion that the doctrine of Lippi has been " satisfactorily con- futed " by Panizza ; Ph. Tr. 1033, p. 729. See Elliotson's Physiol, p. 128,9 ; s. 1. also a paper in Ann. Sc. Nat. t. 21. p. 252 et seq. + Phil. Trans, for 1768 and 1769; in these vo- The experiments of Hunter may deserve to be particularly noticed, because they consisted not merely in repeating and correcting those of preceding anatomists ; but, in addition to these, he entered upon a series of original researches, which are highly ciiaracteristic of that ingenuity and acuteness for which he was so eminently distinguished. The experiments essentially consistecl in filling portions of the small intestines with a fluid, the sensible pro- perties of which might be easily recognized, and retaining it there so as to allow of its entering into the veins of the mesentery, were they capable of absorbing it; the result, however, is stated to have been that in no instance could the fluid be detected in these veins. These experiments appeared to have been so carefully conducted, and so frequently repeated, as to have impressed tiie minds of anatomists and piiysiologists with a conviction that the lacteals were the only vessels which are concerned in the absorption of the chyle ; and although it was not possible to perform analogous experi- ments on the lymphatics, yet it seemed a natural inference, that we might extend to them the conclusion which had been established with respect to the lacteals.* In proof of lymphatic absorption various fiicts were brought forward, which seemed clearly to show that when extraneous or noxious substances were introduced into the system, it was done by the medium of the lymphatic vessels rather than of the veins; and it was thence argued tliat, as these vessels perform the func- tion of absorption under certain circumstances, and that we are not acquainted with any other office which they serve in the system, we may conclude that tiiey are the sole agents in the action of absorption. Although the argument, as applied to the lymphatics, was far less direct and conclusive than to the lacteals, yet the analogy between the two organs appeared so strong, and so many concurring circum- stances appeared to favour the doctrine, that it was very generally received, and may be considered as having been the establislied opinion at the conclusion of the last century.f This unanimity of opinion was, however, of very short duration; for anatomists had scarcely ceased to contend for the honour of the dis- covery of the exclusive action of the lacteals and the lymphatics in the function of absorp- tion, when the doctrine itself was impugned by physiologists of the first eminence, who supported their views by a powerful train of arguments, enforced by numerous experiments, lumes are contained his account of the lymphatics of birds and fishes. * Med. Comment, c. 5 p. 42 . . 8; Cruikshank, c. 5. p. 21. t See the judicions summary of opinions in Mascagni, ps. i. sect. 2, 3: and in RuUier, ubi supra, p. 136 et seq. The doctrine of venous ab- sorption was, however, still maintained by many intelligent anatomists, especially by the high au- thority of Meckel, De Fin. Ven. et Vas. Lymph. 1772; and of Walter, Sur la Resorption, nbi supra. See particularly his general conclusion, j 92 : he conceives that the veins arc the only agents in the absorpt on which is carried on at the surface and from the cavities of the body.