AGE. 81 pose that absorption increases, when the cessa- tion or diminution of deposition fully explains the fact, provided the absorption is only main- tained in its usual ratio. Concerning the lessened quantity of fluid we have already made some remarks, and hinted at its relation with impaired digestion and slackened circulation. Here it is sufficient to observe that the fact is a sign of diminished vitality, by which we mean merely a diminu- tion of vital actions, especially of those of nu- trition. The abundance of fluid in the young succulent body is adapted to the constant accu- mulation of new particles, and to the increasing complexity of the organization of the tissues, as well as to the reparation of waste, or to the counteraction of decomposition;—by the still abundant though diminished quantity in the adult the composition is maintained and ren- dered more exquisite;—in the old man there is only enough required to keep up that degree of renovation, which is necessary to the integrity of the structure, and even this action is less than in former periods, because the organiza- tion, from its chemical nature, is less prone to decomposition. This brings us to the con- sideration of the third general fact, or the condensation of tissue, which will require more particular notice, because great impor- tance has been assigned to it by some writers. The condensation is a result of the deficient humidity just spoken of; but this is not all, otherwise the condensation would be merely that of dryness; the tissue itself is of firmer materials. Thus membrane becomes ligament, ligament cartilage, cartilage bone, and bone increases in its earthy proportions. This har- dening of the whole body is spoken of by many writers as the cause of decay, and ulti- mately of death, by the gradual closure of all the small vessels, and the obstruction to vital motions; while the methods of averting old age, proposed by the same authors, turned chiefly upon an artificial supply of moisture to the body. Galen constantly alludes to this condition when treating of old age, and the means of resisting its tendencies.* Lord Bacon, in his curious and highly interesting treatise, entitled Historia Vitae et Mortis, has much to say upon desiccation and the methods of pre- venting it, such as bathing and inunction. The fable of the restitution of old iEsop by the cauldron of Medea, he considers typical of the utility of the warm bath in softening the substance of the body. So much stress does Haller lay on the effect of the universal tendency to induration, that he tells us that one of the reasons why fishes are so long-lived is because their bones are never hardened to the same degree as in the higher animals—" Inter animalia aves longa;viores sunt, longavissimi pisces, quibus cor minimum, et lentissimum incrementum, et ossa nunquam indurantur." Primae Lineoe, § 972. There is, however, we think, but little foundation for the supposition that induration stands in the relation of cause * See his treatises De Sanitate Tucnd:"i, and Do Marasmo. VOL. I. to the general failure of the functions of the body. It is rather a symptom of decline, or one of the phenomena in which decline con- sists, and is therefore itself the effect of die failure or alteration of some of the functions, more especially of the assimilative. It is a deterioration of interstitial secretion, partly promoted by the changes in circulation, in di- gestion, and probably in innervation, and partly itself contributing to these changes, but pri- marily owing its origin, like the latter, to the ultimate law, which determines that at a certain period decay shall transpire. It is in one re- spect a descent in the scale of organization. This indeed is indicated by the paucity of fluids and by the slow nutritive motions, which conditions are always sufficient to warrant our application of the terms, diminished vitality or less vitalized structure; but the substance itself, indepen- dently of these deficiencies of action, belongs to a more simple organization. We examine a bloodvessel, and instead of finding its coats of that complex texture which enables it to ac- commodate itself by a property, known only in living bodies, similar but superior to elasti- city, we mean tonicity, we observe a plate of osseous matter, unyielding, insensible, immo- bile, possessing no other vital character than bare assimilation or molecular growth. Wo .search for those admirably constructed sub- stances which are interposed between the ribs and the sternum, and by their elasticity give extent and facility to the respiratory move- ments, and we discover them converted into the same matter as the contiguous bones, with the coarse property of cohesion, and, as in the former instance, with nothing but its growth to redeem it from the character of mere inorganic matter. We untangle the muscle, and instead of the irritable fibre, soft in texture but firm in contraction, we find a torpid substance, scarcely fibrous in form, firm in mere physical cohesion, weak in vital contraction, and consequently of a degraded organization. The processes of induration about the joints, the glands, and the integuments, will all, when examined, be found to approximate more than tlie former conditions of these parts to the qualities of the inanimate world. Ilomogeneousness of sub- stance is alone an indication of a low organi- zation, and a body which possesses both this property and hardness, may be considered on the very outskirts of the region of vitality. Such are the properties of osseous deposits. May we not here perceive an analogy with the animals of the inferior classes ? In many of the moUusca how trifling a degree of vitality seems adequate to the formation, growth, and reparation of their calcareous coverings and appendages; or to go down to the coralines, madrepores, and porifera, we observe that the very lowest structure that can be considered animal is sufficient to secrete or assimilate those vast collections of earthy matter which pave the ocean, and rise into islands, moun- tains, and mighty continents. In this har- dened constitution, this simplified but dege- nerate structure, we see that the frame of man, in its natural decay, loses the characters that