THE BRACHIAL OR HUMERAL ARTERY. 465 BRACHIAL OR HUMERAL ARTERY (arteria brachtalis, humeraria. Germ, die Ar- marterie.) This artery is the continuation of the trunk of the axillary. It commences at the inferior maigin of the tendons of the teres ma- jor and latissimus dorsi, whence it extends to about an inch below the bend of the elbow, wiiere it usually divides into the radial and ulnar arteries; but not unfrequently this divi- sion takes place high in the arm. The brachial artery lies on the internal side of the arm above, but in its course downwards it gradually advances in an oblique direction unl)l it gets completely to the anterior surface of the limb, where it is found situated nearly midway between the condyles of the humerus in front of the elbow joint; it is superficial in the whole line of its course, in every part of which its pulsations can easily be felt, and sometimes, in the arms of thin persons, are distinctly visible. Relations.—Anteriority the brachial artery is overlapped, for about its upper fourth, by the coraco-brachialis muscle and the median nerve; for the greater part of its course down the arm it is covered by the brachial aponeurosis, to whicii IS added, where it crosses the elbow, the falciform expansion sent off from the tendon of the biceps to the internal condyle : the median basilic vein also lies in front of it opposite the bend of the elbow. Posteriorly, for about a third of its length from its commencement it lies in front of the triceps, from which it is se- parated by a quantity of loose cellular tissue which envelopes the musculo-spiral nerve; in its inferior two-thirds it rests on the brachiscus anticus. Internally it is covered by the bra- chial aponeurosis at its superior part, where the ulnar nerve is also in contact with it. The me- dian nerve which crosses it, sometimes super- ficially, and at other times passing more deeply, in the middle of the arm gets to its internal side, and continues to hold this relation to it in the remainder of its course. Externally it lies at first on the internal side of the humerus, from which it is separated as it descends by the thin muscular expansion in which the coraco-brachi- alis terminates at the lower part of its insertion ; in the remainder of its course the inner edge of the biceps bounds it. ITie fleshy belly of this muscle also partially covers it in front, a little below the middle of the arm. At the bend of the elbow, the relations of the brachial artery become more numerous and complicated ; here it inclines obliquely outwards and backwards, and sinks into a space which is bounded on the inner side by the origins of the pronator and flexor muscles of the forearm, and on the out- side by those of the supinators and extensors, the floor of which space is formed by the bra- chiaeus anticus muscle, from which the artery is separated by a layer of adipose cellular mem- brane. The artery is accompanied in its passage into this space by the tendon of the biceps and the median nerve, the former being situated to its radial side, the latter to its ulnar; and it is at the bottom of this space, opposite the coro- noid process of the ulna, that the subdivision of the artery into radial and ulnar usually takes VOL. I. place. As it enters the space the artery is crossed by the semilunar fascia of the biceps, by which it is separated from the internal cutaneous nerve and median basilic vein. (For further par- ticulars on this stage of the artery, see Elbow, Region of the.) Two vena comites accompany the brachial artery : they are included in its sheath, and lie one on either side of it, often communicating by several transverse branches which cross the artery in front. So superficial is the position of this artery from its origin til! it enters the region of the bend of the elbow, that it maybe exposed during life in any part of its course with facility, and, if the operator use only common caution, with safety. In all this course the artery may be felt, and in the upper third the operator may avail himself of the inner side of the coraco-brachialis muscle as a guide, and in the middle third, of the inner edge of the , belly of the biceps. In both situations the operator h<as to avoid in- juring the cutaneous nerves, and the median and ulnar nerves, as well as tlie basilic vein, which sometimes passes up as high as the axilla. He should also bear in mind the po- sition of the inferior profunda artery, which is sometimes of a large size; and from its direction, as well as its relation to the ulnar nerve, presents a considerable resemblance to the brachial trunk. Branches.—The brachial artery furnishes a variable number of branches from its external side, none of which is of sufficient importance to be distinguished by a name ; they are dis- tributed to the OS humeri, the deltoid, coraco- brachialis, biceps, and brachia;us anticus muscles, and to the integuments. From its internal side, however, there usually arise, in addition to several small twigs sent to the triceps, teres major, latissimus dorsi, and the integuments, three branches of more considerable size, and which derive their principal importance from being the leading channels of anastomosis be- tween the brachial trunk and the arteries of the forearm. These are, 1, the superior profunda, 2, the inferior profunda, 3, the anastoniotica magna.* !• The superior profunda (profunda humeri, Haller and Soemm. collaterale externe, Boyer, grand musculuire du bras, Chauss ) arises from the posterior side of the brachial artery, close to the border of the axilla. It sometimes comes from the axillary artery by a trunk common to itandtlie posterior circumflex, and occasionally it arises from the subscapular. Immediately after its origin the profunda superior gives several branches to the coraco-brachialis, triceps, latissimus dorsi, teres major, and deltoid mus- cles. Some of these latter, ascending towards the acromion process of the scapula, anastomose with the thoracica acromialis, supra-scapular and posterior circumflex; while the branches sent to the latissimus dorsi and teres major anas- tomose widi the subscapular artery. The supe- * Sometimes the siibscapulor, and one or both of the circumflex arteries, derive their (irii;iu from the brachial. 2 11