AGE. 73 ness of touch, tactus eruditus, is one of the most difficult attainments of manhood. Concerning the alterations in the olfactory apparatus we have already spoken, when the development of the facial bones was under consideration. The sense of smell is mani- fested pretty early, but there can be no great precision and nicety in its exercise, both from defect of surface, and from the want of mus- cular power and command, in adjusting the quantity and impetus of the air that conveys the odorous particles. Thus, some agents are only appreciated by a sudden inhalation through the nostrils, as if to bring the particles with a certain degree of force upon the Schneiderian membrane. This art the child does not under- stand. Taste being a sense so essential to the main- tenance of the system, whether by inducing the animal to take the trouble of eating, or by warning him of improper aliment, is mani- fested very early. The usual description of the mechanism of taste would give just cause for questioning what was said respecting the ne- cessity of a co-operation of muscular action with the five senses. Taste is described as the result simply of the apphcation of sapid bodies to the tongue, palate, velum palati, &c. But these bodies excite no sensation without the aid ol muscles. A certain degree of com- pression is necessary, which is accomplished by pressing the tongue against the roof of the mouth. Any one may assure himself of this fact by placing a strongly flavoured substance on the tongue when projected from the mouth; no taste will ensue till the member is with- drawn and then pressed agninst the palate. This observation applies not only to the tongue but also to the palate itself, and that sensitive surface the velum. In each instance, however, the effect may be imitated, by compressing with the finger the part where the substance is applied. Taste must undergo a progressive develop- ment correspondently with the muscular or- gans. It is, to say the least, very doubtful if a child could perform those delicate manoeuvres of the tongue and palate, which are practised by gourmands or professed wine-tasters. There is something more than this muscular action, however, to be taken into consideration. The more refined flavours are probably felt and estimated by the lining membrane of the nasal passages. It is common to remark that the scent of a substance is similar to its taste, but in all probability the two sensations are iden- tical ; for the taste in question is not perceived if the nostrils be closed; witness the abolition of taste during a catarrh. If therefore so close a connection exists between the two senses, it is clear that the development of the organi- zation belonging to the one must influence the other function ; and it has been already pointed out that the olfactory surface increases with growth. The new-born infant is probably all but deaf; even the loudest sounds produce no sensible impression. The nurse's lullaby, therefore, is for some time superfluous ; by degrees, how- ever, the shrill tones, of which such strains for the most part consist, begin to be appreciated ; the precise period however we do not know. In correspondence with this obtusity we find the organ incomplete, but the incompleteness has reference rather to the external than to the internal ear. Thus the pinna is very inelastic, and therefore unfitted for collecting vibrations ; the same may be said of the meatus auditorius. In like manner, the membrana tympani is very oblique, and scarcely more than a continuation of the superior surface of the meatus, and thus little calculated to receive the vibrations. These parts are also covered with a soft matter very unfavourable to vibrations ; the tympanum is very small, and the mastoid cells do not exist. In the progress of age all these parts gradually increase in hardness, and consequently are bet- ter adapted to their function. There are mus- cles attached to this sense also, but we are deficient in observations on their degree of de- velopment, though we may infer their condition from analogies in the rest of the muscular system. Lastly, we come to the organ of vision, of which; however, there is not much to be said. The differences between the visual organ in the in- fant and in the adult consist more in degree than in kind; thus the sclerotic membrane is less elastic, and the cornea is less conical, in conse- quence of the smaller quantity of aqueous hu- mour; (the greater thickness of this coat is pro- duced by the serosity contained between its la- minae;) the crystalline lens is less dense, but more convex in form. The pigmentum is in smaller quantity at birth than afterwards; while the retina is thicker and more pulpy than in more ad- vanced periods. The yellow tint of the foramen of Soemmering does not become visible till some time after birth, but deepens with the progress of life, till the stage of decline, when it grows paler. It has been ascertained that perfect images are formed on the retina; and yet for the first few days the child gives no indication of visual sensation, and when objects appear to attract its attention, they are only those which are vividly illuminated. The de- ficiency therefore must exist in the optic nerve, though we are ignorant of the organic condition on which this insensibility is dependent. We observe, moreover, that the eye is much more passive than in the adult, that it follows the motion of luminous bodies, or is fixed upon them widi little or no apparent interference of the will. This muscular incompleteness, then, tallies with what we have noticed with respect to the other senses. The eye is known in its advance towards manhood to increase in the capability of adapting itself to different distances; but as we are ignorant of the mechanism made use of for this purpose, it is useless to look for cor- responding organic alterations. We must not omit to notice those appendages to the appara- tus of vision, called eyebrows, which become much more prominent as life advances, by the development of the frontal sinuses, and are therefore belter adapted for shading the eyes. The generative apparatus is situated inter- mediately to the animal and the organic system.