102 AMPHIBIA. communicates with the external air by means of an Eustachian tube passing from it to the fauces. In all the essential parts of this struc- ture, there is but little variation from that which exists in the trae reptilia. X. The organ of smell.—The nares in the perennibranchiate amphibia are, like those of fishes, confined to little more than a slight cavity on the anterior part of the head, and having no continued canal by which they can communicate with the cavity of the mouth. In the proteus the similarity of this organ to that of fishes is so complete, that even the pli- cated radiations of the lining pituitary mem- brane are almost exactly imitated. It is of considerable size, and is contained in a length- ened canal or cavity, the parietes of which are in no part osseous. Tlie nostrils terminate im- mediately under the upper lip. The olfactory nerves are rather large, and no sooner emerge fi om the cavity of the cranium than they divide into numerous branches of various lengths, which enter every part of the soft pituitary membrane. In the more highly developed genera the organ of smell has the more advanced structure wiiich is observed in the reptilia. The nostrils are partly cartilaginous, partly osseous, and extend into the cavity of the mouth, though the posterior openings are placed much more for- ward than in the higher classes of vertebrata. The olfactory nerves enter the nostrils through two openings in the ethmoid bone. The ab- sence of the convoluted and exteu'five surfaces of the turbinated bones, the entire simplicity of the canal of the nostrils, and the small extent of its surface, must restrict these animals to a very circumscribed enjoyment of this function; and it is probable that the sensibility to odours is much more acute in the aquatic forms, in which the organs of sight and of hearing are so im- perfectly developed, than in the frogs, in which the organs of these senses are much more elaborately formed. XI. Of the oj-gan of taste.—The sense of taste, in all the amphibia, as well as in fishes, is probably very obtuse. The tongue in the iiroi/ela is small, and attached closely at every part. In the annum, on the contrary, it is developed to an extraordinary degree; it is very long, bifid, and the anterior half is not only free, but, in its quiescent state, doubled back upon the posterior fixed part, and capa- ble of being thrown forwards and again re- tracted with the rapidity of lightning, serving as a most efficient means of arresting the quickest movements of insects, which it con- veys into the back part of the mouth to be swallowed. The application of the tongue as an assistant in respiration, by closing the posterior nares, in all higher groups of the class, has been before alluded to. XII. The dermal or tegumentary system.— The absence of all hard scaly adventitious covering to the skin of the amphibia is one of the most common, or perhaps it may be said, the only universal peculiarity by which they are, as a class, distinguished from all reptilia. The amphibious nature of their progressive development, or the existence at the earliest period of even rudimentary branchiae, can scarcely be said to be without exceptions, as several genera have already been mentioned as not having yet been observed in this condition. But the naked skin is a character belonging equally to all, from the serpentiform coecilia to the typically amphibious frog, and the pisciform axoloth and proteus. The skin of the aquatic genera is soft, smooth, and furnished with a secreting surface, by means of which it is kept constantly moist, and in a state suitable for that cutaneous respira- tion which strikingly characterises these ani- mals. Many of those which are generally inhabitants of the land, as the terrestrial sala- manders, the toads, and odiers, are provided with numerous cutaneous glands, which secrete a tenacious milky fluid, which is somewhat acrid, and may perhaps be deleterious if swal- lowed in any quantity ; though the old opinion of the poisonous nature of these animals is altogether without foundation. The fluid which is poured out from these cutaneous follicles in the common salamander is copious, of a milky colour, and consists of mucus, with the addi- tion of some acrid matter, the nature of which is not yet known. From the quan- tity which is suddenly secreted when the ani- mal is injured or any part of the surface irritated, it is not improbable that even the effect of fire may for a few moments be arrested by it; and thus may have originated the fable of the salamander having the power of remaining unconsumed and unhurt when thrown upon burning coals. The acrid nature of the cuta- neous secretion of the toad was confirmed by the observations of Dr. Davy a few years since. The cuticle of these animals is frequently shed ; that of the aquatic species comes off in shreds, and is washed away from the skin. In the toads a very curious process takes place for its removal. When the cuticle has become dry and unyielding, and a new and softer surface is required, the deciduous layer splits down the median line of tiie back and of the abdo- men at the same time. The whole cuticle is thus divided into two parts. By numerous con- vulsive twitchings and contortions of the body and legs, this separation becomes more and more considerable, and the cuticle is gradually brought off the back and belly in folds towards the sides. It is then loosened from the hinder legs by similar movements of those limbs, and finally removed from them by the animal bring- ing first one and then the other forwards under the arm, and by then withdrawing the hinder leg its cuticle is left under the fore leg. The two portions are now pushed forwards to the mouth, by the help of which the anterior ex- tremities are also divested of it. The whole mass is now pushed by the hands into the mouth, and swallowed at a single gulp. The new cuticle is bright, soft, and covered with a colourless mucus; the old skin was harsh, dry, dirty, and opaque. This curious