512 CELLULAR TISSUE. divcing any sufficient proof in corroboration of their views, had recourse to an expedient but too frequently adopted by physiologists when the real nature of any vital process escapes their detection. The only way in which the apparently con- tradictory results of experiment and observation can be reconciled, is by attending to a combina- tion of vital and physical processes, that has been too much neglected in investigating the characters of living bodies ; that is to say, it must be recollected that " life," to borrow the philosophic expression of Dr. Arnott,* " is a superstructure on physics and chemistry," and that those phenomena which are essentially de- pendent on the ordinary laws of matter are controlled and modified by the superior prin- ciple of life. In the case of the cellular sub- stance this remark is peculiarly applicable ; and from reflecting on all the facts relative to that tissue both m a state of health and disease, I have arrived at the conclusion that the phe- nomena of its contractile force are the com- bined results of one of the common proper- ties of matter, viz., elasticity; and of a vital process, viz., nutrition. It is a well-known fact that the existence of elasticity in any inor- ganic substance requires a particular state or arrangement of its particles, and that if the necessary condition be but partly fulfilled, or be entirely wanting, that property is only slightly displayed, or is totally absent. The same principle strictly applies to the living body; and in the cellular substance the required condition is, a definite proportion between the solid fibres and the interstitial fluids, which state is maintained by the agents of the circu- lation and secretion, namely, the bloodvessels and lymphatics. Any thing which interferes with this proportion, either the excess of fluids, as in anasarca or phlegmonous erysipelas, or the diminution of the humours, as in old age and in many diseases, will impair or destroy the phenomena observable in the sound state of the cellular membrane, and will explain in tlie former case, pitting which is seen on making pressure on the skin; and in the latter, that flabbiness and wrinkling of the integument about the face and other parts of the body, so cliaracteristic of those advanced in life or re- duced by disease. We can in this manner understand how a class of phenomena may be dependent on a physical property, and yet be modified by the condition of the vital powers, so as to become impaired by disease, and destroyed by death. The exhalation and absorption of which the cellular substance is the seat, have been sup- posed by many high authorities to be eflfected by its elastic contractility; but it is probable that these phenomena, although in part de- pendent on that property, are principally pro- duced by the power of imbibition, which, ac- cording to the experiments of MM. Magendie and Fodera, exists in all the soft parts of the body. Functions.—The offices accomplished by * Elem. of Physics, Introd. p. xxvi. this substance in the economy seem to be, first, that of uniting together the various constituent parts of the body, and of keeping them in situ by its contractile force ; secondly, of facilitating their movements by means of its lubricating fluid, and thus preventing the injurious effects of friction and concussion ; and lastly, of fur- nishing an appropriate structure for their recep- tion. It has also been supposed that, being a bad conductor of caloric, it will tend to pre- serve the uniform temperature of the body. Development.—Ihe first trace of an organized substance observed in the embryo consists of a very soft and pulpy cellular tissue, which at this early period is loaded with fluid ; and being homogeneous in its nature, it presents neither fibres nor interstices, although it may be readily permeated by air or liquids, so as to produce small cells, and may likewise be drawn out into glutinous filaments. In proportion as the several organs become developed, it acquires greater consistency, and is at tlie same time diminished in quantity. At the period of birth it is still, however, in a very soft and imperfect state, and only acquires its proper density by slow degrees; in old age, being deprived of a large portion of its fluid, and perhaps otherwise deteriorated, it loses much of its elastic force; and this circumstance, joined to its diminished bulk, is a principal cause of that loss of rotun- dity so conspicuous in the bodies of aged persons, and of the flabbiness of the several organs. The power of reproduction is greater in this than in any other tissue, so that it is not only readily formed again within certain limits when it has been destroyed, but it even appears to supply the place of other and dissimilar struc- tures which may have been lost by disease. The cellular substance presents but few mo- difications of importance when examined in the different classes of animals, except, indeed, that it is generally believed to constitute the entire body in those species that are placed at the bottom of the scale. The Porifera afford an example of the simplest form of tlie cellular tex- ture with which we are at present acquainted ; the body of tliese animals consists of a soft gelatinous substance composed of translucent globules, which, however, are not perceptibly joined together; so that there is in this instance nothing of that fibrous structure, which is the great characteristic of the cellular membrane in the human body and in the higher orders of ani- mals. In the semifluid and jelly-like body of the Polypifera and of some of the Acalephae, there is merely a pulpy substance, which, although it may exhibit a distinct digestive cavity, and even tubes communicating with this, yet no mus- cular tissue has hitherto been discovered. In these animals, however, rapid movements are seen in the cilia; and the tentacula, when pre- sent, together with the entire body, are capable of spontaneous motion; it is evident, then, in these and other instances, that if, as is gene- rally sup]iosed, there be an absence of muscles, the cellular tissue must be endowed with a pro- perty totally wanting in that substance as it exists in the Iiigher animals. When it is con-