727 CRANIUM. placed with such a degree of obliquity, that it may be questioned whether it be on the posterior or superior surface of the body of the bone. It is smooth, slightly concave, and on its edges may often be seen the commencement of the sulci busUures for the lodgement of the basilar sinuses. The ala rnajores are those large curved pro- cesses, which, stretching outwards, forwards, and upwards, contribute to form the middle fossae of the skull, the orbits, and the temples. The upper surface of each ala, that which in part forms the middle fossa of the base of the skull, is concave from side to side, and still more so from behind forwards. On it are seen (though not so distinctly) the digital impres- sions which mark the lodgement of convo- lutions of the brain on the cerebral surface of the other bones of the skull. Close to the spot where it departs from the body of the bone there is a sulcus directed forwards, and ter- minating in a round hole (foramen rotundum) for the exit of the superior maxillary branch of the par trigeminum or fifth pair of nerves. More outwardly, and behind the plane of the posterior edge of the body of the bone, is a large oval opening (foramen ovale), di- rected downwards and slightly outwards for the transmission of the inferior maxillary branch of the par trigeminum and the entrance of the ascending pharyngeal artery, which then be- comes a meningeal vessel. Behind this fora- men is another {the foramen spinale), which is very small, and aflbrds entrance to the middle meningeal artery. On the inferior surface are seen the pterygoid processes descending from the great wmg where it joins the body of the bone, to afford a resist- ing surface against which the bones of the face may be grouped. Anterior to these processes is the termination of theforajiien rotundum, the opening of which is directed somewhat out- wards, and from which there passes, outwards and upwards, a groove (sulcus temporalis) for a deep temporal brancli of the superior maxil- lary nerve. Behind the pterys;oid processes, and extending from the base of the internal to the extremity of the wing, is the sulcus Eiista- cliiarius, which lodges part of the Eustachian tube, and on the outer side of this sulcus are seen successively the foramen ovale and the foramen spinale. Immediately behind the lat- ter opening, and overhanging the Eustachian tube, is the styloid process, to which the inter- nal lateral ligament of the lower jaw is attached. On the outer side of the pterygoid processes is a plain surface forming part of the zygomatic fossa, and bounded externally by a crest, which marks the division between the zygomatic and the temporal fossae, and which intervenes be- tween the superior attachment of the external pterygoid and the inferior attachment of the temporal muscles. The pterygoid processes consist of two plates, with a triangular separation inferi- orly, and they are called the external and the internal ptert/goid processes or plates. The external is broader, thinner, and is directed more outwardly than the internal; its outer surface, whicii also looks a little forwards, gives attachment to the external pterygoid, its inner to the internal pterygoid muscles. The internal is nearly vertical ; it is pierced longi- tudinally at its base by the canalis Vidianus for the passage of the vessel and nerve which bear that name; at its inferior extremity there is a hook (the hamulur process), which acts , as a pulley for the tensor palati muscle, the attachment of which to the outer side of the internal pterygoid process is shewn by a sul- cus which is most evident at the base (fossa i nuviculuris) ; to its anterior edge is applied a thin plate of the palatine bone, thus sepa- % rating it from the superior maxillary, and to its posterior edge is affixed the aponeurotic origin of the superior constrictor of the pha- rynx. The concavity between the two pro- cesses is the foasn pteri/goidea which is occu- pied by the internal pterygoid muscle, and the notch at the lower part (the hiatus pala- tinus) is filled up by the pterygoid process of the palatine bone. The external surface of each ala is continu- ous with the inferior; it is concave from before to behind, and convex from above downwards ; it contributes to the formation of the temporal fossa, and the continuation of the sulcus tem- poralis is evident at its anterior part (S, fg. 373). Tlie anterior surface forms the major part of the external wall of the orbit, is oblong, di- rected forwards and inwards, and is narrower at its extremities than in its middle. The superior border of the great wing sepa- rates the orbital from the cerebral surface ; it presents a sharp smooth edge on its inner half, and a rough irregular surface on its outer half; it is convex, and its convexity is directed up- wards, forwards, and inwards. The sharp internal half concurs with the alae minores to form the sphenoidal fissure, which will be de- scribed with those processes. The external rough half becomes broader as it passes out- wards, so as to produce a triangular indented surface, the outer edge of which is prolonged at the expense of the inner table in such a manner that it overlaps the frontal bone which is affixed on it, and this prolongation is con- tinued without the indented surface, so as to grasp the anterior inferior spinous process of the parietal bone. The external border is nearly the reverse of the former. It is concave, and looks outwards and backwards, and it is articulated in its entire extent to the squamous portion of the temporal bone, by which it is overlapped in its anterior third, and receiving and supporting it in its two posterior thirds ; the former at the expense of its outer table, the latter at that of the in- ternal. The posterior border is applied against the outer side of the petrous portion of the tem- poral bone, and extends from the body of the sphenoid to the posterior extremity of the ex- ternal border. The junction of these two bor- ders forms the spinous process, which is received