CAROTID ARTERY. 488 In the substance of that muscle with the branches which it receives from the superior thyroid. The sterno-mastoid muscle very frequently receives a large branch at this part arising dis- tinctly from the external carotid. This Professor Harrison considers should be classed among the regular branches of the external carotid, and he has described it under the name of a. sterno-mmtoidea.* While the occipital artery is covered by the sterno-mastoid, trachelo-mastoid, and splenius, it gives branches to these muscles, some of which descending anastomose with branches of the cervicalis profunda and the vertebral; those which ascend are distributed to the supe- rior attachments of these muscles; amongst them there is one branch occasionally found whicli penetrates into the cranium by the mas- toid hole, and is distributed to the dura mater, under the name of posterior meningeal of the occipital. When the occipital artery comes out from beneath the splenius muscle it divides into those branches which are distributed over the posterior surface of the occipital bone, sup- plying the occipito-frontalis and the scalp, to- gether with the pericranium, and anastomosing, as already mentioned, with the opposite occi- pital, posterior auris, and temporal. One of these branches frequently enters the cranium by the parietal hole, and spreads over the dura mater. The occipital artery sometimes gives small twigs, which enter the cranium by the foramen lacerum posterius and the anterior condyloid foramen. 2d. A. posterior auris, v. aurieularis pos- terior, arises immediately after the occipital, in the substance of the parotid gland; it is generally a much smaller vessel than the latter, from which it is mostly separated by the stylo- hyoid muscle: sometimes it comes from the occipital. It passes upwards and backwards under the parotid gland between the mastoid process of the temporal bone and the cartila- ginous tube of the ear; it first sends branches to the parotid gland, the stylo-hyoid muscle, the posterior belly of the digastric and the external ear; it then gives off the stylo- mastoid artery, which, among other branches to the external ear, gives off one to be dis- tributed to the membrana tympani. Then the stylo-mastoid traversing the aqueduct of Fallopius finds its way into the cavity of the tympanum, on the lining membrane of which, and its prolongation into the mastoid cells, its branches are expended, where it anas- tomoses with a branch of the middle menin- geal, which enters the hiatus Fallopii, and arrives in the tympanum along with the chorda tympani nerve. Sometimes the stylo-mastoid artery comes from the middle meningeal. When the posterior auris gets to the front of the mastoid process it divides into two branches, one of which is anterior and the other pos- terior ; the former spreads its branches over all * Suiyical Aiiiitom_y of the Arteries of tlie Human Body, vol, i, parts of the internal surface of the ear; the latter ascends in front of the mastoid process, passes under the posterior auris muscle, and divides into many branches, which are distri- buted to the occipito-frontalis and temporal muscles, integuments, &c. These branches anastomose with the temporal and occipital arteries.* While traversing the parotid gland the ex- ternal carotid gives several small branches to the masseter and pterygoid muscles, to the substance of the gland itself, and a few to the front of the external ear; occasionally it gives origin to the transversalis faciei in this course. Behind the neck of the condyle of the lower jaw the external carotid divides into its two superior and terminal branches, the temporal and internal muxdlary. 1. Temporal artery, (a. temporalis.) The temporal artery ascends at first a little obliquely outwards between the ramus of the jaw and the tube of the ear, covered by the parotid gland; crossing the zygoma at its posterior part, and passing under the anterior auris muscle, it mounts up over the temporal apo- neurosis, and becomes subcutaneous for the remainder of its course. Immediately after its origin the temporal gives off anteriorly a very considerable branch, which is called the transversalis faciei: this artery sometimes arises from the trunk of the external carotid ; it passes forward over the neck of the condyle of the lower jaw, and, crossing the masseter muscle, runs superior to the duct of Steno, which it accompanies across the face; it anastomoses with the labial, buccal, and infra-orbital arteries. The branches which the transversalis faciei usually gives off are distributed to the parotid gland and its duct, the masseter, zygomatic, and orbicularis pal- pebrarum muscles, and the integuments. I have seen an instance in which this artery arose from the external carotid opposite the angle of the jaw, beneath which it passed forwards, and joined the labial at the anterior edge of the masseter muscle. When the temporal artery has arrived at the zygoma, it gives a branch called middle tem- poral, which pierces the temporal aponeurosis, and ascends in the substance of the temporal muscle, to which it is distributed, and which anastomoses with the deep temporal arteries. Having given oft' a few small brandies to the parotid gland, integuments, and external ear, the temporal artery ascends on the temporal aponeurosis, and divides into two branches, the anterior and posterior. The anterior branch ascends in a serpentine course towards the forehead, and sends off many branches, which are distributed to the occipito-frontaHs, the orbicularis palpebrarum, and integuments, and which anastomose with the superciliary and * [Tlie surgical anatomist cannot fail to notice the relation of the posterior auris artery to the portio dura nerve, as it lies superficial to and nearer the mastoid process than that nerve, so as to be consi- derably, although not necessarily, endangered when the opcrutoi proceeds to divide the nerve at its emergence from the stylo-mastoid foramen.—Ed.]