29T AVES. ternal condyle of the femur; when it has reached tlie region of the calcaneum, it passes backwards through a synovial capsule, and is inserted into the proximal phalanx of the thumb, where it is perforated by the tendon of the perfot ans muscle. The Flexor p7'oJundus pcrforans (52) arises as two distinct muscles, the one from the back of the femur and the other from the back of the tibia and fibula; the tendons of these two portions unite behind the metatarsal bone, and send olf tendons to the last phalanges of the toes, wliich perforate those of the flexor sublimis. The Extensor longus communis digitorum arises above fiom the anterior side of the tibia, below the tibialis anticus, passes beneath a strong restraining ligament, then lower down beneath an osseous bridge, and lastly across a strong ligament situated at the inferior ex- tremity of the tarso-metatarsal bone. Below this part its tendon divides into three slips which are inserted into the distal phalanges of the three outer toes (53). There are six long muscles lying on the metatarsal bone; they are largest and best marked in those birds which walk most, as the Aves terrestrcs. Two of these muscles are on the posterior surface; one goes to the base of the external toe, which it abducts; tlie other is inserted into the root of the back toe, which it lends. The other four muscles are on the anterior part of the metatarsus : the first extends the back toe; the second goes to the base of the first toe, and abducts it; the third is spread on the root of the middle toe, which it extends; the fourth lies along the out- side of the metatarsus, perforates the end of the bone, and is implanted into the inside of the external toe, and abducts it. Frogression on land is generally effected in birds by the alternate advancement of the two feet; but sometimes they proceed by leaping or hopping, rather than walking; both feet are then firmly fixed on the ground, and the body is propelled forwards by a sudden extension of all the joints of the legs. Birds which have sharp claws, as the Accipitres, SfC, retract them when they hop, to prevent their being blunted. The Cat tribe, among mammalia, have a me- chanism effecting a similar purpose. Some birds derive assistance in terrestrial progression by the flapping of the wings, and this is especially the case with the Ostrich, which runs by the alternate advancement of its legs. The act of climbing is performed by means of a peculiar disposition of the toes, aided by prehension with the beak, as in the Maccaws and Parrots, or by the prop formed by the stiflT tail-feathers, as in the Woodpeckers. The act of swimming is rendered easy to birds by the specific levity of their body, arising from the extension of the air-cells; by the shape of the chest, which resembles the bottom of a boat; and by the conversion of the hinder extremities into oars in con- sequence of the membranes uniting the toes together. The effect of these web-feet in water is finther assisted by the toes, having their membranes lying close togedier when carried forwards, whilst, on the contrary, they are ex- panded in strikhig backwards. The oar-like action of the hinder legs is still further favoured by their backward position; and by the meta- tarsus and toes being placed almost on the same perpendicular or vertical line with the tibia, an arrangement, however, which is unfavourable for walking. Sailing.—Some birds, as the Swan, partially expand their wings to the wind while swimming, and thus move along the waters by means of sails as well as oars. The act of diving is performed by the rapid and forcible action of the wings, beating the water as in flight, by the feet striking the waters backwards and upwards, and assisted probably by the compression of the air-cells. Flight, the most important and characteristic mode of locomotion in birds, results principally from the construction and form of the anterior extremities, which have already been described. The form of the body has also especial reference to this power, the tiunk being an oval with the large end forwards. The spine being short and inflexible, the muscles act to great advantage, and the centre of gravity is more easily changed from above the feet as in the stationary position, to between the wings as during flight. The head of the bird is generally small, and the beak pointed, which is a commodious form for dividing the air. The long and flexible neck compensates for the want of hands and the rigidity of the trunk, and contributes to change the centre of gravity, according to the required mode of progression, by simply projecting the head forwards, or drawing it back. The position of the great pectoral muscles, as before observed, always tends to keep the centre of gravity at the in- ferior part of the body. The power which birds enjoy of raising and supporting them- selves in the air is undoubtedly aided by the lightness of the body. The large cavities in the bones diminish their weight without taking away from their strength,—a hollow cylinder being stronger than a solid one of the same weight and length. But the specific levity principally depends on the great air-cells, which occupy almost every part of the body, and which are all in communication with the lungs. The air which birds inspire distends these cells, being expanded by the great heat of the body. Lastly, the feathers, and especi- ally the quills, from their lightness and elastic firmness, contribute powerfully to the act of flying by the great extent which they give to the wings, the length and breadth of which are fur- ther increased by the expanded integument situated in the bend of the arm and in the axilla. When a bird commences its flight it springs into the air, either leaping from the ground, or precipitating itself from some elevated point. During this action it raises the humerus, and with it the entire wing, as yet unfolded; it next spreads it horizontally by an extension or ad- duction of the fore-arm and hand ; the greatest extent of surface of the wing being thus acquired,