236 ARTERY, PATHOLOGICAL CONDITIONS OF. rism by dilatation, was obliged to support his opinions more by argument than by facts de- monstrable by dissection ; and although later in- vestigations, particularly those of Mr. Hodgson and AJr. Guthrie, have satisfactorily proved the occasional existence of both true and false aneurism, yet it must be a favourable case and patient examination that will enable the morbid anatomist to exhibit its nature and structure without possibility of error. When cases of inflamed or diseased artery are seen, compli- cated with aneurism, and the same depositions are observed in the artery and in the sac, it proves beyond doubt the identity of structure in boti). Thus, if an aorta be found studded over with specks of a soft steatomatous deposit situated between its internal and middle coats, and if on one side of it an aneurism is placed, in the sac of which, throughout its entire ex- tent, the same appearances and the same de- posit are observed, it follows that the same structures must exist in both, and that one is a prolongation of the other. One of the cases already noticed as being a true aneurism, that destroyed the patient by pressure on the trachea, exhibited such evidence of its nature: and a similar one, but still more satisfactory, occurred in the person of a gentleman, who died some years since. This patient had laboured under some anomalous cerebral symptoms, and on inspecting the brain a small aneurismal tumour was seen at the bifurcation of the basilar artery, in the sac of which were found the same kind of earthy depositions that pervaded all the arteries of the body—the same so generally observed in the arteries of aged persons. These examples are sufficient to prove that aneurism by dilatation may exist, and perhaps its occur- rence in the aorta and larger vessels is more frequent than has been supposed. During the past spring two opportunities occurred of examining into the nature and condition of aneurism, both in its early stage and long after it had been apparently cured by operation. They were, probably, both ex- amples of what has been termed true aneu- rism, although unquestionably all the coats of the artery were not engaged : and as the mor- bid appearances have not been hitherto de- scribed, it may be useful to take notice of them here. A man was admitted into the Meath Hos- pital, with popliteal aneurism in each ham : one of these had existed for several weeks ; the other was of very recent occurrence. The limb in which the older and larger one was situated was first made the subject of opera- tion, the femoral artery was tied, but the patient died on the sixteenth day afterwards, of venous inflammation, the ligature on the vessel still remaining firm and undetached. On examining the aneurismal tumour exter- nally it appeared of an oval shape, and to have been formed by the gradual expansion of all the coats of the vessel. On being cut into, however, it was found that the lining mem- brane was wanting throughout the entire extent of the sac, the edge of it terminating sharply and abrupdy, above and below, at the junc- tions of the tumour with the more healthy parts of the vessel, and being as accurately defined as if made by a careful dissection. , The fibrous coat was evidently continued into the tumour, which seemed to be formed of an expansion of it and the cellular. It was, moreover, otherwise diseased, being thickened, greatly softened and thrown into irregalar rugae or folds, the interstices between which were filled with coagula of lymph or fibrine. As the sac of this aneurism was in a state of sup- puration, the deficiency of the lining mem- brane was attributed to that circumstance until the other aneurism came to be examined when the same appearances were observed. The second tumour was not so large as a walnut and evidently formed by the gradual expan- sion of the fibrous coat, for the abrupt ter- minations of the lining membrane at the healthy extremities of the artery were still more exactly defined. The other case is even more interesting, be- cause it exhibits a cure of aneurism after operation in a manner that has not been de- scribed, the principle of which it is not easy to understand. A man was operated on by Mr. Collis, in the Meath Hospital for popliteal aneurism on the 22d of January, 1831. The ligature came away on the seventeenth day, the tumour diminished ; in short, every thing went on well and the patient left the hospital per- fectly cured. So far as the aneurism was con- cerned, he remained healthy and free from inconvenience until his death, which hap- pened in March 1835, from fever, and such an opportunity for pathological inquiry was not neglected. The tumour which had been origi- nally of the size of a turkey's egg, was found to have diminished to little more than that of a walnut: externally it felt hard and as if com- pletely solidified : on being cut into, however, neither artery nor sac was obliterated, the latter being occupied by a coagulum of a deep red colour, through the centre of which was a canal of a sufficient size to allow the blood from the portion of the artery above the tumour to flow freely into that below it. It seemed as if the current of blood through the sac had never been interrupted, the only effect of the former ligature having been the removal of the im- pulse of the heart from it. This aneurism appeared to have been a true one, so far as the fibrous and cellular coats were concerned, but the fact could not be so satisfiictorily demon- strated as to admit of no dispute ; however, the absence of the lining membrane and its sharp and abrupt terminations at the healUiy portions of the vessel were sufficiently ob- vious. If it be difficult to demonstrate the nature and constitution of the small and recent aneu- rism, it becomes impossible when the tumour has attained to a considerable size. It seems probable, however, that the arterial structures will not long endure this state of unnatural distension, and they either ulcerate or tear in their internal and middle coats. A mixed aneurism will thus be formed, having its sac at first composed of all the structures of the artery,