REGION OF THE ANKLE. 147 tlisqiiiritnr qiioufque qiiaedam animalium planta- nimqiie funcliones consenliunt, 4to. Gottiiig. 1773. I\lustel, Tr.iite, &c. siir la vegetation, 8\'0. Rouen, 1781. Fryar, Dc vita animantinm et v;getabi- liuin, 4to. hufU. Ratav. 1785. Dumas, Essai sar !a vie, Mont p. 1785. Comparetti, Prodrome di fisi- ca vegelabile, 8vo. Padua, 1791. Kielmeyer, Vev- hiiltnisse dcr organische Kraofte, 8vo. Stutts;. 1793; Tubing. 1814. Humhuldt, Apliorisrr.. aiis d. Phy- siologie der PPanzen, a. d. l^at. uebers. 8vo. T;pipz. 17.^4. Biera, Program, de vita; vesetabilis et animalis analogia, 4to. Ticin. 1796. Hafn, Ent- vvurf rincr Pflanzrn-physiologie a. d. Dan. uebers. Kopenliagon, 1798. Senebicr, Physiologie vege- tale, 5 vol. 8vo. Genrv. 1800. Darwin, Pliyto- tomia, 4to. Lond. 1800. Carradnri, Sulla via delle Piante, 8vo. Milano, 1807. Treviranus, Beitiage zur Pflanzen-physiologie, 8vo. Goet'.ing. 1811. Kieser, Aphorismen aus der Pbvsiologie der Pflanzen, 8vo. Goetting. 1808. Keith, A system of physiological botany, 2 vol. 8vo. Lond. 1816. * * * * Treviranus, Biologie, 6 Bde, 8vo. Getting. 1802-21. Scheuhler u. Haider, Uf her die Temperaturder Vegetabilien.Tubing. 1826. Hunter, Obs. on certain parts of the animal economy, 4to. Lond. 1786, 1792. Edwards, Influence des agens physiques sur la vie, 8vo. Paris, 1824; Anglice, 8vo. Lond. 1832. * * » * Via^ielli, Luci notturne dell'acqua marina, Venez. 1749. Viviani, Plios- pho;escentia maris illustrata, 4[0. Gono;E, 1805. Murray, E\per. researches on the light and lu- minous matter of the glow-worm, &c. 8vo. Glasg. 1826. Heinrich, Ueber die Phosphoresceiiz der Koerper. * » * * Gnlvani, Mem. sull' elettricita animale, Bologn. 1797. Volta, Sull' elettricita ani- male, 1782. Valli, Sull'elett. animale, Pavia, 1792. Aldirti, Diss, de animali electiicitate, Bo- logn. 1794. Pfaff, Ueber (hieresche ElectrieitiEt iind Reizharkeit. Lcipz. 1795. Ritter, Bewcis dass Galvanismus den Lebensproccss in dem Thierreiche bpgleite, Weimar, 1790. Ejjis, Beitrage zur kennt- niss drs Galvanismus, Jena, 1800. * » * * Glisson, fJe irritabilitate fibrariim (in Ej. De ventriculo et intestinis Tract. 12mo. Lond. 1677.) Stuhl, Theoria medica vera, 4to. Halle, 1708. Wlujtt On the vital, &c. motions of animals, 8vo. Loiid. 1751. Darwin, Zoonomia, 4to. Lond. De Gorter, Exercitat. mediciE, 4to. Am^t. 1737-48. Lx(ps, De irritabilitate, 4to. Leid. 1748. Holier, Prims linea; Physiologic, 8vo. Getting. 1747 ; E,j. Ele- menta Physiologiae ; Ej. Mem. sur la nature irrita- ble et sensible des parties, &c. 4io. Lausan. 1756 ; Ej. Op. minora, 4(0. //Mm/wW;', Ueber die gereitzte IViuskel-und Nervenfaser, t. ii. 8vo. Berl. 1797. Bichut, Rech. sur la Vie et la moit, 8vo. Paris. Anatomie generale. The systems of Physiology of Adelon, Bostock, Burdach, Magendie, Mayo, Richerand, Rudolphi, and Tiedeman. (To the admirable Physiologie of the last mentioned judi- cious, learned, and laborious author, the writer of the present article stands greatly indebted. The work has been lately translated into Emjlish by Dis. Gully and Lane.) (R. Willis.) ANKLE, REGION OF THE, (surgical anatomy), (region tibio-tai-sienne,\'e\p.) The relative positions and other particulars con- nected with tlie parts found in the region of the ankle, owing to the numerous accidents which occur here, are matters of great interest to the surgeon. The extent and boundaries of this re- gion are by no means so distinctly defined as those of many others ; hence, in isolating it for special description, the surgical anatomist is obliged to assign to it arbitrary or imaginary limits. We propose to adopt the following boundaries for this region, viz. superiorly a hori- zontal line drawn round the leg two inches above the malleoli, and inferiorly a line drawn across the dorsum and sides of the foot at the same distance from those bony prominences. In this space are comprised the ankle-joint and several important vessels, tendons, and other soft parts well worthy of attention. In examining the external characters of this region we notice fourwell-marked prominences, one on either side, termed malleolus, {internus v. e.tternua) ; a third posteriorly, which cor- responds to the tendo Achillis; and a fourth in front, resulting from the projection of the astra- galus. The malleoli do not accurately corres- pond either in situation or shape to each other: the internal lies upon a plane superior and anterior to the external, and in a well formed person is mtich less sharp and prominent,— a fltct, the recollection of which is of great im- portance in estimating deformity or dislocation of the joint. The cylindrical prominence be- hind, as it depends upon the tendo Achillis, will of course vary in size and tension accord- ing to the relaxation or contraction of the gastrocnemii muscles. Upon either side of the tendo Achillis, between it and the malleo- lus we meet with a deep groove, called by some the calceo-malleolar furrow: that upon the outside is extremely well marked, and we may here distinctly feel through the integu- ments two of the peronei tendons: the internal calceo-malleolar groove is broader and shal- lower, but of much greater interest, for through it, in addition to certain tendons, we have transmitted the principal vessels and nerves des- tined for the sole of the foot- The anterior prominence, named in popular language, "the instep," is rounded in the transverse direction, and in some individuals projects mucli more than in others. On throwing the foot and toes into action, as in walking, we can here dis- tinctly recognize the tendons of the tibialis anticus, extensor poliicis, extensor digitoruin longus, and peroneus tertius, and almost in the mesial line may be felt pulsating distinctly the anterior tibial artery. Having thus examined the landmarks which are to guide us in our anatomical investigation of this region, we may next proceed to inquire into the nature and relations of its constituent parts. Besides the bones, cartilages, and liga- ments which immediately constitute the joint, and form the basis of the region, we have like- wise several other structures entering into its formation ; integuments, muscles, ^ essels, nerves, and fasciae are here arranged in suc- cessive layers beneath each other. We shall accordingly describe four layers,— namely, 1. the skin; 2. the subcutaneous cellular tissue; 3. the fasciae; and 4. the tendons, vessels, and nerves, which lie in immediate contact with the articulation. 1. The skin forms a complete investment for the whole region, but its structure and properties differ considerably in different situ- ations. Upon the inner ankle it is smooth and thin, and possessed of but little exteoMbility ; so that in operating here, if we look forward to union by the first intention, it becomes a matter of great moment to preserve as much L 2