CONCHIFERA. 698 going any glandular elaboration, the fluids ab- sorbed to the general current of the circulation. After having thus had all the nutritious ele- ments it contains abstracted, the alimentary mass, having reached the rectum, there com- monly presents itself under the form of minute globules ; it is soon afterwards expelled through the anus. Organs of circulation.—The organs of cir- culation in the acephalous Mollusca consist of two vascular systems forming together a simple circuit, namely, a ventricle and an arterial system, and a venous system and two auricles. The ventricle in the majority of acephalous mollusca is single, symmetrical, situated in the dorsal median line of the body, and rests upon the rectum, which it embraces in its evolution (g,/g. 347, 348) on every side so closely, that the intestine appears to pass through it. It is to be presumed, however, that the intestine does not pass im- mediately athwart the heart, but that this canal is only embraced so intimately by the central -organ of the circulation, that it is impossible to separate without tearing them. The ventricle, which is regular and symmetrical in the greater number of the genera («, fig. 349) is irregular and unsymmetrical in the Ostracean family, {a, Jii^. 350). It is generally elongated and fusiform; Figs. 349 & 350. j its parietes are thin, formed of muscular fibres variously interlaced, and often projecting in- ternally. From either extremity issues one of the two main arteries of the body, the one superior giving branches to the whole of the anterior parts of the animal; the other pos- terior supplying branches to the principal vis- cera,—the stomach, liver, intestinal canal, and ovary. Many superficial branches penetrate the mantle, and may be observed ramifying more especially upon the thicker parts which constitute its edges. When the back of the animal is very broad, and as a necessary consequence of this struc- ture, the branchiae of one side are at a consi- derable distance from those of the other side, we find, as among the Archidse, that there are then two ventricles (a, a, fig.'S5\,) and two auri- cles (6,6, ^g. 351) to secure the perfect per- formance of the important business of circula- tion. This interesting modification of the organs of circulation is of slight significance as regards the mere results of the function, for it still con- tinues no more than a simple circuit, exactly as if it were effected by a single ventricle. The auricles are two in number {b, b, Jigs. 349 & 351, i. Jig. 348) in the whole of the genera of Conchifera except those of the family of the Ostracea, in which there is no more than a single irregular auricle {b,Jig. 350), just as there is but one ventricle. The most general figure presented by the au- ricles is the triangular. They communicate with the ventricle by one of the angles of the triangles, and they receive the blood of the branchioB by the most extensive of their three sides. These organs are altogether membra- nous ; in their interior, however, we discover, with the aid of the magnifier, a great number of small fibrous fasciculi, by means of which the regular contraction of the ventricles appears to be effected. The venous system is of very considerable magnitude. In his magnificent work, Poli* has given a very satisfactory account of its anatomy. It is more particularly remarkable in the Archidae, the Pinna, &c. It is destined to receive the blood of the general circulation ; it is also destined to collect the whole of the fluids absorbed, and to direct these towards the branchial apparatus, in which the blood with these added fluids undergoes a fresh elaboration. It is after having traversed the branchial vessels (c,c,c,c, Jig. 349, 351, J, Jig. 348) that the blood revivified is carried to- wards the auricle by the pulmonary veins, from whence it is sent to the ventricle, and by it forced anew to perform the round of the arterial cir- culation. The blood in the Conchiferous mollusks is colourless, or of a bluish white, very different from the hue it presents in the vertebrata; it is but slightly viscid, and when it coagulates exhibits but a very small quantity of crassa- mentum or solid matter. Circulation tiien is an extremely simple function in the Conchiferous mollusks: an aortic ventricle gives the blood impulse enough to carry it through the two systems of vessels, to expel it from the heart and to bring it back again to the auricle. In other branchiferous animals, the auricle is sometimes adapted to give the blood a new impulse when it is about to pass through the brancliia;; here, on the * Testacea Utriusque Siciliie, fol. 3 torn.