407 BONE, NORMAL ANATOMY. exhibit them, even if they existed in great numbers. Tliat they do so exist we have reason to think from the phenomena of molbties, exfoliation, and various other morbid actions, as well as the changes which daily occur in the growth of bone. 3. Chemical composition.—When bone is heated to redness in an open fire, some of its ingredients are consumed, and a white friable earth is left behind. Again, if bone be ex- posed for some time to the action of an acid, it becomes soft and flexible. In both cases the form and size of the original are retained, but there is considerable loss of weight. These facts were well known in the infancy of science ; they were too obvious to escape notice ; but it does not appear that they were explained before the time of Nesbit in 1736,* nor very satis- factorily then. The existence of an earthy and an animal matter was afterwards proved by Herissant, who showed, by experiment, that acids did not soften the osseous substance as a whole, but removed from it the earthy portion; and that the soft animal matter was always present, but concealed by an earthy " incrus- tation" of its fibres.f The action of fire on the animal portion was easily explained. Some time after this Gahn discovered that the earth was principally a phosphate of lime ; and later chemists, especially Berzelius, have minutely investigated the nature and proportions of these different ingredients. Jt is now ascertained that bones contain several earthy salts, varying a little in different animals; that the earthy and the animal parts do not always bear the same proportion to each other in the different classes; and that even in the same individual age and situation give rise to varieties. It was long believed that fat formed an essential part of bone, and that very important properties depended on its mixture with the osseous tissue; but this opinion was quite erroneous. Fat is not always present, and when it is, it invariably belongs to the medulla, which may be looked upon as a distinct struc- ture superadded to bone. It is, as it were, an accidental deposit, and is not to be con- sidered in the analysis. On removing the fat and periosteum, if we suspend a bone for some days in diluted mu- riatic acid, the earthy part is dissolved, whilst nearly all the animal portion remains untouched. This last is soft, translucent, and of a yellowish white colour. It is called the cartilage of bone. When washed and dried it contracts a little, assumes a deeper colour, though still retaining some translucency, becomes hard and tough, and weighs about one-third of the original bone. This substance yields, on being boiled, a quantity of gelatine, which in young subjects is very considerable, forming nearly all the cartilage, but in the old a soft, white, elastic substance still remains, possessing the figure of the bone. According to Hatchet's experiments * Human Ostrogeny, by R. Nesbit, M.T). p. 31. LonH. 1736. + Mcmoircs dc rAcadcinii' Royalc dcs Sciences, 17.58. this last has the properties of coagulated albu- men.* Berzelius,t however, shows that all the cartilage may be resolved by boiling into a clear colourless gelatine, which leaves on the filter only a very small quantity of fibrous sub- stance, the debris of vessels. He does not admit the existence of any albuminous nidus, and even looks upon the gelatine as the pro- duct of a decomposition effected by coction on the peculiar cellular basis of bone. The earth of bone is principally subphos- phate of lime; it also contains carbonate of lime and minute quantities of other salts. The following is the analysis, as given by Berzelius, of bone deprived of its oil, blood, and perios- teum :— Bones of man. Oftlieox. Cartilage completely solu- i ble in water 32-17 > 33-30 Vessels 1-13J Subphosphate of lime with a littlefluateof lime.. .. 53 04 57-35 Carbonate of lime. 11-30 3-85 Phosphate of magnesia .. ri6 2 05 Soda, and a very little mu- riate of soda 1-20 3-45 100-00 100-00 The proportion of earthy and animal matter is the same generally in man and the other mammalia. In birds there is more of the animal part which does not perfectly dissolve than in mammalia. In reptiles and osseous fishes the cartilage of bones approaches in its nature to the substance which, in cartilaginous fishes, is the substitute for bone. This substance is of a peculiar nature ; it yields neither gelatine nor albumen, but is more analogous to inspis- sated mucus than to any thing else. The earthy salts are not always in the same proportion to each other in different animals. We have seen that they are not the same in man and the ox. Barros gives the following table -.— I'hosphaleof lime. Carbonate of lime. Lion 95 0 2 5 Sheep 83 0 19-3 Fowl 88-9 10-4 Frog 95-2 2-4 Fish 91-9 5-3 With respect to varieties depending on age and situation, we have a table of the proportions of animal matter and earth as found by Dr. John Davy in several experiments, from which it appears that old bones contain more earth than young ones, and that the bones of the head have a greater proportion than those of the extremities.J As to the exact nature of the earthy salts, we have given the results obtained by Ber- zelius as the latest and most accurate. But it may be right to state that differences of * Philosophical Transactions, 1800. + Trc.ite de Chimic Par. 1833. { Sec Monro's Klements of Anatomy, vol i E.linb. 1825.