ARTERY, PATHOLOGICAL CONDITIONS OF. 243 appears as a patch, slightly elevated, of a red or purple colour, being generally of a brighter line on the face or breast, and darker on those parts usually kept covered. The colour of the naivus also seems to depend on the quality of the blood with which it is altogether or prin- cipally supplied, as sometimes tumours are met with which might be termed venous aneurisms of this description, consisting evidently of veins indurated, knotted, and contorted on each other, increasing gradually, and never pul- satile; these frequently occur in different parts of the body of the same individual,and are always attended more or less with pain. The arterial na^vus is, however, most intimately connected with the present subject. It sometimes pre- sents an appearance as if irregularly granulated; more frequently is it smooth and velvety. The deep stain possesses a sharp and circumscribed edge, yet a net-work of minute vessels may be seen like an areola around it, conveying blood to nourish the tumour, and therefore forming an important part of the diseased structure. The tumour is increased in size and intensity of colour by every thing that accelerates the circu- lation—by exercise, intemperance, paroxysms of passion, and even by an elevation of tem- perature, and hence the supposed marks of currants and other fruits are said to grow red and ripen at the proper season. Its feel is doughy, and communicates a sensation as if it contained a jelly. It sinks, and is diminished by pressure on its surface, but immediately the pressure is removed it recovers its former level. It may be stationary for years, but the contrary is generally observed ; its growth, however, is always irregular, being more rapid at one period than another. 3. The distinguishing charac- teristic of the third form of na;vus is its pulsa- tility. It beats synchronously with the heart and arteries. When wounded, blood of a bright red colour flows from it, often in such abundance as to occasion syncope or even more dangerous consequences. As it grows larger, the skin gradually becomes thin ; it bursts and bleeds ; masses of coagula lie upon its surface, putrefying and occasioning the most unsightly appearance and most offensive odour. This is a condition that cannot endure long, the patient soon becomes irritable and weak, and falls a victim to that irregular, ill-formed hectic which is seen in every disease accompanied by extensive haemorrhages. It is manifest that the distinctions between these latter forms of neevi are merely artificial; the second can be made to pulsate and to increase by heat or intem- perance, the third can often be restrained by cold, by abstinence, and other means that debilitate the circulation. The external appearances, however, yield no information as to the condition of the parts within, or the nature of this newly-formed struc- ture ; and on this subject anatomical investiga- tion affords but little satisfactory knowledge. When a nievus is extirpated, it seems to consist of a mass of cellular tissue, collapsed and flaccid, which cannot be unravelled, and seems to bear no proportion in size to that of the tumour before removal. If it be cut away close to its defined edge, and without the ex- tirpation of the zone of small vessels already described, the bleeding is frightful, and in very young children may be fatal, evidently shewing that these vessels are not endowed witli con- tractility, and are a diseased and a new forma- tion, if a naevus is injected, it only affords a swollen and unshapely mass of whatever ma- terial had been used, and throws no light what ever on the real pathology of the disease. Here, then, in the absence of demonstration, theory and conjecture are permitted, and all that is known, or supposed to be known, is only the fruit of speculation. Bell supposed the tumour to consist of a congeries of cells, into each of which an artery and vein opened; that these cells increased both in number and in size with the growth of the patient, until they became immense reser- voirs of blood ; and, finally, that they became so distended as to burst and destroy life, as any other aneurism would, by a profuse discharge of blood. But still this explanation is defec- tive, as showing nothing of the nature of the cells themselves, or why blood poured out into them should not coagulate as it would in any other cellular structure. It remained for Du- puytren to offer an ingenious and extremely probable hypothesis relative to these points, and he conceived the aneurism by anastomosis to be a " tissu erectile," analogous to that naturally found in many parts of the body.* In the penis of man, and in the clitoris and mamella of woman, there is a particular structure, capable of receiving, retaining in a fluid state, and afterwards returning a given quantity of blood. These organs are provided with strong fibrous sheaths, that prevent their distension beyond a certain size, and are fur- nished with a number of nerves that preside over the circulation through them, and deter- mine their conditions of erection and col- lapse. The abnormal " tissu erectile" consists of a cellulated structure, in itself of the same or a similar structure, but not being invested by a fibrous sheath or capsule, its growth is unrestrained, and the size to which it may attain has no limit; and as it has not a similar distribution of nerves, there is nothing to occa- sion either unwonted distension or collapse, and it is left solely under the influence of those causes that act upon the circulation. (See * The lato ^Ir. Sfiekelton of Dublin injected one of these tumours with wax from a large artery in its vicinity, and corroded away the animal matter by immersing it in a weak acid solution, by which it was shewn to. consist of a congeries of vessels arranged in a retiform manner, dilated at some points and contracted at others. An able and in- teresting paper was read on this subject, and on the tortuosity of arteries generally, to the medical section of the British Association, which lately met at Dublin. The great attainments of its author (jMr. Adams) in pathological science lead us to look, not without some degree of impatience, for the full publication of the paper, of which but aa imperfect report has appeared in the Dublin Medical Journal for September 1835.—Ed. R 2