PREFACE. building requiring for its completion a long series of years. While the original design, as well in its defects as in its merits, is due to himself, he is conscious how little he has had to do in supplying the materials, and completing the details of the building. For these he has trusted, and not in vain, to a body of collaborateurs, among whom he is proud to reckon many of the first scien- tific men both in this country and in Europe. How efficiently this work has been done, it is not for the Editor to say, but he deems himself justified in affirming that, for years to come, this Cyclopoedia will furnish a well-stocked field for reference to the student of Anatomy and Physiology. It is remarkable how few of the members of this little phalanx of contributors have failed to see the completion of the work ! Nevertheless, we have to deplore some serious losses ; and the Editor trusts he may be pardoned for otfering a passing tribute to the memory of some of the more distinguished among them. Foremost among these, although but recently removed from amongst us, was the late Dr. Marshall Hall, who furnished articles on the (to him) favourite subjects, Hybeknation, Ikritabilitt. Although a veteran in science, he had finished his career before he had reached the ordinary limits of human life. To large gifts of natural genius he added an indomitable industry and perse- verance. His name must always occupy a prominent position in the annals of Physiology, by reason of the active and highly successful part which he took in advancing our knowledge of the Physiology of the Nervous System, and in promoting its application to the investigation of Pathology and the diagnosis and treatment of disease ; and the extremely ingenious speculations and hypotheses which he, from time to time, suggested for the explanation of various natural and morbid phenomena. The manner in which his almost latest hours were employed in applying physiological knowledge to the treatment of asphyxia shows how little it could have been said of him, " Superfluous lags the veteran on the stage." Still more recently, another veteran, especially distinguished in anatomical science, has fallen while actually in the ranks. Professor Harrison, having been during the previous day engaged in the duties of his chair, rapidly suc- cumbed, in the course of a night, under an apoplectic seizure. For forty years and upwards he maintained the highest reputation as a Teacher. At