ANIMAL KINGDOM. 117 generally unsymmetrical in their development in the female. The testes are internal, and the vasa deferentia terminate in the cloaca, where there is sometimes a grooved organ of intro- mission. In the female the left ovary and oviduct are developed, the right for the most part atrophiated and useless. The cavity of the cloaca in most birds, as seen in tliat of the great condor of the Andes (Jig. 49), receives the end of the rectum (a), which forms a wide Fig. 49. rectal vestibule (A): beneath this lies the part analogous to the urinary bladder (c d). Lower than the urinary sac are found the two openings of the ureters {h h), with the pervious oviduct on the left side (,/'), and the remains of the impervious oviduct (g) on the right side. Tiie bursa Fabricii and the clitoris (when present) are placed more posteriorly in the preputial cavity. The most distinct forms of these gene- rative and urinary parts, and tlie nearest ap- proach to the mammalia are seen in the cloaca of the ostrich {Jig. 50), wheie the rectum («) opens into a wide and distinct rectal vestibule (6), which extends into a large urinary bladder {d). Beneath the urinary bladder is the ure- thro-sexual canal (e), into which the two ureters Fig. 50. (A h /i*) and the oviducts {f,f*J'* g) open towards the dorsal and lateral part. The pre- putial cavity {i) is the terminal portion in which the distinct clitoris is here lodged. The ova are impregnated internally, their chorion is calcified, and their development is effected by incubation. (SeeAvES.) 23. Mammalia, warm and red-blooded ver- tebrata, having four cavities of the heart, with a viviparous mode of generation, and possessing mammary glands; with the lungs free in a distinct thoracic cavity, and generally having the body more or less covered with hair. The bodies of their vertebrfe unite by flat surfaces, the tympanic bone is fixed, the jaws are gene- rally furnished with teeth lodged in deep alveoh, the coracoid bone rarely reaches the sternum, and the posterior extremities, when present, are always attached by the pelvic arch to a solid sacrum. The thoracic and abdominal cavities are separated by a muscular diaphragm. The hemispheres of the brain contain large ventri- cles, and rarely want convolutions, the optic lobes are small, concealed, solid, and divided by a transverse sulcus, the commissures of the brain and cerebellum, and the hemispheres of the cerebellum are large. The alimentary canal is of great length, the colon long and wide, with a single coecum, and sometimes with a vermiform appendix, and the anal open- ing is generally distinct from the urinary and genital passages. The tricuspid valve is thin and membranous, the aorta descends on the left side, there is no inferior larynx, the epi- glottis is distinct, and the bronchi continue cartilaginous into their ramifications in the lungs. The lungs, generally divided into lobes, move freeely in a distinct thoracic cavity, and have no abdominal cells or perforations on their surface, as in birds, "fhere is always a urinary bladder, and the urethra in the male passes through a tubular penis. The organs of gene- ration are double in both sexes, symmetrical in the male, and rarely unsymmetrical in the female. The oviducts commonly unite at their lower part to form a uterus, in which the ovum becomes again connected with the parent, and is hatched. There are mammary glands open- ing externally for lactation during the helpless condition of the young. (See Mammali.\.) These are the primary and secondary DIVISIONS of the ANIMAL KINGDOM, the Struc- ture, classification, and history of which it is proposed to consider in this Cyclopaedia, under the heads of the several classes as enumerated in the subjoined table. AN IMALIA. I. Sub-regnum, Cyclo-neura vel Radiata. Classis 1. Polygastrica. 2. Porifera. 3. Polypifera. 4. Acalephse. 5. Echmoderma. II. Sub-regnum, Diplo-neura vel Articulata. Classis 6. Entozoa. 7. Rotifera. 8. Cirrhopoda. 9. Annelida. 10. Myriapoda. 11. Iiisecta. 12. Arachnida. 13. Crustacea.