71 AGE. that the eye collects rays of liglit and con- centrates them on its internal surface, but are utterly ignorant of the changes which the re- tina, the optic nerve, and the brain undergo in producing that condition of our sentient exis- tence which we call vision. It is true that we ai-e aware that certain states of these parts are incompatible with sight; but why they are so is quite beyond our knowledge. We are, as it regards our acquaintance with the adaptation of nervous tissue to the production of sensation, in the same predicament as a man who watches the working of a steam-engine, and knows that a certain quantity of fuel, of water, of valvular compression, &c. is necessary to its motion, but has no idea of the laws of caloric, vapori- zation, constitution of elastic fluids, &c. Our science demonstrates the fitness of the external and internal ear for receiving, propagating, multiplying, and diffusing vibrations, but why the contact with the auditory nerve produces sound, is an all but impossible inquiry ; as well as the reason why the sensation may be absent when the organ is in perfect order, and the nerve to all appearance unchanged ; or why the sensation may occur without vibrations, as in dreaming, and many nervous disorders. The same may be said of the skin; it is well adapted for coming in contact with the points or superficies of bodies, but who can say why the nerves spread over it occasion certain feel- ings ? These remarks are premised merely to shew that it must not excite surprise, if we are unable to point out completely the changes which age produces in the human body, corres- pondently with the changes of its sentient fa- cullies. It has already, in all probability, struck the mind of the reader, that the great develop- ment of the cerebral system in the infant is inconsistent with the principle which we have been endeavouring to demonstrate, viz., that the growth of the human body consists essentially in the elevation of the organs, subservient to the annual functions, from a rudimentary state. The more we grow, the smaller is the proportion of the brain to the rest of the fabric. But it is no less true that the J'unctums of the brain grow with our growth. How then are we to reconcile these opposite facts ? We must cer- tainly discard the opinion, that the bulk of the organ is proportionate to its power, and exa- mine the composition and the relations of its various parts to each other. Limited as our knowledge is of the requisite conditions of nervous substance for its func- tion, we are notwithstanding aware of two ex- tiemes of softness and hardness, which comprise those states of the tissue which are compatible with the exercise ofits peculiar faculty. Patholo- gists well know that ramollissement and indu- ration of the brain may produce the same lesion of function, viz., abolition of sensation ; while it is equally well known that approximations to the same conditions will produce impairment of this faculty. Now in infancy the brain is ex- tremely soft, almost pultaceous, while in old age it is extremely hard in comparison, and the snnilarity of the two ages in many respects. bat particularly us it regards the functions of the nervous system, is matter of universal ob- servation. It might then d prioi-i be suspected that one of the changes in cerebral growth would be a tendency to a certain intermediate degree of consistence, and this is found actually to be the case. From a careful comparison of the size and weight of the brain at different ages, it was ascer- tained by the Wenzels, and is demonstrated in tables contained in their work,De Penitiori Cere- bri Structura,* that although the organ increases very sligthly in bulk after the third year, its weight does not attain its maximum till after the seventh, so that up to this time there is a progressive increase of density. After the seventh year there is no great difference either in size or density. (The size of the brain must not be confounded with that of the head, whicli after the period that we speak of, is determined by the growth of the external table of the skull, correspondently with the projection of the bones of the face.) There must, therefore, be some other change than that of density, to account for the augmentation of intellectual power in the suc- ceeding periods, and herein our information is most at fault. Nevertheless we are not altogether without intimations of organic changes. The majority of physiologists are agreed that the function of the cortical substance is of a higher character than that of the medullary. The lower we descend in the animal series, the less we find of the cineritious matter, which is not apparent at all in the invertebrata, nor indeed in fishes. It is, therefore, not without proba- bility conceived that this matter is more imme- diately concerned in thought; and, conformably with this view, we find its colour more strongly marked, as boyhood stretches on to manhood.f We may mention as corroborative of this cir- cumstance, that M. Foville, an eminent in- vestigator of the pathology of mental diseases, asserts that the principal lesions in the brains of maniacs occur in the grey tissue.;]: The convolutions agam afford us some hints upon the subject before us. Intelligence is in direct proportion to their extent, and we accordingly find that these parts are deeper as age advances. As the existence of the jjosterior cerebral lobes, and of the corpus rhomboideum in the cere- * See the notes to Milligan's TiansUtion of Magendie's Physiology. t This ohsei-vation refers to the cineiitions matter of the convolutions. In certain other parts this sub- stance diminishes after birth. Tluis, in the full- grown foitiis, the medulla oblongata is grey through- out, but soon begins to whiten, iirst in the corpora pyramidalia, and afterwards in the olivaria. The outer surface of the tuber annulare, and of the crura cerebri, is also grey at the commencement of extra-uterine life ; but they lose this colour after a few weeks. In the thalami optici and corpora striata there is no distinction of white and grey matter, the latter alone being visible. See Mecitel, Manuel d'Anatomie, t, ii. p. 717. Till tlie functions of these parts in mature age are better understood than at present, it would be useless to speculate upon the physiological relations of the changes which they undergo in earlier periods. \ Diet, de Med. at Chir. Pratique, art. Aliena- tion Mentale.