352 AVES. gradually proceeding from the apex downwards. The capsule of the matrix {a a, fig. 179) is composed of several layers, the outermost of which is of the nature of epidermis; the inner ones are more compact, but have no appear- ance of organization. The sides of the cap- sule which correspond to the outer and inner sides of the growing feather within are indi- cated by a white longitudinal line. The axis of the capsule is occupied by a medulla or bulb, (e, fig. 179,) also of a cy- lindrical form, and of a soft fibrous texture, adhering by its base to the parts beneath, and there receiving numerous bloodvessels and a nerve. Between the medulla and the capsule there are two parallel membranes, one in- ternal (d, fig. 179); the other external, (!}, fig- 179); from the latter membrane a number of close-set parallel lamins extend obliquely from one of the white longitudinal lines above mentioned to the other on the opposite side of the cylinder. The two mem- branes seem to be united together by the oblique septa. In the long and narrow spaces between these septae, the matter of the vane (c. fig. 179) is deposited, and formed into barbs and barbules, nearly in the same way as the enamel of the teeth is formed between tlic external membrane of the pulp, and the in- ternal membrane of the capsule. The depo- .sition of the material of the barbs commences at the apex of the bulb, and the stem is next formed in the following manner. The external longitudinal line from which the oblique laminje are continued, receives and moulds on the inner surface of the external capsule the horny covering of the back of the feather, or that longitudinal band, to the two sides of which the barbs are attached ; and on the opposite surface of the internal membrane are formed the pith or substance of the shaft, and the horny pellicle which incloses it on the inner surface. Tlie internal longitudinal line has no other use than to establish a solution of continuity between the extremities of the barbs of one side and those of the other, which meet at that part, and thus curve round and completely inclose the formative bulb. In fig. 180, the capsule of the matrix of a grow- ing feather has been laid open, and the nascent barbs (c) which surrounded the bulb have been unfolded, exposing that part at a b. A portion of the barbs and stem have been completed and protruded, and the bulb is beginning to undergo a process of absorption at that part, which will hereafter be described. The shaft and barbs at the apex of the cylinder are the first parts which acquire consistence, and the molecules composing the remainder are less compactly aggregated as they are situated nearer the base of the matrix. As the gela- tinous medulla increases at the base, the first- formed shaft and barbs are protruded through the extremity of the capsule, the bulb con- tinuing to furnish the secretion whichis moulded between the two striated membranes until the entire feather is completed. If the striated membrane inclosing the bulb be attempted to be reflected from below upwards, it will be found to be connected with a series of mem- branous cones (abed e,fig. 181,) ranged one upon the other throughout the whole length of the bulb, and connected together by a tube running through its centre. In this figure (181) the pulpy matter which occupied the interspaces of the cones has been removed to shew their central connecting tube. As the development of the feather advances, the pulpy matter disappears from the summit of the medulla, and only the membranous funnel-shaped caps remain, which are pro- truded from the theca and the centre of the new-formed barbs, and fall off as these ex- pand. The theca which incloses the whole IS of a firm texture where the new moulded barbs are yet pulpy and tender, but it be- comes thinner as these acquire consistency, and lastly, dries and crumbles away after it has been exposed to the action of the atmos- phere. The bulb itself, when examined in a half-formed quill-feather,* is composed of two parts corresponding to the external and in- ternal aspects of the feather. The internal part represents a semi-cylinder or case, in- * The following description is taken from such a feather in the goose.