347 AVES. Barn-Owl (Strix flammea) and Horn-Owl (Otus aurita). The influence of these muscles upon the voice must obviously be in proportion as they shorten the bronchi and depress the lower larynx, according to the different inser- tions above mentioned. A further des;ree of complexity in the organ of voice is presented by the Psittcicida or Par- rot-tribe, which, according to Cuvier, have three pairs of inferior laryngeal muscles. The Insessores, lastly, present five pairs of muscles appertaining to the \ower larynx, and the organ of voice consequently attains its greatest perfection in this order. The peculiar structure of the lower larynx, and the modifications of the trachea in relation to its functions, will be treated of under the article Organs oj' Voice. Urinary Organs.—These consist in birds of the kidneys, ureters, and a urinary receptacle, which is more or less developed in all birds. The kidney of the oviparous vertebrate ani- mal is distinguished from that of the mammi- ferous by the homogeneity of its substance, which is not divided into a cortical and medul- lary part, and by the tubuli uriniferi extending to the surface of the gland there to form by reiterated unions the ureter, and not terminating in a cavity or pelvis in the interior of the kidney, from which the ureter commences. The kidyieys (x x, Jig. 182) of birds manifest all the essential characters of the oviparous type of structure. They are two in number, of an elon- gated form, commencing immediately below the lungs, and extending along the sides of the spine as far as the termination of the rectum ; in which course they are impacted in, and as it were moulded to the cavities and depressions of the pelvis. From this fixed condition it results that they are generally symmetrical in position, not placed one higher than the other, as in the mam- malia. The posterior surface of the kidney pre- sents inequalities corresponding to the risings and depressions of the pelvis; the anterior sur- face is smoothly convex or flattened ; but rising into a series of prominences which correspond, not to the eminences, but to the cavities of the bones on which they rest: their inner or mesial side is generally pretty regular and straight, but the external edge is more or less notched. From the nature of the integuments about to be described, and the small amount of cutane- ous transpiration in birds, the oftice of removing from the system the superfluous watery part of the circulating fluids devolves almost exclu- sively upon the kidneys, and they are conse- quently relatively larger than in the terrestrial mammalia. The kidneys vary in size in different birds, being for example smaller in most of the Gi-allatores, as the Bustard and Heron, where the pelvis is short, than in the Rasorial Order, in which it is of great extent. Where they are short they are in general more promi- nent, and this is so remarkable in some birds, as the Owls, that in them they resemble some- what in their superficial position the kidneys of mammalia. As might be expected from their relations to the pelvis, the kidneys in birds present as many varieties of outward configuration as there are differences in the part of the skeleton to which they are moulded. In some aquatic birds, as the Grebe (PodicepsJ and the Coot (Fulica), the kidneys are more or less blended together at their lower extremities, as in most fishes. In the rest of the class they are distinct from one another. In the Tern they are each divided by fissures into seven or eight square-shaped lobes. In the Eagle they each present four divisions ; but in these cases there are not distinct ureters to each lobe as in the subdivided kidneys of mam- malia. The principal lobes are in general three in number, the anterior or highest one being, in some cases, the largest; while in others, as the Pelecan, the contrary obtains, the lowest division being most developed in this bird. In the Emeu (Dromaius uter) the kidney presents only two lobes; the superior or anterior one is the broadest and most prominent, being of a rounded figure, and constituting one-third of the whole; the lower division is flattened, and gradually tapers to a point. In the speci- men we dissected we found the left kidney half an inch longer than the right. Each kidney is invested by its proper capsule, a thin membrane, which also extends into the substance of the gland, between its divisions : a delicate layer of peritoneum is reflected over their anterior surfaces. The texture of the kidneys is much more frail than in mammalia, readily yielding under the pressure of the finger, to which they give a granu- lar sensation as their substance is torn asunder. In colour they resemble the human spleen. Besides being divided into lobes, the surface of the kidneys may be observed to be composed of innumerable small lobules, separated by conti- nuous gyrations like the convolutions of the cerebral substance. The ultimate divisions of the lobules and their intimate structure can only be distinguished by obserpations on the embryo, unless when the component follicles are filled, as they occasionally are seen to be after death, with the white salts of the urinary secretion. The tuhuli uriniferi, as Miiller ob- serves,* may then be seen under the microscope originating from every part of the internal sub- stance of the lobules, extending to the gyrations, uniting in the pinnatifid form, and coursing to the margins of the lobules, all the inflexions of which they follow. The pinnatifid ramification of the uriniferous tubules is sometimes opposite, sometimes alternate. Sometimes the branches are simple, sometimes dichotomously divided : but these ramuli appear scarcely smaller than the branches from which they spring, and never intercommunicate. They have been successfully injected with size and vermilion, without any of this material escaping into the secerning vessels, which are much more minute. The uriniferous ducts, when thus traced from the * De Glandularum Structura, p. 92.