805 DEATH. is considered by Blumenbach a valuable cri- terion of the reality of death. The flexibility of the joints obviously depends upon the re- laxation of the muscles. Rigidity is a change which has attracted great attention from its importance as an evi- dence of death. Its period of accession de- pends principally upon the nature of the ma- lady. After long and exhausting illnesses, its appearance is early, but the duration is brief, and the intensity trifling. The same remark applies to the modifying influence of old age. When the individual has been cut off by sud- den accidental causes or by acute diseases, it comes on for the most part much later,* lasts longer, and is more intense than in the former instances. It may appear within half an hour after death or may be delayed twenty or thirty hours, according to the circumstances just mentioned. The mean duration is from twenty-four to thirty-six hours ; but it may last six or seven days according to Nysten, whose researches upon this subject are very valuable. We remember observing it once on tlie eighth day after death in the body of a criminal who had been executed by hanging, but are not aware at what time it had com- menced. The parts which first present this change are the neck and trunk ; it then appears in the lower extremities, and lastly in the upper. Its departure observes the same order. It is yet to be proved that rigidity is not an invariable consequence of death. Nysten at- tributes Bichat's assertion of its non-appear- ance in some cases of asphyxia, to the lateness of its developement. If it could be wanting in any case, it would probably be so in sub- jects attenuated and of flabby fibre. Louis in his Letters on the Certainty ©f the Signs of Death declares that he never found it absent even in the infirm and age-worn patients of Salpetri^ire, and Fodere gives a similar testimony to its universality .f The seat of rigidity is the muscular sub- stance. Of this we may be assured by the following facts. (1). It is observed in all those animals (including many of the invertebrata) which have a distinct muscular tissue. (2). Its intensity is in a direct ratio with the develope- ment of this tissue. (3). It is destroyed by division of the muscles, a fact first noticed by Nysten.J (4). It remains when the cellular membrane, skin, aponeurosis, and ligaments are removed.§ (5). When very strong, it ren- ders the muscles prominent as in voluntary contraction, or in that spasm which is induced by rammollissement of the brain and spinal marrow. Ch. Louis makes a remark of this kind in his admirable memoir upon some cases of sudden death-lj In hemiplegiac subjects rigidity is observed * We very recently however observed the phe- nomenon only an hour and a half after the death of a boy by acute peiitonitis. t Med. Leg. t. ii. p. 361, X Rech. de'Physiol. et Pathol. Chira. <$ Dcvcrgic, Diet, de Med. ct Chir. Prat. Art, Mmt. II Rcch. Anat. Path. p. 500. to be no less stiong in the jxiralysed limbs than in those vvhicii were unaHc-cled by the disease. The temperature of tiie body has been said to influence it. Beclard* speaks of cooling as being always antecedent to rigidity, and Nysten has made a similar statement. But we have had many opportunities of disproving this observation. Ch. Louis noticed the pheno- menon in some of the cases just adverted to, while the bodies were quite warm. Its occur- rence in cold-blooded animals is, we think, a sutticient refutation of the idea that it bears any necessary relation with the loss of heat. Moreover Deveigie has very properly pointed out the inconsistency of this notion with tlie fact that rigidity appears first upon the trunk, the region which is the last to be deserted by calonc. The cause of rigidity is referred by most authors to a sort of lingering vital contraction. It is often sjioken of as the last effort of life: "II semble que la vie," says Nysten, " se r^fugie en dernier lieu dans ces oiganes, et y determine le spasme qui constilue le roi- deur." t This author not only refers it to con- traction, but endeavours to explain how a very low degree of the ordinary kind of contraction may be suflicient to stiffen the muscles though not to move the part with which they are con- nected. Supposing that a muscular effort equal to 20 would completely bend the elbow, one equal to 10 would semiflex it; one equal to 5 would bend it a quarter of the distance; while aforceequal to l-20th only, would perhaps produce no motion at all, nothing but rigidity ! Beclard alleges three causes ; the last contrac- tion of muscular fibres, the general cooling of the body, and the coagulation of the fluids. The second of these we have already disposed of. Nctwillistanding the high authorities in favour of the opinion that rigidity is caused by a vital contraction, we confess that to us it appears a very untenable position. All mus- cular contraction in its normal condition alter- nates with relaxation ; and although rigidity might be supposed to bear some analogy to the tonic spasm of tetanus, it differs widely from the latter in one important respect, that when overcome by violence it does not return. When we consider that the continuance of the phenomenon in question is long after the cessation of any vital action; that the usual time of its accession is precisely that which we have every reason to consider the most unfavourable for the occurrence of any vital action, viz. when all animal heat is ex- tinct, and when sanguineous congestions in the depending parts of the body prove the capil- laries to have lost their contractility; it is diffi- cult to regard the process as of a vital cha- racter. The mere fact that the rigidity comes on and remains long after the muscles have ceased to respond to the stimulus of galvanism, reduces the hypothesis to the last degree of improbability. Moreover we should scarcely expect the last act of life to be performed in * Anatomic Gcnerale, p. 127. t Op, cit. $v. art. 3.