CEPHALOPODA. S33 found below the cartilaginous cranium, situ- ated in the hepatic cavity, on either side of the oesophagus. A single excretory duct is continued from each gland, and the two unite and form one, as they are passing through the cranium. The common duct penetrates the lower or central surface of the buccal mass, and is continued along the concavity of the lower mandible, through the tongue to the lower part of the spiny plate, where it termin- ates. In the Octopus these glands are very large, and have a smooth surface {q,fig- 233); but in many Cephalopods, as in Ocythoe, Sepiola, and Rossin, they are relatively smaller, and have a granular surface. It is in the genus Loiigopsis alone that these glands have hither- to been found wanting. With respect to the ultimate structure of the salivary glands of the Cephalopoda, Miiller* observes that they are not composed of solid acini or granules, but of hollow canals or cells. Before the description of the abdominal viscera is proceeded with, it is necessary to make a few observations on their position and connections. In the ventricose and short-bodied species of Cephalopoda the mantle-sac is almost wholly filled with the viscera, but in those of an elon- gated form they are more or less confined to the lower part of the sac, and a vacant space intervenes between the visceral mass and the opening of the mantle, which is traversed by the respiratory currents : the part of the mantle unoccupied by the viscera is most remarkable for its extent in the genus Loiigopsis (Jig. 223.) If the mantle of the common Octopus or Poulp be laid open longitudinally, and a little to one side of the mesial line, a cavity will be| exposed, separated by the longitudinal muscular septum (c,Jig.2\d) from the corresponding one of the opposite side; in these two cavities are contained the branchiee (r,Jig. 216), the termi- nations of the oviducts (p), and the pericardial apertures (q). Below and behind the hranehial cavities, the peritoneum is seen enveloping the rest of the viscera ; but this great serous sac is subdivided into many compartments. If the point of the scissors be inserted into the project- ing orifice internal to the root of the gill (i,Jig. 226), and the cavity of which it is the outlet be laid open, the branchial ventricle, the branchial division of the vena cava, and its appended follicles will be exposed; this cavity is sepa- rated from a corresponding one on the opposite side by the systemic heart and the great vessels, which are contained in a distinct serous com- partment. In the Nautilus the two lateral and the middle cavities form one large pericardiac chamber, appropriated to the heart and great vessels, and the venous appendages. Behind these cavities, the peritoneum is disposed so as to form several compartments: one, which commences at the cranial cartilage, extends downwards as far as the middle of the branchia;, and contains the oesophagus, the inferior salivary glands, the crop, and anterior aoi ta : in front of this, but commencing a little "* De strnctura glandiilarum penitiori, fol. p. 54. lower down, is a second, which includes the liver and ink-bag. These two cavities are sur- rounded by a common muscular tunic, of which we have already spoken, and the lower part, which resembles a diaphragm, is per- forated by the gullet, the aorta, and the two biliary ducts, each of which has a distinct aperture. The receptacle which contains the gizzard is situated immediately beneath the oesophageal sac ; that in which the spiral py- loric appendage is lodged lies immediately behind the left compartment of the pericar- dium. The intestine is principally contained in a serous cavity behind the right division of the pericardium; and the bottom of the sac is occupied by the cavity containing the organs of generation. The digestive organs in the Tetrabranchiate Cephalopods would appear to differ in a less degree than other parts of their organization from the structures observable in the higher order: in the Nautilus they present the following con- formation. The pharynx (f, fg. 217) or commence- Fig. 219. Nautilus PompiUus. ment of the gullet, has numerous longitudinal rugse internally, and is evidently capable of con- siderable dilatation. The oesophagus, after having passed beneath the brain, or commissure of the optic ganglions, dilate into a capacious pouch or crop {k,fg. 219) of a pyriform shape, two inches and three lines in length, and an inch in diameter at the broadest part. From the bottom of this crop is continued a contracted canal {I, fig. 219,) of about three lines in diame- ter, and half an inch in length, which enters the