AORTA. the integuments, or in both these directions, it continues to secrete and to discharge a con- siderable quantity, and shews no disposition to alter its action or to heal. We have already detailed all the local peculiarities of the ischio- rectal region (the seat of this abscess) which can satisfactorily explain the difficulty or the impossibility of keeping at rest or retaining in apposition the sides of the cavity, a condition almost essential to the healing of an abscess in any situation, and hence the necessity of sur- gical interference. Abscess in this region frequently originates close to the rectum in consequence of irritation and ulceration in this intestine; this irritation may be caused by disease, such as cancer or stricture of the rectum, or by some foreign body becoming impacted in one of the lacunce. Above the sphincter is the rectal pouch, and an irre- gularly shaped or sharp substance, such as a pin, a fish-bone, or one of the small bones of a fowl, &c. brought into this in the foecal mass, may catch in its villous or rugous surface, the muscular powers of the intestine are excited by this irritation to increased and repeated efforts of expulsion ; these only serve to im- pact more closely the foreign body in the parietes of the intestine; the submucous tissue, which may now contain the whole or part of this substance, becomes inflamed, suppuration follows, an abscess is formed close to the intes- tine ; in some time the matter is discharged either through the rectum and anus, or coming to the surface of the nates it receives exit by puncture. In this case of abscess, which we suppose to have been caused by a foreign body impacted in the intestine, tlie matter is usu- ally discharged by the rectum, at least at first, although this exit will not always prevent it still tending towards the cutaneous surface : in cases of fistula, however, arising from such a cause, we are most likely to meet with the blind internal fistula, at least in the early period; whereas, when abscess forms spon- taneously in this region, and opens on the sui-fece, the intestine is often at first and for some time wholly disengaged from the disease, even after the abscess has opened, notwith- standing which it is productive of great in- convenience and more or less of pain during defaecation ; in this state, when the fistula or abscess remains discharging through the skin only, it constitutes what is termed a blind ex ternal fistula; by degrees the rectum be- comes denuded, and ultimately ulceration opens it by one, and sometimes, but rarely, by more orifices ; this opening is usually about half an inch above the edge of the anus, and between the two sphincters. I have observed it to hold this situation in a great number of cases, which I have examined both in the living and the dead; in a few instances, how- ever, I have found it opening at a higher point. When the abscess arises from irritation in the rectum, then I have observed the internal opening to be higher, that is, in the dilated pouch of the rectum, which during life will appear to be from an inch and a half to two inches from the anus; but when the abscess has commenced spontaneously in the anal adeps, and opened on the surface first, I have then in general found the rectal opening less than an inch distant from the anal orifice, and in a groove or recess between the two sphinc- ters. When the abscess discharges by two openings, that is, through the skin and through the rectum, a perfect or complete fistula is then said to exist. Fistula? occasionally appear in the anal region which have their source at a much greater dis- tance; thus, any diseases of the uterus or vagina in the female, of the prostate or urethra in the male, which end in suppuration, may cause collections of pus which will burrow under the fasciae and skin to the vicinity of the anus, and open near it or even into the rectum. Psoas and lumbar abscesses also may descend into the pelvis and approach the sur- face, either in front or at one side of the anus. In morbus coxa also chronic abscesses which form about the nates not unfrequently open in the same situation. Polypus is seldom a disease of the anus ; it most usually grows from the rectum, and pro- trudes occasionally only at the anus. (Robert Harrison.) For the Bibliography of this article see that of Intestinal Canal. AORTA* (human anatomy). — (Arteria magna. Fr. aorte. Germ. Aorta, die grosse Schlagader. Gr. ao^rn.) Hippocrates applied the term ao^rai to the lower part of the bronchi. Aristotle called the great trunk of the arteria! system (pXi-]^ ao^rj. The aorta, one of the two great arteries which spring from the heart, is the trunk of the arterial system of the general circulation ; it arises from the extreme right part of the base of the left ventricle of the heart, which, from this circumstance, is sometimes called the aortic ventricle. There is a ring of tendinous structure surrounding the aortic opening of the ventricle, which in the stag and some others of the ruminantia is more or less partially ossified; into this ring the muscular fibres of the heart are inserted. The middle tunic of the aorta is divided at its commencement into three semicircular flaps by an equal number of angu- lar notches, forming thus a festooned edge which is bordered throughout its whole extent by a marginal tendinous cord. These three semicircular flaps touch the aortic opening of • The etymology of this term is by no means clear. The following extract from Spigeliiis (de corp. hum. fabrica) gives a not improbable origin for it.—" Veteribus Gracis aofTtiV dictam fuisse vaginam cultrorum Macedonibus familiarem, quo- rum manubrium nonnihil incurvatum erat, ad quam sane figuram quam proxime accedere videtur arte- riae magnae t uncus, qua parte ex corde originem siiam diicit." Cloquet suggests the theme, aoprco^ai, suspendor, " parccque I'aorte consideree dans sa t Halite parait comme suspendue au coeur." Aris- totle, by whom the term seems to have been first employed, generally denominated it <f>X£4, (XaTT»)r, in reference to the vena cava, which he considered the greater vein.—R. B. T.