154 ABNORMAL CONDITION OF THE ANKLE-JOINT. the same. It is no less interesting than instruc- tive to contrast these two articulations with each other, for in doing so we iind that the modifications of structure here, as well as in all other instances, are referable to the peculiar function which each part is destined to perform. The hand in the human subject is exclusively an organ of prehension ; the foot is one merely of support:—now this simple fact at once fur- nishes us with a clue to all difficulties. The great strength and sudden expansion of the tibia and fibula at the ankle, are evidently a provision to sustain the weight of the body and to increase the basis of its support; in the radius and ulna such size and strength would have been to no purpose, and hence these bones at the wrist are comparatively thin and delicate. At the ankle we should naturally have expected frequent dislocations, owing to the great weight from above, and to the great mobility which for the purposes of progression must at the same time necessarily exist here ; these are two most formidable causes of displacement; but, as if in compensation, we find two strong buttresses (the malleoli) projecting one upon either side of the joint, and rendenng such displacement, under ordinary circumstances, almost impossible. At the wrist, where there is no weight to be sup- ported, siich lateral splints would have been superfluous : hence the imperfect and almost rudimental malleoli of the radius and ulna; hence the shallow and imperfect cavity ; hence, in a word, the anatomical confor- mation which constitutes the ankle-joint a ginglymus, and the wrist an arthrodia. In the motions of the ankle and wrist-joints we observe likewise a striking difference: in the former, lateral motion would have been super- flous in reference to the function of the foot ; at the wrist, on the contrary, a free lateral mo- tion is indispensable to increase the sphere of action of the hand. For the Bibliography of tliis article, see that of ARTICULATION. (John E. Brenan.) ANKLE-.TOINT, ABNORMAL CONDI- TION OF THE.—The deviations from the na- tural or normal condition of the ankle-joint may be classed under those which are referable to accident and to disease: any defects which may be considered to result from congenital malformation shall be elsewere treated of. (See Foot.) Accidents.—The different structures which immediately compose the ankle-joint, as well as those which si.rround this articulation, and are merely accessary to its functions, are, each and all, liable to numerous accidents, the most important of v^hich we shall here advert to. These accidents may affect the tendons, the ligaments, or the bones. Tendons.—Those tendons which pass behind the inner and outer malleoli are occasionally displaced ; and, although the accident must be considered a rare one, it ought not here be overlooked. " The two peroneei extensor muscles," says the late Mr. Wilson,* " where they pass behind and below the fibula over a smooth lubricated surface of that bone, are bound to it by a strong ligament; but should the ligament give way, one or both of these tendons may escape from the groove or pulley in which they usually play, and being thrown forwards over the edge of the bone, in this new situation their action on the foot will be to bend it on the leg, when in their natural position it was to extend it. The peronaei having been habituated to act with the extensor muscles, continue to contract at the same time with them, but now they oppose the effect which formerly in conjunction with the extensor muscles they produced upon the foot, and by so doing excite much pain and irritation in addition to the lameness. When this situation of the tendon is discovered early, the tendon can be readily restored to its proper place, but if this is not done, it forms a new groove on the fore part of the bone, and the old one is filled uff, or otherwise so altered that it cannot receive the tendon, and thus the pain and lameness may continue for life. I have seen this occurrence sometimes in the living body early enough to return the tendon, and have been consulted in cases where it could not be returned ; in one, where the pain was so violent that I recommended the divi- sion and removal of part of the tendon; the muscle then contracted to its full extent, and afterwards shrunk, and no inconvenience was felt after the operation. I have met with two or three instances of this kind of displacement of tendons in bodies brought into the dissect- ing-room ; but of the previous history of the cases I could know nothing." Mr. Wilson adds, " Those tendons which pass in grooves behind the inner ankle are liable to a similar displacement." Of the latter accident we have known but one instance, but of the former several. Ligaments. — Accurate anatomical investi- gations of the actual condition of the various structures which compose the ankle-joint, when affected by a sprain, have shown that in slight cases of sprain of this joint no- thing unnatural has been discovered, as the bonds of union between the bones have been merely stretched or strained. In others more severe, the ligaments have been found broken or torn from their attachment to the bones, the synovial sac opened, and its fluid to have escaped from the cavity of the joint; the cel- lular tissue around has been filled with extrava- sated blood, and with synovial and serous fluids. In these cases the nerves, bloodvessels, ten- dons, even the skin itself, have been subjected to a degree of stretching and extension, more or less considerable. Baron Dupuytren, from nu- merous observations on the living subject, from post-mortem examinations, and experiments, is of opinion that a slight accidental torsion of the foot inwards or outwards, amounting to a sprain, only produces an injury, in which * Wilson's Lectures on tlic Bonos, &:c.