40 acaleph;e. Fig. 10. RInzoslcma carulca. hollow; and, when connected with the appen- dages of the digestive cavities, or when they have a vesicle at dieir base, very extensile. Several genera have suckers at the extremities, and along the sides, of tlieir tentaciila, by means of wliich the passing prey is seized. The tenta- cula which are extensile seem to be projected by the forcing of water into their internal cavity, by the contractions of the vesicles at their base. The extent to which the filamentary organ is thus lengthened, in some species, is very extra- ordinary.* It seems to be shortened again by means of the contractions of circular muscles, which force back the water into the vesicle, and of longitudinal muscles which draw it in. Peron thought that some of the pulmograda were furnished with internal air-bladders; but Eschscholtz, on directing his attention to this point, satisfied himself that what Peron had taken for air-bladders were merely appendages of the gastric cavities, into which air had acci- dentally been introduced during the removal of the animals from their native element. In the cirrigrada, locomotion is effected Fig.n. Vcltlla septentrionaUs. * In the tentacula of some of the physograda, also, a similar extensibility exists. The lower sur- face of physalus, for instauce, which itself seldom exceeds six inches in length, is provided with ten- tacula sixteen and even eighteen feet long. partly by the movements of the tentacules which hang down from the inferior surface; but chiefly, perhaps, by the action of the wind on the raised crest, with which most of these animals are provided. Immediately around the mouth are placed numerous small tubular suckers, similar to the feet of many echinoder- mata. Exterior to these there are longer tenta- cula, for the most part in a single row, and simple; sometimes branched. Neither of these two kinds of organs is very extensile. The disc from which the tentacules hang, and the crest, are supported internally by a calcareous plate, which is the only organ of the kind in the whole class of acalepha;. It somewhat re- sembles m structure the calcareous axis of retepora, being cellular and porous. Its nu- merous cells are filled with air, which renders the whole animal so buoyant that it floats on the surface of the water, and is wafted along by the winds. In velella (Fig. 11.) there are two plates, one placed horizontally, the other perpen- dicularly upon the upper surface of the former. They are marked with lines of growth, enlarg- ing from within outwards, like the extravascular shells of the mollusca. The perpendicular plate in velella supports the crest, which stands upright, and exposes a large surface to the wind. liataria (Fig. 12.) has its crest provided with strong muscular bands run- j,^. ^ ^ ning perpendicularly. It J^' lies on the surface of the water, with the crest stretch- ed out, so that its whole side touches the water. When it is alarmed, the crest is suddenly contracted, and the centre of gravity is so al- tered in consequence, that the position of the body is almost reversed. When the crest is again raised, the body imme- diately resumes its former position. Porpita has a simple plate supporting its disc, without any crest, and long tentacula, which are so delicate as scarcely to bear the slightest touch when the animal is taken out of the water. When the position of the animal is altered by the hand, so as to make the surface covered with suckers the upper one, all the tentacula of one half of the body turn round to the dorsal surface, and all those of the other half stretch over their own surface, and thus the animal very soon regains its old position. II. Motility/ and Sensation. — Almost all observers have failed to discover anything re- sembling a nervous system in the Acalephee. Even Eschscholtz,* who devoted so much atten- tion to their anatomy, could not see nerves in the largest that he examined. But in Ci/dippe, according to Dr. Grant,t there is a structure which can be regarded only as belonging to the nervous system. It consists of a double transverse filament of a milky white colour, running round the body, near its surface, at a short distance above the mouth. The two cords of which this filament is composed unite in the middle of each of the spaces between * System, p. 19. t Trans. Zool. See. of Lond. i. 10. liaturi rdata.