613 CILIA. of the water was not produced by contraction wards shown, in tlie ova of many other ani- and dilatation of the tissue of the sponge, mals. whicli he showed to be destitute of irritability. 4. Acalepha.—Many species of Medusce are Dutrochet had made observations on the same furnished with cilia, or at least with moving subject, which were published subsequently* organs bearing a close resemblance to the cilia to those of Dr. Giant, and not anteriorly as he of other animals, though in the Medusce they supposes; he perceived the constant direction present several peculiarities. The cilia are of the current, and ascribed the phenomenon to found in all the Medusse belonging to the order endosmosis and exosmosis. Ciliograda of Blainville, or Ctenophora of 3. Ciliary motion of the ova of Polypi and Eschscholz, of which the genus Beroe is a Sponges.—The ova or gemmules of several of good example. Eschscholz* describes them as these zoophytes execute independent move- small pectinated or comb-like organs, ranged ments, and produce currents in the surrounding in longitudinal rows or stripes on the external water. This singular fact was, it appears, surface of the body, with their flat surfaces in first noticed by Mr. Ellis in 1755,f in ex- apposition. Each comb-like organ consists of amining a species of Sertularia, the Campanu- many small, flattened, pointed filaments, united laria dichotoma ; but he described the ova or together by a common base, the points being embryos which he had seen in motion, as directed towards the posterior extremity of the young polypi, already somewhat advanced in body. Tliey are moved like fins, being slowly their formation. Cavolini,J in 1784 and 1785, raised and suddenly struck back, by which observed the same phenomenon in the ova of means the body is carried through the water, the Gorgonia and Madrepore, and investigated In the Beroe and others of similar form, the it more fully. He saw the egg-shaped gem- cilia point towards the closed extremity of the mules or ova, on quitting the parent, rise to body, so that the opposite or open end is the surface, and swim with their large end for- carried forward. Tiie animal seems to have wards, in a horizontal direction, till they fixed the power of moving more or fewer of tliese themselves on some spot where they \were deve- organs as it may incline, by which means other loped. Dr. Grant,§ in 1825, discovered motions besides direct progression are per- similar motions in the ova of the sponge, and formed. The cilia, when separated from detected the moving cilia. The cilia covered the body with a piece of skin, continue to the whole surface of the ovum, except the pos- move briskly for some time. A longitudinal terior tapering extremity, and in its motions vessel runs under each row of cilia, com- the large end of the ovum was always directed municating with the rest of the vascular forwards. When an ovum fixed itself, its cilia system, and containing a fluid, in which yel- still continued to play, by which a current lowish particles are suspended. Eschscholz along its surface was kept up for some time, regards these vessels as arteries, and considers Dr. Grant also investigated the movements of the cilia as respiratory as well as locomotive the ova of the Campanularia, previously seen organs. Dr. Grant, in describing the cilia of by Ellis, and of the Plumularia falcata. The the Beroe pileus,t represents the parallel fila- ova of both these zoophytes are contained ments of which the comb-like organs consist, within transparent capsules, two or more being as united together by a membrane as far as in each capsule, surrounded by a clear fluid", their points, like the rays in the fin of a fish. Dr. Grant distinctly perceived cilia vibrating Schweigger compares the vessels which run on the surface of the ova, and causing, while underneath the rows of cilia, to the canals com- within the capsule, an eddying motion of the municating with the tubular feet of the Sea- surrounding fluid, but propelling the ova urchin and Asterias; and Dr. Grant seems through the water when extracted from their also inclined to ascribe the motion of the cilia, capsule, as in the sponge. The ciliary motion whose filaments he conceives to be tubular, to has also been found in the ova of fresh-water their being alternately filled and emptied of polypi, having been discovered by Meyeny in fluid derived from the longitudinal vessel, like those of the Alcyonella stagnorum, which is the tubular feet of the Echinodermata. This probably the same with, or at least nearly view of their mode of action, however, is allied to the Bell-flower Polype. scarcely reconcilable with the observed phe- By means of the remarkable provision here de- nomena, as will be afterwards shown in con- scribed, the ova of these fixed zoophytes are dis- sidering the structure of the cilia in general, seminated, and conveyed to situations suitable Audouin believed that in the Idya, a genus to become the abode of the future individuals, nearly allied to the Beroe, the fluid of the The same provision undoubtedly serves also to longitudinal vessel, which he supposes to be move the water along their surface for the pur- water, is sent into the cilia; he therefore pose of respiration. It exists, as will be after- regarded them as respiratory organs. If the X Meraorie per scrvire alia storia de' Polypi by the fluid, woul Manni, Nap. 1785, p. 8, p. 48 of German trans-- the gills of fishes. lation. * System der Acalephen, p. 3. t Zoological Trans, vol. i. p. 9.