ABSORPTION. 28 favouring the doctrine of venous absorption, because they are free from the objection which must always attach to those operations, where any considerable degree of mechanical violence has been employed. It may indeed be ob- jected, that m these cases, the examination of the body did not take place at the proper point of time; that, in some instances, it was made at too early a period, before the extraneous body had time to enter the lacteals, and, in other cases, not until it had left them, and had been discharged from the thoracic duct into the veins. But this contingency must be regarded as rather a possible than a probable occurrence, and it is obvious that if any considerable num- ber of experiments were performed, we can scarcely suppose it lo exist. The conclusion that we are disposed to draw from all the facts and arguments that have been brought forwards on the subject is in favour of the possibility of venous absorption, at least under peculiar circumstances ; at the same time that there are strong anatomical considerations, which would induce us to suppose, that in the ordinary actions of the system, the function of absorption is confined to the lacteals and the lymphatics.* §. 3. Inquiry into the mode in which the ab- sorbents act.—In entering upon this inquiry there are two distinct subjects which present themselves for our consideration ; we must first ascertain by what means the substances that are absorbed enter the mouths of the vessels, and, in the second place, after they have entered the mouths, how they are conveyed along the ves- sels themselves. With regard to the first of these points we may remark, that while there is so much uncer- tainty respecting the anatomical and physio- logical structure of the mouths of the lacteals, and still more, while we are completely igno- rant of that of the lymphatics, we cannot ex- pect to arrive at any definite conclusion con- cerning the mode of their action. We may, however, venture to say, that there is strong reason to believe, that the absorbents terminate in very minute or capillary vessels, that have open mouths, and that these mouths are brought into contact or close approximation with the substances to be absorbed. Hence, by an ana- logy, which it must be acknowledged is some- what vague, the action of these minute vessels lias been referred to capillary attraction. But * A summary of M. Magcndie's experiments and deductions is contained in his Journ. t. i. p. 18 et seq. and his Elem. t. ii. 238 . .243 ; on this subject .see also Bichat, Anat. Gen. t. ii. 104, 5, with the remarks of Beclard, p. 130. We must not omit to notice the experiments of M. Scgalas, who by dividing the bloodvessels of a portion of the intes- tine, and leaving the lacteals, thus, as it were, re- versing the experiments of M. Magendie, found that no absorption took place, and hence concludes that the lacteals do not possess this power ; Magendie's Journal, t. ii. p. 117 et seq. So singular a conclu- sion must,we conceive, lead us to place but little con- fidence in the result of such complicated experiments. Franchini of Bologna thought that the lymphatics absorb " la sostanza assimilabile," but that the sub- stances which do not directly contribute to nutrition are absorbed by the veins; Consider. Fisiol. sull' Assorb. p. 44. it may be doubted whether in this inference, as in so many other cases of physiology, we have not been misled by a mere nominal resem- blance, and have applied the term capillary to the action of the lacteals, because it had been used to denote their dimensions. Perhaps, strictly speaking, there is scarcely a single cir- cumstance, in which the action of the lacteals can be assimdated to that by which fluids are taken up by capillary tubes. The structure and consistence of the tube itself, the nature of the substance on which it is supposed to act, and their relative situation, are all of them more or less difl^erent from what occurs in the ordinary cases of capillary attraction. And if there is a difficulty with respect to the lacteals, where we have at least some indistinct evidence of the mechanical disposition of the parts, which may seem favourable to this hypothesis, in a much greater degree will it exist with respect to the lymphatics, where we have nothing to direct our opinion, except the analogy which may be presumed to exist between the two spe- cies of absorbent vessels. In consequence of these difficulties, and of the supposed inadequacy of the mechanical theory, many physiologists have had recourse to a certain specific action of the vessels, and have conceived that the chyle was taken up by a power, which has been supposed to be ana- logous to an elective attraction between the vessel and the substance that is absorbed.* There are indeed many circumstances which would appear to indicate, that a certain kind of selection is exercised by the mouths of the vessels, for, as far as we are capable of judging, when substances possessed of the same con- sistence and physical properties are placed in contact with these mouths, some of them are received, while others are rejected. But we must remark, that the same objection may be urged against this as against the former expla- nation, that the term elective, which is borrowed from the chemical relation of bodies to each other, is perhaps as little applicable to the case under consideration as that of capillary, which refers more to their mechanical action. Discarding therefore all these analogical illustrations, which are at least of doubtful application, we may remark, that the lacteals ought to be regarded, like every other part of the animal frame, as vital organs, possessed of appropriate and specific powers; that, in this instance, we are not able to refer to any general principle the train of events now under con- sideration, and that we must therefore be satis- fied with simply stating the fact, that the lac- teals have the power of taking up by their extremities certain substances, with which they are in close approximation ; that, for the most part, the substances which they receive are the elements of the chyle, that they select these from the contents of the intestinal canal, and * See Bichat, Anat. Gen. t. ii. p. 125; Dumas, Physiol, t. ii. p. 397, 8 ; Young's Med. Lit. p. 112 ; Bell's Anat. v. iv. p. 290. M. Magendie, however, is disposed to reject all these hypothetical explana- tion.o; Elem. t. ii. p. 162,3, and Journ. t. i. p. 3. ct alibi.