30G AVES. light. It is inclosed, as in Mammalia, in a distinct capsule, which adheres very firmly to the depression in the anterior part of the vitreous humour; the capsule is itself lodged between two layers of the membrana hyaloidea, which, as they recede from each other to pass— the one in front and the other behind the lens, ■—leave round its circumference the sacculated canal of Petit. The vessels of the lens are derived from those of the marsupium, which, as we have before observed,are ramifications of the analogue of the arteria centralis retinae. With respect to this vessel we may here observe, that it is not continued as a simple branch from its origin to the marsupium,—such a course would be in- consistent with the important functions it is destined to fulfil in the present Class. Imme- diately before penetrating the coats of the eye it breaks into numerous subdivisions, the aggre- gate of which is much greater than the trunk whence they proceed, and these again unite, forming a plexus (ijfg.'iZQ) close to the ex- ternal side of the optic nerve. The artery of the marsupium proceeds from this plexus, and runs along the base of the folds, giving off at right angles a branch to each fold, which in Ijke manner sends off smaller ramuli. The plexus at the origin of the marsupial artery serves as a reservoir for supplying the blood required for the occasional full injection of the marsupium ; and a similar but larger plexus (4,^g. 139) is formed at the origins of the ciliary arteries which supply the erectile tissue of the ciliary processes and iris. These plexuses are described by Barkow, from whose Memoir* the subjoined figure is taken, but their relation to the erectile powers of the parts they supply appears to have escaped his notice. The vitreous humour presents few peculia- rities worthy of note ; compared with the aque- ous humour, it is proj^ortionally less in quan- tity than in the eyes of Mammalia. The outer capsule formed by the hyaloid membrane is stronger, and can be more easily separated from the humour. The Eye-ball Fig. 139. is moved in Birds >:=^^==^^^ir~?—* by four straight e^^^^M, '" '■."'3^ and two oblique /^^m, \ muscles. The • •/ % Recti muscles a- -- 'xvi?? ' rise from the cir-' 1 cumference of the , _ n f\ optic foramen and '|| '^^W^^'^ expand, as they '^'^•lliOB^^ imW pass forward, to be inserted into | f||i-^^ the soft middle ISilililJ part of the scle- Muscles of the eye. rotic. We have not been able to trace their insertion distinctly to the osseous circle; their aponeurosis cannot be reflected for- wards iKQjn the sclerotica witliout lacerating that membrane. The Qhitqui both arise very near together from the anterior parietes of the orbit, and go Meckel's Archivcn, B. xii, pi. x. to be inserted, the one into the upper, the other into the lower part of the globe of the eye; the superior obliquus does not pass through a pulley, as in Mammalia. All the muscles are proportionally short in this class, but especially so in the Owls, in which the eye, from its large size and close adaptation to the orbit, can enjoy but very little motion. In the subjoined figure and in jig. 140, a' is the rectus superior or uttollens; h' the rectus inferior or deprimens; c' the rectus e.v- ternus or abducens; d' the rectus internus or udducens ; e' the ohUqmis superior; f the ob- liquus inferior ; g' the quadratus ; h' the pyra- midalis. The accessory parts of the eye in Birds are similar to those of the higher Reptiles. There are three eye-lids, two of which move vertically, and have a horizontal commissure, while the third, which is deeper-seated, sweeps over the eye-ball horizontally, from the inner to the outer side of the globe. The vertical, or upper and lower eye-lids, are composed of the com- mon integument, of a layer of conjunctiva, and between these of a ligamentous aponeurosis, which is continued into the orbit, and lines the whole of that cavity. The lower eye-lid is the one which generally moves in closing the eye in sleep, and it is further strengthened by means of a smooth oval cartilaginous plate, which is situated between the ligamentous and con- junctive layers. The orbicularis muscle is so disposed as by means of this plate to act more powerfully in raising the lower than in depressing the upper eye-lid. In the latter it is continued imme- diately along the margin: in the lower eye-lid the tarsal cartilage intervenes between the mus- cle and the ciliary margin. The levator palpebra superioris arises from the roof of the orbit, and is inserted near the external angle of the lid. There is also an express muscle for depress- ing the lower eye-lid, as in the Crocodile. In the Owls and Night-jar (Caprimulgus) the eye-lids are closed principally by the depres- sion of the upper one. Tliere are but few birds that possess eye-lashes ; of these the Ostrich is an example, as also the Horn-bills and the Owls, in which they are arranged in a double series ; but in these they are rather to be considered as feathers with short barbs, than true eye-lashes. The third eye-lid, or membrana nictitans, is a thin membrane, transparent in some birds, in others of a pearly white colour, which, when not in action, lies folded back by virtue of its own elasticity on the inner or nasal side of the globe of the eye, with which it is in close contact. Two muscles are especially provided to effect its movements, but are so placed as to cause no obstruction to the admission of light to the eye during their actions. One of these is called the Quadratus niclitantis, (g,Jig. \39 ;) it arises from the sclerotica at the upper and back part of the globe of the eye, and its fibres slightly converge as they descend towards the optic nerve, above which they terminate in a