BONE, PATHOLOGICAL CONDITIONS OF. •153 that her sufferings were not of long duration, and an opportunity was speedily afforded for examining the pathological condition of the back. It appeared that three of the vertebras had been engaged, the spongy portion of one of which had been completely removed. There was nothing like a reproduction of osseous material, although the caries had long ceased, and the spine was sufficiently strong fur every ordinary purpose of support; but the space that had been left by the absorption of the bone was filled up by a ligamento-cartilaginous substance, which, attached like a new and adventitious ligament to the vertebra above and below, held them with a sufficient tight- ness to prevent the smallest motion, and gave to the entire column a tolerable degree of firm- ness. We have also seen examples of true bony anchylosis in patients apparently scrofu- lous, but it seems to occur generally in males rather than in females, and more particularly in patients about or approaching to the age of puberty, a period at which it is generally sup- posed some important change takes place in the constitution of scrofulous subjects. Where there is no such taint, or where, as Sir B. Brodie expresses it, the bones retain their na- tural texture and hardness, it may be easily conceived that a cure is effected in less time and with less difficulty. There is another specimen of caries or ulce- ration of bone without the formation of matter, occasionally observed in the neck of the thigh- bone of very old persons, the symptoms of which have particular relation to the hip-joint; we shall therefore postpone our remai ks on it until we come to discuss the pathology of joints. Necrosis.—There are few subjects more in- teresting either to the pathological inquirer or to the practical surgeon than the death of a portion of the osseous system, and the circum- stances connected with this event. Neither is there any one with respect to which the ideas of medical men generally are less definitively settled. Thus also some confusion has crept into our nomenclature, and necrosis and e.v- J'o/iation have been often indifferently used, as if they applied to one and the same diseased action ; or, perhaps, to speak more correctly, the term necrosis has been made to extend to every case in which a bone or a portion of a bone is deprived of vitality, no matter how the dead material is to be removed or replaced. According to the etymology of the term such is in fact its true meaning; nevertheless, we are hardy enough to dissent from this applica- tion of the word, and to confine its use to one form of the death of a bone, exfoliation more properly belonging to another. And we do so the more readily because not only do these two affections present different pathological pheno- mena, but there are such practical discrepancies between them that it is essential to every sur- geon to have a distinct and separate notion of each. Exfoliation, then, expresses the death of a portion of bone which is either never replaced, or replaced by a process which is set up after its death, and is analogous to mortification in the soft parts, where the slough is thrown off, and the consequent ulcer subsequently heals by granulation and cicatrization. Necrosis is the death of a bone or part of a bone accompanied by a process of regeneration established at a time coeval or nearly coeval with the inflammation or accident that deprives it of vitality. In this point of view the disease is singular, there being nothing like or ana- logous to it in any affection of the soft parts. Necrosis is rarely a disease of early and never of advanced life, being, except in cases where it attacks the lower jaw, almost exclu- sively confined to the period between the ages of ten and twenty-two; exfoliation may occur at any time, but is more likely to appear in the adult or the aged. Necrosis, although it may succeed to acci- dent, as in this manner compound fractures and other injuries are not infrequently repaired, yet is it more generally an idiopathic disease, or may be the sequela of continued fever; whilst exfoliation in the great majority of instances is the consequence of injury. According to the acceptation in which we employ the term, it is extremely questionable whether necrosis is ever a disease of the flat bones; at least, except in the instance of tlie lower jaw, we have never met with an example of the death of one of these structures accom- panied or even followed by a regenerative pro- cess. As necrosis, then, presents a solitary exam- ple of the efforts of nature in counteracting, or rather in providing against the ravages of dis- ease, the process by which it is accomplished becomes an exceedingly interesting subject of inquiry. Different opinions are entertained upon this subject. It seems to be agreed upon all sides that the commencement of the disease is marked by inflammation of the bone: at this' period it is red, vascular, and receives the tinge of coloured injections. How this in- flammation may be caused or why it is followed by the formation of new bone, are points not so easily determined. Troja introduced a sharp instrument through a bone, by which he con- trived to destroy the internal periosteum and marrow, and thus produced a number of cases of necrosis, which presented the same sym- ptoms and ran the same course as if they had been examples of idiopathic disease. Hence it came to be believed that the death of the inter- nal periosteum was a necessary prelude to necrosis, until it was observed that the parts surrounding a bone had assumed those actions which end in the formation of a new one before the absolute destruction of any part of the old one whatsoever; and therefore that, although the injury inflicted on the internal periosteum might cause necrosis, yet it was only one cause, and acted by creating inflammation within the substance of the bone. Thus we are obliged to return to the point from which we set out: we know that inflammation is established within the bone, and, coeval with this or nearly so, that nature commences the process of repro- duction ; but why this latter is confined to a