ABSORPTION. 26 and by various pathological considerations. Of these authors, one of the first, both in point of time and of ability, is M. Magendie, whose opinions on this subject, connected as as they are with some of those of his most distinguished countrymen, have been brought forward in a form which entitles them to the fullest and most respectful attention. Of the two sets of observations by which Hunter and Monro attempted to establish their hypothesis respecting lymphatic absorption, those derived from the analogy of the lacteals may still be considered as maintaining their ground; while the conclusion which they de- duced from their experiments has been called in question, partly because it was thought not to be the legitimate inference from the experi- ments, and partly in consequence of the ex- periments themselves having been conceived to be imperfect or incorrect. It is principally upon the latter ground that the force of the objections has been rested; and it has been, first, by repeating the experiments of Hunter, and afterwards by varying them in different ways, that their insufficency has been attempted to be proved. It has been stated above that the main support of the doctrine of the ex- clusive action of the lacteals and the lymphatics was derived from those experiments of Hunter, in which it appeared that, when the circum- stances were the most favourable for the re- ception of substances into the veins of the mesentery, they could not be proved to have entered these vessels; and hence it was con- cluded that the veins did not, under any cir- cumstances, possess the power of absorption. We are informed, however, by M. Magendie that experiments have been performed by him- self and by M. Flandrin, which afforded directly contrary results, and that these experiments were so frequently repeated, and varied in such a manner, as to leave no doubt of their accuracy.* We have here the opposing testi- mony of individuals, both of them of the highest authority in science, and eminent for their skill in experimental research. From personal considerations it might be difficult, if not impossible, to decide between them ; but when we take into account the circum- stance that the experiments of MM. Magendie and Flandrin were executed subsequently to those of Hunter, and with the benefit of his experience and that of the improved state of the science during the last half century ; when, moreover, we are informed that the experiments of the French physiologists were more nu- merous than those to which they were opposed, and that their results were uniform and un- equivocal, we can scarcely refuse our assent to the conclusion, that the experiments of John Hunter do not afford a sufficient foundation for the doctrine of the non-absorption of the veins. But the French physiologists have not sa- tisfied themselves with repeating the experi- ments of Hunter; they have extended them * Physiol, t. ii. p. 181 et seq. ; Journ. Med. t. Ixxxv. p. 372 et seq., and t. Ixxxvii. p. 221. et seq., and t. ex. p. 73 et seq. in various ways, and have obtained results supposed to be still more decisive in favour of venous absorption. Among the most im- portant, or at least the most curious of these, is an experiment which was performed by M. Magendie, in conjunction with M. Delille, and which was conceived by these physiolo- gists to afford the most unequivocal proof of their hypothesis. It consisted in dividing all the parts of one of the posterior extremities of a living animal except the artery and the vein, and in applying to the foot a poisonous substance; when, in the short space of a few minutes, the effects of the poison on the func- tions of the animal were most distinctly ap- parent.* It was argued that in this case there was no mode of communication by which the poison could be conveyed from the extremity to the centre of the system except the vein, and that, therefore, the vein must have acted as the absorbing vessel. The experiment was rendered more striking, and, as was conceived, more conclusive, by dividing the bloodvessels themselves and introducing metallic tubes between the divided ends, through which alone the two currents of the arterial and venous blood respectively could pass in forming the communication between the extremity and the trunk of the animal, yet, under these appa- rently unfavourable circumstances, the delete- rious effects were manifested on the system as in the former case.f Experiments of this description appear to have been sufficiently multiplied to establish the fact, that the poison in these cases passed along the vein, and was conveyed in the general mass of the blood. The result of these experiments is no doubt very remarkable, and what would scarcely have been anticipated; yet we may remark, that there is one circumstance connected with them, which, in a great measure, invalidates the conclusion that has been supposed to follow so necessarily from them. It may be inferred from the expression made use of, that the poison employed, which was the extract of the upas tree, was inserted by a puncture or incision into the foot of the animal, and would, therefore, in the first instance, be mixed with the blood ; so that the only deduction which we are warranted to draw from the experiment is, that the venous blood, being infected with the poison, had the power of communicating the infection to the system at large.J On this view of the subject we should not regard the above as a case of absorption, but merely as an instance of the power of extraneous sub- stances, under certain circumstances, of uniting with the venous blood and retaining their specific properties. In connexion with these experiments of M. Magendie and his associates, we have another series which were performed by MM. Tiedemann and Gmelin, and which bear di- rectly upon the question of venous absorption. Their object was to ascertain whether there * Magendie, Journ. t. i. p. 25 . . 7. t Journ. t. i. p. 23 et seq. ; Elem. t. ii. p. 183 . . 5. t See Rullier, ubi supra, p. 150 .. 2 : and Adelon, " Absorption," Diet, de Med. t. i. p. 148.