AGti, 09 that of inferior animals. The urine is retained a shorter time in the bladder; it is more aqueous and less impregnated with saline and animal ingredients than in after life; there is also a particular deficiency of urea. Of the intes- tines we have already spoken ; their contents are copious but less feculent than they after- wards become. The perspiration affords a si- milar character to that of the other excrementi- tious secretions, being more aqueous, less sa- line, and less odorous. On the whole it may be said that less activity is indicated in the egestive than in the ingestive system. Of the defensive organs, or those which are exposed to surrounding agents, we may remark, in general terms, that although fully adequate to the demands of the infant under the circumstances of his existence, they acquire a development proportionate to liis growing in- dependence of the care of others. The skin increases in firmness, and the epidermis in thick- ness ; the sebaceous follicles become larger and more numerous, and the hair is more abundant. There is a portion of the nervous system which we have every reason to consider more related with the functions which have been just reviewed, than with those of the animal life, and which might a priori be expected to bear a corresponding ratio of developement. We allude to the ganglions; they appear to be fully formed at birth, but what changes they undergo between that period and maturity we do not profess to know. In old age their tissue is found hardened, shrunken, and of a greyish colour. (Bichat.) The changes that we have next to take notice of are of a totally different character from the foregoing. They consist not merely in augmentations of size, correspondently with the general increment of the body, or in modi- fications of organs according to the altered circumstances under which they have to act, but in processes essential to the completeness of certain organs. These are the parts em- ployed in locomotion, voice, sensation, and thought. We shall begin with the osseous system. Bones are not subservient to locomotion only ; they have, in some parts of the body, the important office of enclosing and defending from external injury the more delicate organs of the system. We shall find, therefore, that in the young animal, according as they fulfil the one office or the other, their development will differ. But whatever be the functions of the bones, they require, for the perfection of that function, three mechanical properties,—firm- ness, lightness, and tenacity. They must not admit of flexion, and, at the same time, the density of their substance must not render them cumbrous by weight, or brittle in texture. To present these three conditions, the organs in question consist of two principal ingredients, an animal matter and an earthy matter, most intimately interwoven ; the one preventing such vibrations as would occasion risks of fracture, the other affording the necessary strength in supporting weights,and in resisting the divellent tendencies of anlagoniyt muscles. Tlie pro- portion which these parts bear to each other varies with the ages of tlie human subject. Viewed as a part of the system devoted to the life of relations, bones are used as pillars of support, as levers in various attitudes and mo- tions, and as points d'uppui to the muscles and tendons. On examining the constitution of these portions of the osseous system in the new-born infant, we find the quantity of cal- careous salts comparatively small, and even the animal substance softer than in later pe- riods, in consequence of the greater ratio of gelatine. In growth these proportions undergo a gradual alteration ; the gelatine is diminished, the cartilage becomes firmer, and both give way to the deposition of earthy particles : in the increase of density produced by this de- position consists the process of ossification. To particularize the incompleteness of the osseous system would require us to enter upon the anatomy of almost every bone in the body, an investigation incompatible with the limits of this article. Some idea of it may be obtained from the fact that all the epiphyses of the long bones, and the greater number of the apophyses are as yet but cartilaginous ; they derive their ossification, not from an extension of the pro- cess in the bones to which they are attached, but from ossific centres within their own spheres. In the tarsus the only bones in which ossification has commenced are the as- tragalus and OS calcis. Tlie carpus is entirely cartilaginous. The os innominatum of the pel- vis consists of three separate bones; ossifica- tion has but just commenced in the descending ramus of the pubis, and the ascending part of the ischium ; and the consolidation of the pel- vis is not complete till after the thirteenth year. The long bones have no central medullary cavity in the early periods of intra-uterine life; but in the foetus at its full term, the animal matter which occupied that space has begun to be absorbed, and the deposition of osseous matter takes place in the form of a cylindrical sheath, so that the canal exists at this period, though in an incomplete state. The medullary canal is analogous to the cells of the short and flat bones, and of the extremities of the long bones, which are also incomplete in infancy. The shape of the cylindrical bones is mani- festly different from that which they afterwards assume; thus there is a much smaller dispro- portion between the diameters of the extremi- ties and that of the shaft; the surface is less furrowed by sinuses or roughened by ridges; differences exactly corresponding to the imper- fect development of the muscles, which, when more bulky in their middle portions, require a larger space for their accommodation about the body of the bone, and when stronger in contraction, require attachments that will match them in firmness. The osseous system is not complete till after the age of twenty. There is no part of the skeleton in which we have a more striking illustration of its gradual development than in the bones of the face and in the cranium. It is not till ihe seventh year that a separation begins to take place between the tables of the skull, that the frontal sinus begins