423 BLOOD, MORBID CONDITIONS OF THE. condition of serum was observed. This was quite opaque, and nearly as white as milk; and on standmg for a few hours, a film of mattter re- sembling cream covered the surface. The clot could not be seen when it was scarcely a tenth of an inch beneath the surface. It had a firm, very thick, white coat of fibrine, and the red particles were almost diffluent beneath. The patient, a female, could not be called ple- thoric, having been the subject of her emaci- ating complaint more than a year and a half. Milky serum, though of a far less marke'd cha- racter, having occurred in persons who have been bled shortly after makmg a hearty meal, the notion has been entertained that it is owing to the passage of liquid chyle into the circu- lation. This was Haller's opinion, while others have attributed its appearance to admixture of fat. To the former notion it may be objected, that whereas it is certain that the milky appear- ance of serum is owing to the presence of oily particles, it is very doubtful, from the discord- ant opinions of eminent chemists, whether the chyle contains more oily matter than the blood itself. Berzelius, indeed, makes its solid part to consist of more than twenty-one per cent, of fat, and Raspail considers it as differing little from milk. Prout, however, whose analysis is adopted by Turner, only admits an unappre- ciable trace of oily matter in chyle, and makes its composition differ little from blood ex- cept as respects the absence of red particles. In milky serum the oil exists in superabun- dance at the expense of the albumen, which, in all the specimens I have examined, has been remarkably deficient in proportion, its specific gravity varying from 1-019 to 1-024. This cir- cumstance naturally leads to a question whether this oil may not owe its origin to some chemical change in the albumen itself, of which it seems to supply the place. The ' remarkable blood ' described by M. Caventou,* and alluded to by M. Raspail, t which was evidently nothing more than blood with milky serum, affords ad- ditional ground for supposing that such a change takes place. " This blood issuing from the vein was turbid, of a pale dirty red colour, and became marled and of a whitish red as it cooled in the basin, and some drops which fell on the floor assumed this colour in a few seconds, and looked like drops of chocolate made with milk. After half an houracoagulum of moderate size was formed in it, which floated in a large quantity of a white opaque fluid ex- actly like milk." Raspail, who had evidently never seen a marked example of milky blood, gives the following fanciful explanation of the appearance. " Under the influence, or in the absence of one of the causes which together produce the circulation, an acid had been formed, which, saturating the alkaline men- struum of the albumen, had caused it to coagu- late. Now this irregular coagulation could not take place without disguising the colour of the blood and rendering it rose-coloured, while it would give the serum the appearance of milk." If the albumen had really been coagulated by * Annalos clc Ohimic, vol. xxxix. p. 288. t Sect. 041. an acid, a distinct clot wotild not have been formed by it, but a curdled precipitate; nor would the serum have borne any resemblance to milk. But what is impoitant as confirming my view respecting the conversion mentioned above, M. Caventou, to his great astonishment, could not find any albumen in the milky serum here described. The probability of this change is heightened by the consideration that some- thing analogous must necessarily occur in the formation of true milk, the oil of which, when separated as butter and melted to clarify it from curd, remarkably resembles the oil of milky serum. The attention of pathologists to the salts of the blood, which, considering the visible effects they produce on this fluid, had been strangely neglected, has of late years been roused by the observations of Dr. Stevens, who certainly may claim the merit of having advanced our know- ledge of facts on this subject. It appears that in the last stages of tropical fevers the saline ingredients of the blood are so much diminished that they are no longer capable of giving a red colour to the ha;matosine. The black blood that is found in the heart after death from either the climate fever or the African typhus, remains black even in an atmosphere of pure oxygen, but it instantly changes colour when we add it to a clear fluid that contains even a small portion of any neutral salt. Nor is it in fever alone that this deficiency of salts is observed. Dr. O'Shaughnessy has shewn that it likewise exists in malignant cholera, and it is probable that in sea-scurvy, and in those analogous dis- eases produced by want and unwholesome nourishment, a similar state occurs. The saline matters may be in excess as well as in defect, and this is marked by excitement of the circulating system, and either local de- terminations or general febrile disturbance. The stimulant effect of saline springs has been known time out of mind, while the thirst and heat pro- duced by the too copious use of common salt is in every body's experience. If we couple these facts with the certainty that the neutral salts will pass unchanged through the circu- lation so as to admit of detection in the urine, we may infer that their superabundance in the bood is not only a possible, but, in all proba- bility, a frequent occurrence. They are occa- sionally found after death deposited in a crys- talized form, as was observed by Sir Everard Home, who, in dissecting an aneurismal tumour, found a mass of crystals, which were analyzed by Mr. Faraday, and are stated to have been salts usually met with in the blood. Having thus concluded such remarks as the present state of our knowledge has enabled me to offer respecting the morbid changes which take place in the separate constituents of the blood, I now proceed to notice some of the more important diseases in which those changes have been observed to occur. Inflummation.—The usual appearances of blood in inflammatory diseases have already been described in treating of the buffed coat. The crassamentum is commonly supposed to be increased in bulk, but this is somewhat doubtful; and indeed it so much depends u[)oii