CRUSTACEA. 7rr The blood returns from the different parts of the body by canals, or raXher vacuities among the tissues, (for they have no very evident appropriate parietes,) which terminate in the venous siyiuses, situated close to the brauchiee. In the short-tailed Decapoda we find no more than a double series of these sinuses, included within the cells of the flancs above the articulations of the extremities. They com- municate with one another, and they appear to have no parietes other than laminae of cellular membrane of extreme tenuity which cover the neighbouring parts. Each of them, neverthe- less, receives several venous conduits, and gives origin at its superior and external part to a vessel which, traversing the walls of the flancs at the base of the branchiae, conducts the blood to the latter organs. This is the external or afferent vessel of the branchiee. We find the same lateral venous sinuses in the Macroura; but instead of communicating with one another athwart the thoracic septa, as is the case in the Braehyura, they all empty themselves into a great median vessel, which is itself a venous sinus, and occupies the sternal canal. In the Squilla this sinus is al- most the only vessel which serves as a reservoir to the venous blood. llie blood, after having been arterialized in its passage through the capillaries of the branchite, is ^wured into the efferent vessel, which, as we shall immediately have occasion to see when treating of the respiratory process, s-uns along the internal surface of each bran- chia. It enters tlie thoracic cells in the same manner as the afferent vessel passed out from them, bends upwardly under the vault of the flancs, and thus takes its course towards the heart. It is to this portion of the canal that we have given the name of bran^hio-cardiac vessel. The mode in wliich the blood enters the heart is still a subject under discussion. Our in- quiries lead us to believe that this fluid, poured by the branchio-cardiac canals into a sinus situated on each side of the heart, penetrates this organ by means of certam openings situated in those parts of its substance which are directly opposite to the canals mentioned. But Messrs. Lund and Strauss imagine that the blood is effused as it were into the peri- cardium (which is named auricle by the latter anatomist) to penetrate from thence by open- ings situated on the superior surface of the heart.* Tliese openings, however, we conceive to be closed in the natural state by means of a membrane, and it is also worthy of remark that the writers just cited were unacquainted with the lateral openings which establish a much more direct communication with the interior of the organ. We must also add that the celebrated John Hunter, whose labouis upon this subject have hitherto remained un- known 10 the world, but which have very re- cently been given to the public by Mr. Owen, * Lund, Doutes sur I'existence du svsteme cii-cu- iatoire dans les crustaces, Isis 1825. Btrmtss, Anat, comp. des Animaux articules. VOL. I. had long ago ascertained the existence of th« venous sinuses and of the lateral openings of the heart, although he seems to have thought tliat the circulation was not complete in the manner we have described it.* In the most inferior groups of the class of Crustaceans the apparatus of the circulation becomes much less perfect, and even seems to disappear entirely in tiie last of the Haustel- late tribes. In the Argula, for instance, there still exists a heart, but the arteries as well as the veins appear to be nothing more than simple lacunae, formed in the interstices between the diflerent organs; and in the Nicothoa, &e. no distinct trace of any portion of a circulatory system has yet been discovered. C. Of the respiratiuii.-—The Crustacea, like all the other tribes especially formed for living under water, respire by means of certain parts of their external covering modified in its struc- ture in order to fit it for this function, and known under the name of brahchia. This character is even so completely inherent in the organic type proper to this class, that it is still preserved in certain species whicli live on the land and not in the water. Nothing, however, can be conceived more various than the form and disposition of the organs of the branchial respiration among these animals: in some the function is per- formed by an extremely complex apparatus, consisting in great part of organs created ex- pressly for this end; in others it is delegated to certain appendages which do not exist for the office exclusively, but are rather turned from their more ordinary and obvious uses to subserve this important function. In others still, we neither discover special organs of respiration nor other parts whose structure fits them evidently to supply the place of branchiae; in these cases we can only suppose that the oxygen held iir solution by the water acts upon the nutritious fluid of the animal by the inter- medium of the entire tegumentary covering. Let us first review the respu-atory apparatus in its state of greatest complexity, but com- mencing with it in the embryo and following it in its progressive development, in order that we may be the better prepared to compare it with those forms which will be presented to us among species less elevated in the series of the Crustaceans. In the earliest periods of embryotic life of the common Astacus fluviatilis, we discover no trace of branchiae; but at a somewhat more advanced stage of the incubation, though still before the formation of the heart, these organs begin to appear. They are at first small lamellar appen- dices of extreme simplicity, attached above the three pairs of maxillary extremities, and repre- senting the flabelliform portions of these limbs. Soon these lamellar appendages elongate and divide into two halves, one internal, lamel- lar and triangular, the other external, small and cylindrical; lastly, upon the surface of Catalogue of the Physiological Series of Com- parative Anatomy, contained in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons, vol. ii. 3 E