BLOOD, MORBID CONDITIONS OF THE 415 deep or blackish liue, and then resembles venous blood in its appearance and pro- perties. It now became a question of the very highest importance in tlie theory of respiration to ascertain whether the oxygen acting upon the blood in the manner specified, produced the carbonic acid disengaged, by combining directly with carbon supplied by the colouring matter or some other element of the blood, or whether the oxygen was simply dis- solved by the blood and in dissolving ex- pelled the carbonic acid which existed in it ready formed. Various experiments satisfy us that venous blood contams carbonic acid already formed. My brother. Dr. W. F. Edwards, has shown that those animals which possess the greatest powers of resisting asphyxia continue for a long time to disengage carbonic acid when kept in vessels filled with pure azote or hy- drogen, circumstances under which it is im- possible tliat the carbonic acid evolved can proceed from the direct combination of in- spired oxygen with the carbon of the blood. By placing venous blood under the receiver of an air-pump, several inquirers had indeed already found that bubbles of carbonic acid gas were disengaged from it, when the pres- sure of the atmosphere was withdrawn. This fact, first observed by Vogel,* has been verified by Messrs. Brande, Bauer,f and others. The quantity of carbonic acid disengaged in this way, however, is very small, and altogether inadequate to explain the phenomena accom- panying respiration; but if, after having freed a quantity of blood as completely as possible from its carbonic acid by means of the air- pump, it be agitated with hydrogen or any other gas, this will be absorbed, and a fresh and corresponding disengagement of carbonic acid will be determined.J On the other hand there is an experiment of Girtanner, mentioaed by Hassenfratz,§ which goes to prove that arterial blood contains a portion of free oxygen in its constitution ; but this conclusion appears to require confirmation. The bright vermilion or dusky red colour of the blood, liowever, does not depend solely on the nature of the gas it holds in solution, or with which its colouring matter is in com- bination. The recent experiments of Dr. Hoffmann shew that the presence of the saline matters it contains is necessary to the phe- nomena in question. Blood freed from these saline ingredients is black, and cannot be brought to the vermilion red tint as usual by the action of oxygen. The same physiologist also ascertained that the presence of an over- dose of saline matter in lalood charged with carbonic acid, equally prevented the ordinary action of oxygen in changing its colour. The blood does not invariably exhibit the properties and the mode of composition which * Schweigger's Journal, Bd. xi. t Home, Croonian Lecture, Philos. Trans. 1818. t Hoffmann, Lond. Med. Journ. May, 1828. § Ann. de Cliimie, liere Serie, t. ix. we have just ascribed to it in the normal state. There was a time when physicians ascribed the greater number of internal maladies to alterations of this fluid ; the general errone- ousness of this opinion, however, was at length detected, and at the present day patho- logists have probably fallen into the opposite extreme, namely, that of neglecting the study of the changes which the blood does actually undergo, although these are sufficiently striking in many cases, and undoubtedly exert an im- mense influence upon the animal economy. A careful examination of their kinds and effects were undoubtedly fraught with results of equal importance in a medical as in a physiological point of view. (H. Milne Edwards.) BLOOD, MORBID CONDITIONS OF THE.—The nature and properties of blood in its normal condition having been considered in the foregoing article, we proceed to notice those changes to which it is liable in a state of disease. That a fluid which is destined to receive and convey materials for the formation, increase, and repair of every structure in the animal frame, which carries away whatever is useless, and is brought into perpetual contact with the external atmosphere, should itself be subject to morbid alterations, is a notion so natural, so entirely in accordance with what might a priori be ex- pected, that, independently of all reasoning, and antecedently to all proof, it has existed in the common belief of every age and of every nation. To preserve a healthy state of the blood has accordingly ever been considered an object of primary importance. The greatest pains have been taken to maintain its purity, as well in the individual as the species; not only in man, but in all those animals which he has domesticated for his use; and there is no belief more generally received than that which attributes the origin of many of the cutaneous eruptions, and of most of the cachectic diseases, to the degene- racy and poverty of this vital stream. When from this general and popular notion we advance to the more especial assumption that the origin of all diseases is to be found in the blood and other fluids; when we classify these into hot and cold, moist and dry, or into blood, bile, black bile and phlegm, and attribute morbid changes and even natural dispositions to the prevalence of one or other of these supposed humours, we quit the belief of the people to follow theories far less tenable, invented at a period when authoritative assertions had the weight of proof, and when the dogmata of a philosopher were preferred to facts plainly re- corded in the book of nature. It would be out of place here to enter into a discussion of the merits of the humoral pa- thology as compared with the various doctrines which have supplanted it, and to which it is not unlikely that in an improved form it may again succeed. Under the triple relation of vital jjhenomena, intimate structure, and chemical composition, as