CETACEA. 573 lug 201 Stomach of the Duijoyiij. covered over with a membranous bag. which has only one large aperture, lire glandular mass is divided into two portions."* Thus the stomach of the Dugong presents peculiarities which are met with smgly in animals of the Cetaceous, Pachydermatous, and Rodent Or- ders. Like the stomach of the Whale it is divided into distinct compartments ; like the stomachs of the Hippopotamus and Peccary it has cofccal pouches superadded to and com- municating with it; and like those of the Dor- mouse and Beaver its cardiac compartment is provided with a glandular apparatus : (/'is the oesophagus, g the intestine.) The coecum is simple and cordiform in the Dugong (fig. 262), but is of more irregular Fig. 262. Corxumof the Dut/oiiij. figure and bifurcated in tlie Manatee. The Ri/- tina appears also to possess a stomach divided into two portions, of which the cardiac is also larger than the pyloric; and it has a very large coecum, divided on its internal surface into ♦ Phil. Trans, 1820, p. .317. numerous cells. A gland,remarkable for its size, is also found in the first portion of the stomach of this species. No sub- stances buty'«fj have > , ever been found in - " ^ the alimentary canals of these animals. The Zoophagous Cetaceans present still greater ditter- encesintheiralimen- tary organs than the PItytophuga. In the Dolphins the teeth, which are generally simple and conical, or compressed in both jaws, vary con- siderably in number, and often remain concealed in a rudimen- tary state in the gums. In the Cachalots they are only found in the lower jaw; are simple and oviform; and their number ap- pears to be in no way certain. The Whales have no true teeth, but at each side of their palate grow, transversely, horny plates, named baleen (the whalebone of commerce), pro- vided on their inner edges with fringe-like beards, amidst which, as in the meshes of a net, the animals which form their food are retained. [The structure, forms, and disposition of the teeth having been given in tlie characters of the different genera of Cetacea, we have here only to add a few words on the subject of the baleen-plates which form their substitutes in the fomily of Baljenidaa. Each of these plates consists of a central, coarse, fibrous, and two exterior or lateral compact layers; the first extends beyond the latter, so that the plate terminates at its lower or free extremity in a fringe, and in looking upwards into the mouth of a Whale when all the baleen-plates are in situ, only their fringed extremities are seen. The base of each baleen-plate has a conical cavity, which is fixed upon a pulp of a cor- responding form, buried deeply in the firm vascular substance of the gum which covers the under surface of the maxillary and inter- maxillary bones; the sides of the base of the baleen-plate are firmly attached to white horny laminae of the gum, which are reflected from one plate to another, and from which the ex- ternal compact layers of the baleen are con- tinued : the pulp appears to be subservient to the secretion of the central coarse fibrous part alone.] Nothing can differ more, or indeed be more contradictory than the descriptions which have been given of the stomachs of the Zoophagous Cetaceans. In many of the species the struc- ture of this part is unknown. It has been more or less fully described in the Dc/p/uno- rhynchm micropterus, the common Dolphin, the Small Bottle-nose (Ddphinus Tursio), the common Porpoise, the Grampus, the'