203 ARACHNIDA. claw, as in the spiders, at least the females, for in the males this palp is frequently the seat of a singular apparatus (e), hereafter to be described. Thirdly, of a sternal labium (f), which, as its name implies, is inserted into the sternum, and does not give origin to any arti- culated appendage or palp. With respect to the composition of the mouth in the parasitic species, such as most of the mites, and we may take as an example an urgas, although it is concealed under the form of a beak, sometimes with a sharp point, yet it is essentially the same. The principal difference consists in the dart-shaped mandibles (a a), being joined toge- ther so as to form a kind of lancet, the sides of which are sometimes denticulated, so as to cause them to adhere firmly to the flesh which they have penetrated. Tlie ynuxHla with their palp (6) and the inferior Headof amite(Argas.) (-^.) ^^^e here more or less intimately blended together, so as to form a case or sheath. In some instances the maxillary palp remains free, as in the urgas. Savigny admits that in the interior of the mouth of arachnidans there exist three pharyn- geal orifices, and not a single one as in crus- taceans and insects. These three orifices, which are of almost imperceptible minuteness, are situated at some distance from one another, and disposed in a triangular form. He has observed this structure in spiders, scorpions, and phalangians: but he represents only two orifices in a genus allied to gukodes. LatreiUe denies the fact, and Treviranus, in his anato- mical description of arachnidans, mentions only one pharyngeal orifice. However this may be, Savigny confines the assumption of food in spiders to a true suction : " The mandibles," says he, " do not serve for bruising the food, but for seizing it, and for piercing and retaining it in firm contact with the maxillse ; these subject it to alternate pres- sure, and express the juices which afterwards pass into the pharynx."* This is a matter of daily observation when a spider seizes an insect. The intestinal canal of the arachnidans is always short, and is never disposed in convo- lutions as in certain herbivorous insects. This disposition is in accordance with their preda- ceous habits, and confirms the general rule, (but which to our knowledge is not without many exceptions,) that the intestinal canal is longer in herbivorous than carnivorous animals. In the spiders, (araneae,) and we may take the common species (tegenaria domesticu) as * See Description of Egypt, Arachnidans, pi. 8, fig. 7, E, y, y. Savigny at first admitteS but two pharyngeal opening';, ( Memoir sur les Animaux sans Vertebres, p. 57^; but subsequently admitted three. F,g. 82. Tegenaria domeitica. an example, the alimentary canal (fig. 82) com- municates with the mouth between the maxillae (a a) by an oesophagus, rather short and of a de- licate texture {h). This terminates in four sacs (c), which M. Treviranus calls " stomach," but which, in our opinion, merit rather the name of gizzards; the digestive tube then continues, as a straight narrow canal (rf) of moderate length, which dilates (e) and adheres, by its parietes, to a kind of epiploon filled with adi- pose granules (_/'). Posteriorly the dilated part becomes stronger in texture, insensibly con- tracts (g), then undergoes a second dilatation (A) before it opens into the rectum (/). It is near the latter part, in a kind of pouch, that the slender vessels open which M. Treviranus calls biliary vessels, and which he is, with reason, surprised to see terminating in so extraordinary a position. These vessels, in fact, which cha- racterize so well by their presence the chilific stomach of insects, and are situated in these animals more or less anteriorly, always pre- ceding the small intestines which have a greater or less length, terminate in the spiders in the rectum itself, and close to the anus.