744 CRANIUM. portion of the bones themselves in part, convey the force downwards, the former forwards through the median line of the ethmoid to the front of the sphenoid, and backwards through the superior and inferior limbs of the crucial spine of the occiput, traversing the foramen magnum, and passing through the basilar process to the back of the sphenoid bone: the latter forwards through the frontal bone to the small and great wings, and, through them, to tlie body of the sphenoid; and backwards through the parietal and occipital to the lateral limbs of the crucial spine. Tlie parietals convey it down the sides to the great wing of the sphenoid and the mas- toid process of the temporal bone, from which it is transmitted to the common centre; and the slight rotation which is permitted to the temporal bone, (and which has already been alluded to,) materially tends to break the force in its transit. Nor is there any imperfection in this apparent inclination of the parietals to an outward divergence, for the squamous process of the temporal bone which overlaps each be- tween its two fixed points is strongly supported on its outer side by the temporal muscle. Abnormal conditions of the cranium. Most of the abnormal conditions of the cra- nium are dependent on circumstances con- nected with the evolution of the brain, and are mostly acquired after birth; the only con- genital variations being those m which there is a total or a partial privation of its parietes. There is no vestige of it, or, indeed, of tlie head itself, in the true acephalous foetus; but, whenever the medulla oblongata is present, the base of the cranium is developed, and often- times there are found rudimentary portions of the other bones (folse acephaUa and unence- pludia). The parietal or occipital bones, and some- times all of them are imperfect in that mal- formation termed encephalocele, which, in some cases, is analogous to spina bifida, and, in others, to hernia cerebri. When serous fluid constitutes the tumour, the deficiency of the bones is considerable, owing to the arrestation of the formative process; but when the brain protrudes, their development continues in such a way as to embrace the root of the tumour, and then the calvaria, flattened and in contact with the base, exhibits an opening through which the hernia escaped. The cranium is said to be, at times, insuffi- ciently evolved; the evolution of its parts being accelerated and their coalescence prematurely effected, so that the ossific capsule is formed before the brain has attained its full growth. It is, however, most probable that in this as in other cases it adapts itself to the brain, and that it is on an imperfect development of that organ that the smallness of the cranium is de- pendent; but varieties of this description which are connected with deficiences of mental en- dowment will scarcely admit of enumeration. The parietes of the cranium may be preter- naturally thin, without this being dependent on disease; but they are most obviously in that condition in hydrocephalus, in which affection, however, there are two opposite states of the skull. When the disease occurs in infancy, and persists for any length of time, the bones of the calvaria usually become thin and pellucid; the spaces between them are of great extent; and the deposition of the inorganic texture is arrested in such a way that instead of bones we have frequently little more than a membrano-cartilaginous lamma, and some- times not even that; for instances have been known in which the upper part of the head has been covered by membrane only. Tiiis suspension of action, however, is in some instances only temporary. The deposition of ossific matter becomes then more rapid and abundant than under ordinary circumstances; the points of deposit are more numerous than usual; and a skull of gigantic dimensions and of peculiar and premature hardness is pro- duced. It has been sufficiently explained that the several ossific elements of the cranium unite in definite numbers to produce the bones whicli we l)ave been occupied in describing. Never- theless, it not unusually happens that some of these elements, or, otherwise, adventitious de- posits of a similar character, which manifest themselves, do not flow into and combine with the other elements of the bone in which they occur; but, on the contrary, each in itself forms the centre of an ossific process, and the bone thus formed (be it large or small) articu- lates by its circumference to the parts with which It comes into contact. These adven- titious pieces are commonly known under the name of ossa Wormiana, because it is supposed that they were first described by Wormius, a physician at Copenhagen in the seventeenth century;* tliey are also called ossa triquetra, trianguluria, ossa suturarum, ossa supranume- raria. They vary in situation, nurabei', and size. In general they are situated in the lambdoidal suture; they are, however, met with in the sagittal, occasionally in die coronal, and (tliough rarely) in the squamous suture. One of the most remarkable is that which sometimes replaces the superior angle of the occipital bone, called by Blasius os triangalare or epac- tale. Berlin describes one in the situation of the anterior fontanelle. It is by a process analogous to the pre- ceding that the occipital bone occasionally presents a suture between the upper and under halves of its posterior portion. The elements of those two parts combine among themselves, and the pieces resulting from their union ap- proach, and, instead of forming the continuous bone, as we usually see it, they are associated by means of an additional suture. An anomaly of not very unusual occurrence is the permanence of the suture uniting the two halves of the frontal bone, and which is seldom apparent beyond the second year of extra-uterine life. * Vid. 01. Wormii ct ad eum doctorum virim epistol.-E, t. i. Hafnias, 1728.