ANNELIDA. 167 tinguisbed, and form, as it were, but a single organ ; lastly, there are cases in which only one of the oars would seem to be developed. If one were disposed to compare the loco- motive .system of the annelida with liiat of the other articulate classes, the ventral oar should be regarded as analogous to the members which in the Crustacea, Insects, &c. are variously modified to constitute the legs, the jaws, or the antennae : and the dorsal oar ought to he considered as representing the appendages, which, though wanting in the greater number of articulate animals, yet acquire a considerable develop- ment on the last two rings of the thoracic segment of most insects and constitute the wings. In this particular the annelida afford an example of the greatest uniformity in the development of the appendicular system in the articulate division of the animal kingdom. Each oar is essentially composed of a fleshy tubercle more or less prominent, which sup- ports different productions of the integument, incloses the bristles (c), and which is more especially designated by the name of foot. Towards the base of the setiferous tubercle there is generally a membranous appendage, sometimes filiform, sometimes lamelliform, called the cii-rus {d, e) ; lastly, it is also above the margin and near the base of these organs that the branchiaj ( /') take their origin, but in general it is only the dorsal oar that supports them. All the above parts may exist simul- taneously, but it often happens that one or more are atrophied to a greater or less degree, or are altogether deficient; and tiiis either along the entire body or on certain segments only. Thus in the terricolous annelida there are no cirri; in the heimellte they are pre- sent on the ventral, but not on the dorsal oar; while in the cirrhatulae the reverse obtains. In most of the annelida errantia the setiferous tubercle of both oars is wanting on the first rings which follow the head, whilst the cirri assume a very great development, and form the appendages termed by systematic authors ttn- tacular cirri. (Fig. 62, d.) A similar modification may be frequently remarked in the composition of the appen- dicular system of the last ring of the body, and thence results a certain number of filiform pro- ductions called styles. Lastly, the antenna? of the annelida, which must not be confounded with the antennsB of insects and Crustacea, may also be considered as representing the cirri of the dorsal oar of those rings, the union of which constitutes the head.* The annelida pass in general a somewhat stationary life, and a great number among them remain constantly buried in the earth or * For further details regarding the external struc- ture of the annelida the reader may consult the excellent work of M. Savigny, intitled " Systeme des Annelides," principally of those found on the coasts of Egypt and Syria; the art cle ' Vers' of the Dictionnaire des Sciences Naturelles, torn. Ivii. by M. De Blainville ; and a more recent publica- tion on the same subject inserted in the Aunales des Sciences Naturelles, torn, xxviii, xxix, and xxx, and in tlie second volume of the • Recherches pour servir a I'Hist. Nat. du littoral de la. France, par MM. Audouin ct Milne Edwards.' enclosed in tubes formed by the mucus which is secreted by the skin, and which, while hard- ening, commonly agglutinates together frag- ments of shells and sand. The formation of these sheaths is very quick. I have seen them fabricated in the course of a few hours. Some- times they are of extreme tenuity, occasionally they are as tough as thick leather, and there are some which possess very considerable hardness and are composed in great proportion of carbonate of lime, like the shells of mol- lusca. In the greater part of these animals locomotion is produced by general undulations of the body determined by contractions of a layer of muscular fibres extending from one ring to another, and fixed to the inner surface of the skin. But in other species the change of place IS effected by tlie action of the feet, of which we have spoken ; or by the contrac- tion of the tentaculee which surround the mouth, as in the terebellae, and which, by shortening themselves, drag on the body of the animal in the same manner as the arms of the cephalopods: lastly, by the action of the suckers with which the extremities of the body are furnished. The bristles (Jig. 63 and 64, c,) with which the feet of the annelida are provided, do not serve merely as little levers to facilitate their move- ments, but are also offensive arms, and their structure is very curious. They differ con- siderably from the hairs of other articulate animals, which are nothing more than small tubular prolongations of the epidermic layer. By their mode of connexion with the integu- ments and their mode of formation they ap- pear to approach the hair of mammalia, but their disposition is of a more complicated na- ture. They are inclosed in sheaths provided with muscular fibres, by the aid of which the animal can' protrude and retract them again : in general, also, they are not merely simple conical filaments, but their extremity is often shaped like a harpoon, a lance, or a barbed arrow, and the annelidan uses it to inflict a wound upon its enemies.* Sensation.—Tactile sensibility is considerable in these animals, and it seems to reside prin- cipally in the antennae, the cirri, and the tentacula. They do not appear to possess a sense of hearing, and there are many among them which do not manifest any sign of sen- sibility to light; but in others, eyes {Jig. 62, a,) exist, the number of which is sometimes very considerable, but the structure very simple. They are coloured points, (generally black,) and situated on the dorsal aspect of the head or on the cephalic sucker. In the setiferous anne- lida there are never more than two pairs, but in the hirudinidae or leeches their number often increases to eight or ten. The anatomy of these eyes has recently been studied by Professor Miiller of Berlin, and according to his researches it would seem that these organs do not contain a crystalline lens, or a trans- parent body analogous to the vitreous cones of ■■* See Observations sur les Foils des Annelides consideres romme moyen de Defense, par MM. A udouin el Milne Edwards, op. cit. torn. ii. p. .31.