ABSORPTION. 33 in them, that we are naturally led to conclude, that they are destined for different uses, and serve different purposes in the animal economy. With regard to the lacteals, their use seems to be clearly marked by their connexion with the digestive organs, and by their contents, as constituting the channel by which the chyle is conveyed from the intestines to the thoracic duct, and ultimately to the bloodvessels. We cannot doubt that their primary function is to supply the body with the elements which com- pose the blood, and thus become the imme- diate agents in its nutrition. Although, from the experiments which have been related above, it will appear that, on certain occasions, the lacteals are not incapable of receiving extraneous bodies, yet we may conclude, that this is the case only under extraordinary cir- cumstances, or in an unnatural state of the parts. With respect to the lymphatics, their specific use is less obvious. As their contents are ul- timately mixed with those of the lacteals, we may suppose that they contribute indirectly to the nutrition of the body; but this would appear not to be their primary, or even their principal destination. Still we can scarcely refuse our assent to the position, that absorp- tion is the specific function of the lymphatics; and this will be equally the case, although we may suppose that the veins cooperate with them in this action. We are indebted to the genius of John Hun- ter for a consistent or plausible theory of the use of the lymphatics, which, with certain mo- difications, is generally admitted to be correct. Conceiving that the appropriate and specific action of the lacteals is to nourish the body, and to support the system by the addition of new matter, that of the lymphatics is to mould and fashion the body, to admit of the growth and extension of the whole, while each in- dividual part retains its proper form and position. When we consider in what manner an organized part increases in its dimensions, we immediately perceive that it is not by mere accretion, nor by simple distention; it is, on the contrary, by an addition to every individual portion, while they retain the same relation to each other and to the whole. If we take the case of a muscle, we find that each particular fibre must be increased in length, so that the distance may be augmented between the ten- dinous extremities, while probably the number of fibres that are contained in the membranous covering is also increased; the whole organ consequently becomes larger in every one of its individual parts, while they each retain their former proportions and connexions.* We may apply the same train of reasoning to the bones, which offer a still more remark- able example of this change of form, inas- * See Winterbottom, de Vas. Absorb, in Smel- lie's Tties. Med. I. iv. ; also Cruikshank, p. 108, 9. For the more recent views of physiologists on the subject the reader is referred to Adelon, art. '« Absorption," Diet, des Scien. Med. t. i. VOL, I. much as the firmness of their texture must render it less easy to conceive of any alteration in their dimensions and in the disposition of their component parts. Here it is still more obvious than in the case of the muscle, that the change cannot be eflected either by accre- tion or by distention, but that a completely new disposition of the integrant parts must have taken place. The only means, however, by which this can be accomplished is by the former particles of the body being gradually removed, and new ones deposited to supply their place ; the process being so gradual, that, although the deposition of the new particle is not precisely in the same situation with the former, yet that of each particle is so nearly so as to cause no obstruction or interruption to the action of the organ. Now it is evident that this removal of the old matter can be effected by no process but by absorption, and we may therefore conclude that the lymphatics, either alone or in conjunction with the veins, are the agents destined to perform this office. With respect to the actual nature of the con- tents of the lymphatics there appears to be some uncertainty. We have the analysis of the fluid taken from the vessels of a dog by M. Chevreul,* from which it would appear that the lymph contains nearly the same in- gredients with the blood, but diluted with a much larger proportion of water. We must, however, suppose that the fluid contained in the lymphatics will vary very considerably in its composition, according to the part of the body from which it is taken, or the condition of the same part at different times; yet we are scarcely able to detect an actual state of things which altogether corresponds with what we might have been led to expect would have been the case.-f- It may indeed be presumed that in the ordinary condition of the system, the process by which the parts of the body are absorbed is so very gradual, that the change in the chemical constitution of the lymphatic fluid is as inconspicuous as the change in the organs from which it is absorbed, and that it is only in morbid cases, where there is some extraordinary quantity of matter to be re- moved, that we should expect to be able to detect it in the lymph. And this, to a certain extent, agrees with the fact; for when the ab- sorbents are called into action to remove col- lections of pus, or when they become the vehicles of any poisonous or morbid body, the substance in question has been occasionally found in them. The doctrine of the removal or absorption of all the parts of the body is rendered evident by a variety of cases, in which any particular organ or texture is broken down or removed, merely by cutting off the supply of fresh matter. It is upon this principle that we explain the * Magendie, Elem. t. ii. p. 171, 2. t Magendie, Elcm. t. ii. p. 196, 7, et alibi. Mascagni, however, states that the lymph varies according to the parts to which it is contiguous, ps. 1. §. 4.; see also Blumenbach, §. 438. D