CRUSTACEA. 769 inemhrcme, near to which tlie auditory nerve appears to terminate. This small bony lamina, which is moved by minute muscular fasciculi, recals in some measure the stapes of the human ear. Under the anterior edge of the external opening of the ear which is closed by this bony disc (Jig. 398 ), is seen a small Fig. 398. Aiidilory apparatus of the Muja in its natural position, showed by leiuoving the carapace and the vis- cera. lamina parallel to the internal auditory mem- brane; and when the anterior muscle of the ossiculum contracts so as to bring, in a slight measure, the whole of this little apparatus forwards, the membrane of which mention has just been iriade rests upon the bony prolonga- tion, and is made tense in a continually in- creasing degree; and from the experiments of M. Savart we know that all increase in the tension of thin membranes lessens their dispo- sition to be thrown into vibration ;* consequently in undergoing such a modification, the kind of tympanum described must serve to moderate sounds of too great intensity, in their passage to the acoustic nerve. In other respects it is evident that the mechanism described pre- sents the most forcible analogies with what we observe in the human ear, and that the ossiculum auditus here stands in lieu of the chain of small bones which exists in the organ of hearing arrived at its highest point of de- velopment. The presence of the long rigid stem formed by the antennse of the second pair, and its immediate communication with the oigan of hearing cannot, it might have been presumed a priori, be unimportant as regards the per- ception of sound ; and this is found to be the case in fact;t for from the beautiful experiments of M. Savart we learn that the addition of a rigid stem is sufficient to render certain vibra- tions perceptible, which, without this kind of conductor, are altogether inappreciable. The auditory apparatus of the Crustacea con- sequently consists essentially of a cavity full of fluid, to which a nerve adapted to perceive sonorous impulses is distributed; which ele- nientary and essential apparatus is assisted in * Recherches sur Ics usages de la membrane du tympan et de I'oreille externe. Journal de Physio- liigie de Magendie, t. iv. t Strauss - DrikMcim, Considprations generales sur I'ttnalomie des Crustaces, p. 419, its functions by certain special organs, such as elastic membranes and rigid stems, calculated by their nature to vibrate under the action of sonorous undulations. We have still to speak of the organ of sight. With the exception of certain parasitic species, the faculty of perceiving the existence of ex- ternal objects by the medium of light is pos- sessed by the whole class of Crustacea, and is found dependent on a particular organ of a con- siderably complicated structure situated in the head, towards its anterior aspect, superiorly or on the sides. Even the exception which has been made is merely accidental, as it were; for in the earliest periods of their existence the parasitic Crustacea also possess eyes, and it is only as an effect of the kind of meta- morphosis which these animals experience that the organs of vision disappear. The eyes in insects are simple or compound; but this division is inadequate to give us any proper idea of the various forms under which these organs present themselves to our observa- tion in the Crustacea, and into the study of which we shall, therefore, enter with some attention to detail.* The least complex form uijder which the eyes of the Crustacea occur is that which has been designated under the name of Stemmatu, smoutli eyes or simple eyes. The structure of these does not differ essentially from that ob- served among the higher animals. We distin- guish, in the first place, a transparent cornea, smooth and rounded, which is in fact nothing more than the general tegumentary mem- brane modified in a particular point. The internal aspect of this cornea is in immediate contact with a crystalline lens, generally of a spherical form ; this, again, is in contact poste- riorly with a gelatinous mass analogous to the vitreous humour, and this mass in Us turn is in contact with the extremity of the optic nerve. A layer of pigmentum thick and of a very deep colour, envelopes the whole of these parts, lining the internal wall of the globe of the eye up to tlje point at wliich the cornea begins to be formed by the thinning of the tegumentary envelope become transparent. This is what we observe in a limited number of the Crustacea, among which we may mention the Limuli, the Cyamas, and the Apus. The number of these simple eyes never exceeds two or three. A step in the complexity of the organ of sight is presented to us in the eyes of the Nebalia, Branchipus, and Daphnia. In these, behind the cornea, which externally presents no trace of divisions, a variable number of small crystalline lenses and vitreous humours are found,'each included in a kind of sac or pigmentary cell, and terminating by coming * On tlie structure of the eyes, vide Swammer- dam, in the Collection Academique, parlie etrangere, t. V. p. 170. Cavolhii, Memoria sulla generazione dei Pesci et Dei Granchi. Strauss, op. cit. J. Midler, Zur vergleichenden Physiologie des Gesichlsinnes etc. Ann. des Sciences Naturellcs, t. 17. Milne Edwards, Hist. Nat. des Crustaces, t. i. p. 114.