263 ASPHYXIA. undergo this change, and towards the arterial blood in advance of it in the vessels ; not of the nature of an increased coiUniction of the vessels tliemsleves; and that it is in conse- quence of the failure of this au.riliari/ power in the circulation, that the stagnation of the blood in the lungs in asphyxia, and the extinc- tion of the organic life, are effected. What has been said of the manner in wliich death is produced in asphyxia, enables us to understand in what circumstances it can hap- pen, that life may be retained, even by a warm-blooded animal, for an unusual length of time, without respiration. As the stop to the circulation is the mimediate cause of death, it is obvious that an animal which can exist for a time, in a lowered state of vitiiHty, with little or no circulation, will during that time require no exposure of its blood to air, to maintain diat grade of vitality ; and farther that in such an animal, as the brain will not suffer from the afBux of venous blood, and as the lungs will not be hurtfully congested, these organs will retain a condition much better adapted for the recovery of their functions, than they will in those cases where asphyxia is produced at a time when the circulation is vigorous. Hence we can easily understand, that per- sons who are in a state of syncope, (from a temporary cause,) in whom the circulation is nearly at a stand before the access of air to their lungs is obstructed, may survive a longer suspension of the acts of respiration than per- sons in health. This has been stated, by Des Granges and Fodere, as the explanation of some cases in which it appears certain, that recovery has taken place after fifteen minutes or more of submersion in water.* The case of hybernating animals was, until lately, considered to be of this nature, i. e. it was supposed that circulation is gradually sus- pended in those animals, simultaneously with respiration, and therefore that such animals, although consuming little or no air, did not suffer the noxious influence of venous blood on their solids, and remained susceptible even of sensation. But the experiments of Dr. Marshall Hallf appear to have established that in warm-blooded hybernating animals in the complete state of torpor, when respiration is quite at a stand for many hours, circulation, although slow and feeble, still goes on regu- larly; so that we must suppose the essential peculiarity of these animals, during the state of lowered vitality, to which they are reduced by cold, to be this, diat the venous blood has little of the noxious effect, in any part of the system, which it has, on them as on other animals, during the state of activity ; it has neither the same difficulty of making its w^ay through the lungs, nor the same destructive influence on the brain.| • Fodere, Med. Legale, « 613. t Phil. Transactions, 1832. t Dr. M. Hall considers the essential peculiarity of these animals to be, that the left side of the heart in them, is irritable by venous blood ; but as it appears from the facts above stated, that the The nearest approach to this mode of vita- lity in tlie human body, is in the ease of the new-born child, which has never felt the in- fluence of perfectly arterial blood, and wliich has been known to live, although its natural respiration was not established for nearly an hour after birth. The study of the fatal changes in asphyxia is also of peculiar importance as illustrating the manner in which the circulation, and the organic functions maintained by it, are con- nected with the nervous system. It will be observed, that as the vitality of hybernating animals, during the state of torpor, is inde- pendent of respiration, so it is also, in a great measure at least, independent of the larger masses of the nervous system ; and Dr. M. Hall found, by experiment in a hedgehog in this state, that the circulation went on regu- larly for tc7i /loia-s after the gradual but com- plete destruction of tlie brain and spinal cord. Indeed, the maintenance of the circulation after the head of an animal has been rut of)', by the artificial respiration, i. e. by inflating its lungs in a manner resembling its natural breathinn-, (which has been so often practised by Fontana, Cruikshanks, Bichat, Brodie, Le Gallois, Wilson Philip, and others,) is in it- self a clear proof that the circulation, and other functions of organic life* in animals, are necessarily and immediately dependent on tlie animal life, only inasmuch as tlie natural respiration of animals, and the arterialization of their blood, are dependent on sensation. And ac- cordingly we know, that in that stage of animal existence, where the supply of sufficiently arterialized blood is provided for without the intervention of sensation, i.e. in the foetus in utero, the whole organic life is altogether in- dependent of die animal, and goes on perfectly, not only before sensation is felt, but even in cases where the essential organs of sensation and of voluntary motion, the brain and spinal cord, do not exist. It is not until the moment of birth, when the arterialization of the blood is put in dependence on sensation,—that the brain and spinal cord become essential for the maintenance of organic life ; or that we possess any proof of influence being exercised by the nervous system, over that part of the animal aconomy. It seems probable, that if we possessed the means of making the artificial respiration ex- actly similar to the natural, and neither injuring the structure of the lungs, nor introducing more air into them than is useful, in practising it, the circulation, and perhaps all the func- tions of organic life, might be maintained, after tlie head of an animal is cut off, until nearly the time when it must fail for want of nourish- ment; but it must also be remembered, that in the adult animal, as the experiments of Le stop to the circulation in asphyxia is at the bimjs, the chief peculiarity of these animals must lie there also. * By organic life, we mean those vital acts which take place without the intervention or consciousness of the mind ; by animal life, those in which some mental act is an essential constituent.