rPvEFACE An important article on Animal Chemistry in this Cyclopnsdia (Proteine) was contributed by a young and rising chemist, John E. Bowman, whose brief career sufficed to impress his friends with a strong sense of the serious loss which society and science experienced by his early removal. His acute and well-cultivated intellect would have done mucli for chemistry had his life been prolonged, or had he even enjoyed, during its short span, an ordinary amount of health. But his last few years were greatly marred in their use- fulness by a singular chronic malady, which slowly undermined his vital powers, and greatly limited his ability for active exertion, whether bodily or mental. Nevertheless, he has left two works which, although of small size, are of considerable practical utility to tlie chemical student; the one devoted to practical chemistry, the otlier to chemistry in its application to pi'actical medicine. The Editor takes this opportunity of acknowledging his obb'gations to gentlemen who, at different periods, rendered him the most efficient assistance in superintending the passing of the work through the press, and in other matters connected with his province. Dr. RocEKT Willis, formerly of London, now extensively engaged in medical practice at Barnes in Surrey, for many j^ears took an active part in the superintendence of the printing of the work, and contributed largely to the Bibliography appended to most of the articles, as he was so well qualified to do by his extensive knowledge of books. Dr. "Willis also con- tributed the article Ani:\ial. Upon his retirement, the Editor derived similar valuable assistance from his friend and foi-mer pupil, Mr. S. Rood PiTTARD, who also Contributed several articles. And, subsequently, Dr. HvDE Salter, now well-known, and of deservedly high reputation as a Physiologist and Physician, kindly afforded his aid in the same way, as well as by his valuable contributions of the articles Pancreas and Tongue. This seems the fitting place to state that it has been found necessary, in a few instances, to depart from the strict alphabetical arrangement, either by placing articles under names not commonly used, or by clubbing together two or more subjects, to which it would appear, at first, more natural to have de- voted separate articles. The necessity for such modifications arose out of