ARTERY, PATHOLOGICAL CONDITIONS OF. 242 This disease must, in the great majority of instances, be the result of accident, and its probable situation has been aheady pointed out, but it is also possible that it may appear as an idiopathic affection without any previous violence. Some years since a young female applied at the fileath Hospital as an out- patient, in whom aneurismal varices existed between every artery and vein in the body that lay in a state of approximation to each other. In the neck, in several parts of the arms, the thighs, &c. the peculiar thrill and sound were remarkably distinct and plain. She did not seem to experience much uneasiness, nor could any probable exciting cause be assigned for such a singular form of disease. She had pre- viously suffered from syphilis and been sub- jected to irregular mercurial treatment, but it would be scarcely fair to assume as the cause of a solitary specimen of disease in one indi- vidual, influences that operate so very differ- ently on others. Varicose aneurism.—When a vein and artery communicate with each other in a manner similar to that already described, excepting that an aneurismal sac formed of condensed cellular tissue and containing some coagulated blood is interposed between their orifices, the disease is termed a varicose aneurism. As this disease is generally the result of some accident in bleed- mg, as it occupies the same situation at the bend of the arm, and as the sac in that case never attains to any considerable size, it is difficult and frequently impossible to distinguish during life between the two affections: nor is the diagnosis of much importance, for as the patho- logical changes in the artery and vein, and the phenomena produced by them, are exactly the same, so will be the rationale of the treatment. Some few years since, a patient was admitted into the Cliaritable Infirmary with a popliteal aneurism of the size of a child's head, and with all the veins of the limb, particularly of the thigh, enormously distended so as to appear like ropes twisted and knotted under the in- teguments. In every one of these veins the peculiar thrill and sound of aneurismal varix could be distinctly perceived. The account he gave of himself was this : he had a pulsating tumour in the ham for fourteen years previ- ously, which gradually increased to its present size, until the veins began to swell, when the large tumour became stationary. He expe- rienced but little inconvenience, and said he was able to walk eleven or twelve miles a day. He was frequently permitted to leave the hos- pital, and exhibited himself to several profes- sional men for money. As he refused to sub- mit to any treatment, and indeed no operation held out a prospect of much benefit, he was soon discharged. This man (I believe) still lives, and as he resides in a distant part of the country, perhaps the true pathological nature of a case so very interesting may never be ascertained. Could it have been that this was originally a case of popliteal aneurism that had burst into the popliteal vein? The position of this vein, and its very intimate connexion with tlie artery, cause it to appear to be a part of the sac of every popliteal aneurism, and it is not difficult to conceive that the tumour might have given way in this particular situation, and a communication been thus established between the artery and vein through the medium of the aneurismal sac. It may not be unimportant to observe, that rare as these latter forms of disease are acknow- ledged to be, they are still more so in reality than is generally imagined. It often happens that a congeries of knotted and contorted veins forms a tumour strongly resembling the aneu- rismal varix in its external characters, and im- parting similar sensations of thrill and sound. If one of these happens to occupy a situation favourable to the production of aneurismal varix, it might easily occasion a mistake, and perhaps it would be very difficult to point out a satisfactory diagnostic. I have seen two of these tumours dissected, which during the lives of the patients were supposed to have been aneurismal varices, in neither of which could the slightest commu- nication with any neighbouring artery be dis- covered. Aneurism by anastomosis.—The disease which was so named by John Bell, and by him first placed in the class of aneurismal tumours, has no title to such a position, unless that it forms a reservoir of blood, and occasionally exhibits the phenomenon of pulsation. But it mate- rially differs in that the blood contained within it is fluid, is not withdrawn from the circulation, and therefore does not coagulate. The circum- stances, however, of these tumours being in- creased or diminished in size by those influ- ences which excite or depress the activity of the circulation, and of the leading trunks of the vessels supplying them having, however erroneously, been made the subjects of opera- tion for their cure, serve to connect them in some respects with the pathology of arteries, and justify a passing notice of the subject here. This kind of tumour has also been called the na;vus maternus or mother mark, because it so often appears from birth or at a very early age, and its shape, colour, size, or situation is explained by the mother on the supposition of some sub- stance having been thrown at her, or from other causes of affright. It may, however, appear for the first time in more advanced life, in the form of a speck or pimple, which gradually enlarges until it constitutes a disease of a most important and sometimes dangerous nature. The external characters of aneurism by anas- tomosis are somewhat varied, and have admitted of its classification under three forms apparently distinct from each other: 1. Where the mark or stain is merely cutaneous, does not increase in size, and is never pulsatile. Tliese marks may be of different colours, sometimes red, sometimes of a brassy yellow, or perhaps brown; and as they occasion no inconvenience beyond the unsightliness of their size and situation, they can scarcely be considered as diseases. Indeed, if the common mole be admitted un- der this class of naevi, in many instances it seems to constitute a beauty rather than a defect. 2. Where the disease is situated in both the skin and sub-cutaneous cellular tissue. It