92 AMPHIBIA. less, the body contracted longitudinally into as short a space as possible, the vertebrae very few, and anchylosed or soldered together into a single immoveable piece, and wholly devoid of ribs. On comparing with this formation, on the other hand, the extensive developement of the tail, the long flexible body, and gracile form of the newts or aquatic salamanders, and reflecting upon the obvious object of this structure in facilitating their motions in the water, we should hardly be prepared to find that the extraordinary extension of the hinder extremities in the frogs, the primary object of which is. to afford the great powers of leaping just alluded to, is made subservient also to their aquatic life, by enabling them to swim with great facility, aided by a web of skin extending between the toes of the hinder feet. Now as we shall hereafter see, when treating on the respiration of these animals, that the occasional presence of water, and its applica- tion to the surface of the skin, is equally essential to the well-being of both these forms, it is very interesting to observe how admirably this peculiarity in the general re- quirements is provided for by the very different, and even opposite, construction of their form and limbs, which their individual habits of life demand. But to return to the detailed anatomy of the skeleton. On examining the general texture of the bones in this class, there is an obvious advance towards the firm calcareous substance of those of the higher forms of vertebrated animals when compared with the bones of fishes, they being more compact, and less tran- sparent and flexible than in the latter animals. The cranial bones, though they retain to a certain extent the character of those of fishes, in the permanent disunion of the different centres of ossification, at least in many in- stances, yet they do not overlap each other, as in that class, but, on the contrary, remain with their margins at least in contact, and in many cases actually united, though not by true sutures. The elements of which the cranium is essentially composed, and which in a higher grade of organization are found consolidated, are here still exhibited as distinct pieces; a state of things which is strikingly imitated in the progress of the development of these parts in the highest classes during their growth. It is also to be observed that the bones of the face are more closely united to those of the cranium and to each other in the higher than in the lower forms of the class, exhibiting distinct and obvious links in the development of these parts, which we see so beautifully and gradually perfected in the as- cending series from fishes up to man. The following enumeration of the separate cranial bones of the amphibia, as existing in the menopoma alleganienais, the gigantic sala- mander of America, will illustrate the general relations of the distinct centres of ossification, liere remaining permanently detached. Fig. 14. In figs. 14 and 15 the different elements are thus designated :—a. the frontal; b. the exterior frontal; c. the parietal; d. the nasal; Fig. 15. e. the occipital; _/". the pterygoid; g. the tympanic; h. tlie jugal; i. the superior maxillary; k. the intermaxillary; the vomer; m. tlie sphenoid ; n. corresponding to the or- bitary processes or alse of the sphenoid. In the frog and most others the palatine bones are distinct. We here find that the separate portions or elements which in this class are permanently detached, correspond almost ex- actly with the number found in the cranium of fishes. It will be observed by a reference to the figures, that the intermaxillary bones—and this is more or less the case in all the amphibia— are much developed transversely, as in the fishes, an affinity which has been already so much insisted on, and which is borne out by the condition of all the other parts of the cra- nium. The lateral extension of the upper and lower maxillary bones, for instance, as well as of the tympanic and jugal, expands the general form of the skull, without involving any ex- pansion of the cavity of the cranium, which is restricted to a small, central, elongated space. The latter bones also terminate in a condyle, which is received into a shallow glenoid cavity of the lower jaw, a peculiarity which offers a