455 BONE, PATHOLOGICAL CONDITIONS OF. But although we concede to the periosteum the principal office in the process of reproduction, we can also conceive that the adjacent tissues are also more or less engaged, for the thicken- ing of parts is found to extend on the outside of tliis membrane, and Dr. Macartney himself speaks of the cellular tissue external to the periosteum becoming altered and condensed. Now, supposing the periosteum to be destroyed, these structures may be capable of supplying its place and producing the secretion of gelati- nous substance, which is afterwards to become bone, just as we see that if the periosteum is torn off a bone, the adjacent tissues laid down upon it may prevent exfoliation, and answer every purpose of nutrition and preservation that the original membrane did. From what- ever source derived, this deposition begins while yet the original bone is in a state of in- flammation, and the part that is to die still un- detached. If tendons or muscles are inserted into this part of the bone, they, being living and organized substances, separate from that which is dead : but the previous deposition has ex- tended about them, and fastened them in their situations, and hence not only is the limb capa- ble of support during the progress of necrosis, but unless in exceednigly rapid, acute, and un- favourable cases, its motions may not be very materially impaired. Soon after the investing shell has been form- ed, the dead portion of the bone separates from its attachments, and lies within its osseous case. It is now termed the mjueslruin, and presents some remarkable and peculiar charac- ters that distinguish it from diseased bone otherwise circumstanced. Its extremities are always jagged, pointed, and uneven : its mar- row and internal periosteum have disappeared : its length and its diameter are always much less than ought to be anticipated from consi- dering the size of the bone that has died ; and its surface is uneven and marked with slight depressions, as if part of its substance had been taken up by the absorbents. This ap- pearance is more distinctly observable, and the sequestrum is always smaller where the surface of the new shell is covered with granulation, than when it is only smeared over with lymph. And here, as in other cases, it may be observed that the existence of granulation or of lymph on the new bone seems greatly to depend on the free admission of air to the cavity. Where the bone is deep-seated, as in the thigh, and there are but a few sinuous apertures that can scarcely render the cavity analogous to an open sore, the surface is covered by a layer of lymph; but where it is more superficial, as when the shaft of the tibia has come away and left the new osseous deposit totally uncovered, its entire surface is seen studded over with healthy gra- nulations, which, on passing the handle of a scalpel over them, are found to be gritty, and give sensible indications of containing bony matter. From the first formation of the new deposit, small holes or perforations exist in it, the edges of which are bevelled down and thin, and not- withstanding that the new bone may and usually does become extremely tliick and spongy, these apertures still remain thin : it is through them the matter makes its way to the surface and forms the fistulous ulcers that attend on this disease, and are to be described hereafter. These apertures remain as long as there is a single spicula of sequestrum within to keep up irritation and protract the suppuration. After the sequestrum has completely disap- peared, the growth of osseous material still continues internally until the new shaft appears one solid mass devoid of any cancellated or medullary cavity whatever. At this period the ulcers are healed up, and the patient enjoys a wonderful use of his swollen and deformed limb, but the pathological condition of the bone is still deserving of attention. At first it is a mass of soft and spongy texture. After the lapse of a few years, though still clumsy in shape and undiminished in diameter, the bone has become much more firm and solid, and in these respects, at least, equals the original structure. At a more remote period the osseous part is wonderfully solidified, being, in some instances, as firm as ivory, and a new medul- lary cavity, with an internal periosteum, is formed. When a transverse section of a tibia so circumstanced is made, the osseous walls are found to be hard, thick, and very firm, the medullary cavity much narrower than in the healthy bone, being scarcely capable of admit- ting more than a goose-quill, and it does not seem to be cancellated or reticulated, but merely to consist of one continuous cell. In this state the bone possesses nearly three times the weight of one in the natural condition, and when dried is of a dirty brown colour, never assuming the white tint or polished appearance of the remainder of the skeleton. Necrosis once formed is variable in its pro- gress and indefinite as to the time that may be necessary to its completion. Sometimes the affection of the bone is exceedingly acute, ac- companied by external inflammation resemb- ling phlegmonoid erysipelas: in these cases the bone soon dies, the sequestrum separates and protrudes very rapidly, perhaps even before the new deposit has attained strength to sup- port the limb, so that it is necessary to preserve it artificially as to shape and length until the process is complete. Within the last year we have seen a case in which, through neglect of this precaution, the tibia is bent nearly into the shape of the letter C. In other instances the disease is extremely tedious, requiring years before the sequestrum is either removed or ab- sorbed : we possess a preparation exhibiting a specimen of necrosis of more than six years' duration, in which the sequestrum is of a more than ordinary size. Between these extremes of great rapidity and as great tediousness there is every possible variety, and perhaps these me- dium cases are the most unfavourable, for the very rapid are over before the constitution is broken down, and the very slow produce their effects on the system so gradually as not to make any decided or severe impression; whilst those which exhibit the symptoms of abscess, with an extraneous body working to gain the