AVES. 315 Fis. 151. In the Humming-bird, and especially in the Toucan and Woodpecker, the horny sheath of the glosso-hyal presents singular pecu- liarities. In the Humming-bird it is divided at its extremity into a pencil of fine hairs, well fitted for imbibing the nectar and farina of flowers. In the Toucan's tongue {fig. 152) the sheath gives off from the lateral margins stiff" bristle-like processes which project for- wards ; this structure is continued to the apex. Os hyoides and lari/rix, Swan. Fis. 152. aud the tongue so provided becomes an in- strument for testing the softness and ripe- ness of fruit, and tlie fitness of other objects for food, thereby acting as a kind of antenna or feeler. A similar but less developed struc- ture is found ia the tongue of the frugivorous Touraco. In the Woodpeckers the apex of the horny sheath (a, Jig. 153, 154) gives off" at^ tlie sides short-pointed processes directed back- wards, which thus convert it into a barbed instrument, fitted for holding fast the insects which its sliarp point has transfixed, after the strong beak has dislodged them from their hiding places. The cornua of the os hyoides in the Woodpecker extend backwards to the vertebral column, wind round the back of the head, and converge as they pass forwards to be inserted in a canal generally on the right side of the upper mandible {d, e, Jig. 153, 154.) Fig. 153. Cranium and tongue uf a Woodpecker. One of the most remarkable structures which the tongue presents in this class is met with in the Flamingo, where it is remarkable both for its size, texture, and singular armature. The tongue is almost cylindrical, slightly flattened above, and obliquely truncate anteriorly, so as to cor- respond with tlie form of the ini'erior mandible. The pointed extremity of the truncated part is supported beneath by a small horny plate. Along the middle of the upper surface there is a moderately deep and wide longitudinal furrow; on either side of which there are from twenty to tvveiity-five recurved spines, from one to three lines in length. These spines are un.uigeil in an irregular alternate series : the outer ones being the smallest, which Tongue of the Toucan. may almost be considered as a distinct row. At the posterior part of the t07igue tliere are two groups of smaller recumbent spines di- rected towards the glottis. The substance of the tongue is not muscular, but is chiefly composed of an abundant elastic cellular sub- stance, permeated by an oily fat. In the Rciptores the tongue is of a mode- rate length,—broad, and somewhat tliick, and has a slight division at the tip. In the Vultures its sides can be voluntarily approximated so as to form a canal, and its margins are pro- vided with retroverted spines. In the Raven it is bifid at the apex. In the Struthious birds, in many of the Waders, and in the Felccanida, the "tongue is remarkably short. In tlie Parrots it is thick and fleshy, serves admirably to keep steady the nut or seed upon which the strength of the mandibles is exerted, and is applied to the kernel so extracted, as if to ascertain its sapid qualities. The following are the muscles of the tongue in birds. 1st. The Genio-hyoideus of Vicq d'Azyr, or the Mi/lo-hyoideus accorduig to Cuvier. Tliis is a thin layer of fibres attached to the lower and inner border of the lower jaw, and running transversely to a mesial tendon which separates them, and extends to the uro-hyal. It raises the tongue towards the palate. 2d. The Stylo-hr/oideus arises from the upper and back part of the lower jaw, and divides into three or more portions : the posterior descends obliquely forwards, and is inserted into the tendinous commissure of the preceding mus- cle; the middle portion is inserted into the * uro-hyal:' the anterior fasciculus is inserted into the side of the basi-hyal above the trans- verse hyo-glossus. The actions of these dif- ferent portions vary according to their insertion; the first and second depress the apex of the tongue by raising its posterior appendage, (uro-hyal,) the third raises the tongue and os hyoides, and draws it to one side when it acts singly. 3d. The Genio-hyoidem arises by two fleshy