168 ANNELIDA. Fig. 65. the Crustacea and insecta, but consist simply of a terminal ganglion of the optic nerve covered by a layer of black pigment and placed imme- diately beneath the integument, which is thin and transparent at that part.* Nervous system.—In like manner the ner- vous system of the annelida is very simple. It occupies the middle line of the ventral aspect of the body, and con- sists of a double series of mi- nute ganglions of medullary matter, more or less inti- mately united or even blended together, and equal in number to the number of rings. (See fig. 65. repre- senting the nervous system of the aphrodita aculeata). The ganglions give origin to lateral branches, and are connected together by two chords of communi- cation, sometimes separate, sometimes united into a sin- gle trunk, so as to constitute a longitudinal chain extended through the entire length of the body. The first of these ganglions (a) is lodged in the head, or at least at the ante- rior extremity of the animal, in front of or above the di- gestive tube; the rest are placed below that canal; whence it results that the two nervous chords which form the media of communi- r^'^S cation between the cephalic ^gp: ganglion and the first of the sub-cesophageal series pass 3f along the sides of the oeso- Ip phagus, and form around that canal a species of collar or ring; a character which is common to all the articulate animals.f Organs of digestion.—The alimentary canal in the annelida extends from one end of the body to the other, and has an external com- munication at both extremities. The mouth is generally provided with a projectile proboscis, which is formed by the anterior portion of the digestive canal, which can be inverted and pro- truded like the finger of a glove, and possesses muscles for the express object of effecting these movements (see Jig. 66, which represents the Fig. 66, proboscis of Si phyllodoce, and Jig. 67, that of a nereis). The surface is frequently beset with small papillae, and its extremity armed with Fig. 67. • See Annales des Sciences Nat. torn. xxii. + See Cuvier, Anat. Comparee, tom.i.; Trevi- ranus, liber der stachlichten Aphrodite, Zeitschrift fiir Physiologie, 3 Band ; Moquin Tandon, " Mo- nograph, des Hirudines," Morrem, " Sur le Lom- bric," &c. horny jaws (/n), the disposition of which varies in different genera. It is to be observed that these jaws are almost always placed laterally like the mandibles of other articulate animals, and cannot act upon one another in the direc- tion of the axis of the body, as in the vertebrata, but are not to be regarded as analogous to the mandibles and maxillae of insects and Crustacea. In their structure, the jaws of the annelida ap- proximate rather to the solid plates with which the interior of the stomach in some Crustacea is provided, and to the hooks which aim the mouth of certain gasteropodous molluscs. This conformation of the oral apparatus is met with only in the annelida errantia; in the annelida tenicola there is scarcely a vestige of a proboscis, and never any teeth or jaws. In the annelida suctoria, the mouth, which is placed at the bottom of the cephalic sucker, is also occasionally protruded in the form of a small tubular proboscis, and in other species its margins are armed with little horny jaws ; lastly, in the annelida tubicola, nothing of the kind is to be seen, but in general the superior border of the mouth forms a sort of projecting lip, which is provided with long tentacles, sometimes simple and filiform, sometimes pec- tinated and resembling tufts. In certain erratic annelida, the Agliope, for example, there are also found around the mouth small tentacula, which are quite distinct from the tentacular cirri, and which appear to be analogous to the appendages of which we have just made mention. The oesophagus which succeeds the pro- boscis or mouth presents nothing worthy of notice, but it is in general quite distinct from the stomach. The conformation of the latter organ varies much. Sometimes the stomach is a simple enteroid tube (as in the nereida and terebellae); sometimes it is composed of two pouches, of which the first is membranous and may be compared to a crop, while the second is muscular and is analogous to a gizzard, as, for example, in the lumbrici, thalassemcB. In other cases the stomach pre- sents on either side a succession of enlarge- ments which have in general the form of rounded cells, but which sometimes consti- tute sacs or vast and much elongated ccecums, (as in some hirudines,/gs. 68 and 69.) Lastly^