CIRCULATION. 671 a great measure dependent ofi partial or local impediments. The compression of one of the small arteries, for instance, will frequently, after causing oscillation of the globules of the blood in the smallest capillaries, be followed by the disappearance of some of them ; but in a very short time, or when the obstruction is removed, the blood regains its former velo- city and force, and flows into exactly the same passages as before. The notion that the smaller vessels are con- tinuous with the smaller lymphatics, and more especially with the excretory ducts of glands, seems to be fully disproved by the accurate researches of Malpighi, Mascagni, Panizza, Miiller, and Weber, which have sliewn that the lymphatic vessels originate at all parts of the body by a plexus of tubes every where closed, and that the excretory ducts of secre- tory organs begin always by shut ends. We believe it to be satisfactorily shewn that in the whitest of the textures (with the excep- tion perhaps of the cornea and crystalline lens), there is no necessity for the supposition of vessels admitting the fluid parts only of the blood, or of serous vessels, as they have been termed; and that in all of them there exist small bloodvessels which admit very fine rows of globules in their accustomed proportion to the fluid part of the blood : for many textures which appear perfectly tvhite or colourless, or only slightly yellow when viewed with the naked eye, are found, when examined with the microscope, to have small vessels carrying blood globules through them. Spallanzani and otliers shewed that very small vessels taken singly or seen in very thm layers have almost no per- ceptible colour; and it is a well known fact that, in what are called the red textures, the colour (as of muscle for instance) is not ex- clusively dependent upon the quantity of red blood in them. It is difficult, indeed, to con- ceive how the circulation of the blood could be carried on at all, or how the red particles of the blood could ever be returned to the heart were the globules to be retained in the larger vessels, and all the white textures to admit only the fluid parts of the blood. In adopting the opinion that the arteries terminate always by direct continuity of tube in the veins, and that no other visible passages are connected with the minute vessels, we must suppose that the various interchanges of materials occurring between the blood and the organized textures or foreign matters, as in nu- trition, secretion, respiration, transpiration, &c. must take place by some process of organic transudation through invisible apertures of the minute vessels. b. Properties of the cupillary vessels and in- fluence on the cirrulation.—From the expe- riments already referred to, it is apparent that the smaller arteries, so long as tliey can be distinguished from other vessels, are capable of being excited to contraction by the appli- cation of a stimulus; but we have no means of shewing this with regard to the minutest capillary vessels, because we can scarcely apply any stimulation to them without affectin some of the smaller arteries at the same time. When it is said, for example, that the capillary ves- sels are irritable, because the application of ammonia or spirits of wine causes them to become smaller, it is difficult to determine how far this appearance of diminished size in the capillaries depends on their receiving less blood, in consequence of the contraction of the small arteries leading to them or upon the less size of these vessels themselves. In the expe- riments of Dr. Thomson and others, however, the application of salt and other stimuli ex- citing mflammation have appeared to dilate even the smallest capillary vessels, and such a dilatation can scarcely be considered as in- dicating any thing else than a less power of resistance in these vessels ; and when the ap- plication of ammonia or spirit of wine restores such dilated capillaries to their natural con- dition, we do not see that any other natural inference can be drawn from this fact than that the capillaries have been contracted by the influence of these stimuli; for the contraction of the small arteries alone, although it might restore the lost velocity of the blood, would not diminish the capillaries to their former size. This general diminution of size ought how- ever to be carefully distinguished from the more marked and local contractions of true arteries. The velocity of the blood is quite uniform in the capillaries of the adult animal in the natural condition of the circulation. There is reason to believe the capillary vessels to be highly elastic, and to have the effect of com- pleting the change which is begun by the arteries, viz. that of equalizing the force of the heart transmitted through the blood. We do not, in observing attentively the capillary vessels, ever perceive any motions of alter- nate dilatation and contraction of their sides. The blood flows through them as through small glass tubes; and if they act by other powers than by tlieir elasticity alone, this action must be of so slow a kind as not to be perceptible. There can be no doubt that any action of contraction occurring in the capillary vessels, whether alternating with dilatation or not, could have no effect excepting that of ob- structing the passage of blood through them. It would act upon the contents of the arterial system much in the same way as the dimi- nution of the aperture at the end of a rigid tube would affect the flow of fluid through it, that is, either a less quantity of blood would pass through the capillary vessels in conse- quence of their less size, or a greater portion of the heart's force would be expended in di- lating these vessels to a sufficient extent. The principal reasons which we feel inclined to adduce for believing that the heart's action is continued onwards through the capillaries, and is sufficient to return the blood through the veins back as far as the heart itself, are the following:—1. That in an animal recently killed a very small force only is requisite to cause bland fluids to follow the course of the blood, provided the injection be made before tlie tonic contraction has had time to constrict