565 CETACEA. Fig. 247. Skull of the Dugmg. (d, d), are consequently proportionally shorter than in the Manatee. The processes of the frontal bone, which form the superior boundary of the orbits, are tiiinner and more rugose in the Dugong; the portion of the superior max- illary bone, which serves as the floor of the orbit, is narrower; the malar bone (e, e. Jigs. 246, 247), which forms by its curvature the anterior and inferior margins of the orbit, is more compressed and descends lower down. The lachrymal bone, which is situated at tlie anterior angle of the orbit (f,fig- 246), is of larger relative size than in the Manatee; but, as in that species, it is imperforate. The zygo- matic process of the temporal bone (g, figs. 246, 247), which, in the Manatee, is propor- tionally thicker than in any other animal, is of more ordinary dimensions in the Dugong, being more compressed, and extended further back- wards. The connexions of the bones of tlie cranium are the same in both these herbivorous species. The parietal bones (h,fg. 247) are developed in the foetus, as usual, each from a distinct centre of ossification ; but, what is very remarkable, the ossification of the inter- parietal bone also proceeds from two lateral and symmetrical points: these four, originally distinct bones, are, however, very early anchy- losed together, and also to the superior occipi- tal bone, which latter junction takes place be- fore the three other elements of the occipital bone have coalesced. The parietal cristse are widely separated from each other. The occiput is narrower, and its crest is less marked than in the Manatee. In the interior of the cranium we may observe that there is no bony tento- rium, and that the cribriform plate of the ethmoid is reduced to two simple depressions, widely separated from one another, and termi- nating anteriorly in two or three small foramina. There is no sella turcica for the pituitary gland. The optic foramen presents the form of a long and narrow canal. The lower jaw (i, Jig. 240)) corresponds in depth to the curvature and length of the inter- maxillary bones, and is bent downwards at the symphysis in a coiTesponding direction, pre- senting on the anterior surface of this part three or four rough and shallow alveoli, in two of which Sir Everard Home* discovered a small rudimental incisor. The skull of the true or Zoophagous Ceta- ceans is characterized by the great breadth and elevation of the cranium, by the almost verti- cal direction of the nasal passages, by the de- pressed position of the orbits as compared with the bony nostrils,—a character which is still more marked in these than in the herbivorous species; and, lastly, by the extreme prolonga- tion of the oral or labial portions of the inter- maxillary and maxillary bones. The superior maxillaries (g, g, Jig. 268) are also developed posteriorly so as to rise anterior to the frontal bones, over which they are expanded, extending as far as the level of the nasal bones, which form almost the summit of the cranium. Such at least is the general configuration of the skull in the Delphinida, which constitute the largest family of the Zoophagous tribe. In the Flwcmna globiceps, of which the skull is represented in Jig. 248, the cranium is very Fig. 248. Skull of the Rmnd/ieaded Porpesse; PhoccBna globiceps. convex behind ; the occipital crest (a, a) sur- rounds the upper part and descends on each side to the middle of the temporal cristae: the posterior convexity is not formed by the occi- pital bone alone, but also by the interparietal and parietal bones (b, b), the whole being an- chylosed together at a very early period. The parietal bones descend, as in the human sub- ject, between the temporal and the frontal (c, c), and reach the lateral ala of the posterior sphe- noid. As the parietals terminate behind the * Sec PI. xiv. Philos. Trans. 1820.