BONE, PATHOLOGICAL CONDITIONS OF. 438 opinion exist on this point. Even Berzelius expresses a doubt whether magnesia is met with as a phosphate or a carbonate. We find iron mentioned hy Fourcroy and Vauquelin as present in bone. This, according to Berzelius, depends on the red blood which its vessels happen to contain. They also mention silica, alumina, and phosphate but no fluate of am- monia. 4. Its peculiarities in other animals.— In the course of this article we have noted the most striking of those peculiarities, so that little need be said under the present head. The Kadiata, Articulata, and Mollusca have coverings which somewhat resemble bone, and are considered by some physiologists as the osseous system of these classes. This opinion will be examined in another place. Fishes-—Cartilaginous fishes have very little earthy matter in their skeleton, so that their bones scarcely deserve the name. They are very flexible, elastic, homogeneous, and semi-trans- parent, and in chemical composition resemble inspissated mucus. Osseous fishes have bones properly so called. They are more flexible than in the higher classes, have no medullary cavity, little of the spongy tissue, and make no approach to the laminated arrangement. Amphibia have no appearance of laminse in their bones, nor, with the exception of the crocodile, a medullary cavity. In chemical composition they resemble those of fishes. Birds have firm, elastic, and thin bones, shewing less of the cellular and more of the laminated disposition than we meet with in the other classes. They have large and well deve- loped cavities, which contain air instead of medulla. Mammalia.—The bones of the cetacea are coarse and fibrous externally. Within they are spongy or cellular, but the cells assume a re- markable tubular disposition. Tiiere is no medullary canal. The bones of quadrupeds do not difl^er much from those of man. In general they are of a coarser texture, and in some, as in those of the head of the elephant, we find very extensive air-cells. Bibliography.—ZeutfenAoecA, Microscop. Obs. in Phil. Trans. 1674 and 1678. Maljnghi. De ossium structura, in Ej. Anat. Plantar, lol. Lond. 1675, et in Ej. Op. Posth. Venet. 1743, Lond. 1697. Haters, Osteologia nova, 8vo. Lond. 1681. Gai;li- ardi, Anatome ossium, 8vo. Liigd. Bat. 1723. De La Sune, Mem. i. et ii. sur I'organization des Os. Mem. de Paris, 1751. Albtmts, De construc- tione ossium, in Annot. Acad. lib. vii. Scarpa, De penitiori ossium structura Com. 4to. Lips. 1799 ; 4to. Paris, 1804; Ticin. 1827, s. t. : De anat. et pathol. OSS. 3Iulacarne, Auct. ad osteologiam, &c. Ludwigii et Scarpa^, Padov. 1801. Caldani, Mem. sulla struttura della ossa umana e bovina, 4to. Padov. 1804. Howship, Microscopic observations on the structure of bone, in Med. Chir. Trans, vol. vii. Bledki, Esperienze intorno alia tessitura orfjan. delle ossa, in Opusc. Scientif. t. ii. Bologna, 1818. Speransa,- Consid. sul. tessitura organ, delle ossa, Bolog. 1B19. Ilmoni, Physiol, syst. oss. spec. j. et ii. 4to. Aboas, 1825,-6. See also the various systems of general and descriptive anatomy and of physiology, and further in the Bibliography of Osseous System and Osteogeny. (Charles Benson.) BONE, PATHOLOGICAL CONDI- TIONS OF.—The bones, as the foundations of the animal system, as the passive organs of loco- motion, required necessarily to be firm and com- paratively inelastic and unyielding, qualities which we have seen in the preceding article are imparted to them by the addition to their original animal elements of a saline or earthy substance, consisting principally of phosphate of lime. It is obvious that this difference of structure and constitution must have considerable in- fluence in modifying the diseases to which they are liable, and in giving to the affections of these organs many of their distinguishing peculiarities. In considering, therefore, the phenomena exhibited in the various patholo- gical conditions of the osseous system, not only must the presence of this unorganized earthy substance be constantly borne in mind, but even its relative amount, its abundance or deficiency must command attention. In early life, when the animal material preponderates in quantity, the bones are highly vascular, and comparatively soft, flexible, and springy, and though liable to many serious diseases, they are very apt to escape the effects of injury : fracture is uncommon in infancy; and in child- hood the bones, bending rather than breaking, often exhibit that partial fracture which has been likened to a " branch of a tree that yields to an attempt to break it while it still retains its sap."* The powers of repair are commensurate with the extent of vascular or- ganization at this period; fracture is quickly re-united, and its effects so regulated by the subsequent growth of the bone that permanent deformity is a very infrequent occurrence. But this activity in the osseous system in early life has its evils. The period of youth, between absolute childhood and puberty, is that in which disease is most easily and, there- fore, most frequently developed, and although extensive powers of reparation are constantly exhibited in recovery after caries, in re- production after necrosis &c., still are the operations that lead to these results languid and too often inefficient,—circumstances that may be attributed partly to peculiarity of or- ganization in the structure affected, but per- haps with more propriety to the influence of some general constitutional tahit over which medicine exerts but slender control. The osseous system cannot be considered as having attained maturity until a period sub- sequent to the age of puberty, most commonly somewhere between the twenty-seventh and thirtieth years. At this time bone is calculated most perfectly to answer its purposes in the animal economy: it is then least liable to disease ; and if fractures and other injuries are more frequent, it is only because indivi- duals are now more exposed to them. The effects of these injuries are in general repaired sufficiently well, but if deformity has been produced it will be permanent, because the bone has ceased to grow. * See a paper on this subject by Dr. Halt, vol. i. Dublin Journal of Medical Science.