481 CARNIVORA. true tympanvim, taking Uie place of tlie mastoid procems, and probably performing the same office as the mastoid cells. This, in many, forms a large rounded process beneath the cranium. In the cats it is remarkably large and globose ; in the bear, on the contrary, it is not visible externally. The object of this en- larged cavity is doubtless to give additional volume to the sounds which are brought to it, a circumstance especially required by the noc- turnal habits of those species in which it is most largely developed. The fenestra rotunda, which is covered by a membrane stretched across it, is believed by Cuvier to be intended for the reception of the sounds produced by the resonance of the bony case just described; an opinion which is perfectly consonant with that of Scarpa, who considers the hole in question, with its membrane, as a sort of se- condary tympanum. The fenestra rotunda is the larger of the two apertures of communi- cation with the internal ear in the present order generally; in some of the most nocturnal, the cats and the civets, it is almost double the size of the fenestra ovalis. The passage answering to the Eustachian tube is remarkably short and can scarcely be called tubular; in the cats and civets it is nothing more than a narrow cleft in the suture which unites the tympanum to the true petrous hone. The organ of smell is generally extensive in tlie carnivorous animals, and in addition to the principal apparatus of this sense, the different sinuses which augment the nasal cavity, par- ticularly the frontal, are of considerable extent, especially in the canidce. But the most re- markably developed of the surfaces on which the pituitary membrane is distributed, are those of the superior and inferior turbinated liones. The inferior are very complicated in their convolutions in the dogs, the bears, seve- ral of the cats, and particularly in the otters and the seals. This complication consists of repeated and multifarious bifurcation ; and the ultimate divisions of this bone, which all as- sume a parallel direction, form a great number of channels which the air traverses in the act of inspiration, and which are all covered by the pituitary membrane. The ethmoidal cells and the superior turbinated bones are likewise greatly developed in the Carnivora, and par- ticularly in those in which the before-men- tioned structure of the inferior turbinated bones is most conspicuous—a remark which also a]5plies to the numerous foramina in the cribriform plate of the ethmoid. In the bear, and particularly in the coati, the cartilages of the nose form a complete tube, which is articulated moveably to the bony nos- trils. The same structure is still more remark- able in the mole. T/ie organ of taste.—The structure of the surface of the tongue in the FcUdte is very remarkable with regard to the characters of the various papillee with which it is furnished. The edges are everywhere covered with small soft conical papillfE, as well as with the papilla pctioluttc, such as are found in most other VOL. I. animals. The whole of the middle part is covered with papillte of two kinds very dif- ferent from each other, and these two kinds are arranged in alternate rows in a quincuntial order. Those of one kind are soft, rounded, and appear to consist of bundles of filaments, which are supposed by Cluvier to be the ulti- timate extremities of the gustatory nerves, though this opinion appears from the recent observations of Breschet to be very doubtful. The others are conical and pointed, and each of them is covered by a sharp horny case curved a little backwards. It is these horny spines which render the tongue of the cats and the civets so exceedingly rough as that their continued licking would soon abrade the hu- man skin. The tongue in all the other Carni- vora scarcely differs in its structure from that of the human subject. Secretions.— The urine. The structure of the kidney in some of the Carnivora is wor- thy of notice. Instead of being a compact and united mass as in man, it is subdivided into numerous portions similar to those of the human foetus. In the cats this division is scarcely perceptible, the surface being only in- terrupted by superficial fissures or sulci. But in the bears, the otters, and the seals, the sepa- ration is so deep as to resemble in some sort a bunch of grapes. In the otter there are only ten of these divisions in each kidney; in the bear there are about fifty, and in the seal from a hundred and twenty to a hundred and forty. As this peculiarity of structure is found to exist in a still more remarkable degree in the cctacca, Cuvier has suggested whether it may be connected with the occasional longer or shorter suspension of respiration, as it obtains in the cetacea, the seals, the otters, which are often submerged, in the bears which re- main torpid during the winter, and in the human foetus which has never breathed. Its existence, however, in the elephant, the ox, and many other animals whose respiration is never interrupted, renders this explanation, as Cuvier himself observes, extremely unsatis- factory. The existence of follicles producing a pecu- liar secretion is not an uncommon circumstance in several orders of the mammifera, as well as in many reptiles. In the Carnivora these fol- licles are found in almost all the genera, and in some attain to a large size. They are situ- ated one on each side of the anus, and the excretory duct opens near the termination of the rectum. The substance usually secreted by these glandular surfaces is strongly odor- ous, and in some cases intolerably fetid. The annexed engraving ( fig. 202) is taken from a specimen of Gallictis vittata, which I dis- sected some time since, and is selected, because it has not been before figured, and because the glands are of large size and very distinct. Each follicle is covered by a muscle of no inconsiderable strength, the object of which is to compress the follicle, and to force out the secretion through the duct. One of the follicles is represented covered by its