99 AMPHIBIA. attached to tlie cranium ; (Jig. 25, a,) the single piece (6,) and the two rhomboidal pieces (r, r,) in the meantime become imited and extended, (figs. 25, 26,) and gradually lose by absorption Fig. 25. Fig. 26. the branchial arches, and ultimately form a broad disc, the body of the os hyoides, the anterior margin of which on each side is di- lated into a scutiform process, and the posterior margin bears two bony appendages, which are, in fact, the posterior cornua of that bone. Such are tlie changes which this bone un- dergoes during the gradual passage of the amphibious animal from the tadpole state, in which it represents the class of fishes, to its perfect or reptile condition; and it affords a most interesting instance of the manner in which the true nature of an organ, existing under ambigxious circumstances in one class of animals, is often clearly illustrated by its cha- racters, or, as in the present instance, by its transformations, in another. The minute filiform branchi^, which are appended to the tadpole of the frog im- mediately behind the head, have essentially the same structure as is observed in the gills of the perennibranchiate family, as the siren and the proteus, though in a ditferent form. In tlie proteus each branchia consists of three principal divisions or branches, from each of which proceed seven or eight leaves, again sub- divided into numerous regular leaflets form- ing the ultimate divisions of the branchiae, on which the extreme capillary branches of the vessels ramify, and in which the blood under- goes its necessary change. A minute rami- fication of the branchial artery, conveying the impure blood from the heart, enters each leaf- let at its base, (fig. 27, a.) and passes, along Fig. 27. its shorter or inner margin, giving off capillary branches in its course, which, after meandering over the surface of the leaflet, and commu- nicating with each other in various directions, pass over to the opposite margin of the leaflet, and reunite in a corresponding ramification of the branchial vein (6), which passes out at the base to combine with the corresponding branches from the other leaflets, and convey the aerated blood back to the heart. This is the general structure, modified however in the different genera, by which this important func- tion is effected in all the amphibia, as long as they are confined to their aquatic life; and whilst the higher groups lose these organs as they advance, and accjuire the necessary organs for atmospheric respiration, those of tlie lower forms retain them throughout life, coexistent with rudimentary lungs; and thus probably exhibit the remarkable phenomenon of a two- fold mode of respiration at one and the same time in the same individual. Such, then, is the general structure of the organs of aquatic respiration, whether in the early and transitoiy form in which it is seen in the frog and the salamander, or in the perma- nent character which belongs to it in the peren- nibranchiate group of the siren, the axolotl, the menobranchus, and the proteus. But as the former of these groups acquires gradually a per- fect and unmixed atmospheric respiration, and as the pulmonary cavity serving this office is only slowly developed, so we find in the pe- rennibranchiate forms that the lungs also exist, though in little more than a rudimentary state. The early condition of the lungs in the cadu- cibranchiate genera, in which they ultimately exhibit a somewhat advanced structure, is that of a mere rudimentary sac, without internal cells or any appearance of even the commence- ment of that more perfect structure which they afterwards acquire. Gradually, however, the inner surface is furnished with small processes, forming little sacs or cells, on which the capil- lary branches of the pulmonary vessels ramify, and through the infinitely attenuated surfaces of which the impure blood undergoes its essen- tial process of depuration. In the lower forms of the class, as in the pro- teus anguinvs for instance, the air-bags, for they scarcely deserve the name of lungs in this state, never arrive at this advanced stage of develop- ment, but remain permanently in the condition of simple membranous sacs. Every part of the apparatus belonging to that organ is equally rudimentary. The glottis consists of nothing more than a small slit in the lower part of the fauces, placed between the branchial apertures of each side. The margin of this little opening, which has no cartilaginous ring to support it, is furnished with a small Soft pair of muscles, by which it is opened. The tube leadmg from this opening speedily bifurcates, and one passes to each air-bag. In this rudiment of a trachea and of bronchi, there is no appearance of car- tilaginous rings; it is a mere membranous canal, each branch of which opens without any other apparatus into its air-cell. From the perfect condition of the branchise, and tlie very H 2