733 CRANIUM. wlikh takes place beween the several elements of the bones of the cranium, that Soemmering and Meckel have described the two as one bone, under the name of os basilare or osspheno- occipitale. The connexions of this bone are few and simple, being, in its superior half, with the parietals; in its inferior half, with the tem- porals ; at its anterior extremity, with the sphenoid; and, by its condyles, with the atlas. At birth this bone is separable into four dis- tinct portions, one being in front, one behind, and one on each side of the foramen magnum, the border of which is, consequently, not then completed. The anterior and two lateral por- tions are formed by the extension of ossific matter from one point of deposit in each; but tliat posterior to the foramen is produced from many points, in the number of which ana- tomists are not agreed. The ossification com- mences in the lower part, at some distance from the foramen, by one point on each side of the median line; and before they have completely approached each other, two ana- logous deposits appear in the upper part, which coalesce before tlie upper and lower pieces are joined. This occurs during the fourth month, at which time the inferior and broad part dis- plays on each side another point of ossification on a level with the spot where the process first commenced; in the fifth month the whole of these are consolidated into one piece. It often happens, however, that other deposits are formed, especially in the upper part; and frequently they refuse to merge mto the others, continuing then to be distinct through life as separate small bones having their own serrated margins to articulate with the adjoining struc- tures. The lateral pieces (those which comprehend the condyles, and lateral and jugular pro- cesses) commence their formation about the fourth month ; and the anterior piece is the last in the order of development. The temporal bone (os temporum; Germ, das Schluftnbein.) One is situated on each side of the sphenoid and lower half of the occipital bone ; they complete the base of the cranmm and form the inferior part of the sides of the vault. For the purposes of description it is usually divided into three portions; one, strong and compact, in the base and between the middle and posterior fossee, the petrous; a second, tumid and less dense, behind the ear, the mastoid; and a third rising from the former two, thin and scaly, situated in the temple, the squamous. The petrous portion is an elongated, pyra- midal mass, of which two of the surfaces enter into the formation of the cavity of the cranium, and the third is underneath. It is situated on a line which, if prolonged, would extend from behind the ear to the opposite external angular process of the frontal bone; but it is limited by the body of the sphenoid. It occupies the space between the posterior border of the ala major of the sphenoid and the basilar process of the occipital bone, in the angle of which its free extremity is impacted. In its substance is contained the labyrinth of the ear. Of the two surfaces which are in the cra- nium, one is superior, the cerebral; the other is posterior, the cerebellar. On the cerebral surface near its middle, is a smooth, convex, and transverse elevation (the processus semicircular is), produced by the su- perior semicircular canal of the labyrinth; immediately in front of this is a depression on which the Gasserian ganglion lies ; more out- wardly and running lengthwise, is a faint sulcus (the sulcus Vidianus), which terminates at a small opening (the hiatus Fallopii) for the entrance of the Vidian nerve into the aque- ductus Fallopii. On the cerebellar surface is seen the foramen auditorium internum, the superior and posterior part of the margin of which is more prominent tlian the anterior, which, in fact, degenerates into a sulcus. It is the commencement of a canal (the meatus auditorius internus) into which pass the acoustic and facial nerves, and the bottom of which is divided by a ridge into two unequal depressions; the upper one being i\\Qfossula parva, in which is the orifice of the aqueduct of Fallopius for the exit of the facial nerve; the lower one being the fossula magna, in which are several minute perforations for the acoustic nerve. Behind the foramen audi- torium is an indistinct slit, which is the ter- mination of the aqueductus vestibuli; above and rather anterior to this slit is a triangular orifice for the entrance of vessels; and below it, extending to the foramen lacerura posticum, is a slight groove. Between the cerebral and cerebellar surfaces there is a sharp ridge on which there is a groove (the sulcus petrosus), more evident pos- terioriy than anteriorly; to the ridge is attached the tentorium; the groove lodges the petrosal sinus. Tbe under surface is divided into two parts by a sharp, prominent ridge, which has on either side of it a considerable fossa. That on its outer side is the fossa purotidea for the upper part of the parotid gland; that on its inner side is a thimble-like depression (the fossa jugularis), which forms with the occipitid bone the foramen lacerum posterius. In this bone, however, it is not so wide as it is in the occipital; from which it results that the fora- men is imperfectly divided into two parts— the anterior for the nerves, the posterior for the vein; and it is the latter organ which is lodged in the fossa jugularis of the temporal bone. The fossa parotidea is limited, above and in front, by a fissure (the fissura Glasseri), which penetrates to the tympanum and gives exit to the chorda tympani and entrance to the laxator tympani muscle; behind, by the external auditory process. The margin of the foramen auditorium externum, which is ellip- tical, has its long diameter vertical, and is the commencement of the meatus auditorius externus; a tube which is curved a little downwards, is more expanded at its extre- mities than in its middle, and terminates at