CELLULAR TISSUE. 513 sidered how little is known respecting the real structure of the Infusoria, Zoophytes, &c., and when the numerous discoveries which have of late years been made in these and much higher animals, of parts whose existence was formerly doubted or denied, are recollected, we shall be inclined to think that there are special organs of motion provided ; for it would be in direct oppo- sition to the simple but constant laws observed in the animal creation, were the organic tis- sue, entitled the cellular, to acquire in the lower classes a power of contraction, which in tlie higher it does not possess, and which property is the endowment of a totally distinct system of organs, namely, the muscles. Whichsoever of these opinions be correct, there is no doubt that in the least perfect animals, a soft and gelatinous matter, analogous to the cellular tissue, and loaded with fluids, greatly predominates. As we advance in the scale, it is found that organ- ized substances of a diversified character are developed in the nidus afforded by this cellular texture, the proportion of which to the other structures becomes thus diminished. Morbid conditions of the cellulau TISSUE.—As the cellular membrane is so in- timately united with all other organs, it is very liable to be involved in diseases commencing in these parts; but morbid action also very frequently arises primarily in this tissue. It is subject to—1, inflammation, acute and chro- nic, circumscribed and diffused; to the effects of inflammation, thickening and induration, suppuration,ulceration, and mortification; 2, in- filtration of blood, serum, air, and occasionally of other substances, as urine; 3, induration, occurring in new-born infants ; 4, morbid growths, such as fibrous productions, cysts, melanosis, scirrhus, vascular sarcoma; 5, foreign bodies; 6, preternatural increase or hypertro- phy, and degeneration, or atrophy. I. Inflammation.-—This tissue is very fre- quently affected by inflammation, whicli may either present itself under the form of a distinct affection, as when it attacks tlie subcutaneous cellular membrane especially, or it may"occur as a part of some other disease, as when inflam- mation of the parenchyma of the lungs, liver, &c., spreads to the cellular tissue in which this substance is universally involved. a. Acute ciraimscrihedivJiammation,orphleg- mon.—The anatomical characters of this form of inflammation of the cellular substance are essentially the same in whatever part of the body it may arise, either in the subcutaneous tissue, or in that part which penetrates into the interior of the various organs ; it will, therefore, be proper to trace the effects of it in a general manner. 1. Congestion of the bloodvessels.—The ef- fects of irritation on the capillary vessels, in which the phenomena of inflammation are prin- cipally observed, may be beautifully seen with the aid of a sufficiently powerful microscope in the transparent membrane of the frog's foot. After having fiimiliarized the eye by watch- ing the circulation for a short time, we shall find that the first effect produced by the appli- cation of an irritant is a distinct and evident acceleration of the blood's motion. I have not been able to satisfy myself of that diminution of the calibre of the vessels which is said by some observers to accompany this acceleration. If the irritation be repeated, or if its power in the first instance were considerable, it will be seen after a certain time that the capillary ves- sels become dilated, that the blood moves more slowly, and often that it oscillates and circulates apparently with difficulty ; its constituent parts become less distinct, the particles being crowded together. If the effects of the irritation now sulDside, the dilated vessels contract and recover their proper calibre, the blood again moves more freely, and the circulation regains its natural state; but, on the contrary, if the mor- bid action still persists, the membrane begins to grow opaque, either in consequence of the engorgement of the vessels, or, as it has appeared to me, from an extravasation of one or other of the constituents of the blood; or, lastly, the circulation altogether ceases, the vessels are further enlarged, the blood is stagnant, and is evidently deteriorated in quality, and the colour becoming deeper and deeper, is at length per- fectly brown, or even black. This is the order in which the phenomena in the derangement of the circulation occur ; and although they have been more particularly studied in microscopical observations on the lower animals, yet many of them are daily to be observed in the human body during the progress of inflammation. Whilst the inflammatory action is confined to the first of the above stages, in which there is merely a preternatural excitement of the circu- lation, it may be arrested and put an end to without any further morbid change; and this may even happen in the second stage, where the blood, although accumulated and retarded in its motion, still circulates in its proper ves- sels. This speedy termination of the disease has been called by the French writers deli- tescence. 2. Effusion.—When the bloodvessels are greatly congested and dilated, it usually hap- pens that a part of their contents escapes, and the cellular tissue becomes loaded with coagulable lymph, more or less tinged with blood accord- ing to the vascularity of the affected part, pro- ducing that condition which has been called red induration. This substance, by agglutina- ting together the fibres and layers, causes the hardness which is so perceptible on pressing the diseased part. At the same time that this solid deposition takes place in the centre, it is found that the circumference of the inflamed part is soft and ffidematous, in consequence of the cells being distended with a fluid which appears to be the serum of the blood. Although the cellular tissue is rendered more firm to the touch by the effusion of lymph, yet, as happens in the other organized structures of the body when attacked by acute inflammation, the co- hesion of its fibres is diminished, and it is, con- sequently, more easily torn than in its natural state, and its elasticity is also greatly impaired. The preceding changes may be very beautifully observed in the progress of pneumonia, when the substance of the lungs is passing into that