CEPHALOPODA. 552 as the margin of the thick posterior cartila- ginous orbit, to which it is attached, and is thence reflected forwards (c, c) upon the mus- cles of the eye-ball, also upon the long narrow anterior and inferior ocular cartilage {d, d), and upon the exterior fibrous layer of the sclero- tica ; it is reflected inwards over the anterior thickened margin of the sclerotica, where the large anterior aperture of that membrane re- mains unclosed by the cornea, and consequently passes along its inner surface like the mem- brane of the aqueous humour ; it seems to us, however, not to pass over the anterior part of the capsule of the crystalline lens, but into the groove (p, p) which divides that body into two parts. The serous layer above described can- not be detached from the cornea, but ceases to be demonstrable as a distinct membrane where the external fibrous coat is attached to the cornea. The space between the eye-ball and its capsule, which is thus circumscribed, is filled with a watery fluid, which is most abun- dant in the Calamaries. The cornea is sepa- rated by the same fluid from the eye-ball; but its tension and slightly convex figure is main- tained by it, as by the aqueous humour in the eye of the vertebrate animal. The motions of the eye-ball are facilitated by the secretion of the serous sac, as the movements of the heart in the pericardium, and in other instances in ■which serous membranes are developed. The membrane, of which we have just de- scribed the reflections and extent, is regarded by Cuvier as analogous to the tunica conjunc- tiva, but a difficulty arises in this mode of considering it, in consequence of the position o{ the cornea (o), which, in its structure and connection with the integument, bears a close analogy to the cornea in Fishes. The charac- teristic difference which the cornea presents in the latter class, as compared with that of the Cephalopoda, is its adhesion to the margins of the anterior aperture of the sclerotica, by which the anterior chamber of the eye is limited to a very small space; while in the Sepia it would seem as if the membrane circum- scribing the anterior chamber had over-passed its usual bounds in consequence of the absence of any such adhesion between the cornea and sclero- tica. When we consider the nature of the membrane in question, and the relations of the fluid it secretes to the cornea and crystal- line, should we not be justified in considering it, notwithstanding its excessive development, as analogous rather to the membrane of the aqueous humour, than to the conjunctiva, the ratio of the development of which is as that of the eye-lids or folds of membrane ex- ternal to the cornea, and of which we have only a slight rudiment in the Sepia? (v.) The space between the cartilaginous orbit and the posterior part of the eye is circum- scribed by a membrane (e, e) which has the character rather of a condensed layer of cellular tissue than of a true serous membrane. In this space is contained the optic ganglion ( /"), its filaments (g), and the surrounding soft white substance Xli), by some considered of an adi- poscf, by others of a ^l,an(iiilar nature. This cavity is proportionally larger in the Octopus than in the Sepia. The eye-ball of the Cuttle-fish is an irregular spheroid, flattened in the direction of its axis. The vertical diameter is less than the horizontal, but both exceed the diameter of the axis. The eye-ball is remarkable in all the Dihrunchicita for its considerable development as compared with the size of the body ; it is proportionally largest in the Calamaries, and smallest in the Octopods. The exterior membrane covering the ante- rior part of the eye-ball (*) receives the inser- tions of the muscles of the eye, and seems as if it were formed by their aponeurotic expan- sions ; it lies immediately beneath the reflected layer of the serous covering, is of a soft texture, and has a pinkish colour with a glistening silver lustre ; in the Poulp it is spotted like the skin. The entire eye-ball is surrounded by a second layer of membrane (/c, k), having a similar texture and appearance; these are analogous to the exterior or fibrous layers of the sclerotica in the eyes of Fishes. We next find a cartilaginous layer (/, I) corresponding to the internal cartilaginous sclerotica of the Pla- giostomous Fishes. This coat is very thin, and almost membranous posteriorly, where the fibrils of the optic ganglion penetrate it, and where it presents a cribriform surface of consi- derable extent, in which it may be observed that the orifices of the sieve are of consi- derable size, and not very close together. Anterior to the cribriform surface the cartila- ginous sclerotica increases in thickness, but more so on the lower than the upper side of the eye, and about the middle of the eye- ball it terminates in a slightly thickened mar- gin. A layer of fibrous membrane (jn, m) is continued from this margin, along with the external fibrous layer (J), and assists in forming the soft thick anterior part of the sclerotica, which forms the circumference of the pupillary aperture (n), or that by which light is admitted to the cavity of the eye. The supe- rior part of this aperture is encroached upon by a bilobed curtain-like process, which we have observed to present a semi-transpai-ent texture in the eyes of some Cuttle-fishes, as if it were an abortive formation of a sclerotic cornea: in position it resembles the curtain-like process depending from the iris of the Ray. The inner surface of that part of the sclero- tica which lies anterior to the lens is lined with a dark pigment. The tunic which immediately lines the car- tilaginous sclerotic is not, as in Fishes, a membrana argentea, or a vascular choroid, but consists of an expansion of the ner- vous fibres which are given oft' from the optic ganglion, connected together by a vascular and cellular tissue (o, o). The ganglion does not resolve itself into these fibres uniformly from the circumference to the centre, but sends them off from its exterior surface only, so that, on making a section of the part, the centre of the ganglion presents a homogeneous pulpy texture, separated by a distinct external layer from the origins of the fibrils, as in the figure,y.