203 AVES. (Upupa), the sternum again becomes dimi- nished in size, and presents the two tissures on the posterior margin; the keel is moderately developed ; the manubrial process is produced anteriorly; it is of a compressed form m the Hoopoe, but thick, and bifurcate in the Creepers; there are no costal processes. In the Wood-peckers the keel of tlio ster- num is more feebly developed, its inferior margin is straight, and the angle formed by its union with the anterior margin truncate. The manubrial process enlarges as it advances forwards, and is bifurcate at the extremity. The costal processes are also long, and curved forwards; the posterior margin has four deep notches (ff,fig, 129;. In the' Trogons, Hollers (Coracias), King- fishers, Bee-eaters (Merops), Toucans, and Touracos, the sternum is characterized by two fissures on either side at the posterior margin, In the Parrot tribe the sternum again singu- larly resembles in its integrity that of the higher liaptorcs,he\ng in some species simply perforated on either side near the posterior margin, and in others wholly ossified. It is, however, narrower in proportion to its breadth. The keel is well developed, its inferior margin concave, its an- terior one describing a sigmoid flexure; their angle of union rounded. The costal depres- sions occupy almost the entire lateral margins of the sternum. The manubrial process is slightly developed, trihedral, and tj;-uncate at the extremity. In the Pigeons, which unite the In- sessorial to the Gallinaceous order, the ster- num is narrow, but the keel is deep, with its inferior border convex, and the anterior one curved forwards, thin and trenchant; the ma- nubrial process is strong and bifurcated; the costal processes short. The posterior margin is cleft by two fissures on either side of the mesial plane, the lateral and superior fissures being the deepest; the mesial ones are occasion- ally converted into a foramen. The costal surface of the lateral margin is, as in the Gallinaceous birds, of very little extent. In the Crown Pigeon the superior fissures are so deep and wide as to convert the rest of the lateral margin into a mere flattened process, which is dilated at the extremity. In the true Rasores the four posterior fis- sures of the sternum are so deep and wide from its defective ossification, as to give to the lateral parts of this bone, or hypo-sternal elements, the appearance of a bifurcated pro- cess extending backwards from the costal margin. The mesial fissures are here the deepest, extending as far as the anterior border of the keel. This part is short, straight, or very slightly convex interiorly; concave at the anterior margin, which is formed by two tidges which converge to it from the anterior margin of the sternum. This margin is con- vex laterally, and largely excavated for the coracoid bones; the depressions are continuous with each other, and the compressed manubrial process, arching over the canal, converts it into a foramen. The costal processes are prolonged upwards and forwards; the posterior lateral processes pass backwards exterior to the ribs, supporting them in the Capercailzie, like a semi-hoop ; these processes are dilated at their extremities. In the Grallatores or Waders the sternum corresponds in size to the shortness of the thoracic-abdominal cavity. In the Ardeida: the grooves of die anterior surface pass reci- procally beyond the middle line, increasing the surface of attachment for the expanded lower and posterior extremities of the coracoid bone. In most of the genera the posterior margin pre- sents a single fissure on either side; these in tlie Storks and Herons are wider at the com- mencement than at the termination. In the Plo- vers, Woodcocks, Avosets, and Oyster-catchers, it occupies the whole breadth of the sternum. In tlie Curlews, Ibises, and Spoonbills, there are two fissures on either side. In the Coots and Water-hens the single fissures on either side of the keel are long and narrow, and the lateral portions of the sternum extend back- wards beyond the middle, and become larger towards their extremities. Among the NutatoreSj tli? Albatrosses, Petrels, Pelicans, and Cormorants present a strong wide convex sternum, similar to the Storks and Herons; the keel is moderately developed, but prolonged anteriorly; the pos- terior margin presents a single slight fissure on either side. In the Penguins, these fissures are of considerable extent (f,f,fig- 130,); but the keel of the sternum is well developed, even in the Aptenodytes ; its inferior border is Straight. In the Gulls and Sea-swallows the sternum is of large size, wide, and convex; it presents posteriorly two small and shallow fissures on either side, of which the lateral and superior are sometimes converted into foramina. The keel extends along the whole of the ster- num, but is of moderate depth, and convex inferiorly. In the Anatida or Lumellirostral tribe the sternum is thin, but of large size, very convex transversely, and much elongated. The keel is of moderate depth, and of a triangular form, its inferior margin being straight; there is only one fissure on either side posteriorly.* In the Divers (Colymbus) the portion of Sternum intermediate to the two fissures is pro- longed beyond the lateral pieces, and the ma- nubrial process is strongly developed, and of a rounded form; the whole bone is remarkable for its length. In the Grebes the sternum is characterized by a third mesial fissure of a chevron figure intermediate to the two ordinary fissures of the posterior margin. The sternum of the Cursorial Birds pre- sents few affinities of structure to that of the rest of the class, resembling rather the ex- panded plastron or abdominal plate of the Tortoises. It has neither a keel, nor manu,- brial, nor costal processes, and may be com- pared to a square shield. It is most convex in the Rhea, and least so in the Ostrich; * Tlic modifications of the sternum in relation to the folded trachea will be treated of In the article on the Org^ins of Voice,