AVES. 284 in the latter there may be observed slight indi- cations of the two ordinary posterior fissures. The ossification of the perfect sternum of the Bird commences from five centres, — a middle one which supports the keel, termed by by Geoftroy St. Hilaire the entosternal (a, fig. 129); two anterior lateral pieces, ihe hyoster- nals (b, b, Jig. 129), and two posterior lateral pieces, the hyposternals (c c, jig. 129). ITie posterior cartilaginous appendages he terms xiphi-sternals (g g,fig. 129, 130). If to these be added the two portions or episternals of •which he supposes the manubrial process to be composed, then nine elements may be reckoned to enter into the composition of the tlie coracoid element has been err neously re- garded as the clavicle, in consequence of its being moveably articulated with the scapular piece. In the Emeu (Dromaius) it is interesting to observe that the clavicle commences by a dis- tinct ossification, and long continues separate; it does not reach the sternum, but holds the same relative situation as the continuous acro- mial or clavicular process of the scapula in the other Struthious birds. The scapula (t, fig. 125, h, fig. 130) is most readily recognised as such, in the Pen- guins of the genus Aptenodj/tes, where it is broader and flatter than in any other bird : in these, however, it is of considerable length in Fig.l sternum; but, hitherto, we have only met with a single ossific centre in the manubrial process. Where the keel is absent, as in the Cursores, the entosternal piece appears to be wanting, and the ossification of the sternum here radiates from lateral centres only. 0/ the anterior extremity.—The bones of the anterior extremity do not present that ex- traordinary development in the bird that might be expected from the powers of the member of which they are the basis. The great expanse of the wing is here gained at the expense of the epidermoid system, and not exclusively pro- duced by folds of the skin requiring elongated bones to support them, as in the Bats, Dragons, and Flying-fish. The wing-bones are, however, both in their forms and modes of articulation, highly characteristic of the powers and appli- cation of the muscular apparatus requisite for their due actions in flight. The bones of the shoulder consist, on each side, of a scapula (h, fig. 130), a coracoid bone (i), and a clavicle (k),—the clavicles being mostly anchylosed together at their mesial extremities, constitute a single bone, which, from its peculiar form, is termed the os furcatorium J'urculum. In the Ostrich the two clavicles are distinct from each other, but are severally anchylosed with the coracoid and scapula, so as to form one bone on either side. In almost every other species of bird the scapula, coracoid, and clavicle remain separate or moveably articu- lated throughout life. In the American Ostrich (Rhea) and Java Cassowary (Casuarius) the acromial element or clavicle is anchylosed with, or rather is a continuous ossification from, the scapula; but the coracoid bone is free ; and this condition is worthy of notice as it is precisely that which the bones of the shoul- der present in the Chelonian Reptiles; where / proportion to its breadth, and does not exhibit any trace of spinous process. In the rest of the class it is a simple narrow elongated bony lamina, increasing in thickness as it approaches the joint of the shoulder; there it is extended in the transverse direction, forming externally the posterior half of the glenoid cavity,and being internally more or less produced to meet the clavicle, while it is strongly attached in the re- mainder of its anterior surface to the coracoid bone. The position of the scapula is longitudi- nal,being extended backwards from theshoulder, parallel to the vertebral column, towards which, however, it, in general, presents a slight convex- ity. In birds of strong powers of flight, as in the Swift, (Ci/pseliis,) it reaches to the last rib, while in the Emeu, on the contrary, it extends over two ribs only. In the Humming-bird (Trochilus) its posterior third is bent down- wards at a slight angle. The coracoid (u, fig.125, i, figs. 129, 130), or posterior clavicle, is always the strongest of the bones composing-the scapular arch: its ex- panded extremity is securely lodged below in the transverse groove at the anterior part of the sternum, from which it extends upwards, outwards, and forwards, but frequently al- most in the vertical position to the shoulder- joint, where it is united at an acute angle with the scapula and clavicle. It thus forms the