ARACIINIDA. 20') dilatation which tlie scorpions carry at tlie end of the tail ; it is terminated by a little sharp hook £;enerally curved backwards. Near its termination there may be observed, as in the mandibulous hook of spiders, a very minute orifice, or, according to some authors, two dis- tinct fissures. It is from tliis part that a lim- pid fluid, having strongly-marki'd poisonous qualities, exudes; and, corres|)cinlinu to ilie fo- ramen within, there is the neck of a bitlo l>lad- der which is the true secretory organ. Litlle is known respecting its structure: according to the observations of Treviranus it is surrounded by a horny substance and provided with a muscle, which most probably has for its func- tion the compression of the vesicle and the consequent expulsion of the poison. ApparutuH for secreting the fluid which con- cretes in the uir.—This apparatus is peculiar to certain arachnidans : it does not exist in the scorpions nor in many other genera ; but when present it is always situated at the posterior part of the body. The threads by which the spiders suspend themselves, and of which they spin their webs, are emitted from the extre- mity of the abdomen. There we find, in the vicinity of the anal aperture, several small appendages, which it is important not to con- found with one another, (Jig. 96. j Of these there are two which are sniall articulated hairy Fig. 96. and filiform processes {b b ;)* the others are spinnarets, or the or- gans by which the • c silky threads are emit- ted. Of the latter, four may'generally be . J counted, (f d.) Their structure is very re- markable ; it has been a described by many anatomists, and among others by Lyonnet in his posthumous Memoirs. This patient anato- mist has discovered that the surface of each of the spinnarets is pierced by an infinite number of minute holes, from each of which there escapes as many little drops of a liquid, which, becoming dry the moment it is in contact with the air, forms so many delicate threads. Im- mediately after the filaments have passed out of the pores of the spinnaret, they unite first together, and then with those of the neighbouring spinnarets to form a common thread ; so that the thread of the spider, as it is employed in the manufacture of the web, or such as the creature suspends itself by when hanging from one's * Mr. Blackwall, who has published some inter- esting observations on the structure and functions of spiders in the third report of the British Asso- ciation (1833), and more at length in a recent volume of the Linna;an Transactions, considers these pro- cesses to be also spinnarets. They are provided with tubes, which, arranged along the under side of the terminal joint, present the appearance of fine hairs projecting from it at right angles; if examined, when in operation, by a powerful magnifier, the function of these tubes may be ascertained without difficulty, as the fine lines of silk proceeding from them will be distinctly perceived. IMr. B.'s observations were made on Agelena labyrinthica (Walck.)—Ed. VOL. I. finger, is composed of an immense number of minute filaments, perhaps many tliousands, of such extreme tenuity that the eye cannot detect them, until they are all twisted together into the working thread. Lyonnet has made a still more curious observation: he detected in Ttgc- nariu civili.t (Walck.) a difterent anatomical structure of tlie four spinnarets. The pair which is above and a little longer than the other, presents on its surface a multitude of small jierforations, (flg- 97,J the edges of which do not project, and vi'liich, therefore, Fig. 97. resemble a sieve. This structure has also been well described by Leuwenlioeck, Roe- sel, Treviranus, &c. The other pair,sliorter and lower than the preceding, differs still further by having pro- jecting or mamillary tubes independent of the perforations which also exist and are analo- gous to those above de cribed. The tubes are hollow,and perforated at the extremity (/7g-. 98, a). Lyonnet supposes that agglutinating threads issue from these tubes, while those which are emitted from the per- forations do not po.ss- ess that property. We may observe, indeed, upon throwing a lit- tle dust on a spi- der's well, such as the circularone of aranea diudema, that it ad- heres to the threads wh. ich a le spi ral ly d is- posed, but not to those that radiate from the centre to the circumference; the latter are also stronger than the others. Fig. 99. Internally there « a exists in the abdo- men of spiders a special secretory ap- paratus, which con- sists of intestiniform canals, united toge- ther, and variable in number and extent according to the species. 1 n Clu- bione utrux, they consist, according to Treviranus, of four vessels, two large (fig. 99, a a) and two small {h b); near their base, and not f.r from the point where they open into the spinnarets, a number of small supplementary canals (c c) maybe observed. (Fig. 96 represents the spin- narets in the same species.) Generative system.—In the arachnidans the sexes are placed, as in insects, in difterent in- dividuals. It is not always an easy matter to distinguish outwardly the niale from the female;