256 AVES. Fig. 185. Fowl.^ excitement is found in those species of which the males have a penis. Birds differ from all the other oviparous vertebrata in having the canal which completes and carries out the ovum single, and in this respect they manifest an analogy to many mammalia. When, however, the whole of the circumstances from which this condition re- sults come to be investigated, the nature of the part in the two classes will be found to be widely different. In the Mammalia the single efferent canal results from a blending together of the vaginae and uteri of the two sides of the body for a greater or less extent along the mesial line; which junction is continued from the external outlet towards the ovaria, but never extends beyond the uteri, tlie Fallopian tubes always remaining distinct. And in proportion as the • generation approximates the oviparous mode, the efferent tubes remain separate for a greater extent. Thus, among the Rodentiu, we find the uterus completely divided into two lateral tubes, as in the Rabbit; and in the Marsupiatu the division is continued through the whole extent of the true vagina. In the true Oviparous classes the oviducts are always double and open separately into tiie cloaca, and the exception in the class of Birds to this rule is only apparent. At an early period of existence the two oviducts exist of equal size, but the left one alone attains that state of development which qualifies it for the exercise of the sexual func- tions. Hitherto no exception has been found * This figure, and those numbered 133, 134, 135, 136, 138, 151, 153, l(j3, 182, arc copied from the plates of the second edition of Carus's ' Verglei- chendcn 7^ootomie.' to this rule, and the uniformity in the condition of the excluded ovum in Birds corresponds with the sameness which prevails in the structure of the organs concerned in its evolution. The ovurhan is in general single like the oviduct, and developed only on the left side, as in the Rasores. But two ovaria have been observed in many of the Raptores. In the Falcons Nitzsch found the right ovary more developed than the left, and also in some species of Eagle and Owl. In the Sparrow- Ilawk the same distinguished anatomist found two ovaries equally well developed. In the Common Fowl the ovary first makes its appearance as a membrane beset with small pellucid vesicles adhering to and apparently developed from the coats of the vena cava. Tlie substance of the ovary is invested by a thin and extensible cupsida p7'opi'ut, covered by a reflection of peritoneum. The ova are imbedded in a stroma of delicate and yielding cellular substance, and consist each of a mi- nute pellucid vesicle, surrounded by the yolk, which at this period is as clear as the fluid of the vesicle itself, and both are inclosed in a distinct transparent capsule. When the ovum has attained the diameter of a line, the vitelline liquid presents a turbid whitish appearance. When it is about the size of a pea the yolk begins to assume a slight straw-coloured tint, and the seat of this colour- ing matter may be observed to be certain glo- bules of oil now superadded to the albuminous and serous fluid. As the oily material prevails, the yolk gradually assumes a more viscid and tenaceous consistency, and a deeper and deeper tint, until it presents die rich orange colour characteristic of the mature ovarian ovum. If one of these ova be transversely divided after being hard-boiled, tlie cut surfaces of the yolk will present tliree concentric stiata of diffe- rent colours; the external one is of a pale straw colour, the middle one of a deeper yellow, and the internal one is again light-coloured, and surrounds a substance of a whitish colour and more fluid consistency, from which a canal surrounded by a similar substance is continued to the cicatricula. The central substance and continuous canal are composed of albuminous fluid containing white granules, similar to the colliquamentum of the cicatricula. The primitive vesicle of the ovum around which the material of the yolk is accumulated, by no means grows with the growth of the ovum; it is not more than one-half larger in the largest ovarian ovum, than it was when the ovum exhibited its smallest dimensions, and when the vesicle foriued its most con- siderable part. Throughout the whole of this period it is, however, the most important part of the ovarian ovum ; forming the essential element of the cicatricula, and the centre from which all subsequent development radiates. Purkinge,the discoverer of the ' germinative vesicle,' states that it is most easily detected in the ova of the common Fowl, when they have attained the size of from four to six lines. The vesicle is at this period lodged in a mam-