ASPHYXIA. 261 Dr. Kay^* which we know to have been care- fully performed, and sufficiently repeated, and which appear to solve satisfactorily all the diffi- culties that have been stated. Bichat had not adverted to the length of time during which the circulation of venous blood by the left side of the heart, is carried on in asphyxia; but the experi- ments of both Dr. Williams and Dr. Kay prove, that this time is very short,and that before this side of the heart has lost its contractile power, the pulmonuri/ veins have ceased to deliver the blood to it, in such quantity as to maintain any effec- tive action. A short quotation from Dr. Kay's paper will show the evidence for this propo- sition. " Experiment 1. The ti-achea of a large rabbit was tied, the abdomen and chest opened, and at the end of tire second minute from the commencement of the experiment, the external iliac artery was divided; a considerable quantity of dark blood flowed, but at the third minute it had almost ceased to escape. The heart continued contracting vigorously ; very small quantities of dark blood collected slowly every twenty seconds at the extremity of the artery. In five minutes all flow of blood had entirely ceased. The left heart contracted spontaneously for a very considerable period longer. I repeated this experiment with simi- lar results."f Again, one of the variations of the experiment was as follows: " Experiment 3. A rabbit was asphyxiated by tying the trachea. The chest was opened. At the end of three minutes and a half no pulse could be discovered in the aorta. The left auricle was then opened, the blood contained escaped, and for a period of from one to three minutes, blood occasionally collected in very minute quantities, as though it gradually drained from the larger vessels of the lungs, bnt never, as often as the experiment was repeated, collected in quantity. The heart continued vigorous the usual period." " In genei-il," says Dr. Kay, " the pheno- mena of the cessation of motion in the left heart in asphyxia are these. A smaller quantity of blood is received into its cavities, and expelled for a time vigorously into the arteries. The ventricle meanwhile diminishes in size, as the quantity of blood supplied becomes less, until at length, although spontaneous contractions still occur in its fibres, no blood issues from a divided artery, and the ventricle, by contrac- tion, has obliterated its cavity. After this, blood slowly accumulates in the auricle from the lai-ge vessels of the lungs; and its con- tractility continues for a very considerable period."J Farther experiments by Dr. Kay show, that after the aorta of an animal has been tied, and after the muscles of its lower extremities have, in consequence, gradually lost all contractile power, that power is restored for a time by the injection of venous blood into the lower portion of the aorta ;§ and from these, and from some ' Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, vol. xix. and x.xix. f EdinburEch Journal, vol. xxix. p. 42. t Ibid, p. 46. « Ibid, p. 53 and 54. experiments by Dr. Edwards,* we learn, that the venous blood, though less powerful than arterial in maintaining the vital power of mus- cles, is by no means rapidly destructive to it. The changes in asphyxia, in the warm-blooded animals, have, therefore, of late been generally thought to be as follows :■—that the venous blood, though more or less noxious to all parts of the body which it fully penetrates, is nevertheless transmitted through the lungs in the first instance, in sufficient quantity to stimulate the left side of the heart, and is sent from thence in sufficient quantity to penetrate the brain;—that by its action there it destroys the sensibility, but that it passes more and more slowly through the pulmonary vessels, and after a few minutes is no longer delivered to the left side of the heart in such quantity as to keep up regular and efficient contractions there; and that thus, while the aHiV??«/ life is suddenly extinguished by the noxious influence of venous blood on the brain, the organic life is more gradually brought to a stand by its noxious influence in the lungs, and the consequent failure in the supply of blood to the left side of the heart. Tliis explanation is consistent with all the phenomena, and particularly with the very rapid restoration of the flow of blood by the admission of air to the lungs of half-asphyxiated animals, stated by Bichat himself as a difficulty in his view of the subject. The more recent experiments by Dr. Kay had, however, led him to question the validity, even of that part of Bichat's doctrine, which has been most generally admitted, viz. the ra- pidly noxious effect of venous blood on the brain and nerves. He found, in various cases, that large quantities of blood from the veins of one rabbit could be injected (slowly and cau- tiously, so as to avoid all injury of the cerebral matter) into the carotid arteries of another, with- out causing more than muscular debility and lassitude; so that he considers venous blood to be only a weaker stimulus to the brain than arterial, not a direct poison to it; and thinks the sudden insensibility of asphyxia is to be explained by the rapid diminution of the quan- tity, not by the change of quality, of the blood sent to the brain from the heart.f And when we bear in mind the fact stated in the outset of this inquiry, that the motion and vivifying power of the nutritious fluid is dependent on its exposure to oxygen, not only in the higher animals, but even in the lowest tribes, and in vegetables, where neither heart nor nervous system exists ; it appears reasonable to suppose, that the chief impediment to the blood's motion, from the failure of the supply of oxygen, will be in the lungs themselves, where the venousbloodisaccumulated in the greatest quan- tity, and where all the minute vessels carrying it must be most completely exposed to its action. But before we can be completely satisfied upon this subject, it will be necessary to carry the inquiry one step further, and to ascertain in what manner the change from venous to * De rinfluence, &c. p. i. ch. i. and p. iv. ch. 4- t Treatise on Asphyxia, p. 193 et scq.