281 AVES. Riimres seven or eight; in the Stnithioiies tlie number of ribs VLiries ; in the Ostrich (Stru- th 'w) we find ten pairs, of which the 3d, 4th, 5th, and 6th, are articulated with the sternum ; in the Nandou (RItea) there are nine pairs, of which only the 3d, 4th, 5th, and 6tli, are completed by sternal portions; in the Emeu (Drowaius) there are nine pairs, the 3d, 4th, 5th, 6th, and 7th, being joined to the sternum; in the Cassowary (Cusuurhis) there are ten pairs, and of these the 4th, 5lh, 6lh, 7th, 8th, and 9th, have sternal portions. The last pair of ribs in St ruth io and RItea are extremely short, and abut against the expanded iliac bones. Among the GruUutores we find seven pairs of ribs in the Herons (Ardea), and Gigantic Stork (Ckonia Argula) while the Cranes (Grus) have nine, and the Coots and Water- Hens have ten pairs. In the Natatores, which vary so much in their locomotive powers and habits of life, we find a corresponding variety in the number of ribs ; in the VVillock ( TJria troile) there are twelve pairs, and in the Guil- lemots and allied sea-birds eleven; in the Swans eleven ; in the Penguins nine, of which six are articulated with the sternum. The true ribs are not joined to the sternum by elastic cartilages, but by straight osseous portions, called sternal ribs, (q, fg- 125, h, fig. 129,) which are moveably connected at botli their extremities. These are the centres upon which the respiratory motions hinge; the angle between the vertebral and sternal ribs, and between these and the sternum becoming more open in inspiration, and the contrary when the sternum is approximated to the dorsal region in expiration. As the ribs are traced backwards, their vertebral extremities are seen to become gra- dually double or bifurcated from the in- creasing development of the part answering to the cervix and head of the rib in Mam- malia. The spurious cervical ribs may be plainly seen to be articulated, like the pos- terior spurious ribs of the Cetacea, by the tubercle only; and, as they increase in length in the proximity of the thorax, the head of the rib is then seen to be thrown downwards to join a distinct tubercle on the side of the body of the vertebra close to its anterior margin, but without encroaching on the intervertebral space. The comparative immobility of the dorsal vertebrse allows of this mode of articu- lation ; but it is an interesting circumstance that in the Ostrich, where the costal vertebrce preserve their mobility, the heads of the ribs, at least of those of the anterior ones, evidently pass forwards to the intervertebral space. The tubercle of the rib has thus less the character of a subordinate process than in the ribs of mammalia; it is supported on a pedicle, and is articulated by a simple synovial joint with the transverse process of the corresponding ver- tebra. The ribs, below the union of the two articular processes, are thick and strong, but they gradually become flattened, and increase in breadth as they descend towards the sternum. This is especially remarkable in the second, third, and fourth, ribs of the \\'oodpecker. The dorsal ribs are not only connected together by muscles and aponeurotic membranes, but cooperate with the anchylosed dorsal vertebra;, in giving stability to the trunk by means of small osseous splints, detached from the pos- terior margin of each true rib, and directed backwards and upwards to the next in suc- cession, to both of which they are united by means of oblique fibrous ligaments. In birds of powerful flight these connecting pieces are, as might be expected, most developed. In the Raptores they extend beyond and overlap the succeeding posterior rib, and in this order they are anchylosed. In some of the Struthious birds, as the Ostrich and Rhea, they exist from the third to the fifdi rib, while in the Emeu and Cassowary there are only rudimentary traces of them. In the Penguins these accessory processes are remarkable for their breadth, but they are never anchylosed to the ribs, and consequently are apt to be lost if care be not taken in pre- paring the skeleton. The sternal ribs (h, h,fig. 129) are of a less flattened form than the vertebral; they increase in length as they are situated further back; their costal extremity is simply rounded, while their sternal extremity is extended transversely and divided into two smooth surfaces moveably articulated by two synovial capsules with cor- responding cavities in the sides of the sternum. The first sternal rib is, however, joined by fibro-cartilaginous substance only, while one or two of the posterior pieces are anchylosed with the rib immediately preceding them, and do not reach the sternum. In the Ostrich the last rib abuts against the ilium, to which it is anchylosed. In the Peacock, Pintado, and common Fowl, the vertebral and sternal portions of the last pair of ribs are unconnected with each other; the latter thus representing the ossified ten- dinous intersections of the rectus abdominis muscle, as in the Crocodile. This analogy is still more striking in the Herons, Storks, and Curlews, and in many of the Natatores, in which the sternal portions alone exist, and are remarkably elongated. The part of the skeleton which has undergone the most remarkable modifications in relation to the powers and functions of the anterior ex- tremities is iheaternum, (r,s, fig. 125 and 129,) which gives origin to their principal muscles. It is so developed, both in length and breadth, as to extend over the whole of tlie anterior or ventral aspect of the thoracic and of a great part of the abdominal cavities, reaching in some birds of great powers of flight even to the pubic bones, so as to require removal be- fore the abdominal cavity can be examined. In order to aflxjrd origin to the accumulated fasciculi of the pectoral muscles, which other- wise would become blended together over the middle of the sternum, an osseous crest (s, fg. 125, a, fig. 130) is extended down- wards, analogous to the cranial crest which intervenes to the temporal muscles in the carnivorous mammalia; and as this crest in- dicates in these the powers of the jaw, so the