258 ASPHYXIA excretion of carbon, which immediately on its being evolved from the nourishing fluid, en- tered into combination with the oxygen of the air, and was carried off; and the cliief reason for this opinion was, that the volume of oxy- gen which disappeared in the process, was believed to be just equal, in all cases, to that of the carbonic acid that appeared. As it is known that the volume of any quantity of carbonic acid is just the same as that of the oxygen contained in that quantity of acid, if the fact had been as above stated, the coinci- dence could hardly have been accidental, and the inference would have been nearly inevitable, that the oxygen of the atmosphere did not enter the nourishing fluids, but merely dissolved and carried off the excreted carbon. But the numerous experiments of Dr. Ed- wards* and of M. Du Long,f seem to have nearly established the proposition, that in the respiration of by far the greater number of animals, the volume of oxygen that disappears from, is somewhat greater than that of the carbonic acid that appears in, the air employed: the same result was obtained in experiments by Allen and Pepys on bii'ds;X and if this be so, it is certain that the respiration of these animals is attended with an actual absorption of oxygen, at least to a certain extent. This conclusion authorizes us to inquire far- ther, whether it is not more probable, that the whole of the oxygen which disappears from air in contact with the nourishing fluid of living beings, is absorbed into that fluid, and that the carbonic acid which appears is exhaled, ready formed, in its place. And several facts shew that this is by far the more probable suppo- sition ; and that oxygen is essential to vital action, not merely as a means of carrying off superfluous carbon, which has become noxious; but as itself an ingredient in the nourisliirtg fluids, necessari/ for the maintenance of their motion and vivifying power. But without entering at length into this question, which will be more fully discussed under the head of Respiration, it is obvious from what has been said, that provision must be made, in the ceconomy of all living beings, for the exposure of dieir fluids to the air of the atmosphere, in circumstances admitting of ex- halation and absorption ; and it may be farther stated, that, in the different classes of animals, the amount of this mutual action for which provision-has to be made, must be proportioned to the energy and activity of vital action which each animal is destined to exhibit, these qualities being very generally found to be greater, as the consuniption and vitiation of the air are more rapid.ยง These principles explain the intention of many different contrivances and arrangements, afterwards to be described, which are em- * Dc I'Influence des A gens Physiques sur la Vic, p. 410, ct seq. t Journal de Physiologic, t. iv. t See Hodgkin's Translation of Edwards, p. 486. I See Cuvier, La Rogne Animalo, t. i. p. 56 ; also Marshall Hall, Pliilosophical Transactions, 1832, p. 339. ployed in different classes of animals for the performance of the function of respiration; and the variations of which may be said, in a gene- ral view, to be determined by two conditions, first by the medium in which each animal is destined to exist, and secondly, by the inten- sity and variety of vital actions which it is to be capable of performing. The importance, to all living beings, of the action of oxygen on their fluids is most un- equivocally shewn by the nature of the fatal changes which ensue, when that action is in any way obstructed; i. e. by the nature of the changes which take place in death by asphyxia. The study of diese has long been held to be of the highest importance, not only as a car- dinal point in physiology, but as affording the only precise information in regard to the fatal tendency of many and various diseases. It is chiefly in animals of the highest orders, i. e. in warm-blooded animals, that these phe- nomena have been studied ; and it is to be remembered, that in them the subject is ren- dered more complex by the higher endow- ments and greater power over all functions of the body,which the nervous system there possesses. When we trace the connection, in these animals, of the different changes that precede the fatal event, it is right to bear in mind, that the in- terruption of the process by which their fluids are exposed to the air is equally fatal, not only to those animals in which no action of the ner- vous system is concerned in that process, but also in vegetables, where no nervous system exists. The phenomena of asphyxia in the higher animals are very nearly the same, in whatever manner the access of air to the organs of respi- ration is prevented. This may be done, in the case of animals that breathe by lungs, in a great variety of ways; by strangulation or suf- focation, i. e. by any mechanical means pro- hibiting the ingress of air by the trachea and bronchi; by submersion in water or any other fluid; by confinement in vacuo or in such gases as contain no oxygen, but are not them- selves poisonous, such as azote and hydrogen ; by forcible compression of the thorax, prevent- ing its dilatation ; or by the admission of air into free contact with the surface of the lungs on both sides of the chest, so as to prevent their distension, as in the celebrated experiment of Dr. Hooke ; or by tlie section, either of all the separate nerves which move the muscles concerned in the dilatation of the thorax in inspiration, or of the spinal cord in the upper part of the neck, above the origin of the- phrenics, by which the whole of these nerves are simultaneously palsied, as in many ex- periments of Galen, Cruikshank, Le Gallois, and others.* In the case of fishes or other animals that * These last are the lesions of the nervous sys- tem which cause sudden death by asphyxia. Sec- tion of the par vagiim, the sentient nerve of the lungs, produces death by asphyxia also, but slowly, and through the intervention of disease and disorganization of the lungs, to be afterwards no- ticed.