467 BURSiE MUCOSAE. Anastomoses—The ascending branches of the superior profunda anastomose in the sub- stance of the deltoid muscle with the anterior and posterior circumflex and the cephalic branch of the acromial thoracic, and with the subsca- pular and the axillary branches of the thoracica longior in the axilla. If the brachial artery be obliterated by disease or the application of a ligature above the origin of the superior pro- funda, the blood will be carried by the circuitous route of these anastomoses into the brachial artery and all its branches from the superior profunda downwards. Wlien the brachial artery is obliterated near the elbow, the circulation is maintained in the forearm and hand by the anastomoses of both profunda; and the anastomotica magna with the recurrent branches of the radial, ulnar, and in- terosseous arteries. The anastomosis kept up between all ilie branches of tlie brachial artery along the periosteum of the humerus, in the substance of the muscles and in the integu- ments of the arm, is so free as to be sufficient to ensure the circulation in the limb even if the brachial artery were obliterated throughout the whole of its length. For the Bibliography, see that of Anatomy (Introduction) and of Artery. (J. Hart.) BRAIN. See Enkephalon, and Nervous System (Comp. Anat.) BURSiE MUCOSiE. (Fr. bourses synovi- ales; Germ, die S/ileimheutel.)—This name was first given by Albinus to small shut sacs, filled with an unctuous fluid, which he found in certain parts of the body, interposed between the tendons and bones. The name, however, is now much more extensively applied, for ana- tomists have ascertained that those smooth membranes, previously noticed by Winslow, covering the tendons and lining the tendinous sheaths about the wrists and ankles, are strictly of the same nature as those described by the Dutch anatomist. The number of bursae known to Albinus, and described by him in his " His- toria Musculorum," was but sixteen pairs. Monro, who first properly explained their ana- tomy and uses in his excellent monograph upon this subject, has made us acquainted with no less than seventy pairs, all situated in the ex- tremities : and since his day the number has been further increased by the discoveries of Beclard and others : so that anatomists are now acquainted with upwards of one hundred pairs, many of them situated in the head and trunk. Bursae mucosa;, though of the same structure and answering the same ends in every situation but gives off the interosseous high up, which has all the appearance and many of the dangers of the high bifurcation. Mr. Harrison mentions a case in which the brachial divided into three branches, two of which united to form the radial, which gave off the anterior interosseous, the posterior being derived from the third, the ulnar. Mr. Burns re- marks, that when, as rarely happens, the ulnar is the anomalous branch, the bilurcation generally takes place nearer the axilla, than when the radial is the abnormal vessel.—Ed.] where they occur, may nevertheless be divided, with advantage, into two great classes; viz., I. the subcutaneous bursa, or those placed be- tween the skin and fascia; and, II. the deep bursa, or those which lie beneath the latter membrane. I. The subcutaneous or superficial bursa: were unknown not only to Albinus, but even to Monro and Bichat; at least there is no mention made of them in the works of any of these authors. Beclard, in his " Additions to the General Anatomy of Bichat," appears to be the first anatomist who refers distinctly to them. The most remarkable are,—1, a large one placed between the skin and the lig-a- mentum patellffi ; 2, one between the skin and fascia covering the great trochanter of the femur; 3, one between the skin and fascia over the olecranon. These are all extremely well marked. There are others likewise, which, though less perfectly developed, are, however, evidently of the same nature; such as that between the skin and fascia over the angle of the lower jaw, and those found upon the dorsum of the hand beneath the phalangeal and meta- carpo-phalangeal articulations. These super- ficial bursa; are not equally perfect in all in- dividuals: they are best developed in those whose limbs are actively and habitually exer- cised. On cutting into their cavities we gene- rally find them traversed by numerous fila- ments : the appearance indeed is extremely similar to that presented by the subcutaneous cellular tissue in certain parts of the body,—in the palpebra and penis, for example ; and this no doubt is the reason why these bursas were not distinguished from cellular membrane by Monro and others. That they are different structures, however, or at least that they are independent of the cellular system, is sufficiently proved by the simple process of inflating their cavities through a small opening made into them; we then find that the air is circumscribed within a definite boundary, and cannot, as in the palpebra and penis, be made to pass into the surrounding cellular membrane. II. The deep burstc, or those placed beneath the fascia, are much more numerous and much better marked than the preceding. They are almost uniformly found in connexion with ten- dons, and, generally speaking, are interposed between them and the bones over which they play. Like the superficial ones, they too are always shut sacs, in most instances of an ex- tremely simple form, but in some cases much more complex; and hence they may with pro- priety be subdivided into two sets,—die vesi- cular and the vaginal. a. The deep vesicular bursa, when fully dis- tended, represent each a simple globular bag, one of whose sides is in contact with the bone, and the other with one side of the tendon, without, however, enveloping it. (SeeT^'g. 111, 6.) On opening into its cavity, it is found to con- tain a viscid fluid, more or less abundant, and this is sometimes traversed by fila- ments passing from one wall of the sac to the other. They generally occur in the neighbourhood of the great articulations of 2 11 2