AGE. of persons living in towns, taken at the age of nineteen, exceeds that of residents in the coun- try by two or three centim (1 or 1^ inch); and that the children of persons in easy circum- stances, and those of studious habits, are gene- rally above the middle height.* A memoir by the same author devoted to an examination of the weight of the human subject at different ages, contains a series of interesting conclusions,from which we select the following. (1.) At'the period of birth there is an inequality both as to weight and to stature,in the two sexes ; the medium weight of males being 3 kil. 20, (rather more than 7 lbs.), that of females 2 kil. 91, (about 6^lbs.); the height of the former Om. 496, (about 19 inch.); that of the latter Om. 483, /'about 18 inch.) (2.) The weight of the infant diminishes the first three days after birth, and does not begin to increase till the second week. (3.) At the same age the male is generally heavier than the female; it is only about the twelfth year that their weights are equal. Between the first and eleventh year the difference of weight is fiom 1 kil. to 1 kil. and a half; between sixteen and twenty, about 6 kil. and after this period from 8 to 9 kil. (4.) At full growth the weight is almost exactly twenty times what it was at birth, while the stature is only about three and a quarter more than it was at that period. This holds good with both sexes. (5.) In old age both sexes lose about 6 or 7 kil. of their weight, and 7 centim. of their height. (6.) During the growth of both sexes, we may reckon the squares of the weights, at the different ages, as proportional to the fifth powers of the heights. (7.) After full growth in each sex, the weights are very nearly as the squares of the heights. (From the two prece- ding statements it may he deduced that the increase in the longitudinal direction exceeds that in the transverse, including in the latter both width and thickness.) (8.) The male at- tains his maximum weight towards the fortieth year, and begins to lose it sensibly towards the sixtieth. The female does not attain her maxi- mum weight till about the fiftieth year. (9.) The weights of full-grown and well-formed persons vary in a range of about 1 to 2, while the heights vary only from 1 to IJ. This state- ment is deduced from the following table :f Maximum. Minimum. Medium. KIL. KIL. KIL. Male weight .... 98.5 49.1 63.7 Female 93.5 63.7 55.2 MET. MET. MET. Male stature 1.990 1.740 1.684 Female 1.740 1.408 1.579 * Recherches sur la loi de la Croissance de I'Homme, par M. Quetelet. Annales d'Hygicne Publique, &c. t. vi. p. 89. t Ann. d'Hygiene, t. x. p. 27. To the above memoir M. Villerme has appended some extracts from manuscript notes found among the papers of M. Tenon, and written about the year 1783. They contain observations which correspond, in many re- spects, with those of Quetelet. The last researches of this industrious ob- server have been devoted to the muscular power of man at different ages, and have been but very recently published. In the course of his memoir he refers to two tables; one stating the relative power of draught (la force renale), at the several periods; the other, the relative ma- nual strength (la force manuelle) ; in each case estimated by the dynamometer. The results are very much what might be expected a priori. It appears that the maximum of the " force renale " is at the age of twenty-five ; and that the difference in the extent of this kind of mus- cular power between males and females, is less during childhood than at the adult age. Thus, in the former period the male surpasses the female by one-third, towards puberty by one- half; and at full growth, his strength is double that of the other sex. The manual force is greatest at the age of thirty, and at all ages is greater in the male than in the female ; before puberty, in the ratio of 3 : 2, after this period, in the ratio of 9:5. The average manual strength of a man is equivalent to 89 kil. and e.xceeds his weight by 19 kil., so that he might support himself by his hands only, even with a considerable weight attached to his feet.* This and the preceding memoirs, we are told by M. Quetelet, are extracted from a work which he is about to publish, entitled " Sur I'Homme et le developpement de ses facultes; ou, Essai de Physique Sociale." We need scarcely add that we are justified in expecting from the specimens already presented to us, a series of valuable and highly interesting facts, together with deductions of no ordinary im- portance and originality. Having thus briefly traced the changes tliat precede maturity, we may ask what is it that prevents the processes of growth from advancing at the same rate as they have hitherto done ? Why, so long as they are undisturbed by dis- ease or unnatural circumstances, should they not advance ad infinitum, or at least why should they not raise man to the strength and dimensions which poets have fabled in their Titans ? The same food, the same atmosphere, the same light and heat, the same electric agencies, by which the organs have been main- tained or excited, are still around them and exerting their influence. Wliy, then, should they never transcend a certain point? Why should the stature, however much it may vary between a Boruwlaski and an O'Brien, yet never rise above a certain measure ? Why does the strength never exceed the powers of a Milo or a Desaguliers, or the intellect surpass the limits of Aristotle, Shakspeare, or Newton? These are interesting but impossible problems. If we say that a certain quantum of vital power is allotted to the growth of man, and that while a portion is expended in raising him to matu- rity, the residue must be husbanded for con- ducting him through the remaining portion of his duration, else he might suddenly stop short * Ann. d'Hygiene, &c. Oct. 1834, t. xii.^. 294.