CIRCULATION. 653 Fig. 326. Lobster. within these sacs, as upon the gills or lungs of other animals, but the exact course of the blood does not appear as yet to have been satisfacto- rily ascertained in these animals. Audouin* believes it to be essentially the same as in the Crustacea. The long-shaped dorsal vessel or heart gives off arteries to both sides, and re- ceives at one place branches from the gills. The veins form only spaces or sinuses, and not vessels on the abdominal side of tlie animal. The blood propelled from the artery is passed through the system, returning from which, it is collected into the venous sinuses below, thence it proceeds to the pulmonary organs, and after passing through them, returns to the heart. Zoophi/tes. — The general character of the circulation in this class is exceedingly ob- scure ; for while in some of the animals be- longing to it, comparative anatomists have not succeeded as yet in pointing out any distinct vascular system ; in others, they have been at a loss to determine, among various vascular or- gans, which of them forms the proper circula- tory system corresponding with tiiat of higher animals. Echinoderiiiuta.—Among the Zoophytes the Echinodermata present the most fully deve- loped vascular system with wliich we are ac- quainted. According to the observations of Tiedemann and Delle Chiaje, who have inves- tigated the structure of these animals with great success, there are two prmcipal divisions of the vascular system, described by the first of the above-mentioned authors as distinct from one another, by the other as communicating toge- ther. We do not feel inclined to consider, in ac- cordance with the view of these authors, that series of cavities which is employed in loco- motion as a part of the nutritive circulatory organs. That part of the vascular system of these animals again, which is situated in the neigh- bourhood of the alimentary canal, very proba- bly corresponds with the circulatory organs which we have been describing in other ani- mals ; since arteries and veins can be distin- guished in it, and there is good reason to be- lieve that a circulation of fluid takes place through its vessels in all the kinds of Echino- dermatous animals. In the Holothuria, the principal artery or heart is connected with a ring situated round the commencement of the alimentary canal, from which the systemic arteries are given off: the systemic veins send branches to the gills, and the returning vessels from these organs transmit the circulating fluid through one large trunk into the heart. The intestinal vascular system of the Asterias and Echinus is somewhat similar to that of the Holothuria, consisting of annular vessels, from which arteries and veins are given oft', and con- nected with a dilated contractile canal, consi- dered as a heart. Planaria.—Next to the Echinodermata in respect of the degree of perfection of their cir- culatory organs, may be mentioned the Plana- riae, in which M. Duges* has pointed out a very remarkable system of vessels which ap- pear to constitute circulatory organs (fig. 327, a, a). For some time previously to the disco- very of these vessels, the sin- gularly blanched intestinal ca- vity of the Planaria and some Entozoa was believed to hold the place of organs of circula- tion, the same cavity in which digestion occurs being believed to carry by its ramifications the nutritious fluids to different parts of the body. But Duges has shewn the existence in them of a system of vascular organs resembling considerably those of the Leech, to which animals the Planaria bears, in other parts of its organization also, astriking analogy. The vascular system Plmmna. of the Planaria consists of three principal longitudinal trunks, two lateral and one dorsal or median, which are all united together by numerous minute anasto- Fig. 327. " See the article Arachnida, p. 206. * Annal. tics Sciences Natur. xv. p. 160.