96 AMPHIBIA. bony plates on each side, probably rudiments of the vomer and palatine bones. Each of the larger has six or seven lines of teeth, about twelve on each line; and each smaller bone bears four ranges of five or six teeth ; making in all nearly two hundred teeth in the palate. Those of the lower jaw in this animal are placed in similar order. In the proteus the teeth nearly resemble those of the salamander. The maxillary teeth are always slender, sharp-pointed, and closely set. The frog has about forty on each side of the upper jaw, of which eight belong to the intermaxillary bone. The salamander has about sixty above and below. In the tadpole state of the frog the mouth is very small, and, instead of teeth, is occu- pied only by minute horny plates of just sufficient consistence to abrade the soft mixed food which it finds on the surface of animal or vegetable substances in the water. Its sto- mach and intestinal canal are of very different form from that which they afterwards assume. The intestine is of nearly equal size throughout its whole length. It is very long, being not less than ten times the length of the actual space from the mouth to the anus, and is coiled up in a circular form, occupying the greater part of the abdominal cavity. The canal, as we shall presently see, changes its character materially during the metamorphosis of the animal, becoming gradually shorter until it is not a quarter of the length, in proportion to the size of the animal, which it exhibited in its earlier condition. In the adult amphibia the whole alimentary canal is of a very simple character. The oesophagus is wide and comparatively short. The stomach single, consisting of a simple sac, elongated in the lengthened forms of the sala- mander, the proteus, and other aquatic species. The intestine is but slightly convoluted, even in the short tailless family ; and there is com- paratively little difference in the diameter of its two distinct portions. It terminates, as in the reptilia, in a cloaca, or pouch, which also receives the openings of the urinary and genital organs. The anus in the toads and frogs opens on the hmder part of the back ; in the other forms it is situated beneath at the commence- ment of the tail, as in the reptilia. The liver, the pancreas, and the spleen are found in the whole of the amphibia; and these organs are observed, in the elongated aquatic forms, to assume a corresponding lengthened shape. The liver is of considerable size, particularly in the salamanders. The gall-bladder exists in all cases, varying, how- ever, in size and form in the different genera. IV. Lymphatic and lacteal si/stem.—Tliis system is highly interesting in the amphibia, on account of its extreme development, and of its.presenting several important and remark- able peculiarities in its structure. The investigations of Professor Muller of Berlin have lately brought to light the existence of pulsating cavities in the course of the lympha- tics, constituting a sort of ventricles for the pro- pulsion of their fluids towards the veins into which they are received. In the frog two pairs of these little pulsating sacs are found ; at the pos- terior part one is situated on each side of the extremity of the coccygeal bone, behind the hip- joint, and the anterior ones under the posterior edge of the scapula by the transverse process of the third vertebra. These cavities are of considerable size, and pulsate with some degree of regularity : the pvilsations, however, do not coincide with those of the heart, nor are those on the one side always synchronous with those on the other. The posterior ones convey the lymph received from the legs and hinder parts of the body into the ischiatic veins, and the anterior pair, into which the absorbents of the arms and the anterior parts of the viscera, &c. open, convey this fluid into the jugular veins. The internal structure of these sacs is cellular; they communicate freely with each other on each side by anastomosing vessels. On inflating the organ, not only the lymphatic vessels are inflated, but the whole of the veins also. Dr. Marshall Hall had previously observed a somewhat similar pul- sating cavity in the eel. These lymphatic ventricles in the amphibia have still more recently received further exami- nation and illustration by Professor Panizza of Pavia, who published the result of his researches in the year 1833.* Professor Muller's discovery was published in the previous year in the Berlin Annals. The lymphatic system is developed to an extraordinary degree in the frogs, as well as in several other genera of this class, its vessels being found in numbers and of considerable size immediately under the skin. The lacteals ramify upon the surface of the intestine in two layers, anastomosing and forming intricate plexuses on the mesentery, and terminating in two trunks, or thoracic ducts, which pass forwards one on each side of the spinal column. V. Of the sanguiferous si/stem.—If the changes, so frequently alluded to, which the animals of this class undergo ia passing from the condition of a fish to that of a reptile, have received repeated illustrations in the considera- tion of th^ stnicture of the skeleton, of the organs of motion, and of those of digestion, far more mteresting and important are those which occur in the character of the circulation ; in which the view which has been taken of the true situation of the amphibia in the chain of animal development receives the most satis- factory proof. Beginning life with all the essential characters of the fishes, even in the functions of circulation and respiration, pos- sessing the single branchial heart of that class, how wonderful and beautiful are the changes which these systems of organs undergo, as the branchiae become obliterated to give place to pulmonic cavities, and the heart at the same time assumes the compound character and form of a systemic and pulmonic heart, in accordance with the change in the respiratory organs. The newts, or water-salamanders, afford the most satisfactory opportunity of observing these * Sopra 11 sistema linfatico dei rcttili. fol. Pav, 1833.