576 CETACEA. and one inch in breadth. The gall-bladder is of an elongated form, about an inch in diameter at the broadest part. It does not receive the bile by means of a communication between the cystic and hepatic ducts as in most animals, but that fluid is conveyed directly into it by two distinct hepato-cystic canals in the same manner and situation as the ureters terminate in the urinary bladder. The two orifices are half an inch apart on the same transverse line, and at a distance of three inches from ihe fundus vesica they are large, readily admitting a full-sized probe. The common ducts, of which they are the terminations, are half an inch in length, and branch off into the lobes on either side. The inner membrane of the gall-bladder is rugous; it has a longer investment of peritoneum than in man. Where it ends it is difficult to say, as it gradually diminishes in size after the entry of the above ducts, and does not appear to be separated from the cystic duct by any marked contraction or valvular structure. The cystic duct is about six inches in length, and two lines in diameter; dilates a little before entering the duodenum, and as it passes between the coats of that intes- tine the canal is provided with a reticular valvular structure of the inner membrane, which may probably supply the deficiency of this structure in the preceding parts of the duct. Three vena cava hepatica from the three lobes of the liver join the vena cava inferior at the upper and posterior edge of the liver, which is not, however, perforated by it as in most quadrupeds. The vena porta, formed in the usual manner, but deriving a very small branch from the spleen, enters the fissure below the gall-bladder. Sir Everard Home takes no notice of the pancreas ; Sir Stamford Raffles merely observes that it lay ' below the duodenum.' It is situated below and behind the pyloric cavity of the stomach. Its length in a Dugong six feet long we found to be seven inches ; it was obtuse and thick at the splenic or left end, where its diameter was two inches, and gradu- ally growing smaller towards the duodenum, it terminated in one uncommonly large duct, which was three lines in diameter and of great length. On laying open this canal the orifices of from twenty to thirty tributary ducts were observable, which were two lines in diameter; the coats of diese ducts thick, and terminating in flattened lobules. The spleen, as Sir S. Raffles observes, was very small, of a rounded form; its length in the larger specimen four inches and a half, its breadth in the middle one inch and a half, from which it tapered to either end; its structure finely reticular. In the Piked Whale the spleen is single and of small proportional size; in the Porpesse this organ is remarkable for its subdivision into distinct portions, of which one is generally about the size of a walnut (/(, _^g. 263); the others, to the number of four, five, or six (/, /), are of much smaller size.] The Spouting Whales always feed upon living food. The Dolphins and Cachalots pur- sue or catch fish principally, and large Mollusks, whilst Whales prey upon the numerous little Molluscous and articulated animals and Vermes which swarm, it is said, in the northern seas, and in the number of which are reckoned crustaceans, cuttle-fishes, clios, medusas, sea- anemonies, &c; but in this respect a difference must be made between the Balffinopterae and the Whales, properly so called (Balana), for we are assured that the first also feed upon fish, and are capable of swallowing much larger animals than the latter. Organs of Circulation.—The researches of the anatomist on the circulating system of the Cetaceans have not hitherto been extended to many species. In its essential parts it is similar to that in other Mammalia. But the peculiar nature of Cetaceans, and the great modifications of their organs of movement, have necessarily produced in this system, not only modifications analogous to those of these organs, but vascular developments exclusively characteristic of these animals. It is not known whether the Manatee pre- sents anything particular in regard to the organs of circulation, but the heart of the Dugong (Jig. 264) and of the Rytina is cloven by the Fig. 264. Heart of the Dugong. deep separation of the two ventricles, a cir- cumstance which adds an important link of affinity to those already subsisting between these animals. [In the heart of the Dugong, the ventricles, as Sir Stamford Raffles has correctly described them,* are not completely detached from one another. The auricles are of equal size and of a rounded form. In the right auricle (a), which receives a single superior cava, the coronary vein, and the inferior cava, there is on the auricular side of the orifice of the latter vein a fleshy Eustachian valve, of the size and form winch, in such cases, is com- monly seen in the human subject. The valve of the foramen ovale has a reticulate surface at the upper margin, but is entire and im- perforate. The right ventricle (b), in the Du- ' Phil. Trans. 1820, p. 174.