89 ALBUMEN. One hundred parts of dried white of egg, subjected to destructive distillation, yielded carbonic acid, carburetted and sulphuretted hydrogen, prussic acid, carbonate of ammonia partly in solution and partly sublimed, stinking volatile oil, and 14.9 of spongy difficultly com- bustible carbon, which, by incineration, left 2.21 of ash composed of carbonate of soda, phosphate of soda, and phosphate of lime, (Hatchett.) Nitric acid, dropped into a solution of albu- men, forms a white, flaky precipitate, which is more or less abundant according to the state of dilution of the solution, and which is soluble in ammonia and potash. When coagulated white of egg is kept for some weeks in very dilute nitric acid, it acquires a yellow colour, and if digested in boiling water it dissolves, and has acquired the properties of gelatine, and is precipitated by tan and muriate of tin. Hatchett.)* Cold nitric acid sp. gr. 1.25, gradually tinges coagulable white of egg of a yellow colour, dissolving a little of it, and forming malic acid, with the evolution of nitro- gen ; its surface becomes tallowy, and in twenty-four hours it falls into a pale yellow powder, which is acid and composed of nitric, nitrous, and malic acids with albumen ; when thoroughly washed with water, it becomes more neutral and of an orange colour, still reddening litmus, and remaining insoluble in water, but soluble in caustic potash.f When coagulated white of egg is digested in hot nitric acid, nitrogen, nitrous gas, carbonic acid, and prussic acid are formed, and a dark yellow solution obtained, which is precipitated by the addition of water and ammonia, and which contains malic and oxalic acids, bitter matter, and fat. (Hatchett.)! Sulphuric acid is a less powerful precipitant of albumen than nitric acid. Dilute sulphuric acid dropped into an aqueous solution of albumen occasions a precipitate which is so- luble in excess of acid ; ferrocyanate of po- tassa throws it down. When coagulated albu- men is digested in sulphuric acid, very slightly diluted, it yields a deep crimson solution.§ Coa- gulated serum digested in sulphuric acid diluted with six parts of water, converts it into acid sulphate of albumen, which, when edulcorated with cold water, becomes more neutral, and is soluble in warm water, forming a gelatinous solution, which is precipitated by sulphuric, muriatic, and nitric acids, and by the alkalies. (Berzelius.)ll Coagulated white of egg digested in hot sulphuric acid becomes carbonized without forming artificial tan. (Hatchett.) When a solution of recently fused phosphoric acid (pyro-phosphoric acid) is added to solution • Phil. Trans. 1799. t Berzelius Lehrbuch der Thier. Chemic, p. 38. Wbhler',s Translation. Dresden, 1831. t Phil. Trans. 1799. § According to Raspail, when sugar is previously dissolved in the sulphuric acid, the albumen is co-- loured purple, which is deeper in proportion as the acid and sugar arc in gieatcr quantity. II Lehrbuch der Thicr, Chemic. of albumen, it occasions an abundant pre- cipitate : the acid gradually loses this property, and again acquires it by fusion and ignition. (Berzelius.) Muriatic acid occasions a precipitate in al- buminous solutions, and entirely throws down the albumen when aided by heat; but the precipitate is soluble in axcess of acid, and in ammonia and potassa. A muriated albu- men may be formed in the same way as the sulphate. (Berzelius.) Coagulated egg-albu- men digested in muriatic acid gradually ac- quires a purple colour. (Hatchett.) Albumen which has been precipitated by muriatic acid, often becomes reddish when collected and ex- posed upon a filter. When coagulated seralbumen is digested in acetic acid, it becomes soft and transparent, and, aided by a gentle heat, dissolves with the evolution of a little nitrogen. This solution is precipitated by the alkalies,but a slight excess again renders it clear: it is also precipitated by sulphuric, nitric, and muriatic acids, and by ferrocyanate of potassa. When this acetic so- lution of albumen is evaporated, it leaves a transparent sour residue, soluble in warm water acidulated by acetic acid. (Berzelius.) Albumen is slowly soluble in liquid ammo- nia. In solution of potassa it becomes gelati- nous, and yields a pale yellow green solution, precipitable by acids and alcohol, and by acetic acid. Heated in liquid potassa, albumen evolves ammonia. Alcohol and ether coagulate ovalbumen, but pure ether (free from alcohol) does not co- agulate seralbumen. (Gmelin.) When serum is shaken with ether, it soon separates upon the surface, holding fatty matter in solution. (Gmelin.) Coagulated serum digested in al- cohol or ether yields a solution of fatty matter. Coagulated ovalbumen, when long boiled in water, becomes bulky and falls into pieces, and a small portion is dissolved : the filtered so- lution, evaporated at 212°, leaves a pale brown film, and is alkaline ; it is rendered turbid by mineral acids, acetic acid, and tincture of galls, and by many metallic salts. When albumen which has been cautiously dried at a low temperature (without coagula- tion) is triturated with four parts of water, it yields a solution resembling fresh al- bumen. A solution of the white of an egg in a pint of water occasions no precipitate in lime, baiy- tic or strontia water, nor in solution of sulphate of lime. Some of the neutral salts render it more or less turbid, and it is copiously precipitated by solution of alum. Nitrate, acetate, and subacetate of lead are precipitated by albuminous solutions. One part of fresh ovalbumen in 2000 of water, or one of dried albumen in 10,000 of water is rendered turbid by subacetate of lead. A four-hundredth part of liquid, or a two thousandth of solid albumen is precipitable by corrosive sublimate. (Bos- tock.) The precipitate is blackened by potassa, and is probably a compound of muriate ofalbu-