AMPHIBIA. 98 Fig. 20. fore, the heart consists of a single ventricle, and of two auricles. The existence of a se- cond auricle was first demonstrated in the higher forms, the frogs and toads, by Dr. Davy,* and, although in the latest works of Cuvier and Meckel the auricle in these forms is de- scribed as single, yet the more complicated structure has since been amply confirmed by many other anatomists. W'eberf especially has described the biauricular structure in a large American frog; but he failed to demon- strate it in the perennibranchiate amphibia. From a very interesting paper by Mr. Owen, in the first volume of the Zoological Society's Transactions,! it appears that the biauricular structure of the heart was ascribed by Hunter to all the amphibia except the perennibranchiate forms; in which, however, the existence of the left auricle has been satisfactorily deter- mined by Mr. Owen, who has also given some very interesting illustrations of the mode in which the coexistence of branchiae and rudi- mentary lungs is associated with certain pecu- liarities of the circulation. The circulation in the adult timphibia, then, assumes exactly the character which we find in the rept'dla, but in the most simple form. The little pulmonic auricle receives the blood perfectly aerated from the lungs by means of the pulmonary veins. The systemic auricle at the same time receives the impure blood from the system by the vena; cavae. The blood from the two auricles is sent together into the single ventricle where it becomes mixed, and this mingled arterial and venous blood, thus but half purified, is propelled by the same impulse, partly into the pulmonary arteries to be more perfectly purified, and the remainder through the aorta and the whole circulating system to the different organs of the body. The aeration of the blood, therefore, is but imperfect; a condition which is met with equally in the whole of the reptilia. VI. Respiration.— The preceding observa- tions on the circulation have in some measure necessarily anticipated the account which we have to offer of the correlative function of re- spiration, and the character of those changes * Zool. Journal, vol. ii. t Beitrage von dem Herzen der Batrachier. 8vo. 18.32. X Part iii. p. 213. to which its organs are subjected iri the transit of the amphibia from the pisciform to the reptile state. Breathing water, in the first instance, exclusively, these animals are fur- nished in the tadpole condition with branchije or gills, of a leaf-like form, considerably sub- divided, though far less so than in the fishes. These branchiae are, in the first instance, in all cases external; but in the higher forms of the class they remain so situated only for a brief space, becoming, as in the frogs and toads, internal at a very early period of their ex- istence. They are supported by cartilaginous or osseous arches, connected with the os hy- oides, and the changes which they undergo are accompanied by alterations in the form of that bone, to which allusion has already been made, and an account of which will now be given. At that period of the tadpole's existence, at which its branchiae are in full action, and the lungs still restricted to the state of a black- ish, rudinientary tissue, we find the tympanic bones, (figs. 21, 22, e,) developed to a great Fig.2i. Fig. 22. extent, and forming the basis to which the branchial apparatus is suspended, by means of a rather thick angular portion, (fig!;'.2\, 22, a.) This has been shewn by Cuvier to represent what in the fishes is composed of three bones, and is the medium by which in them the whole branchial apparatus is suspended to the temporal, and which bears also the branchi- ostegous rays. Between these two lateral branches is a single piece, (figs. 21, 22, h,) which, according to the same authority, cor- responds to the chain of bones placed in most fishes between the two first branchial arches. To the posterior point of this bone are attached two rhomboidal portions, (c, f,) to the external margins of which are suspended the arches on which the branchiae are supported, and which represent the chain of bones in fishes, bearing the two last branchial arches. As the age of the tadpole increases, and its metamorphosis is proceeding unseen, (figs. 23, 24,) we find the branches which support Fig. 23. Fig. 24. the branchial apparatus (a) gradually lengthen- ing, and becoming more and more slender, and at length exhibiting the two long cartila- ginous pieces, by which the os hyoides is