327 AVES. (see fig. 165, wlwre sc represents the oriflceby which the bile passes both ia and out of the gall-bladder.) In the Goose the cyst-hepatic duct termi- nates by a very small orifice, surrounded by a smooth projection of the inner mem- brane, which, aided by the obliquity of the duct, acts as a valve and prevents any re- gurgitation towards tlie liver. The cystic duct here passes abruptly from the posterior ex- tremity of the gall-bladder, which is not pro- longed into a neck. The duct makes a turn round the end of the bag, and is so closely ap- plied to it, as to require a careful examination to determine the true place of its commencement. The hepatic duct (n, Jig. 165) arises by two branches from the large lateral lobes of the liver, which unite in the fissure or ' gates' of the gland. Two hepatic ducts have been found in the Curassow; but these and the cystic duct terminate separately in the duodenum. The place of termination of the cystic and hepatic duct is generally, as shown in fig. 163 and 165, pretty close together at the end of the fold of the duodenum ; but in the Ostrich one of the hepatic ducts, which is very large and short, terminates in the commencement of the duodenum about an inch from the pylorus; while the other enters with the pancreatic duct at the termination of the duodenum. Both the cystic and hepatic ducts undergo a slight thickening in their coats just before their termination; and it is remarkable that, in some of the Marsupiata, as the Kangaroo, the termination of the ductus choledochus is si- milarly thickened and glandular. The passage of the bile-ducts in birds through the coats of the intestine is oblique, as in the Mam- malia, and they terminate upon a valvular prominence of the lining membrane of the gut. The Pancreas (q, fig. 163, 165) consists of two and sometimes of three distinct por- tions in Birds; but these are so closely ap- plied together at some point of their surface as to appear like one continuous gland. It is of a narrow, elongated, trihedral form, lodged in the interspace of the duodenal fold, and generally folded upon itself like the duodenum, as in the Hornbill (fig. 165). The structure of the pancreas is conglome- rate, like that of the salivary glands, but the ultimate follicles are differently disposed. In the salivary glands these are irregularly branched, while those of the pancreas in Birds diverge in the same plane from digitated and pinnatifid groups.* The ducts (r r,/g. 163, 165) formed by the reiterated union of the efferent branches from the component follicles of the pancreas are in general two in number, which terminate separately in close proximity to the hepatic and cystic ducts; but occasionally there are three pancreatic ducts, as in the common Fowl, Pigeon, Raven, and Horn-bill; in which case the third duct commonly terminates at a dis- tance from the other two: in the Horn-bill it proceeds from an enlarged lobe of the pan- * MUUer de Gland. Struct. Pen. fol. p. 66. creas at the end of the (Juodenal ibid, and entering that part, as at r, fig. 165. The Spleen (s, s, fig. 163, 165) is compara- tively of small size in Birds; it is generally of a round or oval figure, but sometimes presents an elongated and vermiform shape, as in the Sea-GuU, or is broad and flat as in the Cor- morant. It is situated beneath the liver, on the right side of the proventriculus. It is, however, somewhat loosely connected to the surrounding parts, so that its position has been differently described by different authors. We have generally been able to trace a pro- cess of the pancreas passing into close contact with it, and connected to it by a continuation of vessels, as in the Horn-bill (fig. 165, q, s), where it has been turned aside to show the hepatic and pancreatic ducts. The texture of tlie spleen is much closer in Birds than in Mammalia; but a minute examination proves that the blood of the splenic artery is ulti- mately deposited in cells, from which the splenic veins arise. These veins in the Swan and some other Lamellirostres form a network on the exterior surface of the spleen, as in the Chelonian Reptiles. Absorbents.—The presumed absence of ab- sorbent vessels in the Oviparous Vertebrata was cited by the supporters of the theory of venous absorption in tlie time of William Hunter as strong evidence in favour of their views ; and the same assertion has again been repeated in the present day by Majendie,* who, in sub- sequently admittingt the existence of lympha- tics in Birds, still contends against their being the exclusive insti'uments of the function of absorption. Traces of the lymphatic system in the pre- sent class appear to have been observed by SwammerdamJ as early as 1676, who sent his preparation ' Lymphaticum peculiare ex ab- domine Gallinoe' to the Royal Society of Lon- don ; the lacteals were afterwards noticed in the Stork by Jacob8eus§ in 1677, and traces of lymphatics are described by Lang|| in 1704, and by Martin Listerlj in 1711. Lymphatic vessels and glands, however, considered as such, according to the Ilunterian doctrine of absorption, were first undoubtedly seen by John Hunter in the neck of a Swan, and the lac- teals of Birds were afterwards re-discovered by Hewson, who made the first attempt to give a detailed account of the absorbent system in Birds. Our knowledge of this system has since been greatly enlarged by the labours of Tiedemann,** Fohmann,!! Lauth,|J and Panizza.§§ * Journal de Physiol, torn. i. p. 47. t Annates ries Sciences Nat. iii. p. 410. i Birch, Hist, of ihc Royal Society, iii. p. 312. i Anat. Ciconiee in Acta Hafn. v. p. 247. (1 Physiologia Lips. fol. p. 99. % Dissertatio de Humoribus, 1711. 8vo. p. 228. Anat. und Naturgeschichte der Voirel, torn. i. p. 533. tt Anat. Untersuchnngen iiber die Verbindung der Saugadcrn mit den Vencn, 1821, p. 136. XX Anuales des Sciences Nat. iii. p. 381. Osservazione Antropo-Zoolomico Fiiiologiche, fol. Pavia, 1830.