CRUSTACEA. 781 in front of the mouth, that tlie water reaches the interior of the branchial cavity. Fig. 429. Mouth of the Leucosia. Fig. 430. The same, without the external or posterior max- illipedes. The branchiae contained in the two cavities, one on either side, whose conformation we have now described, are disposed along the vaults of the flancs. They are shaped like a quadran- gular pyramid, the base being fixed by means of a peduncle to the inferior part of this vault or to the membrane which extends from its in- ferior edge to the basilar articulation of the corresponding limb; some of them are even inserted into this articulation. Each of these organs consists of two large longitudinal vessels situated on the opposite edges of a transverse septum, which extends from the base to the apex of the branchia, and presents on each side a great number of lamel- lar or cylindrical pro- longations. Of these two principal vessels the external is the affe- rent one, of which men- tion has already been made in treating of the circulation and its organs ; the internal again is the efferent vessel; the capillaries by which these two communicate run in the substance of the branchial lamella;, situated on either side of the median septum. In the whole of the Decapoda brachyura and anomoura, and in the greater number of the ma- croura, the folds of the tegumentary membrane which constitutes each branchia, are in the form of very thin lamellae, directed perpendi- cularly to the axis of the pyramid, and lying one over another like the leaves of a book. But in Crawfish, the Lobster, the Nethrops, the Palinuri, the Scyllari, and the Gebiae, these lamella3 are replaced by a multitude of small cylinders, attached by their base, and closely packed side by side, like the bristles of a brush. "the number of branchial pyramids varies greatly, especially in the Macroura; at the most it is twenty-two, as is the case in the Astacus and the most nearly allied species; in other macroura the number is eighteen, as in the Palinuri, Scyllari, Peneae; fifteen, as in the Gebiae; twelve, as in the Pandalus ; ten, as in the CalianassEe ; eight, as in the Palemons; and even seven only, as in the Crangons, Hip- politi,. Sergestes, &c. In the Anomoura the number also varies very much. In the Bra- chyura we can almost always reckon nine branchiae on each side of the body; two of this number, however, being merely rudiment- ary ; sometimes two or one of these last is entirely wantmg; and there are even species in which the branchia, which usually occu- pies the antipenultimate ring of the thorax, is missing. The mode in which these organs are placed varies in a like degree : in the Br-achyura {Jig- 426) the whole, with the exception of two rudi- mentary branchiae, are arranged along one and the same line, and rest parallel to one another upon the vault of the flancs; the two last rings of the thorax never support any, and of the two rings which correspond to the second and third pairs of extremities, each presents a single py- ramid attached to a hole pierced in the epimeral piece near to its inferior edge (^g.384). The five branchiee, situated in front of these, are attached above the edge of the vault of the flancs, and with the exception of the first are connected two and two upon com- mon peduncles. Lastly, the two rudimentary branchiae which complete the series anteriorly, Fig. 431. are arranged under the base of the preceding, and attached to the basilar articulation of the second and third pairs of maxillary extremi- ties. In the Anomoura and the Macroura, the branchia; are often found arranged in several ranks, and generally occur on the two last thoracic segments, as well as upon those that precede these {fig. 431). In the greater number of the Decapoda the flabelliform appendages of the maxillary or of the ambulatory extremities penetrate into the respiratory cavity, and by their motions sweep, as it were, or stroke the surface of the branchiae. Some anatomists have even imagined that it was by their action that the water necessary to respi- ration was renewed in the interior of the branchial cavities ;* but this is a mistake ; these appen- * Cuvier, Lemons, t. iv. p. 432.