335 AVES. are Jthe continuations of the trunk of the sub- clavian, of whicli tlie humeral is only a branch. " The great pectoral OT thoracic artery passes out of the chest over the first rib and close to the sternum, and immediately divides into two branches. One of them (16) ramifies in the superior part of tlie pectoralis major, and the other (17) is exhausted in the lower part of the muscle, and sends off' a branch analogous to the long thoracic artery of mammalia." Nos. 16 and 17 show the distribution of these arteries to the skin after perforating the pectoralis muscle. " The humeral artery, while within the axilla, gives a small branch backwards to the muscles under the scapula, and upon reaching the inside of the arm produces an artery that soon divides into the articular and the profunda humeri. The articular artery passes round the head of the humerus, underneath the extensors; its branches penetrate the deltoid muscle, and anastomose with the other small arteries around the joint. " The profunda humeri, as usual, turns under the extensor muscles to reach the back of the bone, at which place, in birds, it separates into two branches, of which one descends upon the inside, and the other upon the outside of the articulation of the humerus with the radius and ulna, and there inosculate with the recurrent branches of the arteries of the fore-arm. " After tlie humeral artery has sent off" the pro- funda, it descends along the inner edge of the biceps muscle, detaching some branches to the neighbouring parts : upon arriving at the fold of the wing, it divides into two branches ; one of these is analogous to the ulnar artery, and the other fiom its position deserves to be called rather the interosseous than the radial artery. " At the place where the humeral produces the two arteries of the fore-arm, a small branch is sent off", which is lost upon the fore-part of the joint, and in anastomoses with the recurrent of the ulna and profunda humeri. " The ulnar artery is the principal division of the humeral; it proceeds superficially over the muscles which are analogous to the pronator, sends a large recurrent branch under the flexor ulnaris to the back of the joint, upon which it ramifies and forms anastomoses with the pro- funda humeri. The artery then proceeds along the inner edge of the ulnar muscles, to which it distributes branches. It is afterwards seen passing over the carpal bone of the ulnar side, and under the annular ligament, at which place it sends off" some branches which spread upon the joint and inosculate with the similar ones of the interosseous artery. Very soon after the ulnar artery gets upon the metacarpus, it dips in between the bones, and re-appears upon the opposite side, lying under the roots of the quills, to each of which it sends an artery ; it preserves this situation to the end of the meta- carpal bones, where it passes between the style analogous to the little finger and the principal or fore-finger, and pursues its course along the edge of the latter, to the extremity of the wing, supplying each of the true quills with an artery, and sending at tech joint of the finger a cross branch to communicate with the anastomosing branches on the opposite side. " The interosseous artery detaches first a branch of some size to the membrane which is spread in the fold of the wing, upon which it forms several ramifications. (See o, ^g. 171.) After this the artery dips down behind the pronator muscles to get into the space between the ulna and radius. It here gives a bi-anch backwards to communi- cate with the others about the joint, and pro- ceeds in the interosseous space as far as the carj^al joint, during which course they become much diminished from giving off several branches which are distributed to the integu- ments and the qudls placed upon the outside of the ulna. The remainder of the interosseous artery is expended in small branches upon the back of the carpal joint, the bastard quills, and along the radial edge of the metacarpus and bones of the fore-finger, where it forms com- munications with the cross branches of the ulnar artery already mentioned. " From this description it will be perceived that no artery exists in birds strictly analogous to the radial; that there are no palmar arches ; and that the size of the interosseous artery, and the course of the ulnar, along the outside of the metacarpus, are peculiarities which arise from the necessity of affording a large supply of blood to the quills during their growth. "The descending aorta {19, fg. 170) makes a curve round the right auricle and right bronchus, in order to get upon the posterior surface of the heart, after which its course is close along the spine, in which situation it is bound down by cellular substance, and the strong membrane or aponeurosis, which covers the lungs on their anterior part. The first branches which this vessel appears to send off are bronchial arteries; they arise from the fore part of the aorta, just when it arrives upon the spine; and having entered the lungs, their ra- mifications accompany those of the pulmonary arteries. They appear also to send branches to the spine and the spaces between the ribs. " The intercostal arteries do not take their origin from the aorta in numerous and regular branches as in mammalia, but consist originally of but few vessels, which are multiplied by anastomoses with each other, and with the arteries which come out of the spinal canal. An arterial plexus is thus formed round the heads of the ribs, fiom which a vessel is sent to each of the intercostal spaces. Many of these branches, besides supplying the intercos- tal muscles and ribs, are continued into the muscles upon the outside of the body and the integuments. The anastomosis of the inter- costal arteries round the ribs is very similar to the plexus, which is produced by the great sympathetic nerve in the same situation. " The aorta produces no branch which de- serves the name of the phrenic artery, as birds do not possess that muscular septum of the body to which the artery of this name is dis- tributed in other animals. "The calkic artery (20, fig. 170) is a very large single trunk, and arises from the fore part of the