674 CIRCULATION. tlons, and are described under the head of Cilia in this Cyclopaedia, isdefective in so far as neither cilia nor any power of exciting currents has yet been shewn to exist in the interior of the bloodvessels, and they have been exanriined in circumstances in which we conceive they would have been seen had they been present. In fine we cannot see how any power of spontaneous motion belonging to the blood itself could be a cause of progressive motion of that fluid, unless the direction of the motion were determined by the solid textures containing the blood, and in this case the same objections would apply to this explanation of the cause of motion as to the one to which allu- sion has just been made; and besides, the evi- dence of spontaneous motions of the blood ap- pears upon the whole of a very unsatisfactory kind. From these considerations we find ourselves constrained to hold the opinion that, however great the power which the capillary vessels possess of modifying the distribution of the i)lood, there is not reason to believe that they contribute as a whole to its progressive motion. 4. Phenomena of the venous circulation.—In the natural state of the circulation the flow of the blood is nearly quite uniform in the veins, as may be seen when a vein is opened in the common operation of venesection. In those rare instances in which the flow from a vein is accelerated after each beat of the heart, in the same way as the arterial jet, it may be supposed either that the intermitting impulses of the heart are, from some circumstance or othei', transmitted more freely and to a greater dis- tance than usual through the capillary vessels, as is known occasionally to happen, or, what is more probable, that the larger branch of the vein receives the successive impulses directly from neighbouring large arteries, which are more than usually dilatable. As the size of the veins is generally greater than that of the corresponding arteries at the same distance from the heart, and as they are also more numerous, the velocity of blood is less in these parts of the veins than of the arte- ries ; and as the whole venous system contains considerably more blood than the arterial, the velocity of the blood taken as a whole must be less in the veins than in the arteries. The same quantity of blood must be brought by the vencg cavae to the right auricle as issues from the left ventricle, (making allowance for the expendi- ture by secretions, &c.) and consequently the velocity of the blood entering and of that issuing from the heart must be equal. Again, the ve- locity of the blood must be gradually on the increase in its progress from the small to the larger veins, because the capacity of the vessels into which it flows is gradually Ijecoming less. In the systemic veins, excepting the venaa portae, the direction of the flow of blood is de- termined by the structure of the valves, which permit of the return of blood from the extremi- ties of the veins towards the heart, but oppose, by the filling of their pouches and the apposi- tion of their free edges, a complete obstacle to the reflux of die blood in another direction. The principal cause of the progressive flow of the blood in the veins is uuquestionably the force of impulsion of the heart continued through the arteries and small vessels, as ap- pears from the flow from the remote part of an opened vein and the simple experiments of Hales, Magendie, and Poiseuille already re- ferred to. Hales ascertained, by introducing tubes into the larger veins of the horse, that the pressure on the blood from behind, or vis a tergo, is sufficient to raise the blood in the tube to a considerable height above the level of the heart, and is consequently more than sufficient to re- turn the blood to the auricle of the heart. The blood did not, in Hales' experiments, in ge- neral at first rise in the tube connected with a vein more than six inches, but this he shewed to proceed from the easy escape of the blood by lateral communicating vessels, for when the other large veins were tied, or when they became fully distended with blood, that fluid sometimes rose in the tube connected with a large vein to a height of three or four feet. M. Poiseuille* demonstrated, in a still more satisfactory manner, the action of the pressure of the heart on the blood in the veins by means of the bent tube with which lie mea- sured the pressure of the arterial blood : and this fact is proved in an equally convincing manner by Magendie's experiment of isolating the principal artery and vein from the other parts of the limb of an animal, in which it was found that die flow of blood from the vein is immediately stopped by pressure or ligature of the artery. It is scarcely necessary, in order to obtain a proof of this fact, to have recourse to the vivisection of animals, for in common bleeding from the arm, the flow of blood from the vein will be found to be immediately influ- enced by the state of the artery, and even with- out the division of a vein, it is easy to observe the action of this force of impulsion which drives the blood onwards towards the heart in any of the superficial veins of the arm by the application of external pressure, a mode of illustration successfully adopted by Harvey in his explanation of the course of the blood. These very simple experiments are looked upon by some as quite sufficient to demonstrate the proposition that the blood is moved in the veins by an impulsion from behind, and that that impulsion is derived from the action of the heart; while others, not satisfied with this ex- planation, have endeavoured to point out addi- tional forces as contributing to the progressive motion of the blood in the veins. The larger veins are, like the arteries, highly elastic, and they are generally regarded as stronger proportionally to the thickness of their coats than the arteries. This elasticity belongs chiefly to the external cellular coat, for a mid- dle fibrous coat is not apparent in most of the larger healthy veins, and in those rarer in- stances in which it is apparent, it. is very much thinner than in the arteries. The smaller or capillary veins appear also to be possessed of some degree of irritability, for they have been * Magendie's Journ. vol. x.