784 CRUSTACEA. accustomed to look upon the members of the first and second abdominal rings as the ex- ternal male instruments. These two pairs of extremities, in fact, (Jig. 433,) are distinguished niemhevs of the first and second abdominal rinys of the Male Ma ja. from the rest by their shape, which is styli- form, and their structure, which is tubular, being composed of two homy laminae convo- luted one upon another, the first including she second. But direct observation has de- prived them of all claim to be considered as fulfilling any office of so much consequence in the economy of the Crustacea as that of con- veying the fecundating fluid from the body of the male into tiiat of the female. At the most, they can only be regarded as organs of excita- tion, and which the animal may perhaps era- ploy at the same time to guide the male into the female organ. The female reproductive apparatus of the Crustacea, in its highest state of complication, consists of an ovary, an oviduct, and copulatory punches. Fig. 434. in their coarse to a kind of sac (c), the neck of which extends to the exterior of the ani- mal's body (rf); there is one of these on each side, and they are known by the name of the cojmlatory pouches. It is into these reser- voirs that the male pours the fecundating fluid, which is here stored up and applied to the ova as they pass in succession along and out of the oviducts. These after a course, which is never long, terminate at the vulvae, openings formed in the sternal pieces of the segment which supports the third pair of ambulatory extremities. The Anomoura and Macrourahave no copu- latory pouches, and their vulvae are situated on the basilar joint of the ambulatory ex- tremities of the third pair. The mode in which fecundation is accomplished in these genera is consequently much less apparent than in the Brachyura. Many writers are of opinion that this operation takes place in the interior of the ovaries, a process thai appears by no means feasible on account of the inequality of development of the ova, which is such, that the last of them are not in being even long after the first have been ex- pelled. It would perhaps be more correct to suppose that fecundation does not take place till after the ova are laid, which we know to be the case among the Batrachia and the greater number of Fishes. The female Crustacean does not abandon her eggs after their extrusion. Those of the Deca- pods preserve them under their abdomen by means of the abdominal extremities modified Fig. 435. in their structure {fig. 390 and 435); the Edriophthalmia, keep them under their thorax by means of the fia- belliform appendages of the extremities belonging to this region {fig. 436); whilst the inferior genera, such as tlie Entomostraca, &c. have sus- pended to the external orifices either hornv tubes or a Female organs of the Maja Squinado. The ovaries in the Decapoda brachyura resem- ble four cylindrical tubes {a, h,fig. 434) placed longitudinally in the thorax, and divided into two symmetrical pairs, each opening into a distinct oviduct, yet communicating with one another by a transverse canal (<;'), and by the intimate union of the two posterior tubes in a portion of their length (6'). The ovi- ducts, as well as the ovaries, are of a whitish eolour; they are sliprt, and become united Ventral aspect of the female Cymothoa. p, legs; f, fiabelliform ap- pendages which unite so as to form a cavity des- tined to contain the ova.