800 DEATH. produce a kind of annoyance like that of musca volitantes, which the hand is instinc- tively attempting to remove. Whether the picduction of such spectra depends upon changes in the retina, or upon changes in the cerebral extremity of the optic nerve, is not altogether certain; but we incline to the lat- ter view, principally because other sensations are often revived though the nerves in which they originated have been paralysed or removed. Renewals of perceptions of hearing are not uncommon. Such are imaginary voices, and sounds of tolling bells, &c. No reason has been assigned for that sym- ptom noted by the earliest observers—" pick- ing of tlie bed-clothes ;" or, in Dame Quickly's phraseology, " fumbling with the sheets." But we think it may be readily accounted for as resulting from revivals of tactual sensations, which produce corresponding movements, so that the fingers grasp the bed-clothes in mis- take for the imaginary substance. Something analogous to this is witnessed in delirium tremens, a disease in which visual conceptions are particularly liable to vivifaction in the form of animals, and in which also we have witnessed the patient- picking the ends of his fingers as if to remove something di.sagreeably adherent. Whether consciousness of bodily sensations continues till the very commencement of the death-struggle, or agony,* as it is termed, is an enquiry often put to the medical attendant either by patients themselves, or by their anx- ious relatives. The ideas entertained by per- sons unaccustomed to physiological study re- specting the pains of dying, have arisen partly from their theoretical views of the nature of the event itself, and partly from their obser- vation of its preceding or accompanying phe- nomena. When they imagined death to be a kind of forcible severing of the spirit from the body,—a separation so opposed to the incli- nation of the former that some have fancied it longing to return to the body, " iterumque ad tarda rcverti Corpora, qua; lucis miseris tam dira cupido:" or like the shade of Hector, 'Vvyh ^'en ps^eav TTTa/Asm "Ai'^ic-^e fls^'mei, 'Ov tts'twov yoiwaa,, Xiiroua a^ooT'^Ta. teal ri^riv. Iliad. XXII. 362. or when they regarded the throes of death as efforts of the confined inmate to escape from its tenement; or when laying aside their imaginings, they witnessed a heaving respiration, cold dew on the face, and convulsive agitations of the whole frame, affections so often known to accompany in- tense bodily suffering,—it is not wonderful that the process of dying should have been considered one of distress and anguish. But the practitioner ought to be able to console * The reader will scarcely need to be reminded that this word is used in its etymological sense, ayiiy, certnmen. the friends of the dying by the assurance that whatever may have been the previous torture, it must be all over when once those changes begin in which death essentially consists. He must explain to them how upon the failure of the circulation, the function of the brain must cease by necessity ; that if the cessation of the former he gradual, that of the latter may and often does precede it; that if the mortal pro- cess begins in the lungs, unconsciousness pre- cedes the arrest of the circulation; and if in the brain, that an injury of this organ sufficient to affect die lungs and the heart fatally is sure to annihilate its own sensibility. The muscu- lar spasms, the slow, gasping, or gurgling breathing, the collapsed or distorted features, though in some cases accompanied by feeling, are altogether independent of it. Convulsion is not, as superficial observers often interpret it, the sign of pain, or the result of an in- stinctive eftbrt of nature to get rid of the cause of pain,—it is an affection of the moti- fic not of the sensific part of the nei-vous sys- tem.* The pangs of the disease may last till within a short period of death, but it is a great error to attribute them to the process which brings them to an end. Such cases however are rare; it is far more common for the sensibility to be blunted, or for the cause of pain to subside before the phenomena of dying commence. A person poisoned by an irritant is said to die in great agony; a very incorrect expression, since death in such cases is ushered in by coma and by convulsions un- attended with pain. Temporary syncope and asphyxia, the nearest approaclies to actual death, have nothing formidable in sensation if we may judge from the reports of those who hive experienced them ; so far from it indeed, that some have described feelings of extreme pleasure, connected with each of these con- ditions.f The relaxation and incapacity of the muscular system, though for the most part ex- treme, has in some cases been much less than might have been expected; and even chronic maladies, attended during their course with great emaciation and debility, have suddenly terminated when the patients were in the act of walking, or of performing some other exertion disproportionate to the rest of the functions. The condition of certain muscles in the last stage of existence will be alluded to when we come to speak of the general aspect and pos- ture of the dying. The voice is generally weak and low as death approaches, but sometimes has a shriller pitch than natural; sometimes it is husky and thick, and not unfrequently it dwindles to a mere whisper. These changes are caused prin- cipally by the debility which the vocal share * Dr. W. Philip has some excellent remarks upon this subject in his treatise on Sleep and Death. t See Piincipes de Physiologic Medicale, par Isid. Bourdon, p. 319. [It was either Dr. Black or Dr. CuUen who told his attendant friends that " he wished he could be at the trouble to tell them liow pleasant a thing it was to die." Ed.]