CEPHALOPODA. .53 The fibres, after perforating the cartilaginous sclerotica, and expanding into the post-pig- raental retina, extend towards the groove of the crystalline, in a direction chiefly parallel to one another, the tunic formed by them be- coming thinner as they advance forwards ; this is joined by a thin membrane, which extends from the anterior margin of the cartilaginous sclerotica, and forms, with that membrane, a ciliary plicated zone (p, p, where it is repre- sented as left entire,) which penetrates the groove of the lens. The outer surface of this thick nervous tunic is fibrous and flocculent, and connected to the sclerotica by a fine cel- lular tissue: the anterior or internal surface is perfectly smooth. This surface of the nervous tunic is co- vered by a tolerably consistent layer of a dark purple-brown pigment (q). Cuvier, who re- gards the preceding tunic as the only part analogous to the retina in the eye of the Ce- phalopods, expresses his surprise that this black layer is not an insurmountable obstacle to vision ;* and different theories have been proposed to account for the singular position of the pigment on that supposition. In the eyes of different Sepicc which we had immersed in alcohol preparatory to dissection, we have, however, invariably found between the pig- ment and the hyaloid coat a distinct layer of opaque white pulpy matter (r), of sufficient consistence to be detached in large flakes, and easily preserved and demonstrated in prepara- tions. We confess, however, that we can discover no connection between this layer and the thick nervous expansion behind the pig- ment; but, nevertheless, we cannot but regard it as being composed of the fine pulpy matter of the optic nerve, and as constituting a true prse-pigmental retina. The hyaloid coat, which is remarkably dis- tinct in all the Ceplialopods, completely sepa- rates the vitreous humour from the internal white layer above described. It is perfectly transparent, and, though thin, is strong. The vitreous humour does not lose its transparency when preserved in alcohol. The crystalline lens is of large size, and is composed of two completely separated portions : the anterior moiety is the segment of a larger sphere, but forms the smaller part of the lens ; the posterior is a segment of a smaller sphere, and forms the larger part of the lens. Two layers of transparent membrane are continued from the ciliary body between these segments. Each of the segments is composed, as m the lens of higher animals, of concentric laminae, which become denser towards the centre, where the nucleus resists further unravelling of its structure. It is of a brown colour, and pre- serves its transparency in alcohol. The laminae are composed of denticulated fibres; but the minute description of their texture and arrange- ment will be given in another place. The white substance (li) which surrounds the optic ganglion is divided into lobes, but * " On ne con9oit pas comment elle n'est pas iin obstacle insiirmontable a la vision."—Mem. stir le Pnulpe, p. 39. exhibits no distinguishable secerning structure ; the bloodvessels of tlie eye ramify between these masses ; the smaller twigs accompany the nervous fibrils ; the larger ones pass forwards to the anterior soft margin of the sclerotica. We regard this substance as analogous to the so-called choroid gland in the eyes of Fislies. Cuvier assigns to it the function of defending the nervous ganglion and fibres from surround- ing pressure ; and this is most probably the true final intention of the substance, since it intervenes between the ganglion and the mus- cles of the eye-ball. Of these we find three straight muscles and one oblique. The infei'ior rectus of each eye arises from a small transverse tendon which adheres to the inferior and anterior border of the cranial cartilage, to which it runs parallel, and is attached at its two extremities to the muscles above mentioned, and also to the base or root of the anterior elongated cartilaginous orbital plate. A second straight muscle arises from the posterior margin of the elongated cartilage above mentioned; its fibres run parallel to those of the preceding, and are inserted into the external sclerotica. Both these muscles are thin, broad, and fleshy. The oblique muscle arises from the inferior and posterior margin of the external orbital car- tilage, and expands, as it proceeds outwards and forwards, to terminate in the external mem- branous sclerotic. These muscles are readily exposed by dissecting away the orbital capsule from the under part of the eye-ball. A short and strong superior rectus, the ten- don of which is continuous with that of the opposite side, is inserted into the upper part of the sclerotic. A few observations remain to be made on the structures defending the anterior part of the eye- ball. The cornea of the Cuttle-fish is appa- rently entire; it is thickest at its superior mar- gin (t), where it is implanted in a groove of the integument; it becomes gradually thinner towards the lower margin, where it is over- lapped by the rudimental eyelid (v). This consists of a narrow semilunar fold of inte- gument, the concavity of which is directed upwards and a little backwards. In the small Cephalopod which Captain Ross discovered in the Arctic Ocean, and which has been named after that distinguished and scien- tific navigator,* the cornea is defended by a continuous circular fold of integument, which can be completely closed by an orbicular sphincter in front of the eye, a structure which is probably required in this species in order to protect the cornea against the spiculaj of ice with which its native seas abound, especially in the summer or thawing season. In the Calamary, on the other hand, there is no tegu- mentary fold. Upon carefully inspecting the cornea of the Cuttle-fish, a minute foramen will be seen near the inner or anterior margin of the cornea, covered by the upper extremity of the fold of integument. The aperture leads ob- * See Appendix to Sir John Ross's Voyage, 4to. p. xii. pi. B. c.