AVES. 289 birds according to tlie researches of Cuvier, the discoverer of this remarkable peculiarity in the anatomy of birds. Tuhle of the number- of toe phalanges in Birds. Number of Phalanges in the First ot toe or Calcar. monly called the Hallux. Third. Founh. Fifthor nnst,or little 1 Cock (Gal- las J, Phea- sants ( Pha- sianus), Tur- keys, Pea- cocks ( Pam and Lopho- pharus) . , 2 RaptoreSyln sessores, Co- lumbidcE, Cra- cidee, Tetrao- nirfa?,and the rest of the class, except Rhea, Dro- maius, Cani- arius, Otis, Cursorius, Cluiradrius, Hcematopus Arenaria, Falcinella, Hiniantopus Halodrotna, Diomedea 4 'I'he Ostricl ( Struthio) 1* 2 3 4 5 2t 3t 3 4§ 4 * S|| 5 5 The above table shows what are the toes which are deficient in those birds that do not possess the ordinary number. The phalanges are expanded at their extre- mities, especially at the posterior ; the articular surfaces are concave at this end, but divided longitudinally by a narrow convex line, to which a corresponding unequal surface at the anterior * This is wanting in the Argus Pheasant; the Pavo bicalcaratus, on the contrary, has two spurs on each metatarsal bone. t In the single genus Ceyx among the Insessores, and Hemipodius among the Rasores, this toe is wanting. In all the rest, with the exception of the Swifts (Cypselus) it is directed backwards. t In the Dentirostral Insessores this toe is united by one or two phalanges to the fourth. § According to Cuvier this toe and the fifth in the Swift C Cypselus) have only three phalanges like the third. In the Goat-suckers (Caprimulgits) and Herons (Ardea) the claw of this toe is provided with dentations similar to a comb on its inner side. II This toe is stated by Cuvier to have only four phalanges in the Goat-suckers, and we have ascer- tained the correctness of the exception, and that it also obtains in the Rhea. This toe is united to the fourth toe as far as the penultimate joint in the Bee-eaters (Merops), the Motmots (Prio- nites), the King-fishers (Alcedo), the Todies ( Todus), and the Hornbills (Buceros), which form in consequence the family Syndactyli of Cuvier. In the Scansores this toe is turned backwards, and assists the Hulln.v in opposing the other toes. The Owls have the power of turning back the outer toe at pleasure, VOL. I. end of the preceding phalanx is adapted, con- stituting a ginglymoid articulation. The ulti- mate or ungueal phalanges are characterised by their anterior pointed terminations, which cor- respond in form, in some degree, to the nature of the claw. ISC!, Fwt of the Goat-smlier. Of the fossil bones of bii'ds.—Birds differ from each other in a much less degree than qua- drupeds, less, perhaps, than any other class. The Penguin and the Ostrich have, indeed, but a remote external resemblance with the Eagle or the Swallow, but yet they have never been regarded as other than birds. The Por- pesse and the Whale, on the other hand, al- though their real affinities were pointed out by Aristotle, have been placed by many sub- sequent Zoologists in a very different class from the Lion or the Ape, and in the older systems of Natural History they always ob- tained their position among the true fishes. Osteological characters of the same value with those which serve to distinguish the genera, and for the most part the species of Mammalia, are, therefore, with difficulty found in the Class of Birds. Cuvier has declared that the differences in the skeleton of two species of an ornithological genus are some- times wholly inappreciable, and that the oste- ological characters of Genera can rarely be detected in any other part than in the bones of the mandibles, which do not always con- form in a sufficiently characteristic manner with the modifications of the horny bill. The determination of the fossil bones of this class is, therefore, conjectural, or, at least, it wants much of tliat demonstrative character which the bones of quadrupeds afford. The fossil bones of birds described by Cu- vier are considered by him to appertain to a species of Buzzard, Owl, Quail, Woodcock, Ibis, Sea-lark, and Cormorant; and, although not remarkable for their number or for their zoological interest, yet they demonstrate that the species which existed at that remote period, when the Anoplotheriums and other extinct quadrupeds trod the face of the earth, had the same proportion of parts, the same length of wings and legs, the same articulations of the toes, the same form and numerical proportions of the vertebra;; in short, that their whole organization was regulated by the same general u