374 BILE. the thin ligament which connects this last with the edge of the foramen magnum. Here we find the nerve dividing into three branches for these three muscles. On removing some cellular tissue from between the recti majores, we observe the Rectus posticus minor, shaped like the last, but much smaller. It arises close to its fellow from a little tubercle on the back of the atlas, passes upwards, outwards, and backwards, to be inserted into the os occipitis between the inferior oblique ridge and the foramen mag- num. It is partly concealed by the rectus major. This muscle can draw the head back- wards. In quadrupeds these four muscles are pro- portionally larger than in man. The inferior oblique and the rectus major are considerably larger. Birds have three recti, and only one oblique—the inferior. Reptiles and fishes may be said to want them, as the analogy is very remote. On removing the spinalis colli and all the muscles of the fiith layer, we observe nume- rous fasciculi of muscular fibres, which are named inter-spinalis, inter-transversuUs, and multifidus spina. These might be considered a seventh layer; but they are very analogous to the small muscles just described, and nearly on the same plane. The inter-spinules are short bundles of fleshy fibres placed between the spinous processes of contiguous vertebrse. They are in pairs in the neck, where the spine consists of two laminee. Here also they are well marked. In the dorsal region they are scarcely visible, and in the loins they are not easily distinguished from an interspinal ligament. They are analogous to the recti postici. They extend the spine. On the lips of the spinous processes of the neck some fibres may be shown, to which the name supra-spinal muscles has been given. They extend farther than from one vertebra to the next. The inter-transversules are similar fibres, scarcely to be demonstrated except in the neck, where they are in pairs, corresponding to the divided transverse processes. The multifidus spince consists of separate bundles of fibres, extending from each trans- verse process obliquely upwards and inwards to the spinous process of the vertebra next above, or sometimes to the second above. The first bundle runs from the side or transverse process of the sacrum to the spine of the last lumbar vertebra; the last from the transverse process of the third cervical to the spine of the second. They are smaller as we ascend, and are not easily separated from the spinales and semi- spinales. They support the spine, and rotate one vertebra" on the other slightly. In the article Spine, ihe practical utility of a knowledge of the muscles of this extensive region will be demonstrated. For the IJiBLIOORAPlIV of this article sec that of Anatomy (iNTUOUUcrioN). fCliarUs Benson.) BILE. Syn. G«//. (Gr. ^o?*); Lat. Ww; Fr. bile; Ger. die Guile; Ital.>/e.^—This im- portant secretion has been laboriously examined by several modern chemists of eminence, among whom we may especially enumerate Thenard,* Berzelius,t Tiedemann and Gmelin,! and Fiommherz and Gugert.§ Their results, how- ever, are so much at variance, that it is impos- sible to draw any general conclusions from them respecting the real nature and chemical components of the bile; these discrepancies seem partly to arise from the extreme facility with which chemical agents react upon this secretion, so that many of the supposed educts or component parts which have been enume- rated, are probably products of the different operations to which it has been submitted, or at all events modifications of its true proximate elements: it has been therefore well observed by Berzelius, that our present chemical know- ledge of the nature of bile can only be consi- dered as a foundation for the more extended and satisfactory researches of future experimen- talists. We shall here endeavour to select some of the least disputable and most import- ant facts respecting the chemical properties of the bile, remarking at the outset to tliose who may be inclined to repeat the experiments which we shall cite, that the indications of re- agents upon different specimens of bile are apt to vary, and that their action is often much modified by temperature, quantity, and the mode in which they are used. Tliere always appears to be mixed with bile a variable proportion of mucus, probably deri- ved from the gall-bladder and its ducts, and not, therefore, a true component of the secre- tion : this gives the bile its viscidity, and often seems in some way to modify its other charac- ters: in general, however, (ox-gall,) it is a green liquid, varying much in tint, of a pecu- liar odour, a bitter and nauseous taste, and a specific gravity fluctuating between 1.020 and 1.030. It does not coagulate when heated, and although it may possibly contain albumen, or something very like it, it is not immediately coa- gulated by alcohol or by dilute acids. The rela- tive proportion of solid matter obtained byevapo- ration is between eight and ten j)cr cent. By means of acetic acid, the mucus which is mixed with the bile may to a great extent be separated. In the mumviuUa, generally, the bile exhibits nearly the same characters; and in birds and fishes Its components seem to be the same, but rather more dilute in the former and more con- centrated in the latter: it is always alcaline,from the presence of soda, apparently in the same state of combination as it exists in the serum of the blood. When bile is evaporated very care- fully to about half its bulk, and alcohol added, (in the proportion of about four parts to one of the evaporated bile,) a coagulated matter is thrown down, which has some of the proper- * Thenard, Memoires d'Arcueil, i. t Lehrbuch der Thierchemic. Dresden, 1831 ; and Medico-Cliirurgical.Transactions, iii. t Uber die Vcrdauung (Essay on Digestion). ^ Schwciggcr's Journal, v. 1.