CETACEA. 574 Fhocanu glohiceps, the caiinated Porpoise, the Beluga, the Platanist, the Narwhal, the Great Bottle-nose or Ilyperoodon, and the Piked Whale f Bulanoptcru). There is no doubt that the stomachs of all these animals are very complicated; and although it may be more than probable that they do not resemble each other in their composition, it is to be presumed, however, that it is to their complication we must attribute the essentially different descriptions which have been put forth on this subject. What authorizes this supposition is the di- _versity of opinions which exists relative to the number of the stomachs of the common Dolphin and common Porpoise, some counting only three, others four, others five, and others six, &c. Now it is certain that these differences of number proceed simply from the manner in which this organ is viewed. "When it is only judged of by its exterior, and its globulous parts alone are called stomach, only three or four can be reckoned; and then the more or less tubular passages, situated amongst those more or less spherical cavities, are considered as mere intercommunicating canals. But if the interior of these stomachs be studied, it is seen that several amongst them have a special organization, and are separated from one another by small openings, which do not invariably establish a direct communica- tion between them : hence the tubular parts cannot be considered as simple passages, but must necessarily be admitted as essential parts of the stomach, which, like the others, impress their peculiar action upon the food. It has also been the case that the dilated sac into which the biliary and pancreatic juices are poured, has not been admitted as belong- ing to the stomach ; but besides its not being without example that in Mammalia the bile may be poured immediately into the stomach, the difference in the nature of the membranes ought to sufhce for deciding whether the part, which receives these secretions belongs or not to the duodenum. Now in the Dolphins it is evidently at the tei-mination of the last stomach that their duct opens. In this state of things it is impossible to decide with precision in what particulars tlie Zoophagous Cetaceans differ from one another in the structure of the sto- mach. It appears, however, that this organ in the common Dolphin, the common Porpoise, the Glohiceps, and the Platanist, is formed upon the same type, and is composed of five parts ; and if they differ one from another, it is only by modifications of secondary importance. If to these facts we add what Meckel states re- specting the Narwhal, in which he recognizes five stomachs, and what Hunter says of the Grampus and Piked Whale, in which he like- wise found five, we have three species more to add to the first. In fact, when we consider that only three or four stomachs have been re- cognized in the Carinated Porpesse and the Beluga, which are true Phocten<s, and that manner in which this organ is viewed, and we consider it very probable that the number of stomachs in these Cetaceans, as in the others, is five. However, from this small number of facts, and from all the conjectures with which we have been obliged to approach the subject, we shall draw no precise conclusion as to the structure which may be common to the Zoo- phagous Cetaceans. But this undoubted great complication of the stomach in animals which are nourished with the most animalized food, is an anomaly the cause of which it would be very important to investigate ; for from the ascertained facts which we have to reason from, we are not led by any analogy to an explanation of this subject. [In our examinations of the stomach of the Porpesse (fig. 263), we have not been able to Tig. 263. i of the Porpesse. distinguish more than four compartments. This complex digestive organ, besides the structure of the internal surface, differs from that of the Ruminant Animals in the compara- tively small size of the first cavity, and the mode of inter-communication of the other compart- ments, which succeed one another, and are Baussard saw three, and Hunter seven in the not appended to the extremity of the cesopha- Hyperoodon (Great Bottle-nose Whale), we gus: instead, therefore, of the oesophagus believe ourselves authorized in thinking that communicating with all the four cavities, it these differences depend entirely upon the opens only into the first, and consequently no