690 CIRRHOPODA. the mantle. Professor Burmeister describes the gills of Coronula diadema as broad mere- branous expansions, of a semicircular form, attached to the sides of the visceral mass by a narrow pedicle. They are composed of two tunics arranged in deep and narrow transverse plaits. The number of the branchiae in the Lepads varies from four to sixteen. They are composed of soft cellular tissue, and have a smooth surface. The arms (It, h, Jig. 340), which constitute so large a portion of the general mass of all the Cirripeds, and which form their most distinc- tive feature, must be regarded as subservient chiefly to the function of respiration; although, by producing currents in the water, which bring food within reach of the jaws, they minis- ter also to the digestive function. In all the knovra species, both of l.epads and Balanids, these arms are twelve in number, six on either side, arranged symmetrically. Each arm is composed of a short fleshy peduncle, having three articulations, and two horny articulated processes, compressed laterally, of equal length, ciliated on their internal surfaces, and coiled up in a spiral of one turn. On their internal surface there is a coating of a black pigment in spots. Each joint is provided with a double row of hairs of different lengths. (Fig. 343.) Fig. 343. A part of one of the arms considerably magnified. In Anatifa, the first pair of arms is thicker and stronger than the others; the sixth pair is the longest. Dr. Grant says, " the arms are not only minutely jointed to their extreme points, but, also, the innumerable fine cilia which pro- ject inwards from their surface are themselves minutely jointed, and by the aid of the micro- scope, we can perceive that these jointed cilia are also ciliated on their margins." When the animal is at rest, with the valves of the shell closed, the arms are coiled up, and lie close to one another; but, at other times, circumstances being favourable to the perform- ance of the function of respiration, they are ex- tended simultaneously so as to project from the shell,—radiate and plumose in their arrange- ment. Many species extend and contract their arms with considerable rapidity, as often as forty or sixty times in a minute; the smaller species more frequently than the larger. Considering how extensive the surface is which is exposed in the arms between the two rows of cilia, and that a vessel seems to run immediately beneath the delicate covering of these organs in that situation, it appears proba- ble that the arms are very efticieiit agents in the function of respiration. Secrefiow.—We have failed to ascertain satis- factorily the structure of the secreting apparatus by which the shells of the Cirripeds are formed. In the Lepads, the organs must be imbedded in the ligamentous membrane by which the valves are united : and in the Balanids, they are arranged in six rows along the outer surface of the mantle, and around the base; but, as in acephalous mollusca, they are too small to ad- mit of their structure being particularly exa- mined. The external surface of the mantle in the Balanids has also the power of secreting calcareous matter, with which to increase the thickness of the shell. Reproduction.—It is not yet accurately de- termined what are the organs of reproductioa in these animals. That which was regarded by Cuvier as the ovary in the Lepads, is supposed by Professor Wagner and M. St. Ange to be the testicle; while Professor Burmeister has satisfied himself that it is the liver. The ex- tent, structure, and relations of the ovary are still doubtful. It is certain, however, that all the known Cirripeds are hermaphrodite. The testicle, according to Professor Wagner and M. St. Ange, is a large granular organ fy, Jig. 344), expanded over the sides of the Fig. 344. visceral mass, and around the digestive canal, from the stomach to the anus, passing even into the bases of the arms, immediately beneath the muscular tunics which cover the body on both sides. It is composed of numerous minute lobules, about j^th of an inch in diameter in the common Lepads, soft, white, grouped toge- ther by branched ducts (q, q. Jig. 344), which, after uniting into three or four principal trunks,* meet in a large central receptacle (r), some- what analogous in relative function to the vas deferens of vertebrate animals. The seminal fluid passes from this central receptacle by a short and straight duct into a large canal (t, t), which may be compared to the seminal vesicle. It pursues a tortuous course towards the base of the tubular process, where {k) it is joined by its fellow of the other side, and enters the canal * This description does not accord with the result of Professor Burmeister's researches. Instead of a regular series of branched vessels, he says that he met with nothing but an irregularly arranged mesh of thready fibres lying between what he be- lieved to be the liver (described above as the testi- cle) and the intestinal canal.