ACRITA. 48 genera of sterelmintha or parenchymatous in- testinal worms which manifest traces of the circulating system, the fluids undulate in canals of a similar structure, as is displayed in the planarios, and parasitic trematoda, and also in the echinorhynchi, in some species of which genus the cutaneous canals form a rich net- work.* In the acalephae the condition of the vascular system is equally simple with that of the lowest Acrita, as is exemplified in the mar- ginal reticulate canals in the disk of the rhizos- toma. In the Nematoneura, on the contrary, those classes which manifest a circulating sys- tem distinct from the digestive tube, as the echinoderma and rotifera, possess vessels with proper parietes, distinguisliable into arteries and veins. No Nematoneurous class presents an example of generation by spontaneous fision or gem- mation, but these modes of reproduction are common m the Acrite division. The plauarifB among the sterelmintha are capable of indefinite multiplication by simple division; and the medusee are stated to pro- duce, not ova, but ciliated locomotive gem- mules or internal buds. The various examples of these plant-like modes of generation which the polypi and polygastrica present are fa- miliar to most persons, and will be especially treated of under their respective articles. The fissiparous and gemmiparous modes of reproduction are not, however, the exclusive modes by which the Acrite classes are perpetu- ated. Most of tiie sterelmintha are propagated by means of ova: in the cystica and cestoi- dea, the generative organs consist of ovaries alone, or are cryptandrous; in the tremato da, a fecundating gland is superadded to the ovary; while in the acanthocephala the sexes are separate, so that thus early in the animal kingdom, we find typified all the different modes of generation by which the race is con- tinued in the higher classes of animals. The different conditions of the important organic systems which are thus seen to obtain in the great group of animals called Kadiata and Zoophyta fully justify a partition of the group corresponding with those differ- ences. For the lower organized division we retain the name proposed by Macleay, but ex- tend its application to the acalephae ; and thus constituted it may be characterized as follows. Sub-kingdom Acrita .—Gelatinous polymor- phous animals, without distinct nervous fibre, or visceral cavities. Alimentary canal excavated in the parenchyma of the body, generally without an anus. Sanguiferous system composed of reticulate canals without proper tunics. Generation in most fissiparous or gemmi- parous ; in some oviparous.f The Acrita have been termed Protozoa, as * Riidolphi terras one species echinorhynchvs vasculosus, from this circumstance.—Synopsis Ento- zoorum, p. 581. t The deliniiion of the Acrita given by Macleay is confessedly a negative one as referred to animals j it is as follows : being on the first step of animal organization. They are analogous to the ova or germs of the higher classes, and have, therefore, been termed by Cams Oozoa; and as the changes of the embryo succeed each other with a rapidity proportionate to the proximity of the ovum to the commencement of its development, so also we find that in each class of Acrita there are genera which advance into close approximation with some one or other of the classes belong- ing to the higher divisions of the animal king- dom. It results, therefore, from this tendency to ascend in the scale of organization that there is greater difficulty in assigning constant or gene- ral organic characters to the Acrita than to any of the higher divisions of animals. Even in the nervous system, we find as we are led step by step from the hydra to the actinia in the class Polypi, that the nervous globules begin to manifest the filamentary arrangement about the oral orifice in the last named genus. That, again, in tracing the successive complica- tion of the sterelmintha from the hydatid to the echinorhynchus we also come to perceive traces of longitudinal nervous filaments in the latter highly organized genus of parenchymatous worms. In the acalephae the examples of the ag- gregate form of the nervous system would seem to be more numerous and distinct. Ehrenberg has detected what he considers as a nervous sys- tem in a gelatinous medusa; and Dr. Grant has recently described a nervous collar giving off simple filaments in the more highly or- ganized beroe, which, in its distinct intestine and anal outlet, recedes too far from the medu- sidae to be placed in a natural arrangement in the same class. Many of the polygastrica are endowed with simple visual organs or ocelli, in the form of red or yellow spots; similar organs of a dark colour are exhibited by the planariae, and Nordmann also describes them in some internal parasitic trematoda. Ehren- berg has recently discovered coloured ocelli in a medusa, and he ascribes a sense of taste to the polygastrica. The indications, however, of the special senses in the Acrita are feeble and obscure, and in the least doubtful instances the organs are evidently of the simplest and most elementary nature. For the most part all the different systems seem blended together, and the homogeneous granular parenchyma possesses many functions in common. Where a distinct organ is eliminated it is often repeated indefinitely in the same individual. Thus in the polypi the nutritious tubes of one individual are generally supplied by numerous mouths, and it has, consequently, the semblance " Animalia gelatinosa polymorpha, interaneis nuUis medullaque indistincta. " Os interdum indislinctum, sed nutritio absorp- tione externa vel interna semper sistit. Anus nulhis. " Reproductio fissiparavel geramipara, gemmis modo exteris, modo internis, interdum acervatis. " Pleraque ex individuis pluribus semper coha;- rentibus animalia composita sistunt."—Horae Ento- mologicae, ii. p. 224. See also Lamarck, Anini. sans Vertebrcs, ii, p. 2.