188 AORTA. the ventricle at three equidistant points by the centres of their convex edges, where the fibres of their marginal cord become intimately blended with those of the tendinous ring of the aortic opening of the ventricle; between these points are three triangular intervals, each of which is occupied by a thm tendinous expansion of considerable strength, having one of its sides continuous with the tendon which encircles the aortic opening of the ventricle, and the other two continuous with the marginal ten- dinous cord of the fe^tooned commencement of the middle tunic of the aorta. The convex margins of the sigmoid valves of the aorta are attached to the margins of the semilunar flaps, and are composed of thin ex- pansions sent off from their marginal tendinous cord, covered by a reflexion of the lining mem- brane common to the heart and arteries. Hence it follows that the fibres of the middle tunic of the aorta are not continuous with the muscular fibres of the ventricle, being sepa- rated from them by the tendinous sti'ucture above described ; this tendinous connexion is strengthened and supported externally by a layer of dense cellular membrane, which may be regarded as the commencement of the cellular or external tunic of the arterial system. The lining membrane of the heart, after being reflected over tl-.e sigmoid valves, extends itself into tlie aorta, and becomes continuous with the lining membrane of that vessel. The muscular substance of the heart rises in form of a swollen annular border around the commencement of the aorta for a little distance, and is connected to it by dense cellular membrane. The serous layer of the pericardium passes loosely from the surface of the heart over the aorta; a quantity of soft adipose substance, which is absent in the foetus during the earlier months, begins to collect under the serous membrane in this situation, sometimes before, sometimes after birth, and, increasing as life advances, is found in considerable quantity in old age. The fore- going description of the connexion of the aorta with the heart has been determined by my own dissections repeatedly performed, and agrees, in its leading particulars, with the account given of it by M. Beclard,* The aorta, arising from the left ventricle of the heart opposite the left side of the body of the fourth thoracic vertebra, ascends at first obliquely forwards, and to the right behind the middle bone of the sternum, until it arrives at the right side opposite the second intercostal space, and behind the sternal articulation of the cartilage of the second nb; it then stretches backwards and to the left, opposite the junction of the upper and middle portions of the ster- num, on a level with the body of the second thoracic vertebra, and curving downwards it reaches the left side of the body of the third thoracic vertebra, on which there is a slight depression for lodging it; from this point it descends through the posterior mediastinum, * Diet, de Medecine, arti -Aorto. Elemens d'Anat. Generate, par Beclard. Paris, 1823. advancing in its course downwards from the left side to the front of the bodies of the ver- tebrae ; it passes through the aortic opening of the diaphragm, enters the abdomen, and on the body of the fourth abdominal vertebra gives off the two primitive iliac arteries, in which it seems at first view to terminate; the aorta, however, does not end here, but is continued, although greatly reduced in size, under the name of the middle sacral artery, as far as the extremity of the os coccygis. The aorta is usually divided by anatomists into three portions; the curved portion fiom the heart to the third thoracic vertebra is called the Aixh of the aorta ; the remaining portion of the vessel, to which the name of descending aorta has been sometimes given, is called Thoracic aorta above the diaphragm, and Ab- dominnl aorta below that muscle. The Arch of the aorta is divided into three portions, for the purpose of describing its nu- merous important relations to surrounding parts with greater accuracy; these are, first, the ascending or anterior limb ; second, the trans- verse portion ; and, thirdly, the descending or posterior limb. The commencement of the aorta is covered anteriorly and to the left by the pulmonary artery, on the right by the right auricular appendage, the tip of whicii overlaps it in front, and behind it rests on the sinus of the left auricle. The ascending limb of the arch lies first in front of the right pulmonary artery, as that vessel crosses behind it in its course to the right lung, and then it gets in front of the right bronchus, and the cluster of bron- chial glands which fill up the angle formed by the bifurcation of the trachea; it is bounded on the right side by the superior vena cava, and on the left by the pulmonary artery ; an- teriorly it IS separated from the sternum by the anterior margins of both lungs, which here approximate, and by the narrowest part of the anterior mediastinum, where the attached sur- faces of the opposite pleurte touch. This portion of the aorta is contained within the bag of the pericardium, the serous layer of which invests it in every part except where it lies in contact with the pulmonary artery. The transverse portion of the arch is shorter than the ascending limb. The three great arte- ries of the head and upper extremities arise from its superior sides; inferiorly it rests on the left bronchial tube ; in front it has the cellular membrane of the anterior mediastinum, the thymus gland, and the inferior part of the vena innominata; behind it rests on the trachea a little above its bifurcation, and on the left re- current nerve. The posterior limb is the shortest portion of the arch; it lies immediately behind the division of the pulmonary artery, which is connected to it by a ligament, the remains of the ductus arteriosus; and it is crossed by the left par vagum; on the right side it is in con- tact with the oesophagus, thoracic duct, and left side of the body of the third thoracic ver- tebra ; the rest of the circumference of the thoracic aorta is covered by the left pleura, and is in contact with the internal surface of the left lung. In the generality of adults having