CIRCULATION. and sometimes tlie secretions, natural growth of parts, and reunion of wounds have been found to be little impaired by injuries of the nerves. We may therefore form the conclu- sion, that although the circulation in the small vessels is obviously liable to be modified by the state of the nerves in their neighbourhood, or perhaps by affections of the nervous system in general, there is no reason to consider the capillary circulation as more immediately de- pendent on nervous influence than the action of the heart. Bibliography.—We have deemed it advisable to reserve our historical sketch of the discovery of the circulation and the knowledge of that impor- tant portion of physiology to this part of the article, thereby consulting brevity in uniting it with the literature of the subject. The Chinese have been conceived to have enter- tained correct notions of the circulation before they had any intercourse witli Europe,—a supposition, the erioneousness of which is sufficiently demon- strated by their description of the commencement of the circulation of the radical humours and vital heat at three o'clock in the morning, their passage through the lungs in the course of the day, and termination in the liver at the end of twenty-four hours, as well as by the different manipulations practised by them in the operation of venesection. In the time of Hippocrates and Aristotle, al- thoiigh the principal bloodvessels were described— apparently from dissection of animals,—the course of the blood appears to have been wholly un- known. Towards the end of the second century Galen describes accurately the distribution of many of the bloodvessels in the lower animals. He ap- pears also to have known the anastomoses of the arteries and veins, and the structure and uses of the foramen ovale in the foetus, bvit his works afford no evidence of his having known the course of the blood in either the pulmonic or the systemic circulations. He described the arteries as arising from the heart, the veins from the liver ; and some of those passages of his works in which it is alleged that the circulation of the blood is pointed out, are either inconsistent with one another, or are believed to have been introduced at a later time than Galen's. Galen believed that the blood passed through the septum of the ventricles; he knew that the arteries contained blood, but he believed its motion to be of an oscillatory kind. (De usu partium, 1. iv., vi., & vii., and his trea- tise on the question—an sanguis in arteriis ruttura continetur ?) The authors of a more recent date, in whose works it has been supposed that the circulation was described, are Servetus, Columbus, and Caesal- pinus. After the revival of letters, the great ana- tomist Vesalius of BrUoSels, in 1542, had examined more minutely than his predecessors the connec- tions of the arteries and veins : he mentions the valves of the veins, the difference between the veins and arteries, and describes the valves of the heart. He seems to have known that the blood was propelled into the arteries by the heart, and demonslriited by a more direct experiment than Galen's, that the arterial pulse depends on the systole of the heart. (De corporis humani fabrica, fol. ; and Opera Omnia, cura Boerhaave.) Servetus, the victim of religious persecution in 1553, is one of those in whose writings we find the first dawn of part of the discovery of Harvey, for he very distinctly at one place refers to the pulmo- nary circulation. The vital spirit (blood) passes by the arteries into the veins by their anastomoses. The blood cannot pass from the right into the left auricle on account of the closed nature of the sep- VOL. ^. turn auricularum ; in the adult it must go throuB;h the lungs, where it is charged with the vital s|)irit obtained from the atmospheric air, and then reiuriis to the heart. He further held that the pulmonary artery and vein from their large size must have some other use than the nourishment of the lungs merely. De Trinitatis Erroribus. Basil, 1531. Columbus, Professor at Padua and Rome, six years after the publication of the work of Servetus, published the discovery of the lesser circulation a? his own. He describes it more clearly than Sei- vetus does, and held that the blood returning from the lungs is not mixed with vital spirit, but is qviite pure. Libri xv. De re anatom. Venetiis, 1559. Caesalninus of Arezzo, Professor at Pisa, gave, in 1583," a more detailed description of the pul- monary circulation than any of those who preceded him, and in two parts of his work expresses him- self in such a manner as to shew that he had some idea of the systemic and double circulation. Other passages in his works are, however, quite incon- sistent with a correct knowledge of the course of the blood, and, although we find this course more nearly indicated in the writings of Coesalpinus than in any others before the time of Harvey, he does not seem to have added much, if any thing, to the knowledge possessed by those who preceded him, but rather to have applied, and without acknowledgement, the observations of Vesalius, Fallopius, Servetus, and Columbus, to the expla- nation of the circulation. The foetal circulation seems to have been ex- amined with great attention by the anatomists of the sixteenth century. Galen had already been acquainted with the foramen ovale, and also knew, though less perfectly, the ductus arteriosus. Fal- lopius described the ductus arteriosus exactly, so also did Vesalius and Aranzii ; and after this Botallus appropriated to himself the discovery of both the foramen ovale and ductus arteriosus. Vesalius discovered the ductus venosus which was figured by Fabricius and Eustachius. Fabricius ah Aquapendente made the discovery of the valves of the veins and published it in 1603 : it is sur- prising that knowing their structure so perfectly as he did, he should have continued ignorant of their uses, and strictly attached to the older erroneous opinions regarding the circulation. Dr.William Harvey was born at Folkstone in Kent, and studied under Fabricius at Padua from 1598 to 1602. Learning from his master the structure of the valves of the veins, he engaged in experi- mental researches after returning to England, with the view of determining their uses, and in 1619, according to his own statement, taught publicly for the first time the doctrine of the double circulation of the blood, which he had demonstrated by his investigations. He did not publish any history of this discovery until after the lapse of nine years, during which he had carefully examined his doc- trines and experiments. This appeared in the Exercitatio Anatomica de Motu Cordis et Sanguinis in Animalibus, first published at Frankfort in 1628. Among the contemporaries of Harvey who sup- ported his views, the following authors are re- markable. Werner Ilolfink, Professor at Jena, one of the first to adopt the new view, published two years after the publication of Harvey's work. Des Cartes upon two occasions supported Harvey's views, viz. in 1637 and 1643, having been answered by Plempius. John Walaeus, Professor at Leyden, may be regarded as one of the most original of those who adopted and defended the new view. In 1640 he published two letters, addressed to Thomas Bar- tholin. Herman Conring of Hermstadt. James de Back, Amsterdam, 1649. John TruUius, 1651, Rome. 2 Y