.51.5 CEPHALOPODA. Fig. 212. Skeleton of the Cuttle-fish. nous prominence arising from the inner sur- face of the sides of tlie mantle. This pro- minence in the Sepia is of an oval shape ; but in the TeuthidiB it forms a narrow, elongated, cartilaginous ridge, and is adapted to a cor- responding groove at the sides of the funnel. In the Calamary the ridge is of the same size with the groove ; but in the Onychoteuthis the ridge or antero-lateral cartilage commences at the anterior margin of the mantle, and extends downwards some way below the termination of the infundibular groove. Rathke* discovered in the corresponding part of the mantle of the * Memoires dc I'Acad. Tmp. des Scientcs de Pctersbourgh, torn. ii. pt. 1 el 2, p. 154. Loligopsis, viz. on either side and towards the ventral aspect, a thick, opaline, elongated cartilage, extending longitudinally for more than half the length of the mantle, and sup- porting a series of wart-like processes. These lateral tuberculated cartilages in Loligopsis we regard as corresponding to the lateral ridges in the Calamaries and Onychoteuthis above-men- tioned ; but in the Loligopsis they are not arti- culated with the sides of the funnel, which are otherwise attached to the mantle. In all the Decapods, however, this pair of cartilages on the ventro-lateral aspects of the mantle is more or less developed. In the Sepia a longitudinal cartilage is situated on the ventral aspect of the liver. The long lateral fins are, in the same genus, each supported by a narrow, flattened, elon- gated, cartilagmous plate {t>, D, Jig. 2\2); pointed at its anterior extremity, obliquely truncate behind; smooth and gently concave internally (g), but traversed by an irre- gular longitudinal ridge (h) on its external surface. These cartilages form the points of attachment to the powerful muscles of the lateral fins. From the dorsal ridge of each cartilage a number of close-set fibro-cartila- ginous laminae extend at right angles to the cartilage to near the margin of the fin, with their plane in the direction of the axis of the body : they alternate witli the strata of mus- cular fibres, resembling the lays which support the fins of fishes. The analogy of this structure to the cartila- ginous basis of the great pectoral fin of the Itay is so close and satisfactory that we can scarcely hesitate to acknowledge the locomotive appen- dages of the mantle in the Decapodous Cepha- lopods as representatives of the pectoral fins of fishes, and consequently of the anterior extre- mity of the vertebrated animal. As they are not, however, fixed to a vertebral column, then- situation is not constant, being sometimes, as in llossia, situated towards the anterior part of the body; sometimes, as in Loligo, placed at the posterior extremity ; just as we perceive the ventral fins of Fishes shifting their position, in consequence of a similar want of connexion, so as to occupy, in some species, a position more anterior even than the pectoral fins, with- out losing their essential character, as the ana- logues of the posterior extremities. The cartilages of the fins correspond in length to the parts which they support, and are con- sequently much longer in the Cuttle-fish than in the Calamaries; in the Octopods they are entirely wanting. Locomotive System. — The organs of loco- motion in the Cephalopods are of two kinds, one consisting of appendages developed from the head ; the other of rudimental fin-like ex- tremities developed from the trunk ; the latter organs are confined, as we have seen, to the Decapodous genera of the higher or I)ibraii- chiate Order. The cephalic processes, which are called digitatioiis, arms, feet, tentacles, and pedun- cles, have no real homology with the loco- motive extremities of the Vcrtebrata ; to these they are analogous only, inasmuch as they