CEPHALOPODA. 536 Anal valves, Sepioteuthia. mary terminate abruptly where the duct of the ink-bag enters the gut (k. Jig. 221), which for the small extent beyond this part is smooth internally. In the Octopods the intestine passes through the muscular septum of the branchial cham- ber, immediately above which it terminates. In the Decapods the rectum and duct of the ink-gland are surrounded by the muscular fibres which connect the pillars of the funnel to one another; in both cases the fibres serve as a sphincter to the anus. In many Dibran- ~ cfiiata, especially the Decapods, the termi- nation of the rectum is provided with two lateral fleshy appen- dages ; for which, as far as we know, no use has hitherto been as- signed. In the Sepio- teuthis these process- es («, a, Jig.222) are of a broad inequilate- ral triangular form, attached to the sides of the transverse anal aperture (b) by their acute angle, from which a ridge extended lon- gitudinally to the middle of the base; when the processes were folded down upon the vent (as in ^,/g.222),the ridge fitted into the aper- ture, so as accurately to close it. In the Cuttle-fish the corresponding processes are of a rhomboidal form, with a thicker ridge on the side next the anal aperture, which they in like man- ner are adapted to defend against the entrance of foreign substances by the funnel. In other genera they are not adapted to defend the anus mechanically, being elongated and filiform; but they probably serve to give warning of the presence of foreign bodies, and excite the necessary contraction of the constrictors of the gut; Ratlike compares them to antennee in the Loligopsis, where the anal processes are very long {i\,Jig. 223). The apparatus for secreting the inky fluid, formerly regarded as characteristic of the class of Cephalopods, is wanting in the Nautilus, which, as it has a large and strong shell to pro- tect its body, stands less in need of such a means of defence: the ink-bag is, however, present in the Argonauta. The ink-bag {I, Jig. 22i) varies in its re- lative position in different Dibrancliiuta: in the Cuttle-fish it is situated near the bottom of the pallial sac, in front of the testicle or ovary. In the Calamary it is raised close to the termination of the intestine; we have found it similarly situated in the Argonauta, Sepioteu- this, and Rossia. In the Octopus it is buried in the substance of the liver, a small part only of its parietes appearing on the anterior sur- face of that gland, from which its duct is con- tinued forvs'ards to terminate in this genus im- mediately behind the anus. From this connection of the ink-bag with the liver in the Poulp, Monro was led to sus- pect it to be the gall-bladder. What its real nature maybe still remains doubtful; De Blain- ville and Jacobson regard it as a rudimental urinary apparatus :*■ Sir Everard Home f com- pares it to the secreting sac which opens into the rectum in Rays and Sharks, and this we consider to be the true homology of the ink- bag. It is interesting, indeed, to observe that corresponding anal glandular cavities in the Mammalia are in many instances modified to serve by the odour of their secretion as a means of defence, just as the part in question operates in the Cephalopods by reason of the colour of the ejected fluid. VV hen the ink-bag is laid open and well cleansed of its contents, its inner surface is seen to be composed of a fine cellular or spongy glandular substance : its exterior coat is of a tough white fibrous texture, and its outer surface commonly exhibits a peculiar glistening or silvery character. The ink-bag probably attains its largest pro- portional size in the genus Sepiolu, where it presents a trilobate form. It is of an oblong pyriform shape in Sepia, Sepioteuthis, and Loligo. It is relatively larger in Sepia than in Octopus, and the quantity of water which its contents will discolour is very surprising: it behoves the anatomist, therefore, to be very careful not to puncture this part during the dissection of a Cephalopod. In the living Cephalopods the inky fluid is secreted with amazing rapidity ; we have seen an Octopus, which had previously discoloured the water for a considerable extent around it, immediately after its capture continuing its black ejections several times in quick succes- sion, and ultimately expelling in convulsive jets a colourless fluid, when the powers of secreting the black pigment were exhausted. In every species of Cephalopod which pos- sesses this organ, the tint of the secretion cor- responds, more or less, with the coloured spots on the integument. The Italian pigment, called ' Sepia,' and the Chinese one, com- monly called ' Indian Ink,' both of which are the inspissated contents of the organ above described, aflRjrd examples of different shades of this singular secretion. If the Cephalopods are enabled thus to con- ceal themselves during the day, they have also the power, by means of another secretion, to render themselves conspicuous by night by means of a phosphorescent exhalation.J T/ie Liver.—This gland is remarkable in the Cephalopods, as in the other classes of the Mol- luscous Sub-kingdom, for its great proportional size. In the Nautilus the liver {g, q, Jig. 219) extends, on each side of the crop, from the oesophagus to the gizzard. There is a parallelism of form, as will be afterwards seen, between this gland and the Respiratory organs, • Davy states that the secreted fluid is " a car- bonaceous substance mixed with gelatine;" but, according to Bizio, this secretion yields on analysis a substance siii generis, which he calls ' Melania.' See Edinb. Philos. Journal, vol. xiv. p. 376. t Lectures on Comp. Anat. vol. i. p. 398. i See Oligerus Jacobaeus de Sepiaeluce, in the Acta Hafniens. vol. v. p. 283.