AVES. 288 of tlie latter disposition the power of the back stroke of the foot is increased. The Tarsus can only be recognized as a distinct segment of the leg when the bones of a very young Bird are examined. But in the Ostrich, even when it has attained a third of its natural size, the Astragalus re- mains ununited to the metatarsus. It is a flattened transversely oval bone, convex in the middle of its upper surface, and irregularly flattened below, where it is adapted to the three still partially separated bones of the metatarsus. A rudiment of the os calcis may be observed in the detached bone which is found in the tendons of the extensors of the foot near their insertion. The Capercailzie ( Tetrao urogallus) affords a good example of this structure. The process (m, jig. 131) in which the above tendons are inserted, and which is very prominent in the Rasores, Gral- latores, and Natatures, must also be regarded as appertaining to the tarsal series, since it com- mences by a separate ossification. In most birds, however, the tendo Achillis has no sesamoid bone to add to its leverage, and in all birds the astragalus is soon anchylosed to the metatarsus, constituting with it one elongated tarso-metatarsal bone {X,fig.\25, n, fig. 131). Traces of the number of laterally anchylosed pieces of which the metatarsus is composed are always more or less indicated by longitu- dinal grooves. In the Penguins, indeed, the anchylosis of the three metatarsal bones takes place at their extremities only, and they are consequently separated from each other in the greater part of their extent. They are also disproportionately short, and bent forwards upon the tibia, so as to increase the surflice of support required by these birds when standing in their usually erect position. In the Gralla- toi-es and Strutltiones, on the contrary, the tarso-metatarsal bone is remarkably elongated, the extraordinary length of leg in these birds depending chiefly upon the extent of this seg- ment of the limb. In the Stork and congeneric birds, which sleep on one leg, the ankle-joint presents a mechanism analogous to that which we have above described in the knee-joint. Here, how- ever, the projection which causes the extension of the eJastic ligaments in the motion of the joint is in the inferior bone. Dr. Macartney thus describes the mechanism : " There arises, from the fore-part of the head of the metatarsal bone, a round eminence, which passes up be- tween the projections of the pulley on the an- terior part of the end of the tibia. This emi- nence affords a sufficient degree of resistance to the flexion of the leg to counteract the effect of the oscillations of the body, and would prove an insurmountable obstruction to the motion of the joint, if there were not a socket within tire upper part of the pulley of the tibia to receive it when the leg is in a bent position. The lower edge of the socket is prominent and sharp, and presents a sort of barrier to the admission of the eminence diat requires a voluntary muscular exertion of the bird to overcome, which being accomplished it slips in with some force like the end of a dislocated bone."* It must be added, that the elastic lateral ligaments contribute also to jerk the metatarsal tubercle into the tibial cavities, and to resist its displacement. The lower extremity of the metatarsus is divided into three articular eminences, corres- ponding to the ordinary number of anterior toes. These eminences are convex from before backwards, and the middle one, which is the longest, is converted into a pulley by a mesial groove which traverses it in the same direction. The lateral surfaces are simply convex, and very narrow ; of these the internal is the short- est, except in the raptorial birds. At the extre- mities of the grooves which indicate the lateral juxtaposition of the metatarsal pieces, there are ordinarily foramina extending from before back- wards through the bone. A fourth articular surface is observable in most birds on the inner and posterior side of the metatarsal bone; this is situated on an ac- cessory piece which always commences by a separate ossification, although in some birds it afterwards becomes anchylosed with the inner- most of the other juxtaposed components of the metatarsus. When this does not take place, the metatarsus presents a rough, more or less irregular, oval surface, for the firm ligamentous attachment of die accessory bone which sup- ports the back toe, usually termed the hallux or posterior thumb. This articulating surface is important as affording a good distinctive cha- racter for identifying the bones of birds in a fossil state, and the more so as its position is indicative of the powers of grasping or perching —being placed low down, on a level with the anterior toes, in those birds which enjoy the insessorial power in the greatest perfection, and being gradually removed higher and higher in the Waders, until it is at length wholly lost, as in the genus Cursorius, the Bustards, and the Struthious family. In the Petrel, however, this accessory metatarsal bone is wanting, al- though the hallux is present, the two bones of which are therefore united to the principal me- tatarsal bone by long ligaments. The tarso- metatarsal bone is further characterized by sharp longitudinal ridges of bone on the pos- terior surface, which afford attachment to the aponeurotic thecae confining the tendons which glide along the metatarsus to the toes. In birds, as in mammalia, the number of toes is subject to great variety; if the spur of the Gallinaceous tribe be regarded as one, we may then reckon the ordinary number of five in these birds, while in the Ostrich the toes are reduced to two. Birds are, however, the only class of animals in which the toes, whatever be their number or relative size, always differ in the number of their phalanges, yet at the same time preserve a constancy in that variation. The following is a tabular view of the nume- rical relation in the osseous parts of the feet of * See Transactions of the Royal Irish Academy, vol. xiii. p. 20.