529 CEPHALOPODA. (i) rising from the bottom of the cavity, like the piston of a syringe. When the sucker is applied to a surface for the purpose of adhe- sion, the piston, having previously been raised, so as to fill the cavity, is retracted, and a vacuum produced, which may be still further increased by the retraction of the plicated cen- tral portion of the disc. So perfect is the me- chanism for effecting this mode of adhesion, that in the living Cephalopod, " while the mus- cular fibres continue contracted, it is easier to tear away the substance of the limb than to release it from its attachments : and even in the dead animal the suckers retain a considerable power of adhesion."* Still there are circumstances in which even this remarkable apparatus would be insufficient to enable the Cephalopod to fulfil all the offices in the economy of nature for which it was created; and in those species which have to contend with the agile, slippery, and mucus- clad fishes, more powerful organs of prehension are superadded to the suckers. In the Calamary the base of the piston is inclosed by a horny hoop, the outer and ante- rior margin of which is developed into a series of sharp-pointed curved teeth. These can be firmly pressed into the flesh of a struggling prey by the contraction of the surrounding transverse fibres ; and can be withdrawn by the action of the retractor fibres of the piston. Let the reader picture to himself the projecting margin of the horny hoop developed into a long, curved, sharp-pointed claw, and these weapons clustered at the expanded terminations of the tentacles, and arranged in a double alter- nate series along the whole internal surface of the eight muscular feet, and he will have some idea of the formidable nature of the carnivo- rous Onychoteuthis. Banks and Solander, in Cook's first voyage, found the dead carcase of a gigantic species of this kind floating in the sea, between Cape Horn and the Polynesian Islands, in latitude 30" 44' S. longitude 110° 33' VV. It was surrounded by aquatic birds, which were feeding on its remains. From the parts of this specimen, which are still preserved in the Hunterian Collection, and which have always strongly excited the attention of natu- ralists, it must have measured at least six feet from the end of the tail to the end of the tenta- cles. The natives of the Polynesian Islands, who dive for shell-fish, have a well-founded dread and abhorrence of these formidable Cephalopods, and one cannot feel surprised that their fears should have perhaps exaggerated their dimensions and destructive attributes. We cannot quit this part of our subject without noticing a structure which adds greatly to the prehensile powers of the uncinated Calamaries : at the extremities of the long ten- tacles, besides the uncinated acetabula, a cluster of small simple unarmed suckers may be ob- served at the base of the expanded part. When these latter suckers are applied to one another, * Rogct, Bridgewater Treatise, i. p. 260. See also Baker, An Account of the Sea-Polypus, Phi- losoph. Trans, vol. 1. p. 777. the tentacles are firmly locked together at that part, and the united strength of both the elon- gated peduncles can be applied to drag towards the mouth any resisting object which has been grappled by the terminal hooks. There is no mechanical contrivance which surpasses this structure : art has remotely imitated it in the fabrication of the obstetrical forceps, in which either blade can be used separately, or, by the interlocking of a temporary joint, be made to act in combination. (SeeJ!g. 215, where d marks Fig. 215. of the six dorsal and lateral feet. (See a >g.216.)