802 DEATH. secretion of saliva is almost always suppressed, and the mucus about tlie mouth and nasal passages is so deficient, that the lips and tongue require constant moistening when arti- culation is attempted ; not to mention the inex- tinguishable thirst which is one of the most painful forerunners of some forms of dissolu- tion. The perspirable secretions are generally rather profuse than scanty. The cutaneous surface, particularly about the face, is bedewed with a clammy exudation. It cannot be said that the weakness of the circulation is the immediate cause of this circumstance, because it frequently happens in a very opposite state of the function. It is true that the latter fact has been explained by supposing a transuda- tion of the thmner part of the blood through the coats of the capillary vessels during their disten- tion, while the former has been attributed to a spasm of the same vessels, consequent on the diminished force of the circulation, and said to have the effect of squeezing out the same serous liquid. In each case we must presume the perspired fluid to be in a state of separa- tion before the supposed agency can come into operation. The hypothesis is supported by little evidence ; but we are not sure that any other interpretation can be found much more conclusive. It seems probable, however, that the fact in question results less from so mecha- nical a process as has been hinted at, than from a chemical alteration in the fluids, in- duced perhaps by a change of innervation, in a manner analogous to those extraordinary changes which the secretions so frequently pre- sent under the influence of mental emotion. It remains for us to enumerate a few of the signs of approaching dissolution, derived from the general aspect of the body. Many of these have been described by Hippocrates with unrivalled accuracy. The sunken eyes, the hollow temples, the sharpened nose, the fore- head dry, tense, and harsh, the complexion sallow, livid, or black, the lips cold, flaccid, and pale, or of a leaden hue—compose the celebrated/rtctes Hippocrutica.* All these signs admit of an easy rationale by the state of the circulation and of the muscular system. They are however in some measure due to the con- dition of the cellular tissue, which, indepen- dently of its loss of fat, is exhausted of that interstitial fluid, which in health contributes so much to the firmness and equality of tlie cu- taneous surface. In proof of this we may men- tion that all the appearances enumerated may be produced merely by a violent illness of a few hours; by cholera for instance, a disease in which the serous fluid is rapidly drained from the system into one channel. Excessive fatigue and fasting will occasion appearances very similar, and therefore the Father of Medi- cine recommends us to ascertain whether such causes have been in action, before we pro- nounce the patient to be moribund. A partial closure of the eyelids and a gaping mouth * These signs are not tlms grouped together in the original, but are individually mentioned in tlie book " UfoyvucTiXov," not the " nspi voitrcav." are signs, wlien conjoined with the others, of fearful import. There must be an extreme depression of the nervous system when the orbicularis is unable to bring the lower lid into contact with the upper, which has drooped from relaxation of the levator palpebra?, and when the masseter and temporal muscles resign tlie lower jaw to gravitation. A supine posi- tion with the limbs extended, and a tendency to slide down to the lower part of the bed, are indications of mortal prostration. In the pos- ture alluded to there is little or no muscular exertion; for the extension of the legs, when tlie body lies upon the back, is not necessarily maintained by the action of the extensor mus- cles, since the mere support of the surface on which they rest would keep them in that posi- tion. The sliding down in the bed is owing to the inability of the glutaeal muscles to resist tlie gravitation of the trunk down the inclined plane, upon which this part of the body is extended when the head and shoulders are resting upon the pillow. When the prostration is less extreme, it often happens that instead of the extremities being carried forward by the impulse alluded to, the thighs are raised, the knees bent, the soles rest flat upon the bed, and the heels afford a sufficient resistance to the nates to prevent any further descent. It is evident that this position of the legs and thighs, though requiring a muscular effort for its pro- duction, needs little or none for its mainte- nance. The moribund are often impatient of any kind of covering. They throw off" the bed- clothes, and lie with the chest bare, the arms abroad, and the neck as much exposed as possible. These actions we believe to be prompted by instinct, in order that neitiier covering' nor even contact with the rest of the body may prevent the operation of the air upon the skin. There are actions and re-ac- tions between the air and the blood in the skin, similar to those wl'ich occur in the lungs, and hence in asphyxial disorders tlie symptoms alluded to are very marked; but tiie mere influence of the air upon the cuta- neous nerves has been proved by Dr. Edwards to be beneficial to the vital powers. Certain it is that these symptoms are sometimes prominent in cases where the respiration is very little in- volved in the mortal struggle. Orfila, in one of his cases of poisoning by sulphuric acid, mentions that the subject of it made con- stant efforts to remove even the lightest kind of covering. The appearance of the face is by no means such as we have described it above, in all cases. The kind of death must always have a great influence on the expression. On fields of battle the corpses of those who died of stabs are easily distinguished by the countenance, from those who fell by gun-shot. In the for- mer an extremely painful impression must have been transmitted to the brain, which pro- duced the usual change in the nerves and muscles of expression; in the latter a con- cussion was given to the whole system, para- lysing without any intermediate sensation, so