86 ALBINO. bright light or to a high temperature, and there- fore render the individuals less able to bear exposure to the weather, or to perform the ordmary occupations of life. To the same cause may be ascribed the morbid condition of the skin, which, as was remarked above, occurs not urtfrequently in hot climates, and which is not observed in the European Albino. Partly from the circumstances stated above, and partly from the idea of imperfection or defect, which is connected with their appearance, the tropical Albino is generally regarded by his country- men with a degree of compassion or even of contempt ;* and hence is derived one of their popular denominations, chacrelas, which is a corruption of kakkerlakken, the Dutch name for the cock-roach, as being, like those animals, able to leave their haunts only in the evening.-f Besides the complete Albino, which we have now described, there are occasional examples of individuals, where the whiteness of the skin exists in certain parts of the surface only, while the remainder of the body is of its ordinary colour.J In the majority of cases the peculi- arities which constitute the Albino are connate, and continue during life without any change. There are, however, some instances, where the whiteness of the skin does not exist at birth, but makes its appearance at a subsequent pe- riod, generally by slow degrees, until the com- plete Albino character is induced.§ When Vossius, p. 68, informs us that they are avoided by the other negroes, as supposed to be diseased. De la Croix says the negroes regard them as mon- sters, and do not permit them to multiply, ut supra. Dubois, p. 199 et scq. observes that they are named lepers by birth, and that when they die their bodies are not buried or burnt, but cast on dunghills. See also Firmin, ubi supra. t Blumenbach, p. 277; Lawrence, p. 287; St. Hilaire, p. 296. t Phil. Trans, vol. xix. p. 781, and Lowthorpe's Abridg. vol. iii. p. 8 ; Buffon, t. iv. p. 565. tab. 2, et p.571,tab.3; Arthaud, in Journ. Phys. 1789.'pt-2. p. 277,8 ; Rush, in Amer. Trans, vol. ii. p. 392 et seq. ; Gumilla, El Oron. Ilus. t. i. p. 109 et seq. ; Ditto, Hist. del'Oronoque, trad. t. i. p. 150 et seq. ; Jefferson, p. 105; Blumenbach, § 48 ; Rayer, ut supra ; Is. St. Hilaire, p. 309 et seq. ; Isert, p. 156. Bell, in Travels in Asiatic Russia, p. 217,8, saw a number of persons with white spots on the skin, but it seems probable that this was the effect of some cutaneous disease. The partial Albino appears to have been noticed by the ancients; Lucian, Prometh, t. i. p. 15. § Bhimenbach, p. 276, says it is " semper con- natus;" see, also, Lawrence, p. 285. There are, however, certain well authenticated cases, where the skin of the negro has gradually changed its co- lour from black to white ; sometimes the change has been general, sometimes only partial; Bates, in Phil. Trans, vol. li. p. 175 et seq. ; Gualtier, in Journ. Phys. t. Ixx. p. 248 et seq. ; Le Cat, sur le Pcau, p. 112 et seq. ; Rayer, ut supra ; Fisher, in Manch. Mem. vol. v. p. 314 et seq. ; Rush's Re- marks on the same, Amer. Trans, vol. iv. p. 289 ct seq. In one of the four cases which are men- tioned by Le Cat, the change of colour appears to have been the consequence of a severe burn or scald. Besides the partial Albino, we have what has been termed the imperfect Albino, where the peculiarity exists in a certain degree only ; Is, St. Hilaire, §. 4. p. 312 et seq. once formed it does not seem that it ever d is- appears, or is even in any degree diminished, nor have we any authentic accounts of its being removed by any constitutional change, either natural or morbid, or by external applications. Although, as has been stated above, this peculiarity occurs in individuals, who did not derive it from their parents, yet, like all those deviations from the ordinary structure of the body, which have been styled accidental varie- ties, when once produced, it is disposed to propagate itself by hereditary descent. There are also certain individuals, who have a ten- dency to produce it; so that even among the few European Albinos, of which we have a minute account, we have cases of its occurrence in two or more members of the same family, either as connected by parental descent, or by collateral relationship.*' We have no instance on record of the offspring of a male and female Albino. The whiteness of the skin and hair, both general and partial, is not confined to the hu- man race ; it is found in most, if not in all the species of the mammalia, and in some of these, as in the dog, the horse, and the rabbit, is the subject of daily observation ;f in most of them, however, the peculiar state of the eye does not exist. These white varieties, like other analogous cases among the lower animals, when once produced, are strictly hereditary, in which re- spect they differ somewhat from the human Albino. Various opinions have been entertained by physiologists respecting the nature of this pecu- liarity, whether it should be considered as a morbid affection,J depending upon a diseased state of the constitution, and also respecting its immediate or efficient cause. The first of these points may be regarded as a verbal con- troversy, depending altogether upon our defi- nition of morbid action ; but we conceive, that according to the ordinary definition of the term, we should not consider it as a disease, but as a connate deviation from the perfect structure of the animal frame, not produced by an external cause, and not removable by a remedial agent. For a correct knowledge of its physical cause, we are indebted, in the first instance, to an in- genious conjecture of Blumenbach's, who ac- counted for the red colour of the eye, and its extreme sensibility to light, by the absence of the pigmentum nigrum.§ * See particularly Saussure's account of the two boys of Chamouni and Sachs's Narrative ; also Blu- menbach, p. 276 and 279, note ; Firmin and Jeffer- son ut supra ; Pauw, t. ii. p. 25 ; Bory St. Vincent, L'Homme, 'p. 144, mentions an Albino of the third generation; Is. St. Hilaire, passim. t Blumenbach, p. 281, 2; Is. St. Hilaire, p. 297 . . 9. I " Ad cachexias referenda videtur affectio," Blumenbach, p. 274 ; Is. St. Hilaire, §. 6, supposes that there are two species of Albinism, one the effect of disease, the other a true anomaly; but we con- ceive that the term is not correctly applied to the former state. § Comment, dc Oculis Leucaethiopum, ct De Gen. Hum. var. 78.