CIRCULATION. 64t Fig. 313. Fcetal Circulation seen from behind. continuity of tube exists between the maternal and foetal vessels, the blood of the child seems to undergo a respiratory alteration, or a certain degree of arterialization, in being brought into near proximity with the maternal blood. The blood of the foetus, after passing through the minute ramifications of the umbilical arte- ries (U', U) in the placenta, returns by the umbilical vein (ti) into its body. The umbilical vein carries part of its blood directly by the ductus venosus (d) to the vena cava inferior, and part is distributed by the branches of the vena portas (L), with which the umbilical vein unites, through the sub- stance of the liver, and is then conveyed by means of the hepatic veins (/) into the general current of the returning blood. The right auricle of the heart (A'), therefore, receives not only the blood which has circu- lated through the body of the foetus, but also that which has passed through the placenta, consequently a mixture of venous and arterial blood ;—the blood in the superior vena cava («*) being entirely venous, that in the inferior vena cava (V) being mixed. The blood which is brought to the right auricle is in much greater quantity in the foetus before birth than in the child which has breathed air; a part of this blood passes from the right into the left auricle (A) by the foramen ovale (f) in the sep- tum auricularum, and it would appear that it is chiefly the blood from the inferior vena cava which takes that course. The rest of the blood entering the right auricle takes the same route as in the adult, viz. into the right ventricle CH'J, and thence into the pulmonary artery, but, as very little blood is sent to the collapsed lungs, a passage of communication is established in the foetus from the pulmonary artery into the descending aorta through the ductus arteriosus (D), and thus the greater mass of the blood, which in the adult would have proceeded to the lungs, is in the foetus immediately transmitted to the aorta (A). From the disposition of the Eustachian valve, it IS believed that nearly the whole of the blood of the inferior vena cava passes from the right to the left auricle through the foramen ovale, while the blood brought from the head and superior extremities (parts which are compara- tively large in the foetal condition) passes through the right side of the heart. The as- cending aorta, rising from the left ventricle, delivers almost all the blood expelled by the contraction of that cavity into the carotid and subclavian arteries, while the ductus arteriosus passing between the trunk of the pulmonary artery and the descending aorta directs the blood which passes through the right ventricle to the lower regions of the body. In this manner tlie upper legions of the body are sup- plied with the most arterialized part of the blood from the left side of the heart and aorta, while the purely venous blood is propelled from the right ventricle through the pulmonary artery and ductus arteriosus into the descend- ing aorta, and consequently into the lower part of the body, and by the umbilical vessels to the placenta. The foramen ovale in the septum of the au- ricles, the ductus arteriosus passing from the pulmonary artery to the aorta, the ductus ve- nosus leading from the umbilical vein to the vena cava inferior, and the umbilical vein and arteries are the structural peculiarities of the foetal circulating organs. These passages are all closed up, and the umbilical vessels obliterated at the navel after aerial or pulmonic respiration is established at birth.* II. Course of the blood in various ANIMALS. • We now leave for the present the history of the circulation in man, in order to give a brief sketch of the varieties of this function in other animals, the study of which is calculated to throw considerable light upon some of the pro- cesses of the human economy, and to illustrate the anatomical and physiological relations of the circulatory and respiratory organs.f It has been shewn that a regular and pro- gressive circulation of the nutritive fluids occurs in those animals only in which the aeration of the blood is performed by a separate and dis- * Sabatier, Mem. de VAcad. An 8. Kilian, Kreislauf iin Kinde, &c. Karlshruhe, 1826. Bur- dach's Physiologie, &c. vol. ii. Jeffray, Pecu- liarities of the Foetal Circulation. Glasgow, 1834. t In the following view of the comparative phy- siology of the circulation, besides the different works referred to under the separate heads, we have been guided chiefly by tlie following, viz. the works of Cuvier, Home, Meckel, Blumcnbach, Trevira- nus, Carus, and R, Wagner ; Roget's Bridgewater Treatise, and the excellent chapter upon this sub- ject by J. Miiller in Burdach's Physiologie, vol. iv, and in his Handbuch der Physiologie, vol. i.