CAllNIVORA. 472 greater aberration from the type, in the planti- grade form of the foot, by wliich the animal is enabled to walk with that solidity and firmness which the less degree of mobility in the rest of the skeleton renders necessary, or to climb trees, or dig the ground, in pursuit of the various food from which the diflPerent genera of this family derive their nutriment. The small extent of the lumbar portion of the spine com- pared with the dorsal which we find in some of this tribe, is equally characteristic. In the Phocidse or Seals, (jig. 191), on the Fig. 191. bones of the face. other hand, the most remarkable deviation from the typical struc- ture is seen in the adaptation of the limbs to the aquatic residence and habits of the animals. The posterior members are extended backwards in a horizontal direc- tion, forming two broad fins, by which they swim with great facility and strength. The anterior feet are similarly constructed,but they serve also in some measure for progres- sion on land, though to a limited extent. The cranium is thin and round, and the teeth, sharp and many-pointed, are formed for seiz- ing, holding, and tearing fish, the activity of whose motions, no less than their scaly surface and even, rounded form, render such a structure absolutely necessary. The cranium.-—The peculiarities by which the cranium of this order is distinguished have reference, not to the form and developement of the brain only, but particularly to the character of the food, and the consequent necessity of peculiar powers of mastication, and of the other acts preparatory to the function of diges- tion. We shall find, therefore, not only that the general form of the skull in the whole of the Carnivora is diffe- rent from those of every other group, but that the families composing it structure, with the same relation to aliment and habits. The cranium in this order then is cha- racterized, when com- pared with that of most other orders, especially those which feed on grain or other substances requiring long and la- borious trituration, by great shortening of the spicuous in the cats, (Jig. 1 Fig. 19Q This is particularly con- ) the seals. (Jig. 193,) and even the hyenas, but is less Fig. 193. so in the bears (fig. 194) and dogs. The Fig. 194.