CRUSTACEA. 762 place, the only kind upon which it seems neces- sary to say anything here, are effected in two modes, either by the alternate flexion and ex- tension of the trunk, or by the play of the limbs. In those Crustacea which are formed essen- tially for swimming, the posterior part of the body is the principal agent in enabling the animal to change its place; but here the mo- tions, instead of being lateral, are vertical; and instead of causing the creature to ad- vance they cause it to recede : it is by bend- ing the abdomen suddenly downwards, and bringing it immediately under the sternum, that it strikes the water, and consequently by darting backwards that the animal makes its way through that liquid. From what has now been said it may be imagined that the Crustacea whose conformation is the best adapted for swimming, have the abdomen relatively largely developed, and this is, in fact, what we always observe; the Amphipoda and Decapoda ma- croura are examples; whilst, in the walking Crustacea, such as the Crabs, the Caprella, the Oniscus, &c. this portion of the body attains but very insiguificaut dimensions. In the swimming Crustacea the appendages of the penultimate segment of the abdomen also become important organs of locomotion, inasmuch as they for the most part terminate in two broad horizontal plates, which, with the last segment, also become lamelliform, con- stitute an extensive caudal fin arranged in the manner of a fan. We have already said that the thoracic ex- tremities alone constitute true ambulatory limbs. When destined for swimming only, their segments are lamelliform, and the palp, as well as the stem, contributes to form the kind of oar which each of th^m then con- stitutes. The Copepoda supply us with in- stances of thoracic extremities particularly destined for swimming, and a corresponding structure is observed in certain Podophtlialmia, such as the Mysis. (See fig. 386.) To conclude, tliis stemmatous portion of the thoracic extremities, whilst it still preserves the general form which we have assigned it, is modified in some cases to serve for walking as well as swimming, or to aid the animal as an instrument for burrowing with facility, and making a cavity for shelter among the sand. Thus in the Decapods that burrow, the last seg- ment of the tarsus assumes a lanceolated form, and in the swimming Erachyura, the same segment, especially of the last pair of extre- mities, appears entirely lamellar. We have only further to add that in a great number of species one or several pairs of the thoracic extremities are modified so as to become instruments of prehension; some- times it is the last segment of the limb which, acquiring more than usual mobility, bends in such a manner as to form a hook with the preceding segment; sometimes it is this penul- timate segment which extends below or by the side of the last, so as to form a kind of im- moveable finger with which it is placed in opposition. In the first instance these instru- ments are denominated subcheliform claws, in the second chela simply, or cheliform clmvs. We shall revert to these organs when we come to treat of the apparatus of digestion. § 2. Apparatus of Sensation. A. Ne?-vous Si/stem.—When endeavouring to form as accurate and complete an idea as possible of the tegumenlary skeleton of the Crustacea, we began by studying it in its suc- cessive states of development in the embryo, and then compared the various stages of transition in which it met our observation, with the permanent conditions in which it finally remains in the organic series, classed in conformity with the structural affinities of the different genera. In the study of the nervous system, upon which we are now about to enter, the same mode of proceeding will lead us to analogous results. The deep situation of the nervous system, and the transparency of the filaments and various masses which compose it, are each obstacles to its observation until it has arrived at a somewhat advanced stage of development. It was, in fact, only after the sternal canal had begun to appear under the form of an enlarge- ment, edged by a double series of tubercles, which prove to be the rudiments of the motor muscles of the extremities, that Rathke'' was able to catch a sight of the earliest traces of the nervous system in the Astacus fluviatilis, and even this was no more than the portions be- longing to the head and thorax. AH that can be seen then amounts to very little; in the part behind the mouth, eleven pairs of whitish spots are arranged in two longitudinal series perfectly distinct from one another, and situated on either side of the mesial plane. It is otherwise easy to perceive that a pair of these spots corres- ponds to each ring, setting out from, but in- cluding those of the mandibles. Neither the oesophageal cords nor the cephalic ganglions are then distinct. At a later period these rudiments of the nervous system undergo remarkable modifica- tions. The six first ganglions of each series approach those that are symmetrical with them severally, so as to become united along the median line, and, at length, to form a simple chain of ganglions corresponding to the six rings, whose appendages are the mandibles and the five pairs of maxillary extremities. The ganglions, on the contrary, which corres- pond to the five posterior thoracic rings, continue to form a double series. During this time the sternal canal is evolved so as to surround the nervous system with a firm and solid sheath. At a period of the incubation still farther ad- vanced, that is to say, during the time which elapses from the birth of the young Crustacean to that at which it attains its full growth, new and important changes take place. First, the four most anterior oesophageal tubercles, in other words, those which correspond to the mandibles, to the jaws, and to the first pair of maxillary limbs, become united, by approach- ing one another along the mesial line, so * Untcisuchungcn iibcr die Bildung des Fluss- krcbses.