338 AVES. one goes between the internal and middle toes, ramifies upon both their joints, and unites with the artery in the sole of the foot; the other is distributed between the internal toe, and tlie pollex or toe which occupies the place of the great toe; the main artery now passes to tlie sole of the foot through a hole in the meta- tarsal bone, left for the purpose, when the original parts of this bone were united by ossi- fication. In this situation the artery might receive the name of the plantar. It has scarcely passed through the bone, when it di- vides into SIX branches; three of these are distributed to the tendons and ligaments, &c. on the outside of the foot and the back of the metatarsus, anastomosing with the descending branches of the peroneal artery; the fourth branch supplies the pollex, and also sends a branch from the metatarsus. The remaining branches are designed for the three principal toes; one dips in between the internal and middle toe, unites with the anterior branch of the metatarsal artery, and is distributed to the sides of these toes as far as their extremity. The other divides, between the external and middle toe, mto two branches, which run upon the opposite side of each of these toes to the end. " When the feet are webbed, the digital ar- teries send off numerous branches, which, ra- mifying in the membrane between the toes, establish a communication with each other. The present description has been taken from birds which possess three principal toes, and the back toe or pollex ; but no material diffe- rence can be expected in those with a greater number of toes. " After the trunk of the aorta has detached the ischiadic arteries, it is continued along the spine as the arteria sacra media (29, fg. 170), sending off small branches analogous to the lumbar arteries, one of which ascends upon the rectum, supplies the place of the inferior mesenteric {30, Jig. 170), and unites with the superior mesenteric as already mentioned. The aorta separates above the coccygeal vertebrae into three branches; two of these, (the ht/po- gastric arteries, 'SI,Jig. 170,) proceed laterally, and are distributed to the neighbouring parts, and to the kidneys and oviduct; the third branch (the coccygeal artery, 32, Jig. 170) de- scends to the very point of the tail, upon the muscles and quills of which its branches are exhausted. " The arterial system of birds, besides the distinguishing characters above-mentioned, dif- fers from that of mammals chiefly in the fre- quent anastomoses, which exist more especially amongst the arteries of the head and the viscera. Similar communications occur between the veins, which are even in some instances more singular and unaccountable, as will be perceived by the following description, which has been taken principally from the Goose, Duck, and Common Fowl." Besides the remark-able arterial plexuses men- tioned in the general description, as the orbital, the temporal, the spermatic plexuses, &c., that which Barkow has described under the name of the plexus of the organ of incubation (Britt- organe) deservese special notice. It is repre- sented at 17, 18, Jig. 170, and is composed of branches coming from the posterior thoracic, abdominal, cutaneous, and ischiadic arteries, which ramify beneath the integument of the abdomen, and form, by their unions, a rich net- work of vessels which becomes truly extraordi- nary in the time of hatching. At this period many birds pluck off the feathers from the seat of incubation, probably thereto impelled by the great degree of heat caused by the influx of blood into the incubating plexus. Fig. 171. Veiiis of a Fowl. " Veins.—The venous system returns the blood to the heart by means of three trunks; two of these, for the convenience of description, we shall call the subclavian veins (a a, Jig. 166), although they do not correspond in every respect with the veins of this name in mammalia; the other trunk is analogous to the inferior vena cava. " The subclavian vein {a, Jig. 171) is com- posed of the jugular and vertebral, and the veins which belong to the superior extremity or wing. ""The vertebral vein is lodged in the same canal with the vertebral artery; it anastomoses between the vertebrae with the veins upon the