THE UNIVERSITY LIBRARY LEEDS LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Classmark: r ( Theodore :is ) Classmark ery_Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https ://arch i ve. o rg/detai I s/b21530348_0008. ■ ■ ■ . .THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA A Complete Dictiohary of all pertaining to the Art of Cookery and Table Service. ILLUSTRATED with COLOURED PLATES and ENGRAVINGS, by HAROLD EURNISS, GEORGE CRUIKSHANK, IV. MUNN ANDREW, and others. EDITED BY THEODORE FRANCIS GARRETT, Author of “ The Chef's Memoranda," “ Plain and Artistic Cookery," “Little-known Foods," “ Ice and Ice-Makitig,” “ The Manufacture of British IVines, &c.," “ Ball Suppers and their Service," “ Wine Adulteration," “ Savoury Suppers," “ Muffins and Crumpets“ Sandwiches," “ A merican Drinks," “ Confectionery,” “ Notes on Curries," “I.oving-Cups," “Antiquity of Cheese," “Good Coffee,” “Lives of Famous Cooks',' and numerous other Serial and Special Papers in Technical and Domestic Publications. Assisted by WILLIAM A. RAWSON (Cook and Confectioner to Messrs. Ring and Brymer, Caterers for City of London and other Banquets ; Sec. of the Original U.F. Society of Cooks and Confectioners); And, in Special Departments, by the following and other distinguished CHEFS DE CUISINE and CONFECTIONERS: C. J. CORBLET, Chef de Cuisine, Bute House, W.; Grand Diploma of Honour; ist Grand Prize, 1887; 1st Gold Medal of ist Class, 1885. J. Detraz, Chef de Cuisine, Hotel Metropole, London. J. FlORlLLO, Chef de Cuisine, late of Hotel Victoria, London ; Grand Prix d’Honneur, Paris, 1889 ; ist Prize, Gold Medal, 1885 ; Champion Silver Medal, 1885 ; ist Prize, Gold Medal, 1888 ; ist Prize, Gold Medal, 1889. G. Heywood, Chef de Cuisine, and President of the Original U.F. Society of Cooks and Confectioners. C. Norwak, Confectioner, Gold and Silver Medallist in Sugar-Flowers and Piping, London, 1889. L. Lecomte, Chef de Cuisine to Lord Harewood ; Silver Medal,ExpositionCulinaire Internationale, London, 1885; Diploma of Honour, Grand Prize, and Gold Medal, Expo- sition Culinaire Internationale, London, 1887. C. Reichert, Confectioner to Messrs. W. and G. Buszard. A. Thoumire, Chef de Cuisine to Sir Julian Goldsmid ; Silver Medal for Turtle Dinner of 13 Dishes, Universal Cookery and Food Exhibition, 1889; Bronze Medal for Menu Design, 1889 ; and Vermillion Medal, Expo- sition Culinaire, 1887. T. Wallace, Chef de Cuisine, Great Eastern Flotel, London. C. Willin, Chef de Cuisine, late of the Grand Hotel Bristol; ist Prize in Open Turtle Competition. Division VIII.—Twe to Zwe. LONDON: L. UPCOTT GILL. Sole Agent; A. W. COWAN, 30 and 31, NEW BRIDGE STREET, LONDON, E.C.LONDON : BRADLEY, LONDON AND COUNTY PRINTING WORKS, DRURY LANE, W.C. liMWtftSIf 1 LIBRARY LEEDS673 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Tutti Frutti—continued. continually until about to boil; remove the pan from the fire, and pour the cream at once through a fine sieve into an earthenware basin. Let it get cold, pour it into the freezer, freeze it, remove the dasher of the freezer, and with a spatula work in about 3 pints in all of the follow- ing fruits in equal quantities, and all cut up: Cherries (stoned), strawberries, pine apple, apricots, peaches, green- gages, ripe currants, and citron-peel. These fruits may either be preserved or not, according to fancy. When thoroughly frozen, use as required. The elder-flowers may be omitted, and kirschenwasser, a little vanilla extract, and the juice of three lemons used to flavour it before working in the fruits. (8) Add to 1 pint of syrup made of loaf sugar and a little water the strained juice of two oranges, two lemons, and 1 dessert spoonful of vanilla. Put this mixture into the freezer, and when half frozen add and stir in 2 table- spoonfuls each of cherry and strawberry preserves, 1 table- spoonful each of greengage and peach preserves, cut in small pieces, and a small quantity of any other preserved fruits that are considered choice. Let it remain in the freezer till quite frozen, then serve. (9) Prepare 1 pint of lemon cream-ice, also 1 pint of coffee cream-ice, leaving them until wanted in the freezers. Take 2oz. of candied cherries cut in halves, 2oz. of candied apricots cut in slices, loz. of candied angelica cut into very small lozenge-shaped pieces, 2oz. of candied pine apple cut into very thin slices, and twelve French walnuts, shelled and divided. Have a 3-pint square mould, place half the lemon cream at the bottom, arrange a third of the fruits over, dividing them equally, cover with half of the coffee cream, and with a spoon press it down well. Lay half the remaining fruits on top of this, and spread over the rest of the lemon cream, then the last of the fruits, and fill up the mould with the balance of the coffee cream. Close very firmly, and lay it | in a pail with brokeu ice mixed with rock-salt at the bottom, filling it with the same, and freeze for two hours. Two minutes before serving, prepare a vessel with warm water, lift up the mould, and wash off the ice and salt; turn out the macedoine immediately on a cold dish with a fancy paper over, and send to table. (10) Put 1 pint of syrup (see Syrup), 1 gill of kirschen wasser, and the juice of three lemons into a basin, and mix in a few drops of extract of vanilla. Place this in the freezer, and work in two whites of Italian meringues ; freeze again, mix in lightly 1 pint of fruits composed of grapes, apricots, strawberries, pine apple, peaches, cherries, and also candied peel; stone the fruit, and cut all up into small pieces. Pour the mixture into moulds, and freeze until set, when it will be ready for use. Tutti-Frutti Icing-.—Mix with a boiled icing loz. each of chopped citron, candied cherries, Valencia raisins, candied pine apple, and blanched almonds. Tutti-Frutti Jelly.—Soak 2oz. of gelatine in l pint of cold water, mix with it the grated peel and juice of one lemon, the grated rind of half an orange, the juice of one orange, and lib. of powdered white sugar ; cover it, and let all stand together for an hour. Add ] pint of boiling water, stir till the gelatine is quite melted, add 2 whisked whites of fresh eggs, and then strain it; add to it 1 wineglassful each of white wine and the best French brandy, and strain it again, this time through double flannel, and without either squeezing or shaking the bag while the jelly drips through. Wet the inside of a fluted mould with cold water, pour a little of the jelly in the bottom of it, and let it get quite firm, in the meantime keeping the rest of the jelly warm by standing the vessel containing it in a pan of warm water. When the jelly at the bottom of the mould is quite firm, lay on top of it and close to the edge of the mould a row of crystallised cherries, and within the row of cherries a layer of shreds of crystallised apricots, greengages, peaches, &c.; pour over this more jelly, and let it stand till quite firm. In the meantime, blanch Jib. of sweet almonds, and throw them as they are slipped from their skins into cold water. When the jelly over the crystallised fruit is quite firm, take the almonds from the cold water, dry them, and cut them into Tutti Frutti—continued. very fine shreds ; put a row of cherries close to the outside of the mould as before, and then lay within them a layer of the shred almonds, pour over some more jelly, wait till it is cold and firm, and then put a layer of chopped crystallised fruits enclosed as before with a border of crystallised cherries. Pour in more jelly, and as the jelly cools proceed to add alternate layers of shred almonds and chopped fruits, enclosing each layer with a border of cherries, and pouring over sufficient jelly to cover, and waiting till it is firm to Flo. 917. Tutti-frutti Jelly. add the next layer. When the shape is full, set it on ice till quite firm—if frozen, so much the better. Turn it out on to a glass dish, garnish round with coloured jelly balls (see Fig. 917), and serve immediately. Tutti-Frutti Preserve.—Get a gallon jar, earthenware or glass, with a wide mouth and tight fitting cork. Place 1 pint of brandy in this jar, and put in any fruit as it comes into season, beginning with strawberries ; to every pound of fruit add lib. of finely-powdered sugar. Put the fruit in directly it is gathered, and thoroughly stir every day with a wooden spoon. Strawberries should be hulled, and all berries freed from stalks and stems, but should be put in whole ; cherries and all stoned fruit should be stoned, and the stalks picked off; plums, peaches, and apricots, should be peeled and quartered as well as stoned ; the pips should be taken out of grapes, but the skins may either be left on or taken off, according to taste. When the last fruit is put in, let it stand for a week ; it ought then to be fit for use. Keep the jar well corked, except when putting in fruit and stirring. TWELFTH CAKES.—Like many another of the good old customs, that of keeping up Christmas festivi- ties until Twelfth-night (twelve days after Christmas) has passed away. For a time Twelfth-night was regarded as the finale of a long holiday, then it became a sort of one-day resuscitation, and then fades away into the world of historical memories. Twelfth-night cards and characters are no longer in fashion, but the Twelfth- Cake seems to have a charmed life, and dies hard. The following are good receipts for these cakes, their chief characteristics being that they are iced over and deco- rated with coloured piping, fruits, and ornaments (see Fig. 918). (1) Put 21b. of butter into a large basin, and work it with the hand before the fire to a cream, adding 2lb. of finely -sifted sugar, a IP tie grated nutmeg, and Joz. each of cinnamon, allspice, ginger, and mace, all finely powdered. Beat all together, then work in twenty eggs with the yolks and whites whisked separately. Add gradually 2lb. of dried and sifted flour, 41b. of currants, Jib. of almonds blanched and bruised in a mortar with a little orange-flower water, Jib. of candied lemon-peel, and the same of candied citron cut into thin slices, and lastly 2 wineglassfuls of brandy. The cake should be well but lightly beaten between the 2 x For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. VOL. II.THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 674 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Twelfth Cakes—continued. additions. Butter a baking-hoop, line it with doubled paper, and pour in the mixture to three-quarters its height; cover the top with paper to prevent the cake burning, and bake in a slow oven, but with a moderate heat, for four-hours-and-a- half. Turn it out of the hoop, and when nearly cold ice with plain sugar icing to about fin. in thickness. Then it may be decorated with ornaments. (2) Work 2ilb. of butter in a warm basin to a cream with the hand, and then rub it into 7lb. of flour. Have ready 71b. of washed and dried currants, 2 large nutmegs finely grated, |oz. of mace and foz. of cloves (the mace and cloves finely pounded in a mortar or ground), lib. of caster sugar, the yolks of sixteen eggs and the whites of twelve whisked separately, and 1-i pints of fresh yeast. Then mix all up, using only sufficient cream to moisten the mixture, and add as much sweet wine (malmsey) as will make it into a light batter. Blanch lib. of sweet almonds, and pound them in a mortar with a little orange- flower water and a little of the wine. Beat this into the previous mixture, and add 111), of candied lemon-peel and the same of orange-peel and citron cut into very fine slices. Beat all the mixture well together, and then pour it into a baking-hoop with a thick layer of paste round it made of flour and water, to prevent it burning. When done, which will be in about four-hours-and-a-half, take it out, and when it is nearly cold ice it, anti cover with decorations. (3) Well wash and dry 31b. of currants, then stone 4oz. of raisins, and put them all into \ peck of well-dried and sifted flour; add Jib. of powdered loaf sugar, 2oz. of candied orange-peel, and the same of lemon-peel chopped up finely, 4oz. of sweet and |oz. of bitter almonds blanched and pounded in a mortar; then, lastly, add mixed spice to taste, and mix all well together. Take fib. of butter, beat it up in 1 pint of warmed cream, and put in a warm place for a little while before adding to the other ingredients. Beat the yolks of twelve and the whites of six eggs up separately, and put them into a basin, adding 2 table-spoonfuls of cardamom brandy, h wine- glassful of champagne or hock, a little rose-water, \ pint of dissolved yeast, and a little salt; mix all these together, and pour them through a sieve into the dry ingredients, which should be made a little warm before the fire. Mix them to a smooth light paste, and put it to rise before the fire. Then butter a baking-hoop, and pour in the mixture, adding more flour if necessary to make it stiff. Place under the hoop pieces of whitey-brown paper, and bake in a moderate oven for nearly two hours. When done, let it get cold, and then ice and ornament in the usual way. TWINE.—A careful housekeeper will collect all the pieces of Twine that come into the kitchen round parcels and otherwise. For many purposes these pieces will be valuable, and nothing is more hindering to the cook when working in a hurry than to have to wait whilst Twine—continued. a piece of string is hunted for and found. A hook should be kept supplied, if possible, with Twine in all lengths and sizes, or a ball, or a roller of a useful-sized Twine should be always ready to the cook’s hand. TWISTS.—See Bread. TWOPENNY.—The name of an inferior beer brewed in the early part of the eighteenth century. UDDER (Fr. Tetine ; Ger. Euter; Ital. Tetta ; Sp. Ubre).—The bag of a heifer or cow, which contains the milk glands and in which the milk is secreted. That ol the young female calf or heifer is used in cookery for the purpose of wrapping up cromeskies; the Udder of the cow, although more plentiful, is somewhat coarser and more strongly flavoured, but is sometimes used, especially for making a stew or ragout, when tripe is unobtainable. The following is a good receipt for making this, and is highly esteemed by Europeans in India : Udder Ragout.—Parboil about 21b. of Udder. Put 3oz. of fat in a frying-pan, and warm it; cut twelve onions into slices, put them in the pan, and fry them brown ; then remove them from the pan and add 4 teaspoonfuls of ground onions, 1 tea- spoonful each of ground chillies and turmeric, \ teaspoonful of ground ginger, J teaspoonful of ground garlic, and, if preferred, £ teaspoonful of ground coriander-seeds. Fry the mixture, stirring continually, until brown, add the 21b. of Udder cut up into squares, H teaspoonfuls of salt, and fry to a light brown. Turn the whole into a saucepan, add the onions, after chopping them, pour in 1 breakfast-cupful of water, and simmer gently over a slow fire for about two hours, by which time the Udder should be quite tender and the liquor thick, and only half its original quantity. Turn the preparation out on to a dish, and serve very hot, with the onions sprinkled over. UKA SOUP.—See Soups. UMBIES-See Humbles. UNICORN PLANT.—See Martinoes. UNIVERSAL SAUCE.—See Sauces. UNLEAVENED BISCUITS.—See Biscuits. UNLEAVENED BREAD.—Bread that is made without leaven of any kind. Fig. 919. Tea-urn. URNS.—The derivation of the term is uncertain; ac- cording to some authorities it takes its origin from theTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 675 Urns—continued. Latin urere—to burn, as having been made of burnt clay, or to hold the ashes of the burned dead. Webster describes an Urn as “ a vessel of various forms, usually a vase furnished with a foot or pedestal, employed for different purposes, as for holding- liquids, for orna- mental uses, for preserving the ashes of the dead after cremation, and anciently for holding lots to be drawn.” The tea-urn (see Fig. 919} takes its name from its similarity in shape to the ancient Urn, and, as might be expected in these days of artistic advancement, the shape has undergone some modification, whilst retaining the original title, or its co-relative the kettle (see Fig. 920). Fig. 920. Rustic Swing-kettle or Urn with Spirit-lamp (Adams and Son). Urns were at one time very generally used to gi-ace the tea-table; but modern fashions have to some extent dis- carded them—a fact that does not lend itself to the commendation of modern wisdom. With the loss of the genial Urn the tea-table is deprived of one of its greatest attractions. USQUEBAUGH. —The literal meaning for this term is water of life, of which whisky is the corruption. The word is of Irish or Gaelic origin. UTENSILS.—See Culinary Utensils. VACHEBIN.—The name of a French paste which is described by Dubois, and used chiefly to make a case for holding chantilly cream. It is compounded of ground or pounded almonds, caster sugar, and whites of eggs. The following receipt is for Vacherin a la Chantilly.—Prepare a paste by beating up lib. of ground almonds and 111), of caster or icing sugar with as many whites of eggs as are necessary to bind it and give it a firm consistence. Cut off about three-quarters of the paste, and roll it out into a flat strip long enough and deep enough to go round the outside of a charlotte-mould, so as to cover the side, and overlap at the extremities of the strip. Fasten the ends together with strong icing sugar, and then, after trimming the edges all round to the exact size of the mould, set it in a quick oven, and bake till lightly browned. In order to keep the ends together whilst the baking is going on, tie round the strip a piece of broad tape, or string, removing it as soon as the join is strong. Next form a flat round with the remainder of the paste, and lay that on the top of the strip (see Fig. 921) after it has been removed from the mould. Stick the bottom on the V acheriu—continued. strip with icing, and then put it in the oven again to set and brown slightly. When the case is strong and cold, turn it up and set it on a glass dish, with a lace-paper under- Fig. 921 Vacherin Paste Case. neath, and then proceed to decorate the outside of the case with tinted meringue applied through a cornet, halves of candied cherries, and beads of coloured meringue, as fancy dictates. When quite ready, put the case in a drying stove until the meringue is well set. Before serving, fill this pretty case with heaped up whipped vanilla cream (chan- tilly), and sprinkle some variegated nonpareils over the cream (see Fig. 922). The base may be garnished with macaroons, or other sweet biscuits, and the Vacherin may be tinted pale rose, cream, or lavender. VALENTIA ALMONDS.—See Almonds. VALGIANO.—A Tuscany wine not much known in this country. VALOIS SAUCE.—See Sauces. VANILLA (Fr. Vanille ; Ger. Banille; Sp. Vain ilia).— The Vanilla-plant (Vanilla aromatica) from which the pods used in flavouring are obtained, belongs to the orchid tribe, and is said to be the only one of that great family which is of any economical value. It is a climbing parasitical plant, the flowers (see A, Fig. 923) of which are thick, fleshy, and dull-coloured. The pod, bean, or fruit is very long and thin (see B, Fig. 923), exhaling a powerful odour, which has an intoxicating effect upon those who climb the trees to gather it. A section of it shows it to be triangular in shape, and evenly marked throughout the pulpy interior. When ripe the fruit For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. 2 x676 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, V anilla—continued. yields from two to six drops of liquid, having a most powerful, pungent, aromatic odour, and soft spicy flavour. It is found climbing up the trees in Mexico, and an Fig. 923. Vanilla. Flower-pod and Section of Pod. inferior quality grows in Honduras, Guinea, Brazil, Peru, and Ceylon. Pour sorts of Yanilla come to the English market, in packets of fifty to one hundred pods. The best comes from Mexico, and is worth five or six sovereigns per pound. It is probably due to its cost that it is so great a favourite; the balsam of Peru is frequently used as a substitute. Its uses for flavouring are exceedingly numerous, the following preparations being generally employed for that purpose: Essence of Vanilla.—(1) Cut three pods of Yanilla into very small shreds, put them in a bottle with 1 pint of brandy, and cork the bottle. Shake the Vanilla occasionally, and in three months’ time it will be ready for use. (2) Cut eight sticks of Vanilla into small jiieces, put them into a magnum bottle, pour in lqt. of rectified spirits of wine, and cork it down tightly. Keep the bottle in a warm temperature for two weeks. Draw the essence off and decant it in small well-stoppered bottles. Extract of Vanilla.—Cut and chop very fine two or three Vanilla pods, or pound them fine in a mortar. Rub or pound into them a little powdered white sugar. Put the Vanilla and sugar into a pint bottle, add to it 1 table- spoonful of water, and let it stand all night. Next day pour on it J pint of spirits of wine, cork it well, and let it stand for a month, shaking it well every day. Vanilla Flavouring.—(1) Steep 1 drachm of freshly sliced Vanilla pod in 1 pint of 95 per cent, alcohol, for twenty days. At the end of that time filter the liquor, and bottle it ready for use. (2) Split four Vanilla beans, clip them into bits with a pair of scissors, and scrape out the seeds. Put seeds, husks, and all into a bottle, then pour over the Vanilla 1 pint of brandy or whisky, and cork it tightly. Shake the bottle frequently for the first four or five weeks; it is then fit for use, and will keep for years. (3) The flavouring obtained from Vanilla pods exceeds that of the essence or extract, and is therefore preferred by professional cooks. The pods should be stirred amongst the substance to be flavoured, taken out when sufficient flavour has been imparted, then washed in two waters, and dried for future use. If care be taken, the pods may last for a long time. When using Vanilla the greatest care should be exer- cised, as if it be in excess it is apt to have a nauseating effect upon the palate. Although Vanilla is not injurious to the human system when taken in moderate quantities, nevertheless excessive doses are apt to produce a kind of stupor following exhilaration. The following receipts Vanilla —continued. give a very good idea of the numerous uses to which the Vanilla flavour may be applied. Several other receipts in which Vanilla is used will be found under various headings. Vanilla Barley Sugar.—Put lib. of best loaf sugar in a saucepan with \ pint of water, 1 teaspoonful of acetic acid, a liqueur-glassful of kirschenwasser, and 1 teaspoonful of Vanilla flavouring. Boil the sugar to the crack degree, then put in a few sheets of thin leaf gold. Oil a deep tin dish, and pour in the sugar. When nearly set, mark the surface with the back of a knife in the shape of diamonds, then leave it till quite set. Break the sugar where it is marked. Vanilla Biscuits.—Beat the yolks of six eggs with Jib. of caster sugar and a little grated lemon-peel. Beat the whites of the six eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them lightly in with the beaten yolks; dredge in Jib. of flour, flavour with a little essence of Vanilla, and work it till quite smooth. Lay the mixture out in rounds on cartridge or foolscap paper, using a biscuit-forcer for the purpose; dust them over with Vanilla sugar, and bake in a quick oven. When cooked, take the biscuits out and join them together in pairs. See Fig. 924. Vanilla Cake.—Prepare about lib. of fine puff paste, roll it out thin, sprinkle over a few drops of essence of Vanilla, fold the paste over, and work it iVi. Put it on a baking- sheet, having it 6in. wide and 2Jin. thick or thereabouts ; surround it with a band of thick paper to prevent it spreading while cooking, brush the surface with egg, decorate it in any desired form, put it in a quick oven, and bake for about two-hours-and-a-half or more. This cake must be allowed to remain in the oven until perfectly cooked, otherwise it would be soft and uneatable. When done, sprinkle over some sugar, and serve cold. If the Vanilla flavouring is not liked, the cakes may be flavoured with almost anything, such as chopped orange- flowers, orange or citron-peel, currants, Parmesan cheese, or anything else that may be preferred. Vanilla Cake a la Cussy. -Put lib. of sugar into a large basin and add fourteen eggs; whip these well together over a slow fire for ten minutes, then add Jib. of butter warmed to melting, Jib. of ground rice, and 1 table-spoonful of Vanilla sugar. Put this into a plain mould (well buttered and floured) about 3in. high and 9in. in diameter, and bake in a moderate oven. Take the cake out of the mould, and when it is cold glaze it with the following : Put 1 pint of syrup at 36deg. and a stick of Vanilla cut in pieces into a sugar-boiler, and boil to 3Sdeg.; then remove it from the fire, and when cool take out the Vanilla and beat the syrup with a spatula until it is granulated perfectly smooth and the icing thickens. Vanilla Candy Tablets.—Put lib. of load sugar into a sugar-boiler with just sufficient water to dissolve it. Boil the sugar to the ball degree, then pour in a few drops of acetic acid and flavour with essence of Vanilla. Work the sugar against the sides of the pan with a silver spoon, using the back part of the bowl, thus giving it an opalised appearance. When finished working the sugar, pour it into a tin dish, leave it till nearly set, then mark the tablets out with the back of a knife on the surface of the sugar. Before the sugar is poured in, the tin should be lightly brushed over with oil of almonds. Dry the sugar in the screen, and when hard snap it apart where marked.677 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Vanilla—continued. Vanilla Caramels.—Mix well together 2lb. of the best sugar, loz. of gelatine dissolved in § breakfast-cupful of cold water, Joz. of pure paraffin-wax, -} pint of cream, and lib. of glucose (if the caramels are made in the summer-time, lloz. of glucose will be sufficient). Put this mixture over the Are and stir it constantly, till when a little is tried in cold water it makes a ball if rolled between the fingers; stir in then a flavouring of Vanilla, take it from tire fire, pour it into well-buttered tins, let it cool, and cut it into fin. squares. Wrap them separately in oiled paper, and keep them in a cool place. Vanilla Cheese.—Stir into J pint of cream 1 teaspoonful of extract of Vanilla; add 1 pinoli of salt and a little sugar, mix 1 pint of cream with it, and whip it over the ice till thick. Dissolve half a packet of isinglass and mix some caster sugar with it; put it in the cream, and continue stirring for a little while longer. When of the right consistency, turn the cream into a fancy mould, and pack it in ice till set. Dip the mould in warm water, wipe it, turn the cheese on to a dish, and serve. Vanilla-and-Chocolate Cream.—Make some white Vanilla and some chocolate cream, separately, but both of the same consistency. Brush a mould lightly over with oil, rest it slantingly on ice, and pour in a little of the Vanilla cream. When that is frozen, alter the position of the mould a little and pour in some of the chocolate cream. When it is frozen, proceed as before until the mould is full, changing the position of the mould each time—sometimes leaning to one side and sometimes to Fig, 925. Vanilla-and-Chocolate Cream. another in regular intervals. Pack the mould in pounded ice for two hours, or till wanted, then dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, turn the contents on to a raised dish (see Fig. 925), and serve. Vanilla-and-Chocolate Souffle (Iced).—Put the yolks of sixteen eggs in a basin with 1 teacupful of clarified syrup anil 1 breakfast-cupful of water; beat them together, then pass them through a fine hah- sieve. Turn the mixture into a saucepan, and stir it over a slow fire until it becomes a thick custard, hut do not let it boil. Pour some boiling water in a bowl to warm it, then turn it out; pour the custard into the bowl, stir in 1 teaspoonful of Vanilla flavouring, and whip for several minutes; then stir in 1 pint of whipped cream, and pour all into a souffle - mould. Pack it in ice for two hours, put a layer of chocolate on it that has been melted in iced water, and leave for two hours longer. Serve the souffld in the mould. Vanilla Cream.—(1) Put 1 J pints of milk in a saucepan with half a pod of Vanilla, and boil it; then take the saucepan off the fire, put the lid on, and let the Vanilla soak for an hour. Beat the yolks of eight eggs together with fib. of caster sugar, then stir them into the milk, and continue stirring over a slow fire till the custard Vanilla—continued. thickens, but it must not boil; take the custard off the fire, and stir it for a few minutes longer. Soak 1 Joz. of gelatine in cold water for twenty minutes, then drain and mix it in the hot custard. When the gelatine has dissolved, strain the custard through a pointed strainer into another stewpan, which stand on the top of some rough ice; stir the contents till they begin to set. Whip If ]tints of thick cream to a stiff froth, take the stewpan off the ice, and stir it in. Fill a cylinder-mould with the cream, pack it in pounded ice, and leave till the cream is set. Dip the mould into hot water, wipe it, turn the contents out on to a dish, and serve. (2) Boil a pod of Vanilla in f pint of cream for twenty minutes, keeping the lid on the saucepan all the time. Beat the yolks of thirteen eggs and the white of one together with fib. of caster sugar and 1 pinch of salt. Remove the Vanilla from the cream, stir gradually with the beaten eggs, and strain the mixture through a silk sieve into a mould that has been buttered inside. Stand the mould in a bain-marie with hot coals on the lid, and cook the cream till it is set. Beat the yolks of eight eggs with Jib. of caster sugar and 1 pinch of salt; put them into a saucepan with f pint of cream and a little extract of Vanilla, stir it over the fire till it is of the required thickness* but do not let it boil, then move it off. Turn the contents of the mould on to a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. (3) Boil half a pod of Vanilla in f pint of milk sweetened to taste. Beat up the yolks of four eggs and mix with them the flavoured milk. Put this custard into a bain-marie, anil keep on stirring till the custard thickens. Dissolve 4J sheets of the best French gelatine in a little milk, and add this to the custard. Whip 1 gill of cream to a froth, mix it quickly with the custard, pour it into a mould, and let it stand on ice or in a very cool place till quite set; then dip the mould in hot water for a second, turn out the cream, and serve. (4) Beat up three eggs and the yolks of twelve more. Put over the fire in a saucepan sufficient cream, together with the beaten eggs, to fill a quart mould. Sweeten and flavour the cream to taste with powdered white sugar anil extract of Vanilla, boil it up a few times, let it cool, and mix the beaten eggs with it. Strain the cream five times through a cloth. Pour it into a buttered mould, and set in a bain-marie; do not let it get boiling hot, but as soon as the cream is set turn it out on to a dish. If there is any cream left after filling the shape, put it over the fire in a saucepan, stir with a wooden spoon, and as soon as it begins to stick to the spoon remove from the fire, con- tinue to stir for an instant, and then pour it over the other cream. Let it stand till cold, then serve. Vanilla Cream Fritters.—Mix 2 table-spoonfuls of potato-flour quite smooth with a little milk, then pour in 1 pint of milk and the beaten yolks of six eggs and the whites of two. Sweeten to taste and flavour with essence of Vanilla. Strain the mixture through a fine hair sieve into a lined saucepan, and stir it over a moderate fire until a thick custard. Butter a dish, turn the mixture on to it, spreading it out to about Jin. in thickness. When cold, cut the mixture into small pieces and wrap them separately in wafer-paper. Make some frying- batter, dip each piece of the cream in it, put them into boiling lard or butter, and fry a nice brown. Afterwards lay them on a sheet of paper near the fire for a minute or two to absorb the fat, then arrange them on a dish that has been garnished with a folded napkin, and serve. Vanilla Cream Ice.—(1) Mix well together lqt. of rich fresh cream, a well-beaten egg, and lib. of powdered white sugar; add a quarter of a Vanilla pod cut in pieces, set it over the fire in a saucepan, and keep it constantly stirred till on the point of boiling; then remove it from the fire, and strain through a fine sieve. When cold, place it in a freezer and stir till frozen. Repack the freezer with ice, and let the cream ice remain well covered till frozen. (2) Put a pod and a half of Vanilla cut into small pieces in a mortar with Jib. of loaf sugar, and pound them together.THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 678 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Scc., referred to, see under their special heads. Vanilla—con tinned. Put the Vanilla and sugar into a saucepan with 1 pint of cream, the beaten yolks of six eggs, and \ wineglass- ful of pale brandy. Stir the mixture over a slow fire till smooth and thick, but do not let it quite boil, or the eggs will curdle. Pass the custard through a fine hair sieve into a freezing-pot, work it over the ice till frozen, then turn it into a mould; pack it in pounded ice till set. Dip the mould in warm water, wipe it, turn the cream out on to a fancy or glass dish, and serve. (3) Boil l pint of milk with half a Vanilla pod in a saucepan. Put into a basin ilb. of powdered sugar and the yolks of six eggs, and with a spatula mix thoroughly for ten minutes; add it to the boiling milk, stirring for two minutes longer, and pour the whole into a copper basin, placing it on a moderate stove to heat for five minutes, stirring at the bottom continually with the wooden spatula, and being careful not to let it boil. Remove the basin from the fire, place it on a table, and add immedi- ately 1 pint of sweet cream, mixing it for two minutes longer ; let it cool for about thirty minutes, strain into a freezer, put on the lid, and lay in an ice-tub, filling the freezer all round with broken ice mixed slightly with rock-salt, and turn the handle on the cover as briskly as possible for three minutes. Lift up the lid, and with a wooden spoon detach the cream from all round the freezer and the bottom as well. Re-cover it, and turn the handle sharply for three minutes longer; uncover, and detach the cream the same as before, being careful that no ice or salt drops in. Put the lid on again, and repeat the same three times. The cream should by this time be quite firm. Have a cold dish with a folded napkin, dress the cream over, and send to table. Vanilla Cream Liqueur.—Cut into pieces 3 drachms of Vanilla pods, and put them into a large jar together with h grain of amber. Put 2lb. lOoz. of loaf sugar over the fire in 3 pints of filtered water; when the sugar has melted and boiled up once, pour it over the Vanilla and amber in the jar, and let it stand till quite cold; then add 3 pints of brandy, cover the jar, and let it stand for six days. Colour it with a little prepared cochineal. Strain the liqueur, bottle it, and cork and seal the bottles. Vanilla Cream Sauce.—This is to be served with hot cakes such as baba. Boil 1 pint of cold milk in a sauce- pan. Put three yolks of eggs into a small vessel with 2oz. of powdered sugar, loz. of flour, and a piece of Vanilla pod lin. long. Beat these well together with a wire whip for two minutes. Pour the mixture into the boiling milk, stir again briskly with the whisk until it boils, remove from the fire, and add § gill of maraschino. Beat again for one minute, and pour the cream nicely over the cake before sending to table. Vanilla Cream Syrup.—This can be obtained by mixing 1 fluid ounce of extract of Vanilla with 3 pints of simple syrup and 1 pint of cream or condensed milk. It may be coloured with carmine if desired. Vanilla Cup Custards.—Pound a Vanilla bean in a mortar, mix in 3 pints of milk, eight well-beaten eggs, and crushed loaf sugar to sweeten ; with this fill up some cups, place them in a pan of hot water, set it in the oven, and cook. Turn the custards out when done (see Fig. 926), and serve either hot or cold. Vanilla-and-Currant Cream (Iced).—Put ioz. of isin- glass into a lined saucepan with 1 pint of cream, 2 table- V anilla—con tinued. spoonfuls of Vanilla sugar, and sufficient plain loaf sugar to give it the required sweetness ; stir the mixture over the fire until boiling, then move it to the side and stir in quickly the beaten yolks of six eggs. Leave the cream until cool, stirring it occasionally, then half fill some small moulds with it. Put foz. of gelatine in a saucepan with J pint of water, and stir it over the fire until dissolved; then mix with it 1 breakfast-cupful of fresh currant-juice or syrup of preserved ones, and the juice of one lemon; sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and boil it up again. Strain the currant mixture through a fine sieve, let it cool a little, then mix with H break- fast-cupfuls of thick cream. When the Vanilla cream in the moulds has got quite stiff, fill them up with the currant cream and stand them on ice. When ready to serve, dip the moulds into tepid water, wipe them, and turn the contents out on to a fancy dish. Vanilla Custard.—(1) Large.—Boil lqt. of cream with 12oz. of sugar and a Vanilla pod. Beat well the yolks of twelve eggs, and pour the boiling cream over them. Set the mixture on the fire again for one minute. The custard will not froth in the freezer if cooked much, but should be taken off and strained as soon as slightly thickened. Freeze and beat light, and serve as required. (2) Small.—Pour 2\ pints of boiling milk on a pod of Vanilla that has been broken into small pieces, and let it soak for an hour. Beat the yolks of five eggs with 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, mix them in with the boiled milk, and strain the whole through a pointed strainer. Fill some cups with the custard mixture, stand the cups in a flat stewpan, surround them with boil- ing water to a little more than half their height, and stand the stewpan on a slow fire to keep the water just simmer- ing for fifteen minutes. When the custards are set, let them cool in the water, then wipe the cups, and serve. Vanilla Drops.—Cut up as fine as possible two Vanilla pods; put them into a mortar with a little sugar, and pound them to a powder. Sift it through a fine sieve, and mix it up with lib. of coarsely-sifted sugar; put this in a basin and add gradually, stirring with a spoon, sufficient water to make the paste of such a thickness that it will fall from the spoon and none of it remain sticking to it. Turn the paste into a sugar-pan with a lip to it, set it on the stove, anti with a spatula stir well until the sugar is dissolved and makes a slight noise. Remove the pan when on the point of boiling, and work well with the spatula until the paste when dropped will retain its shape and not spread too much. W ith the pan in the left hand and a piece of wire in the right, let the drops fall on a smooth tin or cartridge-paper; let them harden in the hot closet for two hours, remove them from the tin or paper, and pack away for use. Vanilla pods are used in preference to the essence, as the latter is apt to make the paste greasy. Vanilla Eclairs.—Prepare an icing with 3 teacupfuls of caster sugar and the whites of two eggs, and flavour it with a few drops of essence of Vanilla. Put jib. of butter in a saucepan with i /pint of boiling water, and boil it up. Sift 1 pint of flour in the boiling water and beat it well till quite smooth, then take the saucepan off the fire. Break five eggs in a basin, and when the paste is nearly cold beat in the eggs with the hand. Only a small portion of the eggs should be added at a time. Beat the mixture foi about twenty minutes. Butter some baking-sheets, and lay the mixture on it in oblong pieces about 4in. long and Hin. wide, leaving a space about 2in. between these. Bake the Eclairs in a quick oven for about twenty five minutes; when cooked, brush them over with the Vanilla icing, and leave them till cold. Cut the eclairs open, and fill them with whipped cream that has been sweetened and flavoured with Vanilla. Vanilla Fritters.—Put into a saucepan i pint of water, 2 table-spoonfuls of sugar, and 34oz. of butter, and boil for a few minutes. Drop in 5oz. of flour all at once, and stir the mixture over the fire until the paste is firm and well cooked. Take it from the fire, work in three eggs one at a time, using a spoon, and beat the paste well679 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, tfcc., referred to, see under their special heads. V anilla—continued. against the side of the saucepan. Add 1 teaspoonful of Vanilla extract with the last egg. The more the paste is beaten, the more the puffs will expand in the frying-fat. Half fill the saucepan with hot lard. Drop in pieces of the batter about as large as eggs, and watch them swell and expand in the hot lard and become hollow and light. Only four or five at a time can be fried, because they need a lot of room. The fritters being slightly sweet will be liable to fry too dark if the lard be made too hot, and they may be as long as five minutes in it before they begin to swell and run over. Take them out when done, and serve hot. Vanilla Jelly.—Cut two Vanilla pods into pieces, poui- over them lqt. of boiling water, and turn them into a lined pan. Steep 24oz. of gelatine in 1 pint of cold water for half-an-hour, then strain it, and pour 1 pint of boiling- water over it. Put the dissolved gelatine in the pan with the Vanilla pods, add fib. of caster sugar, the juice and finely-shred peel of two oranges and two lemons, and the shells and well-beaten whites of four eggs. Put the pan over the fire and stir the contents till boiling, then strain the mixture through a jelly-bag, repeating the operation till it runs quite clear. Decorate a mould with dried fruits or strawberries, then pour in the mixture and set it on ice till firm. Turn the jelly on to a fancy dish, and serve it. Vanilla Liqueur.—(1) Split two fresh Vanilla pods, cut them into inch lengths, and soak them for three days in h pint of the best brandy or whisky. Then boil ‘21b. of loaf sugar in 1 pint of cold water to a clear syrup, skim- ming off any scum that rises; when thick and clear, strain the spirit into it that the Vanilla has been steep- ing in, mix the syrup and spirits well together, ami bottle it in small bottles. A small quantity of this Vanilla liqueur is a nice flavouring for an effervescing drink, and it is useful as a flavouring for cakes, creams, custards, &c. (2) Put two pods of Vanilla broken up into a bottle, pour in 2qts. of proof gin, cork the bottle, and let the contents infuse for twelve or fourteen days. At the end of that time boil Hlb. of lump sugar in 3 pints of water until reduced to a clear syrup. Pour the spirit and Vanilla in with the syrup and let the whole simmer for nearly fifteen minutes. Filter the liqueur through flannel or through a jelly-bag, bottle it, cork the bottles well, and keep them in a cool dry place till required for use. Brandy may be used instead of the gin if it is preferred. Vanilla Lozenges.—Cut up four pods of Vanilla, put them into a mortar with a little sugar, and pound to a powder; sift it through a fine sieve, and mix up with 21b. more sifted sugar on a slab. Make a bay and pour in sufficient dissolved gum—that is Mb. of gum Arabic dis- solved in 1 breakfast-cupful of water—to make a stiff paste, and roll it out to about fein. in thickness. Sprinkle the surface with starch powder and caster sugar, smooth it with the palm of the hand, cut it out into lozenges, put them on wooden trays on the stove, and let them dry. Pack away in tins or boxes for use. Vanilla Pudding.—(1) Put a Vanilla pod in a mortar together with Mb- of sugar, pound them well together, then sift well. Separate the yolks and whites of nine eggs, beat the yolks well, mix them with lqt. of cream, and stir in the Vanilla sugar. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff snow, and mix them in lightly with the other ingredients. Butter the interior of a pudding-mould, pour in the mixture, and cover with a sheet of paper. Stand the mould in a saucepan of boiling water, and steam the pudding for a little less than an hour. In the meantime prepare the following sauce for the pudding: Put 1 breakfast-cupful of either fresh or tinned pineapple juice into a small lined saucepan with the juice of one lemon. Place the juice over the fire until boiling, then pour it slowly over 1 table spoonful of arrowroot, stirring it at the same time; return the sauce to the saucepan, and stir it over the fire until thickened. When cooked, turn the pudding out of the mould on to a hot dish, strain the sauce over it (see Fig. 927), and serve. Care must be Vanilla—continued. taken that the water does not enter the top of the mould while the pudding is cooking, or the pudding will be spoiled. (2) Put 2oz. of butter into a stewpan with 2oz. of sugar and 2 table-spoonfuls of flour; stir in gradually £ pint of milk, flavour with a few drops of essence of Vanilla, and stir it over the fire with a wooden spoon until thick and boiling. When cooked, turn the mixture into a basin, and continue stirring until nearly cold. Separate the whites and yolks of six eggs, beat the yolks well, and mix them in with the above ingredients; whisk the whites to a stiff' froth, and stir them in lightly at the last. Butter the interior of a fluted mould, pour in the mixture, cover it with a sheet of buttered paper, and bake in a moderate oven. When cooked, turn the contents of the mould on to a dish, and serve. (3) Stir into 1 pint of milk flavoured with a little extract of Vanilla the well-beaten yolks of eight eggs, and sweeten to taste with caster sugar; pour the mixture into a mould, stand it in a saucepan with boiling water to three-parts its height, place the lid on with hot coals on the top, and keep it at the edge of the fire where the water will not boil. When the cream is thick, turn it out of the mould on to a hot dish, sift caster sugar over it, and glaze under a salamander; garnish with macaroons, and serve with a sauceboatful of sweet white sauce. Vanilla Sauce.—Put 1 pint of milk into a saucepan with a pod of Vanilla and loaf sugar to taste; boil it, then take the saucepan oft' the fire. Beat the yolks of three eggs with 2 teaspoonfuls of flour, and add them to the milk. Stir the sauce over a slow fire till thick, but do not let it boil. Whip the whites of the three eggs to a stiff froth with 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar. Mix the froth with the sauce, and serve. Vanilla Souffle.—(1) Beat together the yolks of three eggs and 1 teacupful each of flour and caster sugar. When well mixed, stir in gradually 1 pint of fresh milk, and pass it through a fine hair sieve into a saucepan. Put about loz. of butter, a pod of Vanilla, and a little salt in with the other ingredients, and stir them over a very slow fire till thick; then move it to the side, and continue stirring for a few minutes longer. Take the pod of Vanilla out of the mixture, let it cool a little, then mix with it the beaten yolks of five eggs, a small lump of butter, and last of all the well-whipped whites of six eggs. Make some little paper cases in the shape of a long square, butter them, and nearly fill them with the mixture; it should be sufficient for eight cases. Put the souffles in a slow oven, and bake them for eighteen minutes. Serve the moment they are done. (2) Mix with 6oz. of flour, 4 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, 2 table-spoonfuls of Vanilla sugar, 1 pinch of salt, and H pints of cold milk. Turn the mixture into a sauce- pan, and stir it over the fire with a wooden spoon till boiling and smooth, then take it off. Separate the yolks from the whites of six eggs, beat the yolks, and stir them in with the above mixture ; whip the whites to a stiff froth, and stir them in also, only very lightly. Pour the mixture into a buttered dish, and bake for about twenty- five minutes. When cooked, take the souffle out of the oven, dust some caster sugar over it, and serve at once. (3) Put loz. each of butter and flour into a saucepan, and stir them over the fire till well mixed ; then put in 1 dessert-spoonful of caster sugar and 1 teacupful of milk,680 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. V anilla—continued. which must he added gradually. Stir the above mixture over the fire till thick, then move the saucepan to the side, put in 1 pinch of salt .and the yolks of three eggs, adding them one at a time, and beating well. Beat the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth, mix them in with the souffle, flavour with a small quantity of essence of Vanilla, then turn all into a buttered mould. Stand the mould in a saucepan with boiling water to a little more than half its height, and steam the contents for half an hour. When cooked, turn the souffle on to a hot dish, poui- some vane sauce round, and serve at once. (4) Put loz. of butter into a lined saucepan with 1 table-spoonful of flour and 1 saltspoonful of salt, and stir them over the fire until mixed ; then add gradually \ pint of milk and sugar to taste. Stir the mixture over the fire until boiling and thickened. Afterwards leave it until almost cold, then mix in the beaten yolks of four eggs, and flavour to taste with essence of Vanilla. Whisk the whites of six eggs to a thick foam, and add them lightly to the above mixture. Butter a mould large enough to hold the mixture and to allow room for rising, pour the souffle in, dust it over with caster sugar, and place it in a brisk oven. When well risen and browned on the top, take the souffle out of the oven, pin a napkin round the mould, and serve without delay. (5) Slightly warm 4oz. of butter but without oiling; beat it well until creamy, then mix 4oz. of caster sugar with it and the yolks of six eggs, adding the latter one at a time, and beating the mixture well after each addition. Continue to beat the mixture for twenty minutes or more, then mix in the juice of half a lemon and a very small quantity of powdered Vanilla. Whisk the whites of the six eggs to a stiff snow, and stir them gently into the above mixture. The whites of the eggs should always be added at the very last. Butter a mould, pour in the mixture, leaving plenty of room for it to rise, and bake in a slow oven. When lightly coloured and well risen, dust caster sugar over the souffle, and serve immediately. (6) Put 2oz. of butter into a lined stewpan, melt it, and stir in with a wooden spoon, 2oz. each of flour and Vanilla sugar and 1 breakfast-cupful of cream. Stir it over the lire until boiling and thickened, then turn it into a basin and continue stirring until cold. Separate the yolks and whites of six eggs; beat the yolks, and add them to the above mixture; whisk the whites to a stiff snow, and stir them in lightly at the last. Butter a mould, pour the mixture into it, and bake in a brisk oven. When cooked, turn the contents of the mould on to a hot dish, and serve. (7) Boil a pod of Vanilla in b pint of milk; put \ teacupful of potato-flour in a basin, and mix it smoothly with a little cold milk; then stir in gradually the boiling milk and sweeten to taste with caster .sugar; pour it into the saucepan and stir over the fire until boiling and thickened. Leave the souffle mixture until nearly cold, then remove the Vanilla and work in the beaten yolks of four eggs. Whisk the whites of six eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them in lightly with the above; turn it into a souffle-mould, sift caster sugar over the top, and bake in a brisk oven until well risen and browned. When cooked, pin a napkin round the mould, and serve the souffle at once. Vanilla Souffle Pudding.—Mix 5 table-spoonfuls of flour to a smooth paste with J pint of cold milk, then stir in i2 pint of boiling milk; pour it into a saucepan, and stir over the fire for five minutes. Beat the yolks of five eggs with 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, then mix them in with the milk and flour, and flavour the mixture with a little essence of Vanilla. Beat the whites of five eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them into the above mixture when it is cold. Coat the inside of a mould with butter, ornament it with halves of dried cherries, and pour in the souffle ; put a sheet of buttered paper on top, and tie a cloth over. Boil the souffle for an-hour-and-a-half, then take the mould out of the water, and in three or four minutes’ time turn the sou Hie on to a hot dish, and serve at once. V anilla—continued. Vanilla Sticks.—(1) Mix jib. each of chocolate and Vanilla with some marzipan paste. When well mixed together, roll it into sticks, lay them on a sheet of paper (see Fig. 928), and dry in a slow oven. Fig. 928. Vanilla Sticks. (2) Beat the yolks of four eggs together with 1 teacupful of caster sugar and I table-spoonful of Vanilla sugar; when well beaten, dredge 4oz. of flour in with the eggs, add 1 loz. of warmed butter, and stir them till well mixed. Fill a biscuit-forcer that has a tin piping-funnel (the same width as a stick of Vanilla) attached to the end of it, with the mixture, and press it out on to a table that has been dusted over with caster sugar. Rub a warmed baking-sheet lightly over with white wax, cut the piping into pieces about 4in. long, and arrange them in parallel rows upon the sheet. Prepare some royal icing, strongly flavouring it with Vanilla sugar; fill a paper cornet with it, and pipe it out on the sticks of paste. Bake the sticks till lightly browned in a moderate oven, then take them off the baking-sheet and put them on a dish. Vanilla-and-Strawberry Ice. -Put H pints of thick cream into a saucepan with a pod of Vanilla, and boil it. Put Jib. of caster sugar in a saucepan with the yolks of six eggs, and beat them together; then pour in the boiled cream and stir it over the fire till thick, but do not let it boil or the eggs will curdle. When thick, pass the mixture through a silk sieve into a basin. Mix 1 pint of syrup at 35deg. with 1 pint of strawberry puree, stirring them well together, then pass them through a silk sieve. Turn the Vanilla cream into an ice-mould and the strawberry mixture into another, pack them both in pounded ice and bay-salt, and work the contents with a spatula till smooth and frozen. Cut a piece of cardboard to fit the centre of an ice-mould, and place it in per- pendicularly, dividing the mould into two equal parts ; fill one side with the Vanilla ice and the other with the strawberry ice, remove the piece of cardboard, and pack the mould in ice for two hours. When ready to serve, dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, and turn the con- tents out on to a folded napkin on a dish. Vanilla Sugar.—Cut lib. of Mexican Vanilla pods into small pieces, put them in a mortar with lib. of loaf sugar, and pound to a fine powder. Sift the sugar through a line hair sieve, turn what is left in the sieve into the mortar, and pound again. When all is finely powdered and sifted, put the sugar in bottles, and keep them tightly corked. Vanilla Syrup.—(1) Rub Joz. of citric acid in a mortar with a little simple syrup, and add gradually the remainder of JgalL of the syrup and loz. of fluid extract of Vanilla. Mix thoroughly and bottle. (2) Put lqt. of spirits of wine and 12 drops of tincture of Vanilla in a bottle, shake it well, pour in lqt. of syrup, let it stand for lifteen or twenty minutes, then filter until the liquid runs quite clear. Pour it into bottles, and it is ready for use. Vanilla Tartlets. -Peel and blanch 5oz. of Jordan almonds, put them in a mortar with 5oz. of loaf sugar, pound them to a powder, then mix with them a little Vanilla sugar. Whip the whites of six eggs to a stiff froth, then stir the pounded almonds and sugar in with them. Butter some tartlet-moulds, line them with puff paste, fill them with the egg mixture, and bake in a moderate oven. The tartlets can be served either hot or cold.681 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Vanilla—continued. Vanilla Water-Ice.—Pound sufficient Vanilla pods in a mortar to flavour lqt. of water. Put lqt. of water in a saucepan with the pounded Vanilla and ill), of loaf sugar. Boil the ingredients together, then strain the mixture through a fine hair sieve; squeeze in the juice of one lemon, put it in the freezing-pot, and freeze. Vanilla Whipped Cream.—(1) Boil a little Vanilla in a small quantity of milk ; strain it, and add the milk to 1 pint of cream, together with a small quantity of gum dragon, a little orange-flower water, and sufficient powdered white sugar to sweeten it. Whip all these together to a froth, and pile it on a glass dish. (2) Put 1 pint of sweet cream into a basin. Have a tub or large dish or pan containing chopped ice and a little water, and lay the hasin on top. With a soft wire egg- whisk beat the cream slowly at first, and increase in swiftness until it is a firm froth. Sweeten with 2oz. of powdered sugar, and add 1 teaspoonful of Vanilla flavour- ing, beating constantly. Let it rest, and use when needed. Remove all the superfluous milk which may he found with the cream before using it. VASES (Fr. Vases; Ger. Vasen; Ital. Vasi; Sp. Vasos).—The artistic cook and confectioner knows no limit to the variety of these vessels, which he uses in the preparation of ornamental dishes. Nor is he lacking in the variety of materials from which these Vases are made: alabaster, sugar, glass, gold and silver, gum paste, marzipan, flour paste, plaster of Paris, fat, or any other material capable of being worked into shape. Illustrations of Vases in use will be found in this Ency- clopaedia, some forming a centre piece for a cake, for holding flowers, bonbons, truffles, fruits, and other things. VATROVSKIS.—A kind of savoury pasty of which the Russians are exceedingly fond. They are prepared as follow: Put 14oz. of any white cheese into a cloth and squeeze out all the moisture; place it in a mortar with a small lump of butter, and pound it to a smooth paste. Season well with grated nutmeg and salt, turn it into a basin, and work in with a spoon the yolks of four eggs. Have ready about lib. of coulibiac paste, work it well with the hand on a floured table or hoard, and let it get cold. Fig. 929. Vatrovskis. Roll it out rather thin, cut it into little rounds, put a small quantity of the cheese mixture in the centre of each, damp the edges, fold them over into a crescent shape, and trim them. Put them on a well-buttered baking-sheet a little apart (see Fig. 929), let them stand for about twenty minutes in a slightly warm place, push them into a moderate oven, and bake. Take them out when done, put them on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve. VATS.—Large vessels used for holding wine or beer. VEAIi (Fr. Veau; Ger. Kalbfleiscb ; Ital. Vitello ; Sp. Ternera).—It is acknowledged by cooks and butchers that although British beef is superior m every way to that of France, we are quite incapable of holding our own against their Veal. This is said to be due to the mode of slaughtering adopted by French butchers, and not to superior breeding—the calf is bled before it is killed, and bung head downwards for several days to induce the blood to drain from the incision made in the neck. Such V eal—contimied. barbarous cruelty is condemned in this country and rendered punishable by law; but it is to be feared that instances of its practice are not altogether unknown. As the cook will have white Veal when it is to be got, large quantities of slaughtered calves are imported from France and Belgium. In this country, the cow-calf is more frequently raised to maturity for the sake of her milk and progeny, but the Continental breeder prefers to supply the first demand, saving the cost of keep, and selling what there is of the animal at a much higher price than could be obtained for beef. There are considerable differences in the quality of Veal, which are easily detected. First, as to size—a large Hereford calf is not reckoned so good as the smaller Alderney, this being due to the breeds and the quality of the mother’s milk upon which the calf has been fed. Then again, the meat of a bull-calf is darker, firmer, and more juicy than that of a cow-calf; but some parts of a cow-calf are much to be preferred to the same parts of a bull-calf, chiefly because of the udder. The skilled cook, therefore, prefers the meat of the bull- calf for cooking in joints, and the whiter meat of the cow- calf for made dishes. The age of the calf influences the quality of the meat. From eight to twelve weeks is quite old enough to ensure the delicacy of the flesh, but in some parts of the country calves are killed all the year round, and in Dorsetshire they are rarely suffered to enjoy the delights of this world longer than three weeks. Another practice of the butchers that should be deprecated is that of blowing out the meat so as to render the flesh less cadaverous-looking by the filling out caused by the air bubbles. The steel is thrust as far as it will go through a small slit on the inside of each leg between the skin and the flesh. Into this passage a pipe is then introduced, through which the butcher blows with all his might, inflating the cellular membrane as far as he can, and then working it along with the hand until it is evenly distributed throughout. In the first place the meat spoils more readily when thus treated, and in the second place the breath of the butcher is not always of the kind that those of delicate stomachs would care to have diffused through their food. When selecting Veal, see that the fat over the kidneys is plentiful, white, and firm; when this fat softens, the meat is stale. The veins of the shoulder should be blue or bright red; when they are of any other colour, the meat is not freshly killed. When the flesh is clammy and spotted, it is unfit for culinary use. Veal keeps very badly at all times of the year, and as it is in season from May to September it should be examined very critically, and cooked within three or four days of slaughtering. The part of the leg where the udder is skewered back very soon turns, and unfortunately when once tainted, Veal cannot be restored. To prevent such a contretemps, the flesh should be frequently wiped with a dry cloth, the skewer pinning the udder should be taken out frequently and wiped, the pipe along the chine of a loin should be cut out directly the Veal comes from the butcher, and the skirt of the breast should also be trimmed off, and the whole scraped, wiped dry, and dredged with flour. If the meat be in danger of tainting from compulsory keeping, it is advisable to plimge it into boiling water and boil it for682 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Scc., referred to, see under their special heads. Veal —continued. ten minutes; then take it out and put it in cold water to cool, and afterwards wipe it dry, and put it in a cold store. The joints into which a butcher cuts a calf are shown in Fig. 930. The first idea is to cut off the head and quarter the carcase. The hind-quarter is cut up into the knuckle (1), fillet (2), loin with its chump (3), and best end (4), con- taining the kidney and kidney-fat. In the fore-quarter is the breast with its best end (5), and brisket (6), this latter containing the sweetbread. The neck with its best end (7), and scrag (8), the shoulder or oyster (9), fore-knuckle (10), and lastly the head (11), which is described under Calf. Of all these parts the most economical is the leg; its meat is solid and substantial. The fillet should be weighed without the bone, and as it takes stuffing well it is a favourite joint. The shoulder is rather coarser than the leg, and is not so economical, having a large knuckle and blade-bone. The loin is by far the most delicate eating, and contains the kidney-fat, which should be protected in roasting by covering with greased paper. The breast stews or boils well, and contains the tendons or cartilages of the ribs, which are esteemed a delicacy. The part called by French cooks the noix, is a round piece of tender muscle cut out of the fillet, and situated on the inner side of the leg. It is taken out by pushing it through the slice of fillet, and dissecting it off the outside skin. Sometimes the whole cushion is called the noix. Aspic of Veal.—Bone a shoulder of Veal and truss it to an oval shape, fastening it with small skewers. Roll some thin slices of fat bacon and raw lean ham, making them as small as possible, and season with salt and pepper. Push some holes in the Veal with a pointed stick, then lard it with the ham and bacon in alternate order. Cover the bottom of a deep stewpan with rashers of bacon, then put in two calf’s feet cut up, and a few slices of carrot and onion. Put in the Veal, dust it over with salt, white pepper, and a very small quantity of cayenne pepper, pour in 1 pint of stock, \ pint of white wine, and 1 teacupful of vinegar. Put the lid on the pan, and cook the contents slowly in the oven or at the side of the fire for three hours. When the meat is nicely browned, take the lid off the pan, and leave it for about ten minutes; then take the meat out and leave it till cold. Pass the cooking liquor through a fine hair sieve, skim off all the fat, and make it of a deep colour with browning or beetroot juice. When quite cold, take the bindings off the meat. Skim off what fat may have risen to the top of the jelly, warm part of it, and pour it over the meat with a spoon. Leave the meat until the jelly has V eal—continued. set on it, then place it on a dish, garnish with the remainder of the jelly cut up into rocky pieces, and serve. Aspic of Veal with Salad.—Finely mince some cold Veal with a third of its quantity of cold cooked bacon and a small quantity of cooked tongue; mix them together, and season to taste. Pour a thin layer of liquid aspic jelly in a cylinder-mould, and when it has set put in the mince with sufficient liquid jelly to fill up the mould, then pack it in ice till firmly set. Meanwhile wash and cut into shreds some nice crisp lettuces, endive, and garden cress, and mix together with chopped tarragon, chives, and chervil in moderate quantities. Prepare a salad dressing with oil and vinegar, allowing two parts of the former to one part of the latter; season with salt and pepper, and stir it in with the salad mixture. When ready, dip the mould with the Veal and jelly quickly into hot water, wipe it, and turn the contents out on to a pain-vert that has been placed on a round dish with a stand. Pile the salad high in the hollow left by the cylinder, put a few small diamonds of truffles on the top of the jelly, garnish the base of the pain-vert with chopped aspic jelly (see Fig. 931), and serve. Attereaux of Veal and Ham.—-Cut into slices |in. thick some cold cooked Veal and lean ham. Cut these into fiat squares about lin. wide each way. String them on small steel or silver skewers, arranging the ham and Veal alter- Fig. 932. Attereaux op Veal and Ham. nately (see Fig. 932), commencing with a Veal square and ending with a Veal square. Dip the attereaux in egg, roll them in breadcrumbs, and fry for a few minutes. Take them out, and arrange in a dish on a folded nap- kin. Garnish with sprigs of fried parsley, and serve as hot as possible. They are held in the hand by means of a table napkin, and the pieces are taken off the skewer with a fork to be eaten. Baked Leg of Veal with Cream Sauce.—(1) Put a small leg of Veal in a rather deep baking-dish; melt a lump of butter, pour it over the Veal, and roast in a slack oven. Turn the meat occasionally, and baste it well. When nearly cooked, dust over with a little flour and salt, pour \ pint of cream over it, and finish cooking, basting from time to time, and keeping the oven slack. When done, drain the leg, put it on a hot dish, and arrange a ruffle round the knuckle bone. Pour the cream in a small saucepan, mix a little melted glaze with it, and boil till slightly reduced. Add two or three drops of vinegar, then pour the sauce over the meat, 'and serve. Baked Loin of Veal with Cream Sauce.—Remove all the bone from a loin of Veal, keeping the flap short, and truss it. Put the loin in a deep baking-dish with a lump of butter, and roast in the oven, keeping it well basted. When cooked, trim the Veal to a square shape, then cut it carefully across in thin slices. Pile the slices on a dish, alternating each layer with a little finely-chopped truffle, and building it in such a way as to resemble its former shape. Boil some bechamel sauce till stiffly reduced, then mix the beaten white of an egg with it. Mask the loin with the sauce, cover it with grated Parmesan cheese, pour a little warmed butter over it, and glaze under a salamander. Garnish the loin with potato croquettes, and serve with a sauceboatful of half-glaze. Baked Veal Chops.—Cut off some chops and beat them with a rolling-pin until they are quite tender, then put them into a pan and cover with water. Put the lid on the pan and simmer the contents gently until tender; when nearly done, dust over a little salt and pepper. Take them from the pan and wipe with a cloth ; cover with butter first and then with beaten egg, and sprinkle over some sifted breadcrumbs. Put them on a baking-dish,m TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. V eal—continued. and place in the oven to brown. Put a little parsley round for garnish, and serve hot. Baked Veal Cutlets with. Sweet Herbs.—Put some chopped mushrooms, sweet herbs, winter savory, and shallots, with lloz. of butter and some salt and pepper, into a stewpan, and stir them over the fire until well mixed and hot. Trim the cutlets nicely, spread over them some of the mixture, brush over with beaten egg, and coat them with grated breadcrumb. Lay the cutlets on a baking-dish and bake them. Pour 1 breakfast- cupful of white wine and a small quantity of cullis into the saucepan with the remainder of the herbs, and boil them; skim the sauce. When cooked, lay the cutlets on a hot dish, pour the sauce round, and serve. Blanquette of Veal.—(1) Cut about 31b. of breast of Veal into small squares, put them in a saucepan, season with a little salt and pepper, cover with water, and put them over the fire till boiling. Skim the fat off the liquor, and put in two onions stuck with three cloves and a large bunch of sweet herbs. Move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer gently till the Veal is tender. When cooked, drain the meat, and put it in another saucepan. Put loz. each of butter and flour into a large stewpan, stir them over the fire till well mixed, then pour in the cooking-liquor of the Veal, and boil for twenty minutes, stirring all the time. Thicken the liquor with a liaison of three yolks of eggs, then strain it through a pointed strainer into the saucepan with the Veal. Warm the Veal up again without boil- ing, then turn the blanquette on to a hot dish, sprinkle a little chopped parsley over it, and serve. (2) Take a slice of Veal weighing about 31b., roast it, and when cold cut it up into thin round collops about 1 tin. in diameter; put these into a stewpan with 14 pints of good white sauce, some button-mushrooms and trufHes cut up in slices, also some thin slices of tongue about half the size of the collops of Veal; next pick out the best of the trimmings of the Veal and chop them up very fine, put them into a stewpan with trimmings of truffles, tongue, and mushrooms, also chopped fine, add 1 gill of white sauce, a little chicken glaze, and six yolks of eggs; season well with cayenne pepper and salt. Bring to the boil, and pour out on a dish to get set; when cold, proceed as in the usual way for croquettes. Next make the blanquette of Veal hot, and see that it is properly seasoned ; dish the Veal up on a small border of mashed potatoes, put the ragout in the centre, pour the sauce over, put the croquettes round the base, and serve. (3) Blanch a breast of Veal, put it in a stewpan with an onion stuck with three or four cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, a few small pieces of lemon-peel, a blade of mace, and a little under Jib. of butter ; put the saucepan over a gentle fire for a few minutes, then pour in sufficient hot water to moisten the Veal to height, and stew it gently until nearly cooked. Take the Veal out of the saucepan, and cut out the long bones. Strain the cooking-liquor, and return it with the Veal to the sauce- pan ; stew it until quite tender, then put in one dozen oysters that have been blanched in their own liquor. Stir in with the blanquette a small lump of butter and flour that have been kneaded together, and 4 teacupful of cream. When the blanquette is thickened, move the saucepan to the edge of the fire, and stir in the yolks of two eggs that have been beaten and strained with the juice of half a lemon. Turn the blanquette on to a hot dish, garnish it with fried oysters, and serve immediately with cut lemons. (4) Cut into 2in. square pieces 241b. of breast of Veal. Soak it in fresh water for an hour, drain it well, lay it in a saucepan, cover with fresh water, and boil, being- very careful to skim off the scum. Add a bouquet garni, six small well-peeled white onions, 2 good pinches of salt, and ] pinch of white pepper. Cook for forty minutes. Melt about 1 l2oz. of butter in another saucepan, add to it 3 table-spoonfuls of flour, stir well for three minutes, moisten with 1 pint of broth from the Veal, boil for five minutes, and set it at the side of the stove. Beat up in a bowl the yolks of three eggs together with the juice of a V eal—continued. medium-sized lemon and a very little grated nutmeg. Take the preparation in the saucepan, gradually add it to the egg mixture, and mix briskly with a wooden spoon until all is added. Pour this over the Veal, and lightly toss the whole over the fire for a few minutes, but be careful not to allow it to boil again. It is then ready to be served. (5) Cut about 31b. of breast of Veal into pieces lin. long, put them in a saucepan with two or three carrots and onions, a head of celery cut into small pieces, a bunch of parsley, thyme, and two bay-leaves tied together, a few cloves, salt and pepper to taste, and sufficient water to cover the meat. Boil gently at the side of the fire until the meat is tender, then take it out, and strain the liquor through a fine sieve. Put loz. of butter and 1 heaped table spoonful of flour in a stewpan, mix them over the fire, then stir in gradually as much of the strained liquor well freed from fat as will make the required quantity of sauce. Stir it over the fire until boiling, then move it to the side, and stir in the beaten yolks of two eggs, the strained juice of half a lemon, 4- table-spoonful of minced parsley, and a few mushrooms Put the pieces of Veal on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, garnish with croutons of fried bread or sippets of toast, and serve. Blanquette of Veal a l’Ancienne.—The same as for Blanquette op Veal, adding loz of salt pork cut into small pieces, and cooked with the meat from the commence- ment, and six sliced mushrooms, two minutes before serving. Blanquette of Veal in a Croustade.—Cut a cold roasted fillet of Veal into collops 14in. long, 4in. broad, and Jin. in thickness. Put the Veal in a saucepan with a quarter the quantity of sliced mushrooms and some German Fig. 933. Blanquette of Veal in a Croustade. sauce, and heat them over the fire. Prepare a paste croustade 2in. high and the same size as the dish on which it is to be served; fix the croustade in the dish, turn the blanquette into it (see Fig. 933), and serve. Blanquette of Veal with Cucumbers.—Cut a cold roast, loin of Veal into collops, and put them into some blanquette sauce. Cut six cucumbers into quarters, and trim them to the same size as the pieces of meat. Chop the trimmings of the cucumbers with an onion, put them in a stewpan with a little butter, and fry; then pour in 4 pint of sauce tournee, and stew them by the side of the fire for an hour. Skim the fat off' the sauce, and rub it through a fine hair sieve. Put the cucumbers in some sauce tournee, and boil gently till tender; then put them in a basin with a few drops of white vinegar, pepper, and salt, and leave for an hour. Drain the cucumbers on a wire sieve, put the sauce in which they were cooked in a saucepan with the puree of cucumbers and onion, and boil till reduced. W hen some- what reduced, move the sauce to the side of the fire, and stir in the yolks of two eggs that have been well beaten and 4 teacupful of thick cream. Stir the sauce by the side of the fire till thick, but do not let it boil after the eggs are added. Put the meat and cucumbers in the sauce and make them hot, season with salt and sugar, turn the blanquette on to a hot dish, and serve it. Blanquette of Veal and Ham.—Cut 14-lb. of cooked Veal into small pieces, and mix with it 4lb. of cooked ham also cut into pieces. Put the meat in a saucepan with 1 pint of cream sauce, 1 teaspoonful of lemon-juice, a small quantity of pepper and salt, and boil it. V hen boiling,THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 684 for details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Veal —continued. move the saucepan to the side of the fire, add the yolks of two eggs that have been beaten with 1 teacupful of milk, and stir it by the side of the fire for a few minutes. Turn the hlanquette on to a hot dish, garnish with two hard-boiled eggs, and serve. Blanquette of Veal -with Mushrooms en Croustade.— Cut some cold roasted fillet of Veal into collops llsin. in diameter and Jin. thick, slice a fourth of the quantity of mushrooms, and mix them with the Veal in some German sauce. Prepare a paste croustade 2in. high and the size of the dish on which it is to he served, make the blanquette hot, turn it into the croustade, and serve. Blanquette of Veal with Uouilles.—The same as for Blanquette of Veal, arranging Jib. of cooked nouilles round the serving-dish as a border. Blanquette of Veal with Peas.—The same as for Blan- quette of Veal, adding 1 pint of cooked green or canned blanched peas two minutes before serving. Boiled Pillet of Veal.—Wash a small fillet of Veal, roll it round, and tie it. Put the Veal in a saucepan, cover with cold water, and place over a slow fire. When boiling, move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and keep the water boiling gently for about four hours, removing the scum as it rises. When cooked, drain the Veal, put it on a hot dish, and serve with a dish of boiled bacon and a sauceboatful of white sauce. Boiled Knuckle of Veal. -(I) Place a knuckle of Veal in a stewpan (should! it be a very large one it may be divided into two or three pieces), add a few blades of mace, a little thyme, an onion, some whole peppers, and a burnt crust of bread, and cover with from 3 pints to 4 pints of water; cover the pan closely with the lid and boil the contents. When done, place it by the side of the fire and let it simmer for at least two hours. Take it up, keep it hot on a dish, strain the liquor over, and send to the table with lemon cut into slices for garnish (see Fig. 934). (2) Put a knuckle of Veal into a saucepan, cover with water, and when it reaches the boiling-point put in a lump of salt; move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and keep it simmering till tender (it should take about twenty minutes for each pound). When cooked, put the knuckle on a hot dish, and serve it with a dish of boiled salted pork and a sauceboatful of parsley and butter sauce. Boudins of Veal.—(1) Finely chop the remains of some cold Veal, and mix with it a moderate quantity of finely - chopped bacon and parsley; season to taste with salt, pepper, and the smallest quantity of mace. Put the mince in a stewpan, moisten it with a few table-spoonfuls of clear gravy, and stir it over the fire till very hot; next move it to the side of the fire, and stir in the beaten yolks of three eggs. Thickly butter the interior of some small tin boudin moulds, three parts fill them with the above mixture, and tie .a sheet of buttered paper over each. Stand the tins in a stewpan with boiling water to about half their height, and boil the contents for twenty minutes. At the end of that time, turn the boudins out of their tins on to a hot dish, pour some white sauce over them, and serve. (2) Take some fat and lean of cold roasted Veal, chop it very fine, and mix with it a seasoning of pepper, salt, grated lemon-peel, and nutmeg, then mix with it a beaten egg and a little good white stock. Butter a shape or V eal—continued. mould, press the mince firmly into it, lay a buttered paper over the top, and tie a cover over it, if the shape be not fitted with a lid. Put the mould into a saucepan of boiling water, and let the contents boil for an hour. Turn the boudin out, and serve it with a thick white gravy; or when turned out, brush the top over with beaten egg, dredge sifted breadcrumbs over, and brown it before the fire in a Dutch oven, basting it with butter. Garnish with slices of lemon or fried parsley, or both. Boudins of Veal with Mushrooms.—Cut Jib. of lean Veal into small pieces, trimming off all the skin; put them in a mortar and pound to a paste. Mix half the quantity of panada with the Veal, continue pounding it, then add 5oz. of butter. Season the mixture with salt and grated nutmeg, beat in the yolks of two eggs, one at a time, pound it for a few minutes longer, then pass through a fine hair sieve into a basin. In twenty minutes’ time mix a third of its quantity of chopped cooked mushrooms with the forcemeat, divide it into small equal quantities, roll them with the hand on a floured table, thus giving them an oblong shape, then flatten them with the blade of a knife. Dip the boudins in beaten egg, and cover thickly with breadcrumbs. Put them in a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry them till nicely browned on both sides. Drain the boudins, arrange them in a circle on a hot dish, fill the middle with a garnish of cooked minced mushrooms, and serve. Boudins of Veal with Tomato Puree.—Chop some lean Veal and pound it in a mortar; mix with it half its quantity of paste panada and half its quantity of minced Veal-suet. Pound the whole together, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and a moderate quantity of spices; pass the mixture through a fine hair sieve, and stir in a sufficient quantity of heaten eggs to bind it. Butter two or three small moulds, fill them with the above mixture, stand them in a stewpan with boiling water to three parts their height, and steam their contents for an-hour- and-a half. Prepare the following puree for the boudins: Slice some tomatoes, put them in a stewpan with a moderate quantity of clear stock, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Let the tomatoes boil gently until quite tender, then pass them with their liquor through a fine hair sieve, return them to the stewpan, and thicken with a lump of butter and flour that have been kneaded together. When sufficiently thickened, move the puree to the side of f he fire. Plenty of tomatoes but only a small quantity of stock should be used. When the boudins are cooked, turn them out of their moulds on to a hot dish, pour the tomato puree round them, and serve while hot. Braised Breast of Veal a la Milanaise.—Bone a breast of Veal weighing about 211 b., and season with 1 table-spoon- ful of salt and 1 teaspoonful of pepper. Stuff it in the usual way with forcemeat, roll, and tie it, making a few inci- sions in the skin. Put it into a braising-pan with a sliced carrot and onion, and braise it for an-hour-and a- half in the oven, hasting it occasionally with its own gravy. Serve with J pint of hot Milanaise garnishing on a dish, placing the meat on top, and straining the gravy over it. Braised Chump of Veal with Chicory or Sorrel.— Lard one side of a chump of Veal and make an incision across the other side about fin. deep, then make one lengthwise forming a cross. Put the Veal into a sauce- pan or braising-pan with three or four carrots, onions, a bunch of parsley, and a small quantity of stock. Let the broth simmer over a gentle fire till the bottom of the pan is covered with a glaze, then put in lib. of meat and a small quantity of water and stock. Put the lid on the saucepan with some hot coals on it, and finish cooking the contents over a slow fire, taking the vegetables and bunch of parsley out when the meat is three parts done. When cooked, glaze the Veal. Skim the fat off the liquor, pass it through a fine hair sieve, and boil it up again. Arrange a puree of chicory on a hot dish, put the chump on it, pour the sauce over, and serve. A puree of sorrel can be used in place of the chicory if liked better.685 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Ssc., referred to, see under their special heads. V eal—continued. Braised Cushion of Veal.—Carefully trim a cushion of Veal but let the udder remain on it. Lard the cushion on the side with bacon. Cover the bottom of a stewpan with trimmings of bacon and minced vegetables, put in the Veal, and dust a little pepper and salt over it. Fry the meat over a slow fire for a few minutes, turning it several times till lightly coloured, then pour in £ pint of Veal broth. Stand the stewpan at the side of the fire, and cook the meat till tender. When cooked, drain the Veal, put it on a dish, and garnish with croquettes. Strain the cooking-liquor of the meat, skim off all the fat, boil it quickly for a few minutes, then thicken, pour it into a sauceboat, and serve with the meat. Braised Cushion of Veal with Mushrooms and Bechamel Sauce.—Trim off the skin and udder from a cushion of Veal, and lard the meat inwardly. Put two or three slices of ham and bacon with some sliced vegetables into a large saucepan or braising-pan, put in the cushion, pour in a little white wine, and braise it, reducing the moisture to a glaze. Cut twenty or twenty-four mush- rooms into slices, put them in a flat stewpan with a little butter, and fry till almost dry. Pour 1 pint of thick bechamel sauce in with the mushrooms, boil it for a few minutes, then move the stewpan to the side of the fire. When cooked, cut the cushion of Veal into thin slices, put a layer of the mushroom mixture on to a dish, then a layer of Veal, next a layer of mushrooms, and continue in this way till all the meat is used, building it to its original form; the top layer should be of mushrooms. Put the dish in a hot oven till the surface of the meat is nicely browned, then take it out, garnish with croquettes of potatoes, and serve while very hot. Braised Fillet of Veal.—Select a nice piece of fillet of Veal, any part can be used ; put a lump of butter in a saucepan, melt it, put in the Veal, anil brown it on both sides. Pour clear broth or water over the Veal, put the lid on, and steam over a slow fire, basting occasionally with its own liquor. Peel and slice a carrot and onion, and put them in a saucepan with a small quantity each of lemon-peel, mace, and thyme; pour in £ pint of water, and boil for twenty minutes. Strain the seasoned water over the Veal, and continue cooking it. When the meat is tender, drain it, place it on a hot dish, and garnish with slices of lemon and crisped rashers of bacon. Skim the fat off the cooking-liquor, strain it through a fine hair sieve, and serve with the meat in a sauce-tureen. Braised Fillet of Veal with. Sweetbread.—Cut off a fillet from a leg of Veal, lard it on one side, and turn it over on the table with the larded side downwards. Blanch a sweetbread, dry it, brush over with egg, dip it into breadcrumbs, and fry in butter to a golden colour; take it out, drain it, place it on the fillet, roll it up, fasten with a skewer, put it in a braising-pan with a little stock and sliced vegetables, and braise it. Take it out, put it on a dish, reduce the liquor after straining, pour it over the cutlet, arrange round a dozen or so oysters and small balls or cones of cooked carrot rubbed through a sieve and worked up with butter, salt, and pepper, and serve with thick gravy or sauce in a sauceboat. Braised Knuckle of Veal.—Lard thoroughly a knuckle of Veal weighing 31b., braise it in a pan with loz. of fresh salt pork, 1 table-spoonful of salt, and 1 teaspoon - ful of pepper. Cook for fifteen minutes, stirring occasion- ally, and moistening with ^ pint each of white broth and Spanish sauce. Add 1 pint of raw jardiniere, and 1 breakfast-cupful of flageolets. Cook for forty-five minutes all together. Transfer the knuckle to a hot dish, pour the garnishing over, and serve very hot. Braised Larded Veal Cutlets with French Beans.— Trim some small Veal cutlets, keeping the bone very short, and lard them all on the same side with bacon. Put the cutlets in a stewpan with some minced vege- tables and clear stock, and braise them. When cooked, glaze the cutlets. Boil some French beans in salted water till tender, then drain them, choir them finely, and mix a little butter with them. Put a flat mound of mashed Veal—continued. potatoes on a hot dish, pile the beans in the centre, lean the cutlets against the beans, and serve with a sauceboat- ful of gravy. Braised Loin of Veal.—(1) Remove the bone from the loin, and lard it with thick strips of bacon. Put some thin slices of bacon in a stewpan, sift over some chopped parsley, chives, and a clove of garlic, add a bunch of thyme and laurel-leaves, put in the larded Veal, season with salt and coarsely-ground black pepper, cover with slices of carrots, onions, and turnips, moisten with stock to a little more than half its height, and cook gently for half-an-hour. When cooked, put the Veal on a hot dish, strain the sauce through a silk sieve, boil it quickly till reduced, then pour it over the Veal, and serve. (2) Stuff a loin of Veal with Veal-stuffing, and skewer it securely. Put some slices of carrots, onions, and celery in a braising-pan, put in the loin, and cover it with a sheet of thickly-buttered paper. Pour in sufficient stock or water to reach to the top of the Veal, but not to cover it. Put the lid on the pan, with live embers on it, and braise the meat over a slow fire, basting it often with the cooking-liquor. When the Veal is cooked (it will take about three hours), drain it, and put it on a baking-dish; boil the cooking liquor quickly till reduced to the consistency of half-glaze, then pour it over the meat, and put it in the oven. Baste the Veal continually till lightly glazed, then put it on a hot dish, garnish with onions, carrots, and tomatoes, pour the remains of the cooking liquor over, and serve. Braised Loin of Veal with Cream Sauce.—Braise a loin of Veal, and when done bone it, keeping it as good a shape as possible; this will be done better when the Veal is cold. Cut the meat into thin slices, put them in a deep frying-pan, moisten with a little rich gravy, and warm slowly without boiling. Put l handful of trimmings of fresh mushrooms in 1 pint of bechamel sauce, and stir it over the lire for fifteen minutes; pass it through a fine hair sieve, then boil it till reduced, stirring and adding gradually the liquor in which the Veal has been warmed. When reduced to a thick consistency, remove the sauce from the fire. Cover the bottom of a gratin- disli with a layer of the sauce, and arrange symmetrically the slices of meat, one by one, alternating each of them with a little of the sauce. Coat the top of the meat with some of the sauce, grate some stale breadcrumb over it, and brown in a quick oven or under a salamander. When done, drain off the fat, pour over a little rich gravy, and serve the Veal. Braised Heck of Veal with Truffles.—Trim a neck of Veal, that part used for cutlets, cut the bone short, and lard it with squares of black truffles in such a way as to resemble a draught-board. Braise the meat with plenty of bacon on the top, so that it will retain its white colour, and glaze the Veal slightly. Put the meat on a hot dish, cover with Italian sauce and truffles, and serve it. Braised Hoix of Veal.—Choose a small noix of a young female calf, flatten it a little, retaining the udder, form a crescent on the border of the fat, and pare the part where there is no fat. Lard the Veal thickly with bacon. Line a braising-pan with layers of fat bacon and slices of vegetables, add a bunch of parsley, thyme, and bay-leaves, and a small quantity of mace, allspice, and whole pepper. Put the Veal in the pan, dust a small quantity of salt over it, cover with bacon, pour in sufficient broth to cover the vegetables without reaching the Veal, put the lid on the pan with some hot ashes on the top, and cook the contents over a slow fire. When cooked, glaze the Veal slightly, put it on a hot dish, and serve with macddoine sauce. Braised Hoix of Veal with Bechamel Sauce.—Remove the udder and pare a cushion of Veal, lard it inwardly with fillets of bacon, and season it. Line a braising-pan with trimmings of ham and bacon and some sliced vege- tables ; put in the cushion with about 1 teacupful of broth, cover with bacon, and put the lid on. Place some686 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, (be., referred to, see under their special heads. Veal—continued. hot ashes on the lid, and braise it over a slow lire till well glazed. Cut some mushrooms into slices, put them in a frying-pan with a lump of butter, and fry them till the moisture has reduced somewhat. Season the mushrooms with pepper and salt, put them in 1 pint of reduced bechamel sauce, and boil for two or three minutes, then move them to the side. When the Veal is done, take it out of the braising-pan and cut it into thin slices. Line the bottom of a deep dish with the mushroom mixture, then arrange the slices of meat on it, putting them into shape again, alternating each slice with a small quantity of the mush- room mixture, and cover the top also with the same mixture. Put the dish in the oven till the surface of its con- tents is nicely coloured, then take it out, garnish with croquettes of potatoes, and serve. Braised Stuffed Loin of Veal with Aspic.—Chop and pound together an equal quantity of fillet of Veal and loin of bacon, season them with spices and salt, and mix with them two calf’s kidneys and an equal quantity of truffles and tongue, all cut into small cubes or squares. Bone a loin of Veal, cover it with the forcemeat, fold the sides over, and tie it with string to keep it in shape. Wrap the meat in a cloth, put it in a braising-stewpan, and cover with mirepoix. When boiling, move the stewpan to the side of the fire, and keep the contents simmering gently for four hours. At the end of that time, move the stewpan from the stove, leave the Veal in the liquor till cooled, then drain it, take the cloth off, wrap it in another clean one, and press it between two dishes with a heavy Fig. 935. Braised Stuffed Loin of Veal with Aspic. weight on the top till quite cold. Prepare a rice socle on a dish, and coat it with Montpellier butter. Untie the meat, trim it, and brush over with meat-glaze ; put it on the rice socle, garnish with croutons and chopped aspic jelly and parsley (see Fig. 935), and serve. Braised Tendons of Veal.—Cut the tendons into equal sized pieces, put them in a stewpan with some sliced carrots, turnips, onions, celery, a little parsley, some cloves, and a feAv peppercorns. Cover them well with stock or water, and put in a lump of salt. Place the lid on the stewpan with some hot coals on the top, and braise the contents over a slow fire for three or four hours. When the tendons are rather soft and almost transparent, they will lie cooked. Drain them, and press them between two plates till nearly cold. Skim and strain the cooking-liquor through a fine hair sieve, put it in another saucepan, and boil quickly till reduced to glaze. Trim the tendons, put them in the glaze, and make hot. Arrange the tendons in a circle on a hot dish, fill the centre with spinach prepared as for garnish, pour the glaze round, and serve. Breast of Veal a la Poulette.—Cut a breast of Veal into small equal-sized pieces, blanch them, put them in a saucepan with a little of the water in which they were blanched, and warm over the fire. Sift in a small quan- tity of flour, stir it till smooth, then put in a lump of butter, some carrots, mushrooms, laurel-leaves, a bunch of sweet herbs, and some salt and pepper. Put the lid on the saucepan and cook the contents slowly till nearly done, then put in some young white onions and finish cooking. When cooked, put the pieces of Veal on a hot dish, and keep it near the fire while the sauce is being- prepared. Strain the cooking liquor through a fine hair sieve into another saucepan, squeeze in a little lemon juice, anil pour in the beaten yolks of three eggs; stir it "Veal—continued. over the fire till thick, not letting it boil, then pour it over the Veal, and serve. Breast of Veal en Ragoftt.—(1) Roast abreast of Veal in front of a clear fire till about half cooked, then bone it, and put it into a saucepan with 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped truffles and lqt. of Veal broth. Stew the Veal gently by the side of the fire till tender, then put in two dozen oysters, six each of pickled mushrooms and pickled cucumbers cut into small pieces, and the yolks of three hard- boiled eggs. Cut the sweetbread of the Veal into slices, season them with salt and pepper, put them in a frying- pan with a lump of butter, and fry till nicely browned on both sides. When cooked, put the Veal on a hot dish, and place the slices of sweetbread round it. Thicken the gravy with a little flour and butter that have been worked together, pour it over the Veal, garnish with Veal force- meat balls, and serve. (2) Fry the centre part of a breast of Veal, after the two ends have been cut off, in butter till it is nicely browned. Put it into a stewpan with a few small bits of bacon nicely trimmed and some stock. Cover the stewpan closely, and let the Veal stew till it is almost done ; then take the Veal out of the stewpan, and strain the gravy. Skim oft' all the fat, and put the gravy, or as much of it as will be required, into the stewpan again ; thicken with flour and butter, turn the Veal into it again, and let it simmer till quite done. Take it out of the gravy, lay it on a hot dish, stir into the gravy a flavouring of lemon- juice or lemon pickle and a little walnut and mushroom ketchup, or a small quantity of Worcestershire sauce, pour it hot over the Veal, and serve. Breast of Veal Glace.—Bone the Veal within 2in. of the gristle, and trim it to as square a shape as possible; tie down the meat so that it may look very plump, and cut the soft bones beyond the gristle. Place two or three rashers of bacon in a stewpan, put in the Veal, with three carrots, three onions, two bay-leaves, and two or three cloves, moisten with 1 breakfast-cupful of stock, cover with two or three more rashers of bacon and a sheet of buttered paper, and place it over the fire. When the liquor boils, move the pan to the side of the fire, put the lid on with some hot cinders on the top, and cook the contents gently. When the meat is about three-parts cooked, take out the carrots, &c., and reduce the liquor to a glaze, turning the meat that it may be equally glazed. When cooked, place the meat on a hot dish, and pour into the saucepan 1 breakfast-cupful of Spanish sauce and h teacupful of stock, and stir it over the fire until boiling. Pour the sauce over the meat, and serve. Brisotin of Veal.—Cut up six pieces of lean Veal about j-in. thick and Gin. in length. Flatten them with a cutlet- bat, and season with l pinch of salt and h pinch of pepper. Lard the centres, using a small larding-neeille, with strips of fat pork or bacon. Cover with any kind of forcemeat, roll them up, and tie with string. Put them into a deep saute-pan with a very little fat, one sliced carrot, and one medium-sized sliced onion. Cover the whole with a piece of buttered paper, set it on the fire, and let it take a good golden colour for about five minutes. Moisten with \ pint of white broth, remove the saucepan to the oven, and cook slowly for twenty minutes, hasting it occasionally. Turn the Avhole carefully out on to a dish, and serve at once. Brisotin of Veal d l'Ecarlate.—This is prepared the same as for Brisotin of Veal, adding i pint of hot ecarlate sauce before serving. Brisotin of Veal a la Nantaise.—The same as for Brisotin of Veal, placing six stuffed lettuce-heads round the dish for garnish, and pouring over 1 gill of hot Madeira sauce. Broiled Breast of Veal.—Half roast the breast, score it, and sprinkle it well with a few sweet herbs and parsley chopped very fine, some salt and pepper, and then broil it over a clear fire. For the sauce take some gravy, put it into a saucepan over the fire with an onion, an anchovy, a little mace, some grated nutmeg, and a little687 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, tCc., referred to, see under their special heads. V eal—continued. salt, and boil it well for a-quarter-of-an-hour. Before serving, put in a bit of butter with 1 dessert-spoonful of flour rubbed into it, stir till it boils, and then let it boil for ten minutes; strain it, add to it some chopped capers and small mushrooms, and pour it over the Veal when it is dished. Garnish with slices of lemon. Broiled Cushion of Veal larded with Anchovies (am Anchois).—Skin a cushion of Veal, interlard it with fillets of anchovies, and let it soak for two hours in plenty of water. Put the Veal in a stewpan with some fresh water, and stand it over the fire till boiling; then drain and wipe the Veal with a towel, put it in a basin with a bay-leaf and a few sprigs of rosemary, dust it over with pepper and salt, and baste with oil. In twenty-four hours’ time, broil the Veal, basting and turning it. When cooked, put it in a basin, baste it with more oil and lemon-juice, and leave it for twelve hours. Cut the Veal into thick slices, put them on a dish, and sprinkle over some chopped parsley, onions, gherkins, and capers. Garnish the meat with slices of hard-boiled eggs, pour the oil and lemon-juice in which it soaked over it, and serve. Broiled Veal a la Venisiemie.—Procure some rather thick and large slices of Veal, and lay them on a dish, with a few chopped mushrooms and shallots, some chopped parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf. Dredge them over with salt and pepper, and baste them with a few table-spoonfuls of olive oil. Let the slices steep in this marinade for about an hour, turning them occasionally so that they are equally flavoured. Strew them over with finely-grated breadcrumb, lay them side by side on a gridiron, and broil over a clear fire. Turn them when done on one side, and baste with the remains of the marinade. When cooked, arrange the slices of Veal on a hot dish, squeeze the juice of a Seville orange over them, and serve. Broiled Veal Chops.—(1) Cut off some chops, trim off the fat, and beat them till quite tender. Put them into a pan, pour in enough boiling water to cover, place the lid on, and stand the pan at the side of the fire, where the chops can simmer gently until done. When about three- parts done, sprinkle over a little salt and pepper. When done, take them from the pan, dry them in a cloth, spread a little butter over them, then brush over with Fig. 936. Broiled Veal Chops. egg, and sprinkle over some bread or biscuit-crumbs. Put them in the oven on a baking-sheet, and when a nice brown arrange them on a dish round a pile of mashed potatoes (see Fig. 936), and serve them. (2) Trim six Veal chops to a nice shape, rub them well with salt and pepper, and roll them in warmed butter. Afterwards dip them in beaten egg and coat them thickly with breadcrumbs. Lay the chops on a gridiron, and broil them over a clear but rather slow fire, turning them when done on one side. While the chops are cooking, V eal—continued. make hot some clear gravy, and season it to taste. Spread a folded napkin or fancy dish-paper over a hot dish, arrange the chopis on it, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with the gravy in a sauceboat; or, if preferred, the chops may be put on the dish without the napkin, and the gravy poured over them. (3) Season some Veal chops with pepper and salt, and lay them in warmed butter; when well soaked, dip them into beaten egg, then roll each one separately in sifted breadcrumbs. Lay them on a dish, shaping them as round as possible, and when all are ready, broil them over a very clear fire. The fire should not be very hot, or the breadcrumbs will burn. It is a good plan to lay a sheet of well-buttered paper over the gridiron and the chops. Broiled Veal Cutlets.—(1) Cut six Veal cutlets from a fine piece of the loin of white Veal, pare and flatten them slightly, lay them on a dish, and season with 1 table- spoonful of salt, 1 teaspoonful of pepper, and 1 table - spoonful of sweet-oil. Turn the cutlets over several times to have them well covered, put them on the broiler over a clear fire, and cook for eight minutes on each side. Kemove them from the fire, arrange them on a hot dish, spread over a little maitre-d’hotel butter, and send to table as soon as possible. (2) Cut some chops from the ribs rather thin, leaving a clear inch of bone; trim off the gristle, beat them, season with pepper and salt, and dip them in melted butter and then in breadcrumbs; lay a sheet of paper dipped in melted butter on a gridiron, put the cutlets on it, and when the fire is clear put the cutlets over. When nearly done, take the paper away, and brown the cutlets on both sides; dish, and garnish with lemon and parsley. Broiled Veal Cutlets with Colbert Sauce.—Trim a few Veal cutlets, beat them slightly with a cutlet-bat, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and roll them in melted butter and breadcrumbs; broil them on both sides over a clear fire, dish them in a circular form round a puree of French beans, and pour over some colbert sauce, which is made by mixing 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley and a little grated nutmeg with 1 breakfast-cupful of flutter. Put in a stewpan 1 breakfast-cupful of melted meat glaze, and let it boil; then move it back and add by degrees the prepared butter alternately with the juice of three lemons; stir quickly over the fire, but do not let it boil. When the sauce has thickened, take it off the fire, and add an eggcupful of cold water. Broiled Veal Cutlets and Tomato Sauce.—Beat some cutlets with the flat side of a chopper, trim them, season with salt and pepper, and arrange them on a gridiron. Broil the cutlets over a clear fire, turning them, and basting with butter. When cooked, brush the cutlets over with a paste-brush dipped in melted glaze, arrange them in a circle on a hot dish, and serve with a sauceboatful of tomato sauce. Broiled Veal Sausages.—Put some neck of Veal and calf’s udder, cut into thin strips, in a saucepan with some water, and boil them. Put some chopped truffles, mush- rooms, shallots, and parsley in a saucepan with a lump of butter, and fry them for a few minutes ; then pour in some white wine and chicken broth mixed in equal quantities, season with mixed spices, and boil till reduced to half its original quantity. Drain the strips of Veal and udder, cut them into small pieces, and put them in the above mixture; add the beaten yolks of eight eggs, and a little salt and pepper, move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and stir the contents, but do not let them boil. Blanch and soak some calf’s intestines in vinegar and water, drain them, fill with the forcemeat, and divide into sausages. Put the sausages in a saucepan, cover with white wine and stock, put in a lump of sugar, and boil them gently. When cooked, drain the sausages and leave them till cold. Put the sausages on a gridiron that has been slightly greased, and broil them over a clear slow fire. When cooked, put the sausages on a dish-paper or a folded napkin on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve.688 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <ice., referred to, sec under their special heads V eal—continued. Broiled Veal Steak.—Well grease a gridiron, put the steak of Veal on it, and broil over a clear fire, turning it frequently. Finely chop four young onions, put them in a saucepan, with a little tomato ketchup, a little thyme, and loz. of butter; fry them for a few minutes, then pour in 1 teacupful of broth, and boil slowly for twenty minutes. When cooked and nicely browned, put the Veal steak on a hot dish, with a lump of butter on it. Stir 1 table-spoonful of Hour in the gravy, colour it with a little browning, pour in a few drops of wine, and stir over the fire till boiling fast. Pour the gravy over the Veal, and serve with a dish of spinach or sorrel. Cannelon of Veal.—Finely mince 21b. of cold roasted Veal and lib. of cold ham; mix well among it 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, 1 teaspoonful of powdered mace, 1 bare teaspoonful of finely-chopped lemon-peel, and salt and pepper to taste. Stir in then the beaten yolks of three eggs, J pint of good gravy, and 4oz. of sifted breadcrumbs; shape this into a thickish short roll with floured hands. Flour the outside, and put it in a well- greased baking-pan; lay a cover over it, and put it in the oven till smoking hot; then take off the cover from the tin and let the cannelon brown ; draw it to the door of the oven, and brush it over with beaten white of egg ; push it in again, and shut the door for a minute to let Fig. 937. Cannelon of Veal. it glaze. Put the cannelon carefully on a hot dish, garnish with three-cornered pieces of fried bread, potato croquettes, and quarters of lemon (see Fig. 937), pour over a rich brown gravy, and serve hot. Chump of Veal a la Bourgeoise.—Lard a chump of Veal with strips of bacon. Butter the inside of a stewpan, put in some slices of bacon and trimmings of Veal, put the chump over them, then add three or four leeks, onions, carrots, a few sprigs of parsley, and J pint of stock. Place the cover on the stewpan, with some live embers on it, and braise the contents over a slow fire. When cooked, drain the Veal and glaze it. Strain the sauce through a fine hair sieve into another stewpan, boil it quickly till reduced to a glaze, then pour in J teacupful of Spanish sauce; boil it, pour it over the Veal, and serve. White wine and gravy coloured with a little browning may be used instead of the Spanish sauce if preferred. A lump of butter should be dissolved in the sauce before it is poured over the Veal. Chump of Veal a la Baube.—Remove the bone from the chump-end cut oft' a loin of Veal, and fill the cavity with forcemeat; tie it up, put it in a saucepan with the bone, a bunch of sweet herbs, one anchovy, one blade of mace, 1 teaspoonful of peppercorns, and 1 pint of Veal broth. Put some slices of bacon over the Veal, and cover with a sheet of paper. Keep the saucepan closed, and stew the contents gently for two hours. When cooked, take the bacon out, and glaze the Veal. Put the Veal on a hot dish, and serve it with a sauceboatful of mushroom sauce. Chump of Veal a la Nivernaise.— Bone a chump of Veal and tie it up to its original shape. Put the Veal into a stewpan with J pint of Veal stock, boil it till reduced to a glaze, and then pour in lqt. of mirepoix; when boiling, move the stewpan to the side of the fire and keep the contents simmering till the Veal is tender. Cut the ends off some small carrots and turn them to the shape of olives. Put the carrots in boiling water for five minutes to blanch them, then dre:n them, put them in a saucepan, cover with chicken broth, season with salt, pepper, and a Veal—continued. pinch of sugar, and boil the liquor till reduced to glaze. When cooked, glaze the meat, put it on a hot dish, garnish with the carrots, pour some reduced Spanish sauce over, and serve with a sauceboatful of half-glaze. Collared Breast of Veal.—(1) Make a forcemeat of grated ham, chopped oysters, chopped parsley, sifted breadcrumbs, a little grated or finely-chopped lemon-peel, and a little salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg; mix all well together, and then mix in some well-beaten eggs according to the quantity of forcemeat. Bone a breast of Veal, spread the forcemeat thickly over it, roll it up, and bind into shape with tape; put the meat into boiling water, and let it boil slowly for three hours. Boil the bones with a bunch of sweet herbs, a little salt, some pepper, and an onion, letting them boil twenty minutes longer than the Veal. Before serving, strain it, put it back again over the fire in a saucepan with a piece of butter well rolled in flour, stir it till it boils, and boil for ten minutes; add to it the yolks of two eggs beaten up with 3 table-spoon- fuls of cream, stir well, and let it get quite hot, but do not let it boil after the cream and eggs are added. Par- boil a sweetbread, cut it into pieces, dip them in beaten egg, roll them in a paper of sifted breadcrumbs, and fry a light brown. Fry also some balls of the forcemeat. Take up the Veal, cut the tapes and remove them, lay the Veal on a hot dish, pour the sauce over it, and garnish with the fried pieces of sweetbread and the force- meat balls. (2) Trim off the outside skin, and bone a breast of Veal; beat it Hat, then brush it over with beaten yolk of egg; season the Veal with pounded mace, cloves, grated nutmeg, finely-chopped parsley, sweet herbs, pepper and salt, ami the finely-grated peel of half a lemon. Roll the Veal up, wrap it in a cloth, and tie it round. Put the Veal in a saucepan with plenty of boiling water, and boil it for two-hours-and-a-half. When cooked, take the Veal out, and drain and press it under a heavy weight till cold. Remove the cloth from the Veal, and put it in a sauce- pan with some strongly-salted water and £ pint of vinegar. Boil it up, turn the Veal and pickle into a dish, and leave it till cold. (3) Bone a breast of Veal, beat it Hat, and brush it over with beaten yolk of egg. Season some breadcrumbs with pounded anchovy, 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of finely- chopped parsley, a few sprigs of sweet marjoram, the thickly-shred peel of half a lemon, pepper ami salt, and a small quantity each of grated nutmeg and beaten mace. Mix these thoroughly, and then spread over the Veal. Roll the meat up tightly, bind it with tape, and wrap it in a cloth. Put it into a saucepan with a moderate- sized lump of salt and sufficient water to cover, and boil for two-hours-and-a half. When cooked, take the Veal out and hang it up; when well drained, put it in a pickle made with 1 pint of salted water and l pint of vinegar. (4) Take all the bones from a breast of Veal, and beat it flat. Spread over the inside a rich forcemeat mixed with beaten eggs; roll the meat up tight, bind it flrmly with tape, put it into a baking-dish with a little weak stock, and bake. Have ready a rich gravy, strained and thickened, and when the Veal is dished and the binding removed, pour it over. Serve with slices of lemon round, and, if desired, a few forcemeat balls. (5) Bone a breast of Veal. Put into a mortar eighteen oysters, 3oz. of finely-chopped suet, 2oz. of sifted bread- crumbs, a seasoning of thyme, marjoram, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, and beat and mix them well together with the pestle; when beaten to a paste, spread it over the inside of the boned breast of Veal, roll it up tight, sew it firmly in a cloth, and boil for three hours. Serve it hot with white sauce. The dish the Veal is served on may he garnished with fried forcemeat balls. Collops of Veal d la Turque.—Cut some Veal into slices about Jin. thick, season them with salt and pepper, put them on a gridiron, and turn the meat frequently over a moderate charcoal fire till nicely browned. Put the slices of meat in a stewpan with two or three peeled cloves of garlic, 2 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, and a small quantity ofARTISTIC MODES OF SERVING VEGETABLES. 1. Asparagus. 2. Cauliflowers. 3. Stuffed Mushrooms. 4. Spinach and Poached Eggs. 5. New Potatoes. 6. Green Peas. 7. Asparagus Points with Ci-ioux. 8. Stewed Mushrooms in a Croustade.689 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Veal—continued. cinnamon ami cumin ; cover with clear stock broth, put the lid on the pan, draw it over a slow charcoal lire, ami simmer till the meat is tender. When cooked, put the slices of meat on to a hot dish, and serve. Cream of Veal.—Cut the tenderest part of a fillet of Veal into small pieces, put them in a mortar with an equal quantity of bread that has been soaked in boiling milk, and pound them. Stir into the above mixture the yolk of one egg, the whites of two, and sufficient cream to bring it to a stiff batter; season with salt and pepper. Butter a plain mould, ornament the inside with thin slices of truffles, and pour in the mixture. Stand the mould in a saucepan with boiling water to three parts its height, and let it steam for an hour. At the end of that time turn the cream out of the mould on to a hot dish, pour some perigueux sauce round, and serve. Curried Tendons of Veal.—Cut the tendons into equal- sized pieces and braise them. When cooked, drain the tendons and press them between two plates till nearly cold. Strain the cooking-liquor into another saucepan. Mix 2 teaspoonfuls of curry powder with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, mixing them to a paste with a little water, then pour it into the strained liquor, and stir over the fire till boiling. Trim the tendons neatly, put them in the curry, and boil gently for lifteen minutes. Place some slices of fried bacon on a hot dish, put the tendons on them, pour the curry over, and serve with a dish of plain boiled rice. Curried Veal.—(1) Peel and chop two moderate-sized onions, put them in a stewpan with 4oz. of butter, and toss them about over the fire until nicely browned ; then stir in 2 table-spoonfuls of curry powder and a small quantity of salt, and move to the side of the fire. Cut 21b. of lean Veal into small pieces, put them in the curry with 1 pint of milk, and boil gently until all the moisture is absorbed. Wash ^lb. of rice, throw it into a saucepan of fast-boiling water, and boil until tender, adding more hot water if the quantity becomes absorbed. When the rice is cooked and dry, put in a good-sized lump of butter, and leave it at the edge of the fire for fifteen minutes. When cooked, turn the curry on to a hot dish, garnish it with sippets of toast, and serve with the rice on a separate dish. (2) Cut some Veal into small pieces, put them in a stew- pan, cover with equal quantities of broth and white wine, and boil it up; then take the meat out, refresh, and trim it. Cut two onions into small pieces, put them in a stewpan with a piece of butter, and fry for a few minutes; then put in the pieces of meat and fry them till lightly browned. Sift 2 table-spoonfuls each of flour and curry powder over the meat, season with salt and pepper, and stir it over the fire for a few minutes. Pour in just enough of the cooking liquor to cover the meat, and stir it till boiling ; after it has boiled for ten minutes, move the stewpan to the side of the fire, put in 6oz. of raw ham cut into small pieces, one carrot, two small onions, some mushroom trimmings, and a bunch of sweet herbs and parsley. Let the meat stew gently till cooked, then drain and keep it hot. Boil the cooking-liquor quickly till some- what reduced, move it to the side of the fire, thicken with the yolks of some eggs that have been beaten with a little cream, pour it over the meat, and serve with a separate dish of plain boiled rice. (3) Peel one large Spanish onion and one large sour apple, cut them into slices, put them in a stewpan with a lump of butter, and toss about over the fire until lightly browned. Mix 1 table spoonful each of flour and curry powder smoothly with 1 pint of water, and pour it over the onions; season to taste with salt and pepper. Cut about 21b. of lean Veal into nice pieces, put them into the stewpan with the above ingredients, stir over the fire until the liquor boils, then move to the side and stew gently until the Veal is tender (it will take from an hour to an-hour-and-a-half). When cooked, squeeze the juice of a small lemon in the curry, turn it on to a hot dish, and garnish with croutons of fried bread or sippets of toast. Serve with a separate dish of plain boiled rice. V eal—continued. Curried Veal a l’lndienne.—Cut into pieces 21b. of any kind of lean raw Veal. Put the pieces into a saucepan, cover with warm water, season with 2 pinches of salt and 1 pinch of pepper, and add a bouquet garni and six small onions. Cook for twenty-five minutes. Prepare 1 gill of white roux in a saucepan, moisten it with the liquor from the Veal, stir it well, and add 1 table-spoonful of moistened curry powder and three raw yolks of egg, Fig. 938. Curried Veal -a l’Indienne. beating them up as they are put in. Place the Veal on a hot dish, immediately strain the roux over it, as it must not cook again, garnish with a border of hot plain boiled rice (see Fig. 938), and serve. Curried Veal Cutlets.—The Veal cutlets should be pre- pared as for collops by cutting them into shape, dipping them into the yolk of eggs, and covering with fine bread- crumbs mixed up with 2 table-spoonfuls of curry powder and 1 table-spoonful of salt. Fry them in butter, and serve with curry sauce made as follows: Take equal parts of curry powder, flour, and butter, work them into a paste, turn it into the pan from which the cutlets have been removed, moisten with 1 breakfast-cupful of water, add a seasoning of cayenne and salt, and let it thicken before using. Cushion of Veal d la Bordelaise.—Braise a cushion of Veal, and when tender drain it and cut it into moderately thick slices; put them on a dish, and cover them over. Wash and drain twenty mushrooms, and slice them. Put a chopped onion into a deep frying-pan with a lump of butter, and fry for a few minutes without browning; then put in the mushrooms, season with pepper and salt, and fry them quickly till the moisture has evaporated some- what. Dredge a little flour over the mushrooms, 1 tea- spoonful of finely-chopped parsley, and pour in 1 teacupful of gravy. Stir the sauce, and boil it quickly for ten minutes. Put a layer of the ragout on a dish and then a layer of the meat, another layer of the ragout, and so on till all is used, finishing with a layer of ragout. Cover the above mixture with breadcrumbs, place a few little bits of butter on the top, and put it in a quick oven for twenty minutes, basting occasionally with the butter. When cooked, drain the butter off the dish, pour a small quantity of rich gravy round it, and serve. Cushion of Veal a la Duchesse.—Trim a large white cushion of Veal and stud it with square fillets of raw truffles ; dust a little salt over, cover the studded part of the meat with thin slices of bacon, and truss it. Place some trimmings of bacon in a stewpan, put in the meat, Fig. 939. Cushion op Veal a la Duchesse. pour some clarified butter over it, and braise for two hours in a moderate oven, basting it occasionally with the drippings in the pan. Cut some cooked potatoes in an oblong shape, like large dominoes, and glaze them. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, >tic., referred to, see under their special heads. VOL. II. o Y690 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Veal—continued. When cooked, remove the string and bacon from the meat, put it on a hot dish, garnish with the potatoes (see Fig. 939), and serve with a sauceboatful of brown sauce that has been reduced with white wine and essence of truffles. Cushion of Veal au Gratin.—Braise a cushion of Veal, and when tender take it out of the stewpan and leave till cold. Trim the cushion to a round shape, make a circular incision on the top, and empty it out with a knife, leaving a bottom to it about “2in. in thickness. Cut the meat from the middle of the cushion into small squares, and put them into a saucepan with a third of its quantity of cooked mushrooms and truffles, also cut into small pieces. Pour in with the chopped meat some thick brown sauce, season with a little pepper and salt, and stir it over the fire for a few minutes. Pour the above mixture into the hollow of the Veal, coat it over the top with thick sauce, sprinkle with some grated breadcrumb, and pour over them some hot butter. Put the meat in the oven and- baste it frequently till nicely browned. Pour a little rich gravy round the meat, garnish with potato croquettes, and serve with a sauceboatful of half- glaze. Cushion of Veal a la Polonaise.—Lard a cushion of Veal with bacon, braise it, and when tender leave it till nearly cold in the cooking-stock. Cut the Veal transversely into slices, then pile it on a dish in its original shape, alternating each slice with some minced mushrooms that have been mixed with a little thick sauce, and finishing with a layer of the minced mushrooms. Sprinkle some grated bread- crumb over, place a few bits of butter on the top, and put the cushion in the oven ; baste it frequently. In about twenty minutes’ time slip the Veal carefully on to a hot dish, surround it with brown sauce that has been reduced with the cooking-liquor of the cushion, and serve. Cushion of Veal a la Soubise.—(1) Bone a cushion of Veal, trim off the skin surrounding the udder, and lard the meat with thin strips of bacon. Place a small quantity of lard in a stewpan, together with some trimmings of raw ham and sliced vegetables, put in the cushion, dust a little salt over, and moisten to height with white wine and clear stock in equal quantities ; put in a bunch of parsley and sweet herbs, the pulp of a lemon without peel or pips, three or four cloves, and six peppercorns. Lay a sheet of buttered paper over the meat, stand the stewpan over the fire till the liquor commences to boil, then move it a little to the side; put some live embers on the lid, and cook the cushion for two or three hours, according to the size, basting it fre- quently. Prepare a rich onion puree, and put it in the middle of a hot dish. When cooked, drain the meat, pile it on the puree, mix a little broth with the cooking- liquor, and boil quickly till reduced to half-glaze. Skim the fat off the sauce, strain it through a fine hair sieve over the meat, and serve. (2) Lard a cushion of Veal with bacon, and let it macerate for ten hours in Madeira with a few trimmings of truffles, sweet herbs, cloves, anti peppercorns. Put some slices of onions and carrot, and some trimmings of bacon and pork in a stewpan, put in the meat, pour the marinad- ing liquor over it, cover with a sheet of buttered paper, and stand it over the fire till on the point of boiling. Move the stewpan to the side of the fire, put some live embers on the lid, and braise the meat for three or four hours, according to size. When cooked, drain the cushion, put it on a hot dish, skim the fat off the cooking-liquor, mix a little gravy with it, then boil it up. Pass the sauce through a fine hair sieve over the meat, and serve it with a puree of chestnuts in a separate dish. Celery may be served with the Veal in place of chestnuts, if preferred. Fillets of Veal d la Brisse.—Cut a fillet of Veal into slices 5in. long and about lin. in thickness, beat them flat, and spread a layer of Veal forcemeat on them. Roll the fillets up, and tie them round with twine. Line a sauce- pan with some thin slices of bacon, put in the fillets, dust in a small quantity of pepper and salt, ami pour in % pint of white wine and stock mixed in equal quantities ; put the lid on the saucepan, and cook the contents over a slow fire. When the fillets are cooked, pile them like a pyramid on For details respecting Culinary Process's, Utensils, Veal —continued. a hot dish. Strain the sauce through a fine hair sieve, skim off all the fat, and boil up again. Pour the sauce over the fillets, and serve. Fillets of Veal en Croustade.—Make a batter of polenta, stir it over the fire till thick, then pour it into a buttered tin and leave till cold. Turn the polenta on to a baking- sheet that has been covered with a round sheet of paper, carve it fancifully on the outside, brush it over with a paste-brush dipped in warmed butter, and put it in the oven till set. Glaze the croustade, scoop it out a little at the top, put it on a dish, and keep hot. Trim three minim fillets of Veal, put them in a baking-dish with some thin slices of bacon under and over them, pour a little warmed butter over, and roast them in a moderate oven, basting frequently with the drippings in the pan. The fillets must not be overdone. Cut the fillets into equal- sized oblong slices, put them in a stewpan, cover with veloute sauce that has been reduced with essence of mush- rooms, and keep them hot. Cut some slices off an ox- tongue that has been boiled at the same time, trim them to the same size as the pieces of Veal, put them in another stewpan, and glaze with a paste-brush dipped in melted glaze. Prepare some mushrooms as for garnish, put them in the centre of the croustade, arrange a circle of slices of Veal round them, alternating each slice with one of tongue. Place ten or twelve Veal forcemeat quenelles that have been poached in water on the top, and put a few truffles in the centre at the top. Brush the quenelles over with a paste brush dipped in veloutd sauce, then serve the croustade. Fillet of Veal with Brain Fritters.—Cut off a fillet from a leg of Veal, and nib it well over with the juice of a large mushroom, extracted by breaking it up and sprinkling salt over. A little grated orange-rind and cayenne, if added, are an improvement. Dip the fillet in flour, brush over with egg, jilunge it into boiling fat, and fry it; or wrap it in oiled paper and grill it over a clear fire. Cut a calf’s brain into equal-sized pieces, blanch them, and steiv in stock for about a-quarter-of-an-hour. Prepare a tbickish batter with the yolk of an egg, 2oz. of Hour, 1 table-spoonful of olive oil, and warm water; when ready, beat in the yolk of an egg whipped to a froth. Drain the pieces of brain, dip them into the batter, plunge into boiling fat, fry, and drain them. Put the fillet on a dish, arrange the brain fritters and fried slices of potato round, also sprigs of fried parsley round the rim of the dish, and serve with thick brown sauce in a sauceboat. Fillet of Veal Larded with Anchovies (aux Anchois).— Lard a thick slice cutoff a fillet of Veal with fillets of anchovies, and dust over with salt and pepper. Put the fillet in a dish, cover with vinegar, and let it macerate for seven or eight hours. Drain the Veal, Hour it well on both sides, put it in a frying-pan with plenty of olive oil, and cook over a slow fire, turning it often. When cooked, put the Veal on a hot dish, squeeze the juice of a lemon into the frying-pan with the oil, stir it over the fire for two or three minutes, then pour it over the fillet, and serve. Fricandeau of Veal.—(1) Fricandeau of Veal is properly made from that round muscle which is found on the inner side of the leg of Veal, and is called the noix or cushion. To obtain it the rest of the leg must be used for dishes which do not require special cuts; a thick cutlet is sometimes used as a fricandeau. Use a medium - sized larding-needle and strips of fat salt pork cut less than a-quarter of-an-inch square and 2in. long; put the strips of pork or lardoons one by one into the split end of the needle, and take a succession of stitches about ^in. long and deep in the upper surface of the Veal in a line down the centre; then make other lines of lardoons on both sides of the centre line, letting the ends of the lardoons come between each other, until the upper sur- face of the Veal is thickly larded. After the Veal is larded it may be braised or baked. The fricandeau can be baked on a bed of vegetables, which may subsequently be rubbed through a sieve with a masher and form the basis of a Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads.691 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Veal—continued. brown gravy; or it may be garnished after cooking with green peas or spinach, or served with a brown mushroom sauce. A larded fricandeau is a choice dish even when it is made from a thick cutlet if garnished with button mushrooms and truffles. When it is not desirable to use lardoons of pork or bacon, strips of cold boiled tongue may replace them, or of beef-fat, if it can be found sufficiently tough to permit it to be pulled through the rather dense fibre of uncooked meat. In larding Veal, the udder-fat (that portion which is usually attached to the end of a Veal cutlet cut from the leg) makes passable lardoons. This fat is rather more substantial than that which lies about the kidneys, and which would crumble if drawn into uncooked meat. If the thin fat membrane that is sometimes spread over spring lamb is cut into small squares, and then rolled in the shape of lardoons, it may be used instead of pork. (2) Skin a nice-shaped fillet of Veal, beat it, and lard it alternately with fillets of ham and bacon. Line a stewpan with slices of bacon, carrot, and onion, and add two calf’s feet cut up, and a few whole peppers. Put in the Veal, pour in lqt. of good broth and teacupful of vinegar, dust in salt, lay a few slices of lemon on the top, put the lid on the pan, and cook the Veal slowly for three hours by the side of the fire, basting it occasionally with the liquor. Care must be taken not to let the meat boil, as that will harden it. When cooked, drain the meat and leave it until cold. Colour the cooking-liquor with burnt sugar, and boil it until reduced to I pint. Strain the gravy through a fine hair sieve, leave it until a little cooled, then skim off all the fat and baste the Veal with it; after coating the Veal with the gravy, which should turn to a jelly as it gets cold, leave the remainder until cold, then cut it into small pieces. Put the Veal on a cold dish, garnish with the jelly, and serve. (3) Procure a thick cutlet from a leg of Veal, take out the bone, trim the cutlet neatly, and lard it with thin strips of smoked bacon. Make a sufficient quantity of stuffing to fill up the hollow left by the bone, with grated ham, champignons, and breadcrumbs; season with a small quantity of sweet herbs, grated lemon-peel, salt, and pepper, and bind it with beaten egg. Stuff the cutlet, levelling the stuffing off neatly with the flat blade of a knife. Lay it in a stewpan with a bunch of sweet herbs, cover with boil ing white stock, and keep it simmering slowly at the side of the fire till tender. The Veal will take about an-hour- and-a half to cook. Meanwhile stew some celery or sea- kale, and make 1 pint of white veloutd sauce. When cooked, drain the cutlet, and brown it under a salamander. Turn the stewed vegetables on to a hot dish, lay the cutlet on it, pour its cooking-liquor over, first removing the bunch of herbs, pour the veloute sauce round the dish, and serve while very hot. (4) Lard one side of a large chump chop with thick strips of bacon, and the other side with finer ones. Put the chop in a saucepan with two or three carrots and onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, two cloves, some trim mings of bacon, a little salt and pepper, and a little more than J pint of stock. Stew the chop gently over a slow fire, basting it occasionally with its cooking-liquor. V hen cooked, take the Veal out, pass the liquor through a fine hair sieve, and boil quickly till reduced to a creamy sauce; all the fat must be well skimmed off. Put the Veal in the sauce with a little glaze and a small quantity of stock, boil it up, then turn it on to a hot dish. Serve the fricandeau with a puree of either spinach or sorrel. (5) Cut a piece of Veal from the fat side of the leg, cut it 9in. long, 44in. wide, and 4|in. thick. Beat it well with the rolling-pin, skin it, and trim off any rough or jagged edges. Lard it well, cover with fat bacon, and wrap it then in white paper. Lay it in a stewpan with some bits of lean mutton or Veal, a carrot scraped, washed, and cut in slices, Jib. of lean ham or gammon, four bay- leaves, three blades of mace, three medium-sized onions, peeled and sliced, a bunch of sweet herbs, and 1 pint of good Veal or mutton stock. Fit the lid of the stewpan on tightly, and let the contents stew slowly for three V eal—continued. hours. Take up the Veal, then strain the gravy, skim the fat off, and boil it quickly to a glaze. Glaze the frican- deau, and serve it hot with the remainder of the glaze in the same dish and sorrel sauce in a sauce-tureen. (6) Lard some slices of Veal that have been cut off the thick part of the fillet with fat bacon, dust them over with flour, put them in a Dutch oven, and brown in front of a clear fire. When nicely browned put the slices of Veal in a saucepan with lqt. of gravy, and boil them gently for half-an-hour. Put in a slice of lemon, some lemon pickle, 1 table-spoonful of anchovy essence, a little brown- ing and cayenne pepper, and continue boiling till the Veal is tender. Prepare some Veal quenelle forcemeat, mould it into little balls, and poach them. When cooked, put the slices of Veal on a hot dish and keep them hot. Skim the fat off the cooking-liquor of the Veal, strain it through a fine hair sieve, and boil quickly till reduced to a creamy consistency. Pour the sauce over the Veal, garnish it with the forcemeat balls, and serve. Fricandeau of Veal a la Farisienne.—Take 51b. or 61b. of the cushion of Veal, and divide it into two uniform- shaped pieces. Pare away all sinewy and ragged pieces, and beat with a cutlet-bat to flatten the meat and bruise the fibres. Lard both pieces freely and then put them, larded sides uppermost, into a flat stewpan, the bottom of which has been strewn with thinly-sliced vegetables. Lightly sprinkle with salt, and then pour in sufficient broth to reach the larding, and into that again pour 2 wineglassfuls of Madeira. Lay a piece of buttered paper over the fricandeau, and set the pan containing it on the fire until it boils quickly. In a quarter-of-an-hour or twenty minutes move the pan a little to the side, and, if the lid of the stewpan is flat, pile some hot ashes on it. Remove these to lift the lid occasionally to baste the fricandeau with the liquor in the stewpan. When this is done the lid may be again piled with ashes, and so on until the Veal is quite cooked through and tender. Then take out the meat, glaze it nicely, and leave it in a warm place to drain. Put 4 pint of stock, Veal broth, or gravy into the stewpan, boil it up, strain, skim off the fat, and then reduce it again by boiling until it forms half-glaze. Have ready a Veal-and-liam pain, nicely ornamented with glaze, and set this upon a dish. On the pain fasten a bread crouton, against which the two pieces of Veal are to be laid, the larded surfaces being uppermost. Have ready two pieces of sweetbread cut into shapes of shields and neatly studded with truffles. Set these against the bread crouton, between the pieces of Veal, and garnish with cooked truffles and small mushrooms. Mount the centre with an attelette of two truffles and a cocks’ comb (see Fig. 940). Instead of a Veal and-ham cheese, a pain-vert may be used, or a simple dish block. Fricandeau of Veal with Border of Sorrel. ^Trim a piece from the fillet or cushion of Veal, and lard it closely on one side with thin strips of bacon ; place two or three slices of bacon in a stewpan, with a few sliced carrots and onions For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, che., referred to, see under their special heads. 2 T 2TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 692 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <L-c., referred to, see under their special heads. V eal— continued. and a bunch of sweet herbs, put in the Veal, dust it over with salt and pepper, and moisten to height with clear stock. When boiling, move it to the side of the lire, and let it simmer gently for a couple of hours, basting the top occasionally with its cooking-liquor. When the Veal is cooked, strain off its cooking-liquor into a basin, and skim off all the fat. Put a small lump of butter in a stewpan with about J table spoonful of flour, stir them over the fire till well mixed, then work in the above mixture, and boil the whole until thickly reduced, stirring at the same time. Prepare a border of sorrel for the meat as follows : Wash plenty of sorrel in several waters, boil it in salted water until quite tender, then turn it on to a fine hair sieve. When the sorrel is well drained, pass it through a sieve. Put loz. of butter in a stewpan over the fire, and when melted mix in Joz. of flour and then the sorrel; toss it about over the fire for a few minutes, then move it to the side. Beat the yolk of an egg up with 2 table-spoonfuls of water, stir it in with the sorrel, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Press the sorrel in a border-mould for a few minutes, and stand it in a bain- marie. Glaze the larded part of the Veal under a sala mander, and put it on a hot dish; pour the sauce under it, turn the border of sorrel out of the mould on to the dish round the Veal, and serve while hot. Fricandeau of Veal with Puree of Sorrel.—Cut a slice of about 311). from a leg of Veal, remove the sinews, and lard the surface with fat bacon or pork, using a medium-sized larding-needle. Place it in a sautti-pan in which there are already pieces of pork skin, one sliced onion, one sliced carrot, and a bouquet garni. Season with 1 table-spoon- ful of salt, cover with buttered paper, and let it colour slightly for five minutes on the stove. Then moisten with J pint of white broth, and cook for an hour, basting occasionally. Serve with J pint of puree of sorrel on the dish, placing the Veal on top. Fricandeau of Veal with Spinach.—(1) Prepare the same as for Fricandeau of Veal with Puree of Sorrel, using hot spinach instead of the sorrel. (2) Procure a nice fillet of Veal, which trim with a sharp knife, and lard closely on one side with thin strips of bacon. Line a stewpan with slices of bacon, then put in a layer of sliced onions and carrots and a bunch of sweet herbs; put in the Veal, the larded side upwards, season with salt, pepper, and a moderate quantity of spices, and moisten to height with clear stock. When boiling, move the stewpan to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer gently until the meat is tender, basting the top of the meat occasionally with its cooking-liquor. When cooked, strain the liquor into a basin and skim off as much of the fat as possible. Put Joz. of butter into a stewpan with J table-spoonful of flour, and stir them over the fire until smoothly mixed; then stir in the gravy, and let it boil until reduced to almost a glaze. Boil some well-washed spinach in a small quantity of water, and when tender drain it thoroughly; next press it through a fine hair sieve. Put 2oz. of butter in a stewpan with h table-spoonful of flour, mix them over the fire, then put in the spinach; moisten with 2 or 3 table-spoon fuls of milk, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Stir it until thoroughly hot, brown the larded part of the meat under a salamander, place it on a hot dish, pour the gravy over it, pile the spinach up round it, and serve. Fig. 941. Fried Tendons of Veal. Fried Tendons of Veal.—Cut the tendons into nice-sized pieces, trimming them carefully; put them in a basin with vinegar and water in equal quantities, and let them soak Veal—continued. for an hour or two. Drain the tendons, dust them over with flour, pepper, and salt, and fry in butter or lard. When nicely browned, drain the tendons, put them on an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with fried parsley (see Fig. 942), and serve. Fried Veal Chops.—Remove all the bones and sinews from the chops, mince the meat very finely, and mix with it two-thirds of its quantity of streaky bacon also finely chopped; season the mixture to taste with pepper, salt, and spices. Cut some pieces of caul in the shape of chops, spread the minced mixture over them, and bury a bone in every one so that the end only will be seen. Strew grated breadcrumb over the chops with a few sweet herbs. Melt a large lump of lard or clarified fat in a flat stewpan, put in the chops, and fry them. When cooked and nicely browned, drain, and put them on a hot dish; garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Fried Veal Cutlets.—(1) Trim the cutlets and dust them over with salt and pepper. Chop the trimmings of the cutlets with an equal quantity of fat bacon, mix some bread- crumbs, chopped shallots, and sweet herbs with them, season with salt and pepper, and bind them together with beaten egg. Cover the cutlets with the above mixture, brush them over with beaten egg, and sprinkle thickly with breadcrumbs. But a lump of butter or lard in a frying pan, melt it, then put in the cutlets, and fry them on both sides till of a rich golden colour. When cooked, put the cutlets on a hot dish, garnish with slices of lemon, pour a little rich brown gravy over them, and serve with a sauceboatful of the sauce. (2) Procure the required quantity of Veal cutlets, and soak them in salted water for a short time. When ready to cook, take them out, wipe dry, and sprinkle with flour, salt, and pepper; melt some lard in a frying-pan, put the cutlets in, and fry them ; when lightly browned, strain off the lard and pour in a little water, 1 table-spoonful of butter, and a few pieces of celery. Turn the cutlets frequently, and when they are done dish them with the gravy over, and serve. (3) Trim the cutlets, and beat them lightly on both sides; dust them over with salt and pepper, dip them in beaten egg, then roll them till well covered in breadcrumbs. Put a lump of butter into a flat stewpan, melt it, then put in the cutlets, and fry them on both sides. Put some white asparagus that has been boiled in salted water and dried on a cloth on a hot dish, and when cooked drain the cutlets and lean them against the asparagus. Put Jib. of butter in the pan that the cutlets were cooked in, with 1 teacupful of breadcrumbs, and fry them. Pour the bread- crumbs and butter over the cutlets, and serve. Fried Veal Cutlets and Green Peas.—Divide a small neck of Veal into cutlets, trim them nicely, and season with salt and pepper. Cut as many slices of lean bacon as there are cutlets, and trim them as nearly as possible to the same shape. Put 1 pint of green peas (bottled will do) in a saucepan of water, with a bunch of mint and a lump of salt, and boil them quickly. When the peas are cooked, remove the mint, strain off the water, put a lump of butter in with them, and toss them about over the fire. Fry the pieces of bacon lightly, put a lump of butter in a flat stewpan, and when it boils put in the cutlets, and fry them until equally browned on both sides. Drain the cutlets, arrange them in a circle on a hot dish, alternating each one with a slice of bacon, and strew over some finely-minced thyme and parsley mixed in equal quantities. Pile the peas in the centre, and serve. Fried Veal Cutlets with Tomatoes.—Cut about 2lb. of Veal cutlets from the leg into small slices, season them with pepper and salt, roll them in cracker-dust, then dip them in beaten eggs, and again in cracker-dust. Have ready on the fire a frying-pan containing smoking fat Jin. deep ; put the Veal into the hot fat, and fry brown on both sides. While the Veal is frying, wipe half-a-dozen large firm tomatoes with a damp cloth, slice them about Jin. thick, roll them in flour, season with pepper and salt, and fry brown in the pan with the Veal. Serve the Veal on a dish, with the tomatoes laid neatly in a circle round.TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OP PRACTICAL COOKERY. 693 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, cbe., referred to, see under their special heads. Veal—continued. Tlie Veal cutlets may be dipped in breadcrumbs and fried, and served with the tomatoes. Galantine of Veal.—(1) Take a breast of Veal, bone it, beat it as flat as possible, and sprinkle with salt, pepper, and pounded spice. Then lay the inside upwards, brush it over with beaten egg, sprinkle with finely-chop- ped sweet herbs, and lay over it in alternate layers ham fat, the chopped meat of dressed cow-heel or calf’s feet, egg balls, pickled gherkins, and French beans; sprinkle over all dissolved isinglass. Roll the Veal up tight and sew it with packthread. Wrap it in a cloth, sew it up, tie it tight at the ends, and boil in stock for three-hours- and-a-half. When the meat is done, hang it up to drain, then tie up tight at both ends, and lay between two dishes or boards, or on a dish with a board over (see Fig. 942), putting heavy weights on top till next day, when it may be untied and put on a dish. Serve cold, garnished with fresh parsley. (2) Bone a breast of Veal, beat it flat, and cover with slices of lean ham. Mix together lib. of pork sausage- meat, the thinly-pared rind of a lemon chopped very fine, chopped herbs and parsley, a very little cayenne, a small quantity of mace, the strained juice of a lemon, and the whites of three hard-boiled eggs chopped very small, and spread this forcemeat over the slices of ham. Lay the three hard-boiled yolks along the centre, and roll the Veal up tight; bind it with tape, sew it in a cloth, stew it gently for four hours, then place it between two dishes or flat boards with heavy weights on top, and leave till cold. Take it from between the boards or dishes, remove the cloth and the tapes, put it on a dish garnished with fresh parsley, and serve. (3) Bone a breast of Veal and beat it flat; dust it over with pounded spice, salt, pepper, and a small quantity of cayenne pepper; brush it over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, and strew finely-chopped sweet herbs over it. Next put on it alternate rows of gherkins, ham-fat, green and yellow egg balls, and calf’s feet or cow heels ready dressed. Strew some isinglass over these ingredients, roll the meat up tightly, and sew with pack- thread ; wrap a cloth tightly round it and fasten at each end. Put it into a saucepan with sufficient stock to cover, and boil it gently for three-hours-and-a-half. At the end of that time take the galantine out of the stock and hang it up until well drained. Tighten the cloth if necessary at each end, and place the galantine between two dishes with a heavy weight on it, and leave until the next day. When serving the galantine, cut it into slices, arrange on a dish over which has been spread a folded napkin, and garnish with parsley. (4) Bone a shoulder of Veal (this part is considered best for the purpose because it is juicier), trim off some of the inside meat to make it thinner, spread it out on the table, and dust over with salt, pepper, and mixed spices. Put the bones in a saucepan with two calf’s feet that have been partly boned and blanched, pour in some water, and boil them over a moderate'fire; or a ready-made jelly may be added. Trim away the sinews of the meat that was cut off the shoulder, and cut the meat into small pieces. When the feet are tender, drain them, remove the remainder of the bones, chop the meat finely, and mix it with the chopped Veal. Season the mixture with salt and spices, and a third of its quantity of chopped cooked ham and fat bacon. Spread the forcemeat over the shoulder, roll it to an oblong shape, and sew with packthread. Wrap the galantine in a cloth, put it in a braising-pan, pour in the liquor m which the V eal—continued. calf’s feet were cooked and some toppings of broth, and put the pan over the fire. When the liquor boils, move the pan to the side, and keep it boiling slowly for two- hours-and-a-half. When cooked, take the galantine out of the napkin, and wrap it up again tighter in the same cloth, tying it with string. Put the galantine between two dishes with a weight on the top, and leave it till cold. When ready, take the napkin off the galantine, brush it over with a paste-brush dipped in melted glaze, garnish with shapes of aspic jelly, and serve. (5) Bone the breast, spread it on a board, and beat flat; cut off a little of the meat at each end so that the skin will project. Finely chop all the trimmings of meat, and mix with them an equal quantity of chopped fat bacon, some small squares of truffles, tongue, and pistachio- nuts ; season the mixture with salt and pepper, and spread it over the Veal. Roll the breast carefully over the stuff- ing, fasten it at the end, wrap it in a cloth, and bind round with broad tape to keep it in shape. Put the galantine in a braising-pan with some thin stock, and braise it for six hours. When cooked, take the galantine out, drain it, and leave it till cold. Cut the tape and remove the cloth from the galantine, glaze it, put it on a folded napkin or dish-paper on a dish, and serve. (6) Bone a breast of Veal, and season it well with salt and pepper. Spread a layer of ham forcemeat on the Veal, then some slices of boiled ham; continue in this way till 21b. of ham and 2|lb. of forcemeat have been used, then roll the Veal up and bind it round with twine. Wrap the Veal in a strong piece of cloth, and sew it on. Put 4lb. of the knuckle of Veal in a large saucepan with two calf’s feet, the bones of the breast, one onion, a small quantity of carrot and turnip, two or three small pieces of celery, 1 table-spoonful each of peppercorns and salt, three cloves, and 3qts. of water. When boiling, put in the rolled breast of Veal, move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and keep the liquor simmering for three hours. When cooked, take the breast of Veal out of the sauce- pan, remove the cloth, and wrap it up in another piece that has been dipped in cold water. Press the Veal under a weight till the following morning. Take the weight and cloth ott’ the Veal, put it on a dish, and brush it over with a paste-brush dipped in melted glaze. Garnish with croutons of aspic jelly, and serve. Glazed Cushion of Veal.—Trim a cushion of Veal, letting the udder remain, and stud the sides and top with alternate fillets of raw ham and fat bacon. Dust pepper and salt over the meat, put it into a square stewpan with some chopped bacon, and fry over a quick fire, turning it several times. When nicely browned all over, put in a few' small onions and one sliced carrot; pour in 1 pint of broth, and put in a few fresh pieces of bacon rind. Put the lid on the stev'pan, place it over a very slow fire, and cook the meat, reducing the moisture. When cooked, drain the meat, place it on a bed of chicory that has been finished with some of the gravy of the Veal and spread on a hot dish, and serve with a sauceboatful of the cooking stock. Grenadins of Veal.—(1) Cut some cold fillet of Veal into thick slices, and chop each slice into rounds with a tin cutter about Him in diameter. Lard the rounds with strips of fat bacon ; put into a stewpan 2 breakfast-cup- fuls of clear stock, and boil it until reduced to half its former quantity; put in the grenadins, with a piece of loaf sugar, salt to taste, a small quantity of cayenne pepper, and sufficient browning to give the sauce a rich colour, and stew gently till the bacon is cooked; then arrange the grenadins in a circle on a hot dish (see Fig. 943). Mix 1THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 694 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. Veal—continued. wineglassful of sherry and the strained juice of half a lemon with the sauce, boil it up again, then pour it in the centre of the dish, and serve. (2) Take some nice Veal cutlets, trim them into shape, cut off all skin and fat, and then lard them with fat bacon or ham. Put some hot butter or dripping in a baking-pan, lay the cutlets in a circle towards the edge of the pan, and put in the centre some chopped carrot and turnip, a small onion sliced, and a small sprig of thyme, marjoram, and parsley, tied in a bay-leaf ; add a seasoning of pepper and salt, pour in some stock, but not sufficient to cover the cutlets, lay a piece of buttered paper over the pan to prevent the meat from browning, and bake for three-quarters-of-an-hour. Lay the cutlets round some cut vegetables on a hot dish, pour over them some stock boiled to a glaze, and serve hot. (3) Cut five or six chops lin. thick off' a loin of Veal or the best end of the neck. Trim off' all bone and fat from the centre piece of lean. Put the bones and trimmings over the lire with 1 carrot scraped and washed, 1 turnip peeled and washed, 1 onion peeled, and a mushroom nicely trimmed and peeled ; put into the saucepan also two or three sprigs of parsley, a sprig each of thyme and marjoram, a bay- leaf, a couple of cloves, a grain or two of allspice, l saltspoon- ful of flour of mustard, nearly \ saltspoonful of white pepper, 1 teaspoonful of sugar, loz. of lean ham nicely trimmed, and lqt. of water, and let it boil quickly for three hours, skimming the scum off as it rises. Strain it then, and let it get cold. Lard one side of the pieces of Veal thickly with fat bacon. Rub the bottom of a stewpan with garlic, put into it I lb. of butter, set it over the fire, and when quite hot lay the Veal in, the larded side upwards, and let it brown a little. Skim the fat from the cold gravy, and pour over gravy to height without covering the larding; let it simmer gently for two hours, skimming and basting eveiy ten minutes. Take the Veal out, skim the fat from the gravy, put in 1 pint of young fresh- shelled peas and 1 teaspoonful of powdered white sugar, let them boil quickly (without putting the lid on the stewpan) for ten minutes, put the Veal in again, and simmer, still keejdng the lid off the stewpan, till the peas are tender. Take out the Veal, pour out the peas and gravy on a hot dish, lay the grenadins of Veal, larding upwards, in the centre, and serve hot. (4) Cut eight or nine collops Jin. thick from a cushion of Veal, and trim them to an oblong shape about the size of a mutton cutlet. Wet the collops, beat them lightly with the back of a knife, and lard in the centre with fillets of bacon. Melt a little lard in a flat stewpan, then cover the bottom with sliced onions, on which arrange the collops, side by side. Cover the collops with broth, stand the stewpan on the fire, and boil quickly till the moisture has reduced one-third. Move the stewpan to the side of the fire, sprinkle some salt over the Veal, and cover with a sheet of buttered paper. Put the lid on the stewpan with some hot ashes on it, and cook the Veal for three-quarters-of-an-hour, basting it occasionally with its cooking-liquor. Cut some carrots and turnips into small balls with a vegetable-cutter, scoop some cucumbers out with a vegetable-spoon, and cut some beans and French beans into small squares. Blanch and cook all the vegetables separately. Put the vegetables together in a stewpan with a little butter, and toss them over a quick fire for a few minutes, seasoning with pepper, salt, grated nutmeg, and 1 pinch of sugar. Mix a little thick bechamel sauce with them. When cooked, arrange the grenadins in a circle on a hot dish, pile the vegetables in the centre, and serve. Grenadins of Veal a l’Africaine.—Prepare as for Grenadins of Veal with Puree of Green Peas, serving very hot with three small stuffed egg-plant fruit, and eighteen medium-sized cooked gumbos for garnish in place of the peas. Grenadins of Veal a la Chipolata.—The same as for Grenadins of Veal with Puree of Green Peas, only adding 1 pint of hot chipolata garnishing instead of the peas. V eal—continued. Grenadins of Veal a la Sevigne.—Prepared as for Grenadins of Veal with Puree of Green Peas, only decorating the dish with six honchoes Sevigne, made by preparing six small bouclnies, and filling them with very finely-chopped spinach, acidulated slightly with lemon- juice. Lay the covers on, and serve very hot without any other garnishing. Grenadins of Veal with Puree of Green Peas.—Cut into six pieces 2lb. of lean Veal taken from the leg, remove the sinews, and lard the Veal on one side, using a rather coarse needle for the purpose. Lay the pieces in a saute-pan with one carrot, one onion, and some scraps of pork, and let them brown together for six minutes. Season with 1 table-spoonful of salt, and moisten with 1 gill of white broth. Put the pan in the oven, covering it with a piece of buttered paper; after thirty minutes, or when the contents are of a good colour, remove it, and serve with | pint of hot puibe of peas, spread on a dish, the grenadins on top, and the gravy, strained, poured over all. Grenadins of Veal with Tomato Sauce.—Cut about eight slices transversely off. a cushion of Veal; they should be about 3Jin. long, 4in. wide, and a little more than Jin. thick; sprinkle a little water over them, and beat them lightly with a chopper. Trim the pieces of meat to an oblong shape, lard them all on the same side with fillets of bacon, and season with salt and pepper. Finely chop a carrot and onion, put them in a stewpan, then add the pieces of Veal, moistening them with Veal broth off which the fat has not been skimmed. Boil the broth till reduced to glaze, then pour in a little more, and boil it till the meat is cooked and nicely glazed. Drain the grenadins, and arrange them in a circle on a hot dish. Strain the cooking-liquor through a fine hair sieve, skim off all the fat, pour it over the grenadins, and serve with a sauce- boatful of tomato sauce. Haricot of Veal.—(1) Take 41b. or 5lb. of the best end of a neck of Veal, cut or chop the bones short, but do not cut up the Veal; put it into a stewpan, barely cover with brown gravy, and let it simmer. Stew in some good stock in another saucepan six small cucumbers, peeled and sliced, two cabbage lettuces well washed and cut in quarters, and 1 pint of green peas; when these are cooked and the Veal nearly done, put them into the stewpan with the Veal, and let all simmer together for ten minutes. Lay the Veal on a hot dish, arrange the eight pieces of lettuce and a few forcemeat balls round it, pour the gravy and the rest of the vegetables over, and serve hot. (2) Chop off the ends of the bones of a piece of neck of Veal, put the Veal in a saucepan with sufficient brown gravy to cover, ami stew until nearly cooked. Stew separately in broth 1 pint of green peas, four peeled and sliced cucumbers, two small lettuces in quarters, and 1 breakfast- cupful each of carrots and turnips cut into small cubes. Add these to the Veal, cook for ten minutes longer, place the Veal in the centre of a dish, pour the vegetables and gravy round, and serve. Hashed Veal.—(1) Remains of cold Veal can be used, and it is better if rather underdone. Cut the meat into thin slices, trimming off' all the skin and gristle; sliie a couple of onions and shallots, put them in a stewpan with a lump of butter, dredge them lightly with flour, and toss about over the fire until beginning to brown. Pour in about | pint of clear Veal broth, add a bunch of sweet herbs, and boil gently for ten or fifteen minutes. Put the slices of Veal in a clean stewpan, strain the gravy over them, put in 1 table-spoonful of finely-chopped parsley, the grated peel of half a small lemon, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg ; season with salt and pepper to taste. Let the hash simmer for five minutes close to the fire. Turn the hash on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets of toast or small croutons of bread that have been fried a delicate brown in butter, and serve. (2) Trim off the skin and fat from some cold roast Veal, and mince the lean finely. Chop a shallot, put it in a stewpan with plenty of butter, and fry it till lightly coloured; then put in the minced meat with a little chopped parsley, and dredge over some flour, salt, pepper.THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 695 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred, to, see under their special heads. Veal—continued. ami a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Pour in some stock, and stir the mince by the side of the lire till well mixed. When hot, move the hash away from the fire, and stir into it the beaten yolk of one egg and the juice of a lemon. Turn the hash on to a hot dish, garnish with croutons of fried bread or sippets of toast, and serve. (3) Cut some extremely thin slices from a leg of Veal; they should not be thicker than the blade of a knife. Lay them in a deep dish, season with salt and pepper to taste, pour over them very nearly 2 gills of white wine, and let them soak in it for three hours. Then butter the bottom of a stewpan, and lay the slices of Veal in it, dredging each slice with flour on both sides ; add the strained juice of a lemon, a little more wine, and suffi- cient white stock to cover the meat. Close the lid over the pan and let the contents simmer for five minutes. Put it on a hot dish and ‘serve immediately, or it will harden. Hotch-potch of Knuckles of Veal.—Put two knuckles of Veal that have been sawed just above the knuckle joint in a saucepan with some sliced onions, trimmings of fat, lib. of streaky bacon that has been blanched and cut into halves, two carrots and turnips cut in halves length- wise, a bunch of sweet herbs, a small quantity of cloves and peppercorns, and a lump of salt. Pour in l pint of broth and stand the saucepan over the fire till the liquor is reduced to half-glaze. When reduced, pour in more broth to three-parts the height of the above ingredients, boil it for a few minutes, then move the saucepan to the edge of the fire and keep it simmering till the meat and vegetables are tender. Wash and divide a cabbage in quarters, and wash about twenty small lettuces. Blanch and braise the cabbage and lettuces, and braise thirty small onions. When the knuckles of Veal are cooked, put the bacon on each side of them, and place round the cabbage, lettuces, onions, carrots, and turnips. Put J pint of gravy in the saucepan with the cooking-stock, boil it, skim oil the fat, strain it over the meat, and serve. Jellied Veal or Veal Cheese.—Take about 21b. of knuckle of Veal, wash it, and cut it into two or three pieces. Let it simmer in just enough water to cover it till the meat easily comes from the bones (it will take from three to four hours). Take it up, remove all the bone, and chop the meat fine ; add to it salt, pepper, mace, and finely- chopped shallots and thyme, according to taste. Put all into the liquor and boil till it is almost dry, then stir in the strained juice of a lemon. Turn it into a shape or mould, and let it stand till next day. Turn it out on a dish, and serve garnished with parsley (see Fig. 944). Knuckle of Veal en Bagoftt.—Cut the meat off a knuckle of Veal into slices, dust some salt and pepper over them, put them in a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry lightly. Break the bone, put it in a saucepan with several young- carrots, a head of celery, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a blade of mace, add the slices of Veal, and moisten with 1 pint of water. When boiling, move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer gently for two hours, or till the meat is tender. When cooked, take the Veal out and put it on a hot dish. Pass the cooking-liquor through a hue hair sieve, return it to the saucepan, and mix h teacupful of tomato sauce, 1 table-spoonful of ketchup, the juice of half a lemon, ami 1 wineglassful of white wine with the sauce. Work 1 table-spoonful of flour with Veal —continued. loz. of butter, stir it over the fire, and boil for a few minutes. Garnish the slices of meat with the vegetables, pour the sauce over them, and serve at once. Knuckle of Veal Soup.—Rinse two small knuckles of Veal in warm water, and put them in a saucepan with a ham bone and 4qts. of cold water; when boiling, move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer, keeping it well skimmed. Trim and wash two or three leeks, a head of celery, and wash well in plenty of water til), of rice, then put them in with the soup. Cut off the discoloured outside leaves of six large lettuces, wash the remainder, and blanch and braise them. Peel a cucumber, cut it into quarters, and boil in salted - water; when cooked, drain the vegetables, put them in a frying-pan with a lump of butter, and toss over the fire for a few minutes. Boil separately in salted water 1 breakfast-cupful of green peas and the same quantity of asparagus-lieads. Drain the lettuces, cut them into quarters, and put them in a soup-tureen with the cucum- bers, peas, and asparagus-lieads. Skim the fat off the broth, and pour it slowly through a fine hair sieve over the vegetables in the soup-tureen. Serve the soup while very hot. If liked, the gelatinous pieces may be picked off the knuckles, cut into small pieces, and put in the soup. Leg of Veal en Surprise.—Lard the Veal with fat bacon and lemon-peel cut very thin. Make a rich oyster force- meat to stuff it with. When stuffed, put it in a stewpan, barely cover with water, and let it stew till tender and thoroughly done, then take it up. Skim the liquor well, leaving no fat on it, and add to it a piece of butter rolled in flour, the crumb of a roll grated fine, a little mushroom ketchup, a little lemon-juice, 1 pint of cream, and J pint of oysters; stir this over the fire till it thickens, let it boil for a few minutes, then pour over the Veal ; garnish with oysters fried in butter and slices of toasted bacon. Loin of Veal en Blanquette with Bechamel Sauce.— The cold remains of a roasted loin of Veal will serve for this purpose. Cut out the fillet, cover with a sheet of buttered paper, and warm it in the oven. Make a blanquette with the remainder. When ready, place the fillet with the blanquette on a hot dish, and serve while very hot. Loin of Veal a la Fermiere.—Stuff about 71b. of the loin of Veal cut from the best end with Veal forcemeat, truss it, and cover with a sheet of thickly-buttered paper. Fix the Veal in front of a clear fire, and roast for an-hour- and-a-half, basting it frequently with butter. At the end of that time, baste the Veal with cream till it is quite cooked (it will take about another half-hour). When cooked, put the Veal on a hot dish, mix the basting-cream with a little hot bechamel sauce and water, pour it over the Veal, and serve. Loin of Veal a la Financiere.—Bone a loin of Veal, trim off some of the fat surrounding the kidney, beat the flap lightly, then roll it round the fillet and kidney and tie round with string. Put the joint in a stewpan with lqt. each of mirepoix and broth, cover with a thick sheet of buttered paper, and let it simmer for two hours, basting occasionally. Lard four sweetbreads with fillets of fatTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 696 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Veal—continued. bacon, and cook them as for garnish, with six large chicken-forcemeat quenelles, six large crayfish, and six lambs’ sweetbreads, larded and glazed. Prepare a ragout with some collops of fat livers, chicken-forcemeat quenelles, cocks’ combs, onions, mushrooms, truffles, and Iqt. of financiere sauce. Put a rice socle on a hot dish, and place the loin on it; pour the prepared ragout round the dish, and garnish with the sweetbreads, &c. Cut the lambs’ sweetbreads in round slices, place them in two rows on the joint, and stick four silver attelettes garnished with trufiles and cocks’ combs between the two lines of sweet- breads (see Fig. 945). Serve the Veal with a sauceboatful of financiere sauce. Loin of Veal en Surprise.—-Bone a loin of Veal, flatten it out, trim off some of the fat round the kidney, season with pepper and salt, fold the flap under so as to cover the kidney and fillet, and tie the Veal round with string to keep it in shape. Wrap the Veal in a sheet of buttered paper, fix it on the spit, and roast in front of a clear fire. Ten minutes before the meat is taken up, remove the paper and brown it. Remove a square piece of the skin off the top of the loin, cut out some of the meat under- neath it, chop it fine, mix a little hot bechamel sauce with it, put the meat back in its original place, cover with the skin again, put the joint on a hot dish, and serve. The skin should be put back carefully, so as not to show where it had been touched. Macaronied Veal au Gratin.—Boil Jib. of macaroni until soft; mince very finely fib. of cooked Veal, and rub the contents of a small tin of tomatojs through a fine sieve When the macaroni is cooked, drain, and chop it well. Mix all the ingredients together with 3oz. of butter, loz. of grated Parmesan cheese, salt and pepper to taste, and a small quantity of mace. When well incorporated, turn the mixture into a buttered pie-dish, level it evenly over the surface, strew grated breadcrumb over, put a few small pieces of butter on the top, and place it in a quick oven until nicely browned. When ready, serve hot in the same dish. Marble Veal.—(1) Cut a boiled and skinned pickled tongue into small pieces, put them in a mortar with lib. of butter and a little powdered mace, and work to a paste. Cut 41b. of cooked lean Veal into small pieces, and pound that in the mortar also. Put a layer of Veal in a large potting-jar, then some tongue, not spreading it out but leaving it in lumps, and continue with the alternate layers of ham and tongue till the pot is full; press it tightly down, and pour in some clarified butter. Tie a sheet of stout paper over the jar, and keep it in a cool place. When ready to serve the Veal, turn it out of the jar, cut it across in thin slices, put them on a folded napkin or dish-paper on a dish, and garnish with parsley. (2) Cut some small thin cutlets from a fillet of Veal, and have an equal quantity of thin rashers of bacon; mix together in small quantities, pepper, salt, cayenne, and beaten mace, and rub the slices of meat and bacon well with the seasoning. Line the bottom of a mould with ! slices of hard-boiled egg, fill it with alternate layers of the Veal and bacon, and pour in some thickly-reduced gravy. Tie the skin from the fillet over the top of the mould, stand it in a pan of boiling water, and stew in the oven for two hours. When cooked, leave the Veal until cold, then turn it out, and serve. (3) Chop the tenderest part of a boiled pickled tongue, put it in a mortar, and pound. Chop and pound about 4lb. of cold boiled Veal, and mix with it Jib. of butter and a little salt, pepper, and pounded mace. Stir a little cayenne and half the quantity of butter in with the tongue. Coat the inside of a deep pie-dish with butter, fill it with layers of the Veal, putting between each layer a few table-spoonfuls of the tongue, and packing them down tightly. When all the meat has been used, cover the dish, stand it in a tin containing a little water, and bake for an hour. When cooked, take the above mixture out of the oven, leave it till cold, then pour some melted butter over it, and keep it covered till ready to serve. Veal—continued. Marsden Cake.—Butter the inside of a large pie-dish, and lay round the sides of it slices of hard boiled eggs; then put in a layer of slices of cold Veal, chopped ham, and a sprinkling of chopped mixed pickles. Season well with salt and pepper, and pour a rich Veal gravy over. Repeat these layers until the dish is full, and take care that the gravy covers the Veal. Bake for twenty minutes, let it get cold, and it will turn out in a strong jelly. A little cold Veal stuffing broken up and distributed over the layers of meat improves the flavour. The gravy should be well seasoned and flavoured, and made sufficiently strong to form a stiff jelly. Should there be any doubt as to the quality of the gravy, a little isinglass should be dissolved in it so as to ensure its jellying well when cold. Garnish with parsley. Mayonnaise of Tendons of Veal.—Cut some tendons into small equal-sized pieces, blanch them for a few minutes in boiling water, then drain and put them in a saucepan; cover tlie tendons with stock, and boil them till cooked. Strain the cooking-liquor of the tendons into another saucepan, and boil it till reduced to a creamy thickness; then put in the pieces of meat, and leave till cold. Boil some onions and gherkins in stock, and when cooked drain and leave them till cold. Put the pieces of meat on a cold dish, garnish round with the onions, cover all with mayonnaise sauce, and serve. Melton Veal.—Chop some cold roasted or boiled Veal very line, and add a little lemon-juice, salt, and pepper to season it; add also 3 table-spoonfuls of bread- or cracker- crumbs, and moisten the whole with a little good soup stock or hot water. Take some ham, about one third of the bulk of the Veal, and chop it also very fine; add a little cayenne and dry mustard to season it, 1 table- spoonful of bread- or cracker-crumbs, and sufficient hot stock or water to moisten. Arrange some slices of hard-boiled egg round a well-greased mould, and put in the two mixtures in very irregular quantities to give it a mottled appearance, squeezing it in tightly. Put the mould over a saucepan of boiling water, and let it steam Fig. 946. Melton Veal. for forty five minutes. When done, put it in a cool place, and let it get quite cold; turn it out of the mould, cut it into slices, garnish with parsley (see Fig. 946), and serve. Minced Veal.—(1) Trim off the bones and skin from some cold Veal, either loin or fillet. Put the bones and trimmings of the Veal in a saucepan with one sliced onion, a small quantity of grated lemon-peel, a bunch of sweet herbs, and pepper and salt ; pour in a little over 1 pint of water, and keep it boiling gently for an-hour-and-ten minutes. Strain the liquor through a fine hair sieve into another saucepan, skim it well, put in loz. of butter that has been worked with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and stir it over the fire till boiling. Chop the Veal finely, and put it in with the gravy; stir it over the fire till thoroughly hot, then pour in a little more than 1 teacupful of cream or milk, and 1 teaspoonful of lemon-juice. Move the sauce pan to the side of the fire. Fry some thin rashers of bacon, and tie them into little rolls. Put some sippets of toast on a hot dish, pour the mince over them, garnish with the rolls of bacon and some slices of lemon, and serve. (2) Finely mince any remains of cold cooked Veal, and the more underdone the better. For lib. of the Veal allow 1 teacupful each of milk, stock, and breadcrumbs, loz. of butter, and the yellow rind of one lemon. Grate the lemon-peel, and mix it with the minced meat; season it with pepper, salt, and a small quantity of gratedTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. G97 Veal—continued. nutmeg, put the meat into a saucepan, pour the milk and stock over it, and stir over the fire until boiling. Turn the mixture on to a dish, spread it out, strew the breadcrumbs on the top, and put the butter broken into small pieces on them. Brown the top under a salamander or in a brisk oven, and serve. (3) Cut up some cold Veal very fine, season it with a very small quantity of finely-chopped lemon-peel, a very little grated nutmeg, and salt to taste. Put a few table-spoon- fuls of water, milk, or weak stock over the fire, and thicken with flour and butter; when the thickening has boiled for ten minutes, add to it the seasoned Veai, and let it barely simmer till hot; then pour it on to a hot dish, and serve garnished with rolls of toasted thin bacon round it, and a poached egg or two laid on top. (4) Finely mince some white flesh of cold roast Veal. Chop a shallot, put it in a stewpan with a good sized lump of butter, and fry until lightly browned; dredge it with flour, and moisten with a small quantity of clear white stock. Stir the sauce until boiling, then put in the mince with 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley; season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and keep it at the side of the fire. When the meat is thoroughly hot, stir in the yolk of an egg that has been beaten up with the juice of half a lemon and strained. Turn the mince on to a hot dish, lay four poached eggs on the top, garnish round with sippets of toast or croutons of bread that have been fried a delicate brown in butter, and serve. (5) Finely mince some cold remains of cooked Veal. Put a few small mushrooms in a stewpan with a piece of butter, and place them over the fire for a-quarter-of-an- liour; next put in the mince with loz. of butter that has been worked up with 1 table-spoonful each of flour and cream, season to taste with salt and pepper, and let the whole simmer at the edge of the fire for five or six minutes. When ready, turn the mince on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets of toast or croutons of bread that have been fried a delicate brown in butter, and serve. Minced Veal d la Biscayenne.—Proceed as for Minced Veal a la Catalan, adding 1 pint of potatoes cooked in Parisian style, and two cut-up tomatoes fifteen minutes before serving. Minced Veal a la Catalan.—Mince 2lb. of Veal and brown it in a saucepan with 3 table-spoonfuls of sweet- oil, one onion cut in quarters, and half a minced green pepper. When a fine colour, add 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and mix thoroughly. Moisten with 1 pint of white broth, and season with 1 heaped table-spoonful of salt and 1 teaspoonful of pepper; stir briskly, and add a bouquet-garni, three crushed cloves of garlic, and 1 gill of tomato sauce. Cook well for twenty-five minutes, and serve on a hot dish, sprinkling over a little chopped parsley. Minced Veal a la Polonaise.—Mince a sufficient quantity of lean cooked Veal to fill two breakfast-cups, put it into a stewpan, moisten with a moderate quantity of rich gravy, and add seasonings to taste. Make the Veal hot, then move it to the side of the fire, and stir in the yolk of an egg that has been beaten with the juice of half a lemon and strained. Wash and boil the required quantity of spinach, and when tender drain and press it well to extract all the water possible. Chop the spinach and put it into a saucepan with \ teacupful of thick cream, loz. of butter, salt and pepper to taste, and a small quantity each of powdered white sugar and grated nutmeg. Stir the spinach over the fire for a few minutes, being very careful not to let it burn, then pack it closely in a buttered border mould, and keep it hot in a bain-marie. Poach a few eggs as carefully as possible, and fry some thin rolls of bacon. Turn the border out of the mould on to a hot dish, pour the minced Veal in the centre, lay the eggs on the top of the Veal, first trimming off any ragged edges, and place the rolls of bacon on the border of spinach, alternating each roll with a small crouton of fried bread. Serve while hot. Minced Veal .a la Turque.—Finely mince 31b. of raw Veal, put it into a saucepan with 2oz. of butter, 2 table-spoonfuls Veal—continued. of water, and 1 saltspoonful of salt, and stir it over the fire until the moisture has evaporated and the mince well browned. Peel and finely chop three onions and a small bunch of parsley from the stems; soak the crumb of a French roll in water. Mix all the ingredients together, season with salt and pepper, and stir in sufficient beaten egg to make a stiffish paste, working it well. Put 4oz. of lmtter into a deep frying-pan, place it over the fire till hot, then pour in the mixture and fry it till nicely browned, turning it when done on one side and finishing the other. When cooked, turn the cake of mincemeat on to an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve immediately. Minced Veal with Currants.—Cut the remains of some cold roast Veal into small square pieces, removing the skin. Put 2oz. or 3oz. of butter in a saucepan with 1 teacupful of breadcrumbs, and stir them over the fire until nicely browned ; then put in 1 breakfast-cupful of well- washed currants and a piece of lemon-peel, pour in 1 pint of gravy and 1 wineglassful of white wine, season with a small quantity of salt, and simmer gently at the side of the fire. When the currants are soft, put in the pieces of Veal, and make them hot without boiling. Turn the mince on to a hot dish, and serve. Minced Veal with Macaroni.—Finely mince lib. of Veal, and mix with it Jib. each of minced ham and finely-grated breadcrumb, and a little grated lemon-peel. Season the mixture with salt and pepper, and bind it together with 2 table-spoonfuls of rich gravy and two well-beaten eggs. Boil 6oz. of macaroni, and when tender drain it well. Butter a mould, line it with macaroni, mix a little of the macaroni with the Veal mixture, and turn it into the mould, pressing it tightly down. Stand the mould in a saucepan with boiling water to three-parts its height, and steam for half--an-hour. When cooked, turn the Veal and macaroni out of the mould on to a hot dish, and serve with a sauceboatful of rich gravy. Minced Veal with Mushrooms and Cream.-Empty a tin of small mushrooms into a saucepan, put in a piece of butter, and stew them for fifteen minutes over a slow fire. Finely chop some cold roasted Veal, and season it with pepper and salt. Mince the mushrooms, mix them with the Veal, and turn all into a saucepan with 2oz. of butter that has been worked with 2 table spoonfuls of flour, and a little more than $ teacupful of cream, or creamy sauce. Stir the mixture over the fire for a few minutes. Turn the mince on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets of toast, and serve. Minced Veal with Poached Eggs. -Chop as finely as possible some cold lean Veal, put it into a stewpan with sufficient bechamel sauce to moisten, but not to make it too thin, and let it heat gradually at the side of the fire. Poach a sufficient quantity of eggs in water in which a small quantity of vinegar has been mixed, and as each lot are done take them out and put them into another pan of water. Squeeze the juice of a lemon into the minced Veal, and turn it on to a hot dish. Take the eggs out of the water one at a time with a slice, trim them nicely, lay them over the mince, garnish with toast sippets (see Fig. 947), and serve. Minced Veal with Potatoes.—Finely chop some cold cooked Veal, and mix with it an equal quantity of cold boiled potatoes also finely chopped, a lump of butter, and a little hot Veal broth or water. Season the mixture with salt and pepper, and dredge a little flour over it. Put the mixture into a saucepan, cover with the lid, and stand it over the fire till hot. Turn the mince on to a hot dish, For details respecting Culinary Processes. Utensils, Sauces. d*c., referred to. see under their special heads. Ml'Wsii 1 libhakr ' LFFIWG98 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Veal —continued. garnish with croutons of fried bread or sippets of toast, and serve. Mireton of Veal.—(1) Finely chop some cold roasted Veal, mix with it ill), of ham also very finely chopped, and season with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Soak the crumb of a French roll in 1 teacupful of milk. Slice a small onion, and fry it till nicely browned in a little butter; then drain it and mince finely. Put the above ingredients in a saucepan with the grated peel of half a lemon and 1 teacupful of cream, and stir it over the lire till thoroughly hot. Beat an egg well, add it to the above mixture, then move the saucepan off the fire. Butter a mould, turn the mixture into it, and press down tightly ; put the mould in the oven, and brown the contents. When cooked, turn the mireton on to a hot dish, pour some rich gravy over it, and serve. (2) Chop very fine about fib. of cold boiled or roasted Veal, and fib. of tongue, ham, or bacon. Mix with it about 3oz. of crumb of bread soaked in milk, and a well- beaten egg; stir in also an onion chopped fine and fried a light brown, and a seasoning of pepper and salt. Place the mixture over the fire in a saucepan, and stew it a little; when thoroughly hot, put it in a buttered mould or basin, bake till the top is brown, then turn it out on to a hot dish; pour over some cullis or brown gravy, and serve hot. Montglas of Veal.—Cut Alb. of cold roasted Veal into pieces about lin. long, put them into a basin with fib. of boiled calf’s feet cut into small pieces, an equal quantity of pickled ox-tongue, and the same quantity each of chopped cooked mushrooms and gherkins. Pour some salad-oil and vinegar over the above ingredients, season them with salt, pepper, and mustard, mix well together, and let them macerate for an hour. Put the meat, &c., on a fancy dish, thicken the marinade with 1 teacupful of mayonnaise sauce, sprinkle in some chopped parsley and chives, pour it over the meat, garnish with aspic jelly, and serve. Montglas of Veal with. Crohtons.—Trim off all the sinewy parts of a cooked minion fillet of Veal, cut it into slices about fin. thick, then cut them into small squares. Put the Veal into a saucepan with half its quantity of cooked pickled ox-tongue and mushrooms also cut into small pieces. Pour J pint of brown sauce and 1 wineglassful of Madeira wine over the above ingredients, season with a little cayenne pepper, and keep over the fire till on the point of boiling, then move to the side. Turn the montglas on to a hot dish, garnish with glazed croutons of fried bread, and serve. Heck of Veal d la Bruxellaise.—Cut off the chine-bones of a neck of Veal, and trim it to a nice shape. Peel and slice three onions, two carrots, two turnips, and one leek ; cut a few sticks of celery into small pieces, lay the Veal on a dish with four bay-leaves and a few sprigs of thyme and parsley, cover with the vegetables, and moisten with a few table-spoonfuls of salad-oil. Let it marinade for a few hours, place the vegetables on sheets of paper, four sheets in thickness, lay the Veal on the top, and wrap the paper well round, being careful to secure it tightly or the vegetables will escape. Boast it in front of a clear fire. Twenty minutes before the Veal is done, remove the paper and vegetables, and brown it. Trim and wash 31b. or 41b. of Brussels sprouts, put them into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil; do not over-cook the sprouts, but when just tender turn them on to a sieve to drain thoroughly. Put 2oz. of butter into a stewpan, melt it, then put in the sprouts; squeeze the juice of half a lemon over them, season with salt and pepper and about J teaspoonful of sugar, and toss them about gently over the fire until nicely glazed with the butter. Turn the sprouts on to a hot dish, and stand the Veal on them; pour a little thin white sauce over the Veal, and serve. Heck of Veal a la Milanaise.—Trim and lard a neck of Veal; butter a stewpan, line it with slices of bacon, put in the Veal with a carrot, turnip, and two small onions, each stuck with two cloves; add a bunch of sweet herbs, and moisten with 2 pints of white stock and J pint of I Veal—continued. bucellas wine. Boil the Veal quickly for fifteen minutes, then skim the liquor, put the cover on the stewpan, and place it in a moderate oven. Baste the meat occasionally with its cooking-liquor. Blanch Jib. of macaroni and seven or eight large mushrooms, and cut them into small pieces; cut into pieces the same size, six French truffles and 2oz. of cooked tongue. Pour 2J breakfast-cupfuls of white sauce into a stewpan, stir it over the fire until boiling, then put in the prepared ingredients and boil them gently. Season the sauce to taste with salt and a small quantity each of cayenne pepper and sugar. Add Jib. of grated Parmesan cheese and 1 teacupful of cream, and stir at the edge of the fire until the cheese has melted. Turn the sauce on to a hot dish, place the Veal on it, glaze it, and serve. Neck of Veal a la Mirepoix.—Put some rasped bacon, {1 b. of chopped ham, three bay-leaves, a sprig or two of thyme, and a lump of butter in a stewpan; dust in a little pepper and salt, and fry them over a slow fire. Cut some neck of Veal into small pieces, trim them, put them in the stewpan with the other ingredients, and fry; when fried, leave the mirepoix till cold. Butter a sheet of white paper, cover with thin layers of bacon, put the mirepoix on it, and wrap in several sheets of paper. Bake the mirepoix for an-hour-and-a-half in a moderate oven. When cooked, take the mirepoix out of the paper, put it on a hot dish, and serve with a sauceboatful of Spanish sauce. Neck of Veal a la Rouennaise.—Cut off the skin and chine-bones of a neck of Veal, and lard it. Melt a lump of butter in a stewpan, line it with thin slices of fat bacon, put in the Veal, the larded side upwards, together with one large onion with three or four cloves stuck in it, one turnip, one carrot, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Cover the Veal with stock and J pint of bucellas wine, place the stewpan over the fire, and boil the contents for a-quarter-of-an-hour, then put it into a rather slow oven and leave it until the Veal is tender. Baste the Veal occasionally while in the oven with its own cooking- liquor. Put J teacupful of salad-oil in a stewpan and place it over the fire; when hot, put in two or three chopped shallots and mushrooms and 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped parsley. Stir them over the fire for eight or ten minutes, drain off the oil, dredge a small quantity of Hour over them, and mix in gradually a little over 1 pint of white sauce. Continue stirring it over the fire, and boil for a few minutes; then move it to the side, stir in the beaten yolks of two eggs, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of sugar. Put the Veal on a hot dish, the larded side upwards, pour the sauce over it, strew grated breadcrumb on the top, and brown it under a salamander. Pour a shallot sauce round the dish, and serve. Neck of Veal 4 la St. Clair.—Boast a nicely-trimmed best end of a neck of Veal in vegetables; when nearly cooked, remove the paper and vegetables, and brown it lightly. Peel and boil a sufficient quantity of potatoes, mash them with butter, and press them into a border mould; stand the mould in a bain-marie to keep hot. Make about 1 pint of thin tomato sauce, and mix with it J table-spoonful of anchovy butter. Cut a dozen slices of bacon into heart-shaped pieces, and fry them. Place the Veal on a hot dish, garnish with the slices of bacon, and serve with the sauce in a sauceboat. Neck of Veal with Puree of Celery.—Trim the best end of a neck of Veal, cutting off the chine-bones; peel and cut into thin slices three large onions, two large turnips, and two carrots; cut two or three sticks of celery into small lengths, and slice one leek. Moisten the vegetables with 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of salad-oil, and mix with them a few sprigs of thyme and parsley and four bay- leaves. Bun a lark-spit lengthwise through the Veal; lay all the vegetables on paper five or six sheets thick, lay the Veal on it, and wrap the paper round, tying it securely to keep the vegetables in. Fix the Veal in front of a clear fire and roast it, keeping it well basted. Have ready boiled two pieces of bacon of equal length and about 2Jin. wide, and glaze them; when the Veal isTEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 699 For deta.ls respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. Veal—continued. cooked, remove it from the vegetables and glaze it also; place it in the centre of a hot dish, with the bacon at each end, pour a puree of celery round the whole, and serve while very hot. Noix of Veal en Ballotines.—Lard a noix (cushion) of Veal with strips of bacon that have been well seasoned with mixed spices, finely-chopped parsley, thyme, bay-leaf, shallot, salt, and pepper. Melt about ilb. of butter in a stewpan, dredge the Veal over with salt and pepper, put it in, and stew over a slow fire. In tliree-quarters-of-an-hour take the Veal out of the pan and put it on a dish. Mix in with the butter 4 table-spoonfuls of grated bacon, 1 teacupful of pure olive oil, and a scant table-spoonful of chopped shallots. Fry these ingredients for a few minutes, then put in ten or twelve chopped champignons, 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, and season with pepper and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. When quite cooked, pour the mixture over the Veal and leave it until cold. After- wards cover the meat with thin slices of bacon, and wrap it with all its seasoning in a sheet of paper; fold it up securely, seeing that the seasoning cannot escape, and bind it round with tape. Place it on a gridiron, and cook over a slow fire for an hour, turning it occasionally. Take care not to let the paper burn. When cooked, place the meat on a hot dish, and serve. Noix of Veal a la Jardiniere.—Beat and trim a noix of Veal, and lard it with thin strips of fat bacon ‘2in. long. Put some slices of bacon and two sliced onions in a stew- pan with two bay-leaves and a few sprigs of parsley, then add the noix, pour over it 1 pint of white stock, cover with the lid, and put it in a moderate oven for three hours. Baste the Veal occasionally with its own liquor; if the moisture becomes absorbed, pour in a little more broth or some water. Peel eighteen young onions, the same of young turnips, and the same of young carrots ; the carrots and turnips should be cut to the shape of small p>ears. Blanch the vegetables; put loz. of butter in a sautd-pan with 1 table-spoonful of moist sugar, melt it, then put in the onions ; cover them with stock, and stew gently until tender. Cook the carrots and turnips in the same way, only in separate pans. The cooking-stock of the vegetables should be reduced to a thin glaze by the time they are cooked. Peel and boil about 4lb. of potatoes, drain them when soft, mash them with a little milk or butter, press them into a border mould, and stand it in a bain-marie. Put the glaze from the vegetables into a saucepan with lqt. of brown sauce and about 1 breakfast cupful of the gravy from the Veal, first freeing it from fat. Boil the sauce until it becomes reduced to a rather thick demi-glaze, skimming it well. When cooked, glaze the noix and brown it slightly under the salamander. Turn the border of potatoes on to a hot dish, arrange the glazed vege- tables on the border, and put the noix in the centre. Pour the sauce over the vegetables, and serve. Noix of Veal a la Palestine.—Procure the noix or nut from a leg of Veal, beat it well, trim it, and lard with thin strips of fat bacon 2in. long. Line the bottom of a stewpan with slices of bacon and two sliced onions, and put in two bay-leaves, two or three sprigs of thyme and parsley, tied together, and then the Veal; pour in 1 pint of white broth, place the lid on the stewpan, and put it in a moderate oven for three hours. Baste the meat occasionally with some of its own cooking-liquor; if it becomes too dry, a little water or more broth may be poured in. Peel 21b. of Jerusalem artichokes, wash them well, and trim to a pear shape; put them in a saucepan with a lump of butter about loz. in weight, a small lump of salt, water to cover, and boil until tender. Peel and boil 31b. of potatoes, and when soft drain them, mash them with a little milk or butter, and pack them into a border mould, standing it in a bain-marie to keep hot. Boil and drain well about lib. of Brussels sprouts. Prepare the following sauce: Put about six thinly-sliced artichokes that have been peeled and washed into a stew- pan with 4oz. of butter, a bay-leaf, a few sprigs of parsley tied together, 1 table-spoonful of chopped lean ham, J table-spoonful of clear broth, and \ teaspoonful of sugar. Boil the sauce gently until the artichokes are V eal—continued. soft, then pour in 1 pint of .bechamel sauce, season to taste with salt and pepper, and boil for twenty minutes longer; at the end of that time pass it through a fine hair sieve. Beat the yolks of two eggs with 3 table- spoonfuls of cream, pour them into the sauce, and stir it at the side of the fire till very hot, but do not let it boil again. When cooked, glaze the Veal and brown it slightly under a salamander or in the oven. Turn the border of potatoes on to a hot dish, scoop out a little hollow in the thickest part of each artichoke, and plant the Brussels sprouts in them ; then place the artichokes, the thinnest end downwards, in the potato border. Put the Veal in the centre of the dish, pour the sauce over the potatoes, and serve. Noix of Veal a la Potagere.—Beat the noix well, trim it to a nice shape, and lard with thin fillets of fat bacon. Line a flat stewpan with slices of bacon and two or three sliced onions; put in the noix with a small bunch of thyme and parsley and two bay-leaves, moisten with 1 pint of white broth, put the lid on the stewpan, and place it in a moderate oven. Cook the Veal for three hours, basting it occasionally with the broth in the pan; if all the moisture becomes absorbed, a small quantity of water should be poured in. Meanwhile boil and mash sufficient potatoes to make a border on a hot dish ; boil also a white cauliflower, and when cooked separate the branches and lay them on the top of the potato border. Glaze the noix and brown it lightly under a salamander; then put it in the hollow of the border (see Fig. 948), and keep it hot. Strain and free the cooking-liquor of the noix from all fat, pour it into a small stewpan with H pints of white sauce, and boil it quickly for ten minutes; then mix in 2 table spoonfuls of thick cream and 1 tea- spoonful of sugar, boil it up again, then pour it over the cauliflower and potatoes, and serve at once. Noix of Veal a la Prince.—Prepare the noix, and lard it with thin fillets of fat bacon; put it in a flat stewpan with a few slices of bacon, two sliced onions, two or three bay-leaves, and a few sprigs of parsley; moisten with 1 pint of white broth, put the lid on the stewpan, put it into a moderate oven, and leave for three hours, basting the noix occasionally with the liquor in the pan. If the moisture dries, add a little more broth or water. Disgorge eight or ten lamb’s sweetbreads in warm water, then blanch them, and refresh them in cold water. Lard the sweetbreads with thin strips of bacon, put them in a stewpan that has been lined with slices of bacon, two sliced onions, a few sprigs of thyme and parsley, and two bay-leaves; moisten to height with broth, place the lid on the stewpan, put it in the oven, and cook the sweet- breads for about half-an-hour. Peel and warm eight or ten plover’s eggs in white broth. Prepare a border of mashed potatoes on a hot dish, and arrange the sweet- breads and eggs alternately on it. Glaze the noix of Veal, and place it in the centre. Skim off all the fat, and strain the cooking-liquor of the Veal and sweetbreads into a stewpan; mix with it lqt. of brown sauce and 1 pint of broth, place it over a brisk fire, stir it, and boil quickly until reduced to the consistency of cream. Take the sauce oft' the fire, mix with it 2oz. of butter and 1 teaspoonful of sugar, stir the sauce until the butter hasTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 700 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <i-c., referred to, see under their special heads. Veal —continued. dissolved, them pour it over the sweetbreads and eggs, and serve immediately. Noix of Veal Saute.—Trim off the skin and cut a noix of Veal into small round pieces about H-in. in diameter, beat and trim them neatly. Put Jib. of butter into a saute-pan, place it over a good fire, and when melted put in the pieces of meat with 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped parsley and scallions; toss them until cooked, them place them on a hot dish. Pour b pint of stiffly-reduced veloute sauce into the pan with the butter, stir it over the fire until boiling, then move it to the side and stir in quickly the yolks of two eggs that have been well beaten with 2 table spoonfuls of cream. Pour the sauce over the meat, and serve. Paupiettes of Veal.—(1) Finely chop f ib. of lean Veal, and mix with it a little finely-chopped kidney-suet and streaky bacon. Season the mince with sweet herbs, sage, a point of garlic, pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, and bind the mixture with a beaten egg. Cut some slices off a loin of Veal, and chop them into small oblongs, trimming off all the sinewy parts. Beat the collops lightly, dust a little salt and pepper over them, and put a small quantity of the above mixture on each. Fold over the edges of the collops, then roll them into a long shape, and run a skewer through them, putting a thin slice of ham between each. Dredge some flour over the paupiettes, put them in a flat stewpan with some clarified butter, and bake till nicely browned. When cooked, arrange the paupiettes on a hot dish, pour the butter in which they were cooked over them, garnish with quarters of lemon (see Fig. 949), and serve. (2) Cut 21b. of Veal off the leg into six thin slices. Pare them to the size of the hand, and season with 1 table-spoonful of salt and 1 teaspoonful of pepper. Cover them with any kind of forcemeat, roll, and tie together with string. Put them in a saute-pan with scraps of pork, adding half a sliced carrot and half a sliced onion, cover with a bard of larding-pork on top, and brown for ten minutes. Moisten with 1 gill of white broth, cover with buttered paper, and put in the oven to finish cooking for twenty-five minutes. Serve with J pint of puree of lentils mixed with 2 table spoonfuls of cream, and 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Paupiettes of Veal with Puree of Chestnuts. -The same as for Paupiettes of Veal (2), using \ pint of hot puree of chestnuts in place of lentils. Paupiettes of Veal with d’Uxelles Sauce.—The same as for Paupiettes of Veal (2), putting J pint of d’Uxelles sauce on the dish and arranging the paupiettes over it. Pickled Fillet of Veal.—Lard a thick slice of Veal that has been cut off the leg with some fillets of anchovies; put it in a deep dish, dust some salt and pepper over, cover with vinegar, and let it macerate for seven or eight hours. Drain and dry the slice of Veal, take out the bone from the centre, rub it over with flour, and fry it in olive oil over a slow fire till nicely browned on both sides, then put it on a hot dish. Squeeze the juice of a lemon m the frying-pan, stir it over the fire, then pour it over the Veal, and serve. Potted Veal.—(1) Take a cutlet of fillet of Veal weighing about fib. or more, season to taste with peppercorns, cloves, and mace, put it into a potting-pan that will only just hold it, fill up the pan with water, and bake for three hours. Put it into a mortar, and pound it fine with salt to taste and loz. or 2oz. of butter slightly warmed. If it be for immediate use, a little of the gravy it was V eal—continued. baked in may be used to moisten it in the mortar ; if to be kept any time, do not use anything but the butter. When beaten to a fine smooth paste, press it into pots, and pour over sufficient butter melted to oil to cover it about Jin. deep. (2) Put lib. of lean Veal into a stewpan with 2oz. of butter, the juice of a lemon, pepper, salt, sifted mace, allspice, cloves, nutmegs, cinnamon, and mushroom powder, using a small quantity of each, also a little thyme, sweet herbs, and a small onion chopped fine. Stew for ten minutes, then pound them ; add lib. of the mellow part of a boiled tongue beaten to a paste, Jib. of cold butter, and mix all well together with two well-beaten eggs; then press the mixture down tight in small pots, cover with paper, and put them into a moderate oven. Bake for twenty minutes, pour over some clarified butter, and they are ready for use, and will keep a long time. Potted Veal and Ham.—Pound some nicely-seasoned cold Veal to a smooth paste with a small quantity of butter, press a layer of it into a pot, put over it a layer of ham, either shred fine or pounded, and press it down. Fill the jar or pot with alternate layers of pounded Veal or chicken and the shred ham, pressing each well down as it is laid in. Cover the top with a layer of butter melted to oil, about Jin. deep. Quenelles of Veal.—Trim off the fat from lib. of Veal, chop it, put it into a mortar, and pound it. Put 1 break- fast-cupful of breadcrumbs into a saucepan with b pint of milk, and stir them over the fire till smooth, then leave them till cool. Mix the pounded Veal and bread- crumbs together, season them with a small quantity of grated nutmeg, the juice of half a lemon, pepper and salt, and add b pint of white sauce, the yolks of four eggs (one at a time), and then the well-whisked whites of the eggs. Melt a lump of butter in a frying-pan. Mould the mixture into quenelles with two table-spoons, which should be dipped in hot water each time a fresh quenelle is moulded. Slip the quenelles off the spoons into the frying-pan, and when all are finished, cover them with boiling white stock and cook them for twenty minutes. Prepare a border of mashed potatoes on a hot dish. When cooked, drain the quenelles, put them on the border, with 1 table-spoonful of bechamel sauce on each, pour some bechamel sauce in the centre of the dish, and serve the quenelles at once. Quenelles of Veal a la Toulouse.—Chop about fib. of Veal, put it in a mortar, pound it, and mix with it two- thirds of its quantity of ground rice panada and the same of butter. Mix them well, stir in the beaten yolks of three eggs, and season with salt and pepper. Pass the mixture through a fine hair sieve into a basin, and mix with it 2 table-spoonfuls of cream. Take two table-spoons, fill one with the forcemeat, and put the other in hot water; smooth the surface of the forcemeat in the spoon with the blade of a knife, then scoop it out with the other spoon, removing the quenelle at one jerk, and drop it in a saute pan, the bottom of which has been covered with butter. Continue moulding the quenelles in this701 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ctec., referred to, see under their special heads. V eal—continued. way till all the forcemeat is used, then cover them with boiling salted water, stand the saute-pan over the fire, and boil the water; then move it to the side, put the lid on, and let it simmer for five minutes. Drain the quenelles, and dry them on a cloth. Pile some button- mushrooms, trufties, and cocks’ combs, prepared as for garnish, in the centre of a hot dish, arrange the quenelles round it in an upright position, decorate the top and between the quenelles with some trufties and cocks’ combs (see Fig. 950), coat the whole with veloutc sauce that has been reduced with some trimmings of mushrooms, and serve it. Quenelles of Veal with Tomato Sauce.—Mince some lean, uncooked Veal, and pound it in a mortar. Make half its quantity of paste, by boiling a little flour and water together with a small lump of butter, and leaving it to get cold. Mix the paste with the Veal, pound the whole again, and pass it through a fine hair sieve. Season the mixture to taste with salt, pepper, and a moderate quantity of spices, and beat well in with it a sufficient quantity of yolk of egg to bring it to the proper con- sistency. Try if the mixture is of the right consistency by poaching a small quantity of it in boiling water. Shape the mixture into quenelles with two table-spoons, and lay each one as it is done in a buttered flat stewpan, leaving a short space between each. Put in one of the clear spaces about 1 dessert spoonful of salt, pour carefully round the quenelles a sufficient quantity of boiling water to cover them, and poach them for ten minutes. Have ready prepared the following sauce: Cut up about lib. of ripe tomatoes, put them into a stewpan with a few sprigs of parsley, thyme, and marjoram, also a laurel leaf, all tied together, add a few cloves and peppercorns, salt to taste, and a small quantity of water, and- stew them till tender. When cooked, drain oft as much of the water as possible from the tomatoes, and rub them through a fine hair sieve. Mix together in a stewpan loz. of butter and 1 table-spoonful of flour, add the tomato pulp, and stir it over the fire until very hot. Turn the tomato sauce on to a hot dish, drain the quenelles and lay them on it, and serve. Rechauffe of Cold Veal.—(1) Mix with some finely-grated breadcrumbs some finely-chopped lemon-peel, parsley, and sweet herbs, seasoning them with grated nutmeg, salt, and pepper. Cut some cold cooked Veal into thin slices, dip them in beaten egg, and coat them thickly with the above mixture. Put a lump of butter in a deep frying-pan, melt it, put in the slices of Veal, and fry them till well and equally browned. When done, drain the Veal, and put it on a hot dish. Mix a little flour in the frying-pan with the butter, add the juice of a small lemon, 1 table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, and h pint of veal broth, and stir it over the fire till boiling. Garnish the Veal with slices of lemon and pickled mushrooms, pour the sauce over it, and serve at once. (2) Cut some cold roasted Veal into thin slices, spread a little of the stuffing over them, and dust them over with pepper, salt, and flour. Put 1 teacupful of flour in a basin with a little dried parsley, pepper, and salt, then stir in gradually | pint of skim milk and two well beaten eggs. Put a lump of butter (about loz.) into a deep frying-pan, and when it boils pour in the batter, put the slices of meat in the middle, and fry it over a slow fire for ten minutes, shaking the pan to prevent it burning. When the batter is set, bring the edges up over the meat, then turn it quickly on to the other side. When cooked, take the rechauffe up with a slice, put it on to a hot dish, pour a little brown gravy over it, and serve. Roasted Breast of Veal.—(1) Remove the tendons from a breast of Veal, fasten the sweetbread to the joint with skewers, wrap it in a sheet of buttered paper, and roast it in front of a clear fire. When the Veal is cooked, which will take about one-hour-and-a-quarter, or per- haps more according to the size of the joint, remove the paper, put the Veal on a hot dish, garnish it with slices of lemon, pour over it a little rich gravy, and serve with a sauceboatful of melted butter. Veal—continued. (2) Cut the tendons off the Veal, wash and wipe it dry, stuff it with Veal forcemeat, and secure it with small skewers. Fix the Veal in front of a clear fire, and baste it well with butter, allowing it to roast twenty minutes for each pound. When cooked, put the Veal on a hot dish, cover it with melted butter, and serve it. Roasted Chump of Veal.—Put a chump of Veal in a deep dish, dust some mixed herbs, salt, and pepper over it, cover it with white wine, and let it soak for two days. At the end of that time, lard the Veal with some strips of bacon, and roast it in front of a clear fire. In the meantime, prepare some ravigote sauce. When cooked, put the chump of Veal on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. Roasted Chump of Veal with German Garnishing.— Bone and truss a chump of Veal to its former shape, wrap it in a sheet of buttered paper, and roast it in front of a clear fire. When nearly cooked, take the paper off the chump, and brown it. Put it on a hot dish, garnish it with nouilles a l’allemande, and serve with a sauceboatful of German sauce. Roasted Cushion of Veal.—Cut off the udder and trim a cushion of Veal, lard it inwardly with squares of raw ham, bacon, and trufties, cover it with trimmings of mush- rooms, a few sprigs of thyme, two or three bay-leaves, and season it with pepper, salt and spices. Wrap the Veal in a pig’s caul, tie it round the twine, fix it on a spit, and roast it in front of a clear fire. In an hour’s time, take the string and caul off the meat, baste it well, and roast it for twelve or fifteen minutes longer. When cooked, put the meat on a hot dish, pour some tomato sauce round it, and serve. Roasted Fillet of Veal.—Bone 101b. of the fillet of Veal, rub it well with salt and pepper, fill the hollow left by the bone with ham forcemeat, tie the meat round, and skewer it. Cut Hb. of salt pork into thin slices, put half of these on a sheet of tin that will fit in the drip ping-pan, put the Veal in the pan, and cover it with the remaining slices of pork; then pour h teacupful of hot water in the pan and stand it in the oven, adding more water as it dries up. Baste the meat frequently with salt, pepper, flour, and the gravy in the pan. In three hour’s time remove the pork off the Veal, spread the top thickly with butter and flour, and cook it for half-an- hour longer; then cover it with more butter and flour, and bake it till well browned. Put 3 table-spoonfuls of butter in a saucepan, with 2 piled up table-spoonfuls of flour, and stir it over the fire till brown. Pour A pint of stock or water in with the butter, stir it two or three minutes over the fire, then move it to the side where it will keep warm. When cooked, take up the fillet of Veal and put it on a hot dish. Skim the fat off the gravy in the pan, pour in sufficient boiling water to make l pint of gravy, stir it well, then pour it in the sauce- pan with the sauce. Boil the sauce, squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, and season it to taste with pepper and salt. Strain the sauce over the Veal, garnish it with slices of lemon, and serve. Roasted Fillets of Veal with Fine Herbs.—Lard the fillets with thin strips of bacon, put them in a deep dish with some finely chopped mushrooms, shallots, chives, parsley, fennel, laurel-leaves, and thyme; dust a small quantity of salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg over them, cover them with olive oil, and let them soak for three or four hours. Drain the oil from the fillets, cover them well with the mixed herbs, wrap them in thickly-buttered sheets of paper, fastening them securely to keep the herbs in, and roast them in front of a clear fire. When cooked, take the paper off the fillets and scrape off the herbs. Put the herbs in a saucepan with some gravy, a squeeze of lemon-juice, pepper, salt, and a lump of butter, and boil it. Beat the yolk of an egg with a little warmed butter, rub the fillets in it and then in grated breadcrumbs, giving them a good coating, and brown them in a quick oven. When cooked, put the fillets on a folded napkin or orna- mental dish paper on a hot dish,, garnish with fried parsley, and serve them with the sauce in a sauceboat.THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 702 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Veal—continued. Roasted Loin of Veal —Saw the spine anil whatever hip- hone remains from a fine, white, fresh, and fat loin of Veal with the kidney. Season the loin with 1 b table- spoonfuls of salt and 1 heaped teaspoonful of pepper, and roll the flank part neatly over the kidney, tying it with string. Have ready a lightly-buttered roasting-pan, place the loin in it, pour in h wineglassful of water, dis- tribute a few bits of butter over the meat, then cover its entire length with a piece of well-buttered paper. Place the pan in a moderate oven, and roast it for one-hour-and- three quarters, meanwhile basting it frequently with its own gravy. Take it out of the oven, untie it, and place it on a hot-water dish (see Fig. 951). Add 3 table- aux 951. Roasted Loin of Veal. spoonfuls of broth to the gravy in the pan, skim otf the fat, and reduce it to the consistency of half glaze. Strain it through a sieve either over the roasted meat or into a sauce-bowl, and serve immediately. Roasted Loin of Veal d la Creme.—Prepare a loin of Veal, and roast it in front of a clear fire. Half-an-hour before it is cooked, baste it continually with cream, placing a dish underneath to catch it as it drips oil'. When lightly browned, put the Veal carefully on a hot dish. Put the drippings from the Veal in a small saucepan, with 1 teacupful of white sauce and a little more cream, and stir it over the fire till boiling; then pour it round the Veal, garnish with slices of lemon, and serve. Roasted Round of Veal.—Cut a slice of Veal out of the largest diameter of the leg, remove the centre bone, and fill the cavity with a little bread stuffing. Wrap the meat in a sheet of buttered paper, fix it on the spit, and roast it in front of a clear fire, basting it often. Half-an- hour before the fillet is done, remove the paper, dust a little salt over it, and let it brown nicely. When cooked, remove the meat from the spit, glaze it, put it on a hot dish, pour a little clear brown gravy over it, and serve with a separate dish of vegetables. Roasted Shoulder of Veal.—Remove the knuckle from a shoulder of Veal, and roast the fillet in front of a clear fire, basting it frequently. When cooked, put the Veal on a hot dish, garnish it with slices of lemon, and serve with a sauceboatful of oyster sauce. Polled Veal (Roulade de Veau).—(1) Bone a loin of Veal and trim it nicely. Prepare a stuffing with finely-minced bacon and breadcrumbs, seasoning them Avith grated lemon-peel, sweet herbs, pounded mace, salt and cayenne pepper, and binding it with beaten egg. Spread the mixture over the Veal, roll it, bind it up tightly to keep it in shape, put it in a stewpan, lay a few slices of fat bacon on the top, cover it with nicely-flavoured stock, and steAv it gently for four hours. When cooked, move the Veal from the fire, and let it partly cool in the stock; then drain it, put it between two dishes, place a weight on the top, and leave it till quite cold. Remove the bind- ings and brush it over with melted glaze. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a dish, put the Veal on it, garnish it nicely with parsley, and serve. (2) Cut the bones out of about 31b. of the best end of a neck of Veal, beat the meat flat, and cover it thickly with sweet herbs, chopped parsley, pepper, and salt; lay some thin slices of fat bacon on the top, roll the meat round and bind it with broad tape to keep it in shape, Veal—continued. and roast in front of a clear quick fire for about one-hour- and-a-half, basting it often. Put the bones and trim- mings of the Veal in a saucepan with some bacon bones, three onions, |lb. of gravy beef, and a little butter, and fry for a few minutes over a quick fire; then pour in 1£ pints of water, and boil it till reduced to 1 pint, adding half-an-hour after it is put on the fire, a bunch of thyme and marjoram. Strain the gravy into another saucepan, skim off the fat, and stir in 1 teaspoonful of cornflour that has been mixed with a little water. Season with salt and pepper, and boil it till reduced to \ pint. When cooked and nicely browned, put the meat on a hob dish, pour the gravy over it, put round some spinach that has been prepared as for garnish, and serve. (3) Take out the tendons and all the rib bones from a breast of Veal, flatten and trim it, spread it all over with forcemeat, sprinkle a little pepper and salt over it, roll it up tightly, and tie it; then put it into a cloth, and stew it for several hours in broth. Take it out, remove the cloth and strings, dry and glaze it, and serve cold with rich sauce. (4) Take the bones from a small breast of Veal, and spread over it a rich Veal stuffing; over this lay four hard-boiled eggs cut lengthwise into quarters, arranging them in rows, and put green pickles between the rows; then roll the Veal up and sew it, put it into a cloth, and bind it with tape. Put it into a saucepan, lay a slice of ham over it, add a little whole pepper and some strong stock, and let it stew in this for three hours. Have ready some rich gravy, with a little lemon-juice and white wine added to it the last thing, and boiled up in it. Pour this boiling hot over the Veal when it is dished, garnish with forcemeat balls and cut green pickles, and serve. Rolled Veal Steak.—Make a stuffing of 2oz. of breadcrumbs, a little finely-chopped streaky salted pork, half an onion finely chopped, and a little pepper and salt. Mix this v eil together, and work it to a paste with a little beaten egg. Take a tender Veal steak of medium thickness, beat it flat, spread the stuffing over it, roll it up tight, and bind it evenly with twine. Lay it in a pie-dish, pour over it \ pint of boiling water, cover it with another dish, and bake for about three-quarters-of-an-hour. Take off' the cover, baste the steak with a little butter, shake a little flour over it, and leave it in the oven till brown. Then cut the twine in several places, remove it, and put the steak on a hot dish. Thicken the gravy with a little browned flour, and serve it in a sauce-tureen. Scalloped Veal.—(1) Mince some cold roasted Veal, season it with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, moisten it well with a few table-spoonfuls of cream, put it into a sauce- pan, and stir it over the fire for a feAV minutes. Fill some scallop shells with the Veal mixture, cover them with grated breadcrumbs, put a few small bits of butter in each, and brown them in an oven or under a sala mander. Put the shells on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish paper on a dish, and serve them. (2) Butter a pie-dish, and put in a layer of finely- minced cold Veal—either roasted or boiled will do—shake a little salt and pepper over it, over this put a layer of very fine breadcrumbs, put some little bits of butter over this, and moisten with a little milk, and so on, alternately, till the dish is full. Then moisten it Avell with a little warm gravy or broth, spread over all a thick layer of breadcrumbs seasoned with salt and mixed to a paste with a beaten egg and a little milk, and over this stick several little bits of butter. Turn a tin pan dov n over it to keep in the steam, and bake for half-an-hour or three- quarters-of-an-hour, according to size. Ten minutes before taking it out of the oven, take the cover off it and let it brown. Serve at once. Scotch Veal Collops.—(1) Thinly slice some Veal cutlets, put them into a frying-pan with a little boiling lard, and fry them until lightly browned on all sides. Put the collops in a stewpan with a few blanched truffles, morels, and artichoke bottoms, some slices of sweetbread, and a feAV egg balls, pour in some clear strong broth, and placeTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 703 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Veal—continued. them over the fire. When boiling, move the stewpan to the edge of the fire, and let the contents simmer until tender, seasoning to taste with salt and pepper. When cooked, turn the collops and other ingredients on to a hot dish, and serve. (2) Cut some thin collops off the thin part of a leg of Veal, season them with salt and grated nutmeg, and fry them a nice brown on both sides, laying them on a hot dish when they are done. Season J pint of good gravy with ketchup, port wine, and walnut pickle to taste. Mix a little flour in the pan the collops were fried in, pour in the seasoned gravy, boil it up, pour it over the collops, and serve. (3) Cut some small slices, about 2in. in diameter and a little more than Jin. thick, off the thick part of a leg of Veal. Put about 2oz. of butter into a stewpan over a gentle fire, and before the pan gets hot put in the slices of Veal or collops; turn them over in the butter till it is a sort of thick white gravy, and let them fry till sufficiently cooked, but do not let them brown. Put them into a covered saucepan on the hearth to keep warm till all are fried. Then add to the gravy they were fried in 1 teaspoonful each of caper liquor, ketchup, and lemon pickle, and a seasoning of powdered mace, cayenne, and salt, thicken it with flour and butter, and let it boil for five minutes; add the yolks of two eggs beaten up with J pint of cream, and stir the gravy till it looks quite thick; then put in the collops, and shake the pan over the fire till they are quite hot. Pour them on a dish over a few pickled mushrooms, and serve hot. (4) Cut some collops, not too thick, from the best part of a leg of Veal, and lay over each a very thin slice of bacon the size of the Veal, put a layer of forcemeat over this, and season it with the smallest quantity of cayenne. Roll them up tightly, fasten them with a very small skewer, brush them over with egg, cover them with bread- crumbs, and fry them in butter, taking care they do not burn. When they are done, put 2oz. of butter rolled in flour into tiie pan, pour in the strained juice of a lemon or ] table-spoonful of lemon pickle, add pepper, salt, and a very little pounded mace, also 1 breakfast-cupful of hot water, and boil it up for a few minutes. Place the collops on a dish, pour the sauce over them, garnish with slices of lemon, and serve very hot. Spiced Veal.—Cut cold lean Veal, either baked or fried, into pieces lin. square. Measure sufficient vinegar to cover it, and make the vinegar scalding hot, adding to each pint one dozen whole cloves, Jin. of stick cinnamon, ] teaspoonful of salt, and a small red pepper, or a dozen peppercorns. When the vinegar is hot, pour it and the spices over the pieces of Veal, and let them stand in the pickle for at least twenty four hours. It is then ready for use, and is excellent served cold for luncheon or supper. Stewed Breast of Veal.—(1) Blanch a breast of Veal, put it in a stewpan with a bunch of sweet herbs, two onions, each stuck with jiwo or three cloves, the peel of half a lemon, a blade of mace, salt and pepper to taste, and 3oz. of butter. Fry the Veal for two or three minutes, but without allowing it to take colour, then pour in 1 pint of hot water, and stew gently until tender. When cooked, remove the long bones from the Veal and strain the liquor. Put loz. of butter and 1 table-spoonful of flour in a stewpan, and mix them over the fire; then stir in the Veal stock, add 1 teacupful of thick cream, and stir it over the fire until boiling; next move the stewpan to the side of the fire, Veal —continued. and stir in the beaten yolks of two eggs, the juice of half a lemon, and some oysters that have been blanched in their own liquor. Place the Veal on a hot dish, pour the sauce over it, garnish with fried oysters and slices of lemon (see Fig 952), and serve. (2) Bone a breast of Veal, cut it in two, lay the two pieces one on top of the other in a stewpan, cover it with stock made from Veal bones and h pint of white wine, and put in with it two anchovies, a blade of mace, two or three cloves, a little whole pepper, and a small quantity of salt. Put the stewpan over the fire and let the contents stew gently. When the Veal is done enough, take it out of the stewpan and put it on a hot dish where it will keep warm. Strain the gravy, and stir in a thickening of butter and flour, keep stirring it, and let the flour boil for ten minutes; stir in a few oysters then, and when they are quite hot pour the gravy over the Veal, and serve hot. (3) Cut out the blade-bone from a breast of Veal, stuff forcemeat into the place where the bone was taken from, sew the veal up to keep the forcemeat in its place, and half roast it. With the bones and trimmings make lqt. of gravy, boiling with them a large onion, a bunch of parsley, a bit of lemon-peel, two blades of mace, some whole pepper, and a litrie salt. When sufficiently boiled, strain the gravy, and put it over the fire again with a piece of butter rolled in flour, and stir it till it boils; then put into it the half-roasted Veal and 1 table-spoonful of vinegar, and let it stew for about two hours. A few minutes before taking it from the fire, add 1 wineglassful of white wine and 1 table-spoonful of lemon pickle. Serve the Veal garnished with fried forcemeat balls. (4) Half roast the Veal, browning it nicely, then put it in a stewpan with a few small mushrooms, a shallot, a blade of mace, three cloves, and a little walnut pickle; add a little oyster liquor and some good gravy, just sufti cient to stew it in, and let it stew for an-hour-and-a-half; then add a very little anchovy liquor, and let the Veal stew half-an-hour longer. Serve garnished with parsley and slices of lemon. (5) Cut a breast of Veal in small pieces, put it over a gentle fire in a stewpan, together with a bunch of sweet herbs, a rasher of lean bacon nicely trimmed, an onion peeled, a dozen black peppercorns, a blade of mace, and salt to taste ; pour over it sufficient cold water to barely cover it, and let it stew till the Veal is done. Boil 1 pint of peas and a head of lettuce, and when the Veal is sufficiently cooked, take it from the stewpan, strain the gravy, and put it back in the stewpan with the peas, the lettuce, and a small piece of butter rolled in flour, and let it stew for ten minutes; then stir in the beaten yolks of two eggs, put in the Veal again, let it warm for a minute or two, pour all into a hot dish, and serve. (6) Take out the short bones or gristles of a breast of Veal, put the meat into a stewpan with a rasher of ham, a bunch of parsley, a little whole pepper, a little salt, and an onion stuck with a clove or two; then add a little white stock, sufficient to stew the meat, and let it simmer for nearly two hours. When the meat is tender, take it out, strain the gravy, and put it back over the fire with It pints of green peas; when they are boiled, put the Veal in again, and let all stew together for twenty minutes. Then place the meat in the centre of a hot dish, and pour the peas and gravy round it. Stewed Breast of Veal a la Chipolata.—The same as for Stewed Breast op Veal a la Nantaise, pouring 1 pint of hot Chipolata on the dish, and placing the breast of Veal on top. Stewed Breast of Veal a la Milaisienne.—The same as for Stewed Breast of Veal a la Nantaise, substi- tuting six small stuffed cabbages for the other garnishing. Stewed Breast of Veal a la Nantaise.—Trim 31b. of the breast of Veal, make a few incisions on the top, and tie it round firmly with string. Lay it in a deep saute pan with a piece of pork-skin cut up, a carrot, and a cut-up onion, and cover with a buttered paper; when it begins to colour, after five minutes’ cooking, moisten it gentiyTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 704 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <bc., referred to, see under their special heads. Veal—continued. with 1 pint of water or hrotli. Baste as frequently as possible, and let it cook one hour. Put it on a dish, strain over the sauce, garnish with six stuffed lettuce- heads and a few croutons of fried bread, and serve. Stewed Breast of Veal with Sorrel.—Prepared and cooked the same as for Stewed Breast of Veal a la Nantaise, substituting 1 pint of cooked hot sorrel for the other garnishing. Stewed Breast of Veal with Turnips.—Cut half a breast of Veal into small pieces. Put |lb. of butter into a saucepan with 3 table-spoonfuls of flour, and stir it over the fire for a few minutes; then put in the pieces of Veal, and fry them till the meat has well set. Take the stew- pan off the fire, drain off the fat, pour in gradually sufficient broth and white wine mixed in equal quan- tities to cover the meat, put in a large onion stuck with three or four cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a little pepper. Put the saucepan on the fire till the liquor commences to boil, then move it to the side, and let it simmer. Peel some turnips, cut them into balls with a vegetable cutter, and blanch them for a few minutes; then drain them, put them in a frying-pan with a lump of butter, and fry them till lightly coloured, seasoning them with a little pepper, salt, and a pinch of sugar. Drain all the fat off the turnips, put them in with the meat, and finish cooking. When cooked, skim the fat off the stew, turn it on to a hot dish, and serve it. Stewed Chump of Veal with Cauliflower.—Bone a chump of Veal, tie it to its original shape, put it in a saucepan with h pint of Veal stock, and boil it quickly till the liquor is reduced to glaze. Pour lqt. of mirepoix in with the Veal, and keep it boiling gently by the side of the fire till the meat is tender. Divide some cauliflowers into small sprays, blanch them in boiling water for five minutes, then refresh them in cold water, drain them, put them in a saucepan with a small lump of butter, a little salt, and sufficient water to cover them. Boil the cauliflowers, keeping them rather under done, so that they may not break in dishing up. When cooked, glaze the meat, put it on a hot dish, and garnish it with the cauliflowers. Skim the fat off the gravy, boil it till some- what reduced, then strain it through a fine bail' sieve, and serve it in a sauceboat with the meat. Stewed Fillet of Veal.—(1) Bone a fillet of Veal, fill the cavity with Veal stuffing, then lard the fillet and half roast it. Put it into a stewpan with 2qts. of white stock, 1 teaspoonful of mushroom ketchup, and 1 teaspoonful of lemon pickle, and let it simmer very gently till sufficiently cooked. Strain the gravy, then thicken it with butter rolled in Hour, add a few pickled mushrooms and a little salt and cayenne, and pour it boiling over the Veal on the dish. Have ready two or three dozen forcemeat balls to put round and on top of it, lay some slices of lemon round, and serve. (2) Stuff a fillet of Veal in precisely the same way as for roasting, put it into a saucepan or stewpan with 1 pint of stock or water, a strip of lemon peel, a blade of mace, a seasoning of white pepper and salt, and a very little grated nutmeg, and let it stew gently, keeping the pan tightly covered for an-hour-aiul a-half. Take the Veal out then and strain the gravy. Put the strained gravy back over the fire with two dozen small oysters, a small lump of butter well rolled in flour, and h pint of white wine, put the meat in again, cover the pan closely, and let it stew for half-an hour. Just before taking it from the fire, stir in l pint of cream, and let it get quite hot; then take the Veal out, lay it on a hot dish, pour the gravy, which should be pretty thick, over it, and serve. (3) Stuff a fillet of Veal, lay it on a baking-dish, pour a little stock round it, and bake it until half cooked. When ready, put the Veal in a stewpan with its stock, some gravy, and a small quantity of Madeira, and finish cooking it. When quite cooked, strain the liquor off the Veal into a smaller saucepan, skim it, stir in smoothly 1 table-spoonful of flour, also mix in 1 table-spoonful of ketchup and the juice of one lemon, and season to taste with salt and a small quantity of cayenne pepper. Stir V eal—continued. the sauce over the fire until boiling and thickened. Place the meat on a hot dish, pour the sauce round it, and serve. Stewed Knuckle of Veal.—(1) Take a knuckle of Veal, break the bone well in two or three places, put it into a saucepan with a bunch of sweet herbs, eight shallots, a small quantity of whole black pepper, a blade or two of mace, and salt to taste, pour over it 5 pints of water, put it over the fire, and let it boil gently till the water is reduced to 2i pints. Take out the meat then, strain the gravy, stir into it 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, stir it over the fire till it boils, and boil it for ten minutes, stirring frequently. Then put back into the gravy the best part of the meat, cut nicely from the bone, add a very little cayenne, lemon juice to taste, and two glasses of Madeira wine, and let all get quite hot. Garnish with sippets of toast, slices of lemon, and piles of forcemeat balls (see Fig. 953), and serve. (2) Line a saucepan with pieces of fat and sliced onions. Saw the Veal bones just above the knuckle joints, put them in the saucepan with lib. of streaky bacon divided into halves and blanched, three small carrots, and a turnip cut into halves; add a bunch of sweet herbs, cloves, peppercorns and salt. Pour ^ pint of clear broth over the above ingredients, and boil it till reduced to half glaze; then pour in broth to three-parts their height, and boil it for a few minutes; then move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let it boil slowly till the vegetables are tender. Blanch and braise ten or twelve large lettuces and a cabbage, and glaze about thirty small onions. When the knuckles are cooked, put them by the side of each other on a hot oblong-shaped dish, cut the cabbage in quarters, and put it round them, with the lettuces and the rest of the vegetables. Skim the fat off the cooking stock, strain it through a line wire sieve into another saucepan, mix a little clear gravy with it, and boil it up again. Pour the sauce over the meat, and serve. Stewed Knuckle of Veal with Rice.—Break the shank bone and thoroughly wash a knuckle of Veal, put it in a saucepan, cover it with water, add a little salt, and put it over a slow fire. When the water boils, move the saucepan to the side of the fire, skim it, and let it simmer gently for about three-quarters of-an hour. At the end of that time, put an onion, two blades of mace, and -|lb. of well-washed rice in with the Veal, and cook it gently for two hours longer, or more if a very large joint. When cooked, put the Veal on a hot dish, pour the rice over it, garnish it with plain boiled vegetables, and serve it with a sauceboatful of parsley and butter sauce, with a piece of boiled bacon on a separate dish. Stewed Larded Veal Cutlets with Mushrooms.—Lard all the cutlets on one side with fillets of bacon, put them side by side in a stewpan, the bottom of which has been covered with finely-chopped carrots and onions, season them with salt, and pour in sufficient, clear broth to cover them. Put the lid on the stewpan, stand it over a brisk fire, and boil the liquor till reduced to one-third of its original quantity; then stand the stewpan at the side of the tire, and cook the cutlets slowly for tliree-quarters-of-an-hour. When cooked, glaze the cutlets with a paste-brush. Pass the cooking stock through a fine hair sieve, skim off the fat, mix with the stock a little white sauce that has been reduced with trimmings of mushrooms, and boil it up again. Pour it on to a hot dish, arrange the cutlets in a circle on it, fill the centre with a mushroom puree, and serve.705 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. V eal—continued. Stewed Loin of Veal.—The chump end of a loin of Veal is the best part to stew. Put it when well floured into a saucepan with a little butter that has been browned over the fire, and brown the Veal in it; when a good colour, pour in enough Veal broth to half cover it, put in two carrots cut in pieces, an onion, a little parsley, and a small bunch of sweet herbs, and stew for two-hours- and-a-half. Turn it when half done, and when quite done, take it out. Thicken the broth, season it, pour over the Veal, and serve. Stewed Neck of Veal.—Trim a neck of Veal, soak it in tepid water for a short time, then put it for ten minutes in boiling water. Put |lb. of butter in a stewpan with 2oz. of flour, and stir it over the fire till well mixed ; then put in the Veal, two or three onions, carrots and parsnips, a bunch of parsley, a clove of garlic, two cloves, a little salt and pepper, and moisten it with a little water. Cook the meat gently till tender, then take it out and put it on a hot dish. Boil the cooking liquor till reduced to a creamy thickness, then strain it through a silk or fine hair sieve. Mix 1 table spoonful of chopped gherkins and 1 teaspoonful of vinegar with the sauce, and serve it in a sauceboat with the Veal. Stewed Noix of Veal.—Saw the knuckle off a leg of Veal, lay the fillet on the table, cut through the bone in the centre under the udder until the skin is cut through, then take out the bone, and lay out the meat. There will be separate pieces of meat, the largest of which is the noix. Cut it out by pressing the hand upon it, and then with a sharp knife cut down close to the skin, separa- ting it from the skin until it comes to the udder; then take the piece of meat out, lay it on the table, the best side down, and beat it well. Trim the noix neatly and lard it with thin strips of fat bacon. Cut off the udder, and secure it to the side of the noix. Line a flat stewpan with pieces of bacon anil two sliced onions, put in the Veal, with a bunch of sweet herbs and two bay- leaves, and pour in 2 breakfast-cupfuls of clear broth. Put the stewpan in a moderate oven, and cook the contents for three hours, basting the meat occasionally with some of its own cooking liquor. Should all the moisture become absorbed, a small quantity of water may be added. When cooked, take the Veal out of the stewpan, glaze it, and brown it lightly over with a salamander. Lay it on a hot dish and keep it hot while the sauce is being prepared. Strain the cooking gravy through a fine hair sieve into a small saucepan, season it with pepper, and boil it up. Then pour the gravy over the noix, and serve. Stewed Noix of Veal with Mushrooms.—Steep the noix and blanch them. Cut them into oval-shaped pieces, put them in a stewpan with sufficient broth and mirepoix to cover them, and let them simmer gently till cooked. Drain the noix and press them between two plates tili cold. Skim the fat off the cooking liquor, strain it through a fine hair sieve, and boil it till reduced to a thick consistency. Trim off any meat that may adhere to the noix, put them in the sauce, and warm them again. Glaze them, arrange them in a circle on a hot dish” fill the centre with sliced mushrooms that have been mixed with a little German sauce, and serve them with a sauce- boatful of the same. Or the noix may be garnished with sliced truffles, and served with a sauceboatful of Madeira sauce. Stewed Tendons of Veal with Chestnut Puree.—Cut the tendons into oyster shapes, steep them in cold water to disgorge their blood, and when very white blanch them well and leave them till cold. Trim the tendons to a nice shape, put them in a stewpan with some layers of bacon, a carrot, an onion, a bay-leaf, and a few sprigs of thyme, season them with salt and pepper, and baste them with a small quantity of good broth. Stew the tendons _ very gently. When cooked, drain them, put them in a deep frying-pan with a piece of glaze, and stir them over the fire until well coated. When ready, arrange the tendons in a circle, alternating them with croutons of fried and glazed bread, put a puree of chestnuts in the centre, and serve. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, VOL. II. V eal—continued. Stewed Tendons of Veal in Chipolata.—Set the tendons to disgorge the blood, then blanch them and leave them till cool. When cold, trim them to a nice shape, wrap them in slices of fat bacon, and put them in a stewpan. Put a carrot, an onion, a bay-leaf, and a few sprigs of freshly-gathered thyme in with the tendons, add broth to their height, season it with salt and pepper, and stew them very gently for four hours. Prepare the Chipolata as follows: Peel and boil some chestnuts till soft, then drain them. Twist some sausages to make them very short, prick them, put them in a saute-pan, and cook them in the oven. When the sausages are done, drain off the fat, and put in with them some small stewed onions, some pieces of cooked bacon cut into cork shaped pieces, and some mushrooms, and stew the whole in some sauce tournee for two or three minutes. When done, skim the fat off the sauce, thicken it, and add the chestnuts. When the tendons are cooked, drain them, put them into a frying-pan with a small quantity of glaze, and toss them about over the fire. When glazed, arrange the tendons in a circle on a hot dish, with some nicely browned croutons of fried bread, turn the Chipolata in the middle, at the same time pouring a little sauce over the tendons, and serve. Stewed Tendons of Veal with Green Peas.—(1) Cut the best part of the tendons into nice equal-sized pieces, and blanch them for ten minutes in boiling water; then drain them, put them in a stewpan with a lump of butter, and fry them over a clear fire for a few minutes. Put a bunch of sweet herbs and some salt and pepper in with the tendons, cover them with stock, and boil them gently till cooked. Boil some fresh green peas in stock till tender. When the tendons are cooked, remove the bunch of herbs, drain the peas, mix all together, turn them on to a hot dish, and serve. (2) Cut the tendons from two breasts of Veal, trim them into oval-shaped pieces 21>-in. long, and blanch them. Drain them, put them in a stewpan, cover them with equal quantities of broth and mirepoix, and let them simmer gently till tender. Drain the tendons and press them between two plates till cold. Strain the cooking liquor, skim off all the fat, and boil it till reduced. When the tendons are cold, trim off any meat that is on them, put them in the reduced gravy, and warm them up again. Fix a paste croustade in the centre of r dish, fill it with cooked green peas, arrange the tendons round the croustade, pour a little of the gravy over them and the remainder in a sauceboat, and serve. Stewed Tendons of Veal with White Sauce.—Blanch some tendons of Veal that have been cut into small pieces, put them in a stewpan with some young white onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, a little flour, salt and pepper, and some water, and stew over a slow fire till cooked; then move them to the side; add 2oz. of butter, 1 teaspoonful of vinegar, a little grated nutmeg, and sufficient beaten yolks of eggs to thicken. Stir the sauce by the side of the fire till thick, take out the bunch of herbs, turn all on to a hot dish, and serve. Stewed Veal.—(1) Put 2oz. of butter and 2 table spoonfuls, of flour in a stewpan, and stir it over the fire till brown ; then put in the Veal, cut into pieces, and fry it a little. Put in some young onions, button mushrooms, morels, young carrots, peas, a bunch of thyme and laurel-leaves, and salt and pepper to taste, and moisten with a little warm water. Boil the Veal gently till cooked, then turn the stew on to a hot dish, and serve at once. (2) Cut the Veal into small equal-sized pieces, put them in a saucepan with a lump of salt and sufficient water to cover them, and place it over the fire till boiling. Move the saucepan to the side of the fire, skim the liquor, and let it simmer till the meat is nearly cooked ; then put in a handful of picked parsley. When the meat is quite tender, squeeze in the juice of one lemon, turn the stew on to a hot dish, and serve. Stewed Veal a la Bourgeoise.—Cook in loz. of butter 31b. of lean Veal cut in pieces and six small onions. After cooking ten minutes, add 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. 2 z706 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. V eal—continued. moisten with lqt. of white broth. Stir well, and season with 1 heaped table-spoonful of salt, 1 teaspoonful of pepper, and A- wineglassful of red wine. Add two carrots cut into square pieces, loz. of salt pork cut up* into pieces, and a bouquet garni. Cook for forty minutes longer, remove the bouquet, and serve very hot. Stewed Veal a la Chasseur.—Prepare and cook the same as for Stewed Veal a la Bolrgeoise, substituting for the garnishing twelve minced mushrooms, sixteen quenelles of godiveau, and one clove of garlic, three minutes before serving. Serve with six croutons of fried bread round the disli for garnish. Stewed Veal a la Grecque.—Place 211). of lean Veal cut in pieces into a stewpan, with 2oz. of butter and one cut- up onion, and cook for ten minutes, adding 2 table- spoonfuls of Hour. Moisten with lqt. of white broth and 1 gill of tomato sauce. Add 1 heaped table-spoonful of salt, 1 teaspoonful of pepper, A teaspoonful of nutmeg, a bouquet garni, three white roots of celery cut into halves, and eighteen raw okras paved whole. Cook for thirty minutes longer, and serve with the dish nicely decorated with the garnishing. Stewed Veal a la Marengo.—Cut 31b. of lean Veal into pieces, and cook them in a stewpan with 1 gill of oil, a cut-up onion or two shallots, and 2oz. of salt pork also cut up. Toss them occasionally, and when well browned, which should take about ten minutes, dredge in 2 table-spoonfuls of Hour, stirring well. Moisten with lqt. of white broth and 1 gill of tomato sauce, and season with 1 table-spoonful of salt and 1 teaspoonful of pepper, adding a crushed clove of garlic and a bouquet garni. Cook for forty minutes, and serve with croutons of fried bread for garnish, and a little chopped parsley sprinkled over. Stewed Veal a la Portugaise.—Place 2lb. of lean Veal cut in pieces into a stewpan, with 2oz. of butter and one cut-up onion, and reduce for ten minutes, adding 2 table-spoonfuls of flour. Moisten with lqt. of white broth and 1 gill of tomato sauce. Add three stuffed tomatoes and three timbales of cooked rice. Cook for thirty minutes, and serve with the dish decorated with the garnishing. Stewed Veal a la Provencale.—Cut into pieces 31b. of lean Veal from the breast or shoulder, and place them in a stew- pan with loz. of butter, 2 table-spoonfuls of sweet oil, and one chopped onion. Cook them for ten minutes, stirring occa- sionally ; add 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, stir again, and moisten with lqt. of white broth. Season with 1 heaped table- spoonful of salt and 1 teaspoonful of pepper, and add six minced mushrooms, three crushed cloves of garlic, and a bouquet garni. Cook for forty minutes, and serve on a hot dish, sprinkling a little chopped parsley over it. Stewed Veal a la Solferino.—Cook 31b. of Veal, cut into pieces from the breast or shoulder, in loz. of butter with six small onions. When cooked for ten minutes, add 2 table- spoonfuls of flour, and moisten with lqt. of white broth and 1 gill of tomato sauce, seasoning with 1 table-spoonful of salt and 1 teaspoonful of pepper. Stir well together until it reaches boiling-point, then add two carrots and two turnips, cut out with a vegetable scoop into various shapes, and a bouquet garni. Cook for forty minutes longer, and serve. Any kind of vegetables in season can be added. Stewed Veal Chop.—Saw the chine-bone off a large neck chop, put it in a saute-pan with a pat of butter weighing about 1 oz., and fry it for five or six minutes on each side. Drain the chop, put it in a saucepan with 1 pint of broth, and boil it up ; then put in about eighteen or twenty pieces of carrots that have been peeled and turned to a cork shape, one large onion stuck with three cloves, and season with pepper and salt. Keep the broth boiling gently by the side of the fire till the meat and carrots are tender. When cooked, put the meat on a hot dish, garnish with the carrots, strain the cooking liquor through a fine sieve over it, and serve. Stewed Veal Cutlets.—Trim the cutlets and fry them to a pale brown, but do not let them get crisp ; then put them into a saucepan, close the lid, and put them, not over the Veal—continued. fire, but where they will keep warm without cooking. Into another saucepan put \ pint of tomato sauce and 2 table- spoonfuls of gravy. Peel and cut into slices one small onion, and fry them in the hot fat in which the cutlets were done ; when evenly browned, add them with the fat to the gravy, and season with pepper and salt to taste, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Let this come to a boil, then pour it over the cutlets in the saucepan, cover it over, put it by the side of the fire, and let it simmer for twenty minutes. Serve hot. Stewed Veal with Oyster Plant.—Prepare and cook the same as for Stewed Veal a la Bourgeo:se, substituting for the garnishing one bunch of well-cleaned raw oyster plant, cut into pieces, forty minutes before serving. Stewed Veal with Peas.—The same as for Stewed Veal A LA Bourgeoise, adding 1 pint of fresh peas in place of carrots thirty minutes before serving. Should green peas be out of season, use 1 pint of canned peas five minutes before serving. Stuffed Shoulder of Veal with Aspic.—Remove the knuckle and bone entirely from a shoulder of Veal, but take care not to pierce the skin. Spread the shoulder, skin downwards, on a table, and trim off the meat at the thickest part, thus making it an even thickness. Chop the trimmings with 21b. of lean Veal and 211). of fat bacon, and season with grated nutmeg, salt, and pepper ; then put the mixture into a mortar and pound all together. Cut the rind off Alb. of fat bacon, and put it on one side ; then cut the bacon into large squares, and mix with the forcemeat. Dust a little salt anil pepper over the shoulder, cover it with a thick layer of forcemeat, fold the shoulder over in such a way as to entirely cover the forcemeat, roll it round in a cloth, and tie it at both ends with string, also tying some string round the middle to keep it in shape. Bone three calf’s feet, blanch them with the rind of the bacon, put them in an oval stewpan, also the bones broken in pieces ; add two or three small carrots, three onions, a large bunch of sweet herbs, three cloves, 2 large table-spoonfuls of salt, and 1 table-spoonful of pepper. Four in 4qts. of water and 1 teacupful of brandy, and put in the shoulder. When boiling, skim the liquor, then move it to the side of the fire, and let it simmer for four hours. At the end of that time drain the shoulder, take the cloth off, rinse it in hot water, then tie it on again. Press the shoulder between two baking-sheets with a heavy weight on the top till cold. Skim all the fat off the cooking- stock, strain it into a basin through a broth napkin, and leave it till set to a jelly. When cold, take the cloth off the shoulder, put it on a dish, garnish it with the jelly cut into croutons, or else chopped, and serve. Tendons of Veal a la Poulette.—Cut the tendons off a breast of Veal into small round pieces about Ain. thick, put them in a basin, cover them with warm water, and let them soak for an hour. At the end of that time put the tendons in boiling water with a little salt, leave them for a few minutes, then refresh them in cold water. Put the blanched tendons in a saucepan, with a bunch of thyme and parsley, a bay-leaf, and one large onion stuck with two or three cloves, cover the tendons with cold water, add a lump of salt, and boil them for an-liour- and-a-half, skimming the liquor occasionally. Put a pat of butter in a saucepan with 1 teaspoonful of flour, and stir it over the fire till well mixed; then, the tendons being done, strain their cooking liquor into the saucepan with the butter, and stir it till the flour is cooked. Put the tendons in the gravy and boil them for fifteen minutes. Thicken the sauce with a liaison of beaten yolks of eggs, turn it on to a hot dish with the tendons, garnish them with cooked mushrooms, and serve. Terrine of Veal.—Trim a white cushion of Veal, lard it with ham and raw truffles, and dust it well with pepper, salt, and spices. Chop the trimmings of the Veal with an equal quantity of lean fresh pork, and mix with them an equal quantity of chopped fresh bacon and the trimmings of the truffles. Pound the mixture in a mortar, pass it through a fine hair sieve into a basin, season it with salt and pepper, and mix with it 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of707 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, sec under their special heads. V eal—continued. Madeira. Line a pie-terrine with thin layers of bacon, put a layer of prepared forcemeat at the bottom of it, then put in the larded cushion of Veal, and surround and cover it with the forcemeat, building it on the top in a dome like shape. Stand the terrine in a baking-dish and put it in a moderate oven. Baste the terrine often, and in an hour’s time pour a little warm water in the pan, and bake it an-hour-and-a-half longer. When cooked, take the terrine out of the oven, leave it for half-an-hour, then put a light weight on the top, and leave it till cool. Take the top off the terrine, take the meat out, cut it in slices, and put it back again. Stand the terrine on a round dish, garnish it with croutons of aspic jelly, and serve. Timbales of Veal.—(1) Trim off all the skin from a fillet of Veal, cut the meat into small pieces, put them in a mortar, and pound them. Put six chickens’ livers in a fry ing pan with some bacon fat, and fry them. Drain the livers, pound them, mix them with the pounded Veal, season with mixed spices, pepper, and salt, and pass it through a fine hair sieve; then mix with it 5 table- spoonfuls of rather coarsely chopped cooked ham. Butter some small dariole-moulds, line them with a rich short-paste, and fill them with the mixture. Bake the darioles for about twenty-five minutes in a moderate oven, then take them out, and level the contents off to the same height as the moulds. Take the timbales out of the moulds, pour a little thick sauce in them, cover with some lids of puff paste that have been baked by themselves, arrange them on a hot dish covered by a lace-edged paper (See Fig. 954), and serve. (2) Mince some cold cooked Veal, put it into a sauce pan, moisten it with a few table-spoonfuls of bechamel sauce, and let it heat gradually at the edge of the fire. Make some pancake battqr without flavouring or sugar, and fry it in butter the same as pancakes. Butter well the interior of an oval-sliaped mould, and line it at the bottom and all round the sides with pancakes. Spread some of the pancakes with the mince, roll them up, lay them closely in the mould, and cover the whole with a pancake. Place the moirld in a moderate oven, keeping it in position by placing ashes round it, and bake for half-an hour. Meanwhile prepare a small quantity of rich well flavoured gravy. When ready, turn the timbale out of the mould on to a hot dish, pour the gravy round it, and serve. This is a very good way of warming up cold Veal. Veal a la Barbarie.—Cut some large thick slices of Veal from the cushion, and stud them with truffles. Cook them slowly in a saute-pan with butter, dust with salt and cayenne pepper, and serve with Barbary sauce. Veal a la Casserole.—Cut 41b. of Veal about 3in. thick off the fillet, roll it up, bind it round with tape, rub it over with flour, put it in a stewpan with a small piece of butter, and fry it till nicely browned all over. Pour J pint of rich gravy in with the Veal, season it with salt and pepper, put the lid on the stewpan, and cook the contents slowly for four hours. When cooked, take the Veal up, put it on a hot dish, first removing the tape, and keep it hot. Boil the cooking liquor quickly till stiffly reduced, then pour it over the meat, and serve. Veal Farces.—See Forcemeats and Stuffing, and various receipts for preparing Veal in which stuffing is used. Veal a lTfcalieiine.—Boil -£ pint of milk, with an onion and a bay leaf, for a quarter-of -an-hour; then remove the i V eal—continued. bay-leaf, and pour the boiling milk over a heaped break fast-cupful of grated breadcrumbs. Finely chop lib. of raw Veal and pound it in a mortar, mixing with it a small quantity of cold cooked fat; next mix in the soaked crumbs, and pass the mixture through a coarse sieve. Divide it into equal portions, which mould into rolls with flour. Procure as many small pieces of cloth as there are rolls, wring them out in boiling water, flour them, tie a roll in each, put them into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil them from ten to fifteen minutes. When cooked, drain the rolls, remove the cloths, place them on a hot dish, pour some nicely flavoured brown gravy round them, and serve. Veal a la Polonaise.—Put about 4lb. of fillet of Veal on a talile, and beat it until quite soft with a heavy rolling- pin. Make several holes in the Veal, fill them with fillets of fat bacon and fillets of sardines, rub the meat over with a clove of garlic and a small quantity of grated lemon peel, dust it with salt and pepper, roll it up tightly, and secure it with twine; then baste it with a few table- spoonfuls of warmed butter, and cook it in a stewpan, basting occasionally with butter and milk. Turn the Veal until it is nicely browned all over, then put the lid on the stewpan, and leave it at the side of the fire until the moisture of the gravy is reduced. When done, take the Veal out of the stewpan, let it stand until cold, and then remove the twine. Bet the meat on a dish that has been spread with a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish it with parsley, and serve. The meat will take at least two hours to cook. Veal Birds or Mock Pigeons.—(1) Take a loin piece of Veal, cut off some thin slices, remove the fat, skin, and bone, beat them well until Jin. thick, and cut them into pieces 4in. by 24in. For every slice take a piece of fat bacon about lin. square. Cut up the bacon and trimmings very fine. Take half the bulk of cracker- or bread-crumbs that there is chopped Veal, and season with onion, thyme, cayenne, lemon, salt, and pepper. Mix them together, and moisten with an egg and a little boiling water. Put this mixture over the pieces of meat, not quite to the edge, roll them up, and tie them round with string; sprinkle over a little flour, salt, and pepper, put them into a fry- ing pan of boiling butter, and fry till they are of a light brown, taking care not to burn them. Pour a little cream over them, and let them simmer for twenty minutes longer, when they should be tender. When done, take them out, remove the string, and put them on round slices of toast, laid on a dish. Pour some more cream over them, and garnish with quarters or slices of lemon and small triangular shaped pieces of toast (see Fig. 955). If the Veal is rather hard, dip it into olive oil before spreading with the onion mixture. (2) Make some forcemeat of finely-chopped pork and sifted breadcrumbs, seasoning it to taste. Take three or four Veal cutlets, and if there is any bone in them cut it out. Spread a thick layer of the forcemeat over each cutlet, and roll each up separately and tightly, tying them into shape with line twine. Lay them in a baking-tin, pour over them sufficient cold water to half cover them, turn another tin over them, put them in the oven, and bake from forty-five minutes to an hour, according to size. Take a calf’s sweetbread, boil it a quarter of an hour, then plunge it into very cold water to blanch it; when it is "well cooled, cut it into small square pieces, put it over the fire in l pint of strong brown gravy, and let it gently simmer. Peel and chop small J pint of mushrooms, fry them in708 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Veal—continued. butter together with a small quantity of chopped onions, and add them to the sweetbreads in the gravy. Chop up a dozen oysters, and season them with salt and pepper. When the pigeons are thoroughly done, uncover them, baste them well with butter, and leave them in the oven to brown. Put them on a hot dish, cut the twine, and take it off carefully, without injuring the shape of the pigeons. Let the gravy they were roasted in boil up quickly, thicken it with browned Hour, and pour it into the saucepan with the sweetbreads, mushrooms, &c., and let it come to a good boil; add 1 glass of wine, then take it from the fire and stir in the chopped oysters, stirring it well over the fire for half a minute without letting it boil. Pour a few spoonfuls of the thickest part of this gravy over the pigeons, turn the rest into a sauce-tureen, and serve. (3) Take two cutlets from a fillet of Veal, remove the pieces of bone from the centre, and beat the cutlets flat. Make a stuffing of fine breadcrumbs, a little minced bacon or ham, pepper, salt, and ketchup to taste, and a very little chopped parsley and thyme, mixed well together and made into a paste with some beaten egg. Spread half of this on each cutlet, roll them up separately into oblong rolls, bind them firmly into shape with string, lay them in a deep dish, and pour over them 1 pint of stock or gravy; cover them with another dish, and bake them two hours, basting them now and then with the gravy. Then put them on a hot dish and carefully remove the string, so as not to spoil the shape. Thicken the gravy with browned flour, season it to taste with ketchup, pepper, and salt, and let it boil a few minutes; then pour a little over the pigeons, and send the remainder to table in a sauce-tureen. Veal Broth.—(1) Put 41b. or 5lb. of knuckle of Veal into a saucepan with 3qts. of water, two blades of mace, one onion, a little parsley, and a head of celery, cut into pieces, seasoning with pepper and salt. When boiling, move the saucepan a little to the side, and keep the water simmer- ing till reduced one-third. Strain the broth, mix with it a little well-boiled rice or vermicelli, and serve. (2) Put 41b. or 5lb. of scrag of Veal, cut into pieces, in a saucepan, pour in 3qts. of water, and stand it over the fire. When boiling, skim the liquor, put in an onion, a turnip, three blades of mace, anil a little salt, move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer for two hours. Strain the broth through a fine hair sieve, put in it 1 teacupful of well boiled rice, boil it up again, then pour it in a soup-tureen, and serve. (3) Put into a covered saucepan 1 lb. of the lean parts of Veal, with an equal quantity of bones and cartilage, and 2qts. of cold water, adding a little salt, an onion, and the heart of a lettuce pulled to pieces. Boil up, skim, and reduce. Veal Cake or Fain.—-(1) Finely chop 21b. of Veal with 4oz. of pork, mix them together with 1 breakfast-cupful of finely-grated breadcrumbs, season to taste with salt, black pepper, and small quantities of cayenne pepper and pounded cloves, and bind the whole together with beaten eggs. Butter a mould, press the mixture tightly in it, and tie a sheet of buttered paper over the top. Stand the mould in a stewpan with boiling water to three parts its height, and steam it for an hour. Care must be taken not to let the water enter at the top of the mould. At the end of that time, take the mould out of the water, and stand it in the larder until cold. When ready to serve, turn the cake out of the mould on to a dish with a stand, and garnish it with aspic jelly (see Fig. 956). (2) Butter a pie-dish well, line it with slices of hard- boiled eggs, put at the bottom a layer of slices of cold Veal, over them a layer of thin slices of ham, pour over this a little good gravy, and sprinkle in a seasoning according to taste, and some pickles cut small. Fill the dish with alternate layers of Veal and ham, always adding pickles, seasoning, and gravy. When the dish is full, bake the contents for twenty minutes. Let it stand in a cool place all night, and turn it out next day. (3) Put a slice of cold ham or bacon, a piece of crumb of bread soaked in milk, and some cold roasted Veal into V eal—continued. a mortar, and pound them well; then add and pound in about half a shallot or half a small onion, some salt and pepper, and a bit of butter, and lastly mix in two beaten eggs. When all are thoroughly mixed, put it into a buttered mould, and bake it for about an hour. Let it stand till next day, or till thoroughly cold, turn it out, cut it into slices, arrange them on a dish, garnish with parsley and slices of hard-boiled eggs, and serve. (4) Put about 31b. of best end of neck of Veal in a saucepan with some cold water, and stew it gently till the bones can be easily taken out. Cut the meat into small pieces and put them in a mould in layers, alternating with slices of raw ham, boned and finely-chopped anchovies, and hard-boiled eggs. Dust some cayenne pepper, salt, chopped parsley, and a little grated nutmeg over each layer of Veal. Pour in a little of the liquor in which the Veal was stewed, put a plate on the mould, put it in a slow oven, and bake the contents for two hours. When cold, turn the cake out of the mould on to a dish, garnish it with watercress ami slices of beetroot, and serve. (5) Butter a plain mould, line the bottom and sides with slices of hard-boiled eggs and small forcemeat balls, in any fancy pattern, fill it with alternate layers of slices of cooked or raw Veal and ham, and shake a little pepper and salt on each layer. When the mould is nearly full, put some stock or gravy over the fire, and add to it a very little gelatine, soaked for ten minutes in as much cold water as will just cover it. Stir this in the gravy till quite melted, fill the mould up with the gravy, and bake it for an hour in a moderate oven. If raw meat has been used, it will take longer. Let it stand till next day, then turn it out, and serve garnished with parsley and croutons of aspic jelly. (6) Put a layer of slices of hard-boiled eggs at the bottom of a basin or mould, over these put a layer of thin slices of Veal, rubbed with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, over these again lay some slices of ham, and sprinkle over them parsley, thyme, marjoram, and lemon- peel, all chopped very fine, and sifted breadcrumbs ; then begin again with a layer of slices of hard-boiled eggs, and continue the layers in the same order till the basin or mould is filled. Pour in some good gravy, tie over it a cover of thick brown paper, put it in a slow oven, and let it bake for an hour. Let it stand till next day, and then turn it out on a dish, and garnish with parsley. (7) Hard boil six eggs, and when cold peel and cut them into halves. Put some of these at the bottom of a small mould, strew finely-chopped parsley over them, then put in a few slices of Veal and ham, next some more halves of eggs, and so on until the mould is full, season- ing with small quantities of pepper, salt, and chopped parsley between each layer. Pour in sufficient water to reach the top of the meat, and put a few small pieces of butter about on the top. Tie a double sheet of thick paper over the mould, and bake it for an hour, or if a large cake a little longer. If the bottom of the mould is rounded, it should be put on the baking-tin, with a wallTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 709 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. V eal—continued. Veal—continued. of ashes round it to keep it in place. When cooked, remove the paper, and press the contents of the mould down tightly with a spoon. Let it stand until cold, then turn the cake out on to a dish, garnish it with parsley, and serve. (8) Take the best end of a breast of Veal, bone it, and cut it in slices. Take some lean slices of ham cut thin, and season them with black pepper, cayenne, salt, and grated nutmeg. Hard boil two or three eggs, and chop them up. Chop line a small bunch of parsley and a couple of anchovies. Put a layer of Veal at the bottom of a deep baking-dish, scatter over it some of the chopped eggs, parsley, and anchovies, lay over them a layer of the seasoned slices of ham, then add a layer of Veal, eggs, &c., and continue alternate layers of ham and Veal with the eggs, parsley, &c., till all is in the dish. Pour over all J pint of water, lay the bones on the top, cover the dish close, and bake in a slow oven for four hours. Then take it from the oven, uncover the dish, take the bones out, and let it stand till the following day. Turn it out, and serve cold, garnished with parsley. (9) Take lib. of the thick part of a leg of Veal, cut out all skin and sinew, cut it up small with a little piece of nice fat bacon and about Alb. of suet or marrow; mix with it a seasoning of white pepper, cayenne, powdered mace, grated nutmeg, salt, and a small quantity of grated or finely-chopped lemon-peel, and pound all to a paste in a mortar. Shape the paste into small cakes about 2Jin. in diameter, and fry them in boiling dripping to a nice brown. Serve them hot, with some white sauce in a small tureen. (10) Chop lib. of cold Veal, and pass it through a mincing-machine. Put Jib. of sausage-meat into a basin, stand it in a saucepan of boiling water, and keep it over the fire until cooked. Mix the Veal and sausage-meat together with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of breadcrumbs, salt and pepper to taste, and a moderate quantity of powdered sweet herbs. Bind the mixture with stock, mould it into a cake or two rolls, put it in a baking-dish, and bake in a brisk oven, keeping it well basted. When cooked, serve hot with nicely-flavoured gravy ; or it may be served cold. (11) Mince lib. of lean Veal and Jib. of suet, and soak a stale roll in milk; mix all together, season with a small quantity of powdered mace, pepper and salt, and bind it with three well-beaten eggs. Lay the mixture out on a floured table and divide it into small flat cakes. Put a lump of butter in a saucepan, put in the cakes, and fry them till lightly browned; then drain off as much of the butter as possible, pour in some good beef stock, and boil them gently till cooked. Drain the cakes, and put them on a hot dish. Thicken the gravy with a little flour, adding more seasoning if required, then pour it over the cakes, and serve. Veal Cheese.—Stew part of a knuckle of Veal in Veal stock till it is quite tender and the gristle jellied, take it from the fire, and let it cool. Butter a mould or a basin, and lay in it at regular distances from each other the yolks of hard-boiled eggs and some of the white, cut either into rings or strips; then lay among and over the egg small bits of meat and gristle pulled or cut from the cold knuckle of Veal; sprinkle this with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, and some of the gravy, then add more eggs, with small bits of cold boiled beetroot and cold boiled carrot (only use the red part of the carrot), more meat and seasoning, and all the gravy. When the basin or mould is filled put it in the oven for twenty minutes. Take it out, let it stand till cold, then turn it out, and serve. Veal Collops.—Pare and cut 2lb. of Veal (cut from the hip, if possible) into six thick slices, season them with 1 pinch of salt and J pinch of pepper, put them into a saut6-pan on a very hot range, with loz. of butter, and brown them for five minutes on each side. Place them on a hot dish, and serve with any desired sauce or garnish. Veal Collops a l’ltalienne.—The same as for Veal Collops, adding one medium-sized chopped onion, six chopped mushrooms, 1 teaspoonful of parsley, and a crushed clove of garlic. Moisten with J wineglassful of white wine, cook for five minutes with 1 gill of Italian sauce, and serve hot. Veal Collops a la Provenqale.—These are prepared as for Veal Collops, replacing the butter by the same quan- tity of oil. Season well, and when browned on both sides add one shallot or a finely-chopped onion. Let them colour, and moisten with 1 gill of broth. Add 2 table-spoonfuls of Spanish sauce, three chopped cepes or mushrooms, two crushed cloves of garlic, and 1 teaspoonful of parsley. Boil once, and serve with six croutons of fried bread for garnish. Veal Collops a la Viennaise.—Cut all the sinewy skin off two minion fillets of Veal, cut them slantwise into slices Jin. thick, beat them with a knife, season them with salt and pepper, dredge them well with flour, dip them in beaten egg, and cover with finely-grated breadcrumb. Put a lump of butter in a frying-pan and melt it, then put in the slices of Veal and fry them. When nicely browned, drain the slices, and put them on a hot dish. Pour 1 teacupful of gravy in the frying-pan, boil it for three or four minutes, strain it through a fine sieve over the “ schintzel,” and serve. Veal Collops with. Endive.—Prepare and proceed precisely the same as for Veal Collops. Cook for eight minutes. Pour J pint of hot endive-juice on a hot dish, place the collops on the top, and serve. Veal Collops (Glazed).—Trim off all the sinewy part from two minion fillets of Veal, cut them into thin slices, beat them lightly with the handle of a knife, and season them. Put a lump of butter in a frying-pan and melt it, then put in the collops and fry them, browning them nicely on both sides. When cooked, drain the butter off the col- lops, moisten them with 3 table-spoonfuls of rich gravy, and boil it till reduced to a glaze. Pour in a little white wine and tomato sauce, boil the liquid up, then take the frying-pan off the fire. Boil Jib. of well-washed rice till soft, then mix a small quantity of butter and grated Parmesan cheese with it. Butter a border mould, fill it with the rice, leave it for four or five minutes, then turn the rice out on to a hot dish. Put the collops in the middle of the dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Veal Collops with Stuffed Peppers.—Proceed exactly as for Veal Collops, adding the juice of half a medium-sized lemon and 1 gill of hot Madeira sauce. Cook for three minutes longer, and decorate the dish with six stuffed green peppers three minutes before serving. Veal Collops with Tomato Sauce.—Cut some pieces of Veal lin. square off a breast of Veal, put them into a saucepan with a small quantity of olive oil, and shake them over the fire until they begin to brown; then pour- over them a small quantity of French tomato sauce, add pepper and salt to taste, a shallot minced fine, and a little finely-chopped parsley. Let all simmer gently for half- an-hour, shaking the pan occasionally. Serve hot. Veal Cones.—Free about lib. of Veal from skin and fat, finely mince it with a slice of lean ham, put all in a mortar, and pound until smooth; then mix in a small Fig. 957. Veal Cones. teacupful of cream, and season the mixture with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated lemon-peel. Divide it into equal portions, mould these into cones about 2Jin. or 3in. in height, brush them over with a beaten egg, and strew grated breadcrumb over them. Put a large lump710 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads V eal—continued. of butter or clarified fat in a stew pan, and place it over the fire; when boiling, put in the cones, and fry them until nicely browned. Fry in butter some grated bread- crumb until nicely browned, and put them on a hot dish. Drain the cones, arrange them on the top of the crumbs, garnisli with a border o' fried parsley (see Fig. 957), and serve. Veal Country Captain.—Warm 4oz. of fat in a frying- pan, add \ teaspoonful of chillies and \ teaspoonful of turmeric both finely ground, and fry them to a light brown ; then add a shoulder of Veal, cut up into small pieces, and cook until the meat is tender. Turn the curry out on to a dish, and serve. The shoulder of Veal should be partially boiled or roasted before being used ; or after it has been put in the pan, add 1 teacupful of water, which will achieve the same purpose. Veal Cromeskies.—Cut some thick slices off a minion fillet of Veal, put them in a frying-pan with some bacon fat, and fry them, keeping them rather underdone than otherwise. Leave the slices of Veal till cold, then season them with salt and pepper, and cut them into small squares. Cut into little bits a small piece of cooked ox- tongue, a sweetbread, and half a calf’s brain, and mix them with the Veal. Finely chop four large white onions, put them in a stewpan with a bay-leaf and a little butter, and fry them till nicely browned; season with salt and pepper and J teaspoonful of sugar, dredge 1 table- poonful of flour over them, and pour in J pint of gravy. Boil the onions gently till cooked, then put in with them the salpi9on of meat and a little grated nutmeg and cayenne pepper. In three or four minutes’ time, turn the mixture out on to a baking-sheet, spread it out with the blade of a knife to a square shape about Jin. thick, then leave it till cool. Shape some very thin slices of ham into oblong squares; divide the above mixture into pieces the same shape and size, put each one between two pieces of the ham, and press them lightly. Prepare a batter for frying, and melt some lard in a frying-pan. Dip the cromeskies in the batter, then plunge them into the boiling lard, and fry them till nicely browned. Drain the cromeskies, arrange them in a pyramid on a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish them with fried parsley, and serve at once. Veal Croquettes.—(1) Take some cold Veal, cut off the fat and skin, and cut the Veal up very fine, seasoning with onion-juice, celery salt, chopped parsley, cayenne, salt, and pepper. Oysters parboiled and drained may be used, taking half the bulk of them to the quantity of meat. Mix well and moisten with well beaten egg and white sauce. Make the paste into the shape of rolls, and put them first into bread- or cracker-crumb’, then egg, anti then crumbs again; plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry until done and of a light brown colour. See Croquettes. (2) Trim off the fat and outside part of some cold Veal, and mince the lean finely. Put loz. of butter and 1 heaped table- poonful of Hour in a saucepan, and stir them over the fire until well mixed, moistening with a small quantity of clear stock, and stirring it in smoothly ; then put in the minced Veal with some minced ham and onions, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity each of finelv-minced parsley and powdered sweet herbs. Stir the mixture over the fire until hot, then move it to the side and stir in the yolks of two eggs that have been well beaten with the juice of a small lemon and strained. Turn the mixture on to a dish, let it get cold, then divide it into small equal portions, and mould them into balls, using plenty of breadcrumb', while performing the operation. Egg-and- breadcrumb the balls again, and fry them in boiling lard until nicely browned. Drain the balls, pile them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish them with fried parsley, and serve. Veal Cutlets.—(1) Trim some thinly-cut Veal cutlets (see Fig. 958) to a nice shape, flatten them with a cutlet-bat (see Fig. 959), and dust them over with salt and pepper. V eal—continued. Mince together in equal quantities some pieces of Veal and fat bacon, mix them with a third of their bulk of finely-grated breadcrumb, J table-spoonful of finely- minced shallot, and a moderate quantity of powdered sweet herbs; bind the mixture with beaten egg, and, when well mixed, cover the cutlets completely with it, smoothing it over with the flat blade of a knife. Roll the cutlets in beaten egg and breadcrumbs, and fry them until nicely browned m boiling lard. Drain them, put them on a hot dish, pour a nicely-flavoured rich brown gravy round them, garnish with cut lemons, and serve. (2) Procure the cutlets from a neck of Veal, each one having a bone with it, and trim them to a nice shape. Trim as nearly as possible to the same shape as many slices of lean bacon as there are cutlets. Season the Veal Fig. 959. Cutlet-bat. cutlets with salt and pepper on both sides, and fry them until nicely browned. Fry the slices of bacon separately. Chop finely a few shallots, put them in a stewpan with a small lump of butter, and fry them until lightly browned ; then strain off the fat, pour over J teacupful of white wine vinegar, and boil it until nearly all reduced. Put Joz. of butter and 1 teaspoonful of flour into another stewpan, and stir them over the fire until well mixed ; then pour in gradually f breakfast-cupful of clear stock that has been freed from fat, put in a bay-leaf with a few sprigs of thyme, a few cloves and crushed pepper- corns, and salt to taste, and boil it gently at the side of the fire for nearly half-an-hour. At the end of that time, strain the flavoured stock in with the shallots, put in a moderate quantity of finely-minced parsley, and stir the whole over the fire until boiling again. Arrange the cutlets of Veal and bacon in alternate order on a hot711 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Veal—continued. dish in a circle, pour the sauce in the centre, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. (3) German Style.—Trim off all the skin and sinews from some Veal, and finely chop the meat; season it with salt and pepper and a moderate quantity of finely- minced parsley, and if liked a small quantity of grated lemon-peel, and hind it with beaten egg. Divide the mixture into equal portions, and mould them to the shape of cutlets. Roll them in beaten egg-aml-bread- crumbs, and leave them for an hour ; then egg-anil-bread- crumb them again, put them into a stewpan of boiling fat, and fry them until nicely browned. Drain the cutlets, decorate the bones with paper frills (see Fig. 9G0), arrange them in a circle on a hot dish, fill the centre with fried tomatoes, pour a rich gravy round, and serve. Veal Cutlets a 1’Anglaise.—Shape the cutlets round, trimming them neatly, and beat them with a cutlet-bat. Put loz. of butter in a plate, with about J teaspoonful each of chopped thyme and parsley, a squeeze of lemon-juice, and the grated yellow rind; melt the butter, and mix it well with the other ingredients. Dip each cutlet in the seasoned butter, then roll them in finely-grated bread- crumb that has been seasoned with salt and pepper, giving them a good coating and pressing them with the flat blade of a knife. Put the cutlets in a buttered saute-pan, and fry them. Fry also a few thin slices of bacon, and roll them up. Prepare a border of mashed potatoes, turn them on to a hot dish, place the cutlets and rolls of bacon in the centre, pour about A pint of hot brown sauce round them, and serve. Veal Cutlets §L la Bonne Aime. -Pare six Veal cutlets, brown them in a saute-pan with 2oz. of butter, anil season them with 1 pinch of salt and A pinch of pepper, turning them carefully several times. Add two onions cut in thick slices, and place the lid on the saute-pan. Stir the onions occasionally, and when of a golden brown colour moisten with h pint of Spanish sauce. Cook for fifteen minutes longer, and serve with 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley dusted over the whole. Veal Cutlets a la Bouchere.—Cut the rib-bones square of a neck of Veal, cut from it six or seven cutlets each with one bone, clear about Jin. of the ends of the bones, and beat the cutlets lightly with a cutlet-bat. Season with salt and pepper, brush them over with melted butter, and broil them both sides on a clear fire. When done, glaze them with a paste-brush (see Glaze), dish them in a circular form, put a piece of maitre-d’hotel butter between each, garnish the dish with lemons cut in quarters, and serve. Veal Cutlets a la Ch&lons.—Prepare these the same as for Veal Cutlets a la Dreux, but lard them chequer-like with ham, fat bacon, and pickled cucumbers, instead of ham alone. Serve with stewed sorrel. Veal Cutlets a la Chef de Cuisine.—Cut the cutlets 4in. long from a neck of Veal, trim them, and clear lin. of the bone. Lard the cutlets with strips of fat bacon Jin. in thickness, tongue and truffles, put them in a stewpan with Fig. 961. Veal Cutlets a la Chef de Cuisine. f pint of Veal stock and J pint of mirepoix, cover them with a sheet of paper, and let them cook gently by the side of the fire till tender. When cooked, drain the cutlets, and press between two plates till cold ; then trim them, and put them in a saute-pan. Skim the fat off the cooking Veal—continued. liquor of the cutlets, strain it through a fine hair sieve into a saucepan, and boil it till reduced to half-glaze. Pour the sauce over the cutlets in the saute -pan, and put in the oven to heat them up again. Pile up in the centre of a dish French beans prepared as for garnish, arrange the cutlets round the pile, pour plenty of gravy over all, put a quarter of a lemon here and there (see Fig. 961), and serve. Veal Cutlets a la Chingara.—Sprinkle pepper and salt over six Veal cutlets, and fry them with a little butter and bits of ham. When the cutlets are done, cut some slices of tongue the same size, previously glazed, and cover each cutlet with th m. Dish them, and serve with some of the glaze. Veal Cutlets a la Dauphin.—Trim six cutlets of Veal on one side only, lard them with Veal and bacon cut fine, and braise them. Reduce the liquor in which they were stewed, then glaze the cutlets with it, and serve either with stewed endive or sorrel. Veal Cutlets a la Dreux.—Cut some Veal cutlets very thick, trim them, lard with slices of ham cut in squares, and sprinkle a little pepper and salt over them ; put them in a stewpan with some thin slices of bacon, two small onions, two carrots, a few sprigs of thyme, three or four cloves, and some bay-leaves; lay the trimmings on the top, add j teacupful of good Veal broth, and stew them over a slow fire for two hours. When done, take the cutlets out, and put them in a dish to cool. Reduce the liquor to a glaze, and glaze the cutlets with it. Serve with Spanish sauce. Veal Cutlets a l’Espagnole.—Lay at the bottom of a saucepan two or three thin slices of ham, a bunch of parsley, half a bay-leaf, and a little thyme. Trim some Veal cutlets, season them with pepper and salt, lay them on the top of the ham and butter, and fry them over a very slow fire. Drain the fat off, and pour in J teacupful of Spanish sauce and 1 table-spoonful of broth. Dish the cutlets, strain the sauce, pour it over them, and serve. Veal Cutlets a la Financiere.—(1) Cut a few cutlets off a neck of Veal, shorten the rib-bones, and cut off the chine-bones. Beat the cutlets lightly with a cutlet-bat, stud them all over the same side in a fancy pattern with square fillets of truffles, and dust some, pepper and salt over them. Put some finely-chopped carrots and onions in a stewpan, put in the cutlets, placing them side by side, and cover them with clear broth. Boil the liquor till reduced one-tliird its original quantity, then move the stewpan to the side of the fire, and braise the cutlets slowly for three quarters-of-an-hour, basting them often. When cooked, take the cutlets away from the fire, and leave them till nearly cold in their cooking-stock. Trim the cutlets nicely, put them in another stewpan with the cooking-stock, and heat them slowly in the oven. Cover the bottom of a hot dish with financiere sauce, put some ruffles round the bones of the cutlets, place them on the dish, and serve. (2) Remove the chine-bone and the upper part of the rib-bones from a piece of the best end of a neck of Veal. The bones intended to form the cutlets should be about 3in. in length. Divide the meat into cutlets, trim them, and lard them closely with strips of bacon. Put a layer of sliced onions, carrots, and celery in a stewpan with some parsley and an onion stuck with four cloves. Put the cutlets on the vegetables, the larded side up, pour in sufficient water to reach the top of them, and put the stewpan on the fire till the water boils; then put it in the oven to braise the contents for an hour-and a-half. When nicely browned, put the cutlets on a hot dish, the larded side up, arranging them in a circle. Strain the cooking-liquor, pour it round them, fill the centre with a mushroom puree, and serve. Veal Cutlets a l’Indienne.—Procure tender Veal cutlets, and trim them to a nice shape. Mix in about 1 break fastcupful of milk, J table-spoonful each of pounded ginger and coriander-seeds, and 2 table-spoonfuls of712 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. V eal—continued. pounded onion. Lay the cutlets on a deep dish, pour the mixture over them, and let them steep for an hour or two. When ready, brush the cutlets over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, then roll them in plenty of finely- grated breadcrumb. Put a large piece of lard or clarified fat in a flat stewpan, place it on the fire, and when boil- ing put in the cutlets, and fry them until a bright golden brown. Drain the cutlets when cooked, lay them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an orramental dish-paper, garnish them with fried parsley and cut lemons, and serve. Veal Cutlets a l’ltalienne.—(1) Cut some nice cutlets off a leg of Veal, and trim them to a pear shape, seasoning them on both sides with salt and pepper. Put them in a tin, baste them with a few table-spoonfuls of salad-oil, '■'•‘ver them with a sheet of paper, and bake them in a moderate oven until they are nicely cooked. Mince two or three shallots, put them in a stewpan with a little salad-oil, and fry them until they are nicely browned. Mince four mushrooms and a few leaves of parsley, put them in with the shallots, pour in equal quantities of sufficient white wine and dear stock to make the sauce, add a small bunch of sweet herbs tied together with a bay-leaf, season to taste with salt and pepper, and boil the whole gently for twenty minutes or half-an-hour. At the end of that time, remove the bunch of herbs and bay- leaf, add to the sauce a small piece of butter that has been rolled in flour, and stir it at the edge of the fire until thickened. Drain the cutlets from the oil, arrange them in a circle on a hot dish, pour the sauce in the centre, and serve. To garnish the dish, arrange taste- fully round a border of fried parsley. If the flavour of garlic is liked, the saucepan in which the sauce is made may be rubbed with it. (2) Cut the chops out of a neck of Veal, beat them with a cutlet-bat to flatten them, trim them, dust a little pepper and salt over them, brush with yolk of egg, dip them in breadcrumbs, then in melted butter, and again in bread- crumbs, and broil them over a slow fire, on both sides, till a nice brown. Dish, and serve with a brown Italian sauce. Veal Cutlets a la Lyonnaise.—Trim the cutlets, and dust them on both sides with pepper and salt. Put a lump of lard in a stewpan, and melt it; then put in the cutlets, and fry them over a brisk fire until done on both sides. Drain the fat out of the stewpan, pour over the cutlets J teacupful of rich broth, and boil it quickly till reduced to glaze; then turn the cutlets, pour in the same quantity of broth as before, and reduce that. When finished, arrange the cutlets in a circle on a hot dish. Pour in the stewpan in which they were cooked h pint of brown sauce and 1 teacupful of Madeira, and boil it ; then add 1 teacup- ful of chopped gherkins, 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped parsley, and a pat of butter. When the butter has dis- solved, pour the sauce over the Veal, and serve it. Veal Cutlets ft la Maintenon.—Prepare the cutlets as usual, and broil them; but before they are quite done, take them out, drain them, and let them cool. Put some bacon cut in the shape of hearts on each side of the cutlets, wrap them round with paper dipped in oil, and broil both sides on a slow fire. Veal Cutlets a la Marechal.—(1) Remove the skin and fat from about 2oz. of mutton, chop the lean, put it in a mortar, pound it well, and then rub it through a fine wire sieve. Mix with it J table-spoonful of finely-chopped parsley, and sufficient cream to bind it, not making it too liquid, and season it with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Trim to a neat shape four or five Veal cutlets, dip them in well-beaten egg, then roll them in bread- crumbs that have been seasoned moderately with salt and pepper. The cutlets should be well coated on all sides with the crumbs. Put some clarified fat into a deep frying-pan, and place it over the fire until a blue column of smoke rises; then put in the cutlets, and fry them for nearly ten minutes; turn them when browned on one side, and brown the other. When fried, drain the cutlets, spread over each a layer of the Veal mixture, lay them side by Veal—continued. side in a shallow tin dish, strew a small quantity of finely-chopped mushrooms over them, dust them very lightly with salt ami pepper, and bake them for ten minutes in a moderate oven. When cooked, arrange the cutlets on a hot dish over which has been spread an ornamental dish-paper, garnish them with neat sprigs of parsley, and serve. (2) Pare six Veal cutlets, season them with 1 table- spoonful of salt and 1 teaspoonful of pepper, and cook them in a saute -pan with 2oz. of butter for five minutes on each side. Moisten with h pint of Spanish sauce, add four sliced mushrooms, twelve small godiveau quenelles, and three chickens’ livers blanched and cut into pieces, and cook for five minutes longer. Serve on a hot dish, with six croutons of fried bread for garnish. Veal Cutlets a la Milanaise.—(1) Trim the cutlets neatly and to an equal size. Boil 2oz. of macaroni in salted water; when tender, drain it, and mix with it loz. of butter, 2oz. of grated Parmesan cheese, and 1 teacupful of tomato sauce. Mix 1 |teacupful of finely-grated breadcrumb with 1 teacupful of grated Parmesan cheese, and season well with salt and pepper. Roll the cutlets in warmed butter and then in the breadcrumbs, and leave them for a few minutes ; then dip them in beaten egg and again in the mixture. Put a large lump of dripping or lard in a flat stewpan, and place it over the fire; when blue smoke rises, put in the cutlets, and fry them until well and equally browned. Move the macaroni away from the fire, and stir in the beaten yolk of an egg. Pile this in the centre of a hot dish, arrange the cutlets round it, garnish it with fried parsley, and serve. (2) Cut some small rather thick Veal cutlets, and trim them neatly. Mix with some finely-grated breadcrumb a third of their quantity of grated Parmesan cheese, and season with a moderate quantity of minced parsley, and salt and pepper to taste. Dip the cutlets in beaten egg, roll them in the above mixture, leave them for a short time, then egg-and-breadcrumb them again. Boil the required quantity of macaroni in water, and when nearly tender, drain off the water and finish cooking it in milk ; then stir in with it loz. of butter, 2oz. of grated Parmesan cheese, and J table-spoonful of chopped parsley. Toss the whole over the fire until well mixed. Fry the cutlets a light brown in butter. Pile the macaroni in the centre of a hot dish, arrange the cutlets round it, and serve. (3) Cut the Veal into cutlets about Jin. thick, beat them flat without breaking the bone, season them with salt and pepper, dip them in melted butter, then in finely-grated Parmesan cheese, and then coat them well with egg and breadcrumbs. Put a lump of fresh butter in a frying-pan, and when it is hot put in the cutlets and fry them, browning them nicely on both sides. When cooked, drain the cutlets, put them on a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish them with slices of lemon, and serve them with a sauce- boatful of tomato sauce, or, if preferred, maitre-d’hotel butter. Veal Cutlets a la Napolitaine.—Trim the cutlets to a nice shape, dip them in warmed butter, roll them in a mixture of finely-grated breadcrumb and Parmesan cheese, dust them over with salt and pepper, and leave them for an hour; then dip them in beaten egg and again in the crumbs and cheese. Boil the required quantity of macaroni, and when tender mix with it a lump of butter, some tomato sauce, and the beaten yolk of an egg, seasoning it to taste with salt and pepper. Put a lump of butter in a flat stewpan, and when boiling put in the cutlets and fry them until lightly browned. Pile the macaroni in the centre of a hot dish, strew grated Parmesan cheese over it, arrange the cutlets round, and serve. Veal Cutlets en Papillotes.—Pare nicely six Veal cutlets, put them in a saute-pan with loz. of butter, and season with 1 table-spoonful of salt and 1 teaspoonful of white peeper. Add half a chopped onion, and brown slightly; add four finely-chopped mushrooms, and cook for eight minutes; then pour in a gill of Spanish sauce, and cook for four minutes longer. Take out the cutlets, drainTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 713 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. V eal—continued. them, and put them on one side to cool. Add to the gravy 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley and 2 table-spoon- fuls of breadcrumbs. Have ready six pieces of oiled white paper cut heart shape, put a thin slice of cooked ham on one side of the paper, pour over the ham a little of the stock, and on the top of it place a cutlet and another layer of the stock, and over all a thin slice of cooked ham. Cover with the second part of the paper, and close it by folding the two edges firmly together. Bake for a short time, at most live minutes, in a rather slow oven, and serve at once. Veal Cutlets a la Perigueux.—-Trim some Veal cutlets more than lin. in thickness, keeping the bones short, and lard them through with raw trutiies cut in square fillets. Line the bottom of a flat stewpan with sliced vegetables and lay the cutlets on them ; add Veal broth to half their height and a bunch of herbs and parsley, and re- duce the broth to half its original quantity; then cover the cutlets with buttered paper, move them to the side of the fire, and simmer slowly, adding a little more broth occasionally. When done, drain the cutlets, and put them on a circle of forcemeat jwached in the dish, having in the centre a small bread croustade filled with cooked truffles (see Fig. 962). Add the trimmings of the truffles to the liquor that the cutlets were cooked in, reduce, skim off the fat, thicken with a little brown sauce, strain it, pour some over the cutlets, and serve the re- mainder in a sauceboat. Veal Cutlets a la Proven^ale.—Trim the cutlets, season them with salt and pepper, flour them, put them in a stewpan with a lump of butter, and fry them. When the meat has set, drain the fat from the stewpan, and pour in some broth to half the height of the cutlets. When the liquor boils, move the stewpan to the side of the fire, and keep it simmering till the cutlets are done. Chop six large white onions, put them in a stewpan with a lump of butter, and fry them over a moderate fire till nicely browned. Dredge a little flour, pepper, and salt over the onions, pour in h pint of wine and gravy, mixed in equal quantities, and boil them for ten minutes. When cooked, arrange the cutlets in a circle on a hot dish, turn the minced onions and gravy in the centre, sprinkle over a little cayenne pepper and chopped parsley, and serve. Veal Cutlets en RagoUt.—Cut some nice-sized cutlets from a fillet of Veal, beat them with a cutlet-bat, trim them neatly, and lard them with thin strips of bacon. Season some breadcrumbs with salt, pepper, and chopped parsley, and strew them over the cutlets. Prepare a ragout of Veal, sweetbreads, and mushrooms. Put a lump of butter or clarified fat in a frying-pan, and place it over the fire; when blue smoke rises, put in the cutlets, and fry them till nicely browned on both sides. When cooked, drain and lay them on a hot dish, pour the ragout over them, and serve without delay. Veal Cutlets a la St. Cloud.—Lard six Veal cutlets with two small truffles cut julienne shape, loz. of cooked beef tongue, and loz. of larding-pork, all cut in the same way. Place them in a saute-pan with 1 pinch of salt, one sliced carrot, and one sliced onion, and let them brown for ten minutes, being careful to keep the lid on the pan. Moisten with l, pint of broth, anti put them in the oven V eal—continued. to finish cooking for at least fifteen minutes. Serve with a hot salpiyon sauce poured over the dish, and the chops put on the top. Veal Cutlets a la Singarat, or Saint Garat.—Lard the cutlets with fine strips of lean bacon, trimming them off, nicely. Put some slices of ham and bacon in a stewpan put in the cutlets, and cover them with slices of bacon, adding a few carrots, onions, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Pour in some stock, put the lid on the stewpan with some hot coals on it, and cook the contents over a slow fire. When cooked, take the cutlets out. Strain the sauce through a fine hair sieve, mix a little stock with it, and boil it till somewhat reduced. Put a purue of mushrooms or tomatoes on a hot dish, place the cutlets on it, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Veal Cutlets en Semelleo.—Cut some cutlets lin. thick from a fillet of Veal, sprinkle them well with pepper and salt, and fry them a little in butter with a bay-leaf in the pan. Lay at the bottom of a deep saucepan a thin slice of bacon, and on the top of it one of the Veal cutlets ; over this another thin slice of bacon, then a Veal cutlet, and so on alternately till all are packed in. Put in then h pint of water and two or three bay-leaves, lay a sheet of buttered paper over the meat, close the lid of the saucepan tightly, put it on hot ashes, and let it stew for four or five hours, keeping the fire at the same degree of heat all the time. Turn out when done, and serve very hot. Veal Cutlets en Surprise.—(1) Any underdone pieces of Veal can be used, trimmed to a nice shape. Mix with some finely-grated breadcrumb half their quantity of minced bacon, moderate quantities of chopped parsley and shallot, salt and pepper to taste, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Bind the mixture with beaten yolk of egg, spread a layer of it over one side of each cutlet, and wrap each in a slice of fat bacon and then in a sheet of oiled paper, folding it well round the edges. Put a lump of butter or clarified fat into a flat stewpan, and place it over the fire; when blue smoke rises, put in the cutlets, and fry them from five to ten minutes. When cooked, drain the cutlets, put them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin, garnish with parsley, and serve. (2) Cut the Veal into thin cutlets, trim them neatly, and dredge them over with salt and pepper. Chop the trimmings of the cutlets up finely with a moderate quantity of fat bacon, add to the mixture half its quantity of breadcrumbs, and season with moderate quantities of finely-minced sweet herbs and shallot, and salt and pepper to taste. Bind the mixture with beaten egg, and spread it over the cutlets on both sides ; brush them over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten yolk of egg, and roll them m breadcrumbs. Put a large lump of butter or clarified fat in a flat stewpan, and place it on the fire; when boiling, put in the cutlets, and fry them a delicate brown. Drain the cutlets when they are cooked, put them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with quarters of lemons, and serve with a sauceboatful of rich brown gravy. Veal Cutlets a la Talleyrand.—Cut lib. of fillet of Veal into small oval-shaped pieces, put them into a flat stew- pan with loz. of butter, toss them about over a moderate tire for five minutes, taking care not to let them brown, then move the pan off the fire. Chop as finely as possible 1 teacupful of mushrooms, one shallot, and two or three sprigs of parsley, then strew them over the pieces of Veal. Put loz. of butter into a small saucepan with 1 table-spoonful of flour, stir them over the fire until mixed, then pour in 1 breakfast-cupful of white stock. Continue stirring the stock until boiling, then pour it over the Veal, and stew the whole gently for nearly half-an-hour, stirring it or shaking the stewpan about occasionally to prevent the contents burning. Beat the yolks of two eggs with J teacupful of cream, and season to taste with salt and pepper. When cooked, take the pieces of Veal out of tiie stewpan, and arrange them on a hot dish. Pour the beaten egg into the stewpan with the Veal liquor, and stir it at the side of the fire for714 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Veal —continued. two or three minutes, hut without letting it hoil again, or the eggs will curdle; then pour it over the Veal, -and serve while very hot. Veal Cutlets a la Venitienne.—(1) Prepare the cutlets as tor Veal Cutlets a l’Italienne. Put in a saucepan 1 pint of mushrooms, a few shallots, and a little parsley, all chopped very line. Mince a little fat bacon, add it to the above with small pieces of butter, and let them simmer over a slow lire. When they are done, add the cutlets, and stew till they also are done. Season with salt and pepper. Skim the fat oil’ the gravy, put 1 table-spoonful of sauce tournee in the liquor, thicken the sauce with the yolks of three eggs, add a little cream, the juice of a lemon, and a little cayenne pepper. Dish the cutlets, and serve with the sauce. (2) Chop fine 1 breakfast-cupful of mushrooms, a little parsley, and a few shallots; put them into a saucepan over a slow lire with a piece of butter and a small quantity of fat bacon finely chopped, and let them stew; when partly done, put in some cutlets cut from the best end of a neck of Veal, nicely trimmed, well seasoned with salt and pepper, and beaten flat, and let them stew slowly till quite tender; then skim off the fat and stir in the yolks of three eggs beaten up with a little cream and 1 table-spoonful of sauce tournee; then mix in the strained juice of a lemon and a little cayenne, and serve. Veal Cutlets a la Viennaise.—Cut Veal cutlets into nice- sized square pieces, beat them with a rolling-pin, and dip them in well-beaten white of egg and then in finely- grated breadcrumb. Fry the pieces of meat in lard. When cooked and nicely browned, dredge salt over them, and serve them on a dish that has been embellished with a folded napkin or fancy-edged dish-paper. Veal Cutlets a la Zingara.—Saw the end of the rib-bones off a neck of Veal, so as to make the cutlets 4in. long, cut them of an even thickness, and trim them. Put the cutlets in a stewpan with a lump of butter, and fry them till lightly coloured; then drain off all the butter, and pour in 1 pint of Veal broth and f pint of Spanish sauce. When the liquor boils, move the stewpan to the side of the fire, and keep it simmering till the meat is tender. Cut some slices of lean ham the same shape as the cutlets, put them in a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry them for five minutes. When cooked, drain the cutlets, and arrange them in a circle on a hot dish with a slice of ham between each. Skim the fat off the gravy, strain it through a silk sieve, and serve it in a sauceboat with the cutlets. Veal Cutlets with Aspic Jelly.—Cut the rib-bones of eight Veal cutlets short, so as to leave them 4in. long, trim them, and lard them (see LARDING) through with strips of bacon, truffles, and ham, t hen braise them with some mirepoix, and cook them. When they are done, drain them, and press them between two dishes until they are cold. Cut a piece of bread 4in. high, remove the crust, and fry it a golden colour ; when cold, mask it with Montpellier butter, and fix it on a rice socle, also masked with the same butter. Arrange the cutlets upright against the bread, the bones inwards, put a pat of Montpellier butter on the top of the bread, so as to hide the cutlet bones, put a small aspic croftton on the pat of butter, place some chopped aspic jelly between each cutlet, garnish the dish with some aspic jelly cut into croutons, and serve. Veal Cutlets in Cases.—Put the cutlets in a deep dish with some chopped mixed herbs and mushrooms, a dust of salt and pepper, a squeeze of lemon juice, and some olive oil. In two or three hours’ time drain the cutlets, wrap each one separately in a sheet of buttered paper, put them in a saucepan, pour in the oil in which they soaked, and cook them over a slow fire. When cooked, drain the cutlets, put them on a hot dish, leaving the papers on, and serve them with mushroom sauce. Veal Cutlets Sautes.—(1) Trim five or six Veal cutlets, put them in a saucepan with a little stock, and boil them gently till cooked ; then drain them, put them on a plate, Veal —continued. put another on the top, with a weight on the top of that, and leave them till cold. Boil some brown sauce with trimmings of tru files till stiffly reduced, then dip in the cutlets to coat them thickly on both sides, dust some Hour over them, brush them over with beaten egg, cover them thickly with finely-grated breadcrumb, and last of all brush them over with clarified butter. Put the cutlets in a saute-pan with a little butter, and saute them till lightly browned. Drain the cutlets, put them on a dish- paper on a hot dish, garnish them with fried parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of white sauce. Veal Cutlets with Stewed Cabbage (Venetian).— Thoroughly wash and dry the heart of a white cabbage, and cut it up into small pieces. Put loz. of beef dripping into a stewpan with ioz. of butter and t table-spoonful of finely-minced garlic, and stir it over the fire until browned. Put in the cabbage with more fat, either butter or dripping if necessary, and stew it gently at the side of the lire for two hours-and-a-half, stirring it frequently. Trim some thin cutlets of Veal to a nice shape, coat each with a thin layer of preserved tomatoes, strew finely- chopped onion and parsley over them, season with salt and a small quantity of cayenne pepper, and moisten with a few drops of vinegar. Half Jill a flat stewpan with salad-oil, and place it over the lire; when it boils put in the cutlets, and fry them. As each cutlet is Fig. 963. Veal Cutlets with Stewed Cabbage. cooked, take it out of the fat, and drain it for a minute or two on a sheet of kitchen-paper before the fire. Turn the cabbage on to a hot dish, lay the cutlets on it (see Fig. 963), and serve. Veal Cutlets with White Sauce.—Put 2 table-spoonfuls of butter into a saucepan with 1 table spoonful each of finely- chopped carrot and onion, and fry them for a few minutes over a clear fire. Season ljlb. of Veal cutlets with salt and pep®-, put them in the saucepan with the vegetables, put on the lid, and cook them slowly for lia f-an-hour. Take the cutlets out of the saucepan, dip them in beaten egg, cover them well with breadcrumbs, and fry them till nicely browned in boiling butter. Put a puree of green peas in the centre of a hot dish, arrange the cutlets round them, pour some white sauce round, and serve. Veal Doopiaja.—Put 3oz. of fat into a warmed frying- pan, add twelve onions cut in slices, and fry them to a light brown; take them out, add to the fat 4 teaspoon- fuls of ground onions, 1 teaspoonful each of ground chillies and turmeric, teaspoonful of ground ginger, and \ tea- spoonful of ground garlic, and brown these slightly; put in 21b. of meat from the shoulder of Veal, cut up into squares, and 1 h teaspoonfuls of salt, pour in 1 breakfast- cupful of water, and simmer gently over a slow fire for about an-hour and-a-half, by which time the meat should be tender and the liquor reduced to a stiff consistency and about half its original quantity. Turn the mixture out on to a dish, sprinkle over the onions, and serve very hot. Veal Forcemeat.—(1) Chop lib. of beef-suet and half that quantity of lean Veal, and mix them together. Season the mixture with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, put it in a mortar, and pound it; then stir in four eggs that have been beaten with a little water and 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley. When well mixed, the forcemeat is ready for use. (2) Finely chop 31b. of Veal, and pound it in a mortar. Put 1 pint of milk in a saucepan with 2 breakfast- cupfuls of breadcrumbs, and stir them over the fire till soft and715 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Veal—continued. smooth; then take them off and leave them till cold, adding beforehand 1 breakfast-cupful of butter, 2 table- spoonfuls of salt, J teaspoonful of pepper, 2 table-spoonfuls of onion-juice, 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped parsley, and a little grated nutmeg. When cold, mix the pounded meat with the above mixture and the beaten yolks of six eggs, and it is ready for use. Veal Forcemeat (for Balls or Stuffing).—Take some lean Veal, chop it up line, and put it into a mortar with one-third its quantity of either finely-shredded suet or butter, and the same of crumbs taken from a stale house- hold loaf and put in a basin with a little milk, and when thoroughly saturated taken out and squeezed diy; pound these well, adding a little grated nutmeg, salt and pepper to taste. Beat up the yolks of two eggs, pour it into the mixture to bind it, make it a firm paste, and use it either made into balls and fried, or as a stuffing. Veal Forcemeat (for Boiled Turkey).—Take {,1b. of lean Veal, chop it finely with a little beef-suet, a few oysters, and two anchovies, and add some breadcrumbs mixed with the yolks of eggs and a few herbs. When the turkey is prepared for boiling, stuff the crop with the forcemeat, and boil. Veal Forcemeat Balls (for Mock Turtle Soup). Take the crumb of two or three French rolls, put it into a saucepan with sufficient rich gravy to cover it, place the pan on the side of the fire, and let it boil gently until quite done. Take it out, squeeze out all the liquor, put it into another saucepan over the fire, and stir till it is quite dry; then add the yolks of two eggs, and let it cool. Put Jib. of lean Veal into a mortar, pound it well, and add the breadcrumb mixture and 3oz. of butter. Add a little grated nutmeg, mace, cayenne, and salt to season it, and if liked a little well pounded lean ham. Roll the paste into balls, and boil them for twelve minutes before putting them into mock turtle soup. Veal Forcemeat Cutlets.—Chop well two or three times in *tlie machine 21b. of lean Veal, cut from the hip if possible, place the meat in a bowl with 2oz. of finely- chopped raw Veal-suet, season with 1 good pinch of salt, J pinch of pepper, and J pinch of nutmeg, add J breakfast-cupful of good cream, one chopped shallot, and two raw eggs, anil mix well together. Roll the mass out Fig. 964. Cutlet-cutters. to Jin. thick, cut out some cutlets with any kind of cutlet- cutter (see Fig. 964), sprinkle them with breadcrumbs, and fry in a pan with 2oz. of clarified butter for four minutes on each side. Serve with any kind of sauce. Veal Forcemeat Stuffing for Fish.—Make 4oz. of bread panada, and mix it with Jib. of finely-minced cooked Veal, 2oz. each of chopped fat salt pork and suet, the juice of half a lemon, J teaspoonful each of powdered thyme and savory, and a small quantity of ground mace; add a seasoning to taste of salt and pepper, and bind the whole with a beaten egg. The stuffing is then ready for use. Of course, it can be made in larger or smaller quantities, according to the size of the fish. Veal Fricadelles.—(1) Finely chop 21b. of lean Veal and about 3oz. of cooked ham. Put 1 breakfast-cupful of bread- crumbs in a saucepan with J pint of milk, and stir it over the fire until cooked to a smooth paste, taking care it does not burn at the bottom. Mix the bread with the chopped Veal and ham, season the mixture with salt, pepper, and the juice of half a lemon, and work in with it Jib. of butter. When well mixed, divide the mixture into small equal-sized portions, roll them into balls, and then dip them in beaten egg. Put Jib. of butter into Veal—continued. a frying-pan, and when hot put in the balls and fry them till lightly browned. Every care must be taken not to burn them. Take the balls-out of the frying-pan, and stir into the butter 3 table-spoonfuls of flour. When dark brown,- turn the flour into the saucepan, pour in gradually 1J pints of stock, and when boiling put in the balls. Move the saucepan to the side of the fire and let the con- tents simmer slowly for an hour. Turn the fricadelles and gravy on to a hot dish, garnish with slices of lemon and sipjiets of toast or croutons of fried bread, and serve. (2) German.—Finely chop some uncooked lean Veal with half its bulk of lean ham, add chopped parsley, thyme, and lemon-peel in moderate quantities, and season t6 taste with salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, and a small quantity of cayenne. For lib. of the mixture, work in 1 teacupful of crushed biscuit- or cracker-crumbs, 3oz. of butter, and three eggs that have been well beaten with J teacupful of water. When well incorporated, mould the mixture to an oval or round shape, flatten it, put it in a baking-dish with about 2oz. of butter cut up into small pieces, strew plenty of biscuit-crumbs over the top, and bake it in a brisk oven until browned, basting it occasion- ally with the butter in the dish. Just before taking the fri'adelle out of the oven, pour over it 3 or 4 table- spoonfuls of cream. Prepare a nicely-flavoured brown sauce, thickening it with flour and butter kneaded together. When cooked, lift it carefully out of the baking-dish, place it on a hot dish, pour the gravy round it, and serve. Veal Fricassee with Scorzonera.—Put a breast of Veal cut in small pieces into a stewpan with about 2oz. of butter, put the lid on, and stand it close to the edge of the fire for half-an-hour. Wash some scorzonera, cut it into pieces about 2in. long, put them in with the meat with a piece of lemon peel and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, pour in sufficient water to make a good quan- tity of sauce, put the lid on the pan, and stew the con- tents until tender. When cooked, strain some of the liquor off the meat into a basin, beat it with the yolks of two eggs, and then return it to the stewpan. Let it remain at the side of the fire until thick, but without boiling it again. Turn the fricassee on to a hot dish, garnish it with slices of lemon, and serve. Veal Gravy.—Take lib. of lean ham cut in slices and a knuckle of Veal cut up, and put them in a well- buttered stewpan with any bones of chickens and rabbits which may be handy; put 2qts. of stock over this, cover it up, and boil down to a glaze. When it is deep red, fill up vdtli stock ; as soon as it boils, skim it well, add three or four cloves, two blades of mace, three carrots, and the same amount of chopped-up celery, turnips, and onions. Let it simmer for two or three hours, and strain it through a tammy sieve into a pan to cool for use. Veal Gravy Soup.—Put two or three pieces of butter into a stewpan, then a few slices of ham, slices of Veal cutlet, sliced onions, carrots, turnips, celery, and a few cloves. Pour in 1 table-spoonful of broth, and sweat the ingredients over a slow fire till the meat throws out ite juice; then put the stewpan over a quick fire and fry the contents till nicely browned. Put a bunch of sweet herbs in the stewpan, pour in about 3 pints of clear broth, and let it simmer gently till the meat is cooked. Pour the soup into a tureen, and serve it with a plate of sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread. Veal Ham.—Trim a leg of Veal to the shape of a ham. Mix together 1 pint of bay-salt, lib. of common salt, 2oz. of saltpetre, loz. of powdered cinnamon, and loz. of powdered juniper-berries. Rub the meat well with this mixture, and lay it on a tray with the skin downwards. Baste it well every day for a fortnight. At the end of that time, hang the meat over wood smoke for a fortnight. Afterwards boil it, or partially boil and tlien roast it. Veal-and-Ham Fritters.—Put lib. of flour on a table, and make a dent in the middle, in which put 1 salt- spoonful of salt and 3 table-spoonfuls of warmed butter; mix it well, pour in sufficient water to make a softish716 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, d-c., referred to, see under their special heads V eal—continued. Veal—continued. paste, and knead it, dipping the hands occasionally in warmed butter. Dust flour over the table, roll the paste to about Jin. in thickness, and cut it in halves. Mince lib. of raw Veal and Jib. of ham with two or three onions, and fry them in butter till nicely browned, seasoning them with salt and pepper and any other flavouring liked. Put table spoonfuls of the minced meat over one half of the paste, a short distance from each other. Moisten round each pile of mincemeat with a paste-brush dipped in water, then lay the other flat of paste over it, and press it round where the other one is moistened. Cut the paste out round the mincemeat. Put a lump of butter in a frying-pan, and make it hot; then put in the fritters, and fry them till nicely browned on both sides. When cooked, drain them well, and arrange them in a pyramid on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, and serve. Veal-and-Ham Patties.—Chop some cooked lean Veal, and mix with it half its quantity of ham. Put loz. of butter into a stewpan with 1 table-spoonful of flour, and stir it over the fire till mixed ; then put in the chop- ped meat, a small quantity of cream, and an equal quantity of Veal stock, the juice of half a lemon, 1 table-spoonful of essence of ham, a little grated lemon-peel and nutmeg, cayenne pepper, and salt. Stir the above ingredients over a slow fire till well mixed and hot. Butter some patty- pans, line them with putt' paste, put a small piece of bread in each, put some covers of paste on the top, damping the edges and trimming them round, brush them over with a paste brush dipped in beaten yolk of egg, and bake them in a quick oven for fifteen minutes. When cooked, take the patties out of the oven, cut the covers off, take out the bread, and scoop out the inside paste. Fill the crusts with the Veal mixture, and put the covers on again. Put the patties on a folded napkin or orna- mental dish-paper on a dish, garnish with parsley, and serve. Veal-and-Ham Pie.—(1) Cut the Veal into moderate sized pieces, and lard them with strips of bacon. Cut about half as much bacon as there is Veal into the same sized pieces, season them with chopped parsley, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, and fry them in butter. Butter a pie- mould and line it with putt' paste, then line it with a Veal forcemeat made from the trimmings of the meat, &c. Fill the mould with alternate layers of Veal, ham, and forcemeat, raising it in a dome, and finishing off with forcemeat. Cover the pie with a flat of puff paste, moisten the edges, press them together, and raise them about fin. above the edge of the mould. Crimp the edges, put another thin layer of puff paste on the top, and brush it over with beaten yolk of egg. Make a hole in the top of the pie, sketch a pattern over it with a sharp pointed knife, tie a strip of buttered paper round the mould, allowing it to come a good inch above the pie, and bake it from three to four hours in a moderate oven. When cooked, pour some rich gravy in the pie through the hole at the top, and leave it till cold. Take the pie out of the mould, put it on an ornamental dish paper or folded napkin on a dish, garnish it with parsley, and serve. (2) Cut about 2lb. of Veal cutlets into small pieces, and season them well with salt and pepper. Cut lib. of raw ham into slices. Fill a dish with alternate layers of the Veal and ham, putting here and there a few hard boiled yolks of eggs and stewed mushrooms, and cover the top with a thick layer of sausage forcemeat. Moisten with 1 glass of water, and bake the pie in a moderate oven. Serve it either hot or cold. (3) Butter a pie-dish, and line it with a rich puff paste. Cut the Veal into small pieces, and about one-third of the quantity of ham or lean bacon. Put some chopped mush- rooms in a frying-pan with a sprig of parsley and a small lump of butter, and fry them for a few minutes; then dredge in some flour, pour in h pint of gravy and 1 table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, and stir it over the fire till boiling. Fill the prepared pie-dish with the Veal and ham and six hard-boiled eggs cut in slices, and pour in the gravy and mushrooms. Season the pie with pepper and salt, cover it with a flat of puff paste moisten - ing it and trimming it off at the edges ; make a hole in the top, ornament it with paste leaves, and bake it for about one-hour-and-a- uarter. When cooked, take the pie out of the oven, pour a little more gravy through the bole at the top, and serve it either hot or cold. (4) Line a raised pie-mould with a rich paste. Cut some Veal into small pieces, mix a little chopped ham with it, and season it with salt, pepper, and grated nut- meg. Put the meat into the mould, pour in a little gravy, cover the pie with a flat of paste, moisten and press the edges together, raising them above the mould, and decorate the top with leaves, &c., that have been cut out of paste. Bake the pie for one-hour-and-a-half in a slow oven. Boil 1 pint of stock till reduced to \ pint, adding 1 wineglassful of wine and sufficient gelatine to make a stiff jelly. When the pie is cooked, lift one of the ornaments at the top, to pour in the gravy, then put it on again, and leave the pie till cold. Take the mould off, put the pie on a folded napkin on a dish with a stand, garnish with sprigs of parsley (see Fig. 965), and serve. Veal Jelly.—Cut lib. of Veal into very thin slices, put a layer of them at the bottom of a jar, cover with thin slices of turnip, and repeat this until all is used up. Two turnips should be sufficient. Sprinkle in 1 pinch of salt, pour in 1 teacupful of water, cover the jar, set it in a saucepan with boiling water to half its height, and simmer gently for about four hours. Strain through a jelly-bag, and use either hot or cold, the latter for pre- ference. Veal Kebobs.—Peel some Spanish onions and garlic, and cut them in thin slices. Cut also some thin slices of Veal and pickled pork of the same size as the onion slices, but rather thinner. Season the slices of meat with pepper, salt, and turmeric, and string them on a skewer or skewers in alternate order: onion, garlic, veal, and pork, and so on till the skewers are filled or the meat and onions used up. Fry them in butter till they are brown, and serve garnished with plenty of fried parsley. Veal Loaf.—(1) Put 1 Jib. of Veal in a stewpan with a carrot, onion, a bunch of sweet herbs, pepper and salt, and sufficient water to cover it, and stew the Veal gently till tender. Ornament the interior of a mould with hard-boiled eggs, beetroot, and olives, all cut into different shapes, and stuck on with half-set aspic jelly. Leave the mould till the jelly has set. Drain the Veal when cooked, trim off all the fat, chop it finely, and mix 1 pint of liquid jelly with it. When the mince is nearly cold, turn it carefully into the decorated mould, and leave it till set. Turn the shape out of the mould on to a fancy dish, garnish it with parsley, and serve. (2) Trim off the outside of 6oz. of cold cooked Veal, mince the meat, and mix with it 1 table-spoonful of chopped raw bacon, a few shreds of ham, loz. of butter, and one beaten egg. Season the mixture with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, and squeeze in a little lemon-juice. Shape717 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dc., referred to, see under their special heads. V eal—continued. the mixture into a loaf, smooth the surface over with the blade of a knife, put it in a baking-dish, and bake it for half-an-hour. When cooked, put the loaf on a hot dish, and serve it with a sauceboatful of rich brown gravy; or, if preferred, leave it till cold, and cut it in slices. (3) Trim off all the fat and skin from about IJlb. of Veal, mince the lean finely, and mix with it a third of its quantity of finely-chopped bacon. Soak a thick slice of bread in 1 teacupful of rich beef gravy, then mix it with the meat, with the beaten yolks of two eggs, seasoning with salt and pepper. Turn the mixture into a baking-dish, press it down firmly, and bake it for an hour in a moderate oven. When cooked and lightly browned, turn the bread out of the mould on to a hot dish, and serve. (4) Chop fine 41b. of raw Veal, mix with it Jib. of crackers rolled to large crumbs, three eggs, 2 teaspoonfuls of salt, 2 saltspoonfuls of pepper, and J saltspoonful of powdered allspice. If the Veal is quite lean, add 1 table- spoonful of butter. Put this mixture into a smooth tin mould or pan, just large enough to contain it, set it in a moderate oven, and bake it for two hours. When cooked, let it cool in the pan, and then turn it out. Serve cold in slices. (5) American.—Take about 2lb. of Veal (the lean part only) and parboil it; then take it out and chop it up fine with 4oz. of salt pork or bacon, and add four pounded butter crackers, two well-beaten eggs, 1 saltspoonful of pepper, half the quantity of grated nutmeg or mace, and 2 teaspoonfuls of salt. Add sufficient of the liquor in which the Veal was cooked to moisten it, shape it to an oval loaf, put it into a shallow tin baking-pan, pour in a little more of the Veal broth, and put it into the oven to bake. Baste frequently, and when it is of a brown colour take it out, let it get cold, cut it into slices, and serve. If raw Veal be used, it must be baked for two hours or so. (6) Choose a knuckle or any bony piece of Veal that has a large quantity of gelatine in it, and chop it into small pieces. Take out all the very small pieces of bone, put the meat into a saucepan with sufficient cold water to cover it, and boil it quickly for a few minutes ; then add one onion cut in slices, 1 saltspoonful of pepper, and 1 teaspoonful of salt, and let it simmer at the side of the fire until all the gristly parts are dissolved and the meat will come easily away from the bone, and the liquor is reduced to J pint. Take out the meat, remove the bones and strain the liquor, adding a little lemon juice, sage or thyme salt, and pepper, to season it. Cut the meat up, and add 2 table-spoonfuls of sifted cracker- or bread-crumbs and the meat liquor. Mix well, place it in a bread-pan in a cool place to harden, cut it into slices, and serve. Veal Mulligatawny Soup—Cut the best part of 4lb. of breast of Veal into small pieces, and put the remainder with the trimmings into a saucepan with 2qts. of water and a few whole black peppers and allspice. When the liquor boils, remove the scum, and let it continue boiling gently for one-hour-and-a-half. Peel and slice three or four onions, and fry them with the pieces of Veal in butter. V hen lightly browned, put them in a saucepan, strain the broth over them, and simmer gently for half- an-hour, keeping it well skimmed. Mix 2 table-spoonfuls each of curry powder and flour smoothly with a small quantity of cold water, and stir it into the soup, season- ing to taste with salt. When the Veal is tender, turn it with the soup into a tureen, and serve with a dish of plain boiled rice. Veal Olives.—(1) Cut an equal quantity of thin slices of lean Veal and bacon, and trim them to one size. Partially boil one or two onions, then drain them and mince them finely. Cover each slice of Veal with a slice of bacon, strew over them some of the minced onion, season with salt and pepper to taste and a small quantity of powdered sweet herbs, and roll them up tightly, tying them round with a piece of fine twine or thread. Put a piece of butter in a stewpan over the fire; when it boils put in the olives, and fry them until nicely browned; then drain them and remove the V eal—continued. twine. Peel and slice two or three onions, put them in the stewpan in which the olives were fried, with more butter if necessary, dredge them over with Hour, and fry them a golden brown ; then put in a few mushroom trimmings and sweet herbs, moisten them with a sufficient quantity of clear gravy to cover the olives, season to taste with salt and pepper, and place the sauce over the fire until it boils. Next strain it through a fine sieve, return it to the saucepan with the olives, and keep them simmering gently at the side of the fire till ready. When the olives are cooked, place them on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, garnish with small sippets of toast or croutons of bread nicely fried in butter, and serve. (2) Cut the Veal into strips 5in. long and 3in. broad, and beat them with a rolling-pin to flatten them. Finely chop a sufficient quantity of bacon with one-third of the quantity of suet, and flavour it with a small quantity of shallot, chives, grated lemon-peel, parsley, thyme, salt, and pepper. The herbs must be finely chopped. Mix in 1 teacupful of finely-grated breadcrumb, and suffi- cient beaten egg to bind the whole. Spread the mixture over the pieces of Veal, roll them up to an egg shape, and bind them round with thread. Melt a large piece of butter in a stewpan; then dredge the olives with flour, put them in the pan, and brown them all over, dredging them occasionally with flour. When browned, squeeze the juice of a lemon over the olives, dust them over with salt and pepper, pour in 1J pints of water, and stew them gently at the side of the fire for an hour. When cooked, take the olives out of the sauce- pan, remove the binding-threads, place them on a hot dish, strain their cooking-liquor over, and serve. (3) Cut thin slices off the best part of a leg of Veal, and trim them neatly to the shape of collops ; beat the collops lightly on both sides, mb them over with a seasoning of cloves, mace, salt, and pepper, and roll each up separately in a thin slice of streaky bacon. Butter the edges of a pie-dish, line them with a good paste, and lay in the rolls of bacon, with thirty forcemeat balls, four boned anchovies, three or four shallots, half-a-dozen bearded oysters, and a peeled and sliced lemon ; moisten to two-thirds of the height with equal quantities of white wine and broth and a small quantity of rich gravy, and put about 6oz. of butter broken in small pieces on the top. Cover the whole with puff paste, trim it neatly round the edges, moisten and press them together, and bake the pie in a good oven. Serve either hot or cold. (4) Take some thin cutlets of fillet of Veal, beat them flat, cut them into pieces of a convenient size, and season them with plenty of pepper, mace, grated lemon-peel, and salt. Lay a piece of fat on each slice of Veal, roll the Veal round it, tie it with a thread to keep it in shape, and fry the rolls a light brown ; then put them into a stewpan with 1 wineglassful of white wine, 1 table- spoonful of lemon pickle, some small mushrooms, and a couple of dozen fried oysters, and let them stew for nearly an hour. Put the stew on to a dish, and serve, first taking the threads off the rolls of Veal. (5) Cut the Veal in rather thin slices off the fillet, and spread over each some well-seasoned forcemeat. Roll the slices up very tightly, secure them with small skewers, and roll them in beaten egg and finely-grated breadcrumb, giving them a good coating. Put a good-sized lump of butter or lard in a flat stewpan, and when boiling put in the rolls and fiy them until nicely browned. Drain the butter off them, cover them with rich brown gravy, and stew them gently. When cooked, put the olives on a hot dish, pour the gravy over them, and serve. (6) Take six or eight Veal cutlets cut rather thin, brush them over with beaten yolk of egg, season them to taste, and then spread over them a layer of Veal force- meat. Roll them up, tie them with fine twine to keep them in shape, and fry them. Make some forcemeat balls of Jib. of Veal chopped very fine, Jib. of suet chopped fine, a small onion peeled and chopped fine, the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, mashed or chopped, a seasoning of grated nutmeg and lemon peel, a very little powdered mace, and pepper and salt. Mix all well together, and718 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Ordinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. Veal—continued. V eal—continued. then stir them to a paste with the beaten yolks of two eggs. Shape the paste into small halls, and fry them. When the rolled Veal cutlets or olives are fried, put them in a stewpan with an anchovy, a small quantity of pepper, a blade of mace, and sufficient good gravy to nearly cover them; put in the forcemeat balls also, and let all boil gently till the Veal is done. Take the Veal and 'the forcemeat balls out, strain the gravy, and thicken it with butter and flour. Lay the olives on a hot dish, cut the string and remove it, lay the forcemeat balls round the oli 'es, pour the gravy over, and serve hot. (7) Trim off the fat from Hlb. of Veal, cut it into thin strips about 3in. wide and 4in. long, and season them with salt and pepper. Mix with 3 table-spoonfuls of cracker-crumbs 4 teaspoonful of savory, 1 pinch of sage, a little salt and pepper, 2 teaspoonfuls of butter, and 1 table-spoonful of water. Spread the above mixture on the strips of Veal, roll them up, and tie them round with twine. Dip the olives in flour and fry them till brown in some pork-fat, then put them in a small sauce- pan. Put 1 table spoonful of flour in the pan, with the remainder of the fat that the olives were fried in, and stir it over the fire till smooth and brown ; then pour in gradually a little over 1 J pints of boiling water, season to taste with pepper and salt, and stir it two or three minutes longer. Pour the liquor into the saucepan over the olives, and keep them simmering by the side of the fire for two hours. When cooked, take the olives out of the gravy, cut the strings, put them on a hot dish, pour the gravy over them, and serve. (8) Prepare a small quantity of Veal forcemeat. Cut some slices < ft' a fillet of Veal, trim them, spread a layer of the forcemeat on each, sprinkle over them some finely- chopped oysters, and roll them up. Fasten the olives with small skewers, put them in a Dutch oven, and roast them in front of a clear fire, basting them occasionally with butter. Prepare a ragout with a sweetbread and some mushrooms and oysters, and turn it into the middle of a hot dish. When nicely browned, put the olives round the ragout, pour some rich gravy over them, and serve. Veal Olive Pie.—Dip some thin slices of Veal in beaten yolk of egg. Mix some grated lemon peel with some bread- crumbs, season them with grated nutmeg, salt, and pepper, and roll the slices of Veal in them. Roll the pieces of Veal up like olives, put them in a pie-dish, pour in about f pint of rich gravy, put in two or three small pieces of butter, line the edges of the pie-dish with a strip of puff paste, and cover the top with puff paste. Brush the pie over with beaten yolk of egg, and bake it for about an hour and a half in a moderate oven. When cooked, serve either hot or cold. Veal Omelet Faupiettes.— (1) Chop very finely some remains of cold Veal, dredge it over with flour, and season it with grated lemon peel, nutmeg, salt, and pepper, and a moderate quantity of lemon pickle. Put the mince into a stewpan with loz. or a little more of butter, moisten it with clear Veal gravy, and stir it over the fire until hot. Prepare a good omelet hatter, and season it moderately with salt and grated nutmeg. Put a lump of butter in a frying-pan, and when it boils pour in a thin layer of the batter and fry it; fry the remainder of the batter in the same way, but always be sure that the butter is boiling befoie putting in the batter. Put about 2 table-spoonfuls of the Veal mixture in each and fold them over; cut them into lengths, place them side by side in a frying-basket, put this into a stewpan of boiling lard, and fry until well browned. Drain the paupiettes for a minute on a sheet of kitchen-paper, then arrange them on a hot dish over which has been spread a fancy dish-paper, garnish with fried parsley (see Fig. 966), and serve. (2) German.—Put a little more than 1 teacupful of flour into a basin, season it with a little salt and pounded mace, and stir in gradually, keeping it quite smooth, six well-beaten eggs and f pint of milk ; then strain the mix- ture through a fine hair sieve. Put a lump of butter in a large frying-pan and melt it; then pour in a little of the batter at a time, keeping it as tbin as possible. As each omelet is cooked, turn it out, cut it square, and let it cool. Cut the meat off a cooked fillet of Veal into small pieces, put them in a mortar, and pound them. Chop and pound ill), of ham. Fry six chickens’ livers in butter, then chop and pound them. Mix all the above together. Stir the beaten yolks of two eggs and the white of one in with the pounded meat, then pass the mixture through a sieve. Spread the mixture over the omelets, divide them into strips 4in. long and lin. wide, and roll them up. Butter a saute-pan, and lay the paupietttes in it, side by side. Pour a little clarified butter over them, cover them with finely-grated breadcrumb, and bake them in a moderate oven for a-quarter of-an hour. When cooked, take the paupiettes out, put them on an orna- mental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Veal-and-Qyster Pie.—(1) Cut lib. of neck of Veal into small pieces, put them in a saucepan, cover them with water, and stew them for an hour. Cut 2oz. of pork into small pieces, put them in with the Veal, and add one chopped onion, 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, 1 table-spoon- ful of thickening, salt and pepper, and 1 teacupful of milk. Cook the mixture for twenty minutes longer, then turn it into a shallow dish, put a breakfast-cupful of oysters over the top, dredge in some pepper, salt, and flour, and cover the pie with a common pie-crust. Bake the pie for about half an-hour, and serve it either hot or cold. (2) Cut about Hlb. of Veal into small squares, put a layer of minced ham on each, season them with grated lemon-peel, pepper, and salt, and roll them up. Butter the edge of a pie-dish and line it with puff paste, put in a layer of the rolls, cover them with oysters, put in more rolls of Veal, which cover with oysters, and so on till the dish is full. Put 1 teacupful of gravy in a saucepan with the liquor of the oysters and the grated peel of half a lemon, and stir it over the fire till boiling ; then pour it over the pie, and season with pepper and salt. Cover the pie with a flat of putt' paste, moistening it and trimming it off at the edges, and making a small hole in the top. Ornament the pie according to fancy, brush it over with beaten yolk of egg, and bake it for about one- hour and a half in a moderate oven. When cooked, pour some gravy in the pie through the hole in the top, and serve either hot or cold. Veal-and-Parsley Pie. -Cut some steaks from a neck or leg of Veal. Put at the bottom of a pie dish a layer of chopped boiled parsley, over this a layer if Veal, then parsley again, and continue adding alternate layers of chopped boiled parsley and s ices of Veal till the dish is full. Put in as much good well-seasoned stock as the dish will hold without being tilled to the brim. Lay a narrow strip of puff paste or short-crust on the edge of the dish to cover it, put a cover of puff paste or short crust over the pie, moisten the edges slightly, press them lightly together, and trim them. Bake in a moderately hot oven. Veal Patties.—(1) Mince 341b. cf leg of Veal and Jib. of salt pork. Roll half-a-dozen soda crackers, anil sift them. Mix with the minced meat 1 table-spoonful each of salt and black pepper, one grated nutmeg, and two well beaten eggs. Mould the mixture into small oval shapes, put them in a baking dish, sprinkle the cracker-crumbs over the top, put a few small pieces of butter over them, and pour in 4 teacupful of water. Bake the patties in a quick oven, basting them frequently. When cooked, put theTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 719 for details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Veal—continued. patties on a hot dish, garnish them with fried parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of clear gravy. (2) Make some puff paste, give it four turns, set it on ice to harden, and then roll it out twice, leaving it the last time about lin. thick. Keep the paste in the ice-chest till very firm, then put it on the paste-hoard or table, and roll it to fin. in thickness. Cut the paste into rounds with a tin cutter 3 lin. in diameter. Dip a tin cutter 2i-in. in diameter in hot water, and with it cut about two-thirds through each of the rounds of paste. Put them in pans, and bake them in a very quick oven for ten minutes; then cool the oven a little and bake them for twenty minutes longer. Put about fib. of cooked Veal, cut into small pieces, in a saucepan with 4 pint of white sauce and 1 teaspoonful of lemon-juice, and stir the mixture over the fire till boiling. When the patties are cooked, take them out of the oven, lift off the pieces that were cut out, and scoop out the uncooked paste underneath with a teaspoon; then fill the hollow with the prepared Veal, and put the covers on again. Arrange the patties on a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish them with parsley, and serve. (3) Make some puff paste, and line some patty-tins with it. Have some cold roasted Veal very finely minced with half the quantity of ham also finely minced, season with a little grated lemon-peel, grated nutmeg, and salt and pepper, and moisten with some Veal gravy and a little milk. Put 1 table-spoonful of this into each of the paste-lined tins, and bake in a quick oven. Serve hot in the tins they were baked in ; or, if preferred cold, take them out of the tins, arrange them on a dish, and garnish with parsley. Veal Paupiettes.—(1) Cut some thin cutlets from a fillet of Vea1, and beat them flat and even. Mince a little Veal very fine, mix it with some of the kidney-fat chopped very fine, and six anchovies chopped fine also, and adding a little salt, powdered mace, and ginger. Put this mixture over the slices of Veal, and roll them up. Beat up an egg, dip the rolled slices into it, and then dip them into sifted breadcrumbs. Let them stand for a-quarter-of-an- liour or twenty minutes, then egg them again, roll them in breadcrumbs, and fry them a golden brown in boiling lard or clarified dripping. Stew them then in some rich gravy with | pint of white wine and a little walnut pickle. (2) Cut some thin slices of Veal off a fillet, flatten them with the blade of a knife, and roll them in beaten egg. Prepare some Veal forcemeat, put a layer of it on each slice, roll them up, anil tie them round with twine. Brush the rolls of Veal over with beaten egg, and coat them thickly with breadcrumbs. Butter a baking-dish, put in the meat, and bake for lialf-an hour in a quick oven. Put 1 pint of rich gravy in a saucepan with a few washed truffles and pickled mushrooms, and boil it. Put the meat on a hot dish, garnish it with fried Veal forcemeat balls, pour the sauce and mushrooms over it, and serve. Veal Pie.—(1) Remove the sinewy skin from about 41b. of the cushion of Veal, cut half of the meat into rather large square-shaped pieces, and chop the remainder. Mix with the chopped meat a little more than its quantity of chopped fresh bacon and 4 table-spoonfuls of lean cooked ham, also finely chopped. Lard the large pieces of Veal with fillets of raw ham and bacon, and season with spices. Put Jib. of chopped bacon-fat into a stewpan, and melt it; then put in the larded cakes, and fry them for about fifteen minutes over a quick fire. Pour in with the pieces of meat 1 wineglassful of white wine, and boil it till reduced ; then turn the meat into a basin, and leave it till cold. Butter the inside of an oblong-shaped cold pie-mould, line it with short-paste, then spread a layer of the minced meat at the bottom and round the sides. Fill the pie with the larded Veal and some boiled bacon cut into moderate-sized pieces, raising it to a dome. Cover the meat with a thin flat of short-paste, trimming it evenly round the edges and pressing them together, then stick a flat of puff paste on the top, notch it, and brush it over with beaten egg. Put the pie in a rather slack oven, and lialf-an-hour later cover it with a sheet of Veal—continued. buttered paper, baking it for two hours in all. When cooked, take the pie out of the oven, pour in through the top a little more than 1 teacupful of liquid aspic jelly, and leave it till cold. This pie is better when served on the following day. (2) Chop and pound in a mortar 41b. each of minion fillet of Veal and chicken-flesh, and mix with them one beaten egg. Pick and chop 21b. of Veal kidney-suet, put it in a mortar, and pound it; then mix it with the meat, and pound all to a paste. Mix 2 table-spoonfuls of c'houx- paste, without sugar, and another egg. When quite smooth, take the mixture out of the mortar, and keep it on ice for an hour. Take two-thirds of the forcemeat, and with two table spoons mould it into quenelles. Poach the quenelles in boiling salted water, and when set chain them on a cloth. Butter a hot pie mould, line it with short-paste, then coat the paste with a thin layer of the forcemeat. Arrange the quenelles in the hollow of the mould in rings, alternating each of them with a slice of raw peeled truffle. Cut some sweetbreads into scollops, fry them lightly in butter, then fill the mould with them and some sliced truffles, building them in a dome-like fashion. Put a few thin slices of bacon on the top, then cover the pie with a round of short-paste, trim it off at the edges, moisten them with a little water, and pinch them together. Make a slight incision in the centre of the pie, ornament the top with leaves cut out of paste, brush it over with beaten egg, and put it in a moderate oven to bake for an hour. When cooked, take the pie out of the mould, slip it on-to a hot dish, lift the cover off, take out the bacon, pour in a small quantity of Madeira wine, replace the cover, and serve. (3) Trim the skin and sinewy part off lib. of lean Veal, chop the meat, put it into a mortar with 21b. of chopped Veal kidney-suet, and pound them ; then season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, and stir in a beaten egg. Set the forcemeat on ice for lialf-an-hour. Prepare a short- paste with fib. of butter and 2lb. of flour. Butter the inside of a hot pie-mould, stand it on a baking-sheet, and line it with the paste. Mix \ teacupful of chopped claves with the forcemeat, then fill the mould with it, building it to a dome; put a flat of paste on the top, trim it off round the edges, moisten them with a little water, and press them together. Brush the pie over with a paste brush dipped in beaten egg, and bake it in a moderate oven for three-quarters-of-an-hour. When cooked, take the mould off the pie and slip it on to a hot dish ; with a small knife make a hole in the centre, and remove two- thirds of the forcemeat, thus leaving a cavity, which fill with a ragout of chopped cooked lamb’s sweetbreads and mushrooms that have been mixed with a little reduced brown sauce. Put the paste cover on the pie again, and serve. (4) Lay in the bottom of a pie-dish some thin slices of Veal, sprinkle them with a little chopped parsley, chopped sage and thyme, a little salt and white pepper, and a very little cayenne ; over this lay a few slices of ham and a few forcemeat balls, then some thin slices of Veal, which season as before, then slices of ham and forcemeat balls, and so on till the dish is almost full; then add the yolks of five hard-boiled eggs and some good Veal stock. Make some light puff paste, lay a strip of it round the edge of the pie-dish, and cover the pie with puff paste,720 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Veal—continued. pressing it on to the strip of paste laid on the edge of the dish. Make a hole in the centre of the crnst with the blade of a knife. Bake for an hour, and just before serving pour 1 teacupful of cream through the hole in the top by means of a funnel. Set the pie-dish on a flat dish covered with a folded napkin (see Fig. 967), and serve. (0) Fill a pie-dish with alternate layers of slices of the meat oft' a knuckle of Veal and ham, putting on each layer of Veal a seasoning of pepper and salt and a few slices of hard-boiled eggs. Pour in some gravy made from Veal- bones flavoured with a little mushroom powder and a very little cucumber ketchup, put on a cover of either short-crust or puli' paste, and bake. (6) Put into a pie-dish two sweetbreads sliced and seasoned with a mixture of salt, pepper, a little grated nutmeg, and a very little powdered clove, and put in also some steaks cut oil' a knuckle of Veal. The steaks should be cut without any bone, and they should be seasoned with the same mixture of spice as the sweetbreads. Put in among the meat the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs and a few oysters. When the dish is filled, cover the meat with thin slices of ham, and half till the dish with stock made of Veal-bones. Lay a strip of puff paste on the edge of the dish wide enough to cover it, brush this paste over with a little water, put a cover of puff paste over the pie, trim the edges, and press them lightly together; cut a hole or slit in the middle of the crust, and conceal it by laying an ornament made of the paste on top. When the pie is baked and taken from the oven, pour in enough veal gravy, mixed with a little cream and nicely thick- ened with flour, to fill up the pie. It may be poured in through a funnel inserted in the hole cut in the pie-crust. Replace the ornament when the gravy is in. (7) Cut into small pieces the meat of a cold cooked loin of Veal, and season it with salt, pepper, grated lemon- peel, and nutmeg, and a moderate quantity of finely- minced parsley. Stew the bones of the Veal in 1 pint of stock until the liquor is reduced to a little less than f pint, then strain it, pour it into a stewpan in which has been mixed loz. of butter and 1 table-spoonful of flour, and add 1 teaspoonful of lemon pickle, and about h wineglassful of white wine. Take in equal quantities some loin of Veal-fat and flour, rub them together till smooth, then mix to a paste with water. Roll the paste out on a floured board, fold it over, roll it out again, and line the sides of a buttered pie-dish with some of it. When the gravy has boiled and thickened, mix it with the Veal and turn it into the pie-dish. Roll out the trim- mings of the paste into a thin flat, cover the pie with it, moisten and press the edges together, and bake it in a moderate oven. To glaze the pie, brush it over with beaten white of egg before baking it. (8) Select a piece of knuckle of Veal with the gristle adhering to it, put it in a saucepan with Veal stock to cover, and stew it until like a jelly. Let the meat cool, then cut it as well as the gristle into small pieces. Butter a mould, put in the hard-boiled yolks, then the pieces of meat and gristle ; cut the whites of twelve eggs into rings, and lay them ornamentally in the mould ; put here and there a few small pieces of beetroot, the red part of a carrot, and some green pickles ; season well with grated nutmeg, salt and pepper, and moisten to height with the gravy in which the Veal was boiled. Put the pie in the oven, and bake it for half-an hour. When cooked, leave it until quite cold. Spread a fancy dish-paper or a napkin over a dish, turn the shape out of the mould on to it, garnish with a few sprigs of well-washed and dried parsley, and serve. (9) Use cold cooked Veal, trim oil' all the fat and skin, mince the lean as finely as possible, and mix with it about a quarter o its quantity of finely minced bacon, the grated rind of one lemon, small or large, according to the quantity of the meat, and a small quantity of the juice. Season the mixture to taste with salt, mace, and a small quantity of cayenne pepper. Butter the edges of a pie-dish, and line them with a good puff paste. Beat the yolks of three or four eggs up with the mince, put it into the pie-dish, cover with a flat of the same paste, trim it neatly round the edges, moisten them with a little V eal—continued. beaten white of egg, and press them together. Bake the pie in a moderate oven, and serve it either hot or cold. Veal Pie a la Franqaise.—Trim off the skin from some cold remains of roast Veal, and mince the meat as finely as possible with the third of its quantity of ham. Open and beard two dozen oysters, mix them with the Veal, season the mixture with powdered mace, grated lemon- peel, salt and pepper, and a few drops of mushroom ketchup, and moisten it with the strained liquor of the oysters and a moderate quantity of rich brown gravy. Prepare a nice puff paste, line a buttered pie-dish with it, put in the above mixture, cover with a flat of paste, trim it oft' neatly round the edges, moisten them with a little water, and pinch them together. Bake the pie for about half-an-hour, or until the paste is cooked, and serve. Veal Pot-Pie.—(1) Cut 21b. of the breast of Veal into pieces about lin. square. After wiping the pieces of meat with a damp towel, put them over the fire in 2qts. of cold water, with three cloves, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and a dozen peppercorns or a small red pepper, and let it slowly reach the boiling-point, removing all scum as it rises. When the broth is quite free from scum, cover the saucepan containing it, and set it where its contents can simmer gently for about two hours. Meanwhile peel lqt. of small potatoes, and lay them in cold water; at the end of two hours put them with the Veal to boil. Then quickly sift together lqt. of flour, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and 2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder, and mix them to a soft dough with about 1 pint t f cold milk or water, using no more than is required to just wet the flour. Put this dough at once into the saucepan with the Veal and potatoes, either in one flat piece laid on the top of these ingredients, or in table-spoonfuls, wetting the spoon in the broth before using it to form each dumpling. Cover the saucepan, and boil its contents steadily for twenty minutes. Then serve the pot-pie hot. If the gravy is liked rather rich, stir into it the yolks of a couple of raw eggs before sending to table. In the old-fashioned pot-pie, which was cooked by the general heat of a moderate lire of wood, the entire bottom and sides of the dinner-pot in which it was made were lined with the crust, and the meat, already partly cooked, was put into the crust. With the moderate heat it was possible to brown the crust without burning it, but with our modern cooking apparatus this would be a doubtful experiment to attempt. (2) Cut up 2lb. or 3lb. of Veal from the breast or scrag into small pieces or chops, and put it into a saucepan, adding water to cover and ^lb. of salt pork, or 1 table- spoonful of salt. Boil gently, removing the scum as it rises, until the meat is tender. Place the whole in a dish to cool, and make a crust as follows: Take lqt. of flour, 2 teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, 1 teaspoonful of salt, 1 teaspoonful of ammonia or bicarbonate of soda, and a small piece of butter, and mix with milk. Roll out the dough, and line the inside of the pot with it, reserving enough to cover, and also a small quantity to be cut into squares, to be placed inside. Strain the water in which the meat was boiled, and put it in the pot with the meat. If there is not enough to nearly reach the top of the side crust, add more water, drop in the bits of paste or dough, dredge in 1 table-spoonful of flour, add Jib. of butter in pieces, put in a large teaspoonful of pepper, then lay some skewers across from one side of the crust to the other, put on the top crust, and make a slit in the centre to let out the steam. Cover the pot close, set it over a moderate fire, and cook for three quarters-of an hour, taking care that the fire is not so fierce as to burn it. Half-a-dozen small potatoes may be put into the pie with the meat. Dish the top crust up first, then take up the meat and gravy on another dish, and lastly the brown crust from the sides on a dish with some of the gravy over; or take the meat into the centre of the dish, put the crust round it, and pour the gravy over. Veal-and-Fotato Rissoles.—(1) Boil lib. of potatoes till soft, then strain and mash them. Finely chop some coldARTISTIC CENTRE-PIECES.TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 72] VOL. II. Veal—continued. roast Veal and two hard-boiled eggs, and mix them with the potatoes. Beat the yolk of an egg, stir it in with the above ingredients, then add the well-whisked white. Divide the above mixture into small portions, and mould them into balls. Brush the balls over with beaten yolk of egg, put them in a Dutch oven, and brown them in front of a clear fire. When cooked, put the balls on a folded table-napkin or ornamental dish-paper, garnish them with parsley, and serve. (2) Boil two eggs hard and chop them fine ; mix with them fib. of mashed potatoes, a seasoning of chopped parsley, pepper, salt, and lemon-juice, and some finely- minced cold chicken or Veal, and stir them well together; then mix them to a paste with the beaten yolk of an egg, and the white beaten separately to a stiff froth and stirred in afterwards. Make the paste into balls, brush them over with the beaten yolk of an egg, roll them in a paper of breadcrumbs, and brown them in a Dutch oven before the fire. Veal-and-Fotato Salad.—Cut into small pieces an equal quantity of cold cooked Veal and boiled potatoes, and put them in a salad-bowl with a little chopped celery. Mix together J teacupful of salad-oil and J teacupful of vinegar, and season it with a small quantity of pepper, salt, and mustard. Pour the dressing over the salad, and serve. Veal Pudding.—Cut some lean Veal into small thin squares, put them in a frying-pan with three or four rashers of bacon and a little clarified butter, add a little thyme, and dust in a little pepper and salt. Fry the Veal for fifteen minutes, then pour in h teacupful of water, and boil it; then take the pan off the fire, and leave the Veal till cool. Make a good suet-crust, and line a buttered pudding-basin until it, put in the Veal and ham, and pour in the gravy. Cover the pudding with a flat of crust, moistening and pressing the edges together, then tie the basin in a cloth, put it in a saucepan of boiling water, and keep it boiling for an hour. When cooked, untie the cloth, turn the pudding out of the basin on to a dish, and serve. Veal Ragoflt.—(1) Cut some cutlets from a cold roasted fillet, loin, or neck of Veal, flour them, and fry them a light brown in boiling butter or dripping, then take them from the pan. Put 1 pint of boiling water or stock into the frying-pan, and let it boil up for one minute. Put into a saucepan over the fire about loz. of butter, and let it melt while the gravy from the frying-pan is strained. When the butter is melted, add to it as much flour as will dry it up, and stir it over the fire for a few minutes; add to it by degrees the strained gravy from the frying-pan, and let it boil for ten minutes; add to it 2 table-spoonfuls of wine or mushroom ketchup, pepper and salt to taste, and a little mace. Put the meat into a stewpan, strain this gravy over it, and let it simmer very gently till the meat is quite warmed through. A few slices of cold boiled bacon may be warmed up at the same time in the gravy with the meat. (2) Cut about 31b. of Veal into small pieces. Put 3 table-spoonfuls of butter in a saucepan with 3 table spoonfuls of flour, and stir it over the fire till smooth and brown; then put in the meat, and fry it till well browned. Put a bunch of sweet herbs in with the meat, and pour in lqt. of water. When boiling, move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and keep the liquor simmering. Cut a large turnip into small cubes, put them in a frying-pan with one large sliced onion and Jib. of butter, and fry them till nicely browned; then put them in with the meat, season with salt and pepper, and let it simmer two-hours and-a half longer. Put some plain boiled rice or macaroni on a hot dish, turn the ragout on to it, and serve it while very hot. Veal Ragoflt a la Chef de Cuisine.—Cut some slices off the leg of Veal, trim them, beat them lightly, and dip them in beaten yolk of egg. Mix a small quantity of minced Veal, 2 table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped beef-suet, and half a dozen chopped oysters, seasoning with powdered mace, cloves, and nutmeg, and a little pepper and salt. V eal—continued. Put a layer of the forcemeat over each of the slices, roll them up, tie them with twine, fix them on the spit, and roast them in front of a clear fire. Mix a beaten egg with the forcemeat, divide it into small portions, and mould them into little balls. Put a lump of butter into a frying-pan, and melt it; then put in the forcemeat balls, and fry them till lightly and equally brow-ned. Put 1 oz. of butter in a saucepan with 1 table-spoonful of flour, stir them over the fire till well mixed but not browned, then pour in £ pint of gravy and 1 wineglassful of white wine, add one anchovy and one shallot, and continue stirring it over the fire until boiling. When cooked, cut the string oft' the rolls of Veal, put them on a hot dish with the forcemeat balls, pour the sauce over them, garnish with slices of lemon, and serve. Veal Ragoflt a la Turque.—Cut some loin of Veal into small pieces, put them into an earthenware stewpan, with three sliced onions, three heads of garlic, a small quantity of cumin, salt and pepper, and \ breakfast-cupful of vinegar. Put the lid on the pan, lute it round the edges with flour-and-water paste so that no steam shall escape, put it at the side of the fire, and let the contents cook gently from three to four hours. When the meat is tender, turn the stew on to a hot dish, and serve. Veal Rissoles.—Finely mince 111), of Veal and Jib. of suet. Soak 21b. of breadcrumbs in a little milk till soft, mix them with the Veal and suet, season with a little pounded mace, pepper, and salt, and bind with the beaten yolks of one or two eggs. Mould the mixture into small balls, brush them over with clarified butter, and cover them thickly with breadcrumbs. Put a lump of butter in a frying-pan, and melt it; then put in the rissoles, and fry Fig. 968. Veai. Rissoles. them till nicely brow-ned all over. Drain the rissoles, put them on a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish them with fried parsley (see Fig. 968), and serve them with a sauceboatful of rich brown gravy. Veal Rolls.—(1) Take some rather thin Veal cutlets with- out bone or fat, score and chop them on one side a little, and rub the side that has been chopped and cut with the beaten yolk of an egg. Spread a layer of Veal forcemeat over them, roll each one up tight, bind it firmly with fine twine, brush them over with the beaten yolk of egg, roll them in a paper of breadcrumbs, lay them in a buttered pie-vlish, put them into a hot oven, and bake for half-an- liour. Pour over them some good brown gravy with some pickled mushrooms boiled in it, and serve hot. (2) Cut either fresh or previously cooked Veal into very thin slices. Mix with some grated breadcrumb in small quantities some chopped suet, grated ham, finely-minced parsley and shallot, and a few stewed and minced mush- rooms. Season the mixture with salt and pepper, also a small quantity of pounded mace, and spread it over the slices of Veal. Roll the slices up and tie them tightly round with twine. Lay the rolls side by side in a stew-- pan, moisten to height with gravy ami a couple of wdneglass- fuls of sherry, and stew them very gently until tender. V hen cooked, lay the rolls on a hot dish, skim and pour their cooking-sauce over them, garnish with croutons of fried bread, and serve. Veal Sandwiches.—Chop some cold roast Veal, and put it in a mortar with some salt, pepper, and a small quantity of tarragon vinegar. Cut some hard-boiled eggs into slices, remove the yolks, being careful not to break the For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fee., referred to, see under their special heads 3 ATHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. m For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, tic., referred to, see under their special heads. Veal—continued. rings of white, put them in the mortar with the Veal, and pound them well. Spread a little mixed mustard over some slices of bread, then lay the white rings of egg on them, and fill each ring with the pounded mixture. Cover them with slices of bread, and press them lightly together. Cut the sandwiches into halves, and serve them. Veal Sausages.—(1) Chop 21b. of Veal very fine, carefully picking from it all skin and sinew, mix with it lib. of finely chopped beef-suet, and season it well with salt, pepper, chopped parsley, thyme, and marjoram. Put the mixture into well-cleaned skins, and tie them at intervals with fine twine. (2) Put some lean Veal and an equal quantity of fat bacon into a mortar with an anchovy or two and some sage, pound and beat them to a paste, mixing all evenly together, and seasoning with salt and pepper. When re- quired for use, form it into sausages, and fry them. Serve on stewed vegetables, or with white collops, or with fried sippets of bread. Veal Shape.—Put ljlb. of Veal in a saucepan with one or two onions, a small stick of celery, a carrot, a bunch of sweet herbs tied together, and salt and pepper to taste ; pour in sufficient cold water to cover it, put the lid on, and stew gently at the side of the fire until tender but not too much done. Ornament the interior of a mould with slices of hard boiled eggs, fancy shaped pieces of beetroot and pieces of olives, sticking them in with liquid aspic jelly, and leave them until set. When cooked, drain the Veal, free it from all skin and fat, and mince it finely ; then mix it up with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of the liquid jelly, and leave it until half cold. Next place the mince in the mould, being careful not to disturb the decoration, and leave it for a few hours in a cold place. When ready to serve, dip the mould in hot water, taking it out again quickly, wipe it, turn the contents on to a dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or a fancy dish-paper, and garnish with parsley and rings of tongue. Veal Soup.—(1) Cut the meat off a knuckle of Veal, break the bones, put them into a saucepan with 4qts. of water, and stew them to make a broth. Cut the meat into small pieces, put them in an earthenware jar with Alb. of lean ham, also cut in pieces, four sliced carrots, two sliced turnips, a head of celery cut up, and \ table-spoonful of pepper- corns. Put a cover on the jar, and stand it in the oven till the vegetables begin to get soft and the gravy drawn from the meat. Strain the broth off the bones into the jar of meat, add 1 teacupful of well-washed rice, put the lid on the jar again, and cook the contents for four hours in a slow oven. Pass the soup through a fine hair sieve and keep it in a cool place till the following day; then skim off all the fat. Put the soup in a saucepan with 2oz. of boiled vermicelli, and boil it up; then turn it into a soup-tureen, and serve it with a plate of sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread. (2) Put lib. of lean Veal cut in small pieces into a stewpan with a knuckle broken in pieces, and 3 pints of cold water. When boiling, remove all the scum that may have formed on the top of the liquor, add a turnip, peeled and cut into small pieces, move the saucepan to the edge of the fire, and let the soup simmer gently for five hours. Soak loz. of tapioca in cold water. Strain the soup, return it to the saucepan, put in the soaked tapioca, and boil it for fifteen minutes, stirring all the time. Beat the yolks of two eggs with 1 teacupful of cream, then stir in gradually a small quantity of the soup. Move the remainder of the soup to the edge of the fire, then stir the mixed eggs in quickly, seasoning to taste with salt and pepper. Pour the soup into a tureen, and serve it with a plate of sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread. (3) Put into the soup-pot 61b. of the knuckle of Veal, Jib. of lean ham or bacon, six medium-sized peeled onions, two heads of washed and trimmed white celery, two slices of crumb of bread, a small quantity of whole white pepper, three blades of mace, a bunch of well-washed parsley, a sprig of thyme, and loz. of whole blanched almonds; pour Veal—continued. over them lgall. of water, and let it simmer for eight hours. Strain it, let it stand till quite cold, and then remove all the fat. Boil it up, remove it from the fire, and stir in by degrees 1 pint of rich cream. Pour it into a tureen, and serve. Veal Stock or Blond de Veau.—(1) Melt a little butter in a stewpan, then put in four sliced onions, 41b. of leg of Veal, 21b. of gravy beef, and two old fowls off which the flesh has been cut. Pour in 1 pint of stock, stand the stewpan over the fire, and boil the moisture down to a glaze; then pour in 5qts. of stock, and put in a heaped table-spoonful of salt. When boiling, skim the stock, put in some carrots and leeks, and let it simmer gently for four hours by the side of the fire. Strain the stock through a broth-napkin, leave it till cool, then skim off all the fat. Trim the fat oft’ and chop the flesh of the fowls finely, put it in a mortar, and pound it to a pulp; then put it in a large stewpan, mix in first a small quantity of Veal stock, and then add the rest. Stand the stewpan over the fire, stir the contents till boil- ing, then move it to the side, and let them simmer for ten minutes. If quite clear at the end of that time, strain the stock through a broth-napkin, to be kept till wanted. (2) Cut about ljlb. of lean Veal into small pieces, put them in a stewpan with three peeled and sliced onions, and a good-sized lump of butter, and toss them over the fire until nicely browned. Chop Jib. of ham, put it in with the Veal, pour in 1J pints of cold clear stock that has been perfectly freed of fat, and boil it until reduced almost to a glaze. Next put in the saucepan two cow-heels that have been cut up into convenient-sized pieces, two peeled carrots, a head of celery that has been washed and cut up into convenient lengths, a few sprigs of thyme and parsley, a bay-leaf or two, and a blade of mace. Pour in 2qts. of cold clear stock, season to taste with salt and pepper, and boil the whole gently for two or three hours. Afterwards strain the stock into a basin, and when cold skim off the fat. It is then ready for use. Veal Tendons a la Frovensale.—Cut about 21b. of tendons of Veal into small squares, put them in a stewpan witli 1 teacupful of salad oil, two large sliced onions, a chopped clove of garlic, a sprig of thyme, and half a bay-leaf, dust over a little salt and pepper, put the stewpan over a slow fire, and keep the contents simmering for two hours, stirring frequently. At the end of that time, pour A pint of broth in with the tendons, add 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped parsley, and boil them for ten minutes longer. Arrange the tendons in a pile on a hot dish, strain the cooking-liquor through a fine hair sieve over them, and serve. Veal Turnover.—Mince very line some cold roast Veal, seasoning it with pepper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg. Beat up two eggs, and mix with them gradually J pint of milk; mix into this sufficient flour to make a moderately stiff batter, mixing in also a seasoning of chopped parsley, salt, and pepper. Put 2oz. of butter over the fire in a frying-pan, and when it is boiling hot, pour in the batter; as soon as it begins to set, lay the mince- meat in the centre of it. Take care that the batter does not burn, and do not let it fry too quickly. When it is Fig. 969. Veal Turnover. done on one side, fold the edges of the batter over to the middle so as to enclose the meat (see Fig. 969), and then turn it with a cake spatula. When it is quite done, slip it on to a hot dish, taking it from the frying-pan with the723 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Veal—continued. cake spatula. Serve hot, with a little good white gravy in a small tureen. Vol-au-Vent of Veal.—Mince some cold Veal, season it to taste with grated lemon-peel, chopped parsley, salt, anil pepper, put it into a stewpan with a moderate quantity of white sauce, and stir it over the fire until hot. Make sufficient puff paste, roll it out to about lin. in thickness, and cut it to a round shape with a large tin cutter; then with a smaller cutter cut a circle half way through the paste, brush round the edge of the paste with a paste- brush dipped in beaten egg, and put it into a brisk oven until well risen and nicely browned. When cooked, lift the paste where it is marked round the circle, and scoop out some of the soft part, making a hollow deep enough to hold the minced Veal. Fill the vol-au-vent with the mince, put it on a hot dish on which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, and serve. VEGETABLES (Fr. Legumes; Ger. Gemuse; Ital. Vegetabili; Spi. Vegetables).—A great trouble seems to exist amongst cooks and others in their efforts to define the distinction between Vegetables and fruit. In a culinary sense the distinction is somewhat simplified, the term Vegetables being generally applied to those articles which have grown in or about the earth, and are cooked, or dressed uncooked, as savouries; fruits, on the contrary, are usually associated with sweets. Literally, Fig. 970. Vegetable-washer (A. B. Marshall). the term Vegetables, derived from the Latin Vegetare, would include all things that grow from the earth as members of the Vegetable Kingdom; but in a more limited sense, the term Vegetables might be applied to all those edible growths that are included amongst our Vegetable foods without being connected with the organs of Vegetable reproduction, which are known, correctly speak- ing, as fruits. This difficulty of distinction is very patent when we remember that some fruits arc in a culinary sense styled Vegetables, amongst those being tomatoes, vegetable marrows, cucumbers, peas, beans, &c. Then, again, the stalks of leaves known as rhubarb, are esteemed as fruit amongst cooks. Nuts, Fig. 971. Vegetable-peeler (Benham and Froud). again, which are most correctly speaking the fruit of the tree which bears them, are differently designated, when they are numbered amongst the dishes of a dessert. They are not Vegetables, they are nuts. Vegetables—continued. From the foregoing it will be understood that, from a culinary point of view, it would be impossible to draw any hard-and-fast line as to what should be called Vegetables and what fruit. Cooley tells us that “Vegetables are organic beings, which are distinguished from animals by a number of characteristics, but, like them, are composed of certain Fig. 972. Vegetable Scoops or Spoons (A. Lyon). proximate principles or compounds, which possess a high degree of scientific interest, and in many cases are invaluable to man. Among the most important of these are: albumen, gluten, gum, lignin, starch, sugar, tannin, wax, the fixed and volatile oils, the resins and gum-resins, the alkaloids, and innumerable forms cf extractive matter.” Kettner supplies us with some very interesting observa- tions on the subject as applied to the use of Vegetables for food in this country. He has written: There are no finer Vegetables to be found anywhere than in Eng- land; and the English do not know how to eat them. The weak point of an English dinner is always the Vege- tables. Some persons might fix upon the made dishes as Fig. 973. Vegetables in Fancy Shapes. most wanting, but this would be wrong, seeing that we could have a very good dinner without a single made dish. As far as animal food can go there are some dinners quite perfect, with a good soup, a little plain boiled fish, and roast meat or game; but the dinner fails because the Vegetables are at fault.” “I have observed,” says Walker, in a book written by him, called the “Original,” “ that whenever the Vege- tables are distinguished for their excellence the dinner is always particularly enjoyed; and if they were served with each dish, as they are most appropriate and fresh from the dressing, it would be a great improvement on the present style. With some meats something of the kind is practised, as peas with duck, and beans with bacon, and such combinations are generally favourites, but the system might be much extended, and with great advantage. With respect to variety of Vegetables, I think the same rule applies as to other dishes. I would not have many sorts For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. 3 a 2724 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Fc., referred £o, see under their special heads. Vegetables—continu ed. on the same occasion, but would study appropriateness and particular excellence. This is a matter for study and combination, and a field for genius. It is a reasonable object for attention, as it is conducive to real enjoyment, and has nothing to do with mere display.” This is very true, and to tiie eye of the initiated nothing can be more ridiculous than to see an English dinner-plate heaped up with a confusion of Vegetables, none of them too well dressed, except the potato, which is always present, and generally good. Do those English worthies who cannot now eat a morsel of food unless accompanied with a potato ever try to imagine what dinners were two centuries ago, when potatoes were as rare as truffles ? Fig. 974. Spiral Vegetable-cutters. Kettner goes much more deeply into the subject. He observes : “ The great fault, however, of the English treat, ment of Vegetables goes much deeper than Walker indi- cates, and it is a moral fault, as well as one of taste—a great social wrong, as well as a gastronomical blunder. Take the genera] run of English tables, putting out of account the very poor and the highly refined; from one year’s end to another one will probably never on a single day see there a dish of Vegetables to be eaten alone. This is a political error; for there is many a poor man obliged most days to dine on Vegetables with nothing else; while our sleek middle-classes protest every day of their lives against this fare for themselves—they will never condescend to eat a Vegetable by itself. A fine example for their servants, who are taken from the poorer classes; and a fine thought for the peasantry to know that not only will their masters refuse a Vegetable din- ner—but also they will never look at a Vegetable as a thing to be eaten by itself! Scorn of the peasants’ food is all the more remarkable inasmuch as a vegetable dish may be the greatest delicacy of the table. This is one of the advantages which the Catholic religion has contrived for the French ; it has compelled them to make the best of Lenten fare. In Eng- land this is flat Popery; but it is a species of Popery to which the poor man is obliged to submit, and to which we ought all to be converted. At a French table the vegetable dish at the end of dinner is as much coveted and counted on as the pudding and tarts are by children at an English table. Almost the only Vegetable which Englishmen eat by itself is the arti- choke, and this entirely because it cannot be put on their plates with meat and eaten with a fork—they have to strip it with their fingers. There is something in aspa- Fig. 975. Crulls. Vegetables - continued. ragus, too, which conduces to the same arrangement; but if by any possibility, an Englishman can get the asparagus on the same plate with his meat, depend upon it, he will. He is not going to eat Vegetables alone— not he! “ Take this for a certainty : the greatest single step in advance for the English family dinner is to decree that Fig. 976. Position of Hands in Turning. regularly every day, either in addition to the pudding or in lieu of it, there shall be a dish of Vegetables nicely pre- pared. It is not a difficult thing to do, and there is an immense choice from the range of salads to asparagus, artichokes, potatoes, cauliflowers, sprouts, peas, kidney- beans, vegetable marrows, and thence again to rice and Indian corn. Let the cook stick to her broils and her roasts—she probably cannot in the way of meat do better —but let her superadd to her small modicum of accom- plishments the very simple craft of cooking Vegetables in such a manner that with their own fine flavour they can be eaten by themselves. This is a very little thing to ask for, but the results will be found to be immense.” From the foregoing re- marks it is quite evident that the cooking of Vegetables might be regarded as a distinct oooc» Fig. 978. Vegetable-cutters with Solid Handles (A. Lyon). Fig. 979. Vegetable-cutters with Tube Handles (Adams and Son). branch of the culinary art. In large establishments it is quite usual to engage a cook specially experienced in this department, who, acting under the chef, is known as the Vegetable cook. That the duties attached to this office are°exceedingly important, requiring considerable intelli-725 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Jcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Vegetables—continued. gence, will be understood from tbe following instruc- tions. In the first place the cook should see that the Vege- tables are quite fresh, for, in spite of anything that may be said to the contrary, all Vegetables, whether roots, leaves, or any other kind, begin to lose bulk and flavour as soon as they are removed from the ground. Those that suffer the least in this respect are roots and tubers, such as carrots and potatoes; and those which suffer most are leaves, stalks, and shoots, such as asparagus, sea-kale, cabbages, and the like. To clean Vegetables, they should be first soaked for a time in salted water—cabbages and cauliflowers being turned upside-down. In this way the flavour of the Vegetables improves, and all insect life is removed. Next, grit and dirt must be thoroughly washed out, and for this purpose a wire sieve or basket (see Fig. 970) should be used, which may be dipped again and again into a tub of water, the Vegetables in it being shaken thoroughly and rinsed. Root Vegetables offer the artistic cook a very extensive scope for the exercise of skill and ingenuity, as Fig. 981. Vegetable-cutters (A. B. Marshall). may be seen in the numerous shapes and designs into which these Vegetables can be cut. Flowers are often cleverly imitated, and rounds, olives, and lozenge-sliapes of every variety are to be seen in artistically pre- pared soups and garnishes. These require special tools for their production, of which the f blowing may be considered useful examples. Vegetables—continued. For peeling, some excellent machines have been in- vented. One of the best (see Fig. 971) acts upon a system of springs. The Vegetable is stuck upon a fork communicating with a handle, the knife being pressed Fig. 982. Fancv Pattern Stamp (A. B. Marshall). gently into a convenient position for trimming off the peel as the handle is rotated. Knives fitted with adjust- able guards are sometimes used for paring roots, but, as they require a conside-able amount of practise to use them successfully, they are not kitchen favourites. Fig. 983. Vegetables for Julienne. Vegetables are cut into fancy shapes and designs by the use of various instruments called scoops (see Fig. 972), which produce rounds, ovals, and fluted shapes (see Fig. 973). Spirals or cui’ls of Vegetables are much used for garnishing, and these are pro- duced by means of various in- struments (shown in Fig. 974), which fit into one handle. Fig. 984. Julienne-cutter A variety of this mode of (A. B. Marshall). cutting Vegetables is shown in Crulls (see Fig. 975).. Vege- tables can be “ turned,” as it is called, by a dexterous action of the fingers, and the use of a small sharp knife. The mode of proceeding is shown by Fig. 976. This method of preparing Vegetables is of infinite use to the artistic cook for all kinds of dishes in which uniformity of shape and size is a desideratum. From slices of Vegetables any number of patterns can be cut out (see Fig. 977) by means of cutters or stamps, Fig. 985. Vegetable-ladle (A. B. Marshall). which may either be fitted with handles (see Fig. 978), or by simple tubes (see Fig. 979). Either of these styles answers equally well, it being, however, of the first im- portance that the slices shall be of a uniform thickness.726 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. Vegetables—continued. To produce these slices with certainty and rapidity a very useful instrument has been invented, known as Marshall’s Universal Sheer (see Fig. 980). In almost every kitchen of any size or importance, sets of Yegetable-cutters, either fancy or plain, fitted in con- Fig. 986. Colander for Draining Vegetables. venient boxes (see Fig. 981), are to be seen for the cook’s use; but in some of the larger establishments, where appearances are of first importance, a machine is used which stamps slices of Vegetables into exceedingly pretty patterns (see Fig. 982). Fig. 987. Vegetable-presser. Vegetables cut for julienne soup (a la Julienne) (see Fig. 983) may be cut with an ordinary knife, but the artistic cook prefers to use a tool specially made for the purpose (see Fig. 984), by means of which a large quantity can be cut up much more regularly, and with greater rapidity. The ingenuity of man seems to have ex- tended itself in the direction of inventing apparatus for operating upon Vegetables; but the very highest results may be obtained by the use of those already described. A very useful instrument for lifting out Vegetables, especially for garnishing, that have been cooked in a stock, is a sort of ladle, made as it were of basket wire at the end of a longish handle (see Fig. 985); and when it is desirable to press out water from such Vegetables as cabbage, spinach, &c., a colander (see Fig. 986) is used, into which the Vege- tables are put to be drained, and they can then be pressed almost dry by means of a flat disc of wood, with a handle let into its ripper surface (see Fig. 987), which is called a Vegetable-presser. For mashing cooked Vegetables such as po- tatoes, turnips, or parsnips, a very use- ful instrument is the Vegetable-masher (see Fig. 988), which is constructed something like a wheel with narrow flat spokes and tire, the axle being the handle. The action is easily understood. For mincing Vegetables or Fig. 988. Vegetable-masher (A. Lyon). V egetables—continued. cutting them up fine for soup, or slicing French beans and scarlet runners, an instrument has been specially constructed (see Fig. 989). By turning a handle and supplying the vegetables they are turned out ready for use with extraordinary ra- pidity, effecting a saving of time that is most im- portant in a large estab- lishment. An instrument for shelling peas (see Fig. 990) is also of incalculable value; there are two or three varieties of the same principle, but the most satisfactory results on a large scale have been ob- tained from the kind shown in the illustration. This article would not be complete without a table of the months in which certain Vegetables are seasonable. Although under ordinary circumstances the following list may be considered reliable, it must be remembered that many Vegetables are obtainable, owing to systems of forcing and preserving in tins, bottles, or dried, at times Fig. 989. Cutter for French Beans, &c. (A. Lyon). Fig. 990. Pea-sheller (A. Lyon). when they would otherwise be considered out of season. Vegetables preserved by any of the foregoing methods might almost be considered in season throughout the year, if it were not for the incontrovertible fact that they lack something of their original quality. Artichokes, Jerusalem.—Best in the early part of the year. Artichokes, Globe.—Best in the autumn. Asparagus.—May to July. Beans, all kinds.—-April to August. Beetroot.—November to March. Broccoli.—October to April. Brussels sprouts.—October to March. Cabbage.—Of one kind or another, all the year round. Cardoons.—October to March. Carrots.—Old, all the year round. New, April and May. Cauliflowers.—March to October. Celery.—During the winter months. Chervil.—During the greater part of the year. Colewort.—Beginning of the year. Corn salad.—Midsummer months. Cresses.—One kind or another, throughout the year Cucumbers.—Best from April to August. Endive.—Best part of the year. Garlic.—All the year round. Fresh, beginning of the year. Herbs.—Fresh, in the spring. Dried, all the year. Leeks.—August to February.THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 727 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Vegetables—continued. Lettuces.—From early spring throughout the summer months. Mushrooms.—Spring and autumn. Onions.—Old, all the year round. Spring, in the early spring. Parsnips.—From August to April. Peas, green.—April to October. Potatoes.—All the year round. New, in April and May. Radishes.—April to October. Seakale.—February to May. Shallots.—August, during the winter months. Sorrel.—Early part of the year. Tomatoes.—Autumn, through the winter. Foreign, at all times. Turnips.—All the year round. Young ones, in spring. Vegetable marrows.—June to August. Further information on this subject will be found under special headings. Cooked Vegetables as accompaniments require to be served very hot, for which reason dishes are made for them with accurately fitting lids (see Fig. 991), and those Fig. 991, Vegetable-dish (Adams and Son), of metal are found to be more serviceable than those of earthenware or china, retaining the heat for much longer time, as well as the steam, which keeps them moist and well flavoured. For the convenience of handing Vege- tables to seated guests, dishes fitted with handles (see Fig. 992. Vegetable-dish with Handle, Fig. 992) are found to be exceedingly useful, permitting the attendant to place the dish in front of the guest” and not at the elbow or shoulder, as almost invariably occurs with unskilful waiting. In order that the Vege- tables may be kept hot even during the service of a meal, an ornamental vegetable- or plate-warmer (see Fig. 993) may be used, which will stand in front of the dining- room fire and answer the purposes of a hot closet. ° The following receipts tell of various modes of using Vegetables. Special Vegetables are described under their own headings. Curried Vegetables.—(1) Prepare and cut into small pieces a small cauliflower, a young vegetable marrow or cucumber, three or four new potatoes, and several French beans! Steep the Vegetables with 1 pint of green peas in salted water for an hour. Put a lump of lard or dripping into a stewpan, and place it over the fire ; when boiling, put in a small finely-minced onion, a small minced clove of garlic, a heaped teaspoonful of salt, and J teaspoonful each of ground turmeric and cayenne. Fry the onion mixture until brown, then drain the Vegetables, put them in with 4 pint of stock, and boil them gently at the side of the fire till tender. W hen cooked, turn the curry on to a hot V egetables—continued. dish, garnish it with croutons of Med bread or sippets of toast, and serve. (2) Peel a few onions, cut them in slices, put them in a stewpan with a lump of butter, and fry them until nicely browned. Dredge them over with 1 table-spoonful of curry, and stir in gradually \ pint of milk. Continue stirring it over the fire until boiling, then move it to the Fig. 993. Plate- and Vegetable-warmer (Adams and Son). side, and let it simmer for twenty minutes. Partially boil a variety of any kinds of vegetables liked, drain them, put them in with the onions, and stew the whole gently for lialf-an-hour longer. When cooked, turn the curry on to a hot dish, garnish it with sippets of toast or small croutons of bread that have been fried a delicate brown in butter, and serve. More or less of the specified quan- tity of curry can be used, as it varies greatly in quality. (3) Indian Chalikee.—Chop three moderate-sized onions, three green chillies, and a clove of garlic; put them in a mortar, and pound them until a smooth powder; put this in a stewpan with 2oz. of butter and 1 table-spoonful of curry powder, dust it over with salt, and fry for a few minutes, stirring at the same time. N ext put in 1 break- fast-cupful of freshly-shelled peas and Jib. of pumpkin, cut into small pieces, and fry them until nicely browned. Pour in J pint of boiling water or clear stock, and keep the whole simmering gently at the edge of the fire until tender. When the curry is cooked, turn it on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets of toast or small croutons of fried bread, and serve. (4) Prepare as for other curries, frying the vegetables first in mustard oil and curry mixture, adding a little water, and simmering until tender. Essence of Vegetables for Soups and Sauces.—(1) Cut into slices three large bunches of carrots, two each of onions and turnips, and one of leeks, put them into a saucepan of boiling water, together with six heads of celery cut up into pieces, and boil for two minutes. Plunge them into cold water to blanch them, put them into a stockpot with an onion stuck with two cloves, grated nutmeg, salt and pepper to taste, add a lump of butter, pour in lOqts. of boiling water, and simmer gently at the side of the fire for three hours. Skim off the fat, strain the liquor, and it is ready for use. It will be found very convenient for flavouring sauces and soups that are to be served white. (2) Chop up two bunches each of carrots and white turnips, put them into a saucepan on the fire with butter, and cook them until they all have a reddish appearance, stir- ring them about with a wooden spoon. Now add a bunch each of leeks and onions and six heads of celery, all cut up small, and let them sweat over the fire for a-quarter- of-an-hour; pour in lOqts. of water, and add an onion stuck with two cloves, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg to taste, and boil for four hours. Skim carefully, strain through a fine sieve, and it is ready for use. It is usedTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. V egetables—continued. for adding to soup; and sauces that require colouring and Vegetable flavour, and is always ready to hand and useful. Jardiniere of Vegetables.—Prepare as for Macedoine of Vegetables (1), substituting J pint of hot Madeira sauce for the bechamel. Macedoine of Vegetables.—(1) Cut a ; mall raw carrot with a Vegetable-scoop, put it into salted boiling water, and cook for fifteen minutes; repeat the operation with a small raw turnip, cooking each separately. Drain, and place them in a saucepan with i gill of cooked peas, the same quantity of cooked Jin. lengths of French beans, 2 table spoonfuls of cooked flagejlets, and a small piece of cauliflower. Moisten with \ pint of hot bechamel sauce, and season with \ pinch each of salt and pepper and J pinch of nutmeg. Let it simmer well for ten minutes, and use as required. (2) Wash and scrape some carrots, wash and peel some turnips, and cut them with a \ egetable-scoop to the shape of olives or fluted olives. Cut some French beans across slantwise in the shape of lozenges, and cut some asparagus-points to the size of peas. Take equal quantities each of these Vegetables, peas, and fresh haricot beans, and boil each Vegetable separately in salted water, adding to the water in which the peas, carrots, and turnips are boiled, a small quantity of sugar as well as salt. Do not over boil any of them. Drain them very dry, mix them together, and they are ready for use. (3) German Style.—Peel and wash some carrots and turnips, and cut them like olives. Cut some French beans into small diamond-shaped pieces. Take equal portions of the above Vegetables, with an equal quantity of freshly shelled young peas, and boil them all separately" in salted water. Thicken a breakfast-cupful ol milk with flour, and stir it over the fire till boiling; then mix with it about J teacupful of common stock and Joz. of butter, and move the saucepan to the side of the fire. Beat the yolks of two eggs, strain them, ami stir them gradually into the sauce, turning the spoon one way only. When the Vegetables are cooked, drain them, arrange them on a hot • dish, pour the above sauce over them, garnish with sippets of toast or small croutons of bread that have been fried a delicate brown in butter, and serve. Vegetable Consomme.—Take 2lb. each of carrots and onions, cut them up into slices, and put them into astewpan with lib. of butter, a little thyme, parsley, celery, and shallot. Place the pan on the fire, and fry them till they are of a slight colour ; then add 5qts. of water, boil them up, and skim well. Next add lqt. each of green peas and white haricot beans, a little grated nutmeg, three cloves, Joz. of whole pepper, and ljoz. of salt, place the pan on the side of the fire, and let it simmer for three hours. Remove the fat, and pass the broth through a napkin to strain it, when it will be quite ready for use. If green peas and fresh haricot beans are not in season, the following may be substituted: Take lqt. of lentils, and boil them in 1J galls, of water with lqt. of white haricot beans, adding a bunch of sweet herbs, an onion, and a little salt. Let it simmer for three hours. Strain it through a cloth, and pour it on to the fried Vegetables. Vegetable Entree.—Surround a beetroot with a water paste, and bake it. On no account cut or prick it before it is put into the paste. When tender, unwrap the beet, and let it get cold. Put \ pint of small white haricot beans in a saucepan with a piece of the heart of a Spanish onion, a lump of salt, J teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, and cold water to cover them, and boil them gently. When tender, strain and pass the beans through a fine hair sieve. Mix with them half their quantity of potatoes, mashed with a little butter, add one beaten egg and 1 table-spoonful of cream, and season with small quantities | of salt and pepper and the smallest quantity of cayenne pepper, also a small quantity of finest sifted sweet herbs. Shape the mixture into small rolls with floured hands, and roll them in beaten egg and breadcrumbs. Put a lump of butter or clarified fat in a flat stewpan, and melt it; then put m the lolls, and fry them a golden brown. Arrange tastefully in the centre of a hot dish a macedoine Vegetables—continued. of hot Vegetables with rings of beetroot cut with a fluted cutter and rings of stewed tomatoes. Strain the rolls, laying them on paper for a minute or two to soak up the fat, then arrange them round the Vegetables; pour a thick white cream sauce, made with chopped Vegetables and thickened with potato flour, round the dish, and serve at once. Vegetable Floating Garnish for Soups.—Small branches of cauliflower, very small onions, celery stamped or cut into shapes, cardoons treated in the same way, lettuce, spinach, or sorrel-leaves stamped to the size of a florin or of a sixpence, may be used for this, one or more kinds of them at a time. Cook the Vegetables in a small quantity of clear soup, and put into the tureen a few minutes before serving. Vegetable Fritters.—A variety of Vegetables may be used for this dish, such as celery, salsify, and parsnip. Boii the Vegetables in water til! tender, then drain them, and cut them into small equil-sized pieces. Beat the yolks of two eggs with 1 teacupful of milk and 1 table-spoonful of oil; then sift in gradually sufficient flour to make a stiff batter, stirring it well to keep it smooth, and add 1 salt- spoonful olfsalt and 1 table-spoonful of lemon-juice. Beat the whites of the two eggs to a stiff froth, then mix them in the batter. Put a large lump of lard into a deep frying- pan and make it hot. Dip the pieces of Vegetable into the batter, giving them a good coating with it, then drop them into the boiling fat, and fry them. When nicely browned, drain the fritters, put them on a hot dish, and serve. Vegetable Olio—Boil separately three small heads of cabbage and three each of onions, potatoes, turnips, and carrots, drain them free from water, and cut them up. Put them into a saucepan with two handfuls of spinach, 2oz. of butter, 3 table spoonfuls of cream, and a small quantity of salt and pepper, cover over the pan as closely as possible, and stew for two hours. Now stir in a small lump of butter rolled in flour, turn all out on to a dish, and serve. Vegetable Pie.—(1) Put chops or steaks of mutton, lamb, beef, or any other kind of meat at the bottom of a deep pie-dish, add an onion peeled and sliced, a few slices of peeled cucumber, and \ pint of green peas, and till the dish high with lettuce, cut in strips as if for salad. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, lay a crust over it, and bake slowly. (2) Boil separately some green peas, young carrots, broad beans, and French beans in bechamel sauce. Line a deep buttered pie-mould with short paste, divide it into com- partments with thin pieces of paste, fill these with flour or rice to keep them in position, and bake the crust. When cooked, take the crust out of the oven, and empty out the rice or flour. Turn the crust out of the mould on to a hot dish, fill each of the compartments with the cooked Vegetables, and serve. (3) Take equal quantities of potatoes, carrots, turnips, cauliflower, Jerusalem artichokes, peas, French beans, and very small onions, and any other Vegetables that may be available. Half cook them in good broth, and fill a pie. dish with them. Make some puff paste, cut a strip to cover the edge of the dish, then lay a cover of puff paste over the Vegetables, trim the edges of the paste and press them together, cut a small hole or slit in the centre of the crust, which may be concealed with an ornament of cut paste, and bake the pie in a slow oven. Put some stock over the fire, and boil in it a slice of ham, a small piece of veal, a couple of mushrooms, four or five shallots, one or two sprigs of parsley, a bay-leaf, a small onion, a little pepper, and some salt. When this gravy has well boiled, strain it, and mix into it nearly 1 gill of cream. Pour it by a funnel into the pie through the hole cut in the top of the crust just before serving. (4) Well wash 3oz. of tapioca, and put it to soak in cold water for an hour. In the meantime wash, peel, and slice 3Jib. of potatoes, and chop up Jib. of onions. Put loz. of dripping at the bottom of a pie-dish, over this place a layer of onion, then tapioca, and lastly potatoes,THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 729 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, *ances, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads V egetables—co nti nued. sprinkling each layer with salt and pepper as it is put in. Continue in this way until all is used up, finishing with potato. Make a paste with 111), of flour, 3oz. of dripping, 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder, 1 saltspoonful of salt, and cold water. Cover over the dish with this, put it in a moderate oven, hake for two hours, and serve very hot. (5) The cold remains of Vegetables such as haricot beans, peas, potatoes, carrots, celery, &c., can be used. Fill a pie-dish with them, putting the most substantial in the middle, and pour over them some butter sauce or onion sauce. Season well. Mash some cold boiled potatoes quite smoothly, moisten them with beaten egg, season to taste with salt and pepper, and spread them evenly over the contents of the pie-dish. Bake the pie in a brisk oven till nicely browned. Serve while very hot. (6) American.—Put 2oz. of dry julienne (chopped Vegetables) in a large basin, pour over lqt. of nearly boiling milk, and let it soak for an hour. Then put it into the bain-marie for thirty minutes, mix in 1 teaspoonful of powdered sweet herbs, 1 teacupful of sifted breadcrumbs, and i teacupful of cream, with two eggs beaten into it. Line a greased pie-dish with paste, put in the Vegetable mixture, cover the pie with more of the paste, decorate the top, brush over with egg, and bake in a moderate oven. Serve either hot or cold. Vegetable Pudding.—Grate Alb. of carrots, mix with them ilb. each of mashed cold potatoes, finely-chopped suet, flour, and moist sugar, 4oz. of finely-shred candied peel, and 4oz. of well-washed currants. Work the mixture to a paste with a little milk or water, .turn it into a basin or mould, tie a cloth over it, put it in a saucepan of boiling water, and boil slowly for four hours. When cooked, turn the pudding on to a dish, and serve. Vegetable Puree.—Prepare any kind of Vegetables, such as potatoes, parsnips, leeks, onions, carrots, turnips, Ac., put them all together in a stewpan with a bunch of sweet herbs, stock to cover them, and salt and pepper and spices to taste, and boil them until quite tender; then mash them through a fine hair sieve. Put 2oz. of butter and a table-spoonful of flour in a stewpan, mix them over the fire, and then mix the puree in gradually. Stir it over the fire for a few minutes, then move it to the side, and stir in the yolks of two eggs that have been beaten up with a small quantity of milk and strained. Turn the purd e on to a hot dish, garnish it with sippets of toast or croutons of bread that have been fried brown in butter, and serve. Vegetable Puree Soup.—(1) Well wash a couple of bundles of young carrots, scrape them thoroughly, and rasp off the red parts only into a saucepan ; add a little butter and a slice of lean ham, also a few leeks and sticks of celery tied up in a bundle, and stir well over the fire until the vegetables are slightly coloured : then pour in the required quantity of fowl or other consomme, and boil slowly for two hours. Take out the roots and ham, and strain the soup into another saucepan ; rub the carrots through a sieve, add them to the soup, and bring it once more to the boil. Remove the saucepan to the side of the fire, skim the soup carefully, add a small pinch of moist sugar, pour it into a tureen, and serve. (2) Peel three turnips, three carrots, three onions, and a few leeks, cut them up into small squares, and blanch them in boiling water. Drain the Vegetables, put them in a frying-pan with a lump of butter, and fry them until nicely browned ; then put them into a saucepan with 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of chopped parsley and 1 scant breakfast- cupful of washed rice, pour in 5 pints of clear stock, and place it over the fire until boiling. Move the saucepan to the edge of the fire, and let the contents simmer until all are cooked. Season to taste with salt and pepper. Pass the soup through a wire sieve, return it to the saucepan, mix | pint of cream with it, and boil it up again. Beat the yolks of four eggs, put them in a soup- tureen, and pour the soup in gently, stirring it at the same time. Serve with a plate of sippets of toast or crohtons of fried bread. Vegetables—continued. (3) Peel fib. of onions, peel and wash lib. of turnips, scrape and wash lib. of carrots, anil wash one lettuce, half a small head of celery, and a small bunch of parsley. Cut these up small, put them in a stewpan over the fire with fib. of butter and a seasoning of pepper and salt, and stew for a-quarter-of-an-hour. Add lqt. of green peas, and 3qts. of stock, made of a couple of pounds of veal, and let it simmer for three hours. Then press it through a sieve, return it to the fire, and boil it up before pouring it into the tureen. (4) Cut into slices an equal quantity of carrots, leeks, and onions, one turnip, one root of celery, and three or four roots of young cabbage radish. Put the Vegetables into a saucepan with a lump of butter, and fry them over a moderate fire for fifteen minutes. Peel and cut into thin slices six raw potatoes, put them in with the other Vegetables, moisten with 3qts. of broth, add a sprig of chervil, and keep the Vegetables boiling gently till tender. Pass the whole through a fine hair sieve, return the puree to the saucepan, and stir it till it begins to boil. Beat the yolks of six eggs with a teacupful of cream. Move the saucepan to the side of the fire, mix in the beaten yolks and a lump of butter about loz. in weight, and stir the mixture by the side of the fire for a few minutes. Turn it into a soup-tureen, and serve with a plate of croutons of fried bread or sippets of toast. Vegetable Salad.—(1) Boil some beetroot, celery, and Portugal onions. When cold, cut them into thick slices. Mix together 1 salt-spoonful of salt, 1 table-spoonful of made mustard, 1 dessert-spoonful of tarragon vinegar, 1 dessert-spoonful of elder vinegar, and six drops of chilli vinegar, and pour it over the Vegetables. (2) Cut the white part of two or three sticks of celery into small pieces, put them in a stewpan with two small onions and sufficient jelly stock to cover them, and boil them until tender. When cooked, strain the Vegetables, and rub them through a fine hair sieve. Mix with the cooking-liquor an equal quantity of thick cream, stir the Vegetable pulp in with it, pour the whole back into the stewpan, and stir it over the fire until boiling. Move the sauce off the fire, stir in the beaten yolks of two eggs, and stir it occasionally until cool. Cover the bottom of a dish with a thick nicely flavoured tomato sauce, over that arrange a layer of sliced tomatoes. When the sauce is cold, season it to taste with salt and a small quantity of chilli vinegar, and pour it over the beetroot. Arrange round the dish a border of washed and nicely-packed watercress, strew some capers over the top, and serve. (3) Russian.—Peel and wash two protatoes, two small carrots, and one turnip, and boil them separately; also wash, trim, and boil half a head of celery. When the Vegetables are tender, cut them into smail squares, and pile them in the centre of a round dish. Put the yolks of two eggs into a basin, mix in gradually 1 teacupful of salad oil, and beat them until creamy; then add 1 table- • spoonful of vinegar, one third of the quantity of tarragon vinegar, and salt and pepper to taste. Beat a few minutes longer, then pour the dressing over the Vegetables. Take four anchovies and four olives, and twist an anchovy round each olive. Garnish the dish with slices of beetroot, which should be arranged to overlap each other, place one of the olives at each end and one at each side, and serve. Vegetable Sauce for Fish.—Put Jib. of butter in a sauce- pan with 3 table spoonfuls of Hour, and stir it over the fire until smooth; then pour in 1J pints of clear fish broth, and stir it over the fire until boiling. Put a few thin slices of carrot, onion, and celery in a saucepan with two or three sprigs of parsley, loz. of butter, and sufficient broth to cover them, and boil them gently until tender. When the Vegetables are cooked, pour the butter sauce in with them, season to taste with salt and pepper, and boil the whole together for a few minutes. Strain the sauce before serving it. Vegetable Soup.—(1) Finely chop sufficient onion, carrot, and celery in equal proportions to fill five breakfast cups, also 1 teacupful each of turnip, parsnip, and cabbage. The cabbage, parsnip, and onion should have been partiallyTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 730 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Vegetables— continued. boiled for five minutes, then thoroughly drained. Put all the Vegetables into a saucepan, pour in lqt. of boiling water and lqt. of stock, and boil slowly till tender; then put in with them 1 breakfast-cupful of tomatoes, 1 table- spoonful of chopped parsley, 1 teaspoonful each of sugar and salt, and £ teaspoonful of pepper. Turn the soup into a tureen, and serve. (2) Cut four carrots, four onions, and a stick of celery into pieces, and put them into a saucepan with lqt. of dried peas, Jib. of well-washed rice, a few slices of potatoes, and a large lump of butter. Fry till nicely browned, then pour in Gqts. of water, and iet them boil gently for four hours. Strain the soup through a fine hair sieve, rubbing the Vegetables through at the same time, and let it stand till the following day. Half-an-hour before serving, pour the soup into a saucepan, season it with pepper and salt to taste, and boil it up again. Turn the soup into a soup-tureen, mix 1 pint of boiled green peas with it, and serve. (3) The night before making this soup, wash \ pint of Scotch barley, and put it to soak in water. The next morning, put it into a saucepan with 3qts. of cold water and 2oz. of clarified beef dripping, and boil it until reduced to half its original quantity. Peel and thinly slice four carrots, four onions, and two turnips, or one very large one ; wash and cut in thin shreds two lettuces and two heads of celery. Put the Vegetables in the soup, with moderate quantities of finely-chopped parsley and mint, and 1 tea- spoonful of French dried colouring onion, and keep the soup simmering gently at the edge of the fire for an hour- a-lialf longer. When ready, turn it into a soup tureen, and serve it with a plate of sippets of toast or small croutons of bread fried brown in butter. (4) Scrape, wash, and cut small three carrots, and put them over the fire with |lb. of butter, one dozen cabbage lettuces well washed and cut small, eight large green onions, a little less than 1 teacupful of parsley, the same quantity of purslane, the same of chervil, lqt. of green peas, and 1 heaped teacupful of sorrel, or if peas are out of season, 1 heaped breakfast-cupful of sorrel; add a seasoning of pepper and salt, shut down the saucepan lid tight, and let all stew for thirty minutes, shaking them every now and then to keep them from burning or stick ing to the saucepan. Peel half-a-dozen cucumbers, cut them lengthwise into quarters, and fry them in butter. When the herbs and Vegetables have stewed for half an - hour, put the cucumbers into the saucepan with them, add also a crust of bread toasted on both sides, half a French roll, and lgall. of hot water, and let all boil together till lqt. of the water has evaporated ; then strain it through a sieve, return it to the saucepan, and set it where it will keep almost boiling, but not quite. Beat the yolks of four eggs with 4 pint of cream, and stir this into the soup just before pouring it into the tureen. (5) Chop up as finely as possible a few Vegetables in season, such as turnips, carrots, cabbage, spinach, celery, parsley, onions, &c., add a little mint, and plenty of herbs, also cut fine. Put them into a saucepan with a little water, and stew gently until they are tender; then add 2qts. of boiling water, cook a-quarter-of-an-hour longer, and serve. VEGETABLE MARROWS (Fr. Aubergines; Ger. Pflanzenmark).—By some extraordinary confusion or another French and English cooks have confused the Vegetable Marrow with the egg-plant, probably because the earlier plants bore fruits shaped somewhat like an egg; by cultivation, however, they have assumed quite a dif- fei’ent character isee Fig. 994). The Vegetable Marrow (Cucurbita oviferci succada) is one of the most valuable sorts of the gourd tribe for culinary purposes, and was j originally introduced into this country from Persia about I the year 1819. It is a watery vegetable without much j nutriment, but with a fine mellow flavour. Marrows are ; in season from June to August, and are much approved by i all classes. Boiled Vegetable Marrows.—(1) Peel the Marrows, cut | them into moderate-sized pieces, put them in a saucepan 1 Vegetable Marrows—continued. of boiling water, with a lump of salt, a bunch of parsley, and an onion stuck with four or five cloves, and boil them until tender. Prepare the following sauce: Put loz. of butter into a small stewpan with h, table-spoonful of Fig. 994. Vegetable Marrows. flour, and mix them over the fire; next stir in a small bottle of tomato sauce, and continue stirring it until boiling, seasoning to taste with salt and pepper. When cooked, drain the Marrows, put them on a hot vegetable- dish, pour the sauce over them (see Fig. 995), and serve while very hot. (2) Take off the peel from some Marrows, plunge them into a saucepan of boiling salted water, and boil gently for from ten to twenty minutes, or until they are done. Take them out with a slice, put them into a vegetable- dish, cut them into halves or quarters, and serve with a sauceboatful of melted butter. Two ounces of butter may Fig. 995. Boiled Vegetable Marrows. be added to the water whilst boiling, if desired, and the melted butter poured over them ; or they may be served cut in halves and white sauce poured over. The time taken to cook depends upon the size of the Marrows. Boiled Vegetable Marrow with Parmesan Cbeese.— Peel and cut the Marrows into convenient lengths, and boil them in salted water, with a bunch of parsley and an onion stuck with four cloves. Put loz. of butter and 1 table-spoonful of flour in a stewpan, and stir them over the fire until smoothly mixed; then stir in 4 pint of boiling water, salt and pepper to taste, and boil for five minutes; next move the sauce to the side of the fire, and mix in Jib. of grated Parmesan cheese. When the Marrows are cooked, drain them well, put them on a hot dish with a few pieces of toast underneath them, pour the sauce over, and serve. Boiled Vegetable Marrows with Poulette Sauce.—Peel the Marrows, cut them into halves lengthwise, and scoop out the seeds ; then cut them into convenient lengths, put them into a saucepan of boiling water, with a lump of salt, an onion stuck with three or four cloves, and a bunch of parsley, and boil them until tender. Prepare the731 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Vegetable Marrows—continued. following sauce: Incorporate loz. of butter and 1 table- spoonful of flour in a stewpan over the fire; then mix in gradually J pint of boiling water, and stir over the fire for five minutes; next move it to the side, and stir in the yolks of two eggs that have been beaten up with the juice of a small lemon and strained. When the Marrows are cooked, drain them well, put them on a hot dish with some pieces of toast underneath them, pour the sauce over, and serve. Pried Vegetable Marrow. (1) Select a nice large Vegetable Marrow, peel it, remove the seeds, and cut it into pieces about 1 Jin. long and fin. wide. Put these on a plate, strew them well with salt, and leave them for an hour or two. Afterwards, put them on a cloth, twist it round and wring it well, to extract as much of the juice as possible from the Marrows, but do not squeeze them hard enough to break them. Dredge them over with flour, seeing that each piece is well covered, and lay them in a frying-basket. Put a large lump of clarified fat in a stewpan, and when boiling put in the basket. As each piece of Marrow is nicely browned, take it out of the stewpan, dust it lightly over with salt, and lay it on a sheet of paper in front of the fire for a minute or two, to drain as free from fat as possible. Spread a fancy dish-paper over a hot dish, lay the Marrow on it, and serve. (2) Peel the required number of Vegetable Marrows, cut them into quarters and take out all the seeds, and stew gently until done in a saucepan with a little butter, lemon-juice, and salt. Dip each piece separately into well- beaten egg and then into breadcrumbs, put them into a frying-pan with some boiling fat, sprinkle them over with salt and pepper, fry them to a light brown, and serve in a vegetable dish. (3) Cut some Vegetable Marrows into thin slices with a cucumber slice, take out the seeds, dry the slices on a cloth, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry them until done. Take them out carefully, arrange them on a dish with a napkin spread over it, sprinkle them over with salt and pepper, and serve. (4) Peel the Marrows, cut them into thin rounds, remove the seeds, lay the rounds between two plates with plenty of salt strewn over them and a weight on the top, and leave them for several hours. When ready, dry the slices of Marrow on a cloth, flour them well, put them in a stewpan with plenty of boiling olive oil, and fry them until tender. Mix with 1 breakfast cupful of wine vinegar an equal quantity of finely minced parsley and mint, half a dozen well-washed and pounded anchovies, h table-spoon- ful of sugar, and pepper to taste. Drain the slices of Marrow, lay them on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. (5) Italian Style.—Peel some young Marrows, cut them into rounds about Jin. thick, strew plenty of salt over them, lay them between two plates with a weight on the top, and leave them for several hours. Wash four or five anchovies, remove the skin and bone, mince them finely, put them in a mortar with J table-spoonful each of chopped parsley and mint, a heaped teaspoonful of moist sugar, and pepper to taste, and pound the whole until quite smooth ; then stir in gradually a sufficient quantity of white wine vinegar to make the sauce. Drain the pieces of Marrow, dry them on a cloth, and dredge th.em over with flour. Pour a good quantity of olive oil into a deep frying pan, and place it on the fire; when the blue smoke arises, put in the pieces of Marrow, and fry them until nicely browned. When ready, drain them on a sheet of paper in front of the fire, then pile them on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Pried Vegetable Marrow with Chicken.—Select very young Vegetable Marrows about 3in. long, lay them on a dish, and dust them lightly over with salt. In about half an hour’s time drain them, and rub them well with a cut lemon. Put 2oz. of butter in a saucepan, and place it over the fire; when it is melted, put in the Marrow, and fry it until nicely browned ; then pour in a few table- spoonfuls of broth, and stew until tender. Prepare and cut a young fowl into quarters, rub it well with cut lemon, Vegetable Marrows—continued. then put it in a saucepan with a lump of butter, and fry it until slightly browned. Moisten the fowl with sufficient clear broth to cover it, and stew it until tender. When cooked, put the Marrow and chicken on to a hot dish, and serve. Fried Vegetable Marrow with Parmesan Cheese.— Peel the Marrow, cut it in quarters lengthwise, scoop out the seeds, and cut it into convenient lengths, ltub a stewpan over with garlic, put in a large lump of butter, and melt it; then put in the pieces of Marrow, season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and toss them about over the fire. Before the Marrow is quite done, put in plenty of grated Parmesan cheese, and add more butter if necessary. When quite tender, turn the Marrow on to a hot dish, with the cheese over it, garnish with sippets of hot buttered toast or small croutons of bread that have been fried a delicate brown in butter, and serve. Preserved Vegetable Marrow.—(1) Select a nice firm Vegetable Marrow, peel it, cut it into small thick slices, and boil them until tender; then put them on a sieve and let them drain for twenty-four hours. Weigh the Marrow, and allow an equal weight of sugar. Put the sugar in a pan with about Jib. of bruised ginger, a small quantity of lemon peel, and 1 pint of cold water, and boil it to a syrup, keeping it well skimmed. When the syrup is clear, put in the pieces of Marrow, and boil them for two or three minutes; then turn them into a basin with the syrup. The next day, strain the syrup off the pieces of Marrow, boil it up again, and pour it boiling over the Marrow. Proceed in this way on the two following days, then turn the preserve into jars, and when cold tie them over for use. (2) Procure freshly-cut Marrows, peel them, cut them into halves, scoop out all the seeds, and cut the Marrows into slices about Jin. thick. For each pound of Marrow, weighed after it has been peeled, &c., allow 111), of coarsely- crushed loaf sugar. Lay the slices in layers on a deep dish, with sugar between each layer, and squeeze over the juice of one lemon for each pound. Leave the Marrow for three days, then put it into a preserving-pan, with \ pint of water for every 31b. of sugar, ami boil gently until the Marrow is tender ; then turn the whole into a large pan, and leave it for seven or eight days. At the end of that time strain off the syrup, mix with it a small quantity of thinly-pared lemon-peel and some bruised ginger, and boil it until thickly reduced, skimming it well. Put the Marrow into jars. Strain the syrup through a fine sieve, and pour it hot over the Marrow. When cold, cover the jars with stout paper, tie down with twine, and pack them away in a dry store cupboard. The ginger and lemon peel may be omitted if not liked, but the additional flavour will be found to improve the Marrow. (3) Peel a large Marrow, cut it into halves lengthwise, and scoop out the seeds and soft pulp. Cut it into slices, lay them in a deep dish, strew plenty of sugar over them, and leave them until the next day. When ready, cut the slices of Marrow into small equal-sized lengths, and weigh them ; for each pound allow lib. of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar, loz. of ginger that has been bruised in a mortar, and the rind and juice of one lemon. Put all the ingredients in a preserving-pan, and place it over a gentle fire ; also put in a few pods of cayenne tied up in a piece of muslin, and take them out again when their flavour has been sufficiently extracted. Boil the whole until quite clear, then turn the preserve into small jars. When cold, cover with parchment, tie down, and store them away for use. Preserved Vegetable Marrow for Curry.—Peel two or three Marrows, cut them into slices about lin. thick, and remove the seeds. Put the slices on to a large dish, dust them over with moist sugar, let them remain for a day, and then strain off the water. Weigh the Marrow, put it into a preserving-pan with an equal weight of loaf sugar, and to every 41b. add loz. of bruised ginger and the rind and juice of two lemons, and boil until quite clear, adding a little cayenne when nearly done. Put the Marrow away in jars, and keep it in a cool place until wanted.732 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Vegetable Marrows—continued. Stewed Vegetable Marrow.—(1) Peel some young Vegetable Marrows and cut them into convenient-sized pieces, put them in a saucepan with a good-sized lump of butter, season them to taste with salt and pepper, and toss them over the fire for a-quarter-of-an-hour; then pour in as much plain stock freed from fat as will reach to half their height, and boil them gently until quite tender. Move the saucepan to the side of the fire, anil stir in quickly the yolk of an egg that has been well beaten with the juice of a lemon and strained, and add about 1 table-spoonful of finely-minced parsley. Put some slices of hot buttered toast on to a hot dish, turn the Marrow on to it, and serve without delay. (2) Select young Vegetable Marrows, peel them, and cut them into small pieces. Rub the inside of a saucepan over with garlic, put in 2oz. of butter, and place the pan over the fire; when the butter has melted, put in the pieces of Vegetable Marrow, season them with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and toss them about over the fire for fifteen minutes; then put in plenty of grated Parmesan cheese, and finish cooking. If too dry, a small quantity of milk, or more butter, may be added. Cut two or three slices of bread of a moderate thickness, toast them and butter them while hot, lay them on a hot dish, pour the Marrow over them, dust a small quantity of cayenne pepper on the top, and serve. Stewed Vegetable Marrow with Cheese.—Procure two small Marrows, peel them, cut them in two lengthwise, and scoop out the insides. Divide each half into two pieces lengthwise. Put a large lump of butter in a stew- pan, and when it has melted, put in the pieces of Marrow, dust them over with salt and pepper, and stew them gently for half-an-hour, shaking the stewpan constantly. Next mix in 2 heaped table spoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese, and when it has melted turn the whole on to a dish. Strew over a little more cheese and some finely- grated breadcrumbs, and put it in a brisk oven to brown, or brown them under a salamander. Serve the Marrow while veiy hot on the same dish. Stewed Vegetable Marrow with Cheese Sauce.—Peel sufficient Marrows, cut them in halves lengthwise, and scoop out all the seeds. Lay the Marrow in a stewpan with a sufficient quantity of boiling stock to cover it, and stew it gently until tender. Put loz. of butter into a stewpan with 1 heaped table-spoonful of flour, and mix them over the fire ; then stir in about 1 breakfast-cupful of plain white stock and 1 heaped table-spoonful of grated Parmesan cheese. Stir the sauce over the fire until it boils, then move it to the side, and season it to taste with salt and pepper. Drain the pieces of Marrow, lay them on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Stuffed Vegetable Marrows.—(1) Peel two large Marrows, and boil them whole. When tender, drain them care- fully, cut off one end of each, and scoop out the seeds. Scrape off all the fat and jelly of some tinned mutton, and cut the meat into small pieces. Peel and chop finely one large or two small onions ; put loz. of butter into a stewpan and melt it; then put in the onion, and fry it; dredge in 1 table-spoonful of flour, and moisten with a few table-spoonfuls of clear gravy, not making it too liquid. Season with salt, pepper, and any kind of spices, add 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, and let the whole simmer at the side of the fire. When the gravy has well reduced, put in the meat, and stir it well over the Vegetable Marrows—continued. fire until hot. Stuff the Marrows with the mixture, replace the piece that was cut off the end, lay them on a hot dish (see Fig. 996), and serve. (2) Carefully peel a small Marrow, cut it level at both ends, scoop out the centre, put the Marrow into a stewpan with plenty of boiling water, well seasoned with salt, and cook for twelve or fifteen minutes, or until it is quite tender. Take out the Marrow, plunge it into cold water, and then drain it on a sieve. Finely chop Jib. of any kind of meat, such as veal, rabbit, or chicken, mix in the yolks of two eggs and a little more then 1 table-spoonful of thick bechamel sauce, also a little each of cayenne and salt, and mix well. Stuff the Marrow with this, using a biscuit- or forcing-bag for the purpose, roll the Marrow lightly in flour, brush it over with beaten egg, cover it with fine breadcrumbs, and fry it a golden colour in boiling fat. (3) Take a tin of beef or mutton, open it, turn the meat out, scrape off all the fat and jelly, and mince the meat; then put it in a jar and make it hot, by letting it stand in a pan of boiling water, lloil two Vegetable Marrows whole; when cooked, cut off the stem ends and scoop out the seeds. Fill the insides with the hot mince meat, replace the ends that were cut off, and serve at once. (4) Peel two Vegetable Marrows, cut them in halves lengthwise, and scrape out the seeds and soft part. Prepare the following stuffing for them: Rub a mortar slightly over with garlic, put in it some small pieces of veal and ham in equal quantities, and pound them to a smooth paste; pass this through a fine wire sieve, return it to the mortar, and mix with it a quarter of its bulk of butter, and the same of stale breadcrumbs. Pound the mixture again, season it to taste with salt, pepper, spices, and a moderate quantity each of minced parsley and powdered sweet herbs, bind the mixture with beaten yolks of eggs, and fill the halves with it. Wrap the Marrows in sheets of buttered paper, tying them round with fine string, lay them side by side in a buttered baking-tin, cover them with a plate, and bake them in the oven. When the Marrows are cooked, carefully remove the papers, lay them on a hot dish, pour round them some tomato sauce, or clear gravy that has been nicely flavoured, and serve. (o) Cut one or two Marrows in halves across, and scrape out all the seeds and a little of the pulp, rub the hollow with a little salt, and remove the rinds. Chop Jib. of mutton and one onion up very fine, and add a little minced parsley, seasoning with salt and pepper, and work- ing in a, small quantity of rice. Mix thoroughly, and stuff the pieces of Vegetable Marrow with it. Put them in a saucepan with a very little water, and boil very slowly until they are done. (6) Cut a couple of nice-sized Vegetable Marrows in four lengthwise, and partially boil them in salted water. Rub a baking-dish over with garlic, and butter it thickly; lay the Marrows in it, strew plenty of grated Parmesan cheese over them, and season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg; lay a few thin slices of butter on the top, cover with a layer of grated breadcrumb, and bake in a moderate oven between twenty minutes and half-an-hour. Serve the Marrows while very hot in the same dish. (7) Select some Vegetable Marrows, small but all as nearly the same size as possible, pare them very thinly, cut a piece off the top of each, and scoop out the insides. Grate sufficient Parmesan cheese to fill the Marrows, and mix with it about 3 table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped parsley and 2 teaspoonfuls of finely-chopped mint, seasoning the mixture with salt and pepper. Stuff the Vegetable Marrows with the mixture. Put a good-sized lump of butter in a deep frying-pan, and make it hot; dip the Marrows in beaten eggs, then put them in the pan. and fry them till nicely browned. Drain the fat off the Marrows, put them in a saucepan, pour in sufficient clear stock broth to cover them, and boil them gently till tender and the moisture has somewhat evaporated. When cooked, arrange the Marrows on a hot dish, pour the remainder of their cooking liquor over them, and serve.THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 733 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Vegetable Marrows—continued. (8) Select three large Vegetable Marrows, scrape out the seeds and some of the pulp, dust them over with salt, and leave them for fifteen minutes. Drain them from the juice that will have run from them, wipe them on a dry towel, and stuff with some well-seasoned pounded veal or chicken flesh. Put 2oz. of butter in a stewpan, and place it over the fire until melted ; then put in the Marrows and fry them until nicely browned. Pour sufficient stock over the Marrows to cover them, and keep them simmering gently at the side of the fire until cooked ; then drain, and place them on a hot dish. Mix h table- spoonful of flour smoothly with a small quantity of water, mix it in the cooking liquor of the Marrows, squeeze in the juice of a lemon, and add a small quan- tity of salt. Stir the sauce over the fire until thickened and boiling, then pour it over the Marrows, and serve while very hot. (9) Cut two small Marrows in halves lengthwise, and scoop out all the seeds. Remove all skin and bones from some cold fish of any kind, put it into a mortar with two washed and chopped anchovies, and pound to a smooth paste; mix with this half its quantity of breadcrumbs that have been soaked in milk and well squeezed, and half its quantity of fresh butter. Season the mixture to taste with salt, pepper, and powdered sweet herbs, nutmeg and spices, pound it again, and bind it with beaten yolks of egg. Fill each half of Marrow with this, wrap each in a sheet of buttered paper, tie it round with string, lay them in a baking-tin with a few pieces of Fig. 997. Stuffed Vegetable Marrows. butter, and bake in the oven. When cooked, remove the papers, lay the Marrows on a hot dish with a piece of toast under each, pour some hot nicely-flavoured tomato sauce over them (see Fig. 997), and serve. (10) Procure a couple of nice-sized Vegetable Marrows, cut them in halves lengthwise, scoop out all the seeds, put them into a saucepan of water with a lump of salt, several cloves, a bunch of parsley, and one onion, and boil them until half cooked; then drain them well. Mince together in equal quantities, sufficient lean ham and beef-suet to stuff the Marrows with, add a little grated breadcrumb, some Parmesan cheese also grated, a moderate quantity each of chopped parsley and sweet herbs, with salt and pepper to taste. Bind the mixture with beaten eggs, and stuff the Marrows with it. Butter a baking- dish, lay the Marrows in it, cover them with a sheet of buttered paper, and bake them for twenty minutes. When cooked, put them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or fancy dish-paper, and serve. (11) Turkish.—Peel two moderate-sized Vegetable Marrows, cut them in halves across, scoop out the seeds and soft pulp, and rub them over with a small quantity of salt. Mince very finely ilb. of mutton, a large onion, and a small handful of parsley, mix them together with 2 table-spoonfuls of uncooked rice, and season with salt and pepper. Stuff the Vegetable Marrows with the mix- ture, lay them in a stewpan with a small quantity of water, and boil them slowly until tender. When cooked drain them, lay them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or a fancy dish paper, and serve. Vegetable Marrow a la Chambord.—Cut a medium- sized Marrow into slices about |m- thick, dip them into Hour seasoned with salt and pepper, then dip them into beaten egg, and lastly into sifted breadcrumbs; plunge them into a pan of boiling fat, and fry. In the mean- time, put loz. of butter into a saucepan, melt it, pour in a well-beaten egg, and season with salt and pepper. Stir Vegetable Marrows—continued. quickly, and when set, divide the egg into pieces, accord- ing to the number of slices of Marrow. Put a piece of egg on each slice, place them on a dish, squeeze over a little lemon-juice, and serve with rich cream or veloute sauce in a sauceboat. Vegetable Marrow a l’Espagnole.—Cut two or three tomatoes into slices, and peel and slice a moderate-sized onion; put them in a stewpan with a lump of butter, and fry them until the onion is cooked. Peel the Marrow, cut it into moderate-sized pieces, removing all the seeds, put them in with the onion and tomato, season to taste with pepper, salt, and powdered sweet herbs, and moisten to about a third of their height with hot water. Stew the Marrow gently until tender. When the Marrow is cooked, turn it on to a hot dish with the onion and tomato over it, and serve. Vegetable Marrow au G-ratin.—Peel two young Marrows, cut them into quarters lengthwise, and scoop out all the seeds. Put a large lump of butter in a stewpan, and when melted put in the pieces of Marrow, season them with salt and pepper, and stew them for about half an-hour over a gentle fire, adding before they are quite done 2oz. of grated Parmesan cheese, and tossing them about occasionally. When cooked, lay the pieces on a hot dish, pour the cooking- butter over them, strew grated breadcrumbs and more grated cheese over them, brown them under a salamander, and serve while very hot. Vegetable Marrow au Jus.—Put 2oz. of finely-chopped fat bacon in a stewpan with a small chopped onion, and fry them for a few minutes; when the onion is lightly browned, put in the Marrow, which should have been peeled, cut in halves lengthwise, and freed from the seeds. Season to taste with salt, pepper, and powdered sweet herbs, cover it with nicely flavoured brown stock, and stew it gently until tender. When the pieces of Marrow are cooked, strain off some of their liquor into a smaller saucepan, put in it a piece of butter that has been kneaded with flour, and stir it over the fire until thickened. Lay the halves of Marrow on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Vegetable Sauce a la Lyonnaise.—Peel the Marrow and cut it into round slices about Jin. thick. Peel and slice a couple of moderate sized onions, put them into a stew- pan with plenty of butter, and fry them until lightly browned; then put in the slices of Marrow, season to taste with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, pour over them a small quantity of stock, and stew them gently until tender. When cooked, strew a moderate quantity of finely minced parsley over the Marrow, turn it on to a hot dish with the sauce over it, and serve. Vegetable Marrow a l’Orly.—Cut some Marrow into pieces about 2in. wide and 4in. long, and put them into a basin of cold water to soak. Take them out, drain them thoroughly, and let them remain for an hour or so. Have ready some hot meat glaze, dip each piece of Marrow into it, put them on a board, and when they are cold, smooth round the edges. Dip them into frying batter, and fry them to a good colour in boiling lard. Fig. 99b. Vegetable Marrow a l’orly. When done, take them out, drain them on a napkin, put them in a pile on a hot dish round a sauceboatful of tomato sauce, garnish with fried parsley (see Fig. 998), and serve. Vegetable Marrow a la Poulette.—Peel the Marrow, cut it in halves, scoop out all the seeds, and cut it intoTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 734 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, .Sic., referred to, see under their special heads. Vegetable Marrows—continued. small pieces. Put a large lump of butter in a stewpan, melt it, put in the pieces of Marrow, toss them about for a few minutes, season to taste with salt and pepper, and pour over them a small quantity of clear broth. Let them stew over a gentle fire until quite cooked, then move the stewpan to the side, and stir in a moderate quantity of finely-minced parsley and the yolk of an egg that has been beaten up with the juice of half a lemon and strained. Lay the pieces of Marrow on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Vegetable-marrow Jam.—(1) Peel some young Vegetable Marrows, cut them into thin slices, and put them into a preserving-pan with lib. of caster sugar and the strained juice and thinly.shred rind of half a lemon to every pound of Marrow. Tie a small quantity of bruised ginger up in a muslin bag, put it in with the other ingredients, and boil the whole gently until reduced to a thick jam, stir- ring frequently with a wooden spoon. When ready, turn the jam into jars, and leave it until the next day; then put in each jar a round of brandied paper, cover them with parchment, and tie down. Keep in a dry store-cupboard. (2) Select moderate-sized Marrows, put them in a tub with salted water to cover, and steep them for two days, keeping them in a warm temperature. Wash them well in clear water, peel them, cut them up in convenient sized pieces, and remove the seeds. For each pound of fruit allow lib. of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar, 1 pint of water, and foz. of ginger. Boil these ingredients to a syrup, then put in the pieces of Marrow, anil stew them gently until tender. Just before removing them from the fire add the rind and juice of a lemon. When sufficiently boiled, mix in about 2 wineglassfuls of gin to 61b. of the preserve, and turn it into jars. When cold, cover them with parchment, and tie down. (3) Get the Marrows when just ripened, peel them, cut them into moderately thick strips, and scoop out all the seeds and pulp. Prepare a sufficient quantity of syrup with brown sugar and water to cover the Marrows, and pour it while boiling hot over them. Leave them for three days in the syrup, then drain them, and throw the syrup away. Put the Marrows in a preserving-pan, and for each pound put in lib. of coarsely crushed loaf sugar, the juice and thinly-pared rind of a large lemon, and 1 pint of water. Tie a few slices of whole ginger and a small quantity of cayenne pepper in a linen bag, and put in with the above ingredients. Place the pan over a slow tire and boil the Marrow until it looks clear. When quite cooked, mix in for every 2lb. of the preserve 1 wineglass- ful of whisky. Turn it into jars, and when cold cover them with parchment, and tie them down. The whisky can be omitted if not liked. (4) Peel a well-grown Vegetable Marrow, cut it into halves, scoop out all the seeds, and then cut it into slices about Jin. wide and 1 Jin. long. Weigh the Marrow, and for each pound allow Jib. of sugar; put them together in a deep dish and let them stand for one day and night. Put the fruit and sugar into a preserving pan with sufficient grated lemon-peel and strained juice to give it a flavour, and boil the whole until the Marrow is trans- parent ; then turn it into jam-jars. When the jam is cold, put in each jar a round of brandied paper, cover them with parchment, tie them down, and put them away in a dry store-cupboard. Vegetable-marrow Marmalade. -Peel the Marrows, free them from the seeds, and cut them into very thin slices. For 61b. of the Marrow allow the finely minced peel of six lemons, 5oz. of ginger, and 5lb. of loaf sugar. Boil the lemon peel for a short time before mincing it, and tie the ginger in a piece of muslin. Put all the above ingredients into a preserving pan, and boil them gently for an hour-and a half. Trim oft' all the white from the six lemons, cut them into slices, put them into the marmalade, and boil for a-quarter-of-an hour longer. The ginger should be taken out of the marmalade as soon as the favour is ex tracted. Turn the marmalade into jars, and leave it until cold ; then put in each jar a round of white paper that has been dipped in brandy, and cover with parchment. Keep the marmalade in a cool dry store-cupboard. Vegetable Marrows—continued. Vegetable-marrow Pie.—Cut oft' the peel from 21b. of Vegetable Marrow, cut the Marrow in slices, put them into a saucepan of salted water, and boil them, ltub them through a fine sieve whilst still hot, stir in loz. of butter, 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, 1 wineglassful of white wine, and two slightly-beaten eggs. Beat these well to- gether for five or six minutes, so as to make them light. Line a pie-dish with puff paste, put in the mixture, cover with more of the paste, and bake in a moderate oven. Glaze when done, and serve either hot or cold, as required. This is an excellent imitation of pumpkin pie. Vegetable-marrow Pudding.—Put a peeled Marrow into a saucepan, cover it with water, and boil it gently until soft. Strain the Marrow through a sieve, put it in a basin, and beat it up with jib. of sugar, 4 table-spoonfuls of Hour, and 1 teaspoonful of ground ginger. Beat two eggs with 1 pint of milk, and stir them in with the Marrow mixture. Turn the mixture into a pie-dish, and cover it with a rich fiat of puff paste. Bake the pie for nearly an hour in a moderate oven. When cooked, strew caster sugar over it, and serve. Vegetable-marrow Rissoles.—Peel one or two large Marrows, cut them through the centre, remove all the seeds, and fill the cavity with highly-seasoned beef or veal mince. Fasten them together, and stew them in a little beef gravy for about thirty minutes or so, when they should be done. Put them on a dish, pour the gravy round, and serve very hot. Vegetable-marrow Sauce.—Peel a medium-sized Vege- table Marrow, cut it up in slices, and take out all the seeds ; put it into a stewpan with 1 pint of broth, add one onion, peeled and sliced, sprinkle in a little cayenne, salt and pepper to taste, and stew gently over a moderate fire for an hour. Pass the pulp through a fine sieve, mix in 1 gill of hot cream, and serve in a sauceboat. Vegetable-marrow Saute.—Peel a Marrow, cut it into pieces about lin. square, removing all the seeds, put them in a saucepan of boiling salted water, and boil for ten minutes; then turn them on to a sieve, and let them drain. Put a good-sized lump of butter in a saute-pan, place it over the fire, put in the pieces of Marrow with plenty of finely-minced parsley and a seasoning of salt anil pepper, and toss them about till nicely browned and tender. Squeeze over the Marrow a few drops of lemon-juice, pile the pieces on a hot dish, over which has been spread a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper, garnish them with fried parsley, and serve. Vegetable-marrow Soup.—(If Peel some Marrows, cut them into convenient-sized pieces, and scoop out the seeds; put the Marrow into a stewpan, moisten to height with stock, season with salt and pepper to taste and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and stew gently until tender. Pass the Marrow and liquor through a fine hair sieve, and mix with it lqt. of boiling milk. Put about 3oz. of butter in a saucepan with 3 table-spoonfuls of flour, and stir them over the fire until well mixed ; then pour in gradually the puree of Marrow, and continue stirring the whole until boiling. Turn the soup into a soup tureen, and serve it very hot with a plate of sippets of toast or small croutons of bread that have been browned in butter. (2) Peel one or two full grown Vegetable Marrows, cut them into slices, and remove the seeds; peel and slice two or three onions, and wash and cut up into convenient lengths a head of celery. Put the vegetables into a stewpan with about 2oz. of butter, and toss them about over the fire for ten or twelve minutes. Moisten with 2qts. of clear white stock that is quite free of fat, season to taste with salt and pepper, and boil gently until quite tender. Pass the soup through a line hair sieve, rubbing the vegetables through with a wooden spoon, return it to the saucepan, and boil it up again. Pour the soup into a soup tureen, and serve. (3) Take oft' the rinds from about six moderate-sized Vegetable Marrows, cut them into slices, put them in a saucepan with lqt. of boiling veal stock, and let them simmer until they are done and will easily press through735 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Jcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Vegetable Marrows—continued. a sieve. Pass them with the stock through a fine sieve into another saucepan, ami add another pint of the stock, with salt and pepper to taste. Boil up, and just previous to pouring it into the soup-tureen stir in 1 breakfast- cupful of boiling cream. Vegetable Marrows Stuffed with Pish.—-Cut the Marrows into halves lengthwise, and scoop out the seeds with some of the inside. Prepare the following stuffing: Use the remains of any kind of boiled fish, free it from skin and bone, put it in a mortar with two skinned and boned anchovies, and pound it until smooth. Allow for the fish half its quantity of grated breadcrumb, soak them in milk until quite soft, then squeeze them as dry as possible, and mix them with the fish. Pound the mixture again with a quarter of its quantity of fresh butter, season it to taste with salt, pepper, a small quantity of grated nutmeg and moderate quantities of powdered sweet herbs and spices, and work in a sufficient quantity of beaten yolks of eggs to bind it. Stuff the halves of Marrow with this, wrap each half separately in a sheet of buttered paper, and tie it round with twine. Lay them side by side in a buttered baking-tin, cover them with a dish, and bake in a moderate oven. When the Marrows are cooked, remove, lay them on a hot-dish, pour some nicely-flavoured clear gravy over them, and serve. Vegetable-marrow Flowers would not appear at first sight to be worthy of much culinary consideration, being better employed in producing fruit. But now and again the male flowers preponderate over the female beyond what would be required for propagating; they can then be gathered when full blown and treated in the following way, and form a very aesthetic dish. Wash the flowers thoroughly, and fill with a mixture of half-cooked rice, chopped veal, onions, and sweet herbs, Fig. 999. Vegetable-marrow Flowers. formed into a paste with egg. Put them into a saucepan with a good supply of boiling stock, and cook them. Take them out in half an hour, and serve on an ornamental dish-paper (see Fig. 999). VEIRGA.—A Russian table delicacy made from the spinal-marrow of the sturgeon, by preparing it with various aromatic spices. Preserved in bottles or jars, it is sometimes exported to this country. VELOUTE sauce. —See Sauces. VELVET CAKE.—See Cakes. VELVET CREAM.—See Cream. VELVET SAUCE (VELOUTE).—See Sauces. VENETIAN SAUCE.—See Sauces. VENICE BISCUITS.—See Biscuits. VENICE CAKE.—See Cakes. VENISON {Ft. Venaison; Ger. Reh; Ital. Sattig- gina; Sp. Yenado).—Under this title might be included the flesh of all kinds of deer. Of these, the Fallow, or Park Deer of England is considered superior to all. In America several kinds of deer are found; in France and Scotland the Roebuck abounds; and in Ireland is found the Red Deer. Under the heading Roebuck V euisou—continued. numerous receipts will be found that are applicable to the flesh of these commoner kind of deer. The flesh of the Fallow Deer is alone considered by British cooks and epicures to be worthy of the name of Venison. When purchasing Venison care should be taken to see that the fat is clear, bright, and thick, and the cleft of the hoof should be smooth and close. To ascertain if it be fresh, run a sharp narrow knife or silver skewer into the shoulder or haunch, close to the bone. The smell of the knife or skewer will give the necessary informa- tion; but, as it is customary to keep Venison for a long time, so as to bring out the game flavour, the indications of freshly- killed Venison are rarely met with at the shop of the purveyor. There is, however, a great differ- ence observable between what may be called stale Venison and that which has been carefully treated and hung. The vein in the neck should be bluish, not green or yellow. A faint smell in the hind quarter, or under the kidney, indicates stale meat. If you can learn where Venison has been reared, choose forest Venison, as that is best, and avoid that which has been stall fed, for it is then usually fattened with oil cake. Venison should be at least five years old. The buck comes into season in May, and continues prime till September, when the doe Venison comes into season, and continues till Christmas. A deer is usually cut up into quarters (see Fig. 1000), the hind-quarters consisting of the leg (1) and the loin (2); the leg and loin together constituting the haunch. The fore-quarters consist of the neck (3), the best end of the neck (4), bi’east (5), and shoulder (6). The head (7) and the feet (8, 9) are usually thrown away, but they make very good soup. To keep Venison, be sure that you receive it fresh in the first instance, then wipe it dry, and dust it over with a floury cloth, or a poulterer’s mop, and hang it, cut end upwards, in an airy place. If it be desired to keep it a long time, use powdered ginger instead of flour. Should the meat be a little musty, wash it first with lukewarm water, then lukewarm milk-and-water. Wipe it perfectly dry, and dust it with powdered ginger as before. Some cooks have an idea that Venison should be constantly saturated with wine during the time it is hung, but this is a great mistake, there being not the least necessity for the use of wine, excepting during cooking. Baked Leg of Venison.—Saw off the shank of a leg of Venison, trim off’ all the hard and black parts, wash it well, and dry it on a cloth. Put 21b. of flour into a basin, mix it into a soft paste with a little cold water, and roll it out. The paste must be of a moderate thickness, as if too thin it is liable to give way in places. Brush the Venison over with a paste-brush dipped in warmed butter, wrap it well in paste, put it in a baking pan with a small quantity of water at the bottom to keep it from burning, and place it in a moderate oven. While baking, moisten the paste occasionally with a little water to keep it from Fig. 1000. Method or Cutting ui* Deer.736 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Venison—continued. burning on the top and at the sides. The Venison will take about an-hour-and-three-quarters to bake. When nearly done, take the paste off it, put it into another baking-pan, and brown it quickly in a brisk oven. Place the Venison on a hot dish, strain the gravy from the baking-tin over it (see Fig. 1000), and serve with red-currant jelly. The object of the paste is to prevent the Venison becoming too dry before it is cooked, and to keep in the full flavour. Baked Saddle of Venison.—The saddle of Venison is the double loin. Have the ribs cut off close to use for soup, stew, or pastry. Wipe all the hairs off with a soft cloth wetted with warm water, tie thickly-buttered paper over the upper part of the saddle, lay it on a rack in a baking- pan, and quickly brown the joint in a hot oven ; then remove the paper, and season with salt and pepper. Put into the dripping-pan 1 teacupful each of butter, boiling water, anil red-currant jelly, and baste the Venison with this sauce until it is entirely brown; then serve it hot, with the sauce in a boat. Baked Venison.—The Venison should be hung till on the point of turning, then cooked at once before it goes further. Wash it well, put it in a stewpan with two or three carrots and onions, two bay-leaves, about a table-spoonful of juniper-berries, the same quantity of allspice, a few cloves, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; pour in a teacupful of tarragon vinegar, and sufficient cold water to cover it. Place the stewpan over the fire until the liquor comes to the boil, then move it to the side and simmer until the Venison is tender. Grate about fib. of stale bread, and mix with it 1 table-spoonful of moist sugar and l teaspoon ful each of powdered cinnamon and cloves. When cooked, take the Venison out of the stewpan, brush it over with a paste brush dipped in beaten egg, and spread the bread- crumbs over it. Skim some of the fat off the cooking- liquor, baste the Venison with it, and put it in a quick oven until nicely browned ; then put it on a hot dish, and serve it with a sauceboatful of fruit sauce. Braised Venison Cutlets.—Lard the cutlets, and put them into a stewpan with a bunch of thyme and parsley, two carrots, and one onion sliced. Pour in a little gravy, and braise the cutlets for twenty minutes. When cooked, brush the cutlets over with a little melted glaze, arrange them on a hot dish, and serve them with a sauceboatful of piquant sauce. Broiled Venison Chops.—Cut the chops of a moderate thickness, remove the bones, and season the chops with pepper and salt; then put them into a basin, baste them with olive oil, and let them steep in it for two days. When ready for them, put the chops on a greased gridiron, and broil them over a clear fire for twenty minutes, turning them when half done on to the other side. When cooked, put the chops on a hot dish, brush them over with a paste-brush dipped in glaze, and serve them with a dish of butter. Broiled Venison Chops with Chestnut Puree.—Take six fine Venison chops, pare them, flatten a little, and place them on a plate with 1 pinch of salt, h pinch of pepper, and 1 table spoonful of oil. Roll them well in this season ing, and put them to broil for four minutes on each side. Put b pint of hot puree of chestnuts on a dish, place the chops over, and serve with a gravy poured over all. Venison—continued. Broiled Venison Cutlets.—Cut some cutlets off the breast of a doe, remove the chine-bone, and trim round the other end of the bone; beat the cutlets lightly, season them with salt and pepper, lay them on a deep dish, spread some chopped onions and parsley-leaves over them, cover them with good oil, and let them macerate for two or three hours in a cool place. Drain the cutlets, lay them on a gridiron, and broil them over a clear fire, turning them when done on one side and finishing the other. Make some piquant sauce, and mix with it at the last 2 table- spoonfuls of currant jelly. When the cutlets are nicely browned, arrange them, overlapping each other, on a hot dish, pour the prepared sauce over, and serve them. Broiled Venison Steaks.—(1) Cut 2lb. or 31b. of Venison into steaks about tin. thick, and broil them over a very hot fire on a buttered gridiron for four minutes on each side. While the steaks are being broiled, melt on a dish before the fire, or in the oven, equal parts of red-currant jelly and butter, 1 table-spoonful of each to every pound of Venison, and a seasoning of salt and pepper; put the steaks on this when they are broiled, turn them over once, and serve hot. (2) Season the steaks with pepper and salt, and coat them with rolled biscuits. Make a gridiron hot, grease it with a piece of suet, lay the steaks on it, and broil them over a clear fire. When broiled on one side, turn the steaks carefully, and cook them on the other side. Put a lump of butter in a basin, warm it, then mix with it a little red-currant jelly that has been moistened with 1 wineglassful of port wine, seasoning it with pepper and salt. When cooked, put the steaks on a hot dish, pour the butter mixture over them, and serve. Broiled Venison Steak with Mashed Potatoes.—The same as for Broiled Venison Steaks, serving with 1 pint of mashed potatoes and a little gravy. Broiled Venison Steak with Puree of Chestnuts.—The same as for Broiled Venison Steaks, serving with b pint of puree of chestnuts. Civet of Venison a la Franqaise.—-Prepare the Venison the same as for Civet of Venison with Poivrade Sauce ; after marinading it for twelve hours, drain it well from the marinade-juice, place it in a saucepan with loz. of clarified butter, and brown for ten minutes on a moderate fire; then add 3 table-spoonfuls of flour, constantly stirring while adding it, and moistening with U wineglassfuls of red wine, also 1 pint of hot broth. Season with t pinch of salt and pinch of pepper, stir well again until boiling, and add twelve peeled small onions and loz. of salt pork cut into small, square pieces, also a bouquet garni. Cook all together for forty minutes, and four minutes before serving add twelve whole mushrooms. Dress on a hot dish, remove the bouquet, decorate with fried bread croutons all round the dish (see Fig. 1002), and serve. Civet of Venison a la Parisienne.—The same as for Civet of Venison a la Francaise, omitting the salt pork, and substituting for it eighteen small mushrooms instead of twelve. Civet of Venison with Poivrade Sauce.—Procure 2Hb. of Venison, the lower part if possible, as the lean parts are preferable, and cut it into small square pieces; lay these in an earthenware jar, with one sliced onion, \ bunch of parsley-roots, a sprigs of thyme, two bay-leaves, twelve whole peppers, 2 pinches of salt, \ pinch of pepper, and \ wine- glassful of vinegar. Let them marinade for twelve hours. Drain off the juice, and put the Venison in a saute-panS n r s e dishes as EN SURPRISE. ®w e e t Entremets or Centres f o r B u f f e t 8. Pi*i nhed Holland C ' •i ’ ’ ■ . . * ■737 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. V enison—continued. with loz. of clarified butter, and cook for ten minutes; then add 3 table-spoonfuls of flour, stirring well. Moisten with li pints of broth, also the marinade liquor or juice, well strained. Season with 1 pinch of salt and h pinch of pepper, and cook for forty minutes longer. Arrange the civet on a hot dish, sprinkle over a little chopped parsley, and serve. Tillets of Venison a la Portugaise.—Skin and trim two minion fillets of deer, and lay them on a dish. Fry some chopped vegetables, such as onions, turnips, &c., in butter, and. pour in sufficient vinegar to cover the fillets. When the vegetables are well soaked with the vinegar, season it with salt, pepper, cloves, and spices. Pour the marinade over the fillets, and leave them four hours. Drain the fillets, lard them with fillets of bacon, lay them on a buttered baking-sheet, dredge salt over them, cover with a sheet of buttered paper, and bake in a moderate oven for about half-an-hour. Meanwhile prepare the following sauce: Finely chop the peel of two lemons and two oranges, put them in a saucepan with a little water, boil them till tender, and then strain off the water. Pour 4 pint of wine into a stewpan, and boil it till reduced to half its original quantity ; then mix with it 1 teacupful of good gravy and the boiled peel, and boil it up again. Mix 1 table-spoonful of potato-flour to a smooth cream with a small quantity of water, stir it in with the sauce, and continue boiling it for a few minutes, keeping it well stirred. Mix 1 teacupful of washed currants with the sauce and 2oz. of blanched and shredded sweet almonds, squeeze in the juice of the two oranges, and add 1 pinch of cayenne and a small quantity of grated pomegranate- peel. Move the sauce to the side of the fire till wanted. When the fillets are cooked (they must not be dry), cut them into slices, lay them on a hot dish, pour over the sauce, and serve without delay. Fillet of Venison a la Saint Hubert.—Lard with strips of bacon some thick slices cut from a fillet of Veni- son. Put a lump of butter into a saucepan, and warm it over the fire; then put in the slices of Venison, a bunch of sweet herbs, salt and pepper, and cover them with red wine and stock in equal quantities. Stew the Venison by the side of the fire, then stir in a little brown thicken- ing, and add a lump of sugar and some sliced gherkins. When cooked, turn the Venison on to a hot dish, and serve it without delay. Fried Venison Chops.—Season the chops with pepper and salt, put them in a frying-pan with a lump of butter, and fry them over a clear fire, turning them often. Trim some mushrooms, put them in a small saucepan with h pint of brown gravy, season it with pepper and salt, and let them simmer gently while the chops are cooking. In about twenty minutes’ time the chops should be cooked; then put them on a hot dish, pour the gravy over them, and serve. Fried Venison Cutlets—Trim the cutlets, season them with pepper and salt, and brush them over with warmed butter. Dust the cutlets lightly over with flour, then roll them in beaten egg and cover them thickly with bread- crumbs. Put a lump of lard in a deep frying-pan, and when boiling put in the cutlets, and fry them for ten or fifteen minutes, turning them when done on one side. When cooked, drain the cutlets on paper in front of the fire for a minute or two, then put them on a hot dish, pour some financiere sauce round, and serve them while very hot. Fried Venison Steak.—(1) Put a thick steak of Venison in the frying-pan with 2 table-spoonfuls of butter, and brown it quickly on both sides, seasoning it with salt and pepper. Serve it with the gravy it yields and red-cun-ant jelly poured over it. See Fig. 1003. (2) Cut the steak into nice-sized pieces, beat them well with a steak-beater, put them in a frying-pan with a little lard, and fry them till nicely browned. Prepare the gravy with some trimmings of Venison, mix a small quantity of milk with it, and season it with salt, pepper, and a lump of sugar. Work a small lump of butter with a For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, VOL. II. Venison—continued. little flour, then mix it in the gravy, and stir it over the fire till thick. Put the slices of Venison on a hot dish, pour the gravy over them, and serve. Fig. 1003. Fried Venison Steaks. Frizzled Venison.—Cut into slices as thin as possible about lib. of Venison from the leg, or from any lean part. Put into a frying-pan over the fire 1 heaped table-spoonful of butter and 2 table-spoonfuls of red-currant jelly, and when they are hot put in the Venison, seasoning it rather highly with pepper and salt. Cook it for about five minutes, stirring it frequently, and serve at once. The Venison may be frizzled at the table in a chafing-dish. Haricot of Venison.—Cut the flesh off a shoulder of Venison into pieces about 2in. square. Put the pieces in a stewpan with a lump of butter, and fry them over a quick fire till well browned; then drain off the fat, dredge a small quantity of flour over, and stir it till well mixed. Season the meat with pepper and salt, cover it with water or broth, and stir it over the fire till it boils; then move to the side of the fire, and keep it well skimmed. Wash four carrots, and with a vegetable-cutter cut the light part into balls, and boil them in salted water for half-an-hour. Cut a turnip up in the same way, and boil for twenty minutes. Strain the vegetables, put them into the stewpan with the Venison, add 1 wineglassful of port wine and 2 table-spoonfuls of red-currant jelly, and finish cooking. Turn the haricot on to a very hot dish, and serve it immediately. Hashed Venison.—(1) If there is not sufficient Venison gravy available, boil the bones and trimmings of the cooked joint with some -whole vegetables and a little allspice until the vegetables are nearly cooked enough. Set a stewpan over the fire, and put a piece of butter into it; when that melts add to it as much flour as will take it up, and stir it -well; then strain over it by degrees the stock made from the bones and trimmings of the joints, stirring and mixing it well with the flour. Continue stirring till it boils, and boil for ten minutes; then add to it some red-currant jelly, give it a boil up, and skim it. Cut up the vegetables into slices and add them to the hash. Put in the slices of Venison, draw the stewpan to the side of the fire, as it must not boil after the meat is put in, and let it remain till the Venison is thoroughly hot. Garnish the dish with sippets of toast. Serve as hot as possible. (2) Take all the best pieces of meat from some cold Venison, and cut them into thin slices; put the remainder with the bones and a small onion into a stewpan, moisten to height with cold water, and stew gently at the side of the fire for an hour-and-a-half. Put loz. of butter in another stewpan with 1 table-spoonful of flour, and stir them over the fire until mixed; then strain in the liquor from the bones, put in about 2 table-spoonfuls of red-currant jelly, and boil gently for half-an-hour longer. If there is any gravy left with the Venison, put that in also. When the sauce is ready, put in the slices of Venison with 3 table- spoonfuls of port wine, and keep it at the edge of the fire without boiling. When 'the Venison is hot through, turn the hash on to a hot dish, garnish it with sippets of toast, or small triangles of bread that have been fried in butter, and serve. (3) Put four cloves, one onion, and half a finely-chopped anchovy into a saucepan, pour in 1 teacupful of port wine, 1 table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, and 1 table- spoonful of browning, and boil it. Cut some cold roast Venison into thin slices, put it in with the wine, and boil it for five minutes. Turn the hash on to a hot dish, garnish it with small egg balls, and serve it with a glass' dish of red-currant jelly. Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. 3 BTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 738 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <bc., referred to, see under their special heads. Venison—continued. (4) Cook some anchovies in a saucepan till they are quite dissolved, then add to them a few oysters with their liquor, some red wine, a little ketchup, and a little milk. Let this sauce boil up, then add the cooked Venison cut into slices, and let it get quite hot, hut do not let the sauce boil after the Venison is put in. When thoroughly hot, put the slices of Venison on a dish, lay sippets of fried bread round, and pour the sauce over it. (5) The following is a good way of using up the remains of cold roasted Venison. Mix 1 teacupful of Madeira with any Venison gravy that may have been left, and boil it till reduced to half-glaze. Mix 2 teaspoonfuls of arrow- root to a smooth batter with a little cold water, mix it in with the sauce, and stir it over the fire till thick; then take it off, add a small piece of glaze and 2 table- spoonfuls of red-currant jelly, and stir the sauce by the side of the lire till the jelly has melted. Cut the Venison into thin slices, put them in the sauce, and warm them up without allowing them to boil. Turn the hash on to a hot dish, and serve it. (6) Trim off the outside parts of some cold cooked Venison, and cut the meat into thin slices. Put the bones and trimmings into a stewpan with any gravy that may be left, 1 breakfast-cupful each of clear stock and claret, 2 table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped shallots, three or four cloves, and 1 teaspoonful of ketchup. Put the lid on the stewpan, and keep the contents simmering at the side of the fire for about an hour-and-a-half. When ready, put into a saucepan loz. of butter, with 1 table-spoonful of flour, and stir it over the fire; when well mixed, strain in the above liquor, and stir the whole until boiling again. Season the sauce to taste with salt and pepper, and leave it until cold; then put in the slices of Venison, and warm all together at the side of the fire. It should take nearly two hours to get hot. Turn the hash on to a hot dish, garnish it with small croutons of bread that have been fried brown in butter, and serve it with red-currant jelly. (7) Finely chop 21b. or 31b. of Venison, put it into a saucepan with a few table-spoonfuls of stock, and bring it gently to the boil; then stir in 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of red-currant jelly, sprinkle in a little cayenne, and add 1 wineglassful of port wine. Remove the pan from the fire, turn the whole on to a hot dish, and serve with cut cooked French beans for garnish. (8) Cut the Venison into thin slices, and mix with 4 table-spoonful of caster sugar, 1 saltspoonful of cayenne pepper, and 4 saltspoonful of salt; add to these 1 wine- glassful of port wine, 2 table-spoonfuls of Harvey’s sauce, the strained juice of half a lemon, and a few drops of mushroom ketchup. Stand the basin containing this mixture in a pan of hot water, and heat it gradually. Thicken 14 breakfast-cupfuls of brown gravy with flour and butter, put in the slices of Venison, and stew them gently at the edge of the fire until thoroughly hot. Four the mixture in the basin in with the Venison, turn all on to a hot dish, and serve. Necks of Venison a la Bohemienne.—Cut the shoulders oft' two necks of Venison, not too deep, then cut the breast oft' rather narrow, pass the knife between the rib bones and the flesh to separate them, saw the bones oft' half-way up, and skewer the flap over. Remove the chine- bones from the flesh, and saw them off. Lard the necks, and lay them in a deep dish with a few thin slices of carrots, turnips, onion, and leek, and a few pieces of celery. Put lqt. of vinegar and 1 pint of broth in a saucepan, mix with it two blades of mace, 4 teaspoonful each of cloves and peppercorns, 41b. of moist sugar, three bay-leaves, and a small bunch of sweet herbs, composed of a few sprigs of parsley, thyme, and sweet marjoram. Boil the vinegar and seasoning for twenty minutes, then pour it over the meat, seeing that it is well covered. Leave the Venison in the marinade until the following day, turning it occasionally; then drain it, wrap each neck separately in sheets of oiled paper, and roast them for an hour in front of a clear fire. Put lqt. of poivrade sauce in a saucepan, and place it over the fire; when it boils, put in, in equal quantities, some stoned French olives, small pickled onions, and pickled mushrooms. When cooked, Venison—continued. remove the paper from the fillets, glaze them, and brown the tops of them under a salamander. Put them on a hot dish, pour the sauce round them, and serve. Neck of Venison a, la Corinthienne.—Cut the shoulder off two necks of Venison, but not too deep, and cut the breast off rather narrow; separate the flesh from the rib-bones to half-way up, then saw off the bones, and skewer the flap over; detach the chine-bones from the flesh, saw them oft’, and lard. Lay the necks in a deep dish with a few sliced carrots, turnips, onions, one leek, and two heads of celery cut up. Put lqt. of vinegar into a saucepan with l pint of broth, three bay-leaves, one or two blades of mace, 4 teaspoonful each of cloves and peppercorns, 41b. of raw sugar, a small quantity of salt, and a small bunch of sweet herbs, composed of a few sprigs of parsley, thyme, and sweet marjoram. Boil the vinegar and seasoning for twenty minutes, then pour it over the meat and vegetables in the dish. Turn the necks occasionally, and leave them until the following day; then drain them from the marinade, tie them up in sheets of buttered paper, and roast them in front of a clear fire for an hour. Strain 4 pint of the marinade liquor through a fine hair sieve into a saucepan, and mix with it 2 wine- glassfuls of port wine anil 2 table-spoonfuls of finely- chopped shallots, and boil it until reduced to half its original quantity. Thoroughly wash 41b. of currants, and soak them in boiling water. When the sauce has been re- duced, mix with it lqt. of brown sauce and stir it over the fire until it forms a thick cream, then mix with it 1 table- spoonful of currant jelly. Strain it through a fine hair sieve into another saucepan, drain the currants, add them to the sauce, and boil it up again. When the necks are cooked, remove the paper, glaze them, and brown the tops under a salamander. Arrange them on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve while very hot. Potted Venison.—Cut some cold cooked Venison into thin slices ; put 41b. of butter into a stewpan with a small quan- tity of spices, such as grated nutmeg, mace, cloves, and I white pepper, place it over the fire, and when melted put in the meat, and for every pound add 1 table-spoonful of currant jelly and 1 wineglassful of red wine. Let the meat simmer in the butter for twenty minutes, then take it out, mince it finely, and pound in a mortar. When quite smooth, pass the meat through a fine wire sieve, and mix the cooking butter and gravy with it. Pack it in small jars, and press it down tightly, leaving a clear Jin. space at the top. Fill the jars with clarified butter, and when it has got cold, tic the jars over tightly and put them away till required for use. Roasted Pillet of Venison.—Lard the fillet of Venison with narrow strips of bacon, trimming it neatly; put it in a basin with one onion stuck with three cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, a little coarse black pepper, and cover with equal quantities of white wine and vinegar; let it soak for two days. At the end of that time roast the fillet in front of a clear fire, basting it constantly with the marinading stock. When cooked, put the fillet on a hot dish, mix a little of the basting-liquor with some poivrade sauce, and serve it in a sauceboat with the fillet. Roasted Fore-quarter of Venison.—Bone the Venison, beat it well, and rub it over with salt. Prepare a paste of flour, eggs, a pinch of salt, and a little water, and lea^e it in a cool place for an hour; then roll it out thinly, cover it with slices of bacon, lay the Venison on the bacon, dust some pepper and salt over it, and wrap it up. DampTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 739 Venison—continued. the edges of the paste with water, and press them firmly together, wrap the whole in a sheet of buttered paper, and roast it in front of a clear fire. A quarter-of-an-hour before taking the Venison up, remove the paper and paste. When cooked, take the joint carefully off the spit, put it on a hot dish (see Fig. 1004), and serve it with red-currant jelly, and a sauceboatful of poivrade sauce. Roasted Haunch of Venison.—(1) The haunch should always hang a considerable length of time, as the delicacy of its flavour is only obtained in this way; if it be cooked while fresh, it will not equal in taste even a haunch of mutton. When about to be roasted it should be washed in warm milk and water, and dried with a clean cloth; if it has hung very long and the skin smells musty, it will be the safest plan to remove the skin and wrap the whole of the haunch in paper well greased with butter. While roasting, it will require to be constantly basted. If it be a buck haunch, and large, it will take four hours or within five or ten minutes of it; but if comparatively small, three-hours-and-a-half will suffice. If a doe haunch, three-hours-and-a-quarter will be enough. Remove the paper when it is sufficiently cooked, and dredge quickly with flour to produce a froth. Dish (see Fig. 1005), and serve at once. The gravy should be sent to table in a sauceboat, accompanied by red-currant jelly. The haunch is not unfrequently roasted in a paste, which also is enclosed in paper, and removed when the joint is nearly cooked. (2) Wash a haunch of Venison and lard it, put it in a basin with 1 pint of salad-oil and £ pint of port wine, season with a sprig of thyme, two or three cloves, a little salt and pepper, and let it steep for two days. At the end of that time fix the Venison on a spit, and roast it in front of a clear fire, basting it often with the liquor in which it was marinaded. When well browned, run a skewer through the Venison to ascertain if it is tender; if so, put it on a hot dish, pour some rich brown gravy round it, and serve with a sauceboatful of poivrade sauce. (3) Cut part of the knuckle off a haunch of Venison, saw off the chine-bone, and fold the flap over. Make a stiff paste with some flour and water, spread it thickly over the Venison, and tie in a sheet of thick paper; put it in a cradle-spit, place it close to the fire, and baste occasionally with hot dripping. When the paste has crusted, remove the Venison a little farther from the fire, and roast it for about four hours, keeping up a good clear fire. At the end of that time, take the Venison up, remove the paste and paper, try if it is cooked enough by running a skewer through it, which should go through easily. Put the Venison on a hot dish, glaze it, and brown it under a salamander; pour some rich gravy round, and serve it with some red-currant jelly in a glass dish. (4) Cover the Venison with a thick sheet of well- greased paper and bind it round with twine : put it in a baking-pan, place 2oz. of butter in small pieces on the top, and set it in a brisk oven. Bake the Venison for two hours, keeping it well basted. At tlie end of that time remove the paper from the Venison, put another large lump of butter on the top, pour 1 teacupful of claret into the baking-dish, and return it to the oven. Baste the meat often with the claret and butter in the pan; then, when baked for three-quarters-of-an-hour longer, take it out of the oven and put it on a hot dish. Skim the fat off the gravy. Put 3 table-spoonfuls of flour into a small sauce- pan, stir in slowly 1 breakfast-cupful of cold water, 1 teacupful of claret, and the skimmed gravy, scraping the sides of the pan well to mix in the brown; season the For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, V enison—continued. gravy to taste with salt and pepper, and stir it over the fire until boiling. Mix a few drops of caramel with the gravy, stirring it very quickly at the same time, then strain it through a fine hair sieve over the Venison, and serve immediately with red-currant jelly. (5) English Style.—All the cut parts of the Venison should be dusted over with a small quantity of pepper before it is hung. When ready to cook the Venison, wash it in a little warm water, dry it on a clean cloth, and wrap it in a sheet of buttered paper. Make a flour-and- water paste, cover the Venison with it, taking care that there are no cracks in it, cover with another sheet of buttered paper, and tie it securely round with string. Fix the Venison in a cradle-spit and roast it before a clear fire, keeping it well basted. It will require from three hours to three-hours-and-a-quarter to cook. When cooked, remove the paste and paper from the Venison, place it on a hot dish, prick the Venison slightly at the end with the point of a knife to let the gravy run out, and serve with red-currant jelly. Roast Leg of Venison.—Remove the dry skin from the leg, wipe it with a damp cloth, and cover with a flour-and-water paste. Put the Venison in a baking-tin and roast in a very hot oven. Baste the meat constantly, cook it for an-hour-and-a-half, then remove the paste, coat it with butter, and dredge well with flour. Cook for one hour longer, basting frequently with butter, salt, and flour. When cooked, put the Venison on a hot dish, and serve it with a sauceboatful of game sauce. The above time is given for a leg weighing 151b. Roasted Neck and Shoulder of Venison.—These joints together may be dressed like the haunch, covered with a thin paste, and greased paper over that; it will take two- hours-and-a-half, or, if very large, three hours to roast. They should be served up with Venison sauce and red- currant jelly. Roasted Saddle of Venison.—(1) Procure a small saddle of Venison weighing about 5lb., pare it neatly, remove the sinews from the surface, and lard it with a larding- needle as finely as possible, tying it three times round. Put into a roasting-pan one sliced onion and one sliced carrot, lay in the saddle, seasoning with ] pinch of salt, spread over J2oz. of butter, and put it in a brisk oven to roast for forty minutes, basting it frequently with its own gravy. Untie before lifting it from the pan, and arrange it on a hot dish. Pour into the pan \ wineglassful of Madeira wine and 1 gill of white broth, and let it come to the boil on the stove. Skim off the fat, strain the lean part over the saddle, and serve with b pint of hot currant-jelly sauce in a sauceboat. (2) Wipe the Venison over with a damp cloth, having first carefully scraped off the hair, roll and skewer it, season with salt and pepper, mb it over with butter just warmed, and dredge it thickly with flour. Fix the Venison on a spit, and roast it in front of a good clea'i fire, bast- ing frequently. W hen about half cooked, baste the Venison with claret. Skim off all the fat from the dripping in the pan, pour in 1 breakfast-cupful of boiling water, stir well, and stand it at the corner of the stove to keep hot. Put a slice of onion in a frying-pan with a little butter, five or six peppercorns, and four cloves. Fry the onion till brown, then dredge in a small quantity of flour; brown that, then stir in gradually the gravy in the pan. Boil it for a minute, then strain the gravy and mix in a squeeze of lemon-juice and 3 table-spoonfuls of red-currant jelly with it. Put the Venison on to a hot dish, and serve with the gravy while very hot. (3) German Style.—Prepare a saddle of buck, cut the rib-bones off short, and if the loins are not covered with fat take oft the skin; or put the saddle, without cutting off the bones, into a stewpan, with a little salt, and pour over it about \ gall, of cooked marinade. Cover with a napkin or cloth, put it in a cool place, and let it remain to macerate for a day. Turn it frequently. About four hours before the saddle is wanted to be served, take it out, drain, wipe it dry on a cloth, put it in a pan for roasting with a small piece of butter and a pinch of salt, Sauces, dc., referred to, see under their special heads. 3 b 2TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 740 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads Venison—continued. cover with buttered paper, and put in the oven for an hour and-a-half, hasting it frequently. Next pour into the pan \ pint each of marinade and sour cream, and haste frequently with this. When ready, dish it; add a little gravy to the stock in which it was cooked, boil it up, reduce to the thickness of a light sauce, and pour over. Roasted Shoulder of Venison (French Style).—Bone and stuff a shoulder of Venison, lard it, and either roast or hake it, protecting the lardoons with several thicknesses of buttered paper. If the meat is hasted while it is being cooked, take care not to haste the larded part, because that would soften the lardoons. When the Venison is nearly done, season with salt and cayenne, remove the buttered paper, brown the lardoons, and then remove the skins used to confine the stuffing, and serve the Venison hot with red-currant jelly, or any suitable sauces. Roasted Venison.—(1) The loin, saddle, haunch, or shoulder of Venison may be roasted. After the piece has been care- fully trimmed and freed from hairs, wipe it with a wet towel, season with salt and pepper, cover with several thick nesses of buttered paper, or with a paste made of flour and water, to retain its juice, put it before the fire, and roast it, twenty minutes for each pound. Take off the paper or paste and quickly brown the Venison. If a frothed appearance is desired, dredge the meat with flour, and baste it with butter before browning it. Serve very hot with red-currant jelly. (2) German Style.—Hang the Venison for fourteen days in a cold dry place, then wash and dry it well; beat it on the table and flay off the skin. Lard the fleshiest parts of the Venison with strips of bacon, fix it on a spit, roast before a clear brisk fire, and baste constantly with sour cream. When the Venison is cooked, put it on a hot dish, pour sufficient broth or water in the basting'-pan to make a gravy, place it over the fire, season it to taste with salt, pepper, and lemon-juice, anti stir it well until hot. Strain it through a fine hair sieve over the Venison, anti serve. Saddle of Venison a la Polonnaise.—Prepare a saddle or haunch of a buck (one that has not been fattened for pre- ference), place it in a stewpan, and add 2qts. of cooked marinade stock. Let it remain in this for four hours, turning frequently; take it out, let it drain, lard the fillets with bacon, place it in a braising-pan, and moisten to half the height of the meat with broth and a small quantity of its marinade. Braise it on a moderate fire, and baste frequently. Dish it up, and garnish with a pile of round truffles and two of mushrooms, stuffed, along the sides, and a pile of sour-crout at each end. Pour over a little brown sauce that has been prepared with the meat, and serve the remainder of the sauce in a sauceboat. Stewed Breast of Venison.—Skin the breast, remove the bones, and tie the meat round to the shape of a round of beef. Place a few slices of carrots and onions in a stew- pan with a bunch of sweet herbs, put in the meat, and season to taste with pepper, salt, and a few cloves. Moisten to height with claret and stock in equal quanti ties, put the lid on the stewpan, and let the contents simmer at the side of the fire for three hours, turning the meat occasionally. When ready, put loz. of butter in a stewpan with 1 table-spoonful of flour, stir it over the fire until mixed, then strain in enough of the cooking-stock of the Venison to make a sufficient quantity of sauce. Stir it over the fire until boiling and thickened, and squeeze in the juice of half a lemon. Put the meat on a hot dish, pour the sauce round, and serve. Stewed Shoulder or Breast of Venison.—Let the Venison hang till tender, bone it then, and beat well with a rolling- pin. Lay on it some slices of mutton-fat (bat have been steeping for five hours in port wine, season with finely- powdered pepper and allspice, roll it up tight, and bind into shape with tape. Put it over the fire in a small stewpan with some stock (not strong) of beef or mutton, h pint of port wine, the bones of the Venison, and a few grains of whole pepper and whole allspice. Cover the pan closely, and let it stew as slowly as possible for three or four hours according to size. When the meat is thoroughly V eni son —continued. done, lay it on a hot dish, cut the tapes, and remove them; strain the gravy over it, and serve with currant - jelly sauce. This way of cooking breast or shoulder is only suitable if the Venison is lean ; if it is fat, it should be roasted. Stewed Shoulder of Venison.—(l)When hung till tender, remove the bones from a shoulder of Venison, and beat the meat. Cut some thin slices of rather fat mutton, let them macerate in a small quantity of port wine for a few hours, then drain and put them on the Venison. Season the Venison with salt, pepper, and allspice, roll it round and tie it up tightly, and put it in a stew- pan with h pint of port wine, 1 pint of mutton broth, 1 teaspoonful of allspice, and a small quantity of pepper. Put the lid on the stewpan, and let the liquor simmer slowly by the side of the fire for four hours. When cooked, cut the string oft' the Venison, put it on a hot dish, strain the cooking-liquor over, anil serve with a dish of red-currant jelly. (2) Select a very lean shoulder of Venison, bone it, cover with slices of mutton-fat, which should be steeped in port wine to give a richer flavour, roll it up, and bind tightly. Lay it in a stewpan with a quantity of beef gravy and its bones, add 2 wineglassfuls of port wine, 1 dessert-spoonful of whole pepper, and the same quantity of allspice. Cover closely, and simmer until the Venison is tender; take it out and remove the fat, thicken the gravy with flour and butter, strain it over the meat, and serve. Stewed Venison.—Cut the meat into rather small square pieces. Put about 3oz. of butter in a stewpan, melt it, then dredge in a small quantity of flour, stirring at the same time to mix it with the butter. Put in 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of bacon cut into small squares, two chopped shallots, six small onions, two cloves of garlic, and a few mushrooms. Put in the meat, season with salt and pepper, and pour in sufficient claret and water, mixed in equal quantities, to cover the whole. Boil the meat gently at the side of the fire until tender, then take it out of the stewpan, skim the fat off’ the sauce, remove the garlic, and boil it quickly until rather thick and brown. Arrange the meat on a hot dish, pour the sauce and other ingredients over it, and serve. Stewed Venison Cutlets with Tomato Sauce.—Divide a neck of Venison into cutlets, trim them, beat them lightly, and lard with narrow strips of bacon. Line a stewpan with slices of bacon, some trimmings and minced vegetables, put in the cutlets, and cover them with stock. Boil the liquor till reduced to half its original quantity and the cutlets are cooked. Prepare some thick tomato sauce, put it on a hot dish, and arrange the cutlets on it. Strain the cooking- liquor, mix l wineglassful of port wine with it, pour it over the cutlets, and serve. Venison a la Minute.—Use small slices of Venison about Jin. thick. Put into a chafing-dish sufficient butter and red currant jelly in equal parts to cover the bottom of the dish. Season the Venison with salt and pepper, lay it in the dish on the jelly and butter, and cook it for three minutes on each side, then serve it. As this dish can be prepared at the table, it is considered a very pleasing addition to a small lunch or breakfast-table. Venison Collops.—(1) Trim off the skin and sinews from any remains of cold cooked Venison, finely chop the flesh, anil mix with it a third of the quantity of finely-minced bacon, and 1 teacupful of finely-grated* breadcrumb. Season the mixture to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of mixed herbs, and bind it to a stiff paste with beaten egg. When well worked together, divide the mixture into small quantities, which roll into balls, flatten them, and dip them in beaten egg and then in breadcrumbs. Put a lump of butter in a frying-pan, melt it, put in the collops, and fry them until nicely browned on both sides. When cooked, drain them, arrange them in a group on a hot dish that has been spread with a fancy dish paper or folded napkin, and serve with a sauceboatful of piquant sauce.TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 741 For detail* respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Venison—continued. (2) Cut 2lb. of lean meat from a haunch of Venison and chop it very fine. Put 2oz. of butter into a frying-pan, dredge it with flour, and when browned put in the minced Venison, and keep stirring it with a fork till it is all nicely cooked. Put some Venison gravy seasoned with salt and plenty of pepper into a saucepan, add to it the Venison from the frying-pan, and let it stew for half-an- hour; add a little port wine, and serve. (3) Cut some uncooked Venison into thin collops, trim them to a nice shape, and rub them over well on both sides with salt, pepper, and mixed spices. Put a good- sized lump of butter into a flat stewpan, place it over the fire until blue smoke rises, then put in the collops, and fry them till nicely browned on both sides. Drain the fat off the collops, and add an equal quantity each of rich brown gravy and red wine, 1 table-spoonful each of vinegar and mushroom ketchup, and 1 teaspoonful of sugar. Keep the stewpan at the edge of the fire, and let the contents stew gently until the collops are tender. When cooked, arrange the collops on a hot dish, strain their cooking-liquor over them, and serve hot. Venison Croquettes.—Chop fine as much cold roasted Venison as will fill a breakfast-cup; mix it with nearly loz. of sifted breadcrumbs and a seasoning of chopped parsley, powdered mace, and a very little grated lemon- peel. Place on the fire in a saucepan 4 pint of good gravy, well thickened with browned flour, and stir into it a teaspoonful of currant jelly; when the jelly is well stirred into the gravy, add the meat and breadcrumbs; when it is pretty hot, take it from the fire and stir in a beaten egg. Let the mixture cool, then make it up into rather thick rolls about 2in. long; brush them over with egg, roll them in a paper of sifted breadcrumbs, and fry in boiling lard; drain them on kitchen-paper, arrange them on a hot dish, and garnish with fried parsley. Serve with them, in a sauce boat, some good brown gravy thickened with browned flour, with a little currant jelly and claret stirred into it. Venison Pie or Pasty.—(1) Bone a breast of Venison (if the pie is to be large nse two breasts), beat it flat, and lard it through and through with lardoons well seasoned with finely-chopped sweet herbs and all sorts of spices. Roll it up very tightly, and tie it into shape firmly with strong twine. Put the bones and trimmings into a stew- pan together with allspice, peppercorns, a bay-leaf, parsley, thyme, onions, carrots, and one clove of garlic; add a little water, and let all stew together till nearly dry; then fill up the stewpan with mutton or beef thick gravy and watfjr, half of each, and let it simmer till the vegetables are done. Then put in the rolled breast of Venison, lay buttered paper over, close the lid of the stewpan tightly, and let it stew till sufficiently done with fire under and over it. When done enough, take the stewpan from the fire, and let the Venison, &c., remain in it till almost cold. Make a plain paste crust of flour, one fourth its weight of butter, and sufficient water to mix it; make it as the crust for a raised pie is made, but mix it soft instead of stiff. Lay a very thick strip of this crust over the edge of the dish. Then remove the twine from the Venison, skin it, put it into the dish, and pour in some of the gravy it was stewed in: place on a good thick cover of the paste, trim it neatly, make a hole in the top, which may be hidden by an ornament made of the paste, brush over with beaten egg, and bake in a moder- ate oven for three or four hours. Reduce what remains of the liquor- it was boiled in, and when the pie is baked pour it in by means of a funnel inserted in the hole in the top of the crust. Let it stand till quite cold, and then serve on a second dish (see Fig. 1006). (2) Cut lib. or 2lb. of Venison into small slices, and lay them in a deep dish, with slices of Venison- or mutton- fat between the slices of Venison, seasoning the layers of meat with salt, pepper, and powdered allspice. Pour into the dish a gravy made by stewing the trimmings of Venison in water enough to cover them, with salt and pepper, for an hour; or with any good meat broth and claret mixed in equal proportions ; or 1 teaspoonful of lemon- V enison—continued. juice; 1 gill of port wine may be substituted for the claret: When wine is not used, a very little chopped onion is put into Venison patties. If the Venison is tender, the crust may be put on the pie at once, otherwise it is well to bake the Venison for an hour before covering with paste. Either use a bottom crust, or run a strip of paste round the sides of the dish and wet the edges to make Fig. 1006. Venison Pie. the upper crust adhere. Make a groove in the top crust, cut several slits to permit the escape of steam, brush the surface with beaten egg, and bake slowly for two hours. Serve either hot or cold, as desired. (3) Make a good plain paste, and line an earthenware pudding-dish with it Jin. thick. Chop enough beef-suet very fine to make Jin. layer next the crust at the bottom and top of the pie. Cut off sufficient Venison-meat from the bones, and divide it into pieces about lin. square, season rather highly with salt, pepper, and ground cloves, and lay it in the dish ; pour over 1 wineglassful of red wine for every 21b. of Venison, cover with a layer of chopped suet and then with paste, wetting the edges of the upper and under crusts to make them adhere. Cut several places in the top crust to permit the escape of steam in baking, and brush the surface with beaten egg. Bake the pie in a moderately hot oven for two hours, or until the Venison is tender, which can be ascertained by thrusting a skewer into the meat through one of the cuts in the top crust. While the pie is being baked, stew the bones of the Venison in enough water to cover them, adding a good seasoning of salt and pepper. When the pie is done, pour the gravy thus made into it through the cuts in the top crust, and serve hot. (4) Remove the bones and skin from a neck of Venison, and cut the meat into small square pieces; put them in a stewpan with two shallots, two blades of mace, 1 dessert- spoonful of allspice, salt and pepper, 1 teacupful of port wine, and sufficient veal broth to cover. Stand the stew- pan over a clear fire, and cook the meat slowly till three- parts done. Take the best-shaped pieces of Venison out of the stewpan, put them in a deep baking-dish, pour a little of the gravy over them, and leave till cold. Put the bones and trimmings of the Venison in the remainder of the gravy, and boil for twenty minutes. Prepare some raised pie-crust, cover the Venison with it, trim it off at the edges, ornament the top with leaves, &c., imitated in paste, and bake in a slow oven for about three hours. Strain the gravy off the bones, skim it well, mix 1 wine- glassful of port wine and the juice of a lemon with it, add a small lump of butter that has been worked with a little flour, and stir it over the fire till thick. When cooked, pour the prepared gravy into the pasty, and serve. (5) Cut a breast of Venison into small pieces, sprinkle some finely minced parsley, thyme, ami shallot over them, and dust with a little grated nutmeg, pepper, and salt; roll each piece of Venison up separately and fry them lightly in butter. Butter the edges of a pie-dish, and line them with puff paste, then put in the pieces of Venison. With the trimmings of Venison make 1 breakfast-cupful of gravy; pour this in the dish with 1 teacupful of port wine and the juice of half a lemon. Cover the pie with puff paste, put it in a moderate oven, and bake for nearlyTEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 742 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Scc., referred to, see under their special heads. Venison—continued. Venison—continued. two hours. When cooked, make a slight opening at the top of the pasty, pour in a little more gravy, and serve. (6) American.—Cut 31b. of Venison into small square pieces (the parings are preferable), place them in a sauce- pan with loz. of butter, and brown them well for six minutes; then add 1 table-spoonful of flour, stir well, and . moisten with lqt. of white broth; then throw in six small glazed white onions, a bouquet garni,. 2 pinches of salt, 1 pinch of pepper, and A pinch of nutmeg. Cook on the stove for forty-five minutes with the lid on. When done, turn the stew into a deep dish, cover with a good pie-crust, carefully wetting the edges, brush over the surface with beaten egg, make two incisions on each side and a small hole in the centre, and bake in the oven for forty minutes. Cover a dish with a folded napkin, lay upon this the dish containing the pie, and serve. Venison Pudding.—Finely chop fib. of Venison-suet, mix with it 1,1b. of oatmeal, and season with pepper and salt. Fill some well-cleaned sausage-skins with the mixture, tie them securely at the ends, and prick them with a fork to prevent their bursting. Put the puddings into a saucepan of boiling water and boil them for an hour. When cooked, drain the puddings, arrange them on a dish-paper or a folded napkin on a hot dish, and serve with oatmeal cakes. Venison Salad.—Cut some roast Venison into small nice- shaped pieces, put them in a deep dish, strew some chopped herbs over them, and cover with oil and vinegar. Wash some heads of endive, drain them well, shred them, and put them in a salad-bowl; add the Venison and dressing, and toss them lightly. Strew some chopped chives over the top, and serve. If preferred, the Venison may be well drained from the marinade, and put in a salad-bowl with some shred lettuces and a mayonnaise poured over. Venison Soup.—(1) Remove all the bones from about 41b. of fresh Venison; put it in a stewpan with |lb. of ham, cut into small pieces, and a finely-chopped shallot, pour in sufficient water to cover the meat, stand the stewpan by the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer gently for an hour. Skim the liquor, pour in lqt. of boiling water, and add a head of celery cut into small pieces and one and a half blades of mace. Let the liquor simmer gently for two hours-and-three-quarters longer, then pour in A- pint of port wine. Roll loz. of butter in 1 table-spoonful of flour, put it in with the Venison, and stir over the fire till thick. Turn the soup with the Venison into a soup-tureen, and serve with a plate of sippets of toast. (2) Split the head of the Venison, and wash it thoroughly in plenty of cold water; put it, with the shank-bones, neck, and any trimmings of Venison available, into a stock- pot with a carrot, turnip, four onions, one being stuck with four cloves, a little thyme, two blades of mace, eight or ten peppercorns, and a lump of salt. Fill the pot with cold water, stand it over the fire till boiling, then move it a little to the side and keep it boiling slowly for ten hours. Strain the soup through a fine hair sieve and leave it till cold. Skim all the fat oft' the soup, and put it in a saucepan with lAlb. of finely-chopped raw lean Venison and three eggs that have been beaten with their shells; stir the soup over the fire till boiling, then move it to the side and let it simmer for two hours, pouring in occasionally a very little cold water. At the end of that time strain the sou]) through a silk sieve into a clean pan, and season with salt, pepper, cayenne pepper, and 1 table-spoonful of ketchup. Beat the yolks of three eggs with 1 break-fastcupful of milk, and season them with salt and pepper. Turn the custard into a buttered mould, put it into a saucepan with boiling water to three- parts its height, and steam the custard till firm. When firm, turn the custard out of the mould, cut it into thick slices, then cut them into different shapes with a fancy cutter. Put the pieces of custard into the soup, turn it into a tureen, and serve while very hot. (3) Remove the bones from 31b. or 4lb. of freshly-killed Venison, and cut the meat into small pieces; put them into a large stewpan with fib. of sliced liam, two minced onions, and cold water to cover. Season to taste with salt and pepper, put the lid on the stewpan, and keep the contents simmering at the edge of the fire. In an hour's time skim the soup well, pour in lqt. of boiling water, and add a couple of blades of mace and a head of celery that has been washed and cut into convenient lengths. Boil the soup gently for two hours longer. Knead 3oz. of butter well with 3 table-spoonfuls of flour, and divide it into small pieces. When cooked, put the prepared butter into the soup, mix in A pint of red wine, and boil gently for fifteen minutes longer. Turn the soup into a soup-tureen, and serve. (4) Put 61b. or 71b. of breast of Venison, cut into small pieces, into a stewpan, and let it stew for an hour in fib. of butter. Keep the lid on close, but stir the meat about occasionally to prevent it from burning. Put over the fire in another saucepan 1A pints of the blood mixed with 4qts. of cold water, stir it till it boils, then add to it one onion, peeled and chopped very small, a carrot scraped and washed, but not cut up, the stewed Venison, and a seasoning of salt and black pepper. Let it simmer for two hours if the Venison be young, but if old it will require two-hours-and-a-half. Fifteen minutes before removing it from the fire, take out the carrot and all the bones of the Venison, but leave in some of the meat; add a small piece of butter with plenty of flour rubbed into it, and A pint of port wine, and let it boil for ten minutes, stirring constantly. Venison Steak a la Cabaretier.—Cut off a thick steak, beat it with a cutlet-bat to make it tender, put it into a marinade of vinegar or lemon-juice, and let it remain for twenty minutes or so. Take it out, wipe it perfectly dry, wrap it first in vine-leaves and then in buttered paper, put it on a grill over a clear charcoal fire, and broil until done. Serve with butter sauce, seasoned with cayenne pepper and salt, poured over. Venison Steaks a la Chasseur.—Procure from a freshly- killed deer a fine leg of about 5lb. weight, remove the bone, cut off six slices, pare and flatten them, put, them on a plate, and season with 1 pinch each of salt and pepper, A pinch of nutmeg, and 1 table-spoonful of oil, rolling them Fig. 1007. Venison Steaks a la Chasseur. in well. Put them to broil for five minutes on each side over a clear fire. Dress on a hot dish, spread over 1 gill of maitre-d’hotel butter, decorate the dish with a little water- cress (see Fig. 1007), and serve. Venison Steaks a l’Espagnole.—The same as for Broiled Venison Steak, serving with the following sauce: Put into a saucepan on a hot range 1 wineglassful of port wine, and let it come to the boil; add \ pint of currant jelly, thoroughly stir until the jelly is well dissolved, pour in 1 gill of Spanish sauce, and let it again come to the boil. Pour the sauce on a hot dish, dress the steaks over it, one overlapping another, and send to table hot. Venison Steak a la Hongroise.—Broil the steak. Mean- while cut into julienne-shaped pieces Aoz. of citron, also the zest of half a small lemon cut in the same way; place them in a saucepan with 1 wineglassful of port wine, and cook for two or three minutes at most. Add 1 gill of currant-jelly, stir well together until the jelly is thoroughly dissolved, and sprinkle over A saltspoonful of cayenne. Allow it to come to the boil. Pour the sauce' on the hot dish, arrange the steaks over it one overlapping another, and serve very hot. It is not very often that the offal of the deer finds its way into cookery, although some parts of it are by no means to be despised, as the following receipts will show :TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 743 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Venison—continued. Deer-Head-and-Feet Soup.—Skin and bone the head of a young deer, put it in a saucepan with sufficient cold water to cover, and let it boil for fifteen minutes. Take it out, dry it on a cloth, and scrape the meat. Cut the head into about four pieces, put them in a saucepan with a raw ham-bone and the skinned and blanched feet, about 21b. of raw veal, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a moderate quantity of vegetables, such as onions, carrots, &c. Pour in 3qts. of rich broth and \ pint of white wine. Leave the soup over the fire until it boils, then move it to the side, skim well, and keep it simmering. When the meat is tender, cut it into small squares, and put them into a stewpan with a small quantity of Madeira wine. Strain the broth, pour it back into the saucepan, and keep it hot. Chop one onion and one carrot, and a small piece of celery ; put them in a stewpan with a lump of butter and about 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped ham, and fry them. Dredge the vegetables over with a little less than 1 table-spoonful of arrowroot, and pour the soup in gradually. Continue stirring it over the fire until it boils again, then move it to the side; put in a small bunch of thyme, marigold, and laurel, and simmer for half-an-hour. Skim and strain the soup, pour it over the meat and Maderia wine, add a few chopped mushrooms, and boil for ten minutes. Before turning it into the soup-tureen, skim the soup again, and season to taste with salt and cayenne. Serve very hot. Fried Deer’s Liver.—Wash the liver in plenty of cold water, cut it into rather thick slices, and trim them to the shape of veal cutlets; dredge them over with Hour, and season with salt and pepper. Put a lump of butter in a frying- pan, melt it, then lay in the slices of liver and fry them till nicely browned, turning them when done on one side to brown the other. Fry in another pan at the same time some thin slices of ham. When cooked, arrange the slices of liver, with a slice of ham between each, on a hot dish. Pour a little water in the frying-pan in which the liver was fried, stir it over the fire, then mix it with some Venison sauce; pour all over the liver, and serve. Roasted Deer's Heart.—Soak the heart in cold water for several hours, wash away the blood, and dry with a cloth. Stuff it with veal stuffing, sew it up, rub over some butter, and cover with flour-and-water paste. Wrap it in paper tied on with strings, put it on a spit, and set it before a clear fire to roast for two hours, basting with fat all the time it is roasting. Remove the paper and paste about fifteen minutes before it is done, and dredge with Hour. Melt some butter on a dish, and with a spoon baste the heart well with it. When browned and thoroughly cooked, place it on a hot dish, pour over some rich sauce, and serve red-currant jelly and French beans separately. VENTILATION.—Of all departments in a well- regulated household that cry aloud for Ventilation, the kitchen, pantry, and larder stand pre-eminent. Unfortu- nately many houses constructed on modern principles provide no exit for the smell-laden air of the kitchen except through the halls, passages, and staircases of the rest of the house; whereas, if due attention were paid to this important feature, the house would at no time teem with the odours of cooking, which are not always appetising, but all that are generated would pass into the outer air direct through ventilators provided for this purpose. A well-ventilated kitchen is a pleasure to the cook, and conducive to the health of all concerned in or about it. Open windows are the best form of ventilators, but it is difficult to overcome prejudice, and many cooks believe that by cooling or ventilating the kitchen the heat neces- sary for cooking is carried off. This is a very common error, and one that will continue until we arrive at a period of culinary enlightenment that is certainly at present only looming in the distance. Ventilators should only be inserted in the walls either communicating with the outside of the house or the chimney: the ascending draught of the chimney draws away the heated foul air that accumulates at the top of the kitchen. When windows are opened, they should be pulled down from the Ventilation—continued. top; but as some kitchen windows open into pantries or passages, some form of independent Ventilation should be adopted. See Air. VENT-PEGS.—Sharp, conical-shaped pieces of wood that are used for stopping up the vent-hole of the barrel. VENUS PUDDING.—See Puddings. VERJUICE '(FV. Verjus).—The name given to the sour juice of crab-apples, unripe grapes, &c., much used in French cookery, in lieu of lemon-juice, sorrel, or vinegar. It may be obtained by simply pressing out the juice, and straining it. VERMICELLI (FV. Vermicelle; Ger. Fadennudeln). —The literal meaning of this term is little worms, which Vermicelli resembles in a marked degree. It is made of Italian paste pressed through fine apertures and dried. It is used in this country principally for puddings and soups. Vermicelli a la Reine.—Blanch the Vermicelli in boiling water, then drain it; put it into a saucepan with rich broth, season to taste, and let it boil gently till cooked. Beat the yolks of eight eggs well, and mix a little cream with them; pour them into the soup, and stir them by the side of the fire for a few minutes, but do not let them boil. Turn the Vermicelli into a tureen, and serve with a plate of sippets of toast. Vermicelli Cake.—Boil 2oz. of Vermicelli for twelve minutes ; when well done, drain it, and add it to a short paste made of Mb. of flour, Goz. of butter, the whites of two eggs, and h saltspoonful of salt. Pound the paste and Vermicelli well together in a mortar, and have ready a baking-pan covered with a sheet of buttered paper; lay the paste on top, spreading it out about Gin. square. Put it in the oven for twenty minutes. Remove it, detach it from the paper, lay it on a dish with a folded napkin, and serve hot. Vermicelli Croquettes.—Boil Goz. of Vermicelli in 1 h pints of milk till tender and it begins to thicken, keeping it constantly stirred all the time. Rub 111), of loaf sugar over the rind of a Seville orange, and when the Vermicelli is cooked add that to it, also 2oz. of fresh butter; keep the mixture well stirred over the fire for a few minutes, then move it to the side and mix in the well-beaten yolks of eight eggs. The mixture should not boil after the eggs are added, but should be stirred by the side of the fire till thick, then turned out on to a dish and left till cold. Divide the cold mixture into small pieces, and mould them into any shape fancied; dip each piece separately into well-beaten eggs, then into finely-grated breadcrumb, smooth them over with the blade of a knife, then egg-arid- breadcrumb them again. Put the croquettes into a frying- basket and plunge them into a deep pan of boiling lard. When nicely browned all over, drain the croquettes on a cloth till all the fat has run off, then arrange them pyramidically on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish- paper, sift caster sugar over, and serve them. Vermicelli Fatties (Turkish).—Roll out about 1 Fib. of puff paste as thin as possible, and cut six rounds out of it. Fig. 1008. Vermicelli Patties. Butter a baking-tin, lay three pieces of the paste on it, one over the other, then put a layer of Vermicelli on them. Warm 5oz. of butter, pour it over the Vermicelli, then cover with the remaining pieces of paste; prick here andTEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 744 For details resecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their s. ecial heads. Vermicelli—continued. Vermicelli—continued. there with a skewer, put them in the oven, and hake until nicely browned. Put lib. of loaf sugar into a saucepan with lqt. of water, and boil it until reduced to a thick syrup. When the patties are cooked, pour the syrup over, and place in a slow oven for a few minutes. Cut them into quarters, arrange them on a dish (see Fig. 1008), and serve. Vermicelli Pudding.—(1) Trim off the skin and discoloured parts from 2oz. of beef-suet, and chop it fine; then put it in a saucepan with 1 breakfast cupful of milk and Jib. of Vermicelli, and stir them over the fire until boiling. Boil the mixture for live minutes, then turn it into a basin and leave till cool. When ready, stir in with the Vermicelli 4 heaped table-spoonfuls of sugar, 1b table- spoonfuls of orange marmalade, 'five well-beaten eggs, and a few drops of ratafia. Brush the interior of a mould with a paste-brush dipped in warmed butter, then pour in the mixture; tie a sheet of buttered paper over the top, stand it in a saucepan with boiling water to three- parts its height, and steam it for two hours. Meanwhile prepare the following sauce : Slightly warm 2oz. of butter, beat it until creamy with 3 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, then stir in gradually 1 scant breakfast-cupful of boiling water. Turn the mixture into a saucepan, and stir it over a slow fire till on the point of boiling, then move it off at once. Mix in the sauce, 2 wineglassfuls of sherry and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. When cooked, turn the pudding out of the mould, pour the sauce round it, and serve. (2) Put 2oz. of Vermicelli in a saucepan with lqt. of milk and boil until tender. Beat six eggs well with 4oz. of caster sugar and about 3 wineglassfuls of rose-water. Put Jib. of butter in with the Vermicelli, move the sauce- pan off the fire, and stir in the beaten eggs. Butter a pie dish, line it with puff paste, and pour the Vermicelli into it. Put it in a brisk oven and bake. Serve the pudding hot. (3) Put 3oz. of Vermicelli into a saucepan with a small lump of butter and 1 pint of milk. Stir it over the fire until thick and it does not stick to the sides of the saucepan, then take it off, and leave until cool. Blanch and pound 1 heaped table-spoonful of sweet almonds with four bitter ones, then mix them with the Vermicelli and add the beaten yolks of four eggs, 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, the grated peel of half a lemon, and a small quantity of spice. Whisk the whites of the four eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them in gently at the last. Butter the interior of a dome-shaped mould, fill it with the mixture, tie a cloth over, and boil for an hour. The water must not cease boiling until the pudding is done. When cooked, turn the pudding on to a hot dish, and serve it with a sauceboatful of wine sauce. The spice may be omitted if not approved of. (4) Pour 1 pint of milk into a saucepan with loz. of butter, bring it to the boil, add 4oz. of Vermicelli crushed in the hand, and stir it over the fire until quite thick, which should take about five minutes. Remove the pan from the fire, stir in 2oz. of sugar, the grated rind of half a lemon, a seasoning of grated nutmeg, loz. of blanched and chopped almonds, and the yolks of three eggs, stirring vigorously and continually. Now add the whites of the eggs beaten to a froth, stir them in gently, turn the pre- paration into a well-buttered mould dusted with sugar, put a piece of buttered paper over the top, and steam over a saucepan of boiling water for about an hour. Turn it out on to a dish, and pour fruit sauce over or round; or serve it in a sauceboat. (5) Put 5oz. of Vermicelli into a lined saucepan with H pints of milk, a piece of stick cinnamon, and a few lumps of loaf sugar. When all the moisture is absorbed, remove the cinnamon, and turn the Vermicelli into a bowl. When cool, work in with it the beaten yolks of four eggs and the whites of two that have been whisked to a froth. Thickly butter the interior of a plain mould, strew in some finely-grated breadcrumb, shake out the superfluous, and pour in the Vermicelli. Bake the pudding for half an-hour in a moderate oven. Turn it out on to a hot dish, and serve with a jam or wine sauce, either poured over or in a sauceboat. (fi) Put Jib. of Vermicelli into lqt. of milk with a small piece of stick cinnamon, and boil it. Beat up together the yolks of four eggs, Jib. of warmed butter, and 1 pint of cream. When the Vermicelli has boiled quite soft, pick out the cinnamon, and pour the Vermi- celli into the beaten eggs, &c.; mix in with it some beef- marrow, a little flour, and sufficient white powdered sugar to sweeten ; beat all well together for half an-hour. Dip a cloth into boiling water, flour it well, tie the pudding in it, and boil. (7) Put Jib. of Vermicelli into 1 pint of milk with a piece of stick cinnamon, and let it boil till the Vermicelli is quite tender. Mix with it the yolks of four well-beaten eggs, Jib. of powdered white sugar, Jib. of butter, and b pint of cream. Put it into a pudding-dish, and bake. (8) Boil lqt. of milk in a saucepan, add Jib. of Vermi- celli, and with a wliisk stir briskly and continually for fifteen minutes. Take from the fire, let it cool, and add 4oz. of powdered sugar, mixing well for one minute. Break in four eggs, flavour with 1 teaspoonful of vanilla essence, and mix well for two minutes longer. Butter and sugar well six small pudding-moulds, and with a ladle fill up the moulds with the Vermicelli; place them in a tin pan, pouring in warm but not boiling water to half the height of the moulds, then put them in the oven and steam for thirty five minutes. Remove, take the moulds from the pan with a towel, and with a thin knife detach them ; turn them on to a hot dish, and serve with the following sauce: Put 1 pint of milk to boil in a saucepan on the stove. Break into a vessel two eggs, add loz. of flour, boz. of cornflour, and 3oz. of powdered sugar, beating the whole well together with a spatula for three minutes. If the milk be boiling, add it gradually to the preparation, stirring continually for two minutes; return the whole to the saucepan, place it on the stove, and stir briskly until it comes to the boil; then remove, and add immediately 1 teaspoonful of vanilla flavouring. Strain the sauce through a sieve into a sauce-bowl, and serve. (9) German.—Put 1 pint of milk and 2oz. of butter into an enamelled stewpan, and boil it; then strew in 3oz. of Vermicelli, and stir it until thick and cooked, using a wooden spoon. Leave the Vermicelli until somewhat cooled, then mix in 2 heaped table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, 1 table-spoonful of blanched and pounded sweet almonds, 1 scant teaspoonful of pounded bitter almonds, and a small quantity of grated lemon peel. Separate the yolks and whites of six eggs; beat the yolks first and stir them in the above mixture, then whisk the whites to a stiff snow and add them. Butter a mould, fill it with the mixture, tie a stout pudding-cloth over the top, put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for an hour. When cooked, serve the pudding with a fruit sauce. Vermicelli Souffle.—Put loz. of Vermicelli into a saucepan of boiling salted water, and boil for twenty minutes; then drain oft' all the water, put in J pint of milk and a few pieces of tliinly-shred lemon-peel, sweeten to taste, and stew at the side of the fire until it has absorbed all the milk. Let the Vermicelli get cold, then mix with it the beaten yolks of four eggs. Whisk the whites of six eggs to a stiff froth, stir them in lightly and quickly with the above mixture, and turn the whole into a plain mould. Bake the souffle in a brisk oven for about twenty minutes, or until well risen and lightly browned on the top; then take it out, pin a napkin round the mould, and serve at once. Vermicelli Soup.—(1) Put from 31b. to 41b. of knuckle of veal, 1 Jib. of scrag of mutton, and Jib. of ham, all cut into small pieces, in a saucepan with Jib. of butter and an onion stuck with three cloves, and fry them over the fire for ten minutes. Put in with the meat a bunch of sweet herbs, one anchovy, two carrots, three blades of mace, three carrots, and three heads of celery. Put the lid on the saucepan, and set it over- the fire till all the gravy has been extracted from the meat. Drain the gravy into a basin, pour 4qts. of water over the meat, and boil slowly till reduced to 3 pints. Strain the soup into another saucepan, pour in the gravy from the meat, addTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 745 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Vermicelli—continued. Jib. of Vermicelli, <1 liea-1 of celery cut into small pieces, and a small quantity of cayenne pepper and salt. Boil the soup for fifteen minutes. Put a penny roll in a soup- tureen, pour a little of the soup on it, let it soak for a few minutes, then pour in the remainder of the soup, and serve. (2) Prepare 3qts. of broth with the trimmings, bones, and jowls of fish, some vegetables, and a small quantity of white wine. Chop an onion and the white part of two leeks, put them in a saucepan with a small quantity of olive oil, and fry till nicely browned. Skin three tomatoes, cut them into small pieces, removing at the same time all the pips; put them in with the fried onion, &c., and add a sprig of parsley, a bay leaf, and four cloves. Strain the broth through a silk sieve, pour it over the above articles, and boil up again. Put lib. of Vermicelli in the soup, and let it simmer by the side of the fire. When cooked, turn the soup into a tureen, and serve. (3) Clean the hearts and livers of several chickens, cut them into small pieces, put them in a saucepan with a lump of butter, and toss them over the fire till half cooked; drain the butter off the livers and hearts, dust them with salt, and pour in 4 pints of clear chicken broth. Stand it over the fire till boiling, then put in 6oz. of Vermicelli, and boil till tender. When cooked, pour the soup into a soup-tureen, dust powdered cinnamon and pepper over it, and serve with a plate of sippets of toast. (4) Put Jib. of fine Vermicelli in a saucepan with lqt. of clear stock that has been perfectly freed from fat, anil boil it. Prepare 2qts. of nicely-flavoured soup, and when ready pour it into a soup-tureen. Drain the Vermicelli, put it in with the soup, and serve at once with a plate of grated Parmesan cheese. (5) Put over the fire some good, strong, strained, well- seasoned broth. When it boils put in the Vermicelli, and let it simmer for half-an-hour; do not let the Vermicelli burst, and do not thicken the soup too much with it. Half a pound is sufficient for soup for eight or ten people. (6) Indian Style.—Clean the livers and hearts of three fowls and the gizzard of one, put them in a sauce- pan with a little water, and boil gently until half cooked; next drain, and cut them into small pieces. Put them in a saucepan with 3qts. of clear stock, 3oz. of Vermicelli, salt and pepper to taste, and a moderate quantity of sweet herbs, and keep all simmering gently until very tender. Turn the soup into a. soup tureen, and serve. Vermicelli Soup with Tomato Puree.—Prepare 3qts. of fish stock as for thick soup; when boiling, move it to the side of the fire and let it simmer for half-an-hour. Make H pints of fresh tomato puree. Skim the fat off the soup, put in a bunch of parsley and sweet herbs and the tomato puree, then let it simmer for twenty minutes longer. Boil ill), of Vermicelli gently in salted water till tender. Strain the soup, put in the Vermicelli, skim off all the fat, and boil up again. Turn the soup into a tureen, and serve. Vermicelli Timbale.—Pour 2qts. of milk in a saucepan on the fire, bring it to the boil, and add lOoz. of slightly- broken Vermicelli, 6oz. of lemon sugar, Jib. of butter, and 1 pinch of salt. As soon as the Vermicelli is suffi- Vermicelli—continued. ciently swollen, add Jib. of powdered macaroons, the yolks of six eggs, and the whites of two ; stir gently, then add the well whipped whites of two eggs and 4 table-spoonfuls of cream also well whipped. Have ready a timbale-mould lined with puff paste, fill up with the mixture, and bake in a quick oven for about an-hour-and a-half. When done, turn it out (see Pig. 1009) and serve immediately. VERMOUTH.—This pleasing bitter is manufactured with wormwood, white wine, and orange wine, and sweetened with sugar. VERSAILLES CREAM.—See Cream. VIANDS. — This term is derived from the Latin vivenda—provisions, and was probably introduced into our domestic vocabulary by the French. The term Victuals has a similar derivation and signification. VICHY WATER.—See Aerated Waters. VICOU.—A beverage made by the Indians of French Guiana from the plantain. VICTORIA BISCUITS.—See Biscuits. VICTORIA CAKE.—See Cakes. VICTORIA PUDDING.—See Puddings. VICTORIA SAUCE.—See Sauces. VICTORIA SOUP.—See Soups. VICTUALS.—See Viands. VIDOGNA.—A wine manufactured in Teneriffe, resembling Madeira. VIENNA BEER.—A dark amber-coloured beverage with a white frothy head, which has found much favour in this country since its introduction about the year 1867. VIENNA BREAD AND ROLLS.-See Bread and Vienna Flour. VIENNA FLOUR.—Italy is famous for the excel- lence of the wheat grown on its vast mountain slopes, and undulating land. Something may be due to the richness of the soil, and the warm and equable climate. The flour of this Italian wheat is exceedingly white, and suitable for making the very best kinds of pastry, bread, &c. (see Vienna Rolls, under Bread). The superiority of Italian-made macaroni, vermicelli, &c., is due to the fine quality of the flour. VIENNA CAKES.—See Cakes. VIENNA DUMPLINGS.—See Dumplings. VIENNA PUDDINGS.—See Puddings. VIENNA ROLLS.—See Bread. VILLEROY SAUCE.—See Sauces. VINAIGRETTE SAUCE.—See Sauces. VINASSE.—A brown watery liquor which is the residue of the distillation of beetroot wine. It contains a large proportion of potash. VINE - LEAVES. — For garnishing dessert-dishes these leaves are very effective, owing to their beautiful green colour and graceful shape (see Fig. 1010). They possess some flavour, which has led cooks to use them for certain culinary purposes. They are occasionally selected to wrap round small birds, or to contain a forcemeat. In this last condition they are served as Stuffed Vine-THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 746 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensds, Sauces, <ic., referred to, see under their special heads. Vine-leaves—continued. leaves, the following being some very good receipts for preparing them: Fig 1010. Vine-leaves. Stuffed Vine-leaves.—(1) Put a few dozen young Vine- leaves in a large howl, pour boiling water over them, then turn them on to a sieve, and leave till well drained. I ’eel and finely chop seven or eight large onions; put Jib. of butter into a stewpan, place it over the lire till hot, then add the onions, and toss them about until beginning to brown. Wash in plenty of water about 21b. of the best rice, and diy it on a cloth ; put the rice in with the onions, and stir it over the fire till on the point of browning, then pour in i pint of water, and continue stirring until dry. Season the mixture with powdered mint and cinnamon, and salt and pepper; stir it well, then move it from the fire. Spread the Vine leaves out, put a small quantity of the mixture on each, then roll them round lengthwise, pressing gently to prevent them opening. Cover the bottom of a saucepan with some small bones, and lay the Vine-leaves on them, putting in now and then one or two sour plums; by doing this the flavour will be improved by the acidity from the plums. Press a plate over the Vine-leaves, moisten to height with water, and boil gently. When all the moisture has evaporated, take out one of the stuffed leaves and see if the rice is tender ; if not, add more hot water. Arrange the leaves tastefully on a fancy dish-paper or a folded napkin on a hot dish, and serve them. Lemon juice can be used in place of the plums when they are not in season, but the latter are preferable. (2) Plunge the Vine-leaves into a bowl of boiling water, turn them on to a sieve, and leave to drain. Finely chop some raw mutton, judging the quantity by that of the leaves; mix with it 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped onions and a small teacupful of well-washed rice; season the mixture with salt and pepper, and stir in sufficient water to make a stiffish paste. Spread the Vine-leaves out on the table, and put on each a small quantity of the stuffing. Roll them round lengthwise, and press lightly to prevent them coming open; lay them in a saucepan, put the lid on, and place it over the fire until all _ the moisture of the Vine leaves has evaporated. Moisten then to height with broth, and keep it boiling gently at the side of the lire until reduced to a thick con sistency. When sufficiently reduced, try one of the Vine- leaves to see if the rice and meat are tender; if not, some more broth must be poured over them, and finished cook- ing. Drain the leaves, arrange them tastefully on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, and serve. (3) Wash and dry the selected quantity of young Vine leaves; prepare a stuffing for them of finely minced veal, half the quantity of minced bacon, and a third of the Vine-leaves—continued. quantity of bread panada. Season the stuffing highly, and roll a small portion of it in each leaf. Lay them in a stewpan, cover with court bouillon, and stew gently. When cooked, drain the stuffed leaves, arrange them on a hot dish, pour 1 pint of sour cream over them, and serve. VINEGAR {Fr. Vinaigre; Ger. Essig; Ital. Aceto; Sp. Vinagre).—The original meaning of this term is sour or acid wine, the presumption being that the first Vinegar known was the result of wine which turned sour. Excellent Vinegars are now prepared from alcoholic liquors, by a variety of processes, which has provided for the Vinegar of commerce names which indicate the details of its manufacture. Vinegar may be produced in two ways—first, by the addition of oxygen to alcohol contained in wine, cider, beer, or any form of fermented sugar and water; secondly, by the distillation of wood, which produces a kind of acetic acid, called pyroligneous acid, which is sometimes used as a wash to restore meat that is tainted. Vine- gar used for culinary purposes, such as flavouring or preserving vegetable and animal substances, as pickles, should be made by the first principle only. A famous authority on the food productions of this country has written concerning this very useful commodity that there are good Vinegars in the market; there are also those which are indifferent, bad, and very bad. The latter are the more common. The best and most wholesome are those made from cider and wine. These retain the sug- gestions of the apples and grapes from which they origi- nally came. If carefully kept they remain palatable for an indefinite period; if carelessly, they, like every good food substance, are apt to become mouldy and unwhole- some. From a gastronomic standpoint, the best Vinegar is that which is made from red wine; next to it are those made from white wine, cider, and perry. The first is invaluable in salad dressing, on account of its beautiful colour; the second is most useful in those preparations where no colour at all is desired ; the third is available for all general uses ; and the last comes to the front whenever the delicious jargonelle flavour is conducive to culinary success. Below the first class are the Vinegars made from beer, ale, and whisky. These are coarse, heavy, and often offensive. They never, except in the case of whisky, are made purposely, but represent the desire of some brewer or distiller to utilise goods which have been ruined by careless treatment and which would otherwise prove a total loss. The ale that sours in the barrels and hogsheads, the beer that begins to putrefy in the vaults, and the wretched whisky which is so full of fusil oils that no dealer, not even the lowest, will purchase it at any price, are the raw materials from which this class of Vinegars are made. They cannot be said to be injurious, but they are simply miserable apologies for the real article. In this country a malt Vinegar is made from mashed malt without distillation, but by simply allowing the sugar fermentation to go to an acetic fermentation. It may also be stated that there is nothing equal for domestic use to a good cider Vinegar. Below the grade of whisky Vinegar, are the Vinegars made in the laboratory by chemical processes, and especially by the destructive distillation of wood. Unless skilfully refined and purified, they contain creosote, wood tar, and other products of the same class, all of which are injurious, many of them are poisonous, and some of which are fatal to the user. They have one advantage—and only one—they are cheap. They bear the same relation to genuine Vinegar that mirbane oil does to bitter almonds, glucose to pure sugar, sweetened diluted oil of vitriol to lemonade, and margarine to fresh creamy butter. Without entering further into the details of the various processes of Vinegar making, it will suffice for us to know that Vinegars, however produced, are classified by the747 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, L'tensils, Sauces, dc., referred to, see under their special heads V inegar—continued. manufacturer as numbers 16, 17, 18, 20, 22, and 24, according to the percentag-e of alcohol they contain. This should vary from 3 to 6 per cent. Vinegar is adulterated by excessive dilution with water, burnt sugar colouring, the addition of impure acetic acid, and, worst of all, by the addition of sulphuric acid. The pro- portion of acid can be discovered by Stokes’s Acidity Pellets (see Pig. 1011), their use being described under Milk ; the only precaution necessary to render this test perfect is to add an equal portion of milk to the quantity of Vinegar to be tested, and take the re suit as half that given in the usual way. Vinegar can be made by the use of what is called the Vinegar-plant, this being a mass of Vinegar ferment or mother of Vinegar, usually sold worked up in sour dough. Samples of this that have been examined under the microscope contain an im- mense number of minute creatures known as Vinegar-eels (see Fig. 1012). Whatever their influence may be when present, it is quite certain that Vinegar can be produced equally well in their absence. Flavoured Vinegars, such as garlic, raspberry, tarragon, &c., will be found described under their special headings. The following receipts for preparing Vinegar at home may be found useful: Fig. 1011. Stokes’s Patent Acidity Pellets (Dairy Supply Co.). (1) Put lib. of coarse brown sugar in a saucepan, pour 1 gall, of water over it, and boil for fifteen minutes, skimming it well at the same time. Turn the liquor out of the saucepan, and leave it till nearly cold. Toast a thick slice of bread, spread some yeast on it, and put it in the sugar water. On the following day turn the liquor into a cask, cover the bung-hole with a cloth or piece of paper, hut do not stop it up, and keep the cask in a warm place. If not sufficiently acid at the end of a year, let the Vinegar stand longer. When ready, bottle off the Vinegar. Fig. 1012. Vinegar-eels. (2) Put ^lb. of brown sugar and 3 pints of water in a vessel, stir it until the sugar has dissolved, then put in a vinegar-plant, and stand the vessel in a rather dark place. If in the winter time, the Vinegar should he kept in a warm place ; but if in the summer-time, it is best made in a cask and exposed to the sun. In about seven weeks’ time the Vinegar should be drawn off and bottled ; Vinegar—continued. if left longer, the plant will feed on the Vinegar and weaken it. (3) Put 7lb. of the coarsest brown sugar in a lined pan with 4 gall, of water, and boil it. Skim the sugar, take it off the tire, pour 1 gall, of cold water in with it, then turn it into a 5 gall, keg, and mix with it some small pieces of toast that have been spread with a teacupful of brewer’s yeast. Stir the mixture every day for a week, and at the end of that time tack a piece of gauze over the bung-hole, and put it in a place where the sun may shine on it. In six months’ time the Vinegar may he drawn off for use. It is best to make the Vinegar in the spring of the year, so that it may have as much heat from the sun as possible. (4) Put Oqts. of water in a large vessel with 2lb. of raw sugar, and boil it for twenty minutes or half-an-hour, skimming oft' any scum that may rise to the top. At the end of that time pour the Vinegar into an earthenware vessel, and leave it until lukewarm. Thickly spread a slice of bread on both sides with yeast, put it into the warm Vinegar, and let it ferment for two days. Rinse a small barrel out with plain Vinegar, then pour in the sugar Vinegar. Paste a stout piece of brown paper over the bung-liole, and prick two or three small holes in it with a fork. Keep the barrel in a dry warm place. In two months’ time the Vinegar may he bottled for use. Camp Vinegar.—Add to 1 pint of the best Vinegar 4 table- spoonfuls of walnut ketchup, 2 table-spoonfuls of soy, six anchovies chopped line, a small clove of garlic also chopped line, and 1 drachm of cayenne pepper. Put all this into a bottle, and let it stand, well corked, for a month, shaking the bottle frequently. Strain it through a cloth, put it into small bottles, and cork tightly. McCarty’s Vinegar. —Put 2 table-spoonfuls of 'Worcester- shire sauce and £ table-spoonful of tobasco pepper-sauce into a pint bottle, and fill it up with tarragon vinegar. Cork the bottle, and shake it well. This is a splendid relish when used in salads and sauces, or on broiled fish. The Vinegar takes its name from the proprietor of an hotel in New York, who is said to be the originator of the receipt. The following are a few samples of the culinary uses to which Vinegar may be applied, besides those of flavouring and pickling : Vinegar Cake.—Warm Goz. of butter, and beat it together with ill), of caster sugar till creamy; then add four eggs, beating each one for five minutes before another is added, and mix in | pint of milk and 2 table spoonfuls of Vinegar. Mix I teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda and 4lb. of well- waslied currants with 111), of flour, stir in the above mixture, and when quite smooth turn it into a buttered cake-tin. Bake the cake for an hour-ami-a half in a moderate oven ; when cooked, turn it out of the tin. Vinegar Candy.—(1) Stir 111), of white sugar into I pint of white Vinegar; when the sugar is quite dissolved, set it over the fire and let it boil gently till thick enough to pull, then turn it on to buttered dishes ; the dishes should be flat and quite cold. As soon as the candy is sufficiently cooled to touch, pull it with the tips of your fingers till quite white and porous. (2) Mix with 41b. of molasses 4 table-spoonfuls of water and 1 teacupful of good cider Vinegar. Place it over a moderate fire and boil it, keeping the pan covered till when a little of it tried in cold water hardens. Pour it then into buttered tins, pull it till light, and cut it into sticks, lozenges, or balls of convenient size. Vinegar Pie.—Boil 1 pint of water, \ pint of Vinegar, and loz. of butter together. Mix lib. of brown sugar and 1 teaspoonful of ground cinnamon with 4oz. of flour, then dredge it into the boiling liquid, stirring at the same time. Take the mixture off the fire when partly thickened and before it boils. Roll some pie-crust out very thin, line a buttered baking-tin with it, pour in the above mixture, cover with a flat of the same paste, pinching and pressing the edges together, and bake. When cooked, turn the pie carefully out of the tin on to a dish, and serve.748 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. V inegar—co n tinued. Vinegar Syrup.—Beat the white of an egg to a stiff froth, and put it in a saucepan with 31b. of caster sugar and f pint of the best malt Vinegar. St ir the mixture once, then place it over a charcoal lire, and boil for half a minute. Skim the syrup, remove it from the lire, and put in a small quantity of marjoram that has been tied up in a piece of muslin ; cover with the lid, and leave the contents until cold. Pass the syrup through a clean cloth or a silk sieve, pour it into a bottle, cork it tightly, and put it by for use. In hot weather the above syrup can be taken mixed with cold water, and it will be found an agreeable beverage. Vinegar Whey.—Put 4 pint each of milk and water in a saucepan with 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar, and boil. Pour sufficient Vinegar in the milk to form a curd, boil it up again, then strain it through a jelly-bag. Serve the whey while hot. VINO-COLTO. —A cordial manufactured in Milazzo, from wine must boiled with potash. VINO-SANTO .—An Italian wine manufactured in Perugia. VIN-REGNO.—The name given to a medicinal wine prepared from essence of beef, port wine, extract of malt, and quinine. It is commonly known as Pearson’s Beef Wine, and is strongly recommended by the medical faculty for its health-giving qualities. VINS DE LIQUEUR—The French name for sweet sugary wines. VINS ORDINAIRES.—The French name of a class of wines which possess very little body or flavour. VIOLETS (Fr. Violettes; Ger. Veilclien; Ital. Violette; Sp. Yioletas).—One of the prettiest fancies of the artistic confectioner is the use they occasionally make of sweet-smelling and pleasantly-flavoured flowers. Amongst these the Violet (Viola odorata) holds a very prominent position, its deep rich colour rendering it ex- ceedingly acceptable for its appearance sake. Orris-root is very similar in flavour and smell to Violets, for which it is often used as a substitute. Candied Violets.—Take some double Violets and pick off the green stalks. Clarify and boil some loaf sugar to the blow (see Sugar-boiling), put the Violets into it, and let the sugar again boil to the blow ; draw the pan from the fire, and rub the sugar against the sides of the pan till it turns white; stir all together till the sugar sepa- rates from the Violets, then sift and put them into the stove to dry. For garnishing sweet dishes, compotes, &c., these (see Fig. 1013) are exceedingly useful and pretty. Essence of Violets.—(1) Infuse a pressed-down quart of freshly-gathered perfumed Violets in 4 gall, of plain spirit for a fortnight. Strain off or filter into bottles, and cork. (2) Imitation.—Put lib. of finely-ground orris-root into a jar with 1 gall, of spirits of wine or grain spirit, and let it infuse; then mix it in 3lb. of sugar and lqt. of water. Let it remain for a month, filter, and bottle. Preserved Violets.—Soak a quantity of freshly-gathered, nicely-picked, blue Violet blossoms in cold watei foi a few minutes, and dry them in a soft cloth. Make a syrup of lib. of loaf sugar, and boil it till when a little For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, , Violets—continued. put into cold water becomes brittle. Add to the syrup one drop of essential oil of Violets, a tiny bit of carmine about the size of a good-sized pin’s head, and the same quantity of ultra-marine blue; take care to use vegetable colouring matter that is harmless. Throw in the Violets, and stir them about in the syrup very carefully with a silver fork till they are well coated with sugar; then lay them on a sieve to dry. Syrup of Violets.—(1) Put the leaves of lib. of freshly- gathered Violets into a basin, pour a small quantity more than I pint of boiling water over them, cover immediately, and leave for fourteen hours. Strain the liquor off the V iolets through a fine hair sieve into a saucepan, put in 31b. of crushed loaf sugar, and stir over the fire until dissolved. When the liquor commences to boil, remove it at once from the fire, cover, and leave it until nearly colil. Pass the syrup through a cloth or fine silk sieve, pour it into a suitable bottle, cork tightly, and put by until required for use. (2) Put lqt. of freshly gathered Violets into a jar with 4 gall, of plain spirit, and infuse for two weeks. Strain oil' the liquor, which will be the essence of Violets, and add to the Howers lqt. of syrup. Let it stand for a fort- night longer, then strain the liquor through a cloth, ex- tracting as much as possible. Add sufficient indigo and cochineal to give it the required Violet tint, and bottle. Violet Balls.—Melt Bb. 0f sugar in a little cold water, mix with it I caltspoonful of cream of tartar, put it over a moderate lire, and let it boil till a little of it thrown into cold water will form a soft jelly. Remove it from the lire then immediately, let it stand closely covered for ten minutes, and beat it to a cream with a small wooden spatula. Work in 2 table-spoonfuls of sweet almonds blanched and grated, add a flavouring of heliotrope, and work the cream into balls. Roll these balls in preserved Violet leaves mashed to powder. Violet Conserve.—Pick from their stalks some early Violets; put 2oz. of them into a mortar, and pound and bruise them well. Put over the fire lib. of loaf sugar, clarify it, and boil to the crack (see Sugar boiling) ; take it from the fire, add the pulp of the Violets, return the pan to the lire, and as soon as the sugar bubbles up pour the con- serve into moulds. Violet Drops.—(1) Mix 1 table-spoonful of essence of Violets with the strained juice of three lemons, add sufficient powdered white sugar to form a pretty thick paste, colour it blue, dry it over the fire a little, and then drop it from the point of a knife on to paper. Let the drops be about the size of a sixpence. Let them stand till quite cold, then take them from the paper, and put in papered boxes. (2) Sift about 211). or so of sugar through a coarse sieve and then through a liner one, rejecting the fine powder, as it has a tendency to make the drops heavy and thick, and greatly interferes with their appearance. Put the 21b. of sugar into a sugar pan, and add sufficient water to make it of such a consistency that it will drop from the spoon without sticking to it. Set the pan on a ring on the stove, and with a spatula stir until the sugar is dissolved and upon the point of boiling; remove from the stove, add sufficient essence of Violets to flavour, and con- tinue to stir until when dropped on to a board it will retain a round form and not spread too much. A little coarsely-powdered sugar may be added should it be too thin. Drop it in small lumps upon a tin, and let them dry for about two hours. Remove them, and pack away in boxes. Violets in Jelly.—Dissolve Hoz. of gelatine, previously soaked in a teacupful of water, with a small quantity of sugar and lemon-juice. Put fib. of sugar in a saucepan, with 1 j>int of water, the white of an egg, the juice of half a lemon, and stir it over the fire till reduced to a thin syrup; then filter it through a jelly-bag, return it to the saucepan or sugar-pan, and warm up again. Pick the stalks off a small quantity of freshly-gathered Violets, and put the flowers in the syrup; place the lid on the stewpan, and leave it for ten minutes. Strain the syrup through a tine hair sieve, and mix the clarified gelatine ,uces, <£c., referred to, see under their special heads.TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 749 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Violets—continued. with it. Flavour it with 2 wineglassfuls of kirschen- wasser or brandy, pour it into a mould, and pack in ice. When the jelly has set quite firm, dip the mould in warm water, wipe it, then turn it quickly over on to a fancy dish (see Fig. 1014). Garnish with candied Violets, and serve. Violet Marmalade.—Put 441b. of Violets picked from their stalks into a mortar, and bruise and pound them to a pulp. Clarify 61b. of loaf sugar, and boil to the blow (see Sugar-boiling) ; add the pulped flowers, mix them well in, and stir in 3lb. of apple marmalade; let it boil up a few times, stirring and mixing well, put the marma- lade into pots, and cover air-tight. Violet Rock Candy.—Pick the petals off some Violets. Boil some powdered white sugar to the blow (see SuGAR- BOILING). Have a tin candying-pan shaped like a dripping- pan, and about 3in. deep; pour the boiled sugar into it, strew the petals of the Violets as thickly as possible on top, put it into a hot stove, anti let it remain there for ten days. When it is hard candied, break a hole in one corner of the sugar, drain out all the syrup, break the candy out in pieces, heap them on a tin, and dry in a stove. Violet Sherbet.—Put about lib. of freshly-gathered Violet flowers on a dish with 5lb. of caster sugar, and rub well together until the sugar is of the same colour as the Violets. Put it into jars, and cover them air- tight. To make a most refreshing beverage of the above mixture, dissolve 2 or 3 teaspoonfuls of it in a tumbler of water; it will be found delightful in the hot summer days. Violet Vinegar.—This vinegar should be made in the spring time, when the Violets are plentiful. Gather the required quantity of wood Violets, remove their stalks, and pack them closely into wide-mouthed glass bottles. Fill the bottles with the best vinegar, cork them tightly, and keep them in the sun or a warm place for a month. At the end of that time strain the vinegar off the Violets, and put it into small bottles ready for use. VIRGIN CREAM.—See Cream. VIVO.—The name of a beef tea for which special virtues are claimed. VODKA.—A very inferior kind of rye whisky made in Russia, and so commonly consumed that the term has become synonymous of a drink generally. To take a Vodka means in Russia neither more nor less than to take a dram. VOL-AU-VENTS.—These may be described as light puff paste with a raised border, filled with a savoury or cream ragout (see Fig. 1015).. As they give the cook an opportunity of displaying his skill in the manufacture of French pastry, a few receipts for the manufacture of specially named Vol-au-Vents are given hereunder: Vol-au-Vents a la Chantilly.—Take lib. of puff paste, give it six-and-a-lialf turns, roll it out to about Jin. thick, and Vol -au-vents—continued. with a fluted cutter cut out about twoand-a-half-dozen pieces. Form them into rings by cutting out the centres with a cutter about ljin. in diameter. With the trimmings of the paste prepare an equal number of rings the same size, brush them over with egg, put one of the other rings on each, press them so as to adhere, put them on a baking-sheet, brush over with egg, put them into a quick oven, and bake. When nearly done, dust them with sugar, and put them back into the oven to glaze and finish cooking. Take them out, fill them with any kind of cream, and serve. Vol-au-Vent a la Financiere.—Prepare lib. of puff paste, and roll it out to 2Jin. in thickness. Cut a round out of the paste with a tin cutter, brush the round over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, without touching the sides, and with a knife, the point held slanting inwards towards the centre, make a circular incision, pressing the inner paste well to prevent it closing up again. Make a lid with some of the remaining paste to fit in the well of the Vol-au-Vent, brush the top over with beaten egg, put the paste on a baking-sheet, and bake for half-an-hour in a moderate oven. Put loz. of butter and 1 table-spoonful of flour in a stewpan, stir it over the fire till well mixed, then pour in gradually 1 pint of stock, and continue stir- ring over the fire till boiling. Put 1 wineglassful of sherry, 2 table-spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup, and a little cayenne pepper in the sauce, move it to the side of the fire, and let it simmer gently for fifteen minutes for the pur- pose of clarifying it; then skim it, put in a piece of glaze, place it on the tire, and boil quickly for five minutes longer. When the glaze has dissolved, strain the sauce through a line hair sieve into another stewpan, put in it two partially-boiled veal sweetbreads, three or four cocks’ combs, and a few truffles and mushrooms, all cut into rather small pieces. Boil the sauce gently till the sweetbreads, &c., are cooked, then season to taste with salt and pepper. When cooked, take the Vol-au-Vent out of the oven, remove the centre carefully without damaging the case, pour the above mixture into it, and cover with the lid. Place the Vol-au-Vent on a folded napkin or a dish-paper on a hot dish, and serve while very hot. If the cases are made and cooked before the mixture to fill them is ready, they can always be put in the oven and warmed again. Vol-au-Vents au Fraises.—Prepare 111), of puff paste, giving it six-and-a-lialf turns; roll it out to about Jin. thick, and with a fluted cutter 2in. in diameter cut out about two-and-a-half-dozen rounds. Cut away the centre of these with a cutter 1 Jin. in diameter. Work up the remainder of the paste, and with it form an equal number of rings cut out in the same way. Put them one on top of another. Have ready 4oz. of sugar boiled to the caramel (sec Sugar boiling), dip the tops of the Vol-au-Vents in it, and afterwards into coarsely-sifted loaf sugar, and bake in a quick oven. Put 3oz. more of sugar into the saucepan with the caramel, reduce it again to caramel, then add about 1 teacupful of the strained juice of straw- berries. Fill the Vol-au-Vent cases with whole strawberries, cover with the syrup, and serve. Vol-au-Vent a la Normande.—Prepare a puff paste with lib. each of flour and butter and Joz. of salt. Boll the paste out to fin. thick, and cut it round to the size of the dish on which it is to be served. Put the flat of paste on a baking-sheet, brush it over with beaten egg, and cut aTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 750 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. V ol-au-V ents—continued. circle through the middle about Jin. deep, leaving an edge about lin. wide all round. Bake the paste in a moderate oven, and when cooked lift up the centre piece, which will have risen; scoop out t he uncoi ked paste, brush the inside with beaten egg, and put it in the oven for live minutes longer. Prepare a ragout of scalloped lillets of soles, oysters, mussels, and sliced mushrooms. Mix the cooking- liquor of the mussels with some veloute sauce maigre, boil it till somewhat reduced, then thicken it with the beaten yolks of two eggs. Mix the sauce with the ragout, put the cover of paste on, stand it on the dish it was made to fit, and serve. Vol-au-Vents a. la Toulouse.—Prepare Mb. of puff paste, giving it six turns. Roll the paste out about 2in. in thickness, and with a small round tin cutter divide the paste into rounds; with another tin cutter lin. smaller in diameter than the one just used, cut three-parts through the centre of each round of paste, thus forming the lids. Put the cases on a baking-sheet in a moderate oven, and bake them till nicely browned. When cooked, lift the centre pieces up carefully and scoop out the underdone paste. Prepare a few quenelles of chicken forcemeat, put them in a saucepan with the flesh of half a cold cooked chicken cut into small pieces, 2oz. of chopped cooked tongue, three sliced truffles, four or five mushrooms, three cocks’ combs, and J pint of supreme sauce. Stir the above mixture over the fire till hot, but not boiling, fill the Vol au-Vents with it, arrange them on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, and serve at once. The cases should only be filled when ready to serve, as standing long with the mixture in them is likely to make them sodden. VOSLAUER.—The best of the Austrian wines, both sparkling and still, are so named. VOUARA.—A beverage prepared by the Indians of French Guiana, from the fruit of the plantain. Another beverage very similar to this is known as Vouapaya. ■WATERS.—A variety of Wafers will be found described under various headings, such as Ginger, Gluten, Graham-flour, Oatmeal, &c., their mode of preparation being carefully explained. Should it be desired to make the Wafers exceedingly thin and exact in Fig. 1016. Wafer-irons (Adams and Son). size, it is advisable to use wafer-irons or tongs (see Fig. 1016), which are of round, square, oval, or oblong pattern, the faces being made to stamp patterns and letters. The following will be found good receipts: (1) Stir into ) pint of new milk to which a little cream has been added sufficient dried and finely-sifted flour to form a thin batter; then add 1 wineglassful of sherry or Maderia, a dusting of powdered cinnamon, and 1 large table spoonful of caster sugar. It is perhaps advisable to dissolve the sugar in the milk before stirring in the flour. Have the wafer-irons ready heated, rub the surfaces with a piece of buttered rag, pour 1 spoonful of the batter on to the hollowed inner face of one blade of the tongs, close them tightly, turn them once or twice over the fire, and the Wafers are cooked. (2) Put 6oz. of well-dried flour into a basin, add the yolks of two eggs, 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar, and 1 table-spoonful of cream mixed with double the quantity of rose-water. Form these into a batter, using water should it be too thick, and then add the whites of W afers—continued. the two eggs, whipped to a froth. Oil the wafer-irons, pour in a thin coating of the batter, close the irons, and cook over a charcoal fire. When done, roll them round a stick, and stand them on end to dry. Should a pink colouring be desired, a little cochineal should be added. (3) Mix lib. of flour smooth with \ pint of thick cream, then beat in gradually lib. of caster sugar and 1 teacupful of orange-flower water. When quite smooth, stir in a little more cream, to bring the mixture to the consistency of fine fritters. Heat the wafer-irons on both sides and grease them inside; put about U table-spoonfuls of liquid paste into each wafer-iron, shut them up, and cook on both sides until a delicate brown. While still hot roll them round. Keep them dry in biscuit-tins. Dutch Wafers.—Rub 3oz. of butter till quite smooth in 7oz. of sifted flour, then add ooz. of caster sugar and the grated peel of an orange. Mix a beaten egg with the above ingredients, and work them to a smooth stiff paste. Cut the paste into small equal-sized portions, and shape them like olives. Make a wafer-iron hot, put in one of the pieces of paste, close the iron tightly, and cook on both sides. When cooked,-take the Wafer out of the iron, put it flat on a sieve, and finish the remainder of the paste in the same way. The Wafers should be kept dry in a biscuit-tin till used. Flemish Wafers.—These differ very slightly from Dutch Wafers, being flavoured with lemon, or almond, instead of orange. Square or oblong irons are irsed for them. French Wafers.—Put Mb. of finely-sifted flour into a basin with Mb- of caster sugar, 1 pinch of salt, and 1 table- spoonful of vanilla. Beat the whites of four eggs with \ pint of thin cream, stir them gradually in with the flour, &c., and work the whole into a smooth batter; then pour in 1 wineglassful of brandy, and work it vigorously for ten minutes. Make the wafer-irons hot, brush them over inside with a paste-brush dipped in clarified butter, pour 1 good table-spoonful of the batter on the bottom or under-sheet of the wafer-irons, close the top part upon this, and bake the Wafers on both sides. They must be a very light fawn colour, and when done are to be immediately rolled into shape upon a stick made for the purpose about 5in. long and lin. thick. When all are done, the Wafers should be packed in a tin box and kept in a warm dry place till required for use. Russian Wafers.—As these were introduced from French schools of cookery, they are virtually the same as French Wafers, differing only in the pattern of the wafer-iron, which is oval instead of round or oblong, and vodka being- substituted for brandy. Timbale of Wafers with Filbert Ice.—Pound 7oz. of Jordan almonds that have been previously blanched and peeled with a little white of egg, then mix with them Jib. of caster sugar. Stand some baking-sheets in the oven for a few minutes; when they are warmed, rub them over with pure white wax and leave till cold. Spread the almond paste on the sheets in strips 4in. wide and Mn- thick, and bake them ; when they are nearly done, trim the edges of the strips, cut them across into pieces liin. wide, then put them back in the oven and finish baking. Roll the pieces lengthwise round some sticks that are Mn- in diameter. Place the Wafers with a little sugar icing in an upright position round a small plain mould. Make a round of Genoise paste about Jin. thick and the same size as the mould; take the ring of Wafers carefully out of the mould, place them _ on the round of paste, and put the timbale in a slack oven to dry. Bake lOoz. of filberts sufficiently to dry the skins so that they may come off' quickly; when the filberts are cool and the skins removed, pound them in a mortar, pouring on them gradually lqt. of boiled cream, and pass the whole through a fine hair sieve. Put the filbert cream in a stewpan with the yolks of ten eggs and lOoz. of caster sugar. Stir the preparation over the fire till it is thick, but do not let it boil; strain it through a fine hair sieve, put the cream in a freezing- pot, pack it in pounded ice, and work the cream with a spatula till all is nearly frozen; then mix in 1 pint of well-whipped cream, and finish freezing. When ready to751 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, tfcc., referred to, see under their special heads. W afer s—con tinu ed. serve, put the timbale on an ornamental paper on a dish, fill it with the frozen cream, allowing it to come 2in. above the edge of the timbale, and put a preserved cherry on the top of each Wafer. Timbale of Wafers with Maraschino Ice.—This timbale is made as for Timbale of Wafers with Filbert Ice, with the exception that the iced cream is flavoured with J pint of maraschino instead of the filberts, and that a large strawberry is put on the top of each Wafer. Vanilla-flavoured Wafers.—These are made the same as for Wafers with Pistachios, mixing half a stick of vanilla well pounded with the sugar, and half a glass of brandy in place of the orange-flower water. Wafers a l’Allemande.—Make some paste as for Wafers with Pistachios and Almonds, but omit the almonds and pistachios. Whip some cream with a little caster sugar, and flavour it with orange-flower water. When the Wafers are cooked and ready to serve fill them with the cream, put a preserved cherry or, if in season, a strawberry at the end of each, arrange them in a pyramid on a folded napkin on a dish, and serve. Wafers filled with Cream.—(1) Beat together Jib. of powdered vanilla sugar and the whites of three eggs till frothy. Dry Jib. of flour, and pass it through a fine hair sieve. Blanch, peel, and chop lib. of sweet almonds, and mix them together with the flour into the beaten eggs, adding by degrees two more beaten whites of eggs and a pinch of salt. When the paste is quite smooth (it should be liquid), bake a small portion of it in the oven to try its consistency. Wax and flour some baking-sheets, spread thin layers of the above mixture over them, and bake in a quick oven. When baked, divide the Wafers into 4in. squares, and roll them into cornets (see Fig. 1017). Have ready a decorated gum-paste stand, with a small W afer s—continued. finely-chopped sweet almonds, and 1 teaspoonful of orange- flower water. Warm two or three baking-sheets, rub them over lightly with pure white wax, then drop the prepara- tion on them with a spoon into cakes the size of a penny. Blanch and shred some pistachios, and put some on each cake. Bake them very lightly and crisp. When cooked, take the Wafers with the aid of a thin knife off the Fig. 1017 Wafer-cornets, Fig. 1018. Gum-paste Stand One filled with Cream. for Wafers. support in the centre, with two round shelves jutting out a little above each other (see Fig. 1018). Fix the stand on a round glass dish, place nine of the cornets one beside the other round the lower gradin or shelf, six round the second gradin, and set a vase of sweets on the top ; use sugar icing to make the cornets adhere to the stand. Flavour 1 pint or more of thick cream with vanilla, and whip it to a stiff froth; then fill the cornets with the cream and garnish round the base of the stand with macaroons and candied fruits, and round the bottoms of the lower cornets with candied flowers (see Fig. 1019). Servo as soon as prepared. (2) Put 6 table-spoonfuls of flour in a basin with 5 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, and beat in three eggs. Rub a tin or copper baking-slieet over with cocoa-butter spread the mixture over it, and bake in a brisk oven. Flavour and sweeten 1 pint of cream to taste with vanilla and caster sugar, and whip it to a stiff froth. Cut the Wafer out into rounds, curl them up while hot, and fill with the cream. When cold, arrange them in a circle on an ornamental dish-paper spread over a plate, and serve. Wafers with Pistachios.—Beat six eggs with Jib. of caster sugar, 1 breakfast-cupful of flour, Jib. of blanched and baking-sheets, curl them over the handle of a wooden spoon, and put them in a slack oven for a short time to dry; should the Wafers have got out of shape before turning them on the handle of the spoon, trim them care- fully round with a knife. They are then ready to be served. Wafers with Pistachios and Almonds.—Blanch Jib. of sweet almonds, cut them up as fine as possible, and mix them with 4oz. of crushed loaf sugar, the grated rind of an orange, 1 dessert-spoonful of flour, a little salt, the yolks of three eggs, and the whites of two; when well and carefully mixed, turn the whole out on to a well-buttered or waxed baking-slieet, arrange the almonds evenly with a fork, sprinkle over 2oz. of finely-chopped pistachios, put it into a moderate oven, and bake to a light colour. While still hot, cut it into lengths, wrap them separately round a stick, let them get cold, ami they are ready for use. Should it be preferred they may be cut into lengths, the edges dipped into caramel, then into chopped pistachios; mask with apple or other jelly, and serve. WAFER BISCUITS.—See Biscuits. WAFER GINGERBREAD.—See Gingerbread. WAFER-PAPER.—This is used in cookery for covering some kinds of sweetmeats, or forms a basis upon which sugary biscuits, such as macaroons, are laid. Wafer-paper may be made as follows : Make some fine flour into a smooth thin paste with water, sweeten it with a little loaf sugar, and flavour with a little powdered cinnamon. Pour this upon an oiled very clean copper baking-slieet that has been previously heated in the oven. As soon as the paste has set, it can be stripped off and used as required; or this paper may be prepared by brushing over a hot bright baking-sheet with white of egg or the above mixture. The heat of the baking-slieet should be sufficient to set the egg or batter; should it not set at once, the sheet may be put in a hot oven for a minute or two.752 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. WAFFLES {Fr. Gaufres; Gar. Waffeln).— English pastrycooks have succeeded in creating some confusion between these two foreign words, and appear to have given credit to the Germans as originators and the French as improvers. As the mode of preparing the British wafer re- sembles in some respects the mode of preparing these Waffles, it is only natural that the British pastrycook should have asso- ciated the three terms, and con- structed out of Gaufres, Waffeln, and Wafer, an entirely new word —Waffles, to wit. Waffles are described as soft, indented cakes (see Fig. 1020) made in irons or tongs (see Fig. 1021) specially constructed for the purpose. The following are favourite receipts for their preparation. Others will be found under Graham-flour, Rice, Sago, &c. (1) Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of warm milk into a basin, mix in 2oz. of butter, two well-beaten eggs, a little grated nutmeg and crushed loaf sugar, and enough flour to form the whole into a stiff paste. Add 1 table-spoon- ful of yeast, and put it in a warm place to rise. Let it remain for two or three hours, work it softly and lightly, and let it rise again for half an-hour longer. Put about 2 table-spoonfuls of this paste into the waffle-irons, which should be made hot ami well greased, close the irons, and bake for a few minutes. Turn the Waffles out when done a light colour, put them on a dish, dust them over with caster sugar mixed with a small quantity of ground cinnamon to flavour, and serve. (2) Put in a vessel 3oz. of powdered sugar, lib. of flour, three raw eggs, 3oz. of melted butter, and mix all well together with a spatula for five minutes. Add It pints of cream, and mix again well for two minutes. Have the waffle-iron hot on both sides, and on a clear lire. Grease with melted butter, using a feather for the purpose, and drop into each of the holes 2 table-spoonfuls of the paste. Bake for two minutes on each side, and if they have not got a golden colour, bake for one minute longer on each side. Heap them as fast as cooked on a hot dessert-dish. When all are done, sprinkle carefully with powdered sugar and serve very hot. Fig. 1021. Waffle-irons (Adams and Son). (3) Warm 5oz. of butter in a basin, and work it till creamy with the hand; stir in gradually the yolks of six eggs, and when well mixed and frothy add 5oz. of flour, 1 pinch of salt, and 2oz. of sugar; dissolve |oz. of yeast in a little water, then mix it with the other ingredients, cover the basin with a cloth, and set it in a warm place to rise. When the paste has risen, mix with it the whipped whites of five eggs. Heat an oblong waffle-iron, brush the inside over with a paste-brush dipped in clarified butter, then put 1 table-spoonful of paste on one side only of the iron, close it, and cook the Waffle over a slow fire, turning the iron over. When the Waffle is dry and a light colour, put it on a dish, sprinkle over caster sugar that has been flavoured with vanilla, and serve. (4) Warm Jib. of butter, work it until creamy, then beat in six eggs and ^lb. of flour alternately, thus: 1 table-spoonful of flour, then an egg, and so on. Add a small quantity of salt, and stir in sufficient warm milk to form a light batter. Beat the mixture thoroughly with a wooden spoon for fifteen or twenty minutes. Make the waffle-irons hot, grease the interior with butter, fill the deep part with batter, close the iron slowly, and hold it over a clear fire. Turn the iron in a minute or two and cook the other side of the batter. When cooked, the Waffles should be delicately browned. Put them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or W affles—continued. an ornamental dish-paper, sift caster sugar and a small quantity of powdered cinnamon over them, and serve. (5) Sift 1 teaspoonful each of egg- and baking-powders in with lib. of flour and 1 table-spoonful of finely-crushed loaf sugar; form a bay in the centre, pour in 4oz. of oiled butter and 4 teacupful of water, and with these make a light paste. Rub the hot waffle-irons with oil or butter, pour in the paste to two-thirds their height, close them, and cook over a charcoal fire. Pile on a dish, and serve. (6) Put 4oz. or 5oz. of flour into a basin with 3oz. of crushed loaf sugar and a small quantity of salt; mix well, then add the yolks of four or five eggs and a small stick of vanilla finely pounded; stir in 1 liqueur-glassful of ratafia or curapoa, mix well again, and add 1 breakfast-cupful of whipped cream. Whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them in lightly but thoroughly incorpora- ting them. Make the irons hot, rub them over with butter, fill them with the batter, brown them evenly on both sides, place then on a dish, dust over with ground allspice and sugar, and serve. American Waffles.—Boil 1 teacupful of rice quite soft; mix with it a raw egg, 1 table-spoonful each of Hour and milk, and beat all together to a smooth paste. Let it cool, pour it into well-greased waffle-irons, and cook. When the Waffles are done on both sides, lay them on a hot plate, butter them, and serve hot. Flemish Waffles.—(1) Prepare a sponge with loz. of yeast dissolved in a teacupful of warmed milk, adding sufficient- flour to form a thin paste, and set it to rise in a warm place. When sufficiently risen, work in the yolks of six eggs and the whites of two, also the rind of an orange nibbed off on sugar, and a small pinch of salt. When well mixed, add 41 b. of slightly-melted butter, the whites of four eggs whipped to a stiff froth, and lastly 2 table- spoonfuls of cream. Set it to rise again until it becomes twice its original bulk, put a little of it at a time into the irons, cook them for a minute or two, dust over with caster sugar, and they are ready for use. (2) Mix tlh. of flour with six eggs, adding them gradu- ally and working the whole into a smooth paste. Dissolve a piece of German yeast half the size of a walnut in 1 wineglassful of warm water, then pour it into a basin with 1 teacupful of warmed milk and 1 pinch of salt; melt 6oz. of butter, stir it in with the milk and yeast, also 2 table-spoon- fuls of oi ange flower water, and stand the basin in a warm place for two hours, when the mixture will have risen 2in. or Sin.; turn it round five or six times with a wooden spoon to bring it down, and let it remain half an-hour longer. Heat the waffle-irons upon a slow fire, turning them occasionally, then wipe them well with a cloth; grease the interior with fat bacon, put in 2 or 3 spoonfuls of the paste, close the irons, and put them over the fire for a few minutes, turning occasionally. Take the Waffles out when they are a light golden colour and very crisp. Fig. 1022. Flemish Waffles. Mix 41b. of caster sugar with |oz. of powdered cinnamon, dip the Waffles in on both sides, arrange them in a pyramid on a folded napkin (see Fig. 1022) on a dish, and serve while very hot. (3) Well beat six eggs, and work them in with 4-lb. of flour to form a smooth paste. Put a little German yeast, say about the size of a walnut, in \ teacupful of warm water, and let it dissolve ; add to it 1 teacupful of warm milk, 6oz. of butter, 2 table-spoonfuls of orange-flower la&aaat pa&sam aammmmk Fig. 1020. Waffle.; 3. Ham, with Jelly and Mushrooms. Slices of Salmon, garnished with Crayfish and Jelly. ; ^ Sirloin of Beef, glazed, and garnished with Parsley and Jelly. Slices of Salmon, with Eggs, Crayfish, and Caviare Toasts.753 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. W a files—coni inued. water, and salt to taste. Stir the flour mixture in with the warm milk, &c., work well with a wooden spoon, and set the bowl containing this batter in a warm temperature for two hours, by which time it should have risen fully Sin. Work it slightly to let the fermentation subside, and leave it for thirty minutes longer. Make the irons hot, wipe them over with fat bacon, fill with the batter, and cook for a few minutes. When done, dip them in cinnamon sugar, pile them on a napkin on a dish, and serve. (4) Slightly warm lib. of fresh butter, and beat in six eggs one at a time; add a pinch of salt, and sift in gra- dually, while still beating, lib. of fine dry flour and 1 table-spoonful of yeast, and pour in lastly 1 pint of thick cream. Work the mixture well with the hand, then cover the basin and set it in a warm place for a few hours. Grease the wattle-mould, fill it with the mixture, and cook them. When all the Waffles are cooked, put them on a folded napkin on a dish, sift some caster sugar over them, and serve. (5) Dissolve J teacupful of fresh yeast in a breakfast- cupful of warm milk, then stir it gradually into 41b. of flour, mixing it to a smooth soft paste. Cover the paste with a cloth, and stand it near the fire until well risen ; then mix with it the beaten yolks of six eggs, Jib. of butter that has been slightly warmed and beaten until creamy, and a lump of sugar that has been rubbed over the peel of a lemon and pounded. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth and stir them lightly into the mixture at the last. Stand the paste again in a warm place, and leave it until it has risen to nearly double its original bulk. Heat some waffle-irons, rub them with a little pure fat or butter, fill them with the mixture on one side, and close them. Cook the Waffles, turning them when browned on one side. Put them on a hot dish, strew caster sugar over, and serve. (6) Put 1 teacupful of milk in a saucepan with J tea- cupful of yeast, warm it, and then strain it. Put 6oz. of finely-sifted flour into a basin, then pour in gradually the milk and yeast, stirring well at the same time. When quite smooth, stand the basin containing the dough in a warm place to rise. Beat the yolks of four eggs together with the grated peel of one lemon and 6oz. of slightly- wanned butter. When the dough has well risen, mix the above ingredients with it. Beat the whites of the four eggs to a stiff froth and add them, also I table- spoonful of whipped cream. Set the mixture near the fire, and let it rise again. Heat the waffle-irons, brush them over with a paste-brush dipped in warmed butter, fill them with the mixture, and cook ; the Waffles should be done to a good colour. Place them on a dish, sift caster sugar over, and serve. French. Waffles.—Put 9oz. of flour in a basin with I teacup- ful of caster sugar, 1 table-spoonful of vanilla sugar, 1 wineglassful of noyau, and the yolks of eight eggs , when well mixed, stir in the eight beaten whites of the eggs and 1 pint of cream. Cook the Waffles as directed for Flemish Waffles, No. 2. German Waffles.—Make lib. loz. of sifted flour and 4 pint of yeast into a paste with as much warm milk as will make it drop from the spoon freely without being too thin, and put it into a warm place to rise. When well risen, mix into it the well beaten yolks of fourteen eggs, the whites of fourteen eggs beaten to a stiff froth, and the grated rinds of two lemons ; when these are well mixed in, pour over lib. loz. of butter warmed but not made very hot, stir it gently with a wooden spoon, and put it again into a warm place to rise a second time. When it has risen sufficiently, put a frying-pan over the fire, rub it with butter, and fry the Waffles over a brisk fire, browning them on both sides. The paste should be very gently lifted off the top with a spoon and placed in the frying-pan ; the mass of the paste must not on any account be disturbed during the operation, nor should the spoon be plunged into it. When the Waffles are all fried, serve them hot, sprinkled with sugar and powdered cinnamon. Ingleside Waffles.—Make 1 pint of cornmeal mush ; while hot put in a small lump of butter and 1 dessert- Waffles—continued. spoonful of salt, and set the mush aside to cool. Mean while beat separately till very light the whites and yolks of four eggs ; add the eggs to the mush, stir in gradually lqt. of wheaten flour, pour in 4 pint of butter- milk or sour cream in which has been dissolved 4 tea- spoonful of bicarbonate of soda, and lastly bring to the consistency of thin batter by the addition of sweet milk. Waffle-irons should be put on to heat an hour in advance, so that they may be in a proper condition for baking as soon as the batter is ready. Have a brisk fire, butter the irons thoroughly, but with nicety, and bake quickly. Only half fill the waffle-irons with batter, so that the WaiHes may have room to rise. Quick Waffles.—Mix lqt. of flour with sufficient colvl milk to make a thick batter ; work in six beaten eggs, 1 table-spoonful of melted butter, and 1 teaspoonful of salt; Jib. of sugar and half a nutmeg may be added to improve. Bake in waffle-irons, and serve hot. Raised Waffles.—(1) At night mix together 1 pint of lukewarm milk in which 2 table-spoonfuls of butter have been melted, 2 table-spoonfuls of liquid yeast or half a small cake of compressed yeast dissolved in 1 gill of water, two eggs well beaten, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and lib. of flour. When this batter is thoroughly mixed, cover it, and keep it overnight in a warm place. In the morning heat a waffle-iron, butter it, put in the batter without stirring it down, and then bake the Waffles. Serve with butter and powdered sugar. (2) Sift 1 pint of flour, and mix with it 1J table-spoon- fuls of liquid yeast, 1J breakfast-cupfuls of warm milk, and loz. of butter that has been slightly warmed and beaten until creamy. Work the whole up smoothly, cover with a cloth, and set it to rise in a warm temper- ature all night. On the following morning beat three eggs well, mix with them 4 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda that has been dissolved in a small quantity of warm water, and stir them in with the above mixture. Make the waffle-irons hot, butter them, and three-parts fill each with the batter. Bake them until lightly browned, being very careful not to scorch them, then turn them out, and finish the rest of the batter. Russian Waffles.—Put Jib. of butter into a basin, melt it, and beat well with a spoon until it is quite thick. Add the yolks of eight eggs, one at a time, working one well in before another is added; when the mixture has the consistency of cream, sift in gradually Jib. of dried flour and 2oz. of vanilla sugar; then add the whites of the eight eggs whipped to a stiff froth and 1 breakfast- cupful of well-whisked and drained cream. Put the mixture in a deep waffle-mould, dust over a lit+le vanilla sugar, and bake them. Take them out when done, let them get cold, divide them transversely in halves, put a layer of them at the bottom of a dish, cover with apricot marmalade, and continue in this way until all the Waffles are used up, keeping them as much in the form of a pyramid as possible. Pour over some cream that has been well whipped, drained, sweetened to taste, and mixed with a little flavouring of any description. Decorate the cream with a little more of the same, squeezing it through a cornet, and serve. Waffles a la Casalesry. -Press and work Jib. of fresh liutter in a cloth to extract the milk, put it in a warm basin, and work it round with the hand till creamy; then mix in Jib. of sifted flour and a piece of yeast the size of a walnut; when well mixed, keep the preparation in a warm place for half-an hour or until well risen. Mix J pint of whipped cream with the mixture and a little salt. Heat the waffle-irons, and finish the Waffles as for Flemish Waffles (2). Waffles made with Sour Cream.—Slightly warm Jib. of butter and beat it until creamy; then mix with it the beaten yolks of six eggs and J pint of thick sour cream ; mix in gradually Jib. of flour, 1 teaspoonful of blanched and pounded bitter almonds, and a small quantity of grated lemon-peel or nutmeg. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, add them to the above mixture, also 4 wineglassful of rum. Stir the batter until quite smooth. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. 3 C VOL II.TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 754 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, d-c., referred to, see under their special heads. W affl.es—continued. Make the waffle-irons hot, grease the interior with butter or clarified fat, pour some of the batter in the deepest part, close them slowly, and hold them over a clear fire, fn two or three minutes, when the Waffles are browned on one side, turn the irons and brown the other side. When cooked, arrange the Waffles on a dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish- paper, strew caster sugar and a small quantity of powdered cinnamon over, and serve. WAITERS.—Trays used by waiters when sup- plying food or refreshments are known by this name. Under the heading Table Service will be found some very useful instructions in regard to the use of these, which are generally silver or electro-plated (see Fig. 1023), giving a decided brilliancy to the service that could only be acquired in this manner. Waiters, or salvers, as they are sometimes termed, from the Latin saluare—to save, the word being more properly applied to saucers, answer also as trays for holding a decanter of wine and glasses. For this purpose they are usually fitted with legs, as shown in the illustration. WAITING AT TABLE.—See Table Service. WALD-MEISTER.—See Asperule Odorante. Fig. 1024. Green Walnuts. WALNUTS (Fr. Noix; Ger. Walniisse; Ital. Noci; Sp. Nueces).—Amongst the Southern races of Europe the Walnut is the nut of nuts, hence it is simply styled nut; W alnuts—continued. but with us it is acknowledged to be a foreigner, and the term “ wal ” added (signifying foreign), from the Saxon wealh. At one time the Englishman’s ideal of a nut was a filbert, or cob-nut; but, as the Walnut was probably introduced into this country and cultivated Fig. 1025. Highflyer Walnut. here as early as the middle of the sixteenth century, it has since had plenty of time to become naturalised and a prime favourite, especially for dessert, or as an accompani- ment to wine. The Romans called it Jupiter’s nut, and the Greeks styled it Royal. According to Dr. Royle the Walnut (Juglans regia) grows over a very extensive domain: “ From Greece and Fig. 1026. Double Walnut. Asia Minor, over Lebanon and Persia, probably all along the Hindoo Klioosh to the Himalayas. It is abundant in Kashmir, and is found in Jirmore, Kumaon, andNepaul.” The trees sometimes grow to an enormous size and age, bearing prolifically season after season. The wood is so exceedingly valuable for making furniture that a planta- tion of Walnuts would yield most profitable results. Fig. 1027. Elongated Walnut. The free picking of the green fruit (see Fig. 1024) for pickling increases the size of those nuts that are left to ripen, and thus a double source of profit is ensured. There are several varieties of Walnuts brought to our British fruit-markets, the best being known as the High- dyer (see Fig. 1025); the Double Walnut (see Fig. 1026) is large and square, the fruit being comparatively small and lacking flavour. The Elongated Walnut (see Fig. 1027) grows very large, but the kernel is not particularly fine flavoured. The Titmouse Walnut has a shell so soft that755 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. W alnuts—co ntinued. a small bird can peck through it, hence its name. The Long-beaked Walnut (see Fig. 1028) has an elongation at the flower end which gives it a peculiar appearance before it is shelled. Walnuts can be preserved from one year to another by removing the green husks, drying the shells thoroughly, Fig. 1028. Long-beaked Walnut. and then packing the nuts in layers in jars or boxes, and covering them with dried silver sand. When wanted for use, all that is necessary is to dust them and wipe them with a clean cloth. If the kernels are at all shrivelled, it is a good plan to soak them for a few hours in warmed milk. Green Walnuts.—These should be gathered as early in the year as they are fully grown without the shell having formed in the interior. By testing one or two of the largest on the tree, the condition of the others may be guessed. Let them rather be too young than too old. The following are good receipts for their use: Compote of Green Walnuts.—Split the Walnuts through their natural division with the point of a knife, then pass the knife round the inner part of the shell and extract the kernel. Free the nuts from the white pith, and put them in cold water that has been acidulated with lemon - juice. Drain the Walnuts, pile them in a heap in a compotier, pour over them some syrup that has been flavoured with white noyau, and serve. Conserve of Green Walnuts. -Procure the Walnuts before the shell has formed, peel the green rinds oft’, place the Walnuts in a basin, pour boiling water over them, covering them well, put a plate over the basin, and leave them until the water has cooled a little. Then strain it off, and pour over fresh boiling water. In a quarter of an hour’s time, cover them again with fresh boiling water, straining the other away, and then when that has cooled plunge the Walnuts into cold water and leave them for lialf-an-hour. For one hundred Walnuts put into a pre- serving-pan 21b. of crushed loaf sugar and li pints of water, the juice of one lemon, and the white of one egg. Boil the sugar over the fire until dissolved, then strain the syrup through a fine hair sieve and return it to the pan. Cut half a stick of vanilla into small pieces a,nd put them in the syrup. Wipe the Walnuts quite dry on a ' cloth, put them in the syrup, and boil until soft. Leave the Walnuts in the syrup until cold, then pack them in jars; pour their syrup over them, cover the jars with stout paper, tie down securely, and pack away in a dry store-cupboard till required for use. Pickled Walnuts.—(1) Scald a hundred Walnuts before they have hard shells, and rub off the first skin. Put them in a jar with some strong cold brine, changing it on the third and sixth days. On the ninth day take the Walnuts out and dry them. Put in a mortar loz. each of long pepper pods, black pepper, ginger, and allspice, loz. of cloves, two or three blades of mace, and 1 table-spoonful of white mustard seed, and pound them together. Put a layer of the Walnuts in a jar, then strew them well over with a layer of the mixture, and proceed in the same | Walnuts—continued. manner till all are covered. Boil 3qts. of vinegar with some sliced horseradish and ginger, and pour it while hot into the jar. Strain the vinegar off and boil it up every day for three or four days, pouring it hot each time over Fig. 1029. Pickled Walnuts. the Walnuts, and always keeping them closely covered; put a few cloves of garlic in the vinegar when boiling it the last time. In six months’ time the pickles will be ready for use. Serve them in a flat glass dish (see Fig. 1029). (2) Procure the Walnuts before the shells are hard; wrap each one separately in a vine leaf, and put them in a jar with some more vine-leaves to prevent them touch- ing each other. Cover the nuts with best vinegar, close the jar to exclude the air, and let it stand for twenty days. At the end of that time strain the vinegar off the nuts, wrap them in fresh vine-leaves, pack them in the jar again in the same manner as before, and cover with fresh vinegar. In a fortnight’s time take the Walnuts out of the leaves, and put them in a jar. Mix together sufficient brine (strong enough to float an egg) and white wine vinegar to cover the Walnuts, put in it 4oz. each of cloves and nutmeg, loz. of mace, and two peeled and sliced heads of garlic. Boil the vinegar for fifteen minutes, then pour it while hot over the Walnuts. Tie the jar tightly over with bladder and leather, and keep it in a cool dry place. (3) Select the requisite quantity of large French Walnuts, and peel them until the white part is just visible, taking care not to cut too deep; throw each Walnut as it is done into a basin of salted water. Next drain them, put them into a lined saucepan with plenty of salt, and cover with boiling water. Boil them quickly for ten minutes, then take them out of the water, lay them on a cloth that has been spread over a sieve, cover with another cloth, and leave them until cold. Pack the Walnuts into wide mouthed glass bottles, putting a blade of mace in each bottle, and fill them up with strong vinegar; pour in each a few drops of salad-oil. Stopper the bottles, and keep them in a cool, diy store-cup- board. (4) Gather the Walnuts when they may easily be pierced with a pin. Score them on one side with a knife, or run a large needle through them in three or four places; put them into salted water and let them steep in it for twelve days, changing the brine twice. Then put them into jars and sprinkle very sparingly with salt. For one hundred nuts boil lgall. of vinegar with one head of garlic, ioz. of ginger slightly crushed, loz. of whole pepper, ioz. of allspice, ioz. of nutmeg sliced or broken, and 1 table-spoonful each of scraped horseradish and mustard added for each quart; pour it boiling into the jars over the nuts, and cover each jar with a plate. When the pickle is quite cold, cover the jars close and tie them down. When the nuts are all used, the liquor may be boiled, then strained and bottled for use in flavouring sauces, &c. (5) Take some green unripe Walnuts, run a larding- needle through them in two or three jdaces, put them into a brine made with lib. of salt to each quart of water, and let them steep in this for a week. Then put them into a stewpan with some of the brine, and give them a gentle simmer; drain them on a sieve, lay them on a plate with a drainer, and let them stand in the air till they turn black; this may perhaps take two days. Put them into glass jars, about three-parts filling them. Put the vinegar to cover them into a iarge stone jar, adding for each quart 2oz. of whole black pepper, loz. each of whole ginger, salt, and shallots, boz. of allspice, and l drachm of For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. 3 c 2756 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Walnuts—continued. cayenne; cover the jar with a piece of bladder wetted with pickle, tie over that a piece of chamois leather, and put the jar on a trivet beside the fire or on a stove that is not very hot, and let it remain there for three days, shaking it up three times each day. Pour it hot over the Walnuts, and tie the jars down with bladder wetted with pickle, over that chamois leather, and over all strong brown paper firmly tied on. (6) Take the required quantity of Green Walnuts before the inner shell has hardened, put them into salted water, and let them steep in it for nine days, changing the brine every three days. Lay them on a mat or on sieves so that they do not touch one another, and put them out in the air to dry and blacken, turning them occasionally that they may blacken evenly all over; then put them into a jar. When half the nuts are in, put in an onion stuck with twenty-five or thirty cloves, and then put in the rest of the nuts. Allow to every hundred Walnuts sixty bay-leaves, 4oz. of whole pepper, Joz. of mace, and 4 pint of mustard seed; boil the spice in good strong vinegar, and cover the Walnuts with the vinegar, pouring it over them while boiling. Put the spice on top, and keep the jar covered with a plate till the pickle is cold. When quite cold, tie it down with bladder wetted with vinegar, and a piece of chamois leather over that. Preserved Green Walnuts.—The Walnuts should be full grown but not hard when gathered for preserving. Prick the Walnuts with a pin and soak them in cold water for two hours. Strain the water off the Walnuts, pour some fresh over them, and let them soak for four days, chang- ing the water every day, thus removing the bitterness. Put the Walnuts in a pan with some fresh water, and let them simmer till soft. Take the Walnuts out with a skimmer, put them in a jar of cold water, and let them stand for four days, changing the water as before. Boil some coarse brown sugar in some water to make a syrup, then strain it through a jelly-bag; boil it again till thick, then let it stand till nearly cold. Drain the water off the Walnuts, pour the syrup over them, and leave till the following day. Boil the syrup up every day for nine days, adding a little more sugar each time, and pouring it over the Walnuts when nearly cooled. Put some cinnamon and cloves in a little water and let them soak for twenty.four hours, then cut each clove into four pieces lengthwise, and the cinnamon into pieces about the same size. Drain the syrup off the Walnuts, boil it up again, then leave it till half cold. Stick four pieces of clove and four pieces of cinnamon into each Walnut, pour the syrup over them, and leave them for a day longer. The next day, drain the syrup, put it over the fire in a saucepan, and when on the point of boiling put in the Walnuts; let them boil up, then when they are getting soft move them off the fire. Make some bottles hot, fill them with the Walnuts, putting them in one by one, then cover with the syrup, and leave till cold. Cork the bottles, cover them with parchment, and tie down tightly. If the Walnuts are kept for any length of time, fresh syrup must be poured over them occasioually, as the fruit absorbs it. Walnut-and-Anchovy Sauce for Fish.—Take the Walnuts at the season for pickling, slice them into an earthenware pan, and between|every layer throw a small handful of salt; stir with a wooden stick every day for a fortnight, then strain the liquor through a coarse cloth, and let it stand to settle. Pour off the clear, and boil it with lib. of anchovies to each pint; skim it, and let it stand to cool; add 1 pint each of red port and best white vinegar to each pint of liquor, also Joz. of mace, cloves, and nutmeg, some ground mustard, horseradish, and shallot, or a clove of garlic, and boil up again. Strain off into bottles, and cork down for preservation. Walnut Ketchup.—(1) Put a hundred green Walnuts into a mortar and beat them till well bruised, then put them into a jar with 6oz. of chopped shallots, a head of garlic, Jib. of salt, and 2qts. of vinegar. Stir the contents of the jar twice a day fora fortnight, then strain off the vinegar, put it into a saucepan with three anchovies, 1 table-spoon - For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Walnuts—continued. ful of cloves, 2 table-spoonfuls of peppercorns, and Joz. of mace. Boil the vinegar for half-an-hour, then strain it off and leave till cold. Pour the vinegar into bottles, being careful not to get any of the sediment mixed up in it. Cork the bottles tightly, and keep them in a dry store- cupboard. (2) Put the Walnuts in a tub with plenty of common salt, and let them stand for a week, beating and mashing them well every day till the shells are soft and pulpy. Press the Walnuts well till all the liquor runs from them, then pour it into a saucepan, and boil it up, removing the scum as it rises. Put Jib. each of ginger and allspice, and 2oz. each of cloves and long pepper, into a mortar, and beat them. Put the mixture into the vinegar, and boil it for half an-hour. Leave the ketchup till cold, then stir it up well and bottle, taking care that an equal quantity of spice goes into each bottle. Cork and seal the bottles, and keep them in a cool dry store-cupboard. The ketchup will be ready for use in a year’s time. (3) Mash forty black Walnuts in a mortar, put them in a saucepan with lgall. of vinegar, and boil it till re- duced to 3qts. Strain the ketchup, season it to taste with spices, salt, and cloves of garlic, and leave till cool. Pour the ketchup into bottles, and cork down tightly with good corks. (4) Pound a hundred Walnuts in a mortar, put them in a jar with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of finely chopped shallots, 1 breakfast-cupful of chopped garlic, 4 breakfast-cupful of horseradish, 1 breakfast-cupful of bruised mustard seed, Jib. each of black pepper and allspice, and 2 table-spoon- fuls of salt. If liked, cloves, mace, sliced ginger, and nutmeg may be used. Pour in lgall. of vinegar, cork down tightly, and stand the jar in the sun for a week, shaking well every day. At the end of that time boil the ketchup for fifteen minutes, then leave it till nearly cool. Strain it, bottle, cork down tightly, and seal the bottles. (5) Bruise well a hundred and twenty young green Walnuts, and put them into a pan with lqt. of vinegar and fib. of salt; let them remain in this for a fortnight, stirring them every day. Then strain them through a cloth, squeezing them well, and set the liquor aside. Put the squeezed nuts back again into the pan, add to them J pint of vinegar, and let it stand all night. Next day strain the liquor through a cloth, squeezing the Walnuts well as before. Add the liquor to that which was set aside on the previous day, together with forty cloves, IJoz. of whole black pepper, Joz. of nutmeg, bruised or broken, Joz. of ginger, and 5 drachms of mace, put it over the fire, and let it boil for half-an-hour. Strain it then, and bottle. (6) Put three half sieves of green Walnut shells into a tub, add to them lib. or 141b. of salt, and stir well among them. Let this stand for six days, beating and mashing them frequently till the shells are quite soft and pulpy. Bank them up at one side of the tub, and raise the tub at that side so that the liquor may drain off to the other side. Take the liquor out, mash and bank up the Walnuts again, take away any liquor that runs from them, and continue to bank and mash as long as any liquor is to be obtained from them. The quantity of liquor will be about 3qts.; put this over the fire in an iron saucepan, and let it boil gently till scum ceases to rise, then add loz. each of long pepper and cloves, and 2oz. each of allspice and bruised ginger. Let the ketchup simmer for thirty minutes, then take it from the fire and let it cool. Bottle it then, and divide the spices equally among the bottles. Fill the bottles with the ketchup, cork them well, and seal. Keep them in a cool dry place for twelve months, and the ketchup will then be fit for use. (7) Scrape out all the white part of three or four hundred green Walnuts, bruise them in a large mortar to extract the juice, which strain through a cloth. Let the juice stand for twenty-four hours, then strain it again, measure, and for each breakfast-cupful allow 4 breakfast- cupful of vinegar, Jib. of anchovies, half a clove of garlic, a shallot, half a small onion, and a small quantity of horse- Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads.757 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Scc., referred to, see under their special heads Walnuts—continued. radish. Boil the whole together for two hours, then strain it through a fine hair sieve. For every quart of this liquor, mix with it 1 pint of port wine, 1 teacupful of soy, and Joz. each of mace, cloves, nutmeg, and whole black pepper. Boil the ketchup for another half-hour, then pour it into a large bowl and let it get cold. When ready, pour the ketchup into bottles, with an equal division of the spices in each bottle; cork tightly, and stow them away in a dry store-cupboard. (8) Add to JgalL of Walnut pickle 1J pints of port wine and Jib. of anchovies; let all boil together till reduced to one-third. Strain, put it into small bottles, and cork them well. Walnut Pickle.—Put a quantity of the green rinds or outer shells of ripe Walnuts into a tub that has a tap, sprinkle them with water, and prop the tub up on the side opposite to the tap. Put a vessel under the tap to receive the liquor which will soon begin to drip from the tap. When a sufficient quantity has dripped through, add to 1 gal. of it a stick of horseradish, a bunch of sweet herbs, a couple of bay-leaves, a good-sized onion, Joz. each of bruised ginger, allspice, and black pepper, and 2 heaped table-spoonfuls of salt. Put it over the fire, and let it simmer for twenty minutes; strain, and let it stand till cold. Then stir it up and put it into bottles, placing an equal quantity of the spices that were boiled in it into each bottle, and corking them well. Walnut Sauce.—Mix 1 table-spoonful of flour in J pint of cold water, pour it into a saucepan, and stir it over the fire until boiling; put in a lump of butter, stir till the butter has dissolved, then squeeze in a little lemon-juice. Chop some pickled Walnuts, put them in the sauce, let them simmer all together for a few minutes, then serve. Walnut Vinegar.—Prepare some brine strong enough to float an egg, then put some green Walnut-shells in it and let them soak for fourteen days. At the end of that time drain the shells and put them in the sun for nine days. Place the shells in a large stone jar, cover them well with boiling vinegar, and leave for a week. Drain the vinegar off the shells, boil it up again, and pour it over the shells. Keep the jar closely covered till ready to use the vinegar. When the Walnuts are ripe, which will be about Sep- tember or October, they are gathered by beating the trees with long poles. Before serving they should be freshly peeled and then thoroughly scrubbed; the practice of leaving them to soak for any length of time, so as to remove the green shell easier, is very apt to injure the kernels, and render them discoloured and bitter. Sugared Walnuts.—Take off the skins of about three dozen Walnuts, separate them into halves, and mask them with an icing made of 4oz. of sugar and an egg. Place them on a sheet of thick paper, put them into a slack oven, and bake until of a light brown colour. Take them out, remove them from the paper when cold, and they are ready for use. The Walnuts, after being skinned and divided into halves, should be dried at the oven door. Serve them piled on a glass dish (see Fig. 1030). A delicious sweetmeat is made by dipping the kernels in thick chocolate and icing. W alnuts—continued. Walnut Cake.—(1) Large.—Warm Jib. of butter and beat together with ill), of caster sugar till creamy; then sift in Jib. of Vienna flour in which has been mixed 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder and 1 pinch of salt. Add Jib. of peeled and chopped Walnuts, and flavour with 1 teaspoonful of vanilla essence. Whip the whites of eight eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them into the above mixture. Butter a cake-tin, pour in the mixture, and bake for an hour in a moderate oven. When cooked, turn the cake out of the tin, and leave it till cold. (2) Rub Jib. of butter into lib. of flour, and then add Jib. of sugar, 1 saltspoonful of ground mace, and 1 teaspoon- ful of cream of tartar. Mix J teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda with 2 table-spoonfuls of Hour and 1 breakfast- cupful of finely-chopped Walnuts. Work both mixtures together, with 1 teacupful of milk, the yolks of three eggs, and lastly add the whites which have been beaten stiff. Put the cake when made into a buttered tin, and place a layer of unbroken peeled halves of English Walnuts over the top. Bake in a moderate oven for forty or fifty minutes. (3) Small.—Put fifty shelled but not skinned Walnuts into a mortar, pound them well, then sift them through a fine hair sieve. Beat separately the yolks and whites of five eggs, mix 6oz. of caster sugar with the beaten yolks, also the pounded Walnuts, the grated rind and juice of one lemon, then mix in lightly the beaten whites of the eggs. When all the ingredients are well mixed, butter a shallow cake-tin, pour the mixture into it, and bake in a moderate oven. When the cake is cooked, it should be turned out of the tin and left until cold. Cut the cake into diamond or square-shaped pieces, and keep them in biscuit-tins. Walnut Candy.—Crack the Walnuts and shell them care- fully. Take 1J pints of the kernels and chop or pound them. Mix f teacupful of vinegar and 1J teaspoonfuls of gelatine dissolved in a little hot water with 1 Jib. of brown sugar, set it over a moderate fire, and cook till quite stiff. Pour a thin layer of this syrup into buttered tins, add then the chopped or pounded Walnuts, spreading them evenly, pour over the rest of the syrup, and let the candy stand till cold; then cut it into squares. Walnut Cream Ice.—(1) Blanch and skin Jib. of Walnut kernels, put them in a mortar with a scant table-spoon- ful of orange-flower water, and pound until quite smooth, adding gradually J teacupful of milk. Turn the mixture on to a wire sieve and mb it through with a wooden spoon, having a basin underneath to catch it. Mix | breakfast-cupful of milk with the Walnuts, and Jib. of caster sugar. Stir well, add 1J breakfast-cupfuls of thick cream, turn the mixture into a freezer, and work it well. When frozen, pile the cream on a glass dish or in small glasses, and serve. (2) Crack and peel sufficient nuts to make 12oz. of pulp, those just beginning to ripen should be used ; pound them in a mortar together with 1 table-spoonful of orange- flower water and 1 teacupful of milk. When well pounded, stir in 1 breakfast-cupful of milk and pass it through a fine hair sieve. Pour the pulp into the freezer, add 12oz. of caster sugar, and work it till stiff; then mix in gradually two whites of Italian meringue and 1 pint of thick cream. Turn the cream into a mould, cover, and pack it in pounded ice. When frozen, dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, turn the cream out on to a fancy dish, and serve. Walnut-and-Jam Biscuit.—Pound fifty Walnuts in their skins, then pass them through a fine wire sieve. Slightly warm Jib. of butter and beat it until creamy together with Jib. of caster sugar, then beat in the yolks of two eggs and one whole one, and 1 wineglassful of rum. Put Jib. of flour into a basin, and add the beaten mix- ture, stirring it till quite smooth. If too thin, more flour may be added to the paste, but it should not be too stiff. Butter a shallow baking-tin, spread the paste over it, bake in a moderate oven, and when cooked spread a layer of any kind of jam over it; then put it in the oven again for six or seven minutes. Beat the whites of two758 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Walnuts—continued. eggs, 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, and a small quantity of powdered cinnamon to a stiff froth, then mix with them the powdered Walnuts. Spread the Walnut mixture over the top of the cake, and leave it in the oven until lightly browned. When cooked, leave the cake until cold; then cut it into squares or diamond-shaped pieces, and pack them away in biscuit-tins, putting a sheet of white paper between each layer. They Mill keep for some time. Walnuts Prepared for Dessert.—Crack the upper half of the shells of the required quantity of Walnuts, and remove them carefully without damaging the kernel. Dip the exposed half of the nut into boiling water to facilitate peeling off the skin. Put each nut as soon as peeled in slightly acidulated and salted cold -water. When ready to serve, drain the nuts on a cloth. For dishing the nuts a paste-hoard stand should he made, with raised graduated tiers, and covered with green paper. Arrange the Walnuts on this (see Fig. 1031), using moss for the purpose of keeping the Walnuts in position. Walnut Ratafia.—Procure sixty young Walnuts with soft shells, prick them, put them in a jar with fifteen grains each of cinnamon, mace, and cloves, pour in 2qts. of brandy, and let them macerate for two months. Press the Walnuts to obtain all the liquor, which strain through a fine hair sieve; stir lib. of loaf sugar in it, and bottle. The ratafia will keep for several months. Walnut Salad.—(1) Break the shells of some Walnuts, take the kernels out carefully, blanch them to remove the skins, put them on a dish, squeeze the juice of one or two lemons over them, dust with salt and pepper, and let them macerate for three hours, turning them about occasionally. At the end of that time they will be ready for serving and will make an excellent dish. If the juice of some unripe grapes can be obtained, it will be prefer- able to the lemon-juice. (2) Crack the shells of about two dozen Walnuts, pick out the kernels, peel, put them in a basin, and soak them for two or three hours in lemon-juice. Wash and drain some watercress, chop it coarsely, and put it in a salad-bowl. Drain the Walnuts, put them in with the watercress, pour a plain salad dressing over them, and serve. Walnut Sandwiches.—Cut off very thin slices of home-made bread (trimming off the crust), lightly butter them, and upon each slice lay the thinnest possible slice of Gruyfere cheese. Have ready peeled as many fresh Walnuts as will cover half of the slices, lay them upon the cheese, sprinkle a very little salt over them, cover with another thin shaving of cheese and more very thin buttered bread, press the slices of bread close together to hold the nuts in place, and serve the sandwiches with sherry wine; or they may be served with green salad, with plain salad dressing. These are an excellent after dinner relish. Walnut-leaves.—There is nothing of the Walnut- tree that need be wasted, for even the leaves may be used to make the following: Walnuts—continued. Walnut Ketchup.—Put into a 3gall. jar lib. of salt, |lb. of powdered ginger, 3 handfuls of sliced horseradish roots, 1 handful of garlic, six pods of braised red pepper, and loz. of powdered cloves. Gather the young leaves from the Walnut, chop them fine, put them in the jar with 3galls. 'of boiling vinegar, cover the jar tightly, and place it in the sun for fourteen days. Then strain the liquor and bottle it, keeping it thditly corked till required for use. Walnut Mead.—Boil 141b. of honey in 4galls. of water for tliree-quarters-of-an-hour; put about eight dozen Walnut leaves in a large pan, pour the boiling liquor over them, and let it stand all night. On the following day strain the liquor off the leaves, and mix with it 1 breakfast-cupful of ale yeast. Let it work for two or three days, then pour it into a cask and fix the bung down tightly. In two months’ time, draw the mead off into bottles, and cork them. Walnut Wine.—Put 5galls, of water in a pan with 5lb. of coarse honey and 101b. of brown sugar; boil it for half an-hour, and keep well skimmed. Put a large bunch of Walnut-leaves into a tub, and pour the above liquor over them. Let them stand until the following morning, when take out the leaves, squeezing them well to extract all the juice. Put 1 teacupful of yeast into the liquor, and let it work for seven days, stirring it thoroughly two or three times each day. Pour the wine into a cask, close the bung down firmly, and let it stand for six months. Afterwards bottle the wine. WARMING.—This term is so exceedingly indefinite that cooks would do well to expunge it from their vocabulary, excepting as applied to plates and dishes— which are often warmed more than is required—spoons, and such-like. Foods that are to be served hot should not be described as warm, nor should “ to warm ” be a suffi- cient description of the mode of cooking those foods that are to be served hot. To “ warm up ” is therefore not a genuine cookery phrase, and to “ warm through ” is open to the same objection. In spite of that, however, they will be used. ' WARREN’S COOKING-POT AND CURRY- PAN.—These vessels (see Fig. 1032),invented and patented by Captain F. P. Warren, R.N., deserve special notices. They are designed somewhat on the principle of the bain-marie, steamer, and braising-pan combined. The Fig. 1032. Warren's Cooking-pot (Adams and Son). sectional drawing (see Fig. 1033) shows that the pot consists of a large outside vessel, which contains a certain quantity of water. Into the rim of this fits an inner vessel or chamber (b), so fashioned that considerable space (a) is left all round the bottom and sides between it and the outer case. Over the inner chamber again is fitted a steamer (c) for cooking vegetables, and receiving its steam through pipes so arranged that no steam what- ever escapes into the inner chamber (b). The lid is made759 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Warren’s Cooking-pot and Curry-pan—continued. double to prevent the radiation of beat. The following are tlie directions given for using the “ pot ” : Water should be put in the saucepan or pot high enough to barely touch the bottom of the enclosed pot (b). The meat to be cooked must be placed without water in the pot (b), and the cover carefully adjusted, and Fig. 1033. Section of Warren’s Cooking-pot (Aclams and Son). a steam pipe inserted in a tube provided for the purpose. If vegetables are to be steamed as well as meat cooked in B, then a tube must be inserted in b to convey the steam into c. After bringing the water to the boil, the saucepan must be drawn to the side of the fire, near enough to keep it boiling. Sir Henry Thompson, in “ Food and Feeding,” says of the Cooking-pot that “ It is constructed on the plan of the bain-marie, but is associated with a steam chamber on the top, to be used or not, as required. This latter may be used for the cooking of vegetables, fish, and other foods, thus utilising the steam formed by the boiling water contained in the larger outside vessel, which heats the inner one. But the inner is used not only for stewing and boiling purposes, but also as a dry-cooker; that is to say, a fowl or a portion of meat being placed therein can be slowly cooked without water by a process occupying about twice or three times as long as that employed for ordinary boiling or roasting. In this case the flesh furnishes a quantity of liquid, slowly disengaged by low temperature, rising as vapour at first, and becoming condensed with its own natural juices into a broth or gravy, in which, at the conclusion of the process, the flesh is found partially or wholly immersed. On the top of this floats more or less fat in a melted state, and this can be removed in the usual manner. No loss whatever takes place by this method. All the albumen, extrac- tives, and juices of the flesh, will be found in the inner saucepan when the process is completed.” Under ordinary modes of cooking, meat has been com- puted to lose by roasting one-third of the original weight, or 5Joz. in the lb.; by boiling, 4foz. in the lb.; and by baking, 3jjoz. in the lb. By the use of Warren’s Cooking-pot all waste is prevented. “ Thus,” continues Sir Henry Thompson, “a most admirable and tender Irish stew may be made by placing, say about 41b. of neck of mutton, cut chiefly from the lower half of it (best end) in the usual way, with most of the fat removed, a little onion sliced, adding no liquid whatever, only a a little black pepper and salt to taste. The outside pot should contain sufficient water to form a shallow bath for the inner pot which contains the meat; the water should be boiling at the commencement of the pi’ocess, and for about a-quarter-of-an-hour afterwards, to antagonise the effect of the cold meat introduced. Then the pot should be removed to the corner of the fire, or over a gas-ring, so as to simmer, that is to maintain the water a few degrees below boiling-point. At the end of five or six hours or so Warren’s Cooking-pot and Curry-pan—continued. the meat will be found perfectly tender, delicately cooked, full of flavour, and amply supplied with its own excellent gravy. When the melted fat has been removed, the potatoes, which have been partially cooked in the upper chamber or steamer, or in some other vessel separately, should be added to the meat in the inner chamber for about half-an-hour and served in the usual manner.” Warren’s Curry-pan (see Fig. 1034) has already been described under the heading of Curry. It works upon the same principle as the Cooking-pot. WASHINGTON BISCUITS.—See Biscuits. WASHINGTON CAKE.—See Cakes. WASHINGTON PIE.—See Pies. WASSAIL.—This term originated from the Anglo- Saxon wes Ml, signifying literally “ be in health.” As certain times of the year are set apart for merry-making and drinking healths, so the word Wassail came to mean a kind of debauchery, but in modern times the term has almost disappeared. In some parts of England the following quatrain was at one time exceedingly popular: Wassail! Wassail! all over the town, Our toast it is white, our ale it is brown ; Our bowl is made of a maplin-tree, We be good fellows all; 1 drink to thee. Pepys, in his gossiping diary, alludes to Wassail thus: “ On the 4tli of January, 1667, Mrs. Pepys had company to dinner, and at night to sup, and then to cards, and last of all to have a flagon of ale and apples, drunk out of a wood cup, as a Christmas draught, which made all merry.” From the foregoing it is evident that the Wassail-bowl of our forefathers consisted essentially of a beverage made of ale, flavoured with spices, sweetened with sugar, and in which there floated about pieces of toast, and thin slices of apple. A very good modern Wassail-bowl may be made as follows: Put ilb. of loaf sugar in a large bowl, grate a nutmeg over it, and dust over 1 teaspoonful of powdered ginger ; pour over this 1 pint of hot beer, i pint of sherry, and 5 pints of cold beer; stir this thoroughly, put a cover over the bowl, and let it stand for two or three hours. Cut two or three thin slices of bread, toast them brown, cut them into pieces, and put them in the bowl. A pint of cider may be used instead of the wine; and some roasted apples may also be cut into slices and put in the bowl, or a few slices of lemon. WASTE.—There should be no such thing as Waste in a well-conducted kitchen. The term is often misapplied to the refuse that results from the preparation of vege- tables and other things for cooking. But the term “ kitchen Waste ” is also oftentimes more correctly applied than intended by the cook who uses it, that is, if the legitimate meaning is to be accepted of anything spoiled, destroyed, or thrown away. Waste is the outcome of extravagance, hence it is advisable for those in authority to carefully regulate the foods supplied for kitchen use, and to calculate the return. Kitchen-cloths are often objects of indiscriminate use. Jack-towels and dresser-cloths, tea-cloths and dusters, pudding-cloths and window-rags, are frequently misappropriated, leading to Waste. Remnants of food and dripping are invariably wasted by an untidy servant. Scraps of meat, bones, and shanks can be put in the stock- pot, which should be found in all kitchens. Some- thing may be added to the stock-pot daily, and this Fig. 1034. Warren’s Curry-pan (Adams and Son).THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 760 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Jcc., referred to, see under their special heads. W aste—continued. prevents, by using up, accumulations that might other- wise be troublesome and offensive. Small quantities of cold vegetables, carrots, potatoes, turnips, cauliflower, spinach, and brussels sprouts are useful for thickening and flavouring plain soups, and cold cabbage and potatoes can be fried for the kitchen dinner. Dripping, melted down and put into jars, keeps well and is most useful. The fat skimmed off cold broth is useful for adding to vegetables when mashed, and for other purposes. Paper, string, and wooden skewers are handy at any time; but it must not be forgotten that heaps of grocer’s and other papers are often the cause of cockroaches swarming in the kitchen. When there is no use at home for so-called “ kitchen Waste,” it should be kept carefully sorted, and either sold or given away. WATER (Fr. Eau; Ger. Wasser; Ital. Acqua; Sp. Agua).—The true constitution of Water was not discovered until about the year 1781, when Cavendish and James Watt, independently and nearly simultaneously, showed it to be a compound of hydrogen and oxygen. Five years, however, before this time (1776), says Cooley, the cele- brated Macquer, assisted by Sigaud de la Fond, obtained pure Water by the combustion of hydrogen in the air. It has since been satisfactorily demonstrated that hydrogen and oxygen exist in Water in the proportion of 1 to 8 by weight, or 2 to 1 by volume One cubic inch of perfectly pure Water at G2deg. Fahr., and 30in. of the barometer, weighs 252‘458gr.; by which it will be seen that it is 770 times heavier than atmospheric air. Water evaporates at all temperatures; but at 212deg., under ordinary circumstances, this takes place so rapidly that it boils, and is converted into vapour (steam), whose bulk is nearly 1700 times greater than that of Water. Every cook knows that very much of the success of his undertakings in the process of boiling depends upon the quality of Water used. When available, it is at all times advisable to use soft, or rain Water; but as this is not always obtainable, the cook has to put up with hard Water from the pump, spring, or well; it is found advis- able occasionally to soften this Water by putting into it a small piece of soda. As a rule the Water supply to the kitchen is not under the con- trol of the cook ; when there is a choice, the cook will be careful to select that which is purest and best. The steam from Water that is none too pure, or is salt, or otherwise impregnated, when condensed is comparatively pure, although lacking the briskness of Water that has not been boiled. An automatic Water-condenser invented by Bracher (see Fig. 1035) has been much commended for general purposes. WATER, AERATED.—See Aerated Water. Fig. 1035. Water-condenser. WATERCRESSES.—See Cresses. WATER GRUEL.—See Gruel. WATER ICES.—See Ices. WATER SOUCHET.—There are so many modes of spelling this word that it is almost impossible to say which should have the preference as being more correct than others. By some authorities it is spelt Souchy; by others, Zootje. In the French language it is invariably Souchet, and as we are indebted to French cooks for Water Soucliet—continued. some of the best methods of preparing this dish, we prefer to adopt their spelling. The term is applied to the method of cooking small river fish, or large fish cut into pieces, by boiling them in water or court bouillon, with chopped parsley or sliced parsley-root. Cooked in this way the fish are eaten with the liquor, accompanied by brown bread-and-butter. Some good receipts for this will be found Tinder different headings, such as Flounders, Perch, &c. WEDDINGS AND WEDDING-BRE AKFASTS. —The custom of regaling a party of friends invited to the celebration of a marriage by providing an elaborate banquet has prevailed from time immemorial. It is specially mentioned m the Scriptures, when Christ turned the water into wine, and upon several other occa- sions ; and there is every reason to believe that it has maintained its high favour from the earliest records of civilisation, until it has come to be regarded as an official part of the ceremony. In every country of the world— civilised or savage—where any soi-t of nuptial form is practised, it is certain to be made the excuse for luxurious eating and drinking, that being regarded by many per- sons as the summum bonum of temporary rejoicing, especially when the happiness of others is chiefly concerned. The parents of the bride take their parting view of the daughter in the presence of friends, and whilst rejoicing at her prospects of future happiness, unselfishly invite their friends to rejoice with them. The bride and bride- groom submit to this feasting with as good grace as possible, and perform their part in it to the best of their ability. In some instances it is probable that both of those most deeply concerned in the events of the day would rather avoid the nuptial feast, and bid their friends good-bye at the church door. That such an innovation is a consummation devoutly to be desired by the bride and bridegroom may be taken for granted, and with the extension of time for performing marriage ceremonies granted by Act of Parliament, the first blow was struck at the old-fashioned Wedding-breakfast. The term “breakfast” itself becomes an anomaly when the feast is held at say three or four o’clock in the afternoon. The term, however, is likely to continue, seeing that wedding-luncheon, wedding-dinner, and wedding-feast are rather too formal and severe. Wedding-breakfast it will always remain, even though it be not served until the long hours of night. The only method of overcoming the difficulty is the present very usual plan of altering the feast and its mode of service, letting it assume rather the form of general light refreshment, served as guests choose to partake of it at an afternoon reception held by the bride’s parents. A ball or dance-party in the evening is often added. We give a coloured plate representing a very high- class Wedding-breakfast. The cloth is dressed with wreaths and designs in violets and orange-flowers, and the sides of the table are covered with a kind of “ over-skirt,” which is fastened to the edge of the table, the join being concealed by a line of flowers. This over- skirt is then looped up gracefully with trails or bunches of appropriate flowers. In the centre of the table stands the cake, and opposite to this it is customary to seat the bride and bridegroom. Customs of position differ, but that named is the most convenient for all purposes. Now comes the question of provisions. Sweets and fruits (with flowers) should be set upon the table in profusion; they are sure to find favour. Wines are best represented by champagne, hock, Moselle, Madeira, sherry, and claret, and in summer-time the attendants may serve some sort of sweet cooling cup, if the feast is to be protracted. The following dishes will be found suitable for Wed- ding-breakfasts, the choice and selection depending upon seasons and circumstances, which might be too numerous761 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred, to, see under their special heads Weddings and Wedding-breakfasts—continued. to mention. All sorts of mayonnaise, especially of salmon, lobster, and crayfish, or prawns; aspics of most kinds, galantines, pates, and salads. Cold fowl, cold lamb, and other meats requiring skill in carving, are best omitted, unless previously boned and stuffed. Bouchees, savoury tourtes, and fancy cheeses. Bread and butter plentifully distributed round the table. In cold weather a plate of consomme prepares the way comfortably for the cold viands, some of which, such as croquettes, rissoles, agnelotti, patties, and others, may be served hot if convenient to the available service of tbe house. It is, however, better far to have all cold and in place ready for action than to risk delays caused by the irregular service of hot dishes. Sweets find innumerable representations—ices, jellies, and creams, custards with fruit tarts, trifles, cakes and French gateaux, compotes of fruits, meringues, tartlets, sweet biscuits; and if the occasion is convenient, a cro- quenbouche or sultane may perfect the display. A few small ornamental china or glass dishes contain- ing candied fruits, or other artistic sweetmeats, add to the attractiveness of the table, and true-lovers’ knots in candied fruit-pastes are apt to engender an occasional ebullition of merriment. Coffee should be served after all. It is quite obvious that the service of the Wedding- breakfast depends entirely upon the facilities at com- mand. When the great change that is pending includes the abolition of the feast, then a reform will have been brought about that is not only imminent since the ex- tension of hours for marrying, but badly wanted. See also Bride Cakes. WEDDING CAKES.—See Bride Cakes. WEEVEBi {Fr. Yive).—A sea fish of the genus Trachinus, having a number of sharp spines along the back (see Fig. 1036), which cause painful wounds when they pierce the skin- There are two kinds caught along Fig. 1036. Weever. our coasts, one being somewhat larger than the other. Common names for them are Stingbull, Gowdie, and Seacat. They may be cooked as follow: Baked Weevers.—Clean eight large Weevers, and cut off their fins; coat the inside of a baking-dish with a thick layer of butter, lay the fish in, and season with salt and pepper. Finely chop an equal quantity of mushrooms, shallots, and parsley; put a lump of butter in a saucepan with 1 table-spoonful of hour, stir it over the fire for a few minutes, then put in the chopped mushrooms, Ac., and fry them for a few minutes. Pour J pint' each of white wine and stock in the saucepan, stir it over a slow fire, anti let it boil for twenty minutes. Pour the sauce over the fish, cover with grated breadcrumb, put a few small pieces of butter on the top, and bake for twenty minutes. When cooked, serve the fish. Weevers a la Maitre d'Hotel —Clean the required number of fish and cut off their heads, tails, and fins. Make some incisions down the sides of the fish, put them in a deep dish, sprinkle some chopped parsley and salt over, baste them with olive oil, and let them soak for two hours. Put the fish on a gridiron, and broil over a clear fire, turning them to do both sides equally. When cooked, put the Weevers on a hot dish, cover with maitre- d’hotel sauce, and serve. Weevers a la Normande.—Clean, scrape, and wash some W eevers, taking care not to prick the fingers with the Weever—continued. fins, as they are poisonous. Remove the heads and tails, and lard the fish with fillets of anchovy and eel. Put a few slices of carrot and onion in a saucepan with a bunch of thyme, parsley, and laurel-leaves, and three or four cloves. Put in the Weevers, cover them with white wine, and boil gently till cooked. When cooked, take the fish out with a slice, and put them on a hot dish. Strain the cooking-liquor through a fine hair sieve, and return it to the saucepan; work a pat of butter with a table-spoonful of flour, mix it in the sauce, and stir it over the fire for a few minutes to cook the flour. Pour the sauce over the Weevers, squeeze a small quantity of lemon-juice over, and serve. WEEVILS.—Small insects of the beetle tribe, which bore holes in biscuits and other foods in which to deposit their eggs. A few seconds in the hot oven will destroy the young insects, and exposing the foods to draughts of cold air, will generally keep them at bay. WEIGHTS and MEASURES.—A very practical writer on kitchen management observes: “ I would mention the extreme importance of including amongst household requisites a pair of scales and a set of weights. There is no check so effectual against short weight as the practice of weighing. With butchers’ meat this is particularly necessary, joints often being unaccountably changed, from one being so like another except in weight. Besides this, it is almost impossible to cook meat ac- curately unless it be previously weighed and timed. A pair of scales and set of weights can be bought, large enough for all domestic purposes, for twelve or fourteen shillings; and I have no hesitation in saying that they will defray their cost within the first twelve months’ use.” Such a recommendation is not to lie despised, even though we have the word of the artistic chef that weighing and measuring are almost unknown amongst high-class cooks, every ingredient being added according to the instinctive judgment of the operator. Amongst amateur cooks and beginners weighing and measuring are regarded with considerable respect, for without due care and caution in apportioning the quantities, the fear exists that the preparation may not be a success. Throughout this Encyclopaedia the greatest care has been taken to express exactly the quantities that are to be used, often under considerable disadvantages, the cooks supplying the receipts not having, in some cases, specified very exactly the proportions; the expressions “take a little” and “add a fair amount,” &c., so frequently used by them, being so indefinite as to lead to much confusion. Again, the custom that pre- vails amongst cooks of measuring ingredients with spoons, cups, and glasses, or by comparative sizes, such as that of an egg, nut, or bean, and by pinches, renders it necessary that there should be some under- standing as to what quantities these measurements re- present. The following Tables of Equivalents have been arranged, based upon the ascertained average sizes and capacity of those measures in general use; and by these standards the proportions given in the receipts throughout this Encyclopaedia are regulated. Liquids. The figures given hereunder apply to the measure- ment of water and fluids of a similar density, such as vinegar, milk, wine, and lemon-juice* Syrups, oils, and cream, weigh heavier than water, and spirits a trifle less. 2 saltspoonfulsf = 1 teaspoonful (1 fluid drachm, or 30 drops). 2 teaspoonfuls = 1 dessert-spoonful (2 fluid drachms). 2 dessert spoonfuls = 1 table-spoonful (4 fluid ounce). * The juice of one lemon = about 1 table-spoonful, t A pinch of cayenne pepper=about I saltspoonful ; a pinch of salt is taken up in all four fingers and thumb=about 1 table- spoonful, or loz.762 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, tic., referred to, see under their special heads. Weights and Measures—continued. 2 table-spoonfuls = 1 gravy-spoonful (1 sherry wineglassful, or 1 fluid ounce). 2 Dort wineglassfuls* = 1 teacupful (1 gill, 1 qrtm., or 5 fluid ounces). 2 teacupfuls = 1 breakfast-cupful (1 tum- blerful, £ pint, or 10 fluid ounces). 2 breakfast-cupfuls = ] pint (20 fluid ounces, or 1 fluid poundf). 2 pints = 1 quart. 4 quarts = 1 gallon. * 2 port wineglassfuls = 3 sherry wineglassfuls. + 1 fluid pound of 20 fluid ounces —lib. of 16oz. solid measure. Solids. Measurements of capacity must necessarily vary considerably, as regards weight, with different mate- rials ; for example, the weight of a teacupful of breadcrumbs is less than that of a teacupful of moist sugar. To provide for this discrepancy, certain typical ingredients are given hereunder by which, with judgment, a very accurate apportionment can be made. A Breakfast-cupful of Breadcrumbs (pressed in) weighs about 4oz. Butter* or Lard (melted, or pressed down) ,, 7oz. Currants or Sultanas (heaped) ,, 6oz. Flour, Cornflour, Arrowroot, or other floury starches (level) ,, 4oz. Flour, Cornflour, Arrowroot, or othei floury starches (heaped) ,, 6oz. Baisins (stoned and pressed in) ,, 8oz. Rice (heaped) ,, 7oz. Sago, Tapioca, Semolina, &c. (heaped) ,, 4oz. Suet, chopped very fine (heaped) ,, 4oz. Sugar, moist or caster (heaped) ,, Soz. * A “pat” of butter weighs loz. Average Weights. It must be borne in mind that these refer to medium sizes only. 10 Eggs 25 Eggs (yolks only) ... 20 Eggs (whites only) * 5 or 6 Apples 3 or 4 Carrots (old) ... 15 to 20 Carrots (new) 6 to 8 Onions 4 to 6 Potatoes (old) weigh about lib. „ lib. „ lib. „ lib. ,, lib. ,, lib. „ lib. „ 11b. * This allows for some waste in separating yolks from whites. The white constitutes more than half the egg. When Scales and Weights are available it is advisable to weigh all the ingredients used according to trades- men’s avoirdupois weights. 27 3 grains = ldr. 16 drachms -=loz. 16 ounces = 1 lb. 28 pounds = 1 quarter 4 quarters = 1 hundredweight (cwt.) 20 hundredweight = 1 ton. The foregoing are the weights in general use, and should therefore be adopted for weighing ingredients in the kitchen. The following are what may be termed Weights and Measures—continued. In addition to the above tables, there are Measures used in some parts of the country which are somewhat confusing. Potatoes and fruit are sometimes sold by the gallon. The following table explains the relative values of these quantities and proportions, the weights differing in almost every case: Dry Measures of Capacity. 4 pints (f gallon) = 1 pottle. £ gallon (z pottles; = 1 quarter peck. 1 gallon = 1 half-peck. 2 gallons = 1 peck. 4 pecks =1 half bushel. 8 pecks = 1 bushel. Sometimes fruit is sold by the sieve, that being a fanciful measure depending upon the size of the vessel, usually a sieve, that the fruit is gathered into. As there is no definite capacity ascribed for this measure, it is often made use of for the purposes of deception. In Scotland a table peculiar to the country is occa- sionally used; but since the introduction of railways the English and Scotch peoples have become so closely asso- ciated in commerce that they are now very seldom used. Scotch- Dry Measures. 4 lippies = 1 peck 4 pecks = 1 firlot. 4 firlots = 1 boll.* 2 bolls = 1 quarter. * A boll of meal is 1401b., or 2 bolls are 1 sack ; on the Border, a boll is equal to 6 firlots. Concerning the measurement of liquids the following tables are used : Liquid Imperial Measures. 4 gills = 1 pint. 2 pints = 1 quart. 4 quarts = 1 gallon Beer. Firkin = 9 gallons. Kilderkin = 18 gallons. Barrel = 36 gallons. Hogshead (rarely used)...= 54 gallons. Puncheon ,, ...= 72 gallons. Butt = 108 gallons, or 3 barrels. Wine. Aum of Hock or Rhenish = 30 gallons. Hogshead of Claret = 46 gallons. Pipe of Madeira or Cape = 92 gallons. Pipe of Marsala = 93 gallons. Pipe of Teneriffe = 100 gallons. Butt of Sherry or Tent = 108 gallons. Pipe of Port or Masdeu = 115 gallons. Butt of Lisbon or Bucellas = 117 gallons. In France find other parts of the Continent a system of weighing and measuring is used based upon the decimal, or multiple of ten, plan; but, although very convenient in many respects, the prospect of its adoption in this country is very remote. Special Weights. Stone ofButellers’ Meat = 81b. Firkin of Butter =561b. Box of Fish, about =901b. Barrel of Raisins = 1121b. Barrel of Butter =4 firkins, or 2241b. Sack of Potatoes = 1681b., or 3 bushels of 56lb. each. Sack of Flour = 2801b., or 5 bushels of 561b. each. Peck or Stone of Flour = 141b. Gallon of Flour =7lb. [quartern) loaf. Quart of Flour = 3flb., which will make a 4lb. (or French Weights and Measures. Measures of Capacity are calculated from the Litre, which is about If British pints (P76077). The 10th part of a litre = 1 Decilitre. The 100th part of a litre = 1 Centilitre. The 1000th part of a litre =1 Millilitre. 10 litres = 1 Decalitre. 100 litres = 1 Hectolitre. 1000 litres = 1 Kilolitre. 10,000 litres = 1 Myrialitre.763 the encyclopedia of practical cookery. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Weights and Measures—continued. Measures of Weight are calculated from the Gramme, which is nearly equal to 151 British grains (I5'43235). See Avoirdupois. The 10th part of a gramme = 1 Decigramme. The 100th part of a gramme = 1 Centigramme. The 1000th part of a gramme = 1 Milligramme. 10 grammes = 1 Decagramme. 100 grammes = 1 Hectogramme. 1000 grammes = 1 Kilogramme. 10,000 gramnjes -= 1 Myriagramme. To render the foregoing tables of special value in the kitchen, it will be necessary to provide the cook with scales and weights, and a set of standard measures. Of the latter it may be generally stated that the more useful would be a gill, half-pint, pint, and quart. In dry measures, wooden pottle, gallon, and peck measures will answer most purposes, and in many instances will not be required so long as there is a pint or quart. Sets of scales of almost any pattern may be obtained from the scale-makers; the old-fashioned balance scale Fig. 1037. Balance Scales (Adams and Son). (see Fig. 1037) weighing as high as 141b., and being fitted with a movable pan, is very useful. Others are made on the beam principle, but are not so easy to work, and are more liable to get out of order. A very capital kind of scale that works on a spring, and indicates by a dial (see Fig. 1038), with a movable pan, is very useful indeed, occupying but little room, and requiring no adjustment of weights. These are strongly recommended for kitchen use, and can be purchased of most scale-makers. WEISS-BEER.—A pale white beer brewed princi- pally in North Germany; its alcoholic strength rarely exceeds 2 per cent. WELLINGTON GINGERBREAD.—See Ginger- bread. WELSH CHEESE CAKES.—See Cheese Cakes. WELSH MUTTON.—See Mutton. WELSH RABBIT or RAREBIT.—See Cheese. WESTMORELAND SOUP.—See Soups. WESTPHALIAN CHARLOTTE. — See Char- lottes. WESTPHALIAN HAMS.—See Hams. WHEAT (Fr. Froment; Ger. Weizen; Ital. Grano; Sp. Trigo).—A cereal grass, Triticum vulgare, produces a grain which we know by this name. There are many varieties, the most common being red Wheat, white Wheat, bald Wheat (see a, Fig. 1039), bearded Wheat (see b, Fig. 1039), summer Wheat, and winter Wheat, the grains resembling each other so closely that only an expert can tell one from the other. Lindley, in his “ Treasury of Botany,” expresses himself as follows : “ The native country and origin of Wheat has ever been a curious subject of speculation. We think, however, that M. Fabre’s experiments, detailed in the Journal of the Royal Agricultural Society, afford very strong presump- tive evidence that this cereal is derived from a wild grass of Southern Europe and Western Asia, known to the botanist as iEgilops. It is true that a specimen of this genus would at first sight appear to be very different from Wheat, but it is really not so on a minute exam- ination of its parts, and under cultivation it soon affords a very respectable grain; its green herbage, too, emits the peculiar smell on being bruised which belongs to Wheat, and we know from experiment it is subject to the same epiphytes or attacks of ‘ blight ’ as Wheat. That a plant very dissimilar from Wheat, in fact a .wild useless grass, should yet in cultivation become so changed as to afford a useful grain, is so far fortunate that we might expect, from this amount of adaptability to circum- stances, that it would be capable of easily affording a large variety of sorts. Such we know to be the case, and hence no plant is so easily adapted to variations of climate, soil, and management as Wheat.” Under the headings Flour and Starch, some im- portant information will be found concerning the manu- facture of Wheat into those two commodities. For the purposes of making bread, Wheat stands pre-eminent, notTEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 764 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads Wheat—continued. merely on account of its highly nutritious character, but because of its richness in gluten, which is essential to the fermentation necessary to produce a light loaf. According to Sir Humphrey Davy, Wheat contains 19 per cent, of gluten, 77 per cent, of starch, and about 4 per cent, of soluble matter. Besides flour and starch, whole Wheat is sometimes used in cookery; so also is Wheat that has been ground into a coarse meal, as the following receipts will show: Cracked-wheat Mush (American).—Brush lightly over the inside of a flat-bottomed, bright iron saucepan with a paste-brush dipped in lard—it will require a very small quantity, but a little helps to prevent the Wheat burning —pour in 2qts. of water, and place it on the fire. When boiling, stir in 1 breakfast-cupful of large cracked Wheat and 1 teaspoonful of salt, stir it over the fire, and boil it for ten minutes; then move the saucepan to the side, and keep the contents simmering for three hours with the lid on. As it is not the Wheat itself that burns, but the flour mixed up with it, it would be better to wash it in two or three waters before boiling, as is done with rice. When sufficiently cooked, turn the mush into a bowl, and serve it with a jug of cream. Cracked-wheat Porridge (American).—Brush over the inside of a flat-bottomed saucepan with a little melted lard. Pour in 4 pints of water, boil it up, then stir in 1 breakfast-cupful of cracked Wheat and 1 teaspoonful of salt; stir the Wheat and boil it for a few minutes, then push the saucepan to the side of the fire, put the lid on, and keep the contents simmering for three hours. Turn the porridge (when cooked) into a bowl, and serve it with a jug of cream. The Wheat should be well washed before being cooked to rid it well of the flour, which is generally the cause of burning. Wheat-flour Batter Cakes.—(1) Mix 2 table-spoonfuls of sifted corn-meal with 1 pint of flour; mix in smoothly two well-beaten eggs and a sufficient quantity of milk, with a small quantity of warm water in which J teaspoon - ful of tartaric acid has been dissolved, to make a mode- rately stiff batter. When quite smooth stir in briskly a heaped table-spoonful of bicarbonate of soda, but cease stirring the moment it begins to effervesce. Spread a sheet of fluttered paper over a baking-sheet, and drop the batter on it in equal quantities; bake them in a brisk oven, and serve while hot. A short space should be left between each cake when they are put on the baking- sheet, as they will spread and stick together. (2) Put into a vessel 4oz. of sifted Wheat-flour, Joz. of powdered sugar, and 1 drachm of compressed yeast. Break in four whole eggs, and mix well with the spatula for three minutes. Add j pint of cold milk, and beat well with the pastry-whisk for four minutes. Strain through a sieve into another vessel. Place on the stove a small griddle, greasing the surface lightly. Drop about 2oz. of the batter on to it, and bake for ten seconds; turn it with a cake-turner, and hake for ten seconds on the other side. See that the cakes are a light brown colour on both sides. Put them on a hot dish, keeping it warm on the corner of the range, and proceed to make twelve more with the remainder of the batter. Serve very hot with honey or maple sugar separately. Wheat-flour-and-Cornflour Crumpets.—Put lqt. of milk on the fire, warm it, put in 2 table-spoonfuls of yeast, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and sufficient Wheat-flour to make a stiff batter. Stir the batter till smooth and elastic, then set it in a warm place to rise. On the following morn- ing, stir in 1 teacupful of butter that has been warmed, and 1 teacupful of yellow corn-meal; divide the mixture into cakes, about 2in. in diameter and Jin. in thickness. Make a griddle hot, put the crumpets on it, and bake them for fifteen minutes. Butter the crumpets, put them on a hot dish, and serve while hot. Wheat-flour Gruel.—-(1) Mix 1 saltspoonful of salt in 2 tea- spoonfuls of flour, and stir it into a smooth thin paste with cold water; then mix in gradually 1 breakfast-cupful of boiling water, turn the mixture into a saucepan, and stir it Wheat —continued. over the fire until cooked, which will take about five minutes. Strain the gruel, sweeten it to taste, and if too thick thin it with a small quantity of milk. The gruel may be flavoured with either lemon-juice or grated nutmeg, or a little piece of stick cinnamon may be boiled with it. (2) Pill a small basin with flour, press it down tightly, tie a cloth over, plunge it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil hard for six hours. At the end of that time, take the basin out of the water, remove the cloth, and leave the flour till the following day. Lift off the crust of flour that will have formed on the top, and use the re- mainder for making gruel. Put J pint of milk in a sauce- pan and boil it; mix 1 teacupful of the flour to a smoooth paste with a little water, pour the boiling milk gradually on to it, then return it to the, saucepan and boil for ten minutes, stirring all the time. Sweeten and flavour the gruel to taste, and serve it. The flour for making gruel may be baked instead of boiled, but the former way is the best. Wheat-meal Biscuits.—(1) Warm jib. of butter and work it well into ljlb. of Wheat-meal, add 2oz. of moist sugar, and stir in a sufficient quantity of warm water, in which J tea- spoonful of bicarbonate of soda lias been dissolved, to form a light paste. Boll the paste out thinly, and with a round tin cutter, about I Jin. in diameter, cut it into biscuits; dock them, lay them on a baking-sheet, and bake. Keep the biscuits in tins. (2) Rub 2oz. of butter into lib. of Wheat-meal and 2 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder, add 2oz. of sugar, work this in, then add a, well-beaten egg and sufficient milk to form a stiff paste. Roll this out to about Jin. in thick- ness, cut it into plain biscuits, prick the tops, and bake in a moderate oven until done. Take them out, and use either hot or cold as desired. Wheat-meal Cakes.—(1) Rub Jib. of butter into fib. of Wheat-meal, then mix it to a smooth paste with some buttermilk, in which 1 teaspoonful of salt and J teaspoon- ful of bicarbonate of soda has been dissolved. Divide the dough into eight or nine pieces, which mould with floured hands into round cakes ; lay them on a baking-sheet, and bake from fifteen to twenty minutes in a moderate oven. Fig. 1040. Wheat-meal Cakes. When cooked (see Fig. 1040) split the cakes open and butter them thickly, put them on a hot dish, and serve. (2) Put ljlb. of Wheat-meal in a basin with 2oz. of butter and 1 good teaspoonful of salt, and rub together until well mixed; then stir in smoothly sufficient milk to make a stiff paste, and mould this into a thick round cake, about Jin. thick. Make a griddle hot, put on the cake, and place it over a clear fire. Move the cake con- stantly about, and when done on one side turn it. When cooked, split the cake open, butter it thickly, and, if liked, spread jam between it; cut it into wedge-shaped pieces, put them on a hot dish, and serve. Wheat-meal Gems. —Put 2J breakfast-cupfuls of fine granu- lated Wheat-meal into a basin with 1 saltspoonful of salt, and stir in gradually 1 breakfast-cupful of milk and 1 breakfast-cupful of water. Beat the batter as long and as quickly as possible. Butter some iron gem pans (see A, Fig. 1041), make them very hot, and fill them quickly with the batter, giving it a brisk beating several times during the filling; put them in a hot oven, and bake. Turn them out (see B, Fig. 1041), and serve either hot or cold.THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 765 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ike., referred to, see under their special heads. Wheat—continued. Wheat-meal Muffins.—Prepare lib. of bread dough with Wheat-meal, and leave it to rise over night. Mix with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of the dough loz. of Wheat-meal, 1 teaspoonful of sugar, a little salt, a piece of butter about the size of an egg, slightly warmed, 2 table-spoonfuls of milk, and one beaten egg. Work the above ingredients together against the sides of the pan till very smooth and elastic, then set it to rise for an hour in a warm tempera- ture. Procure some muffin-rings, 2in. in diameter and lin. deep, butter them, and set them in a buttered baking- dish ; half till the rings with the batter, which should be thin enough to settle down, yet not run under the rings. Leave the muffins to rise for half-an-hour, then bake them in a quick oven for ten minutes. When cooked, take the muffins out of the rings. Fig. 1041. Wheat-meal Gems and Pans. Wheat-meal Scone.-—Mix well together lib. of Wheat-meal, 2oz. of butter, loz. of sugar, 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, b teaspoonful of tartaric acid, and sufficient milk and water to make a stiff paste, and form it into a round smooth lump. Butter and slightly Hour a baking sheet or tin, put the paste on it, flatten it down with the hand into a round scone a little more than lin. in thickness, score it into quarters without separating, prick over the top with a pricker or fork, and bake in a moderately hot oven for about twenty minutes. Take it out and serve hot. Wheat Soup.—Pour b pint of Wheat into a saucepan with 2oz. of butter, and stir it over the fire until hot. Put a bunch of parsley and sweet herbs in with the Wheat, pour over lqt. of water, and season it with salt and pepper. Let the soup boil gently at the side of the fire until the Wheat grains are quite soft. Beat the yolks of three eggs in a soup-tureen, and pour the soup slowly over the eggs, stirring them at the same time; grate a small quantity of nutmeg over it, and serve with a plate of croutons of fried bread or sippets of toast. Wheat-starch Jelly.—Put 111), of loaf sugar in a saucepan with lqt. of water, and stir it over the fire with a wooden spoon until dissolved; then mix in 3 table-spoonfuls of ground Wheat-starch and stir it well. Leave the mixture at the side of the fire for two hours, stirring it often to keep it smooth; it should not be too thick. At the end of that time flavour the mixture with a few drops of essence of rose-water or orange-flower water, and stir it for a few minutes longer. Brush over the .interior of a domed mould with almond oil, pour the mixture into it, and put it in a cool place until firm. When ready to serve, dip the mould into tepid water, wipe it, turn the jelly on to a fancy dish, and ornament the top with fillets of skinned almonds or pistachios. Whole-wheat Biscuits.—(1) Put into a basin 1 breakfast- cupful each of rye-flour and white flour, b teaspoonful each of salt and bicarbonate of soda, 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar, 1 table-spoonful of sugar, and 1 teaspoonful of melted butter; mix all well together, then add milk enough to make a drop batter. Bake in hot pans for twenty to thirty minutes, and serve. (2) Mix in the order given 1 breakfast-cupful each of whole Wheat and white flour, 4 teaspoonful each of salt and bicarbonate of soda, 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar, 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar, 1 teaspoonful of melted butter, and milk enough to make a drop batter (about b pint). If sour milk be used, omit the cream of tartar' Bake in small round biscuit-tins for twenty or thirty minutes until done. WHEATEABS (Fr. Motteux). — Small European singing birds (Saxicolo cenanthe), known in some parts as Fallow-Chats, Stone-Chats, and White Tails. The male is white beneath, bluish-grey above, with black wings, and a black stripe through each eye; the tail is black at the tip and in the middle, but white at the base and on each side. Kettner informs us that it “ is a pleasant little bird, which is found to be very satisfactory at the end of the London season, while we are still waiting for the grouse and the partridges. It winters on the shores of the Mediterranean, but coinefe over to England to breed in mid-March. Alighting on our southern coasts, it spreads itself over the British Islands, even to Orkney and Shetland. When the breeding season is over, then is the time to catch it with advantage. This is not only because we are disposed to give all birds their freedom while they have families dependent on them, but also and chiefly, it is on their return south that the Wheatears can be caught in sufficient numbers to make it worth while to pursue them. Towards the end of July, old birds and the young ones, fat and plump, begin to collect on the Sussex Downs, meaning to cross the Channel in search of their winter homes. On St. James’s day, the 25th of July, the shepherds of the South Downs begin to set nooses and lay traps for them. All the traps and nooses are ready by the 1st of August. One shepherd has been known to catch one thousand birds in a day. He can easily catch five hundred. And this system of ensnaring goes on till the third week in September, when the birds have nearly all left. Each bird is supposed to be worth a penny to the shepherd, at least. Southey tells the story of one of the amiable minor poets, Hurdes, who used to let the birds out of the traps which he found in his walks, but always left a penny in place of each to soothe the disappointment of the shepherds. A penny is not much to give for a bird which has been honoured with the name of the English ortolan. It is needless to say that in Leadenhall Market, and in the hotels of the Sussex watering-places, the little birds, generally sold by the dozen, are charged a good deal more than a penny apiece. They are mightily prized at the end of summer, when winged fowl, with the exception of the heroes and heroines of the barn- door, are scarce at our tables, and they are to be treated as larks. As to the name of the bird—which is not Wheat- ear, but Wheatears—it must be enough to say that it has nothing to do with wheat, nor with any kind of ear, whether of corn or of bird. In a very old cookery book— that of La Varenne—the name of the bird is given as Tliiastias.” The following is an excellent way of cooking them: Fix the Wheatears on a small bird-spit (see Fig. 1042) without drawing, dredge them over with flour, and roast them in front of a clear fire, basting continually with butter. Toast a slice of bread, remove the crust, put it on a (date, and put it under the birds while cooking. When the birds are cooked, lay them on the toast on a hot dish, pour some rich brown gravy over, garnish with slices of lemons, and serve. WHELKS (Fr. Buccins; Ger. Kinkhorner).—These shell-fish (see Fig. 1043), in conjunction with the periwinkle, are regarded by cooks as too contemptible to be worthy of any special culinary treatment. In spite of this, they form a very important item of diet amongst the poorer classes who have a taste for the flavour of fish.TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 766 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. Whelks—continued. Whelks (sometimes spelt Wliilk) (Buccinum undatum) are found in abundance on most coasts. A large white- shelled kind known in the fish trade as Almond Whelks Fig. 1043. Whelk. are considered the best. They are sometimes, besides being plain boiled in salted water, used as follows : Whelk Salad.—Procure some small Whelks and boil them for two hours, changing the water twice. When cooked, drain and leave them till cold, then pick them out of their shells. Put the Whelks in a deep dish, pour over them 1 teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce and an equal quantity of oil and vinegar, season with salt and pepper, and let them stand for an hour. Prepare a' salad of chopped lettuce, cress, and endive, put in the Whelks and the dressing, strew a small quantity of chopped chives or onions over them, and serve. Small Whelks should always be used, as the large ones are tough and indigestible. Whelk Soup.—Poil 2 or 3 handfuls of thoroughly washed small Whelks in 2qts. of water until they can he readily removed from their shells. Take two large onions and stick them with cloves, a very small bunch of sweet herbs, some whole black pepper, a blade of mace, and a very hard crust, toasted brown. Strain the liquor through a cloth, add to this Iqt. more water, and boil the whole until it is reduced to a little more than half its original bulk. In the meantime, take the ^helks out of their shells, clean and mince up two or three anchovies, strain the soup into another saucepan, and put in the Whelks and anchovies. Mix 2 table-spoonfuls of Horn with a little of the broth, stir in sufficient salt to taste, and boil quickly until the Hour lias thickened the soup. WHEY (Fr. Petit Lait; Ger. Molken; Ital. Siero; Sp. Suero).—The serum or liquid portion of milk, after the curd has been separated from it, generally for the purpose of making cheese. Dr. Henry Letlieby says, “although not highly nutritious, it still holds a little caseine in solution, as well as the sugar and saline matter of the milk. It is rarely used as food even by the poor, but it is given to pigs. In Switzerland, however, it is considered to have medicinal virtues, especially for the cure of chronic disorders of the abdominal organs, and the treatment, which is sometimes fashionable, goes by the name of ‘ cure de petit lait.’ There is a popular notion that the Whey of milk is sudorific ; hence we have our wine Whey, cream of tartar Whey, alum Whey, tamarind Whey, &c., when the milk has been curdled by these several substances.” Some special preparations of Whey will be found under Lemons, Oranges, Vinegar, Wine, &c. Whey powder, which is often used instead of rennet to coagulate the curds out of milk, is made by gently evaporating Whey to dry- ness, and then powdering it with about one-third of its weight of caster sugar. See Cheese, Cream, Curds, and Milk. WHIPPED CREAM.—See Cream. WHIPS.—See Chocolate, Cream, &c. WHISKS and WHISKING.—To execute the apparently simple but important culinary process of Whisking, considerable dexterity, and tools that are especially adapted to the purpose, are required. Under the heading of Eggs will be found some very ingenious machines for beating eggs, or mixing them with milk; Fig. 1044. Whisk for Whipping Cream. but these are not Whisks. For whipping cream a light Whisk may be used, such as would be represented by a small bundle of light twigs (see Fig. 1044), or a bunch of fine wire loops ; but for the more vigorous work required for sponge-cakes, meringues, batters, and other heavy liquids, a very strong Whisk is required, such as that shown in the Fig. 1045. Whisk for Sponge-cakes, Batters, &c. illustration (see Fig. 1045). In large wholesale confectionery establishments, machines, consisting of stout iron rods bent into loops, and made to move with great rapidity by hand or steam power, are used for Whisking and mixing sponge and other cakes; the principle is much the same, although the products are not so light and frothy as when Fig. 1046. Whisking-bowl. Whisked or whipped by hand. A round metal bowl, such as is used for beating eggs (see Fig. 1046) is the best kind of vessel for Whisking, and the action in every case should be smart and vigorous, producing a foam if possible. The term “whipping” more fully describes light Whisking, and is adopted by Continental confectioners. WHISKY.—This is literally described as a spirit, ob- tained from malt or grain, or from a mixture of these.TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 767 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Hc., referred to, see under their special heads. Whisky—continued. The principal seats of their manufacture are Ireland and Scotland. In the Encyclopasdia of Manufactures and Raw Materials it is stated’ that “ The difference between the Irish and Scotch varieties lies mainly in the fact that the former is distilled in the common or so-called ‘ pot-still,’ which brings over together with the spirit a variety of flavouring and other ingredients from the grain, while in Scotland nothing but Coffey’s ‘ patent still ’ is employed, the product of which is a spirit de- prived entirely of all essential oils. The Irish distillers claim a distinct advantage in the presence of fusel-oil in their produce, on the ground that if kept in wood for a certain time this oil is decomposed into a number of volatile ethers, readily recognised by their fragrant perfume, and by their pleasant exhilarating effects when consumed. They assert further that the Scotch produce, or ‘ silent spirit,’ as they agree to term it, undergoes no change on keeping, and possesses no flavour, but only the pungent penetrating odour peculiar to alcohol, and that in order to convert this silent spirit into Whisky, it has to be flavoured with different substances which have no exhilarating effects upon the system whatever, but are very injurious to the habitual consumer. Another argument advanced by the Irish distiller in favour of his own produce is that as the spirit yielded by the patent still is absolutely flavourless, the Scotch manu- facturer may, if he will, employ damaged grain, potatoes, molasses, refuse, and various other waste products to yield the silent spirit, since owing to its ‘ silence ’ there is no possibility of detecting afterwards from what source it has been obtained, and that not only are the distinctive qualities of good Whisky thereby kept out of the spirit, but that the spirit itself may also be of an inferior character. “ The ' Scotch distiller, on the other hand, affirms that Irish or ‘ pot-still ’ Whisky is less wholesome than their own produce, on account of the presence in the former of large quantities of fusel-oil. They maintain also, that patent-still Whisky does improve very much by keeping, and brings a higher price in the market when old, and they strongly repudiate the insinuation that they employ damaged or refuse materials for the production of their spirit. The product of the ‘ pot-still,’ as stated above, does not contain merely alcohol and water, but also, in intimate mixture, or in solution, other matters yielded by the grain, and either previously existing in it or formed during the processes of fermentation and distillation. These are present chiefly in the form of volatile oils and vegetable acids, and the quantity as well as their nature depend upon the quality of the grain, and the amount of care bestowed upon the fermentation and other subsequent processes. The finest Dublin Whisky, when ready, is stored in casks, at a strength of 25 per cent, over proof. During its sojourn in the cask, the re- actions which occur between the above substances and the alcohol itself, lead to the gradual formation of those fragrant volatile ethers which impart to the spirit its characteristic perfume and flavour. It attains its full maturity and highest excellence at an age of from three to five years in the wood; after this period it may be bottled and preserved for an indefinite length of time without undergoing further change.” Whisky is prepared in other countries besides Scotland and Ireland. That distilled in Kentucky, in the American county of Bourbon, from rye and Indian corn is known as Bourbon Whisky. In Burmah and Venezuela large quantities of Whisky are made, also in Prussia, France, and other European countries. The Russian spirit vodka is a species of Whisky of a very inferior character, but fiercely alcoholic. None of these can be in any way compared to the Whiskies produced at the Irish and Scotch distilleries. Genuine Whisky is prepared by first fermenting a wort until all the sugar it contains is converted into alcohol, Whisky—continued. and then distilling off the alcohol by raising the liquor to a heat sufficient to evaporate out the alcohol without converting the water into steam. Irish Whisky Julep.—Mix 1 wineglassful of syrup with double the quantity of Irish Whisky, pour it into a large glass, fill up with ice, over this arrange a few sprays of mint and slices or rings of lemon, and serve. Drink through straws. Irish Whisky Smash.—-Pour 1 wineglassful of Whisky into a half-pint glass, and mix in 1 table-spoonful of syrup; then add a few lumps of ice, give the glass a shake, fill up with more ice, place a couple of tlnn slices of lemon on the top, and drink through straws. Scotch Whisky Smash.—Mix in a small glass 1 wineglass- ful of old Scotch Whisky with 1 table-spoonful of syrup, fill up with ice, put a thin slice of lemon on top, and serve. Whisky Fizz.—(1) Mix in a small glass 1 wineglassful of Whisky and 1 teaspoonful each of lemon juice and syrup, add a few lumps of ice, pour in a bottle of soda-water, and drink while fizzing. (2) Put 1 dessert spoonful of syrup into a tumbler, squeeze in the juice of a lemon, pour in a little more than 1 wineglassful of Whisky, add a few lumps of ice, and shake them well together for five minutes. Pour oil' the liquor into a large glass, add 1 teaspoonful of curayoa, 2 drops of essence of almonds or orange, a small bottle (split) of lemonade, and drink while fizzing. (3) Put 1 wineglassful of old Whisky into a glass with a lump of ice, pour in l pint of cider, and serve. Whisky-and-Peppermint Nip.—Half fill a wineglass with peppermint cordial, and fill up with Irish Whisky. Whisky Punch.—(1) Mix in a bowl 1 wineglassful each of lime-juice, cherry-syrup, and plain syrup, next stir in 1 gill of bay-rum, and lastly, a bottle of Scotch Whisky. Set the bowl on the ice, let it remain until the contents are quite cold, float slices of lemon on the top, add 1 bottle of Apollinaris water, and serve. (2) With Soz. of loaf sugar rub off the rinds of three lemons, pound it in a mortar, pour over 2 breakfast- cupfuls of boiling water, stir until the sugar is dissolved, then turn it into the punch-bowl. Now add the juice of the three lemons, passing it through a strainer to remove the pips, &c., let the liquor get cold, and pour in a bottle of Scotch Wliisky. Pack the bowl in ice, let the punch get cold, and serve. (3) Put the thinly-peeled rind of a lemon into a basin, cut the lemon in thin slices, removing all the white part at the same time, and put them in with the peel. Pour in l pint of Whisky, and let it stand for an hour or so. Add 1 wineglassful of curacoa, 1 pint of water, sweeten to taste, and empty in two bottles of iced soda-water. Stir the punch till the sugar has dissolved, then serve it in punch glasses. Wliisky Sling. -Put in a half-pint glass 1 wineglassful of Whisky, fill up with milk, put in a lump of ice, and serve. WHITEBAIT {Fr. Blancliaille; Ger. Breitling).— Although the correct ichthyological names in French and Fig. 1047. English Whitebait. German are here given, it may be as well to observe that Whitebait is more frequently met with on the Continent under its English name. This would lead to the belief that Whitebait forms an exclusively English dish, andTEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 768 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Whitebait—continued. that the fish themselves are imported. In a measure this may he accepted as a fact, for it is quite certain that those held in the highest esteem are caught in the river Thames between Gravesend and Blackwall. English Whitebait (see Fig. 1047) are said to be the young of the herring. Kettner writes, “ It was for a long time supposed that Whitebait, which came up the Thames as far as Blackwall, were the young of the fresh- water herring, the shad, which also comes thus far up the river. They were then proved to he quite distinct from the fry of the shad. It was next insisted that they were a distinct species of herring. It was afterwards pointed out that Whitebait have never been found with roe, and therefore they must be young. It is now declared that they are the infant progeny of the common herring, with all the manners of the parent fish, save this, that they travel up the Thames to haunts which their ancestors, if they were ever there, no longer seem to approve of.” The Whitebait of Italy is said to be the young of the anchovy and sardine. In Columbia (Canada) it is alleged to be the young of the flying-fish. The Norwegian Whitebait (bergylt) is mostly miniature rose-fish. The Whitebait of Canton, in China, is a young small transparent white fish not unlike the young of the smelt. Before submitting Whitebait to the cook it should be thoroughly washed in a washing-basket with a largish mesh. It must then be picked over carefully and all intruders taken out; amongst these will occasionally be found small flounders, gobies, perhaps a stray octopus, or some kind of shell-fish, especially small river mussels. Whitebait are at their best in July and the early part of the month of August; they should be very fresh, smelling quite sweet and pleasant. They can be cooked according to any of the following receipts: Devilled Whitebait.—Wash the fish, drain well on a sieve, dry them in a soft cloth, and then drop them on to a well-floured cloth, carefully rolling each little fish over in it, so that they are all nicely and evenly floured. Put them immediately into a frying-basket, and dip them into extremely hot boiling lard; bold it there a very short time, lift the basket out of tbe lard, and sprinkle the fish with black pepper and a little salt; some cooks dip them again into the boiling lard for a second, take them out, sprinkle them with cayenne pepper, and serve. Pried Whitebait.—(1) Wash the fish, drain well on a sieve, dry them in a soft cloth, and then drop them when quite dry on to a well floured cloth, carefully rolling each little fish over in it, so that they are all floured over evenly. Put them immediately into a frying basket, dip them into extremely hot boiling lard, hold it there till the fish is crisp, which it will be before it browns, take it out while still white, and serve as quickly as possible Fig. 1048. Fried Whitebait. on a warm napkin on a hot dish, and garnish with fried parsley and quarters of lemon (see Fig. 1048). Serve with them cayenne, grated lemon-peel, and thin slices of brown bread - and bu t te r. (•2) Wash and pick the Whitebait carefully, and dry them lightly on a cloth. Put 1 teacupful of flour on a sheet of paper, place the fish on it, and toss them about till well covered. Put 31b. of lard into a stewpan and beat it till it reaches 400deg. by tbe fryometer. Put tbe Whitebait into a frying-basket, sift all the superfluous flour back on the paper, and plunge the basket into the fat for a minute. The fat must be as hot as possible not to burn the fish. When cooked, turn the fish on to a sheet Whitebait—continued. of paper to drain, then put them carefully on to a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish with points of lemon, and serve them with a dish of brown bread-and-butter. The Whitebait should be handled as little as possible, and served while very hot. Whitebait Omelet a la Napolitaine.—Wash and dry on a cloth about 41b. of Whitebait, then put them on ice, while the following batter is being prepared. Beat seven eggs in a basin, season them with pepper, salt, and chopped parsley, and whisk them till well frothed. Sprinkle the fish with salt and pepper, and mix them in the batter. Put lib. of butter into a frying-pan, warm it, pour in the beaten eggs and fish, stir the omelet lightly over the fire with a fork till cooked on one side, then turn it quickly over on to the other side, adding more butter if required, and finish cooking it. When cooked, slip the omelet on to a hot round dish, without folding it over, and serve. Whitebait Salad.—Thoroughly clean the required quantity of Whitebait, rub them over with flour, and brown them in butter. When cooked, drain the fish and leave them till cold. Put a border of lettuce-leaves on a dish, and on that place groups of watercress; chop some hard-boiled eggs and put some between each group of watercress, then arrange round a circle of sliced beetroot. Pile the White- bait in tbe centre of tbe disli. Serve the salad with a sauceboatful of mayonnaise dressing. These little fish are very delicate, and require careful treatment in the cooking. The best way is to put them into a wire frying-basket, and plunge it into boiling fat; directly they are browned, take them out and drain them well. Whitebait Soup.—Finely shred one onion and the white part of a leek, put them into a stewpan with a small quantity of butter, and fry them without allowing them to brown. Finely shred, as for julienne, the red part of two tender carrots, a few mushrooms, and a piece of celery-root, put them in with the onion and leek, and stir them over the fire till their moisture has reduced. Pour 2qts. or 3qts. of rich broth over the vegetables, boil it up, then move the stewpan to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer for half-an hour. Wash l|lb. of Whitebait and drain them on a cloth, put them into the soup, place the lid on the stewpan, and move it to the farthest corner of the stove away from the fire. In six minutes’ time, turn the soup into a tureen, and serve. WHITE CAKE.—See Cakes. WHITEFISH.—Another name for this fish is Silver Salmon, to which race it is considered to belong. White- fish are caught in great quantities in the lakes and rivers of Scotland ; but the largest kind of all is caught in the colder lakes of North America. They may be cooked in a variety of ways, the following being a favourite American receipt: Baked Fillets of Whitefish.—Scale some large White- fish, split them, take out the backbone, season tbe fillets with salt and pepper, and dip them in beaten egg, then in breadcrumbs, and again in beaten egg. Put a lump of fresh lard in a baking-dish, make it hot, then put in the fillets. Bake the fish in the oven for twenty minutes, until they are lightly coloured. When cooked, drain the grease off the fillets, place them on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with potatoes and a sauceboatful of parsley sauce. WHITE POT .—See Devonshire White Pot. WHITE PUDDINGS (Fr. Boudins Blancs; Ger. Weiszen-Wurste).—The Continental White Puddings differ not only from the British black puddings in the ingredients used, but also, in some cases, in being made in long coils (see Fig. 1049), as will be seen by the following receipts: (1) Chop half-a-dozen small onions into small cubes, put them in a saucepan with a little lard, and cook them until done. Finely chop 3oz. or 4oz. of pork-fat and the flesh of a cold roasted fowl. Put the combined weight ofARTISTIC HORS 1. Atteraux. 2. Game or Poultry in Gases (Round). 3. Bouchees and Boudins. 4. Pasties and TIakioi.es. D'CEUVRES. 5. Pear-shaped Croquettes and Artichoke-bottoms. 6. Forcemeat Cutlets and Savoury Bouchees. 7. Oyster Patties. 8. Game in Cases (Oval).769 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. White l*udding3—continued. the pork and fowl of breadcrumbs into a basin, and pour over then- 1J teacupfuls of boiling milk. Strain off the milk and add the soaked crumbs to the minced meat, sprinkle with salt and pepper, add 1 pinch of allspice, 1 teacupb ! of cream, and the well-beaten yolks of six eggs. Put ti. mixture into the saucepan with the onions, stir them well, and squeeze the whole into the required quan- tity of r;eaned skins (pig’s intestines). Put the puddings into a saucepan of milk, set the pan on the lire, and cook the contents slowly for twenty minutes without boiling. Let them get quite cold, prick them all over with a needle, place them on a grill over a clear but slow fire, and when done they are ready for use. Fig. 1049. Coiled White Puddings. (2) Put the required number of skins into a basin, after they have been thoroughly cleaned, and pour over them 1 teacupful of rose-water; let them remain in this for ten or twelve hours, then take them out and drain. Chop fine 8oz. of blanched almonds, mix them with double their quantity of grated breadcrumb, and add 21b. of minced beef-suet or marrow, lib. of well-washed currants, a little cinnamon, half a blade of mace, six cloves, and a quarter of a nutmeg all finely powdered, 2oz. of caster sugar, ioz. of candied citron, and the peel of half a lemon, both the latter cut up into small pieces. Mix these thoroughly and stir in lqt. of cream and the yolks of six and the whites of two eggs, slightly beaten. Put this mixture into the skins, leaving a little room in each one to allow for swelling, put them into a saucepan of milk-ami water in equal proportions, set the pan on the fire, and boil the puddings gently for twenty minutes. As they rise to the surface, prick them well. Take them out when done, drain on a cloth, and when cold they are ready for use. (3) Put Alb. of breadcrumbs in a saucepan with a little milk, and stir them over the fire till thick. Chop Alb. of lean pork and 6oz. of pork-suet or fat, put them in a mortar and pound them well, then mix in the panada and pound them again. Add to the mixture two or three boiled and finely-chopped onions and a small quantity of bechamel sauce, season with pepper, salt, and powdered mace, and pass it through a sieve into a basin ; work in the whites of three eggs and f breakfast cupful of cream. Blanch a few pistachios till swollen, then cut them into small squares and mix them with the forcemeat. Have ready a well cleaned and soaked salted sheep’s gut, and fill lengths of it with the forcemeat, tying them at each end. Put the puddings (coiled) into a large saucepan of hot water, and poach them, keeping the water at the same degree of heat, without allowing it to boil. Leave the puddings till partly cooled in the water, so as to preserve their curled appearance, then drain and hang them up in the air. On the following day prick the puddings with a needle, put them in an oven, and bake. When cooked, put the puddings on a hot dish, and serve. (4) Mix well together lib. of chopped marrow or suet, Alb. of sifted breadcrumbs, ^lb. of currants well-washed and dried, Jib. of almonds blanched and each almond cut into about eight pieces, a small quantity of powdered mace, cinnamon, and cloves, and a few slices of candied lemon peel and citron. Mix all to a paste with the beaten yolks of six eggs, stirred by degrees into 1 pint of cream, flavoured with orange (lower water and sweetened to taste with sugar. Warm a small quantity in a saucepan, and taste to find out if properly flavoured. White Puddings—continued. Partially fill well-cleaned skins with the mixture, tying them at intervals with twine. Boil them in milk-and- water, pricking with a fork as they rise, or they will burst. (5) Soak 21b. of grits for twenty-four hours in good mutton stock. At the end of that time, drain, and mix with them 21b. of finely-chopped mutton suet, 2 heaped table-spoonfuls of powdered sage, 1 table-spoonful of powdered thyme, and loz. each of salt and black pepper. Fill some long skins, tying them securely at the ends, coil them in a saucepan of boiling water, and boil them for two horn’s. When cooked and cold, they may be served as they are, or may be cut into slices, dipped in beaten eggs and oil batter, and fried a nice golden brown. Spread a folded napkin or ornamental dish paper on a hot dish, arrange the slices on it, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. WHITES.—This term is generally used to denote the best class of pastry-ffour, but in the baking-trade it is a term used to disguise the introduction of alum into bread-making. They are then known as sharp Whites, stuff, or bakers’ stuff, consisting of powdered alum and flour in equal parts, or one pound of coarsely-ground alum to three pounds of salt. WHITE SAUCE.—See Sauces. WHITING (Fr. Merlans ; Ger. Weiszlingen ; Ital. Naselli).—The true Whiting is a pale and silvery tisli of the cod family. Those usually caught are about the size of a herring, but the flesh is exceedingly delicate and quite free from oil. Dr. Walsh says of it: “It is extremely digestible and fit for invalids and dyspeptics, the flesh being tender yet not watery, delicate in flavour, and of a pearly white.” The season for Whiting is early in the spring, when they visit the seas of Great Britain, and deposit their spawn near the shore. As they are very inferior after spawning, the season does not last long, but before they return to the depths of the sea they regain some of their former quality. Other fish are frequently palmed off upon the unwary as Whiting. Small haddocks, skinned and trussed with the tail in the mouth, as it is usual for Whiting to be trussed, with the tail passing through the eyes, or skewered in the mouth (see Fig. 1050), are frequently sold as Whiting, as also are codling For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, che., referred to, see under their special heads. 3 D VOL. II770 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ctec., referred to, see under their special heads. Whiting—continued. and pollocks. The codling may be detected by the barbie under its lower jaw. Pollocks have the under-jaw pro- jecting beyond the upper one, whereas the Whiting’s upper jaw projects beyond the lower one (see Fig. 1051). Baked Fillets of Whiting.—(1) Skin and clean some Whiting, washing them well, and separate the fillets from the bones. Place a thick layer of chicken forcemeat on the bottom of a baking-dish, put in the fillets, season them with pepper and salt, cover them with another layer of the forcemeat, smooth the surface with the blade of a knife dipped in hot water, grate over some stale crust of bread, and baste with warmed butter. Bake the fish in a quick oven, and when cooked pour some Italian sauce over them, and serve. (2) Wash and clean the required quantity of Whiting, separate the fillets from the bones, season the fillets with salt and pepper, spread some fish forcemeat over one side of each, roll them up in such a way as to cover the forcemeat, and fasten them with a skewer. Make a pie- crust case and bake it, place the Whiting in the case, put in some oysters and mushrooms, pour in a little German sauce that has been flavoured with essence of mushrooms, and bake them in a quick oven. When cooked, put the Whiting on a hot dish, and serve. Baked Whiting.—(1) Skin a Whiting, put it in a buttered pie-dish, pour in 1 wineglassful of sherry, and cover thickly with sweet herbs. Cover the dish with a sheet of buttered paper, and bake the Whiting for about ten minutes in a brisk oven. Put 1 table-spoonful of butter and 2 table-spoonfuls of flour into a saucepan, stir them over the fire till well mixed, then pour in the gravy out of the dish in which the fish has been cooked, and sufficient stock to make \ pint of sauce. Stir the sauce over the fire till thick and boiling, then add about 2 table-spoonfuls of cream. Put the fish on a hot dish, strain the sauce over it, garnish with some neat sprigs of . fresh parsley (see Fig. 1052), and serve without delay. (2) Skin and clean some small Whiting, wash well, dry them, and tie them round with their tails in their mouths; brush them over with warmed butter, season with pepper and salt, and coat them with finely grated breadcrumb. Butter a baking dish, put in the Whiting, and bake in a brisk oven for fifteen minutes. When cooked, drain the fish, put them on a folded napkin on a hot dish, garnish them with parsley, and serve. (3) Scrape and clean a Whiting, wash well, and dry it ; put it in a buttered gratin-tin, season with salt and pepper, squeeze in the juice of a lemon, and pour in 1 teacupful of water. Bake the Whiting in a quick oven for twenty minutes. Put loz. each of butter and flour into a saucepan, stir them over the fire till well mixed, dust in a small quantity of salt and pepper, and pour in gradually J pint of water. Strain the liquor off the Whiting into the sauce, and add about 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped mushrooms, shallots, and parsley. Stir the sauce by the side of the fire till the butter has melted; then put the Whiting on a hot dish, pour the sauce over it, and serve. (4) Clean the required quantity of Whiting and lay them in a thickly-buttered pie-dish, with some finely- chopped parsley, thyme, tarragon, and shallots ; baste them with a few table-spoonfuls of white wine, and bake in a moderate oven, turning them when cooked on one side. When quite done, lay the fish on a hot dish ; pour the sauce and seasonings into a small stewpan, mix with them a lump of butter that has been kneaded with a small quantity of flour, season to taste with salt and pepper, Whiting —continued. and stir over the fire until boiling; then pour the sauce over the fish, and serve at once. Baked Whiting served with Caper Sauce.—Scale and clean some Whiting, wash and dry them on a cloth, put them in a buttered gratin-tin, season them with salt and pepper, pour in 1 teacupful of French white wine, and bake in a quick oven for a-quarter-of-an-hour. Make f pint of butter sauce, drain the liquor from the Whiting when they are cooked into the sauce, and mix in 4 teacupful of capers. Put the Whiting on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Baked Whiting served with White-Wine Sauce.— Clean some Whiting, put them in a buttered gratin- dish with 1 pint of French white wine and a small quantity of salt and pepper, and bake them in a quick oven for about twenty minutes. Put 1 table-spoonful of butter and 2 table-spoonfuls of flour into a saucepan, stir them over the fire till the butter has dissolved and mixed with the flour, then dust in a small quantity of salt and pepper, pour in gradually 1 breakfast-cupful of water, and continue stirring over the fire till boiling. When cooked, drain the liquor from the fish into the sauce, add loz. of butter and 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, and stir by the side of the fire till the butter has melted. Put the Whiting on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. Boiled Whiting.—Well wash the required quantity of Whiting but do not skin them, put them in a saucepan of boiling salted water, and boil them for ten minutes. When cooked, strain the fish, put them on a folded table- napkin or an ornamental dish-paper placed on a hot dish, garnish with neat little sprigs of parsley, and serve them with a sauceboatful of melted butter sauce. Boiled Whiting aux Fines Herbes.—Thoroughly clean and wash five large-sized Whiting, dry them on a cloth, stuff them with fish forcemeat, put them on a buttered drainer in a fish-kettle, spread over them |lb. of butter, season with grated nutmeg, salt, and pepper, add 2qts. of mush- rooms, 2 table-spoonfuls of parsley, and a small blanched shallot, all finely chopped, squeeze over the juice of a lemon, and pour over J pint of white wine. Bring the liquor to the boil, and simmer for half-an-hour, basting the fish frequently ; take them out when done, put them on a dish, pour the liquor over them, and serve. Boudins of Whiting.—(1) Clean and skin some Whiting and pick all the flesh off the bones. Chop the flesh, put it in a mortar, pound, then rub it through a fine hair sieve. Put loz. of butter and l|oz. of flour into a sauce- pan, stir them over the fire till the butter has melted and mixed with the flour, then add gradually H teacupfuls of milk, mixing it smoothly, and continue stirring over the fire till thick and boiling. When done, move the sauce to the side of the fire, put in the pounded Whiting-flesh, the beaten yolks of two eggs, 1 teaspoonful of anchovy essence, 1 pinch of cayenne, and salt and pepper to taste, and squeeze in a little lemon juice. Beat the whites of the two eggs to a stiff froth, stir them in with the above mixture, and add eight chopped oysters. Lightly coat the insides of some dariole-moulds with butter, and fill them with the above mixture. Cover the moulds with sheets of buttered paper, put them in a stewpan, surround them with boiling water to a little more than half their height, and let them steam gently for about fifteen minutes. When cooked, turn the boudins out of the moulds on to a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper that has been placed on a hot dish, garnish with small pieces of parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of brown sauce. (2) Make some Whiting quenelle forcemeat. Put the spawn of a lobster in a saucepan with a small lump of butter and pound it, then pass it through a fine hair sieve. Mix the pounded spawn with the forcemeat, divide it into halves, roll each half into puddings the same length as the dish on which they are to be served, and poach them in boiling water. Scallop the tail of a red lobster in several pieces. When cooked, drain the boudins on a cloth, split them, and put them on a hot dish. Prepare the following sauce: Put into a saucepan 2 table-spoonfuls of bechamel sauce, |lb. of butter, 1 teaspoonful of lemon-TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 771 Whiting —continued. juice, 1 pinch of cayenne pepper, and salt to taste; stir this sauce over the fire till boiling, then pour it over the boudins, which should have been kept hot in the oven while the sauce was being prepacd. Stick the scallops of lobster-tails in the boudins, the red part upwards, and serve them. (3) Make some Whiting forcemeat, divide it into small equal-sized quantities, and on a floured table roll them into the shape of a cork. Make a salpifon of mussels, cutting them into small pieces, and mixing them with some reduced German sauce. Make a hollow in each boudin, fill them with the salpicon, cover the openings with forcemeat, roll the boudins in strips of buttered paper, put them in a stewpan with some stock, and let them simmer gently for fifteen minutes, or till the forcemeat has set. Mix the cooking-liquor of the mussels with some German sauce, boil it till reduced, then mix in 1 table spoonful of chopped parsley. Drain the boudins, put them on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. (4) Prepare some Whiting forcemeat, shape it with the hands into boudins by rolling them on a floured table, dip them in beaten egg, and cover them with bread crumbs. Put the boudins on a greased gridiron and broil them over a clear fire. When cooked and nicely browned, arrange them in a circle on a folded table napkin or an ornamental dish paper on a hot dish, and serve them with a sauceboatful of half glaze in which a small quantity of lemon-juice has been squeezed. Boudins of Whiting- with Tried Mussels.—-Clean some Whiting, separate the flesh from the bones, and trim off the skin; put the flesh in a mortar and pound it; mash Jib. of panada, adding Alb. of butter, then put in the pounded fish again, season it with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, and stir in the beaten yolks of three eggs. Pound the above mixture for ten minutes, then pass it through a fine hair sieve into a basin. Cut three or four black truffles into small squares, mix them with the forcemeat, and add A table-spoonful of anchovy essence. Divide the forcemeat into twelve pieces, form each piece into an egg shape, and dip them in beaten egg and then in finely grated breadcrumb. Put some dripping or butter into a frying-pan, warm it, then put in the boudins and fry them till nicely browned and cooked. Before the boudins are fried, thoroughly wash in several waters some large mussels, remove the sinewy strings, put the mussels in a stewpan with A pint of white wine, and toss them over the fire till they open. Drain the mussels, take them out of their shells, and leave them till co'ol. Dip the mussels one by one into villeroy sauce, lay them side by side on a dish, and leave till the sauce has cooled. Cover the mussels thickly with breadcrumbs, plunge them into a frying-pan containing boiling fat, and fry them till nicely browned; fry the boudins at the same time but in a separate pan. Drain the boudins, arrange them in a circle on an ornamental dish-paper that has been placed on a hot dish, drain the mussels, put them in the circle (see l1 ig. 1053), and serve. B ofc Whitin£ with Ravigote Sauce.—Make some W luting forcemeat, divide it into equal-sized portions, put them on a floured table, and roll them out with the hand to the shape of a cork. Make a hollow in the centie of each boudin with the handle of a wooden spoon, Whiting—continued. and fill them with a salpifon of shrimps’ tails cut into small pieces, and mixed with some reduced German sauce. Cover the apertures in the boudins with forcemeat in such a way as to completely hide the salpifon. Wrap the boudins in strips of buttered paper, put them in a saute- pan with some stock, and let them simmer gently till the forcemeat has set (this should take about fifteen minutes). When cooked, drain the boudins, put them on a hot dish, pour some ravigote sauce over them, and serve. Broiled Whiting.—Scale and draw the required quantity of Whiting, wash them thoroughly, dry on a cloth, split them on both sides of the back, and preserve the livers. Beat the yolk of an egg and season it with a small quantity of pepper and salt. Dip a paste-brush in the beaten egg and brush the fish over, then coat them with breadcrumbs, brush them over with butter that has been just warmed on the stove, anil breadcrumb them- again. Put them on a gridiron and broil them over a clear but not too fierce fire till nicely browned all over. To prevent the fish sticking, grease the gridiron before putting them on it. When cooked, put the Whiting on a folded napkin or ornamental dish paper that has been placed on a hot dish, garnish with neat little sprigs of parsley, and serve them with a sauceboatful of maitre d’hotel sauce. Fry the liver in butter, then chop it up finely, and put it in the sauce. Buttered Whiting.—Clean the Whiting, scale them, cut off the fins, and wash them well. Rub a small quantity of pepper and salt over the Whiting, and coat them thickly with flour on both sides. Put them into a baking-dish with a lump of butter, and bake them in a quick oven. When half cooked, turn the Whiting, baste them well with the butter, and finish cooking them. When nicely browned, drain the fish, put them on an ornamental dish-paper or a folded napkin on a hot dish, garnish with slices of lemon and some small sprigs of parsley, and serve. Dried Whiting.—Take fish of about *21b. or 31b. weight, clean them thoroughly, cut off the gills, take out the eyes, wash oft the blood from the backbone, and dry them thoroughly with a cloth; then put salt into the sockets of the eyes and inside the bodies, lay them on a board, and let them remain there all night. The following day hang them in a dry place and let them hang for four days. Then skin them, brush over with beaten egg, cover them with sifted breadcrumbs, put them in a Dutch oven before the fire, and baste with butter till sufficiently browned. Serve hot with egg sauce. Fillets of Whiting a la Maitre d’Hotel.—Clean and wash the required quantity of Whiting, dry them on a cloth, then separate the fillets from the bones. Divide the fillets into halves, season them with salt and pepper, brush over with beaten yolks of eggs, breadcrumb them, brush over with clarified butter, and broil over a clear fire till nicely browned. Put the fish on a hot dish, cover with maitre d’hotel sauce, and serve. Fillets of Whiting a l’Orly.—(1) Clean some Whiting and separate the fillets from the bones, trim them, and if large divide them into halves. Season the fillets with salt and pepper, squeeze some lemon juice over them, and coat them well with flour. Melt a lump of dripping or butter in a frying-pan, then put in the fish, and fry them over a brisk fire. When cooked (they should be nicely browned), drain the fish on a sheet of paper, then arrange them on a folded napkin or ornamental dish paper on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve them with a sauce- boatful of tomato sauce. (2) Clean and scale the requisite quantity of fish, wash and dry them, then pick out the fillets. Trim the fillets on both sides, taking care not to damage the skin, cut each into halves, put them into a deep dish with some chopped parsley roots and shallots, dust in a small quantity of salt and pepper, and squeeze in the juice of one lemon. Stir the fillets about now and then to mix them well with the seasoning, and let them macerate for three hours. Beat the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth ; grate some crumb of stale bread, and mix it with a little flour. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. 8l)2THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 772 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads■ Whiting—continued. Drain the fillets on a cloth, and dip them in the beaten whites, then in the breadcrumbs. Put a lump of dripping in a deep frying-pan, and when on the point of boiling- put in the fish, and fry them till nicely browned. Dram the fillets on a sheet of paper in front of the fire, then arrange them on an ornamental dish-paper or a folded napkin spread over a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of hot white ravigote sauce. Pried Pillets of Whiting.—Separate the fillets from the hones of some Whiting, trim neatly, brush them over with beaten egg, roll them in breadcrumbs, put them in a frying-pan with some hot fat, and fry till crisp. Make some Spanish sauce and mix it with some finely-chopped parsley, the juice of half a lemon, and a small lump of butter. When cooked, drain the fillets, arrange them in a circle on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish the centre with fried parsley, and serve with the sauce in a sauceboat. Fried Whiting.—(1) Skin and clean some Whiting, then turn them and stick their tails through their eyes. Dredge them over with flour, dip them in beaten eggs, and coat thickly with breadcrumbs. Put either a lump of lard or fat that has been clarified into a frying-pan; when it is of the right heat (the best way to try it is to put in a lump of bread, and if it makes a slight hissing noise it is hot enough), put in the Whiting and fry them. When nicely browned all over, put the Whiting on a stout sheet of paper in front of the fire for a few minutes, then put them on an ornamental dish-paper or folded napkin that has been placed on a hot dish. Serve with a sauce- boatful of Dutch sauce. (2) Clean some Whiting well, cut off the fins, and dry them thoroughly. Fasten their tails in their mouths, brush them over with beaten egg, and roll them in a paper of breadcrumbs. Fry in boiling lard, drain them on paper, lay them on a folded napkin on a hot dish, garnish nicely with fried parsley, and serve shrimp sauce with them. Grilled Whiting. —(1) Prepare as many fish as are desired, roll them round, fasten them with skewers, put them into a bowl of olive oil, and let them steep for several hours. Take them out, drain, place them over a clear fire, and grill them. When done, put them on a dish, dust over with salt and pepper, pour over a rich cream or veloute sauce with a few chopped capers stirred in, and decorate with small slices of lemon, tomato, and gherkin. (2) Clean and wash some Whiting, score them across in five or six places on each side, season them with pepper and salt, put them on a gridiron that has been greased, and broil them over a clear fire. Prepare and cook some sorrel as for garnish, and put it on a hot dish; when cooked, put the Whiting on the bed of sorrel, and serve. Paupiettes of Whiting.—(1) Clean some Whiting, separate the fillets from the skin and bones, season them with salt and pepper, and spread a layer of Whiting forcemeat on each fillet. Roll the fillets round the forcemeat, wrap them in sheets of buttered paper, and tie round with string. Put the paupiettes in a baking dish with some stock, and cook them. Prepare a paste croustade, making it the same size as the dish on which it is to he served, and Hin. high. Put the paupiettes in the croustade, leaving a space in the centre, which fill with a sal]iicon of mushrooms and oysters mixed with some German sauce that has been reduced with some essence of mushrooms. Serve without delay. (2) Draw and wash the required quantity of Whiting, separate the fillets from the hones, and trim them neatly. Spread some Whiting quenelle forcemeat over the white side of the fillets, and roll them up. Pile a dome of the forcemeat on the dish on which the fish is to be served—■ one that will hear the heat of the oven must be used— put a row of the rolled fillets round the dome, then put a circle of forcemeat round that to form a support for another row of fillets, which should be placed round it. Dust a small quantity of salt over the fish, cover them with a sheet of buttered paper, and bake in a quick oven for about twenty minutes. Put |lb. of butter into some Italian sauce, add a small quantity of essence of anchovies, Whiting —continued. stir the sauce over the fire till well mixed, and season it with salt and pepper. When cooked, take the fillets out of the oven, wipe the dish, pour the sauce over the fish, and serve. Scalded Whiting.—Split the requi ed quantity of Whiting down the belly, clean them, carefully removing all the black film, and take out the eyes. Put the fish in a deep dish, cover them with salted water, and let them steep all night. On the following day, roll the fish round and stick the tails through the eye-holes, put them into a fish-kettle of boiling water, boil the water, then take the scum off the top, and move the fish-kettle to the side of the fire. If the fish be small, they should he cooked in about five minutes. When done, drain the fish, put them on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish with sprigs of fried parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of butter that has been oiled. Souffle of Whiting.—Put 3oz. each of butter and flour into a saucepan with the yolks of four eggs, J teaspoonful of anchovy essence, and a seasoning of salt and pepper; mix well over a slow fire, add gradually 3 teacupfuls of milk, and stir well until the whole comes to the boil. As soon as it commences to thicken, stir quickly to remove any lumps, add 9oz. of finely-chopped uncooked Whiting, without skin or bones, and lastly the well-whipped whites of six eggs. Have ready a well-buttered souffle tin or mould, place a band of buttered paper round the rim to stand up quite 2|in. above it, pour in the mixture, sprinkle over with browned breadcrumbs, and place a few lumps of butter here and there. Put the mould into a hot oven and bake for fully forty-five minutes; remove the paper, fasten a folded napkin or dish-paper round the tin, sprinkle the souffle with chopped parsley and pepper, and serve hot. Stewed Whiting.—(1) Clean and cut the fish into nice-sized pieces, dredge them with flour, put them into a frying-pan with a lump of butter, and fry them. When nicely browned, drain the fish, and put it in a stewpan. Peel and slice an onion, put it in the frying pan with the butter that the fish was fried in, and fry that also. Turn the onion in with the fish, add a bunch of sweet herbs, two or three cloves, a small piece of mace, salt and pepper, and sufficient water to cover. Thicken it with a table- spoonful or two of flour, flavour with a few drops of mushroom ketchup, and keep it stewing gently at the edge of the fire until quite tender. When cooked, remove the herbs, turn the stew on to a hot dish, garnish with Whiting forcemeat balls that have been poached in water, and serve. (2) Scale and cut off the fins of half a large Whiting, wash and dry it well, then cut it into thick slices. Place a lump of butter in a flat stewpan, slightly warm it, then put in a layer of trimmings of mushrooms and a small quantity of chopped onions. Put in the slices of Whiting, laying them side by side, sprinkle some salt over them, put in a bunch of parsley and a bay-leaf, and squeeze in the juice of two lemons. Cover the contents of the stewpan with the liquor that has been strained off three dozen oysters, put the lid on, and boil the fish for ten minutes over a quick fire. When cooked, take the slices of Whiting out carefully with a slice, and arrange them on a hot dish. Take the parsley out of the cooking- liquor, and boil it till somewhat reduced. Work a small lump of butter with I table-spoonful of flour, put it in the sauce, and stir it over the fire for a few- minutes longer. Strain the sauce through a fine hair sieve into another stewpan, put in -jib. of fresh butter broken into small pieces, stir it by the side of the fire till dissolved, then put in thirty oysters. Pour the sauce over the fish, and serve. Whiting a la Chef de Cuisine.—Clean and wash two Whiting, rub them well with salt to prevent them break- ing, and leave for an hour or two. Lay the fish at the bottom of a broad flat stewpan, pour in some gravy to about half their height, put in an onion cut in quarters and 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, and boil the fish gently for twenty minutes. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of butter and 1 table-spoonful of flour into a saucepan,773 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. Whiting —continued. and stir it over the fire till the butter melts anil mixes with the flour. When cooked, lift the fish out with a slice, and put them on a hot dish. Take the onion out of tire cooking-liquor, and pour it gradually into the saucepan containing the flour and butter; stir the sauce over the fire till boiling, Jien move it to the side of the fire, stir in the beaten yolks of two eggs, a few drops of mushroom ketchup, a squeeze of lemon-juice, and a small quantity of pepper and salt. The sauce should not boil after the eggs are added, but should lie stirred by the side of the fire till thick. Pour the sauce over the Whiting, garnish with parsley and quarters of lemon (see Fig. 1054), and serve. Whiting a la Colbert.—Prepare a marinade with a sliced onion, the juice of a lemon, a little parsley, bay-leaf, and thyme, and salt and pepper to taste. Clean five Whiting, wash them, and dry on a cloth ; rub them every now and then for two hours in the marinade, dip them into milk, flour them well, then dip them into breadcrumbs mixed up with a small quantity of grated Parmesan cheese. Place them in a wire frying-basket, plunge them into boiling oil, and cook till they are of a fine colour and the flesh quite firm. Take them out when done, drain them, put them on a dish, pour round a little maitre-d’hotel sauce, and serve more in a sauceboat. Whiting A la Franqaise.—Do not skin the Whiting, but wipe them over with a wet cloth; make some deep incisions along each side, using a very sharp knife for the purpose. Dip the fish in a little milk on a plate and dust them over with flour; put some lard or clarified fat in a frying pan, make it hot, then put in the fish, and fry them till crisp and lightly browned. Drain the Whiting, put them on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish with parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of anchovy sauce. Shrimp sauce can be used in place of anchovy sauce if preferred. Whiting au Gratin.—(1) Cut the fins and head off a Whiting, empty it, wash it well, and dry thoroughly; split the Whiting and remove the bone, beginning at the head end. Chop five or six mushrooms, half a shallot, and a few sprigs of parsley; mix them together, then add the grated rind of half a lemon and a small quantity of pepper and salt. Butter a baking-dish, cover the bottom with half of the chopped herbs, put in the Whiting, and sprinkle the remainder of the herbs over it; cover with breadcrumbs that have been browned in a little butter, squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, and bake for about ten minutes in a quick oven. When cooked, turn the gratin carefully on to a hot dish (see Fig. 1055), pour \ teacupful of brown stock round it, and serve. (2) Scale and empty the Whiting, wash them well, and wipe them on a cloth. Coat the bottom of a baking-disli with butter, and sprinkle in some finely-chopped mushrooms and parsley; put in the Whiting, cover them with finely - grated breadcrumb, and season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Sprinkle some more finely-chopped mush- Whiting —continued. rooms and parsley over them ; and finely-chopped shallots may be added if cared for. Put two or three lumps of butter in the dish, pour in 2 wineglassfuls of white wine, place it in a brisk oven, and bake from fifteen to twenty minutes. When cooked, squeeze some lemon-juice over the fish, and serve them. They will not require any other kind of sauce. As the gratin has to be served in the same dish it is cooked in, it is well to use a silver one if possible. (3) Thickly butter the interior of a baking-dish, and strew over the bottom a layer of finely minced shallots, mushrooms, and parsley, also some baked and finely-sifted breadcrumbs; season with salt and pepper. Split the Whiting open and lay them on the seasoning; cover with an equal quantity of the same ingredients, putting the breadcrumbs on the top, moisten to height with 2 wine- glassfuls of white wine and stock, being very careful in pouring the liquor in not to wash the crumbs off’ the top. Bake the fish in a good oven for twenty minutes. When cooked, turn them with the seasoning on to a hot dish, and serve. Whiting a la Hollandaise.—Clean and wash the required number of Whiting, but do not skin them; rub them well with salt and pepper, and leave them for au hour. Put the Whiting in a fish kettle of boiling water, add 1 table-spoonful of vinegar, and keep the water boiling gently for ten minutes. Put 1 table spoonful of flour into a saucepan, mix it till smooth with a small quantity of cold water, then pour in 4 pint of boiling water and stir it over the fire till thick. Put in the sauce 2oz. of butter broken into small pieces, 1 pinch of salt, and the juice of half a lemon. When the butter has dissolved and well mixed, move the sauce to the side of the fire and stir in the beaten yolks of two eggs. When the fish is cooked, drain it carefully, put it on a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, and serve while very hot, with the sauce in a sauceboat. Whiting a la Maitre d’Hotel.—Prepare and stuff five Whiting as for Boiled Whiting aux Fines Hekbes; put them into a fish-kettle, pour over Soz. of warmed butter, and add 3 table-spoonfuls of finely chopped parsley, the strained juice of two lemons, and a good seasoning of salt and pepper. Put the kettle on the fire with hot ashes on the lid, and simmer the contents for twenty-five minutes; then take them out if done, put them on a dish, pour over maitre d’hotel sauce, and serve with a garnish of boiled potatoes cut into shapes. Whiting Cakes or Pain.—Put lib. of Whiting-flesh with out skin or bones into a mortar and pound it, then pass it through a fine hair sieve into a basin. Prepare lOoz. of rice-flour panada, pound it in the mortar, then mix in gradually the pounded Whiting-flesh and lOoz. of butter. Season the mixture with salt and pepper, and stir in the beaten yolks of four eggs. Butter a border-mould, fill it with the above mixture, cover with a sheet of buttered paper, stand it in a saucepan with boiling water to three- parts the heightof the mould, and let it simmer till the forcemeat has set. Put the bones and trimmings of the fish into a saucepan with some trimmings of mushrooms and 2 wineglassfuls of white wine ; let it simmer for fifteen minutes, then skim the extract, and strain it into another stewpan ; stir in gradually 1 pint of veloute sauce, and boil it till somewhat reduced. Mould some quenelles with the forcemeat left over from the pain, and poach them in salted water. Prepare as for garnish some button mushrooms, soft roes of carp, some picked crayfish tails, and five or six whole truffles. When the pain is cooked, turn it out of the mould on to a hot dish, and fill the centre with the articles prepared for garnish. Mix a small piece of cray- fish butter and an equal quantity of plain butter in with the sauce, and stir it till it has dissolved. Pour the sauce over the border of forcemeat, and serve. Whiting Croquettes a la Soubise. -Put 41b. of Whiting- flesh, cleaned and separated from the bones and skin, into a mortar, and pound it with 41 b. each of panada and butter; season the mixture with salt and pepper, bind it with the beaten yolks of three eggs, and pass it through a fine hair774 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ike., referred to, see under their special heads. Whiting—continued. Whi ting—con tinned. sieve into a basin; work the mixture for two or three minutes with a spoon. Divide the forcemeat into small equal portions, put them on a Houred hoard, and roll them to the shape of a cork. Make a hollow in the centre of each croquette, using the handle of a small wooden spoon for the >urpose. Make a rather still' soubise puree, and fill the lollow of each croquette with it. Leave them till cold, then cover the opening at the top with raw forcemeat. Brush the croquettes over with beaten egg, anti cover them with finely-grated breadcrumb; put a good-sized lump of butter or dripping into a frying-pan, melt it, then put in the croquettes, and fry them till well browned. Drain the croquettes, put them on a folded napkin or a dish-paper that has been placed on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Whiting Forcemeat.—-(1) Clean the Whiting, separate the flesh from the bones, and trim off the skin; for every pound of fish-flesh use lOoz. each of bread panada and butter. Put the fish, panada, and butter into a mortar and pound them together; season the mixture with salt and pepper, and stir in two beaten eggs ami sufficient reduced veloute sauce maigre that lias been thickened with an egg to make the forcemeat soft but stiff. It is then ready for use. (2) Remove the skin from the fillets of three Whiting, put them into a mortar, pound them well, and form the mass into a ball. Take a little bread panada, about a third the bulk of the fish ball, put it into the mortar, and add 2oz. of butter; mix the two well, put in the fish mixture, and season with finely grated nutmeg and a little salt and pepper. Beat up the yolks of five eggs and the whites of three, and pour it into the fish mixture gradually, mixing well while adding. Put a little of the forcemeat into some boiling water or stock to poach, and if it is too stiff add a little white sauce or melted butter; if too thin and tender, add a little more yolk of egg, and use it. Whiting in Jelly.—Empty the fish, wash them well with plenty of water, and dry them. Fix the tails of the Whiting in their mouths. Put a sliced onion, a bay- leaf, some pepper, salt, and spices in a saucepan with 2 table-spoonfuls of vinegar and sufficient water to cook the fish in. Boil the water to extract the flavours of the articles in it, then put in the fish, move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let it simmer gently until the fish is cooked. When done, take the fish carefully out with the slice, drain them, and coat them with clear fish jelly. When the jelly has set, give the fish another coating, and repeat the operation till they are well covered. When the last layer of the jelly has set, arrange the fish on a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper on a dish, garnish them with sprigs of parsley, and serve. Whiting Pie. -.Cut off the fillets from twelve small Whiting without removing the skin, lightly season them with grated nutmeg, salt, and pepper, put them on a board or table, spread them over thinly with fish forcemeat, and roll them up. Line a dish with paste, mask it with fish forcemeat, put in the fillets of Whiting, pour over a few table spoonfuls of warmed butter, cover with a layer of the paste, and bake in a moderate oven for from an hour and a quarter to an-hour and a half. Take out the pie when done, mask it with highly seasoned Spanish sauce, and serve. Should the pie be required very rich, it may lie covered with slices of fat bacon before putting on the lid or cover, and removing them before serving by taking off the lid of the pie, and afterwards replacing it. Whiting Pudding.—Separate the flesh from the bones and skin of two or three raw Whiting, put it in a mortar, and pound until smooth; place 1 teacupful of water in a saucepan with loz. of butter .and 1 saltspoonful of salt, and when it boils stir in gradually as much flour as will make a stiff paste. Leave the paste until cold, then put it in the mortar containing the fish, with half its quantity of butter; pound the whole together until quite smooth, then pass it through a fine hair sieve. Season the mixture to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and bind it with h teacupful of bechamel sauce, the beaten yolks of one or two eggs, and the white of one. Butter a mould, fill it with the mixture, cover the top with a sheet of buttered paper, and stand it in a stewpan with boiling water to three-parts its height; steam it for half an-hour. When cooked, turn the pudding on to a hot (fish, pour a white sauce round it, and serve. Whiting Quenelles.-(1) Wash and clean the Whiting, pick the flesh off the bones, and put it in a mortar. Put the bones and trimmings into a saucepan with a little water, and boil them for the purpose of making a little fish broth. Mix Jib. of bread panada and ilb. of butter in with the fish in the mortar, season with pepper and salt, pound it, and pass through a fine hair sieve. Beat two eggs, and stir them in with the pounded mixture, with sufficient broth strained off the bones to make it the proper consistency. Work all together till quite smooth, then pass it through the line hair sieve again. With two table-spoons mould the forcemeat into quenelles, put them into a saucepan with some boiling fish broth, and poach them. Before the quenelles are cooked, a sauce should be made in the following manner: Pick the shells off several prawns, put them in a mortar, and pound them. Prepare a melted butter sauce in a small saucepan, stir in the pounded prawns, and, if obtainable, the coral of a lobster, to give it a pink tinge. When cooked, drain the quenelles, put them on a hot dish in a circle, garnish with some neat little sprigs of fried parsley, put the sauce in a sauceboat in the centre of the dish (see Fig. 1056), and serve very hot. (2) Clean and wash the Whiting, pick out all the bones and skin, chop the flesh, and pound it in a mortar; rub the pounded fish through a fine hair sieve. >Soak the crumb of some bread in milk. Chop some mushrooms and a small quantity of parsley, put them in a frying-pan with a lump of butter, and fry them lightly. When cooled, mix the mushrooms and parsley with the pounded Whiting, squeeze the soaked bread, add that, and a lump of butter about the same bulk as the flesh of the Whiting. Pound the mixture in the mortar again, season it with pepper, salt, and allspice, and bind with three or four beaten eggs. Mould the forcemeat into quenelles with two table- spoons. Brush them over with a paste brush dipped in be it m egg, then roll them in finely-grated crumb of stale bread. Make some lard, butter, or dripping hot in a frying-pan, put in the quenelles, and fry them till nicely browned. Put about 4oz. of butter in i pint of Italian sauce, season it with salt and pepper, and stir it over the fire till hot. When cooked, drain the quenelles, put them on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Whiting Quenelles a la Venetienne.—Make 1 Jib. of Whiting forcemeat ; try if the proper consistency by poach- ing a small quantity of it in boiling water. Mould the forcemeat into small quenelles with two table spoons, and poach them in boiling salted water. When cooked, drain the quenelles and arrange them in a circle on a hot dish ; fill the centres with collops of lobster tails, pour a small quantity of veloute sauce over the tails, and serve with a sauceboatful of the same. WHITING POLLOCK or WHITING POUT.— See Pollock. WHORTLE-BERRIES.—See Bilberries. WIDGEON or WIGEON.—A species of wild fowl, common to many countries. The common EuropeanTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 775 tor details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred, to, see under their special heads. Widgeon—continued. Widgeon (Moreca penelope) comes to this country from the North in the end of September, and remains until the beginning of April. It is very tame for a wild bird, and feeds principally upon grass. Widgeons should be cooked as follows : Grilled Widgeons.—Remove the head, neck, and wing- bones from a brace of Widgeons, split them down the back, and truss as for spatchcock. Take out the breast bones, and ml) the interior of the birds with mushroom powder. Put the bones and trimmings of the birds into a stewpan with their gizzards and livers, 1 teaspoonful of made mustard, 1 wineglassful of port wine, pepper and salt, and cayenne to taste, a small quantity of brown stock, and boil gently for half-an-hour. Lay the birds on a gridiron, and broil them over a clear fire, turning them when done on one side. When cooked, lay the birds on a hot dish, squeeze the juice of half a lemon in the gravy, and strain it over them. Serve while very hot. Mallard or pintail can be used in place of Widgeons, if preferred. Roasted Widgeons.—Pluck and singe a pair of Widgeons, cut off the heads and claws, draw the birds without breaking the entrails, and wipe them with a wet cloth ; rub them all over with cold butter, dredge them with flour, and either roast them before a hot fire for fifteen minutes, or bake them for about twenty minutes. Carefully preserve all the gravy that flows from them, and when ■nearly done dust them with salt and pepper. Serve at once with their gravy and red-currant jelly, or with orange essence made as follows: Chop very fine two peeled shallots or one onion, grate the yellow rind of a large orange, and chop loz. of ham or bacon very fine; put these ingredients into a small saucepan, add to them a slight dust of cayenne pepper, A pint of gravy from roasted wild fowl, 1 gill of port wine, and 1 saltspoonful of salt, and simmer gently for ten minutes. Meanwhile squeeze the juice from a whole orange and half a lemon into a sauce- boat. At the end of ten minutes strain the sauce into the orange- and lemon-juice, and serve it at once. WILD BOAR.—See Boar. WILD DUCK.—A common name for this bird is the Mallard, from which the domestic Duck has descended. Its flesh is considered coarser than the tame Duck, and is apt to taste fishy. It is cleaned and trussed like an ordinary Duck, and may be cooked in the same way, or as follows: Boiled Wild Duck.—(1) Prepare and dress a Wild Duck, stuff it with a chopped small onion, pepper, salt, and a table-spoonful of red wine ; then put it in a saucepan with sufficient water to make a gravy, stand it over a brisk fire, and cook for fifteen or twenty minutes. Dish it, pom- over a rich brown gravy, and serve. (2) Singe, draw, and wipe the Duck, split it open down the back, and put it in a saucepan with a little water, butter, pepper, and salt, and boil slowly till tender. Sprinkle a little Hour into the liquor, and simmer for another five minutes. Dish the Duck, and serve with the gravy poured over it. Broiled Wild Ducks.—Pick, singe, draw, and well wipe two M ild Ducks, split them down the back without detaching, place them skin downwards on a dish, season with salt and pepper, and pour over 2 table-spoonfuls of oil. Roll the birds well in this marinade, put them on a broiler over a brisk fire, and broil for seven minutes on each side. Fig. 1057. Broiled Wild Ducks. 1 lace them on a hot dish, cover over with maitre-d’hotel butter, garnish with watercress (see Fig. 1057), and serve. Wild Duck—continued. Fillets of Wild Ducks.—Prepare and roast the Ducks as for Fillets of Wild Ducks with Game Sauce, keeping them rather underdone. 'When cooked, remove the fillets from the breasts and trim them neatly. Cut as many crofttons of bread as there are fillets, and fry them in butter till of a golden brown colour. Chop the livers of the Ducks, season with pepper, salt, and finely-minced parsley, and work in a small quantity of butter. Spread the croutons with a layer of the liver mixture, thicker in the middle than at the sides, place them for a few minutes in a hot oven, and then brown them with a salamander. Arrange the fillets and croutons in a circle on a hot dish alternately, pour in the centre some game sauce with a few mild stoned olives in it, and serve. Fillets of Wild Ducks (au Fumet de Gibier).—Roast the Ducks as for Fillets of Wild Duck with Game Sauce, and when cooked take them up and cut the fillets off the breasts; put the trimmings and backbones into a saucepan, having cliopiied them up small, add a little chopped onion, carrot, turnip, and celery, two or three sprigs of thyme and parsley, a bay-leaf, a clove, a small piece of mace, and 1 wineglassful of sherry, and boil for five minutes; then pour in 1 pint of brown sauce and ^ pint of broth, and boil quickly for twenty minutes. Skim well, and strain through a fine hair sieve. Trim the fillets neatly and warm them up again in the sauce, then put them on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Fillets of Wild Duck with. Game Sauce.—Draw and pre- pare the birds for roasting, wrap them round with slices of vegetables and bacon, then with paper, and roast them. When cooked, cut off the fillets and keep them hot. Break up the backbones, put them in a saucepan with a chopped shallot, A teacupful of port wine, and a little glaze, and set it over the fire for two or three minutes; then pour in 1 pint of brown sauce and a little more than A pint of broth, and boil for a few minutes. Strain through a fine hair sieve into another saucepan, boil it quickly till it sticks to the back of the spoon, and then season it with cayenne, salt, and lemon-juice. It should be kept well skimmed. Put. the fillets on to a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Fillet of Wild Ducks with Grouse Puree.—Truss and roast the Ducks in front of a clear fire. Pick off all the flesh from the bones of a roast grouse, chop it, and pound it in a mortar. Break the bones, put them in a saucepan with a small piece of carrot, onion, turnip, two or three sprigs of thyme and parsley, and 1 wineglassful of white wine, and stir them over the fire for a few minutes, then pour in lqt. of veloute sauce and 1 pint of veal stock. Boil the sauce till somewhat reduced, then mix with it 1 teacupful of cream and 1 teaspooiiful of moist sugar, and pass it through a fine hair sieve into another saucepan. Put the pounded flesh of the grouse into the sauce, boil for ten minutes, and then mb it through a silk sieve. When cooked, cut off the fillets from the Ducks, trim, and arrange them in a circle on a hot dish ; turn the puree of grouse into the centre, and serve very hot. Fillets of Wild Ducks with. Orange Sauce (au Bigarade). —(1) Fillet three Wild Ducks, score the skin, and put them in a bowl with onions cut in halves, a few sprigs of parsley, and mushroom ketchup; season with salt, peppercorns, and cover with oil. When the fillets have steeped in this marinade for an hour, take them out, put them in a frying-pan with a little oil, and fry them over a sharp fire, turning occasionally. When done, drain, arrange on a dish in a circular form, and serve with orange sauce in a sauceboat. (2) Cut the fillets from the breast of one or two roasted \\ ild Ducks, trim them neatly, and keep them hot. Break up the legs and backs of the Ducks, put them in a saucepan with 1 teacupful of sherry and a few sprigs of parsley, and set them over the fire for a few minutes. Pour 1 pint of broth over the bones, and boil it for ten minutes, then skim and pass the liquor through a fine hair sieve into another saucepan. Boil the sauce till reduced to a half glaze, then pour in a little more than776 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, •fee., referred to, see under their special heads. Wild Duck —continued. I pint of brown sauce, and add the finely-shred rind of half an orange and 1 teaspoonful of sugar. Boil the sauce for a few minutes longer, then mix with it 1 teaspoonful of orange-juice. Put the fillets on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Hashed Wild Duck.—(1) Cut up a Wild Duck into pieces, put them in a stewpan, cover with a rich gravy, squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, add 1 wineglassful of claret, and season with mixed spice, salt, and cayenne, adding sufficient breadcrumbs to make it thick. Stand the pan at the side of the fire till it begins to bubble, then dish up, garnish with croutons of fried bread, and serve. (2) Roast a Wild Duck, but let it be rather underdone; take off the skin while it is hot. Cut into small pieces a few shallots, two or three slices each of ham and sliced carrots, and put these in a stewpan with the skin of the Duck, a piece of butter, two or three sprigs of parsley and thyme, a bay-leaf, a few blades of mace, four cloves, and six peppercorns, and fry till the ham has browned a little; dredge in a little Hour and fry till the Hour is done, add 1 wineglassful of white wine and 1 teacupful of rich brown gravy, and season with salt and pepper. Put in all the skin and trimmings of the Duck and let them stew. Skim off the fat and reduce the sauce; when this is done, strain it, and put in the pieces of Duck. When thoroughly hot through, dish up, squeeze over a little lemon juice, garnish with croutons of fried bread, sprinkle a dust of cayenne pepper over, and serve. Roasted Wild Duck.—(1) Singe, draw, and prepare a Wild Duck, and roast it before a very brisk fire for twenty Fig. 1058. Roasted Wild Duck. minutes. When done, dish on a bed of watercress (see Fig. 1058), and serve with a rich brown gravy well flavoured with lemon-juice. (2) Prepare and truss a Wild Duck, and roast it in front of a brisk fire, basting frequently with butter. Just before taking it up, dredge with Hour, and baste it to a nice brown. Dish the Duck, which should be rather underdone than otherwise, and pour a rich brown gravy over it. Put in a sauceboat 2 wineglassfuls of port wine, a few drops of chilli vinegar, the juice of one lemon, | saltspoonful of salt, and boil gently. Serve this sauce with the Duck. (3) Prepare a Wild Duck, cut off the head and neck, scald the feet, and truss them with the Duck in the same way as a fowl. Put the Duck close to a sharp fire for a few minutes to brown, then move it a little way back, and baste continually with butter till done; just before it is taken up dredge with Hour. In the mean- time soak the necks and gizzards in 1 pint of water over the fire till the water is reduced to h pint, or in place of water use \ pint of veal gravy; put into this a slice of lemon or orange, one onion, three or four leaves of basil, a blade of mace, a little pepper and salt, and boil together for a few minutes, then strain; add 1 wineglassful of port wine and the juice of a lemon or orange. Dish the Ducks when done, pour the gravy over them, and serve. (4) Pluck and singe a Wild Duck, wipe it with a wet towel, draw it carefully, and skewer the legs and wings ; then stuff it with a whole peeled onion, plenty of salt and pepper, and 1 wineglassful of claret, and lay it carefully in a roasting-pan just large enough to hold it. If the Duck is of medium size, bake it in a hot oven or roast it before the fire for fifteen minutes; if large, let it cook twenty minutes. Serve hot with the gravy it yields in cooking, and red-currant jelly on a separate dish. (5) Singe, pluck, and draw a Wild Duck, wash it in | Wild Duck —continued. a little water, and wipe it perfectly dry. Stuff it with some good bread stuffing, chop off the wings at the first joint, which must be tied tightly to the side of the bird, tie down the legs also, put the Duck in a baking- dish, and bake in a hot oven for from thirty to forty minutes according to the size of the Duck, basting fre- quently. Put it on a dish, and serve with apple sauce. Care must be taken that the oven is quite hot when the bird is first put in, or else all the gravy oozes out and the flavour is spoilt. (0) Pick, singe, and draw two \\ ild Ducks, wipe them well both outside and inside, season them inwardly with salt, run in the heads from the end of the neck to the back, truss them, and place them in a roasting pan. Sprinkle over a little salt, put them in a brisk oven, and roast for eighteen minutes. Place them on a hot dish, untruss them, pour 2 table-spoonfuls of white broth into each Duck, and serve. Slices of fried hominy pudding as a garnish, and red-currant jelly in a dish, should accompany them. Salmis of Wild Duck. -(1) Cut off all the flesh from two roasted \\ ild Ducks, skin and trim them, and put the meat in a stewpan. Put the bones, trimmings, and skin, with four shallots, four onions (one stuck with four cloves), one faggot, and half a bottle of claret in another stewpan, •and boil until the liquor is reduced to half its original quantity; then add I h pints of Spanish sauce, and simmer for twenty minutes. Skim, strain through a conical strainer into another stewpan, and boil till the sauce coats the spoon. Pour one fourth of this over the pieces of Duck, and set the pan over the fire till they are hot through, but do not boil them. Dish the Duck, pour over the remainder of the sauce, garnish with crofttons of fried bread, and serve. (2) Roast lightly two Wild Ducks, and when cold cut them into joints and skin them; take out the worst pieces, and with the skin put them in a stewpan; add three onions, sliced and fried in butter a light brown, four peppercorns, two clo ves, two shallots, 2oz. of sugar, 4 salt- spoonful of salt, 2 breakfast-cupfuls of plain beef gravy, and 1 breakfast-cupful of Bordeaux wine. Let this sim- mer at the side of a good fire till reduced to about 1 pint. Work together loz. each of flour and butter, skim the fat off the gravy, and stir in gradually while boiling the flour and butter. Put the stewpan over a sharp fire, keeping the lid off, and reduce to l pint, then add the pieces of Duck. When hot through, dish, garnish with croutons of fried bread, and serve. (3) Roast a Wild Duck, and when cold cut the meat up into small pieces. Put the bones and trimmings of the bird into a stewpan, with two finely-minced shallots and a sufficient quantity of brown stock to make the gravy, season to taste with salt and pepper, and boil gently for half-an hour. Strain the gravy through a fine hair sieve into another stewpan, and mix with it 2 wineglassfuls of port wine, 1 table-spoonful each of mushroom ketchup and Worcestershire sauce, and 1 teaspoonful of chilli vinegar. Put the pieces of cold Duck in with the gravy, and boil gently for fifteen minutes or so until quite hot. Mix 1 teaspoonful of lemon juice and a small quantity of cayenne pepper with the salmis, turn it on to a hot dish, and serve. Salmis of Wild Duck -with Mushrooms.—Prepare the birds and half roast them. When they are cold, trim off the skin, and cut them into nice-sized pieces; put the trimmings of the birds with the livers and gizzards into a stewpan with two chopped shallots, some brown stock, and salt, pepper, and cayenne to taste. When the stock boils, move the stewpan to the side of the fire, and keep it simmering for an hour. Put loz. of butter in a stewpan with 1 table-spoonful of flour, and stir it over the fire until mixed but not browned, then strain in the above gravy and stir it until somewhat thickened. Put the game into the gravy with h pint of button-mushrooms, and keep them simmering gently at the side of the fire until very hot. Turn the salmis on to a hot dish, and garnish with crofttons of fried bread or sippets of toast and slices of lemon. Serve the salmis with as little delay as possible.TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 777 For details respecting Culinary Processed, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. WILD FOWL.—See Wild Duck, Wild Goose, &c. WILD GOOSE.—This bird, the progenitor of the domestic Goose, is not usually considered worthy of the cook’s attention. In exceptionally cold weather, it is found frequenting some parts of the lowland country, and when caught may he cooked as follows : Baked Wild Goose with Giblet Sauce.—Take two or three Wild Geese, cut oft' their wings and legs at the first joint, draw them, keeping all the g.blets (except the heart), with the neck cut off close to the body, for the sauce. Wash the birds thoroughly, and put them into a baking-pan with a little water, dripping, and salt; dust them over with pepper, and cover them with slices of fat pork, or a little of the suet out of a loin of beef beaten to a sheet. Put the pan in the oven, and when the pork is browned and shrunken, lay a piece of lalttered paper over them all; baste frequently and bake for three hours. The water will have evaporated by the time they are done. Poll them well in the glaze and fat, put them on a dish, and serve with giblet sauce. In plucking a Wild Goose, it is not necessary to scald it. Baked Wild Goose with Mushroom or Celery Sauce.— Pluck, singe, and draw a Wild Goose, and steep it in salted water for several hours. Cut an onion into slices, put it in the inside, sew it up, and plunge it into a saucepan of boiling water for twenty minutes. Take it out, remove the onion from the inside, stuff the bird with a little celery and mashed potatoes, a few hard-boiled eggs, and a little fat pork, or any other cold meat, all very finely chopped; also a grated turnip, a little chopped onion, 1 table spoonful of pepper vinegar, and salt and pepper to taste. Sew it up, truss it, put it in a baking- dish with a teacupful of stock or broth, brush over with warmed butter, dust it with flour, put a piece of well buttered paper over the breast, and bake in a moderate oven till done. Place it on a dish, and pour over it either its own gravy and a little mushroom or celery sauce. Garnish the dish with sprays of watercress (see Fig. 1059), and serve. Braised Wild Goose with Sour-crout.—Select a bird that has been hanging up for several days, pluck, draw, wash, and wipe it inside, put into it a bunch of sweet herbs, and truss it. Place a layer of vegetables and trimmings of fat bacon at the bottom of a braising-pan, lay the Goose on this, lift the pan to half the height of the bird with broth and t pint of white wine, dust over with salt, and add a few cloves, peppercorns, and sweet herbs; put a sheet of buttered paper over all, place the pan over a moderate fire, cover the lid with hot ashes, turn the Goose once or twice, and let it braise for several hours. When done, take it out, drain, remove the string of the trussing, and place it on a dish on a garnish of cooked sour-crout. Strain the stock through a sieve, skim off the fat, set it on the fire to reduce it to half glaze, and serve separately in a sauceboat. WILD TURKEY.—See Turkeys. WILHELM’S QUELLE.—See Aerated Water. WILTSHIRE BACON. —See Bacon. WINDSOR BEANS.—See Beans. WINDSOR CREAM.—See Cream. WINES (Fr. Vins; Ger. Weine ; Ital. Vini; Sp. Vinos).—Next in importance to the service of viands is that of the beverages to accompany them. Chief of all these stands out the giant of ages, which Dr. Dupre describes as the “fermented juice of the grape.” The juices of other fruits are sometimes fermented, and might be included under the generic title of Wines, but to the palate of the epicure these are altogether unknown, or absolutely ignored as unworthy the least consideration. Nevertheless, under British Wines and other special headings, ample evidence may be found to prove that Wines from other fruits, such as currant, gooseberry, and rhubarb, may be produced that rival many a grape Wine, even if they are not occasionally employed as an un- known, and therefore unappreciated, substitute. These “pretentious usurpers,” as they have been erratically styled, are fully discussed elsewhere; the Wines for con- sideration under this heading are strictly those produced from the juice of the grape, and will be found sufficiently numerous and interesting to occupy as much space as can be afforded in this Encyclopaedia to the subject. The history of Wine is rooted so deeply in the darkness of ages that no reliable record is to be found of its birth and discovery. It has been attributed to Noah, because m the ninth chapter of Genesis we are informed that “ Noah awoke from his Wine.” Noah was well acquainted with the luscious juice of the grape before he entered the ark; but whether he had undergone any experience of it in a fermented state prior to his notorious alcoholic obfusca- tion, is a matter that has not yet been decided, in spite of the keenest theological argument and research. He evidently knew the value of grapes, for he had no sooner landed from the ark, according to Scripture history, than “ he began to be a husbandman, and planted a vine- yard ” with vines that he must have taken with him into the ark. The first faint traces we have of the cultivation of the grape and the manufacture of Wine come from Asia; thence, according to Humboldt, it passed into Greece, and thence into Sicily. It was introduced into France by the Phoenicians, when those Ionian colonists fled from the power of Cyrus and founded the city of Marseilles, about 540 b.c. In an article contributed by Mr. R. Thompson to Lindley’s “ Treasury of Botany,” he tells us that “ From Greece or from Sicily it (the vine) could have been easily introduced into Italy. The Romans planted it on the banks of the Rhine, and even, it is said, in Britain. But Tacitus mentions, B.c. 55, that our climate was thought unpropitious to the vine, which failed to mature its fruit owing to the moist atmosphere of our island. It would appear from this that its cultivation had been attempted, for otherwise its failure could not have been asserted. The same author states that it was not known when Agricola commanded the island. Domitian restricted the cultivation of the vine, wishing rather to encourage that of grain; but in A.d. 278 permission to plant the vine was given by the Emperor Probus. Being free from restriction, its cultivation throughout the pro- vinces, including Britain, would, of course, extend; and before the Roman power had so far declined as to permit the Saxon invasion, vineyards must have existed in this country. They are mentioned in the earliest Saxon charters, and those vineyards must have existed pre- viously ; for, as authors have remarked, the combating invaders could neither have bad the time nor probably the skill to plant them. The monks in a.d. 1140 planted a vineyard at Edmondsbury in Suffolk, and William of Malmesbury says that vineyards were possessed by barons as well as by monks. Winton, afterwards named by the Saxons Winchester, or the city of Wine, was so- called because there was the best vintage in Britain.” From the failure to cultivate the grape for Wine- making in Britain it must not be inferred that the Britons were not fond of Wine, nor that they have fallen778 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces. &c., referred to, see under their special heads Wines—continued. off in their taste, as the advancing ages promoted their civilisation. On the contrary, statistics go far to prove that if Wine could be produced as cheaply in this country as in France or Italy, the consumption of it would in a great measure take the place of beer; in which case the average British consumption per head would exceed that of any other country. As it is, the average Wine- consumption in England has increased during the past few years with giant strides, due, perhaps, to the greater wealth of the people, or to the less costly price of the supplies—increase of numbers is not sufficient to account for the development. When we come to consider that a very trifling difference in the mode of production may produce a different quality of Wine, and that each vintage of Wine varies in itself, it is not surprising that Wine nomenclature is as complicated and confusing as the dicta of the Delphi Oracle. Spon informs us in an article on Wines that “the composition and properties of different Wines are influenced by a vast number of conditions and circumstances. The climate of the country, the nature of the season, the soil in which the vines are grown, the variety of grape, the mode of culture, the time of gathering, the treatment of the gathered fruit, the mode of fermenting the must, the temperature and length of time of preservation,—all these, and numerous considerations of minor importance, have a direct in- fluence upon the composition and quality of Wine.” Little or nothing therefore can be gathered from the name of a Wine, no evidence of its quality can be relied upon from that to guide the selection; but noted Wine- producers are not slow to assist Wine-drinkers in making a choice according to their desires, by classifying the Wines and maintaining their supplies at a uniform flavour and bouquet. There can be no lack of reason then in adopting for this purpose the same classification as used by the most noted Wine-producers of France. We will take as a basis an official notice recently issued by the French Director-General of Customs, to the effect that no liquors are to be classed as “ Wines ” which “ are not the pure juice of the fresh grape.” All those inferior beverages known to the French people as “ Yins de Com- position,” “Les Piquettes Alcoolisees,” “ Vins Doublees,” and “ Vins de Marc ” are to be excluded from the category of Wines. Some of these are merely Wine diluted with water, sugar added, and re-fermented; or water with sugar poured over Wine lees, and fermented; or Wines made up in different ways with various “ compositions.” This edict should be protective in the highest degree; but unfortunately it is not so strictly enforced concerning Wines for exportation, especially to England, conse- quently we are apt to get a liberal allowance of “compositions ” sold to us as the pur£article. Wines of a “ composite ” character are sold largely in this country, either adulterated or “substituted” here during the process of bottling, or before it leaves the coast of France. Sometimes it is to be feared that it suffers at both ends of the journey, and in many cases Wines named after the finest productions of France are little better than Wines from the juices of British-grown fruits, “toned” and “ blended ” to suit the customer’s palate. The foregoing remarks concerning Wine adulteration refer chiefly to cheap Wines ; but the very best are occa- sionally tampered with in the matter of colouring, sweetening, brandying, &c. The Wines of different countries vary greatly, depending chiefly upon soil and climate; for grapes grown in one country will produce a Wine that differs materially from that produced from the same kind of grapes grown in another country. Indeed, it is probable that of the great number of variously named vines, each producing a different charactered grape, all originated from one stock, Wines—continued. and are but the results of skilful or accidental cultivation. In pursuance of this theory the following may be quoted from a modern popular writer on the subject: “ Thus it happens that one vineyard, perhaps separated from the other by merely a few stakes, and without particular difference of soil, culture, or aspect, may produce a far superior Wine (from the same kind of grapes) to its neigh- bour.” Sir Emmerson Tennant informs us that: "The finest-known Wines are the produce of soils the combina- tion and proportions of whose ingredients are extremely rare and exceptional; and co-operating with these, they require the agency of peculiar degrees of light, moisture, and heat. The richest Wines of France, Italy, Hungary, Madeira, and Teneriffe are grown on the sites of extinct volcanoes.” In the vineyards of Medoc, near Bordeaux, where the finest Wines in the world are produced, the vines are of stunted growth, rarely rising above 2ft. from the ground, and producing grapes not unlike over-ripe black currants. It is rather opposed to the romantic notions of the uninitiated that these grapes, known as “ Cabernet,” produce the famous St. Julien, Chateau Margaux, and Lafite. Surely such Wines should be from the juice of large luscious grapes that grow in swelling bunches on a loftily-spreading vine ! “Let us now direct our attention,” writes Mi-. William Terrington, “ to the glorious vintage-season, the annual festival of Medoc—October, ‘ the Wine-montli ’ as it is called—when the ruby tears of the grape are made into the most delicious beverage—a Wine destined to find a welcome at the halls and palaces of wealthy epicures in various countries. For weeks previously, the weather is anxiously watched from day to day; for upon a con- tinuance of weeks of fine weather the savour and bouquet of the Wine essentially depend. Warmed by the glare of an unclouded sun, tempered by mild westerly winds, and moistened by dews, the grapes ripen and attain their exquisite flavour. When all is ready for the gathering, every one is astir. The contents of the vehicles which come loaded from the vineyard are no sooner deposited in the cuvier, or Wine-press, than the treaders jump in and proceed to stamp out the juice, standing in it almost up to their knees. “ The press is supplied with holes in the side near the bottom, through which the juice runs out, and passing through a sieve is strained from the husks into vessels below. The treaders continue thus employed till all the juice has passed through into the vessels below. It takes nearly an hour to tread out all the juice from a good- sized cuvier. The juice is then emptied from the receiving vessels into large vats, and the residue remaining in the cuvier is added to the juice in the vats. When these are sufficiently full, the fermentation proceeds; and so powerful is the emanation of car- bonic-acid gas, that no one can enter farther than the doorway. There the listener may hear strange bub- blings solemnly echoing in the cool and dark hall, which proclaim that a great change is taking place (see Fermentation)—that these vats of mawkish, sweet juice are being converted into noble and generous Wine. There is something wonderful in this mysterious change. Nature will have no intrusion during her mystic opera- tions. The atmosphere around and near the vats would be death to any who should venture near, fenced in as the vats are during the grand transmutation by a halo of stifling carbonic gas.” As fermentation proceeds, the fruit rises to the top of the must, forming a thick crust or “ head,” which is broken up and stirred into the body of the Wine at least three times a day, lest it turn sour by contact with the air, and thus affect the lot. After fermentation has subsided, the Wine is drawn off into clean casks and clarified. Although the fermentation of the Wine is a purely779 THE EE CYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. bor details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, tbc., referred to, see under their special heads. Wines—continued. natural process, it can be retarded or hyper-excited by irregular or unsuitable temperatures. Science lias proved that in order to procure the best results from fermentation a steady temperature of 75deg. Fahr. should be maintained, which, under ordinary climatic variations, is next to impossible. A celebrated French chemist, Audibert, invented an ingenious apparatus by which a constant temperature can be maintained in the Wine throughout the period of fermentation. It is therefore exceptionally appropriate to the manufacture of British Wines, the climate here being less reliable than it is on the Continent during the vintage season. By the courtesy of Mr. J. Gilbert Smith we are enabled to give a drawing and a graphic description of this important contrivance (see Fig. 1060). The principle of the apparatus is that of maintaining an equilibrium of temperature throughout the process, which should be, as we have shown, steady at 7odeg. Fahr. The system of heating portions of the must, and adding continually, is not only awkward, but gives unsatisfactory results ; there- fore the invention of Audibert is cer- tainly worthy of every attention, for it comes to the rescue of the discomfited vintner, whose greatest difficulty con- sists in this keeping up a regular 75deg. By using Audibert’s apparatus the whole process is at command, and the temperature can be regulated to the fraction of a degree by merely the turning of a tap. And of what does this appa- ratus consist? Very little beyond the utensils required in any sort of Wine- making — a few lengths of piping and taps, a small stove, a reservoir, tanks, &c., and you have the whole thing complete, and the re- sult of your Wine- making no longer a question of doubt or difficulty. The tun f, which we shall call the must- tun, is very solidly made of pitch pine, and contains a little over 50 hectolitres (between 1,100 and 1,200 gallons of must), n is a cold-water cistern, fixed high enough above the vats to give a slight pres- sure, so as to keep up the circulation. For the same reason the bottom of the tun F is some 16in. above the bottom of the tuns m, m, m. After crushing the grapes, the mass is thrown into F by means of a door in the top, which can be readily removed. Through this door pass four tubes, reaching to the bottom of the tun, and perforated throughout their length; they communicate by union joints with the tube E, which conveys the warm water from the 22-tube heater a into the mass of the crushed fruit, F having been filled, and the fire lighted under the heater A ; the top of F is luted down with flour paste or clay, so as to be perfectly air-tight, the safety tube R being left open. Before the fire is lighted under the heater, cold water is allowed to flow into it through the movable tube O, down B or c. The water, as it is heated, rises through the tube c (or B, at discretion), and passing through the vessel d, is con- veyed through the tube E into the four perforated tubes W ines—continued. just described, in the very centre of the crushed grapes. The tube c is provided with a thermometer, so that as soon as the water reaches a temperature of 158deg. Fahr. the supply may be diminished until it gradually cools down to 122deg. Water of this temperature quickly dissolves out the sugar, salts, tannin, &c., of the fruit pulp, the must thus formed falling to the bottom of the vat, and passing, by means of the tube G, into the fermen- tation vats M, M, m, where it speedily begins to ferment. The precautions to be observed at this part of the process are: Not to light the fire under the heater A until it is full of water; always to leave the tap in the tube c open; not to allow the hot water to How through the tube c until it indicates 158deg. Fahr., and never to allow it to fall below 122deg.; and lastly, not to hurry the action of the hot water on the crushed fruit. This part of the operation should last at least three days, by which time the crushed fruit ought to be thoroughly ex- hausted. A sample of must should be drawn from the tun f from time to time through the tap inserted for that pui'pose, and tested by the saccharometer until it is ascertained that the whole of the saccharine matter has been extracted from the marc. All communication is now cut off between the liot-water apparatus A and the must-tun F by turning the tap in c. Hitherto the contents of the fermenting tuns m, m, m, have been kept sufficiently warm on account of a constant stream of warm must flowing into them; but now that the supply of warm must is cut off, other means must be adopted for keeping up the temperature. In order that fer- Fig. 1060. Audibkrt'.s Wine making Apparatus. mentation may begin and proceed under the most favour- able circumstances, the temperature in the fermenting- tuns must be maintained at from 86deg. to 95deg. Fahr. When the tap in the return tube J and the tap in the supply tube B are opened, the hot water from the heater A circulates up the tube b, through D, along the pipe h, h, Avhich may supply more vats than shown in the illustra- tion, down the vertical pipes i, i, i. Each of these latter pipes is fitted with a regulating tap, so as to shut off the supply to the vat to which it is attached. The hot water passes down the vertical supply pipes into large cheese- shaped chambers constructed of tinned copper, which occupy the very centres of the vats. These chambers communicate at their lower parts with the return-tube J. It will be seen from the foregoing description of the apparatus that the fermenting must in the A'ats M, M, M, &c., can easily be regulated to any degree of heat likely to be required for fermentation, and that one can be regu- lated without interfering with the other—a very great con- sideration, as otherwise the first vat would be the hottest, the next not so hot, and so on throughout the remainder.TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 780 For details respecting Culinary Processes. Utensils, Sauces, ice., referred to. see under their special heads. Wines—continued. It is not often that the must would require cooling in the vats M, M, M, but should such an occasion occur, the hot-water supply could be cut off, and cold water turned on instead, by connecting the cold water tank N with the pipe H, h, through the movable tube O. Bach fermenting vat is provided with a syphon tube of indiarubber p, which dips into a vessel of water, and allows the carbonic acid produced by the fermentation to escape. This is shown in operation on the first vat. If the must is kept at the prescribed temperature throughout the operation, the whole batch of Wine may be finished in ten days; an occasional glance at the thermometers L, L, L, and a touch of the taps letting in hot water at discretion, being all that is necessary to ensure success in the fermentation, and thus producing in any climate the highest quality of Wine. It must not be supposed that the foregoing description gives anything more than the merest outline of Wine- making, there being other processes and combinations of processes to which the Wine must further be subjected, in many instances of so complicated and mysterious a character that it would be impossible to describe them fully in less than a number of volumes. Sufficient details of manufacture have been given for our purpose; it is next with varieties that we have to deal. The system of classification of Wines adopted in France is as follows: 1. Grands Vins. 2. Vins Fins. 3. Vins Ordinaires. 4. Vins Communs. In class 1 (Grands Vins) are to be found such famous Wines as Chateau Lafite, Chateau Margaux, Chateau d’Yquem, Romance Conti, Cliambertin, Clos Vougeot, Montrachet, &c. In class 2 (Vins Fins) are included Saint Estephe, Saint Julien, Volnay, Pommard, Cote-Rotie, Chablis, &c. In class 3 (Vins Ordinaires) are many with only a moderate body and nothing very great in the way of flavour. In class 4 (Vins Communs) are found inferior Wines that ai-e chiefly used for distilling Cognac, Armagnac, or Trois-six of Languedoc. However useful such a classification may be for com- mercial purposes, it would be useless to the consumer, who prefers to classify his Wines in a more general manner. In Spon’s “ Encyclopaedia of Manufactures and Raw Materials,” the following remarks as to a more prac- tical classification are worth recording: “ Wines may be divided into several different classes, according to the point of view from which the classification is regarded. The most obvious division is that of colour; they may be either ‘ white ’ or ‘ red.’ “ White Wines are prepared from both white and black grapes, but the juice after expression is not allowed to remain in contact with the skins and seeds of the black variety, or it will extract the colouring matter. “Red Wines are made from black grapes only, and the must is allowed to lie upon the seeds and skins until it has attained the desired colour, which is sometimes assisted by the addition of other colouring matter, such as logwood, mulberry-, elderberry-, or black-currant juice. “ Wines are next classed as ‘ still ’ or ‘ sparkling,’ the quality of ‘ sparkling ’ being attained by putting a little cane sugar into the Wine before bottling, so as to keep up a slow fermentation, and drawing the Wine into bottles before the first fermentation has altogether subsided. “Then we have Wines that are ‘dry’ and ‘fruity,’ the former denoting the absence of free sugar, and the latter an abundance of fruit sugar, giving to the Wine a rich luscious taste.” Wine merchants also class Wines as simple and Wines—continued. compounded, or mixed, the latter denoting a mixture of two or more Wines for the purpose of blending their distinctive qualities of taste, bouquet, and colour. As individual Wines have been described under special headings, such as Claret, Champagne, Port, Sherry, &c., it will only be necessary for us here to make a few general observations concerning these Wines, their quali- ties and production. The Wines of Bordeaux are familiarly known to us as clarets. The popularity of claret has in this country fluctuated very much, it having been at one time the favourite drink of the upper classes. It now again promises to become as popular in England as it was about two hundred years ago, when our hostility to Louis XIV. of France resulted in breaking off commercial relations with that country, and opening up a trade with Portugal. Champagne is the produce of vineyards in the depart- ments of Aube, Ardennes, Marne, and Haut Marne. These Wines are classified, according to the site of the vineyards, into river or mountain growths, the former being for the most part white, the latter red. A writer on the subject tells us that “ Epernay, which is situated between hills in the midst of vine-lands, may be designated the head-quarters of champagne; for here, and in its immediate vicinity, is the best vine-land, the most extensive cellarage, and the finest palatial residences of the more eminent manufacturers. The cellarage of one firm alone, that of Moet and Chandon, is said be live miles in extent, all cut out of the calcareous rock, and containing on an average five million bottles of Wine. There are other cellars equalling the above-named for vastness and capacity, and in them is stowed the Wine of manufacturers whose names and brands are known to the whole civilised world.” Champagne is recommended by physicians as a valuable stimulant and tonic; but bad or fictitious champagne is highly injurious to health. To judge whether it is good or bad is not by any means an easy task, as brands and names of best manufacturers are very closely imitated. Mr. Braude tells us: “ The prevalent notion that a glass of champagne cannot be too quickly swallowed is erro- neous ; and it is no bad test of the quality of champagne to have it exposed for some time in a wineglass, when, if originally of the highest order, it will be found to have lost its carbonic-acid gas, but to have retained its body and flavour, which had before been concealed by its effervescence. Champagne, therefore, should not be drunk till this effervescence is over, by those who would relish the above characteristic quality.” Adjoining the champagne district in the south is the ancient province of the Dukes of Burgundy—les princes des bons vins. Burgundy is stronger than claret, and possesses an exquisite aroma, which, with its delicious full- bodied flavour, crown it in the estimation of epicures as the very king of Wines. White and red Hermitage derive that name from the ruins of an old hermitage that still exists on the summit of the hill, on whose slopes are planted the vines which yield the choicest quality. Red Hermitage is full bodied, of a dark purple colour, and very fine perfume and flavour. The colour fades somewhat after long keeping, just as that of port changes to a “ tawny.” There are five kinds of Hermitage, the best being Frmilage paille. Roussillon Wines, from the borders of the Mediter- ranean, are very deep-coloured full-bodied Wines. Masden is a bright red Wine; “ with a bouquet not unlike claret, yet partaking of a port character,” is the description given, with the additional remark that it is often substituted for port to be sold in England. The Rhine Wines are regarded by Dr. Henderson “ as constituting a distinct order by themselves. Some of the higher sorts, indeed, resemble very much the Vins de Grave, but in general they are drier than the FrenchTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 781 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads. Wines—continued. white Wines, and are characterised by a delicate flavour and aroma, called in the country gave, which is quite peculiar to them, and of which it would be vain to attempt the description. A notion prevails that they are naturally acid ; the inferior kinds are no doubt so, but this is not the constant character of the Rhine Wines, which in good years have not any perceptible acidity to the taste—at least, not more than is common to those of the growth of warmer regions. But their chief distinction is their extreme durability, in which they are not surpassed by any other species of Wine.” Moselle is a Wine that is thought in some degree to resemble Rhine Wines. A sparkling Moselle which finds its way in great quantities to this country is made from unripe grapes, to which is added a flavouring of musk or elder-flowers to give the bouquet peculiar to the best kinds of Moselle Wines. Port Wine has formed the staple Wine of our dinner- tables and desserts for the last 160 years. It is procured from districts in Portugal called the Douro and Traz- os-montes. The choicest vineyards are situated on a succession of hills on eacn side of the river Douro, distant about 50 miles from Oporto, from which place the Wine derives its name, Porto or Oporto Wine. The vintages are said to be divided into “ factory Wines,” reserved for the English market, and “assorted Wines,” for home con- sumption. A writer of some note observes: “ Of the excellence of genuine port Wine many a travelling con- noisseur can testify who has drums it on the spot and enjoyed the full mellow body, exquisite flavour, and seducing. mildness of the pure, unmixed juice of the grape; but after the ‘ blending ’ and adulterations to which the choice Wines of the Alto Douro are subjected in order to reduce them to tne orthodox port standard, it would be just as reasonable to expect the product to be good as to hope to increase the quantity of true Burgundy, of Clos Vougeot or Romance Conti, by turning the inferior Yins du Pays into a vat containing the precious Wine of the province.” Professor Brande suggests that “ good port Wine duly kept is, when taken in moderation, one of the most whole- some of vinous liquors: it strengthens the muscular system, assists the digestive powers, accelerates the circulation, exhilarates the spirits, and sharpens the mental energies ; but, when taken in excess, it is perhaps the most mischievous of Wines, and most likely to produce those permanent derangements of the digestive organs which follow the habitual use of distilled spirits.” A vast quantity of spurious port Wine is imported into this country from the Channel Islands. It is said that from 210 pipes of genuine port sent to the Channel Islands, no less than 2,072 pipes of "doctored” Wine were exported to England. The “ crust ” that forms in a bottle of port is con- sidered a criterion of its quality; it consists of the bitartrate of potash (cream of tartar), which is only sparingly soluble in Wine, and a connoisseur looks for some crystals of it on the bottom of the cork. Port Wine, when tawny from age, loses much of its astringency, and acquires a slightly acid taste, when it is not so wholesome as a full-bodied, sweet, new Wine, even though brandy has been added to it to make it keep. Mr. Paget wrote: “ It is a fallacy to suppose that such a thing exists as pure port Wine—that is, without an admixture of brandy. On the first arrival of each pipe of Wine at Villa Nova, a certain quantity of this spirit is immediately added; for without it the Wine would not keep.” Sherry derives its name from Xeres de la Frontera, a town in Andalusia. It is the produce of the vineyards of Xeres de la Frontera, Santa Maria, and San Lucar de Bar- rameda, watered by the rivers Guadalquiver and Guadalete. | It has been alleged that sherry is a compounded Wine, | Wines—continued. but this is not so. The best pale and light golden sherries are made from the pure grape, with the addition of a very small proportion of brandy. Neither are the deep golden and brown sherries, of the best quality, com- pounded Wines, though they may be called “ mixed ” Wines, seeing that they are coloured by mixing with them a proportion of arrope (sherry boiled down to one- fifth of its original bulk, and therefore assuming a dark colour). Pale sherries are undoubtedly the purest, but the colouring used is sherry also, although in a concentra- ted state. Sherries, therefore, must be judged by taste and smell, and not by colour. The finest, driest, and most valuable of sherries is the Amontillado, so called from its possessing a peculiar flavour that cannot be described, nor can its presence be accounted for. It is described as a mystery of nature that lias not been solved. We are informed by an authority, that “ when the farmers intend making their (Amontillado) Wine, the grapes are plucked about a fortnight before the general vintage, and the produce kept apart; out of twenty butts, however, it generally happens not above two will have the quality so much desired. Sometimes, as if by caprice, a butt of Wine from the general vintage will assume the Amontillado flavour.” When pure, sherries are stimulating and dietetic. “ Some idea,” says a writer, “ may be conceived of the vast amount of Wine stored in Xeres, where in the ware- house or bodegas of M. Domecq alone is, on an average, stored 15,000 butts of Wine, each butt averaging 108 gallons, bottling from 50 to 52 dozen to the butt. These bodegas are large warehouses, very lofty and well ventilated, and are filled with tiers of four butts of W ine (soleras). A visit to a bodega, if accompanied by the capitaz (head man), will be worthy of remembrance, as one of an agreeable nature, especially so if his explanations are rendered more intelligible by a bumper drawn from the most ancient ‘ madre ’ butt, which invariably contains Wine that is the accumulated produce of some fifty vintages.” The Wine-mercliants of Xeres never export their stock of the oldest and finest Wines, and in accordance with the price at which they are valued so the Wines are compounded. Thus a butt of Wine said to be thirty or forty years old will contain a portion of the vintage of several seasons, for, as the Wine is drawn from the butt, it is replenished by a contribution from the next in point of age and fineness, and so on through the bodegas. Of the sweet and deeply-coloured Wines of Andalusian production, Paxarette and Rota Tente are the most famous, the latter oemg known to us as a sacramental Wine. Yal de Penas is a Wine made near Manzanares, and resembles Burgundy. Madeira Wine takes its name from the island pro- ducing it. In colour it is darker than the average sherry, and as it is said to improve by a voyage to a warm climate, a kind called “ London Particular ” is shipped to the East or West Indies, landed there for a short spell, and then exported to England. That which goes to the East Indies is considered to have a softer flavour than that going to the West, owing to the warmer climate of the East. As a stimulant Madeira equals, if it does not excel, port, and when in fine condition may truly be called a generous Wine; although, perhaps, not so well suited to an invalid’s requirements, having a somewhat larger proportion of acid. Malmsey Madeira is reckoned to be a very choice Wine ; it is produced at a small spot in the valley of the Carnal de Lobos. Canary is another good Wine of the Madeira species. Marsala resembles Madeira in some respects, especially in colour and slightly in taste. It is made in the Island of Sicily. Malaga is a dry Wine of a sherry character, and isTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 782 For details respecting Ordinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. Wines—continued. either white or red. A great deal of it is brought to Santa Maria, Cadiz, and shipped thence as sherry. Malaga is noted as having three vintages per annum—the first in June, producing a rich sweet Wine; the second in October, producing a good sherry; and the third in November from the mountains, the Wines being described as “ sweet, luscious, and dry.” The Wines of Algeria are rapidly improving in quality, the soil and climate being exceptionally favourable for grape growing ; they are likely to become very popular. In Austria and Hungary some fine Wines are prepared, notably Imperial Tokay. Besides those Wines already mentioned, others are to be met with in abundance, and, when of sufficient importance, are described under their own headings. Those of which little or no mention is made may be regarded as valuable only for mixing. This is especially the case with Colonial Wines, some of the best being consumed locally, and the worst used as the basis for others. In concluding this part of the subject we may repeat the words used in an important contemporary as sum- marising the question of the qualities of Wines. “ The Wines of the South of France are strongly alcoholic, stimulating, and of a warm flavour. Some of them are highly aromatic and saccharine, and all possess a fine delicate aroma. Those of Champagne and Burgundy are moderately alcoholic, full-bodied, and delicately perfumed. They are both red and white. The Spanish Wines, port, sherry, and Madeira, are the most alcoholic Wines made; the former is dark in colour, and the two latter are white or golden; all of them have an exquisite bouquet. The Wines from the Rhine are dry and acid, of a light flavour, and poor in alcohol, and of a fine golden colour. Bordeaux Wines (clarets) are tonic and astringent, nutritive, stomachic, and of a delicate flavour and per- fume. Those of Tokay, Alicante, Malaga, Malvesie, and Cyprus are very saccharine, tonic, and stimulating.” Qualities of Wine.—Some very practical remarks on the testing of Wines have been contributed to Spoil’s “Encyclopaedia of Manufactures and Raw Materials,” and as they give hints that are valuable, they are repro- duced here: “ The good or bad qualities of a Wine may be recognised by the application of three senses—sight, smell, and taste. An eye accustomed to the examination of Wines can readily discover whether the colour is homogeneous or not, and whether it is natural or artificial. By the sense of smell the aroma of different Wines is distinguished one from another; this method of examination becomes an almost infallible indicator when the organs of smell are extremely sensitive. The sense of taste, when care- fully exercised, is the most to be relied on. When a Wine is pure and unadulterated, the different component principles are blended together, forming a perfectly homogeneous whole, which leaves one flavour only upon the tongue and the roof of the mouth; but when the Wine is the result of a mixture, the constituents are not intimately combined but merely loosely mixed. By keeping such Wine in the mouth for a short time, the warmth volatilises the lighter and more volatile con- stituents, rendering them at once sensible to the roof of the mouth, while the extractive and heavier matters are made evident to the tongue and lower part of the mouth; if the Wine has been diluted with water, it is detected at once by a practised taster, by a sensation of flatness and insipidity.” Several instruments, such as saccharometers, thermo- meters, oenometers, and others, are frequently used in the testing of Wine, and ascertaining its saccharine, vinous, and alcoholic properties. See Alcohol. Besides a natural difference in quality, all Wines are subject to influences which detract very considerably from their value, some of which are preventible, others Wines—continued. curable, whilst some render the Wine completely lost. Those which are due to causes that may be regarded as unaccountable or unpreventible are classed as natural disorders; these are ropiness, sourness, bitterness, and loss of colour. Other disorders may be the result of frost, exposure to the air, or taints from the cask, mouldi- ness, and the use of bad eggs in clarifying. From the writings of an expert in Wines we gain the following information : When a Wine becomes ropy, it loses its fluidity, and becomes oily. White Wines are subject to this disorder, and especially those which have not been allowed to complete their fermentation. It occurs chiefly after a rainy season, when the Wine contains but little tartar and tannin. It rarely needs special treatment, as the Wine usually recovers in the course of time ; if it does not, a good cure is to add 30 grammes of pure tannin dissolved in half a litre of alcohol at 85deg. to a hogs- head, and to whip the mixture well in. Sourness is the most common disorder of all Wines; it occrn-s chiefly in Wines fermented in the presence of air. To avoid it, the casks destined to receive Wine should be sulphured; great care must be taken to allow as little contact with air as possible, both during fermentation of the must and the several racking operations. It is almost impossible to permanently restore a Wine which has advanced far in this malady, since it almost invari- ably re-appears after a length of time, however much care be taken to avoid it. The best way out of the diffi- culty is, either to mix it with a sweet Wine for immediate consumption, or to dispose of it to vinegar manufacturers, the latter being by far the wisest and most prudent course. Bitterness is a disorder that is liable to affect aged Wines, and especially Burgundy; its presence is usually announced by an alteration in the colour of the Wine. It may sometimes be relieved by dissolving in the Wine an ounce or so of tartaric acid and a small quantity of tannin, according to the degree of bitterness. This will generally suffice to restore the Wine to its natural flavour, or arrest the malady. In the course of a few days, after the additions have been made, the W ine should be racked off again into a sulphured cask, clarified, and purified with powdered vegetable charcoal. “ One of the principal accidental alterations of Wine,” says our authority, “ is the effect of heat.” Too high a temperature in the cellar is likely to excite active fermen- tation in the casks, which may result in the bursting of the casks, and the entire loss of the Wine. To prevent such a disaster, as soon as it can be ascertained that fermentation has set up again, some of the Wine should be drawn off, and air freely admitted to the cask to arrest the process before it goes too far and spoils the Wine. An effectual remedy is to fine with wood charcoal, and rack off into sulphured casks. The effect of intense cold upon Wine is peculiar, as a portion of it becomes frozen. It is advisable then to draw off the liquid Wine and leave the frozen part, which is water only, to itself. The Wine is improved by this, and greatly increased in strength; but if the frozen part he allowed to melt again whilst still in the unfrozen Wine, the colour will certainly be greatly deteriorated. Taints communicated to Wines from whatever cause, whether from mouldy casks or bad eggs used in clari- fying, are most difficult to remove. Frequent racking into sulphured casks, the free use of vegetable charcoal, whipping into it a quantity of very sweet oil, and skim- ming it off again, may be resorted to with some hope of success; but, excepting as a mixing Wine it will not be of much further value, as may be understood from the following words of practical wisdom : “ Wines which have been affected with any of the disorders mentioned above, and successfully treated (sic), should be at once disposed of for immediate consumption,THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 783 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Wines—continued. since the affection is liable to return, after a lapse of time, with renewed energy. Ropiness is the only disorder which it is possible to effectually and permanently cure.” Wine sometimes becomes dead or flat from no ap- parently assignable cause. This can be relieved by adding new brisk Wine of the same kind; or by rousing in 21b. or 31b. of honey; or by adding 511). or 61b. of bruised Sultana raisins and 3qts. or 4qts. of brandy per hogshead. By this treatment the Wine might be expected to recover in a fortnight, if it be kept moderately warm. When it is required for use in a day or so, a little fresh yeast should be added and the cask of Wine kept in a temperature of 60deg. Fahrenheit. For information concerning modes of fining, see Clari- fying. White Wines are usually fined with isinglass, about l^oz. (dissolved in H pints of water and thinned with a little of the Wine) to the hogshead. Red Wines are fined with the whites of eggs in the proportion of 15 or 20 to the pipe. Sometimes boiled shavings of harts- horn, or pale French glue, is substituted for isinglass. Weak or vapid Wines are mostly fortified by the addition of brandy. In Portugal a very large proportion of brandy is added to port before shipping it for England, as otherwise it might probably set up an acetous fer- mentation. “ By the regulation of the Customs of England,” says Cooley, “ 10 per cent, of brandy may be added to Wines in bond, and the increased quantity is then only charged as the increased duty on Wine.” The wisdom of brandying Wine is not always evident, seeing that it interferes with the flavour, and can there- fore only be safely used with such strong-flavoured Wines as port, sherry, Malaga, &c. Even then the Wines so brandied require to stand for some time to recover their natural flavour. What is termed “ sweating in ” or “fretting in ” is frequently resorted to for the purpose of mellowing the brandied Wine. A second fermentation is set up by dissolving in a hogshead of Wine 41b. or 51b. of sugar or honey, a little yeast if necessary, and perhaps a few bruised vine-leaves. It will require refining and racking into sulplnued casks. A very important process in preparing Wines for the market is the practice of mixing, considerable art, skill, and experience being required for the purpose. We are informed by an expert that only a very few Wines are sold without being mixed. It is thought that the intoxi- cating qualities of Wine are increased, and the flavour improved, by mixing them with Wines of a different age and growth. Thus a thin port may be improved by mixing a full-bodied port or a little new Malaga with it; or a little Teneriffe, rich sherry, or some other such. An inferior old sherry would be improved by mixing with it a little full-bodied Wine of the latest vintage. Another difficulty the Wine-mixer has to contend with is the varieties required for supplying different national markets. For instance, the tastes of the majority of Englishmen differ widely from the tastes of Russians; and the tastes of Russians differ from the tastes of Germans, and so on. All these matters have to be carefully studied and provided for; but as they are not likely to enter into our dealings with Wines to anything more than a very moderate degree, further reference to it will be unnecessary. With the operations of flavouring and perfuming we have little to do, seeing that they are only practised upon Wines from other fruits in order to make them resemble grape Wines. Colouring is practised largely upon grape Wines, either before or after importation. Tincture or infusion of saffron (safflower) or turmeric is used to impart or increase a golden-sherry yellow. All shades of amber and fawn to deep brown and brandy colour are given by burnt sugar. Cochineal (either alone or with a little alum) gives a pink colour; beetroot and red sanders give a fine red; the extracts Wines—continued. of rhatany and logwood, and the juice of elderberries, bilberries, and other berries give or deepen a port-wine hue. Under the headings of Bottling and Corking full instructions are given for bottling Wines, and reference should be made to Cellaring, as important information is given as to suitable temperatures and modes of sustain- ing them. The bottles should be packed, or stacked, in bins against an inner or underground wall, damp being considered an aid to the preservation of the Wine. The best bins are those which partake of the character of racks, having a separate recess for each bottle. By this provision the bursting of a bottle does not affect all above, or lying on it, as it would if they were stacked in a pile. Several different kinds of bottle stands or bins have been invented, each having its own particular claims for con- sideration, the chief merit being the same in each case— convenience, order, and cleanliness, this latter being, according to some authorities, a very unnecessary attribute. Of all the racks for Wine bins that have been invented, the best are undoubtedly those made upon the following principles: No. 1 (see Fig. 1061) is made784 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details res-pectx.no Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. Wines—continued. entirely of iron, the recesses for bottles being formed by bent iron hooping or ribbon iron riveted to uprights ; these support the shoulder of the bottle, a second frame made fast to the first supporting the bottles towards the bottoms. No. 2 (see Fig. 1062) is upon the same principle, the iron bands crossing each other diagonally. In No. 3 (see Fig. 1063) the iron bands cross horizontally and vertically, passing diagonally through horizontal square wooden bars, Fig. 1064. Old-fashioned Wine-bin. which hold together the two frames, back and front. Any of these may be considered equally useful, No. 1 having an advantage in strength, durability, and simpli- city. When these racks or stands are used it is advisable to erect partitions at stated intervals, keeping from the Fig. 1065. King’s Cellular Brick for Wine-bins. bottles those currents of air that experts believe to be injurious. Wine for keeping requires a uniform tem- perature free from draughts of cold air, and for securing this packing in bins built into the wall or earth was for- Wines—continued. merly resorted to (see Fig. 1064). That these had a decided advantage over the iron racks and modern system of storing cannot be denied—the temperature was better preserved and the Wines were quite free from jarring; but the bins were small and the bottles were piled on each other. The statement that Wine is better stored in close earth, brick, or earthenware cells led to the invention of King’s cellular bricks (see Fig. 1065), which are much used for erecting artificial cellular cellar walls (see Fig. 1066. Wall Wine-bin, constructed of King’s Cellular Bricks. Fig. 1066). The cost of these is an absolute gain when compared with the manifold advantages to be derived from them. With regard to the age of Wines, they differ materially, some improving and others deteriorating by keeping. Sparkling Wines are in their prime in from eighteen to thirty months after the vintage, depending in a measure on the cellaring and climate. What are termed weak Wines, or those of an infei’ior growth of grape, should be consumed within twelve or fifteen months after ferment- ing, and ought to be kept in a cool cellar. As regards sound, well-fermented, good seasoned, full-bodied still Wines, these are at all times improved by keeping, that is to say, for a reasonable time and under favourable conditions of storage and temperature. Wines are matured by a slow process of fermentation which takes place in air-tight vessels, such as bottles. In casks, if exposed to a higher temperature than is required for keeping, Wine is liable to acetify slowly, until the whole becomes little better than vinegar. Tartness or acidity is regarded by the ignorant as a proof of age—it may be more correctly regarded as an indication of either the cellar-keeper’s errors or inferior Wine. The change that takes place during maturation is believed to be an “ insensible fermentation,” due to the usual fermenting vigour being kept in abeyance by the presence of alcohol, lowness of temperature, and exclusion of air. The promotion of maturation or “ripening” of Wines is brought about by the adoption of various plans. One of the safest, especially for strong Wines, is not to rack (that is, fine and draw off) until they have stood fifteen or eighteen months upon their lees, or keeping them whether “ crude ” or “ racked ” at a temperature ranging between 50deg. and 60deg. Fahr. in a cellar that is quite free from draughts and not too dry. Another mode of maturing is to remove the bungs or corks, and tie a piece of Avet bladder over the openings, taking care to make the vessels so treated air-tight. Bottled Wine treated in this Avay ripens very quickly if kept in a temperate situation. “ Some dealers,” says Cooley, “ add a little dilute sulphuric acid to the coarser Wines for the same purpose; but a small quantity of concentrated acetic acid or tartaric acid would be preferable, since these acids are found in all Wines. Four or five drops of the former, added to aGalantine of Eels in Jelly. Galantine of Plovers. Galantine of Partridges with Truffles. Galantine of Larks on Stand. ARTISTIC GALANTINES.785 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Wines—continued. bottle of some kinds of new Wine, immediately give it the appearance of being two or three years old.” Port Wine excels all other Wines in the formation of a crust; this should, of course, be a natural product the result of maturation, but it can be produced artificially, as described by Cooley: “ To make port Wine form a crust on the inside of the bottles, 1 spoonful (table-spoon- ful probably) of powdered catechu, or 4 (table) spoonful of finely-powdered cream of tartar, is added to each bottle before corking it, after which the whole is well agitated. It is also a common practice to put the crust on the bottle before putting the Wine into it, by employing a hot saturate solution of red tartar, thickened with gum and some powdered tartar.” The “bees-wing” is a thinly or delicately formed crust, which usually breaks off and floats in the wine, or floats about as it forms. Connois- seurs regard its presence with favour. Timbs, in his “ Hints for the Table,” speaks of the “ condition ” of Wine as follows : “ It is not always easy to get good Wine, but the difficulty increases when likewise we require good Wine in perfect condition. And yet how should we be satisfied with less ? The better the Wine the greater the loss if it be spoiled or deteriorated ; but whatever the degree in quality, there is a state of it (we mean after it has been sold for consumption) in which it will not be fit for drinking. Condition, then, has to be referred to under two heads : 1st, Chemical, that of health as to fermentation; 2nd, Mechanical, that of brightness, by the absence of any feculent matter in suspension. The first is very much the affair of the Wine-merchant, since it should be his study to correct such disorder in Wine, whether accidental or constitu- tional. This will also often occur temporarily from change of season or temperature, and be self-curative. Indeed, all but very old Wine will be liable to occasional derangement of condition from natural causes, and it is after these perturbations that the deposit occurs, which we have to speak of under our second heading on condi- tion—namely, mechanical. Having reference, then, to Wine in bottles, the state of turbidness referable to the re-admixture of a deposit by agitation of the liquid, though consistent with perfect healthiness in the Wine, is not condition. Besides being displeasing to sight, Wine in this state is impaired in flavour and bouquet, as well as being less salutary. For, albeit there are degrees of this ill-condition, some deposits being more pernicious than others, it is always bad. What, in fact, is this deposit but something eliminated from the Wine during the process of its maturation? As might be supposed, the results of that process—the deposit—are, when tasted separately, found to be most unpalatable. Yet, unnatural as is the reunion of the deposit with the Wine, this is often, we may almost say generally, incurred (more or less) by reason of the difficulty of avoiding it. At rest in its bin the Wine will be bright; but who shall remove it, extract the cork, and separate perfectly the bright and pure portion from the foul and bitter deposit ? No. sooner is the bottle transferred from the position in which it has lain than disturbance of the deposit is apt to Wines—continued. begin; if placed upright for drawing the cork there is a partial subsidence, then follows the jolt attendant on extraction of the cork, then the agitation inseparable from pouring off, and in this way may be lost the condition attained by keeping. Some attempts have from time to time been made to palliate by mechanical aid this inconvenience, but these contrivances have been so imperfect as only to increase trouble without effecting their object. For pouring into a glass direct, we have the modern port-wine basket (see Fig. 1067), which is a great boon to port-wine drinkers; but although the latter pours the Wine off the deposit to a nicety, it does not get over the evils consequent upon drawing the cork. Epicures are of opinion that Wine should not be decanted, but poured direct from the bottle into the glass. This practice, however good in theory, would not be practicable upon certain occasions of state, unless the Wine was at first put into bottles of a decidedly more ornamental character than those at present in use; nor could the beautiful dust, mould, and cobweb be any indication of sort, seeing that in such a condition no 1 butler could possibly supply them to table. For the I gourmet who dines by himself, Wines have no need to be j decanted. When convenient, Wines should lie decanted in the cellar, j and poured into decanters warmed to the same tempera- ture as the Wine. Port and other rich Wines should be strained through fine cambric, and for this purpose a funnel fitted with a removable ring (see Fig. 1068), to keep the cambric in a convenient position for straining, is useful. The small end of the funnel tube should be bent towards the side of the decanter, directing the stream of Wine down its side, and thus avoiding the evil influence of contact with more air than necessary. Some epicures advise subjecting port Wine and other sweet rich Wines to a warming process in order to bring out their full flavour. In most cases this is brought about by standing the Wine near a fire; but an ingenious contrivance is now made, which is essentially a case for hot water filled with cylindrical recesses, into which the bottles are placed. These are made in different sizes to hold two (see Fig. 1069), four, six, or more bottles. The water put in the case must be about blood heat. Choice Wines, such as champagnes, are generally iced before being served; but there are not many kinds of Wine that will bear icing. Burgundy would be utterly ruined by exposure to such intense cold. When icing is 8 a VOL. II.786 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, (be., referred to, see under their special heads. Wines—continued. decided upon, it should be well done, and no system could be better than the old one of stowing the bottles in Fig. 1069. Wine-warmer. a large bucket, and filling up round with broken ice, at least an hour before serving. A very ornamental icing- bucket (see Fig. 1070) is used at many of our large hotels, clubs, and in private houses. It certainly has a most inviting appearance on a table, dinner-waggon, or side- board. Service of Wine and Wine-drinking.—We come now to a very interesting and important part of our subject—that, in short, to which tends all that has gone before. It is the actual worshipping at the shrine, for which a most elaborate preparation is considered the orthodox preliminary. It is a worshipping concerning which men differ so greatly in their practice and opinions, that it is necessary to use the utmost caution in stepping along between prejudices and passions, lest the fancies of Wines—continued. some be offended even to the far limits of disgust. For instance, a teetotaler, whether a pledged abstainer or not, declares that in his or her opinion Wine is not essential to the happiness of mankind, nor is it necessary for the promotion and maintenance of healthy living. Another expresses an opinion diametrically opposed; and so we adopt the words of Sir Henry Thompson in his work on “ Foods and Feeding,” and treat the subject strictly “ in the spirit of compromise.” This talented author admits that “ among all civilised nations, Wine in some form has for centuries been highly appreciated as a gastronomic accompaniment to food.” Further, “ I do not aver that any particular harm results from the habit of now and then enjoying a glass of really fine pure Wine—and, rare as this is, I do not think any other is worth con- suming-just as one may occasionally enjoy a particularly choice dish; neither the one nor the other, perhaps, being sufficiently innocuous or digestible for frequent, much less for habitual use. Then I am disposed to admit that there are some persons—in the aggregate not a few— who may take small quantities of genuine light Wine or beer with very little if any appreciable injury. For these persons such drinks may be put in the category of luxuries permissible within certain limits or conditions.” These “certain limits or conditions,” according to Sir Henry Thompson’s ideas, ai-e best set down in his own words. They are: “Wine in relation to dinner should be served during the repast; it should never be taken, in any form, or under any circumstances, before, that is, on an empty stomach, and rarely after the meal is finished. Regarded from a gastronomic point of view alone, nothing should appear after fruit but a small glass of Cognac or liqueur, and coffee. The post-prandial habit of drinking glass after glass even of the finest growths of the Gironde, or of the most mature or mellow shipments from Oporto, is doubtless a pleasant, but, in the end, for many persons, a costly indulgence. Secondly, whatever Wine is given should be the most sound and unsophisticated of its kind which can be procured. The host had far better produce only a bottle or two of sound bourgeois Wine from Bordeaux—and most excellent Wine may be found under such a denomination—with no pretence of a meretricious title, or other worthless finery about it, than an array of fictitious mixtures with pretentious labels procured from an advertising cheap Wine-house. I could only speak in terms of contempt and disgust, did I not feel pity for the deluded victims, of the unscrupulous use of the time- honoured and historical titles which advertisers shamelessly Haunt on bottles of worthless compounds by means of showy labels, in lists and pamphlets of portentous length, and by placards sown broadcast through the country. So that one may buy ‘Lafite’or ‘ Margaux,’* Cliambertin ’ or ‘ Nuits,’ ‘ ’47 port ’ or even ‘ ’34 ’ at any village store ! No terms can be too strong to characterise such trade. “ If fine Wines of unquestionable character and vintage are to be produced, there are only two ways of possessing them: one, by finding some Wine-merchant of long standing and reputation who will do an applicant the favour to furnish them, and the price must be large for quality and age. We may be certain that such a one will never advertise; no man who really has the grands vins of esteemed vintages in his cellar need spend a shilling in advertisements, for he confers a favour on his customer by parting with such a stock. But better and more satisfactory is it to obtain from time to time a pipe or two of Wine of high character and reputed vintage, when they are to be had, just fit to bottle, and lay them down for years until ripe for use. Commencing thus in early life, a man’s cellar becomes in twenty or thirty years a possession of interest and value, and he can always produce, at his little dinners, for those who can appreciate it, something curiously fine, and free at all events from the deleterious qualities of new and fictitious Wines,787 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Wines—continued. “ Briefly, the rule, by general gastronomic consent, for those who indulge in the luxury of Wine, is to offer a glass of light pale sherry or dry Sauterne after soup ; a delicate Rhine Wine, if required, after fish; a glass of good Bordeaux with the joint of mutton; the same of champagne—dry, but with some true vinous character in it, and not the tasteless spirit and water now enjoying an evanescent popularity as absolute ‘ brut ’—during the entrees; the best red Wine in the cellar, Bordeaux or Burgundy, with the grouse or other roast game; and. but this ought to suffice, even for that exceptional individual who is supposed to be little if at all injured by ‘ moderate ’ potations. With the ice or dessert, a glass of full-flavoured but matured champagne, or a liqueur, may be served; but at this point dietetic admonitions are out of place, and we have already sacrificed to luxury. But it is not to be forgotten that both temperance and digestion are favoured by the habit of avoiding much mixing of red and white, or indeed of any Wines at our meals. Men have discovered for themselves that choice champagne and claret, however delightful each may prove itself in passing over the palate, often quarrel sadly when they arrive in the stomach below. Hence the somewhat modern, and certainly prudent course, which many now follow, viz., to drink either the one or the other Wine throughout the dinner, and to limit himself to that only. And this makes it necessary to supply, as before intimated, the best produce of the cellar during the whole course of the dinner, instead of reserving it, as in days of yore, for consumption afterwards.” In the foregoing extensive quotation may be found most tersely expressed the whole rationale of Wine-drinking. To this it is not necessary to add much, excepting in the way of confirmation or modification according to the opinions of others who are doubtless as fully entitled to acceptance as the previous writer. According to the decree of a French epicure, white Wines should always follow the red, except in a French dinner, which is usually preceded by oysters. “ In this case, the ostreal delicacies should be saluted with a treble volley of Chablis ; or, for greater solemnity, with libations of Pouilly or Mont Rachet; or even with Sauterne, Barsac, or White Hermitage. But for this important reason, red Wine should open the repast. “ Our French exemplars assert the most proper Wine during the first course to be, without any contradiction, Burgundy of the least celebrated growth, and which, for this reason, is known as low Burgundy. Such are Aloxe, Avallon, Coulange, Torniere, and generally all those known under the designation of Macon and Auxerre. You then ascend to Baume and Pomard; and if you choose to confine yourself to the Burgundian topography, you have the generous Richebourg, the high-flavoured St. George, the purple Chambertin, and the exquisite Romanee. But if you can ill bear the trammels of classi- fication, and wish to give a fillip to your taste by change of flavour and soil, champagne offers its sparkling Ai, perfumed Cumiere, and limpid Sillery. After these, you may enjoy the stronger Wines of Dauphiny, which whet the appetite and heighten the savour of the roasts. Among these we recommend Chateau Grille, Cote Rotie, and Hermitage. 'Tis then that mirth lights up the faces of the convivial circle, and the gibes and gambols of wit are wont ‘ to set the table in a roar ’; ’tis then that we acknowledge the claim of only one other Wine to produce on the quantity already imbibed an effect similar to that of a drop of water in boiling milk, or a wine of Bordeaux, or claret. See how Wisdom’s art gradually appeases the mounting spirits, in the effect of Medoc poured by a steady hand into bright crystal, which reflects scores of wax lights. An armistice ensues, and the ‘ intellectual gladiators ’ lay down then- wordy weapons. Amphitryons clear the table ; wafers and sweet For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Wines—continued. cakes and perfumed creams usurp the place of legumes, which boasted all the skill of scientific cookery. Languedoc, Rousillon, and Provence, what brilliant associations do ye create ! Spain, too, participates in this gale of glory ! But what is that ruby tint which glows amidst sparkling crystal P—what is that liquid topaz which strikes the eye with wonder, and inspires a new gusto ? Rivesalter, Grenach, Lunel, Malmsey, Fron- tignan, Malaga, and Xeres—what a galaxy of glories rises with your delicious aroma to perplex Wine-drinkers. Your half-consumed corks give evidence of your age, like a wreck of hoar antiquity; the perfumed gale ascends, and your richness mantles and sparkles high; whilst your glowing spirit tempers the effect of ice, which is sometimes injudiciously served immediately after dinner; although health and good taste concur in delay- ing its appearance.” We have here two decided opinions and views on Wine- drinking and its service ; the one permeated by doubtful wisdom, the other full of Continental enthusiasm. To this we need must add a word for Tokay. Our French writer continues: “ The aromatic gale of the Mocha berry next salutes our delighted senses. Folly produces another bottle; the silver froth rushes like a boiling spring, and carries the cork to the ceiling; or the Arbois is produced, and unites the sweetness of Condrieux with the sparkling of the impetuous Ai! ’Tis then only that the Wine- drinker can enjoy in diamond glasses the exquisiteness of veritable Tokay.” A more strictly practical writer classifies the order of serving Wines rather more in accordance with the customs prevailing in this country. He gives them thus : •' Immediately after the soup dry white Wines are offered, such as French Wines, Marsala, Sherry, Madeira, dry Syracuse, &c. With the fish dry white Wines are also served. With oysters Chablis is preferred. With releves of butchers’ meat and warm entrees, red Wines, Burgundy or Bordeaux. With cold entrees and other cold pieces, fine white Wines are served. With the roast come the fine Bordeaux or champagne Wines, or both. With the entremets, champagne alone. With the dessert, liqueur Wines, such as Frontignan, Lunel, Alicante, Malvesie, Port, Tokay, Lacrima, Cloriste, &c.” In concluding this exhaustive article, and to conciliate varied opinions, the words of a French gourmet are here reproduced. He writes : “ Some persons prefer Burgundy, others contend for Bordeaux, a few pretend that cham- pagne, still and of the first quality, unites the Burgun- dian flavour with the Bordeaux warmth ; while the natives of the borders of the Rhone assert that the finest of all Wines is Hermitage ! All are right, and each in its turn is best, especially if the maturation of the fruit has been successful; this is rare, for there is a greater difference between the Wine of one year and that of another, grown in the same vineyard, than between the Wine of a cele- brated district and that procured from an obscure spot. Therefore, we should take the advice of Sterne, and, like the man at the fair, every one speak as he has found his market in it. According as we have drunk Sillery, La Romanee, or Medoc of memorable years, we ought to prefer the districts which produced them respectively ; always with this prudent restriction—not to be so exclusive in our taste, as not to welcome others in the absence of better.” Mulled Wine.—(1) Sweeten Iqt. of fresh milk with caster sugar to taste, then boil it with a stick of cinnamon and one grated nutmeg for five minutes; take the milk off the fire and leave it till cool. Beat the yolks of six eggs with h teacupful of thick cream. Mix a bottle of Wine with the eggs and milk, strain the mixture several times Sauces, <kc>, refored to, see under their special heads.788 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Wines—continued. through a jelly bag, turn it into a jug, and serve it with biscuits. (2) Break a perfectly fresh egg in a basin, put in a table-spoonful of caster sugar and a wineglassful of Wine. Beat the above ingredients well, then pour in gradually- A pint of water, stirring all the time to keep it firm. Four the mulled Wine into a glass, grate a small quantity of nutmeg over, and serve. (3) Pour 1 pint of water into a saucepan, add a season- ing of cloves, cinnamon, nutmeg, and a little bruised ginger, cover over the pan, and reduce to A pint. Strain it, add 4oz. of powdered loaf sugar and 1 pint of claret, and serve in glasses. (4) Put 1 pint each of Wine and cold water on the stove to get warm; beat up three eggs with 3 table-spoon- fuls of sugar; when the Wine is hot—not boiling, or the eggs will curdle—add the eggs to it, and beat them well; add a little allspice, and if not sweet enough add a little more sugar, grate in a little nutmeg, and serve hot. Wine Biscuits.—Slightly warm Jib. of butter and beat it to a cream with a wineglassful of Wine. Mix 41b. of flour with Alb. of caster sugar, then mix it to a paste with the Wine and butter, stirring in also four well beaten eggs. Sprinkle a few caraway-seeds into the mixture, work it till quite smooth, then turn it out on to a floured table, and roll it out as thin as possible. With a round tin cutter, ll,in. in diameter, cut some biscuits out of the Fig. 1071. Wine Biscuits. flat of paste. Put the biscuits on a buttered baking- sheet, brush the tops over with beaten rvhite of egg, dust some caster sugar over them, and bake in a quick oven for ten or twelve minutes. When cold, take the biscuits off the baking-sheet, and serve in a glass dish (see Fig. 1071). When cold, keep them in a tin in a dry place. Wine Cake.—Put 6 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar into a saucepan with 1 pint of Wine, and stir it over the fire till on the point of boiling. Take the sweetened Wine off the fire and leave it till cooled to blood heat. Beat six eggs well, and mix them with the Wine, then stir the liquor gradually into Jib. of the best white flour, and beat it well. Butter a cake-tin, pour in the cake, and bake it in a quick oven. When cooked, turn the cake out of the tin. Wine Cream Ice.—Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of cream into a saucepan with the yolks of five eggs, and prepare a custard. Pour it into a basin, let it get cold, mix in 2 wineglass- fuls of white Wine and sufficient syrup or sugar to sweeten, and freeze in the freezer; stir in a little chopped preserved mixed fruits, turn the cream into a mould packed in ice, let it set, and turn it out on to a cold dish for use. Wine Custard.—Put lqt. of rich milk in a saucepan with 6oz. of caster sugar and boil it. Beat the yolks of twelve eggs with 6oz. of caster sugar till light and thick, then pour in gradually the boiling milk. Return the custard to the saucepan, and stir it by the side of the fire till thick and on the point of boiling; then move it at once, for if it boils the eggs will curdle, and stir into it 2 wineglassfuls of white Wine. Strain the custard into a basin, and set it on ice till cold. Put some slices of jelly cake into a large glass bowl, pour in the custard, pile some whipped cream on the top, and serve; or, if Wines—continued. preferred, the custard may be turned into saucers with small round Italian cakes floating about in them. Wine Finger Biscuits.—(1) Warm 2oz. of butter and beat it to a cream with 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar and 1 table-spoonful of orange sugar; add 1 wineglassful of Malaga Wine and 1 pinch of salt, then stir Alb. of flour in the mixture, and work till smooth. Dust "some flour Fig. 1072. Wine Finger Biscuits. over the table or paste-slab, and roll the paste out very thin; cut it into long thin fingers, which prick all over with a fork. Dust some flour over a baking-sheet' arrange the biscuits on it, and bake them in a moderately brisk oven. Serve on a glass dish (see Fig. 1072). The biscuits should be kept perfectly dry in biscuit-tins. (2) Rub Jib. of butter smoothly into fib. of flour, then mix in 41b. of sugar; beat the yolks of two eggs well with 2 wineglassfuls of white Wine, and stir them in with the above ingredients ; mix the paste smoothly, then put it on a floured paste board and roll it out thinly. Cut the paste into long strips about lin. wide, brush them over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten white- of egg, and dredge over with caster sugar, pounded sweet almonds, and a small quantity of cinnamon. Butter a bright baking- tin, lay the strips on it, side by side, and not too closely together, and bake them until lightly browned. These are very nice served when cold for dessert. Wine Froth.—Put the yolks of six eggs into a saucepan with A pint of Wine, and whisk them over the fire until a stiff froth is formed. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff snow with 4 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar and the grated peel of a lemon. Add them to the above mixture, and whisk the whole until it thickens. Pour the mixture into glasses, and serve. Wine Ices.—Rub the peel of one orange and four lemons on some lumps of sugar, and scrape it off into a basin, then squeeze in the juice of the lemons and orange. Add to the above articles 4 pint of clarified sugar, 1 pint of Wine, and a small quantity of water. Stir all together till well mixed, then turn it into a freezer, and work the mixture until frozen. When frozen, ladle the ice into ice glasses, and serve. Wine Jelly.—(1) Steep 3oz. of gelatine in 1 pint of cold water for twenty minutes, then turn it into a saucepan, and stir in lqt. of boiling water. When the gelatine has dissolved, mix in with it the thinly-pared rind and the juice of two lemons, lOoz. of loaf sugar, some small pieces789 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utetisils, Sauces, d-c., referred to, see under their special heads. Wines—continued. of cinnamon, seven or eight cloves, ana 1 teaspoonful of peppercorns. Beat the whites of two eggs with their shells, put them in with the other ingredients, and stir them over the fire till boiling. Mix 1 A breakfast cupfuls of Madeira with the jelly, strain it several times till clear and bright through a jelly bag that has been wrung out of boiling water, pour the jelly into a mould, and pack it in ice till firm. When ready to serve, dip the mould in lukewarm water, wipe it, and turn the jelly out on to a fancy dish (see Fig. 1073). (2) Soak 2oz. of gelatine in A pint of cold water for three hours; add to it then the thinly.pared rind of half a lemon, the juice of one lemon, two peach-leaves, or a few drops of essence of bitter almonds, and Mb. of powdered white sugar ; cover it over, and let it stand for half-an- liour; pour ov er it then 1 pint of boiling water, stir it till the gelatine is quite dissolved, and then strain it. Add 1 pint of white Wine, and strain it again through a flannel bag without either squeezing or shaking the bag. Wet the inside of a mould with cold water, pour the jelly into it, let it stand in a cool place all night, and turn out next day. (3) Put nearly lAoz. of gelatine into 1 pint of cold water together with a bit of lemon-peel, and let it soak all night. Next day put into a pint measure U wine-glasses of brandy, the strained juice of four lemons, a small quantity of orange flavouring or spirit of punch, and the whites and shells of two eggs, beaten together; fill the measure up with raisin wine, turn it into a saucepan, add Jib. of caster sugar and the soaked gelatine, and boil gently till the scum separates ; then pass it through a jelly-bag. (4) Put 3oz. of gelatine into a porcelain bowl, cover with 1 pint of cold water, and let it soak for two or three hours, by which time it should be quite soft. Pour it into a saucepan, add lqt. of boiling water, the juice of two lemons, lib. of powdered loaf sugar, and A pint of sherry or Madeira Wine. When about to boil, strain it through a jelly-bag into a mould and let it remain until set. It may be flavoured with the juice of any fruit, and coloured or tinted with carmine, cochineal, saffron, red beet juice, or claret. Sometimes it is made with cherry brandy or any cordial instead of the Wine. (5) Stir Joz. of isinglass in 4 pint of hot water till dissolved, then mix in the thinly-pared rind and the strained juice of two oranges, the yolks of four eggs, and caster sugar to taste. Beat the above mixture well, then turn it into a saucepan, and stir it over the fire till on the point of boiling, but do not let it quite boil. Take the jelly off the fire, and leave it till partly cold. Rinse a mould out with cold water, pour in the jelly, and pack it in ice till set. Dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, turn the jelly out on to a fancy dish, and serve. (6) Put lqt. of cold water into a saucepan with Jib. of granulated sugar; add 2oz. of gelatine in small pieces, and grate in the rind of a medium sized lemon, squeezing- in the juice as well. Mix well, and place the saucepan on a hot stove. Beat up in a basin the whites of two eggs, and stir them into the other ingredients; grate in 1 saltspoonful of nutmeg, and add six cloves and one bay- leaf, mixing well with a whisk for one minute. Have ready a jelly-bag tied on a jelly stand or two kitchen chairs. Stir the preparation, and when coming to the boil set it back to a cooler part of the stove to prevent it overflowing, and stir while boiling for six minutes. Place a vessel under the jelly bag, remove the pan from the fire, and pour the whole into the bag, immediately adding to it h pint of lieberfraumilch Wine. Let it drain into the vessel, return it to the bag, placing another vessel under- neath, and let it drain through for fully two hours. Have ready a quart jelly-mould, pour the jelly from the vessel into it, set it aside in a cool place for two hours, and afterwards pack it in ice to harden for two hours longer. Make a dish as cold as possible ; dip the mould lightly and carefully to near its edge in lukewarm water, take it up immediately, turn it out on to the dish, and send to table. Wine Ketchup.—Pour 1 pint of walnut or mushroom ketchup into a saucepan, add 4oz. of boned chopped Wines—continued. anchovies, ten shallots, loz. of scraped horseradish, and spice to taste ; simmer gently at the side of the fire for about fifteen minutes. Remove from the fire, let the liquor cool, mix in 1 pint each of red and white Wine, let it stand for seven or eight hours, drain, strain, and bottle for use. Wine Negus.—Put 2 teacupfuls of warm calf’s-foot jelly into a jar or jug with the peel of a lemon rubbed off with sugar, or the peel pounded in a mortar, also two thinly sliced lemons, and a seasoning off allspice, cinnamon, cloves, and mace; pour over lqt. of boiling water, cover securely, and let it stand for fifteen minutes. Now add 1 pint of boiling white Wine, sugar to sweeten, and grated nutmeg to flavour, and the negus is then ready for use. Wine Posset.—(1) Mix in a large jug 1 pint of rich thick cream, 4 wineglassfuls of Wine, 1 wineglassful of brandy, the strained juice of a lemon, and loaf sugar to taste. Let it stand for an hour or two, then whisk it well, and skim off the froth as it rises, placing it on a sieve. Put a little of the cream that runs through in each glass, and fill them up with the froth. Dredge a small quantity of coloured sugar on the top of each, and serve at once. (2) Put the finely-grated crumb of a penny stale French roll into a lined saucepan with lqt. of milk, and boil it gently until soft. Move the mixture from the fire, sweeten it to taste with caster sugar, and grate in half a nutmeg; beat it wrell with a wooden spoon until somewhat cooled, then turn it into a china bowl and stir in gradually 1 pint of Lisbon Wine. Leave the posset until quite cold, then serve it with small squares of toast and butter. Wine Roll.—-(1) Put a penny roll in Wine and let it soak till all the moisture is absorbed. Mask the roll with a Fig. 1074. Wine Roll. thick coating of apricot jelly, put it in a glass dish, pour 1 pint of Wine custard round it, and serve. The roll sprinkled over with small many-coloured sweets, as well as the jam or in place of it, makes a very pretty dish. Any otlier kind of jam may be used if preferred. See Fig. 1074. (2) Put a penny French roll into a basin, pour over it as much raisin Wine as it will absorb, and let it soak well. Sweeten 1 pint of thick cream with caster sugar, and flavour with lemon-juice. Put the roll in a glass dish, either whole or cut into slices, and pour the cream round it. Blanch a few sweet almonds, split them lengthwise, stick them in the roll, and serve. A nicely-flavourecl custard can be used in place of the cream, if more convenient. (3) Put three penny French rolls in a basin, pour over them as much raisin Wine as will cover them, and let them soak until they have absorbed all the moisture. Prepare a rich nicely flavoured custard and let it get cold; strew the rolls thickly with nonpareils, put them in a glass dish, pour the custard round, and serve. Wine Sauce.—(1) Put 2 table spoonfuls of sugar into a sauce- pan with 1 gill of water, and stir it over the fire till the sugar has dissolved. Put 1 table-spoonful of any kind of jam in the sweetened water, and mix it well ; then stir in 1 wineglassful of sherry and a squeeze of lemon-juice. The sauce is then ready for serving with whatever dish it is intended for. (2) Mince together one small blanched onion, three small mushrooms, and a few sprigs of parsley ; put them in a saucepan with about 2oz. of butter and 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and stir them over the fire for a few minutes, but do not brown them. Stir in with the above articles 1 pint of light Wine, dust in a small quantity of salt, pepper, and pounded mace, and let the sauce simmer gently by the side of the fire for half an-hour, stirring itTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 790 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. Wines—continued. occasionally. When cooked, skim the fat off the sauce, and serve it. (3) Put 1 table-spoonful of potato flour into a saucepan, and stir in gradually § pint of sherry. Beat the yolks of four eggs, mix them with the Wine, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and dust in a small quantity of powdered cinnamon. Stir the sauce over the fire till thick and on the point of boiling, then take it off at once: it is then ready for serving. The sauce must not boil after the eggs are added, or they will curdle. (4) Put into a saucepan 4oz of apricot marmalade with \ gill of cold water, place it on the fire, and stir until boiling; then take it off, and add immediately 4 pint of Tokay Wine, stirring thoroughly for one minute. Strain through a sieve, and serve. (5) Beat up the yolks of four eggs with 4 wineglassfuls of sherry, and mix 1 table-spoonful of potato flour smoothly with them. Strain the mixture, sweeten it to taste with caster sugar, flavour it with moderate quan- tities of powdered cinnamon and grated lemon-peel, and mix in 2 more wineglassfuls of sherry. Pour the sauce into an enamelled saucepan and stir it over the lire with a wooden spoon until boiling and thickened. It is then ready for serving. (6) Cut some lean beef into thin slices, put it into a frying-pan without butter, dripping, or grease of any kind, set it over a not too hot fire, cover with a large plate turned upside-down if no better cover is at hand, and let it remain over the fire till the gravy that comes from the meat is dried into it again; then add as much water as will cover the meat, and let it simmer till the water is dried up; add more water, but not so much as before, a seasoning of spice, onions, and sweet herbs, and a small piece of lean ham; let it simmer till the gravy is very good, strain it then, and let it stand in a cool place. When quite cold, take off the fat, warm up about 4 pint of the gravy, and add to it 2 table spoonfuls of port Wine; or | pint of gravy may be made from the jelly at the bottom of a bowl of dripping and the port Wine added to it. Wine Sauce for Fish.—Put 1 teacupful each of stock and Wine into a saucepan, and if the fish has been cooked in Wine, mix in also the cooking.liquor. Put a lump of butter and 1 table-spoonful of flour in a frying-pan, anil stir it over the fire till browned, then mix it in with the sauce. Stir the sauce over the fire till boiling, and strain it through a fine hair sieve into another saucepan ; skim off all the fat as it rises, and let it simmer by the side of the fire for a few minutes. Squeeze in the juice of a lemon, mix a pinch of cayenne in with the sauce, and serve. Wine Shape.—Put 2oz. of isinglass in 1 pint of water in a stewpan, let it boil gently till melted, then strain it through muslin. Beat the yolks of six eggs with 5 talile- spoonfuls of caster sugar, and mix with them the juice of two small lemons or one large one, and 1 pint of white wine. Beat the mixture thoroughly, then pour it into a lined stewpan with the dissolved isinglass, and stir it one way only over a slow fire. The mixture must not boil, but when it thickens take it off the fire and pour it into a mould. Pack the mould in pounded ice and leave it for several hours. Before serving, dip the mould quickly into hot water to loosen the contents, wipe it, and turn the shape out on to a glass dish. . Wine Soup. -(1) Put the yolks of twelve eggs and the whites of six into an enamelled saucepan, and beat them thoroughly ; pour in 1 4 breakfast-cupfuls of water, add 6oz. of loaf sugar, the grated yellow rind and strained juice of a large lemon, and 14 pints of white Wine. Whisk the soup over a gentle fire until frothed and on the point of boiling, then move it off immediately, turn it into a soup-tureen, and serve with a plate of small sponge cakes or fancy biscuits. The soup should be served directly it is ready, as the froth will very soon go down. (2) Boil 1 pint of water with a stick of cinnamon and the peel of half a lemon until nicely flavoured, then strain it. Return the water to the saucepan with 1 pint of Wines—continued. Wine (either red or white), sweeten to taste with loaf sugar, and stir in the well beaten yolks of six eggs and the whites of two. Stir the soup over a slow fire till on the point of boiling, then move it to the side. Cut a French roll into thin slices, toast them crisp and brown, cut them into quarters, put them in a soup-tureen, pour the soup over them, and serve while very hot. (3) Put 2 pints of German Wine and 1 4 pints of water in a saucepan with some sugar, cinnamon, and pounded cardamom-seeds to taste, and boil them. Fry some slices of well baked rye bread with half the quantity of white bread in butter. When browned, drain the lnread, put it in a mortar with some sugar, and pound ic Press the pounded bread into a mould, then turn it on to the centre of a deep dish. Stir the beaten yolks of three eggs into the soup, and move it to the side of the fire. Garnish the dome of bread with blanched almonds and some pieces of candied orange-peel, pour the soup ovei it, and serve. (4) Finely chop some lemon-peel, pound some cardamom- seeds, and grate some rye bread. Put the above ingre- dients in a saucepan with 1 pint of water, stir them, and boil for several minutes; then mix in 14 pints of Wine. Do not boil the soup after the wine is added. When hot, turn it into a soup-tureen, and serve. (5) Put 4oz. of well washed rice into a saucepan with 3 breakfast-cupfuls of water and the thin rind of a lemon, and boil until the rice is perfectly soft. Pour in gradu ally 1 pint of white Wine, sweeten to taste, and a few minutes before serving mix in the well whisked yolks of four eggs. (6) Put the yolks of eight eggs and the whites of four into a saucepan and beat them well; add Jib. or so of crushed loaf sugar to sweeten, the grated peel and juice of a lemon, 1 breakfast-cupful of cold water, and lastly 1 pint of any white Wine. Set the pan over a slow tire and whisk vigorously until the liquor is about to boil, by which time it should be well frothed. It must be served at once with sweet biscuits or sponge cake. (7) Put 2 table-spoonfuls of Hour into a stewpan with 2oz. of ibutter, and stir them over the fire until nicely browned; then pour in gradually lqt. of water and 14 pints of white Wine, stir it over the fire until boiling, and flavour with lemon-peel and cinnamon. Beat the yolks of six eggs and stir them into the soup, being careful not to let it boil again or they will curdle. Cut a couple of slices of toasted bread into small squares, put them in a soup-tureen, pour the soup over them, removing the lemon-peel and cinnamon, and serve. Wine Soup a la Monastere.—Wash 4oz. of rice in plenty of water, put it in a saucepan with the peel of a lemon, 3 breakfast-cupfuls of water, and boil till quite soft. When the rice is cooked, stir in gradually a bottle of white Wine, sweeten to taste with crushed loaf sugar, and boil it up again. Beat the yolks of four eggs in a soup, tureen, turn the soup into it, and serve. Wine Soup with Dried Fruit and Bread.—Wash 1 break- fast-cupful of currants, put them in a saucepan with an equal quantity of breadcrumbs, the thinly-pared rind of one lemon, and a stick of cinnamon ; pour in lqt. of white Wine and 1 pint of water, sweeten the soup to taste with sugar, and place it over the fire till on the point of boil- ing. Beat the yolks of six eggs in a soup-tureen, then pour in the boiling soup, stirring it at the same time with a wooden spoon. Serve the soup with a plate of small sponge cakes. Wine Soup with Lemons.—Thickly slice two or three lemons, remove the seeds, cover them thickly with caster sugar, and lay them in a soup-tureen. Put 2oz. or 3oz. of butter in a saucepan, make it hot, then throw in 1 breakfast-cupful of grated breadcrumb, and stir them over the fire until crisp and brown. Strew the breadcrumbs over the slices of lemon. Mix 1 pint of water with lqt. of white Wine, sweeten to taste with sugar, put it over the fire until boiling, then pour it over the slices of lemon. Leave the soup for three or four minutes, keeping it closely covered, then serve it with sponge cakes.791 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, lie., referred to, see under their special heads. Wines—continued. Wine Soup with Lemon and Trench Rolls.—Put two French rolls in a saucepan with the thinly-pared rind and the juice of one lemon, pour in water to cover, and boil to a thin paste. Pass the mixture through a fine wire sieve, return it to the saucepan, pour in lqt. of white Wine, season to taste with sugar and a small quantity of salt, and stir over the fire until boiling. Beat the yolks of three eggs in a soup-tureen, then pour the boiling Wine over them, stirring at the same time, and serve. Wine Whey.—(1) Put 1 pint of milk into a small lined saucepan, place it over the fire until boiling, then put in 2 wineglassfuls of port Wine and 1 table-spoonful of caster or loaf sugar. Stir the whey until the sugar has dis- solved, then strain it through a piece of muslin into a jug. Grate a small quantity of nutmeg over the whey, and serve while very hot. (2) Put 1 pint of skimmed milk into a basin with | pint of white Wine, pour in gradually 1 pint of boiling water, and let them stand a short time until the curd falls in a lump to the bottom. Next pour off the whey into a china bowl, sweeten it to taste with lemon-flavoured sugar, put a small sprig of balm on the top, .and serve with sweet biscuits. (3) Pour 1 pint of new milk into a saucepan, let it boil, add 3 wineglassfuls of sherry or raisin Wine, boil up again, and then remove from the fire. Let them stand until the curd forms, remove this, strain the whey, and sweeten to taste with sugar. It is then ready for use, and if required for an invalid it can either be weakened by adding hot water, or it may be boiled for five minutes longer before being served. (4) Put 1 pint of milk in a lined saucepan over the fire, and when boiling pour in a sufficient quantity of white Wine to curdle it. Boil up once, then let it settle, strain off the whey, sweeten to taste with boiling syrup, and serve in punch glasses. WINE BISCUITS.—See Biscuits. WINES, AMERICAN.—See American Wines WINES AND LIQUEUR GLASSES.—Some idea of the enormous variety of elegant patterns and chaste designs in which these important vessels are made can be gained by referring to the Plate of Drinking Glasses. They form an essential part of the table- service, being both useful and ornamental. For information as to arrangement and special application, see Table-service. WINKLES.—See Periwinkles. WINTER SALAD.—Nee Salads. WONDERS.—See Jersey Wonders. WOOD.—The use of Wood for the manufacture of culinary apparatus was at one time highly esteemed. It was not readily broken, and was easily cleaned. Ad- vancement in the science and art of cooking has taught us that metal and glass, or earthenware, are greatly to be preferred, especially for those articles which come into contact with moist or soft foods. Wooden paste-boards are now superseded by slate or marble. Wooden rollers are replaced by glass or brass ; wooden spoons give way to silver, and wooden bowls and pestles and mortars are almost things of the past. Even the tables are now more often iron-topped than wooden; and this trans- formation is increasing so rapidly that it has been pre- dicted that in course of time Wood will be almost un- known in the kitchen even for lighting fires, the ordinary fuel stoves being superseded by gas or electricity. Cement or stone flooring is coming into use in large kitchens, and the dangerous absorbing properties of the cellular Wood substance are gradually being recognised by modern caterers. The day is not far distant, let us hope, when wooden utensils will be no more known—for handles and similar purposes the non-heat-conducting properties of Wood stand in good stead; but bone, or ivory, or cellulose will be better. W ood—continued. As fuel or kindling Wood will be necessary until Wood, coke, coal, and charcoal fires are no longer used, where Wood is employed there should always be a goodly supply chopped up, and thoroughly dried, ready for immediate use. WOODCOCKS (Fr. Becasses ; Ger. Sclinepfen; Ital. Beccaccie; Sp. Choclias).—This bird of passage arrives in England about the middle of September, and its advent is eagerly looked for, its stay being short and fleeting. By gourmets, its flesh is regarded almost “ in the light of a poem,” in proof of which every morsel of it, including head and tail, is considered choice and eatable. Some persons, however, are of opinion that there is scarcely enough of it for so delicious a morsel; in consequence of this opinion, an epicurean poet has written: If partridge had the woodcock’s thighs, ’Twould be the noblest bird that flies ; If woodcock had the partridge breast, ’Twould be the best bird ever drest. The Woodcock (Scolopax rusticola) is a bird of the snipe variety, having a long beak, which some cooks fancifully use for the purpose of trussing it. The flesh is dark, and when in good condition very delicate, especially when the bird has been hung sufficiently long to assume a game flavour. To tell if a Woodcock has been hung long enough for cooking, it should be lifted by one of the tail feathers, when, if sufficiently mature, the body will detach itself from the feathers by its own weight. To prepare a Woodcock for cooking, it should be carefully plucked feather by feather, the head and neck skinned, and the inside or trail left untouched. The thighs should then be fixed close to the body, and the beak brought down under the wing, or it may be passed through the body, or made to transfix the thighs (see Fig. 1075). Another method of trussing adopted in some Continental kitchens is to tuck the head under the skin of the breast (see Fig. 1076), leaving the beak protruding. There are three varieties of Woodcock known to the game-seller, called respectively the large, the middle-sized, and the small; the largest is about the size of a partridge, not so heavy, with brown plumage, tinted with black and grey, and black stripes; the middle size is of a chestnut colour, equally striped with black and grey, the belly being spotted with black on a brown ground; and the smallest has a plumage that is almost exclusively reddish- brown or russet.THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 792 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, itc., referred to, see under their special heads. W oodcocks—continued. Bouchees of Woodcocks.—Braise some Woodcocks in game broth, and when they are cooked leave them till cool. Strain the cooking-liquor through a line hair sieve into another stewpan, skim oft' all the fat, boil it for a few minutes to slightly reduce it, then mix in double its quantity of veloute sauce, and boil quickly till reduced to a creamy consistency. When cold, separate the flesh of the Wood- cocks from the bones, trim off all the skin and fat, chop j the meat, and pound it in a mortar, pouring in gradually j at the same time the prepared sauce. Pass the puree ' through a line hair sieve into a stewpan. Boll out on a floured table some puff paste at six turns; with a fluted tin cutter, 2in. in diameter, cut out some rounds, arrange them on a baking sheet, a short distance from each other, and set them to rise in a cool place for a few minutes. Brush the bouchees (or small rounds of paste) over with a paste brush dipped in beaten egg, anti with a plain tin cutter, IJin. in diameter, cut partly through the centre of each of the rounds, dipping the cutter in hot water occasionally. Bake the bouchees in a quick oven, and when cooked lift off. the centre pieces of paste which are to form the covers and scoop out the underdone paste inside the patties. Stir the puree of Woodcocks over the fire till hot again, then fill the patties with it, put on the covers, arrange them on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper that has been placed on a hot dish, and serve. Broiled Woodcocks.—Pluck, singe, draw, pick out the eyes, and remove the skin from the heads of six fine Woodcocks, wipe them neatly, and split them through the backs with- out separating the parts. Put them on a dish, season with 1 pinch of salt, 4 pinch of pepper, and 1 table spoon- ful of sweet oil. Roll them well in the seasoning and put them on to broil with the bills stuck into the breasts. Fig. 1077. Broiled Woodcocks. Let them broil for four minutes on each side, then arrange them on a dish with six pieces of heart-shaped fried bread covered with minced hearts and livers as for roasted Woodcock, spread over 1 gill of maitre d’hdtel butter, decorate with six slices of broiled bacon (see Fig. 1077), and serve. Chaudfroid of Woodcocks.—Pluck and singe some Wood- cocks, wrap them in sheets of buttered paper, fix them on a spit, and roast them in front of a clear fire; do not brown them, and keep them rather underdone. When cold, cut the birds into joints, coat them over with chaudfroid sauce that has been reduced with essence of Woodcock, and lay them on a dish till the sauce has cooled. Garnish a round border mould with some cooked minion fillets of Woodcocks, fill it with aspic jelly, and leave it till set. Turn the boi'der of jelly out on to a round dish, put a block of fiied bread in the centre, arrange the pieces of birds inside the circle, leaning them against the bread support, and serve. Essence of Woodcock.—Separate the fillets from the bones of some Woodcocks, and put them by for further use. Put the bones and trimmings of the birds in a saucepan with a bunch of sweet herbs, one onion stuck with two cloves, a carrot, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg; pour in 1 pint of Madeira, and boil till reduced to a glaze. Then pour in 3qts. of broth, and when boiling let it simmer for one and-a-half hours by the side of the fire, keeping it well skimmed. Strain the essence through a broth napkin, skim off the fat, and put it by for use. Fillets of Woodcocks a la Lucullus.—Singe and draw some birds, fix them on the spit, and roast, keeping them rather underdone. Make about 41b. of chicken forcemeat. Woodcocks—continued. Take the fillets off’ the birds, spread them over with the forcemeat, brush over with beaten egg, lay them in a buttered saute pan, pour in sufficient white stock to cover them, and boil gently for a few minutes. Chop the flesh of the legs and the trails, put it in a mortar, pound, and pass through a fine hair sieve. Put the pounded meat in a saucepan with 14 breakfast-cupfuls of game sauce (which can be made from the bones of the birds), and boil it til! thick ; move the sauce to the side of the lire and stir in the beaten yolks of two eggs. Arrange the fillets of Woodcocks in a circle on a hot dish, alternat ing each with a crouton of fried bread, pour the sauce in the middle of the dish, and serve. Fillets of Woodcocks a la Strasbourg.—Cut the fillets off some Woodcocks and split them open where they are thickest, trimming neatly at the same time. Put some mushroom trimmings, the same quantity of parsley, and a smaller quantity of shallots, all chopped, in a frying-pan with a lump of butter, and fry them over a brisk fire for five minutes; then mix them with some fat liver force- meat. Spread the mixture inside the fillets, fold them again, flatten them slightly with the blade of a knife to stick the two pieces together, put them in a frying-pan with a piece of butter, cover with a sheet of buttered paper, and fry them over a moderate fire. Boil some Spanish sauce with some essence of Woodcocks till reduced, then mix in 1 table spoonful of chopped truffles that have been cooked in white wine and 4 table-spoonful each of chopped mushrooms, parsley, and shallots, that have been fried in butter. Cook some scollops of fat liver, put them in a croustade that has been fixed on a hot dish, pour some of the sauce over the fillets, and serve the remainder in a sauceboat. Fillets of Woodcocks en Surprise.—Roast some Wood, cocks in front of a clear fire, keeping them rather under- done. When cooked, cut the fillets carefully off' the breasts of the Woodcocks, cover each with chicken force- meat, and let them simmer in some stock for ten or twelve minutes. Put as many dressed cocks’ combs as there are fillets in a little stock, and warm them. Put a border of mashed potatoes on a hot dish, arrange the fillets and cocks’ combs alternately on them, pour over some veloute game sauce, and serve. Fillets of Woodcock a la Talleyrand.—Roast some Woodcocks, and prepare some chicken forcemeat. When the Woodcocks are cooked, cut the fillets off the breast and cover them with the forcemeat, put them in a stewpan with sufficient broth to cover, and let them simmer for ten minutes. Cut as many pieces of bread as there are fillets and of the same size and shape, and fry them till lightly browned in butter. Pound the trails of the Woodcocks, season them, and mix a beaten yolk of egg with them ; spread the mixture on the croutons, and brown them in a quick oven for ten or fifteen minutes. Pour 2 breakfast-cupfuls of game sauce into a stewpan with a scant breakfast-cupful of broth, and boil quickly till it adheres to the spoon ; then put in 5 or 6 table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped truffles, and add a little sugar. Arrange the fillets of Woodcocks in a half circle round a hot dish, and the croutons round the other side, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Fillets of Woodcock on Toast.—Separate the fillets from the bones of some Woodcocks, trim them neatly, season with salt and pepper, and brush over with warmed butter. Chop the trails of the birds, and mix them with some chopped parsley, shallots, and scraped bacon, and season the mixture with pepper and salt. Cut some crusts of bread longer than the fillets, make some deep slits down the edges, fry them in butter, then scoop out the crumb. Fill the crusts with the chopped trail mixture, and bake them. Put the fillets of Woodcocks in a frying-pan with some butter, and fry them. Mix some meat glaze with some stock that should have been made with the pounded carcase of the birds. When cooked, put the crusts on a hot dish, place a fillet on each crust, and serve them with the sauce in a sauceboat. Fillets of Woodcock with Truffle Puree.—Separate the fillets from the bones of the birds, trim them, put them in793 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, £c., referred to, see under their special heads. W oodcocks—continued. a frying-pan, season with pepper and salt, and baste them with a little warmed butter. Stud each of the minion fillets with a small square of truffle, put them in a baking- dish with a small lump of butter, cover with a sheet of buttered paper, and hake in the oven. Fry the large fillets over a moderate fire. Fix a croustade in the centre of a hot dish, and fill it with a truffle puree. Arrange the large fillets when cooked in a circle round the croustade, then place the minion fillets round them. Pour over the fillets some essence of Woodcocks that has been mixed with a small quantity of half glaze, and serve them. Fried Woodcocks.—-Dress and prepare two or three Woodcocks. Have ready a frying-pan half full of smoking hot fat, and as many slices of bread as there are birds. Trim the crust from the bread, and toast it delicately 'while the Woodcocks are being fried ; plunge the birds into the hot fat, fry them a delicate brown, then sprinkle them with salt, and serve them on the toast. Roasted Woodcocks.—(1) Truss the required quantity of Woodcocks without drawing them, fastening the legs close to the body with an iron skewer. Toast as many slices of bread as there are Woodcocks to he roasted. Tie the birds on a small bird-spit, and put them in front of a clear fire. Lay a slice of toast in the dripping-pan under each bird to catch the trail, and let them roast for twenty minutes or half an-hour: they should be rather underdone. While they are roasting, ■ haste them with butter, and dredge with Fig. 1078. Roasted Woodcocks. flour to froth them. When sufficiently cooked, lay the pieces of toast on a hot dish and put one of the birds on each, pour a little good beef gravy in the dish, and serve some more in a sauce-tureen. Garnish the dish with thin slices of lemon and watercress (see Fig. 1078). (2) Pluck and draw some Woodcocks ; put a little butter, pepper, and salt, mixed, into the body, or fill with mashed potatoes seasoned with a bit of butter, pepper, and salt, and moistened with milk ; cut off the pinions at the first joint, fasten the legs close to the ribs, and turn the head of each one backwards, sticking the bill between the legs and the body. Rub over with pepper and salt, put them on a spit, and set before a hot fire, basting with a little water and butter. Dredge over flour or rolled crackers, and baste continually for the last five minutes; lay slices of toast under to catch the dripping, ami serve under the birds. (3) Procure six fine fat Woodcocks ; pick, singe, and draw them, putting the hearts and livers on a plate for further use. Take out the eyes, remove the skin from the heads, truss up the feet, skewer them with the bill, and tie a bard of fat pork round the breasts. Chop up all the hearts and livers very fine, and mix them with 1 teaspoonful of chives, 2 pinch of salt, J pinch of pepper, and 1 teaspoonful of butter. Prepare six bread canapes for game, 2Ain. long by Hin. wide, fry them for two minutes in very "hot- fat, then drain them thoroughly, and cover each canape with some of the mixture, spreading over a little bread- crumb and a very little butter; place them in a small baking-pan and put them aside. Now put the Woodcocks in a roasting-pan with a little butter well spread over them, and bake them in a brisk oven for ten minutes. Two minutes before the birds are done, put the canapes in the. oven, then take both out and lay the canapds on a hot dish ; untie the birds, and arrange them over the canapes, decorating the dish with a' little watercress. Strain the gravy into a sauce-bowl, and serve it separately. (4) Take the neck-bone out of the required quantity of birds, leaving the skin and head attached to the body, Woodcocks—continued. twist the skin of the neck round the wing, and stick the bill through the wing and body in place of a skewer. Tie some thin rashers of bacon round the birds, fix them on a spit, and roast in front of a clear fire. The birds should be continually basted with butter, and a piece of toasted bread should lie put underneath to catch the drippings. When cooked, put as many pieces of toast on a hot dish as there are Woodcocks, place a bird on each piece, and serve them with a sauceboatful of butter sauce. These birds should not be drawn, and they require a very small amount of trussing. Salmi of Woodcock.—(1) Split three Woodcocks length- wise down the back, then divide them into joints, and lay them aside on a dish. Bruise the livers and trails of the birds, lay them on the dish with the birds, strew 2 table-spoonfuls of finely-minced lemon-peel over them, and dust over with salt, white pepper, a small quantity of cayenne, grated nutmeg, and 2 teaspoonfuls of French mustard; moisten with 1 wineglassful of white wine and the strained juice of four lemons. Put the dish in the oven and turn the contents about occasionally so that they may lie well seasoned. When very hot, take the dish (which should be of silver) out of the oven, pour a few drops of olive oil over the salmis, stir it about a little, then serve while very hot. (2) Wrap some Woodcocks in sheets of buttered paper and partially roast them in front of a clear fire. When done, cut the birds into joints, pare off the skin, and trim them. Pound the carcases, put them in a saucepan with the trimmings, two shallots, a clove of garlic, half a laurel leaf, and some sprigs of parsley. Pour in some white wine and boil gently for half an-hour. Put loz. of butter and 1 table-spoonful of flour into a stewpan, and stir them over the fire till browned. Skim the fat off the sauce, strain it through a fine hair sieve, and stir it gradually in with the brown thickening. Continue stir- ring the liquor over the fire till boiling, then put in the pieces of Woodcocks, and keep them simmering by the side of the lire for ten or fifteen minutes. When ready, put the limbs of Woodcocks on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, garnish with croutons of fried bread or toast, and serve. (3) Cover some young Woodcocks with sheets of buttered paper, fix them on a spit, and roast them in front of a clear lire, keeping them as much underdone as possible. Disjoint the birds, beat them lightly, trim off all the skin, and leave them till cold. Put two or three slices of ham in a stewpan with 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of chopped carrots, three or four shallots, the same number of mushrooms, a bay-leaf, a hunch of thyme and parsley, three cloves, six peppercorns, 1 pinch of allspice, and a small lump of butter. Fry the above articles till lightly coloured, then put in the trimmings of the birds, pour in U teacupfuls of Madeira wine, the same quantity of Spanish sauce, and 4 teacupful of stock broth. Put the lid on the stewpan, and let the contents simmer by the side of the fire for an-hour-and-a-half. Skim the fat off the liquor, add a small lump of sugar to counteract the bitter taste caused by the lungs, and strain the sauce through a fine hair sieve into another stewpan. Put the limbs of the birds in the liquor and warm them gradually by the side of the fire. Turn the salmis on to a hot dish, garnish with croutons of fried bread, and serve. (4) Half roast two Woodcocks, basting them occasionally with a little butter to prevent them getting too dry, then cut them into pieces, put them in a stewpan with H breakfast- cupfuls of rich gravy, a small onion with three cloves stuck in it, and an anchovy; season with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of cayenne, and simmer gently for fifteen minutes. Bruise the livers and trails. Place the pieces of Woodcock on a dish and keep them hot. Put the trails and livers in the sauce with a small piece of butter that has been kneaded in flour, and stir it over the fire till boiling and thickened. When taken off' the fire, mix 1 wineglassful of red wine and a squeeze of lemon-juice with the sauce, pour it over the Woodcocks, and serve while very hot. (5) Cover the required quantity of birds with sheets of794 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Woodcocks—continued. buttered paper, and roast them in front of a clear fire, keeping them rather underdone. When cooked, take the intestines out of the birds. Put some finely-chopped mushrooms, one shallot, and some parsley in a frying-pan with a small lump of butter, anil fry them. When the herbs are nearly cooked, put in the intestines of the birds and three fat livers of fowls, and fry them. Put the mixture into a mortar, pound it, season with salt, pepper, and spices, and pass it through a fine hair sieve. Cut the fillets off the birds, and fry some pieces of bread of an equal size and shape in butter till nicely browned. Warm the fillets in some sauce prepared with the bones and trimmings of the Woodcocks. Cover the pieces of bread with the forcemeat, and bake them in a quick oven for a few minutes. Arrange the fillets of Woodcocks and pieces of bread alternately in a circle on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. (6) Remove the trails from some Woodcocks, then wrap the birds in sheets of buttered paper to prevent them browning, and roast them in front of a clear fire. When cooked, leave the birds till cold, then cut each into four pieces, and trim off the skin. Break the bones, put them in a saucepan with the trimmings, two or three shallots, a bunch of sweet herbs, a few cloves, and f pint of claret. Boil the wine till reduced to half its original quantity, then pour in lqt. of Spanish sauce. Let the liquor simmer by the side of the tire for three quarters-of an hour, keeping it constantly skimmed, then strain it through a fine hair sieve into another saucepan, and boil it till it will coat a spoon. Chop the trails, mix them with some fat liver forcemeat, and poach them. Fry some crofitons of bread in fat, and when of a light golden brown spread them with the forcemeat. Warm the pieces of Woodcock in the sauce, then arrange them on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, garnish with the crofitons, and serve. (7) Cut up some Woodcocks, arrange the pieces on a dish, and put it on a stand over a lighted lamp fed with spirits of wine. Add to the birds 3 good dessert-spoon- fuls of sherry, the strained juice of three lemons, a little butter, a small quantity of shred shallots, some raspings of crust of bread sprinkled over the birds, and a seasoning of salt and pepper. Let them simmer in the dish for ten minutes, stirring them every now and then. Turn into a hot dish, and serve. Salmis of Woodcocks a la Chasseur.—Pluck, singe, draw, pick out the eyes, and remove the skin from the heads of six fine Woodcocks, wipe them, truss them by hooding them in their breasts, put them in a roasting-pan with ^ pinch of salt, and cook for four minutes in the oven. Put loz. of butter into a saucepan with half a raw carrot and half a raw onion, all cut in pieces, a small bouquet garni, and six whole peppers. Cook for five minutes on the stove, moisten with ^ pint of Spanish sauce, § wineglassful of sherry wine, and 3 table-spoonfuls of mushroom liquor; season with h pinch of salt and | pinch of pepper, and cook for fifteen minutes longer. Stick a good sized mushroom in the bill of each bird, put them in a saute-pan, strain over the sauce, and add twelve mushrooms, cut into halves, and the zest of one lemon. Cook for six minutes longer, arrange on a round dish, de- corating it with fried bread croutons (see Fig. 1079), pour the sauce over, and serve. Stewed Stuffed Woodcocks.—Bone the requisite quantity of birds, cut off some of the breast-meat, and cut it into small pieces; chop an equal quantity of raw truffles and Woodcocks—continued. fat livers, put them in a basin with the meat, season, and baste them with 1 wineglassful of Madeira wine. Chop the meat of the legs together with a small quantity of pigeon flesh, put them in a mortar with an equal quan- tity of panada, and pound them. Season the mixture to taste, and add to it sufficient beaten eggs to bring it to the right consistency, then pass it through a fine hair sieve. Put the trails of the Woodcocks and six chickens’ livers in a frying-pan with some rasped bacon-fat, and fry them. When cooked, leave the trails and livers till cold, then pound them in a mortar, pass them through a fine hair sieve, and add to the other pounded meat, also mix in the breast meat and truffles that have been basted with Madeira. Stuff the Woodcocks with the mixture, roll them up, tie some slices of bacon round them, and roll each one separately in a cloth. Put the birds in a saucepan with sufficient stock to cover them, and let them simmer gently for an hour. When cooked, drain the birds, leave them till partly cooled, then bind them up tighter, press them under a light weight, and leave them till quite cold. Boil the cooking-liquor of the birds till re- duced to half glaze; take the Woodcocks and cut the breasts across in slices, but without removing the slices, put them in the reduced stock, and baste them con- stantly by the side of the fire till they are hot through. Poach some forcemeat, and fry a block of bread, cut to nearly the height of the Woodcocks. Coat the bread with some of the poached forcemeat, and put the remainder on a hot dish, standing the bread support in the centre. Place the birds in an upright position round the bread, putting the heads, that have been slightly cooked and brushed over with melted glaze, between each. Garnish three attelette skewers with truffles, and stick them in the top of the bread. Pour over some sauce prepared with the trimmings of the Woodcocks and truffles, and serve. Terrine of Woodcocks.—Bone some Woodcocks, split them in halves, put them in a dish with some quarters of peeled truffles, an equal quantity of cooked fat ham cut in squares, and 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of Madeira; season the above ingredients well. Cut the meat oft' a leg of hare, divide it into small pieces, put them in a deep frying-pan with double the quantity of game livers and a lump of butter, and fry the meat till set; then put in the trails of the Woodcocks, fry them, and when cooked, leave them till cool. Chop the fried livers, &c., put them in a mortar with a third of their quantity of chopped lean pork, the same of fresh fat bacon, and the trimmings. Pound them all, then season this forcemeat with some pepper, salt, and a pinch of sweet herbs, turn it into a basin, and strain into it the Madeira in which the Woodcocks have been steeped. Cover the bottom and sides of a terrine with some of the forcemeat, then fill it with alternate layers of Woodcocks, truffles, ham, and forcemeat. When full, smooth the surface of the pie with the blade of a knife, and cover it with slices of bacon. Put the cover on the terrine, place it in a saute-pan with a small quantity of hot water, and bake it for an hour and a half in a moderate oven. When cooked, take the terrine out of the oven, let it remain till half cold, then put a light weight on the top and leave it till quite cold. Cut the pie into oblongs, arrange them in a circle in the terrine, and serve. Woodcocks a la Chef de Cuisine.—Put in 2qts. of water over the fire, lib. of lean beef cut into pieces, two blades of mace, some whole pepper, and an onion stuck with a few cloves ; boil all these till the liquor has reduced to lqt., strain it, and put it at the side of the fire to keep warm. Draw the Woodcocks, put them into the broth, and boil them in it for twelve minutes. Mince the trail and liver very fine, and put them in a saucepan over the fire with about h pint of the gravy the Woodcocks are boiling in, and a small blade of mace. Place a dish in front of the fire, and rub on to it through a sieve the crumb of a stale French roll. Roll 4oz. of butter in flour, add it and 1 breakfast- cupful of port wine to the trail, put it over the fire, and shake it round in the saucepan till the butter has quite dissolved. Take the breadcrumbs from the dish before the fire,THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 795 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Woodcocks—continued. add them to the trail, &c., and again shake the sauce round in the saucepan. When the Woodcocks are done, take them up, lay them in the hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Woodcocks en Croustades.—Singe and bone some Woodcocks and dust them inwardly with pepper and salt. Break the hack and bones into small pieces, put them in a stewpan with a lump of butter, and fry them over a clear fire till browned; then cover them with white wine and broth, and let them simmer for twenty minutes. Strain the liquor off the bones into another stewpan, boil it till reduced to half glaze, then thicken it with 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of sauce. Put the trails of the Woodcocks and five or six chickens’ livers in a frying-pan with some bacon-fat, and fry them quickly; season them with salt and pepper, leave them till cool, then pound them in a mortar with half their quantity of chopped bacon and the same of panada. Mix 3 or 4 table spoonfuls of chopped raw truffles with the above mixture and stuff the birds with it; roll one bird to a round shape and the remainder to an oval shape, fastening them securely with twine. Place two or three rashers of bacon and some sliced vegetables, such as carrots, turnips, and onions, at the bottom of a stewpan ; put in the birds, sprinkle a little salt over them, pour in to half their height some white wine and broth mixed in equal quantities, put the lid on the pan, and braise the birds. Cut as many small croustades of bread as there are birds, shaping one round and the rest oval, make a cut round on the upper surfaces with the point of a knife, and fry them in fat till nicely browned. When done, drain the pieces of bread, scoop them out, and spread a thin layer of game quenelle force- meat all over the insides. Put the croustades in the oven and bake them till the forcemeat has set. When cooked, tit the birds in the bread cases, and pour the sauce over them. Arrange the croustades on an ornamental dish paper that has been placed on a hot dish, putting the oval shaped ones all round and the round one in the centre, and serve while hot. Woodcocks a la Minute.—Put into a small frying-pan over a good fire 3oz. or 4oz. of butter, some shred shallots, a little pepper and salt, and grated nutmeg ; when the butter is quite hot, put a brace of Woodcocks into the pan, fry them for seven or eight minutes, and add 1 table- spoonful of white wine, the strained juice of two lemons, and some raspings of crust of bread; let the Woodcocks remain in the pan till the sauce has boiled up once, then put the birds on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve at once. Woodcocks a la Perigueux.—Truss some Woodcocks, put them in a stewpan with some thin slices of fat bacon on the top of them, pour in 1 pint of mirepoix and 4 pint of Madeira, and cook them gently by the side of the fire. Boil some Perigueux sauce together with some extract of Woodcocks till reduced. When cooked, drain the birds, put them on a hot dish, strain the sauce over them, and serve. Woodcock Liver Sauce.—Put 2 table spoonfuls each of port wine and cullis and the pounded bones and livers of six roasted Woodcocks into a saucepan, and let the liquor simmer till of the consistency of cream ; then strain, and add the strained juice of two oranges and a seasoning of pepper and salt. Woodcock Pie.—(1) Cut some Woodcocks into four pieces each, put them in a frying-pan with a lump of butter, season them with pepper and salt, and fry for ten minutes. Drain the Woodcocks and leave, them till cool. Chop some cooked calf’s liver and an equal quantity of fat bacon, put them in a mortar, and pound them, adding the trail of the Woodcocks whilst pounding. Pass the forcemeat through a fine hair sieve. Mix 1 pinch of salt with lib. of flour, nib in 41b. of butter, then mix it to a smooth paste with three beaten yolks of eggs and a small quantity of cold water, and roll the paste out on a floured table. Butter an entree pie-mould and line it evenly with the paste. Place a layer of the force meat at the bottom of the mould, leaving a hollow in Woodcocks—continued. the centre, put a layer of the Woodcocks on the force- meat, then another layer of the forcemeat, and so on, till the mould is full, finishing with a layer of forcemeat. Cut a block of bread to fit the hollow in the centre of the pie, bind a piece of fat bacon round it, and fix it in. Cover the pie with a flat of paste, trim the edges, moisten them with water, and pinch them together. Brush the pie over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, and bake it in a moderate oven. Cut into thin slices some cooked truffles and mix them with some Spanish sauce that has been reduced with some essence of truffles. When cooked, lift the cover oil' the pie, and remove the piece of bread from the centre. Put the pie on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a dish, fill the hollow left by the bread with the truffles and sauce. Arrange a circle of cocks’ kernels on the top of the force- meat, put some more sliced truffles in the middle, and serve. (2) Singe and bone four Woodcocks, put the trail in a mortar and pound it. Trim off the skin and gristle from 14lb. of fillet of veal and an equal quantity of fat bacon, chop them, pound in the mortar, and mix them with the trails. Spread the birds open, season them with salt and spices, put a layer of forcemeat on them, then some slices of truffles, and roll the birds up to an oval shape. Butter a cold pie-mould, line it with puff paste, put at the bottom a thin layer of the forcemeat, then two of the Woodcocks, put a few slices of truffles on the top, cover them with forcemeat, then put in the remaining birds, proceed as before, and cover them with thin slices of fat bacon. Put a cover of paste over the pie, moistening and pinching the edges together, place another puff paste cover on the top of that, just damping it to make it adhere, brush it over with beaten egg, then with a sharp pointed knife draw a fancy pattern on it, make a hole in the centre, and bake the pie in a moderate oven for two hours. When cooked, leave the pie till it has cooled a little, then pour in through the hole in the top some melted aspic jelly that has been mixed with some reduced essence of Woodcocks. When quite cold, put the pie on a folded napkin or a lace edged dish-paper on a dish, and serve. Woodcock Puree en Croustade. -Pick the flesh from the bones and skin of some cold roasted Woodcocks, chop it, put it in a mortar, and pound it. Moisten the pounded meat with some Spanish sauce, pass it through a fine hair sieve into a saucepan, put in a lump of butter, and stir it by the side of the tire. Cut eight slices of bread into the shape of hearts, and cut out one round piece. Put a lump of butter in a frying-pan, and when on the point of boiling, put in the pieces of bread and fry them till brown; drain the pieces of bread, scoop out the centres to leave as little crumb as possible, and put them on a hot dish, arranging them with the points of the hearts meeting in the middle, and the round piece of bread over the points. Pour the puree into the pieces of bread, and serve them. Woodcock Puree with. Plover’s Eggs. -Trim the flesh of some cold roast Woodcock, chop it, and pound it in a mortar. Break the bones and put them in a saucepan with some trimmings of ham, the trimmings of the birds, some slices of carrot, turnip, and onion, a bunch of sweet herbs, 1 teacupful of white wine, and a small quantity of thick gravy. When boiling, move the saucepan to the side of the fire, anil let the sauce simmer gently for fifteen minutes ; then strain the sauce through a line hair sieve into another saucepan, and boil it quickly till reduced to half glaze. Put the trails, f teacupful of boiled rice, and a lump of butter, into the mortar, and pound them ; then mix them with the pounded meat and pass the whole through a fine hair sieve. Put the puree into a stewpan and stir it over the fire till hot, adding gradually about two-thirds of the above reduced liquor. Boil some lap- wing’s or plover’s eggs in water for eight minutes. Turn the puree into a hot dish, pour the remainder of the half- glaze over it, garnish with the eggs, and serve. Woodcock Souffles.—Separate the meat from the bones of some cooked Woodcocks, trim off the skin anil sinews, and pound it in a mortar with a piece of butter, the trails, and 1 teacupful of cold cooked rice. Season the pounded796 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes. Utensils, Sauces, *£c., referred to, see under their special heads. Woodcocks—continued. mixture to taste, and pass it through a fine hair sieve. Turn the puree into a saucepan and stir it over the fire till slightly warmed, then take it off and mix in the beaten yolks of six and the well whipped whites of four eggs. Butter some small but rather deep paper souffle cases, stand them on a buttered baking-sheet, and fill them with the above mixture. Put the souffles in a rather slack oven, and bake them for eighteen or twenty minutes. When cooked, take the souffles out of the oven, put them on a folded napkin or ornamental dish paper that has been placed on a hot dish, and serve without delay. Woodcock-and-Truffle Souffles.—Separate the flesh from the bones of some cold roasted Woodcocks, trim off the skin and sinewy parts, and put the flesh into a mortar with 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of cold cooked rice, pound them, put in 2 table-spoonfuls of sauce, and pass the mixture through a fine hair sieve. With the bones and the trimmings prepare a small quantity of broth, pass it through a fine hair sieve into another saucepan, thicken it with a few table-spoonfuls of sauce, and boil till reduced to half glaze. Boil 1 teacupful of chopped truffles in a little Madeira wine, and when cooked add them to the Wood- cock puree. Mix the sauce, the beaten yolks of four eggs, and a small piece of butter with the puree. Work the ingredients well, season the mixture with salt and pepper, and beat in the well-whipped whites of six eggs. Butter a souffle pan, pour in the souffle, and bake it in a rather slack oven for half an-hour. When cooked, stand the souffle in the mould on a dish, and serve without delay. WOOD-HENS.—Although it is the opinion of gourmets that the female bird of this particular family is not so good or well-flavoured as the male, nevertheless it can be prepared in many ways so that it would be almost impossible to distinguish one from the other. The mode of preparing and trussing is the same in both cases. Broiled Wood-hens.—Draw the birds, and truss them with their legs tucked into the body ; singe, and split them into halves lengthwise, beat each piece lightly, season and brush them over with clarified butter, and coat them with breadcrumbs. Grease a gridiron, heat it, put the pieces of Wood-hen on it, and broil over a clear but moderate fire ; turn them when brown on one side and brown on the other. When cooked, arrange the Wood-hens on a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper that has been placed on a hot dish, garnish them with parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of cold tartar sauce. Wood-hens a la Husse.—Singe and truss the birds as for roasting (French style), season with salt and pepper, put them into a stewpan with a lump of butter, and fry them over a moderate fire till nicely browned. Pour a small quantity of cream over the birds, and finish cooking them, basting frequently with it. When cooked, drain the Wood-hens and arrange them on a dish that will bear the heat of the oven. Mix about 1 breakfast cupful of bechamel sauce with the cooking sauce of the birds, and Fig. 1080. Wood hens a la Russe. boil it till reduced to a thick consistency. Pour the sauce over the birds, cover them thickly with breadcrumbs, and put the dish in the oven. When tire breadcrumbs are browned, take the dish out of the oven, garnish with watercress and slices of lemon (see Fig. 1080), and serve. Wood-hen Cake or Pain a la Suedoise.—Cut the fillets off the breast of some Wood liens, trim, chop, and pound them to a paste in a mortar. Mix with the pounded Wood-hens—con tinned. meat half its quantity of butter and a few beaten yolks of eggs, season the mixture, pass it through a fine hair sieve into a basin, work it with a wooden spoon for a few minutes, then mix in the well whipped white of an egg and a table-spoonful of whipped cream. Butter a timbale mould, fill it with the mixture, stand the mould in a stewpan, surround it with boiling water, and steam it for half an hour. Reduce some bechamel sauce with 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of meat glaze. Turn the pain out of the mould on to a hot dish, pour a small quantity of the sauce over it, and serve with the remainder in a sauceboat. Wood-hen Cake or Pain with Truffles.—Cut the fillets off some cold cooked Wood liens, trim, chop, and put them in a mortar with some rice panada and some butter, using lOoz. each of panada and butter to every pound of meat. Pound the above ingredients till smooth, season the mixture, and mix in gradually a sufficient quantity of beaten yolks of eggs and cream to bring it to the consistency of quenelle forcemeat. Pass the mixture through a fine hair sieve into a basin, and try the consistency by poaching a small quantity in boiling water. Butter the interior of a plain cylindric mould, fill it with the forcemeat, put it in a saucepan, surround it with boiling water, and steam it for half an-hour. Cover a tin column, the same height as the mould, with paste, glaze it with beaten egg, and bake. Fix the column in the centre of a dish, wipe the mould, turn it on to a dish, fix the column in the cylinder, and remove the mould. Fix a small vase or cup in the centre, fill it with some turned truffles, and garnish the bottom of the pain with a circle of cocks’ combs and truffles, arranging them in alternate order. Serve the pain with a sauceboatful of veloute sauce that has been reduced with some essence of truffles. Wood-ken Cutlets a la Pojarski.—These cutlets took their name from a landlord of a restaurant near St. Petersburg, who obtained great renown from his method of cooking them. Cut the meat off the breasts of some Wood-hens, trim off the skin and sinews, chop and pound it in a mortar, adding gradually in small pieces a quarter of their quantity of butter, and seasoning to taste with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Divide the mixture into small equal portions, shape them on a floured table like cutlets, and stick a small piece of well-cleaned bone at the pointed end of each. Brush the cutlets over with beaten egg, and coat them thickly with breadcrumbs. Put a lump of butter into a frying pan, warm it, then put in the cutlets, and fry them on both sides till nicely browned. When cooked, arrange the cutlets in a circle on a hot dish, pom- over the remainder of the butter in which they were fried, and serve. Wood-hen Pie.—(1) Skin, bone, and remove the fillets of four Wood-hens, divide each of the fillets into halves, put them in a deep dish with lib. of raw ham that has been washed and cut into squares, season them, and baste with a small quantity of cognac. Skin and chop the flesh off the thighs, put it in a mortar with the chopped fillets of two fowls, and pound them. Chop and pound an equal quantity of lean veal and double the quantity of fresh bacon, then mix the pounded meats together. Season the forcemeat well, and mix with it a few table spoonfuls of chopped mushrooms that have been cooked with a teaspoonful of chopped onions. Butter a cold pie-mould, stand it on a baking sheet that has been covered with a sheet of paper, and line it with short paste. Spread a layer of the forcemeat all round the bottom and sides of the pie mould, then fill it with alternate layers of the soaked fillets, ham, and forcemeat, building it in a dome shape and raising it above the rim of the mould. Put some thin slices of fat bacon on the top, then a round of paste, damp the edges, and press them together. Put another flat round of paste on the top, slightly damping it underneath to make it adhere, and with a knife draw a scroll or fancy design on the paste, making a hole in the centre. Brush the pie over with beaten egg, bake it for two hours in a moderate oven, covering it with paper797 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, d'C., referred to, see under their special heads. Wood-hens—continued. when it begins to take colour. When cooked, take the pie out of the oven, leave it for half an-hour, then filter in through the top a breakfast cupful of melted aspic jelly, in which has been mixed a small quantity of wine and a small quantity of either gravy or meat glaze. When quite cold, take the pie out of the mould, put it on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a dish, and serve. The backs and bones of these birds should be used as little as possible, on account of their bitterness. (2) Cold.—Cut the flesh from the bones of some Wood- hens—say three, for instance—trim off the skin and sinews, put it in a basin with lib. of coarsely chopped raw truffles, and baste them with about 2 wineglassfuls of Madeira. Melt some fat bacon in a frying-pan, then put in the livers and entrails of the Wood-hens with some raw poultry livers, and fry them over a quick fire. When cooked, season the livers, &c., well, leave them till cool, then pound in a mortar and pass them through a fine hair sieve. Cut the meat off four hares’ legs into small pieces, trimming off at the same time all the skin and tough parts, fry it with some bacon, season it with salt and pepper, allow it to cool, then pound and pass it through a fine hair sieve, mixing it with the pounded livers. Chop some equal quantities of lean veal, bacon, and fresh pork, mix them together, pound in a mortar, and pass the mince through a fine hair sieve, seasoning it with pepper and salt, and mix in the above pounded meats with it. Butter a low-shaped channeled pie-mould, set it on a baking-sheet that has been covered with buttered paper, line the mould with a short crust, then coat the inside with some of the pounded mixture, till it with alternate layers of the Wood-hen and truffles that have been basted with Madeira, and layers of the force- meat, building it to a dome. Cover the pie with a flat of paste, trim off the edges, moistening and pinching them together. Roll out the trimmings of the paste, and cut some fancy leaves out of it, make a hole in the top of the pie, arrange the leaves round it, brushing them over with a paste brush dipped in water to make them adhere, then with a sharp-pointed knife sketch a design all round. Brush the pie all over with beaten egg, and bake it in a moderate oven for two hours, covering it after it has been in ten minutes with a sheet of paper. When cooked, take the pie out of the oven, leave it till half cold, then pour in through a small funnel, fixed in the hole at the top, 1 teacupful of liquid aspic jelly that has been mixed with a small quantity of Madeira. Pick out the neatest looking of the Wood-hens’ heads, having the plumage on it, trim off the neck, and fix a small block of carrot in the head to keep it up firmly. When cold, put the pie on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish- paper that has been placed on a round dish, fix the head in the opening at the top of the pie, and serve when ready. WOOD-PIGEONS.—A species of wild bird, closely allied in every respect to the domestic pigeon. Receipts for its cooking will be found under Pigeons. WOODRUFF.—See Asperule Odorante. WOOD-SORREL.—This plant (Oxalis acetosella) is now but little used in cookery, although there can be little doubt that it gave the name to the celebrated soup known as Julienne, and this by a most remarkable metamorphosis of the name by which it was called throughout Europe. In Ireland it is known as the shamrock, which tradition tells us was made use of by St. Patrick as an example of the Trinity, or three in one. This produced for it the popular name of Allelujah. In Italy this word was corrupted into Lujula; thence in Southern Italy it became Giuliola; and in France it appeared as Julienne. WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE.-See Sauces. WORMWOOD (TV. Absinthe ; Ger. Wermuth ; Hal. Assenzio ; Sp. Axenjo).—A plant (Artemisia Absinthium) closely allied to southernwood and tarragon. It was at one time largely cultivated in this country for the purpose of producing bitters for beer. Its use for this Wormwood—continued. purpose was discontinued by Act of Parliament, but as its bitter principle was believed to possess tonic and other medicinal properties, it has been used by conti- nental liqueur makers in the production of absinthe, vermouth, and a species of bitters. WORT.—The name given by brewers to a malt liquid before its conversion into beer by fermentation. WREXHAM PUDDING.—-See Puddings. YAMS (TV. Ignames; Ger. Yamskartoffeln).—Strictly speaking, this is an American root, consisting of numerous Fig. 1081. Common Yams. species of the Dioscorea family. Those best known to us (Dioscorea sativa) are large, fleshy, tuberous roots (see Fig. 1081), resembling Jerusalem artichokes in peculiarity Fig. 1082. Chinese or Fig. 1083. Sweet Potato. Japanese Yams. of irregular growth, and potatoes in constitution. Lindley informs us that the Yams most commonly798 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <bc., referred to, see under their special heads. Y ams—continued. Yams—continued. employed for culinary purposes vary greatly in size and colour, according to the species or variety producing them; “ many attain a length of two or three feet, and weigh from 301b. to 401b.; some are white, others purplish throughout, while some have a purple skin with whitish flesh, and others are pink, or even black. Like potatoes they contain a large quantity of starch, and a nutritious meal used for making cakes, puddings, &c., is prepared from them in the West Indies, where also they are commonly sliced and dried in the sun in order to preserve them. One species, the Chinese or Japanese Yam (see Fig. 1082) (Dioscorea Batatas), has recently come into notice in this country, where it has been recommended for cultivation as a substitute for the potato; but although it succeeds very well when properly managed, it has not as yet found much favour among agriculturists. The chief drawback connected with it is the great depth to which its roots penetrate into the earth, and the conse- quent difficulty of extracting them. It is extensively grown and used for food in China and Japan.” It bears a close resemblance to the Spanish sweet potato (see Potatoes), as may be seen by comparing the two illustrations—Figs. 1082 and 1083. In America, where the entire Dioscorea family thrive excellently, and in other countries, the close likeness of the Yam to the sweet batata (or potato) sometimes leads to confusion. There is no material difference in the culinary process, but from a botanical point of view the characteristics are marked. Here we see the Yam and the Yam batata or sweet potato—all Yams, but not all sweet potatoes, although included in the category by custom. Any kind of Yams may be used in the following receipts: Baked Yams.—Thoroughly wash between 111), and 21b. of small Yams, dry them in a cloth, put them into a hot oven, and bake until they are soft to the touch. Spread a folded napkin on a hot dish, arrange the Yams on it, and serve with salt, pepper, and butter. Boiled Yams.—Peel and wasli lib. or more of small Yams; pour clean water over them, and leave them in it for a short time. Take them out, put them in a saucepan, cover them with cold salted water, and boil slowly until they are soft. Drain them well, let them remain in the saucepan for a minute or so, then turn into a vege- table-dish with a folded napkin under them, and serve. Broiled Yams.—Cut five or six small cooked peeled Yams into halves, lay them on a dish, dust them over with salt, and baste with 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of melted butter; roll the Yams well in it, arrange them on a double broiler, and broil over or before a clear lire, allowing three or four minutes for each side. Spread a folded napkin over a hot dish, arrange the Yams on it, and serve. Creamed Yams.—Cut Jib. of cold boiled Yams into small pieces about Jin. square, put them into a flat baking- tin, dust over with salt, cover them with cream, put the pan into a moderate oven, and bake them until nearly all the cream is absorbed. Then add 1 table-spoonful of butter, 1 teaspoonful of finely-chopped parsley, some pepper, and more salt. Toss them up in this seasoning, return to the oven for a minute or so, then turn them into a hot vegetable-dish, and serve. Curried Yams.—Cut about lib. or 211). of cold rather underdone Yams into slices; peel and slice two or three onions, put them into a stewpan with a lump of butter, and fry them until lightly browned; then put in the sliced Yams, dust them over with salt, pepper, and a sufficient quantity of curry-powder, baste them with a few table-spoonfuls of clear stock, add the juice of a lemon, and toss them over the fire for a few minutes. Serve on a hot dish, with or without boiled rice. Fried Yams.—Peel and wash one or two large Yams, and cut them into thin slices. Have ready a stewpan half filled with boiling fat, lay the slices of Yams in a frying basket, plunge them into the boiling fat, and fry until they are soft. Lift them out, drain, dust over with salt, and turn them on to a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin. Serve very hot. Glazed Yams.—Boil about lib. of Yams, being careful they are not overdone; peel them, roll them in beaten yolk of egg, and brown in front of a clear brisk fire. Serve on a folded napkin on a hot dish. Mashed Yams.—Peel, wash, and cut up the Yams into moderate-sized pieces, put them into a saucepan with a lump of salt and water to cover them, and boil gently until soft. Drain the Yams, and mash them well (this is best done with a pestle and mortar). For each breakfast- cupful of the pulp allow loz. of butter and 4 teacupful of milk; put these latter ingredients into a saucepan, place them over the fire until hot, then stir in the Yam pulp. and mix all well together, adding plenty of salt. Turn the mash into a hot vegetable-dish, mark it over the top with the prongs of a fork, and brown in front of the fire or under a salamander. Serve hot on a flat dish covered with a folded napkin (see Fig. 1084). Steamed Yams.—Peel and wash the Yams, and leave them covered with cold water for ten minutes. Put them in a steamer over a pan of boiling water, and cook them until tender. Turn them into a hot vegetable-dish, and serve at once. Stewed Yams.—Peel and cut Jib. of Yams into small pieces, put them in a stewpan with 2oz. of butter, a peeled and chopped onion, 1 .teaspoonful of common salt and celery salt mixed, 2 teaspoonfuls of chopped parsley, and | teacupful of water. Boil gently until the Yams are soft, then pour in 1 teacupful of milk in which 1 table-spoonful of flour has been mixed; add a few drops of vinegar or lemon juice, and stir until boiling. Boil for ten minutes, then turn the stew on to a hot dish, and serve. Stuffed Yams.—Finely chop lib. of beef steak, mix with it 4 table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, salt and pepper to taste, and a small quantity of cayenne pepper. Select eight medium sized Yams of nearly equal size, peel them thinly, wash them, and cut a small piece off the top of each.' Scoop out the insides, leaving a wall about Jin. in thickness, and stuff them with the prepared meat. Roll the Yams and their tops in beaten egg, and then iix the tops firmly in their places again, l’ut a large piece of butter in a stewpan over the fire, and when the blue smoke rises, put in the Yams, cover the pan, move it to the side of the fire, and let them stew until soft, turning them occasionally so that they may be evenly browned. When cooked, drain the Yams, arrange them in an upright position on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin, garnish them with fried parsley, and serve. Yams d la Barigoule.—Select eight or ten equal-sized small Yams, or cut large Yams into eight or ten equal sized pieces. Peel and wash them, put them into a saucepan, cover with clear broth, and boil until soft. Drain the Yams, being careful not to break them. Pour 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of olive oil into a deep frying-panTEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 799 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to. see under their special heads. Yams—continued. place it over the fire, and when hot, put in the Yams, and fry them until lightly and equally browned. Drain them, arrange on a hot dish, dust them over with salt and pepper, sprinkle them with a little vinegar, and serve. Yams au Gratin.—Scrub some small Yams and boil them with their skins on; when cooked, peel, and mash them until quite smooth. Spread a layer of the mashed Yams in a baking-dish, put in two or three small bits of butter and some grated Parmesan cheese, cover with another layer of the mash, add cheese and butter as before, and so on until all is used up or the dish full, put cheese and butter over the top, brown under a hot salamander or before a clear fire, and serve. Yams a l’ltalienne.—Boil some Yams in their skins until soft and floury, then peel, and mash them well with a fork. Separate the whites and yolks of two eggs, beat the yolks in with the mashed Yams, together with 2 table-spoonfuls of thick cream and 1 table-spoonful of dissolved butter and salt. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, beat them in with the mash, and turn the whole into a buttered baking dish, roughing the top with a fork. Brown in a brisk oven. Place the tin on a hot dish, fold a napkin round it, and serve quickly. Yams a la Maitre d’Hotel.—-Cut some cold cooked Yams into rather thick slices. Dissolve about 2oz. of butter in a fiat stewpan, stir in 4 table spoonful of flour, and when smooth, mix in gradually l pint of clear broth, and con- tinue stirring over the fire until boiling. Next put in the sliced Yams with some finely-chopped parsley, salt, and pepper to taste, and toss them about for two or three minutes, then move the pan to the side of the fire. Beat the yolk of one egg with the strained juice of half a lemon and a small quantity of cold water, and stir it in with the Yams. Turn the whole on to a hot dish, and serve. Yam Balls.—Peel and boil lib. of Yams, and when cooked, drain and mash them well, and rub them through a wire sieve; then mix them up with 4 table-spoonfuls of grated ham, 2 teaspoonfuls of finely-chopped onions, a moderate quantity of chopped parsley or finely-powdered dried sweet herbs, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg to taste. Moisten the whole with the beaten yolks of two eggs. Form the Fig. 1085. Yam Balls. mixture into balls, flour or egg-and-breadcrumb them, and fry in boiling fat until nicely browned. Drain the balls, place them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin, or fold a napkin boat-shaped and put them in (see Fig. 1085), and serve. Yam Cassolettes.—Peel and boil lib. of Yams, and when cooked, drain and mash them smoothly; mix with them, in moderate quantities, some powdered thyme and mace’ grated nutmeg, salt and pepper. Now add two well-beaten eggs and 1 table-spoonful of dissolved butter, and work the whole into a smooth paste, which mould into small cakes. Fry them in boiling fat until nicely browned, or they may be poached in the oven. Pile them on a ’ hot dish covered with a folded napkin or arranged as for Yam Balls (see Fig. 1085), and serve. Yam Cream.—Put the well-beaten yolks of eight eggs ilb- of caster sugar, and 1 table-spoonful of Yam flour into a stewpan; stir the mixture over a slow fire with a Yams—continued. wooden spoon, adding gradually 1 breakfast-cupful of cold water. When the mixture has thickened and is on the point of boiling, pour it into a basin and leave it until cool. Mix 4 table spoonfuls of apricot marmalade with 1 wineglassful of rum and 4oz. of gelatine dissolved in £ pint of water, and stir it in with the above mixture. Pass the whole through a fine hair sieve into a basin, and stir it over ice until thickened; pour it into a cylinder mould and pack it in ice for an hour or two. Before serving, dip the mould in tepid water, and turn the cream on to a fancy dish. Yam Croquettes.—Peel and boil four or five small Yams, break them up, and put them into a mortar with half their weight of butter and the same quantity of powdered white sugar. Pound the mixture well and mix with it the grated peel of half a lemon, a small quantity of salt, and two well-beaten eggs. Divide the paste into small portions, which shape like corks; egg-and-breadcrumb them, leave for an hour, then egg-and-breadcrumb them again, and fry in boiling fat until nicely browned. Drain them well, arrange on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin, garnish them with fried parsley, and serve. Yam Flour.—Peel and well wash several Yams, and grate them on a coarse cheese-grater; put the flour into deep dishes with plenty of water, and let it stand twelve or fourteen hours. Next strain ott’ the water, which will carry away a portion of the fibrous matter, add more water, stirring well, then leave it for twelve hours longer. Repeat this operation until the white sediment is quite free from fibrous matter, then drain oil' all the water and leave the flour until dry. Afterwards pass it through a fine hair sieve, and keep it in well-corked bottles. It is excellent for cakes or puddings in the place of wheat flour, and as a substitute for potato-flour. Yam Fritters.—(1) Put 6 table-spoonfuls of the mash of cold boiled Yams into a basin with 4 table-spconfuls of cream, mix lightly, and pass the compound through a fine sieve; beat up the yolks of five eggs with 2oz. of powdered white sugar, stir this in with the Yam paste, and whisk the whole until creamy. Next stir in the strained juice and grated peel of half a lemon, 1 heaped table-spoonful of self-raising wheat flour, and a little grated nutmeg. Beat the whole for a few minutes longer, then stir in the well-whisked whites of five eggs. Put a large lump of lard into a deep frying-pan, place it over the fire, and when the lard is boiling, drop in table- spoonfuls of the batter. Fry the fritters until lightly browned, drain them well, and serve them piled on a hot dish with wine sauce in a tureen. (2) Scrub four or five Yams, and bake them in a brisk oven; when soft, take them out, scrape out all the pulp from the skins, and pass it through a fine hair sieve. Add a third of its quantity of butter, sufficient vanilla sugar to sweeten, and the beaten yolks of seven eggs. Well mix, turn into a saucepan, and stir over a slow fire until quite smooth, then turn it on to a baking-dish and let it get cool. Then divide into equal-sized pieces, roll them into the shape of a cork, flatten them with a knife, and cut into small rounds with a tin cutter. Egg- and breadcrumb them, and fry in boiling fat until nicely browned; drain the fritters, roll them in caster sugar, put them on a napkin placed on a dish, and serve with lemon cut into half quarters. Yams en Chateau.—Mash some cold boiled Yams and mix with them some cold chopped green vegetable of any kind, adding seasoning to taste. Put a large piece of butter into a stewpan, ami when melted, stir in the above mixture and keep it over the fire until hot through. Press the mixture into a buttered mould shaped like a castle if procurable, and put it into a quick oven until nicely browned. Spiread a folded napkin over a hot dish, turn the shape out of the mould on to the napkin, and serve. Yam Omelet.—Beat four eggs with 1 teacupful of milk, add to H breakfast-cupfuls of mashed boiled Yam, and mix thoroughly. Season with salt, pepper, and powdered800 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <f-c., referred to, see under their special heads. Yams—continued. lievbs. Cut Jib. of lean bacon into small squares, put them in a frying-pan with a lump of butter, and fry until nicely browned. Mix in the mashed Yam, and stir the whole over the fire until set, then leave till nicely browned on both sides. Fold the omelet over and serve. Yam Pie.—Peel some moderate-sized Yams and cut them into thin slices. Butter the edges of a large pie-dish and line it with a good crust. Out a loin of mutton into chops, and trim off the bones and some of the fat. Cut three sheep’s kidneys into slices, and a cow-heel into small pieces. Put these ingredients, without the slices of Yam, into the pie-dish, mixing with them some chopped mush- rooms, bearded oysters, a sliced onion, and seasoning to taste. Moisten with a small quantity of water and cover with a thick layer of the sliced Yams. Next cover the pie with a thin flat of paste, moisten and press the edges together, trimming the paste off neatly, and make a hole in the centre. Cover the pie with a sheet of paper and bake it in a moderate oven. Stew the bones of the mutton and cow-heel with the trimmings of mushrooms and oysters in 1 pint of water, until all the goodness is extracted, then strain the liquor and keep it hot. When the pie is cooked, pour the gravy in with a funnel through the hole at the top, and serve hot. Yam Puree.—-Peel and wash a sufficient quantity of Yams, and boil them until tender; drain them and rub them through a fine hair sieve. Put a moderate-sized lump of butter into a stewpan over the fire, and when it has dis- solved, stir in the mash with sufficient milk and white stock mixed in equal quantities to bring it to the con- sistency of cream. Season to taste with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, and continue stirring over the fire with a wooilen spoon until boiling. Serve the puree on a hot dish. Yam Rissoles.—Mash some cold boiled Yams with a lump of butter and two or three well beaten eggs, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Divide the mixture into small pieces and mould them into egg-shaped balls. Roll them in grated breadcrumbs and beaten egg, then bread- crumb them again. Fry the rissoles in boiling fat- until equally browned, drain them for a minute on a sheet of kitchen paper in front of the fire, pile them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Yam Salad.—Cut some cold boiled Yams into nice slices. Rub the inside of a salad-bowl over with garlic, and arrange the slices of Yams in it. Mix 4 table-spoonfuls of salad oil with H table-spoonfuls of tarragon vinegar, season it with salt and pepper, and pour it over the slices of Yam. Chop and mix together, in small quantities, some chervil, tarragon, mint, and parsley, strew them over the salad, and serve. Yam Sautes.—Cut some cold boiled Yams into slices. Melt a moderate-sized piece of butter in a frying-pan, put in the slices of Yam, dust them over with salt and pepper, add finely-chopped parsley, and toss them over the fire for a few minutes until they are a golden brown. Drain the slices, turn them on to a hot dish, and serve. Yam Snow.—Well wash some Yams and boil them in their skins. When tender, drain and peel them, and rub them through a coarse sieve on to a hot dish. Serve immediately. Yam Souffle.—(1) Thoroughly wash five or six medium- sized Yams, and bake them in a quick oven for three- quarters-of-an hour. Take them out and cut them into halves lengthwise. Scrape out all the pulp into a hot basin, and mix it with a teacupful of milk, the whites of two eggs, . loz. of butter, salt and pepper to taste. Fill the half-skins with this mixture, brash them over thickly with beaten white of egg, and bake in a moderate oven until lightly browned on the top. Put them on a hot dish, and serve. (2) Boil two moderate-sized Yams, and when soft, take off the skins, and pass them through a fine wire sieve. Beat this up with the yolks of four eggs, sweeten to taste with white sugar, and flavour with essence of vanilla. Yams—continued. Whisk the whites of six eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them lightly hi with the above mixture. Turn it into a buttered souffle mould, and bake for twenty minutes. When the souffle is cooked, pin a folded napkin round the tin, and serve. Yam Soup.—-Boil ljlb. of Yams, and when cooked, take off the skins, and pass the Yams through a fine wire sieve. Melt loz. of butter in a stewpan, mix in a table-spoonful of arrowroot or cornflour, and stir it over the fire until well browned. Next put in the Yam pulp with as much nicely-flavoured stock as will make 2qts. of soup, and continue stirring over the fire until boiling. Turn the soup into a tureen, and serve it with sippets of toast. Yam Straws.—Peel and wash lib. of Yams, and cut them into slices about Jin. thick. Put them into a saucepan with plenty of boiling salted water, and boil until tender. Drain the slices in a colander until dry, dust them over with salt and pepper, then press them through the colander with a vegetable masher on to a hot dish, moving the colander backwards and forwards so that the pulp lays on the dish in long rows. When all the Yams have been pressed through, wipe the edge of the dish with a cloth, place it in the oven for two or three minutes, then serve. Yam Timbale.—Bake 21b. of Yams, and when cooked, scrape out the pulp, which put into a mortar with 6oz. of crushed loaf sugar, 4oz. of butter, 4oz. of powdered macaroons, and a small quantity of salt; pound these ingredients well, then mix with them the beaten yolks of six eggs, the whites of two, loz. of finely-chopped candied orange-flowers, and a teacupful of whipped cream. Butter a timbale mould, line it with puff paste, fill it with the mixture, and bake for half-an-hour. When cooked, turn the timbale out of the mould on to a dish, and serve immediately. Yam Roll.—Boil 21b. of Yams, and when cooked, drain them. Put them into a mortar and pound to a pulp, mixing in gradually 4 wineglassful of white wine and a small quantity each of grated nutmeg and beaten mace. Next mix in well the yolks of two eggs and 1 table- spoonful of warmed butter. Strew some grated bread- crumbs over a paste board, turn the mixture on to it, form it into a roll, coating it with the breadcrumbs, put it into a buttered baking-dish, and bake in a slow oven for fifteen or twenty minutes. Make a sauce as follows: Beat the yolk of an egg up with 1 teacupful of white wine, loz. of caster sugar, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Put the basin in a saucepan of boiling water, and stir until the sauce is thick. Turn the roll on to a hot dish, pour the sauce over it, and serve. YARMOUTH BLOATERS.—Nee Bloaters. YEAST (Fr. Ferment; Ger. Giisclit; Ital. and Sp. Fermento).—Before the introduction of baking- powder, pastrycooks and bread-bakers were at the mercy of the brewers, whose “ barm” was at no time free from incidental flavours or impurities, acquired by the careless mode of its collection and storing. In other words, brewers’ Yeast has always been, and now is, quite unfit for bread- or pastry-making, and thus as a judicious measure, refuge was taken in the numerous baking-powders that have been introduced to the market. Of some of these powders the least said the better (see Baking-powders); but even the very best is inferior to Yeast, for the sole reason that the effervescence producing the carbonic acid gas, which forms the leaven, forms at the same time a powerful salt—tartrate of potass or soda. When leavening could not be obtained by these means, bakers have used a volatile salt (ammonia) or bicarbonate of soda in such quantities that it would act upon the fat used in making the pastry and by saponification render it brittle and the pastry “ short.” Here, again, the ammonia or soda remains in the paste to be devoured with it. It may be argued that Yeast also remains in the bread i to be devoured with it; but it must also be rememberedARTISTIC SWEET ENTREMETS. Sava rin Cake. 3. Par meq nets with Preserves. Pineapple Bavaroise. 4. Croqenbouclie of Small Chous.TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 802 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, .Sauces, dec., referred to, see lender their special heads. Yeast—continued. spoonful of salt. Leave the mixture till blood warm, then put in 1 breakfast-cupful of fresh Yeast or break up in it an ounce cake of compressed Yeast, and leave it to rise in a warm temperature for five or six hours. When well risen, turn the Yeast into a stone jar, cork it tightly, and keep it in a cool place. (5) Boil two dozen well-washed potatoes in a saucepan of water. When cooked, pour off the water and fill the saucepan up with fresh, and boil it. Put 21b. of flour in a large pan, turn the potatoes and liquor into it, and mash them all together. Mix 1 teacupful of brown sugar with the above ingredients, and stir in sufficient iced water to bring it to the consistency of cream. Scald out a stone jar that will hold 6galls., put a wire sieve over it, and strain in the Yeast. When blood warm, mix lqt. of fresh Yeast with it to start it. Keep the Yeast in a warm temperature from twelve to twenty-four hours, according to the weather, activity, and need of using. It will then be ready for use. Keep it in a cool place. From the foregoing receipts it may be understood that Yeast can be readily produced and grown in large quanti- ties provided the right pabulum be used, and especially if a small quantity of mature Yeast be used to start it. But as Yeast can be produced without using stock Yeast to start the fermentation, it is quite evident that Yeast cells are to be found in the flour, and exist in the sub- stance of the materials used. It is the law of nature that every organic creation shall carry its own ferment or destroyer : wheat carries a kind of Yeast cell, or yeasty ferment, on its husk, just as fruit carries a ferment on its skin; lienee it is possible to produce Yeast from wheat or flour, adding sugar and certain mineral requirements found in salt, or contained in hard water. But as the natural ferment is not so strong or vigorous as the cultivated stock Yeast, it is always advisable in preparing a growing Yeast to prepare a good food, and then plant a good Yeast, collecting the crop as it rises. Yeast may be preserved for keeping in various ways: (1) Place the Yeast in a close canvas bag, and gently squeeze out as much moisture as possible, until the Yeast assumes the consistency of soft cheese. In this state it may be wrapped in waxed paper and stored away for future use. (2) Whisk the Yeast until it is like cream, and then lay it with a painter’s brush on flat dishes and expose it to the rays of the sun. Repeat the layers as they dry until a thick coating is established. In this state it may be collected and stored in a dry cool place, and used in the ordinary way. (3) Strips of clean new flannel may be covered with Yeast as above (No. 2), and when dried the flannel should be rolled up and covered with waxed paper. When re- quired for use, a few inches should be cut off one of the strips, and soaked in lukewarm water and the Yeast washed off and the flour then stirred in. Dried Yeast Paste with Alum.—Put 1 pint of flour in a basin and stir in gradually sufficient boiling water to make a stiff batter, when quite smooth let it stand till milk warm. Mix with the batter 1 teaspoonful each of powdered alum, salt, sugar, and 1 teacupful of Yeast. Let the Yeast ferment, then mix enough meal with it to make a stiff dough. Let it stand till it works, then put it in a dark place to dry. Dried Yeast Wafers.—Put lqt. of strong Yeast in a vessel, cover it, and set it in a warm temperature. When it has well worked and has a good head on it, stir in sufficient maize-meal or wheat-meal to make a stiff dough, divide it into small quantities, and flatten with the hands into round cakes. Lay them on a sieve and dry them either in the sun or near the fire, turning them often. When quite dry (they will take two or three days), pack them away in tins. Be very careful to keep them in a dry place, as the slightest moisture injures them. When using these cakes, mix in about 1 pint of warm water, and with Yeast—continued. it make a batter in the centre of a dish of flour, or set a sponge, and proceed as usual in making Yeast bread. One cake will raise 12lb. of flour. Yeast Cake.—-(1) There are several ways of making this cake, but the best receipt is as follows:—Take 3oz. of hops, separate them with the hand, and stew and boil them in water for half-an-hour; strain off the liquor into an earthenware vessel, and while still hot put in 3tlb. of rye-flour. As soon as it commences to ferment stir” well, and while it is working add 7lb. of Indian-meal. Mix it well. Before the meal can be added the previous mixture will have become a stiff' dough so that the meal will have to be kneaded into it. Then roll it out to about iin. in thickness and cut it into cakes with a biscuit-cutter. Place the cakes on a board, and put them in the sun to dry. They must be turned every day until they become quite hard. Care should be taken that they are not exposed to the wet or damp. When they are wanted for baking, they should be broken up and put in hot water and left for one night near the fire ; by that time they will have dissolved. When dissolved, the liquor is used for setting sponge just the same as the Yeast of beer. Barley- or white pea-meal can be used instead of the Indian-meal. (2) Mix 1 table-spoonful of Yeast with h pint of luke- warm milk, and sift in sufficient flour to make it a creamy thickness. Put 2Alb. of flour in a basin with 4lb. of caster sugar, mix it, then pour in the middle the thick- ened Yeast preparation, and let it stand in front of the fire for an hour to set the sponge. At the end of that time, warm fib. of butter, and mix it in with the flour, &c.; add lib. of well-washed and dried currants, lib. of chopped candied peel, and i table-spoonful of mixed spice. Mix the above ingredients thoroughly. Line a cake-tin with a sheet of buttered paper, pour in the cake mixture, and bake it for an hour and a half in a good oven. When cooked, take the cake out of the tin, and lean it against something till cold, so that the steam may escape. Yeast Dumplings.—(1) Mix 1 table-spoonful of bakers’ Yeast and 1 teaspoonful of salt with Hlb. of flour; stir in sufficient warm milk to make the dough, work it well, then cover with a cloth, and set it in a warm place to rise for two hours. Dust some flour on a table, turn the dough out on to it when well risen, knead it well, then divide into small portions, which shape into balls with floured hands. Plunge the dumplings into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil them rapidly for thirty minutes. When cooked, take the dumplings out with a slice, put them on a hot dish, and serve without delay with a sauceboat- ful of sweet sauce, unless they are served with boiled meat. (2) Procure some bakers’ dough and put it to rise in front of the fire for ten minutes, keeping it covered with a cloth. Have a saucepan of boiling water on the fire, divide the dough into small equal portions, and roll them into balls with floured hands. Drop the dumplings into the boiling water, and boil them for twenty minutes. When cooked, take the dumplings out with a slice, put them on a hot dish, pull them slightly apart with two forks to let the steam out, and serve immediately with a sauceboatful of sweet sauce or meat gravy, or else serve them with plain butter and sugar. (3) Warm lib. of butter and beat it together with three eggs; mix 4 teacupful of Yeast with lib. of flour, then mix in the beaten eggs and butter and 1 breakfast-cupful of warm milk. Add 1 table-spoonful of sugar, 1 salt- spoonful of salt, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Beat the mixture well with a wooden spoon, cover with a cloth, and set it in a warm place to rise. When well risen beat the mixture again, turn it on to a board over which flour has been sifted, divide it into equal quantities, and roll them into balls. Put the balls in a warm place till about to rise, then put them into a saucepan of boil- ing water, cover with the lid, and boil them for twenty minutes. Take the balls out quickly, put them on a dish, and serve immediately. (4) Put 2 table-spoonfuls of thick Yeast in h pint ofTEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OP PRACTICAL COOKERY. 803 Teast—continued. ■warm milk, stir it well, mix in two well-beaten eggs, Jib. of sifted flour, and a small quantity of salt. Work the mixture until smooth, cover it, and put it in a warm place until well risen. Warm 4oz. of butter, work it into the sponge, and add another Jib. of flour and J teacupful of sugar. Beat the dough thoroughly, and set it to rise again in a warm place. Divide the mixture into small equal-sized portions, roll them into balls on a floured table, and leave them to rise. Put a lump of butter in a frying- pan, make it hot, put in the balls, and fry them over a gentle fire until equally and delicately browned. When cooked, drain the balls, put them on a hot dish, pour stewed fruit round them, and serve. Yeast Fritters.—Dissolve loz. of dry Yeast in J pint of warm milk ; warm 4oz. of butter, beat it well, adding six eggs, one at a time, then mix in 1 pint of milk, also the milk in which the Yeast has been dissolved, lib. of flour, and a small quantity of salt. Stir the batter well until quite smooth, then cover it with a cloth and set it in a warm temperature. When the batter has well risen, melt a lump of butter in a frying-pan, and fry it in small quantities, like thin pancakes. When the fritters are cooked and lightly browned on both sides, place them on a hot dish on which has been spread a fancy dish- paper or a folded napkin, sift caster sugar and a small quantity of powdered cinnamon over them, and serve without delay. Yeast Puddings.—Get the required quantity of bakers’ dough, let it rise in front of the fire, then divide it into equal portions, and mould them into small balls. Have ready a saucepan of boiling water and plunge the balls into it. Keep the lid on the saucepan, and boil them quickly for twenty minutes. When cooked, drain the puddings, pile them on a hot dish, and serve at once with a sauceboatful of wine sauce. YELLOW SAUCE.—See Sauces. YORK BISCUITS.—See Biscuits. YORK SOUFFLES—See Souffles. YORKSHIRE CAKES.—See Cakes. YORKSHIRE PIE.—A pie under this name sold at Italian warehouses is nothing more than a galantine packed in terrines of different sizes. The genuine article, which forms an important feature of the York- shire Christmas festivities, is made as follows : Bone a large fowl and fill the body with a stuffing made of 1 teacupful of minced ham or tongue, 1 breakfast- cupful of minced veal, 1 teacupful of finely-chopped suet, 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped parsley, pepper and salt freely to taste, massed together with 2 beaten eggs; or the following stuffing may be used : The same quantities of minced ham or tongue, veal, and suet, 1 table-spoonful of powdered sweet herbs, a finely chopped partly boiled onion, 1 teaspoonful of grated lemon peel, J teaspoonful of mixed ground spices, 2 teaspoonfuls of salt, and J saltspoonful of cayenne pepper, worked into a paste with two beaten eggs. Sew up the fowl, truss it into a good shape, and then stew it with the goose in a close stewpan, moistening with some good stock. After stewing for half-an-hour, take the fowl and goose out of the stewpan, fold the fowl up in the goose, and lay the two in a pie-mould which has been lined with a good pie-paste, having previously put a layer of the same stuffing as used for the fowl at the bottom of the pie. Pack round the goose slices of partly boiled tongue and pieces of pigeon, partridge, hare, or any other game at hand. Fill up the gaps with more stuffing, and pour in as much as possible of the stock in which the goose and fowl were stewed. Spread Jin. layer of butter over the contents, cover it with paste, ornament as desired, brush over the top of the pie with white of egg, and bake in a slow oven for three hours. YORKSHIRE FORK PIES—See Pork. YORKSHIRE PUDDING.—Of all the counties of which England is composed, there is none so famous for its culinary productions as Yorkshire. The pie, the pudding, and the York ham are familiar as household words. There are a few varieties of Yorkshire pudding, notably that with currants served with roast beef, the famous Goose Pudding, and others, of which the following may be considered authentic examples: Take an equal number of eggs and table-spoonfuls of sifted flour, and when the eggs are well whisked mix them gradually with the flour, adding salt and a grating of nutmeg, and then pour in as much new milk as will make a batter the consistency of cream. Stir the batter with a fork vigorously for ten minutes or so, and then pour it at once into a baking-tin, which must be very hot, and contain a couple of table-spoonfuls of hot dripping. Set the pudding to bake in an oven, or before the tire under the roasting meat. When ready to serve, cut the pudding into squares, and send it to table on a separate dish. “ This.” says Kettner, “ is the true Yorkshire method, the pudding being only Jin. thick, and not turned in the baking. But in most other counties the plan is to make the pudding an inch thick, and either to turn it on the baking-tin or turn it out of one baking-tin on to another, in order to brown it on both sides. If the meat is not roasted but baked, the pudding may still be placed under it, the meat resting upon a tripod in the middle of the baking-tin.” Well-washed grocers’ currants may be added to the above for roasted beef, and the following receipts may be considered varieties of the original: (1) Stir into 1 pint of milk a sufficient quantity of flour to make a thin smooth batter; beat the yolks of four eggs together with J table-spoonful of brandy, also beat up the whites of two eggs; stir the eggs lightly in with the batter, season to taste with salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg, and beat the whole lightly with a fork for a few minutes. Thickly butter the interior of a hot shallow baking-tin, pour the batter into it, and put it in the oven. When set, the pudding may be put slantingly in front of the tire, where, if there be a joint roasting, it may receive the drippings from it, and be lightly browned over the top. Serve the pudding cut up into squares. (2) Mix smoothly 5 table-spoonfuls of flour with 1 pint of milk and one egg; put a lump of fat in a shallow baking-dish, place it over the fire until boiling hot, then pour in the batter and bake it in the oven for half-an- hour. Afterwards place it in front of the fire under the meat for ten minutes or so before taking the meat up. The tin should be huge enough to allow the pudding to be between Jin. and Jin. thick. Serve hot with the meat. (3) Mix 1 breakfast-cupful of flour in 1 pint of water or milk, beating it well to prevent it being lumpy ; add 1 table-spoonful each of warm dripping or butter and golden syrup, a little salt and baking-powder, the yolks of two eggs well beaten, and the whites whipped to a froth. Stone 3oz. or 4oz. of raisins or well-washed grocers’ currants, strew them over the batter, pour it into a hot shallow baking tin, and bake for twenty minutes. Take it out, and it is ready to be served. Apples cut in quarters and parboiled in syrup may be substituted for the raisins. YULE CAKES—See Cakes. Z AKONSKI.—Zakonsk i is in Russia the same as our “ hors d’oeuvre,” and are generally taken before sitting down to dinner. They are composed of herrings, ancho- vies, caviar, or other kind of small sandwiches ; or they may be small tartlets, thin slices of cooked goose, soused fish, or various other dishes. They are placed on a side table with liqueurs, and are eaten only a few minutes before dinner. ZAKUSKA.—The Russian term for a service of hors d’oeuvre, concerning which Sir Henry Thompson, in For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. 3 f 2804 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dee., referred to, see under their special heads. Zakuska—continued. “ Food and Feeding,” observes : “ It is well known that ! the custom exists to a very wide extent among Conti- nental nations of commencing either mid-day dejeuner or dinner by eating small portions of cold pickled fish, of raw vegetables, of highly-flavoured sausage thinly sliced, &c., to serve, it is said, as a whet to appetite. This custom ; reaches its highest development in the Zakuska of the Russian, which, consisting of numerous delicacies of the kind mentioned, is sometimes to be found occupying a table in an ante-room to be passed between the drawing- room and dining-room ; or, and more commonly, spread on the sideboard of the latter. The Russian eats a little from three or four dishes at least, and ‘ qualifies ’ with a glass of strong grain spirit (vodka), or of some liqueur (Vermouth more recently) before taking his place at the table. Among these savoury preliminaries may often be found caviare in its fresh state, grey, pearly, succulent and delicate, of which most of the caviare found in this country is but as the shadow to the substance.” ZAMPINO.—This is the name given in Austria and Italy to the fore-leg and foot of a young pig, commonly called the hand. Sometimes the bone of the leg is removed and the hollow space stuffed with a savoury forcemeat. Boiled and served with French beans (see Fig. 1087. Zampino. Fig. 1087) it is a delicacy not to be despised. The follow- ing receipt is given by a famous Italian chef: Select a freshly-salted Zampino, soak it for two hours, then drain it; remove the shank-bone and stuff the hollow with savoury forcemeat, wrap it in a cloth, tying it securely at both ends, put it in an oval stewpan, and pour in plenty of cold water. When the liquid boils, move the stewpan to the side of the fire and let it simmer for two hours. At the end of that time move the stewpan right away from the fire and leave the Zampino in the liquid for twenty minutes. Drain the pork, remove the cloth, put it on a hot dish, garnish it with French beans, and serve very hot. ZANDERS (Fr. Sandres).—These fresh-water- fish of the perch tribe are found in some of the North European Continental rivers and lakes, and frequently attain the size of a salmon. They are greatly esteemed for the quality of their flesh. In different countries they are known under different names. They are styled Sandelm in Germany, Schilen in Austria, and Soudacs in Russia. The flesh is very white, and said to be almost equal to the whiting. Boiled Zander.—(I) Scale the tail end of a large Zander, cut it into thick slices, and put it into a fish-kettle ; cover them with plenty of boiling water, and add a bunch of parsley and a lump of salt. When boiling, move the fish- kettle to the side of the fire and let the fish simmer for ten minutes, keeping the lid on. Put a chopped onion into a stewpan with a piece of butter, and fry till nicely browned; then add two red peppers and nearly lib. of well-washed rice, and stir it over the fire for two minutes. Moisten the rice to three times its height with fish broth, boil it quickly for a few minutes, then move the stewpan to the side of the fire and keep the contents simmering till the rice is done. When cooked, the grains of the rice should be whole, without being quite dry. Add a teacup- Zanders—continued. ful of tomato sauce and keep it by the side of the fire for a few minutes. Put a piece of butter broken into small pieces into the above mixture, and add from twenty to thirty crayfish-tails and the same quantity of olives that have been stuffed with anchovies and pickled in oil. Pile the above ingredients on to a hot dish. Drain the pieces of fish, arrange them on the rice, pour a little melted butter sauce over them, and serve. (2) Select a Zander about 51b. or 6lb. in weight, scale and draw it, cut off the tips of the fins, and score it trans- versely and slantwise on both sides. Lay it on a dish, sprinkle plenty of salt over it, and leave it for an hour or two. When ready, wash it in plenty of water, and truss its head. Lay the fish with its back upwards in a fish- kettle, pour in l pint of white wine and sufficient cold water to cover it, and add a lump of salt and a bunch of parsley. When the liquor boils, move the fish kettle to the edge of the fire, and stew the fish gently until cooked. Pour 1 teacupful of vinegar into a small saucepan, boil it until reduced to half its original quantity, then move it to the side of the fire and stir in quickly the beaten yolks of four eggs, loz. of butter, and 1 table-spoonful of thinly-shred horseradish. Continue stirring the sauce at the edge of the fire until thickened, but without letting it boil again, and season with salt and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Strain the sauce through a fine hair sieve, return it to the saucepan with 2oz. of plain and an equal quantity of cray- Fig. 1088. Boiled Zander. fish butter broken into small pieces. Beat it lightly at the edge of the fire until all the butter has dissolved and the sauce is frothy. Drain the fish, being careful not to break it, remove the string, place it on a hot dish, garnish it freely with parsley (see Fig. 1088), and serve with the sauce in a sauceboat. Boudins of Zander en Croustade.—Take Hlb. of the flesh of a Zander, and mince it finely ; mix with it lib. of butter and lib. of panada, work these ingredients well together, season the mixture with salt, pepper, and spices to taste, and bind with the beaten yolks of four eggs. Roll the forcemeat like a sausage in a sheet of buttered paper, and poach it in boiling water. When firm, drain the roll of forcemeat and leave it until cold. Cut the foicemeat roll crosswise into slices of an equal thickness, brush them over with the beaten egg, and roll half of them in grated breadcrumb, and the other half in finely-chopped truffles, giving them only a thin coating. Put two large lumps of butter into two saute-pans, and melt them ; fry the bread- crumbed boudins in one pan, and the truffled ones in another. Fry them a pale golden brown, then take them out of the fat and drain them for a few minutes on a sheet of kitchen-paper. Prepare a rice or bread croustade, which fix in the centre of a dish ; arrange the boudins in it, and serve. Stewed Zanders.—(1) Scale two moderate-sized Zanders, remove their gills, cut them into pieces, then draw and wash them, and dry them well. Put a lump of butter into a saucepan with some thickly sliced mushrooms, lay in the pieces of fish, sprinkle over them a little salt, then pour in 1 wineglassful of white wine, the juice of a lemon, and the liquor of two dozen blanched oysters. Add a small lump of kneaded butter, a teaspoonful of curry powder, and a bunch of parsley. Boil the fish quickly for twelve minutes, then take out the pieces carefully so as not to break them, and lay them on a hot dish. Remove the bunch of parsley, then stir into the liquor a liaison of three yolks of eggs ; stir it by the fire till thick, then put in the blanched oysters. Pour the sauce over the fish, and serve it.THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OE PRACTICAL COOKERY. 805 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Zanders—con tinned. (2) Dantzig Style.—Clean and scale a large Zander, trim off the tips of the fins, and cut the fish into moderate- sized pieces; put them in a fiat stewpan with the head and a bunch of parsley. Blanch two dozen oysters in white wine, strain the liquor through a fine hair sieve, let it settle, and pour it over the fish; pour in sufficient white wine to cover the fish, add some trimmings of mushrooms and loz. of butter that has been kneaded with 1 table-spoonful of flour, breaking it up into small pieces. Put the lid on the stewpan, and boil the liquor quickly for ten minutes. Trim the oysters and dry them thoroughly on a cloth. When cooked, take the pieces of Zander carefully out of the stewpan, lay them on a dish, and keep them hot whilst the sauce is being prepared. Boil the cooking liquor until reduced to a third of its original quantity, then pass it through a fine hair sieve into a clean stewpan. Boil it up again, move it to the edge of the fire, and mix in quickly the yolks of two eggs that have been beaten with 2 table-spoonfuls of cream. Stir the sauce until thickened, but do not let it boil again, then put in the oysters, pour it round the fish, and serve without delay. Zander with Aspic Jelly.—Clean the fish, removing its inside, and stuff it witli an ordinary forcemeat, making it look plump; sew up the opening and truss the head firmly. Wrap the fish in a cloth, put it in a fish kettle with sufficient court bouillon to cover it, keep it over the fire until the liquor reaches boiling-point, then move it to the side where it may simmer gently until the fish is done. Leave it in the cooking-liquor until cold, then drain it very carefully; remove the cloth, and coat it with jelly. Slide the fish carefully on to a pain vert that has been placed on a silver fish-dish, garnish it first with a string of chopped aspic jelly, and then with halves of hard-boiled eggs and small croft tons of jelly. Serve it with a sauceboatful of mayonnaise sauce. ZEPHYRS.—These might almost be described under the heading of Souffles, but as in certain parts of the country they are accorded special value, the following two receipts are given for their preparation: (1) Put loz. of gelatine in a small lined saucepan with A pint of milk, and place it over the fire until dissolved ; then move it off and put in 3 heaped table-spoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese. Whisk 1 breakfast-cupful of thick cream to a stiff froth, then mix it in with the other ingredients. Fill some small moulds or cups with the mixture, and stand them over ice or in a very cool place until it has set. When ready to serve, turn the Zephyrs out of the moulds on to a dish, and garnish them with small croft tons of aspic jelly. (2) Put Alb. of butter in a stewpan with 1 pint of water, then stir in gradually Alb. of flour, and continue stirring the mixture over the fire until it parts from the sides of the stewpan. Remove it from the tire, and leave it until nearly cold, stirring occasionally. Break eight eggs in a basin, grate in the peel of half a lemon, and beat them well; then stir them into the paste. Dust the interior of a shallow baking dish with flour, then with a spoon constantly dipped in water take the mixture up in small quantities anti drop them on to the floured tin, leaving a short space between each to allow of the balls rising twice their original size. Put them into a brisk oven, and bake until they are lightly browned. They will require a very short time to bake. When cooked, arrange them on a hot dish on which has been laid a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, sift caster sugar over them, and a small quantity of powdered cinnamon if liked, and serve. ZEST {Fr. Zeste).—The yellow surface of oranges and lemons, containing the essential or flavouring oil of the peel. The term is commonly used in this sense as orange- or lemon-zest; but it has really a more extensive signification, and might correctly be applied to all sorts of spices and flavourings. ZRAZY.—This is a Polish dish, and is prepared as follows: Cut off some slices about lin. in thickness from the fillet of a sirloin of beef, flatten them with the cutlet-bat till they are half their previous thickness, and trim them as nearly round as possible. Put a large lump of butter into a saucepan, make it hot, put in the pieces of meat, season to taste with salt and pepper, add a little ground or pounded cloves and a few chopped onions or shallots browned in butter to a light colour, and add also a small clove of garlic, likewise bruised or pounded. Cover the pan, and set them on the stove where they will steam in their own liquor until quite tender, turning them over when one side is cooked so as to have them done equally on both sides. Should the gravy dry up or evaporate, add a little rich stock or soup. Take out the rounds of meat when tender, place them on a dish, skim off the fat from the liquor, add a small quantity of flour to thicken slightly, colour with burnt sugar, cook for a minute or so, pour it over the meat, and serve. Potatoes cut into slices and fried in butter should be served for garnish. Should the garlic be objected to, it may be omitted. ZWEIBACHEN.—This is the name of some famous German cakes, the term signifying twice cooked (Zwei—• twice, and bachen—cooked). (1) Beat six eggs together with 3oz. of caster sugar; mix J pint of fresh yeast in A pint of slightly-warmed milk, then add Jib. of warmed butter. Sift in gradually with the above ingredients sufficient flour to make a stiff dough, stirring all the time, and mixing it very smoothly. Put a cloth over the pan and set it in a warm tempera- ture till the dough has risen to double its original height. Dust a little flour over the dough and knead it well with the hands; it should not be too stiff. Divide this into several small portions, and shape them into long rather narrow cakes about lin. in thickness. Put the Zweibachen on a fluttered baking-tin, brash them over with a paste- brash dipped in milk, and bake them. When cooked, leave the cakes till the following day, then split them open, lay them out flat, the crusted part underneath, and put them in a moderate oven again till yellow and crisp. These cakes may be eaten with butter while hot, if liked, or left till cold, and eaten as a dry biscuit. (2) Mix together in a basin lib. of finely-sifted flour and Jib. of sugar. Dissolve 2 table-spoonfuls of yeast in A pint of warm milk, then make a hollow in the centre of the flour and stir it in. Cut 4oz. of butter into thin slices, lay them on the top of the mixture, cover with a cloth, and leave it until risen. Afterwards knead the dough thoroughly with the hands and set it to rise. When it begins to crack on the top, mould the dough into strips lin. thick and 4m. or 5in. long. Butter a baking-tin, and lay the strips on it, leaving about 2in. clear space between each. Leave them until they have risen again, then brash them over with a paste-brash dipped in milk, and bake in a moderate oven. When cooked, put the strips in the larder until the following day. Afterwards cut them open, using a sharp knife for the purpose, and put them in a cool oven. When crisp and lightly browned, take them out.Menus OF DINNERS, SUPPERS, AND LUNCHEONS, GIVEN ON VARIOUS IMPORTANT OR HISTORICAL OCCASIONS. Prepared by the leading Cooks of Various Nationalities, practising in this and other Countries. Introductory Remarks.—To compose Menus or “ bills of fare ” has come to be regarded as the highest attainment of culinary art. Cooking is comparatively easy, requiring only care and skill in carrying out the scheme that has been previously elaborated for the guidance of the cook. The Menu is the architect’s plan, the cook is the builder. Some cooks work from plans which they have themselves designed, but, in private families, or public institutions, where the services of a master in cookery are not available, it would be unsatisfactory to leave the arrangement of the Menu in the hands of the cook. There are several reasons why a good plain cook should not be entrusted with organising a Menu. The temptation to make it an occasion for, on the one hand, showing off skill in particular dishes, and on the other, of shirking those dishes that give extra trouble in their preparation, militate seriously against the gastronomic qualities of the dinner, so that it is advisable in every case for the host or hostess to draw out the menu, with the cook’s co-operation. As to the language in which a Menu should be written, considerable argument has prevailed, many preferring to use the French language throughout. The observation of a famous gastronomist, that it is not necessary for one to be a French scholar to enjoy a good dinner, certainly scores in favour of English; but then, on the contrary, there are so many dishes in familiar use in this country that have no English equivalents, that it would be impossible to work out an artistic Menu without introducing French terms here and there. A mixture of the two languages has led to much dissatisfaction, and some very amusing combinations have occasionally appeared on Menus through the presumption of ignorant cooks, such as a “jambonof ham,” and others perhaps worse. The inclination, therefore, is in favour of adopting French terminology throughout. But this, again, would be deceptive to the diner, for in many—far too many— instances the modes of preparing certain dishes with even standard names differ. Of pronunciation and spelling, little need be said, mistakes occurring on all sides, from the French cook’s “biftek de mouton ” to the British cook’s “savvy cake ” for savoy. Innumerable instances of these errors might be given if any good purpose would be served by doing so. Throughout this Encyclopaedia the great difficulty of nomenclature has been got over by adopting those which appeared to be the more plausible, whilst those of a doubtful meaning have been carefully ignored. Hence it will be found in some few instances that terms used in the following Menus, even though prescribed by chefs of the highest standing, may not appear amongst our receipts under that heading, the apparent omission being in reality due to the pi’actice of the individual. The popular absurdity of serving an old dish under the name of some personage, such as “ Consomme a la Duchesse de Montgomery” has only been countenanced when the receipt for its preparation, differing from others, has no other title to suit it. Care has been taken in selecting these Menus to insert those which are capable of suggesting others. Variations may be found desirable in many instances, and these can be readily supplied by reference to the list given in the index. The art of designing a Menu requires a knowledge of foods in season, or attainable. The capabilities of the cook should be studied, as well as the tastes of the guests. It would be absurd to put delicate entrees before a person unaccustomed to a high-school of cookery, and it would be outrageous to serve a gourmet with boiled beef and vegetables, or roast leg of mutton and turnips. According to the English custom (see Table Service) the first service should be of a preliminary character, such as soup or fish, or both. This should be followed by a substantial dish of meat, a piece de resistance to satisfy appetite. Then the cook may venture to serve up any delicate viands, such as entrees. Following this comes in correct order a •roast bird of some sort, attended or followed by a salad. Entremets, such as delicate vegetables, follow the roast, and807 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. dishes of highest flavour, such as cured hams, smoked tongues, and any other of that kind. Sweets come on the table at this point. The repast concludes with savoury tit-bits, such as cheese and its preparations, caviare, dried fish, devilled biscuits, mushrooms, and other similar foods. With regard to the wines suitable for various courses, these differ according to circumstances and tastes; but full-flavoured, fruity wines should be left until the last, especially if there be a dessert to follow the dinner, as there generally is. The French cook likes to see Bordeaux and Burgundy with the earlier courses, Champagne later on. Chablis always with oysters, when these are served as Hors d’GEuvre. Soups should always be light, and very delicately flavoured, whether a consomme, cream, or puree. Fish to follow is better boiled with a simple sauce. Meat may be cooked in many ways, and entrees require suitable sauces. A very good rule is to begin with light flavours, gradually increasing till the highest is reached; but a more masterly arrangement is that in which the preceding dish or dishes prepare the palate for the next, until that acme of taste is reached when the palate can be interested no further. It may then be “ cleaned ” or prepared for dessert by a savoury of cheese, or something of a salt character, such as olives. With the foregoing remarks for guidance, the framing of Menus will be much simplified, and the following examples better understood and varied with greater confidence according to requirements and culinary conditions. Banquet given at the Hotel Metropole, Feb. 6, 1893, on behalf of the National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children—the Duke of York presiding. Chablis. Dry Sherry. Rudesheimer. Deutz & Geldermann’s “ Gold hack. Max Sutaine & Co., extra quality, extra dry, 18o4. Liqueurs. Huitres au Citron. Consommh Duchesse. Veloute de Tomate au Tapioca. Turbot, Sauce Hollandaise. Filets de Sole a l’Orley. Mauviettes a la Turque. Bis de Veau aux Pointes d’Asperges. Granit Metropole. Selle de Mouton de Galles. Chapon Braise, Regence. Haricots Verts Sautes au Beurre. Pommes de Terre noisettes. Becassine roti sur Canape. Salade. Chateau Palmer Margaux, Grand Vin. Coekburn’s old bottled Port. Turban d’Ananas a la Creole. Maltaise a la Chantilly. Canape a la Provenpale. Corbeille de Glace Napolitaine. Petits Fours assortis. Johannis Natural Mineral Waters. Dessert. Cafe Noir. Special Dinner served at Windsor Castle on the Visit of the King of Roumania to the Queen, June 30, 1892. Potages. Printanier. A la Reine. Poissons. Truites, Sauce Hollandaise et Persil. Filets de Soles frits. Entrees. Rissoles a la d’Artois. Escalopes de Foies Gras a la Gelee. Releves. Haunch of Venison. Roast Beef. Rot. Cailles. Poulets. Entremets. Pois a la Franpaise. Beignet de Semouille, Sauce Abricot. Pains de Fraises a la Chantilly. Side Table. Cold Beef. Fowl. Tongue. Dinner served when the Gaekwar of Baroda visited Windsor Castle, July 4, 1892. Potages. A la Julienne. A la Creme de Riz. Poissons. Whitebait. Truites, Sauce Hollandaise et Persil. Entrees. Croquettes de Volaille. Cailles Bohemiennes, froides. Releve. Roast Beef. Rot. Canetons. Entremets. Pois a la Franpaise. Babas au Kirsch. Pudding froide a la Careme. Side Table. Hot and Cold Fowl. Tongue. Cold Beef Inaugural Dinner given by Signor Josef Fiorillo (member of the staff of this Encyclopaedia), at his School of Cookery, Berners Street, Oxford Street, London, 1893. Hors d’CEuvres. Dome d’Olives a la Capucine. Bocconi de Caviare d'Astrachan. Chaud. Marguerites de Volaille a la Hilda. Turbans de Queues de Homards princiers. Cocottes de Cailles a la Colombe. Froid. Celestines de Soles a la Victoria, Ballotines a la Parisienne. Pates de Gibier a la Perigord. Chaudfroid d’Ortolans en Cerise. Mousseline de Foie Gras a la Lucullus. Petits Pains farcis a la Varsovienne. Poulets de la Bresse a la Gelee. Langue a l’Ecarlate. Salade Gourme'e. Entremets. Mazarine a la Caroline. Timbales de Peches a la Montreuil. Gelee au Vin de Champagne. Macedoine de Fruits Renaissance. Charlotte Gauloise. Petits Gateaux varies. Dessert.THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 808 Banquet held in the Conservatory of the Winter Gardens, Southport, to celebrate the opening of the Centenary Exhibition, 1892. Iced Milk. POTAGES. Puncl1- Clear Turtle. Soup a la Reine. Poissons. sllerry Lobster a la Prince of Wales. Mayonnaise of Salmon. Grosses Pieces. Forequarter of Lamb and Mint Sauce. Spring Chickens. Turkey Poults. Ducklings. Roast Beef. Pressed Beef. Galantine of Chicken. York Hams. Ox-tongue. PMhR™^erSIl884 Quails in Aspic. Prawns in Aspic. Pigeons in Aspic. Parisienne Salad. French Salad. Entremets. G. H. Mumm, 1884. Gateau a la Pilkington. Gateau a la Bellevue. Pears a la Condd. Apples a la Conde. Noyau Jellies. Strawberry Cream. Charlotte Russe. Blanc mange. Tartlets. Maids of Honour. Cheese Cakes. Pastry a la Marine Lake. Liqueurs. GLACES. Coffee, &c. Strawberry Water. Vanilla Cream. Dessert. Pines. English Grapes. Australian Apples. Strawberries. Cherries. Apricots. Peaches. Nectarines. Bananas. Election Dinner of the Aberdeen Harbour Commissioners, held in the Douglas Hotel, Aberdeen, Feb., 1893. Oysters. Natives. Soup. Hare. Clear. Fish. Turbot, Lobster Sauce. Fillets of'Soles, Sauce Tartare. Entrees. Sweetbreads with Truffles. Stewed Kidney and Mushrooms. Chicken Patties. Ciomeskies of Veal. Removes. Sirloin of Beef. Saddle of Mutton. Roast Turkeys. Boiled Turkeys. Ham and Tongue. Haunch of Venison, Game. Black Game. Pheasants. Sweets. Plum Pudding. Wine Jelly. Brandy Cream. Ginger Cream. Charlotte Russe. French Pastiy. Ices. Strawberry. Apricot. Vanilla. Lemon. Dessert. Melons. Pines. Grapes. Pears. Oranges. Apples. Breakfast given by M. Bernascon, host of the Hotel de l’Europe, Aix-les-Bains, to the whole of the American Colony in the place, July 4 (American Independence Day), 1892. Melon Cantaloup. Langoustes a TAmericaine. Pintades de Grasse a la Harrison. Chateaubriand a la Christophe Colomb. Haricots Verts a la Lafayette. Patd de Foie Gras a la Washington. Mousse a l’lndependence. Gateau Cleveland. Piece Historique. Dessert. Champagne, &c. Note.—The names of the dishes are patent assumptions. The wines were not branded “ American.” Dinner Lesson at Marshall’s School of Cookery, July 29, 1892. Hors d’(Euvre. Homard a la Boulevard. Potage. Creme a la St. Clair, Poissons. Petites Cremes de Meilueho h la Royale. Rougets a la Parisienne. Entrees. Zephyrs de Volaille a la Bohemienne. Creme de Homard a la Marie. Releve. Filets de Bceuf a la Trouville. Pommes de Terre Olives frites. Petits Pois a I Alexandra. Sorbet. Melon en Timbale. Rot. Poularde rotie a la Nevenaise. Entremets. Petites Cremes de Legumes a l’Amdricaine. Ballettes en Petites Caisses. Ponding Glacd aux Fruits. Champignons Marines. Dinner given by Her Majesty at Windsor Castle, May 6, 1892. Potages. A la Puree d’Epinards. Cock-a-Leekie. Poissons. Rougets a l’ltalienne. Filets de Soles frits. Entree. Croquettes a la Trieste. Releve. Roast Beef. Rot. Cailles. Entremets. Asperges a la Sauce. Gateaux de Riz a 1 Ananas Charlotte Russe a la Vanilla. Cheese Straws. Side Table. Hot and Cold Fowl. Tongue. Cold Beef.809 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Menu of Grand Banquet in honour of the One Hundred and Fourth Anniversary Festival of the Royal Masonic Benevolent Institution for Girls, held at the Freemason’s Tavern, May 18, 1892. The Menu was printed on a blue-bordered card, representing a Grand Master’s Apron. Tortue Claire. Creme de Yolaille. Saumon, Sauce Mousseline. Concombres. Pornmes Nouvelles. Blanchaille. Bouchees a la Reine. Ris de Veau a la Printaniere. Aspic de Homard en Believe. Quartier d’Agneau, Sauce Men the. Filet de Boeuf braisd. Haricots Verts. Pornmes Rissolees. Caneton d’Aylesbury. Petits Pois. Salade. CEufs de Pluviers. Savarin a la Montmorency. Gelee au Kirsch. Pouding Glace a l'Anglaise. Dessert. Cafe. Dinner served at Corpus Christi College, Cambridge, to a distinguished Collegiate Party of thirty-one, August, 1892. Hors d’CEuvres. Native Oysters. Brown Bread and Butter. POTAGES. Clear Turtle. Brunoise. Poissons. Boiled Turbot, Sauce Hollandaise. Fried Smelts. Entrees. Turtle Fins a la Financiere. Ris de Veau aux Epinards. Releves. Hindquarter of Welsh Mutton. Hindquarter of Doe Venison. Rots. Grouse and Pheasants. Entremets. Albemarle Puddings. Macedoine Jellies. Apple Tarts and Cream. Bloaters on Toast. Celery. Salad, &c. Punch Frappee. Manzanilla. Huchheimer, vintage 1878 Irroy, Carte d'Or, sec, vintage 1884. Dummy, dry, vintage 1884. Royal Port. Chateau Ca'.on Segur, vintage 1875. Gerolstein. Her Majesty the Queen’s Dinner for Sunday, May 8, 1892. Potages. Puree d’Asperges. Riz Claire. Poissons. Tranches de Saumon, Sauce Tartare. Paupiettes de Filets de Soles Parisienne. Entree. Mousse de Volaille, Concombres. Releves. Roast Beef. Plum Pudding. Rot. L’Oison. Entremets. Artichauts en Quartier. Souffle a la Galfy. Petits Biscuits Glaces aux Praises. Side Table. Hot and Cold Fowl. Tongue. Cold Beef. Farewell Dinner given to Mr. Frank Marshall White (American journalist) at the Cafe Royal, Regent Street, Nov. 8, 1892. Geisenheimer, Moot et Chandon, 1884 (cuvtie 804). Chdteau St. Pierre. St. Julien, 1877. Fine Champagne. Liqueurs Huitres. Potage de Princesse. Bisque de Homard. Turbot, Sauce Hollandaise. Pornmes de Terre Chateaubriand. Brochettes d’Eperlans. Croquettes de Gibier, Sauce Perigourdine. Poulets Sautes a la Portugaise. Selle de Mouton, Gelee de Groseilles. Pornmes de Terre Rigolees. Celeri braisd. Faisans. Grouse. Salade. Asperges, Sauce Beurre fondu. Peches Glacdes. Canapes de Laitances. Fromage. Dessert. Royal Academy Chablis. Milk Punch Liebfraumilch, 1874, Pfungst Carte d’Or 1884- Chateau Talbot, 1879- Liqueurs. Banquet given at Limmer’s Hotel, May 1892 Huitres. Tortue Claire. Creme d'Oie a la Royale. Turbot bouilli, Sauce Ecrevisses. Filets de Saumon a llmperiale, froid. Blanchailles a la Diable. Cotelettes d’Agneau a la Milanaise. Chaudfroid de Creme de Volaille a la Montelimard. Filet de Boeuf pique a la Richelieu. Pornmes de Terre Chateau. Haricots Verts. Jambon braise au Madere. Epinards aux Croutons. CEufs de Pluviers en Aspic. Canetons aux Petits Pois, Sauce Cerises. Asperges en Branches, Beurre Fondu. Chartreuse de Fruits. Parfait au Cafd Glace. Canapes d’Anchois. Dessert. Her Majesty’s Christmas Dinner at Osborne House, Isle of Wight, 1892. Potages. Tete de Veau en Tortue a la Chiffonade. Poissons. Turbot, Sauce Hollandaise. Filets de Soles frits. Entrees. Rissoles de Faisan. Releves. Dinde a la Chipolata. Roast Beef. Chine of Pork. Plum Pudding. Canapes a la Princesse. Entremets. Asperges a la Sauce. Petits Souffles a la St. Anne. Mince Pies. Side Table. Baron of Beef. Boar’s Head. Game Pie. Woodcock Pie. Brawn.THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 810 Christmas Dinner served at the Hotel des Anglais, Nice, 1892. Potage a la Metropole. Consomme a la Duchesse. Saumon du Rhin, Sauces Vatel et Riche. Ponimes de Terre naturelles. Filet de Boeuf a la Renaissance. Poulardes a la Stanley. Cerises d’Alouettes a la belle Fleuriste. Cotelettes de Ramiers a la Franpaise. Granits au Champagne. Asperges en Branches, Sauce Mousseline. Dindes de Noel truffees. Salade de Saison. Coq de Basse-Cour en Surprise sur Socle. Fontaine des Innocents. Mince Pies. Plum Pudding. Brouettes Glacees a la Napolitaine. Gateau Gorenfiot. B Ion Nadard. Macaronade sur Socle. Phare International. Dessert et Fruits varies. Banquet given at Delmonico’s, New York, to the Chamber of Commerce of that City, 1892. Huitres. Ilaut Sauternes. Sherry. Pontet Canet. Champagne. Volnay. Liqueurs. Apollinaris. POTAGES. Consomme Plumeroy. Tortue Verte, claire. Hors dTEuvre. Timbales a la Duchesse. Poissons. Aiguilettes de Bass, Italienne au Gratin. Pomnies de Terre, Dauphine. Releves. Filet de Bceuf, Montebello. Choux-fleurs au Parmesan. Entrees. Poularde a la Toulouse. Petits Pois Parisienne. Terrapine a la Baltimore. Sorbet Colombus. Rots. Canvas-back Duck. Perdreaux. Salade de Laitue. Entremets Sucres. Pommes au Pralines. Gelee Ananas Californienne. Meringue Bavaroise. Pieces Montees. Glaces fantaisies. Fruits. Petits Fours. Cafe. French Cooks’ Society Annual Banquet, Nov., 1892, held at the Criterion Restaurant. Hors d'(Euvre. Croute au Pot. Raie au Beurre Noir. Julienne de Filet de Carrelet frit. Gigot de Mouton a la Bretonne. Pommes Puree au Gratin. Faisan a la Casserole. Salade de Saison. Gnoquis a la Roinanie. Marmite de Poires au Vin de St. Georges. Gateaux Pithiviers. Bombe Glaces a la Criterion. Fromage. Dessert. Cafd. Chefs, A. Purizot and C. Boizot. I Trinity College Tercentenary Banquet, given at the Leinster Hall, Dublin, August G, 1892. PREMIER SERVICE. Turtle Punch. Vino di Pasto, Liebfrauenmilch. Chablis. Bordeaux, La Rose. Bordeaux, Margaux. Moet and Chandon, 1884. Bollinger, 1884. Jules Remy, 1884. Bordeaux. Champagne. Sardines a l'Huile. Olives farcies. Saucisson de Lyon. POTAGES. Tortue Clair. De Creme Victoria. Poissons. Saumon et Concombres, Sauce Verte. Turbot, Sauce Cardinal. Pommes de Terre. Entrees. Chaudfroid de Cailles a la Macedoine. RLs de Veau pique aux Truffes. Releves. Poulet a la Creme. Jambon braise au Madere. Sellede Pre Sale. Epinards. Petits Pois. Asperges. Vin d’Oporto, 1863. Madere. Chartreuse. Kiimmel. Claret, Mouton, 1877. Cognac, 1868. Apricot Brandy. Vin d’Oporto. SECOND SERVICE. Rots. Quartier d’Agneau. Salade a la Franpaise. Entremets. Gelee d’Ananas. Compote d’Abricots a la Creme. Canapes d’Anchois. Dessert. Glaces. Biscuits Napolitaines. Melons. Raisins. Fraises. Ananas. Framboises. Dinner and Fete at Adcote Hall, Shrewsbury, Nov. 11,1890. Potage. Consomme a la Royale. Entree. Cotelettes de Mouton, Sauce au Gratin. Pieces Froids. Chapons farcis, garniture de Gelee d’Aspic. Galantines de Veau. Poulets rotis. Faisans au nature! aux Cressons. Jambons de York braises. Galantines de Dindon Truffees. Pates de Gibier en Plumage. Poulets bouillis a la Bechamel. Langues de Boeuf garnies a la Macedoine. CEufs aux Anehois. Aspic de Foie Gras. Mauviettes farcies en Aspic. Cailles en Aspic. Salade a la Russe. Entremets. Gelees au Citron. Cremes aux Ananas. Macedoines des Fruits. Cremes aux Fraises. Gelees au Marasquin. Gateaux a la Suisse. Gelees au Madere. Cremes au Cafe. Bagatelles. Cremes a la Vanille. Gelees aux Cerises. Petites Demoiselles d’Honneur. Eventails Franpais. Dessert. Glaces. (Served at Refreshment Table.) Creme aux Framboises. Creme aux Ananas. Sorbets au Citron.811 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Dinner given by Earl Fitzwilliam, May 25, 1892, at 4, Gr’osvenor Square. Creme d'Orge. Printanier. Whitebait. Truite bouillie. Bouchees au Salpicon. Timbales a la Duchesse. Pigeons ii la Flamande. Quartier d’Agneau. Cailles. Legumes. Bonnes Bouches. Gelee d’Orange. Timbales a la Suisse. Thirty-Seventh Annual Game Dinner, given by Mr. John B. Drake and his Partners to six hundred guests, at the Grand Pacific Hotel, Chicago, Feb., 1893. Oysters. Blue Points. Soup. Venison Broth. Hunter. Fish. Baked White Fish. Boiled Salmon Trout. Boiled. Banquet given at Alnwick Castle in honour of the coming of age of Lord Warkworth, second heir to the Dukedom of Northumberland, 1892. Poisson. Salmon with Salad and Cucumber Rots. Haunches of Venison, Currant Jelly and Port Wine Sauce. Necks of Venison. Sirloins of Beef, Horseradish. Haunches of Mutton. Froids. Fowls. Ham. Pressed Spice Beef with Jelly. Galantines of Veal. Roast Lamb, Mint Sauce. Barons of Beef. Game Pies. Pigeon Pies. Boiled Fowls. Tongues. Galantine of Beef. Rounds of Beef. Entremets, Plum Puddings. Vanilla Creams. Chocolate Creams. Wine Jellies. Fruit Jellies. Pastries Genoese Cakes. Baba Cakes. Leg of Mountain Sheep, Roast. Mountain Sheep. Loin of Venison. Black-tail Deer. Loin of Elk. Black Bear. Saddle of Antelope. Cinnamon Bear. Wild Goose. Opossum. Pin tail Duck. Mallard Duck. Spoon-bill Duck. Partridge. Red head Duck. Brant. Fox-squirrel. Butter-ball Duck. Green-winged Teal. Blue- pigeon. Jack Snipe. Wild Turkey. Prairie Chicken. Pheasant. Quail. Raccoon. Ruffled Grouse. Wood Duck. Sage Hen. Jack Rabbit, inged Teal. Plover. Broiled. Grey Squirrel. Blue-winged Teal. Venison Steak. Butter-ball Duck. Partridge. r- Red winged Starling. Sand Snipe. Quail. Blackbirds. Reedbirds. Pheasant. Plover. Ricebirds. Marshbirds. Entrees. Breast of Partridge with Truffles. Venison Cutlets, Mushroom Sauce. Bear Steak, Jelly Sauce. Ragout of Squirrel a la Financiere. American Hare a la Chasseur. Vegetables. Green Peas. Boiled and Mashed Potatoes. Sweet Corn. Stewed Tomatoes. Sweet Potatoes. Ornamental Dishes. Boned Wild Turkey in Jelly. Aspic of Lobster a la Royale. Pyramid of Wild Goose Livers. Mallard Duck a la Bellevue. Prairie Chicken en Plumage. Partridge au Naturel. Boned Wild Turkey. Prairie Chicken. Quail. Ducks. Partridge. Snipe. Prairie Chicken Salad. Celery. Celery Mayonnaise. French Kisses. Assorted Fancy Pyramids. Assorted Cake. Confectionery. Angel Cake. Macaroons. Lady Fingers. Vanilla Ice Cream. Siberian Punch. Oranges. Grapes. Nuts. Raisins. Coffee. Crackers. Cheese. Dinner given by Herbert Colstoun Gardner, Esq., M.P., March 10, 1892, at 48, Charles Street. Consomme aux Prunes, Saumon, Sauce Tartare. Eperlans frits. Zephirs de Volaille, Sauce Hollandaise. Chaudfroid de Mauviettes. Selle de Mouton. Jambon de Montonge, Sauce Bigone. Cailles a la Souvaroff. Pouding Victoria. Souffle frappe a l’Ananas. Pate de Foie Gras a la Napolitaine. Wedding Breakfast given by Colonel North at Avery Hall, Eltham, on the marriage of his daughter in 1892. Potage. Consomme a la Monaco. Sandwiches. Jambon. Langue. Pceuf braise. Sardine. Anchois. Saumon fumee au Cresson. Homard a la Chesterfield. Entrees, Froids. Medallion de Volaille a la Comte de Paris. COtelettes de Homard a la Stanley. Aspic de Foie Gras a la Strasbourgeoise. Mauviettes farcie a la Diplomatique. Petit Vol-au-Vent au Huitres. Crevettes en bouquet. Gateau a la Mascotte. Meringues a la Chantilly. Gateau a la Marie Antoinette. Pompadours a la Creme. Patisserie assortie. Genoise Glace a la Duchesse. Marrons Glace. Chocolate Fondants. Macedoine de Fruits. Creme Bavaroise aux Fraises. Gelee au Parfait Amour. Creme a la Heine Margot. Dessert. Glaces. Creme aux Fraises a la Vanille. Cafe. Citron ii l'Eau. Granite de Citron. Cafe Granite.812 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Dinner given by the Glasgow Juridical Society on Dec. 22, 1892, at the St. Enoch Station Hotel. “ Ora et Labora.” Preliminary Pleasures. Cockie Leekie. Mock Turtle. Grants cum Piscartis. Boiled Turbot, Lobster Sauce. Fried Fillets of Soles, Tartare Sauce. Entrees Untaxed. Oyster Pates. Mutton Cutlets and Tomato Sauce. In Substantialibus. Sirloin of Beef. Boiled Turkey. Saddle of Mutton, Celery Sauce. York Ham. Fik thereto. Roast Pheasants. Residue un Morceau. Apricot Pudding. Gateau a la Parisienne. Blanc mange. Wine Jelly, Dessert of the Diet pro loco et tempore. “ Ne plus ultra et nihil ad rem.” Hungarian Ball-Supper held at Princess Hall, Oxford Street, June 23, 1892. Consomme. Saumon Marine, Sauce Tartare. Homard au naturel. Mayonnaise de Homard. Saucisson de Brunswick. Aspic deFoie Gras. Poulets rotis. Jambon de Yore. Langues de Bceuf, d('coupee-s. Boeuf Pressd a l’Anglaise. Salades a la Franpaise. CEufs farcis aux Ancliois. Sandwiches de Foies Gras. Sandwiches a la Victoria. Trifle. Gelees au Cognac. Gelees des Fruits. Meringues a la Chantilly. Genoises Glacees variees. Glaces a la Napolitaine. Glaces de Citron a l’Eau. Cafe a la Glace et Cremes. Dessert. Fraises et Creme. Raisins. Ananas. Bananes. Cerises. Biscuits. Claret Cup. Champagne Cup. Mayor and Corporation Banquet on Nov. 24, 1892, at Bournemouth. Chablis. Amontillado. Marcobvunner, 1868. Magnums of Heidsieck, 1884. Chateau Margaux, 1874. Port, 1863. Madeira, 1851. Liqueurs. Brandy, 1892. Chartreuse. Curagoa. Huitres au naturel. Tortue Claire. Palestine. Turbot, Sauce Homard. Eperlans frits. Cromesky a la Russe. Petites Bouchees de Volaille aux Truffes. Civet de Lievre a l’Anglaise. Sirloin of Beef. Haunch of Mutton. Vegetables. Faisans. Perdreaux. Pommes de Terre frites. Plum Pudding. Mince Pies. Jubilee Creams. Gelee au Marasquin. Glace a la Nesselrode. Stilton. Cheddar. Dessert. Coffee. Banquet given by the Mayor and Mayoress of Kendal, in the Town Hall, Feb., 1893. Madeira. Champagne. Claret. Sherry. Port. Native Oysters. Clear Turtle Soup. Puree of Hare. Turbot, Lobster Sauce. Fillets of Sole, Cardinal Sauce. Vol-au-Vent a la Financiere. Sweetbreads with Mushrooms. Sirloin of Beef. Saddle of Mutton. Roast Turkey. Roast Goose. Boiled Turkey, Celery Sauce. Roast Ducks. Westphalian Ham. Haunch of Venison. French Beans. Pheasants. Grouse. Capercailzie. Lobster Salad Foie Gras en Aspic. Plum Pudding. Albert PuddiDg. Fruit Tarts. Mince Pies. Macedoine Jellies. Velvet Creams. Panachee Jellies. Pineapple Creams. Bavarois Creams. Chartreuse of Peaches. Genoise Pastry. Ice Pudding a la Chantilly. Gorgonzola and Stilton. Dessert. Dinner given by Lord Alington, July 22, 1891, at Alington House. Potages. Tortue Claire. Consomme d’Ete froid. Poissons. Truites, Sauce Hollandaise. Escalopes de Soles, Venitiennes. Entrees. Cotelettes d’Agneau aux Petits Pois. Petites Mousses de Volaille a la Portugaise. Releves. Filets de Bceuf Jardiniere, froid et cliaud. Roti. Poussins, Bread Sauce. Entremets. Haricots Panaches. Pudding Mousseline a la Montreuil. Tarte de Framboises et de Groseilles. Biscottes a la Creme de Sardines. Dinner given by the Austro-Hungarian Ambassador, May 23, 1891. Potage Bisque. Consomme Milanais. Blancliaille. Fruites a la Varsovienne. Petites Timbales Duchesse. Cailles au Riz a la Piedmontaise. Selle de Prd Sale. Poulets de Grains rotis, Salade Russe. Pain de Foie Gras Bellevue. Asperges, Sauce Mousseline. Savarin a la Creole. Dame Blanche, Petits Napolitaines. Fondantes au Chester. Glace a l’Ananas et PumpemikeLTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 813 Banquet of the British Medical Association, at the George Hotel, Nottingham, July 28, 1892. Soups. Sherry. Purde of Tomato. Mock Fish. Hock. Claret. Boiled Salmon, Cucumber. Fillets of Sole, Hollandaise Sauce. Entrees. Mutton Cutlets a la Reform. Sweetbreads and Mushrooms. Champagne. Rissoles of Lobster. Sorbet of Maraschino. Joints. Bollinger. Roast Beef, Yorkshire Pudding. Roast Lamb. Pfungst, vintage 1884 Cauliflower. Green Peas. “ Carte d'Or.” Liqueur Brandy Removes. Spring Chicken. Ducklings. York Ham. Sweets. Marmalade Pudding. Tarts. Cura<;oa. Jellies. Creams. Ices, &c. Port. Dessert. Strawberries. Melons. Hothouse Grapes. Bananas. Apples. Figs. Plums. Cherries. Oranges. Dinner given by the Duke of Devonshire, Nov. 12, 1892, at Chats worth. Brunoise aux Quenelles. Saumon, Sauce Hollandaise. Eperlans frits. Crepenettes a la Strasbourgeoise. Tournedos aux Traffes. Selle de Mouton. Poulets Napclitaine. Grouse. Faisans. Choux-fleurs au Gratin. Mille-feuille au Chocolat. Souffles aux Fraises Glaces. Rissoles aux Anchois, Jubilee Festival Banquet of the Royal Masonic Benevolent Institution, Feb. 24, 1892, at Freemasons’ Hall. Tortue Claire. Darnes de Saumon au Beurre Montpelier. Mayonnaise de Homard. Aspic de Crevettes en Bellevue. Chaudfroid de Mauviettes a l’Aspic. Pate de Foie Gras de Strasburg. Cotelettes d’Agneau a la Russe. Galantine de Yolaille aux Tratfes. Pate de Pigeon a l’Anglaise. Hure de Sanglier aux Pistaches. Mousse de Volaille a la Moderne. Aloyau de Bceuf au Raifort. Chapons de Surrey au Cresson. Jambon de York a la Gelee. Patd de Gibier a la Bohemienne. Bceuf Presse Sale. Langue a l’Ecarlate. Salade de Saison. Gateau Napolitaine. Eclairs au Cafe. Tartelettes Grillees. Gros Baba au Rhum. Choux a la Creme. D’Artois aux Abricots. Mirliton de Rouen. Fanchonettes de Poires. Bavaroise Vanille. Gelee au Marasquin. Gateau Conde. Genoise Glaec'e. Bombe Glaces a la Printaniere. Dessert. Supper at a Ball given at the Rainbow Hotel, Kendal, in connection with the Mayoral festivities, Feb., 1893. Fillets of Soles in Aspic. Prawns in Aspic. Potted Shrimps. Roast Peacock. Boned Turkeys a la Truffle. Roast Turkey. Boiled Chickens a la Bechamel. Braised Chickens a la Macedoine. Roast Sucking-pig. Boar’s Head. Game Pies. Galantine of Chickens. Roast Beef. Pressed Beef. Galantine of Veal. York Ham. Tongues. Pheasants. Partridges. Chickens in Aspic. Mayonnaise of Chicken. Shrimp Sandwiches. Lobster Salad. Natural Salad. Duchess Loaves. Cherry Tartlets. Madelines. French Pastry. Meringues. Iced Sponges. Florentine of Apricot. Pineapple Fritters. Savoy Cake a la Vanille. Croquants of Oranges. Chocolate Cake a la Creme. Raspberry Cake a la Creme. Mince Pies. Tipsy Cake. Macedoine of Jelly. Noyau Jelly. Benedictine Jelly. Golden Jelly. Strawberry Charlotte. Creams, various. Trifles. Fruits. Ices. Strawberry Cream. Chocolate Cream. Beef Tea on departure. Banquet given to the Tradesmen of Hereford on the coming of age of the son of J. Rankin, Esq., M.P. for Hereford, Sept. 1, 1892, at Bryngwyn, Herefordshire Sirloin of Beef. Ox-tongues. Quarter of Lamb. Chickens en Chaudfroid. Capons a la Bechamel. Galantine of Veal. York Hams fluted. Pigeon Pies a la Franpaise. Lamb Cutlets in Aspic. Chaudfroid of Larks, Jardiniere. Aspic de Foie Gras. Aspic of Lobster. Medallions of Chicken. Galantine of Capon and Truffles. Mayonnaise of Lobster. Mayonnaise of Chicken. Salad a la Russe. Salad a la Franf aise. Tomato Salad. Venetian Salad. Salmon in Montpellier Butter. Savarin Cake and Apricots. Gateau a la Napolitaine. Tipsy Cake. Mixed Fancy Pastry. Maraschino Jelly. Macedoine of Fruits. Charlotte Russe. Lemon Jelly. Pineapple Chartreuse. Trifle. C. Willin, Chef. Dinner given by Lord Reay, July 25, 1892, at 6, Great Stanhope Street. PREMIER SERVICE. Consomme Printanier. Bonne Femme a la Parmentier. Mousse de Homards. Filets de Soles au Gratin. Tournedos a la Rossini. Jambonr.eaux a la Russe. Carrti d’Agneau. SECOND SERVICE. Poulardes aux Cressons. Tomates a la Corblet. Bombe a la Creole. Petits Gateaux. Sardines a la Nantaise.THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 814 Supper given in honour of Sir James Sivewright, Commis- sioner of Crown Lands in the Cape Colony, at the Grand National Hotel, Johannesburg, 1892. Hors d’CEuvres. Salade de Crevettes. Caviare sur Canapes. Olives farcies. Soups. Real Turtle. Puree a la Dubery. Fish. Killback, Sauce Hollandaise. Fillets of Soles a la Joinville. Releve. Fillets of Beef a la Renaissance. Entrees. Noisettes d’Agneau a la Reforme. Vol-auVent a la Financiere. Punch a la Romaine. Rotis. Ducklings au Cresson. Dindes rotis au Truffes. Faisans rotis and Bread Sauce. Salade de Saison. Legumes. Celeri a l’Espagnole. Petits Fois a l’Anglaise. Pommes de Terre. Entremets de Cuisine. Asperges a la Milanaise. Entremets Sucres. Pudding a la Yesuvienne, Sauce Sabayou. Charlotte a la Russe. Corbeille de Fruit au Nougat. Piece Glace a la Napolitaine. Patisserie assortie. Dessert. Cafe N oir. Supper given by the Austro-Hungarian Ambassador, June 21, 1892. Consomme chaud et froid. Cotelettes d’Agneau aux Petits Pois. Poulets rotis au Cresson Salade. Filets de Soles Venitienne. Homards Bagration. Cliaudfroid a la Victoria. I’etits Pains fourres. Gelees au Sauteine. Gelees au Marasquin. Macedoines de Fruits. Tattes de Creme aux Fraises. Madeleines au Chocolat. Dinner given by the Hon. Percy Scowen Wyndham, M.P., May 25, 1892, at 44, Belgrave Square. POTAGES. Consomme a la d’Orleans. Creme de Laitue a la Princesse. Poissons. Filets de Truites froids a la Venitienne. Blanchaille. Entrees. Noisettes de Ris d’Agneau a la Doria. Cliaudfroid de Canetons a la Bigarade. Releves. Filet de Bceuf a la Claremont. Poulets a la Printaniere. R6ti. Cailles au Cresson. Entremets. Petits Pois it la Franfais. Suddoise de Fruits a la Ninon. Riches au Fromage. Supper given by Lady Scott, May 20, 1891, at 7, Grosvenor Square. Chaud. Consomme de Volaille. COtelettes d’Agneau aux Pois. Poulets decoupes. Cailles roties. Truffes au Champagne. Froid. Medaillons de Truite Norvegienne. Petits Aspics de Homard. Filets de Sole Pompadour. Mousses de Saumon a la Gelee. Petites Timbales de Foies Gras a 1'Aspic Cliaudfroid de Cailles. Giufs de Pluvier naturel. Canapes a la Demi-deuil. Mayonnaises de Volaille. Salades de Homard. Balotines a la Strasbourgeoise. Asperges a l’Huile. Poulets decoupes avec Langue et Jambon. Sandwiches variees. Entremets. Gelees de Fruits au Champagne. Gelees a l’Orange. Mousses aux Fraises. Macedoines de Fruits glaces. Patisseries assorties. Private Dinner given at Montague Square, London, to entertain the Duke of Cambridge, Feb. 11, 1892. Hors d’CEuvre. Lave sur Croiites. POTAGES. Consomme a la Tolede. Bisque d’Huitres. Poissons. Whitebait au naturel. Saumon bouilli, Sauce Hollandaise. Entrees. Pigeons a la Due de Cambridge. Souffles de Volaille a la Creme. Releve. Selle de Mouton. Rot. Faisans roti au Cresson. Entremets. Petits Souffles a la Vanille. Salade aux Fruits. Olives a la St. Augustine. Glace. Creme de Citron. Ball-Supper at Holland House, July 23, 1891. Chaud. Consomme: de Volaille. Cotelettes d’Agneau aux Petits Pois. Cailles de Vigne roties au Cresson. Poulardes rotis au Cresson. Froid. Filets de Saumon a la Norvegienne. Cliaudfroid de Cailles a l’lmperiale. Ballotines de Volailles a la Victoria. Cotelettes d’Agneau a la Russe. Poulardes Langues et Jambon a la Gelee. Petits Pains a la Franpaise. Sandwiches assortis. Entremets. Bavarois aux Fraises. Gelees aux Fruits. Macedoines de Fruits au Champagne.THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 815 Dinner Lesson given at Marshall’s School of Cookery, Mortimer Street, London, April 29, 1892. IIors d’CEuvre. Petites Bouchees a la Mentone. Potage. Creme a la Luculle. Poisson. Filets de Sole a la Celia. Entrees. Ris de Yean a la d’Orly. Mousse de Volaille a la Princesse. Releve. Gigot d’Agneau roti, Sauce Polonaise. Pommes de Terre Nouvelles a la Creme. Sorbet. Fruits au Vin en tasses de glace. Rot. Cailles au Cresson. Entremets. Cardons a la Moelle Petites Corheilles de Nougat a la Diirer. Bombe a la Portugaise. Petites Croustades a la Victoria. Cutlers’ Banquet (269th anniversary), Sheffield, 1892. Soups. Clear Turtle. Thick Turtle. Fish. Turbot, Lobster Sauce. Filleted Soles. Stewed Eels. Entrees. Sweetbreads with Truffles. Mutton Cutlets and Tomato Sauce. Stewed Kidneys and Mushrooms. Removes. Sirloin of Beef. Roast Chicken. Roast Turkey. Ham. Tongue. Saddle of Mutton. Boiled Chicken. Boiled Turkey. Haunch of Venison. Game. Pheasants. Grouse. Partridges. Sweets. Wine Jelly. Noyau Jelly. Brandy Cream. Ginger Cream. Charlotte Russe. French Pastry, &c. Ices. Strawberry. Apricot. Vanilla. Dessert. Pines. Melons. Pears. Grapes. Dinner given by Lord Rosebery, March 9, 1893, at 38, Berkeley Square. Consomme Xavier. Bisque d’Ecrevisses. Whitebait. Whitebait a la Diable. Truites bouillies au nature! Filet de Bceuf Printaniere. Souffles de Gelinottes a la Russe. Cailles a la Therapia. Dinde Sauvage d’Amerique. Salade de Celeris. Asperges en Branches. Pains d’Oranges a la Cintra. Timbales a la Duchesse. Saucisson de Foie Gras. Supper given by Lord Iveagh, June 27, 1891, at 5, Grosvenor Place. Chaud. Consomme de Volaille. Froid. Consomme Congele. Escaloppes de Truites a la Russe. Manchons a la Sesto. Filets de Poulardes Beauliarnais. Cotelettes de Cailles a la Moderne. C-haudfroid d’Ortolans. Croustadines de Foies Gras Lucullus. Medaillons de Bceuf Chilienne. Poulets et Langue a la Gelee. Petits Pains Mayonnaise. Sandwiches variees. Patisserie. Glace Mexicain. Gateau des lies. Ivougloff a l’Ananas. Gelees a la Valencienne. Macedoines de Fruits Champagne. Corbeilles de Fruits. Dinner to the Directors and Guests of the Girard Trust Co., April 3, 1892, at the Art Club, Philadelphia. Chateau d’Yquem. Amontillado. Schloss Juliannisberg. Chateau Lafite. Perrier Jouet. Royal Charter. Romance Conti. Madeira, 1832. Cognac. Little Neck Clams. Consomme d’Orleans. Brook Trout a la Chambord. Cucumbers. Vol-au-Vent of Sweetbreads with Fresh Mushrooms. Roast Ribs of Spring Lamb. New Peas. New Potatoes a la Creme. Tomatoes stuffed with Oyster Crabs. Sorbet de Menthe. Roast Doe Bird. New Asparagus au Beurre. Hearts of Lettuces. Pate de Foie Gras. Glace. Cakes. Cheese. Cafe. Fruit. Dinner given by the Hon. Corps of Gentlemen-at-Arms, March 15, 1886, at St. James’s Palace. PREMIER SERVICE. Potages. A la Puree d’Asperges. Aux Quenelles de Volaille. Poissons. Saumon, Sauce Tartare. Merlans farcies, Sauce Tomate. Blanchaille. Entrees. Filets de Veau a la Princesse. Salmi de Pluviers a la Parisienne. Releves. Selle de Mouton rotie. Capon braise a la Jardiniere. Jambon, Sauce Madere. Homard a l’lndienne. SECOND SERVICE. Rots. Canards Sauvages, Sauce Bigarade. Choux de Mer. Entremets. Gelee a la Mosaique. Trompillon a la Creme. Releve. Parfait aux Ananas.TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 816 Dinner given by the Committee of the Columbian Exhibition, Fine Art Department, Jan. 20, 1893. Chablis. Blue Points. Amontillado. Chicken a la Turk. Fillets of Pompano a la Creole. Cucumbers. Pontet Canet. Timbale a la Reine. Saddle of Venison, Grape Jelly. Sweet Potatoes a la Parisienne. Mumm’s Extra Dry. Broiled Tomatoes. Chaudfroid de Cailles. World’s Fair Punch. Stewed Terrapin a lArt Club. Red head Duck. Celeri Espagnole. Lettuce Salad. Cigars. Roquefort and Brie Cheese. Montrose Pudding. Liqueurs. Fruit. Coffee. Royal Caledonian Hunt Dinner, Nov. 10, 1892, at the New Club, Edinburgh. Huitres. POTAGE. Tortue Claire et Lice. Poissons. Turbot, Sauce Homard. Filets de Sole a la Venitienne. Entrees. Fonds d’Artichauts a la Bechamel. Mousse de Perdreaux a la Conti. Haggis. Releve. Dinde a la Chipolata. Selle de Mouton. Jambon au Vin de Champagne. Ro rs. Grouse. Canards Sauvages Salade de Saison. Entremets. Charlotte de Pommes a la Franfais. Asperges glacis. Canapes d’Harengs. Dessert. Eau de Raison glace. Creme aux Fraise glace. Marions. Speaker’s Dinner, Feb. 22, 1893. PREMIER SERVICE. POTAGES. Consomme a la d’Orsay. Tortue Claire. Poissons. Saumon, Sauce Genevoise. Filets de Soles, Regence. Whitebait. Entrees. Supreme de Ris de Veau a l’Ecarlate. Cotelettes de Mouton aux Petits Pols. Releves. Filets de Boeuf a l’Espagnole. Poulets grilles a llndienne. Jambon aux Epinards. SECOND SERVICE. Punch au Champagne. Rots. Cailles au Cresson. Haricots Verts, sautes. Terrines de Foies Gras de Strasburg. Asperges en Branches. Entremets. Savarin a la Montmorency. Timbales de Mandarines glacees. Glaces. Honchoes aux Crevettes. Glacees aux Fraises et a la Vanille. Dinner given by Citizens of Philadelphia to the Hon. William F. Harrity, Dec. 17, 1892, at the Art Club. Chablis. Oloroso. Johannisberg Cabinet. Chateau Margaux. Moet and Chandon. Mumm's Extra Dry. Clos de Vougeot. Madeira, 1832. Cigars. Liqueurs. Blue Points. Consomme Royale. Rock au Gratin. Cucumbers. Breast of Pheasant Supreme. Saddle of Southdown Mutton. Green Peas. Potatoes en Surprise. Woodcock a TArt Club. Celery Mayonnaise. Stewed Terrapin a lTIarrity. Canvas-back Duck. Fried Hominy. Roquefort and Camembert Cheese. Ices. Fruit. Cakes. Coffee. Twenty-seventh Annual Dinner of the Union League of Philadelphia, Dec. 28, 1891. Steinwein. Olorosa. Chateau Lafite. Royal Charter. Cigarettes. Clos de Vougeot. Liqueurs. Cigars. Lynn Haven Bays. Clear Green Turtle Soup. Fillets of Pompano au Vin Blanc. Cucumbers. Roast Saddle of Venison, Sauce Poivrade. Brussels Sprouts. Bermuda Potatoes. Sweet breads braisti with Fresh Mushrooms. Punch a la Lalla Rookh. Terrapin. Roast English Pheasant. Romaine Salad. Montrose Pudding. Camembert. Coffee. Dinner given to the Masters of the Livery Companies, March 1, 1893, at the Mansion House. Soups. Turtle. Clear Turtle. Fish. Spey Trout, Suedoise Sauce. Turbot, Lobster Sauce. Fried Smelts. Entrees. Croustades de Bccassines a la Carlton. Turban de Ris de Veau a l’lmperiale. Removes. Boiled Chickens, Pointes dAsperges. Braised Ham. Saddle of Mutton. Roast. Goslings. Guinea Fowls. Entremets. Maraschino Jelly. Vol-au-Vent Fruits a la Creme. Bavarois a l’Emperatrice. Maids of Honour. Iced Pudding. Croiites dAnchois. Dessert.ipii ■: if /. ^ CALVES’ EARS A LA FINANC1ERE. FILLETS OF BEEF A LA MILANAISE. MEAT REMOVES.THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 817 Speaker’s Dinner, March 8, 1893. PREMIER SERVICE. POTAGES. Tortue Claire. Consomme a l’Andalouse. Poissons. Filets de Soles Rouenaise. Saumon, Sauce Ilollandaise. Entrees. Souffles a la Royale, Pointes d’Asperges. Filets de Pluviers a la Rohemienne. Releves. Selle de Mouton. Poulardes aux Huitres. Jambon aux Epinards. SECOND SERVICE. Sorbets au Champagne. Rots. Pigeons de Bordeaux. Terrines de Foies Gras. Asperges au naturel. Entremets. Gateau de Compaigne. Plombiers Glacis aux Avelines. Souffle de Fromage a la Cadogan. Glaces. Creme d’Ananas. Eau de Cerises. The Philadelphia Art Club Dinner to Mr. Edward Shippen, its President, Jan. 12, 1892. Cliablis. Amontillado. Rudesheimer, Orleans, 1886. Chateau LeoviUe, 1878. Giesler Brut, 1884. Cinderella Punch. Madeira, 1820. Cigars. Liqueurs. Blue Points. Printaniere Royale. Rock a l’Art Club. Supreme de Volaille. Fresli Mushrooms. Saddle of Canadian Lamb. Potatoes, Windsor. New Peas. Terrapin. Roast Grouse a la Sultan. Celery Mayonnaise. Meringue Glacd. Gateaux assorted. Coffee. Speaker’s Dinner, March 1, 1893. PREMIER SERVICE. POTAGES. Tortue Claire. Consomme a la Chartreuse. Poissons. Truite, Sauce Genevoise. Filets de Turbot a la Cardinale. Entrees. Timbales de Volaille a la Financiere. Mignons de Bceuf aux Truffes. Releves. Selles de Mouton roti. Poulardes a la Marechale. Jambon aux Epinards. Punch a la Romaine. SECOND SERVICE. Rots. Pluviers sur Canapes. Haricots Verts, sautes. Terrines de Foies Gras. Asperges en Branches. Entremets. Poires a la Conde. Timbales de Glace. Huitres. Anges. Rebellis. Glace d’Oranges. Creme de Pain Bis. VOL. II. Dinner given by the Union League of Philadelphia, Nov. 28, 1892, to the Hon. William Potter before his departure as United States Minister to Italy. Rhine Wine. Lynn Haven Blue Points. Clear Green Turtle Soup. Sherry. Boiled Striped Bass, White Wine Sauce. Cucumbers. Chickens’ Breasts with Fresh Mushrooms. Claret. Roast Saddle of Mutton, Currant Jelly. French String Beans. Potatoes. Champagne. Orange Punch. Terrapin. Roast Quail, Stuffed Truffles. Celery Salad. Cisars- Ices. Coffee. Speaker’s Dinner, March 15, 1893. PREMIER SERVICE. POTAGES. Tortue Claire. Consomme Printanier a la Royale. Poissons. Turbot, Sauce de Homard. Darnes de Saumon, Sauce Genevoise. Entrees. Ris d’Agneau a la Parisienne. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Soubise. Releves. Filets de Boeuf braisd a l’Andalouse. Poulets rotis aux Cresson. t Jambon aux Epinards. SECOND SERVICE. Punch a la Romaine. R6ts. Pluviers rotis. Haricots Verts, sautds. Terrines de Foies Gras a la Strasburg. Asperges au naturel. Entremets. Peches a lTmp<5ratrice. Gelee d’Oranges a la Moscovite. Croutes Eccosaises. Creme d’Abricots. Eau de Citron. Banquet given by the Directors of the Grand Hotel, Bristol, Dec. 6, 1889. Native Oysters. Thick Turtle. Clear Turtle. Soles a la Grande. Red Mullet and Bordeaulaise Sauce. Calves’ Sweetbreads a la Toulouse. Pigeons a H Duchesse. Fillets of Beef a la Chateaubriand. Boiled Turkey and Oyster Sauce. Ox-tongue. Pheasants. Snipe. French Salad. Chickens’ Livers a la Broche. Vol-au-Vent of Apricots. Victoria Pudding. Tipsy Cake. Madeira Jelly. Ice Pudding a la Nesselrode. Anchovies on Toast. Cheese Straws. Dessert. 3 GTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 818 Memorial Dinner of the Union League of Philadelphia in honour of Ulysses S. Grant, April 27, 1891. Latour Blanche. Amontillado. Chateaux Margaux. Royal Charter. Liqueurs. Cigars. Little Neck Clams. Consomme Appomattox. Soft-shell Crabs on Toast, Sauce Ravigote. Cucumbers. Roast Fillet of Beef pique with Fresh Mushrooms. French String Beans. New Potatoes sautA New Asparagus, Hollandaise. Sorbet a la Grant. Roast English Snipe. Broiled Tomatoes. Lettuce Salad. Cheese. Fancy Ices. Coffee. An Inspection Luncheon of the Fourth Battalion of the Royal Warwickshire Regiment at Warwick, June 26,1892. Salmon Mayonnaise. Lobster Salads en Mayonnaise. Aspic de Foie Gras. Aspic Lobster. Mayonnaise Chicken. Galantine de Volaille. Lamb Cutlets en Aspic. Pigeon Pie a la Franfaise. Oyster Patties. Duckling. Roast Chicken. York Hams. Tongues. Tomato Salad. Salads a la Russe. Lamb Cutlets en Foie Gras. Capons a la Royal. Fore-quarter of Lamb. Sirloin of Beef. Galantine of Veal. Veal-and-Ham Pies. Blanc mange. Strawberry Cream. Charlotte a la Russe. Italian Creams. Savarin Cake and Apricots. Meringues a la Chantilly. Pastries Various. Trifle Lemon Jellies. Madeira Jellies. Punch Jellies. Macedoine Jellies. Ices. Strawberry Cream. Vanilla Cream. Lemon Water. Dessert. Club House Dinner of the Union League of Philadelphia, Jan. 30, 1892. Latour Blanche. Olorosa. Royal Charter. Clos de Vougeot. Liqueurs. Huitres au naturel. Tortue Clair. Filet de Pompano, Joinville. Concombres. Selle de Mouton Anglais, Purde de Marions. Haricots Verts. Pommes de Terre Nouvelles. Supreme de Perdreaux a la Perigord. Artichauts Frais a l’ltalienne. Sorbets d’Oranges. Terrapin. Becasses roties. Tomatoes au Gratin. Salade de Laitue. Fromage de Camembert. Glaces. Gateaux Cafe. Complimentary Banquet in honour of the American Base ball Players, Dec. 18, at the Town Hall, Sydney. Huitres au Naturel. Huitres en Aspic. Galantine de Dinde en Aspic. Dinde roti au Traffe. L’Oie rotie. Canetons rotis. Poulet roti. Galantine de Veau. Pate aux Abatis d’Oie. Patii Vol-au-Vent d’Huitres. PatfS de Veau et Jambon. Aloyau de Bceuf. Rond de Boeuf. Selle de Mouton. Jambon de Yore decoupA Langues de Bceuf. Pommes de Terre. Petits Pois. Mayonnaise d’Homards. Mayonnaise de Crevettes. Salade a la Francaise. Salade d’Anchoix. Mayonnaise de Volaille. Pouding de Prince de Galles. Gelee de California. Tipsy Cakes. Trifles. Charlotte Russe. Gateau de Savoy. Pommes Meringues. Creme de Framboise. Gelee au Vin de Madere. Gelee d’Oranges. Meringues a la Chantilly. Tartalettes Variee. Glace de Vanille a la Creme. Glace de Framboise a l’Eau. Dessert. CafA Dinner to the Hon. Edwin H. Fitler, given by his fellow members of the Union League, at the close of his administration as Mayor of Philadelphia, April 30, 1891. Little Neck Clams. Chateau d’Yquem. Consommd d’Orleans. Brook Trout a la Chambord. Amontillado. Cucumbers. Schloss Johannisberg. Vol-au-Vent of Sweetbread with Fresh Mushrooms. Chateau Lafite. Roast Ribs of Spring Lamb. New Peas. New Potatoes a la Creme. Perrier Jouet. Tomatoes Stuffed with Oyster Crabs. Royal Charter. Sorbet de Menthe. Romance Conti. Roast Doe Bird. Madeira, 1832. New Asparagus au Beurre. Hearts of Lettuces, l’ate de Foie Gras. Cognac. Glaces. Cakes. Cheese. Cafe. Fruits. Luncheon on board the Launch of H.M.S. “Blenheim,’1 July 5, 1890. Salmon en Mayonnaise. Quails a la Ripon. Roast Chickens. Perigord Pies. Pigeon Pies, Hams. Tongues. Lobster Salad. Ribs of Lamb. Orange and Fruit Jellies. Suedoise aux Conserves. Italian Creams. Compotes a la Favorite. Meringues a la Francaise. Gateaux a la Metternich. Ices, &c., &c.819 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Dinner at Trinity College, Cambridge, June 11, 1892. Hors D’CEuvres. Roy an s a la Vatel. Farced Olives. Saucisson de Lyon. Filleted Anchovies and Capers. Soups. Clear Turtle. Puree a la Reine. Fish. Montrose Salmon, Prawn Sauce and Cucumber. Timbales de Filets de Soles a TAmbassadrice. Entrees. Vol-au-Vent de Cailles a la Financiere. Ris de Veau a la Grande Monarque. Ponclie a la Romaiue. Releves. Saddle of Lamb. Haunch of Venison. French Leans. Asparagus. Roast. Turkey Poults. Goslings. Salade Franfaise. Peas. Sweets. The Chancellor’s Pudding. Mansfield Pudding. Gelee aux Fraises a la Xeres. Bavaroise d’Ananas a la Jamai'que. Croquenbouche d’Amandes et Fruits de la Saison. Charlotte a la Parisienne. Poudings Glace a la Hartington et a la Chateaubriand. Cheese, &c. Annual Dinner of the Prudential Assurance Company, March 5, 1891. Mock Turtle. Eels a la Bordelaise. Salmon. Turbot. Vol-au-Vent aux Huitres. Timbale a la Parmentier. Boiled Chickens a lTmperatrice. Hams. Tongues. Saddle of Mutton. Widgeon. Turkey Poults. Wine and Orange Jellies. Italian Creams. Croutes aux Fruits. Meringues a la Creme. Gateaux a la Victoria. Iced Puddings. The Sixty-fourth Annual Festival of the Original United Friendly Society of Cooks and Confectioners, 1890. Hors d’CEuvres. Brunswick Sausages. Foie Gras. Olives. Tomato. Clear Spring. Salmon, Lobster Sauce. Whitebait, plain and devilled. Vol-au-Vent a la Financiere. Mutton Cutlets, Cucumber Sauce. Boiled Fowls. Cumberland Ham. Forequarter of Lamb. Dressed Salad. Gosling. Chips. Baba au Rhum. Maraschino Jellies. Maids of Honour. Pineapple Cream. Ice Pudding. Dessert. Champagne—Deutz and Geldermann. Complimentary Dinner given by the Mayor and Aldermen of the Borough of Croydon, to Mr. Alderman Haggis, on his appointment as Deputy-Chairman of the County Council of London, Nov. 25, 1889. Punch. Dry Sherry. Mareobrunner. Moet and Chandon Royal Imperial, 1880 vintage, cuvee 100. L. Uoederer, 1880 vintage. S. Estephe. Old Port. Chateau Lafite, 1877 vintage. Liqueurs. Huitres, Natives. Tortue Claire. Creme a la Bagration. Turbot, Sauce Mousseline and Genevoise. Eperlans frits Ravigote. Coteleites de Homard a la Victoria. Turban de Filet de Lievre Dauphine. Ris de Veau a la Bouquetiere. Hanche de Mouton. Choux-fleurs. Pommes Voisin. Cliapon a l’Ecossaise. Canards Sauvage, Sauce au Vin d’Oporto. Perdreaux sur Canape. Salade de Laitue. Artichauts a la Bordelaise. Peche de Montreuil a lTmperatrice. Nids d’Hirondelles. Pouding Glace aux Millefruits. Laitances de Hareng a la Diable. Dessert. Supper at the Ball given by the Right Hon. James White- head, Lord Mayor, Oct. 29, 1889, at the Mansion House. Boar’s Head. Fillets of Soles en Mayonnaise. Ballotine of Pheasants and Cherry Salad. Oyster Patties. Galantine of Chickens. Braised Turkeys. Capons en Bechamel. Lamb Cutlets a la Duchesse. Larks a la Ripon. Game Pies. Lobster Salad. Roast Pheasants. Roast Chickens. Ham. Tongue. Aspic of Foies Gras. Cliaudfroid de Crevettes. Victoria Creams. Suedoise a la Russe. Fruit Jelly. Gateaux a la Bordeaux. Meringues a la Creme. Ices. Trifles. Sixteenth Anniversary Banquet of the Catholic Club of Philadelphia, Feb. 6, 1893. Sauterne. Pontet Canet. Mumm’s. Perrier Jouefc. Cigars. Blue Points. Celery. Olives. Radishes. Printaniere Royale. Salmon, Sauce Hollandaise. Cucumbers. Bouch^es a la Reine. Fillet of Beef a la Parisienne. Fresh Mushrooms la Creme. Tomates a la Marseillaise. Punch a la Cardinal. Stewed Terrapin a l’Art Club. Red head Duck. Celery Mayonnaise. Roquefort and Camembert Cheese. Ices. Assorted Cakes. Fruit. Coffee. 3 G 2THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 820 Entertainment to the Ladies, June 5, 1890, at the Haberdashers’ Hall. Potages. Tortue. Tortue Claire. Poissons. Cotelettes de Truite a la Bengalese. Turbot. Whitebait. Entrees. Escalopes de liis de Veau a la Portuguese. Timbale de Cailles a la Sultane. Releves. Petits Poulets au Beaune d’Ecrevisses. Jambon au Madere. Quartiers d’Agneau. Rots. Canetons. Entremets. Suedoise a la Baronne. Gelees a la Dantzig. Pouding a la Marquise. Meringues a la Vanille. Gateaux aux Conserves. Releves. Pointings a la Nesselrode. Dessert, &c. Dinner on Plow Monday, Jan. 11, 1892, at the Mansion House. . Soups. Turtle. Clear Turtle. Fish. Fillets of Turbot, Hollandaise Sauce. Salmon. Smelts. Entrees. Capilotade de Ris de Veau. Petites Timbales de Mauviettes en Surprise. Removes. Boiled Turkey, Celery Sauce. Braised Hams. Saddle of Mutton. Roasts. Pheasants. Wild Ducks. Sweets. Chartreuse d’Oranges. Meringues a la Vanille. Wine Jelly. Petits Nougats a la Creme. Iced Puddings. Croutes a la Clarisse. Supper at the Ball given by the Right Honourable Joseph Savory, Lord Mayor, April 22, 1891, at the Mansion House. Boar’s Head. Salmon Mayonnaise. Trout and Verte Sauce. Chicken Cutlets a l’Americaine. Lamb Cutlets a l’Andalouse. Quails a la Ripon. Perigord Pies. Capon en Galantine. Roast Chickens. Lobster Salads. Aspic de Foies Gras. Aspic Prawns. Ham. Tongue. Creams. Bavaroise a la Moderne. Fruit Jelly. Gateaux a la Metternicli. Meringues a la Francaise. Trifles. Dinner at the Painter-Stayners’ Hall, Oct. 18, 1889. Clear Mock Turtle and Game Soup. Cod. Vols-au- Vents de Mauviettes. Roast Chickens. Warden Pies. Boiled Turkey, Celery Sauce. Tongues. Ham. Saddles of Mutton. Sirloin of Beef. Pheasants. Partridges. Goslings. Victoria Cream. Wine Jellies. Clear Jellies. Meringues a la Creme. Maids of Honour. Mince Pies. Plum Puddings, Iced Puddings. Dessert. Ices. Dinner served at Wormley’s, Washington, U.S., Dec. 3,1888. Huitres sur Coquilles. Potages. A la Reine. Consomme a la Moderne. Hors d’GEuvre. Rissoles a la Romaine. Poissons. Saumon bouilli, Sauce Portugaise. Filets de Bass a la Venitienne. Pommes Duchesse. Releve. Filets de Bceuf a la Financiere. Haricots Verts. Entrees. Vol-au-Vent de Perdreaux au Supreme. Timbale de Macaroni a la Parisienne. Pois Franpais. Terrapin. Punch Arabe. Aspic ile Foie Gras en Bellevue. Rotis. Faisans Anglais. Canvas-back Duck. Croquettes de Maryland. Salade. Entremet. Pouding de Cabinet. Dessert. Gelee de Californie. Charlotte au Maraquino. Creme Napolitaine. Gateaux. Raisins. Oranges. Poires. Bananes. Fruits glacis. Caf£. A Dinner given at Sir James Whitehead’s. Hors d’CEuvre. Huitres au naturel. Potages. Consomme a la Leopold. Potage a la Saratoga. Poissons. Saumon bouilli. Turbot a la Morny. Entree. Cailles a la Chaponay. Releve. Selle de Mouton. Rot. Faisan roti au Salade de Cdleri. Entremets. Pouding a la St. James. Bavaroise aux Pistaches, Croutes a la Frilurge.821 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Banquet given by John Harris, Esq., Mayor of Sydney, March 14, 1888, at the Town Hall. Oysters. Soup. A la Reine. Galantine of Turkey aux Truffes en Aspic. Galantine of Chicken en Aspic. Roast Turkey. Roast Duckling. Boiled Chicken. Raised Chicken and Ham Pie. Giblet Pie. Sirloin of Beef. Saddle of Lamb. Aspic de Foie Gras. York Ham. Ox-tongue. Mayonnaise of Lobster. Plain Salads. Entremets. Champagne Jelly. Fruit Meringues. Charlotte Russe. Almond Pudding. Victoria Pudding. Tartlets. Croquenbouche. Dessert. Cafe. Dinner in honour of Sir Saul and Lady Samuel, May 18, 1888, at the National Park, Sydney. Dinde roti en Aspic. Poulet roti. Dinde roti aux Truffe. Canard Sauvage. Canard roti. Jambon de York. Langue de Boeuf. Selle de Mouton. Dinde piqud. Sirloin de Been! Pintade piquee. Boeuf en Ronde. Galantine de Dinde. Oie rotie. Pate de Huitres. Mayonnaise en Ecrevisse de Mer. Plaid Salade. Mayonnaise de Poulet. Legumes. Petits Pois. Tomatoes. Pommes de Terre. Entremets. Ponime de Meringue. Creme de Meringue. Gelee Varie. Gateau Savoy. Charlotte Russe. Patisseries. Tartelettes. Fruit en Saison. Dessert. Cafe. Dinner given by Sir Julian Goldsmidt, June 6, 1890. Potage. Consommd a l’Orlando. Hors d’CEuvres. Poisson. Torpilles de Filets de Sole a la Russe. Releve. Filet de Boeuf a la Mardchale. Entree. Boudins de Foie Gras a la Taylerand. Rot. Cailles roties. Salade de Laitues. Asperges vertes. Entremet. Gateaux Noisettes. Glace. Regular Dinner at Wormley’s, Washington, U.S. Oysters on Half Shells. Soups. Consomme and Cream Barley. Fish. Boiled Rock. Holland Potatoes. Side Dishes. Small Patdsof Chicken. Tenderloin of Beef with Mushrooms. Sweetbreads with Spinach. Timbales of Macaroni. Terrapin, Maryland style. Roman Punch. Beaune. ROAST. Canvas-back Duck with Currant Jelly. Salad. Sweet Dishes. Cabinet Pudding. Cream Diplomate and Champagne Jelly. Dessert. Napolitain Cakes. Fruits. Plumbia. French Coffee. Sauterne. Skerry. Champagne. Chateau Lafite. Supper at a Ball given by Sir Julian Goldsmidt, July 17, 1889. Potage. Consommd Claire. Entrees Chaudes. Cotelettes d’Agneau aux Pois. Poulets rotis au Cresson. Entrees Froides. Torpilles de Filets de Soles. Chaudfroid de Cailles a la Royale. Cremes de Volaille Trente et Quarante. Chaudfroid de Volaille. Poulets a la Gelee. Petits Pains a la Francaise. Langue a l’Ecarlate. Medaillons de Truite a la Russe. Cerises de Mauviettes a TEpicurienne. Tomates a la Grosvenor. Eclipses de Poussin a la Lengsberg. Gfufs a l’Appetissante. Aspic de Foie Gras en Bellevue. Sandwiches varies. Releves Froids. Saumon Historie sur Gondole Venitienne. Poulardes a la Prince de Galles sur Socle. Filets de Boeuf a la Persanne. Galantines de Volaille a la Urbani Dubois. Pieces Montees. Napolitaines ddcords. Baba a la Polonaise. Brioche Parisienne. Gateau Breton decore. Meringue Suisse. Gateau Millefeuille. Entremets. Gelees Macedoine de Fruits. Charlotte Russe aux Fraises. Pave Terollion. Bavarois Vanille et Cafe. Gateau Vert-Yert. Gateau Zamaique. Patisserie Variee. Fanchonnettes. Tartelettes de Fraise. Bonne Bouche. Petits Nana. Nonpareil. Mirlitons. Puits d’Amour. Gil-blas. Frascati.822 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Dinner given by Sir Julian Goldsmidt, May 16, 1890. Potage. Printanier a la Royale. Hors d’CEuvres. Poisson. Escaloppes de Turbot a la Montpensier. Releve. Selle de Mouton, Jardiniere. Entree. Supremes de Pintade a la Perigueuse. Rot. Cailles roties sur Canapes. Salade Hollandaise. Asperges, Sauce Mousseuse. Entremet. Bombe au Cafe. Biscottes aux Avelines. Dinner given by Sir Julian Goldsmidt, March 3, 1890. Potage. Printanier a la Doria. Hors d'CEuvres. Poisson. Paupiettes de Sole a la Radziwyl. Releve. Filet de Boeuf a l'Andalouse. Entree. Ruches de Volaille a la Vert Pre. Rot. Becassines roties sur Canapes. Salade Russe. Pois a la Franpaise. Entremet. Gateau Mignon. Glace. Dinner given by Sir Julian Goldsmidt, May 24, 1889. POTAGES. Consomme a la Chanceliere. Creme de Laitue, Princesse. Hors d’CEuvres. Aspic d’CEufs de Pluvier. Croutes de Caviar. Poissons. Saumon cisele, Sauces Genevoise et Hollandaise. Lavallieres de Filets de Sole a la Russe. Releve. Filets de Bceuf a la Montgador. Entrees. Cremes de Poussin a la Regence. Noisettes d’Agneau a la R naissance. Rots. Cailles roties sur Canapes. Aspic de Foie Gras a 1’Alsacienne. Salades varices. Asperges vertes, Anglaises. Entremet. Gateaux Bourdalone. Glaces. Dinner at the Worshipful Company of Skinners. Soups. Tortue et Tortue Claire. Fish. Croquenbouche a la Biscair. Soles a la Joinville. Saumon. Turbot. Eperlans frits. Entrees. Vol-au-Vent des Mauviettes. Casserole de Ris d’Agneau aux Petits Pois. Removes. Pates a la Maitre d’Hotel. Dinde a la Piincess. Petits Poulets rotis. Jambon de York. Langue de Bceuf. Selle de Mouton. Handle de Mouton. Roasts. Faisans. Canards Sauvages. Pluviers. Entremets. Pudding de Mcelle Gelles a 1’Orange. Gelles au Vin. Meringues a la Franpaise. Genoises a la Chantilly. Suedoise aux Conserves. Pudding a la Nesselrode. Supper at a Ball given by Sir Julian Goldsmidt, June 18, 1887. Potage. Consomme Claire. Entrees Chau des. Poulets rotis au Cresson. Cotelettes d’Agneau aux Petits Pois. Entrees Froides. Cendrillons de Filets de Sole. Cotelettes d’Agneau a la Bergere. CEufs a l’Appetissante. Darnes de Truite a la Parisienne. Cerises de Mauviettes a la Lucullus. Tomates a la Grosvenor. Chaudfroids de Cailles a la Royale. Supremes de Volaille a la Belgravia. Petits Pains a la Franpaise. Aspic de Foie Gras en Bellevue. Poulets de coupes a la Gelee. Langues a l’Ecarlate. Sandwiches varies. Releves Froids. Saumon Historie, Sauce Ravigote. Poulardes a l’Anglaise. Filet de Bceuf a la Gelee. Galantines de Volaille. Pieces Montees. Phare Napolitaine. Baba a la Polonaise. Brioche Parisienne. Ruche en Meringue. Chateau Briant sur Socle. Millefeuille a la Renaissance. Entremets. Gelles Macedoines. Pave Te roll ion. Girofli Girofla. Gateaux Mascottes. Bavarois Vanille et Cafe. Sarah Bernhardt. Patisserie Variee. Puits d’Amour. Palais de Dame. Fanferluche. Nanas. Solambos. Midicis. Jalousies. Gil bias. Theodora. Grignolos. Mirlitons. Mireilles.THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 823 Dinner at the Worshipful Company of Spectacle Makers. Native Oysters. Clear Turtle. Thick Turtle. Soles a la Chesterfield. Salmon, Lobster Sauce. Vol-au-Vent a la Financiere. Salmis of Snipe with Watercress. Lark Pudding. Boiled Turkey Poult. Ox-tongue. Cumberland Ham with Madeira. Saddles of Lamb. Punch a la Bomaine. Wild Duck. Golden Plovers. Chips. Mushrooms. Apricot Fritters. Kiimmel Jellies. Italienne Creams. Meringues Glace s. Ice Pudding. Dessert. Dinner given by Sir Julian Goldsmidt May, 16, 1890. POTAGE. Printanier a la, Iloyale. Hoes dTEuvres. Poisson. Escaloppes de Turbot a la Montpensier. Releve. Selle de Mouton, Jardiniere. Entree. Supreme de Pintade a la Perigueuse. R6t. Cailles roties sur Canapes. Salade Hollandaise. Asperges, Sauce Mousseuse. Enteemet. Bombe au Cafe. Biscottes aux Avelines. The Sheffield Cutlers’ Feast, 1892. Soups. Clear Turtle. Thick Turtle. Fish. Turbot, Lobster Sauce. Filleted Soles. Stewed Eels. Entrees. Sweetbreads with Truffles. Mutton Cutlets with Tomato Sauce. Stewed Kidneys and Mushrooms. Removes. Sirloin of Beef. Roast Chickens. Roast Turkey. Ham. Haunch Saddle of Mutton. Boiled Chickens. Boiled Turkey. Tongue. Venison. Game. Pheasants. Partridges. Sweets. Wine Jelly. Noyau Jelly. Brandy Cream. Ginger Cream. Charlotte Russe. French Pastry, &c. Ices. Strawberry. Apricot. Vanilla. Dessert. Pines. Melons. Pears. Grapes, &c. Dinner given by Sir Julian Goldsmidt, May 30, 1890. Potage. Brunoise a l’Orge d’Allemagne. Hors d’CEuvres. Poisson. Matelotte de Truite a la Bercy. Releve. Selle d’Agneau, Jardiniere. Entree. Supremes de Volaille a la Regence. Rot. Canetons rotis. Salade. Asperges, Sauce Mousseuse. Entremet. Charlotte Russe glace a l'Orange. Dinner given by Sir Julian Goldsmidt, Aug. 8, 1891. Potage. Brunoise a la Royale. Hoes d’CEuvre. Poisson. Escaloppes de Saumon. Releve. Selle de Pres Sale, Jardiniere. Entree. Ris de Veau, Financiere. Rot. Poulets rotis. Salade de Laitues. Haricots Verts saute's. Entremet. Timbale Chantilly. Dinner given by Sir Julian Goldsmidt, May 8, 1890, Potage. Consomme a la Regence. Hors d’GEuvres. Poisson. Escaloppes de Saumon a la Daumont. Releve. Filet de Bceuf a la Bordelaise. Entree. Ris d’Agneau a la Clamart. Rot. Canetons rotis. Salade. Asperges vertes. Entremet. Chalet Suisse garni de Riz glace. Dinner given by Sir Julian Goldsmidt, Nov. 8, 1890. Potage. Printanier aux Quenelles. Hors D'GiuvRES. Poisson. Escaloppes de Turbot a la Regence. Releve. Selle de Mouton, Jardiniere. Entree. Turban de Volaille, Financiere. Rot. Faisans rotis. Salade de Laitues. Celeris braises. Entremet. Abricotine a la Chantilly. Marions gillies.824 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Sixty-sixth Anniversary Festival of the Printers’ Pension Corporation, April 25, 1893, at the Whitehall Rooms, Hotel Metropole, London. Chablis. Dry Sherry. Niersteiner. Huitres au Citron. POTAGES. Consomme Duchesse. Puree Portugaise. Poissons. Saumon, Sauce Riche. Blancliaille. Entrees. Toumedos a la Bearnaise. Irroy’s Carte d’Or, sec. Saute de Poulet a l’lndienne. Granit Metropole. Releves. Bollinger & Co., Extra Selle de Mouton de^Galles. quality, dry. Jamhon braisd aux Epinards. Legumes. Petits Pois au Beurre. Pommes de Terre Nouvelles Rissolees. Liqueurs. Chateau Pomy's Grand Vin. Gould Campbell’s Old Bottled Port. Johannis Natural Mineral Water. Roti. Caille Rotie sur Canape. Salade. Asperges, Sauce Mousseuee. Entremets. Pouding Souffle a TOrange. Gelee a l’Orientale. Canape Proven pale. Bombe Souveraine. Petits Fours assortis. Dessert. Cafe Noir. Banquet given to the American Institute of Mining Engineers at Washington, U.S., Feb. 23, 1838. Huitres en Coquilles et Celeri. Potages. Consomme Celestine. London Lord Mayor. Poisson. Bass Rayfie a la Chambord, Sauce Ge noise. Pommes Hollandaise. Releve. Filet de Bceuf, Truffes et Champignons. Entrees. Virginia Terrapin au Vin de Madagascar. Croquettes de Volaille a la Montglas. Pate de Ris de Veau a la Victoria. Petits Pois Franpaise. Pommes Saratoga. Punch Cardinal. Aspic de Foie Gras en Bellevue. Roti. Canvas-back Duck. Celeri. Tomates. Laitues Mayonnaise. Entremets. Pudding Diplomatiques. Gelee a lOriental. Glace Napolitaine. Dessert. Fruits. Ramequin au Parmesan. Cafe.INDEX A Abat-Faim i. 1 Abattage i. 1 Abbocati i. 1 Abdelavi i. 1 Abeidero i. 1 Aberdeen Sandwiches ii. 377 Aberfrau Cakes i. 227 Abernethy Biscuits i. 139 Ablette i. 1 Abricotd i. 1 Absinthe i. 1 Lyons i. 1 Montpellier i. 1 Neufehatel i. 1 Pontarlier i. 2 Abyssinian Ales i. 2 Acacia i. 2 Acarus i. 2 Accolade i. 2 Acconnnode i. 2 Accounts i. 2 Acephale i. 2 Acetic Acid i. 2 Acliar i. 2 Acid i. 3 Acetic i. 2 Drops ii. 535 Hydrochloric i. 773 Malic i. 905 Oxalic ii. 68 Pudding ii. 251 Salicylic ii. 360 Tartaric ii. 571 Acitron i. 3 Acorn i. 3 Acquacedrata i. 3 Adam-and-Eve Pudding ii. 251 Punch ii. 273 Adelaide Cake i. 227 Pudding ii. 251 Sandwiches ii. 378 Admiral Cake i. 227 Admiral’s Sauce ii. 385 Adulterations i. 3 Aerated Water, Carlsbad i. 3 Friedrichshall Bitter i. 3 Medicated i. 4 Pullna i. 3 Kosbaeh i. 3 Saccharinated i. 4 S aline i. 4 Seltzer i. 3 Simple i. 4 Vichy i. 3 Wilhelm’s Quelle i. 3 j Adjoue i. 3 ASsculap i. 4 African Beer i. 4 Bitters i. 4 Cakes i. 227 , Agnellotti Turin i. 4 Agnellotto i. 4 Agnew Pudding ii. 251 Agro Dolce Sauce i. 4 Aigen i. 5 Aigrette i. 5 Aigrettes of Anchovies i. 19 Aiguillettes i. 5 Fish i. 5 Sweetbread i. 5 Aillade i. 5 Air i. 5 Aitchbone i. 6 Beef, Boiled Salted i. 107 Ajada i. 6 A jo Blanco i. 6 A j olio i. 6 Akee i. 6 A La i. 6 Bavaroise ii. 385 Bdarnaise ii. 385 Beyrout ii. 386 Blanquette ii. 386 Bordelaise ii. 386 Bourgeoise ii. 386 Bretonne ii. 386 Diable ii. 387 Duchesse ii. 387 Financiere ii. 388 Flamande ii. 388 Francaise ii. 389 Genevoise ii. 389 Hollandaise ii. 387 A l’Amiral ii. 385 A-la-Mode Beef i. 06 Soup i. 98 A l’Aurore ii. 385 Alaju i. 6 Albany Cakes i. 227 Albatross i. 6 Albemarle Pudding ii. 251 Albert Cakes i. 227 Pudding i. 6, ii. 251 Sauce (Sweet Butter) i. 217 Victor Soup ii. 479 Alboronia i. 6 Albumen i. 6 Dried i. 6 Alcohol i. 6 Alderman’s Pudding i. 7, ii. 252 Ale i. 7 Abyssinian i. 2 ' Ale Flip i. 7 Mulled i. 7 Posset i. 7 Scotch ii. 411 Aleatico i. 7 Alecost i. 7 Alexandra Pudding i. 7 Iced ii. 252 Algte i. 7 Algerian Wines i. 8 Alkali i. 8 Alkanet i. 8 Alkermes i. 8 Alligator Apple i. 8 Pear i. 8 Allspice i. 9 All-Threes Pudding ii. 252 Allumettes, Anchovy i. 19 Alma Pudding ii. 252 Almack’s Confection i. 9 Almond Albert Cakes i. 9 Bavaroise i. 9 Bird’s-Nest Biscuit i. 10 Biscuit i. 10 Blancmange i. 10 Bread i. 10 Cakes i. 10 Carrot and Turnip Biscuit i. 10 Charlotte Russe, Burnt i. 14 Cheese cakes i. 11 Cracklings i. 11 Cream i. 11 Crisps i. 11 Croquettes i. 11 Custard Fritters i. 11 Faggots i. 11 Flavouring i. 14 Genoese Pastry i. 12 Hardbake i. 12 Icing for Cakes i. 12 Jumbles i. 12 Kosher Pudding i. 12 (Meringues i. 12 Milk i. 12 Oil i. 12 Paste i. 12 Paste, Candied i. 12 Paste, Cannelons of i. 14 Pithiviers Cake i. 14 Pralines i. 11 Puddings i. 12, 13 Raspberry Ice, and i. 13 Rice Pudding, and i. 13 Rock Biscuit i. 13 Sandwich Biscuits i. 13 Savarin Pudding i. 13 Savoy Cake i. 13 Soup i. 13TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 826 Almond Sponge Biscuits i. 14 Sponge Cake i. 14 Tablets i. 14 Tartlets i. 14 Wafers i. 14 Walnuts Biscuits i. 14 Almonds i. 9 Essence of Bitter i. 14 Forcemeat i. 14 Raisins and, for Dessert i. 13 Salted and Devilled i. 15 Sugared i. 15 To Blanche i. 9 To Colour i. 9 To Pound i. 9 Aloja i. 15 Aloxe i. 15 Alum i. 15 Amabele i. 15 Amandines i. 14 Amasi i. 15 Amazon Bitters i. 150 Tea i. 15 Ambergris i. 15 Amber Pudding ii. 252 Ambrosia i. 16 Syrup i. 16 American Beaten or Maryland Biscuits i. 140 Beer i. 16 Biscuits i. 140 Black Pudding ii. 252 Bread i. 180 Brown Bread i. 180 Candy ii. 535 Dishes i. 16 Drinks i. 16 Meat i. 17 Ovens i. 17 Premium Bread i. 180 Slow i. 219 Soup ii. 480 Thirded Bread i. 180 White Cake i. 227 Wines i. 17 Ames Cake i. 227 Amhurst Pudding ii. 252 Ammonia i. 18 Amnastich i. 18 Amontillado i. 18 Amourettes i. 18 Timbales i. 18 Amphitryon i. 18 Amy don i. 18 Anacreon i. 18 Analysis i. 18 Anchovies i. 19 Aigrettes of i. 19 Fried i. 21 in Surprise i. 21 Orlys of i. 21 Stuffed i. 21 To Serve i. 19 with Eggs and Endive i. 19 with Olives i. 20 Anchovy Allumettes i. 19 Biscuits i. 19 Butter i. 19 Butter Sauce i. 19 Canapes i. 19 Caper Sauce, and i. 19 Cream i. 19 Cushions i. 19 Essence i. 20 Essence for Chops, Steaks, &c. i. 20 Fritters i. 20 Ketchup i. 20 Omelet i. 20 Paste i. 20 Anchovy Pear i. 21 Potted i. 21 Powder i. 20 Relish i. 20 * Salad i. 20 Sandwiches i. 20 Sauce i. 21 Stuffing i. 21 Tart i. 21 Tartines i. 21 Toast i. 21 Andalusian Soup ii. 480 Andouille i. 21 Andouillette i. 21 Angel-fish i. 21 Angelica i. 22 Comfits i. 22 Compote of Oreen i. 22 Dried i. 22 Preserved Green i. 22 Punch i. 22 Ratafia i. 22 with Jellies, Preserved i. 22 Angel Pudding ii. 253 Angels’ Bread i. 22 Cake i. 22, 228 Angels on Horseback i. 22 Anglo-French Stuffed Cake i. 228 Angostura Bitters i. 23 Aniline Colouring i. 427 Animal Wines i. 23 Animelles i. 23 Fried i. 23 Anise i. 23 Aniseed i. 23 Bread i. 23 Cake i. 23 Comfits or Balls i. 23 Cordial i. 23 Essence i. 23 Lozenges i. 23 Anisette i. 23 Jelly with Pears i. 23 Anker i. 23 Annatto i. 23 Antacid Lozenges i. 883 Antelopes i. 24 Anthracite i. 24 Antibilious Lozenges i. 883 Antiferments i. 24 Apes i. 24 Apicius i. 24 Apollinaris Water i. 3 Apostelkuchen i. 24 Appearances i. 24 Appetite i. 24 Apple, Alligator i. 8 Almond Pudding, and i. 26 Apricot Meringue, and i. 26 Bavaroise i. 26 Brandy i. 26 Bread i. 26 Butter i. 26 Cake i. 27 Charlotte i. 27 Chartreuse i. 27 Cheese i. 27 Cheese-cakes i. 27 Chutney i. 28 Cornflour Pudding, and i. 28 Cream i. 28 Cream Cake i. 28 Croquettes i. 28 Crumb Pudding, and i. 28 Currant Soup, and i. 28 Custard i. 28 Custard Pie i. 28 Custard Pudding i. 28 Custard with Vanilla i. 28 Apple Dessert 28 Devil i. 29 Drink i. 29 Dumplings i. 29 Flawn i. 29 Float i. 29 Fool i. 29 Fritters i. 29 Ginger i. 30 Hedgehog i. 30 Ice i. 30 in Apricot Jam i. 26 Jam i. 30 Jelly i. 30 Johnny Cake i. 30 Manger i. 30 Marmalade i. 30, 38 Meringo or Meringue i. 30 Molasses i. 31 Open-Tart i. 3' Pancakes i. 31 Paste i. 31 Pickle i. 31 Pies i. 32 Porcupine i. 32 Pudding i. 33 Puffs i. 33 Quince'Tart, and i. 34 Roly-poly i. 34 Sandwich i. 34 Sauce i. 34 Shape i. 34 Shortcake i. 34 Snow i. 34 Snowballs i. 34 Souffld i. 34 Souffle in Paste i. 35 Soup i. 34 Sugar i. 35 Syrup i. 35 Tapioca i. 35 Tapioca Pudding, and i. 35 Tart i. 35 Tartlets i. 36 Timbale i. 36 Toddy i. 36 Trifle i. 36 Turnovers i. 36 Water i. 37 Water-ice i. 37 Wine i. 37 Apples i. 25 a la Cherbourg i. 28 &. la Portugaise i. 32 a la Princess of Wales i. 32 Baked i. 37 Barberry Jelly with i. 76 Bavaroise i. 37 Buttered i. 37 Cabbage, and i. 220 Compote i. 37 Cooking i. 25 Crisped i. 38 Custard i. 510 Dessert i. 25 Dessert or Cooking i. 26 Dried i. 38 Florentine, Mode of Preparin Fried i. 38 Minced i. 38 Miroton i. 38 Preservation i. 38 Preserved i. 39 Siberian Crabs ii. 451 Spiced i. 39 Stewed i. 39 Suedoise i. 39 Sugar-Iced i. 39 Surprise i. 39827 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Apples, Vol-au-Vent i. 39 with Butter, Baked i. 37 with Currants i. 28 Apricot Biscuits i. 40 Bomhe with Maraschino i. 40 Bonnes Bouches i. 40 Brandy i. 40 Cakes i. 40 Charlotte Russe i. 41 Chartreuse i 41 Cheese i. 41 Cream i. 41 d’Artois i. 40 Effervescing Drink i. 44 Flawn i. 41 Fritters i. 41 Green, Compote i. 44 Ice i. 41 Ice Cream i. 42 Jam i. 42 Jelly i. 42 Marmalade i. 42 Nougat with ii. 7 Omelet i. 42 Open Tart i. 42 “ Pain,” or Bread i. 42 Paste i. 42 Pastille Drops i. 42 Pie i. 42 Pistachio Ice, and i. 43 Pudding i. 43 Ratafia i. 43. Sauce i. 43 Snowballs i. 43 Souffle i. 43 Tartlets i. 43 Toast i. 43 Vol-au-Vents of i. 45. Water-ice i. 44. Wine i. 45. Apricots i. 39 a la Colbert i. 41 & la Conde i. 41 Bavaroise i. 44 Bottled i. 44. Broiled i. 44 Compote i. 44 Croutons with i. 44 Dried i. 44 F rozen i. 44 Imitation i. 44 Nougats i. 44 Preserved i. 45 Sufkloise i. 45 with Noyau Jelly i. 42 with Rice i. 43 Aqua Vitae i. 45 Armadillo i. 45 Armagnac i. 45 Army Punch ii. 273 Aromatic Bitters i. 150 Confections i. 429 Seasoning i. 45 Arracacha i. 45 Arrack i. 45 Arropia i. 45 Arrowroot i. 45 Biscuits i. 46 Blancmanger i. 46 Cake i. 46 Cream i. 46 Custard i. 46 Drink i. 46 Drink with Black Currant Preserves i. 46 Drops i. 47 Food i. 47 Fritters i. 47 Jelly i. 47 Arrowroot Pudding i. 47 Sauce i. 47 Shape i. 47 Souffle i. 47 Soup i. 47 Art i. 47 Artichoke Bottoms for Canapes i. 49 for Garnish i. 49 Fried i. 50 Stuffed i. 50 with French Beans i. 49 Artichoke Chips, Jerusalem i. 50 Cream i. 49 Omelet i. 49 Soup i. 49 Soup, Jerusalem i. 50 Tomato Salad, and i. 49 Artichokes i. 47 a la Barigoule i. 48 Boiled plain i. 48 Bonnes Bouches i. 49 cooked in Italian style i. 49 Eggs and i. 49 Jerusalem i. 50 Jerusalem, au Gratin i. 50 Jerusalem, Baked i. 50 Jerusalem, Boiled i. 51 Jerusalem, cooked in Italian style i. 50 Jerusalem, Fried i. 51 Jerusalem, Mashed i. 51 Jerusalem, Onion Salad, and i. 50 Jerusalem, Sauce i. 50 Jerusalem, Scalloped i. 51 Preserved i. 50 Puree of i. 50 Stewed in Gravy i. 49 Artificial Aerated Water i. 4 Cheese i. 343 Milk i. 51,938 Ashberries i. 51 Ashberry Jelly i. 51 Ash Cake i. 228 Asparagus i. 51 a la Pompadour i. 53 Boiled i. 53 Cream with i. 52 Eggs and i. 52 Ice i. 52 in a Crust i. 52 in French Rolls i. 52 in Spanish style i. 53 Omelet i. 52 Peas i. 52 Points i. 53 Preserved i. 54 Pudding i. 53 Puree i. 54 Salad i. 53 Salmon Salad and i. 53 Sauce (hot) i. 53 Soup i. 53 To warm and serve Tinned i. 54 Young Carrots with i. 53 Aspemle Odorante i. 54 Aspic i. 54 Border i. 55 Chicken Puree i. 607 Cold Stewed Ribs of Beef with i. 113 Crayfish in i. 56 Crayfish with Salad i. 457 Fillet of Beef in i. 115 for Ornamentations i. 56 Game in i. 663 Jelly i. 54 Lie or Sauce i. 55 Lobster i. 866 Norman style, in i. 55 Aspic Oysters ii. 70 Partridges ii. 93 Salmon with ii. 367 Sauce for Salad i. 55 Veal ii. 682 Ass i. 56 Assafcetida i. 56 Assam i. 57 Asses’ Milk i. 56 Assiettes Montees i. 57 Asti i. 57 Asuree i. 57 Atherine i. 57 Athole Brose i. 203 Cakes i. 228 Attar of Roses for Flavouring ii. 346 Attelettes i. Si Attereaux i. 58 Au Bain-marie i. 59 Bleu i. 59 Four i. 59 Gras i. 59 Gratin i. 59 Jus i. 59 Maigre i. 59 Naturel i. 59 Aum or Ohm i. 59 Aunt Louisa’s Pudding ii. 253 Aurelian Cakes i. 228 Aurora Sauce i. 59, ii. 385 Australian Barley Sugar i. 80 Beer i. 59 Meat i. 59 Sauce ii. 385 Wines i. 60 Austrian Wines i. 60 Ava-Fara i. 60 Avi i. 60 Avocado Pear i. 60 Ayoli i. 60 Azia i. 60 Azucarillo i. 60 B Baba i. 60 au Madere i. 61 Cake i. 61 Cake, hot i. 61 with Vanilla Cream Sauce i. 61 Babeurre i. 62 Babka i. 62 Baby’s Pudding ii. 253 Bacalao i. 62 a la Biscayenne i. 62 a la Vizcaino i. 62 with Garlic Sauce i. 62 Backings i. 62 Bacon i. 62 Boiled i. 64 Broiled i. 65 Cabbage and Boiled i. 65 Fat i. 64 Fat Salad Dressing i. 64 for Breakfast i. 64 Fried i. 65 Green i. 62 Omelet i. 64 Salad i. 64 Salted and Dried i. 62THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 828 Bacon, Salted, Dried, and Smoked 7. 63 Spinach and 7. 64 Steamed i. 65 To choose 7. 63 with Macaroni 7. 64 Baden-Baden Bread Pudding 7. 186 Pudding 77. 253 Badet 7. 65 Bael 7. 65 Candied 7. 66 Jam 7. 65 Preserve 7. 66 Sherbet (Indian) 7. 66 Bagration Soup ii. 480 Bain-Marie i. 66 Bairn Brack Cake 7. 228 Baked Apple Roll i. 37 Apples i. 37 Apples, Glazed i. 37 Apples with Butter i. 37 Barbel i. 75 Barley Pudding i. 78 Bass i. 83 Batter Pudding i. 86 Batter Pudding with Marmalade i. 86 Cottage Soup ii. 480 Soup ii. 480 Bakehouse i. 66 Bakestone Cakes i. 228 Bakewell Pudding 7. 66 with Almonds i. 67 Baking i. 67 Dish i. 67 Powders i. 68 Sheet i. 67 Baklava i. 68 Ballachonny i. 68 Balloon or Prussian Cakes i. 228 Pudding ii. 253 Ballottines i. 69 Balls i. 69 Cocoa-nut i. 408 Ball-Suppers and Refreshments i. 68 Balmoral Cakes i. 229 Balorine i. 70 Russian i. 70 Baltimore Butter Pie i. 70 Bamboo i. 7 0 Pickle i. 70 Salad 7.70 Banana Cream Ice i. 71 Cream Pie i. 71 Fritters 7.71 Pie 7. 71 Syrup 7. 71 Bananas 7.70 Baked 7.70 Compote of 7. 71 Banbury Cakes 7. 71 Mincemeat 7. 71 Bandes 7.72 Bank-Holiday Pudding 77. 253 Bannocks 7.72 Banquets 7.72 Bar 7.74 Boiled in Court Bouillon 7. 74 Baraquille 7.74 Barbarie, a la 7. 74 Barbecue 7.74 Barbe de Capucine 7. 74 Barbel 7.74 Baked 7.75 Baked in Spanish style 7. 75 Baked, served with Parmesan Cheese 7. 75 Boiled in Court Bouillion 7. 75 Broiled a la Maitre d'Hotel 7. 75 Barbel, Eel and, Matelot of 7. 75 Roasted 7. 75 Stewed 7.75 Barbera 7. 7 5 Barberries 7.7 6 Bottled 7.77 Compote of 7. 77 Pickled 7.77 Preserved 7.77 Barberry Cream 7.76 Drops 7.76 Jam 7. 7 6 Jelly 7.76 Jelly with Apples 7. 76 Ketchup 7.77 Marmalade 7.77 Preserved, Pulp 7. 77 Syrup 7.77 Tart 7.77 Water-ice 7.77 Barcelonnettes 7.78 Barding 7.78 Barford Pudding 77. 253 Barigoule, a la 7.78 Barley 7. 7 8 Beverage 7.78 Broth 7.78 Cream 7.78 Cream Soup 7. 79 Fritters 7.79 Gruel 7.79 Meal Scones 7.79 Milk 7.79 Negus 7.79 Pearl 7.78 Pudding, Baked 7.78 Purde 7.79 Scotch 7.78 Soup 7.79 Stew 7.80 Water 7. 80 Water for Coughs 7. 80 Wine 7.8] Barley Sugar 7. 80 Australiafi 7.83 Cream 7.80 Drops 7.81 Vanilla 77.676 Vanilla-flavoured 7.81 Barolo 7. 81 Baron of Beef 7. 81 Roasted 7.122 Baronet’s Punch 77. 27 3 Barquette 7.81 Barrel 7.81 Barsac 7.81 Barszcz 7.81 Bartavelles 7.81 Basil, Sweet 7. 81 Vinegar 7.81 Basin 7.82 » Baskets 7. 82 Basmuttee 7.82 Bass 7.82 a la Chambord 7. 83 Baked 7.83 Baked, a la Bordelaise 7. 83 Boiled 7.84 Broiled 7.84 Dressed en Casserole 7. 83 Fried Black 7. 84 Fried with Bacon 7. 84 Stewed Stuffed, with Mushroom Sauce 7.84 Basting 7.84 Batter for 7. 86 Batch 7.84 Bateliere Sauce 77. 385 Bath Buns 7. 84 Bath Cake 7. 229 Chaps 7.85 Cheese 7.343 Oliver Biscuits 7. 140 Pipe 7.85 Pudding 77.253 Sausages 77.404 Batons 7.85 de Jacob 7. 85 Milanese 7.85 Batter 7.85 Bread 7.86 Cakes 7.86 Cakes with Bread 7. 86 Cakes with Rice 7. 86 Cakes with Yeast and without Eggs 7. 86 Cream Soup 7. 86 Flannel Cakes 7. 86 for Basting 7. 86 for Fritters 7. 86 for Frying 7. 87 for Frying Sweet Things 7. 87 for Frying Vegetables 7. 87 Gratinated 7.87 Rolls 7.87 Schwarn 7.87 Batter Pudding (small) 7.87 Baked 7.86 Boiled 7. 86, 87 Batuinia or Batvina 7. 87 Batvina or Batuinia 7. 87 Bavarian Beer 7. 87 Cream 7.9 Creams 7. 87 Sauce 77.385 Bavaroises 7.88 Bavaroise, Almond 7. 9 Fruit, with Cream 7. 88 of Apples a la St. Albans 7. 37 of Apricots 7. 44 Bavette d’Aloyau 7. 88 Baveux 7.88 Bay-leaf Flavouring 7. 88 Bay-leaves 7. 88 Bayonnaise 7. SS Beache-de-Mer 7.88 Beans 7.88 Black 7.88 Broad 7.89 French or Kidney 7. 89 French, Pickled 7. 91 Haricot 7. 91 Lima or Butter 7. 94 Mixed, Panaches 7. 91 Bear 7. 94 Bearnaise 7. 94 Sauce 77. 385 Bear’s Paws 7. 94 Beastings or Biestings 7. 135 Beatilles 7.94 Beaufort Pudding 77. 253 Punch 77.273 Beaulieu Cakes 7. 229 Puddings 77.253 Beauvilliers Cake 7. 94, 229 Bechamel 7.94 Brown Sauce 77. 385 Sauce 77.386 Bedagosa 7. 94 Beef 7. 94 a la Cuiller 7.100 a la Daube 7. 100 a la Franjaise 7. 100 a la Mode 7. 96 a la Mode, Soup 7. 98 a la Ndapolitaine 7. 101 a la Vinaigrette 7. 106 Baked Red Round of 7. 99829 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Beef, Baron of 7. 81 Baron of, Roasted 7. 122 Boiled 7. 106 Boiled Brisket of, Sauce for 77. 395 Boiled Rump of 7. 107 Boiled Salted Aitchbone of i. 107 Boiled Salted Roll of i. 107 Boiled Salted Round of i. 107 Boiled Silverside of i. 108 Boiled Tom Thumb Rib of Pickled i. 108 Bones Broiled i. Ill Bouilli i. 99 Braised i. 10 Braised, a la Bignonne i. 108 Braised, a la Flamande 7. 10S Braised, a la Mode i. 108 Braised, a la Providence i. 108 Braised, a la Russe i. 109 Braised, a l’Orsini i. 108 Braised Brisket of, in Flemish style i. 109 Braised Chump of i. 109 Braised, en Dauhe i. 108 Braised Larded Rump of 7. Braised Ribs of i. 108 Braised Ribs of, with Macaroni i. 109 Braised Roll of, a la Minton i. 110 Braised Roll of, with Nouilles i. 110 Braised Rump of 7. 110 Braised Sirloin of i. 110 Brasciolettes i. 99 Breslau of i. Ill Brisket of, a la Roy ale i. Ill Brisket of, Baked i. 98 Broth with Vermicelli 7.99 Cakes i. 99 Cakes Broiled 7.111 Cannelon of 7. 112 Celery Bouillon, and 7. 99 Chateaubriand of 7.113 Cheese, Spiced 7.127 Cold Boiled, au Gratin 7. 113 Cold Boiled, Plain-warmed 7.113 Cold Boiled, warmed and served with Italian Sauce 7.113 Cold Boiled, warmed with Bacon and Potatoes 7.113 Cold Boiled, warmed with Tomato Sauce 7. 113 Cold Stewed Rihs of, with Aspic Jelly 7.113 Collared 7.113 Cooked in German style 7.100 Cooked in Parisian stjde 7.101 Cooked in Prussian style 7.102 Corned 7. 113 Corned, as cooked in America 7.114 Corned Round of, Plain boiled 7. 114 Croquettes 7.99,117 Curing, for Drying 7.114 Curried 7.114 Curried, Forcemeat Balls 7. 114 Cutlets 7.100 Devilled 7.114 Doopiaja 7. 100 Dutch 7.114 Essence of 7.115 Fillet of 7. 115 Fillet of, a la Broche 7. 115 Fillet of, a la Chateaubriand 7.115 Fillet of, a la Gouffb 7. 116 Fillet of, a la Mirabeau 7.116 Fillet of, a la Hollandaise 7.116 Fillet of, Baked with Truffles 7. 9S Fillet of, Boiled, with Poached Eggs 7.107 Beef, Fillet of. Broiled 7.111 Fillet of, in Aspic 7.115 Fillet of, in Continental style 7.116 Fillet of, in Jelly 7.116 Fillet of, in Flemish style 7. 116 Fillet of, in Neapolitan style 7.116 Fillet of, Larded and Baked 7. 98 Fillet of, Roasted 7.123 Fillet of, to resemble Roasted Hare 7.125 Fillet of, with Bdarnaise Sauce 7. 115 Fillet of, with Macaroni 7. 116 Forcemeat 7.116 Fork 7.97 Fricandeau 7.117 Fricassee 7. 117 Frizzled 7. 118 Galantine 7.118 Gobbets or Mouthfuls 7. 100 Grenadines 7. 100 Hams 7.101 Hashed 7. 118 Hashed Boiled 7.118 Hashed Corned 7. 118 Hung 7. 119 Hungarian 7.119 Jelly 7.101 Jelly Broth with Vermicelli 7.101 Macaronied 7.119 Macedoine of 7.119 Marinade for 7.911 Minced 7.119 Minced, a la Portugaise 7. 120 Minced, a l’Espagnole 7.120 Minced, with Poached Eggs 7. 120 Miroton of 7. 120 Noix of, with Meat Jelly 7.120 Olives 7. 101 Patties 7. 102 Pie 7. 102 Pie made with Stewed Shin 7.102 Pilau of 7. 102, 121 Pot-au-Feu 7. 102 Pot-Pie 7.102 Potted 7. 121 Potted, with Venison Flavour 7.131 Pressed 7.121 Pudding 7.102 Purde Soup 7.103 Raised Pie 7. 103 Ribs of, Baked 7. 99 Rissoles 7.103 Rissolettes 7.103 Roasted 7.122 Roasted Ribs of 7.123 Roasted Rolled Ribs of 7.124 Roasted Rump of 7. 124 Roasted Sirloin of 7.124 Rolled 7. 124 Rolled Flank of 7. 125 Rolls or Paupiettes 7.103 Roulade of 7.125 Roulette 7.103 Round of 7. 97 Rump of 7. 97 Rump of, a la Portugaise 7.125 Salad 7. 104 Salad of Cold Boiled 7. 125 Salted 7. 125 Sausages 7.104 Scalloped 7.126 Shin of, Soup 7.126 Sirloin 77.452 Smoked 7.126 Smoked Hamburg 7. 126 Smoked, Omelet 7.126 Beef, Smothered or Pot-Roasted 7. 126 Soup 7. 104 Soup a l’Anglaise 7. 104 Soup a l'Ecossaise 7. 104 Spiced 7. 126 . Spiced Round of 7.127 Stewed 7. 127 Stewed Cabbage and Tinned 7. 223 Stewed Silverside of 7.128 Tea 7. 96, 105 To Carve 7. 308 Tough, made tender 7.129 Tournedos of 7. 129 Vol au-Vent of, Tendons 7.129 Beef Collops 7. 99 Savoury Minced 7. 126 with Piquante Sauce 7. 99 Beef steak, Broiled, 7. Ill Broiled Loin 7. Ill Carpet-bag 7. 104 Fried, Minced 7. 117 Kidney and, Pudding 7. 104 Minced 7. 120 Pie 7. 104 Pie with Oysters 7. 101 Pot 7.105 Pudding 7.105 Pudding with Oysters 7.105 Rolled 7.124 Spanish 7. 105 Stewed 7.128 Stewed with Oysters 7.128 Tough, cooked tender in Gravy 7.129 with Anchovy Butter 7. 104 Beer 7.129 African 7.4 American 7. 16 Australian 7.59 Bavarian 7. 87 Beetroot 7. 131 Belgian 7.132 Birch 7. 136 Biscuits for 7.140 Candle 7. 130 Coffee 7.422 Corn 7.776 Cuyte 7.511 French 7.646 Ginger 7. 677 Gratzer 7.712 Herb 7.759 Hop 7.770 Horehound 7.770 Lager 7. 804 Lambie 7.825 Lemon 7.837 Louvain 7.882 made with Tar 7. 130 Mangold-wurzel 7.908 Mint 7. 945 Molasses 7.946 Nettle 77.4 Potato 77.230 Schenk 77.410 Soup for Cold Weather 7.130 Soup, German 7.130 Soup with Bread 7.130 Soup with Cream 7. 130 Spruce 77.508 Treacle 77.612 Vienna 77.745 Weiss 77.7 63 Beetroots 7.131 a la Poitevine 7.131 Baked 7. 131 Beer 7.131 Boiled 7.132 Fritters 7. 131TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 830 Beetroots in Butter Sauce 7. 131 Leaves, boiled 7. 132 Macerated 7. 132 Pickled 7. 132 Pie 7. 131 Salad 7. 131 Saut6s a la Creme 7. 132 • Sautes in Butter 7. 132 with Cream i. 131 Beignet 7. 132 Orange ii. 34 Belgian Beer 7. 132 Puree 7. 132, 207 Bencoolen Tea 7. 132 Benedictine 7. 132 Bengal Canapes 7. 280 Beni 7. 132 Benzoin 7. 132 Bequet 7. 132 Bergamot 7. 133 Water-ice 7. 133 Ber anno 7. 133 Berlingot 7. 133 Berlin Sauce ii. 386 Berzille i. 133 Bdsis i. 133 Beverages i. 133 Barley i. 7 8 Cider i. 133 German i. 134 Mead i. 133 Metheglin i. 133 Perry i. 133 Persian 7. 134 Spanish i. 134 Bexhill Cheese i. 343 Bey rout Sauce ii. 386 Bezin i. 135 Bliahjees i. 135 Biestings, or Beastings i. 135, 938 Bitiins i. 135 Bigarade i. 135 Sauce ii. 31 Bigarre i. 135 Bigarreau Cherries i. 355 Bigos i. 135 Bilberries i. 135 Bilberry, Boiled, Pudding i. 135 Cake i. 135 Fried, Cakes 7.135 Pie i. 135 Tartlets i. 135 Wine i. 135 Bills of Fare i. 136 Birch Beer i. 136 Bird’s-Nest Pudding ii. 253 Soup i. 136 Birds, Reed ii. 316 Biscosclia i. 136 Biscottes i. 136 Brussels i. 136 Biscotins i. 136 Biscottini i. 136 Polish i. 136 Russian i. 136 Victoria i. 136 Biscuit-bag i. 139 Biscuit Boxes i. 139 Break i 137 Cakes i. 141 Crimping-board i. 140 Cutters i. 139 Docker i. 138 Forcer i. 139 Jelly i. 141 Powder i. 141 Pudding i. 141 Roller i. 137 Biscuits i. 136 Biscuits, Abernethy i. 140 Almond i. 10 Almond Bird’s-nest i. 10 Almond Carrot and Turnip i. 10 Almond Rock i. 13 Almond-sandwich i. 13 Almond Sponge i. 14 Almond Walnut i. 14 American i. 140 American Beaten or Maryland i. 140 Anchovy i. 19 Apricot i. 40 Arrowroot i. 45 Bath Oliver i. 140 Bread i. 187 Brighton i. 141 Brown Bread i. 191 Butter i. 217 Buttered i. 141 Butter-milk 7.218 Captains’ 7.141 Caraway 7.291 Champagne 7.141 Charcoal 7.336 Cheese 7.347 Chesterfield 7.141 Chocolate 7.374 Cinnamon Drop 7. 391 Clover Drop 7. 400 Cocoa-nut 7.408 Coffee, for 7. 141 Common 7. 141 Cornucopia 7.445 Cracknels 7 454 Cream 7.463 Date-shaped 7. 141 Digestive 7.141 Drop 7. 142 Dutch 7. 142 Edinburgh 7.142 “Excellent” 7.142 Filbert 7.584 for Beer 7.140 Frozen 7. 142 Geneva 7. 142 German 7.142 Ginger 7.678 Ground Rice 77. 324 Hermit 7.142 Honey 7. 7 69 Honeycomb 7.142 Iced 7. 142 Imitation Fruit 7. 143 Imperial 7.143 Kent 7.143 Lady’s Fingers 7.143 Lemon 7.837 Lemon-flavoured 7. 143 Light 7. 144 Luncheon 7.144 Macaroon 7.893 Madrid 7. 144 Magnum Bonum 7.144 Marseillaise 7.144 Milk 7.939 Naples 7.144 Nonpareil 7. 144 Nursery 7. 144 Oatmeal 77.14 Orange 77. 34 Orange-flower 77.48 Oswego 77.52 Patience 7.144 Penelope 7.145 Peruvian 7. 145 Petits, Ambrosiens 7.145 Pistachio 7. 200 Plain 7.145 Biscuits, Plum-shaped 7.145 Potato 77.230 Princess 7.145 Raspberry 77.306 Rheims 7. 145 Rheims, with Cream and Kirschen wasser 7.145 Rolled 7.145 Rout 7. 146 Royal 7. 146 Savoury, a la Melton 7.146 Savoy 7.146 Shell 7.146 Ship or Sea 7. 146 Shrewsbury 7.146 Snowdrop 7. 146 Soda 7.146 Soda and Cream of Tartar 77. 463 Sour Milk 7. 942 Sponge 7.147 Sugar 7. 147 Sweet 7.147 Tangerine-Orange 77. 47 Tea 7.147 Thick 7. 147 Tortoni 7. 147 True-lovers’ Knots 7. 147 Turkish 7. 147 Unleavened 7.147 Vanilla 77.676 Venice 7. 147 Victoria 7. 147 Wafer 7. 147 Walnut 7. 147 Walnut and Jam 77. 757 Washington 7. 148 Wheat-meal 77. 7 64 White 7. 148, Whole-Wheat 77.765 Wine 7. 148, 77. 788 Wine Finger 77. 788 with Maraschino Icing 7. 909 York 7. 148 Bishop 7. 148 Heidelberg 7.148 Bishop’s Pudding 77. 254 Bisk 7. 148 of Fresh-water Crayfish 7.149 Lobster 7.149 Prawns 7.149 Bismarcks 7.149 Bitters 7. 149 African 7.4 Amazon 7.150 Angostura 7.23 Aromatic 7. 150 Brandy 7.176 Cognac 7.177 for Liqueurs 7. 150 Hamburg 7.150 Koosh 7.795 Nonpareil 7.150 Orange 77.34 Peruvian 7.150 Spanish 7.150 Swizzle 7. 150 Wormwood 7. 150 Black Bass Fried 7. 84 Black Beans 7. 88 Boiled 7.89 Soup 7.89 Blackberries 7. 150 Pickled 7.153 Blackberry or American Down East Pudding 7. 151 Brandy 7. 150 Cordial 7.151 Dessert 7.151 Imitation, Brandy 7.153831 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Blackberry Jam 7. 151 Jam, with Apples 7. 151 Jelly i. 151 Meringue 7. 152 Pie 7. 152 Pudding 7. 152 Shape 7. 152 Shortcake 7. 152 Syrup 7. 152 Tartlets 7. 152 Tarts 7. 152 Wine i. 152 Wine with Plums 7. 152 Blackbirds i. 153 Pip i 1 Black Bread 7. 180 ,Brown Butter, or *1216 Butter 7. 218 Cake 7. 229 Coffee 7. 421 Jacks 7. 154 Sauce 7. 217 Blackcap Pudding ii. 254 Blackcock 7. 153 Roasted 7. 153 Stewed 7. 153 To Truss a 7. 153 Black-Currant Cordial 7. 495 Cream Ice 7. 495 Drink 7. 496 Drops 7. 496 Fool 7. 496 Gin 7. 496 Jam 7. 496 Jelly 7. 496 Jelly Sauce 7. 496 Jujubes 7. 496 Liqueur 7. 496 Lozenges 7. 496 Paste 7. 496 Pastille Drops 7. 496 Preserve with Arrowroot Drink 7. 46 Ratafia Liqueur 7. 497 Rhubarb Jam, and 7. 497 Vinegar 7. 497 Water-ice 7. 497 1 Wine 7. 497 Black Currants 7. 495 Bottled 7. 497 Preserved Pulp of 7. 497 Black Diver 7. 153 Salmis of 7. 154 with Chocolate Sauce 7. 154 Blackfish 7. 154 Fried 7. 154 Stewed 7 154 Black Forest Sausages 77. 404 Black Puddings i. 154 French i. 154 German i. 155 Blanc i. 155 for Vegetables in General i. 155 Blanched Cabbage i. 220 Blanching i. 155 Blancmange i. 155 a la Delmonico i. 156 Carrageen i. 302 Chocolate i. 374 Citron i. 393 Cocoa i. 407 Coffee i. 422 Cornflour i. 440 Curd i. 493 Dutch i. 157 Florador i. 598 Ground Rice ii. 324 Hominy i. 767 Lemon i. 838 Blanc mange, Parisian i. 157 Parisian style i. 156 Powders i. 157 Quince ii. 283 Raspberry ii. 306 Ratafia ii. 315 Ribbon i. 157 Russian style i. 156 Spanish i. 157 Strawberry ii. 518 Blancmanger, Almond i. 10 Arrowroot i. 46 Blanquette i. 157 Sauce ii. 386 Veal, of ii. 683 Bleak i. 157 Blighni i. 157 Blinis i. 157 Bloater Fillets i. 157 Paste 7. 157 Bloaters 7. 157 a la Sefton i. 158 Broiled 7. 158 Pickled i. 158 Toasted i. 158 Blond i. 158 de Veau, or Veal Stock ii. 722 Blonde Sauce ii. 386 Blood, Liaison of i. 861 Blue Colouring i. 427 Bluefish i. 158 Baked i. 158 Baked a la Venetienne f.158 Baked a lTtalienne i. 158 Stuffed and Baked i. 158 Boal or Bual i. 208 Boar i. 159 Cutlets of Wild i. 159 Fillets of Wild i. 160 Haunch of, a la Royale i. 161 Boar’s Head, Dressed i. 159 Galantine of i. 160 Sauce for ii. 395 Smoked i. 161 with Rosemary i. 383 Bobotee i. 162 Bohea i. 162 Bohemia Salad ii. 356 Boiled Apple Dumplings i. 29 Asparagus i. 53 Bacon i. 64 Bacon and Cabbage i. 65 Bass i. 84 Batter Pudding i. 86, 87 Beef i. 106 Beef, Hashed i. 118 Beetroots i. 132 Black Beans i. 89 Jerusalem Artichokes i. 51 Jerusalem Artichokes with White Sauce i. 51 Pork and Haricot Beans i. 92 Boilers i. 162 Boiling i. 162 Bologna i. 165 Sausage i. 166, ii. 405 Bomb i. 166 Bonrbarde i. 166 Bombay Pudding ii. 254 Bombe, Apricot, with Maraschino i. 40 Bombonnieres i. 166 Bonbons i. 166 Candied Liqueur i. 166 Caramel i. 289 Chocolate i. 374 Lemon i. 838 Lemon and Maraschino Cream i. 845 Bonbons, Punch Cream ii. 275 Spanish Nuts ii. 496 Bondons i. 166 Bones i. 166 Broiled Beef i. Ill Devilled i. 167 for Soup i. 166 Boning i. 167 Fish i. 167 Knife i. 167 Leg of Mutton i. 167 Poultry i. 167 Ribs of Beef i. ] 68 Bonnes Bouches i. 168 a la Parisienne i. 168 Apricot i. 40 Artichokes, of i. 49 Chickens with Truffles, of i. 168 Oysters, of i. 168 Bonnefeadas Cakes i. 229 Bonne Femme Soup ii. 480 Bonnet Cakes i. 229 de Turquie i. 168 Borage i. 168 Bordeaux i. 168 Cake i. 229 Sauce 77.386 Bordelaise, a la 7.168 Border of Aspic Jelly 7. 55 j Borders i. 168 Bosh Butter 7. 168 Boston Chips 77. 535 Pudding 77.254 Bottled Apricots 7. 44 Barberries 7.77 Halves of Apricots 7. 44 Sauces 77.401 Bottles 7.168 Cement for Sealing Corks of 7. 169 Bottling 7. 168 Gum for Adhesive Labels 7169 Wax for 7. 169 Bouclifies 7.169 a l’Astor 7.169 a la Patissiere 7. 170 a la Reine 7.170 de Dames 7.170 Salmon 77.367 Sardines of 77. 379 Sweet 7. 171 with Game Puree 7.170 with Oranges 7. 170 with Peaches 7.170 Bouchere, a la 7. 171 Boudinade 7. 171 Boudinettes, Cold Meat 7. 922 Boudins 7.171 Cold Meat 7. 922 Bouff 7.171 Bouillabaisse 7.171 Bouillie 7.173 Beef 7. 99 Bouillon 7. 173 Beef and Celery 7. 99 Blanc 7.205 Boule a Riz 7.173 Boulettes 7.173 Bouquet Garni 7. 173 Salad 77.356 Bourani 7.173 Bourbon Cocktail 7.405 Punch 77.273 Bourgeoise, a la 7. 173 Sauce 77. 3 8 6 Bourgnignon 7.173 Boutargue 7.173 Salad 7.173 with oil 7.173 Bovaline 7.173832 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Bovril i. 173 Bowdoin Pudding and Pumpkin Pie ii. 254 Bracheto i. 173 Brain Cakes i. 173 Croquettes i. 173 Cutlets i. 173 Fritters i. 173 Brains i. 173 Calfs’ i. 265 Forcemeat of i. 174 Fried i. 174 Lambs’ i. 817 Ox ii. 53 Scrambled in Patties i. 174 Sheep’s ii. 436 Stewed i. 174 Tongue and, au Gratin i. 173 Braised Beef i. 108 a la Bignonne i. 108 a la Flamande i. 108 a la Morle i. 108 a l’Orsini i. 108 a la Providence i. 1 08 a la Russe i. 109 en Daube i. 108 Braised Brisket of Beef in Flemish style i. 109 Chump of Beef i. 109 Larded Fillet of Beef, Garnished with Tomatoes i. 109 Larded Rump of Beef i. 109 Ribs of Beef i. 109 Ribs of Beef with Macaroni i. 109 Roll of Beef a la Minton i. 110 Roll of Beef with Nouilles i. 110 Rump of Beef a la Jardiniere i. 110 Rump of Beef in Parisian style i. 110 Rump of Beef i. 110 Rump Steak i. 110 Sirloin of Beef i. 110 Braising i. 174 Bran i. 175 Tea i. 175 Brancino i. 175 Brandade i. 175 Brandied Cherries i. 355 Quinces ii. 282 Brandy i. 176 Apple i. 26 Apricot i. 40 Balls ii. 535 Bitters i. 176 Blackberry i. 150 Butter i. 176 Butter Sauce for Sweets i. 176 Cape i. 282 Champagne i. 333 Cinnamon i. 390 Cocktail i. 405 Cordial i. 176 Cream i. 176 Dantzic i. 177 Elderberry i. 570 Flavourings i. 176 Ginger i. 67 8 Gruel i. 176 Imitation i. 177 Jelly i. 176 Lemon i. 838 Orange ii. 34 Peach ii. 133 Peppermint ii. 147 Pineapple ii. 192 Plum ii. 207 Pudding with Brandy Sauce ii. 254 Brandy, Raspberry ii. 306 Rochelle ii. 342 S auce i. 177 Shrub i. 177 Snaps i. 177 Brasciolettes Beef i. 99 Brasilia i. 177 Brawn i. 177 in Jelly i. 178 Mock i. 178 Sc-rappel or American i. 178 Sussex i. 178 Yorkshire i. 178 Brazil Nuts i. 178 Bread i. 178 Adulterated i. 3 Aerated i. 179 Almond i. 10 American i. 180 American Premium i. 180 American Thirded i. 180 and Butter Pudding, Baked i. 187 and Marrow Pudding i. 188 Angels’ i. 22, 227 Aniseed i. 23 Apple i. 26 Apricot i. 42 Batter i. 86 Batter Cakes with i. 86 Biscuits i. 187 Black i. 180 Brandy Cakes i. 187 Butter-milk i. 181 Cake i. 187 Cheese-cakes i. 187 Corn i. 181 Cornflour Sponge i. 181 Cream Ice i. 187 Croustades a la Reine i. 187 Croustades tilled with Stewed Fruit i. 188 Croustades for Savouries i. 187 Croustades for Stewed Fruit i. 187 Crouton of Fried i. 191 Croutons a la Condd for Soup i. 188 Croutons for Entries i. 188 Croutons for Entremets i. 188 Croutons for Garnishing i. 188 Croutons for Soup i. 188 Croutons with Compote of Fruits i. 188 Devilled for Breakfast i. 191 Diabetic i. 181 Dietetic i. 181 Dyspepsia Bread i. 181 Egg i. 181 Egg and Cornflour i. 181 Egged i. 555 Fancy i. 577 Fried i. 192 Fritters i. 188 Fritters with Fruit i. 188 Fruit i. 192 Gluten i. 181 Graham-flour i. 182 Henrietta i. 182 Household i. 182 Jelly i. 188 Lapland i. 182 Light i. 182 Lunch i. 182 made with Potatoes i. 181 Matso i. 182 Milk i. 182 Omelet i. 188 Panada i. 188 Panada with Milk i. 189 Patties i. 189 Bread, Potato i. 183 and Suet Dumplings i. 190 or Toast Jelly i. 190 Pulled i. 192 Pumpkin i. 183 Queen’s i. J83 Rice i. 183 Rye i. 183 Salad i. 189 Sauce i. 189 Scotch i. 183 Soda i. 183 Soup i. 190 Sticks i. 190 Sweet Potato i. 183 Togus i. 183 Turnip i. 183 Unleavened ii. 674 Water i. 183 Whole-meal i. 184 Breadcrumb Panada i. 190 Pie i. 190 Pudding i. 190 Breadcrumbs i. 190 and Raspings i. 190 Fried i. 192 Bread Pudding, Baden-Baden i. 186 Baked i. 189 Boiled i. 189 Savoury i. 192 Served with Fruit Sauce i. 189 with Cream Sauce i. 189 Breakfast Cakes i. 229 Coffee i. 420 or Tea Rolls i. 186 Breakfasts i. 193 Bream i. 193 Broiled i. 193 Broiled with Shallot Sauce i. 193 Roasted i. 194 Soused i. 194 Breast of Mutton Boiled i. 971 Brasil i. 194 Breslau of Beef i. Ill Bretonne, a la i.T94 Sauce ii. 386 Brewing i. 194 Brickbat Cheese i. 343 Brick Tea i. 194 Bridage i. 194 Bride Cakes i. 194 Brie Cheese i. 195, 343 Brighton Biscuits i. 141 Cakes i. 230 Brill i. 195 a la Conti i. 197 au Gratin i. 197 a la Hollandaise i. 197 a la Ravigote i. 197 a la Saint Mendhould i. 197 Baked i. 195 Boiled i. 196 Boiled, Garnished with Potatoes and Crayfish i. 196 Boiled in Wine i. 197 Boiled, served in Parisian style i. 196 Boiled with Anchovy Cream i. 196 Boiled with Bechamel Sauce i. 196 Boiled with Caper Sauce i. 196 Broiled i, 197 Fried i. 197 with Orlys of Whiting i. 197 Brine i. 197 Brioches i. 197 a la Condd i. 199 Buns i. 199 Cheese i. 347 Croutons of i. 199833 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Brioches, Fluttes 7. 199 Fried, with Madeira Sauce 7. 199 Ring 7. 199 Small 7. 199 Tea-cake 7. 199 Timbale with Fruit 7. 199 with Madeira Sauce 7. 199 Brisket of Beef a la Royale 7. Ill Baked 7. 98 Boiled 7. 106 in Flemish style, Braised 7. 109 Pickled 7. 121 Stewed 7. 128 with Peas Pudding 7. 106 Brisse Soup 77. 480 Bristol Cakes 7. 230 British Champagne 7. 332 Punch 77. 273 Wines i. 200 Broad Beans i. 89 and Cream i. 89 Bacon and, Boiled i. 89 Boiled i. 89 Broccoli i. 202 Boiled i. 202 Boiled, served with Buttered Eggs i. 202 Pickled i. 202 with Parmesan Cheese i. 202 with White Sauce i. 202 Broehan ii. 14 Broclie i. 202 Brochettes i. 202 of Calf’s Brains i. 265 of Candied Fruits and Pastes i. 202 Brodchen i. 202 Broglio i. 203 Broiled Apricots i. 44 Bacon i. 65 Barbel i. 75 Barbel a la Maitre d’Hotel i. 75 Bass i. 84 Beef Bones i. Ill Beef Cakes i. Ill Beef steak i. Ill Double Porterhouse-steak i. Ill Fillet of Beef i. Ill Liver and Bacon i. 65 Steak i. 112 Broiling i. 203 Broken Bread Pudding i. 191 Brose i. 230 Athole i. 203 Cadger’s i. 203 Kale 7. 203 Peas i. 203 Scotch i. 203 Scotch Fat 7. 203 Broth i. 203 Barley 7. 78 Beef Jelly, with Vermicelli i. 101 Beef, with Vermicelli i. 99 Calf’s Lights, for Invalids i. 275 Calf's Liver i. 276 Cheap i. 204 Clam-Juice i. 396 Fish i. 590 Fowl i. 617 in an Hour i. 204 in Forty Minutes i. 204 Invalid 7.204 Mai p e i. 204 Mutton i. 984 Nutritive 7.204 Panada 7.204 Pectoral 7.204 Rabbit 77.293 Refreshing 7.204 Rice 77.328 Broth, Rich 7. 204 Scotch 7.205 Scotch Mutton 7. 999 Snail and Frog 77. 459 Stock or First 7.204 Tapioca 77.567 Tea-kettle 7. 205, 77. 579 Thickened with Eggs 7.204 Tortoise 77.610 Turkish 7.205 Veal 77.708 Vegetable 7.205 Welsh 7.205 White (Bouillon Blanc) 7.205 with Macaroni 7.204 Brouilles 7.205 Broussa Tea 7. 206 Brousse 7.206 Brown Betty 7. 206, 77. 68 Black-Bread Pudding, or 7. 191 Butter Sauce 7. 217 Butter Sauce for Croquettes 7. 217 Sauce 77.387 Brown-Bread, American 7. 180 Biscuits 7. 191 Boston 7.181 Brewis 7. 191 Cream Ice 7.191 Ice 7. 191 Pudding 7.191 Browning 7.206 Pea Shell, for Soup 77.127 Brunoise 7.206 Soup 77.480 with Rice 7. 206 with Sorrel 7. 206 Brunswick Cakes 7. 230 Salad 77. 35 6 Brussels Biscottes 7. 136 Brussels S prouts 7. 206 a la Maitre d’Hotel 7. 207 Boiled 7.207 Dressed 7.207 en Turban with Cucumbers 7. 207 for Garnish 7. 207 Fried in Butter 7. 207 Omelet 7.207 Sautes 7.207 Sautes a la Creme 7. 207 Brussoles 7.208 Bual or Boal 7. 208 Bubble and Squeak 7. 208 Bucellas 7.208 Buck 7.208 Buck-Bean 7.208 Buckwheat 7.208 Cakes 7.208 Pancakes 7.209 Soup in German style 7. 209 Beurre Lie 7. 217 Buffalo 7.209 Buffet 7.209 Buff’ Pudding 77. 254 Bugne 7.209 Buisson 7.209 Bullace Cheese 7. 209 Pie 7.209 Eullaces 7.209 Bullock 7.209 Bull’s Eyes 77. 535 Bun Pudding 7. 210 Buns 7. 209 Bath 7. 84 Brioche 7. 199 Cheap 7.210 Chelsea 7.210 Chester 7.210 Christmas 7.210 Cinnamon 7. 210, ’390 Buns, Cocoa-nut 7. 408 Common German, for wholesale use 7.210 Currant 7.210 Devonshire 7.210 Enfield 7.210 Geneva 7.210 German 7.210 Ginger 7.678 Ground Rice 77. 324 Guernsey 7.210 Hanover 7.211 Hot Cross 7.211 Jubilee 7.211 Light Tea 7. 211 London 7.211 Madeira 7.211 Plum 7.211 Rum 7.211 Saffron 7.211 Spanish 7.211 Sweet, without Eggs 7. 212 Buonboeconi 7.212 Burdwan 7.212 Burgoo 7.212 Burgundy 7.213 Burnet 7.213 Burnt Almond Charlotte Russe 7. 14 Burnt Almonds and Orange Ice 7. 14 Burnt Cream 7. 462 Sauce 7.463 Burnt Onions 77. 25 Burt 7. 213 au Gratin 7. 213 Baked 7.213 Fried 7.213 Burtas 7.213 Bush Tea 7.213 Buseca 7.213 Bustard 7.213 Braised 7.213 in Russian style 7. 213 Roasted 7. 213 Stewed 7.213 Butter 7.213 Anchovy 7.19 Apple 7.26 Biscuits 7.217 Black 7.218 Black or Brown 7. 216 Bosh 7. 168 Brandy 7. 176 Camp 7.216 Capsicum 7.287 Clarified 7.216 Cream and, Liaison of 7. 861 Creamed 7.216 Drawn 7.216 Fairy 7.216 Gascony 7.216 Green 7.216 Jack 7.218 Kneaded 7. 216 Liaison of 7. 861 Lima or, Beans 7. 94 Maitre d’Hotel 7.217 Montpellier 7.217 Ornamental, for Table 7. 216 Prepared in Haste 7. 216 Preserved 7.217 Ravigote 7. 217 Removing Salt from 7. 216 Restoring Rancid 7. 216 Rolls for Tea 7.184 Sardine 77.380 Soup 7.218 Spanish 7.218 Tarragon 77.571 Thickened 7. 217 3 H VOL. II.THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 834 Butter Beans Dried, Boiled 7. 94 Butter-Churn 7. 214 Buttercup Cakes 7. 230 Buttered Apples 7. 37 Biscuits 7. 141 Butter ine 7. 218 Butter-milk 7. 218 Biscuits 7. 218 Bread 7. 181 Cakes i. 218 Cream Ice 7. 218 Pudding 7. 218 Butter-nut 7. 218 Butter Sauce 7. 217 Anchovy 7. 19 with Capers 7. 217 with Parsley 7. 217 Butter Scotch 77. 536, 592 Buttery 7. 218 Butyric Acid 7. 218 c Cabaret 7.218 Cabbages 7. 218 a la Mode 7. 220 American Slaw 7.219 Apples with 7. 220 au Gratin 7. 220 Blanched 7.220 Boiled 7.220 Boiled, and Cream 7. 220 Boiled, and Sausages 7. 220 Boiled Bacon and 7. 65, 220 Boiled Savoy 7. 224 Cake 7.220 Dolmas 7.222 Fried White 7. 222 Garnishing for 7. 220 Gratinated, with Soup 7. 222 Minced 7.223 Red 7.224 Rice and Balls 7. 221 Rice with 7. 221 Salad 7.221 Soup 7.221 Soup with Bacon 7. 221 Soup with Rice 7. 222 Sour crout 7. 222 Stewed, and Tinned Beef 7. 223 Stewed, stuffed with Forcemeat 7. 223 Stewed with Milk 7. 222 Stock 7.225 Stuffed 7.223 Timbale of 7. 224 White 7.219 Cabillaud 7.225 Cabrillons 7.225 Cacao 7.225 Cachal 7.225 Caclie-Museau 7.225 Cacliou Lozenges 7. 883 Cactus Wine 7. 225 Cadger’s Brose 7. 203 Cafe 7.226 au Lait 7. 420 Mousse au 7. 425 Noir 7.421 Gloria 7.425 Par fait au 7. 425 Cagnard i\ 226 Caisses 7.226 Cake Admiral 7.227 Almond Savoy 7. 13 Almond Sponge 7. 14 American White 7. 227 Ames 7.227 Angels’ 7. 22, 228 Anglo-French Stuffed 7. 228 Aniseed 7.23 Apple 7.27 Apple Cream 7. 28 Apple Johnny 7. 30 Arrowroot 7.46 Ash 7.228 Aurelian 7.228 Baba 7.61 Baba, hot 7. 61 Bairn Brack 7. 228 Bath 7.229 Beauvilliers 7. 94, 229 Bilberry 7.135 Black 7.229 Bordeaux 7.229 Bread 7.187 Cabbage 7.220 Capital 7. 231 Chantilly 7.231 Chausson 7.231 Chocolate 7.375 Chocolate Layer 7. 377 Christmas 7.232 Cider 7.389 Citron 7.393 Citron Pound 7. 394 Clay 7.232 Cocoa-nut 7.408 Cod 7.415 Coffee 7.423 Composition 7.232 Confederate 7.232 Cornflour Loaf 7. 442 Cornflour Spider 7. 444 Crumpet, with Clotted Cream 7. 484 Currant 7.503 Cussy 7. 232, 507 Custard 7.508 Dampf-Nudel 77.11 Dauphin 7.233 D’Artois, a la Parisienne 7. 233 D’Artois with Apples 7. 233 Date 7.517 Delicate 7.233 Delicious 7.233 Delille 7.233 Demon 7.233 Dover 7.234 Dream 7.234 Dripping 7.328 Dundee 7.234 Dutch Bolac 7. 234 Egg-powder 7.559 Elberfield 7.235 Election 7.235 Elizabeth 7.235 Family 7.235 Feather 7.235 Federal 7.235 Fig 7.582 Flame 7.235 Flat 7.235 Florador 7.598 Frascati 7.236 French 7.236 Fruit 7.653 Genoa 7.237 German 7.238 Ginger 7.678 Gold 7.238 Cake, Ground Rice 77. 324 Guernsey 7.239 Hard 7.239 Harlequin 7.239 Havre 7.239 Heloise 7.239 Hickory-nut 7.765 Hoe 7.239 Holmcroft 7.240 Home-made 7.240 Iced 7.240 Imitation of a Ham 7. 230 Imitation of a Haunch of Lamb 7. 230 Imitation of a Melon 7. 230 Imperial 7.240 Irish 7. 240 Josephine 7.240 Kettle 7. 240 Lady 7.241 Layer 7.241 Lead 7.241 Leaf 7.241 Lee 7. 241 Leighton 7.241 Lemon 7.838 Leopard 7.241 Light 7.241 Lightning 7. 242 Loaf 7.242 Lobster 7. 871 Luster 7.242 Macaroon 7. 894 Madeleine, served with Cream and Port-wine Sauce 7. 243 Madison 7.244 Magdalen 7. 244 Maizena 7. 905 Malaprop 7.244 Manque, with Rum 7. 244 Manx 7.244 Marble 7. 244 Marsden 77.696 Mazarin, with Rum 7. 244 Melting, with Sabayon 7. 244 Merry Christmas 7. 245 Mille-Feuilles 7.245 Modena 7.245 Molasses 7.946 Montblanc 7.245 Montmorency 7.245 Montrose 7.245 Mountain 7.245 Mousseline 7.246 Muffin 7.951 Napoleon 7.246 Neapolitan 7.246 Nelson 7.246 Norfolk 7.246 Nouille 77. 8 Nourmahal 7. 247 Nun’s 7.247 Nut 77.12 of Cheese 7. 347 One Egg 7.564 Onion 77. 25 Orange 77.35 Oswego 77.52 Parisian 7. 247 Park-street 7.247 Parson’s 7. 247 Pistachio 77. 200 Plum 77.207 Pineapple 77.192 Pithiviers Almond 7. 14 Plain 7.247 Portuguese 7.247 Potato 77.231 Princess Louise 7. 248835 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Cake, Prune ii. 249 Railroad 7. 249 Raisin ii. 303 Raspberry ii. 307 Regatta 7. 249 Ribbon i. 249 Rice ii. 250, 328 Rice Manx ii. 332 Richelieu i. 250 Riscasoli i. 250 Risen i. 250 Rodon i. 251 Roll i. 259 Roman i. 251 Rose or Clouded i. 251 Rose-water ii. 347 Roumanian Sweet i. 251 Royal i. 251 Ruggles i. 251 Rusk ii. 351 St. Amand i. 251 St. Honors i. 252 Salmon ii. 367 Sand, with Marmalade i. 253 Savarin i. 253 Savarin, a l’Angiaise i. 254 Savoury i. 254 Savoy i. 254 Savoy, with Oranges i. 254 School i. 255 Shortbread ii. 448 Silver i. 256 Simnel ii. 452 Snowflake i. 257 Souffle, with Punch i. 257 Spanish-Onion ii. 28 Spider i. 258 Spider with Bilberries i. 25S Sponge ii. 504 Sponge, a , Chantilly i. 260 Sponge (Berwick) i. 259 Sponge (Butter) i. 259 Sponge, with Rum i. 260 Strawberry i. 260 Strewed i. 260 Sultana i. 261, ii. 304 Surprise Cygnet i. 261 Surprise Peacock i. 261 Surprise Pheasant, a la Soyer i. 261 Tipsy i. 262, ii. 591 Treacle ii. 612 Turk’s i. 263 Vanilla ii. 676 Vanilla, a la Cussy i. 676 Veal, or Pain ii. 70S Velvet i. 263 Venice i. 2 53 Vermicelli ii. 743 Victoria i. 263 Vinegar ii. 747 Walnut ii. 757 Washington i. 284 Water-Melon i. 264 White i. 264 White Citron i. 395 White Mountain i. 264 Wine ii. 788 Yeast ii. 802 Yorkshire Spice i. 264 Cakes i. 226 Aberfrau i. 227 Adelaide i. 3, 227 African i. 227 Albany i. 6, 227 Albert i. 6, 227 Almond i. 10 Almond Albert i. 9 Almond, Icing for i. 12 Apricot i. 40 Cakes, Athole i. 228 Bakestone i. 228 Balloon or Prussian i. 228 Balmoral 7. ,229 Banbury i. 71 Batter i. 86 Batter Flannel i. 86 Beaulieu i. 229 Beef i. 99 Biscuits i. 14 Bonnefeadas i. 229 Bonnet i. 229 Brain i. 173 Bread Brandy i. 187 Breakfast i. 229 Bride 7. 194 Brighton i. 230 Bristol i. 230 Brunswick i. 230 Buckwheat i. 208 Buttercup i. 230 Butter-milk i. 218 Camp i. 231 Canadian i. 231 Caraway i. 291 Caraway-and-Water i. 292 Cardamom i. 294 Carnival i. 231 Carrot i. 304 Cherry i. 357 Chestnut i. 365 Chestnut Rout i. 368 Chocolate Drop i. 377 Cinnamon i. 390 Cinnamon Star i. 391 Cinnamon Water i. 392 Clabber Batter i. 87 Cocoa-nut and Orange i. 410 Cocoa-nut Pound i. 410 Coffee, for i. 230 Colchester i. 232 Cold Meat i. 922 Condg i. 232 Cornflour i. 440 Cornflour Batter i. 440 Cornflour Breakfast i. 440 Cornflour Cup i. 441 Cornflour Griddle i. 441 Corporation i. 232 Country i. 232 Cream i. 464 Cup i. 232 Curd i. 493 Derby i. 234 Derby Short i. 234 Derwentwater i. 234 Dessert i. 234 Devonshire i. 234 Digestive i. 234 Dimple i. 234 Domino i. 234 Dough i. 525 Drop i. 234 Duchess i. 234 Duchess, a la Patissiere i. 234 Dutch i. 235 Fish i. 590 Flame i. 597 Flannel i. 235 Fried i. 236 Fried Bilberry i. 135 Fried Bread i. 192 Geneva i. 236 Gloucester i. 238 Graham Flour i. 798 Green Corn i. 777 Green Pea Griddle ii. 126 Hazel-nuts 7.757 Heavy i. 239 Cakes, Hermit i. 239 Hoe 7.766 Hominy 7. 7 67 Honey 7.769 Ploney Love 7. 769 Ice 7.775 Indian 7. 240 Irish Luncheon 7. 240 Italian 7.240 Jelly 7.785 “ Johnny ” or Journey 7. 240 Jubilee 7.240 King Henry’s Shoe Strings 7. 839 Knob 7.240 Lafayette 7.241 Lard 7.828 Little German 7. 242 Lord Mayor’s 7. 242 Louvernaise 7.242 Love 7.242 Lunch 7.242 Macdonald 7.242 Madeira 7.242 Madeleine 7.243 Madeleine a la Printaniere 7. 243 Madeleine, without Butter 7.243 Manon 7.244 Marien 7.244 Meat 7.920 Meringue 7.244 Milan 7.245 Milk 7.939 Milk-and-Honey 7. 939 Musk 7.965 Mutton 7.985 New-Year 7.246 Oatmeal ii. 15 Orange-flower 77.48 Oyster ii. 74 Parliament 7.247 Passover 7.247, 77.111 Plum ii. 210 Polish 7.247 Polka 7.247 Pop-Over ii. 215 Pound 7.247 Prussian Breakfast 7. 248 Puff-Paste 77.121 Queen (or Heart) 7.248 Quince 77.283 Ramazan 7.249 Raspberry Venice 77. 312 Red-currant Jelly 7.498 Rice Batter 77. 328 Rice Drop 77.331 Rice Griddle 77.331 Robert 7.250 Rock 7.250 Rout 7.251 Rye 77.352 Sago 77.353 Salsify 77.375 Sand 7.253 Sausage 77.407 Scotch 7.255 Scrap 7.255 Sea 7.255 Short 7.255 Short Paste 77.122 Shrewsbury 7.255 Simple 7.256 Sly 7.256 Small 7.256 Snow 7.256 Snowball 7.256 Soda 7.257 Soda Batter 77.463 Spanish 7.258 Special 7. 258 3 H 2THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 836 Cakes, Spice 77. 490 Sponge 7. 258 Stag-Horn 7. 260 S tutted 7. 261 Stuffed with Cream 7. 236 Stuffed with Jam 7. 231 Sully 7. 261 Swan’s Nest 7. 261 Tartary 7. 262 Taylor 7. 262 Tea 77. 578 Travelling i. 262 Tunbridge i. 262 Turin i. 262 Twelfth ii. 673 Velvet Breakfast i. 263 Vienna i. 263 Water i. 264 Wheat-Hour Batter ii. 7 64 Wheat-meal ii. 7 64 Wreath i. 264 Yorkshire i. 264 Yule i. 264 Calalou 7. 265 a l’Orientale i. 265 Calf i. 265 Calf’s Brains i. 265 Boiled a la Poulette i. 265 Boiled with Black or Brown Butter i. 265 Boiled with Fried Parsley and Black or Brown Butter Sauce i. 265 Boiled with Ravigote Sauce i. 265 Boiled with Vinaigrette Sauce i. 265 Brochettes of i. 265 Cromeskies of i. 266 Croquettes of i. 266 en Matelote 7. 266 Fried with Tartar Sauce i. 266 in Scallop Shells i. 266 Sauce for Salad i. 266 Calf’s Chitterlings i. 266 Calf’s Ears i. 266 a la Financiere i. 267 Boiled i. 266 Bordeaux style i. 267 Fried with Tomato Sauce i. 267 in Marinade i. 267 Stuffed i. 267 with Tomato Sauce i. 267 with Tortue Sauce i. 267 with Truffles i. 267 with Villeroy Sauce i. 267 Calf’s Feet i. 268 as Mock Terrapin 7. 269 Boiled i. 268 Boiled, with Piquant Sauce i. 268 Boiled, with Poulette Sauce i. 268 Boiled, with Remoulade Sauce i. 268 Crepinettes of i. 269 F ricassee of i. 269 Pudding i. 269 Salad i. 269 Calf’s Foot Jelly i. 268 Calf’s Head i. 269 a la Financiere i. 271 a la Luxemborg i. 271 a la Royale i. 271 Baked i. 270 Bigarre i. 270 Boiled i. 27 0 Boiled, a la Cavour i. 270 Boiled, with Poulette Sauce i. 270 Boiled, with Vinaigrette Sauce i. 270 Braised i. 270 Cheese i. 271 Calf’s Head, Collared i. 272 Curried, cold i. 272 en Torture i. 272 Fricassee of Cold i. 272 Fried Scallops of 7.272 Hashed i. 272 Pie i. 271 Ragout i. 271 Roasted i. 272 Salad i. 271 Soup i. 272 Soused i. 273 Stewed i. 273 to Carve i. 309 Calf’s Heart i. 273 Braised i. 273 Calf’s Kidneys i. 273 a la Breton i. 274 Baked i. 274 Broiled ii la Maitre d’Hotel i. 274 Croquettes 7.274 Fried 7.274 Minced, on Croutons 7. 275 Omelet 7.275 Patties 7.274 Pudding 7.274 Soup 7. 274 Stewed in Wine 7. 274 Calf’s Lights Broth for Invalids 7. 275 and Liver, Stewed 7.275 or Lungs 7. 275 Calf's Liver 7.275 ii la Brochette 7. 275 a la Franfaise 7. 276 a la Milanaise 7. 276 a l’ltalienne 7.276 Bacon and, Fricassee 7.277 Bacon and, Fried and served with Spinach 7.277 Baked with Onions 7. 275 Balls for Soups 7. 276 Bewitched 7.275 Braised 7.275 Broiled with Bacon 7. 275 Broth 7.276 Curried 7.277 Minced 7.278 Pain or Cake 7. 276 Pain or Cake in Jelly 7. 276 Pudding 7. 27 6 Quenelles 7.278 Ragout 7.277 Roasted 7.278 Rolls 7.277 Salad 7.277 Saute ii la Pmvencale 7. 277 Saute with Piquant Sauce 7. 277 Scalloped 7.278 Scallops of, with Fine Herbs 7. 278 Souffle 7.277 Stewed 7.278 Stewed a la Bourgeoise 7. 278 Stewed a l’ltalienne 7. 278 Terrine of, a la Provencale 7. 278 Calf’s Pluck 7. 279 Boiled 7.279 Roasted 7.279 Soup 7.279 Calf’s Tongue 7. 279 Cold, served a la Macedoine 7. 279 Stewed, and Brains 7. 279 Stewed, with Mushroom Sauce 7. 279 Tomato Sauce with 7. 279 Calf’s Udder 7.279 Forcemeat 7.279 Calia Cold Soup 77. 480 Californian Pudding, Baked 77. 253, 254 Calipash and Cali [ice 7. 279 Calisson 7. 27 9 Callebogus 7.279 Callou 7.279 Caluso 7.280 Cambridge Pudding 77. 255 Sausages 77.405 Camembert 7.280 Cheese 7.343 Camerani Soup 77. 480 Camp Butter 7.216 Cakes 7.231 Canadian Cakes 7. 231 Dishes 7.280 Canapes 7.280 Anchovy 7. 19 Artichoke Bottoms for 7. 49 Bengal 7.280 Bombay 7.280 Madison 7.280 Tricolour 7.280 Various Sorts of 7. 280 Candied Almond Paste 7.12 Bael 7.66 Fruit or Nuts 7.280 Lemon-peel 7.836 Liqueur Bonbons 7. 166 Orange-peel 77.32 Peel 7.280 Peel Pudding 7. 280 Candy 7. 280, 77. 535 Caraway 7.292 Cocoa-nut 7.408 Cream 7.281, 465 Digestive 7.281 Lemon 7.839 Molasses 7.947 Nut 77. 13 Peppermint 77. 147 Pop-Corn 7.778 Rock 7.281 Rose 7.281 Canneloni Soup 77. 480 Cannelons 7.281 a la Reine 7. 281 Almond Paste 7. 14 Beef 7.112 Garnished with Fruit Jelly or Jam 7. 281 with Cream 7.281 with Preserves 7.281 Canning 7.282 Cantal Cheese 7.343 Canvas Back Duck 7. 282 Broiled 7. 282 Roasted 7.282 Cape Brandy 7. 282 Wines 7.283 Capercailzie 7.282 Capers 7.282 Anchovy and, Sauce 7.19 Sauce 7.283 Capillaire 7.283 Capilotade 7.284 Capital Cake 7. 231 Capons 7.284 Boiled 7.285 Boiled Barded, with Mushrooms 7. 284 Boiled, with Rice 7. 285 Boiled, with Rock-salt 7.285 Braised 7.285 Braised, a la Neapolitaine 7. 286 Braised, with Quenelles and Truffles 7. 286 Braised, with Sweetbreads and Truffles 7.286 Pie 7.286 Roasted 7.287 Soup 7.286837 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Capons Stewed a la Francaise 7. ‘287 Cappelletti Soup 77. 480 Capri 7. 2S7 Capsicums 7. 287 Butter 7. 287 Essence of 7. 288 Pickled 7. 288 Syrup 7. 287 Tincture of 7. 288 Captains’ Biscuits 7. 141 Caramel 7. 288 Basket filled with Caramel Fruits 7. 289 Bonbons 7. 289 Chocolate 7. 375 Cream 7. 289 Cream Ice 7. 289 Creme Ben verse e 7. 289 Crorpienbouches of Fruits 7. 290 Custard 7. 290 Fresting 7. 290 Lemon 7. 839 Mousse 7. 290 Orange 77. 35 Orris-root ii. 51 Philadelphia i. 291 Pudding i. 290 Sauce i. 290 Sponge i. 291 Sweetmeats for i. 291 Syrup i. 291 Tablets, Coffee i. 423 Carapulca i. 291 Caraway i. 291 Biscuits i. 291 Cakes i. 291 Candy i. 292 Comfits i. 292 Cordial i. 292 Dragees 7. 292 Essence of i. 293 Liqueur i. 292 Roll i. 184 Sauce i. 292 Soup i. 292 Tincture of i. 293 Water Cakes i. 292 Carbolic Acid 7. 293 Carbon i. 293 Carbonades i. 293 Carbonic-acid Gas i. 293 Cardamoms i. 294 Cakes i. 294 Comfits i. 294 Flavouring i. 294 Tincture i. 294 Cardinal i. 294 Essence i. 294 of Bitter Oranges i. 294 of Pine apple i. 294 of Strawberries i. 294 of Sweet Oranges i. 295 Punch ii. 273 Sauce ii. 387 Cardoons i. 295 a l'Espagnole i. 295 Baked, with Breadcrumbs i. 295 Boiled in Butter i. 295 Boiled in Stock 7. 295 Brown Sauce with i. 295 Cheese with i. 295 en Blanquette it 295 for Garnish i. 296 Fried i. 297 Ox-Marrow with i. 296 Puree i. 297 Stewed i. 297 Veloute Sauce with i. 297 Carlowitz i. 297 Carlsbad Water 7. 3 Carmelite Soup ii. 481 Carmine i. 297 Carnabyn i. 297 Carnival Cakes i. 231 Carob i. 297 Carp i. 297 a la Chambord i. 299 a la Maitresse d’Hotel i. 299 a la Paysanne i. 300 Baked ‘ i. 298 Baked, ii la Mariniere i. 298 Boiled i. 298 Boiled in Beer i. 300 Boucliees of, Soft Roes i. 298 Boudins of, served with Supreme Sauce i. 302 Braised i. 299 Braised, a la Chef de Cuisine i. 299 Broiled i. 299 Broiled, Stuffed i. 299 Christmas, in Poland i. 300 en Matelote i. 300 F isherman’s i. 300 Forcemeat 7. 300 Forcemeat, a l’Ancienne 7. 300 Fried i. 300 Fried, a 1’Allemande i. 301 Marinade i. 301 Matelote of, and Eel i. 301 Pickled i. 301 Pie i. 300 Roasted 7. 301 Scalloped i. 301 Stewed i. 301 Stewed, a la Roi i. 301 Stewed in Beer i. 300 Carp’s Roes i. 301 Scalloped i. 301 Carrageen i. 302 Blanc mange i. 302 Chocolate i. 302 Water i. 303 Carrier Sauce ii. 387 Carrot Cakes i. 304 Cheese-cakes i. 304 Fritters i. 304 Jam i. 304 Marmalade i. 305 Pie i. 305 Plum Pudding i. 305 Puree i. 305 Puree Soup i. 305 Puree with Rice i. 305 Salad i. 305 Soup i. 305 Carrots i. 303 a la Maitre d’Hotel i. 303 a la Menagere i. 303 a la Nivemaise i. 304 a la Pou lette i. 304 a l’Orleans i. 304 Asparagus and i. 304 Boiled i. 303 Boiled, served with Bacon Sauce i. 303 Cream with i. 304 Curried i. 306 Fine Herbs with 7. 304 Flemish style, in i. 304 Fried i. 306 Garnish i. 304 Glazed i. 306 Green Peas and 7. 304 Hashed i. 306 Mashed i. 306 Plainly served 7. 306 Preserved i. 306 Sautes a la Creme i. 305 Carrots, Souffle i. 306 Stewed i. 306 Stewed in Sugar and Cream i. 306 Stewed with Sugar 7. 305 Young, Soup i. 306 Carton-Pate i. 306 Carving i. 306 Beef 7. 308 Calf’s Head 7. 309 Fish i. 310 Ham i. 310 Hare i. 311 Heart i. 311 Mutton i. 311 Pork i. 312 Poultry and Game i. 312 Rabbit 7.314 Sucking-pig 7.315 Tongue 7.315 Veal 7.315 Venison 7.315 Casein 7.316 Cases, Fried Bread 7. 192 Paste 77.121 Cashew 7.316 Casks 7.316 Cassareep 7. 316 Cassava 7. 316 Casseroles 7.317 of Mock Sweetbreads with Potato Border 7.317 Cassia 7. 317 Candied 7.317 Ratafia 7.317 Cassile 7.317 Cassina 7.317 Cassiri 7.317 Cassis 7.317 Cassolette 7.318 Castelnaudary, of 7. 318 Castle Puddings 77.255 Catawba 7.318 Syrup 7.318 Catfish 7.318 Chowder 7.318 Stewed with Tomatoes 7. 318 Caucasian Wines 7.318 Caudle 7.318 Beer 7.130 Brown 7.319 Cauliflower 7.319 Asparagus and, Salad 7. 320 au Gratin 7. 321 Baked 7.320 Boiled 7. 320 Boiled, in American style 7. 320 Boiled, with Butter 7. 320 Crayfish with 7. 320 Cream of 7. 322 Cream Sauce with 7. 320 Cream Soup 7. 320 Dressed 7.322 en Mayonnaise 7. 321 Fried 7.312 Fritters 7. 320 Garnishing, for 7. 321 Gratinated 7.323 in Batter 7. 320 Parmesan Cheese with 7. 321 Pickled 7.323 Puree of 7. 323 Salad 7.322 Sauce 7.322 Sautes 7. 322 Scalloped 7.323 Scrambled 7.323 Soup 7.322 Spanish Sauce with 7. 322 Tomatoes and 77. 600THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 838 Cauliflower, Tomato Sauce with 7. 322 Veloute Sauce with 7. 322 White Sauce with 7. 322 Caviare 7. 323 Canapds of 7. 324 Eggs with 7. 324 Mock 7. 324 on Toast 7. 324 Rolls with Oysters 7. 324 Cayenne and Catechu Lozenges 7. 288 Cheese 7. 288 Drops 7. 288 Essence 7. 28S Pepper 7. 288 Salt 7. 288 Wine 7. 288 Cecils 7. 324 Celeriac 7. 324 Boiled 7. 325 Pried 7. 325 Puree 7. 325 Stewed 7. 325 Celery 7. 325 au Jus 7. 327 Baked 7. 326 Baked with Cheese 7. 326 Boiled 7. 326 Boiled with Cream 7. 326 Braised i. 326 Cordial 7. 326 Cream of 7. 328 Cream Soup 7. 326 Curling 7. 325 Drink 7. 326 Fried 7. 329 Fritters 7. 326 Frizzled 7. 329 Onion Soup and 7. 327 on Toast 7. 328 Pickled 7. 329 Puree 7. 327 Salad i. 327 Salad with Mayonnaise Dressing 7. 328 Salad with Remoulade Sauce 7. 328 Sauce 7. 328 Saut<i served with Ox-marrow 7. 328 Served in a Glass 7. 325 Soup 7. 328 Stewed i. 329 Vinegar 7. 328 with Cream 7. 326 with Gravy 7. 327 with Gravy a la Tonne Femme 7. 327 with Half-Glaze 7. 327 with Ox-marrow 7. 327 with Spanish Sauce 7. 328 with White Sauce 7. 328 Celestines 7. 329 Cellaring 7. 329 Cellulose 7. 330 Cement for sealing Corks of Bottles or Jars 7. 169 Centerba 7. 330 Cepes 7. 330 au Gratin 7. 330 en Coquilles 7. 330 for Garnishing 7. 330 Omelet 7. 330 Cervelas 7. 330 Chablis 7. 330 Cup 7. 331 Chach 7.331 Chacoli 7. 331 Chambertin 7. 331 Chamhord 7. 331 C'hamhord, Bass a la 7. 83 Champagne 7. 331 Biscuits 7. 141 Brandy 7. 333 British 7. 332 Cider Cocktail i. 405 Cobbler i. 402 Cocktail i. 405 Cooking i. 332 Cup i. 332 Grand i. 708 Granits with Strawberries, Iced i. 333 Ice i. 332 Iced i. 331 Iced, and Fruit Jelly i. 333 Jelly i. 332 Jelly hi Glasses i. 333 Mock i. 331 Punch i. 333 Rhubarb ii. 318 Sauce i. 333 Syrup i. 333 Champignons i. 333 Chantarelles i. 334 Cliantausen Sauce ii. 400 Chantilly Basket and Cups i. 334 Cake i. 231 Charlotte i. 336 Cream i. 335 Cliappatee or Indian Hand-Bread i. 335 Chaps, Bath i. 85 Char i. 335 Potted i. 335 Charcoal i. 335 Biscuits i. 336 Charcuterie i. 336 Chard i. 336 Salad i. 336 Charlottes i. 336 Apple i. 27 Chantilly i. 336 French 7.339 Glacees 7. 336 Italian 7.339 Mosaic 7.339 Neapolitan 7.339 Orange 77.35 Panache es 7.336 Polish 7.339 Prussian 7.339 Westphalian 7.339 Charlotte Russe 7. 336 a la Chateaubriand 7. 338 . a la Princess Royal 7. 338 Apricot 7.40 au Cafe 7. 338 Burnt Almond 7. 14 Coffee 7.423 with Liqueurs 7. 338 with Pine-apple Flavouring 7. 338 with Pistachios 7. 339 Chartreuse 7.340 Apple 7.27 Apricot 7.41 Strawberry 77.518 Vegetables and Game 7. 340 Chateaubriand 7.340 Beef 7.113 Sauce 77.387 Sauce with Fillet of Beef 7. 9S Chaudeau 7.340 Sauce 7.340 Chaudfroids 7.341 Cliaudron Fritters 7. 266 Roasted 7.266 Cliaussons 7.341 Cake 7.231 Cheap Broth 7. 204 Buns 7.210 Soup 77.481 Cheats 7.341 Cheddar Cheese 7. 343 Cheek, Ox 77.53 Pig’s 77.168 Clieenesuckur 7.341 Cheese 7.341 Aigrettes 7.347 Apple 7.27 Apricot 7.41 Artificial 7.343 Baked 7.346 Bath 7.343 Bexhill 7.343 Biscuits 7.347 Boiled 7.347 Brickbat 7.343 Brie 7.195, 343 Brioches 7.347 Bullace 7.209 Cake 7.347 Calf’s Head 7. 217 Camembert 7. 280, 343 Canapes a la Journeaux 7. 347 Cant-al 7.343 Cayenne 7.2S8 Cheddar 7.343 Cheshire 7. 343 Chocolate 7.375 Cottage 7.343 Cottenliam 7.344 Cream 7. 344, 348 Cream and Apple 7. 28 Creamed 7. 351 Custard 7.348 Damson 7. 513 d’Artois 7.347 Daventry 7.344 Derbyshire 7.344 Dorset 7.344 Dunlop 7. 344 Dutch 7. 344 Dutch Cream 7. 344 Fingers 7.348 Fondu 7.348 Fritters 7.348 Fritters Souffles 7. 348 Fritters, Turkish 7. 352 Gloucester 7.344 Golden Buck 7. 351 Gorgonzola 7.344 Grayere 7.344 Guava 7. 726 Hoppers 7.353 Italian Cream 7. 344 Leicester 7.344 Limburger 7.344 Lincoln 7.344 Loaf 7.345 Marigold 7.911 Marches 7.345 Medlar 7. 928 Milk 7.345 Mites 7.353 Neufchatel 7.345 New Milk 7. 345 North Wilts 7. 345 Omelet 7.348 Orange-flower 77.48 Parmesan 7. 345, 77. 89 Paste, hot 7. 351 Patties 7.348 Pontgibaud 7.345 Pont l'Eveque 7. 345 Port du Salut 7. 345 Pot 7.345 Potted 7.351THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 839 Cheese, Pounded 7. 352 Pudding 7. 349 Pudding, Baked 7. 347 Puffs or Ramekins 7. 349 Rarebit 7. 346 Raspberry 77. 307 Rhubarb 77. 318 Rice ii. 329 Rice and i. 349 Rice and, stewed i. 352 Roasted i. 352 Rolled ii. 616 Roquefort i. 345 Sage or Green i. 346 Salad i. 349 Sandwich i. 349 Sandwich, Roquefort i. 352 Sc-habzeiger i. 346 Slipcoat i. 346, ii. 456 Snow i. 346 Souffles i. 350 Soup i. 350 Spiced Beef i. 127 Stewed i. 352 Stilton i. 346 Straccliino i. 346 "Strawberry ii. 518 Straws i. 350 “Strohl” i. 352 Talmouses with i. 352 Tao-foo i. 346 Tartlets i. 350 Toasts i. 351 Trifles i. 351 Vanilla ii. 677 Veal ii. 695, 709 Welsh Rarebit i. 353 Wiltshire i. 346 York i. 346 Cheese-Cakes i. 353 Almond i. 11 Apple i. 27 Bread i. 187 Carrot i. 304 Citron i. 393 Cocoa-nut i. 409 Cornflour i. 441 Curd i. 493 Devonshire i. 354 Egg i. 555 Hominy i. 767 Lemon i. 839 Peach ii. 133 Potato ii. 231 Pudding i. 354 Ratafia ii. 315 Rice ii. 329 Welsh i. 354 Chelsea Buns i. 210 Hats ii. 573 Chemise i. 354 Cherries i. 354 Bigarreaus i. 355 Bottled i. 355 Brandied i. 355 Candied i. 355 Compote of i. 363 Dried i. 363 Dukes i. 355 en Chemise i. 357 Essence of i. 363 Glazed i. 363 Glazed, with Caramel i. 358 Morello and Kentish i. 355 Pickled i. 363 Preserved i. 364 Preserved Pulp of Black i. 364 Stewed i. 364 Cherries with Croutons i. 357 Cherryade i. 355 Cherry Bouchees 7. 355 Bounce i. 356 Brandy i. 356 Brandy, Italian i. 363 Bread i. 356 Bread Pudding i. 356 Cakes i. 357 Caramel Tablets i. 357 Cordial i. 357 Cream Ice i. 357 Crusts i. 357 Currant Syrup and i. 357 Custard i. 358 Dish, German, cold i. 363 Flawn i. 358 Fool i. 358 Fritters i. 358 Gateau i. 358 Ice i. 358 Iced Compote i. 358 Jack i. 359 Jam i. 359 Jelly in Mould i. 359 Juice i. 355 Liqueur i. 359 Marmalade i. 359 Marzipan i. 360 Noyau and Cream Bonbons i. 360 Open Tart i. 360 Paste i. 360 Paste Drops i. 360 Pie i. 360 Pie, Canadian i. 355 Pie with Brown Bread i. 360 Pudding i. 361 Pulp for Ices i. 361 Raspberry and, Jam i. 361 Ratafia i. 361 Sauce i. 361 Schmarn i. 361 Soda-water Syrup i. 361 Souffle i. 36 i Souffle Pudding i. 361 Soup i. 362 Syrup i. 362 Tart i. 362 Tartlets i. 362 Vinegar i. 362 Water i. 363 Water Ice i. 363 Wine i. 363 Wine, Black i. 355 Chervil i. 364 Cheshire Cheese i. 343 Chest, Lozenges for the i. 883 Chester Buns i. 210 Chesterfield Biscuits i. 141 Chestnut Auflauf i. 305 Biscuits i. 365 Bonbons i. 365 Cakes i. 365 Cream i. 366 Cream Ice i. 366 Custard i. 366 Garnish i. 366 Mousse i. 366 Paste i. 367 Pudding i. 367 Pudding with Fruits i. 367 Puree i. 367 Puree Soup i. 367 Purd e with Cream i. 367 Rout Cakes i. 368 Sauce i. 368 Sauce for Turkey i. 368 Shape i. 368 Souffles i. 368 Soup i. 368 Chestnut Stuffing i. 368 Stuffing for Turkey i. 368 Stuffing with Truffles i. 368 Timbale i. 369 Chestnuts i. 364 Boiled i. 365 Candied i. 365 Compote of i. 369 Croquenbouche of i. 369 Croquettes i. 366, 369 Devilled i. 370 Forcemeat of i. 370 Glaces with Caramel i. 366 Glaees with Sugar i. 366 Glazed i. 370 Preserved 7.370 Puree of 7.370 Roasted 7. 37 0 Served as a Vegetable, Boiled 7. 365 Sugared 7.370 Chianti 7.370 Cliica 7.370 Chicken Bonnes Benches of, with Truffles 7. 168 Country Captain 7. 613 Custard 7.613 Grenade of, Fillets 7. 032 Grilled a la Chasseur 7. 632 Ham and, Sausages 7. 613 Ivory-white i. 632 Olives 7.613 Pickled 7.634 Prairie Hen or 77. 243 Puree, Aspic 7. 607 Ragout 7.613 Salmagundi 7.636 Vinaigrette of 7. 642 Vol au - Vent 7.642 Chick-Peas 7.370 Boiled 7. 371 Soup 7. 371 Chicory 7. 371 Chiffonnade 7. 371 Soup 7.372 Children’s Pudding 77. 255 Chilian Wines 7. 372 Chilli Sauce 7. 288 Vinegar 7.288 Chine 7. 37 2 Chinese Soup 77. 481 Wines 7.372 Chingara, a la 7. 372 Cutlets 7.372 Chinguirito 7.372 Chipolata 7. 366, 372 Chips, Jerusalem Artichoke 7. 50 Lemon, and Rings 7. 840 Cliittaeks 7. 37 2 Chitterlings a la Franfaise 7. 372 Chives 7. 372 Sauce 7.373 Chloride of Sodium 7. 373 Chocolate 7.373 and Vanilla-cream Bonbons 7.3S0 Apple Custard 7. 374 Apple (flavoured) 7.374 Bavaroise 7.374 Biscuits 7. 37 4 Blanc-mange 7.374 Bonbons 7.374 Bouchees 7. 375 Cake 7.375 Caramels 7. 37 5 Carrageen 7.302 Clieese 7. 37 5 Comfits 7.375 Confection 7. 375 Conserve 7.375 Creams 7. 375THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 840 Chocolate Custard 7. 377 Drops 7. 377 Drop Cakes 7. 377 Frothed 7.380 Ice 7. 377 Iced 7. 380 Icing 7. 377 Kisses 7. 377 Layer Cake 7. 377 Meringues 7. 377 Mousse 7. 377 Mulled 7. 380 Pastilles 7. 377 Pie 7. 378 Pistachios 7. 378 Pudding 7.378 Pudding with Almonds 7. 378 Pulled Candy 7. 378 Roll Pudding 7.379 Sauce 7.379 Snaps 7. 379 Souffle 7.379 Soup 7.379 Spongeade 7.379 Stamped 7.380 Sweetmeats 7.379 Syrup 7.380 Tablets 7.380 Tarts 7.380 Wafers 7.380 Whips 7.380 Wine 7.380 Chocolate Cream au Nougat 7.376 Bars 7. 37 6 Buns or Cakes 7. 376 Drops 7.376 Ice 7. 37 6 Tarts 7.377 Choca 7.373 Choppers 7.381 Chops 7. 380 Boiled Mutton 7. 972 Choucroute 7.381 Choux 7.381 Caramels with 7. 381 Coffee Icing with 7. 382 Crisped with Almonds 7. 382 Crotltons for Soup 7. 382 Filled with Cream 7. 382 Paste 7.381 Chow Chow 7. 382 Chowder 7.383 Catfish 7.318 Clam 7.395 Cod 7.415 Corn 7.776 Fish 7.591 Lobster 7.871 Christmas Buns 7. 210 Cake 7.232 Fare 7.383 Pudding 7.385 Chub 7.386 Baked 7.386 Broiled 7.386 Roasted 7.386 Cliufa 7.386 Chump of Beef, Braised 7. 109 Chuppatee 7. 386 Chutney 7.386 Apple 7.28 Elderberry 7. 57 0 Gooseberry 7.703 Green Tomato 77. 595 Mango 7.907 Mint 7.945 Tamarind 77.565 Tomato 77.600 Cider 7.133, 387 Cider, Boiled 7. 389 Bottled 7.389 Cake 7.389 Champagne 7. 389 Cocktail 7.389 Cup 7.389 Imitation 7.389 Jelly 7. 389 Mulled 7.389 Pineapple 77.193 Punch 7.389, 77.273 Refining 7.389 Rhubarb 77.319 Vinegar 7. 389 Cinchona 7.389 Cinnamon 7.390 Biscottini 7. 390 Brandy 7.390 Buns 7.210,390 Cakes 7.390 Candied 7.390 Confection 7.391 Comfits 7.391 Cordial 7.391 Cream 7. 392 Cream Ice 7. 391 Currant and Caraway Cakes 7. 391 Drop Biscuits 7. 391 Essence of 7. 392 Extract of 7. 392 Flavouring 7.391 Liqueur 7.391 Lozenges 7.391 Sauce 7.391 Star Cakes 7.391 Sticks 7.392 Sugar 7.392 Sweetmeats 7.392 Syrup 7.392 Tablets 7.392 Tincture of 7. 392 Wafers 7.392 Water Cakes 7. 392 Water Ice 7. 392 Circassian Pudding 77. 255 Cisco 7.392 Potted 7.392 Citric Acid 7. 393 Citron 7.393 Blancmange 7.393 Cake 7.393 Cake, White 7. 395 Cheese-cakes 7.393 Cordial 7.394 Cream Ice 7. 394 Cream, Whipped 7. 394 Ice 7.394 Jelly 7. 394 Liqueur 7. 394 Paste 7.394 Pound Cake 7. 394 Preserve 7.394 Preserved 7.394 Pudding 7. 394 Citronat 7.395 Citronelle 7.395 Civet 7.395 Venison 77.736 Clabber Batter Cakes 7. 87 Clam Chowder 7. 395 Chowder Soup 7. 395 Croquettes 7.396 Forcemeat 7.396 Fritters 7. 396 Juice Broth 7. 396 Soup 7.396 Clams 7. 395 Fried 7.396 Scalloped 7.396 Clams Served Raw 7. 396 Steamed 7.397 Stewed 7.397 Claremont Sauce 77. 387 Clarence Pudding 77. 255 Claret 7.397 Cobbler 7. 402 Cup 7.398 Fizz 7.398 Frozen 7.398 Ice 7. 398 Imitation 7. 398 Jelly 7.398 Julep 7. 398 Mulled 7.398 Puffs 7.398 Punch 77. 274 Clarges-Street Pudding 77. 255 Clarified Butter 7.216 Clarifying 7.399 Clary 7.399 Water 7.399 Wine 7.399 Clay Cake 7. 232 Clear Soup 77. 481 Asparagus, with 77. 4S1 Nudels, with 77.481 Poached Eggs, with 77.481 Cleavers 7.399 Clifton Pudding 77. 256 Clochettes 7.400 Clod 7.400 Clotted Cream 7. 403 Clove Candy Tablets 7. 400 Cordial 7.400 Drop Biscuits 77. 400 Gin 7.401 Liqueur 7. 401 Lozenges 7. 401 Sugar 7.401 Water 7.401 Cloves 7.400 Essence 7. 401 Tincture 7.401 Coal 7. 401 Fish 7.401 Cobblers 7.402 Champagne 7.402 Claret 7.402 Fruit 7. 654 Sherry 7. 402, 77. 447 Whisky 7.402 Coburg Pudding 77. 256 Soups 77.481 Coca 7.402 Liqueur 7.402 Cochineal 7.402 Cocido 7.402 Cockade 7.402 Cock a-Leekie 7.403 Mock 7.403 Cockle Ketchup 7. 405 Salad 7.405 Sauce 7.405 Soup 7.405 Cockles 7.404 Hustled 7.405 Pickled 7.405 Scalloped 7.405 Cocks' Combs 7. 403 Fried, Stuffed 7.404 Rissoles of 7. 404 with Truffles in Aspic 7. 404 Cocks’ Kernels 7. 404 Cocktails 7.405 Bourbon 7.405 Brandy 7.405 Champagne 7.405 Champagne-Cider 7. 405THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 841 Cocktails, Cider 7. 389 Gin 7. 405 Rje Whisky 7. 405 Cocoa 7. 405 Bavaroise 7. 407 Blancmange 7. 407 Cream Jell}' 7. 407 Liqueur 7. 407 Pudding 7. 407 Cocoa nut Balls 7. 408 and Orange Cream for Cakes 7. 410 Biscuits 7. 408 Buns 7. 408 Cake 7. 408 Candy 7. 408 Candy Drops 7. 408 Caramels i. 408 Cheese Cakes 7. 409 Chips, Crystallised 7. 412 Compote of Pink 7. 411 Compote of W hite 7. 411 Conserve 7. 409 Cream Balls 7. 409 Cream Ice 7. 409 Cream Pies 7. 409 Custard Pies 7. 409 Drops 7. 409 Fondants 7. 409 Frost on Custard 7. 409 Grated 7. 412 Hard-hake i. 409 Ice 7. 409 Jap 7. 409 Lozenges 7. 409 Milk 7. 409 Milk Sauce 7. 410 Patties 7. 410 Pies 7. 410 PoundCakes 7. 410 Pudding 7. 410 Pudding, Portuguese 7. 412 Raisin Cream and 7. 411 Rock 7. 411 Salad 7. 411 Snow 7. 411 SpongeCakes 7.411 Sponge Pudding 7.411 Stickjaw 7.411 Sweetmeat 7. 411 Tart 7.411 Cocoa-nuts 7.407 Cod 7.412 a la Royale 7. 414 au Gratin 7. 414 Baked 7.412 Balls 7.415 Boiled 7. 413 Boiled, salted 7. 414 Broiled as in Turkey 7. 415 Buttered 7.414 Buttered, salted 7. 414 Cake 7.415 Chowder 7.415 Cleaning 7.412 Crimped 7.415 Curried 7.416 Cutlets, fried 7.416 Fillets of, a la Hollandaise 7. 416 Fried 7.416 Grilled 7.416 Haddock and, fried 7.416 Hashed 7.416 Matelote 7.416 Nantucket style of cooking 7.417 Omelet 7.415 Oyster and, Pie 7.415 Pie 7.415 Rechaulle 7.417 Salted 7.417 ! Cod Saute 7.415 Scallops 7.417 Steaks, fried 7. 416 Stewed 7.417 Toast 7.415 Vol au-Vent 7.418 with Saffron Sauce 7. 415 Codling, boiled, with Oyster Sauce 7. 413 Cod’s Head, baked 7. 412 Cod’s Liver 7. 418 Quenelles of 7. 418 Cod’s Roes 7. 418 a la Hollandaise . 7. 418 Fried 7.418 Scalloped 7.419 Stewed 7.419 Cod's Sounds 7. 419 and Tongues Pie 7. 419 Boiled 7. 419 Roasted 7.419 Cod’s Tongues 7. 419 a la Poulette 7. 419 Blanched 7.419 Boiled 7.419 Fried 7.420 with Black Butter Sauce 7. 420 Coffee 7.428 Bavaroise 7.422 Beans, roasted 7. 420 Beer 7.422 Biscuits for 7. 141 Blanc mange 7. 422 Brandy and, Cream Bonbons 7. 423 Breakfast 7. 420 Cake 7.423 Cakes for 7. 230 Caramel Tablets 7. 423 Charlotte Russe 7. 423 Cheese 7.423 Cream 7. 423 Cream Ice 7. 423 Cream Syrup 7. 424 Croquenl touche 7. 424 Custards 7. 424 Drops 7. 424 Essence 7.421 Flavoured with Oat Liquor 7. 425 French 7. 421 Glace es 7. 424 Granit 7.424 Icing 7. 424 Jelly 7.424 Liqueur 7. 424 Liqueur Jelly 7. 425 Liquid Extract 7. 421 Mange 7.425 Pudding 7.425 Shape, marbled 7. 425 Soda-water and, hot 7. 425 Souffle 7.425 Steamed 7. 42! Walnuts 7.425 Whipped Cream with 7. 425 White 7.421 with Egg 7. 424 Cognac 7. 426 Bitters 7. 177 Oil of 7.177 Colanders 7.426 Colares 7.426 Colbert Sauce 7. 426, 77. 387 Soup 77.481 Colcannon 7.426 Colchester Cakes 7. 232 Cold Beef Fricassee 7.117 Stewed Slices of, with Green Peas 7.129 Cold Boiled Beef au Gratin 7. 113 Plain warmed 7. 113 Cold Boiled Beef Salad 7. 125 Warmed and served with Italian Sauce 7. 113 Warmed and served with Tomato Sauce 7.113 Warmed, with Bacon and Potatoes 7. 113 Cold Meat Cookery 7. 922 Meats 7.921 Puddings a la Diaz 77. 256 Stewed Ribs of Beef with Aspic Jelly 7.113 Veal Rechauffe 77. 701 Colewort 7.426 Collared Beef 7. 113 Meat 7.426 Collation 7.426 College Puddings 77. 256 Collops 7.426 Beef 7.99 Russian 7.426 Savoury Minced Beef 7. 126 Colourings 7.426 Carmine 7. 297 for Gravies 7.712 Mixtures for Wines, &c. 7. 427 Spinach-green 77.501 Yellow 7.427 Colours, Aniline 7. 427 Blue 7.427 Green 7.427 Red 7. 427 Coltsfoot 7.427 Essence of 7. 428 Liqueur 7. 427 Lozenges 7.427 Rock 7.428 Wine 7.428 Comfits 7.428 Comfrey 7.428 Commanderia 7. 428 Commander-in-Chief Punch 77. 274 Common Biscuits 7. 141 German Buns for wholesale use 7. 210 Composition Cake 7. 232 Compote of Apples 7. 37 Apricots 7.44 Bananas 7. 71 Barberries 7.77 Chestnut Paste 7. 369 Green Angelica 7. 22 Vermicellied Chestnuts 7. 369 Compotes 7.428 Cremona 7. 428 de Seville 7. 428 Golden 7.428 Grecian 7.428 Russian 7. 428 Savoyade 7.428 Spanish 7.428 Conde, a la 7. 429 Cakes 7.232 Soup 77.481 Condensed Milk 7. 938 Condiments 7.429 Confectionery 7. 429 Confections 7.429 Almack’s 7.9 Confederate Cake 7. 232 Comfits, Angelica 7. 22 Aniseed 7.23 Conger Eels 7. 548 Conservative Pudding 77. 256 Conserve Lemon 7. 840 Spice 77.499 Consomme 7.429 a la Duchesse 7. 431 a l’Anglaise 7. 431THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 842 Consomme a la Printanier i. 432 a la Printanier Royale i. 432 a la Royale i. 431 a la Sevigne i. 432 a l’Epicure i. 431 a l’lndienne i. 431 a l’ltalienne i. 431 a l’Oignon i. 430 a l’Orge i. 430 Andalusian i. 430 au Choux i. 430 au Creme de Riz i. 431 au Poisson i. 430 aux Crepes i. 430 aux Darioles i. 430 aux Noques i. 430 aux Plats i. 431 aux Pois i. 430 aux Quenelles i. 431 aux Ravioles i. 430 Colbert i. 430 Fish i. 591 Fowl i. 618 Game i. 663 Olio i. 431 Stock i. 430 Suedoise i. 432 with Biscottes i. 430 with Celery i. 430 with Chestnut Timbales i. 430 with Chicken i. 430 Constance Pudding ii. 256 Consumption, Beer made with Tar for i. 130 Contising i. 432 Convent Salad ii. 356 Cooked Salad, Kitchener’s ii. 358 Cookies i. 433 made with Cocoa-nut i. 434 made with Cornflour i. 434 made with Figs i. 434 made with Ginger i. 434 made with Lemon i. 434 New York i. 434 Cooking Apples i. 25 Pot and Curry Pan, Warren’s ii. 758 Cooks and Cooking i. 432 Coq de Bruyere i. 434 d’lnde i. 434 Coquilles i. 434 Corach i. 434 Coralline i. 434 Corbeilles i. 434 Cordial Aniseed i. 23 Blackberry i. 151 Black-currant i. 495 Brandy i. 176 Caraway i. 292 Celery i. 326 Cherry i. 357 Cinnamon i. 391 Citron i. 394 Clove i. 400, 401 Coriander i. 438 Dewberry i. 519 Ginger i. 679 Lemon i. 840 Lime-juice i. 862 Liqueurs and i. 434 Mint i. 945 Orange ii. 36 Peppermint ii. 148 Quince ii. 283 Red or White Currant i. 502 Strawberry ii. 519 Coriander i. 438 Cordial i. 438 Essence i. 438 Tincture i. 438 Coring i. 438 Corinthian Sauce ii. 387 Corks and Corking i. 438 Corkscrews i. 439 Corncrakes or Landrails i. 439 Corn Bread i. 181 Green i. 776 Indian i. 776 Salad i. 444 Corned Beef ii. 113 as Cooked hi America i. 114 Boiled with Spinach i. 107 Hashed i. 118 Corned Meats i. 439 Round of Beef, Plain Boiled i. 114 Cornets i. 439 Cornflour i. 440 Batter Cakes i. 440 Breakfast Cakes i. 440 Cakes i. 440 Cheese Cakes i. 441 Crackers i. 441 Cup Cakes i. 441 Dodgers i. 441 Dumplings i. 441 Fritters i. 441 Gnocchi i. 441 Griddle Cakes i. 441 Gruel i. 442 Hasty Pudding i. 442 Jelly i. 442 Loaf Cake i. 442 Lunn i. 442 Maryland Cakes i. 444 Meringue i. 442 Mush i. 442 Pastry Cream i. 442 Port Royal Cakes i. 444 Pudding i. 442 Pudding, Apple ami i. 28 Puffs i. 443 Ramakins i. 444 Shape i. 444 Slappers i. 444 Spiced Pudding i. 444 Spider Cakes i. 444 Sponge Bread i. 181 Sponge Cakes i. 444 Timbale i. 444 Waffles i. 444 Cornucopia Biscuits i. 445 of Glacdes Fruits i. 445 Cornucopias i. 444 Cornwall Pudding ii. 256 Corporation Cakes i. 232 Corstorpliine Cream i. 445 Cosaques i. 445 Costard i. 445 Costmary i. 445 Cotelettes i. 445 Cottage Cheese i. 343 Pudding ii. 256 Soup ii. 482 Cottenliam Cheese i. 344 Coughs, Barley Waiter for, i. 80 Drops ii. 536 Lozenges i. 883 Coulibiac i. 445 Countess Soup ii. 482 Country Cakes i. 232 Captain i. 446 Salad ii. 356 Couques i. 446 Court Bouillon i. 447 Barbel boiled hr i. 75 Bar boiled in i. 74 Couteau Julienne i. 447 Covers i. 447 Cow-Heel i. 447 Cow-Heel Fritters i. 447 Grilled i. 447 Jelly i. 447 Pickled i. 448 Soup i. 447 Stewed i. 448 Cowslip Cup i. 448 Mead i. 448 Pudding i. 448 Syrup i. 448 Vinegar i. 448 Whie i. 448 Cowslips i. 448 Cream and i. 448 Crystallised i. 448 Dried i. 448 Infusion i. 448 Crab a la Reine i. 450 Buttered i. 449 Cromeskies i. 450 Croquettes i. 450 Forcemeat i. 450 in shells i. 451 Mhiced i. 451 Mock i. 351 Omelet i. 450 Pie i. 450 Salad i. 450 Sauce i. 451 Soup i. 451 Stew i. 451 Stewed with Tomatoes i. 452 Crab-Apple Cheese, American i. 452 Jam i. 453 Jelly i. 453 Crab-Apples i. 452 Dried American i. 38 Preserved i. 453 Crabs i. 448 Boiled i. 452 Broiled i. 452 Canapes i. 449 Devilled i. 451 Fried i. 452 Hard-shell i. 449 Oyster i. 452 Sauce for ii. 395 Scalloped i. 452 Soft shell i. 452 Cracked-wheat Mush ii. 764 Porridge ii. 7 64 Crackers i. 453, 454 Cornflour i. 441 in Cream i. 453 Lemon Flavoured i. 454 Pudding i. 453 Soda i. 454 Crackling i. 454 Cracklings, Almond i. 11 Dutch i. 455 Philadelphia i. 455 Cracknels i, 454 Cracknuts i. 455 Cradle-spit i. 455 Crambamboli i. 455 Cranberry Compote i. 455 Jam i. 456 Jelly i. 456 Patties i. 456 Pie i. 456 Roll i. 456 Sauce i. 456 Tart i. 456 Tartlets i. 456 Water i. 456 Cranberries i. 455 Bottled i. 455 Cranes i. 456 Broiled i. 456843 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Crapaudine 7. 456 Sauce 77. 387 Crape-fisli 7. 456 Crapiva Soup 7. 456 Crap [ lie 7. 457 Crayfish 7. 457 a la Bordelaise 7. 458 a la Lorraine 7. 458 a. la Mariniere 7. 458 a la Polonaise 7. 458 Aspic of, with Salad 7. 457 Bisk of Fresh water 7. 149 Boiled in Court Bouillon 7. 458 Bouchdes 7. 457 Butter 7. 458 Cheeses with Jelly 7. 459 Croquettes 7. 459 for Garnish 7. 459 in Aspic 7. 56 Nudels 7. 459 Omelet 7. 459 Potted 7. 460 Pudding 7. 459 Quenelles 7. 459 Rissoles 7. 459 River 7. 457 Salad with Aspic 7. 460 Salpipon 7. 460 Sauce 7. 460 Sea 7. 461 Served en Buisson 7. 458 Soup 7. 460 Stewed 7. 460 Stock 7. 460 Timbale 7. 461 Crayfish-tails, Canapes of 7. 457 Scalloped 7. 460 Cream 7. 461 a la Diplomate 7. 463 a la Patissiere 7. 463 a la Versailles 7. 471 Almond 7. fl Anchovy 7. 19 Anchovy Toast and 7. 463 Apple 7. 28 Apple Tartlets with 7. 36 Apricot 7. 41 Arrowroot 7. 46 Artichoke 7. 49 Barberry 7. 76 Barley 7. 7 8 Barley Sugar 7. 80 Bavarian 7. 9, 462 Biscuits 7. 463 Brandy 7. 176 Buckets 7. 463 Burnt 7. 462 Cakes 7. 464 Candy 7. 281, 465 Caramel 7. 289, 465 Chateaubriand 7. 463 Chocolate 7. 375 Clotted 7. 463 Cloves 7. 401 Coffee 7. 423 Confectioners’ 7. 463 Corstorphine 7. 445 Cuite 7. 465 Devonshire 7. 471 Flavoured with Cinnamon 7. 465 Flavoured with Coffee 7. 465 Flavoured with Lemon 7. 467 Flavoured with Tea 7. 470 Flawn 7. 465 Flemish 7. 598 Floating Islands 7. 471 for Fruit Pies 7. 466 Fritters i. 466 Game i. 662 Cream, German i. 471 Ginger i. 680 Glazed i. 466 Ground Rice ii. 325 Harlequin i. 472 Imitation i. 472 Imperial i. 472 Indian i. 472 Italian i. 472 Jelly i. 466 Lemon i. 840 Lettuce i. 859 Light i. 473 Lima Beans i. 94 Lobster i. 871 Maizena Bavarian i. 905 Maraschino i. 909 Mauritius i. 473 Meringues i. 467, 933 Muscovite i. 473 Neapolitan i. 473 Nectar ii. 2 Newport, Whipped i. 473 of Tartar Drink i. 477 Orange ii. 36 Orange-flower ii. 48 Pancakes i. 467 Paste i. 467 Pastry i. 473 Peach ii. 134 Pie i. 467 Pie, Turkish i. 476 Plombiere i. 468 Potted i. 474 Princess i. 474 Prussian i. 474 Pudding i. 468 Puffs i. 468 Puffs, Boston i. 462 Quenelles i. 469 Quince ii. 283 Raspberry ii. 307 Ratafia ii. 314 Rhenish i. 474 Rhubarb ii. 319 Rice ii. 329 Rock i. 474 Rockwork i. 469 Roman i. 474 Rose i. 474 Royal i. 474 Rum ii. 348 Sago ii. 354 Salad ii. 360 Salad Dressing i. 469 Sauce i. 469 Scones i. 469 Shape Pudding i. 469 Sherbet i. 470 Snow i. 475 Souffkis i. 470 Sour i. 475 Spanish i. 475 Stone i. 475 Strawberry ii. 519 Swiss i. 476 Syrup i. 47 0 Tapioca ii. 567 Tart i. 470 Tartar i. 477 Tartlets i. 470 Tea ii. 57 8 Thick i. 476 Toasts i. 470 Toffy i. 471 Trifle i. 471 Vanilla ii. 677 Vanilla and Chocolate ii. 677 Vanilla and Currant ii. 678 Cream, Vanilla, Whipped ii. 681 Velvet i. 476 Versailles i. 476 Virginia i. 476 Whey i. 471 Whipped i. 476 Whips i. 471 Windsor i. 477 with Barley i. 463 with Burnt Sugar i. 464 with Chocolate i. 465 with Orange i. 467 with Sherry i. 470 with White Wine i. 471 Cream Cheese i. 344, 351 Dutch i. 344 Fritters i. 351 Iced i. 351 Italian i. 344 Puffs i. 351 Turkish mode of Serving i. 352 with Marmalade i. 351 Creamed Butter i. 216 Cream Ice i. 466 Bavana i. 70 Black Currant i. 495 Bourbon i. 462 Bread i. 187 Brown Bread 7.191 Butter-milk i. 218 Caramel i. 289 Cherry i. 357 Chestnut i. 366 Cinnamon i. 391 Citron i. 394 Cocoa-nut i. 409 Coffee i. 423 Curafoa i. 493 Damson i. 514 Fig i. 582 Filbert i. 585 French i, 471 Fruit i. 654 Gelatine i. 672 Ginger i. 680 Gooseberry i. 703 Greengage i. 717 Hazel-nut 7.757 Hickory-nut 7.768 Italian 7.473 Kirsclienwasser 7.800 New York 7.473 Plombiere. 7. 474 Portuguese 7.474 Red or White Currant 7. 502 Sherbert 7.474 Sicilian 7.474 Souffld 7.475 Sponge Cake 7. 260 Strudels 7.470 Creams, Bavarian 7. 87 Fried 7.471 Crepy 7.477 Soup 77.482 Cremes 7. 477 Cremona 7.477 Cremo Yankee 7. 477 Crepes 7.477 Crepinettes 7.477 Calf’s Feet 7. 269 Crescents 7.477 Cress Salad 7. 478 Vinegar 7.478 Cresses 7.477 Crimped Cod 7. 415 Skate 77.453 Crimping 7.478 Board 7.478 Crisped Apples 7. 38THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 844 Crisps 7. 47 8 Almond 7. 11 Crissins 7. 478 Croakers 7. 478 Crockery 7.478 Cromeskies 7. 478 Calf’s Brains, of 7. 266 Game 7. 663 Grouse 7. 722 Mutton 7. 985 Salmon 77. 368 Croquantes 7. 478 Venetian 7. 479 Croquenbouches 7. 479 a la Reine 7. 479 Petit Clmux, of 7. 382 Croques 7. 479 Croquettes 7.479 a lTmperiale 7. 480 Almond 7.11 Apple 7.28 Beef 7.99 Beef and Potatoes, Forcemeat 7. 117 Brain 7. 173 Calf’s Brains 7. 266 Calf's Kidney 7. 274 Cold Meat 7. 922 Crab 7.450 Egg 7.556 Egg and Anchovy 7. 554 Filbert 7.585 Fish 7.590 Fowl 7.618 Game 7. 663 Goose's Fat-Liver 7. 699 Ham 7.740 Lobster 7.871 Milanese 7.480 Mutton 7.985 Nouille 77. 8 Oyster 77.75 Preparing 7.480 Rice 77.330 Royal 7.480 Salmon 77.368 Turkish 7.480 Croquignoles 7.480 Croustales 7.481 a la Financiere 7. 481 C rod to au-Pot 7.481 Soup 77.482 Croutons 7.481 Aspic for Ornamentation 7. 56 Bread 7. 188 Brioche 7.199 Fried Bread 7. 191 with Apricots 7.44 Crowberries 7.482 Crowdy 7.482 Crown Prince’s Soup 77.482 Cruets 7.482 Cruet Sauce 7.482 Crullers 7.482 Crulls 7.482 Crumb Pudding, Apple and 7. 28 Crumbs 7.483 Crumpets 7 483 Cake with Cream 7. 484 Flannel 7.484 Fried 7.484 made with Hominy 7,484 made with Rice 7. 484 Wheat-Hour and Cornflour 77.764 Crupnic Soup 77. 482, 484 Crusades 7.484 Crusts 7.484 Golden 7.192 Milk 7. 939 Suet 77.532 Crystallising 7.484 Crystal Palace Puddings 77. 257 Cucumber Flitter 7. 487 Ketchup 7.487 Salad 7.487 Sauce 7.487 Soup 7.488 Vinegar 7.488 Cucumbers 7.485 a Blanc 7.486 a la Bechamel 7. 485 a la Blanquette 7. 486 a la Franfaise 7. 486 a la Maitre d’Hotel 7. 486 a la Poulette 7. 486 Compote 7. 485 Curried 7.488 for Garnish 7.487 Fried 7.488 Glazed 7.488 Grated 7.488 Pickled 7.488 Preserved 7.490 Puree of 7.490 Served like Cardoons 7. 486 Stewed 7.490 Stuffed with Forcemeat 7. 486 Stuffed with Ox-marrow 7.487 with Duck, Marinaded 7. 488 Culinary U tensils 7.490 Cullet 7.491 Cullis 7.491 Cumberland Pudding 77. 257 Cumin 7. 491 Conner 7.491 Cup Cakes 7. 232 Puddings 77.257 Cups 7.491 Cowslip 7.448 Loving-cup 7.492 Moselle 7.949 Parting-cup 7. 492 Orange 77. 37 Oxford Grace 7. 492, 77. 69 Curacoa 7. 492 Cordial 7.493 Cream Ice 7. 493 Essence 7.493 Jelly 7. 493 Sauce 7.493 Curate’s Puddings 77.257 Curd Blancmange 7. 493 Cakes 7.493 Cheese cakes 7. 493 Fritters 7.494 Pudding 7.494 Puffs 7.494 Soup 7.494 Curds 7.493 Cream and 7. 494 Curing 7.494 Beef for Drying 7.114 Curly Cress 7.495 Currant Buns 7. 210 Cake 7.503 Cherry and, Wine 7. 500 Dumplings 7.503 Fritters 7. 504 Gruel 7.504 Jam 7. 501 Jelly Sauce 7. 501 Juice Jelly 7. 501 Pie 7. 501 Pudding 7.504 Roll 7.504 Sauce for Sucking-pig 7. 504 Sherbet 7.501 Soup, Apple and 7. 28 Syrup 7.501 Currant Tart 7. 504 Water 7.502 Wine from Unripe Fruit 7. 502 Currants 7.495 Apples with 7. 28 Black 7.495 Dried 7.503 Spiced 7.504 Curried Beef 7. 114 Cold Meat 7. 924 Lobster 7.868 Meat 7.920 Curry 7.504 Forcemeat Balls 7. 505 Diil 7.513 Indian Stick 7. 506 Lentil 7.857 Paste 7.505 Portuguese Indian 7. 506 Sandwich 7.506 Sauce 7.506 Soup 7.506 Curry-powder 7. 505 Bengal 7.505 Madras 7.506 Cuscus 7.507 Cushion 7.507 Cushions Anchovy 7. 19 Cusine 7. 490 Cusk 7.507 Boiled 7.507 Cussy 7.507 Cake 7. 232, 507 Soup 77.482 Custard 7.507 Apple 7. 28 Apples 7.510 Apple Tart and 7. 35 Apple, with Vanilla 7.28 Arrowroot 7.46 Baked 7.507 Boiled 7.507 Burnt 7.508 Cake or Pain 7. 508 Caramel 7.290 Cheese 7.348 Cherry 7.358 Chestnut 7.366 Chicken 7.613 Chocolate 7.377 Chocolate and Apple 7.374 Coffee 7.424 Cold 7.508 Cream 7.508 Cup Pudding 7. 508 Durham 7.510 Flavoured with Rum 7.509 French 7.510 Flitters 7. 508 Ground Rice 77. 325 in Cups or Glasses 7. 508 Jamaica 7.510 Jam Pudding and 7. 508 Jelly 7. 510 Lemon 7.843 Macaroon 7.895 Mutton, for Invalids 7. 986 Orange 77.37 Peach 77. 134 Posset 7.508 Pudding 7.509 Quaking 7. 510 Raspberry 77.309 Rice 77. 330 Sauce 7.509 Shape 7.509 Souffle 7. 509 Soup, Savoury 7. 510 Spanish 7.510845 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Custard, Sponge 7. 510 Tapioca 77. 568 Tart 7. 509 Tart with Meringue 7. 509 Toast 7. 510 Vanilla 77. 678 Vanilla Cup ii. 678 Wine ii. 7 88 Customs, Table ii. 556 Cutlery i. 510 Cutlets i. 510 Beef i. 100 Brain i. 173 Cold Meat i. 922 Fish i. 591 Fried Grouse i. 722 Game i. 664 Mutton i. 986 Salmon ii. 368 Salmon, Boiled ii. 363 Veal ii. 710 Wild Boar i. 159 Cutters 7.511 Cuvees 7.511 Cuyos 7.511 Cuyte Beer 7.511 Cygnets 7.511 Boasted 7.511 Stewed 7.511 Cylinder Moulds 7.511 Cymlings 7.511 Cyprus Wines 7. 512 Czarina Sauce 77. 387 D Dabchicks 7.512 Dabs 7.512 Fried 7.512 Dace 7.512 Dainties and Delicacies 7.512 Dairy 7.512 Daisy’s Pudding 77. 257 Dill 7.513 Curry 7.513 Damiana 7.513 Damkorf Pudding 77.257 Dampf-Nudels 77. 11 Damson, Apple and, Shapes 7. 513 Bullace and, Jelly 7. 513 Cheese 7.513 Cream Ice 7. 514 Jam 7. 514 Jam Pudding 7.514 Paste 7.514 Paste, Candied Knots 7. 513 Pastille Drops 7. 514 Pie 7.514 Sauce 7.514 Tart 7.514 Water Ice 7. 514 Wiue 7.514 Damsons 7.513 Bottled 7.513 Compote of 7. 513 Preserved 7.514 Preserved Pulp of 7.514 Dandelion 7.515 Beetroot and, Salad 7. 515 Salad 7. 515 Sandwich 7. 515 Stewed, leaves 7. 515 Tea 7.515 Dandelion Wine 7. 515 Danish Puddings 77. 257 Dantzic 7.515 Brandy 7.177 Darioles 7. 515 Dame 7.516 Salmon, of 77. 364 D’Artois 7.516 Cake a la Parisienne 7. 233 Cake with Apples 7. 233 Russian 7. 516 Darum 7.516 Date Cake 7. 517 Compote 7.517 Pudding 7.517 Date-Plums 7. 517 Dates 7.516 for Dessert 7. 515 Stuffed with Cream 7. 517 Date-shaped Biscuits 7.141 Daube 7.517 Daubing 7.517 Dauphine, a la 7.518 Cake 7.233 Daventry Cheese 7. 344 Decanters 7.518 Decanting 7. 518 Decoctions 7.518 Decorations, Table 77. 558 Deer Head-and-Feet Soup 77. 7 4 3 Heart, Roasted 77. 743 Liver, Fried 77. 743 Delaware Pudding 77. 257 Delhi Pudding 77. 257 Delicate Cake 7. 233 Delicious Cake 7. 233 Delille Cake 7. 233 Demijohns 7.518 Demi-Provenf ale Sauce 77.387 Demon Cake 7. 233 Dentex 7.518 Derby Cakes 7. 234 Short Cakes 7. 234 Derbyshire Cheese 7. 344 Rolls 7.184 Derry Pudding 77. 258 Derwentwater Cakes 7. 234 Dessert 7.518 Almonds and Raisins for 7. 13 Apples 7.25 Blackberry 7.151 Cakes 7.234 or Cooking Apples 7. 26 Peaches 77. 134 Devilled Beef 7.114 Bones 7. 167 Bread for Breakfast 7.191 Game 7.662 Kidneys 7.796 Lobster 7. 868 Salted and, Almonds 7.15 Devils 7.519 Apple 7.29 Sauce 77.387 Devonshire Buns 7. 210 Cakes 7.234 Cream 7.471 Junket 7.519 Omelet 77. 21 Pudding 77.258 Squab Pie 7. 978 White-Pot 7.519 Dewberries 7.519 Dewberry Cordial 7. 519 Diabetic Bread 7.181 Diablotins 7.519 Diamond-Back 7.520 Diastase 7.520 Diavolini 7.520 Diet 7.520 Dietetic Bread 7.181 Digesters 7.520 Digestion 7.521 Digestive Biscuits 7.141 Cakes 7.234 Candy 7.281 Dika 7.522 Dill 7.522 Dimple Cakes 7. 234 Dingy Pudding 77. 258 Dinners 7.522 Dip 7.522 Diplomatic Pudding 77. 258 Sauce 77.387 Sauce for Pudding 77. 400 Soup 77.483 Dipper 7.522 Dish-covers 7.523 Dishes 7.522 American 7. 16 Dishing-up 7.524 Dolmas of Cabbage in Grecian style 7. 222 in Turkish style 7. 222 Dome-moulds 7.524 Domino Cakes 7. 234 Doopiajas 7.524 Dorado 7.524 D’Orsay Soup 77. 483 Dorse, Dorsch 7.525 Dorset Cheese 7. 344 Dotterels 7.525 Doucette 7.525 Dough 7.525 Cakes 7.525 Dough-birds 7.525 Broiled 7.525 Roasted 7.525 Salmis of 7. 525 Dough-nuts 7.526 Isle of Wight 7. 527 Imitation 7.527 with Fruit 7. 527 Dover Cake 7. 234 I loves 7. 527 Broiled 7.527 Soup 7.527 Dowitcher 7.527 Down-East Pudding 77. 258 Dragees 7.527 or French Sugar Plums 77. 5 3 6 Drainers 7. 527 Drawn Butter 7. 216 Sauce 7.217 Dream Cake 7. 234 Dredgers 7.528 Dressing 7.528 Salad 77.360 Dried Albumen 7.6 American Crab-Apples 7. 38 Angelica 7.22 Apples 7.38 Apples Stewed 7. 39 Apricots 7.44 Lemon-peel 7.837 Salted and, Bacon 7. 62 Drink Apple 7.29 Arrowroot 7. 46 Black Currant 7. 496 Celery 7. 326 Cream of Tartar 7. 477 for an Invalid 7. 134 Ginger 7.680 Grape 7.710 Imperial 7. 134 May 7.916 Oatmeal 77. 15 Pine-apple 77.194THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 846 Drink, Pistachio ii. 201 Prime 77. 249 Tamarind ii. 565 Tapioca ii. 568 Toasted Bread i. 192 Winter i. 135 Drinking-vessels i. 528 Drinks, American i. 16 Bar i. 74 Egg i. 556 Summer i. 134 Dripping i. 528 Cake 7. 528 Dumplings i. 528 Paste i. 528 Dripping-pans i. 528 Drop Biscuits i. 142 Cakes i. 234 Drops i. 528 Arrowroot i. 47 Barberry i. 76 Barley Sugar i. 81 Lemon i. 843 Liquorice i. 863 Peppermint ii. 148 Drying i. 528 Curing Beef for i. 144 Dry Soup ii. 483 Dubbers i. 529 Duchess Cakes i. 234 Cakes a la Pattissiere i. 234 Sandwiches ii. 378 Sauce ii. 387 Soup ii. 483 Duck i. 529 a la Chasseur i. 530 Boiled i. 529 Boned and served with Jelly i. 529 Braised i. 529 Braised, with Mushrooms i. 530 Canvas-Back i. 282 Capilotade of i. 530 Dam-pukht of i. 531 Devilled i. 530 Doopiaja i. 530 Hashed i. 531 Mutton i. 988 Pie i. 530 Purtie of i. 531 Roasted 7.531 Royolnie of i. 532 Salmis of i. 532 Sandwiches i 530 Soup i. 530 Sour-crout with i. 531 Stewed i. 532 Wild ii. 775 Ducklings i. 533 Curried i. 533 Fillets of i. 534 Roasted i. 534 Stewed i. 535 with Olives i. 533 Duck’s Eggs i. 535 Salad i. 535 Duck’s Giblets i. 535 Soup i. 535 Stewed i. 535 Duck’s Livers i. 535 au Gratin i. 535 Terrine of i. 535 Duke of Connaught Soup ii. 481 Duke’s Pudding ii. 258 Dulse i. 536 Dumas Salad ii. 356 Dumplings i. 536 Apple i. 29 Bread-and-Suet i. 190 Cornflour i. 441 Dumplings, Currant i. 503 Dripping i. 528 Egg i. 556 for Broth i. 536 for Stew i. 536 Fruit i. 655 German i. 536 Hard i. 537 Italian i. 537 Jam i. 781 Lemon i. 843 Milk 7.939 Norfolk 7.537 Oxford 7.537 Peach 77. 131 Pear ii. 143 Pigeon 77.181 Sago, for Soup ii. 354 Sparrow 77.497 Suet ii. 532 Suffolk 7.537 Vienna 7.537 with Sour-crout 7. 533 Yeast 77.802 Dumpode 7.537 Dun-birds 7.537 Dundee Cake 7.234 Dunlop Cheese 7. 344 Durian 7.537 Dutch Beef 7.114 Biscuits 7.142 Blancmange 7.157 Bolac Cake 7. 234 Cakes 7.235 Cheese 7.344 Cream Cheese 7. 344 Ovens 7.538 Pudding 77. 258 Salad 77.356 Sauce 77.387 Wafer Pudding 77.258 D’Uxelles 7.538 Sauce 77.388 Dyspepsia Bread 7.181 Ears 7.538 Lamb’s 7.817 Pig’s 77.169 Sheep’s 77.437 Easter Eggs 7. 538 East Indian Sauce 77. 388 Eau Gaseuse 7. 3 Sucre 77.536 Ecarlate a la 7. 538 Echaudes 7.538 Eclairs 7.538 Coffee or Chocolate 7. 538 Cream for 7. 538 Elbe’s 7.539 Icing for 7. 539 Vanilla 77. 67 8 Economy in the kitchen 7. 539 Eddoes 7.539 Edinburgh Biscuits 7.142 Editor’s Pudding 77. 258 Eel, Braised 7. 541 Fricassee 7.544 Galantine 7.545 Patties 7.543 Pie 7.543 Pie and Tench 7. 544 Eel Pie, Raised 7. 546 Porcupine 7.545 Roasted 7.546 Salad, Smoked 7. 546 Saveloys, Savoury 7.546 Soup 7.543 Spitchcocked 7.546 Eelpout 7.549 Boiled, a la Parisienne 7. 549 Liver Pie 7. 549 Soup 7.549 Stewed 7.549 Eels 7.540 a la Minute 7.512 a la Suffren 7. 542 Aspic Jelly, in 7. 542 Baked 7.541 Boded 7.541 Brochette 7.541 Eroded 7.541 Codared 7.542 Conger 7.548 Fried 7.544 Matelote 7. 545 Mayonnaise 7.545 Potted 546 Roasted in Ashes 7. 543 Silver 7.541 Stewed 7.546 Stewed in Beer 7. 544 Effervescing Apricot Drink 7. 44 Egg Balls 7. 554 Balls for Turtle Soup 77. 665 Bouchdes 7.555 Bread 7.181 Bread in Soup 7.191 Canapes 7.555 Cheesecakes 7.555 Cromeskies 7.556 Croquettes 7.556 Cup-Puddings with Game Broth 7. 556 Custard, and Wine 7. 563 Drinks 7.556 Dumplings 7.556 Flip 7.556 Foam Sauce 7.557 Fritters 7.557 Gruel 7.558 Hot 7.559 Jelly 7. 558 Lemonade 7.558 Marmalade 7.558 Mincemeat 7.558 Mince Pies 7. 559 Nuremberg 7.564 Patties 7.559 Pickled 7.564 Pudding 7.559 Pudding, and Flour Batter 7. 557 Puffs 7.560 Punch 77.274 Salad 7. 560 Sandwiches 7.560 Sauce 7.560 Sausages 7.561 Snow 7.561 Soup 7.561 Tablets 7.562 Toasts 7.562 Vermicelli 7.562 Wine 7.563 Egg-and-Anchovy Croquettes 7. 554 Anchovy Toast 7. 554 Artichokes 7.49 Beetroot Salad 7. 555 Cornflour Bread 7. 181 Cream 7.555 Cream Pudding 7. 555THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 847 Egg and-Milk Pudding i. 558 Milk with Rum 7. 558 Mushroom Ragoht 7. 559 Onion Stew 7. 559 Orange Butter Cakes 7. 559 Sprue 7. 54 Truffle Omelets i. 562 Water Cream 7. 562 Egg-cordial Nip 7. 555 Egged Bread 7. 555 Egg-Nog 7. 559 Egg-Plant Frait 7. 568 au Gratin 7. 568 Baked 7. 568 Boiled 7. 568 Broiled 7. 568 Fried 7. 569 Fritters 7. 568 Mashed 7. 569 Omelet 7. 569 Pickled 7. 569 Pilau 7. 569 Pudding 7. 569 Stewed 7. 569 Stuffed to imitate Fish 7. 570 Egg-powder Cake 7. 559 Eggs 7. 549 a la Bonne Femme 7. 552 a la Bourgeoise 7. 552 a la Creme 7. 552 a la Duchesse 7. 552 a la Lyonnaise 7. 552 a la Maitre d’Hotel 7. 552 a 1’ Annecy 7. 552 a la Parisienne 7. 553 a la Paysanne 7. 553 a la Polonaise 7. 553 a la Post 7. 553 a la Poulette 7. 553 a la Princesse 7. 553 a la Regence 7. 553 a la Reine 7. 553 a la Sultana 7. 553 & la Turque 7. 553 a l’Aurore 7. 552 a, la Valencienne 7. 553 a ITtalienne 7. 552 Artichokes, and 7. 554 Asparagus, and 7. 52 au Gratin 7. 557 au Soleil 7. 553 Baked 7. 550 Boiled 7. 551 Bread and 7. 555 Broiled with Cheese 7. 551 Curried 7. 551 Devilled 7. 552 Dressed in Spanish fashion 7. 562 Duck’s 7. 535 Easter 7. 539 Filagramme 7. 556 Fricassee 7. 563 Fried 7. 563 Fried for Garnish 7. 564 Fried in Batter 7. 557 Genoese 7. 264 Gravy, with 7. 558 Hard-boiled and Parsley, Forcemeat of 7. 563 Hard-boiled, with Madeira Sauce 7. 564 in a Nest 7. 559 in Aspic 7. 554 in Bedgowns 7. 555 in Cases 7. 555 in Cocottes 7. 555 in Crusts 7. 556 in German style 7. 557 Jelly, in 7. 558 Eggs, Kidneys with 7. 558 Liaison i. 561 Matelote i. 564 Minced Meat, and i. 558 Mock i. 564 Plover’s ii. 204 Poached i. 564 Potato ii. 233 Potted i. 565 Preserved i. 565 Robert Sauce, with i. 560 Savoury i. 565 Scalloped i. 566 Scotch i. 566 Scrambled i. 566 Served with Fine Herbs i. 556 Shanklin i. 566 Shells, in 7.561 Shirred i. 566 Sliced i. 567 Softened in Vinegar i. 562 Spanish i. 567 Spun, for Garnishing Ham i. 567 Steamed i. 567 Stewed i. 567 Stuffed i. 567 Stuffed with Anchovies i. 554 Stuffed with Fish i. 556 Sunset i. 567 Surprise i. 567 Tomato Sauce, with i. 562 Topsy-turvy i. 568 Tripe, as i. 562 Whites of, cooked in Bladders i. 568 White Sauce, and i. 563 with Asparagus i. 554 with Cheese i. 555 with Game Consomme i. 557 Elberfeld Cake i. 235 Elder i. 570 Elderberries, Preserved i. 572 Elderberry Brandy i. 570 Chutney i. 570 Jelly, and Grape i. 571 Ketchup 7.571 Syrup 7.571 Wine 7. 571 Elder Hower Fritters 7. 571 Vinegar 7.571 Wine 7.571 Elder tops Pickled 7.572 Election Cake 7. 235 Electuaries 7.572 Elizabeth Cake 7. 235 Elva 7.572 Empire Punch 77. 274 Emulsions 7.572 Almonds 7.572 Nutritive 7. 572 Encore Punch 77. 27 4 Endive 7.572 Salad 7.572 Stewed 7. 573 Enfield Buns 7. 210 English Rock 77. 536 Sweet Sauce 77. 400 Entrecotes 7. 573 Entities 7.573 Sausage 77.407 Entremets 7. 574 Eperlans 7. 574 Epigrammes 7.574 Epinard 7.575 Equivalents 7.575 Ergoos 7. 575 Eryngo 7. 575 Escabescia 7. 575 Eschalots 77.435 Esculent 7. 575 Espagnole 7. 575 Essence of Anchovy 7. 20 Aniseed 7. 23 Beef 7. 115 Bitter Almonds 7. 14 Capsicum 7. 288 Caraway 7. 293 Cardinal 7. 294 Cayenne 7. 288 Cherries 7. 363 Cinnamon 7.392 Clove 7.401 Coffee 7.421 Colouring Mixture for 7. 427 Coltsfoot 7.428 Coriander 7.438 Curaf oa 7. 493 Fish 7.590 Fowl 7. 615 Ginger 7. 677 Hare 7. 745 Lemon 7. 837 Maraschino 7.909 Mushrooms 7. 959 Pheasant 77.154 Roses 77. 346 Tansy 77.566 Tea 77. 57 7 Vanilla 77. 67 5 Vegetables for Soups and Sauces 77. 727 Violets 77. 748 Woodcock 77.792 Essences 7.575 Essex Pudding 77. 259 Ether 7. 575 Eucalyptus 7.575 Everton Toffy 77. 592 Eve’s Pudding 77. 259 “Excellent” Biscuits 7. 142 Pudding 77.259 Extracts 7.575 Cinnamon 7.392 Coffee, Liquid 7. 421 Garlic 7.668 Lemon 7. 843 Malt, or Food 7. 906 Orange 77.38 F Face, Pig’s 77. 575 Fadges 7.575 Faggots 7.576 Almond 7. 11 Baked 7.57 6 Fagots 7.575 Faham 7.576 Fair Maid’s Sauce 77. 388 Fairy Butter 7. 216 Faisans 7.576 Falernian Wines 7. 576 Falernunr 7.576 Family Cake 7.235 Rolls 7. 184 Soup 77.483 Fanchettes 7.576 Fanchonnettes 7.576 Fancy Bread 7. 577 Fandango 7.577 Fan-Kouques 7.577TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 848 Farces 7. 577 Fare, Christmas 7. 383 Farina 7. 577 Fai ls 7. 577 Farmer’s Salad 77. 356 Soup 77. 483 Faro i. 577 Fat i. 577 Fattening i. 578 Fawn i. 578 Barbecued i. 578 Roasted Saddle i. 578 Feasts i. 578 Feather Cake i. 235 Fecula i. 579 Federal Cake i. 235 Feet i. 579 Lamb’s i. 817 Pig’s ii. 170 Sheep’s ii. 437 Fennel i. 579 Sauce i. 57 9 Fenouillette 7.579 Fenu-Greek 7.579 Fermentation 7.579 Ferments 7.579 Ferns 7.580 'Fern Salad 7.580 Ferra 7.580 Feuillantines 7.580 Fenilletage 7.580 Fibrine 7.580 Fidelini 7.580 Fieldfares 7.580 Fig Cake 7. 582 Cream Ice 7. 582 Creams 7.581 Dessert 7.582 Dried 7.582 Pastilles 7.582 Pudding 7.582 Salad 7.581 Shape 7.583 Fig-Peckers 7.583 Baked, with Mushrooms 7.583 in Cases 7. 583 Figs 7.580 Compote of 7. 581 Green 7. 581 Preserved 7.581 Preserved, Ripe 7. 582 Stewed 7. 583 Stuffed 7. 583 Filbert Balls 7. 584 Biscuits 7. 584 Butter 7.584 Candied Paste Bonbons 7. 584 Cracklings 7. 584 Cream Ice 7. 585 Cream Ice, and Citron 7. 584 Compote 7.584 Croquettes 7.585 Filberts 7.583 Imitation 7.585 Sugared 7. 585 Fillet of Beef 7. 115 a la Broclie 7.115 a la Chateaubriand 7. 115 a la Gouffe 7.116 a la Mirabeau 7. 116 a la Hollandaise 7.116 Baked, with Truffles 7. 98 Boiled, with Poached Eggs 7. 107 Braised, Larded, Garnished with Tomatoes 7. 109 Broiled 7.111 Fried, Sliced 7.117 in Aspic 7. 115 in Continental style 7.116 Fillet of Beef in Flemish style 7. 116 in Jelly 7. 116 in Neapolitan style 7. 116 Larded and Baked 7. 98 Marinaded, Sautes 7.126 Polish Method of Cooking 7. 121 Roasted 7. 123 Roasted as in Poland 7. 123 Roasted, with Piquant Sauce 7. 123 Roasted, with Plain Sauce 7.123 Stewed, with Olives 7.128 Stewed, with Oysters 7.128 to resemble Roasted Hare 7. 125 with Bearnaise Sauce 7. 115 with Macaroni 7.116 Fillets 7.585 Bloater 7. 157 Cod 7.416 Minion 7. 945 of Grouse Sautes 7. 722 Salmon 77. 304 Filters and Filtering 7. 585 Financiere Sauce 77. 388 Fine Herbs 7. 586 Sauce 7. 586 Vinegar 7.586 Fingers, Cheese 7. 348 Fiorano 7. 586 Firkin 7.587 Fish 7. 587 Aiguillettes of i. 5 au Gratin 7. 590 Baked Fillets of 7. 589 Baking 7. 588 Balls or Croquettes 7. 590 Bar 7.74 Barbel 7. 7 4 Bass 7. 82 Bleak 7. 157 Bluefish 7. 158 Boiling 7.588 Boudins, a la Soubise 7. 590 Boning 7.167 Braising 7. 589 Brancino 7. 175 Bream 7. 193 Brill 7. 195 Broiling 7. 589 Broiled, Scalded 7. 589 Broth 7.590 Cakes 7. 590 Carp 7.297 Catfish 7. 318 Char 7. 335 Chartreuse 7.589 Chowder 7.591 Chub 7.386 Coal Fish 7. 401 Codfish 7.412 Cold Boiled, a la Vinaigrette 7.589 ConsomriK? 7.591 Creamed, with Oysters 7. 589 Cunner 7.491 Curried 7.589 Cusk 7.507 Cutlets 7.591 Dass 7.512 Dace 7.512 Dentex 7.518 Dressed a la Bouillabaisse 7.590 Eelpout 7.549 Essence 7.590 Filleting 7.589 Flounders 7.598 Flukes 7.600 Forcemeat 7.591 Fresh water, Baked in a Crust 7.595 Fish Fritters 7.591 Frost 7.651 Frying 7.589 Garfish 7.668 Glaze 7.591 Gravy 7.591 Grayling 7.715 Grilse 7.721 Gurnets 7.729 Haddocks 7.730 Hake 7.735 Half-Fish 7.735 Halibut 7.735 Hashed 7.595 Herrings 7.760 Houchen 7.773 in a Potato Border 7.593 in Aspic Jelly 7.590 Jelly 7.592 John Dory 7. 789 Ivingfish 7.799 Kipper 7.7 99 Klipfish 7.801 Ling 7.862 Loach 7.865 Mackerel 7.897 Malma 7.905 Marinade for 7.912 Minnow 7.945 Mooloo 7.592 Muskellunge 7.966 Normandy fashion, in 7. 592 Omelet 7.592 Parr 77.90 Patties 7.592 Perch 77. 149 Pickled 7.595 Pie 7.592 Pike 77.185 Pilau 7.593 Pilchards 77. 191 Pipers 77. 199 Plaice 77.202 Pompano 77.214 Potted 7.595 Puddings 7.593 Ouenelles 7.593 Rechauffe 7.595 Rissoles 7.594 Roach 77.340 Rockfish 77. 342 Roes Fried 7. 595 Royans 77.348 Rudd 77. 348 Salad 7.594 Salmon 77.361 Salmon-Trout 77. 3 7 3 Salted 7.595 Sandwiches 7.594 Scad 77.409 Scalloped 7. 595 Scalloped, Roes 7. 596 Scorched Salted 7. 596 Seibling 77.415 Shads 77. 433 Sheep’s Head 77. 446 Shell 77.446 Silversides 77.451 Skate 77.452 Smelts 77.456 Smoked 7. 596 Smothered 7. 596 Soles 77. 463 Soup 7.594 S piced 7. 596 Spot 77.506 Sprats 77. 506 Stew 7.595 Stewed 7. 596COD A L’ANGLAIWK. MEDITERRAXEAX MILLET IX JELLY. PISH REMOVES.■THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 849 Fish, Stuffed 7. 5G6 Sturgeon ii. 527 Sword 77. 553 Tamarind ii. 565 Tench ii. 581 Toast i. 595 To Carve i. 310 Trout ii. 618 Tunny ii. 636 Turbot ii. 637 Vinaigrette i. 596 Vol-au-Vents i. 597 Weevers ii. 761 Whitebait ii. 767 Whitefish ii. 768 Whiting ii. 769 Zanders ii. 801 Fisherman’s Salad ii. 357 Soup ii. 483 Fish-liver Sauce 7. 592 Fizz Whiskey ii. 767 Flageolets i. 91, 597 Flamand i. 597 Flame Cake i. 235 Pudding ii. 259 Flamus i. 597 Flank, Beef, of, Rolled i. 125 Flannel Cakes i. 235 Crumpets i. 484 Flash i. 597 Flat Cake i. 235 Flavourings i. 597 Almond i. 12-14 Bay-leaf i. 88 Brandy i. 176 Cardamom i. 294 Cinnamon i. 391 Coriander i. 438 Extract of Peppermint for ii. 147 Garlic i. 668 Hickory-nut i. 765 Lemon i. 843 Nutmeg ii. 14 Oyster Powder for ii. 79 Peach-leaves ii. 136 Vanilla ii. 676 Flawns i. 597 Apple 7. 29 Apricot 7. 41 Cherry i. 358 Swiss i. 598 Turkish i. 598 Flemish Cream i. 598 Sauce ii. 388 Soup ii. 483 Flesh i. 598 Flet Milk i. 598 Flips i. 598 Ale i. 7 Egg i. 556 Float Apple i. 29 Floating Islands of Cream i. 471 Florador i. 598 Florentine Mode of preparing Apples i. 38 Florida Salad ii. 357 Flounders au Gratin i. 599 Baked i. 598 Boiled i. 598 Boudins i. 599 ,Salad i. 599 Water-Souchet i. 599 Flounders i. 598 Fricassee i. 599 Fried i. 599 Miroton i. 599 Newhaven Mode of Cooking i. 599 Flour i. 599 Baked i. 600 Flour, Boiled i. 600 Browned i. 600 Graham i. 708 Liaison of i. 861 Potato ii. 233 Vienna ii. 745 Yam ii. 799 Flukes i. 600 Baked i. 600 Soup 7. 601 Flummery 7. 601 American i. 601 Chocolate i. 601 Dutch i. 601 English i. 601 French i. 601 German i. 602 Melon in Jelly i. 601 Prussian i. 602 Raspberries, with i. 601 Rhubarb, with 7. 601 Turkish i. 602 Flutes i. 602 Foam Omelet ii. 21 Sauce ii. 400 Fogosch i. 602 Foies Gras 7. 602 Folding Serviettes ii. 417 Fondants i. 602 Chocolate 7. 602 Cocoa-nut i. 409 Fondues i. 602 a la Ndapolitaine i. 603 Cheese i. 348 made with Italian Paste i. 603 with Truffles 7. 603 Food i. 603 Arrowroot i. 47 Nerve ii. 4 Preserving 7. 604 Foods in Season ii. 413 Fools i. 604 Apple i. 29 Cherry i. 358 Gooseberry i. 704 Mango i. 907 Orange ii. 38 Strawberry ii. 520 Forcemeats i. 604 Almonds i. 14 American i. 604 Balls i. 604 Balls, Curried Beef 7. 114 Balls, Curry i. 505 Balls for Turtle Soup ii. 665 Balls, Veal ii. 715 Beef i. 116 Brains i. 174 Calf’s Liver and Bacon i. 277 Clam i. 396 Croquettes of Beef and Potatoes i. 117 Cutlets with Green Peas i. 605 Fish i. 591 Fowl i. 620 Game i. 605, 664 Hard-boiled Eggs and Parsley i. 563 Hare i. 605 Lobster i. 873 Mushrooms i. 959 Mushroom Pie, and i. 605 Oyster ii. 76 Partridge ii. 104 Patties i. 605 Pheasant ii. 156 Pie i. 605 Pies, for i. 605 Pigeons, for i. 605 Pike ii. 189 Forcemeats, Pork, with Bacon ii. 219 > Rissoles i. 605 Shrimps ii. 448 Sucking pig, for i. 605 Toasts i. 606 Truffle ii. 628 Turkey or Veal, for i. 606 Veal ii. 714 Whiting ii. 774 Forks i. 606 Fortunatus’ Pudding ii. 259 Fou-Fou Soup ii. 483 Four i. 606 Fowl i. 606 a la Barbarie i. 617 Baked i. 607 Ballotines 7. 607 Bechamel Sauce i. 617 Beef and, Pie 7. 617 Blanquette of i. 607, 608 Boiled 7. 608 Boning a i. 607 Boudins of i. 609 Braised 7. 610 Braised Fillets of i. 610 Broiled 7.611 Broth i. 617 Capilotade i. 612 Chartreuse i. 612 Chaudfroid i. 612 Chingara i. 613 Cold, Rechauffe with Rice Cream i. 613 Consomme i. 618 Cooked in Valencia style i. 627 Cream i. 618 Creased i. 613 Cromeskies i. 618 Croquettes i. 618 Croustades i. 613 Cutlets i. 614, 620 Curried i. 613 Devilled i. 615 en Coquilles i. 617 Epigramme of, Fillets i. 615 Essence i. 615 Fillets i. 615 Forcemeat i. 620 Fricassee i. 627 Fried i. 630 Fried Fillets of i. 629 Fried in Butter i. 620 Fritters i. 620 Galantine i. 631 Glaze i. 621 Gravy i. 621 Grilled Legs i. 632 Ham and, Sandwiches i. 621 Hamburg 7.632 Hashed 7.632 in Jelly 7. 621 Jelly 7.621 Kebob 7.621 Larded Fillets 7. 632 Legs of, en Papillotes 7. 632 Macaroni and, Pie 7. 621 Matelote 7.633 Mayonnaise 7.633 Mazarine 7.633 Minced 7.633 Montglas of, garnished with Jelly 7. 633 Moor 7. 948 Nouilles, with 7. 621 Orleys 7.634 Pain of, a la Duchesse 7. 634 Pain of, with Jelly 7. 634 Panada 7.634 Patties 7.622 3 I VOL. II.THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 850 Fowl Pie 7. 622 Pilau 7. 622 Pot-Pie 7. 623 Potted 7. 634 Pressed 7. 634 Pudding 7. 623 Pulled 7. 635 Puree 7. 635 Puree, a la Turque 7. 623 Quenelles 7. 623 Rissoles 7. 624 Roasted 7. 635 Salad 7. 624 Sandwiches of Cold Roasted 7. 636 Sauce i. 624 Sautd 7. 624 Savoury Jelly, in 7. 626 Scalloped 7. 636 Smothered 7. 636 Souffles 7. 636 Soup 7. 626 Stewed 7. 636 Stuffing 7. 627 Supreme 7. 641 Supreme of Fillets 7. 640 Surprise Pie 7. 627 Terrapin, as 7. 627 Timbale 7. 641 Toad-in-a-Hole 7. 627 Tongue and Rolls 7. 627 Truffled 7. 642 Turban 7. 642 Yol - an - Vents with Croquettes 7. 627 with Stewed Pickle 7 627 Fowl’s Giblets 7. 642 Pie 7. 642 Stewed 7. 642 Fowl’s Liver Cake 7. 643 en Brochette 7. 643 en Papillotes 7. 643 Forcemeat 7. 643 Garnish, for 7. 643 in Cases 7. 643 Omelet 7. 643 Sauce 7. 643 Sautiis 7. 643 Stewed 7. 643 Stuffing for Birds 7. 644 Terrine 7. 644 Frangipane 7. 644 Flawn 7. 644 Paste 7. 644 Shape 7. 644 Tartlets 7. 644 Frankfort Pudding ii. 259 Sausages ii. 405 Frascati Cake i. 236 Freezers and Freezing i. 644 Freezing Mixtures 7. 645 French Beers i. 646 Black Pudding i. 154 Cake i. 236 Cider i. 646 Italian Pudding, and ii. 259 Pearl Barley 7. 78 Rock ii. 536 Roll Fritters i. 191 Roll Pudding 7. 191 Rolls i. 184 Salad ii. 357 Sauce ii. 389 Soup ii. 484 Sugar Plums or Dragees ii. 536 Toast i. 192 French Beans a la Bretonne. 7. 90 ii l’Anglaise i. 90 a la Poulette i. 91 French Beans, Artichoke Bottoms with i. 49 Boiled i. 90 Cream, with i. 90 Garlic, with i. 91 Garnishing, for i. 90 Gravy, with 7. 91 Kidney or i. 89 Parsley and Butter, with i. 91 Pickled i. 91 Plain boiled 7. 90 Salad i. 91 Salted Herrings, with i. 91 Sautds in Butter i. 91 Fresh Herrings i. 761 Friar’s Omelet ii. 21 Fricadelles 7. 646 Fricandeau i. 646 Beef i. 117 Fricassee i. 647 Beef i. 117 Calf’s Feet 7. 269 Cold Roasted Beef i. 117 Sauce ii. 389 White Haricot Beans i. 92 Fried Anchovies i. 21 Animelles i. 23 Apples i. 38 Artichoke Bottoms 7. 50 Bacon i. 65 Bass with Bacon 7. 84 Black Bass i. 84- Bread i. 192 Bread Cakes i. 192 Bread Cases i. 192 Breadcrumbs i. 192 Cakes 7. 236 Haricot Beans 7. 92 Jerusalem Artichokes i. 51 Sliced Fillet of Beef i. 117 Steak i. 117 Friedrichshall i. 647 Bitter Water i. 3 Frijoles i. 647 Fritters 7. 647, ii. 233 Aigucbelle i. 647 ii la Bonne Femme i. 648 Almond Custard 7. 11 Anchovy i. 20 Apple i. 29 Apricot i. 41 Arrowroot i. 47 Baked with Custard 7. 647 Banana i. 71 Barley i. 79 Batter for i. 86 Beetroot i. 131 Bell i. 647 Berryvillc i. 647 Brain i. 173 Bread i. 188 Break-of Day i. 647 Cakes i. 648 Carrot i. 304 Cauliflowers i. 320 Celery i. 326 Chaudron i. 266 Cheese 7. 348 Cherry 7. 358 Clam i. 396 Cold Meat i. 922 Cornflour i. 441 Cow-Heel i. 447 Cream i. 466 Cream Cheese i. 351 Cucumber i. 487 Curd i. 494 Currant i. 504 Custard i. 508 Fritters, Danish i. 647 Dried Haddock i. 734 Egg i. 557 Egg-Plant Fruit i. 568 English i. 647 Fish i. 591 Flavoured with Vanilla i. 648 Fowl 7.621 French i. 647 French-Roll i. 191 Fruit 7.655 Fruit-Paste 7.656 German 7.648 German Carnival 7.648 Goose’s Fat-Liver 7.699 Ham 7.740 Hollow 7. 648 Indian 7- 648 Italian 7.648 Lemon 7.843 Light 7.649 Lobster 7.873 Maizena 7.905 Marie Louise 7.649 Mixed 7.649 Mogador 7.049 Nectarine 77. 3 Orange 77.38 Oyster 77.76 Peach 77.135 Pear 77. 143 Pine apple 77.194 Pork 77. 219 Portuguese 7. 649 Puff 7.649 Pumpkin 77.272 Regal 7.649 Spanish 7.649 Spinach 77. 501 Sponge 7.650 SpongeCake 7.260,77.504 Strawberry 77.520 Turkish 7. 650 Turkish Cheese 7. 352 Yam 77.799 Yeast 77. 803 Frizzled Beef 7. 118 Frogs 7.650 au Blanc 7. 650 au Gratin 7. 650 Broiled 7.650 Fricasseed 7.650 Fried 7.650 Salad 7.651 Stewed 7. 651 Frontignac 7. 651 Frost and Frosting 7. 651 Frost Fisli 7. 651 Frosting Caramel 7.290 Froth, Lemon 7. 843 Wine 77.788 Frozen Apricots 7.44- Biscuits 7.142 Meat, to Cook 7. 59 Pudding 77.259 Fruit 7. 651 Bavaroise with Cream 7. 88 Bowl 7.653 Bread 7.192 Cake 7.653 Chariot tte 7.653 Chaudfroid 7.653 Cheese or Cake 7.654 Cobbler 7.654 Cornflower Jelly and 7.654 Cream 7.654 Cream-Ice 7.654 Croquenbouche 7.643 Crusts 7. 654THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 851 Fruit, Darioles 7.655 Dried, Pickle 7. 653 Dumplings 7. 655 Flawn of, a la Viennese 7. 653 Foam 7. 655 Fritters 7. 655 Gateau 7. 655 Gimblettes 7. 655 Ice 7. 655 Jelly 7. 655 Juice Granito 7. 656 Juice, Preserved 7. 652 Paste Fritters 7. 656 Pickled, Unripe 7. 652 Pie 7. 656 Pilau 7. 656 Preserved in Ginger Syrup 7. 652 Pudding 7. 656 Pudding, and Batter 7. 653 Ratafia 7. 657 Rice Shape, and 7. 657 Salad 7. 657 Sauce 7. 657 Syrup, suitable for making Fruit Drinks 7.657 Tablets 7. 657 Tart 7. 657 Tinned 7. 652 Trifle 7.657 Vinegar 7.65S Wine 7.658 Fruits, Bottled 7.652 Brandied 7.652 Compote 7.653 Glazed 7.658 Greening, before Preserving 7. 642 in Jelly 7.656 Macedoine 7.658 Muscovite Dish 7. 658 Timbale 7.659 Vol-au-Vent 7.659 with Crusts 7. 654 Frumenty 7.659 Somersetshire 7.659 Turkish 7.659 Fry 7.659 Italian 7.779 Lamb’s 7. 821 Pig’s 77. 172 Frying 7.65!) Batter for 7.87 Fuel 7.660 Fumet 7.660 of Game 7.663 l’un Pudding 77. 259 Fusel Oil 7. 660 Galantine 7.660 Beef 7. 118 Boar’s Head 7. 160 Eel 7.545 Fowl 7.631 Grouse 7.722 Turkey 77.650 Veal 77.693 Wild Boar’s Head 7. 161 Galettes 7.660 Gal 1 7. 661 Gal lim aw fries 7.661 Gallino 7.661 Gallon 7.661 Galoni 7. 661 Game 7. 661 Bouchees 7. 662 Bouchees with, Puree 7. 170 Chaudfroid, Sauce 7. 662 Chestnut Forcemeat Balls, and 7. 663 Consomme 7.663 Cream 7.662 Cromeskies 7.663 Croquettes 7.663 Cutlets 7. 664 Devilled 7. 662 Fillets of, in Cases 7. 6G2 Forcemeat 7.664 Fumet 7. 663 Garnish for 7. 670 Glaze 7. 664 Gravy, for Mutton 7. 664 in Aspic Jelly 7. 663 Marinade for 7.912 Minced 7. 666 Partridges 77. 93 Pheasants 77. 152 Pie 7. 664 Potted 7. 666 Ptarmigan 77.251 Ravioles of, in Consomme 7. G67 Rice Patties, in 7. 665 Rissoles 7. 665 Salad 7. G65 Salmis 7. 667 Souffles 7. 666 Sou]) 7. 666 Stock 7. 666 To carve 7.312 Vol-au-Vent of, Cold 7. 6G7 Gammon 7. 667 Garbure 7. 667 Garden Parties 7. 667 Garfish 7.668 Garlic 7. 668 as a Vegetable 7. 668 Butter Sauce 7. 668 Extract of 7. 668 Flavouring for 7. 668 Pickled 7. 668 Sauce 7. 668 Vinegar 7.668 Garnish 7. 669 Admiral 7. 669 Artichoke Bottoms for 7. 49 Bayard 7. 669 Bordeaux 7. 669 Ghambord 7. 669 Chestnut 7. 366 Chipolata 7. 669 Ghivry 7. 669 Commodore 7. 669 Crayfish 7.459 Durand 7. 669 D'Uxelles 7.669 Fermiere 7. 669 Finaneiere 7. 669 Flemish 7. 670 Forest of Senart 7. 670 for Game 7. 670 Godard 7.670 Gourmet 7.670 Greek 7.670 Hussard 7.670 Journeaux 7.670 Mariniere 7.670 Matelote 7.670 Milanese 7. 670 Montebello 7.670 Normandy 7. 670 Parisian 7. 671 Garnish, Paysanne 7. 671 Provencal 7.671 Providence 7. 671 Reform 7.671 Regency 7. 671 Rouen 7. 671 St. Nazaire 7.671 Scarlet 7. 671 Soubise 7. 671 Supreme 7.671 Toulouse 7. 671 Turtle 7. 671 Valencia 7. 671 Vanderbilt 7.672 Vegetable floating, for Soups 77. 728 Garnishing, Bread Crofttons for 7. 188 Brussels Sprouts for 7. 207 Cabbage for 7. 220 Carrot for 7. 304 Cauliflower for 7. 321 Cepes for 7. 330 French Beans for 7. 90 Mushroom 7.961 Tomatoes for 77. 601 Garum 7.672 Gas 7. 672 Gascony Butter 7. 216 Gaspacho 7.672 Gastronomy 7.672 Gateaux 7.672 Cherry 7.358 Gattinara 7.672 Gauffres or Gauffers 7. 672 Gazogenes 7.672 Gelatine 7.672 Cream Ice 7. 672 Ice 7. 673 Jelly 7. 673 Puddings 7. 673 Geneva 7.673 Biscuits 7. 142 Buns 7. 210 Cakes 7. 236 Sauce 7. 673, 77. 389 Genoa Cake 7. 237 Salad 77. 357 Sauce 77.389 Toast 7.192 Genoese Pastry, Almond 7. 12 Gentian 7.673 Geranium 7.673 German Beer Soup 7. 130 Beverage 7.134 Biscuits 7. 142 Black Pudding 7. 155 Buns 7.210 Cake 7.238 Imperial Soup 77.484 Omelet 77.21 Pudding 77.259 Rhine Wine Punch 77.274 Rolls 7.185 Salad 77 357 Sauce 77.389, 400 Sausages 77.405 Sou]) 77.484 Toast 7.192 < lertrude’s Pudding 77.260 Ghee 7.673 Gherkins* 7.673 Preserved 7.674 Sauce 7.674 Toasts 7.674 Gibelotte 7.674 Giblets 7.674 Duck's 7.535 Haricot of 7.676 Pie 7.674COOKERY. ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL 852 TEE Giblets Sauce 7. 675 Soup 7.675 Stewed 7.676 Stuffing for Turkeys 7.676 Turkey 77.658 Gigot 7.676 Gilang 7.676 Gilkas 7.676 Gimblettes 7.676 Gin 7.676 Black Currant 7.496 Clove 7.401 Cloves and, Nip 7.676 Orange 77.38 Punch 7.676 Red Currant 7.498 Sling 7.677 Smash 7.677 Ginger 7.677 Apple 7.30 Beer 7.677 Biscuits 7.678 Brandy 7.678 Brandy Liqueur 7.678 Buns 7.678 Cake 7.678 Candy 7.679 Cocktail 7.405 Cordial 7.679 Cream 7.680 Cream Ice 7. 680 Cup Puddings 7. 680 Drink 7.680 Drops 7. 680 Essence 7.677 Gin 7.680 Green 7.683 Ice 7. 680 Imitation Preserved 7.683 Loaf 7.680 Lozenges 7.680 Lump 7.680 Melons, to Imitate 7.931 Pancakes 7.681 Pastille Drops 7.681 Powder 7.678 Preserved 7.684 Pudding 7.681 Rhubarb 77.319 Sauce 7.682 Snaps 7.682 Souffle 7.682 Sugar 7.682 Syrup 7.682 Tablets 7.682 Tincture 7.684 Wafers 7.682 Water Ice 7.683 Wine 7.683 Gingerade 7.677 Gingerbread 7.684 American 7.684 Canadian 7.684 Excelsior 7.685 Pairy 7.685 Fingers 7.685 Flavoured with Orange 7. 686 French 7. 685 Honeycomb 7.686 Imitation 7.688 Imitation, Cake 7. 688 Lafayette 7.686 Nuremberg 7. 686 Nuts 7.685 Parliamentary 7.687 Queen’s 7.687 Rich 7.687 Soft 7.687 Spiced 7- 687 Gingerbread, Sponge 7. 687 Squares 7.686 Sweet 7.687 Thin 7.687 Transparent 7 687 Wafer 7.687 Wellington 7.688 White 7.688 with Cocoa-nut 7. 685 with Molasses 7. 685 Gingerette 7.680 Gizzards 7.689 Glacd 7.689 Glace de Viande 7. 689 Glair 7.689 Glass 7.689 Glasses, Wines and Liqueur 77.791 Glaze Game 7. 664 Glazing and 7. 689 Meat 7.689 Glazed Apple Marmalade 7. 38 Fruits 7. 658 Gloria 7.425 Gloucester Cakes 7. 238 Cheese 7.344 Pudding 77.260 Glucose 7.690 Gluten 7.690 Bread 7. 181 Gems 7.690 Mush 7.690 Wafers 7. 690 Gnocchi 7.690 French 7.690 Fried 7.690 Milanese 7.691 Soup 7.691 Sweet 7.691 Timbale 7. 691 Venetian 7.692 with Cream 7. 691 with Potatoes 7. 691 with Semolina 7. 691 Goat 7.692 Godard Sauce 77. 389 Godiveau 7.692 Pie 7.692 Gold Cake 7. 238 Golden-Ball Pudding 77. 260 Buck 7.351 Crusts 7. 192 Pudding 77.260 Sauce 77.400 Syrup 77.555 Goose 7.692 Aspic Jelly, in 7. 693 Baked 7.693 Collared 7.693 Devilled 7.693 Fat 7.696 Fat Liver 7. 697 Giblets 7.696 Giblet Pie 7. 696 Green, or Gosling 7. 697 Hashed, a la Lyonnaise 7. 694 Indian Dumpode 7. 694 Livers Stewed 7. 697 Mock 7.694 Pickled 7.694 Pie 7.693 Potted 7.695 Pudding 7.707 Ragoht 7.694 Roasted 7.695 Sandwiches 7.694 Sauce for 77. 396 Smoked 7. 695 Stewed 7.695 Wild 77.7 7 7 Gooseberries 7. 702 Bottled, Green 7. 703 Bottled, Ripe 7. 703 in Jelly 7.705 Preserved 7.707 Gooseberry Cheese 7. 703 Chutney 7.703 Cream 7.703 Cream Ice 7. 703 Cream Tarts 7. 703 Currant and, Jam 7. 704 Fool 7.704 Jam 7.704 Jelly 7.704 Pancakes 7.705 Pie 7. 705 Pudding 7.705 Sauce 7.705 Shape 7.705 Souffle 7.706 Tart 7.706 Trifle 7.706 Vinegar 7.706 Wine 7.706 Gorgonzola Cheese 7. 344 Gotham Pudding 77. 260 Gothic Sauce 77. 389 Gourami 7.707 Gourds 7.707 Gourmands and Gourmets 7. 707 Gourmet’s Soup 77. 484 Governor’s Sauce 77. 402 Graham-Flour 7. 708 Bread 7. 182 Cakes 7.708 Gems 7.708 Wafers 7.708 Grains of Paradise 7. 708 Grand Champagne 7. 708 Grandfather’s Nightcap 77. 5 Grands Vins 7. 709 Granite Ice, Lemon 7. 843 Granito 7.709 Sherry 77.447 Grape Drink 7.710 Ice 7.710 Jam 7.710 Jelly 7.710 Pudding 7.710 Ratafia 7.710 Trifle 7.710 Wine 7.710 Grapes 7.709 Compote 7.709 Frosted 7.709 Glazed 7.710 Jelly, in 7.710 Pickled 7. 711 Preserved 7. 711 Graters 7.711 Gratin 7. 711 Gratinated Batter 7. 87 Gratzer Beer 7.712 Gravies 7.712 , Colouring for 7. 712 Plain 7.713 Thick 7.714 Gravy for Special Purposes 7. 714 Game, for Mutton 7. 664 Kidney 7.797 Made without Meat 7.714 Meat 7.920 Shallot 77.436 Soups 7.715 Soup, Veal 77.715 Stock 7.712 Veal 77.715 Grayling 7.715 Grayling, Fried 7.716THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 853 Gray Mullet, Baked 7. 953 Boiled 7. 953 Braised 7. 954 Broiled 7. 954 Fillets of 7. 954 Matelote, a la 7. 954 Soup a la Turque 7. 954 Stewed 7. 954 Grease 7.716 Green Apricot Compote 7. 44 Bacon 7. 62 Butter 7. 216 Colouring 7. 427 Corn 7. 776 Crabs 7. 716 Currant Jam 7. 498 Ginger Beer 7. 683 Ginger Juice 7. 683 Gooseberries, Bottled 7. 703 Goose or Gosling 7. 697 Sauce 77. 389 Soup 77. 484 Greengage, Apricot and, Jam i. 717 Bouchees i. 717 Cream Ice 7.717 Jam 7.717 Paste 7.717 Paste, Candied Knots 7. 716 Souffle 7.717 Tart 7.717 Tartlets 7.717 Toast 7.718 Water Ice 7.718 Wine 7.718 Greengages 7.716 Bottled 7.716 Compote 7.716 Dried 7.716 Preserved 7.718 Stewed 7.719 Greening 7.719 Green Peas 77.125 Dried 77. 129 Turned 77.129 Greens' 7.719 Grenades 7.719 Cherry Sauce with 7.719 Grenadines 7.719 Beef 7.100 Veal 77.693 Griddle 7.719 Girdle Cakes, or 7 238 Gridirons 7.719 Grignolino 7. 7 20 Grillade 7. 720 Grilling 7.720 Grill Sauce 77. 390 Grilse 7.721 Griskin 7.721 Groats 7.721 Fried 7.721 Gruel 7.721 Pudding 7.721 Grocery 7.721 Grog 7.721 Ground Rice Biscuits 77. 324 Blanc-mange 77.324 Buns 77.324 Cocoa-nut and, Pudding 77. 325 Cream 77.325 Custard 77.325 Dumplings 77.325 Flummery 77.325 Fritters 77.325 Hasty Pudding 77. 325 Honey and, Pudding 77.326 Milk 77. 326 Snow 77.326 Souffle 77.326 Ground Rice Soup 77. 326 Grouper 7.721 Grouse 7.721 Braised 7.721 Broiled 7.722 Cromeskies 7.722 Fillets of, Sautes 7. 722 Fried, Cutlets 7. 722 Fried with Breadcrumbs 7.722 Galantine 7.722 Larded 7.724 Pie 7.723 Roasted 7. 724 Salad 7.724 Salmi 7.724 Salmi of, with Truffles 7.724 Soup 7.723 Stewed 7.724 Stewed a l’Ailsa 7. 724 Supreme a la Richelieu 7. 725 Gruel 7.725 Barley 7.7 9 Brandy 7.176 Cornflour 7. 442 Currant 7.504 Egg 7.558 English 7.725 German 7.725 Groat 7.721 Hamburg 7.725 Maizena 7. 905 Norwegian 7.725 Oatmeal 77.15 Onion 77.26 Rice 77.332 Sago 77.354 Scotch 7.725 Water 7.725 Wheat-flour 77.764 Grunts 7. 7 25 Gray ere Cheese 7. 344 Guarana 7.725 Guarapo 7.725 Guava 7.725 Cheese 7. 7 26 Jelly 7.726 Jelly, Imitation 7.726 Gudgeon 7.726 Fried 7.726 Matelote 7.726 Guernsey Cake 7. 239 Buns 7.210 Guignolet 7.726 Guinea Fowls 7.727 Braised, Larded 7. 727 Broiled 7.727 Roasted 7. 7 27 Salad 7.727 Soup 7.727 Guinea Pigs 7. 727 .Cavy aux Fines Herbes 7. 728 _ Cavy en Gibelotte 7. 72T Guisado 7. 728 Gum 7.728 Drops 7.728 for Adhesive Labels 7.169 Milk 7.728 Paste 7.728 Pastilles 7.728 Syrup 7.728 Syrup of 77. 555 Water 7.728 Gurnet, Baked 7. 729 Boiled 7.730 Fillets, Fried 7.730 Fillets of, a lltalienne 7. 730 Gurnards or 7.729 Hach6 7. 730 Haddocks 7.730 Baked 7.731 Baked, Smoked 7.733 Boiled 7.731 Boiled, Dried 7.733 Broiled 7. 7 32 Broiled, Smoked 7.734 Creams 7.733 Dried 7.733 Dried, Fritters 7.734 Dried, Toast 7. 734 Dried, with Tomatoes 7. 734 Fillets of, Sautes 7.732 Fresh 7.730 Fried 7.732 Fried, Smoked 7.734 Grilled 7.732 Maitre d’Hotel 7. 732 Puddings 7.733 Sir Walter Scott, a la 7.733 Soup 7.733 Toasts 7.733 Haggis 7.734 Imitation 7.735 Hake 7.7 35 Fried Cutlets 7.735 Roasted 7.735 Stewed 7.735 Half-Fish 7.735 Halibut 7.735 Baked 7.736 Boiled 7.736 Broiled 7. 736 Fried, Steaks 7. 736 Stewed, Collops 7.736 Toasts 7.736 Ham, Baked 7. 737 Boiled 7.737 Braised 7.738 Broiled 7.738 Chicken Pie and 7.739 Chicken Polonies and 7,739 Cold Boiled, with Aspic Jelly 7. 738 Collops a la Maitre d’Hotel 7. 740 Cooked in Cider 7.740 Croquettes 7.740 Devilled 7.739 Egg Toasts, and 7.740 Eggs and 7.740 Essence of 7.739 Forcemeat of 7.739 Fried 7.739 Fritters 7.740 Frizzled 7.739 Madeira Wine, Cooked in 7.740' Omelets 7.740 Pie 7.740 Potted 7. 742 Puirie 7.741 Quenelles 7.741 Relish 7.741 Roasted 7.742 Sandwiches 7.741 Sauce 7 741 Slices of, a la Mayonnaise 7.742 Spiced 7.742 Steaks 7. 7 41 Steamed 7.742 Stuffed 7.742 Toasts 7.741 To Carve 7. 310 Veal 77.715 Wild Boar’s 7. 161 Hams 7.736THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 854 Hamburg Beef, Smoked i. 126 Bitters i. 150 Powder 7. 743 Hamburg Steak 7. 118 Hampshire Pudding ii. 260 Hanover Buns i. 211 Pudding it. 260 Sauce ii. 390 Hard Cakes i. 239 Sauce ii. 400 Tack 7. 743 Hardbake 7. 743, ii. 536 Almond i. 12 Cocoa-nut i. 409 Hare, a la Minute i. 746 au Chaudron 7.'746 Baked i. 743 Boudin of i. 743 Braised i. 7 44 Broiled i. 744 Cheese 7.747 Civet i. 744 Essence of i. 745 Fillet of Beef to resemble Roasted i. 125 Fillets 7.745 Fried 7. 746 Fried Fillets i. 746 Cibelotte 7.746 Imitation i. 749 Imitation, Soup i. 749 Jugged i. 749 Larded Fillets of i. 750 Marinaded Fillets of i. 750 Minced i. 751 Pie i. 747 Potted i. 751 Roasted 7.751 Salmis 7.753 Sauce for 77.396 Shape 7.748 Soup 7.748 Stewed 7. 753 Stuffed Boned 7.754 Terrine 7.754 Timbales 7. 754 To Carve *.311 Veal Fate and 7. 749 Hare-Liver Sauce i. 747 Hare’s Livers, Forcemeat i. 746 Hare or Rabbit Sauce ii. 396 Hares 7. 7 43 Backs, with Poivrade Sauce i. 747 Harem Pudding if. 260 Haricot 7. 756 of Veal ii. 694 Haricot Beans *.91 a la Maitre d’Hotel 7. 92 Baked *.91 Boiled i. 92 Boiled Pork and i. 92 Boiled, with Capsicum Butter i. 92 Fricassee of White 7. 92 Fried i. 92 Marrow and i. 92 Omelet i. 92 Panaches a la Maitre d’Hotel i. 92 Porridge i. 92 Potted i. 93 Preserved i. 93 Puree of i. 93 Puree for Soup i. 92 Puree of, a la Soubise i. 93 Puree of Red i. 93 Salad of Boiled i. 93 Soup i. 92 Stewed i. 93 Harlequin Balls ii. 536 Cake 7. 239 Hartshorn i. 756 Cream i. 756 Jelly *. 756 Harvey Sauce ii. 402 Hash 7. 756 Hashed Beef *".118 Boiled Beef i. 118 Corned Beef i. 118 Hashes, Sauce for u.396 Haslet i. 756 Hasty Pudding 7. 756, 77.260 Soup ii. 484 Haunch i. 757 of Boar a la Royale i. 161 Havre Cake i. 239 Hawthorn 7. 757 Flavouring i. 757 Hazel nuts i. 757 Cakes i. 757 Cream Ice i. 757 Heads i. 757 Lamb’s i. 819 Ox ii. 53 Pig’s ii. 172 Sheep’s ii. 439 Heart Cakes i. 248 Hearts 7. 757 Ox ii. 55 Sheep’s ii. 441 to Carve *1.311 Heat i. 757 Conductors *. 758 Heavy Cakes i. 239 Hedgehogs i. 759 Apple i. 30 Heidelberg Bishop 7. 148 Helena Pudding ii. 260 Helen’s Pudding u.260 Heloise Cake i. 239 Henrietta Bread 7. 182 Herb Beer 7. 759 Flavouring i. 760 Pie 7.760 Pudding 7.760 Puree of, with Vegetables 7.760 Soup 1.760 Tea 7.760 Vinegar 7.7 60 Herbs 7.759 Fine 7.586 Fried *. 759 Herb aml-Forcemeat Quenelles *. 760 Herefords Pudding u.260 Hermitage i. 7 60 Hermit Biscuits i. 142 Hermits 7. 239 Herring Pie *1.762 Herrings 7.760 Fresh *. 761 Red 7.764 Salted *. 7 63 Salted, with French Beans *.91 Smoked 7.764 Ilet Pint 7.765 i Hickory-nuts 7.7 65 Hip Jam *‘.765 Marmalade *". 7 66 Sauce *. 7 66 I Hips 7.765 in Vinegar 7.766 I Preserved 7. 766 Hippocras 7. 700 \ Hockheimer or Hock 7.766 Hock or Hockheimer 7.766 Julep *. 7 66 Syrup i. 7 66 Hoe Cakes i. 239,766 Hog 7.766 Hogplum *. 7 63 Hogshead i. 766 Hokey-Pokey 7.766 Hollands i. 766 Holland Sauce ii. 387 Holmcroft Cake i. 240 Holstein Sauce ii. 390 Soup ii. 484 Homely Pudding u.260 Home-made Cake 7. 240 Hominy i. 76(i Blanc mange i. 767 Boiled 7.766 * Cakes *. 7 67 Cheese-Cakes *. 7 67 Croquettes 7.707 Fried 7.767 Porridge 7.768 Pudding 7.768 Soup 7.768 Stewed 7.768 Honey 7.768 Biscuits 7. 7 69 Cakes 7. 7 69 Candy 7.769 Clarified 7.769 Drink flavoured with Cloves 7.769 Drops 77.536 Imitation 7.770 Lemon 7.844 Love Cakes 7.769 Nougat 7.769 Noyau 77.12 Orange 77.39 Sweetmeats 7.770 Vinegar 7.770 Honeycomb 77.536 Biscuits 7.142 Gingerbread 7.686 Lemon 7.844 Hops 7.770 Beer 7.770 Salad 7.770 Shoots 7.770 Tea 7.770 Ilorehound 7.770 Beer 7.770 Candy 7.770 Lozenges 7.771 Tea 7.771 Hollies or Orlys 7.771 Hors d’CEuvres 7.7/1 Horse-Mackerel 7.771 Horseradish 7.771 Butter 7.771 Sauce 7.771 Vinegar 7.772 Hot Baba Cake 7.61 Closets 7.773 Coffee and Soda-water 7.425 Cross Buns 7.211 . Pint 7.765 Sauce 77.402 Hotch-Potch 7.772 of Knuckles of Veal 77. 695 Houchen 7.773 Household Bread 7.182 H owtowdie 7.773 Humbles or Umbles 7.773 Hungarian Beef 7.119 Wines 7.773 Hung Beef 7.119 Hunters’Beef 7.12/ Pudding 77.261 Soup 77.484 Hunting Pudding 77.261 Hydrochloric Acid 7.773 Ilydromel 7.773 Hygiene 7.773 I Hyssop 7.773 .855 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. I Ice 5 773 Iceberg Punch ii. 274 Iced Biscuits 5 142 Cabinet Pudding **■ 261 Cake 5 240 Chocolate 5 380 Pudding ii. 261 Punch, with Pineapple and Champagne *5 274 Swiss Pudding ii. 261 Tea ii. 577 Iceland Moss *.774 Ices 5 774 Apple 5 30 Apple Water 5 37 Apricot 5 41 Apricot and Pistachio 5 43 Asparagus 5 52 Baked 5775 Banana Cream 5 70 Barberry Water 5 77 Bergamot Water 5 133 Black Currant Water 5 497 Bread Cream 5 187 Bricks, Variegated 5 775 Brown-Bread 5 191 Brown-Bread Cream 5 191 Burnt Almonds and Orange 5 14 Butter-milk Cream 5 218 Cakes 5 775 Caramel Cream 5 289 Champagne 5 332 Cherry 5 358 Cherry Cream 5 357 Cherry Pulp for i. 361 Cherry Water 5 363 Chocolate i. 377 Chocolate-cream *.376 Cinnamon Cream i. 391 Cinnamon Water 5 392 Citron 5 395 Citron Cream i. 394 Claret i. 398 Cocoa-nut 5 409 Cocoa-nut Cream 5 409 Coffee Cream 5 423 Cups *.775 Fruit 5 655 Gelatine 5 673 Ginger 5 680 Grape 5 710 Jam 5 781 Juniper-berry 5 792 Lemon Cream i. 842 Lemon Water i. 854 Madeira 5 904 Maraschino Cream 5 909 Melon Seed Water 5 930 Melon Water i. 930 Mulberry Water 5 963 N eapolitan ii. 2 N ougat Cream ii. 7 Noyau Cream ii. 12 Orange Cream ii. 36 Orange Granite ii. 39 Orange Water ii. 45 Orgeat Cream ii. 50 Peach ii. 135 Peach Cream ii. 134 Peach Water ii. 139 Pear Cream ii. 142 Pear Pulp for ii. 144 Pear Water ii. 145 Pine apple Cream ii. 193 Pine apple Water ii. 197 Ices, Pistachio Cream ii. 201 Pistachio Water ii. 202 Plum Cream ii. 208 Pomegranate Water *5 214 Pudding ii. 261 Pumpernickel 5 192 Punch Cream ii. 276 Punch Water *7.276 Quince Cream ii. 283 Raspberry and Almond 5 13 Raspberry and Currant ii. 309 Raspberry Cream ii. 308 Raspberry Water *'5 31.3 Ratafia Cream ii. 314 Red Cherry 5 364 Rhubarb Cream *7.319 Rose Cream ii. 346 Rose Water ii. 347 Rusk ii. 351 Shapes, Variegated 5 775 Souffle 5 775 Spanish-nut Cream ii. 497 Sponge i. 775 Sponge Cake Cream 5 260 Strawberry Cream ii. 519 Strawberry Water *7.525 Syrup for ii. 555 Tea Cream ii. 578 Truffle ii. 628 Vanilla and Strawberry ii. 680 Vanilla Cream ii. 677 Vanilla Water *7.681 Walnut Cream *7.757 Wine ii. 788 Wine Cream ii. 788 . Icing 5 775 Almond Cakes, for 5 12 Chocolate 5 377 Chocolate Caramel 5 375 Coffee 5 424 Eclairs, for 5 539 Raspberry ii. 309 Sugar *.778 Imitation Alkermes 5 8 Apricots 5 44 Blackberry Brandy 5 153 Fruit Biscuits 5 143 Imperial *.776 Biscuits 5 143 Cake 5 240 Drink 5 134 Pudding ii. 261 Punch *7.274 Wine 5 776 Indian Cakes i. 240 Corn *.776 Corn, Tomatoes and ii. 601 Pinaree 5 134 Pudding *7.261 Punch *7.274 Sandwiches ii. 378 Sauce ii. 390 Indigo 5 778 Inferno 5 779 Infusion 5 779 Cowslips 5 448 Invalid Broth 5 204 Jelly 5 785 Invalid’s Digestive Soup ii. 485 Soup for ii. 492 Suet Milk for ii. 533 Ipecacuanha Lozenges 5 883 Irish Cake 5 240 Luncheon Cakes 5 240 Rolls *'. 185 Stew 5 779 Irving Punch *7.274 Isinglass 5 779 [ Isinglassine 5 779 Ita 5 779 Italian Bread 5 182 Cakes 5 240 Cream Cheese 5 344 Fry 5 779 Pudding *5 261 Salad ii. 357 Sauce *5 390 Soup ii. 485 Wines 5 779 Ivory *'. 780 J Jack Snipe *'.780 Jam *'.780 Apple 5 30 Apricot 5 42 Bael 5 65 Barberry *'. 7 6 Blackberry 5 151 Blackberry, with Apples *’, 151 Black Currant *’. 496 Black Currant and Rhubarb *'. 497 Carrot 5 304 Cherry 5 359 Cherry and Raspberry *'. 361 Crab-apple *'. 453 Cranberry *'. 456 Currant *'. 501 Damson 5 514 Dumpling *'.781 Fritters *'-781 . Gooseberry 5 704 Gooseberry and Currant *'. 704 Grape *.710 Green Currant ii. 498 Greengage 5 717 Greengage and Apricot 5 717 Green Tomato ii. 595 Hip 5765 Ice 5 781 Mulberry 5 952 Peacli ii. 135 Pear ii. 143 Pine-apple ii. 194 Plum ii. 208 Plum and Damson ii. 208 Plum and Pear ii. 209 Pudding *.781 Puffs 5 782 Raspberry ii. 309 Raspberry and Cherry ii. 307 Raspberry and Currant ii. 308 Raspberry and Strawberry *'*'.311 Red and White Currant 5 502 Red Currant i. 498 Rhubarb ii. 319 Rhubarb and Ginger ii. 319 Roll 5 782 Rose ii. 346 Sandwiches *’. 782 Shaddock ii. 435 Strawberry ii. 520 Strawberry and Raspberry ii. 522 Tartlets 5 782 Tomato ii. 601 Vegetable Marrow **'.734 Jamun 5 782 j Japanese Salad ii. 357 | Jardiniere, a la *'.782 Salad ii. 35S I Sauce ii. 390856 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Jardiniere, a la, Soup ii. 485 Jaune-mange i. 7S2 Jelly i. 783 a la Constantine i. 784 Apple i. 30 Apricot i. 42 Arrowroot i. 47 Ashberry i. 51 Aspic i. 54 Barberry i. 7 6 Barberry, with Apples i. 76 Beef i. 101 Biscuit i. 141 Blackberry i. 151 Black Currant i. 496 Brandy i. 176 Brawn in i. 178 Bread i. 188 Bread or Toast i. 190 Broth i. 784 Cakes i. 785 Calf’s Foot i. 268 Champagne i. 332 Cherry, in Mould i. 359 Cider i. 389 Citron i. 394 Claret i. 398 Cocoa Cream i. 407 Coffee i. 424 Coffee Liqueur i. 425 Cold Meat i. 922 Cornflour i. 442 Cow-Heel i. 447 Crab-apple i. 453 Cranberry i. 456 Cream i. 466 Curayoa i. 493 Currant Juice i. 501 Custards i. 510 Damson'and Bullace i. 513 Egg i. 558 Fillet of Beef in i. 116 Fish i. 592 for Invalids i. 785 Fowl i. 621 Fruit i. 655 Fruit and Cornflour i. 654 Gelatine i. 673 Gooseberry i. 704 Grape i. 710 Guava i. 176 Hartshorn i. 756 Iced Champagne and Fruit i. 333 Italian i. 784 Jamaica i. 784 Kidney and Tomato i. 799 Kirschenwasser i. 800 Kiimmel i. 804 Lemon i. 844 Madeira i. 904 Mango i. 907 Maraschino i. 910 Marbled Sweet i. 785 Marsala-Wine i. 913 Meat i. 920 Medlar i. 928 Milk i. 939 Mosaic Sweet i. 785 Moulds i. 783 Mulberry i. 952 Noyau ii. 12 Omelet i. 785 Orange ii. 39 i Parsley ii. 91 Peach ii. 135 Pear ii. 143 Perry ii. 151 Pig’s Feet and Ears ii. 170 Pine apple ii. 194 Jelly, Pink i. 785 Plum ii. 208 Pomegranate ii. 214 Porter ii. 225 Port Wine ii. 225 Prune ii. 249 Puddings i. 785 Punch ii. 276 Quince ii. 283 Quince and Apple ii. 283 Raspberry ii. 310 Raspberry and Currant ii. 308 Red i. 786 Red Currant i. 498 Restorative i. 786 Rhubarb ii. 320 Rhubarb and Apple ii. 318 Ribbon i. 786 Rice ii. 332 Roll i. 785 Rum ii. 349 Russian i. 786 Sago ii. 354 Savoury i. 784, 787 Sherry ii. 447 Stock i. 785 Strawberry ii. 520 Sweet i. 783, 784, 786, 787, 788 Sweet Crystal i. 787 Tangerine Orange ii. 47 Tapioca ii. 568 Tarts i. 785 Tea ii. 578 Tea Cream ii. 578 Tipparee ii. 591 Tomato ii. 602 Tutti-Frutti ii. 673 Vanilla ii. 679 Veal ii. 716 Venetian i. 788 Wheat Starch ii. 765 Whipped Sweet, with Fruits i. 788 White Currant i. 501 Wine ii. 788 Jenny Lind Pudding ii. 261 Soup ii. 485 Jersey Wonders i. 788 Jerusalem Artichokes i. 50 " du Gratin i. 50 Baked i. 50 Boiled i. 51 Boiled, with White Sauce i. 51 Chips i. 50 Cooked in Italian style i. 50 Fried i. 51 Mashed i. 51 Onion Salad and i. 50 Sauce i. 50 Scalloped i. 51 Soup i. 50 Jessamine i. 788 Jesuits’ Tea i. 788 Jewfish i. 7S8 Jhal Frezee i. 789 Jiggers i. 789 John Dory i. 789 “ Johnny ” (or Journey) Cakes i. 240 Joints i. 790 Jorum i. 790 Josephine Cake i. 240 Jowl i. 791 Pig’s ii. 168 Jubilee Buns i. 211 Cakes i. 240 Juditlia i. 791 Jugged Soup ii. 485 Juglandine i. 791 Jugs i. 791 Juice, Lemon i. 845 Jujubes L 791 Black-currant i. 496 Liquorice i. 863 Juke’s Pudding ii. 261 Julep i. 791 Claret i. 398 Irish Whisky ii. 767 Lemon i. 844 Madeira i. 904 Mint i. 945 Orange ii. 39 Rum ii. 349 Julienne i. 791 Soup ii. 485 Almond i. 12 Jumbles i. 791 Junior United Pudding ii. 261 Juniper i. 792 Junk i. 792 Junket, Devonshire i. 519 Jus i. 792 K Kabob i. 792 Cold Meat, Curried i. 922 Curried i. 7 92 Hunter’s i. 793 Indian i. 793 Liver i. 864 Persian i. 7 93 Turkish i. 793 Kale i. 793 Brose i. 203 Pan i. 794 Kali, Lemon i. 845 Kangaroo i. 794 lvava i. 7 94 Kedgeree i. 794 Green Peas ii. 127 Rice ii. 332 Salmon ii. 365 Turbot ii. 640 Kendal Pudding ii. 261 Kent Biscuits i. 143 Kern-Milk i. 795 Ketchup f. 795 Anchovy i. 20 Barberry i. 77 Cockle i. 405 Cucumber i. 487 Elderberry i. 571 Lobster i. 873 Mushroom i. 961 Oyster ii. 77 Tomato ii. 602 Walnut ii. 756, 758 Kettle Cake i. 240 Kettles i. 795 Khat i. 795 Kheer Rice ii. 332 Khoosh Bitters i. 795 Khulash i. 795 Kickshaws i. 7 95 Kid i. 7 95 Kidney or French Beans i. 89 Kidneys i. 796 Lamb’s i. 820 Ox ii. 55 Pig’s ii. 174 Sheep’s ii. 441 Tinned i. 798857 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Kilderkin 7. 7 99 Kingfish 7. 7 99 King Henry’s ShoeStrings 7. 839 Kingston Punch 77. 27 4 Kipper 7. 7 99 Kippered Salmon 77. 371 Kirschenwasser i. 800 Kirsch Punch ii. 27 4 Kishr i. 801 Kisses i. 801 Kissing Crust i. 801 Kitcheners i. 801 Kitchener’s Cooked Salad ii. 358 Sauce ii. 402 Kitchens i. 801 Klipfish i. 801 Klosse i. 801 Knack Sausages ii. 405 Kneaded Butter i. 216 Kneading i. 802 Kneading-trough i. 802 Knickerbein i. 802 Knife, Boning i. 167 Knives i. 802 Knoh Cakes i. 240 Knot i. 802 Knuckle i. 802 Kohl-Rabi i. 803 Kokum i. S03 Kosher i. 803 Kosher Pudding, Almond i. 12 Koumiss i. 803 Kourabiedes i. 803 Kraplen i. 803 Ivreat i. 803 Kreatine i. 803 Kringles i. 803 Kufte i. 804 Kiimmel i. 804 Kumquat i. 804 L Labrador Tea i. 804 Lactic Acid i. 804 Ladies’ Punch ii. 27 4 Lady Cake i. 241 Lady’s Delight i. 804 Fingers i. 143 Lady Wrottesley’s Pudding ii. 262 Lafayette Cakes i. 241 Lager Beer i. 804 Lamb i. 804 Braised i. 807 Brochettes of i. 807 Broiled i. 808 Chops i. 810 Croquettes i. 810 Curried i. 808 Cutlets i. 810 Epigramm.es of i. 808 Fricassee of i. 809 Fried i. 809 Hashed i. 810 Minced i. 813 Pie i. 812 Pilau of i. 813 Ragout of i. 813 Roasted i. 814 Saddle of i. 805 Lamb Salad i. 813 Sautd, with Tomatoes i. 813 Shoulders of, to resemble Ducks i. 815 Soup i. 813 Stewed i. 815 Lambie i. 825 Lamb’s Brains i. 817 Ears i. 817 Feet i. 817 Heads i. 819 Kidneys i. 820 Livers i. 820 Pluck or Fry i. 821 Stones i. 822 Sweetbreads i. 822 Tails i. 824 Tongues i. 824 Wool ii. 68 Lampreys i. 825 Lancer Pudding ii. 262 Lapland Bread i. 182 Lapwings i. 827 Lard i. 828 Cakes i. 828 Pastry i. 828 Larder i. 828 Larding i. 828 Needle 7.828 Lardoons i. 828 Lark Patties i. 831 Pie i. 831 Pudding i. 832 Raised Pie served Hot i. 832 Scallops in a Croustade i. 832 Soup i. 832 Larks i. 828 au Gratin i. 829 Baked i. 829 Broiled i. 829 Essence of i. 829 in Cases i. 830 in then- Nests i. 830 Roasted i. 832 Salmis of i. 832' Stewed i. 832 Timbale of i. 833 Lavender i. 833 Drops i. 833 Lozenges i. 833 Laver i. 833 Lawn Sleeve i. 148 Layer Cake i. 241 Lead Cake i. 241 Leaf Cake i. 241 Leamington Pudding ii. 262 Leander Punch ii. 68 Lecha Crema i. 834 Lee Cake i. 241 Leeks i. 834 Left-over Soup ii. 486 Legumes i. 835 Leicester Cheese i. 344 Pudding ii. 262 Leighton Cake i. 241 Lemon Cream Ice i. 842 Kali i. 845 Mixture for Puddings i. 846 Pudding i. 848 Tincture of i. 856 Lemonade i. 854 Egg i. 558 Liqueur i. 855 Orange ii. 39 Powder i. 855 Syrup for ii. 555 Lemon-flavoured Biscuits i. 143 Lemon-juice, Preserved i. 856 Lemon-peel, Candied i. 836 Lemon-peel, Preserved i. 856 Lemons i. 835 Baked i. 836 Compote of i. 837 Essence of i. 837 Pickled i. 855 Preserved i. 856 Lenten Sandwiches ii. 378 Lentils i. 856 Stewed i. 858 with Rice i. 858 Lent Sausages ii. 405 Soup ii. 436 Leopard Cake i. 241 Lettuce Lozenges i. 883 Stalks, preserved i. 860 Lettuces i. 858 to cook i. 859 Leveret i. 754 Fried i. 754 Roasted i. 755 Stewed i. 755 Timbale of i. 756 Liaison i. 861 Lie or Sauce, Aspic i. 55 Light Biscuits i. 144 Bread i. 182 Cake i. 241 Pudding with Sabayon Sauce ii. 262 Tea Buns 7.211 Lightning Cake 7. 242 Lights 7.861 Lilies of the Valley 7. 861 Lima Beans 7. 94 Cream 7.94 Dried, boiled 7. 94 Sautes 7. 94 Limburger Cheese 7. 344 Lime juice Cordial 7. 862 Limes 7. 861 Limpets 7.862 Lincoln Cheese 7. 344 Linen, Table 77.560 Ling 7.862 Linseed 7.862 Tea 7.862 Liqueur, Aim able Vainqueur 7. 435 Amer d’Angleterre 7. 435 Amour sans Fin 7. 435 Aqua Bianca 7. 435 Barbados Cream 7. 435 Barbados Water 7. 435 Baume Consatateur 7. 436 Baume des Grecs 7. 436 Black Currant 7. 496 Caraway 7.292 Chartreuse 7.340 Cherry 7.359 Chine-Chine 7. 436 Christophelet 7. 436 Cinnamon 7.391 Citron 7.394 Clove 7.401 Coca 7.402 Cocoa 7.407 Coffee 7.424 Colouring Mixture for 7. 427 Coltsfoot 7.427 Coquette Flatteuse 7. 436 Cordials, and 7. 434 Cream of Mint 7. 945 Creme de Macaron 7. 436 Creme Mojou 7. 436 Creme Romantique 7. 436 Creme Voizot 7. 436 Curapoa 7.492 d’Amour 7. 437 d’Argent 7. 437858 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Liqueur, tie Girofle 7. 437 de Muscade 7. 437 de Saute 7. 437 lies Eveques 7. 437 Doree Cordial 7. 436 Eau Aerienne 7. 436 Eau Carminative 7. 436 Eau Cordiale 7. 436 Eau d’Amour 7. 436 Eau d’Argent 7. 436 Eau de Baal i. 436 Eau de Lisette 7. 437 Eau de Paix 7. 437 Eau de -Pucelle 7. 437 Eau des Abbes 7. 436 Eau des Favorites 7. 437 Eau des Prelats 7. 437 Eau Divine 7. 436 Eau d’Or 7. 437 Eau Forcifiere 7. 437 Eau Miraculeuse 7. 437 Eau Musettier i. 437 Gaite Franyaise 7. 437 Ginger Brandy 7. 678 Golden .Wasser 7. 437 Lemon i. 845 Lemonade 7. 855 Maraschino 7. 909 Masonic 7. 437 Nut ii. 13 Orange ii. 39 Parfait Amour i. 437 Peppermint ii. 148 Persicot i. 437 Quince ii. 284 Railroad i. 437 Raspberry ii. 310 Bose ii. 347 Rosolio i. 437 Samshoo ii. 377 Stomachic 7.438 Strawberry ii. 521 Usquebaugh i. 438 Vanilla 77.679 Vanilla Cream 77. 67 8 Verde 7.438 Liquorice 7.862 Liquors 7.7 Litre 7.863 Little Constance’s Pudding 77. 262 German Cakes 7. 242 Liver 7.863 Bacon and, Broiled 7. 65 Calf’s 7.275 Cod’s 7.418 Duck’s 7.535 Goose’s Fat 7.697 Lamb’s 7.820 Ox 77.56 Pig’s 77.174 Sheep’s 77.444 Skate’s 77.454 Livernaise Sauce 77. 390 Loach 7.865 Loaf Cake 7. 242 Cheese 7.345 Lobster 7.866 a la Chef de Cuisine 7. 869 a la Creme 7.870 a la Bordelaise 7. 868 a la Diable 7. 870 a l’Americaine 7. 869 a la Provenyale 7. 870 a la St. Malo 7.870 au Gratin 7. 870 Baked 7.867 Bisk of 7.149 Boiled 7.867 Boucliees 7.870 Lobster Brochettes 7. 870 i Butter 7.870 Cake 7. 871 Chowder 7.871 Cream 7. 871 Croquettes 7. 871 _ Curried 7. 868 Cutlets 7.872 Devilled 7.868 en Casserole 7. 869 Forcemeat 7.873 Fricassee 7.873 Fried 7.869 Fritters 7.873 in Shells 7. 877 Ketchun 7.873 Loaf or Cheese 7. 873 Mayonnaise 7. 87 4 Miroton of 7. 879 Omelet 7.874 . ‘Patties 7.873, 874 Pie 7.874 . Pilau 7.875 Potted 7.880 Pudding 7.875 Rissoles 7.875 Roasted 7.880 Rolls 7.875 Salad 7.875 Salpifon of 7. 880 Sauce 7.877 ' Saute 7.877 Scalloped 7.880 Souffle 7.878 Soup 7.878 Stewed 7.880 Timbales of 7.881 Tinned 7. 882 Toast 7.879 ’ Vol au Veil t of 7. 881 with Tomatoes 7. 879 Locusts 7.882 Logwood -7. 882 Loin 7.882 London Buns 7. 211 Long-Life Lozenges 7. 883 Loquat 7.882 Lord Mayor’s Cakes 7. 242 Lord of the Isles Punch 77. 27 4 Lorraine Soup 77/486 Louis Philippe Pudding 77. 262 Louvain Beer 7. 882 Louvernaise Cakes 7. 242 Lovage 7.882 Love Cakes 7. 242 Love in Disguise 7. 882 Loving Cups 7. 882 Lozenges 7.883 Aniseed 7.23 Black Currant 7. 496 Cayenne and Catechu 7. 288 Cinnamon 7.391 Clove 7. 401 Cocoa-nut 7.409 Coltsfoot 7.427 Ginger 7.680 Horeliound 7.771 Lavender 7.833 Lemon 7.845 Meat 7.921 Nutmeg 77. 14 Orange 77.39 Peppermint 77. 148 Pistachio Marzipan 77. 201 Spice 77.499 Vanilla 77.67 9 Lunch Bread 7. 182 Cakes 7.242 Luncheon Biscuits 7.144 Luncheons 7.884 Luster Cake 7.242 Lyons Absinthe 7. 1 M Macaroni 7.884 Bacon with 7. 64 Cold Meat with 7. 923 To Cook 7. 884, 893 Tomatoes with 77. 602 Macaronied Beef 7. 119 Macaroons 7.893 Macdonald Cakes 7. 242 Soup 77.486 Mace 7.897 Macedoine 7.897 Beef of 7.il9 Fruits 7.658 Salad 77. 358 Vegetables 77.728 Macedonian Soup 77. 486 Macerated Beetroot 7.132 Mackerel 7.897 a l’ltalienne 7.901 Baked 7.898 Boiled 7.898 Boucliees au Laitance 7. 901 Broiled 7.899 Cold 7.900 Collared 7.900 Devilled 7.900 Fillets 7.900 Fricassee 7. 901 Fried 7.901 Grilled 7.901 Pickled 7.902 Potted 7.902 Roasted 7.902 Roes 7.901 Rolled 7.902 Salted 7.902 Scalloped 7.902 Soup 7.902 Soused 7.903 Stewed 7.903 Made Dishes 7. 903 Madeira 7.903 Buns 7.211 Cakes i: 242 Crusts 7.904 Ice 7.904 Jelly 7.904 Julep 7.904 Puddings 77.202 Sauce 7.904 Madeleine Cakes 7. *243 ii la Printaniere 7. 243 served with Cream and Port Vine Sauce 7.243 without Butter 7. 243 Madison Cake' 7. 244 Madonna Pudding 77. 262 Madrid Biscuits 7. 144 _ t Sausages 77. 405 Magdalen Cake 7. 244 Magnum Bonum Biscuits 7.144 Mahay a 7. 904 Mahia 7.904 Maids of Honour 7. 904 Pudding 77.262 Maigre 7.905 Broth 7.204THE Maintenon, a la 7. 905 Sauce 77. 390 Maintz Sausages 77. 405 M u-trank i. 54 Mlitre d'Hitel, a la i. 905 Butter i. 217 Sauce ii. 391 Maizena 7. 905 Bavarian Cream i. 905 Cake i. 905 Cream Tart i. 905 Fritters i. 905 Gruel i. 905 Jam Pudding i. 905 Omelet i. 905 Pancakes i. 905 Pudding i. 905 Malaga i. 905 Pudding ii. 262 ■ Malakoff i. 905 Malaprop Cake i. 244 Malic Acid i. 905 Malma i: 905 Malmsey i. 906 Wine, Imitation of i. 906 Malt i. 906 Extract, or Food i. 906 Liquors i. 7 Wine i. 906 Malvasia i. 906 Malvern Pudding ii. 263 Mammee Apple i. 906 Manchester Pudding ii. 263 Mandarin i. 906 Mandoletti 7. 906 Mandram Sauce ii. 391 .Mange Coffee i. 425 Manger Apple i. 30 .Mango, Chutney i. 907 Fool i. 907 Imitation, Chutney i. 908 Imitation, Sauce i. 908 Jelly i. 907 Marmalade 7. 907 Pickle i. 907 Preserve i. 907 Puree i. 908 Sauce i. 908 Mangoes i. 906 Dried i. 906 Imitation Pickled i. 908 Pickled i. 90S Mangold Wurzel i. 908 Beer i. 908 Mangostan i. 909 Manna i. 909 Mannacroup i. 909 Mannheim Rolls i. 185 Manon Cakes i. 244 Manque Cake with Rum i. 244 Manx Cake i. 244 Manzanilla i. 909 Maple Syrup ii. 555 Maraschino i. 909 Cheese i. 909 Conserve 7. 909 Cream i. 909 Cream Ice i. 909 Essence i. 909 Glaces i. 909 Jelly "i. 910 Meringues i. 910 Nip 7.910 Pudding 7.910 Punch 7.910 Spongeade 7.910 Toast 7.910 Marble Cake 7. 244 Margarine 7.910 ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 859 Marien Cakes 7. 244 Marigolds 7.911 Cheese 7. 911 Conserve 7.911 Wine 7.911 Marinade 7.911 Marinaded Fillets of'Beef 7.126 Marjoram 7.912 Conserve 7.912 Marketing 7.912 Marlborough Pudding 77. 263 Marmalade 7.912 Apple 7.30 Apricot 7.42 Barberry 7.77 Carrot 7.305 Cherry 7.359 Egg 7.558 Glazed Apple 7. 38 II ip 7. 7 66 Lemon 7.845 Mango 7.907 Mixed 7,913 Orange 77.40 Peach 77.136 Pear- 77. 143 Pear and Quince 77. 144 Pine apple 77. 195 Plum 77.208 Pudding 7.912, 77.263 Quince 77.284 Raspberry 77.310 Royal 7.913 Sauce 7.913 Tomato 77.603 Vegetable Marrow 77. 734 Violet 77. 749 Marolles Cheese 7.345 Marque Pudding 77! 263 Marquise Pudding 77. 263 Marrowbones 7. 167 Haricot Beans and 7. 92 Ox 7.56 Marsala 7.913 Marsala Wine, Imitation 7. 913 Jelly 7.913 Soup 7.914 Marseillaise Biscuits 7.144 Marshal’s Sauce 77. 391 Marsh Mallow 7. 914 Paste 7.914 Syrup 7.914 Toffy 7.914 Twists 7.914 Martino, Salad 7. 914 Martinoes 7.914 Pickled 7.914 Maryland Biscuits 7. 140 Marzipan 7.915 Cherry 7.360 Lemon 7.846 Masata 7.915 Mashed Jerusalem Artichokes 7.51 Potatoes, Cold Meat with 7. 923 Mashing 7.915 Masking 7.916 Mastic 7.916 Matelote, a la 7. 916 Barbel and Eel 7. 75 Normandy 7.916 Ragout 7.916 Sauce 77.391 White 7.916 Matrimony Sauce 77.391 Matso Bread 7.182 Maud’s Pudding 77. 263 Maxixe 7.916 May Drink 7.916 Mayonnaise 7. 917 Mayonnaise of Eels 7. 545 Fowl 7.033 Lobster 7.874 Salmon 77.365 Sauce 77.391 Mazarin Cake with Rum 7. 244 Mazers 7. 917 Mead 7. 133, 917 Cowslip 7:448 Soda Cream 7. 917 Syrup 7.917 Walnut 77.758 Meagre 7.918 Meal 7.918 Meat 7.918 Australian 7.59 Cakes 7.920 ' Cold 7.921 Collared 7.426 Corned 7.439 Curried 7.920 Fricassee 7.920 Frozen, to Cook 7. 59 Gravy 7.920 Jelly 7.920 Jelly, Noix of Beef with 7. 120 Lozenges 7.92,1 Matelote 7.920 Pie 7.921 Porcupine 7.921 Raw 7.919 Sauce for Roasted 77. 396 Saw 7.919 Soup 7.921 Stuffing 7.921 Tart 7. 921 Tea 7. 921 Tough 77.611 Meat Safe 7. 919 Mecklenburg Punch 77.274 Sausages 77.405 Medicated Aerated Water 7. 4 Medlar Cheese 7. 928 Jelly 7.928 Medlars 7.928 for Dessert 7. 92S Medoc 7.929 Meg Merrili is Soup 77. 486 Melilot 7.! 2 ) Melisse, Eau de 7. 929 Melon, Baked Stuffed Musk 7. 930 in Claret Jelly 7. 930 Stew 7.930 Water 7.932 Melons 7.929 Compote 7.930 Pickled 7.931 Preserved 7.931 Melting Cake with Sabayon 7. 244 Melton Mowbray Pie 77.-218 Melton Veal 77. 696 Menestra 7.932 Menestrone 7.932 Mengau 7.932 Menschenfreund 7.932 Menus 7.932 Meringo Apple 7. 30 Meringues 7.933 -a la Delmonico 7.933 Almond 7. 12 Apple 7.30 Apple and Apricot 7. 26 Blackberry 7.152 Cakes 7.244 Chocolate 7.377 Cornflour 7. 442 Cream 7.467, 933 Florentine 7.933 Iced 7.933THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 860 Meringues, Italian 7. 933 Kisses 7. 934 Lemon 7. 846 Lemon Cream Tart 7. 843 Maraschino 7. 910 Orange 77. 41 Orange and Rice ii. 43 Panachties i. 934 Peach ii. 136 Peaches and Rice ii. 137 Pineapple ii. 195 Pudding i. 934 Pyramid, in i. 935 Rice ii. 333 Shells i. 935 Strawberry ii. 521 Swiss i. 935 Tarts i. 935 with Jam i. 934 with Rice i. 935 with Strawberry Cream i. 935 Merissah i. 935 Merry Christmas Cake i. 245 Metheglin i. 133, 935 Red i. 935 White i. 935 Mexican Omelet ii. 21 Michael Pudding ii. 263 Midzu-Ame i. 935 Mikado Soup ii. 487 Milan Cakes i. 245 Sauce ii. 391 Milanese Batons i. 85 Soup ii. 487 Mildew i. 936 Military Sauce ii. 392 Milk i. 936 Almond i. 12 Artificial 7.51, 938 Asses’ i. 56 Barley i. 79 Biscuits i. 939 Boiled for Invalids 7. 938 Bread i. 182 Cakes i. 939 Cakes, Honey and i. 939 Cheese i. 345 Condensed i. 938 Crusts 7. 939 Dumplings i. 939 Jelly i. 939 Lemonade i. 939 Nuts, German i. 939 Onion Soup, and i. 940 Panada i. 940 Pie i. 940 Plum Porridge, and i. 940 Porridge i. 940 Pudding i. 940 Punch i. 940, ii. 27 4 Punch, Rum ii. 349 Punch Syrup i. 941 Rolls i. 185, 941 Sago ii. 354 Sheep’s ii. 444 Soup i. 941 Soup, Beer and i. 939 Spatzen i. 942 Thickened i. 942 Thickening, Indian i. 939 Toast i. 942 with Suet i. 942 Milkweed i. 942 Mille Fanti Soup ii. 487 Mille-Feuilles Cake 7.245 Millefleur Drops ii. 537 Millet 7.942 Milt 7.943 Milton Pudding 77. 263 Mince, Cold Meat 7. 923 Minced Apple 7.38 with Croutons 7. 38 Minced Beef 7. 119 a la Portugaise 7. 120 a la Provenpale 7. 120 a l’Espagnole 7. 120 with Poached Eggs 7. 120 Minced Beef steaks 7. 120 Fried 7. 117 Mincemeat 7.943 Banbury 7. 71 Egg 7.558 Lemon 7.846 Pudding 7.944 Mince Pies 7. 944 Egg 7.559 Lemon 7.846 Minim’s Sauce 77. 392 Minion Fillets 7. 945 Minnows 7.945 Mint 7.945 Beer 7.945 Chutney 7.945 Cordial 7.945 Cream of, Liqueur 7. 945 Juice 7.945 Julep 7.945 Sauce 7.946 Vinegar 7.946 Minute Pudding 77. 263 Mirepoix 7. 946 Sauce 77.392 Mirin 7.946 Mirlitons, Lemon 7. 846 MirOton 7.946 Apples 7.38 Beef 7.120 Lobster 7.879 Miserables 7.946 Mites 7.946 Mixed Beans Panaches 7. 91 Sauce 77.392 Mixture, Lemon Cheese-cake 7. 840 Mjodr 7.946 Mocha Pudding 77. 264 Mock 7.946 Bisk Soup 77. 487 Brawn 7. 178 Champagne 7. 331 Crab 7. 351 Oysters 77.375 Pigeons or Veal Birds 77. 707 Sweetbreads Casserole 7. 317 Terrapin, Calf’s Feet as 7. 268 Mock Turtle 77. 670 a la Franpaise 77. 670 Pie 77.670 Soup 77.670 Soup, Flavouring for 77. 670 Mode, a la 7. 946 Modena Cake 7. 245 Moisten 7.946 Moist Macaroons 7. 896 Molasses 7.946 Apple 7.31 Beer 7.946 Cake 7.946 Candy 7.947 Pudding 7.947 Tart 7.947 Toffy 7.948 Vinegar 7.948 Mole 7.948 Monaco Soup 77. 487 Me gol Wine 7. 948 Monmouth Pudding 77.264 V .dalcino 7.948 T ltblanc Cake 7. 245 Montefiascone 7.948 Montepulciano 7.948 Monterobbio 7.948 Montglas 7. 948 Montmorency Cake 7. 245 Montpellier Absinthe 7.1 Butter 7.217 Montreal Pudding 77.264 Montrose Cake 7.245 Moor Fowl 7. 948 Morbadella 7.948 Morels 7.948 Moret 7.949 Moringa 7. 949 Morocanella 7. 949 Moscata 7.949 Moselle 7. 949 Cup 7.949 Motto Lozenges 7. 884 Moulds 7.949 Cylinder 7.511 Dome 7.524 Flawn 7.597 Jelly 7.783 Orange 77. 41 Mountain Cake 7. 245 Mousse 7. 949 Caramel 7.290 Mousseline Cake 7.246 Pudding 77.264 Moxie 7.949 Muffin Cake 7. 951 Pudding 7.951 Muffins 7.949 Rice 77.333 Rye 77.352 Wheat-meal 77.7 65 Mulberry Compote 7. 952 Jam 7.952 Jelly 7.952 Salad 7.95 S mash 7. 953 Syrup 7.953 Water Ice 7. 953 Mulberries 7.952 Mull 7.953 Mulled Ale 7. 7 Chocolate 7.380 Cider 7.389 Claret 7.398 Muller 7.953 Mullet 7.953 Gray 7.953 Red 7.954 Mulligatawny Mutton 7. 989 Soup 7.953, 77. 487 Mum 7.957 Muscovite Dish of Fruits 7. 658 Punch 77.275 Mush 7.957 Cracked-wheat 77.7 64 Mushroom Garnishing 7. 961 Ketchup 7.961 Omelet 7.961 Patties 7.962 Pie 7.962 Powder 7.962 Puree 7.962 Sauce 7.962 Soup 7.961, 963 Mushrooms 7.957 au Gratin 7.960 Baked 7.958 Boiled 7.959 Bordelaise, a la 7. 960 Broiled 7.959 Cases, in 7. 961 Croustades of 7. 959 Devilled 7.959861 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Mushrooms, Dried i. 959 Eggs, with i. 961 en Croustade i. 960 Essence i. 959 Forcemeat i. 959 Fricassee i. 96 Fried i. 960 Fumet i. 960 Imitation i. 960 Pickled i. 963 Potted i. 964 Poulette, a la i. 960 Preserved i. 964 Sautds i. 963 Stewed i. 964 Tinned i. 965 Musk i. 965 Cakes i. 965 Cream, Flavoured i. 965 Drops i. 965 Flavouring for Liqueurs i. 966 Muskellunge i. 966 Musketeer Sauce ii. 392 Soup ii. 488 Musk-Melon Pie i. 930 Salad i. 931 Mussaca i. 569 Mussel Pilau i. 967 Salad i. 967 .. Sauce i. 967 Soup i. 967 Mussels i. 966 Boiled i. 966 Brochette, en i. 966 Coquilles, en i. 966 Fried i. 966 Hustled i. 966 Matelote, a la i. 966 Pickled i. 968 Poulette, a la i. 967 Scalloped i. 968 Stewed i. 968 Yilleroy, a la i. 967 Must i. 968 Mustaccuioli i. 968 Mustard i. 968 Cress, and i. 970 French i. 969 Imperial i. 969 Mixed with Eggs i. 969 Piquant i. 970 Sauce i. 969 Spiced or Aromatic i. 970 Mutton i. 970 Baked i. 971 Baked, Cutlets i. 971 Baked Saddle i. 971 Balls i. 983 Boiled Boned Shoulder i. 971 Boiled Breast i. 971 Boiled Leg 7.971 Breast of, Boiled i. 971 Breast of, Boiled Stuffed i. 972 Breast of; Braised i. 973 Breast of, Collared i. 977 Breast of, Fried i. 979 Breast of, Glazed, Boiled i. 980 Breast of, Grilled i. 981 Briskets of, Broiled i. 975 Brochettes, en i. 984 Broth i. 984 Broth, Scotch i. 999 Cakes i. 985 Carbonnadoed i. 976 Casseroles of i. 976 China Chilo i. 977 Chops, a la Main tenon i. 985 Chops, Boiled i. 972 Chops, Braised i. 974 Mutton Chops, Breaded ami Sautiis i. 985 Chops, Broiled i. 975 Chops, Fried i. 979 Cold, Cutlets i. 977 Collops, Fried i. 979 Collops of Cold i. 978 Comettes i. 978 Coquilles i. 985 Cromeskies i. 985 Croquettes i. 985 Cup Pie i. 986 Curried i. 978 Custard for Invalids i. 986 Cutlets i. 986 Cutlets, Baked i. 971 Cutlets, Braised i. 974 Cutlets, Broiled i. 975 Cutlets, Chaudfroid i. 977 Cutlets, Fried i. 979 Devilled i. 978 Doopiaja i. 988 Duck i. 988 Fillets i. 978 Fillets of, Boasted i. 996 Fricasseed i. 978 Fritters i. 988 Ham i. 988 Ham, Boiled i. 972 Haricot i. 981 Hashed i. 981 Haunch of, Braised i. 973 Haunch of, Braised Boned i. 972 Haunch of, Boasted i. 996 Hung i. 982 Kabobs i. 989 Leg of, a la Provenyale i. 982 Leg of, Boiled i. 971 Leg of, Braised i. 973 Leg of, Braised Boned i. 972 Leg of, Marinaded i. 982 Leg of, Boasted i. 995, 996 Leg of, Boasted like Game i. 997 Leg of, Boasted with Oysters i. 997 Leg of, Stuffed Braised i. 974 Loin of, en Papiliote i. 982 Loin of, Fried i. 979 Loin of, Boasted Boiled i. 997 Malayan Curried i. 982 Masquerade, en i. 984 Minced i. 983 Minced, Fried i. 979 Mulligatawny i. 989 Neck of f.994 Neck of, Boiled i. 972 Neck of, Broiled i. 976 N eck of, Boasted i. 996 N eck of, Boiled i. 998 Omelet i. 990 Oxford John i. 995 Pie i. 990 Pilau i. 991 Pot-Pourri of i. 995 Potted L 995 Prince of Wales, a la i. 984 Pudding i. 991 Puffs i. 991 Bagout i. 991 BiSchauffe i. 995 Bibs of, Baked i. 971 Bissoles i. 992 Boasted i. 995 Boasted, a la Turke i. 997 Bumps of, Braised i. 974 Saddle of i. 998 Saddle of, Baked i. 971 Saddle of, Braised i. 974 Saddle of, Boasted i. 997 Sausage i. 992 Mutton Sautd i. 993 Scalloped i. 993 Scrag of i. 999 Shoulder of, Boiled i. 972 Shoulder of, Boiled Boned i. 971 Shoulder of, Braised Boned i. 973 Shoulder of, Boasted i. 996 Shoulder of, Boiled i. 998 Shoulder of, Spiced i. 999 Shoulder of, with Mushroom Puree i. 999 Soubise i. 993 Soup i. 993 Steak i. 994 Steak, Broiled i. 976 Steak, Fried i. 980 Stewed i. 1000 Stew, Bed i. 995 Tea i. 994 Timbale of i. 1004 Tinned i. 1004 To Carve i. 311 Venison to Imitate i. 989 Muzzles, Ox ii. 59 Nantese Salad ii. 358 Naples Biscuits i. 144 Napoleon Cake i. 246 Nasca ii. 1 Nassau Pudding ii. 264. Nasturtium ii. 1 Buds, pickled ii. 2 Seeds, pickled ii. 2 Navarin ii. 2 Neapolitan Cake i. 246 Ices ii. 2 Pudding ii. 264 Bisot ii. 327 Sauce ii. 392 Soup ii. 488 Neck ii. 2 Nectar ii. 2 Nectarine Compote ii. 3 Fritters ii. 3 Pulp for Ices ii. 3 Nectarines ii. 3 Candied ii. 3 Green, pickled ii. 3 Preserved ii. 3 Negus ii. 4 Barley i. 7 9 Port Wine ii. 225 Wine ii. 789 Nelson Cake i. 246 Puddings ii. 264 Nerve-Food ii. 4 Nesselrode Pudding ii. 4, 264 Nettle Beer ii. 4 Wine ii. 5 Nettles ii. 4 Boiled ii. 4 Stewed ii. 5 Neufchatel Absinthe i. 1 Cheese i. 345 Newark Pudding ii. 265 New-College Puddings ii. 265 New-Jersey Tea ii. 5 Newmarket Pudding ii. 265 New-milk Cheese i. 345 New-Year Cakes i. 246THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 862 Nightcaps 7. 134, ii. 5 Oxford ii. 68 Nitre Lozenges i. 884 Nocken 7. 939, ii. 5 Noggin ii. 6 Noix of Beef with Meat Jelly i. 120 Nonpareil Biscuits i. 144 Bitters i. 150 Pudding ii. 265 Sauce ii. 392 Nonpareils ii. 6 Norfolk Cake i. 246 Puddings ii. 265 Normandy Pippins ii. 6 Sauce ii. 392 Northumberland Puddings ii. 265 North Wilts Cheese i. 345 Norwegian Nest ii. 6 Nottingham Pudding ii. 265 Nougat ii. 6 Apricots i. 44 Apricots, with ii. 7 Baskets ii. 7 Cream ii. 12 Cream-Ice ii. 7 Honey i. "69 Orange ii. 41 Pistachio ii. 201 Nougatinas ii. 7 Nouille a l’ltalienne ii. 8 au Gratin ii. 8 Cake ii. 8 Croquettes ii. 8 Croustades ii. 9 Lemon Cream, with ii. 9 Nouilles, Nudels or ii. 8 Parmesan Cheese, with ii. 9 Pudding ii. 9 Soup ii. 9 Timbales of ii. 9 Turnovers ii. 9 Nourmalial Cake i. 247 Noyau or Noyeau ii. 11 Noyau Cream Ice ii. 12 Honey ii. 12 Jelly ii. 12 Jelly, Apricots with i. 42 Raspberry ii. 311 Nudels or Nouilles ii. 8 Nun Pudding ii. 265 Nun’s Cake i. 247 Nursery Biscuits i. 144 Nut Cake ii. 12 Candy ii. 13 Comfits ii. 13 Liqueur ii. 13 Pudding ii. 13 Nuts ii. 12 Brazil i. 178 Candied or Crystallised ii. 12 Filberts i. 583 Pea ii. 130 Spice ii. 499 Nut-Crackers ii. 13 Nutmeg Flavouring ii. 14 Lozenges ii. 14 Nutmegs ii. 13 Candied ii. 14 Extract of ii. 14 Surprise ii. 14 Nutritive Broth i. 204 o Oatmeal ii. 14 Biscuits ii. 14 Bread ii. 15 Cakes ii. 15 Cocoa ii. 15 Cream ii. 15 Drink ii. 15 Dumpling ii. 15 Gruel ii. 15 Mush ii. 15 Pie ii. 16 Porridge ii. 16 Pudding ii. 16 Sandwich ii. 16 Soup ii. 16 Wafers ii. 16 Water ii. 17 | Octave ii. 17 i Offal ii. 17 Office Paste ii. 115 Ohm or Alim 7. 59 Oil ii. 17 Almond i. 12 Fusel i. 660 of Cognac i. 177 Olive ii. 20 Palin ii. 85 Salad ii. 360 Okra ii. 17 Boiled ii. 17 Salad ii. 17 Scalloped, with Tomatoes ii. 18 Soup ii. 17 Stewed with Tomatoes ii. 18 Olio ii. 18 Olive Canapes ii. 19 Custard ii. 19 Oil ii. 20 Ragout ii. 19 Sandwich ii. 19 Sauce ii. 19 Olives ii. 18 Anchovies and ii. 19 Anchovies with i. 20 Beef i. 101 Chicken i. 613 Cold Meat i. 923 Eggs, and ii. 19 Mock ii. 18 Stuffed ii. 20 Veal ii. 717 Olla-Podrida ii. 20 Omeire ii. 20 Omelets ii. 20 Anchovy i. 20 Apricot i. 42 Artichoke i. 49 Asparagus i. 52 Bacon i. 64 Bread i. 188 Calf’s Kidney i. 275 Celestine ii. 21 Cepes i. 330 Cheese 7. 348 Cod i. 415 Cold Meat i. 923 Crab i. 450 Crayfish i. 459 Devonshire 77.21 Egg and Trutile i. 562 Egg-Plant, Fruit of i. 569 Fine Herbs ii. 22 Fish i. 592 Flavoured with Vanilla ii. 22 Omelets, Foam ii. 21 Fowl’s Livers i. 643 Friar’s ii. 21 German ii. 21 Green Peas, of ii. 127 H am i. 740 Haricot Bean i. 92 Jelly i. 785 Kidney 7.797 Kirschenwasser i. 800 Lemon i. 846 Lobster i. 87 4 Macaroni i. 889 Maizena i. 905 Mexican ii. 21 Mushroom 7.961 Mutton 7.990 Oyster 77.77 Parmesan Cheese 77.89 Parsley 77. 91 Pickled Pork, of 77. 224 Potato 77.234 Prawn 77.246 Red Currant 7. 498 Rum 77.349 Salmon 77.369 Sardine 77.381 Sausage 77.407 Savoury 77.22 Shalot 77.436 Sheep’s Kidney 77. 443 Shrimp 77.449 Smoked Beef 7. 126 Souffle 77.22 Spanish 77.22 Spinach 77.502 Steamed 77.22 Sweet 77.23 Tomato 77.603 Truffle 77.629 Tunny 77. 637 Turbot 77.643 Whitebait, a la Napolitaine 77. 768 with Brussels Sprouts 7. 207 Yam 77.799 Onion Cake 77. 25 Gruel 77.26 Juice 77.26 Pickle ii. 26 Pie 77.26 Purde 77.26 Salad, and Tomato 77. 27 Salad, Jerusalem Artichokes and 7. 50 Sauce 77.27 Seasoning 77.27 Soup 77.27 Stuffing for Fowls 77. 27 Onions 77.23 Baked 77.24 Boiled 77.25 Burnt 77.25 Fried 77.25 Glazed 77.25 Pickled 77.28 Roasted 77.28 Spanish 77.24, 28 Stewed 77.29 Oopack 77.30 Opah 77.30 Orange and Apple Tart 77. 33 Baskets 77.34 Bavaroise ii. 34 Beignets 77.34 Biscuits 77.34 Bitters 77.34 Brandy it. 34 Butter 77.35THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 863 Orange Cake ii. 35 Caramel, Quarters ii. 32 Caramels ii. 35 Charlotte ii. 35 Cheese Cakes ii. 33 Chips ii. 36 Cordial ii. 36 Cream ii. 36 Cream Ice ii. 36 Cream Trifle ii. 37 Croquenbouche ii. 37 Cup ii. 37 Custard ii. 37 Drops ii. 38 Extract ii. 38 Flowers ii. 47 Fool ii. 38 Fritters ii. 38 Gin ii. 38 Granite Ice ii. 39 Honey ii. 39 Ice and Burnt Almonds i. 14 Jelly ii. 39 Julep ii. 39 Lemonade ii. 39 Lemon Syrup, and ii. 39 Liqueur ii. 39 Lozenges ii. 39 Mandarin i. 906 Meringue ii. 41 Mould ii. 41 Nougat ii. 41 Paste ii. 41 Pastille Drops ii. 41 Pudding ii. 42 Puff's ii. 43 Ratafia ii. 43 Rice and, Meringue ii. 43 Salad ii. 43 Sherbet ii. 43 Shrub ii. 44 Snow ii. 44 Souffle ii. 44 Sponge ii. 44 Sugar ii. 44 Syrup ii. 44 Tangerine, Biscuits ii. 47 Tangerine Jelly ii. 47 Tart ii. 44 Tartlets ii. 45 Tonic ii. 45 Trifle ii. 45 Water Ice ii. 45 Whey ii. 45 Wine ii. 45 Orangeade ii. 46 Orange-juice, Buttered ii. 32 - Imitation ii. 33 Orange Marmalade ii. 40 Pudding ii. 40 Sauce ii. 41 Souffle ii. 41 Orange-peel, Candied ii. 32 Chips ii. 41 Preserved Green ii. 46 Oranges ii. 30 a la Franrai.se ii. 33 Bananas and, for Dessert ii. 34 Boucliees with i. 170 Cardinal of i. 294 Chartreuse of ii. 32 Compote of ii 33 Conserve of ii. 33 Dessert ii. 37 Frosted and Glace ii. 33 Pickled ii. 46 Preserved i,i. 46 Preserved in Brandy ii. 42 Tincture ii. 47 Ordinary ii. 49 Orgeat ii. 49 Cream Ice ii. 50 Paste ii. 50 Syrup ii. 50 Tablets ii. 50 W ater ii. 50 Orleans Pudding ii. 265 Orlys or Hollies i. 771 Anchovies, of i. 21 Ormers ii. 50 Ornamental Butter for Table i. 216 Ornamentations, Croutons of Aspic for i. 56 Orris or Orrice ii. 50 Ortolans ii. 51 a la Perigordine ii. 51 a la Provenf ale ii. 51 a la Sirene Franeaise ii. 51 a la Toulouse ii. 51 Broiled ii. 51 Cases, in ii. 51 Croustades, in a ii. 51 Fried ii. 51 Patties ii. 52 Roasted ii. 52 Stewed ii. 52 Timbale ii. 52 Orvieto ii. 52 Oswego ii. 52 Biscuits ii. 52 Cake ii. 52 Pudding ii. 52 Ounce ii. 52 Ovens ii. 52 American i. 17 Ox ii. 53 Brains ii. 53 Cheek ii. 53 Head ii 53 Heart ii. 55 Kidneys ii. 55 Liver ii. 56 Marrow ii. 56 Muzzles ii. 59 Palates ii. 59 Pith ii. 63 Tails ii. 63 Tongues ii. 64 Oxalic Acid ii. 68 Oxford Bishop ii. 68 Grace Cup ii. 69 John i. 995 Nightcaps ii. 68 Pudding ii. 265 Punch ii. 275 Sausages ii. 405 Oyster Boucliees ii. 74 Cakes ii. 7 4 Canapees ii. 74 Chartreuse ii. 74 Cromeskies ii. 75 Croquettes ii. 75 Fricassee ii. 76 Fritters ii. 7 6 Kabobs ii. 77 Ketchup ii. 77 Loaves ii. 77 Macaroni and, Pudding ii. 77 Omelet ii. 77 Pancakes ii. 77 Patties ii. 77 Pie ii. 79 Powder for Flavouring ii. 79 Ragout ii. 79 Rissolettes ii. 79 Salad ii. 79 Sandwiches ii. 80 Sauce ii. 80 Oyster Sausages ii. 80 Soup ii. 81 Steak and, Radeau ii. 82 Toast ii. 82 Vol au-Vent ii. 82 Oyster Crabs i. 452 Fried i. 452 Stewed, a la Poulette i. 452 Oyster Plant ii. 84 Oysters ii. 69 a la Delmonico ii. 73 a la d’Uxelles ii. 74 a FAmericaine ii. 73 a la Minute ii. 74 a la Poulette ii. 74 a la St. Bernard ii. 74 a l’lndienne ii. 74 Aspic ii. 70 Attelettes ii. 70 an Gratin ii. 74 Baked ii. 71 Boiled ii. 71 Bombay, or Mock Eggs i. 564 Bonnes Bouches of i. 168 Broiled ii. 71 Cream, with ii. 75 Croustades ii. 71 Curried ii. 72 Darioles ii. 72 en Papillotes ii. 74 Forcemeat ii. 76 Fried ii. 72 Imitation ii. 73 inCases ii. 74 in Caviare Rolls ii. 74 Mock ii. 375 on Ice ii. 76 Parmesan, with ii. 77 Pickled ii. 82 Sautes ii. 80 Scalloped ii. 82 Spiced ii. 83 Steamed ii. 83 Stewed ii. 83 Stewed Beef steak and i. 128 Villeroy Sauce, with ii. 82 P Pachwai ii. 84 Paddy u.84 Paela ii. 84 Pails ii. 85 Pain ii. 85 a la Suedoise, or Wood-Hen Cake ii. 706 Pake ii. 85 1 ’abates, Ox ii. 59 Palestine Sauce ii. 392 Soup ii. 85, 488 Palette knives ii. 85 Palm Oil ii. 85 Tree Pudding ii. 266 Wines ii. 85 Panada ii. 85 Bread i. 188 Breadcrumb i. 190 Broth i. 204 Pancakes ii. 85 Apple i. 31 Buckwheat i. 209 Cream i. 467THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 864 Pancakes, Ginger 7. 681 Gooseberry 7. 705 Maizena 7. 905 Oyster ii. 77 Rice ii. 333 Samp ii. 376 Pan-Dowdy ii. 88 Pan Kale i. 794 Pantry ii. 88 Pap ii. 88 Paparetta ii. 88 Papaw ii. 88 Papboat ii. 88 Paper ii. 88 Papillote ii. 89 Sauce ii. 392 Paraguay Tea ii. 89 Parboil ii. 89 Paregoric Lozenges 7. 884 Parfait au Cafe i. 425 au Chocolate 7. 380 Parisian Blanc mange i. 157 Cake 7.247 Soup ii. 4S8 Parkin ii. 89 Treacle 77.612 Park-Street Cake 7.247 Parliament Cakes 7.247 Parmesan Cheese 7.345, ii. 89 Aigrettes 77.89 Nouilles with 77.9 Omelet 77.89 Pyramids ii. 89 Rice and 77.90 Sauce ii. 90 Soup 77.90 Water Pie 77.90 Parr ii. 90 Parsley ii. 90 Butter and, Sauce 77.91 Fagots 7.575 Fried 77.91 Jelly 77.91 Juice for Colouring ii. 91 Lemon Sauce and 77.91 Omelet 77.91 Powder 77.91 Preserved for Winter use ii. 91 Parsnip Balls ii. 92 Fritters 77.92 • Pudding 77.92 Salad 77.92 Sautces 77.92 Soup ii. 93 Wine 77.93 Parsnips ii. 91 Baked 77.92 Boiled ii. 92 Broiled ii. 92 Fricassee ii. 92 Fried 77.92 Mashed ii. 92 Scalloped 77.93 Stewed ii. 93 Parson’s Cake 7. 247 Partridge 77.93 a la Crapaudine 77.102 a la Mecklenburg 77. 102 a la Princess Beatrice 77. 102 a la Supreme 77.103 Boiled 77.94 Boudins 77.94 Chartreuse 77.98 Cheese or Pain 77.103 Collops 77.103 Compote 77.99 Crepinettes of Fillets 77. 99 Cromeskies 77.103 Croquettes 77. 103 Partridge Croustades 77.104 Curried 77.99 Cutlets 77. 104 Escabechar 77.100 Essence 77.100 Fillets 77.100 Forcemeat 77.104 Fried 77. 101 Minced 77. 102 Patties 77.104 Pie 77. 105 Potted 77.107 Pudding 77. 106 Puree 77. 107 Quenelles 77. 106 Rissoles 77. 106 Salad 77. 106 Salmis 77.109 Sautds 77.107 Souffle 77.110 Soup 77.107 Terrine 77. Ill Partridges, Aspic of 77.93 Ballotines 77.94 Braised 77.95 Broiled 77.97 Celestines 77.97 Chaudfroid 77.98 Epigramme 77.99 Galantine 77. 101 Roasted 77.108 Stewed 77. 110 Pascaline Sauce 77. 392 Pasha Soup 77. 488 Passa Soup 77. 489 Passover Cakes 7. 247, 77. Ill Pastafrolle 77. 111 Paste, Almond 7. 12 Anchovy 7.20 Apple 7.31 Apricot 7.42 Bloater 7. 157 Borders, for 77. 116 Cases 77.121 Cheese Cakes, for 77.116 Chopped 77.115 Crisp 77. 115 Croquante 77. 115 Crowns 77. 121 Custards or Preserved Fruits, for 77. 116 Cutters 7.139 Dried Yeast, with Alum 77. 802 Geneva 77. 115 Genoa 77. 115 German 77. 115 German, Croquettes 77. 121 Italian 77.115 Kippered-Salmon 77. 371 Lemon 7.847 Liquorice 7.863 Macaroni 77. 115 made with Cream 77. 116 made with Dripping 77. 116 made with Suet 77. 117 Meat and Game Pies, for 77. 116 Office 77. 115 Orange 77. 41 Ornamenting Tartlets, for 77. 116 Pastry and 77. Ill Patten or Paten 77. 122 Patties, for 77. 116 Pies, for 77.116 Plaits 77. 121 Puff 77. 112 Rice 77. 333 Short 77. 114 Tomato 77.603 Transparent, for Tartlets 77. 117 Pastille Drops, Apricot 7. 42 Drops, Orange 77. 41 Pastilles 77. 122 Lemon 7.847 Pastry 77.117 Almond Genoese 7.12 Cream 7.473 Creams 77.122 French 77. 120 Genevese 77.120 Genoese 7.120 Lard 7.828 Neapolitan 77. 121 Royal 77. 122 Turkish 77.122 Pasty 77.122 Pate de Fois Gras 7. 700 Imitation 7.700 Patience Biscuits 7.144 Patten or Paten Paste 77.122 Patties 77.122 a la Dauphine 77.123 a la'Financiere 77.123 a la Toulouse 77.123 a la Vol-au-Vent 77. 123 Beef 7. 102 Bread 7.189 Cornish 77. 122 Dresden 77.123 Eel 7.543 Egg 7.559 Fontange 77.123 Fried 77.123 Lemon 7.847 Lent 77.123 Periwinkle 77. 151 Russian 77.123 Salmon 77.369 Scrambled Brains in 7.174 Swiss 77.124 Paupiettes 77.124 Beef Rolls or 7.103 Paysanne, a la 77. 124 Peach Bavaroise 77.132 Brandy 77. 133 Butter 77.133 Charlotte 77. 133 Cheese 77.133 Cheese Cakes 77.133 Cobbler 77.134 Conserves 77.134 Cordial 77. 134 Cream 77.134 Cream Ice 77. 134 Custard 77.134 Dumplings 77.131 Flawn 77.134 Fritters 77. 135 Fritters, Apricot and 77. B Ice 77. 135 Jam 77. 135 Jelly 77.135 Leather ii. 136 Leaves flavouring 77.136 Leche Crema 77. 136 Marmalade 77. 136 Meringue 77.136 Miroton 77.136 Paste 77.136 Pickle 77.136 Pie 77. 137 Pudding 77.137 Sago and, Pudding 77.137 Sponge 77.138 Spongeade 77.138 Sweetmeats 77.138 Syrup 77.138 Tart ii. 138 Tartlets 77.138Gateau of Havre. > w C/5 o 35 O K » » ft- O <X> sc scTHE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 8G5 Peach Trifle 77. 139 Peaches 77. 131 and Rice Meringue ii. 137 au Gratin ii. 132 Bouchdes with i. 170 Compote ii. 131 Croft tons, on ii. 134 Dessert ii. 134 Dried ii. 132 Fried ii. 132 Frosted ii. 132 Frozen it 132 Jelly, in ii. 136 Macedoine ii. 132 Pickled ii. 139 Preserved ii. 140 Stewed ii. 140 Peacock, Braised ii. 130 Dressed i. 384 Peafowl ii. 130 Peahen, Roasted ii. 130 Peanuts ii. 130 Candy ii. 131 Salted ii. 131 Sauce ii. 131 Pear, Anchovy 7. 21 Avocado i. 00 Cream Ice ii. 142 Drops ii. 143 Dumplings ii. 143 Flavour with Cream ii. 143 Flawn ii. 143 Fritters ii. 143 Jam ii. 143 Jelly ii. 143 Marmalade ii. 143 Marmalade, and Quince ii. 144 Paste, Candied Knots of ii. 141 Paste Drops ii. 144 Pie ii. 144 Preserve with Cream ii. 144 Putt's ii. 144 Pulp for Ices ii. 144 Quenelles ii. 144 Salad ii. 144 Soup ii. 144 Stuffed ii. 146 Tart ii. 144 Tartlets ii. 145 Timbale ii. 145 Vinegar ii. 145 Water Ice ii. 145 Pearl Barley i. 78 French 7.78 Pears ii. 140 Alligator i. 8 Anisette Jelly with i. 23 Baked ii. 141 Bavaroise ii. 141 Candied ii. 142 Charlotte ii. 142 Compote ii. 142 Crisped ii. 142 Jelly Border, in a ii. 143 Pickled ii. 145 Preserved ii. 145 Prickly ii. 247 Stewed ii. 146 Peas ii. 124 Asparagus i. 52 Bross i. 203 Dried Green ii. 129 Fresh Green ii. 125 Pigeon ii. 185 Pudding ii. 129 Rice and ii. 334 Soup ii. 130 Split ii. 129 Sugar ii. 128 VOL. II. Peas, Tinned, Green ii. 129 Pea shell Browning for Soups i. 206 Pectoral Broth i. 204 Peeling ii. 146 Pegee ii. 147 Pembroke pudding ii. 266 Pemmican ii. 147 Penelope Biscuits i. 145 Pudding ii. 266 Soup ii. 489 Pepper ii. 147 Cayenne i. 288 Confection i. 429 Pepper-box ii. 147 Pepper-pot ii. 148 Peppermint ii. 147 Peppers, Stuffed and Baked Green i. 288 Perch ii. 149 a l’Allemande ii. 150 a la Normande ii. 150 a la Silesienne ii. 150 Boiled ii. 149 Broiled ii. 149 Fried ii. 150 Mayonnaise ii. 150 Sauce for ii. 396 Scalloped ii. 151 Soup ii. 150 Stewed in Wine ii. 150 Watersouchet ii. 151 Percoell ii. 151 Perigord Pie ii. 151 Perigueux Sauce ii. 392 Peripatetic Pudding ii. 266 Periwinkles ii. 151 Perry i. 133, ii. 151 Jelly ii. 151 Persian Beverage i. 134 Sausages ii. 406 Persillade ii. 152 Persimmons ii. 152 Peruvian Biscuits i. 145 Bitters i. 150 Pestle and Mortar ii. 152 Petites Bouchdes i. 170 Petits Biscuits, Ambrosiens i. 145 Pheasant a la Diplomate ii. 155 a la Minute ii. 156 a la Perigueux ii. 156 a la Soubise ii. 156 it l’Etouffade ii. 156 Boudin ii. 152 Braised ii. 153 Consomme ii. 154 Croquettes ii. 156 Curried ii. 154 Essence ii. 154 Forcemeat ii. 156 Galantine ii. 155 Hashed ii. 155 Minced ii. 155 Paste, in ii. 157 Pie ii. 157 Potted ii. 158 Pulled ii. 158 Puree ii. 158 Quenelles with Truffles ii. 157 Rissoles ii. 157 Roasted ii. 158 Salmis ii. 160 Saute ii. 157 Souffle 77.160 Soup 77.158 Pheasants 77.152 a la Boliemienne 77. 155 a l'Extravagante 77. 156 Boiled 77. 152 Broiled 77. 153 Chaudfroid 77.153 Pheasants, Collops of, in Cases 77. 153 Devilled Legs 77.154 Fillets 77.154 Fried 77. 154 Stewed 77.160 Piccalilli ii. 164 Tomato 77.004 Pickerel, Baked 77. 185 Pickle 77. 162 A pple 7. 31 Bamboo 7. 7 0 Green Tomato 77. 595 Mango 7.907 Peacli 77. 136 Piccalilli 77. 164 Sandwiches 77. 37 8 Tomato 77.604 Walnut 77.757 Pickled Barberries 7.77 Beetroots 7. 132 Blackberries 7.153 Bloaters 7. 158 Brisket of Beef 7.121 French Beans 7. 91 Lemons 7.855 Onions 77.28 Pork 77.223 Salmon 77.365 Pickles 77. 162 American Mixed 77.163 French ii. 103 German 77. 163 Green 77. 163 Honolulu 77.164 Indian 77. 164 Mixed 77. 164 Mustard 77. 104 Spanish 77. 164 Picnics 77. 165 Pie it la Financiere 77.107 Apple Custard 7. 28 Apricot 7.42 Baltimore Butter 7.70 Banana 7.71 Banana Cream 7. 71 Beef 7. 102 Beef steak 7. 104 Beef steak, with Oysters 7.104 Bengal Shikaree 77,166 Bilberry 7. 135 Blackberry 7. 152 Blackbird 7. 153 Brazilian 77.166 Breadcrumb 7.190 Bullace 7.209 Camp 77.166 Capon 7.286 Cold Meat 7. 923 Eccks 77. 166 Game 7. 064 Giblet 7.674 Goblet 77.166 Godiveau 7.692 Goose 7.693 Gooseberry 7.705 Goose Giblet 7.696 Grouse 7.723 Ham 7.740 Ham and Chicken 7. 739 H are 7. 7 47 Herb 7.760 Italian 77. 166 Leicesteishire Medley 77. 107 Lemon 7.847 Lent 77. 167 Meat 7.921 Melton Mowbray 77. 218 Pork 77.220 Roman 77. 167 3 KTHE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 866 Pie, Sago and Vegetable ii. 355 Salmon ii. 369 Savoury ii. 167 Sea ii. 167 Shepherd’s ii. 167 Shropshire ii. 167 Squab ii. 167 Swiss ii. 168 Tartar’s ii. 168 Thatched ii. 168 Turkish Girdle ii. 168 ■ Washington ii. 168 Piedmont Soup ii. 489 Pies ii. 165 Apple i. 32 Lemon Cream i. 842 Pig, Sucking ii. 175 Pigeon and Beefsteak Pie ii. 180 Cutlets ii. 181 Dumplings ii. 181 Pie ii. 181 Peas ii. 185 Pudding ii. 182 Salad ii. 182 Soup ii. 183 Pigeons ii. 177 a la Bourgeoise ii. 179 a la Duchesse ii. 179 a la Financiere ii. 180 a la Julienne ii. 180 a l’lmperiale ii. 180 Aspic Jelly, in ii. 180 au Soleil ii. 182 Ballotines ii. 177 Boiled ii. 177 Braised ii. 177 Broiled ii. 177 Case, in a ii. 181 Chartreuse ii. 178 Chaudfroid ii. 178 Compote ii. 178 Curried ii. 178 Epigramme ii. 178 Fillets ii. 179 Fricandeau ii. 179 Fricasseed ii. 179 Fried ii. 179 Jugged ii. 179 Potted ii. 183 Rice and Parmesan Cheese with ii. 182 Roasted ii. 183 Salmis ii. 184 Stewed ii. 184 Stuffed ii. 184 Timbale ii. 185 Pignolo ii. 185 Pigs ii. 168 Cheek, Jowl or Face ii. 168 Ears ii. 169 Feet ii. 170 Fry ii. 172 Head ii. 172 Kidneys ii. 174 Liver ii. 174 Tails ii. 175 Tongues ii. 175 Pike ii. 185 a la Cliambord ii. 188 a la Clemont ii. 188 a la Financiere ii. 188 a la Genevaise ii. 188 a la Genoise ii. 188 Aspic Jelly, with ii. 188 Baked ii. 186 Boiled ii. 186 Broiled ii. 187 Boudins ii. 187 Carbonade ii. 187 Pike, Cheese ii. 188 Cutlets with Tomato Sau;e ii. 189 Fillets ii. 187 Forcemeat ii. 189 Fricasseed i. 187 Fried ii. 187 Pickled ii. 188 Potted ii. 189 Quenelles of, and Mushrooms ii. 189 Rissoles ii. 189 Roasted ii. 189 Sauce for ii. 396 Soup ii. 189 Soused ii. 190 Stewed ii. 190 Pikelets ii. 190 Pilau ii. 190 Beef i. 102 Beef, as Prepared in Spain i. 121 English ii. 191 Indian ii. 191 Persian ii. 191 Turkish ii. 191 Pilchards ii. 191 Pinaree, Indian i. 134 Pineapple ii. 191 Bavaroise ii. 192 Brandy ii. 192 Cake ii. 192 Candied Knots ii. 192 Cardinal i. 294 Charlotte ii. 193 Cheese ii. 193 Cider ii. 193 Compote ii. 192 Confection ii. 193 Cream ii. 193 Cream Ice ii. 193 Crusts ii. 193 Dessert, for ii. 194 Dried ii. 192 Drink ii. 194 Drops ii. 194 Frankfort style ii. 194 F litters ii. 194 Glaci ii. 194 Jam ii. 194 Jelly ii. 194 Julep ii. 195 Marmalade ii. 195 Meringue ii. 195 Preserved ii. 197 Punch ii. 195 Rice, with ii. 196 Rum ii. 196 Salad ii. 196 Sherbet ii. 196 Shrub ii. 196 Snow ii. 196 Sorbet ii. 196 Sponge ii. 196 Sugared ii. 197 Syrup ii. 196 Tarts ii. 197 Tinned ii. 197 Toddy ii. 197 Water Ice ii. 197 Pinions ii. 199 Pink Sauce ii. 402 Pint ii. 199 Pintails ii. 199 Pipe, Bath i. 85 Pipers ii. 199 Pippins, Normandy ii. 6 Preserved i. 39 Piquant ii. 199 Sauce ii. 393 Sauce, Red ii. 394 Piquctte ii. 199 Pishpash ii. 199 Pistachio ii. 199 Bavaroise ii. 200 Biscuits ii. 200 Cake ii. 200 Candied, Paste ii. 200 Comfits ii. 200 Cracklings ii. 200 Cream ii. 200 Cream Ice ii. 201 Croquettes ii. 201 Drink ii. 201 Glazed, Cream ii. 200 Ice, Apricot and i. 43 Marzipan Lozenges ii. 201 Nougat ii. 201 Paste ii. 201 Rock Sugar ii. 201 Souffles ii. 201 Tablets ii. 202 Toroni ii. 202 Water Ice ii. 202 Zephyrs ii. 202 Pith, Ox ii. 63 Pithiviers Almond Cake i. 14 Pizza ii. 202 Plaice ii. 202 au Gratin ii. 203 Baked ii. 202 Boiled ii. 202 Broiled ii. 202 Fillets ii. 202 Fried ii. 203 Salad ii. 203 Stewed, Stuffed ii. 203 Plain Biscuits i. 145 Cake i. 247 Salad ii. 358 Soup ii. 489 Plantain ii. 203 Flied ii. 203 Fritters ii. 203 Plate ii. 204 Plates ii. 204 Plovers ii. 204 au Gratin ii. 205 Baked ii. 204 Braised ii. 204 Broiled ii. 204 Capilotade ii. 204 Chaudfroid ii. 204 Eggs, Boiled ii. 204 F’illets ii. 205 Fried ii. 205 Galantines ii. 205 Pie ii. 205 Roasted ii. 205 Salmis ii. 206 Stewed ii. 206 Pluck ii. 206 Sheep’s ii. 444 Plum Brandy ii. 207 Buns i.211 Cake ii. 207, 210 Candied ii. 206 Candy ii. 208 Cream Ice ii. 208 Damson and, Jam ii. 208 Fool ii. 208 Jam ii. 208 Jelly ii. 208 Marmalade ii. 208 Paste ii. 209 Pear and, Jam ii. 209 Pulp for Ices ii. 209 Soup ii. 209 Tart ii. 209 Tartlets ii. 209867 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Plum Vinegar and Claret ii. 209 Pudding ii. 211 Cold, Warmed up ii. 211 Iced ii. 211 Imitation ii. 211 Indian ii. 211 Sauce for ii. 400 Scotch ii. 212 without Suet ii. 212 Plums ii. 206 Bottled ii. 206 Brandy, in ii. 207 Compote ii. 206 Crystallised ii. 207 Pickled ii. 207 Preserved ii. 209 Stewed ii. 210 Plum-shaped Biscuits i. 145 Poached Eggs i. 564 Imitation i. 564 Minced Beef with i. 120 Poaching ii. 212 Poele ii. 213 Points, Lemon i. 847 Poivrade Sauce ii. 393 Pokeberries ii. 213 Polenta ii. 213 a l’ltalienne ii. 213 Cheese and if. 213 Cold Meat with i. 923 Savoury ii. 213 Timbale a la Milanaise ii. 213 Polish Biscottini i. 136 Cakes i. 247 Julienne Soup ii. 489 Salad ii. 358 Sauce ii. 393 Soup ii. 489 Sweet Sauce ii. 400 Polka Cakes i. 247 Pudding ii. 266 Pollock or Pollack ii. 214 Polonies, Ham and Chicken i. 740 Pomegranate Comfits ii. 214 Jelly ii. 214 Syrup ii. 214 Water ii. 214 Water Ice ii. 214 Pomegranates ii. 214 Compote ii. 214 Stewed ii. 214 Pomeranian Soup ii. 489 Pompadour Sauce ii. 393 Pompadour’s Punch ii. 275 Pompano ii. 214 Pontarlier Absinthe i. 2 Pontgibaud Cheese i. 345 Pont-l’Eveque Cheese i. 345 Poor Man’s Pudding ii. 266 Sauce ii. 393 Soup ii. 489 Pop-Corn Balls i. 778 Candy i. 778 Pop-Overs ii. 215 Poppies ii. 215 Porcupine Apple i. 32 Gobi Meat i. 923 Meat i. 921 Pudding ii. 266 Pork ii. 215 Apple and, Pie ii. 219 Baked ii. 216 Boiled ii. 216 Braised ii. 216 Broiled ii. 216 Cheese ii. 218 Cheshire, Pie ii. 217 Chops Sautes ii. 219 Cold ii. 217 Pork, Collared ii. 217 Collops ii. 219 Croquettes ii. 219 Curried ii. 217 Cutlets with Anchovy Sauce ii. 219 Fillets ii. 218 Forcemeat with Bacon ii. 219 Flied ii. 218 Fritters ii. 219 Hashed ii. 218 Kidney and, Pudding ii. 220 Minced ii. 218 Neck ii. 218 Patties ii. 220 Pie ii. 220 Pickled ii. 223 Potted ii. 221 Pudding ii. 220 Roasted ii. 221 Rolled ii. 223 Sausages ii. 221 Soup ii. 221 Souse ii. 221 Steaks in Rolls ii. 221 Stewed ii. 223 To Carve i. 312 Porridge ii. 225 Cracked Wheat ii. 764 Florador, with Milk i. 598 Haricot Bean i. 92 Milk i. 940 Oatmeal ii. 16 Peas ii. 129 Rice ii. 334 Turnips ii. 662 Portable Soup ii. 489 Port du Salut ('heese f. 345 Porter ii. 225 Cup ii. 225 Jelly ii. 225 Porterhouse Steak ii. 226 Broiled i. 112 Broiled Double i. Ill Portland Pudding ii. 206 Portugaise, A pples a la i. 32 Portugal Pudding ii. 266 Portuguese Cake i. 247 Sauce ii. 394 Soup ii. 490 Port Wine ii. 225 1 mitation ii. 225 Jelly ii. 225 Negus ii. 225 Sauce ii. 225 Posset Ale i. 7 Lemon i. 847 Treacle ii. 612 Wine ii. 789 Possets ii. 226 Potash ii. 226 Potato Balls ii. 230 Beer ii. 230 Biscuit s ii. 230 Borders i ii. 231 Bread i. 183 Cake ii. 231 Cases, in ii. 231 Cassolettes ii. 231 Cheese Cakes ii. 231 Chips ii. 228 Chops ii. 232 Colcannon ii. 232 Cones ii. 232 Cream ii. 232 Cream Soup ii. 232 Croquettes ii. 232 Croustades ii. 232 Crulles ii. 232 Cucumber and ii. 233 Potato Custard ii 233 Cutlets with Tomatoes ii. 233 Eggs ii. 233 Entries, for ii. 233 Flour, ii. 233 Fritters ii. 233 Ivlosse ii. 234 Loaf or Pain ii. 234 Masher i. 915 Nests ii. 234 Nudels ii. 234 Omelet ii. 234 Paste Sausage Rolls ii. 235 Patties ii. 235 Pie ii. 235 Pone ii. 236 Pudding ii. 236 Puffs ii. 236 Puree ii. 237 Quenelles ii. 237 Ragout ii. 237 Rechauffe ii. 237 Rissoles ii. 237 Rolls i. 185, ii. 237 Salad ii. 237 Salad, Onion and ii. 234 Sandwiches ii. 238 Sauce for Salads ii. 238 Saute, Onion and ii. 235 Sautes ii. 238 Scones ii. 238 Snow ii. 239 Souffle ii. 239 Soup ii. 239 Soup, Chervil and ii. 232 Sour Cream, with ii. 240 Steak ii. 240 Straws ii. 240 Stuffing ii. 240 Tarts ii. 240 Tea-Cakes ii. 240 Timbale ii. 240 Turnovers with Herrings ii. 240 Waffles ii. 241 Yeast ii. 241 Potatoes ii. 226 a la Barigoulc ii. 229 a la Duchesse ii. 229 a la Gastronome ii. 229 a la Genevoise ii. 229 a la Julienne ii. 230 a la Lyonnaise ii. 230 a la Mai ti e d’Hotel ii. 230 a l’ltalienne ii. 230 an Gratin ii. 229 Bacon with ii. 230 Baked ii. 228 Boiled ii. 228 Boiled New ii. 228 Broiled ii. 228 Browned ii. 228 Casserole ii. 228 Creamed ii. 228 Curried ii. 228 Fried ii. 229 Glazed ii. 229 Herrings with ii. 234 Imitation ii. 537 Imitation New ii. 229 Kidney Shaped ii. 227 Mashed ii. 229. Parsley, in ii. 235 Piquante Sauce with ii. 236 Rolled, with Sweet Sauce ii. 241 Round ii. 227 Sardines with ii. 238 Scalloped ii. 241 Stuffed ii. 242 Stuffed with Cheese ii. 240 3 K 2THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 868 Potatoes, Surprise it. 242 Pot-au-Feu it. 226 Beef i. 102 French ii. 226 Soup ii. 226 Pot Beef steak i. 105 Cheese i. 345 Poteen ii. 242 Pot-herbs i. 759, ii. 242 Fagot of i. 575 Pot Pie Beef i. 102 Pot-Pourri ii. 243 Pot Roasted Beef i. 126 Pots and Pans ii. 243 Pot-Still Punch ii. 275 Potted Anchovy i. 21 Beef i. 121 Beef with Venison Flavour i. 121 Haricot Beans i. 93 Liver i. 865 Shrimps ii. 448 Veal ii. 700 Potting ii. 243 Pottle ii. 243 Poulardes ii. 243 Poulette ii. 243 Sauce ii. 394 Poultry ii. 243 Boning i. 167 Game and, to Carve i. 312 Pound ii. 243 Cakes i. 247 Powder, Anchovy i. 20 Biscuit i. 141 Parsley ii. 91 Prairie Chicken, Fricassee of ii. 244 ' Pie ii. 244 Roasted ii. 244 Stewed ii. 244 Prairie Hen, Baked ii. 243 Broiled ii. 243 Chartreuse of ii. 243 Chicken or ii. 243 Croquettes ii. 244 Saute ii. 244 Pralines ii. 245 Almond i. 11 Lemon 7 848 Spanish Nuts ii. 497 Prawn Cromeskies ii. 246 » Cutlet ii. 246 Omelet ii. 246 Pilau ii. 246 Powder ii. 246 Salad ii. 246 Soup ii. 246 Prawns ii. 245 Aspic, in ii. 246 Bisk of i. 149 Boiled ii. 245 Buttered ii. 245 Curried ii. 245 Dried ii. 246 Potted ii. 246 Salpiyon of ii. 247 Scalloped ii. 247 Stewed ii. 247 Tinned, Sautes ii. 247 Premier Sauce ii. 402 Preparing Beetroots for the Table i. 131 f reservation of Apples i. 38 resekve, Lemon i. 848 Mango i. 907 Preserved Angelica with Jellies i. 22 A pplfes i.lp Apricots i. 45 Artichokes i. 50 Preserved Asparagus i. 54 Barberries i. 77 Barberry Pulp i. 77 Butter i. 217 Ginger i. 684 Green Angelica i. 22 Haricot Beans i. 93 Pippins i. 39 Preserving Food i. 604 Pressed Beef i. 121 Prickly Pears ii. 247 Primrose Pudding ii. 247 Salad ii. 247 Vinegar ii. 247 Wine ii. 247 Primroses ii. 247 Prince Alfred’s Sauce ii. 402 Prince’s Sauce Salad ii. 394 Soup ii. 490 Princess Louise Cake i. 248 Biscuits i. 145 of Wales, Apples a la i. 32 , ’ \ Pudding ii. 266 Sauce ii. 394 Soup ii. 490 Profiterolles ii. 248 Chocolate with ii. 248 Pudding ii. 248 Soup, for ii. 248 Prosanico ii. 248 Provencal ii. 248 Sauce ii. 394 Prune Cake ii. 249 Drink ii. 249 Jelly ii. 249 Loaf ii. 250 Pudding ii. 250 Sauce ii. 250 Prunelet ii. 250 Prunes ii. 248 a la Russe ii. 249 Brandy, in ii. 249 Compote ii. 249 Gateau ii. 249 Preserved ii. 249 Stewed ii. 250 Prussian Breakfast Cakes i. 248 Sauce ii. 394 Ptarmigan ii. 250 Broiled ii. 250 Roasted ii. 250 Salmis of, ii la Chasseur ii. 251 Puchero ii. 251 Soup ii. 490 Puddings ii. 251 Acid i. 2, ii. 251 Adam-and-Eve ii. 251 Adelaide i. 3, ii. 251 Agnew i. 4, ii. 251 a la Cleveland ii. 266 ii la Liscard Hall ii. 267 a la Theodore ii. 267 Albemarle i. 6, ii. 251 Albert i. 6, ii. 251 Alderman’s ii. 252 Alexandra Iced ii. 252 All-Threes ii. 252 Alma ii. 252 Almond i. 12, 13 Almond-and-Rice 7. 13 Almond Kosher i. 12 Almond Savarin i. 13 Amber ii. 252 American Black ii. 252 Amhurst ii. 252 Angel ii. 253 Apple i. 33 Apple and Almond i. 26 Apple-and Cornflour i. 28 Puddings, Apple-and-Crumb i. 28 Apple-and-Rice ii. 328 Apple-and-Tapioca i. 35 Apple Custard i. 28 Apple, with Rice i. 33 Apricot i. 43 Arrowroot i. 47 Asparagus i. 53 Aunt Louisa’s ii. 253 Baby’s ii. 253 Baden-Baden ii. 253 Baden-Baden Bread i. 186 Baked Barley i. 78 Baked Batter i. 86 Baked Bread i. 189 Baked Bread and Butter i. 187 Baked Californian ii. 253 Baked Cheese i. 347 Baked Sago ii. 354 Bakewell i. 66 Balloon ii. 253 , Bank-Holiday ii. 253 Barford ii. 253 Bdftli ii. 253 Batter i. 87 Beaufort ii. 253 Beaulieu ii. 253 Beef i. 102 Beefsteak-and Kidney i. 104 Beefsteak, with Oysters i. 105 Belgian i. 207 Bird’s-Nest ii. 253 Biscuit 7. 141 Bishop’s ii. 254 Black i. 154 Blackberry or American Down-East i. 151 Blackcap ii. 254 Boiled Batter i. 86, 87 Boiled Bilberry i. 135 Boiled Bread i. 189 Boiled Sago ii. 354 Bombay ii. 254 Boston ii. 254 Bowdoin and Pumpkin Pie ii. 254 Brandy, with Brandy Sauce ii. 254 Bread-and-Marrow i. 188 Broken-Bread i. 191 Brown or Black-Bread i. 191 Bull' ii. 254 Bun 1.210 Butter-milk i. 218 Calf’s Feet i. 269 Calf’s Liver 7.276 Californian, Boiled ii. 254 Cambridge ii. 255 Candied Peel i. 280 Caramel i. 290 Carrot i. 305 Carrot Plum i. 305 Castle ii. 255 Cheese i. 349 Cheese-cake i. 354 Cherry i. 361 Cherry Bread i. 356 Cherry Souffle i. 361 Chestnut i. 367 Children’s ii. 255 Chocolate 7.378 Chocolate Roll 7. 379 Christmas 7.385 Circassian 77.255 Citron 7.394 Clarence 77.255 Clarges-Street 77.255 Clifton 77.256 Coburg 77.256 Cocoa 7.407 Cocoa-nut 7.410THE ENC7CL0PJEDTA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 869 Puddings, Cocoa-nut Sponge 7. 411 Coffee 7. 425 Cold, a la Diaz 77. 256 Cold Meat 7. 924 Cold-Meat-and-Macaroni 7. 923 College 77. 256 Conservative ii. 256 Constance ii. 256 Cornflour i. 442 Cornflour Hasty i. 442 Cornflour, Spiced i. 444 Cornwall ii. 256 Cottage ii. 256 Cowslip i. 448 Cracker i. 453 Crayfish i. 459 Cream i. 468 Crystal Palace ii. 257 Cumberland ii. 257 Cup ii. 257 Curate’s ii. 257 Curd i. 494 Custard i. 509 Custard and Jam 7.508 Custard Cup i. 508 Daisy’s ii. 257 Damkorf ii. 257 Damson Jam i. 514 Danish ii. 257 Date 7.517 Delaware 77.257 Delhi ii. 257 Derry 77.258 Devonshire 77.258 Dingy 77.258 Diplomatic ii. 258 Down-East 77.258 Duke’s 77.258 Dutch 77.258 Dutch Wafer ii. 258 Editor’s 77.258 Egg 7.559 Egg-and-Flour Batter 7.557 Egg-Plant Fruit, of 7. 569 Essex 77.259 Excellent 77.259 Fig 7.582 Fish 7.593 Flame 77.259 Fortunatus ii. 259 Fowl 7.623 Frankfort 77.259 French and-Italian 77. 259 French Roll i. 191 Frozen 77.259 Fruit 7.656 Fruit-and Batter 7. 653 Fun 77.259 Gelatine 7.673 German 77.259 Gertrude’s 77.260 Ginger 7.681 Ginger Cup 7. 680 Gloucester 77.260 Golden 77.260 Golden-Ball 77.260 Goose 7.707 Gooseberry 7.705 Gotham 77.260 Grape 7. 710 Green Corn 7. 777 Groat 7.721 Ground-Rice -and-Cocoanut 77. 325 Ground-Rice-and-Honey 77.326 Ground-Rice Hasty 77. 325 Haddock 7.733 Hampshire 77.260 Hanover 77.260 Harem 77. 260 Puddings, Hasty 7. 7 56, 77. 260 Helena 77.260 Helen’s 77.260 Herb 7.760 Herefords 77.261 Homely 77.260 Hominy 7.768 Hunter’s 77.261 Hunting 77.261 Ice 77. 261 Iced 77.261 Iced Cabinet 77. 261 Iced Rice 77. 326 Iced Swiss 77. 261 Imperial 77.261 Indian 77.261 Italian 77.261 Italian Rice 77. 327 Jam 7.781 Jam Roly-Poly 7. 782 Jenny Lind 77.261 Juke’s 77.261 Junior United 77.261 Kendal 77.261 Kentucky Green Corn 7.778 Kidney 7.797 Kidney-and-Oyster 7.799 Lady Wrottesley’s 77. 262 Lancer 77.262 Lark 7.832 Leamington 77.262 Leicester 77.262 Lemon 7. 848 Lemonade 7.855 Lemon, A pple, or Pear 7. 837 Lemon Souffle 7. 852 Lentil 7.857 Light, with Sabayon Sauce 77. 262 Little Constance’s 77.262 Liver 7. S64 Lobster 7. 875 Louis Philippe 77. 262 Macaroni 7.889 Macaroni -and-Almond 7. 886 Macaroon 7.896 Madeira 77.262 Madonna 77.262 Maids-of-Honour 77. 262 Maizena 7.905 Maizena Jam 7. 905 Malaga 77.262 Malvern 77.263 Manchester 77.263 Maraschino 7.910 Marlborough 77.263 Marmalade 7. 9 1 2, 77. 263 Marque 77.263 Marquise 77.263 Maud’s 77.263 Meat and Bread-and Butter 7. 920 Meringue 7.934 Michael 77.263 Milk 7.940 Milton 77.263 Mincemeat 7.944 Minute 77.263 Mocha 77.264 Molasses 7.947 Molasses Sauce, with 77. 267 Monmouth 77.264 Montreal 77.264 Mousseline 77.264 Mutton 7.991 Nassau 77.264 Neapolitan 77.264 Nelson 77.264 Nesselrode 77. 4, 264 Newark 77.265 New Bedford Corn 7. 778 Puddings, New College 77. 265 Newmarket 77.265 Nonpareil 77.265 Norfolk 77.265 Northumberland 77.265 Nottingham 77.265 Nouille 77.9 Nudel 77. 10 Nun 77.265 Nut 77.13 Oatmeal 77. 16 Orange 77.42 Orange-Marmalade 77. 40 Orleans 77. 265 Oswego 77.52 Oxford 77.265 Oyster and-Macaroni 77. 77 Palm-tree 77.266 Pancake 77.87 Parsnips 77.92 Partridge 77. 106 Peach 77. 137 Peach and-Sago 77. 137 Peas 77. 129 Pembroke 77.266 Penelope 77.266 Peripatetic 77. 266 Pigeon 77. 182 Pig’s Head 77. 173 Plum 77.211 Polka 77.266 Poor Man’s 77. 266 Porcupine 77.266 Pork 77.220 Pork-and-Kidney 77.220 Portland 77.266 Portugal 77.266 Potato 77. 236 Primrose 77.247 Princess 77.266 Profiterolle 77.248 Prune 77.250 Pumpkin 77. 272 Quaking 77.267 Queen 77.267 Queen Mab’s 77. 267 Quince 77.284 Quince Iced 77. 283 Rabbit 77.295 Raglan 77.267 Raisin 77.303 Raspberry 77.311 Raspberry-ami-Currant 77. 308 Raspberry Jam 77.310 Ratafia 77.314 Red-Currant 7.499 Red Currant-anti Raspberry 7. 499 Revere 77.267 Rhubarb 77.320 Rice 77.334 Rice-ami Fruit 77.331 Rice-and Macaroon 77. 332 Rice-and Oatmeal 77. 333 Rice-and Raisin 77. 336 Rice-and Tapioca 77. 337 Rice Blackcap 77. 328 Rich 77.267 Rum 77.349 Rusk 77. 351 Sago-and-Apple 77.353 Sally-Lunn 77.361 Salmon 77.370 Samp 77.376 Sausage-and-Tomato 77.407 Savoury 77.268 Savoury Rice 77. 338 Savoury Rusk 77. 351 Saxe-Weimar 77. 268 Schneider 77.268870 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Puddings, Semolina ii. 416 Seven-Cup 77. 268 Sherry Sponge ii. 447 Sir Watkin Wynne’s ii. 268 Snow ii. 268 Snowdon ii. 268 Sparrow ii. 498 Sponge ii. 268 Sponge Cake ii. 504 Squash ii. 510 Steamed ii. 241 Stewed ii. 241 St. John’s ii. 267 Strawberry ii. 521 Suet, baked ii. 532 Suet, boiled ii. 532 Suet, fried ii. 532 Sweet or Spanish ii. 242 Tansy ii. 566 Tans/ and-Spinach ii. 567 Tapioca ii. 569 Tapioca and Apple ii- 567 Tapioca Custard ii. 568 Tipsy ii. 269 Toast ii. 269 Tomato-and-Cornflour ii. 601 Tomato-and-Meat ii. 603 Traveller’s ii. 269 Treacle ii. 612 Treacle-aml Plum ii. 612 Truffle ii. 629 Turnip ii. 662 Vanilla ii. 679 Vanilla Souffle ii. 680 Veal ii. 721 Vegetable ii. 269, 729 Vegetable-marrow ii. 734 Venison ii. 742 Venus ii. 269 Vermicelli ii. 744 Victoria ii. 269 Vienna ii. 269 Violet’s ii. 269 Wafer ii. 269 Water ii. 269 White ii. 768 Whiting ii. 774 Windbags ii. 269 without Milk or Eggs ii. 267 Wrexham ii. 269 Yeast ii. 803 Yorkshire ii. 803 Puff Paste ii. 112 Cakes ii. 121 Puffs ii. 270 Apple i. 33 Cottage ii. 270 English ii. 270 French ii. 270 German ii. 270 Irish ii. 270 Italian ii. 270 Lemon i. 850 Mutton 7. 991 Prussian ii. 270 Spanish ii. 270 Transparent ii. 270 Pulled Bread i. 192 Pullna Water i. 3 Pulp, preserved Barberry i. 77 Pulque ii. 271 Pulse ii. 271 Pumpion ii. 271 Pumpernickel ii. 271 Ice i. 192 Pumpkin ii. 271 a ritalienue ii. 271 Bread i. 183 Butter ii. 271 Purnkin Cliease 77.271 Custard Pies ii. 271 Flowers stuffed with Forcemeat ii. 272 Fritters ii. 272 Mashe :1 ii. 271 Pie ii. 272 Preserved ii. 271 Pudding ii. 272 Rice and ii. 272 Soup ii. 272 Stewed ii. 273 Tomatoes with ii. 273 Punch ii. 273 Angelica i. 22 Bavaroise of ii. 275 Champagne i. 333 Cider i. 389 Cream Bonbons ii. 275 Cream Ice ii. 276 Drops ii. 276 eu Surprise ii. 275 Essence ii. 275 Gin i. 676 Jelly ii. 276 Kirschenwasser i. 800 Leander ii. 68 Maraschino i. 910 Milk i. 940 Pineapple ii. 196 Rum ii. 349 Souffle ii. 276 Strawberry ii. 522 Tea Milk ii. 578 Water Ice ii. 276 Whisky ii. 767 Puncheon ii. 276 Punshki ii. 276 Purges ii. 276 Artichokes i. 50 Asparagus i. 54 Barley 7.79 Beef, Soup i. 103 Belgian i. 132 Carrot i. 305 Green Peas ii. 127 Ham 7.741 Haricot Beans 7. 93 Haricot Beans, a la Soubise 7. 93 Haricot Bean, for Soup 7. 92 Mango 7. 908 Red Haricot Beans, of 7. 93 Purl 77.27 7 Purslane ii. 277 Q Quails 77.277 a la Crapaudine 77. 279 a la Freres Provenpaux 77. 27 9 a la Jardiniere 77.27 9 a la Turque 77. 27 9 a l’Espagnole 77. 27 9 Aspic of, a la Strasburg 77. 277 au Gratin 77.279 Ballotines 77.277 Boiled in Bladders 77.27 9 Braised, and Celery Sauce 77. 277 Broiled 77.27 8 Cliaudfroid 77.278 Collops of, with Truffles 77. 278 Compote 77. 27 8 Quails, Galantine 77. 27 8 Green Peas, with ii. 279 incases 77.27 9 in Macedoine ii. 279 in vine leaves 77. 280 Larded 77.278 Pie ii. 279 Pilau 77.27 8 Potted 77.278 Roasted ii. 280 Salad 77.280 Salmis 77. 280 Stewed 77.280 with Truffles ii. 280 Quaking Pudding 77.267 Quart 77.280 Quass 77.280 Quassia 77.281 Queen Cakes, Heart or 7.248 Mab’s Pudding 77. 267 Pudding 77.267 Soup 77.490 Queen’s Bread 7. 183 Sauce 77.394 Queimado 77.281 Quenelles 77.281 Cold Meat 7. 924 Liver 7. 864 Quillaia Bark 77.281 Quince 77.281 Apple and, Butter 77. 282 Apple and, Jelly 77. 283 Apple and, Tart 77. 283 Blanc-mange 77.283 Brandied 77.282 Cakes 77.283 Cheese 77. 283 Cordial 77.283 Cream 77.283 Cream Ice 77. 283 Iced Pudding 77. 283 Jelly 77.283 Liqueur 77.284 Marmalade 77.284 Paste 77.284 Pickled 77.282 Pie 77.284 Preserved 77.282 Pudding 77.284 Ratafia 77.284 Salad 77.284 Stewed 77.285 Stuffed with Almond Paste 77. 284 ' Sugared 77.285 Syrup 77.285 Tart, Apple and 7. 34 Trifle 77 2 85 with Cream 77. 283 Quinnat 77. 285 Quin’s Sauce 77. 402 R Rabbit 77.285 a la Jardiniere 77.292 a 1’Italienne 77. 292 Attereaux 77.286 au Gratin 77. 292 Baked 77.286 Barbecued 77. 286 Blanquette 77.286 Boiled 77.287871 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Rabbit Boudins ii. 287 Braised with Pistachio-nuts ii. 287 Broiled ii. 287 Broth ii. 293 Civet ii. 287 Colloped ii. 287 Collops served in a Border ii. 293 Cream ii. 293 Croquettes ii. 293 Curried ii. 288 Curried Fillets ii. 288 Cutlets ii. 293 Devilled ii. 288 Dumplings ii. 293 eu Friteau ii. 292 Entree ii. 293 Epigramme ii. 288 Essence ii. 289 Fillets ii. 289 Forcemeat Cakes ii. 293 Forcemeat ii. 290 Fricassee ii. 290 Fried ii. 290 Galantine ii. 291 Gibelotte ii. 291 Grenadines ii. 291, 294 Hashed, a la Portugaise ii. 291 Jugged ii. 291 Legs of, a la Main tenon ii. 291 drivers fried with Bacon ii. 294 Liver Sauce ii. 294 Marbled ii. 291 Matelote ii. 292 Minced ii. 292 Mulligatawny ii. 294 Mumbled ii. 292 Oyster and, Pie ii. 294 Panachd ii. 294 Pate ii. 295 Pie ii. 295 Pie, Scotch ii. 298 Potato and, Pie ii. 295 Potted ii. 292 Preserved ii. 292 Pudding ii. 295 Pulled ii. 292 Puree ii. 296 Ragout ii. 297 Rissoles ii. 296 Roasted ii. 298 Salad ii. 296 Sausages ii. 296 Smothered in Onions ii. 298 Soup ii. 297 Stewed ii. 298 Stock ii. 297 Timbale ii. 299 To Carve i. 314 Trussed like Poultry ii. 297 Turban ii. 300 Venetian style ii. 297 with Olives ii. 294 with Tarragon ii. 297 Racahout ii. 300 ’ Races ii. 300 Racine Soup ii. 491 Rack ii. 300 Radishes ii. 300 Raglan Pudding ii. 267 Ragout i. 864, ii. 301 Cold Meat i. 924 Rabat Lakoum ii. 302 Railroad Cake i. 249 Raised-Pie, Beef i. 103 Raisin Cake ii. 303 Crusts ii. 303 Pudding, Baked ii. 303 Pudding, Boiled ii. 303 Raisin Pudding Iced ii. 303 Roly-poly ii. 303 Sherbet ii. 304 Wine ii. 304 Raisins ii. 302 Almonds and, for Dessert i. 13 Stewed ii. 304 Raisinet i. 658 Raki ii. 304 Ramazan Cakes i. 249 Ramekins ii. 304 Rampion ii. 305 Ranges and Stoves ii. 514 Rape ii. 305 Rare ii. 305 Rarebit, American i. 346 Welsh i. 353 Rasp ii. 305 Raspberry, Almond and, Cream Ice ii. 306 Almond and, Ice i. 13 Biscuits ii. 300 Blanc-mange ii. 306 Bottled ii. 305 Bouchces des Dames ii. 306 Brandy ii. 306 Butter Sauce ii. 306 Cake ii. 307 Caramels ii. 307 Charlotte ii. 307 Cheese ii. 307 Cherry and, Jam ii. 307 Compote ii. 307 Cordial ii. 307 Cream ii. 307 Cream and, Pie ii. 308 Cream Ice ii. 308 Crusts ii. 308 Custard ii. 309 Custard Pudding ii. 309 Drops ii. 309 Dumplings ii. 309 Fool ii. 309 Fritters ii. 309 Icing ii. 309 Jam ii. 309 Jam Pudding ii. 310 Jelly ii. 310 Juice ii. 310 Julep ii. 310 Liqueur ii. 310 Marmalade ii. 310 Marzipan ii. 310 N.ip ii. 310 Noyau ii. 311 Pastille Drops ii. 311 Pie ii. 311 Pudding ii. 311 Pulp for Ices ii. 311 Salad ii. 311 Sauce ii. 311 Sherbet ii. 311 Sponges it. 311 Strawberry and, Jam ii. 311 Syrup ii. 312 Tablets ii. 312 Tart ii. 312 Trifle ii. 312 Venice Cakes ii. 312 Vinegar ii. 312 Vinegar Syrup ii. 313 Water ii. 313 'Water Ice ii. 313 Wine ii. 313 Raspberry-and-Currant Jam ii. 308 Jelly ii. 308 Pie ii. 308 Pudding ii. 308 Shrub ii. 308 Raspberry and-Currant Syrup ii. 309 Tart ii. 309 Tartlets ii. 309 Water Ice ii. 309 Raspberries ii. 305 Frozen ii. 305 Glacees ii. 309 Iced ii. 305 Preserved ii. 306 Raspings and Breadcrumbs i. 190 Ratafia ii. 313 Angelica i. 22 Apple Tart ii. 315 Apricot i. 43 Balls ii. 314 Blancmange ii. 315 Cheese-cakes ii. 315 Cream ii. 314 Cream Ice ii. 314 Pudding ii. 314 Trifle ii. 315 Ratafias ii. 315 Ravigote ii. 315 Butter ii. 217 Sauce ii. 394 Sauce Provenfale ii. 394 Ravioles ii. 316 Raw Meat 7.919 Scraps of, Stewed i. 128 Reading Sauce ii. 402 Rechauffe ii. 317 Cod i. 417 Fish i. 595 Red Cabbage i. 224 Boiled i. 224 Boiled, with Oysters i. 224 Celery, Salad and i. 225 Pickled i. 224 Salad i. 225 Stewed i. 225 Red Colouring i. 427 Red and White Currant Jelly, Raspberry and i. 502 Red Currant Cherry Wine, and i. 498 Cream, Whipped i. 500 Drops i. 498 Fool i. 498 Gin i. 498 Jam i. 498 Jelly i. 498 Julep i. 499 Marmalade i. 499 Pain or Cake i. 499 Paste i. 499 Pastilles i. 499 Preserve i. 499 Pudding i. 499 Sauce 4. 499 Shrub i. 499 Syrup i. 500 Vanilla-flavoured Bomb i. £00 Vinegar i. 500 Wine i. 500 Red Currants i. 497 Bottled i. 497 Compote i. 497 Preserved Pulp i. 498 Sugared i. 500 Red-Currant-and-Raspberry, or Cherry Tart i. 499 Paste Drops i. 499 Pudding i. 499 Water i. 499 Red Currant Jelly Cakes i. 498 and Cream i. 498 Omelet i. 498 Sauce i. 498 Red- or White-Currant Shrub i. 503THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 872 Red-or White-Currant Sweet Salad *'. 502 Tartiets *'. 503 Water *'. 503 Wine *'. 503 Red Haricot Beans a la Eourguignonne *'. 93 Purd e of *'. 93 Purde Soup *'. 93 Stewed *'. 93 with Wine *'. 93 Red Herrings *'. 704 Red Mullet *'. 954 a 1’Italienne *'. 957 a la Provenfal *'. 957 Baked *'. 954 Boiled *'. 955 Braised *'. 955 Broiled *'. 956 Cornets, in *'. 957 Fried *'. 956 Ragout of Fillets i. 956 Stewed *'. 957 Red Round of Beef, Baked *'. 99 Red Piquant Sauce ii. 394 Salad ii. 358 Soup ii. 491 Reducing ii. 316 Reed Birds *7.316 Refection ii. 317 Refectory **.317 Reform Sauce ii. 394 Refreshing Broth *. 204 Refreshments and Ball Suppers *’. 68 Refrigerating **.317 Regatta Cake *'. 249 Regency Sauce ii. 394 Regent Sauce ii. 402 Reindeer Tongues **.317 Relish, Anchovy i. 20 Remoulade **.317 Sauce ii. 394 Removes **.317 Removing Salt from Butter i. 216 Rennet **.317 Restoring Rancid Butter *'. 216 Revalenta Arabica *'*.318 Revere Pudding ii. 267 Rheims Biscuits *’. 145 with Cream and Kirschenwasser i. 145 Rhine Wines **.318 Rhubarb **.318 Apple and, Jelly ii. 318 Bottled **'.318 Champagne **.318 Cheese **.318 Cider **.319 Cream ii. 319 Cream Ice **'.319 Fool *’*’.319 Fritters ii. 319 (linger *'*.319 Ginger and, Jam ii. 319 Jam *’*‘.319 Jelly ii. 320 Marmalade ii. 320 Meringue with ii. 320 Orange and, Jam ii. 320 Pie ii. 320 Preserved *'*’.318 Pudding ii. 320 Shape ii. 320 Sherbet ii. 320 Stewed ii. 321 Tartlets *’*'.321 Vinegar *’*'.321 Wine **’.321 Ribbon Blancmange *’. 157 Cake *’. 249 Ribs of Beef, Baked i. 99 Boning *'. 168 Braised ?'. 109 Braised, with Macaroni *’. 109 Broiled, with Marrow *'. 112 Cold Stewed, with Aspic Jelly *'. 113 Pickled, Boiled Tom Thumb *’. 108 Roasted *. 123 Roasted Rolled *. 124 Rib-steak, Broiled *'. 112 Broiled a la Bordela'.se *’. 112 Rice **'.321 a la Bearnaise ii. 327 a la Conde ii. 327 a la Francaise ii. 327 a la Menagere **’.327 a la Milanaise ii. 327 a la Ristori ii. 328 <i rimperatrice ii. 327 Almond Pudding and i. 13 Apple and, Pudding ii. 328 Apple Pudding with *'. 33 Apricots with *’. 43 Balls ii. 328 Balls, Italian *'*’.327 Balls, Meat and ii. 333 Batter Cakes ii. 328 Batter Cakes with *'. 86 Blackcap Pudding ii. 328 Boiled ii. 322 Border ii. 328 Bread *'. 183 Broth ii. 328 Cabbage and, Soup ii. 328 Cake ii. 328 Carriole ii. 322 Case or Croustade ii. 329 Casserole ii. 323 Cassolettes ii. 329 Cheese ii. 329 Cheese-cakes ii. 329 Coffee ii. 329 Cream ii. 329 Creamed ii. 323 Cream of, Soup ii. 323 Croquettes ii. 330 Croustades of, a la Reine ii. 323 Croustades of, Meringue ii. 323 Crusts ii. 330 Curried ii. 323 Custard ii. 330 Cutlets ii. 330 Cutlets, Fowl and ii. 331 Drop Cakes *'*'.331 Fandango ii. 331 Flawn ii. 331 Fool ii. 331 Fried ii. 323 Fried, Balls ii. 323 Fried, Cakes *'*'.323 Fritters *'*'.331 Glazed ii. 324 Gratin of ii. 324 Griddle Cakes *’*".331 Ground ii. 324 Gruel ii. 332 Hard-boiled Eggs with ii. 332 Jelly ii. 332 Kedgeree ii. 332 Kheer ii. 332 Lamb’s Sweetbreads with ii. 332 Lemon *. 850 Maltese style, in ii. 332 Mange ii. 332 Manx Cake ii. 332 Meringue ii. 333 Milk ii. 333 Muffins ii. 333 Rice Pancakes ii. 333 Paste ii. 333 Patties ii. 333 Peas and ii. 334 Pie ii. 334 Pilau ii. 334 Porridge ii. 334 Pudding ii. 334 Pudding, Fruit and ii. 331 Pudding, Iced ii. 326 Pudding, Italian ii. 32 7 Pudding, Macaroon and ii. 332 Pudding, Oatmeal and ii. 333 Pudding, Raisin and ii. 336 Pudding, Tapioca and ii. 337 Puffs ii. 335 Pyramids for Forcemeat or Sausages ii. 335 Quische ii. 336 Savoury ii. 338 Shape *'*'.336 Snowballs ii. 336 Souffle ii. 336 Soup ii. 336 Soup, Cream ii. 329 Soup, Onion and ii. 333 Soup, Pea and **.334 Soup, Sorrel and ii. 336 Soup, Tomato and ii. 338 Stewed Fruit with ii. 337 Stuffing for Sucking-pig ii. 337 Timbale ii. 337 Turban of, and Stewed Apples ii. 338 Turkish style, in ii. 338 Waffles ii. 338 Water ii. 338 Rich Cake *'. 250 Man’s Soup ii. 491 Pudding ii. 267 White Soup ii. 491 Richelieu Cake *'. 250 Ricotta ii. 339 Rind ii. 339 Rinfresco ii. 339 Ringlets, Cold Meat *’. 924 Rings ii. 339 Lemon *'. 850 Rip Van Winkle Punch ii. 275 Riscasoli Cake *’. 250 Risen Cake *’. 250 Risot, Neapolitan ii. 327 Risotto ii. 338 Rissoles ii. 339 Beef *'. 103 Cold Meat *'. 924 Crayfish *'. 459 Fish *'. 594 Forcemeat *’. 605 Fowl *’. 624 Game *’. 665 Lobster *'. 875 Macaroni *'. 890 Mutton *’. 992 Veal *'*’.721 llissolettes ii. 340 Beef *’. 103 Rizine ii. 340 Rizzolletti of Lentils *'. 858 Roach ii. 340 Boiled ii. 340 Broiled ii. 340 Stewed *'*. 340 Roasted Chaudron i. 266 Roasting ii. 340 Robert ii. 342 Cakes *'. 250 Sauce ii. 395 Rocambole ii. 342THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Robins 77. 34‘2 Rochelle Brandy 77. 342 Rock ii. 342 Cakes i. 250 Candy i. 281 Cocoa-nut i. 411 Coltsfoot i. 428 Lemon i. 850 Rockfish ii. 342 Striped Bass or i. 83 Rocolnic ii- 343 Rod Gib ii. 343 Rodon Cake i. 251 Roe ii. 343 Carp’s i. 301 Carp’s, Fried i. 302 Cod’s i. 418 Fish, Fried i. 595 Fresh Herring i. 762 Mackerel i. 901 Scalloped Fish i. 596 Shad ii. 434 Soup ii. 343 Stewed ii. 343 Toast ii. 343 Roebuck ii. 343 Baked ii. 343 Braised ii. 344 Cliaudfroid ii. 344 Crepinettes ii. 344 Cutlets ii. 344 Epigrammes ii. 344 Hashed ii. 344 Minced ii. 344 Roasted ii. 344 Roll Cake i. 251 Lemon i. 850 Boll of Beef, Boiled, Salted i. 107 Braised, a la Minton i. 110 Braised, with Nouilles i. 110 Rolled Beef i. 124 Beefsteaks i. 124 Biscuits i. 145 Cheese ii. 616 Flank of Beef i. 125 Ribs of Beef, Roasted i. 124 Rolling pin ii. 345 Rolls, American Astor House i. 184 American Parker House i. 184 Batter i. 87 Butter, for Tea i. 184 Caraway i. 184 Derbyshire i. 184 Family i. 184 French i. 184 German i. 185 Irish i. 185 Mannheim i. 185 Milk i. 185, 941 Potato i. 185 Swedish i. 186 Tea or Breakfast i. 186 Turin i. 186 Twists and i. 184 Vienna i. 186 Roly-Poly, Apple i. 34 Roman Cake i. 251 Punch ii. 275 Rooks ii. 345 Roots ii. 346 Roquefort Cheese i. 345 Sandwich i. 352 Rosbach Wat er i. 3 Rosebuds ii. 537 Candy i. 281, ii. 346 Clouded Cake, or i. 251 Cream Cordial ii. 346 Cream Ice ii. 346 Drops ii. 346 Rosebuds, Jam ii. 346 Liqueur ii. 347 Lozenges i. 884, ii. 347 Petals, Candied ii. 346 Sauce ii. 402 Souffles ii. 347 Syrup ii. 347 Water Cake ii. 347 Water Ice ii. 347 Rosemary ii. 347 Roses ii. 346 Attar of, for Flavouring ii. 346 Confection i. 429, ii. 346 Cream ii. 346 Essence ii. 346 Rosolios ii. 347 Rosquillas ii. 347 Rotterdam Soup ii. 491 Roulade de Veau ii. 702 of Beef i. 125 Roulette, Beef i. 103 Roumanian Sweet Cake i. 251 Round of Beef i. 97 Boiled, Salted i. 107 Red, Baked i. 99 Rout ii. 347 Biscuits i. 146 Cakes i. 251 Roux ii. 347 Liaison i. 861 Royal Biscuits i. 146 Cake 7.251 Sauce ii. 395 Sausages ii. 406 Royans ii. 348 Rudd ii. 348 Ruffs and Reeves ii. 348 Buggies Cake 7.251 Rum ii. 348 Buns 7.211, 77.348 Butter ii. 348 Cream 77.348 Favourite 77.348 Jelly 77.349 Julep 77.349 Omelet 77.349 Pineapple 77. 196 Preserve 77.349 Pudding 77.349 Punch 77. 349 Sauce ii. 349 Shrub 77.349 Sling ii. 349 Rump of Beef 7. 97 a la Portugaise 7. 125 Boiled 7. 107 Braised 7. 110 Roasted 7. 124 Rump-steak, Braised 7.110 Broiled 7. 112 Stewed in Wine 7. 125 Rusk Cake 77.351 Fritters 77.351 Ices 77.351 Pudding 77.351 Shape 77.351 Rusks 77.350 French 77. 350 German 77.350 Italian 77.350 Raspberries with 77. 351 Sw'iss 77. 351 Russian Balorine 7. 70 Biscottine 7. 136 Julienne Soup 77. 491 Salad 77.358 Soup 77. 491 Wines 77.351 Rye 77.352 Rye Bread 7. 183 Cakes 77.352 Gems 77.352 in Imitation of Coffee 77. 352 Muffins 77.352 Mush 77.352 Soup, Green 77. 352 Whisky Cocktail 7. 405 s Sabavon 77.352 Sauce with Madeira 77. 400 Sabotiere 77.353 Saccharinated Aerated Water 7. ^ Sachsen Sauce for Fish 77. 395 Sack 77.353 Sack-Mead 7.917 Saddle 77.353 Lamb 7.805 Mutton, Baked 7. 971 Safes 77.353 Saffron 77.353 Buns 7.211 Sage 77.353 Gargle 77.353 Green Cheese, or 7. 346 Stuffing, and Onion 77. 353 Sago 77.353 Cakes 77.353 Cream 77.354 Dumplings for Soup 77. 354 Gruel 77.354 Jelly 77.354 Milk 77.354 Pie, and Vegetable 77.355 Pudding 77.354 Pudding, Apple and 77. 353 Shapes 77.355 Soft cake 77. 355 Souffle 77. 355 Soup 77.355 Soup, and Beer 77. 353 Sailor’s Sauce 77. 3 95 Saintonge 77. 355 Sake 77.355 Salad 77.355 a la Chef de Cuisine 77. 359 a ITtalienne 77. 359 Anchovy 7.30 Artichoke-and Tomato 7. 49 Asparagus 7.53 Asparagus-and-Salmon 7. 53 Aspic Jelly Sauce for 7. 55 Bacon 7.64 Bamboo 7.70 Beef 7. 104 Beetroot 7. 131 Bohemia 77.356 Boiled Haricot Beans, of 7. 9 Boutargue 7. 173 Bouquet 77.356 Bread 7. 189 Brunswick 77.356 Cabbage 7. 221 Calf’s Feet 7. 269 Calf’s Head 7. 271 Calf’s Liver 7. 277 Carrot 7.305 Cauliflower 7.322874 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Salad, Cauliflower-and-Asparagus 7. 320 Celery 7. 327 Chard 7. 336 Cheese 7. 349 Cockle 7. 405 Cocoa-nut 7.411 Cold Boiled Beef, of 7. 125 Cold-Meat 7. 924 Cold-Meat-and-Potato 7. 924 Convent ii. 356 Corn-Salad 7. 444 Country 77. 356 Crab i. 450 Cray-fish, with Aspic i. 460 Cream ii. 360 Cress i. 47 8 Cucumber i. 487 Dandelion 7.515 Dandelion-and-Beetroot 7.515 d’Estrdes ii. 359 Duck’s Egg 7. 535 Dumas ii. 356 Dutch 77.356 Egg 7.560 Egg-and Beetroot 7. 555 Endive 7.572 Farmer’s 77.356 Fern 7.580 Fig 7.581 Fillets of Sole 77. 470 Fish 7.594 Fisherman’s 77.357 Florida 77.357 Flounder 7.599 Fowl 7.624 French 77.357 Frencli-Bean 7.91 Fresh-Herring 7.762 Frog 7. 651 Fruit 7.657 Game 7. 665 Genoa 77.357 German 77.357 Green Pea 77. 126 Grouse 7.724 Guinea Fowl 7. 727 Hop 7.770 Italian 77.357 Jardiniere 77.358 Japanese 77.357 Jerusalem - Artichoke • and Onion 7. 50 Kitchener’s Cooked 77.358 Kohl-Rabi 7.803 Lamb 7.813 Leek 7.835 Lettuce 7.859 Lettuce-and-Tomato 7.860 Lobster 7.875 Macaroni 7.890 Macedoine 77.358 Martino 7.914 Mixed Fruits 7.502 Mulberry 7. 953 Musk melon 7.931 Mussel 7.967 Nantese 77.358 Nasturtium 77. 1 of Vegetables with Aspic Jelly 77.359 Okra 77. 17 Onion-and-Tomato 77.27 Orange 77. 43 Oyster 77.79 Pancakes with Potato 77. 87 Parsnip 77.92 Partridge 77. 106 Pear 77. 144 Periwinkle 77. 151 Pigeon 77. 182 Salad, Pig’s Feet 77. 171 i’ig’s Head Cheese 77. 173 Pineapple 77. 196 Plaice 77. 203 Plain 77.358 Polish 77.358 Potato 77.237 Potato and Onion 77.234 Prawn 77.246 Primrose 77.247 Quail 77.280 < Quince 77. 284 Babbit 77.296 Radish 77.301 Raspberry 77. 311 Red 77.358 Red Cabbage 77. 225 Russian 77.358 Salmagundi 77.361 Salmon 77.370 Salsify 77.370 Salted Cod 7. 417 Samphire 77.377 Sardine 77.381 Sausage 77.407 Shad 77.434 Shrimp 77.449 Skate 77.454 Smelt 77.458 Smoked Eel 7. 546 Sole 77.473 Sorrel 77.475 Spanish 77.359 Spinach 77.502 Sportsman 77.359 Strawberry 77.522 Suedoise 77.359 Sugar Pea 77. 128 Summer 77.359 Swedish 77.360 Sweetbread 77.551 Terrapin 77.584 Tomato 77.605 Tomato and Artichoke 77. 600 Tomato and-Cucumber 77. 601 Tongue 77.610 Tripe 77.617 Trout 77.624 Truffle 77.629 Truffle and Celery 77. 627 Truffle-and Potato 77. 629 Turbot 77.644 Turnip 77.662 Turnip-top 77.663 Veal and-Potato 77.721 Vegetable 77.729 Venison 77.742 Walnut 77.758 Watercress 7.478 Whelk 77.766 Whitebait 77.768 White-Cabbage 7.224 Winter 77.360 Yam 77.800 Salad-Dressing '77.360 Bacon-fat 7.64 Cream 7.469 Salad-oil 77.300 Salamander 77.360 Salep or Saloop 77. 374 Salicylic Acid 77. 360 Saline Aerated Water 7. 4 Sally Lunns 77.361 Pudding 77.361 Salmagundi 77.361 Salad 77.361 Salmi or Salmis 77.361 of Black Diver 7. 154 of Game 7. 667 Salmi Sauce 77. 395 Salmon 77.361 a la Genoise 77. 366 a la Goufie 77. 366 a l’Allemande 77. 366 a la Maitre d ll6tel 77. 367 ii la Montpelier 77. 367 a la Vatel 77. 367 a l’ltalienne 77. 367 Asparagus Salad and 7. 53 Aspic Jelly, with 77. 367 au Gratin 77. 366 Baked 77.362 Boiled 77.362 Bouchces 77.367 Boudins 77.363 Broiled 77.363 Cake 77.367 Cassolettes 77.368 Chaudfroid 77.364 Cold, Sauce for 77. 395 Collared 77.364 Cromeskies 77.368 Croquettes 77.368 Curried 77.364 Cutlets 77.368 Cutlets, Boiled 77. 363 Dame 77.364 Darne of, Marinaded 77. 364 en Matelote 77. 367 Fillets 77.364 Fricasseed 77.365 Fried 77.361 Grilled, Cutlets 77. 365 Jelly, in 77. 369 Kedgeree 77.365 Kippered 77 . 371 Mayonnaise 77.365 Omelet 77.369 Patties 77.369 Pickled 77. 365 Pie 77.369 Potted 77.366 Pudding 77.370 Rhenish style 77. 370 Roasted 77.366 Rolled a 1’ Irlandaise 77.366 Salad 77.370 Scalloped 77. 371 Soup 77. 371 Soused 77.371 Stewed 77.371 Tinned 77.372 Toast ’ 77. 37 I Vol au Vent 77. 371 Salmon Trout 77.373 a la Chef de Cuisine 77. 373 a la Moderne 77. 373 a la Polonaise 77. 374 au Gratin 77. 373 Boiled 77.373 Truffles, with 77.374 Saloop or Salep 77. 374 Salpicons 77.374 Salsify 77.374 a la Poulette 77. 375 Aspic, in 77. 375 Boiled 77.374 Cakes or Mock Oysters 77. 375 Croquettes 77.375 Fried 77.375 Fritters 77.375 Parmesan Cheese, with 77. 375 Patties 77.375 Salad 77.375 Sauce 77.375 Scalloped 77.375 Stewed 77.376 | Salt 77.376Bigarade 77.31 Buttered i. 414 Aspic-Jelly 7.55 Dried 77.377 875 East-Indian 77.388 Cooked in Biscayan style i. 417 Bavarian 77.385 Foam 77.400 Duchess 77.37 8 Anchovy-and-Caper 7.19 Brandy 7. 177 Fruit 7.657 Salted Cod a la Bonne Femme i. 417 Sand-Eels 77.377 Samp 77.376 Duchess 77.387 Golden 77.400 Fricassee 77.389 Bey rout 77. 386 Anchovy 7.21 with Cheese 7.417 D’U xelles 77. 388 Pickled 77.377 Australian 77.385 Fish-Liver 7.592 Fowl 7.624 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Financiere 77.388 with Marmalade 7. 253 Sanders 77. 377 a la Diaz 77. 400 Garlic 7. 668 Bearnaise 77.385 Black-Butter 7. 217 Burnt-Cream 7.463 Caraway 7.292 Hard 77.400 Indian 77.378 Sausage 77.407 Green 77.389 Salt, Cayenne 7. 288 Spiced 77. 499 Saltpetre 77. 736 Salted and Devilled Almonds i. 15 Bacon Dried and i. 62 Beef i. 125 Beef, Boiled Round i. 107 Boiled 7.414 Fried i. 416 on Toast i. 417 Salad 7.417 Served in Brown Butter 7.417 Stewed 7.418 Salted Fish 7. 595, 596 Samphire 77.37 6 Salad 77.377 Samshoo 77.377 Sand Cakes 7. 233 Sandwiches 77.37 7 Aberdeen 7. 1, 77. 377 Adelaide 7.3, 77.378 Anchovy 7.20 Apple 7.34 Cheese 7.349 Curry 7.506 Dandelion 7. 515 Duck 7.530 Egg 7.560 Fish 7.594 Ham 7.741 Lenten 77.378 Pickle 77.378 Potato 77.238 Sardine 77.381 Savoury 77. 37 8 Tomato 77.605 Tongue 77.610 Veal 77.721 Sangaree 77.37 8 Sanitary Soup 77. 491 Santa 77.378 Sapodilla 77.378 Sapucaia 77.379 Sardine Butter 77. 380 Fingers 77.381 Omelet 77.381 Salad 77.381 Sandwiches 77. 381 Sauce 77.382 Toast 77.382 Sardines 77.379 ala Maitre d’Hotel 77.3315 a la Piedmontaise 77. 380 Anchovy Toast, on 77. 380 an Parmesan 77. 380 Baked 77.379 Boucliees 77.37 9 Broiled 77.379 Canapes 77.379 Cases, in 77. 380 Curried 77.380 Devilled 77.380 Dressed 77.380 Eggs, in 77. 380 en Papillotes 77.380 Fried 77.380 Sardines, Fritters 77.381 Mustard, witli 77. 381 Sarsaparilla 77.382 Sassafras 77,382 Sauce 77.382 Admiral’s 77. 3 85 Agro-Dolce 7.4 Albert (Sweet Butter) 7. 217 Anchovy-Butter 7. 19 Apple 7.34 Apricot 7.43 Arrowroot 7.47 Asparagus (Hot) 7. 53 Aurora 7.59, 77.385 Bateliere 77.385 Bechamel 77.386 Bechamel, Brown 77. 385 Berlin 77.386 Black-Currant-Jelly 7.496 Blanquette 77.386 Blonde 77.386 Boar’s Head, for 77. 395 Boiled Brisket of Beef, for 77. 395 Bordeaux 77.386 Bottled 77.401 Bourgeoise 77.386 Bread 7. 189 Bretonne 77.386 Brown 77.387 Brown-Butter 7.217 Butter 77.217 Calf’s Brain 7. 266 Caper 7. 283 Caramel 7.290 Cardinal 77.387 Carrier 77.387 Cauliflower 7.322 Celery 7.328 Champagne 7.333 Chantausen 77.400 Chateaubriand 77.387 Chaudeau 7.340 Chaudfroid Game 7.662 Cherry 7.361 Chestnut 7.368 Chilli 7.288 Chives 7.373 Chocolate 7.379 Cinnamon 7.391 Claremont 77.387 Cockle 7.405 Cocoa-nut Milk 7.410 Colbert 7. 426, 77. 387 Cold Salmon, for 77. 395 Corinthian 77.387 Grab 7. 451 Crabs, for 77. 395 Cranberry 7.456 Crapaudine 77.387 Crayfish 7. »60 Cream 7.469 Cucumber 7.487 Curay.oa 7. 493 Currant-Jelly 7.501 Curry 7.506 Custard 7.509 Sauce, Czarina 77. 387 Damson 7.514 Demi Provencale 77. 387 Devil 77.387 Diplomatic 77.387 Diplomatic, for Pudding Drawn Butter 7.217 Dutch or Holland 77. 387 Egg 7.560 Egg-Foam 7.557 English Sweet 77. 400 Fair Maid’s 77. 388 Fennel 7.579 Fin e H erbs 7.586 Flemish 77.388 Fowl Bechamel 7. 617 Fowl's-Liver 7. 643 French 77.389 Garlic-Butter 7. 668 Geneva 7. 673, 77. 389 Genoa 77.389 German 77.389, 400 Gherkin 7.674 Giblet 7.675 Ginger 7.682 Godard 77.389 Gooseberry 7.705 Goose, for 77. 396 Gothic 77.389 Governors 77.402 Green-Tomato 77.596 Grill 77.390 Ham 7.741 Hanover 77.390 Hare, for 77. 396 Hare-Liver 7.747 Harvey 77.402 Hashes, for 77. 396 Hip 7. 766 Holstein 77.390 Horseradish 7.771 Hot 77.402 Indian 77.390 Italian 77.390 Jardiniere 77.390 Jerusalem-Artichoke 7. 50 Kirschenwasser 7.801 Kitchener’s 77.402 Lemon 7.850 Lemon-Butter 7.838 Liver 7.864 Livernaise 77. 390 Lobster 7. 877 Loin of Veal, for 77.396 Madeira 7.904 Maintenon 77.390 Maitre d’Hotel 77.391 Mandram 77. 391 Mango 7.908 Marmalade 7.913 Marshal’s 77.391 Matelote 77. 391 Matrimony 77.391 Mayonnaise 7. 917, 77. 391 Milan 77.391 Military 77.392 77. 400TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 876 Sauce, Minim’s ii. 392 Mint 7. 946 Mirepoix ii. 392 Mixed ii. 392 Mushroom ii. 962 Musketeer ii. 392 Mussel i. 967 Mustard ii. 969 Nasturtium ii. 2 Neapolitan ii. 392 Nonpareil ii. 392 Normandy ii. 392 Olive ii. 19 Onion ii. 27 Orange Marmalade ii. 41 Oyster ii. 80 Palestine ii. 392 Papillote ii. 392 Parmesan-Cheese ii. 90 Parsley-and-Butter ii. 91 Parsley-and Lemon ii. 91 Pascaline ii. 392 Pea-nut ii. 131 Perch, for ii. 396 Pdrigueux ii. 392 Pike, for ii. 396 Pink ii. 402 Piquant ii. 393 Plum Pudding, for ii. 400 Poivrade ii. 393 Polish ii. 393 Polish Sweet ii. 400 Pompadour ii. 393 Poor Man’s ii. 393 Portuguese ii. 394 Port-Wine i J 225 Poulette ii. 394 Premier ii. 402 Prince Alfred’s ii. 402 Princess ii. 394 Prince’s, Salad ii. 394 Provenpale ii. 394 Prune ii. 250 Prussian ii. 394 Queen’s ii. 394 Quin’s ii. 402 Rabbit-Liver ii. 294 Raspberry ii. 311 Raspberry Butter ii. 306 Ravigote ii. 394 Ravigote Provenpale ii. 394 Reading ii. 402 Red-Currant i. 499 Red-Currant-Jelly i. 498 Red Piquant ii. 394 Reform ii. 394 Regency ii. 394 Regent ii. 402 Remoulade ii. 394 Roasted Hare or Rabbit, for ii. 396 Roasted Meats, for ii. 396 Robert ii. 395 Rose ii. 402 Royal ii. 395 Rum ii. 349 St. Menehould ii. 395 Sabayon, with Madeira ii. 400 Sachsen, for Fish ii. 395 Sailor’s ii. 395 Salmi ii. 395 Salsify ii. 375 Sardine ii. 382 Savoury ii. 385, 402 Shallot ii. 436 Shrimp ii. 450 Sicilian ii. 396 Skate’s-Liver ii. 454 Sorrel ii. 475 Sauce, Soubise ii. 396 Soy, for Fish ii. 496 Spanish ii. 397, 497 Sturgeon, for ii. 396 Sucking-pig,- for ii. 396 Supreme ii. 397 Sweet ii. 400, 401 Swiss ii. 401 Tamarind, for Game, &c. ii. 565 Tarragon ii. 571 Tartar ii. 398 Tomato ii. 605 Toulouse ii. 398 Transparent ii. 398 Truffle ii. 629 Turnip ii. 662 Universal ii. 402 Valois ii. 398 Vanilla ii. 679 Vanilla Cream ii. 678 Vegetable a la Lyonnaise ii. 733 Vegetable, for Fish ii. 729 Vegetable Marrow ii. 734 Velvet ii. 398 Venetian ii. 398 Victoria ii. 399 Villeroy ii. 399 Walnut ii. 757 Walnut and Anchovy, for Fish ii. 756 White ii. 399 Wildfowl, for ii. 396 Wine ii. 789 Woodcock-Liver ii. 795 Worcester ii. 402 Yellow ii. 399 Sauceboats ii. 403 Saucepans ii. 403 Saucers ii. 403 Sauerbraten ii. 403 Sausage Balls ii. 407 Bologna i. 166 Cakes ii. 407 Entree ii. 407 Omelet ii. 407 Pudding, Tomato and ii. 407 Rolls ii. 407 Sandwiches ii. 407 Sausages ii. 403 a l’ltalienne ii. 407 Baked ii. 406 Bath ii. 404 Beef i. 104 Black Forest ii. 404 Boiled, and Artichokes ii. 406 Bologna ii. 405 Broiled with Truffles ii. 406 Cambridge ii. 405 Chicken and Ham 7.613 Devilled ii. 406 Egg 7.561 Frankfort 77.405 Fried 77.406 German ii. 405 Knack ii. 405 Lent ii. 405 Liver 7. 865 Madrid 77.405 Maintz 77.405 Mecklenberg 77.405 Mutton 7.992 Oxford ii. 405 Persian ii. 406 Pork 77.221 Royal 77.406 Salad ii. 407 Smoked ii. 406 Stewed 77.407 Swiss 77.406 Sausages, Veal 77. 722 Westphalian 77.406 White ii. 406 Sausartees 7. 999 Saute 77.408 Fillets of Beef 7.126 Lima Beans 7. 94 Sauterne 77. 408 Savalada 77.470 Savarin Cake 7. 253 a 1’Anglaise 7. 254 Saveloys 77.408 Liver 7.865 Smoked 77.408 Savoury Biscuits a la Melton 7. 146 Bread Pudding 7. 192 Cake 7. 254 Minced Beef Collops 7. 123 Omelet 77.22 Pudding 77.268 Rice 77.338 Sandwiches 77. 378 Sauces 77. 385, 402 Toast 7. 192 Savoyard Soup 77.491 Savoy Biscuits 7. 146 Savoy Cabbages, Boiled 7. 224 Braised, for Garnishing 7. 224 Fried, and Bacon 7. 224 Stewed, in Cream 7. 224 Savoy Cake 7. 254 Almond 7. 13 with Oranges 7. 254 Saw, Meat 7. 919 Saws 77.409 Saxe-Weimar Pudding 77.268 Scad 77.409 Scalding 77.409 Scallions 77.409 Scalloped 77.410 Beef 7. 126 Jerusalem Artichokes 7. 51 Lobster 7.880 Mussels 7.968 Salmon 77. 571 Scallops 77.409 Calf’s Liver with Fine Herbs, of 7. 278 Cod, of 7. 417 Schabzeiger Cheese 7. 346 Schenk Beer 77. 410 Schnapps 77.410 Schneider Pudding 77. 268 School Cake 7. 255 Schwarn Batter 7. 87 Scissors 77.410 Scones 77.410 Barley-meal 7. 79 Cream 7.469 Potato 77.238 Soda 77.463 Wheat-meal 77. 765 Scorzonera 77.411 Scotch Ales 77.411 Barley 7.78 Bread 7. 183 Brose 7.203 Broth 7.205 Cakes 7.255 Fat Brose 7.203 Woodcock 7.510, 77.412 Scouring 77.412 Scrambled Eggs 7.566 Scrap Cakes 7. 255 Scrappel or American Brawn 7. 178 Scraps or Trimmings of Raw Beef Stewed 7. 128 Scullery 77.412 Scullion 77.412Orange 77.43 Timbales ii. 417 Cream 7.470 Skin 77.455 Bird 77.420 Table 77.561 Soup 77.454 Bat 77. 419 Raisin 77.304 Crimped 77.453 a la Maitre d’Hotel 77. 454 Liver 77.454 Boat ii. 420 Fried 77.453 Skeel 77.454 Granite 77.447 Pine-apple 77. 196 Fish 77.446 Baked 77.453 Accordion Fan 77. 417 Salad 77.454 B.A. 77.418 Lemon 7. 851 Pluck 77.444 877 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Casket 77.422 White-Cherry 7.364 Aram-Lily 77.418 en Matelote 77. 458 Cakes 7.255 Pointed Fan 77. 429 Sea-Cakes 7. 255 Crayfish 7. 4G1 Hedgehog ii. 412 Kale 77. 412 Soup ii. 402 Sea-Bream, Baked i. 193 Broiled, a la Maitre d’Hotel i. 194 Seasoning ii. 415 Aromatic i. 45 Onion ii. 27 Seasons ii. 413 Seaweed i. 7 Seed-oil ii. 415 Segui ii. 415 Seibling ii. 415 Seltzer Water 7.3 Semola ii. 415 Semolina ii. 415 Pudding ii. 416 Souffle ii. 416 Soup ii. 417 Senna Confection i. 429 Sercial ii. 417 Service Berries ii. 417 Serviettes 77.417 Arrow-head ii. 417 Bishop’s Mitre ii. 420 Book-slide 77.421 Butterfly ii 421 Collegian ii. 422 Crown 77.422 Double Boat 77. 422 Double-Diamond 77. 423 Double-Pocket 77.424 Double-pointed Fan 77. 424 Easel 77.425 Every day 77. 425 Fan 77.425 Fleur de Lis 77. 425 Flower pot 77.426 Fountain 77.426 Four Pockets 77.426 Four-pointed Fan 77. 427 Italian-Cap 77. 427 Mitre 77.427 Note 77. 428 Palm-leaf 77.428 Pointed-Cap 77.429 Prince 77.429 Roman 77. 430 Rosebud 77.434 Shield 77. 431 Slipper 77.431 St. Patrick's Cross 77. 430 Swiss 77.431 Tent 77. 431 Tower 77.432 Tyrolese 77.432 Water-lily 77.432 Seven-Cup Pudding 77. 268 Sevigny Soup 77. 492 Shaddocks 77.435 Shads 77.433 Shallots 77. 435 Shank 77 436 Shape, Apple 7. 34 Arrowroot 7.47 Blackberry 7.152 Shape, Chestnut 7. 368 Coffee, Marbled 7. 425 Cornflour 7.444 Frait-and-Rice 7.657 Gooseberry 7.705 Jelly 7. 783 Rice 77.336 Rusk 77.351 Sago 77.354 Sponge Cake 77.505 Shark 77.436 Shchi 77.436 Sheep 77.436 Sheep’s Brains 77. '36 Ears 77. 437 Feet 77.437 Head 77.439 Head Fish 77. 446 Hearts 77.441 Kidneys 77.441 Liver 77.444 Milk 77.444 Tails 77.444 Tongues 77.444 Shell Biscuits 7. 146 Sherbet 77.446 Currant 7.501 Strawberry 77.522 Sherry 77.447 Cobbler 7. 402, 77. 447 Jelly 77.447 Sponge Pudding 77. 447 Shin of Beef Soup 7. 126 Ship or Sea Biscuits 7. 146 Shiraz 77.447 Shortbread 77. 447, 448 Strawberry 77.522 Shortcake, Apple 7. 34 Blackberry 7. 152 Strawberry 77.522 Short Cakes 7. 255 Derby 7.234 Short Paste 77. 114 Cakes 77.122 Shoulder of Mutton, Boiled Boned 7. 971 Shoulders 77.448 Shredding 77.448 Shrewsbury Biscuits 7. 146 Shrimp, Omelet 77. 449 Patties 77.449 Pie 77.449 Rolls 77.449 Salad 77.449 Sauce 77.450 Soup 77.450 Stewed 77.451 Toast 77.450 Shrimps 77.448 Potted 77.448 Scalloped 77.448 Shrub 77.451 Brandy 7. 177 Lemon 7. 851 Strawberry 77.523 Siberian Crabs 77. 45 Sicilian Sauce 77. 396 Side Boards 77.451 Sieves 77.451 Sillery 77.451 Silver Cake 7. 256 Silversides 77.451 Beef, Boiled 7. 108 Beef, Stewed 7. 128 Simgo 77.451 Simmer 77.452 Sinmel Cake 77. 452 Simple Aerated Water 7. 4 Cakes 7.256 Candy 77.537 Sinews 77.452 Singeing 77.452 Sinks 77.452 Sippets 77.452 Sirloin 77.452 Beef, Braised 7. 110 Beef, Roasted 7. 124 Sirloin-steak Broiled 7. 112 Roasted, Larded 7. 24 SirWatkin Wynne’s Pudding ii Skate 77.452 a la Russe 77. 454 a la Ste. Menehould 77. 454 a ITtalienne 77. 454 Boiled 77.453 Fricasseed 77.453 Stewed 77.454 Skewers 77.454 Skimmers 77.455 Skink or Hocli Soup 77. 492 Skirrets 77.455 Slapjacks 77.455 Slice 77.455 Slicers 77.455 Slipcoat Cheese 7. 346, 77. 456 Sloes 77.456 Sly Cakes 7. 256 Small Brioches 7. 199 Cakes 7.256 Smash Whisky 77. 767 Smelts 77.456 a la Bearnaise 77. 457 a la Boulangere 77. 457 a la Toulouse 77. 458 Attelettes of 77. 456 au Gratin 77. 457 Baked 77.457 Boiled 77.457 Fried 77.457 Garnish, as 77. 458 Potted 77.457 Salad 77.458 Saute's 77.458 Stewed 77.458 Stuffed 77.458 Smoked Bacon 7. 63 Beef 7. ] 26 Beef Omelet 7. 126 Boar’s Head 7. 161 Hamburg Beef 7. 126 Sausages 77.406 Smoke-Jack 77. 458 Smothered Beef 7. 126 Snails 77. 458 a la Bourguignonne 77. 459 a la Provencale 77. 459 a ITtalienne 77. 459 Baked 77.459 '. 268878 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Snails, Stewed ii. 459 Snail-and Frog Broth ii. 459 Snapdragon ii. 459 Snaps, Brandy 7. 177 Snipe ii. 459 Boudins ii. 459 Broiled ii. 460 Chaudfroid ii. 460 Crusts ii. 461 Fillets of, in cases ii. 4G0 Fried. 77. 460 Galantine ii. 460 Pie ii. 461 Ragout ii. 460 Roasted ii. 461 Salmi ii. 461 Stewed ii. 462 Snow, Apple i. 34 Cakes i. 256 Cheese i. 346 Cocoa-nut 7.411 Egg i. 561 Lemon i. 851 Pudding ii. 268 Snowball Cakes i. 256 Snowballs, Apple i. 34 Apricot i. 43 Snowdon Pudding ii. 268 Snowdrop Biscuits i. 146 Snowflake Cake i. 257 Socles ii. 462 Soda ii. 462 Batter Cakes ii. 463 Biscuits i. 146 Bread i. 183 Cakes i. 257 Cream ii. 463 Cream of Tartar Biscuits, ii. 463 Scones ii. 463 Water ii. 463 Soft-Cake, Sago ii. 355 Soft Roes, Boiled Carp i. 302 Boucliees of, Carp i. 298 Soles ii. 463 a la Colbert ii. 470 a la Creme d’Anchois ii. 470 a la Hollandaise ii. 471 a la Maitre d’Hotel ii. 471 a la Marechal ii. 471 a la Mongolfier ii. 471 a l’Anglaise ii. 470 a la Normande ii. 471 a la Parsienne ii. 472 a la Perigord ii. 472 a la Portugaise ii. 472 a la Trouville ii. 472 a l’Aurore ii. 470 a lltalienne 77.471 Aspic of Fillets of ii. 463 au Gratin 77. 471 au Supreme 77. 472 aux Fines Herbes 77. 471 Baked 77.465 Baked Fillets of 77. 464 Boiled 77.465 Boucliees 77.465 Broiled 77.465 Consomme 77.465 Croquettes 77.472 Curried 77.465 Fillets 77.465 Fricandeau 77.469 Fricassee 77.469 Flied 77. 469 Grenade 77.469 Mayonnaise 77.470 Paupiettes 77.470 Pie 77.472 and Soles, Roulettes 77.470 Salad 77.473 Salad of Fillets of 77. 470 Sandwich 77.473 Scalloped 77.470 Stewed 77.473 Timbales 77.473 Vol au-Vent 77.473 Water Souchet 77. 474 Solferino 77.474 Soup 77.492 Sop 77.474 Sopsavine 77.474 Sorbet 77.474 American 77.474 Champagne, with 77.474 Rum, with 77. 474 Sorrel 77.47 4 au Gras 77. 475 au Maigre 77. 475 Bounce 77.476 Cream 77.474 Puree 77.474 Salad 77.475 Sauce 77.475 Soup 77.475 Soup, and Lentil 77. 475 Stewed 77.475 Sot l’y-Laisse 77.476 Soubise 77.47 6 Sauce 77.396 Soup 77.492 Souchet, Water 77. 760 Souffle 77.476 a la Paysanne 77. 478 Apple 7.34 Apple, in Paste 7.35 Souffle, Apricot 7. 43 Arrowroot 7.47 Cake with Punch 7. 257 Calf’s Liver 7. 277 Carrots 7.306 Cheese 7.350 Cherry 7. 361 Chocolate 7.379 Coffee 7.425 Cold-Meat 7.924 Cream 7.470 Cream Ice 7. 475 Custard 7.509 Fritters 77.47 8 Game 7.666 Ginger 7.682 Gooseberry 7.706 Greengage 7. 717 lees 7.775 Iced (Savoury) 77. 47 7 Iced (Sweet) 77. 47 7 Imperial 77.478 Lemon 7.851 Lobster 7.878 Macaroni 7.890 Milan 77.478 Omelet 77.22 Orange 77.44 Orange-Marmalade 77. 41 Sago 77.355 Semolina 77.416 Spanish 77.478 Strawberry 77.523 Tapioca 77.570 Tea 77.578 Vanilla 77.679 Vanilla and-Chocolate 77. 677 York 77.47 8 Zephyr 77.478 Sounds, Cod’s 7. 419 Soups 77.47 8 a la Mode Beef 7. 98 Soups, Albert Victor 77. 479 Almond 7. 13 American 77.480 Andalusian 77.480 Apple 7.34 Apple-and-Currant 7. 28 Arrowroot 7.47 Artichoke 7.49 Asparagus 7.53 Bagration 77.480 Baked 77.480 Baked Cottage 77. 480 Barley 7.79 Barley Cream 7. 79 Batter Cream 7. 86 Beef 7. 104 Beef Puree 7. 103 Beer, for Cold Weather 7. 130 Beer, with Bread 7. 130 Beer, with Cream 7. 130 Bird’s-Nest 7. 136 Black Bean 7. 89 Bones for 7. 166 Bonne-Femme 77.480 Bread 7.190 Bread Croutons for 7. 188 Brisse 77.480 Browning for 7. 206 Brunoise 77.480 Buckwheat 7.209 Butter 7.218 Cabbage 7.221 Calf’s-Head 7.272 Calf’s-Kidney 7.274 Calf’s-Liver Balls for 7. 276 Calf’s Pluck 7. 279 Calia Cold 77. 480 Camerani 77.480 Canneloni 77.480 Capon 7.286 Cappelletti 77.480 Caraway 7.292 Carmelite 77.481 Carrot Puree 7. 305 Cauliflower 7.320 Cauliflower Cream 7.323 Celery 7.328 Celery Cream 7. 326 Celery-and-Onion 7.327 Cheap 77.481 Cheese 7.350 Cherry 7.362 Chestnut 7.368 Chestnut Puree 7. 367 Chick-Pea 7.371 Chiffonade 7. 375 Chinese 77.481 Chocolate 7.379 Clam 7.396 Clam-Cliowder 7.395 Clear 77.481 Coburg 77.481 Cockle 7. 405 Colbert 77.481 Conde 77.481 Cottage 77.482 Countess 77.482 Cow-Heel 7.447 Crab 7.451 Crapiva 7.456 Crayfish 7.460 Cream of Celery 7. 329 Cream of Rice 77. 323 Crecy 77.482 Croutes-au-Pot 77.482 Crown Prince’s 77. 482 Crupnic 77.482 Cucumber 7.488 Curd 7.494THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 879 Soursop ii. 495 Meat *.921 Sanitary ii. 491 Soups, Curry *’. 506 Cussy ii. 482 Deer-Head-and-Feet *'*'. 743 Diplomatic ii. 4S3 D’Orsay ii. 483 Dove i. 527 Dry ii. 483 Duchess ii. 483 Duck *’. 530 I hick’s Giblet i. 535 Duke of Connaught ii. 483 Eel i. 543 Eelpout i. 549 Egg i. 561 Egg Bread in i. 191 Family ii. 483 Farmer’s ii. 483 Fish i. 594 Fisherman’s ii. 483 Flemish ii. 483 Florador i. 598 Fluke i. 601 Fou-Fou ii. 483 Fowl i. 626 French ii. 484 Game i. 666 German ii. 484 German Imperial ii. 484 Giblet i. 675 Gnocchi i. 691 Gourmet’s ii. 484 Graham Hour i. 708 Gravy *'. 715 Gray Mullet, a la Turque *'. 954 Green ii. 484 Green Corn i. Ill Green Pea ii. 126 Green Rye ii. 352 Ground-Rice ii. 326 Grouse *.723 Guinea-fowl i. 727 Haddock i. 733 Hare i. 748 Haricot Bean i. 92 Haricot-Bean Puree for i. 92 Hasty ii. 484 Herb i. 760 Holstein ii. 484 Hominy i. 768 Hunter’s ii. 484 Imitation Hare i. 749 Invalid’s Digestive ii. 485 Invalids, for ii. 492 Italian ii. 485 Jardiniere ii. 485 Jenny Lind’s ii. 485 Jerusalem-Artichoke i. 50 J ugged ii. 485 Julienne ii. 485 Kidney i. 797 Knuckle-of-Veal ii. 695 Lamb *.813 Lark i. 832 ’ Leek i. 835 Leftover *'*.486 Lent ii. 486 Lentil i. 858 Lentil Puree i. 857 Lettuce i. 859 Ling i. 862 Liver i. 865 Lobster i. 878 Lorraine ii. 486 Macaroni i. 890 Macdonald ii. 486 Macedonian ii. 486 Mackerel i. 902 Marsala Wine i. 914 Soups, Meg Merrilies ii. 486 Mikado ii. 487 Milanese ii. 487 Milk *'. 941 Milk-and-Beer i. 939 Milk-and Onion *'. 940 Mille Fanti ii. 487 Mock Bisk ii. 487 Mock Kidney i. 798 Mock Terrapin ii. 584 Mock Turtle ii. 670 Monaco ii. 487 Mullagatawny *.953, ii. 487 Mushroom *’. 963 Musketeer’s ii. 488 Mussel i. 967 Mutton i. 993 Neapolitan **.488 Nouille ii. 9 Oatmeal ii. 16 Okra ii. 17, 18 Onion ii. 27 Ox-tail ii. 64 Oyster ii. 81 Palestine ii. 85, 488 Pancake ii. 87 Parisian ii. 488 Parmesan-Cheese ii. 90 Parsnip ii. 93 Partridge ii. 107 Pasha ii. 488 Passa ii. 489 Pear ii. 144 Peas ii. 130 Penelope ii. 489 Perch ii. 150 Pheasant ii. 15S Piedmont ii. 489 Pigeon ii. 183 Pig’s-Ears ii. 169 Pike ii. 189 Plain ii. 489 Plum ii. 209 Polish ii. 489 Polish Julienne ii. 489 Pomeranian ii. 489 Poor Man’s ii. 489 Pork ii. 221 Portable ii. 489 Portuguese ii. 490 Potato ii. 239 Pot au feu ii. 226 Prawn ii. 246 Prince’s ii. 490 Princess ii. 490 Puchero ii. 490 Pumpkin ii. 272 Queen ii. 490 Quenelle **.281 Rabbit ii. 297 Racines **.491 Red ii. 49) Red Haricot Bean Puree *'. 93 Rice ii. 336 Rice and-Cabbage ii. 328 Rice-and Onion **.333 Rice and Pea ii. 334 Rice and Sorrel ii. 336 Rice and Tomato **'.338 Rice Cream ii. 329 Rich Man’s **.491 Rich White **.491 Roe ii. 343 Russian **.491 Russian Julienne ii. 491 Sago ii. 355 Sago and Beer **.353 Salad **.371 Soups, Savoyard ii. 491 Scotch *'. 999 Sea ii. 492 Semolina ii. 417 Sevigny ii. 492 Sheep’s-Head ii. 440 Sheep’s-Kidney ii. 443 Shin-of-Beef *'. 126 Shrimp ii. 450 Skate ii. 454 Skink or Hoch ii. 492 Soft Clam *.396 Solferino ii. 492 Sorrel ii. 475 Soubise ii. 492 Sour Cream *'. 475 Spinach ii. 502 Spring ii. 493 Strawberry ii. 523 Sturgeon ii. 530 Summer ii. 493 Supper ii. 493 Sweetbread ii. 552 Tapioca ii. 570 Tapioca Cream ii. 568 Terrapin ii. 585 Thrush Puree ii. 588 Tomato ii. 606 Tomato-and-Pumpkin ii. 604 Tomato Cream **.601 Tripe **.617 Turbot, with Celery ii. 644 Turkey ii. 657 Turkey Giblet ii. 659 Turnip ii. 662 Turnip-and Rice ii. 662 Turtle ii. 667 Turtle, Preserved Green ii. 666 Uka *'*'.493 Veal ii. 722 Veal Gravy *’*’. 715 Veal Mullagatawny ii. 717 Vegetable ii. 729 Vegetable marrow ii. 734 Vegetable Puree ii. 729 Venison ii. 742 Vermicelli *'*'.744 Victoria ii. 493 Vocalist’s ii. 493 Westmoreland *'*.494 Wheat ii. 765 Whelk ii. 766 White ii. 494 Whitebait *'*'. 768 Windsor *‘*'.494 Wine ii. 790 with Gnocchi ii. 492 with Meat ii. 492 with Noques ii. 493 without Water ii. 492 Yam ii. 800 Young Carrots *'. 306 Sour Braten ii. 494 Sour Cream Dumplings *'. 475 Snowballs *'.475 Soup *'. 475 Sour-Crout *'*'.494 Apples, with ii. 495 Boiled ii. 494 Cabbage *'. 222 Goose, with ii. 495 Oysters, with ii. 495 Pate ii. 495 Sausages and Bacon, with *’*.495 Tinned Meat, with *'*’.495 Sour Drops ii. 537 Sour Milk Biscuits *'. 942 Brown Bread *. 942880 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Souse ii. 495 Soused Mackerel i. 903 Salmon ii. 371 Souterage ii. 496 Sowans ii. 496 Soy ii. 496 Spaghetti ii. 496 Spanish Beef steak i. 105 Beverage i. 134 Bitters i. 150 Blancmange i. 157 Buns i. 211 Butter i. 218 Cakes i. 258 Macaroons i. 896 Spanish-nuts ii. 496 Bonbons ii. 496 Cream Ice ii.497 Pralines ii. 497 Spanish Omelet ii. 22 Onions ii. 24, 28 Salad ii. 359 Sauce ii. 397, 497 Wines ii. 497 Spare-Ribs ii. 497 Sparrow Dumpling ii. 497 Pie ii. 497 Sparrows ii. 497 in Potatoes ii. 497 Spatchcock or Spitchcock ii. 498 Spatula ii. 498 Special Cakes i. 258 Spice ii. 498 Mace i. 897 Mixed ii. 499 Sweet ii. 499 Spiced Apples i. 39 Beef i. 126 Beef Cheese i. 127 Loaf ii. 499 Macaroons i. 896 Round of Beef, or Hunter’s Beef i. 127 Wine ii. 68 Spider Cake i. 258 Toast i. 258 with Bilberries i. 258 Spigola ii. 499 Spinach ii. 500 a la Franpaise ii. 500 a la Mode ii. 501 Bacon and i. 64 Boiled, with Sardines ii. 500 Consonant! ii. 501 Cream ii. 501 Croquettes ii. 501 Croustades ii. 501 Custard ii. 501 Eggs, with ii. 501 Fritters ii. 501 German style, in ii. 501 Green for Colouring ii. 501 Minced ii. 500 Omelet ii. 502 Ravioli ii. 502 Salad ii. 502 Soup ii. 502 Stewed, with Anchovy Sauce ii. 503 Sweet ii. 503 Tart ii. 503 Toasts ii. 503 Spirits i. 7, ii. 503 Spits ii. 503 Spleen ii. 504 Split-Peas ii. 129 Sponge Biscuits i. 147 Biscuits, Almond i. 14 Caramels i. 291 Custard i. 510 Sponge Ice i. 775 Lemon i. 852 Orange ii. 44 Peach ii. 138 Pine apple ii. 196 Puddings ii. 268 Sponge Cake ii. 504 a la Chantilly i. 260 Almond i. 14 Berwick i. 259 Butter i. 259 Cream Ice i. 260 Fritters i. 260 Pudding ii. 504 Ring with Cream i. 260 Shape ii. 505 SouiHd ii. 505 Swiss Roll i. 260 Trifle ii. 505 with Rum i. 260 Sponge Cakes i. 258 Apple Snow with i. 34 Cocoa-nut i. 411 Cornflour i. 444 Spongeade, Peach ii. 138 Spoons ii. 506 Sportsman Salad ii. 359 Spot ii. 506 Sprat Patties ii. 507 Pie ii. 507 Rissoles ii. 507 Toasts ii. 508 Sprats ii. 506 Baked ii. 507 Broiled ii. 507 Fried ii. 507 Imitation of Anchovies, in ii. 507 Pickled ii. 507 Potted ii. 507 Salted ii. 507 Smoked ii. 507 Soused ii. 507 Stewed ii. 508 Spring Soup ii. 493 Sprouts ii. 508 Brussels i. 206 Spruce ii. 508 Beer ii. 508 White ii. 508 Spruce and Eggs i. 54 Squab Pie i. 999, ii. 167, 509 Devonshire i. 978 Squabs ii. 508 a la Chipolata ii. 509 a la Crapaudine ii. 509 a l’Americaine ii. 509 Ballotines ii. 509 Broiled ii. 508 Compote ii. 508 Roasted ii. 508 Squash ii. 509 Baked ii. 509 Boiled ii. 509 Mashed ii. 510 Pie if. 510 Pudding ii. 510 Stewed ii. 510 Squashes ii. 509 Squirrels ii. 510 Barbecued ii. 510 Broiled ii. 510 Pie ii. 510 Stewed ii. 510 St. Amand Cake i. 251 St. Honore Cake i. 252 St. John’s Pudding ii. 267 St. Menehould Sauce ii. 395 Stag Horn Cakes i. 260 Starch ii. 511 Stclii ii. 511 Steak ii. 511 Broiled i. 112 Fried i. 117 Fried Hamburg, served'with Russian Sauce i. 117 Hamburg i. 118 Porterhouse ii. 226 Tongs ii. 511 Steamed Bacon i. 65 Steaming ii. 511 Steinwein ii. 511 Stelvio ii. 511 Sterlets ii. 530 a lTmperiale ii. 530 Braised, stuffed ii. 530 Pie ii. 531 Roasted ii. 530 Russian Style, in ii. 531 Stewed ii. 531 Stewed in Chablis Wine ii. 531 Stew, Barley i. 80 Irish i. 779 Red Mutton i. 995 Stewed Apples i. 39 Apples and Rice i. 39 Artichokes i. 49 Asparagus Points i. 54 Barbel i. 75 Beef i. 127 Beefsteaks i. 128 Brisket of Beef i. 128 Cabbage, stuffed with Forcemeat i. 223 Dried Apples i. 39 Fillet of Beef and Olives i. 128 Fillet of Reef with Ojsters i. 128 Haricot Beans i. 93 Larded Fillet of Beef i. 128 Red Haricot Beans i. 93 Rice and Fruit ii. 337 Scraps or Trimmings of Raw Beef i. 128 Silverside of Beef i. 128 Slices of Cold Beef with Green Peas i. 129 Stuffed Bass with Mushroom Sauce i. 84 Stewing ii. 511 Stewpans ii. 512 Sticks, Bread i. 190 Stillroom ii. 512 Stilton Cheese i. 346 Stock ii. 512 Cabbages i. 225 Cheap ii. 512 Clear, a la Franfaise ii. 512 Crayfish i. 460 Dark ii. 513 First ii. 513 First Broth, or i. 205 Game i. 666 General ii. 513 Jelly i. 785 Medium ii. 513 Mixed ii. 513 Rabbit ii. 297 Second ii. 513 Turtle Soup ii. 669 Veal, or Blond de Veau ii. 722 Vegetable Soup, for ii. 513 White ii. 513 Stockfish ii. 514 Stone Cream i. 475 Stones, Lamb's i. 822 Stoppers ii. 514 Store Room ii. 514 Stout ii. 514 Mulled ii. 514881 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Stoves and Ranges ii. 514 Stracchino Cheese 7. 346 Stradella 77. 515 Strawberry Acid, Royal ii. 518 Bavaroise ii. 518 Blanc mange ii. 518 Boucliees ii. 518 Cake 7. 260 Cardinal i. 204 Charlottes ii. 518 Chartreuse ii. 518 Cheese ii. 518 Compote ii. 517 Conserve ii. 519 Cordial ii. 519 Cream ii. 519 Cream Ice ii. 519 Crusts ii. 520 Drops ii. 520 Flawn ii. 520 Fool ii. 520 Fritters ii. 520 Jam ii. 520 Jelly ii. 520 Julep ii. 521 Liqueur ii. 521 Marzipan ii. 521 Meringue ii. 521 Mousse ii. 521 Pudding ii. 521 Pulp, for Ices ii. 522 Pulp, Preserved ii. 517 Punch ii. 522 Raspberry and, Jam ii. 522 Salad ii. 522 Sherbet ii. 522 Sponge ii. 524 Shortbread ii. 522 Shortcake ii. 522 Shrub ii. 523 Souffle ii. 523 Soup ii. 523 Syrup ii. 524 Tablets ii. 524 Tart ii. 524 Trifle ii. 524 Water Ice ii. 525 Whipped Cream, and Raspberry ii. 522 Strawberries ii. 515 Bottled ii. 516 Frozen, and Whipped Cream ii. 517 Iced ii. 517 Jelly, in ii. 521 Preserved ii. 517 Tinned ii. 525 Strewed Cake i. 260 Striped Bass or Rock Fish i. 83 “ Strohl ” Cheese i. 352 Strudels ii. 525 Stuffed Anchovies i. 21 Artichoke Bottoms i. 50 Bass, Stewed, with Mushroom Sauce i. 84 Cakes i. 261 Stuffing ii. 526 Anchovy i. 21 Birds, for ii. 526 Ducks, for ii. 526 Fish, for ii. 526 Fowls, for ii. 526 Goose, for ii. 526 Hare, for ii. 526 Meat 7. 921 Potato ii. 240 Poultry Galantines, for ii. 526 Rabbits, for ii. 526 Sage-and-Onion ii. 353 Sucking-pig, for ii. 526 VOL. II. Stuffing, Truffle aml-Chestnut ii. 628 Turkey, for ii. 526 Turkish, for Poultry ii. 527 Veal, for ii. 527 Stump Pie i. 1,004 Sturgeon ii. o'21 a la Cardinal ii. 529 a la Gouttd ii. 529 a la Hollandaise ii. 529 a la Provenfale ii. 529 a la Roi ii. 529 a la Romaine ii. 529 a la Russe ii. 529 a la Ude ii. 530 a l’lndienne ii. 529 au Gratin it. 529 Baked ii. 527 Blanquette of, with Green Peas ii. 527 Braised ii. 527 Broiled ii. 527 Croquettes ii. 528 Fricandeau ii. 528 Fricassee ii. 528 I'l ied ii. 528 Mayonnaise ii. 528 Patty ii. 530 Quenelles ii. 528 Roasted ii. 528 Rocolnic Soup ii. 530 Sauce for ii. 396 Soup with Curry ii. 530 Stewed ii. 528 Suburek ii. 531 Succotash ii. 531 Sucking-pig ii. 175 Baked ii. 175 Galantine of ii. 176 Roasted ii. 176 Sauce for ii. 396 Stuffing for ii. 526 Timbale of ii. 176 To Carve i. 315 Suedoise ii. 532 Apples i. 39 Apricots 7. 45 Fruits with Jelly i. 658 Salad ii. 359 Suet ii. 532 Crust ii. 532 Dumplings ii. 532 Milk for Invalids ii. 533 Pudding, Baked ii. 532 Pudding, Boiled ii. 532 Pudding, Flied ii. 532 Sugar, Apple i. 35 Barley i. 80 Biscuits i. 147 Boiling ii. 533 Candy ii. 543 Coffee flavoured i. 425 Coloured ii. 533 Drawing ii. 539 Favours ii. 537 Flavoured ii. 533 Icing i. 776 Lemon i. 853 Moulding ii. 537 Peas ii. 128 Piping ii. 537 Plums ii. 537 Ribbon ii. 537 Spinning ii. 537 Tablets ii. 537 Vanilla ii. 680 Working ii. 533 Sugared Almonds i. 15 Flowers ii. 537 Sugar-Iced Apples i. 39 Sully Cakes i. 261 Sulphuric Acid ii. 543 Sultana Cake i. 261, ii. 304 Sultanas ii. 302 Sultanes ii. 543 Summer Drinks 7. 134 Salad ii. 359 Soup ii. 493 Sunshine Cake 7.261 Suppers ii. 544 Ball, and Refreshments i. 68 Soup ii. 493 Supreme Sauce ii. 397 Surn ii. 544 Surprise Apples i. 39 Cygnet Cake i. 261 Peacock Cake 7. 261 Pheasant Cake a la Soyer 7. 261 Sussex Brawn 7. 178 Swan’s Nest Cakes 7. 261 Swartzain 77.544 Swedish Rolls 7. 186 Salad 77.360 Sweet Basil 7. 81 Batter for Frying 7. 87 Biscuits 7. 147 Buns without Eggs 7. 212 Herbs 7.759 Herbs, Fagot of 7. 576 Potato Bread 7. 183 Sauce 77.400 Sop 77.553 Spanish Potatoes, or 77. 242 Sweetbread 77. 544 Aiguillettes 7.5 Attereaux 77.544 Balls 77. 549 Blanquette 77.545 Boucliees 77.545 Chartreuse 77.546 Cromeskies 77. 550 Croquettes 77.550 Cutlets 77.550 Fricandeau 77. 546 Fricassee 77.550 Mushroom and, Patties 77. 550 Pie 77. 551 Ragout 77.547, 551 Rissoles 77.547 Salad 77.551 Soup 77.552 Tart 77. 552 Timbale 77.552 Vol-au-Vent 77.552 Sweetbreads 77.544 a l’Anglaise 77. 549 a la Financiere 77. 549 ii la Parisienne 77. 549 a la Piedmontese 77. 549 a la Toulouse 77. 549 Attelettes of, ft ITtalienne 77. 544 Baked 77.545 Black Butter, with 77. 549 Braised 77.545 Broiled 77.545 Brown Sauce, in 77. 549 Cases, in 77. 550 Casserole of Mock 77. 545 Collops of, with Green Peas 77. 546 Creamed 77.546 Curried 77.546 en Coquilles 77. 549 Fried 77.546 Lamb’s 7.822 Larded 77.546 Macaroni with 7. 891 Mock 77.547 Mushroom Sauce, and 77.551 Mushrooms, with 77. 550 3 L882 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Sweetbreads, Roasted 77. 547 Saute 77.551 Scalloped, a la Richelieu 77. 548 Scrambled 77. 548 Sorrel, with 77.551 Stewed 77.548 White Sauce, in 77.552 Sweetmeats, Cinnamon 7.392 Cocoanut 7.411 Honey 7.770 Lemon 7.853 Peach 77. 138 Swiss Macaroons 7. 896 Roll 77.553 Roll, Sponge Cake 7. 260 Sauce 77.401 Sausages 77.406 Wines 77.553 Sword Fish 77. 553 Syllabub 77.553 Lemon 77.554 London 77.554 Old English 77. 554 Solid 77.554 Somerset 77.554 Staffordshire 77.554 Whip 77.554 Syphons 77.554 Syra 77.554 Syracuse Wine 77. 554 Syrup 77. 554 Ambrosia 7. 16 Apple 7.35 Banana 7. 71 Barberry 7.77 Capsicum 7.287 Caramel 7. 291 Catawba 7.318 Champagne 7.333 Cherry 7.362 Cherry-and-Currant 7. 357 Cherry Soda-Water 7. 361 Chocolate 7.380 Cinnamon 7.392 Coffee Cream 7. 424 Compotes, for 77. 555 Cowslip 7.448 Cream 7.470 Currant 7. 501 Elderberry 7. 571 Excelsior 77.555 Fancy 77.555 Ginger 7.682 Golden 77.555 Gum 7. 728, 77.555 Ices, for 77. 555 Indian 77.555 Lemon 7.853 Lemonade, for 77. 555 Maple 77.555 Marsh- Mai 1 ow 7. 914 Mead 7.917 Mulberry 7.953 Nectar 77.2 Orange 77. 44 Orange and-Lemon 77. 39 Orgeat 77.50 Peacli 77.138 Pineapple 77. 196 Pokeberry 77.213 Pomegranate 77.214 Preserving Fruits, for 77.555 Red and White Currant and Raspberry 7.502 Red Currant 7. 500 Simple, for Cordials or Liqueurs 77. 555 Stock or Store 77. 555 Strawberry 77.524 Syrup, Tamarind 77. 565 Thin Stock, or Drinking 77. 555 Vanilla 77. 680 Vanilla Cream 77.678 Wild Cherry 7. 364 T Table Customs 77.556 Decorations 77.558 D’Hote 77.560 Linen 77.560 Service 77.561 Tables 77.555 Tablets 77. 564 Almond 7. 14 Tafia 77.564 Tagliarini 77.564 Tailli -Kataif 77.564 Tails 77.564 Lamb’s 7.824 Ox 77.63 Pig’s 77.175 Sheep’s 77.444 Talmouses with Cheese 7. 352 Tamara 77.565 Tamarind Chutney 77.565 Cup 77.565 Drink 77.565 Fish 77.565 Syrup 77.565 Water 77.565 Tamarinds 77 . 565 Preserved 77.565 Tammy 77.565 Tankards 77.565 Tansy 77.566 Essence of 77. 566 Julep 77.566 Pudding 77.566 Tao-foo Cheese 7.316 Tapioca 77.567 Apple 7.35 Broth 77.567 Cream 77.567 Cream Soup 77. 568 Custard 77.568 Drink 77.568 Gratine 77.568 Jelly 77.568 Milk, in 77.569 Pudding, Apple and 7.35, 77.567 Puddings 77. 569 Rock 77.570 Snow 77. 570 Souffle 77.570 Soup 77.570 Tomatoes and 77. 570 Taps and Tapping 77. 567 Tar 77.570 Beer made with 7. 130 Taro 77. 571 Tarragon 77. 571 Butter 77.571 Sauce 77.571 Vinegar 77.571 Tart 77. 571 Anchovy 7.21 Apple 7.35 Apple-and Quince 7. 34 Apple Open 7. 31 Apricot Open 7. 42 Barberry 7.77 Blackberry 7. 152 Cherry 7.362 Tart, Cherry Open 7. 360 Chocolate 7.380 Chocolate-cream 7.377 Cocoa-nut 7.411 Cranberry 7.456 Cream 7.470 Custard and Apple 7. 35 Damson 7.514 French 77.572 Fruit 7.657 German Iced 77. 572 Gooseberry 7.706 Gooseberry-and-Cream 7.703 Greengage 7. 717 Lemon 7.853 Marlborough 77. 572 Portuguese 77.572 Royal Berlin 77.572 Sand 77.572 Strawberry 77.524 Tartar Sauce 77. 398 Tartaric Acid 77. 571 Tartary Cakes 7. 262 Tartines 77.574 Anchovy 7.21 Munster 77.574 Tartlets 77. 571 Almond 7. 14 Apple 7. 36 Apricot 7.43 Bilberry 7. 135 Blackberry 7. 152 Cheese 7. 351 Chelsea 77.573 Cherry 7.362 Fancy 77.573 Genoa 77.573 Indian 77.573 Lemon 7.853 Paganini 77.573 Piedmontese 77.573 Roman 77.573 Three-Cornered 77.573 Taste 77.574 Tawntatalet 77.575 Taylor Cakes 7. 262 Tea 77.575 Amazon 7.15 Bencoolen 7. 132 Biscuits 7. 147 Bran 7. 175 Brick 7. 194 Brioche 7. 199 Broiled 77.580 Broussa 7.206 Bush 7.213 Cakes 77.57 8 Caramel Tablets 77.577 Cream 77.578 Cream Ice 77.578 Cream Jelly 77. 578 Cup 77. 57 8 Dandelion 7. 515 Dutch style, in 77. 578 Essence of 77. 577 Herb 7.760 Hop 7.770 Horehound 7.771 Iced 77.577 Jelly 77.578 Jesuits’ 7.788 Labrador 7.804 Lemon 7.853 Linseed 7.862 Meat 7.921 Milk Punch 77.578 Mutton 7.994 New Jersey 77.5 Paraguay 77.89THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 883 Tea, Potato 77. 240 Rolls, or Breakfast 7. 186 Russian style, in ii. 578 Souffle ii. 578 Tea-kettle Broth i. 205 Teal ii. 580 a la Gourmet ii. 581 Devilled ii. 580 Fillets of ii. 580 Roasted ii. 580 Salmis of, a la Regence ii. 580 Tea-pots ii. 579 Tedj ii. 581 Tenareze 77.581 Tench 77.581 Aspic of 77.581 au Gratin 77.583 Boiled ii. 581 Broiled 77.581 Curried 77.582 Fillets 77.582 Fried ii. 582 Pie 77.583 Roasted 77.582 Stewed 77.582 Tendons ii. 583 Terrapin ii. 583 Baked 77.583 Boiled ii. 584 Fricassee 77.584 Salad 77.584 Soup 77.585 Sou]>, Mock 77.584 Steaks 77.585 Stewed 77.584 Yol-au-Vent 77.585 Terrines or Terrenes 77. 585 Teste 77.585 Tlieine 77.585 Thermometers 77.585 Thick Biscuits 7. 147 Thickened Butter 7.217 Milk 7.942 Thrushes 77 . 5 86 a la Paysanne 77.587 au Gratin 77. 587 Cooked in Brandy 77. 588 Chaudfroid of 77. 586 Crcpinettes of 77. 587 in Cases, served with Truffles 77.587 Puree of, with Rice 77.587 Puree Soup 77. 588 Roasted 77.58-7 Salmis of 77. 587 Stewed 77.587 Timbale of, with Truffled Macaroni 77. 588 Thumb-Bits 77.588 Fish 77.588 Game 77.588 Meat 77.588 Mock-Crab 77.589 Mock Game 77. 589 Oyster 77.589 Poultry 77.589 Tomato-and-Sardine 77.589 Thyme 77. 589 Tid-Bits 77.589 Tierce 77.589 Tiger’s Milk 77. 589 Timbales 77.590 Amourettes 7. 18 Apple 7.36 Brioche, with Fruit 7. 199 Cabbage 7.224 Cornflour 7.444 Fruits, of 7. 659 Macaroni 7. 891 I Timbales, Savoury 77. 590 Sweet 77.590 Tinctures 77.590 Capsicum 7.288 Caraway 7.293 Cardamom 7.294 Cinnamon 7.392 Clove 7. 401 Coriander 7.438 Ginger 7.684 Lemon 7.856 Tinned Aspargus, to warm and serve 7.54 Green Peas 77. 129 Lobster 7.882 Meat 7.926 Mutton 7. 1004 Pineapple 77.197 Salmon 77.372 Tomatoes 77.607 Tinta 77.591 Tipparee 77.591 Cheese or Marmalade 77. 591 Jelly 77.591 Preserve 77. 591 Tipsy Cake 7. 262, 77. 591 Pudding 77.269 Trifle 77.615 Tisanes 77.591 Tis Wein 77.591 Tit-Bits 77.589 Toad in the Hole 77. 591 Toast Anchovy 7. 21 and Water 7. 192 Apricot 7.43 Cream 7.470 French 7. 192 Genoa 7. 192 German 7. 192 Lemon 7.853 Maraschino 7.910 Pudding 77.269 Roe 77.343 Salmon 77.371 Savoury 7. 192 Spider-Cake 7.258 Toasted Bloaters 7. 158 Bread Drink 7. 192 Toast Masters 77. 592 Toasts 77.592 Toast-Rack 77.592 Toddy 77.592 Apple 7.36 Toffy 77.5S2 Cream 7. 471 Everton 77.592 Indian 77.593 Marsh Mallow 7.914 Molasses 7.948 Sponge 77.593 White 77.593 Togus Bread 7. 183 Tokay 77.593 Tolu Lozenges 7. 884 Tomato Artichoke, and Salad 7. 49 Chutney 77.600 Conserve 77.600 Figs 77. 601 Green, Chutney 77. 595 Green, Jam 77.595 Green, Sauce 77. 596 Jam 77.601 Jelly 77.602 Juice, Bottled 77. 594 Juice, Preserved 77.597 Ketchup 77. 602 Marmalade 77.603 Omelet 77.603 „ Tomato Paste 77. 603 Piccalilli 77.604 Pickle 77.604 Pie 77.604 Pie, Onion and 77. 603 Pilau 77.604 Preserve 77.604 Pudding, Cornflour and 77.601 Pudding, Meat and 77. 603 Puree 77.604 Salad 77.605 Salad, Artichoke and 77. 600 Salad, Cucumber and 77.601 Sandwiches 77.605 Sauce 77.605 Soup 77.606 Soup, Cream 77. 601 Soup, Pumpkin and 77. 604 Toast 77.607 Vinegar 77.607 Tomatoes 77.593 a la Bock 77. 599 a la Marseillaise 77. 600 a l’Andalouse 77. 599 au Gratin 77. 599 Baked 77.594 Broiled 77.594 Candied 77.595 Cauliflower and 77. 600 Devilled 77.595 Dressed 77.595 Eggs and 77. 601 Fried 77.595 Garnishing, for 77. 601 Green, Pickle 77. 595 Green, with Cream 77. 595 Indian Corn and 77. 601 Macaroni with 77.602 Mashed 77.596 Mayonnaise, with 77. 603 Pickled 77.596 Preserved 77.597 Rice, with 77. 604 Sago, with 77. 605 Savoury 77.597 Scalloped 77.598 Spaghetti, with 77. 607 Spiced 77.598 Steamed 77.598 Stewed 77.598 Stuffed 77.598 Tapioca and 77. 570 Tinned 77. 607 Tom Thumb Rib of Pickled Beef, Boiled 7. 108 Tongs 77.609 Tongue 77.600 Boiled 77.610 Calf’s 7.279 Cod’s 7.419 Jellied 77.610 Lamb’s 7.824 Ox 77.64 Pickled 77.610 Pig’s 77. 175 Potted 77.610 Reindeer 77.317 Salad 77.610 Sandwich 77. 610 Sheep’s 77.444 Stewed 77.610 Toast 77.610 To Carve 7.315 Tonic, Orange 77.45 Toothpicks Tops and Bottoms 77. 610 Tortoise Broth 77.610 Tortoni Biscuits 7. 147 Tough Beef made Tender 7. 129 3 L 2884 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Tough Beef steaks Cooked Tender in Gravy i. 129 Meat ii. 611 Toulouse Sauce ii. 398 Tournedos ii. 611 of Beef i. 129 Tourte ii. 611 Tous-les-Mois ii. 611 Transparent Sauce ii. 398 Traveller’s Pudding ii. 269 Travelling Cakes i. 262 Trays ii. 611 Treacle ii. 612 Beer ii. 612 Cake ii. 612 Parkin ii. 612 l’ie ii. 612 Posset ii. 612 Pudding ii. 612 Pudding, and Plum ii. 612 Tart ii. 613 Tartlets ii. 613 Trepany ii. 613 Trifle 'ii. 613 Apple i. 36 Cold Savoury ii. 614 Cream i. 471 Fruit i. 657 Gooseberry i. 706 Grape i. 710 Lemon i. 854 Macaroon i. 896 Moulded Swiss ii. 614 Old-fashioned ii. 614 Orange ii. 45 Orange Cream ii. 37 Peach ii. 139 Queen of ii. 614 Raspberry ii. 312 Ratafia ii. 315 Savoury ii. 614 Sponge-Cake ii. 506 Strawberry ii. 524 Tipsy ii. 615 Tripe ii. 615 a la Bordelaise ii. 616 a la Caennaise ii. 616 a la Creole ii. 616 a la Dubois ii. 617 a la Lyonnaise ii. 617 ii la Mode ii. 617 a la Poulette ii. 617 a la Toulouse ii. 617 Baked, with Potatoes ii. 615 Boiled ii. 615 Breaded ii. 615 Broiled ii. 615 Curried ii. 615 Fricassee of ii. 615 Fried ii. 616 Onions, and ii. 617 Roasted ii. 616 Rolled Stuffed ii. 616 Salad ii. 617 Soup ii. 617 Stewed ii. 616 Tripletail ii. 618 Triturate ii. 618 Trivet ii. 618 Trois-Six ii. 618 Troughs ii. 618 Trout ii. 618 a la Beyrout ii. 622 a la Cambaceres ii. 622 a la Chambord ii. 622 a la Chasseur ii. 623 a la Genevese ii. 623 a la Venisienne ii. 624 a l’Espagnoie ii. 623 Trout, a l’Hussavde ii. 623 a l’Orly ii. 623 Aspic of ii. 618 au Gratin ii. 623 au Mayonnaise ii. 623 au Remoulade ii. 624 Baked ii. 618 Boiled ii. 619 Broiled ii. 619 Collared ii. 620 Croquettes of ii. 620 en Papillotes ii. 623 Fillets of ii. 620 Fish Jelly, in 624 Fried ii. 620 Matelote of, and Eels ii. 621 Pickled ii. 621 Pie ii. 624 Potted ii. 621 Salad ii. 624 Soused it. 622 Stewed ii. 622 Trul m U. 624 True-lover’s Knots i. 147 Truffle, Chestnut and, Stuffing ii. 628 Cromeskies ii. 628 Forcemeat ii. 628 Ice ii. 628 Omelet ii. 629 Pudding ii. 629 Salad ii. 629 Salad, and Celery ii. 627 Salad, and Potato ii. 629 Sauce ii. 629 Stuffing for Turkey ii. 629 Tart ii. 630 Truffles ii. 624 a la Serviette ii. 627 a l’ltalienne ii. 627 au Gratin ii. 627 Baked ii. 625 Boiled ii. 625 Broiled ii. 625 Cooked in Champagne ii. 627 Cooked in Wine ii. 630 Croustades, in ii. 628 Dressed ii. 625 Eggs, with ii. 628 Essence of ii. 625 Garnish, for ii. 628 Gratinated ii. 625 in Cases ii. 627 Montglas, with ii. 629 on Toast ii. 630 Preserved ii. 626 Puree of ii. 626 Served en Buisson ii. 627 Stewed ii. 626 Stuffed ii. 626 Timbale of ii. 626 Trussing ii. 630 Animals ii. 634 Birds ii. 634 Fish ii. 633 Tuba ii. 636 Tuckahoo ii. 636 Tuginar i. 1,004, ii. 636 Tumblers ii. 636 Tun ii. 636 Tunbridge Cakes i. 262 Tunny ii. 636 Braised, with Green Peas ii. 636 Broiled, Steak ii. 636 Broiled, with Puree of Sorrel ii. 636 Dressed Pickled ii. 636 Fried ii. 636 Omelet ii. 637 Turban ii. 637 Turbot ii. 637 a la Chef de Cuisine ii. 640 a la Creme ii. 641 a la Espagnole ii. 641 a la Gourmet ii. 641 a la Laguipierre ii. 641 a la Maitre d'Hotel ii. 642 a l'Anglaise ii. 640 a la N ormande ii. 642 a la Poulette ii. 642 a la Provencale ii. 642 Aspic ii. 637 au Beurre Noir ii. 640 au Gratin ii. 641 Baked ii. 638 Baked Fillets ii. 637 Baked, Stuffed ii. 637 Boiled ii. 638 Broiled ii. 639 Cassolettes ii. 642 Croquettes ii. 642 Croustades ii. 639 Curried ii. 639 Fillets of, with Cream Sauce ii. 639 Fried ii. 639 Hashed ii. 640 in Shells ii. 644 Kedgeree ii. 640 Mayonnaise ii. 640 Omelet ii. 643 Pie ii. 643 Rechauffe ii. 643 Rolls ii. 644 Salad ii. 644 Sautd ii. 644 Scalloped ii. 640 Soup with Celery ii. 644 Tureen ii. 644 Turin Cakes i. 262 Rolls i. 186 Turkey ii. 644 a la Bourgeoise ii. 655 a la Daube ii. 655 a la Toulouse ii. 655 Aspic of ii. 645 Baked ii. 646 Baked Boned ii. 645 Ballottines ii. 655 Blanquette ii. 646 Boiled ii. 646 Boiled Boned, a la Royale ii. 646 Boned, a l’Americaine ii. 648 Boned, in Aspic Jelly ii. 648 Boudins ii. 656 Braised ii. 648 Braised Larded ii. 648 Breasts ii. 656 Brochettes ii. 656 Broiled, Legs ii. 649 Canapes ii. 649 Chaudfroid ii. 649 Cromeskies, and Tongue ii. 658 Croquettes ii. 656 Custard ii. 656 Devilled Legs ii. 649 Fillets ii. 650 Fricandeau ii. 656 Fricassee ii. 656 Galantine ii. 650 Galantine®!, with Aspic Jelly ii. 651 Giblets ii. 658 Giblet Soup ii. 659 Hashed ii. 651 Legs of, a l’ltalienne ii. 651 Liver Cheese ii. 659 Mayonnaise of, with Aspic Jelly ii. 651 Minced, with Poached Eggs ii. 652 Patties ii. 656885 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Turkey Paupiettes 77. C52 Pie ii. 656 Pinions ii. 656 Potted ii. 652 Pulled ii. 652 Rechauffe with White Sauce ii. 657 Roasted ii. 652 Roasted, Garnished ii. 653 Roasted, Poult ii. 653 Roasted, Stuffed ii. 653 Sandwich ii. 657 Sausage ii. 657 Scalloped ii. 654 Soup ii. 657 Steamed ii. 654 Stewed, various ways ii. 654 Turkish Biscuits i. 147 Broth i. 205 Cakes i. 262 Wines ii. 659 Turk’s Cake i. 263 Turmeric ii. 659 Turning ii. 659 Turnip Bread i. 183 Brown, Garnish ii. 660 Porridge ii. 662 Pudding ii. 662 Puree ii. 662 Salad ii. 662 Sauce ii. 662 Soup ii. 662 Soup, and Rice ii. 662 Turnips ii. 660 a la Creme ii. 661 a la Maitre d'Hotel ii. 661 a la Poulette ii. 661 au Gratin ii. 661 Batter, in ii. 661 Boiled ii. 660 Cream, with ii. 661 Fried, with Curd ii. 660 Garnish for 77.661 Glares 77.662 Glazed with Gravy 77. 660 Mashed ii. 660 Pickled 77.660 Stewed 77.660 Stuffed 77.661 White Sauce, in 77. 663 Turnip-tops 77.663 Boiled 77.663 Poached Eggs and 77. 663 Puree ii. 663 Salad 77.663 Turnovers 77.663 Apple 7.36 Lemon 7.854 Turnspits 77.663 Turtle 77.663 Braised 77.665 Fins 77.666 Fricandeau 77.665 Fricassee 77.666 Fried 77.666 Mignons 77.666 Mock 77. 67 0 Patties 77.666 Pie 77.667 Quenelles 77. 667 Stewed 77. 666 Turtle-Soup 77.667 a l’Americaine 77. 668 Egg Balls for 77. 665 Forcemeat Balls for 77. 665 from Dried Turtle 77. 669 Preserved Green 77. 666 Stock 77.669 Tutti-Frutti 77.672 Icing 77.673 Tutti-Frutti Jelly 77. 673 Preserve 77.673 Twelfth Cakes 77. 673 Twine 77.674 Twists 7. 186 Twopenny 77.674 Tyre or Dhye 7. 939 u Udder 77.674 Ragout 77. 674 Uka Soup 77. 493 Universal Sauce 77. 402 Unleavened Biscuits 7.147 Bread 77.67 4 Urns 77.67 4 Usquebaugh 77.675 V Vacherin 77.675 a la Chantilly 77. 675 Valgiano 77.675 Valois Sauce 77. 398 Vanilla 77.675 Barley Sugar 7. 81, 77. 676 Biscuits 77. 67 6 Cake 77. 67 6 Candy Tablets 77. 67 6 Caramels 77. 677 Cheese 77.677 Cream 77.677 Cream, and Chocolate 77. 677 Cream, and Currant 77. 678 Cream Fritters 77. 677 Cream Ice 77. 67 7 Cream Liqueur 77. 678 Cream Sauce 77. 678 Cream Syrup 77. 678 Cup Custard 77. 678 Custard 77.678 Drops 77 . 67 8 Eclairs 77.67 8 Essence 77.67 6 Extract 77.676 Flavouring 77.676 Fritters 77.678 Ice, and Strawberry 77. 680 Jelly 77.679 Liqueur 77.679 Lozenges 77.679 Pudding 77.679 Sauce 77.679 Souffle 77.679 Souffle, and Chocolate 77. 677 Souffle Pudding 77. 680 Sticks 77.680 Sugar 77.680 Syrup 77.680 Tartlets 77.680 Water Ice 77.681 Whipped Cream 77.681 Vases 77.681 Vatrovskies 77.681 Vats 77.681 Veal 77.681 a la Barbaric 77. 707 a la Casserole 77. 707 a la Polonaise 77. 707 a l’ltalienne 77. 707 Aspic of 77. 682 Veal, Attereaux of, and Ham 77. 682 Baked, Chops 77. 682 Baked, Cutlets 77. 683 Baked Leg 77. 682 Baked Loin 77. 682 Birds or Mock Pigeons 77. 707 Blanquettes of, Various 77. 683 Boudins 77.684 Breast 77.686 Breast of, Braised 77. 684 Breast of, Broiled 77. 686 Breast of, Roasted 77.701 Breast of, Stewed 77. 703 Brisotin 77.686 Broiled, a la Venisienne 77. 687 Broth 77.708 Cake or Pain 77. 708 Cannelon 77.688 Carving 7.315 Cheese 77.695, 709 Chops, Broiled 77. 687 Chops, Fried 77. 692 Chumps 77.688 Chump of, Braised 77. 684 Chump of, Roasted 77.701 Chump of, Stewed 77.704 Collared Breast 77. 688 Col lops 77. 709 Collops of, a la Turque 77. 688 Collops, Scotch 77. 702 Cones 77.709 Country Captain 77.710 Cream 77.689 Cromeskies 77.710 Croquettes 77.710 Curried 77.689 Cushion 77.689 Cushion of, Braised 77. 685 Cushion of, Broiled 77. 687 Cushion of, Glazed 77. 693 Cushion of, Roasted 77.701 Cutlets 77.710 Cutlets, Braised Larded 77. 685 Cutlets, Broiled 77. 687 Cutlets, Fried 77. 692 Cutlets, Stewed Larded 77. 7 04 Doopiaja 77.714 Farces 77.707 Fillets 77.690 Fillet of, Boiled 77. 684 Fillet of, Braised 77. 685 Fillet of. Pickled 77. 7 00 Fillet of, Roasted 77. 701 Fillet of, Stewed 77. 704 Forcemeat 77. 714 Forcemeat Balls 77.715 Fricadelles 77.715 Fricandeau 77.690 Fricassee with Scorzonera 77. 715 Gelatine 77.693 Gravy 77. 715 Gravy Soup 77. 715 Grenadines 77.693 Ham 77.715 Ham and, Fritters 77.715 Ham and, Patties 77. 716 Ham and, Pie 77.716 Haricots 77.694 Hashed 77.694 Flotch-potch of Knuckles 77. 695 Jellied 77.695 Jelly 77.716 Knuckle of 77. 695 Knuckle of, Boiled 77. 684 Knuckle of, Braised 77. 685 Knuckle of, Stewed 77. 704 Loaf 77.716 Loin 77.695 Loin of, Braised 77. 685886 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Veal, Leg of, en Surprise ii. 695 Loin of, Roasted ii. 702 Loin of, Sauce for ii. 396 Loin of, Stewed ii. 705 Macaronie l, au Gratin ii. 696 Marbled ii. 696 Marsden Cake ii. 696 Mayonnaise of Tendons ii. 696 Melton ii. 696 Minced ii. 696 Mireton ii. 698 Montg'las ii. 698 Mulligatawny ii. 717 Neck ii. 698 Neck of, Braised ii. 685 Noix ii. 699 Noix of, Braised if.. 685 Noix of, Stewed ii. 705 Olive Pie ii. 718 Olives ii. 717 Omelet Paupiettes ii. 718 Patties ii. 718 Paupiettes ii. 700, 719 Pie ii. 7 J 9 Pie a la Franfai.se ii. 720 Pie, Oyster and ii. 718 Pie, Parsley and ii. 768 Pot-Pie ii. 720 Potted ii. 700 Pudding ii. 721 Quenelles ii. 700 Ragout ii. 721 Rechauffe of Cold ii. 701 Rissoles ii. 721 Rissoles, Potato and it. 720 Rolled ii. 702 Rolls ii. 721 Round of, Roasted ii. 702 Salad, Potato and ii 721 Sandwiches ii. 721 Sausages ii,. 722 Sausages, Broiled ii. 687 Shape ii. 722 Shoulder of, Roasted ii. 702 Soup ii. 722 Spiced ii. 703 Steak, Broiled ii. 688 Stewed ii. 705 Stock or Blond de Veau ii. 722 Stuffed Shoulder of, with Aspic ii. 706 Stuffing ii. 527 Tendons a la Poulette ii. 706 Tendons it la Provenfale ii. 722 Tendons of, Braised ii. 686 Tendons of, Fried ii. 692 Tendons of, Stewed ii. 705 Terrine ii. 706 Timbales ii. 707 Turnover ii. 722 Vol au Vent ii. 723 Vegetable Broth i. 205 Consomme ii. 728 Entree ii. 728 Floating Garnish for Soups ii. 728 Fritters ii. 728 Olio ii. 728 Pie ii. 728 Pudding ii. 269, 729 Puree ii. 729 Puree Soup ii. 729 Salad ii. 729 Sauce for Fish ii. 729 Soup ii. 729 Vegetables ii. 723 Batter for Frying i. 87 Blanc for i. 155 Curried ii. 727 Essence of, for Soups and Sauces ii. 727 Vegetables, Jardiniere ii. 728 Macedoine ii. 728 Salad of, with Aspic Jelly ii. 359 Vegetable-Marrow ii. 730 a la Chambord ii. 733 a la Poulette ii. 733 ii l’Espagnole ii. 733 a l’Orly ii. 733 au Gratin ii. 733 au Jus ii. 733 Boiled ii. 730 Flowers ii. 735 Fried ii. 731 Jam ii. 734 Marmalade ii. 734 Pie ii. 734 Preserved ii. 731 Pudding ii. 734 Rissoles ii. 734 Sauce ii. 734 Sauce it la Lyonnaise ii. 733 Saute ii. 734 Soup ii. 734 Stewed ii. 732 Stuffed ii. 732 Stuffed, with Fish ii. 735 Veirga ii. 735 Velvet Breakfast Cakes i. 203 Cake i. 263 Sauce ii. 398 Venetian Sauce ii. 398, 401 Venice Biscuits i. 147 Cake i. 263 Venison ii. 735 a la Minute ii. 740 Baked ii. 736 Breast of, Stewed ii. 740 Carving ii. 315 Chops, Broiled ii. 736 Civet of ii. 733 Collops ii. 740 Croquettes ii. 741 Cutlets, Braised ii. 736 Cutlets, Broiled ii. 736 Cutlets, Stewed with Tomato Sauce ii. 740 Fillets ii. 737 Fillet of, Roasted ii. 738 Forequarter of, Roasted ii. 738 Fried Chops ii. 737 Fried Cutlets ii. 737 Fried Steak ii. 737 Frizzled ii. 737 Haricot ii. 737 Hashed ii. 737 Haunch of, Roasted ii. 739 Leg of, Baked ii. 735 Leg of, Roasted ii. 739 Neck of ii. 738 Neck and Shoulder of, Roasted ii. 739 Pie or Pasty ii. 741 Potted ii. 738 Potted Beef with Flavour i. 121 Pudding ii. 742 Roasted ii. 740 Saddle of, a la Polonaise ii. 740 Saddle of, Baked ii. 736 Saddle of, Roasted ii. 739 Salad ii. 742 Shoulder of, Roasted ii. 740 Shoulder of, Stewed ii. 740 Soup ii. 772 Steaks ii. 742 Steaks, Broiled ii. 736 Stewed ii. 740 Ventilation ii. 743 Vent-Pegs ii. 743 Venus Pudding ii. 269 Verjuice ii. 743 Vermicelli ii. 743 a la Reine ii. 743 Cake ii. 743 Croquettes ii. 743 Patties ii. 743 Pudding ii. 744 Souffle ii. 744 Soil]) ii. 744 Timbale ii. 745 Vermouth ii. 7 45 Viands ii. 745 Vichy Water i. 3 Vicou ii. 745 Victoria Biscottine i. 136 Biscuits i. 147 Cake i. 263 Macaroons i. 896 Pudding ii. 269 Sauce ii. 399 Soup ii. 493 Vidogna ii. 745 Vienna Beer ii. 745 Cakes i. 263 Flour ii. 745 Pudding i. 269 Rolls i. 186 Villeroy Sauce ii. 399 Vinasse ii. 745 V inegar ii. 7 46 Basil i. 81 Black-Currant i. 497 Cake ii. 7 47 Camp ii. 747 Candy ii. 747 Celery i. 328 Cherry i. 362 Chilli' i. 288 Cider i. 389 Cowslip i. 448 Cress i. 478 Cucumber i. 488 Elder-flower i. 5/1 Fine-Herbs i. 586 Fruit i. 658 Garlic i. 668 Gooseberry i. 706 11 erb i. 7 60 Honey i. 770 Horseradish i. 772 McCarty’s ii. 747 Mint- i. 946 Molasses i. 948 Nasturtium flower ii. 1 Pear ii. 145 Pie ii. 747 Plum, and Claret ii. 209 Primrose ii. 247 Raspberry ii. 312 Red Currant i. 500 Rhubarb ii. 321 Shallot ii. 436 Syrup ii. 748 Tarragon ii. 571 Tomato ii. 607 Violet ii. 749 Walnut ii. 757 Whey ii. 748 Vine-Leaves ii. 745 Stuffed ii. 746 Vino-Col to ii. 748 Vino Santo ii. 748 Vin-Regno ii. 748 Vins de Liqueur ii. 748 Ordinaires ii. 748 Violet Balls ii. 748 Conserve ii. 748 Drops ii. 748 Marmalade ii. 749THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 887 Violet Pudding ii. 209 Rock Candy 77. 7 49 Sherbet ii. 749 Vinegar ii. 749 Violets ii. 748 Candied ii. 748 Essence ii. 748 Jelly, in ii. 748 Preserved ii. 7 48 Syrup ii. 748 Virginia Verder Punch ii. 275 Vivo ii. 749 Vocalist’s Soup ii. 494 Vodka ii. 749 Vol-au-Vents 77.749 a la Chantilly 77.749 a la Financiere 77. 749 a la Normande ii. 749 a la Toulouse ii. 750 Apples 7.39 Apricots 7.45 au Praises 77.7 49 Beef Tendons 7.129 Cold Game 7. GG7 Fish Forcemeat 7.957 Fruits 7.659 Oyster 77.82 Salmon 77. 371 Veal 77.7 23 Voslauer 77.750 Vouara 77.750 w Wafer Biscuits 7. 147 Jumbles 7.792 Paper 77.751 Pudding 77.269 Wafers 77 . 7 50 a rAllemande 77. 751 Almond 7. 14 Chocolate 7.380 Cinnamon 7.392 Cream, tilled with 77. 751 Dried Yeast 77. 802 Dutch 77.750 Flemish 77.750 French 77.730 Ginger 7.682 Graham-Flour 7.708 Lemon 7.854 Oatmeal 77. 16 Pistachios, with 77.751 Russian 77.750 Timbale of 77. 750 Vanilla-flavoured 77. 751 Waffles 77.752 a la Casalesry 77. 753 American 77.752 Flemish 77.752 French 77.753 German 77.753 Ingleside 77.753 Quick 77.753 Raised 77.753 Rice 77.338 Russian 77.753 Sour Cream 77. 753 Waiters 77.754 Walnut Biscuits 7. 14, 77. 757 Jam and, Biscuits 77. 757 Cake 77.757 Candy 77.757 Cream Ice 77.757 Ketchup 77. 756, 758 Leaves 77.758 Walnut Mead 77. 758 Pickle 77.757 Ratafia 77. 758 Salad 77 . 7 5 8 Sandwiches 77. 758 Sauce 77.757 Sauce for Fish, Anchovy and 77.756 Vinegar 77.757 Wine 77.758 Walnuts 77.754 Coffee 7.425 Compote of Green 77.755 Conserve of Green 77. 755 Dessert, Prepared*for 77. 758 Green 77.755 Pickled 77.755 Preserved Green 77. 756 Sugared 77.757 Warming 77.758 Warren’s Cooking-pot and Curry-pan 77.758 Washington Biscuits 7.148 Cake 7.264 Wassail 77.759 Waste 77.759 Water 77.7 60 Aerated 7.3 Apple 7.37 Barley 7.80 Bread 7.183 Cakes 7.264 Gum 7.728 Lemon 7.854 Pudding 77.269 Rice 77.338 Souchet 77.760 Tamarind 77.565 Toast 7. 192 Toast and 7.192 Watercress 7.477 Butter 7.478 German mode of Cooking 7. 478 Salad 7.478 Stewed 7.478 Water-Melon 7.932 Cake 7.264 Wax for Bottling 7. 169 Weddings and Wedding Breakfasts 77. 760 Weevers 77.761 a la Maitre d’Hotel 77.761 a la Normande 77. 761 Baked 77.761 Weevils 77.761 Weights and Measures 77. 761 Weiss Beer 77.763 Welsh Broth 7. 205 Welsli-Rarebit 7.353 au Gratin 7. 353 Sandwich 7.353 Westmoreland Soup 77.494 Westphalian Cheese 7. 346 Sausages 77.406 Wheat 77. 763 Soup 77.765 Wheat-ears 77.765 Wheat-flour Batter Cakes 77. 7 64 Crumpets, Cornflour and 77.764 Gruel 77.764 Wheat-meal Biscuits 77.764 Bread 7.184 Cakes 77.764 Gems 77.764 Muffins 77.765 Scones 77.765 Wheat-starch Jelly 77. 765 Whelk 77.765 Soup 77.766 Salad 77.766 Whey 77.766 Cream 7. 471 Lemon 7.854 Orange 77.45 Vinegar 77.748 Wine 77.791 Whipped Cream 7.476 Cream, Vanilla 77.681 Whips, Lemon 7. 854 White Biscuits 7. 148 Broth 7.205 Cake 7.264 Macaroons 7.896 Mountain Cake 7. 264 Puddings 77.7 68 Sauce 77.399 Sausages 77.406 Soup 77.494 Whitebait 77.767 Devilled 77. 7 68 Fried 77.768 Omelet a la Napolitaine 77. 768 Salad 77. 768 Soup 77.7G8 White-Cabbage 7.219 Fried 7.222 Pickled 7.223 Salad 7.224 Stewed 7.223 White-Currant 7.500 Granito 7.500 Jelly 7.501 Shrub 7.501 Wine, and Cherry 7. 500 White Currants 7. 500 Compote of Red and 7. 501 Sugared 7.500 ! Whitefish 77.768 White Haricot Bean Puree 7. 93 White Haricot Beans and Cream 7. 93 Haricot Beans in Gravy 7. 93 Whites 77.769 Whiting 77.769 a la Chef de Cuisine 77. 772 Baked 77.770 Boiled 77.770 Boudins 77. 7 7 0 Broiled 77.771 Buttered 77.771 Dried 77.771 Fillets of 77. 771 Forcemeat 77. 774 Fried 77.772 Grilled 77.772 Jelly, in 77. 774 Paupiettes 77. 772 Pie 77. 774 Pudding 77.774 Quenelles 77.774 Scalded 77.772 Souffle 77.772 Stewed 77.772 Whisks and Whisking 77.766 Whisky 77.766 Cobbler 7.402 Fiz 77.767 Julep, Irish 77.767 Nip, Peppermint and 77.767 Punch 77.275, 767 Sling 77.7 67 Smash, Irish 77.767 Smash, Scotch 77.767 Whole-meal Bread 7. 184 Whole-wheat Biscuits 77. 765 Widgeon 77.774 Grilled 77.775 Roasted 77. 775 Wild Boar Flesh prepared in Italian style 7.161TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 888 Wild-Boar, Galantine of Head 7. 161 Ham 7. 161 Wild Duck 77 775 Boiled ii. 775 Broiled ii. 775 Fillets ii. 775 Hashed ii. 776 Roasted ii. 776 Salmis ii. 779 Wildfowl, Sauce for ii. 396 Wild-Goose ii. 777 Baked ii. Til Braised ii. Ill Wilhelm’s Quelle i. 3 Wiltshire Cheese i. 346 Windbags or German Light Puddings ii. 269 Windsor Soup ii. 494 Wine i. 7, ii. Ill Apple i. 37 Apricot i. 45 Barley i. 81 Bilberry i. 135 Biscuits i. 148, ii. 788 Blackberry i. 152 Blackberry, with Plums i. 152 Black Currant i. 497 Cactus i. 225 Cake 77.788 Cayenne 7.288 Cherry 7.363 Chianti 7.370 Chocolate 7.380 Clary 7.399 Coltsfoot 7.428 Cowslip 7.448 Cream Ice 77.788 Currant and-Cherry 7. 501 Currant, from Unripe Fruit 7.502 Custard ii. 788 Damson 7.514 Dandelion 7.515 Drinking 77.786 Egg 7.563 Elderberry 7. 571 Elder-flower 7. 571 Finger Biscuits 77.788 Froth 77.788 Fruit 7. 658 Ginger 7.683 Glasses, Liqueur and 77.791 Gooseberry 7.706 Grape 7. 710 Greengage 7.718 Hermitage 7.760 Hock 7.766 Ices 77.7 88 Jelly 77.7 88 Lemon 7.854 Malmsey 7.906 Malt 7.906 Malvasia 7.906 Manzanilla 7.909 Marigold 7. 911 Marsala 7.913 Medoc 7.929 Mongol /, 948 Moselle 7. 949 Mulled 77.787 Negus 77.789 N ettle 77. 5 Orange 77.45 Palm 77.85 Parsnip 77.93 Port 77.225 Posset 77. 789 Primrose 77.247 Raisin 77.304 Raspberry 77.313 Wine, Red-Currant 7. 500 Red Currant and Cherry 7.498 Red or White Currant 7. 503 Rhine 77.318 Rhubarb 77.321 Roll 77.7 89 Sack 77.353 Sauce 77.7 89 Sauterne 77.408 Service of 77. 786 Shallot 77.476 Shape 77.7 90 Sherry 77.447 Shiraz 77.447 Soup 77.7 90 Spiced 77.68 Walnut 77.758 Whey 77.791 Wines 7. 7, 77. 777 Algerian 7.8 American 7. 17 Animal 7.23 Australian 7.60 Austrian 7.60 British 7.200 Cape 7.283 Caucasian 7.318 Chinese 7.372 Colouring Mixture for 7. 427 Cyprus 7.512 Falerian 7.576 Hungarian 7.773 Imperial 7.776 Inferno 7.779 Italian 7.779 Russian 77. 351 Spanish 77.497 Swiss 77.553 Turkish 77.659 Varieties 77.778 Winter Drink 7.134 Salad 77.360 Wood 77.791 Woodcock 77.791 Bouchees 77.792 Cliaudfroid 77.792 Essence 77.7 92 Fillets 77.7 92 Liver Sauce 77. 7 95 Pie 77.795 Puree 77. 795 Salmi 77.7 93 Souffle 77.7 95 Souffle, Truffle and 77. 796 Terrine 77.794 Woodcocks 77.791 a la Chef de Cuisine 77. 795 a la Minute 77. 795 a la Perigueux 77. 7 95 Broiled 77.792 en Croustades 77.794 Fried 77.793 Roasted 77.793 Scotch 77.412 Stewed Stuffed 77. 7 94 Wood-Hens 77.7 96 a la Russe 77. 7 96 Broiled 77.796 Cake or Pain a la Suedoise 77. 7 96 Cutlets 77.7 96 Pie 77.796 Wood- Pigeons 77. 797 Stewed 77. 184 Wood-Sorrel 77.7 97 Worcester Sauce 77.402 Wormwood 77.797 Bitters 7. 150 Wort 77. 797 Wreath Cakes 7.264 Wrexham Pudding 77. 269 Y Yam Balls 77. 799 Cassolettes 77.799 Cream 77.7 99 Croquettes 77.7 99 Flour 77. 7 99 Fritters 77.7 99 Omelet 77.7 99 Pie 77.7 99 Puree 77.7 99 Rissoles 77.800 Roll 77.800 Salad 77.800 Snow 77.800 Souffle 77.800 Soup 77.800 Straws 77.800 Timbale 77.800 Yams 77.7 97 a la Barigoule 77. 798 a la Maitre d’Hotel 77. 789 a lltalienne 77. 789 au Gratin 77. 7 98 Baked 77.7 98 Boiled 77.7 98 Broiled 77.798 Creamed 77.7 98 Curried 77.798 en Chateau 77. 799 Fried 77.7 98 Glazed 77. 798 Mashed 77.798 Sautes 77.800 Steamed 77.800 Stewed 77.800 Stuffed 77.800 Yeast 77.800 Cake 77.802 Dumplings 77. 802 Fritters 77.803 Paste with Alum, Dried 77. 802 Potato 77.241 Puddings 77.803 Wafers, Dried 77. 802 Yellow Colouring 7.427 Sauce 77.399 York Biscuits 7. 148 Cheese 7.346 Hams 7. 7 36 Yorkshire Brawn 7. 178 Cakes 7.264 Pie 77.803 Pudding 77.803 Spice Cake 7. 264 Yule Cake 7.264 z Zakonski 77. 803 Zakuska 77.803 Zampino 77.804 j Zanders 77.804 Aspic Jelly with 77. 805 Boiled 77. 805 Boudins of, en Croustade 77.804 Stewed 77.804 Zephyrs 77.805 Zest 77.805 | Zrazy 77.805 | Zweibachen 77.805ARTISTIC CONFECTIONER2 M Descriptive. Index to Special Plates. Frontispiece. Portrait of the Editor, under whose direction the immense mass of practical information collected for this Encyclopaedia has been critically analysed and assorted. In this great task he has been assisted by a staff of chefs and others representing the highest culinary talent in the world. The result speaks for itself. The Old Masters. Amongst the many names of famous cooks, of whom record has been handed down from generation to genera- tion, there are none who have shown more prominently in their times than those whose portraits are presented in this Plate. Careme had ever been acknowledged to be the father of artistic cookery. Ude, as a friend of Brillat- Savarin, assisted in the development of epicureanism. Prancatelli excelled in preparing sweet entremets for his Royal patron the Queen, whom he served till the time of his death. Soyer made himself famous during the Irish famine and the Crimean war, concluding his career as chef to the Reform Club; and Gunter, of Oxford Street, is a household word. Modern Chefs, Cooks, and Confectioners. Following closely in the paths laid down for them by their accomplished predecessors are the works of such men as are portrayed in this Plate; their individual successes are duly recorded on the title page. The Editor would willingly have added the portraits of many others who have worked heartily with him in the pro- duction of the Encyclopaedia, but unfortunately modesty prevailed over a desire for public fame. Kitchen for an Hotel. This Plate is introduced for the purpose of showing the extensive and elaborate fittings required to supply the demands of a large hotel. Soups and sauces only are prepared in this chamber, it being merely an adjunct to others of much larger capacity. It is drawn from one of the kitchens in Anderton’s Hotel, London. Attelettes (Sweet and Savoury). In this Plate is shown a variety of elaborate modes of garnishing the silver (or plated) ornamental skewers used in the decoration of special dishes. See Attelettes. A Modern Ball Buffet. This arrangement is remarkable for the convenience it affords the guests of obtaining refreshments at any time during the ball, in lieu of a formal supper. The foods are so prepared as to offer the greatest variety combined with the simplest method of service, wines, dishes, &c.,. being replenished by attendants, whose movements are almost entirely concealed by the luxuriant foliage. For further particulars, see Ball Suppers and Refreshments. VOL. II. Artistic Garnishes for Birds. The descriptive text at the foot of each drawing in this Plate proclaims them all to be specimens of gar- nishing only to be accomplished by masterly cooks. Instructions for their preparation will be found under their special headings. Bottles and Flasks for Liqueurs and Spirits. Wine Bottles and Flasks. These two Plates demonstrate the remarkable variety shown in the manufacture of bottles for special purposes. The majority of those illustrated are familiar to many, and will be recognised as old acquaintances; to others they may be regarded as indicators of the genuine article. Fancy Loaves and Bolls. Many varieties of the fancy bread, British and foreign, that are met with in this country are here shown. Directions for their manufacture will be found under Bread. Bride Cakes. Chief amongst the names of famous bride-cake decorators stands that of our talented contributor, Mr. C. Norwak; and of his wonderful productions this Plate affords some evidence. The delicate and fairy-like net- work and tracery show a master hand in the art of sugar-piping; and that, combined with the exquisite arrangement of artificial flowers, produces a magnificent effect. See Bride Cakes, Sugar-piping, &c. Buffet or Sideboard Displayed as for a Cold Luncheon or Banquet. The days of the old baronial-hall banquets are fast fading away under the glamour of more modern service; but it would be difficult to find amongst modern “ improvements ” anything to surpass the solid grandeur of the display when a real boar’s head graced the side- board at a noble feast. The butler and chief cook would contribute their united abilities to the arrangement of the buffet, so as to make it a grand display, whilst the table was comparatively bare. The introduction of more modern services has led to combinations that have added to the table without detracting much from the buffet. Ornamental Butter-work. This Plate is a reproduction from the original specimen of butter-work upon glass, executed by C. Norwak, and for which he was awarded a handsome prize. Picnic Cakes. Amongst the immense variety of cakes suitable for special purposes those depicted on this Plate are unique. They represent Lawn Tennis, Coaching, Cricket, Boating, Football, and Polo. These ornaments are easily made in sugar and laid on a white or tinted sugar-icing. See Cakes and Sugar-moulding.890 DESCRIPTIVE INDEX TO SPECIAL PLATES. Centre Dish—Le Coq Gallant (A votre Service). Plaster cock, with real feathers, marshal’s hat, pince- nez glasses, rapier, belt with motto and pendant, spurs, &c. It stands on a cold chicben-and-ham pie, garnished with sliced eggs, surrounded with poulardes (cold roasted), ornamented with attelettes of jelly, and surmounted by truffle, cock’s-comb, and silver cock’s head. Between the poulardes are lark patties, garnished. See Attelettes Eggs, Fowls, Cocks’-combs, Truffles, Ac. Artistic Centre-piece (Birds). The stand is moulded in fat on a plaster base. The top stage is supported by swans and carries a wreath of larks and snipe, the latter with beaks pointing upwards, and turned truffles threaded upon them. The second stage, or base, consists of swans bearing dishes of truffles on their wings, and a wreath of quails and woodcocks quaintly trussed, with mushroom-tops threaded on their beaks. Carnations and other flowers complete the design. French Chef d’CEuvre.—Artistic Centre-piece for Supper-table. . Neptune, dolphins, and horses moulded in tinted fat. Car, either natural shell or of fat. Falling water in tinted fat on plaster foundation. Coral in coloured fat. Lobster, crayfish, and salmon forcemeat fritters laid on brown rocks made of fat. Oysters on half shells. Shells and moss on plaster stand. . Artistic Centre-pieces. In this Plate are given some very beautiful designs for a sultane dessert etagere and croquenbouche of meringues, which possess the merit of novelty and elegance. The modes of preparing the sultane and croquenbouche are described in the text. The etagere is merely a series of dishes arranged in stages and dressed with fruit. A Few Favourite Cheeses. This Plate illustrates the great variety in character and colour of the many cheeses known in this country. For further particulars, see Cheese. Artistic Cold Pieces. The garnishing of cold meats or fish is one of the fine arts of the cook’s education. The specimens of decora- tion shown in this Plate are taken from actual dishes, and may be pronounced marvels of artistic excellence. Collared and Spiced Meats. The various samples shown in this Plate are all fully described under their various headings. Fancy Confectionery. Artistic Confectionery (Nos. 1 and 2). The terms “ artistic ” and “ fancy ” confectionery may, for the explanation of these Plates, be considered synonymous. The specimens depicted are a few of many that the confectioners’ ingenuity and artistic taste have prepared for the satisfaction of the public. Artistic Stands of Crystallised Fruits and Flowers. This Plate shows the beautiful effects that can be obtained by their artistic arrangement. Violets, primroses, orange-flowers, and carnations take foremost rank amongst crystallisable and edible flowers. See Crystallising. Artistic Dessert Dishes. In the service of fruit many exquisite arrangements and designs are available. The modes delineated in this Plate are very elegant and artistic. The large central basket can be constructed from bits of wood, riveted together and gilt. Walnuts, halved, peeled, and returned to their shells and tied together with coloured ribbons are effective; and pines, melons, and other fruit, sliced and tied together with broad ribbon, are both serviceable and ornamental. See Fruit. A Dinner in Pompadour Style. This arrangement of a dinner-table is named after the Marchioness de Pompadour, whose exquisite taste and fancy are famous throughout the world. The outlines on the table are traced with trails of Pompadour roses stitched on to the cloth that covers it, and a looped muslin and lace over-skirt falls over a lace or embroidered under-skirt with graceful effect. The large central lamp and corner candelabra are covered by rose-coloured shades. Artistic Arrangement for Dinner-table. It is almost impossible, to describe the wonderful beauty of this arrangement, although the details of con- struction are sufficiently simple—real water in the lake and fountain, and living gold fish, with miniature swans and gondolas, surrounded by cork banks in imitation of rockery, and ferns, lighted up here and there with glow- worm lamps. The dripping fountain of tinted waters fall into the large basin containing mermaids with entwined tails, supporting with one hand the upper basin of the fountain, and the other holding shells of bon-bons temptingly toward the guests. See Table-Decoration. Arrangement for a Dinner-table. This Plate is strictly original, in that it represents a high-class dinner minus the guests, the service and arrangements being plainly demonstrated and every practical detail shown. See Table-Service. Artistic Sweet Entremets. In this Plate are given some unique designs for those dishes so very dear to ladies of all nationalities and of all classes. Varieties of sweet entremets are legion, and include dishes made up of fruits stewed or preserved in sugar, compotes, cakes, gateaux, creams, custards, jellies, pies, tarts, and numerous other similar preparations. Reference should be made to these headings. Preserved Fish. Dried Fish. Some familiar examples are given in these two Plates, which will enable the purchaser to judge of quality as well as kind. For further particulars, see special headings. Artistic Modes of Serving Fish. The most observable feature of this Plate is the use of the highly ornamental French hot-water bowl under the flat silver dish upon which the fish rests. The garnishes are in each case noteworthy as being particu- larly suited to the fish they decorate. Instructions for preparing these dishes will be found in the text under Fish, and under their special headings. Artistic Fish Garnishes. For the garnishing of fish dishes gold medals have been freely awarded at cookery competitions. Some select examples are shown in this Plate.891 DESCRIPTIVE INDEX TO SPECIAL PLATES. Pish Removes. A plainly-served fish is somewhat unsightly, and the chefs art is devoted to remedying the evil. By means of tact and discretion he is able to produce such picturesque dishes as are displayed in this Plate. Artistic Floral Decorations. Floral Table Decorations. Gum-paste Work (No. 1).—Military Trophy Gum-paste Work (No. 2).—Basket for Fruit. On these Plates are given designs and plans which indicate the modes of producing highly ornamental stands, vessels, &c., from gum-paste. Under that heading will be found instructions for the working of this pliant material, and descriptive text of these Plates. From the earliest days of which we have any record of the festive doings of civilisation the board has ever been graced by the jiresence of flowers, ferns, or foliage. Such decorations may vary from the simple plant in pot or gathered spray to the most elaborate and profuse arrangement or design that the art of the florist can con- trive. In these two Plates some original samples of artistic floral decorations are given which accord with the instructions given under Table-Decoration. Ornamental, Artistic, and Fanciful Arrangements of Fruits for Table or Sideboard. This Plate is worthy of considerable notice, as the expert in table decorations delights in such clever displays. Artistic Hors d’CEuvre. The service of hors d’oeuvre (see under that heading), not merely as appetisers, but as plats volants that are available at any time during the meal, is becoming more fashionable every day. The range of foods suitable is somewhat extensive, the samples shown in this Plate being of exceptional merit. Artistically-served Ices. Since the introduction into this country of the Neapolitan styles of preparing and Serving ices, the ingenuity of the confectioner lias been devoted to the subject, with the satisfactory results that some very elaborate ices have found their way to high-class tables. This Plate shows a few clever devices. Sec Ices. Artistic Galantines. As viands for luncheons, suppers, and other cold colla- tions, there are none so applicable as savoury galantines; they admit of the simplest treatment, and of the most artistic, from the simple roll of spiced meat witli its parsley- spray garnish to the elaborate and exquisite arrangements shown in this Plate. Instructions for the preparation of such dishes are given under special headings, such as Eels, Fowls, Game, Larks, Plovers, &c. Artistic Garnishes. Garnishes. These two Plates convey suggestions for the prepara- tion and arrangement of various little tasty articles that admit of ornamental arrangement round large dishes. Artistic Garnishes for Cold Joints. The system of garnishing depicted in this Plate belongs to the highest order of the culinary art, requiring con- siderable time, care, and ingenuity in the arrangement. Artistic Gateaux. This Plate shows the wonderful effects that can be produced by applying coloured icing-sugar to Genoa and other plain cakes cut into elegant shapes, and by fastening slices together with apricot or other marmalade. By filling-up hollows with whipped cream, and ornament- ing with sugar-piping, spun sugar, candied fruits, bon- bons, &c., some remarkable dishes result. Drinking-glasses. Although glass was manufactured in this country as early as the middle of the sixteenth century, it was not produced in anything like perfection until the commence- ment of the nineteenth century; since then it has advanced with giant strides, as may be seen by a careful study of the specimens shown in this Plate. See also Tumblers. Artistic Emblematic Grosses Pieces. The splendid specimens of the culinary art shown in these Plates may be composed of either sweets or savouries, the stand being moulded in gum-paste (refer to that heading) to suit the occasions for which they are prepared—sporting, dancing, naval and military, &c. Artistic Jellies. British confectioners have for many years excelled in their artistic management of jellies. The designs given in this Plate are calculated to add to the variety of production, by suggesting others, such as balls of jellies, squares, slabs, resulting in pyramids, &c. See Jellies. Artistic Luncheon Dishes (No. 1). The Continental chef displays great talent in the preparation of dishes suitable for luncheons (dejeunes a la fourcliette). The drawings in this Plate were con- tributed by one of the greatest of living chefs as samples of those he has supplied to Royal tables. Artistic Luncheon Dishes (No. 2). A variety of prettily and tastily arranged dishes, including oysters, scallops, mussels, frogs, and snails. Particulars will be found under the names referred to. Luncheon-table laid under Tent for Fetes, &c. Given fine weather and good company, there are few spreads so absolutely enjoyable as a luncheon under a tent. The table may consist of the usual boards and trestles, covered by a stout damask cloth, the sides being draped by a long narrow cloth sewn on to the other and caught in folds with floral studs. The flooring should be of boards, evenly laid and covered with carpet. Floral decorations can be arranged to taste. See Luncheons. Meat Removes. The three drawings given in this Plate may be regarded as types. By means of garnishes the simplest and plainest food assumes the appearance of luxury. Home-made Paper Frills and Cases. To the cook and confectioner there are so many uses to which paper cases can be turned that some knowledge of how to cut and fold them is most important. In this Plate a few examples are given. See Paper. Paper Cases, Ornaments, &c., for Entremets, Entrees, Ices, Jellies, and other Sweet or Savoury Dishes. The figures in this Plate are drawn from machine- made specimens, supplied by Messrs. Hunt, Mansell, Catty, and Co.892 DESCRIPTIVE INDEX TO SPECIAL PLATES. Artistic Pastry (Savoury). Although this and the following Plate represent two distinct forms of pastry, they show that both are capable of exceedingly artistic treatment. Savoury pies are oftener served cold than hot, and this Plate illustrates the treat- ment of cold pastry only. In each case the garnishes are suitable accompaniments to the pies. Artistic Pastry (Sweet). The designs selected for this Plate are typical of the highest efforts in the various departments of the pastry- cook’s and confectioner’s art. Plawn, fruit pie, tartlets, cream-wafers, and imitation pat6-de-foie-gras, with suit- able surroundings, are here given, forming dishes that cannot be excelled for tasteful preparation or design. They have also the merit of simplicity. Artistic Pies and Pasties. Something novel and original in pies and pasties has long been a desideratum with the pastry-cook, whose efforts in this direction have usually been exceedingly limited. The designs here given are from the portfolio of a late famous club chef. Some excellent instructions will be found under Pies. Poultry-carving. In this Plate the direction of the cuts in different cases is indicated by dotted lines, which will be found useful as a guide, even though they are not transferred to the body of the bird. See Carving. Sausages. A few of the most familiar kinds of sausages are here displayed. Receipts for their manufacture will be found under appropriate headings. Artistic Serviettes (Nos. 1 and 2). These Plates may be regarded as a real boon, not only because they display the highest art of napkin- folding, but because in the text, under Serviettes, will be found the most intelligible and practical directions for folding the designs here depicted. Artistic Sugar-work. Freehand Sugar-piping.—By C. Norwak. Table Ornaments in Caramel and Spun Sugar. The renaissance, as it were, of sugar-working in this country demands every encouragement, and to that end these Plates are given as showing, not only what may be done, but also what has been done by artistic confec- tioners. The first illustrates designs of strictly ornamental character. In the second, sugar-piping—reckoned to be one of the highest branches of the confectioner’s art—is shown in masterly perfection, this Plate being a photo- graphic reproduction of a specified work by C. Norwak, a member of this staff, for which he was awarded a gold medal. The third Plate gives some instructive details of the construction of sugar ornaments that are fully described under Sugar-working. Artistic Supper Dishes (No. 1). The greatest taste in arrangement and garnishing is sometimes necessary to tempt capricious appetites, or it may be to do honour to some special guest. The use of ornamental paper cases contributes greatly to appearances, and these are shown to good effect in this Plate. Artistic Supper Dishes (No. 2). The free and artistic use of such garnishes as parsley, crimson salt, tomatoes, lemon, &c., add materially to the effect of the dishes they are used to ornament. See Lobster, Lamb, Sardines, &c. “ En Surprise ” (Surprise Dishes as Sweet Entremets or Centres for Buffets). The principal charm of these highly artistic specimens of the confectioner’s skill is that they are not altogether what they seem to be. The upper drawing represents a swan made of sugar or cake covered with sugar-icing. It is laden with choice sweetmeats and gaily decorated with a crown and garland of candied flowers. The swan is floating on a water made of jelly, lightly tinted green with spinach juice, the edges or banks being represented by sugar-rock bon-bons, candied flowers, and bulrush leaves of candied angelica. The lower drawing shows a cake made in the shape of a ham, hollowed out from underneath, and filled with sweetmeats or cream. The colour is obtained by choco- late-icing, and the body is surrounded by a garland of crystallised flowers. The bottles of champagne are real, or may be made of sugar and filled with liqueur; and the corks are small cakes made in suitable moulds, the interiors having been removed and replaced by richly- flavoured cream, and the cakes plugged up again with the first piece removed for hollowing. Some Sweets and Savouries. This Plate gives an artistic suggestion as to service; specimens of fritters, omelettes, ramekins, and patties, are tastily arranged on their dishes. Artistic Table-cloths (Nos. 1 and 2). Under Table Linen are given special instructions for the arrangement and ornamental fixing of table-cloths. These two Plates present a series of devices of a very high order and strictly practical in application. Table Ornaments Formed with Fat, Paste, or Sugar, on Wooden or Metal Foundations. The art of moulding has not been sufficiently practised or encouraged in this country, although the processes are simple and the results effective. In this Plate are a few designs for which moulds can be easily obtained. Trussing Poultry. The French or Continental system of trussing differs in many respects from that practised by the British poulterer. The foreign system has many advantages, which are depicted in this Plate. See Trussing. Artistic Modes of Serving Vegetables. According to the English cook’s method, vegetables are plainly cooked and still more plainly served as accom- paniments to joints and other viands. The foreign chefs treat vegetables, especially those of a rarer sort, as a separate course, and it then behoves them to expend some care in the mode of dressing and service. A few artistic suggestions are given in this Plate. A Wedding Breakfast-table. This Plate shows an elaborate arrangement of violets, orange-blossoms, and other lilac and white flowers appro- priate to the occasion. The fashionable looped muslin and lace skirt-cloth, festooned with trails of lilac and white iris, is very effective. The bride cake is covered by a stout wire cage-like structure, upon which white flowers are trailed, the whole with its surmounting bouquet being easily lifted off for cutting and serving. N* • • __* ■ -