INAUGURAL ADDRESS. 17 decreased, till now not above 1 in 150 or 200 die. We have in Great Britain about GOO.OOO deliveries annually, and still above 3000 of the mothers perish in child-birth. If the old mortality, however, of the 17th century yet held good, and this department of practice had not greatly progressed and improved, not less than 11,000 or 12,000 maternal lives would now be lost by the pre- sent proportion of annual births;—the advancements of modern science thus eflFecting in this item alone a saving of the lives of 7000 or 8000 mothers every year. And as for small-pox—another of the great sources of human death in the days of Sydenham—this fearful and most destructive malady has, as we have just stated, been almost entirely destroyed by the discovery of Jen- ner. These most formidable and fatal diseases of Sydenham's time sustain the pre-eminence of their formidable and fatal character no longer. And may we not hope that a couple of centuries hence, the very same fact may hold true of some of those diseases that are at present most destructive and deadly in their eflfects upon our population ? Does not the history of the past suffice to en- courage within us a bold belief that perhaps in half a centiu-y or a century hence, our present most fatal diseases may, by the advancement of hygienic and medical means, be our most fatal diseases no longer? At the present day we have, according to the registrars' official returns for England and Wales, con- sumption producing above 60,000 deaths a-year; convulsions above 22,000 deaths; pneumonia and bronchitis above 30,000 deaths a-year; typhus {ever and scarlet fever generally above 20,000 deaths each; and measles, hooping- cough, rheixmatism, diarrhoea, hydrocephalus, etc., destroying human life among us in less, but still in fearful, numbers. These several diseases stand at the present time as the highest on the roll of destructive agencies that prevail in British prac- tice. For one, I confess that I cannot but entertain an ardent belief that medical science may yet devise measures, prophylactic perhaps rather than curative, to stay the great destruction of human life prevaDing amongst us from the first, for example, of these aflfections, phthisis. Perhaps a more advanced pathology and chemistry may yet ere long furnish us with more enUghtened and practical views of pneumonia and other inflammatory disorders than we yet possess, and arm us with more siu-e and potent medicinal weapons and resoiu-ces against them We have, from the experience of the last few years, every reason to hope that the whole class of zymotic diseases wiH be greatly subdued betimes in intensity and violence, when the investigation of the physical causes predisposing to them or even actually exciting them, is more fully expiscated. If medicine has de- vised means to arrest the ravages of smaU-pox, may it not yet devise some means also, by moculation or otherwise, to arrest the ravages of scarlet fever and measles, of hooping-cough, of typhus fever, and perhaps of the whole class of non-recurrent diseases? And even if we fail to arrest them, we may possibly lind out for the varying animal poisons producing these diseases, anti- do es as certain as quinine is against the poison of marsh fever. Let us at least not sit indolently down and argue ourselves into the belief that it is impossible to attam such results. The conquest of smaU-pox seemed to our forefathers a hundred years ago as impossible as the conquest of these maladies can look to any one now • and yet we all know that the subjugation of smaU-pox was effected by the genius of a