10 INAUGURAL ADDRKSS. nient. And it may be that, following out the same object, we may yet obtain means of fulfilling most of the indications in therapeutics, by administering medi- cines in other and less repulsive modes than through the stomach, as, by inhala- tion, inunction, injection, etc. ; and that we may yet produce the therapeutic effect desired upon the system with as great certainty, and with infinitely more rapidity, by some of these methods, than by giving medicines of an analogous kind to be swallowed. Medicines, for example, when capable of being inhaled, affect the system with immensely greater rapidity than when the same medicines are taken into the stomach. And perhaps this same principle may yet be ad- vantageously applied to practice in relation to some medicaments. If it is ever, for instance, a matter of importance in some inflammatory or other ailments, to affect the system rapidly and fully with mercury, why may not the chemist dis- cover for us some gaseous and respirable form of mercurial combination, the inhalation of which should salivate in as many hoiurs, as days are now required for the induction of that effect ? Our therapeutic means are most probably destined to have early and impor- tant additions made to them through other discoveries in chemistry, particularly in modern organic chemistry. For there can be little doubt that some of those almost innumerable compounds which organic chemistry is daily adding to its stores, will be found to be endowed with marked therapeutic properties, and that Ave may find in them most powerful and possibly concentrated forms of medicinal agents capable of fultiUing all our principal therapeutic indications,—and per- haps with properties superior to the drugs at present used,—as an antiperiodic, for example, even more certain than quinine, and yet without its occasional ten- dency to produce headache and nervous symptoms ;—or a narcotic, as important as that most useful of all dinigs—opiuin-and yet, without either its du-ect con- stipating effects, or its indirect tendency to excite subsequent nausea, vomiting, etc. Perhaps we may even gain new classes of remedies—as one capable of producing the elimination of morbid matters by that most extended of aU mucous surfaces —the lining membrane of the lungs. And, let me add, the whole subject and theory of therapeutics—the department perhaps the least advanced at the present moment in medical science,—seems destined, if we may judge from various at- tendant circumstances, to undergo ere long some great and important revolutions, by which we wiU probably acquire a more certain and direct knowledge than we at present possess, of the mode or modes in which different medicines produce their special medicinal effects upon the body, or the different organs of it. Doubtlessly also, if such knowledge comes to be once acquired, it will enable us to apply our remedies with more accuracy and success, in the details of actual practice. When we turn again from such advances in professional knowledge and pro- fessional resources as I have already alluded to, and consider the practical appli- cation of that knowledge and these resources in the departments of surgery and of medicine, we find that no small advances indeed have been made durmg the last half century in these branches of the healing art.;