16 INAUGURAL ADDRESS. has invented during that period much new and dreadful machinery, and many new and horrible missiles for the destruction of man and man's works. During the same period, in the discovery of vaccination alone, medicine has invented a means far more potent to save, than the soldier has invented means potent to destroy. If modern military science can boast of the discovery of wondrous shells and shrapnells, of destructive rockets and rifles, by which the deaths of thousands of men may be easily effected—modern medical science can boast of the discovery of a small vesicle, by the multiplied contents of which, the death of thousands and tens of thousands of men may be easily prevented. For truly, the millions of money expended in the vast mUitary stores of Woolwich and Cherbourg, lack the ability to destroy human life to any such degree as one drop of despised cow-pox matter, with its powers of multiplication in the system, has the ability to save it. The lancet of Jenner, has, during the last half century alone, saved in the world more human lives, than during the past or any other cen- tury in the history of mankind, gunpowder and the sword were ever yet successful in slaying. How often do we find the art of war described as a "noble and glorious art!" But when we consider in our hearts the relative effects of war and of medicine upon human life and human happiness, the physician may surely arrogate such a title for the art of medicine on infinitely better and higher grounds than the soldier can claim it for the art of war. The preceding observations refer to what medicine has done during the last fifty or sixty years,-to some of the principal steps which it has made,—to some of the principal advances which it has effected during that period. And I do thmk that such a glance at the past, however rapid and imperfect, is calculated to fill us with cheering and bright hopes for the future. Much has been done m medical and surgical science ; but no doubt much, very much more, requires to be effected, and wiU be effected. Let me advert for a moment to one considera- tion as calculated to inspire our hearts with every confidence, that a continuation of earnest research and labour on the part of the profession will be rewarded with a continuation of success in the alleviation and removal of diseases. _ It is now some two hundred years since Sydenham wrote and practised in London. Consider for a moment what this father of English medicme described as the most fatal diseases in England at that time. Six of the most destructive diseases, or classes of diseases, to human life in that age were accordmg to sSs mortality bill, plague, ague, dysentery. scm:vy, child-birth and smdl- Tjox These maladies, however, enjoy their fatal pre-emmence no longer. \N e Save banished the plague, which in the olden times often destroyed in London more lives than all'other maladies counted together. We have -oted on and more lives tiiau an uiuci mai.ivi.^o — --o . modified the ague, so that it is rarely a fatal affection now, while every year it dest oyed thousands formerly. Scurvy has almost disappeared from om: mo - tuty bills. DyBentery, though still sometimes a fatal disease is mfimtely e con nL, and infinitely more under medical treatment, than it was at the 11 ofTydenham. At tliat date, or in the middle of the 17th century about i Tn every 40 or 50 women delivered in London died of child-birth or its con- equences; but gradually, as medical science has advanced, that mortality has