INAUGURAL ADDRESS. 11 Surgery, in various important matters, gives strong and imdoubted evidences of sound and solid progress in these later times. At the commencement of the present century, surgery, as a practical art, was perhaps advanced farther than the sister art of medicine. And when we compare its state at the commencement of the 19th century with its state two or three hundred years before that date, every one must confess that there had been ample room and verge for that advancement. For, assuredly, siu-gical operative prac- tice must have formerly been a dreadful department of the profession, when the art of arresting hemorrhage by the power of a silken thread was still unknown or still unpractised; when in every operating theatre and at every operation, the chafing-dish and searing-iron were as indispensable as are now the lint and the ligatures of the modern surgeon ; and when the cries and moans of the poor patient were smothered only, if smothered at all, by the hissing of the heated cau- teries against the surface of his bleeding wounds. Long, however, as you are well aware, before the commencement of the present century, the ligature had been universally adopted by surgeons in their operations. Indeed, without it, it seems difficult to perceive how practical surgery in later times could have pro- gressed at all. At the same time, is it not possible that surgery, by making one additional step (and finding some more advanced means to do without the irrita- tion of a permanent ligature, and, perhaps, also without the rough and irritating sutures which are used to tie together the lips of the wound), may yet save the sides of the wound from the presence of any foreign body whatever within it, and thus add greatly to the chances of its speedy and general imion by adhe- sive instead of suppurative inflammation ? Since the commencement of the present century, it is scarcely necessary for me to point out to you, that surgery has advanced in various and most important respects; as— 1. In far more clear and correct views than previously existed of the great pathological doctrines of inflammation and hemorrhage; and in the full and successful adaptation in many ways of a knowledge of these doctrines to the details of practice. 2. In many important improvements in individual operations, as in the ope- rations for hernia and in amputations ; and particularly in the general principles of operative treatment being now much more simple and rational, and much more safe and certain, than they previously were. As an illustration of this last re- mark, let me remind you of the surgery of aneurisms, and of the vast diflerence between the treatment of that disease now, by merely arresting or diminishing the arterial current going to the aneurism at a point above—and where the sup- plying vessel is itself sound—and the treatment of it sixty or seventy years ago, when the whole aneurismal sac was sometimes laid open, or the diseased limb itself amputated. And may not yet another step in advance possibly enable sm-- geons to cure this disease by some safe simple means or manipulations applied to the aneurismal tumour itself, and capable of producing the direct coagulation of blood in its interior,—without the risk and annoyance of either compression or ligature of the artery running to the aneurism ?