9 INAUGURAL ADDRESS. of the thorax appeared improbable and chimerical forty years ago, or before the time of Laennec. Let me merely add on this matter, that the application of the microscope and of chemical tests to the urine and other fluids of the body, may be truly classed as a new department of physical diagnosis, and one which has been attended with great, —and no doubt will yet be attended with still greater,—results, in deter- mining the nature, and consequently fixing more accurately, the treatment, of different diseases. How simple and precise, for example, is now the diagnosis of diabetes, oxaluria, and many morbid conditions of the urine, as compared with the state of knowledge in these matters only ten or twenty years ago. Materia Medica has also effected some most remarkable advances -within the last few years. In other words, there has not only been, through the instrumen- tality of morbid and histological anatomy, and of pathological chemistry, a great increase in our knowledge of the nature of diseases,—and, through physical diag- nosis, a great increase in our knoAvledge of the discrimination of them,—but changes have taken place in the materia medica within the last twenty or thirty years, which have added much to the simplicity as well as the efficacy of the means and weapons by which practical medicine combats the different diseases that occur in the bodies of the sick. Some new medicinal powers have been added to the list of the Pharmacopoeia, as iodine, hydrocyanic acid, gallic acid^ cod-liver oil, etc. But the changes I advert to are of a much more important kind than this, though consisting truly, not in additions to our list of materia medica, but in modifications only of some of the more potent medicinal agents previously known and employed by physicians. In rjaking this remark, I allude especially to the modern discovery, under the form of the alkaloids, of the active medicinal principles in our vegetable materia medica. By this discovery our therapeutic means have most undoubtedly been simplified and increased in power and value in a wonderful degree during the last quarter of a century. Only some twenty or thirty years ago there were no mpans of exhibiting our most powerful and useful vegetable medicines, except in the clumsy form of large powders, or nauseous de- coctions, infusions, and tinctures. What an astonishing advance has been effected in this matter by the discovery in most of the principal vegetable remedies em- ployed in medicine of alkaloid principles, as quinine, morphia, etc. Probably, ere many more years have elapsed, all our principal vegetable remedies will have been forced in this way to yield up, at the command of the chemist, their active and characteristic medicinal principles in such a concentrated and intensified form, that, like those I have already alluded to, they may be prescribed by the physician m doses not calcidated, as heretofore, to nauseate the poor patient at the mere bare idea of swallowing drugs. Perhaps medical men have been, as a body, far too remiss and careless in following out the indication of the jucunde of Celsus m their prescriptions; and on this ground I, for one, beUeve that a better covering for a pill than we yet possess, or a way of disarming of their disagreeableness the revolting forms of most medicinal fluids and draughts, would in reality prove a more important discovery for the promotion and utility of true practical medicine, than the discovery of matters of apparently far more scientific bearing and mo-