☆ ☆☆ LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Classmark: COOKER/ h H(\L rary 3 0106 01106 0000 BTWVIVCA SECOND DUDLEY BOOK OF COOKERYHOME 5Tis sweet to hear the watch-dog's honest hark Bay deep-mouth'd welcome as we draw near home ; 'Tis sweet to know there is an eye will mark Our coming, and look brighter when we come. BYRON, “don JUAN,” 1, CXXiiiA SECOND DUDLEY BOOK OF COOKERY AND OTHER RECIPES COLLECTED AND ARRANGED BY GEORGINA fWcorXj COUNTESS OF DUDLEY WITH 8 PHOTOGRAVURE PLATES LONDON HUTCHINSON & CO. PATERNOSTER ROWH$3H5PREFACE HE Recipes contained in this volume are nothing very new or elaborate— merely what I think to be a useful collection to have at hand, as a sort of Memorandum Book for the mistress of a household when ordering meals, and when the inevitable question arises, “What on earth shall I order for luncheon and dinner to-day ? ” Many of the Recipes are very homely and simple, and, I think, may be useful in small households—showing how cold meat, etc., may be used up and turned into appetising dishes, as is done in France, and therefore much waste saved. The Recipes are interspersed with a selec- tion of quotations, which I hope may be interesting. GEORGINA DUDLEY. bPEMBROKE LODGE, RICHMOND PARK.Dowager Countess of Dudley by King Edward VII. NOTICE OF PEMBROKE LODGE IN THE “RECOLLECTIONS OF ONE WHO HAS KEPT A DIARY” TT was given by George III to Elizabeth, Countess of Pembroke, “ the object of his hopeless and pathetic love and as a token of his affection,” the King allowed her to build herself a Lodge in the “ vast wilderness ” of Richmond Park. On her death in 1831, Pembroke Lodge was assigned by William IV to his son-in-law, the Earl of Erroll, and in 1847 it was lent by Queen Victoria to Lord John Russell, who then had no country house. It was occupied by Lord Russell’s family until October, 1902, when it was lent to theix CONTENTS SOUPS Split Pea Soup 5 White Soup 6 Cream of Green Corn Soup 6 Potato and Leek Soup 7 Palestine Soup 8 Cream of Rice Soup 8 Puree a la Reine 9 French Milk Soup Maigre 9 Puree of Beetroot 10 Potage Bortsch 11 Cream of Celery 12 Cream of Chicory 12 Indian Thick Mulligatawny Soup IS Clear MulJigatawny Soup 14 Bisque of Crayfish 15 Another Recipe for Bisque of Crayfish 16 Bisque of Lobster 17 Bisque of Shrimps 18 Shrimp Butter 18 Consomme Duchesse 18 Onion Soup 19 Potage Regence 19 Cold Consomme 20 Consomm6 a la Fermiere 21 Consomme a la Madrid 21 Consomme Veloute 22 Paysanne Soup 23 La Petite Marmite 23 Poule au Pot 24THE DUDLEY RECIPES x PAGE How to Make a Good Consomme 25 The Stockpot 25 FISH DISHES Fillets of Sole Ambassador 31 Sauce for Fillets of Sole Ambassador 31 Fillets of Sole Bercy 32 Sole au Gratin 32 Gratin Sauce 33 Grilled Sole 33 Sole Duglere 34 Sole sur le Plat 34 Whiting sur le Plat 35 Sole Marseillaise 35 Soles Napolitaines 36 Fillets of Sole a l’Americaine 37 Sole Mode de Trouville 37 Soles a la Colbert 38 Filets de Soles aux Champignons 39 Filets de Soles aux Crevettes 40 Filets de Soles Polignac 40 Whitings Colbert 41 Whitings a la Francaise 41 Whiting Gratin 42 Sauce for Whitings or Other Fish 42 Eperlans Grilles 43 Eperlans au Gratin 43 Eperlans a L’Anglaise 44 Filets de Maquereau aux Fines Herbes 45 Fish Cakes 45 Turbot Cardinal 46 Turbo tin Fermiere 46 Turbotin k L’Andalouse 47 Chicken Turbot Americaine 48 Chicken Turbot Fermiere 49 Turbotin Bonne Femme 50 Fillets of Trout Milanaise 50CONTENTS xi PAGE Matelote of Salmon 51 Souffle of Lobster 53 French Salmon Tart 54 An American Fish Pie 55 Fish Croquettes 56 Bouillabaisse a la Marseillaise 56 Stewed Plaice 57 Fish Seasoning 58 The Way to Dissect a Fresh Herring 58 HOT POULTRY AND GAME DISHES Poached Chicken with Maize 63 Poached Chicken with Mushrooms 64 Poularde Soufflee 65 Chicken (Mousseline) Forcemeat 65 Poularde a LTvoire 66 Poularde aux Truffles 67 Chicken Fritters 67 Poulet Saute Marengo 68 Fried Chicken Pembroke 69 Pullet Poached a L’ltalienne 70 Grilled Chicken Florentine 71 Supremes of Chicken 71 Supreme Sauce 72 Fried Chicken Duchess 72 A Supreme of Chicken 73 Chicken Cooked in Oil 73 Fricassee of Chicken 74 Poulet a L’Estragon 75 Poulet au Gros Sel 75 Poulet en Casserole 76 Blanquette of Chicken 76 Cubbab of Chicken 77 Pilaff de Volaille a la Grecque 77 Poussins a la Piedmontese 78 Risotto k la Piedmontese 78 Poussins Viennoises 79THE DUDLEY RECIPES xii PAGE Little Souffles of Rabbit or Chicken 80 A French Way of Cooking Rabbit 80 Fried Rabbit 81 Tartare Sauce 81 Roast Rabbit a L’Ecossaise 82 French Rabbit Stew 83 Croquettes of Wild Rabbit 84 Cutlets of Wild Rabbit 84 Fried Rabbit or Chicken with Tartare Sauce 85 Rabbit Catalane 86 Blanquette of Turkey 87 Fried Turkey with Tomatoes 87 Stewed Turkey 88 Braised Turkey 88 Fricasseed Turkey 88 Dindonneau a L’Espagnol 88 Devilled Turkey 89 Duckling Crapaudine 90 Salmis of Duckling Rouennaise 91 Pate Chaud de Caneton 92 Poached Pheasant with Celery Sauce 93 Celery Sauce 94 Supreme de Faisan a La Montpensier 94 Pulled and Devilled Pheasant 95 Salmis of Pheasant 96 Salmis of Wild Duck 97 Salmis of Plovers 97 Wild Duck Americaine 97 Stuffed Wild Ducks 98 Braised Partridges with Cabbage 98 Partridges with Mushrooms 99 Spatchcock of Grouse 101 Hare Pie 101 Jugged Hare 103 A German Way of Roasting Hare 104 Mousse of Hare 105 Quails in Casserole 105CONTENTS xiii PAGE Poached Quails 105 Quails with Grapes 106 Quails with Truffles 106 Cailles Dubarry 106 Compote of Pigeons 107 Gelinottes sur Croutes a la Russe 108 Partridge Pie 108 To “Poeler” Poultry, Game, etc. 109 Grilled Chicken Diable 110 Curry of Rabbit 110 Sauted Chicken Chasseur 111 HOT MEAT DISHES Mutton Cutlets Reform 117 Mutton Cutlets Provencale 118 Cotelettes a la Maintenon 11 8 Haricot of Mutton Breton 119 Cutlets a la Minute 120 Mixed Grill 121 Ragout of Mutton 121 Hashed Mutton 122 Another Way to Hash Mutton 123 Cottage Pie of Mutton 123 A French Way of Roasting a Leg of Mutton 124 Leg of Mutton Boulangere 125 Epigrammes d’Agneau with Sharp Sauce 125 Epaule d’Agneau Bonne Femme 126 Neck of Lamb a la Boulangere 127 Beefsteak with Herbs 127 German Beefsteak Cakes 128 Braised Roll of Beef 129 Culotte de Bceuf Normande 129 Beefsteak with Hard-boiled Eggs and Spinach 130 Beef Stewred with Sweet Herbs 130 Macaroni and Minced Beef 130 Hachis de Bceuf 131 Beefsteak Toast 131THE DUDLEY RECIPES XIV PAGE How to Spice Beef 132 Beef Roll 133 Kedgeree of Cold Meat 133 Cornish Cutlets 134- Beef Hash Bourgeois 135 To Make Half-glaze Sauce 136 Steak and Kidney Pie 136 Veal and Ham Pie 137 A German Wav of Cooking Braised Saddle of Veal 137 Braised Cushion of Veal 138 Stuffed Breast of Veal 139 Stuffing for Breast of Veal 140 Fricandeau of Veal 141 Sauce Madere 141 Braised and Stuffed Saddle of Veal 142 Blanquette of Veal 143 Goulache of Veal 144 Calves’ Brains with Black Butter 144 Calf s Head Vinaigrette 145 Boston Baked Pork and Beans 146 Canadian Baked Beans 147 An Excellent Luncheon Dish 147 A Savoury Hot-up 148 A French Family Dish 148 How to Cook Tripe 149 Macaroni Pie 149 To Poach Meat or Fish 150 For Braising White Meats 150 A Bouquet Garni 151 Yorkshire Pudding 152 Lamb Cutlets Perigord 153 Cutlets of Milk Lamb Lucullus 154 Cutlets of Milk Lamb Marechale 154 Tournedos of Beef 155 Tournedos Bearnaise 155 Tournedos of Beef Bordelaise 156CONTENTS XV CHAUD-FROIDS AND OTHER COLD DISHES PAGE Chicken in Aspic l6l Cotelettes de Volaille a la Gelee 162 Creme de Volaille a l’Ecarlate 162 Poularde Strasbourg 163 White Chaud-Froid Sauce 164 Mayonnaise of Chicken Alexandra 165 Cold Quenelles of Chicken or Rabbit 166 Chicken Cream with Tomatoes 166 Pates of Turkey or Chicken 168 Chaud-froid of Pheasant 169 Cold Pheasant a la Berny 169 Partridge Galantine 170 Chaud-froid of Partridge 171 Chaud-froid of Quails in Aspic 171 Cold Quails 1 72 Chaud-froid of Quail 172 Raised Game Pie 173 Cold Duck a la Cumberland 175 Cumberland Sauce 175 Cold Veal a la Russe 176 Cold Saddle of Veal 176 Daubs of Veal in Aspic 177 Cold Raised Hare Pie 178 Round of Cold Spiced Derby Beef 179 SAVOURIES Cheese Savoury 185 Gruyere Fritters with Krona Pepper 185 Cheese Toast 186 Chasseur Cheese 186 Savoury Cheese 187 Petits Royales au Parmesan 187 Fondants a la Chester 188 Cheese Straws 189 Scotch Woodcock 189 Sardines a la Diable 190THE DUDLEY RECIPES PAGE Sardines with Parmesan Cheese 190 Little Sardine Rolls 191 D’Artois of Anchovy 191 Devilled Toast 192 Smoked Haddock on Toast 192 Croutes of Smoked Haddock 193 Savoury Custard (liquid) 194- Canapes aux Champignons 194- Beignets of Macaroni 194- Madras Fritters 195 VEGETABLES AND SALADS New Potatoes a la Creme 201 Pommes de Terre Soufflees 201 Pommes de Terre Anna 202 A Savoury Dish of Potatoes 203 Another Way to Cook Potatoes 203 Potato Chips 203 Pommes de Terre a la Paysanne 204* A French Way of Baking Potatoes 205 New Potatoes with Butter 205 Stuffed Potatoes 206 Croquettes of Potatoes 206 Croquettes of Potatoes a la Rouennaise 206 Potatoes Bordelaise 207 Mashed Potatoes Gratin 207 Potatoes a la Bretonne 207 Potatoes au Gratin 208 French Saute Potatoes 208 Curled or Ribbon Potatoes 208 Potato Puree au Gratin 209 Souffle of Carrots 209 Sauted Carrots 210 A French Way of Cooking Carrots 210 Another Way of Cooking Carrots 210 Spanish Carrots 211 Carrots Maitre d’Hotel 211 XVlCONTENTS xvii PAGE Haricot Beans Bretonne 211 Butter Beans 212 A Good Way of Cooking French Beans 212 Fried Onions 213 Celery Souffles 213 Souffle of Green Peas 214 Souffle of Asparagus 215 Baked Vegetable Marrow 215 Vegetable Marrow au Gratin 2l6 Jerusalem Artichokes (fried) 217 Mousse of Tomatoes 217 Baked Tomatoes 218 Grilled Tomatoes 218 Tomatoes with Mushrooms 218 Cucumber Fritters 219 Cucumber with Cream Sauce 220 Red Cabbage with Bacon 221 Beetroots Sautees 221 Beetroots in Oil 222 Cauliflower Gratin 222 Spinache a la Creme 222 Brussels Sprouts Cooked in Butter 223 Artichokes with Marrow 223 Champignons au Beurre 223 Champignons Grilles 224 Champignons aux Fines Herbes 224 Champignons a la Provencale 224 Stuffed (Egg-plant) Aubergine 224 Aubergines Proven^ales 225 “Duxelle” for Stuffed Vegetables, Tomatoes, Mushrooms, etc. 226 SALADS A French Way of Serving Lettuce 227 Salade Vivois 227 Japanese Salad 228 Salade Alexandre 228THE DUDLEY RECIPES xviii PAGE Salade Russe 229 Waldorf Salad 229 Spanish Sardine Salad 230 Cold Tomatoes Americaine 230 Asparagus Rolls 231 Cold Asparagus (moulded) 231 Asparagus Vinaigrette 232 Globe Artichokes Vinaigrette 233 Cold Cauliflower Vinaigrette 233 Cherry Salad 234 Orange Salad 234 Pineapple Salad 235 Cucumber Salad 235 SAUCES Brown Chaud-froid Sauce 241 Mornay Sauce for Chickens 241 Cardinal Sauce 242 Sauce Soubise 243 Soubise Sauce Mixed with Tomato 243 Veloute Sauce 243 Tomato Sauce 244 A Recipe for a Bearnaise Sauce 245 Espagnol Sauce 246 A Bechamel Sauce 248 Another Recipe for Bechamel Sauce 248 Sauce Milanaise 249 Fish Sauce 250 Good Fish Sauce 250 Supreme Sauce 251 Ivory Sauce 251 A Good Chasseur Sauce for Game 252 Devilled Sauce 252 Madeira Sauce 253 Perigueux Sauce 253 Proven9ale Sauce 253 Cold Mayonnaise Sauce a la Farquhar 254CONTENTS PAGE A Game Sauce 255 Bearnaise Sauce 255 Sauce Bordelaise 256 SWEET DISHES AND PUDDINGS Creme Brulee 261 Excellent Recipe for Baked Apples 261 Apricot Sauce 262 Apples Portugaise 262 Bouillie Normande 262 Pouding Marquise 263 Tarte a l’Allemande aux Cerises 264 Open Tart of Fruit 264 Cerises Monte Carlo 265 Another Recipe for Cerises Monte Carlo 266 Pouding Froid aux Cerises 266 Compote of Grapes 267 Orange Pudding 268 Banana Fritters 268 Cold Banana Pudding 269 Prune Souffle 269 Chestnut Amber 270 Walnut Tartlets 271 A Good Recipe for Lemon Cheesecakes 271 Rod Grod 272 A Fruit Salad in Glasses 272 A Fruit Salad 273 A Fruit Sweet 274 Comper Pudding 274 Pouding Princesse 275 Chocolate Pudding 275 Madonna Pudding 276 Marlborough Pudding 276 Danish Pudding 277 Pouding Burbridge 277 Hunters* Pudding 277 Ginger Pudding 278THE DUDLEY RECIPES xx PAGE Ripon Pudding 278 Sherry Sauce 279 St. Cloud Pudding 279 Small Caramel Creams 280 Small Chocolate Creams 281 Small Coffee Creams 281 German Fritters 282 German Puffs 282 Golden Balls 283 Golden Fritters . 284 Brown Bread Pudding 284 Riz a l’Americaine 285 Custards in Cups 285 Boiled Custard Pudding made with Benger’s Food 286 Cornflour Pudding 286 Farola Pudding 287 Orange Tartlets 287 Omelette au Rhum 288 Lemon Souffle 288 SAVOURY RICE AND MACARONI DISHES Savoury Rice to Serve with Meat 295 Rice with Tomatoes 295 Risotto Piemontaise 296 To Boil Rice, as done in China 297 Macaroni a ITtalienne 297 Macaroni a la Caprice 298 Macaroni Cheese 298 Souffle au Mais 299 DIFFERENT WAYS OF COOKING VENISON How to Cook Red Deer or Fallow Deer Fawns 305 Cutlets of Red or Fallow Deer Fawn 306 Venison Steaks 306 Venison Cutlets a la Minute 307 To Marinade Venison Cutlets 307 Venison Cutlets with Chestnut Puree 308CONTENTS XXI PAGE Venison Cutlets Polonaise 309 Venison Pie 310 Venison Pasties 310 Haricot of Venison 311 Tournedos of Venison 312 Cottage Pie of Venison 312 Hashed Venison 313 Deer’s Liver 314 Deer’s Puddings 314 Potted Venison 315 Saddle of Venison a l’Allemande 315 Braised Haunch of Venison 316 Haunch of Venison Roasted Whole 317 Venison Consomme 318 Venison Collops 319 EGG DISHES Croquettes of Eggs 325 Creamed Eggs for Breakfast 326 Creamed Eggs with Asparagus 326 Creamed Eggs with Ham 327 (Eufs a 1’Orleans 327 Fried Eggs 328 Poached Eggs with Tomato Sauce 328 Poached Eggs a la Reine 329 Eggs with Brown Butter 329 Poached Eggs Vin Blanc 330 Eggs with Black Butter 330 Poached Eggs Mornay 331 (Eufs Sarah Bernhardt 331 Egg and Asparagus Tartlets 332 Omelet 332 Eggs a la Tripe 333 Egg and Tomato Ramekins 334 Scotch Eggs 334 Curried Eggs 335 Eggs a la Normande 336THE DUDLEY RECIPES XXII PAGE Savoury Eggs 336 Another Method of Cooking Eggs (Georgette) 337 Aurora Sauce 337 Eggs Georgette 337 Egg Cutlets 338 Portuguese Eggs 338 Meyerbeer Eggs 339 BREAKFAST DISHES Smoked Haddock Kedgeree 340 Stuffed Bacon 340 Florentine Savoury Rice 341 To Cook Bacon 341 Bouchees of Rice 342 Sauted Kidneys 342 Rognons Sautes aux Champignons 343 Grilled Kidneys Diable 344 Fried Hominy Cakes 344 White Puddings for Breakfast 345 Yorkshire Smoked Ham Cooked in Brown Sugar 346 Hamburg Hung Beef (Scraped) 346 Green Corn Fritters 347 Curry Croquettes 347 TEA CAKES, ETC. Egg Sandwiches between Toast for Tea 353 Hot Tea-Cake 354 Hot Tea-Cakes 354 Tea-Cakes 355 Lemon Cheese-Cakes for Tea 355 Almond Biscuits for Tea or Dessert 356 Corn Cakes 356 Yorkshire Muffins 357 Pikelets for Tea or Breakfast 357 Breakfast or Tea Cakes 358 Potato Scones 358CONTENTS xxiii PAGE Another Recipe for Scones 359 Scotch Oat-Cakes 359 Oat-Cakes 360 Coffee Cake 360 Mocha Icing 361 Gateau de Savoie 361 Gateau Hollandaise 362 Yorkshire Ginger Cake 362 Sledmere Gingerbread 363 An Orange Cake 363 Rice Cake 364 A Chocolate Cake 364 Chocolate Cake 365 Sultana Cake 365 Buns 366 Sally Lunn 366 Cocoanut Cake 367 Snow Cake 367 Canadian Cakes 367 Rich Cake 368 Almond Simnel Cake 369 Omelet Pan Ice Cake 369 Pound Cakes 370 Another Way to Make Raisin Cake 370 Fairy Cakes for Tea 371 Queen Cakes 371 Bachelor Buttons 371 Rice Biscuits 372 Wheaten Biscuits 372 Swiss Roll 373 Water Biscuits 373 Another Recipe for Water Biscuits 374 Zwieback German Rusks 374 Rusks 375 Finger-Shaped Breakfast Rolls 375 French Rolls 376 French Tea Biscuits 376THE DUDLEY RECIPES xxiv HOUSEKEEPER, ETC., AND MISCELLANEOUS PACE How to Roast Spanish Chestnuts 383 To Serve a Melon in Hot Weather 383 A Very Good Recipe for Orange Marmalade 384 Lemon Marmalade 385 Crab-Apple Jelly 385 To Preserve Damsons 386 Grape Marmalade 386 How to Make Good Oatmeal Porridge 387 Oatmeal Gruel 387 Another Recipe for Oatmeal Gruel 388 How to Make Gruel from Prepared Groats 388 Rice Gruel 389 To Keep Butter Fresh 389 To Keep Mushrooms 389 How to Bottle Mushrooms 390 An Excellent Old-Fashioned Recipe for Mince- meat for Christmas Mince Pies 391 Spiced Salt Condiment 392 Allspice 392 Tomato Pickle 393 Gunners* Delight 394 Cucumber Lotion for the Face 394 Lait Virginale 395 Cold Cream 395 A Face Lotion 395 Hair Wash 396 To Remove Stains from Floors 396 To Remove Stains and Marks from Books 397 To Take Marking-Ink out of Linen 397 To Remove Wine Stains from Linen 397 To Remove Fruit Stains from Linen 398 Marble may be Cleaned 398 Another Recipe for Cleaning Marble 398 Dining Tables may be Polished 399 To Clean Cane-Bottomed Chairs 399CONTENTS xxv PAGE To Clean Oilcloth 399 To Take Ink Stains out of Mahogany Furniture 400 For Removing Ink Stains from Mahogany 400 To Remove Ink Stains from a Coloured Table Cover 400 To Preserve Steel Goods from Rust 401 To Remove Oil or Grease from Hearth 401 For Cleaning Brasses on Mahogany Furniture 401 A Recipe from Messrs. Schulthers, German Rose Growers, for the Prevention of Mildew on Roses 402 To Turn Hydrangeas Blue 402 BEVERAGES Turkish Coffee Without Grouts 407 Turkish Coffee 408 Recipe for Sloe Gin 408 Martini Cocktail 409 An Excellent Recipe for Moselle Cup 409 Egg Flip 409 Lemon Whey 410 Camomile Tea 410 Bran Tea 411 Linseed Tea 411 Oatmeal Water 411 For Extracting Gas from Effervescing Drinks : A“Mosser” 412ILLUSTRATIONS Georgina Countess of Dudley . . . Frontispiece Pembroke Lodge, Richmond Park . Facing page vii Banquet on the Coronation-day of the Roman Empress, March 8th, 1742 At the Romer Saal, Frankfort on the Main Banquet on the Coronation-day of the Roman Emperor, February 12th, 1742 , At the Romer Saalt Frankfort on the Main A Fruit Piece ...... After the picture by Angel Campidoglio in the Collection of Sir John Murray Scott Deer-stalking in the Highlands. Watching the Body From an etching after Sir Edwin Landseer, R.A. The Melton Breakfast . . . „ „ From a mezzotint by Charles G. Lewis after the picture by Sir F. Grant A Day’s Pleasure . . . . ,, Men laugh and riot till the feast is o'er. Then comes the reckoning, and they laugh no more. The “ Star and Garter” Richmond. 59 113 „ 257 „ 301 „ 321 40330 SOUPSGRACE BEFORE MEAT A good digestion to you all: and once more I shower a welcome on you ; Welcome all ! SHAKESPEARE “ HENRY VIII ” Some hae meat and cannot eat, And some would eat that want it; But zee hae meat, and we can eat, Sae let the Lord he tliankit. BURNS, 64 GRACE BEFORE MEAT ” r* No man can be wise on an empty stomach. GEORGE ELIOT % Are these the choice dishes the Doctor has sent us ? Is this the great poet whose works so content us ? This Goldsmith's fine feast, who has written fine books ? Heaven sends us good meat, but the Devil sends cooks. GARRICK on “ goldsmith’s retaliation,” ii, 157 % Better a dry morsel and righteousness therewith than a house jull of feasting with strife. PROVERBSWANT OF PUNCTUALITY Amongst other follies, Beau Brummell had that of choosing to be always too late for dinner. Wher- ever he was invited, he liked to be waited for. He thought it was a proof of his fashion and conse- quence ; and the higher the rank of his entertainer, the later was the arrival of this impudent “ parvenu The Marquis of Abercorn had for some time sub- mitted to this ojt-repeated trial of his patience, but at length he would bear it no longer. Accordingly, one day, when he had invited Brummell to dine, he desired to have the dinner on the table punctually at the time appointed. The servants obeyed, and Brummell and the cheese arrived together. The wondering beau was desired by the master of the house to sit down. He vouchsafed no apology for what had happened, but coolly said, “ I hope, Mr. B., cheese is not disagreeable to you.” It is said that Brummell was never late in that house in future. AMELIA OPIE % Socrates said, “ Bad men live that they may eat and drink, whereas good men eat and drink that they may live. Cheerfulness is health ; the opposite, melancholy, is disease. HALIBURTONFASTING Who can believe with common sense, A bacon slice gives God offence ; Or, how a herring hath a charm Almighty vengeance to disarm ? Wrapt up in Majesty Divine, Does He regard on what we dine ? SWIFT, “ EPIGRAM30 SOUPS c 5 SPLIT PEA SOUP AN EXCELLENT RECIPE A CCORDING to quantity required, so you vary the amount of split peas. If you have stock at hand, use that; if not, water will do, but of course the stock improves the soup. Put the split peas on in cold water, throw in onions, carrots, turnips, celery and parsley—small quantity, as too much will spoil it—also green mint if obtain- able, if not dried mint will do. Add a ham bone or ham trimmings, or bacon, or a little salt pork. Let all gently boil for about three hours, or until the peas are soft; pass through a tammy and season with a little curry powder, pepper, salt, sugar and a very little vinegar. Care must be exercised in the use of curry powder and sugar. I cannot give you the exact quantities ; practical knowledge teaches this, and it is according to the quantity of soup required. It is best to soak the peas in cold water over night if possible to soften them. Fried croutons can be served with the soup if liked.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 6 WHITE SOUP EXCELLENT FOR INVALIDS TWO pounds knuckle of veal, sinewy part, one soup fowl. Place in stewpan with sufficient cold water to cover the veal and the fowl, one carrot sliced, one small onion, one small leek, and one or two sprigs of parsley. Let all stew together for two and a half hours, until quite tender. Take out the fowl and remove the fillets and pound them well. Strain the liquor and remove all grease ; return it to the stewpan. Pass the pounded fillets through a very fine hair sieve, moisten with a little of the chicken and veal essence, and add them to the liquor in the stewpan, whisk and bring it up to boiling heat, but do not allow it to boil. Add salt to taste. This soup is greatly improved by the addition of from two to three tablespoonfuls of cream, but if required for invalids sometimes it is preferred without the cream. 9 CREAM OF GREEN CORN SOUP T)UT into a saucepan a quarter of a pound of butter and allow it to melt. Work into it two large tablespoonfuls of flour of “ Creme deSOUPS 7 Ble Vert Groult ” (which can be obtained at any grocer’s), stir it over the fire for some minutes without allowing it to colour, moisten it plenti- fully with a good veloute of chicken, allow it to boil, whilst stirring it constantly. Add a small bouquet, composed of leek, celery and onion. Let it simmer slowly by the side of the fire for about two hours. Skim, and pass through a muslin, then allow it to boil again ; and just before serving finish it with a liaison of three yolks of eggs and about a gill of good thick cream. Add a little more fresh butter, and, if wished, some very small light quenelles of chicken, or a little chervil. To accentuate the green tint of the soup add a little spinach green which has previously been bruised and passed through muslin. •9 POTATO AND LEEK SOUP ~V/TINCE finely three large white potatoes, also the white part of three medium - sized leeks ; fry in one ounce of fresh butter without allowing to colour. Wet well with a pint of light stock made from veal, or chicken (or rabbit bones), or both mixed. Let all cook gently until quite tender, then pass through a fine sieve. Return to the fire ; boil up again, and add seasoning of salt,THE DUDLEY RECIPES 8 one gill of cream, one ounce of fresh butter well worked in, and lastly a pluck of chervil. PALESTINE SOUP rflWELVE large fresh Jerusalem artichokes, two potatoes, two onions, two ounces of butter. Peel the artichokes, and slice the potatoes and onions. Fry the vegetables in the butter ; put the lid on the stewpan, and allow them to simmer gently until the vegetables have absorbed the butter. Wet well with one pint of light stock, and let all simmer until the vegetables are quite tender. Pass through a hair sieve and return to stewpan ; season with pepper and salt, and add one gill of cream. Make quite smooth, and serve. CREAM OF RICE SOUP PLACE over the fire in a stewpan one pint of light stock made from veal, or rabbit or chicken bones. Let this boil. Work into a smooth paste two tablespoonfuls of “ Cream of Rice ” with a little milk. Add this to the boiling stock and mix well. Season with salt and pepper ; then add half a gill of cream and a little chervil. Cream of Rice is sold in packets at all grocers.SOUPS 9 PUREE A LA REINE ONE soup fowl, two quarts of good veal stock, one ounce of sweet almonds, the crumb of two French rolls, half a pint of cream, one lump of sugar, and salt to taste. Boil the fowl gently in the stock for one hour until it is quite tender ; then take off all the meat and pound it very finely in a mortar with the almonds. Replace this in the pan with the French roll crumbs. Let all simmer again for one hour, then pass through a tammy or fine hair sieve, and lastly add the seasoning and the cream. Serve with very small dice of green cooked cucumber. 9 FRENCH MILK SOUP MAIGRE rTlAKE a quart of milk ; set it to boil with an onion, a sprig of parsley, and a small piece of mace. Thicken slightly with flour, and stir until it boils ; then strain. Add a beaten egg, a tea- spoonful of chopped parsley, pepper and salt, and serve.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 10 PUREE OF BEETROOT /~\NE quart of stock, one ounce of butter, one ounce of flour, one small onion, one or two cooked beetroots (according to size), one gill of cream, salt and pepper to taste, mustard and cress. Melt the butter in a stewpan and fry in it the onion peeled and sliced. Do not allow it to brown. Stir in the flour and fry for a few minutes ; add the stock and stir until it boils ; then allow to simmer for half an hour. Peel the beetroot and slice it finely ; sprinkle it with a little salt, pepper and mixed vinegar, Orleans tarragon, and a very little chillies, just enough to cover the slices of beetroot. Add the beetroot and vinegar to the soup and cook for fifteen minutes, not longer, otherwise the colour is spoiled. Pass the soup through a hair sieve, but rub through it only half the beetroot ; if too much beetroot juice is added, the soup will be too sweet. Then reheat ; pour into a soup tureen and put some very finely shredded mustard and cress on the top. Some cream in a sauceboat can be served with this soup, also croiltons, if liked.SOUPS 11 POTAGE BORTSCH riJJT as a julienne the white part of two leeks, one carrot, two onions, one small white firm cabbage, one stick of tender white celery, a little parsley and two red beetroots. Set the whole to stew gently in butter for fifteen or twenty minutes. Moisten with a quart of good light consomme, or veal and chicken stock. To two tablespoonfuls of the juice of grated beetroot add one bunch of fennel and one of sweet marjoram, two pounds of fat breast of beef, and a half-roasted duck. Cook gently for four hours. When about to serve cut a little of the beef into small dice, also the duck. Finish the soup writh a wineglassful of beetroot juice, and a little blanched fennel and parsley. Place the julienne in the soup with the dice of beef and duck. Serve with the soup some very small rounds of light pastry ; also some cream in a sauceboat, sufficient for two or three ladlefuls for each person. 1THE DUDLEY RECIPES 12 CREAM OF CELERY rnWO heads of young celery, a small onion peeled and sliced, two ounces of butter, half an ounce of flour, one quart of white stock, half a pint of cream or milk—or of both mixed— the yolks of two eggs, a pinch of castor sugar, and salt and pepper to taste. Wash and trim the celery and blanch it in slightly salted water; drain and cut up into small pieces ; melt the butter and when hot put in the onion and celery and stir over the fire for several minutes ; sprinkle in the flour and stir again for a few minutes ; moisten with the stock and cook until tender. Rub all through a fine sieve and return to the stewpan ; stir in the milk or cream ; season to taste, adding also a pinch of sugar ; allow it to become thoroughly hot and serve. Fried croutons to be served with the soup. CREAM OF CHICORY fTlHREE to four heads of chicory, four ounces of butter, two quarts of stock, four table- spoonfuls of rice, half a gill of cream, one gill of milk, the yolks of two eggs, salt, pepper and small croutons of fried bread.SOUPS 13 Trim the chicory and wash well; drain ; cut up into pieces and place in stewpan with the butter; cook for several minutes, without allowing the chicory to get brown. Wash and drain the rice ; add it to the chicory and fry a little longer. Add the stock and cook the whole until the rice and chicory are tender. Rub all through a fine sieve ; return to the fire ; add the milk ; boil up ; season to taste ; and last of all put in the cream with the yolks of eggs, which have been well whisked. Stir well, but do not allow to boil. Serve with croutons of fried bread. % INDIAN THICK MULLIGATAWNY SOUP /~\NE good knuckle of veal, half a pound of ''-J lean ham, one carrot, one turnip, two onions, six apples, three tablespoonfuls of curry powder, one tablespoonful of curry paste, eight ounces of flour, one lump of sugar, a little salt, a quarter of a pound of butter. Cut the veal into pieces and place in stewpan Avith the ham, vegetables cut small, and apples sliced. Set on stove, and fry light brown, turning the meat about. Wet Avith about one pint of good light stock made from rabbit or chicken bones. Leave on stove or in hot oven until dried into aTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 14 kind of glaze. Add the flour, curry paste, and powder, and stir till smooth. Fill stewpan with water, or light stock ; add the sugar, salt, and bouquet of parsley. Allow it to boil, then draw to side of stove to simmer for about three hours. Skim off fat as it rises. Pass through hair sieve, and allow the soup to boil up once more. Place some small pieces of the veal in tureen, and some plain boiled rice served separately. CLEAR MULLIGATAWNY SOUP CALF’S head, and two feet, three onions, two carrots, one bouquet of parsley, one teaspoonful of curry powder, half a teaspoonful of cayenne, one tablespoonful of Harvey’s sauce, a piece of butter, and a little stock or water. Clean, wash, and divide the calf’s head, and place in a stewpan with the feet, which have also been carefully cleaned. Cover them with four quarts of water or a little weak broth ; boil and allow to simmer until the head is quite tender. Skim well. Take out the head and when cool remove the meat carefully from the bone, returning the bone to the stock on the fire. Cut the vegetables up into small pieces and fry them a nice brown. Add the curry powder and mix well. Wet withSOUPS 15 the Harvey sauce and add the cayenne. Let all boil gently for two hours, then strain, and if at all dull, clear with white of egg or a little lean beef. The meat of the calf’s head should be cut into small round pieces about the size of a shilling and placed in the tureen with the soup. BISQUE OF CRAYFISH /^UT into very small dice one ounce of carrot, A-' one ounce of onion and two parsley stalks ; add a fragment of thyme and bay leaf, and brown all this with butter in a saute pan. Throw in fifteen crayfish for the bisque, their average weight being about one to one and a third ounces. Toss them in the preparation until they acquire a very red colour ; sprinkle with two tablespoonfuls of burnt brandy and a quarter of a pint of white wine ; season with a large pinch of salt and a pinch of ground pepper, and set to reduce. This done, moisten with a quarter of a pint of white consomme, and leave to cook for ten minutes. Cook also three ounces of rice in one and a half pints of white consomme. Shell the crayfish ; put the tails on one side, also eight of the back parts of the shells; drain the crayfish of all their cook- ing liquor; finely pound them and their remains and the vegetables. Add the rice, properly cooked, also the cooking liquor of the crayfish and rub allTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 16 through a sieve first and then through a tammy. Add to the resulting puree half a pint of white consomme ; set it to boil, whisking it meanwhile ; pass through a strainer and then keep the puree in a bain-marie, taking care to place a few lumps of butter on its surface to prevent the formation of a skin whilst the bisque is waiting to be served. Finish the preparation, when dishing up, with twro and a half ounces of butter, three tablespoonfuls of good thick cream and a little cayenne. Place in the puree the eight little shells, stuffed with fish forcemeat and cream, which should have been poached for seven or eight minutes previ- ously. r9 ANOTHER RECIPE FOR BISQUE OF CRAYFISH rTlHREE to four dozen crayfish, three boned anchovies, four ounces of butter, one small onion stuck with two cloves, two quarts of fish stock, one French dinner roll, two gills of cream, one teaspoonful of lemon juice, salt, pepper and four ounces of rice. Remove the gut from the centre fin of the tail of each crayfish ; shell the fish and put the shell and half the tails in a mortar; pound very finely with the anchovies ; add the butter and put the whole in a stewpan over the fire and stir with a woodenSOUPS 17 spoon until hot. Then add the rice, previously washed and drained ; fry a little and moisten with the fish stock; add the onions and cloves and let simmer until the rice is quite tender, stirring frequently; soak the soft part of the roll in a little milk and add this to the soup ; pass through a tammy or fine sieve : return to the stewpan ; season to taste ; reheat and add the cream. Just before serving, add the lemon juice and the cray- fish tails and serve with a plate of small fried bread croutons. A little butter must be added to the puree at the last moment to prevent a skim forming whilst it is waiting to be served. The bisque should be smooth and creamy. BISQUE OF LOBSTER rTlHIS is prepared in the same way as the above recipe for Bisque of Crayfish, only substi- tuting for the crayfish a raw lobster, weighing about three pounds cut into small sections. Also the garnish in the soup should be pieces of lobster meat cut into small dice. It is also preferable to use velout6 sauce instead of white consomme; otherwise the whole preparation is identical as for the Bisque of Crayfish. The bisques, when prepared, should be smooth and creamy.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 18 BISQUE OF SHRIMPS rpms is also prepared in exactly the same way as the above, substituting two pounds of raw shrimps, and instead of using ordinary butter in garnishing this bisque, use three ounces of shrimp butter, which is prepared as follows :— SHRIMP BUTTER T?INELY pound any available shrimp remains ; add toJ| these their weight in butter, and strain through a tammy. Place in a bowl and set aside to cool. 1 CONSOMME DUCHESSE T)REPARE three pints of clear, strong chicken soup. Stir in a tablespoonful of sago, and boil for twenty minutes. Add cooked shredded chicken breast as a garnish. This is good for children and invalids. 1SOUPS 19 ONION SOUP “JlyTAKE some good light consomme; season well and garnish plentifully with a quan- tity of onions cut in slices and fried in butter, also some thin rounds of bread lightly toasted. The consomme should be thickly filled with the onions and bread, and served very hot. This is an excellent soup to send out for a shooting lunch. POTAGE REGENCE 13LACE in a stewpan in two quarts of water two pounds of sinewy veal, one soup fowl, one carrot, one onion, and a bouquet of parsley. Let simmer until tender. Remove the fowl and free it from skin and bone, and pound the white flesh in a mortar, making a good pur^e. Wet with the liquor in which it was cooked, and return to the pan. When hot, pass all through a tammy or fine hair sieve, and add two tablespoonfuls of thick cream. For garnish, have some small quenelles of chicken, bead shape, also the cooked heads of asparagus or small fresh green peas.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 20 COLD CONSOMME /^|NE pound of knuckle of veal, two pounds of shin of beef (no bone), one soup fowl, three pounds of lean topside of beef, one carrot, one stick of celery, two leeks, one onion, a little parsley, eight peppercorns, and two cloves. Place the veal and shin of beef and soup fowl in a stock-pot with sufficient cold water to cover the meat. When it comes to the boil, skim off the sedi- ment as it rises; then add the vegetables, and let all boil very gently for six hours ; strain through a soup-cloth. The next day clear the liquid. Pass the meat (including the lean topside) through a mincer ; place it in a bowl, and mix with it a quart of cold water. Put the stock on to warm, free from all grease ; then put into the stock the chopped meat, and mix well together, stirring over the fire until it boils ; then draw to the side of stove, and let it simmer gently to clear for one hour ; strain, and season to taste. This must not be allowed to set in a jelly, as it should be served in a liquid form, but cold. The above is for a very small quantity of consomme. %SOUPS D 21 CONSOMME A LA FERMIERE T>UT into fine julienne one carrot, one turnip, the white heads of two leeks, one small onion, and one white head of celery. Slightly stew these vegetables in two ounces of fresh butter, and moisten with a pint or more of light consomme made chiefly from chicken or veal stock. Add two ounces of green cabbage cut in julienne, and simmer all together gently. Remove any fat that may rise. The consomme must be clear. Brown lightly some small rounds of bread cut thin, and serve separately on a plate. LARIFY one quart of stock (made of shin of beef, knuckle of veal and soup fowl in the usual way). Add four ripe tomatoes cut into halves ; boil gently for half an hour, season and pass through a clean napkin so that it should be very clear and to have a pink tinge. For garnish, a pluck of chervil leaves. This soup is good, hot or cold. CONSOMME A LA MADRIDTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 22 CONSOMME VELOUTE QUANTITIES FOR MAKING THREE QUARTS rTlHREE pounds shin of beef, three pounds lean topside of beef, one soup fowl, one pound of carrots, three-quarters of a pound of leeks, two turnips, one head of celery, and a little parsley. Place the shin of beef in a stock-pot, with five quarts of cold water. When it comes to the boil, skim off all grease and add the vegetables. Let all cook gently for five or six hours, then strain. When cold, remove all fat from the surface. Take the three pounds of lean topside, which has been previously passed through the machine, mix it with one pint of water, and add it to the above. Stir gently over the fire until it boils ; then add, chopped very finely, one carrot, one leek, one piece of celery, a little parsley and the soup fowl, which has been roasted in front of the fire. Let all again cook gently for two hours ; remove with paper any fat from the surface, and pass through a soup napkin. The garnish for this soup is a printanier of vegetables and rounds of marrow bones cut about three-quarters of an inch thick ; these should be poached and served in a little of the consomme with the garnish of vegetables.SOUPS 23 PAYSANNE SOUP /^lUT very thin into rounds about the size of a ^ sixpence one red carrot, one turnip, two leeks, and one stick of celery ; fry these in fresh butter, stirring all the time. Give them a little pale tint, but do not allow them to colour brown. Add one pint of light chicken or veal consomme (or both mixed), and let it cook gently until the vegetables are quite tender. Remove any scum or fat from the surface, and add a little pluck of chervil. LA PETITE MARMITE PREPARE a consomme in a special earthen- ware stockpot used for making soup, the ingredients and quantities being as follows :— Two pounds of lean beef, two pounds of breast of beef, one marrow bone tied in a muslin bag, and the necks, pinions and gizzards of six large fowls (these giblets being inserted in the stewpan an hour before dishing up). Moisten with three and a half quarts of water, and add three-quarters of an ounce of salt. Set to boil, and skim off grease and scum as it rises to the surface; cook gently, stirring from time to time, adding occasionally a little cold water before the boil is reached, in order that, this being retarded, a complete expulsion ofTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 24 the scum may be effected and a very clear broth may be obtained. One hour before serving add six ounces of carrots and the same quantity of turnip, cut into pieces about the size and shape of a large olive, five ounces of the white of leeks and a heart of celery. Cook a quarter of a very white, properly blanched cabbage separately in a sauce- pan with a little consomme and stock grease. When about to serve, season the consomme, which should be very clear and thoroughly clean the stewpan. Withdraw the marrow bone ; take it out of its muslin bag, and send it and the cabbage to table in a separate dish with some croutes of toasted bread and some grated Parmesan cheese served separately. The above quantity is sufficient for eight or ten persons. POULE AU POT rTlHIS is a variation of Petite Marmite, in which a tender and very fleshy hen is substituted for the giblets of fowl. Both Petite Marmite and Poule au Pot should be sent to table in the earthen- ware stockpot—or marmite, as it is called. A new earthemvare stockpot should have had boiling water put into it for at least twelve hours before it is used. Also these stockpots should be washed in hot water only without any soap or soda.SOUPS 25 HOW TO MAKE A GOOD CONSOMME TYIDE the “ Dudley Recipe Book,” published by Mr. Arnold in 1910. THE STOCKPOT IAVERY kitchen ought to have its stockpot always going, into which is placed all meat, bones and trimmings, also the carcases of white poultry and white game, also carrots, leeks, onions and a little parsley. Where a stockpot is kept, a few egg-shells should be saved, washed, and crushed, and allowed to simmer in the stock, as this will help to clarify the broth or liquor in the stockpot.42 FISH DISHESOur plenteous streams a various race supply, The bright-eyed perch with fins of Tyrian dye ; The silver eel, in shining volumes roll'd ; The yellow carp, in scales bedropt with gold ; Swift trouts, diversified with crimson stains. And pikes, the tyrants of the watery plains. He was a bold man that first ate an oyster. 1 SWIFT Cookery has become an Art, a noble science; cooks are gentlemen. burton % 1 shall stay him no longer than to wish him a rainy evening to read the following discourse : and that if he be an honest angler, the east wind may never blow when he goes a-fishing. IZAAK WALTON, “ THE COMPLEAT ANGLER 5 ’ % Two Harveys had a mutual wish, To please in separate stations ; The one invented “ sauce for fish," The other “ Meditations." Each has his pungent powers applied To aid the dead and dying : That relishes a sole when fried. This saves a soul from frying.Oh, the gallant fisher's life ! It is the best of any ; 9Tis full of pleasure, void of strife, And 'tis beloved by many. IZAAK WALTON 1 It's no fish ye're buying, it's men's lives. SCOTT, “ THE ANTIQUARY 1 Our stomachs will make what's homely savoury. SHAKESPEARE, “ CYMBELINE,” III, vi Unquiet meals make ill indigestions. SHAKESPEARE % FISHING-REQUISITES FOR SUCCESS A day with not too bright a beam, A warm but not a scorching sun, ^4 southern gale to curb the stream, ^4nd, Master, half our work is done. There, whilst behind some bush we wait, The scaly people to betray, JFVZZ prouo i£ /nsi, m’/A treacherous bait, To mafe preying trout our prey: And think ourselves, in sncA on hour, Happier than those, though not so high, Who like leviathans devour Of meaner men the smaller fry. IZAAK WALTONHis angle rod made of a sturdy oak, His line a cable which in storms ne'er broke : His hook he baited with a dragon's tail,— And sat upon a rock and bobb'd for whale. WILLIAM KING42 FISH DISHES 31 FILLETS OF SOLE AMBASSADOR f 11AKE some nice fillets of sole and fold them over in half. Place them in a well-buttered pan with a little lemon juice and cook them in the oven. Have ready rather a thin puree of potato, and arrange the fillets on this ; then put all over the top a layer of breadcrumbs browned in clarified butter, and serve with the following sauce. % SAUCE FOR FILLETS OF SOLE AMBASSADOR nnAKE the liquid in which the fish is cooked and mix with it half Espagnol sauce and half Hollandaise sauce, and serve hot. 1THE DUDLEY RECIPES 32 FILLETS OF SOLE BERCY T)UTTER the bottom of the dish intended for the soles, and sprinkle it with two finely chopped shallots. Lay the fillets lengthwise upon the dish, side by side ; moisten them with three tablespoonfuls of white wine and as much fish liquid, and add half an ounce of butter cut in small pieces. Cook in the oven, basting constantly with butter, and at the last minute add a little good glaze and a few drops of lemon juice, and just before serving sprinkle a pinch of chopped parsley upon each fillet. SOLE AU GRATIN PARTLY separate the fillets from the bones on the upper side of the fish and slip a lump of butter, the size of a walnut, under each. This done, place the sole on a well-buttered gratin dish, on the bottom of which a pinch of chopped shallots and parsley has been sprinkled, together with two tablespoonfuls of gratin sauce. Lay four cooked mushrooms on the sole, and sur- round it with one ounce of raw mushrooms, cut into rather thin slices. Add two tablespoonfuls of white wine, and cover the sole with gratin sauce ;FISH DISHES sprinkle it with fine raspings and then copiously with melted butter, and set to form in a fierce oven. When taking the sole from the oven, sprinkle a few drops of lemon juice and a pinch of chopped parsley upon it, and serve at once. GRATIN SAUCE 1DUT six tablespoonfuls of “ dry Duxelle ” into -* a small stewpan and add to it three table- spoonfuls of half-glaze sauce containing plenty of tomato, crushed garlic the size of a pea, a table- spoonful of fine fresh breadcrumbs, and two tablespoonfuls of white wine. Set to simmer until the required degree of consistency is obtained. Whiting can also be cooked in the same way as sole, the fillets being removed from the bones. ■* GRILLED SOLE SEASON the sole and sprinkle with oil, and grill very gently. Dish it on a very hot dish garnished with slices of lemon. 83THE DUDLEY RECIPES 34 SOLE DUGLERE rriAKE one and a half ounces of chopped onion, half a pound of peeled and roughly cut up tomatoes, a little roughly chopped parsley, a pinch of table salt, a very little pepper, and the eighth of a pint of white wine. Lay the sole in a buttered dish with the vege- tables and wine ; set to poach gently, and then dish the sole. Reduce the cooking liquor ; thicken it with two tablespoonfuls of fish veloute; com- plete with one ounce of butter and a few drops of lemon juice. Pour the sauce over the fish, and serve. SOLE SUR LE PLAT TDARTLY separate the fillets from the bones on the upper part of the fish and slip a piece of butter, the size of a walnut, under each. Lay the sole on a very plentifully buttered dish ; moisten with one-fifth of a pint of the fish’s cooking liquor, and add a few drops of lemon juice. Cook in the oven, basting often with butter until the cooking liquor has, by reduction, ac- quired the consistency of syrup, and covers the sole with a clear and glossy coat.FISH DISHES 35 WHITING SUR LE PLAT A RE cooked in the same way, only they should be opened down the back and boned, before being cooked. AY on a fireproof or copper dish to cook a nice fresh sole, an onion, salt and pepper. Cover the sole with a large glassful of dry white wine, and as much white consomme, also a little essence of mushroom. When the sole is cooked, make a little white “ Roux ” with a pinch of flour and a piece of butter wetted with the essence from the pan in which the fish has been cooked. Add the yolks of two eggs, and finish the sauce with about three ounces of butter. Lay the sole on a dish and serve at once, with the sauce in a boat. This sauce is excellent for brill and whitings— in fact, for all white fish. SOLE MARSEILLAISETHE DUDLEY RECIPES 36 SOLES NAPOLITAINES rpWO medium-sized soles, one ounce of flour, one tablespoonful of mushroom juice, two ounces of butter, one and half ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, one gill of milk, salt, pepper and nutmeg. Skin, trim and wipe well two medium-sized soles; place them in a buttered saut6 pan ; season with salt and pepper, and pour over them the mushroom juice ; cover with a buttered paper and cook from fifteen to twenty minutes, according to the heat of the oven. Meanwhile put the milk to boil. Melt the butter in a stewpan ; add the flour and stir over the fire until the flour becomes a light brown colour; then add the boiling milk with about an ounce of the grated Parmesan cheese and a little boiling water. Stir over the fire until it boils ; then allow it to simmer for ten minutes, adding a little more water or fish stock (if you have any at hand). If the sauce should appear too thick, season with salt, pepper and a little grated nutmeg. Place the cooked soles on an oblong flat dish ; add the liquor which remains in the saute pan to the sauce ; strain it and pour over the fish ; sprinkle with the remainder of the grated Parmesan. Place the dish in the oven, or under a hot salamander, just long enough for the top to take colour, and serve in the same dish.FISH DISHES 37 FILLETS OF SOLE A L’AMERICAINE OKIN two good medium-sized soles, remove ^ the fillets, trim the edges, and fold them neatly ; season with pepper and salt, and lay them in a row on a well-buttered gratin china or silver dish. Moisten with a little good dry white wine, and sprinkle over them two finely chopped shallots ; cover with buttered paper, and cook in the oven for five minutes ; then pour the liquor from the dish into a previously prepared rich tomato sauce (made with tomato pulp and veloute and well re- duced). Pour this carefully over the fish so as to completely mask it. Sprinkle over some freshly made breadcrumbs and place some tiny pieces of lobster butter on each fillet (made from pounded eggs and coral of a lobster, with double its quantity of fresh butter). Finish the fillets of sole in a sharp oven, allowing about eight minutes to brown the surface. Serve at once. % SOLE MODE DE TROUVILLE OKIN three medium-sized soles, remove the ^ fillets, trim them neatly, then fold and flatten slightly ; place them in a well-buttered saute pan ; season with salt and pepper and a very little gratedTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 38 nutmeg ; moisten with a gill of dry white wine and a little white stock ; cover the pan, and allow them to cook for about fifteen minutes over a quick fire ; drain the fillets and keep them warm. Next put into the saute pan a dozen mushroom heads with a little of their liquor, also a dozen mussels and a dozen oysters ; cook these together until thoroughly hot. Dish up the fillets in a circle. Reduce the gravy with half a pint of Bechamel sauce ; take out the mushrooms and shellfish ; thicken the sauce with the yolks of two eggs and a pat of fresh butter ; pass through a tammy, and return to the saute pan with the garnishing ; range the heads of mushrooms on the top of each fillet, and put the remainder with the oysters and mush- rooms in the centre of the dish. Sauce well over, sprinkle with a very little dissolved meat glaze, and serve. SOLES A LA COLBERT mRIM a good-sized sole, take off both skins, and wipe it with a cloth. With a sharp- pointed knife make an incision alongside the bone, break the bone at each end, and remove it carefully without mutilating the fish. Brush the fish with beaten egg on both sides and cover well with fresh breadcrumbs. Fry in deep, hot fat a golden colour ;FISH DISHES 39 drain it well on paper or a cloth ; dish up, and fill the centre of the fish, the cavity left by the bone’s removal, with well-seasoned Maitre d’Hotel butter (which is made by mixing one ounce of fresh butter with one teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a sprig of tarragon and a sprig of chervil, finely chopped, to which is added a teaspoonful of lemon juice and a pinch of salt and pepper. This should be spread on a plate, put on ice, and, when quite firm, made into pats. The sole should be garnished with sprigs of fried parsley and quarters of lemon, and served quickly. FILETS DE SOLES AUX CHAM- PIGNONS OTEW two ounces of small mushrooms in ^ butter. Fold the fillets, and poach them in one-sixth of a pint of the cooking liquor of the mushrooms and a piece of butter the size of a walnut. Arrange the fillets in an oval, and garnish the centre of the dish with the stewed mushrooms. Reduce the cooking liquor of the fillets to one- third ; add thereto two tablespoonfuls of veloute ; finish the sauce with one ounce of butter, and coat the fillets and the garnish. 1THE DUDLEY RECIPES 40 FILETS DE SOLES AUX CREVETTES Tj^OLD the fillets and poach them in fish fumet (an essence extracted from fish-bones and trimmings). Dish them in an oval ; garnish the middle with one ounce of shelled shrimps’ tails kept very hot, and coat the fillets, and the garnish, with shrimp sauce. 1 FILETS DE SOLES POLIGNAC TT^OLD the fillets and poach them in one-quarter of a pint of white wine, a few tablespoonfuls of the cooking liquor of mushrooms, and a piece of butter about the size of a walnut. Dish the fillets in an oval. Reduce the cooking liquor to one-half; thicken it by means of two tablespoonfuls of fish veloute; finish the sauce with one ounce of butter, and add thereto three small cooked finely minced mushrooms, and one tablespoonful of a julienne of truffles. Coat the fillets with sauce and set to glaze. %FISH DISHES 41 E WHITINGS COLBERT /APEN the whitings down the back and bone them ; season well and dip them in milk ; roll them in flour, then egg and breadcrumb them, and fry in hot fat; drain them, and lay them on a long dish ; garnish the openings in their backs with pieces of Maitre d’Hotel butter, and lay some quarters of lemon and fried parsley round the dish. % WHITINGS A LA FRANCAISE r 11AKE some good medium-sized whitings; clean and trim and score across with a sharp knife. Season, and dust them with flour ; dip into two well-beaten eggs, and then place directly into frying lard. Fry a golden colour and serve whole, laid flat on a dish with fried parsley as a garnish. Clarified butter, or any sauce preferred, can be served with them. The following sharp red sauce is excellent:— Some chopped onion reduced in a stewpan with red vinegar. Mix with this some good Espagnol sauce and a very small quantity of tomato sauce. Season with cayenne pepper, and before serving add a few gherkins chopped very finely.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 42 WHITING GRATIN REMOVE the fillets from some medium-sized whitings, dip them in flour. Season, then dip them in warm butter and breadcrumbs, with which a very little flour has been mixed. Repeat this, and flat them with a palette knife to make them firm and neat. Place in a grill before a clear fire, and grill a nice brown colour. Dish them lengthways on a flat dish, and serve with them, in a sauceboat, the following sauce :— 1 SAUCE FOR WHITINGS OR OTHER FISH TDOUND in a mortar one spoonful of capers, two gherkins, two spring onions, a little tarragon, chervil and parsley, bruising all well. Add two tablespoonfuls of thick mayonnaise sauce. Pass through a hair sieve or muslin, place in a basin, and add two tablespoonfuls of whipped cream; serve in sauceboat. This sauce is a pale green colour.FISH DISHES 43 EPERLANS GRILLES /^iPEN the smelts down the back and remove the bulk of their spine, leaving a small piece only in the region of the tail, and another small piece at the head. Season ; dredge and sprinkle them with melted butter, and grill them quickly. Set them on a long, hot dish ; surround them with slices of lemon and bunches of fried parsley, and serve separately either some half-melted butter a la Maitre d’Hotel or a sauce suited to grilled fish. EPERLANS AU GRATIN T> AISE the fillets from some smelts and leave the bones quite clean. Lay them on a but- tered dish, besprinkled with chopped shallots, the bottom of which should have been covered with a few tablespoonfuls of gratin sauce. Surround the fillets with slices of raw mushrooms ; set two small cooked mushrooms upon each fillet; pour a few tablespoonfuls of white wine into the dish, and cover the whole with gratin sauce. Sprinkle with fine raspings and melted butter, and put the dish into a sufficiently fierce oven to reduce the sauce, allow the gratin to form, and cook the fillets at the same time. When taking the dish from the oven,THE DUDLEY RECIPES 44 sprinkle a little chopped parsley and a few drops of lemon juice over it. The smelts can be treated whole in the same way. EPERLANS A L’ANGLAISE OPEN the smelts down the back and carefully bone without disfiguring them. Treat them d VAnglaise with fine breadcrumbs and pat them lightly with the flat of a knife, so that the bread- crumbs may adhere well. Cook them in clarified butter ; set them on a long, hot dish, and be- sprinkle them with half-melted butter a la Maitre d’Hotel. Anglaise is made as follows :— Some well-whisked eggs, salt, pepper and a dessertspoonful of oil per couple of eggs. The solids to be panes a VAnglaise should be dipped into the above preparation and afterwards rolled either in breadcrumbs or fine raspings. It is well to roll them in flour before being immersed in the Anglaise, for the flour helps the foregoing to adhere to the object. 1FISH DISHES 45 FILETS DE MAQUEREAU AUX FINES LIERBES T3AISE some mackerels’ fillets in suchwise as to leave the bones quite clean. Arrange the fillets on a buttered dish, and poach them in white wine and the cooking liquor of mushrooms in equal quantities. Take care to cover them whilst they are being poached. This done, drain them ; skin them ; set them on a long dish, and cover them with a herb sauce, combined with their cooking liquor strained through muslin and reduced. FISH CAKES TT^ISH cakes can be made from any kind of boiled fish, but fresh or salted cod is, how- ever, the best suited for this dish. Flake about one pound of cooked cod and clear it of all skin and bones ; pound it with half a pound of freshly cooked floury potatoes, two tablespoonfuls of re- duced Bechamel sauce, and two whole eggs ; season well with salt and pepper. When the mixture has been well beaten and is smooth, take it out of the mortar and divide it into portions weighing about two ounces. Roll these portions into balls upon a flour-dusted mixing-board, and then flatten themTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 46 into cakes ; egg and breadcrumb them, and fry them at the last moment in very hot fat, and dish them on a napkin with fried parsley all round. % TURBOT CARDINAL npAKE a small turbot and carefully remove the skin and bone, and fillet it ; season with pepper and salt, and place the fillets on a well- buttered fireproof dish. Moisten with one or two (according to size of fish) large glasses of Chablis or hock, and poach in the oven for fifteen minutes or longer, according to the thickness of the fillets. Have ready enough Cardinal sauce to wrell coat the fish and the base of the dish ; put a layer of Bearnaise sauce in the centre of the fillets ; and upon this strew some very finely cut shreds of truffles, and serve. TURBOTIN FERMIBRE OPRINKLE on the bottom of a buttered tray two minced shallots, a few roundels of carrot and onion, some parsley stalks, thyme and bay leaf. Lay the chicken turbot on these aromatics and season moderately. For a fish weighing two poundsFISH DISHES 47 moisten with two-thirds of a pint of excellent red wine ; add half an ounce of butter, cut into small pieces, and poach gently, taking care to baste frequently. Meantime toss three ounces of minced mush- rooms in three ounces of butter. When the turbot is ready, drain it ; dish it; surround it with the tossed mushrooms, and keep it hot. Strain the cooking liquor into a vegetable pan and reduce it to one-half. Thicken it with a piece of manied butter, the size of a walnut ; add three ounces of butter. Pour this sauce over the chicken turbot and its garnish, and set to glaze quickly. Manied Butter is made as follows :— Mix, until perfectly combined, four ounces of butter and three ounces of sifted flour. Make immediately before the time of dishing up. TURBOTIN A L’ANDALOUSE /^lUT the fish in the region of the back ; season ^ it and lay it in a deep earthenware dish of convenient size, liberally buttered. In the case of a chicken turbot weighing two and a half pounds, moisten with one-third of a pint of white wine and one-quarter of a pint of fish fumet (an essence extracted from fish-bones and trimmings).THE DUDLEY RECIPES 48 Finely mince two medium-sized onions and toss them in butter until they have acquired a yellow colour. Peel, press and mince three tomatoes, and add thereto three large raw, sliced mushrooms. Cut two mild capsicums into strips. Spread the onion on the chicken turbot; put the tomatoes and the sliced mushrooms on top, and upon these arrange the grilled strips of mild cap- sicum ; besprinkle moderately with raspings ; lay one ounce of butter, cut into small pieces, on the top, and set to cook gently in the oven. Allow thirty minutes for the cooking. By reducing the moistening liquor, which has perforce absorbed some of the gelatinous properties of the fish, the liaison forms of itself. CHICKEN TURBOT AMERICAINE /~1UT up the back and remove the bones from a ^ chicken turbot weighing about three pounds. Season well, and place it in a deep earthenware dish, which has been plentifully buttered. Moisten with half a pint of white wine and a quarter of a pint of fish liquor. Mince finely two medium-sized onions, and toss in butter until they become a light brown colour. Peel, press and mince three ripe tomatoes, and add to them three large raw, sliced mushrooms. Cut into strips two mild capsicumsFISH DISHES 49 and grill them. Spread first the onion over the turbot, then the tomatoes and sliced mushrooms, and then lay on the strips of grilled capsicum. Sprinkle lightly over all a little rasped gratin, and lay on top of this an ounce of butter cut into small pieces. Place in oven to cook gently for thirty minutes, and serve in the dish in which it was cooked. CHICKEN TURBOT FERMIERE OPRINKLE on the bottom of a buttered tray ^ two minced shallots, a few rounds of carrot and onions, some parsley, thyme and bay leaf. Lay on these the chicken turbot, and season mode- rately. For a fish weighing two pounds, moisten with two-thirds of red wine and add half an ounce of butter cut into small pieces. Poach gently, taking care to baste frequently. Meanwhile toss three ounces of minced mushrooms in three ounces of butter. When the turbot is ready, drain and dish it, surround with the tossed mushrooms, and keep it hot. Strain the cooking liquor into a vege- table pan, and reduce it to half the quantity, and add three ounces of butter. Pour this sauce over the turbot and its garnish, and set it to glaze quickly. Serve very hot. Large soles can be cooked in the same way.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 50 TURBOTIN BONNE FEMME TT^OR a chicken turbot weighing from two to two and a half pounds, sprinkle on the bottom of a buttered tray one dessertspoonful of chopped shallots, one pinch of roughly chopped parsley, and three ounces of minced mushrooms. Cut the chicken turbot in the back and partly separate the fillets from the bone ; lay it on a tray, and moisten with one-third of a pint of white wine and one-third of a pint of fish fumet (an essence extracted from fish-bones and trimmings). Cook gently in the oven, and baste frequently the while. When the chicken turbot is cooked, dish it and keep it hot. Pour the cooking liquor into a saute pan ; reduce it to one-half, and add three table- spoonfuls of fish veloute and three ounces of butter. Cover the fish with this sauce and the garnish, and glaze quickly. FILLETS OF TROUT MILANAISE mwo or three small trout, half a gill of best olive oil, one lemon, one dessertspoonful of chopped parsley, one egg, one ounce of grated Parmesan cheese, salt, pepper, breadcrumbs, lard or olive oil for frying, and fried parsley for garnish. Steep the fish in boiling water for about a minute ;FISH DISHES 51 peel off the skin ; split each lengthwise and remove the bone. Place the fillets in a pie-dish or other flat dish ; season with salt and pepper ; moisten with oil, sufficient to cover; add the juice of one lemon, and allow the fillets to soak in this for about an hour ; beat up the eggs and mix with chopped parsley ; and mix sufficient freshly made bread- crumbs with the grated Parmesan cheese. Drain the fillets ; rub them over on each side with a little flour ; dip them in the beaten egg, and cover well with the prepared breadcrumbs. Have ready some lard, or oil, in a deep saute pan. When hot, put in the fillets, and fry a golden colour. Drain well on a cloth or paper ; dish up ; garnish with fried parsley, and serve with Sauce milanaise in a sauceboat. MATELOTE OF SALMON TDREPARE some whiting forcemeat by re- moving the flesh from a large skinned whiting. Put it into a mortar with four ounces of panade (flour and water or soaked bread made into a paste) and two ounces of butter. Rub all through a sieve ; return to the mortar, and work in gradually one tablespoonful of cold, stiff Bechamel sauce, the yolks of two eggs, and the white of one ; season with salt, pepper and grated nutmeg. Make thisTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 52 up into eighteen small quenelles and place on one side. For the Salmon Matelote : Take two to three pounds of salmon cut into half-inch slices, two ounces of butter, twro dessertspoonfuls of finely chopped herbs (parsley, chervil, tarragon and chives), the juice of one lemon, one glass of Chablis or Sauterne, three truffles, eighteen small mush- rooms, fresh or preserved, twelve small braised onions, half a pint of rich Espagnol sauce, one ounce of meat glaze, the eighteen fish quenelles, and seasoning. Wipe and pare the slices of salmon, melt the butter in a large saute pan ; place in the salmon ; sprinkle over with the chopped herbs ; season with pepper and salt; add the lemon juice and wine, and cover with buttered paper. Cook in a fairly hot oven for ten minutes, basting the fish con- stantly. Poach the quenelles of fish ; drain them and put them into a saucepan. Cut into small slices the truffles and mushrooms, toss them in a little butter, and add them to the quenelles ; also the meat glaze, and warm up to boiling-point. Take up the fish and lay it neatly on a hot dish. Strain the liquor from the fish into the sauce ; boil up and skim, and pour over the fish. Garnish nicely with the braised onions, truffles, etc., and serve hot. %FISH DISHES 53 SOUFFLE OF LOBSTER mWO hen lobsters, six eggs, half a pint of well- reduced creamy Bechamel sauce, pepper, salt, nutmeg and a little cayenne. Split the lobsters ; remove the flesh from the shell, and pound in a mortar until very fine. Make the Bechamel sauce hot, and add it by degrees to the lobster, also the yolks of the eggs and the season- ing. Rub all through a sieve into a basin. Beat up the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth ; mix all lightly together ; put it into a well-buttered mould, and steam for an hour and a quarter. Turn out on to a hot dish, and serve with the following sauce :— Take the eggs and coral of a lobster ; wash and dry well; pound in a mortar with double its quan- tity of fresh butter ; rub through a fine sieve, and put in a cool place until required. Put half a pint of creamy Bechamel sauce in a stewpan ; add two ounces of butter, a pinch of cayenne, half a gill of cream, one dessertspoonful of tarragon vinegar and one ounce of the lobster butter. Stir well over boiling water until hot, but without letting the sauce boil. Serve in sauceboat with the souffle of lobster. Some cucumber sandwiches can also be served with this dish.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 54 FRENCH SALMON TART TYEMOVE the skin from a slice of salmon of moderate thickness and cut it into neat fillets. Free the trimmings from skin and bone, and pound them in a mortar with a few chopped mushrooms and about an ounce of butter. When smooth, incorporate two tablespoonfuls of creamy Bechamel sauce, and season with salt, pepper and aromatic spice. Line a flan, or French tart mould, placed on a baking sheet, with plain short- crust paste ; prick the bottom Avith a fork and spread over the prepared mixture. Upon this arrange neatly the fillets of salmon ; sprinkle over some chopped parsley and seasoning, some lemon juice and oiled butter ; cover with a layer of puff paste ; ornament the surface with the aid of a knife, and brush over with beaten egg-yolk. Bake in a moderate oven for forty minutes. Remove the cover carefully and take off the fat which has accumulated. Have ready a ragout of prawns or large shrimps, which place on the top of the salmon fillets. Replace the paste crust cover, dish up, and serve very hot. %FISH DISHES 55 AN AMERICAN FISH PIE HALF a pound of cooked turbot, cod or had- dock, three-quarters of a pound of mashed potatoes, two ounces of butter, half a pint of white Bechamel sauce, two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, one whole egg, the yolks of two eggs, pepper, salt and a pinch of nutmeg. Break up the fish into flakes, removing the skin and bones ; put into a stewpan with half an ounce of butter ; stir a little over the fire, and add half the sauce and half the cheese ; season to taste, and heat up. Heat the potato puree with an ounce of butter and a little thick cream ; stir well ; season to taste, and bind with the yolks of the two eggs. Line a well-buttered pie-dish with a layer of the prepared potatoes about half an inch thick ; put in a layer of sauce; then the prepared fish ; cover with another layer of the sauce, and lastly cover all with more potato puree. Smooth the surface ; brush over with beaten egg ; sprinkle with grated Par- mesan and a sprinkle of cayenne. Mark the top neatly with the point of a knife. Place the dish in a pan containing a little water, and bake in a quick oven for twenty minutes, until the pie is thoroughly hot and the top a nice rich brown colour.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 56 FISH CROQUETTES f I THREE-QUARTERS of a pound of cold fish, freed from skin and bones, a gill of reduced creamy Bechamel sauce, one dessertspoonful of anchovy essence, one whole egg, the yolk of an egg, salt, pepper, breadcrumbs, parsley and frying fat. Shred the fish as finely as possible, or mince very small; heat up the sauce; add the anchovy essence ; season to taste. Stir in the minced fish and, when thoroughly hot, stir in the yolk of egg ; let it bind, and turn the mixture on to a plate to cool. Make up into even-sized cutlet shapes ; insert a small piece of macaroni at one end of the cutlets ; dip in beaten egg; crumb well with breadcrumbs ; fry in deep fat a golden colour ; drain well and dish up garnished with fried parsley, and serve. BOUILLABAISSE A LA MARSEILLAISE TAOUILLABAISSE made quite as it is at Mar- J-J seilles is impossible here, owing to the fact that many of the fish used there are only found in the Mediterranean, and it is the combination of these fish which give the Bouillabaisse its peculiar flavour. The following recipe, however, is excellent made from fish sold in the English market—such asFISH DISHES F 57 dory, whiting, brill, spring lobster, red mullet, gurnet and haddock :— Cut the large fish into slices, leaving the smaller ones whole, and, with the exception of the whiting and the red mullet, which cook more quickly than the others, put them all into a saucepan together. For two pounds of fish, add one small onion, the chopped white of one leek, one small tomato, peeled, chopped and pressed, two crushed cloves of garlic, a large pinch of finely chopped parsley, a pinch of powdered saffron, a piece of bay, thyme and fennel, and two tablespoonfuls of salad oil. Moisten the fish with just enough cold water to cover it, and season with one-third of an ounce of salt, and pinch of pepper per quart of water. Set to boil and cook over a brisk fire for eight minutes ; then add the pieces of whiting and red mullet, and leave to cook for a further seven minutes. Pour the liquor of the Bouillabaisse over some slices of household bread lying on the bottom of a deep dish. Set the fish on another dish with some cooked mussels round it, and serve together. % STEWED PLAICE /^HJT a plaice into small pieces and stew for half an hour in a teacupful of water, just salted. Take the fish out of the pan, and thicken the liquorTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 58 with a little flour. Add a pinch of pepper and salt, a little chopped parsley and small teaspoonful of lemon juice. % FISH SEASONING T)EFORE serving fried mackerel, or other fish, sprinkle with the green tips of fresh celery. % THE WAY TO DISSECT A FRESH HERRING TO avoid the bones in a herring, when it is on your plate open it down the back with a sharp knife, then take hold of its tail with your fingers and give it a shake, using a fork to disengage gently the flesh and the roe. In this way the back- bone Avill be removed, as also the large breast-bones.BANQUET ON THE CORONATION DAY OP THE ROMAN EMPRESS, 8 MARCH, 1742 at the Romer Saal—Frankfort on the Main.59 74 HOT POULTRY AND GAME DISHESHops and turkeys, carps and beer, Came into England all in a near. ° SIR R. BAKER % DINNER Faith ! your essence was excelling ; But you gave us nought to eat: Nothing tasting, sweetly smelling, Is, Fabullus, scarce a treat. Let me see a fowl unjointed, When your table next is spread : Who not feeds, but is anointed, Lives like nothing but the dead. martial (g. lamb), iii, 12 % At home my wife will supervise Each meal I take. I wish her eyes Were sometimes touch'd with blindness. But no—they move not from my plate : God bless her ! Now I love, yet hate Her ever-watchful kindness. “ My dear ! you know you're bilious—pray Avoid the turtle soup to-day, And do not touch the salmon: Just take a chicken wing or leg. But no rich sauce—and let me beg You will not taste the gammon." HORACE SMITH, 64 ANSWER TO AN OLD MAN’S PRAISE ”Jack boasts he never dines at home, With reason too, no doubt ; In truth—Jack never dines at all, Unless invited out. martial (anon.), verse 49 I never take a nap after dinner but when I have had a bad night; and then the nap takes me. JOHNSON Their various cares in one great point combine The business of their lives, that is—to dine. YOUNG % He fell upon whatever was offer’d like A priest, a shark, an alderman or pike. BYRON, “ DON JUAN,” 2, clvii HUNGER Man is a carnivorous production, And must have meals—at least one meal a day ; He cannot live like woodcocks upon suction, But like the shark and tiger must have prey. Although his anatomical construction Bears vegetables in a grumbling way ; Your labouring people think beyond all question, Beef, veal and mutton better for digestion. BYRON, “ DON JUAN,” 2, lxvii62 HOME How dear to this heart are the scenes of my childhood, When fond recollection recalls them to view :— The orchard, the meadow, the deep-tangled wild wood, And every lov'd spot which my infancy knew. S. WOODWORTH, “ THE OLD OAKEN BUCKET ”74 HOT POULTRY AND GAME 63 DISHES POACHED CHICKEN WITH MAIZE 1I>LACE a nice white fat Surrey fowl in a covered stewpan with sufficient good light stock to cover it; add one onion, one carrot, a bouquet, two cloves and a few peppercorns. Bring to the boil, draw to one side, and allow it to simmer for about an hour—to poach, rather than boil. When tender, serve whole or cut into neat pieces. Place on dish, and sauce over with very good Supreme sauce flavoured with mushrooms, and finished with a little cream. Serve some of the sauce in a boat. The maize is drained from all moisture and placed in a stewpan with a piece of butter the size of a nutmeg, one onion and pepper and salt. Cook for an hour or more until quite tender, taking care to keep it from burning. When tender, add one table- spoonful of Supreme sauce and a little cream. Mix, and serve in a vegetable dish at the same time as the chicken. The maize should be new maize, and can be pro- cured from Jackson’s, Piccadilly, or any good grocer’s.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 64 POACHED CHICKEN WITH MUSHROOMS POACH the pullet and lay it on a dish ; coat it with the following sauce, well flavoured with mushrooms, and when serving surround it with about twenty cooked and very white small mushrooms :— Take the yolks of five eggs, one pint of cold white stock, one quart of veloute sauce, the juice of half a lemon, three-quarters of a pint of mushroom liquor, salt and pepper. Put the various ingredi- ents into a thick-bottomed saute pan and mix them carefully ; then put the pan on an open fire, and stir the sauce with a metal spatula, lest it burn at the bottom ; when the sauce has been reduced to about one quart, add one-third of a pint of fresh cream to it and reduce further for a few minutes. It should then be passed through a fine strainer into a sauce tureen and kept moving until it is cold. When heated again, pour the sauce over the pullet. A very small quantity of butter and a small addition of cream should be added to the sauce at the very last moment, and away from the fire.POULTRY AND GAME DISHES 65 POULARDE SOUFFLEE T>OACH the pullet and raise the supremes from the breast and cut them into thin slices ; suppress the breast-bones by means of scissors. Stuff the pullet with a mixture of one pound two ounces of “ Mousseline ” forcemeat of chicken, combined with one-third of a pound of puree of foie gras. Spread this preparation in layers, and between each of the layers set alternate slices of the supremes of chicken and truffle. Reconstruct the bird exactly ; smooth its surface, and place the dish upon which it stands on a deep tray con- taining a little boiling water, and poach in a moderate oven. The steam of the boiling water assists the poaching process. When about to serve, coat the pullet with German sauce, flavoured with truffle essence. The use of a bain-marie, contain- ing boiling water wherein the dish which holds the pullet is placed, is very good, but the best method of poaching this sort of dish is by means of a steamer. CHICKEN (MOUSSELINE) FORCEMEAT T> EMOVE the tendons from, trim and cut into cubes, one pound of chicken meat; season with one ounce of salt, a little pepper and nutmeg ;THE DUDLEY RECIPES 66 pound it finely, and when it is reduced to a paste gradually add the whites of two eggs, working hard with the pestle meanwhile. Strain through a fine sieve ; place the forcemeat into a vegetable pan ; stir it once more for a moment or two with a wooden spoon, and mix with it gradually one pint of thick fresh cream, working it in very carefully and keep- ing the receptacle on ice. Mousseline Forcemeat may be prepared from any kind of meat, and is particularly suited to pre- parations of shellfish—or indeed any kind of fish. Very delicate results are obtained from the process, also quenelles for garnishing soup. POULARDE A L’lVOIRE T30ACH the pullet, keeping it very white ; dish it and serve it plain. Send separately in a sauceboat an ivory sauce, and also a sauceboat of the pullet’s cooking liquor, also some kind of gar- nish, such as maize, macaroni, rice or mushrooms.POULTRY AND GAME DISHES 67 POULARDE AUX TRUFFES /^UT up the fowl into neat pieces as for a saut6 dish, and cook it in butter under a cover; then set the pieces in a very hot earthenware “ Cocotte ” dish, and lay upon them five ounces of raw truffles cut into thick slices and slightly salted and peppered. Swill the saute pan with a few tablespoonfuls of white wine ; add a little chicken stock ; pour this liquor into the cocotte ; tho- roughly close the latter, and put it in a very hot oven for eight or ten minutes in the cocotte, and serve in this. 1 CHICKEN FRITTERS a boiled or roasted chicken into small ^ joints ; remove the skin and bones ; place the pieces in a deep dish ; sprinkle with salt and pepper, chopped parsley, a little oil and vinegar, and let them soak in this for an hour, or longer ; drain the pieces ; coat them well with frying batter and fry in hot fat; drain carefully ; dish up, and garnish with fried parsley ; serve with a white sauce in a boat. Frying Batter is prepared as follows :— Sift four ounces of flour into a basin ; add half an ounce of oiled butter, a pinch of salt, the yolkTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 68 of one egg and one tablespoonful of cream ; mix this well with a wooden spoon, and dilute gradu- ally with about half a gill of lukewarm water ; work it well until the paste becomes quite smooth. Allow it to stand for half an hour or more, and when you require to use some, whisk the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth and mix gently. The batter is then ready for use. If intended for fruit fritters, add a teaspoonful of castor sugar ; if for fish or meat, a few drops of lemon juice added to the batter will be found to be an improvement. A thinnish batter is preferable to a thick one. POULET SAUTE MARENGO /^\NE good-sized tender white chicken, one gill of best salad oil, one gill of brown Espagnol sauce, one gill of tomato sauce, one shallot, one glass of Marsala, eight fresh, or preserved, mush- rooms, two truffles, salt, pepper, four eggs and slices of fried bread. Cut the chicken into eight neatly trimmed joints and put them into a saute pan with the oil; fry quickly, to slightly brown the outside of the chicken ; then add the shallot, finely chopped. Pour off the oil into a smaller stewpan ; then add the two kinds of sauce, the mushrooms and truffles, both being cut into slices. Put the coverPOULTRY AND GAME DISHES 69 on the pan ; season with pepper and salt, and set it in the oven to stew for about forty minutes. Fry the eggs in the oil (they must be shaped like poached eggs, not flat); arrange the pieces of chicken neatly on a dish with the eggs ; lay the mushrooms and truffles round. Strain over the sauce, previously freed from fat, and serve with cutlet-shaped pieces of fried bread laid round the dish. Some cocks’ combs can be added to the mushrooms and truffles, and cooked with them, if liked. a FRIED CHICKEN PEMBROKE /^\NE fowl, a mirepoix consisting of bacon, carrot, onion, bay leaf, two cloves and savoury herbs, one pint of stock, two ounces of butter, half an ounce of flour, one glass of white wine, the yolks of three eggs, one whole egg, lemon juice, breadcrumbs, seasoning, frying fat and parsley. Truss the fowl as for braising ; place it on a bed of vegetables and bacon (mirepoix), with an ounce of butter in a stewpan, and let the surface of the fowl get nicely browned over a bright fire. Moisten with stock ; season with pepper and salt; cover, and place in the oven for about half an hour ; baste occasionally. Take up the fowl ; untruss and cut into neat joints. Put the carcass into the stewpanTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 70 in which the fowl has been cooking; remove the fat beforehand ; add the wine, and boil up. Strain or reduce the stock a little. Cook the flour in the remainder of butter (one ounce), but do not allow it to get brown ; stir in the stock ; add the juice of half a lemon and let reduce to a moderate con- sistency (the sauce must boil at least for ten minutes). Stir in the yolks of eggs and let bind. Dip the pieces of fowl in this sauce after it has cooled ; cover each piece completely and put in a drainer. When set, brush over with beaten egg; roll in breadcrumbs ; fry them in hot fat a golden colour ; drain, dish up, and garnish with fried parsley. PULLET POACHED A L’lTALIENNE OTUFF a pullet with two-thirds of a pound of ^ “ Risotto,” combined with half a pound of sliced truffles, and poach it in the usual way. Dish it, and serve at the same time a thickened chicken gravy, which has been added to the reduced poached chicken liquor. %POULTRY AND GAME DISHES 71 GRILLED CHICKEN FLORENTINE rilAKE a plump white chicken ; cut it open from the back ; spread out and flatten well ; rub both sides with lemon juice, and season well with pepper and salt; insert two or three skewers so as to keep the chicken quite flat ; immerse in sweet oil for about ten minutes ; sprinkle with chopped parsley and grill in front of a bright fire, basting the while with oil. Prepare a sauce by frying two peeled and chopped shallots in butter ; add to this one finely chopped anchovy freed from bone, one glass of Marsala wine and a gill of tomato puree. Allow to cook for ten minutes ; then add one fresh tomato, cut into slices, and one tablespoonful of meat extract. Boil again ; skim and pass through a sieve ; reheat and season to taste. Dish up the chicken ; remove the skewers ; garnish with button mushrooms and truffles. Pour the sauce round the dish, and serve. SUPREMES OF CHICKEN /CHICKEN suprernes or cutlets should never be ^ allowed to wait lest they harden. They should be cooked quickly at the last moment,THE DUDLEY RECIPES 72 dished up, and served immediately. The shortest wait is enough to spoil them and to make them insipid and dry. Poach the supremes dry and dish them. Cook them with Supreme sauce, and serve with a julienne of truffles and mushrooms mixed with the sauce and placed in the centre of the dish, the supremes being laid neatly round it. UT one and a half pints of very clear white stock and one quarter of a pint of mushroom cooking liquor into a saute pan ; reduce to two- thirds ; add one pint of chicken veloute ; reduce on an open fire, stirring all the while ; then work in half a pint of fresh thick cream and two ounces of fresh butter. Stir always from time to time, and keep the pan well covered. Add seasoning before it is finished. 1D0NE and par-cook a chicken ; cut it into ^ small pieces and flatten ; steep in oil and lemon juice; flavour with savoury herbs and SUPREME SAUCE FRIED CHICKEN DUCHESSPOULTRY AND GAME DISHES 73 onions ; drain ; egg and crumb, and fry it. Serve with veloute sauce, blended with cream and minced ham. A SUPREME OF CHICKEN BRAISE some chicken fillets, white. When cold, coat them with chaud-froid sauce and aspic, and decorate with tarragon leaves. % CHICKEN COOKED IN OIL SPLIT a chicken ; flatten it ; steep it in a mixture of lemon juice and sweet oil; flavour with bay leaf, parsley roots and onions ; drain it ; sprinkle with fresh breadcrumbs, and broil slowly in butter. Serve the chicken with Livournaise sauce, com- posed of salad oil, anchovy paste, egg-yolks, tarra- gon vinegar and seasoning. Mix all veil together and serve cold. 1THE DUDLEY RECIPES 74 FRICASSEE OF CHICKEN r 1TRUSS a young fowl for boiling, and put it to cook in a large stewpan with one quart of hot water. Let it come slowly to the boil; when it reaches this point, remove the scum and add a couple of stalks of celery, three or four sprigs of parsley, a bay leaf, two slices of onion and a carrot; season with salt and pepper. Simmer for three- quarters of an hour, closely covered. As soon as done (test it with a fork), take it from the stock ; untruss, and cut it into neat joints. For the Sauce :— Cook together in a saucepan two tablespoonfuls of butter and two of flour for a few minutes, but do not allow it to brown ; add slowly a pint of the strained stock of the fowl and boil for ten minutes. Mix in another pan the yolks of two eggs, three tablespoonfuls of milk, one of melted butter and a tiny pinch of cayenne pepper ; add this carefully to the hot sauce, stirring all the time ; let the sauce get thoroughly hot, but do not let it boil again ; add a teaspoonful of lemon juice, and strain over the pieces of the fowl. Dish up the cooked fowl (the skin may be removed, if liked) on a bed of cooked rice. Sauce over carefully, and serve very hot. Needless to say, the pieces of fowl must get thoroughly hot in the sauce before dishing up.POULTRY AND GAME DISHES 75 Some sliced preserved mushrooms put with the sauce will make an improvement to the fricassee. POULET A L’ESTRAGON TAKE a nice fat white chicken and poach it; add to the ordinary garnish in the pan five or six sprigs of tarragon. Dish and decorate the pullet with nice sprigs of branched tarragon leaves. Reduce and strain the pullet’s cooking liquor, and serve it separately. H POULET AU GROS SEL POACH the chicken and add to it ten small carrots and ten small onions. Dish and sur- round the pullet with the carrots and onions, arranged in small heaps. Serve separately a sauceboat containing the pullet’s cooking liquor, and a cellar of coarse kitchen salt.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 76 POULET EN CASSEROLE r 11AKE a good Surrey fowl and roast a nice golden brown. Make a sauce with the yolks of two eggs, one ounce of butter and three table- spoonfuls of thick cream and seasoning. Stir well until it thickens over a slow fire. When thick, add a tablespoonful of thin glaze, and place it in the bottom of a casserole dish. Have ready some strips of bacon and potatoes fried. Sprinkle some more sauce in with a layer of bacon and potatoes and then the rest of the chicken, and serve. % BLANQUETTE OF CHICKEN MAKE a very light souffle of chicken. Butter rather a deep border mould, and place the souffle mixture in it and steam gently. When ready, turn it out into the dish in which it is to be served. Mix some small fillets of chicken, mush- rooms, slices of truffle and quenelles in a good white sauce, and place in the centre of dish, and arrange round the dish some small cooked green cucum- bers. Serve some of the white sauce separately in a boat.POULTRY AND GAME DISHES 77 G CUBBAB OF CHICKEN AN INDIAN DISH npAKE a very good tender chicken and cut it A- up into about twelve pieces ; place them in a terrine of cold water, and allow them to soak for an hour ; drain, and replace them in a dry terrine. Wet all over with a large tablespoonful of best olive oil, and sprinkle over them a teaspoonful of “ Turmric ” powder ; turn them over lightly with a palette knife. Spit the pieces upon a long skewer and grill them in front of a good roasting fire, turn- ing them every two minutes. Twenty minutes suffices to cook them properly ; then remove from the skewers and season well with salt and, very lightly, with cayenne. Cook in the same way half a dozen chickens’ livers. Place all the pieces on a dish together, and serve separately some savoury rice and a little chutney in its bottle. H PILAFF DE VOLAILLE A LA GRECQUE FRY a little onion in butter and some rice (about three tablespoonfuls). Cover with some good chicken stock, and braise in the ovenTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 78 for about half an hour. Soak some sultana raisins in warm stock and leave on side of stove, and when quite soft and swollen add them to the rice. Cut some remains of chicken in medium squares and fry in butter. Mix all together, and serve. POUSSINS A LA PIEDMONTESE OTUFF each chick with one and a half ounces ^ of white truffles pounded with an equal quan- tity of very white pork fat; truss them as for an entree ; string them and fry them in butter over a fierce fire. At the end of ten minutes put them into a “ Cocotte ” dish ; partly surround and cover them with Risotto a la Piedmontese, and complete the cooking in the oven with the lid off. A few minutes before serving sprinkle the Risotto with grated Parmesan cheese, and at the last minute sprinkle with nut-browTn butter. % RISOTTO A LA PIEDMONTESE FRY a medium-sized onion in plenty of butter and add to it half a pound of rice. Place the rice on the side of the stove ; add some saffronPOULTRY AND GAME DISHES 79 to it, and stir until all is well saturated with butter ; then moisten with about half a quart of consomme (the quantity should be one quart of consomme to a pound of rice); the consomme should be added to the rice in seven or eight instalments, and, as fast as it becomes absorbed, a fresh supply should be forthcoming. When adding the liquor, stir the rice with a wooden spoon. Cook the rice under cover, and to the resulting preparation, which should be creamy, add a few pieces of fresh butter and some grated Parmesan cheese. The dish may be finished, if liked, with some shavings of white truffles. POUSSINS VIENNOISES CUT the chicks each into four pieces ; season them well; dredge them ; dip in beaten egg and roll them in breadcrumbs. A few minutes before serving fry them in hot fat ; drain them and dish them in pyramid form on a folded napkin. Surround with fried parsley and sections of lemon, and serve very hot.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 80 LITTLE SOUFFLES OF RABBIT OR CHICKEN TAKE the fillets from two young rabbits (or a chicken), and remove the skin and gristle. Cut into small pieces and pound well in a mortar. Season with pepper, salt and a grating of nutmeg, and add the whites of two eggs. Pass this through a fine wire sieve into a clean basin, and place on ice. Then work in gently with a wooden spoon one pint, or more, of thick cream little by little, working it very gently. Try a little of the mixture by drop- ping it into boiling water to poach to test its light- ness. (If too stiff, add some more cream.) Butter some small china cases, and place a paper band round each to raise the souffle a little above the case. Steam in a closed pan, and serve with a creamy white sauce made from the rabbit (or chicken) bones, and finish with cream. % A FRENCH WAY OF COOKING RABBIT CUT up the rabbit and stew it with small pieces of pork, salt and pepper, also slices of finely cut onion, or a few chives. When nearly cooked,POULTRY AND GAME DISHES 81 add a small bunch of parsley and a bay leaf or thyme. Remove this before serving. If desired, the above can be browned in a frying- pan, but it rather hardens the meat. 9 FRIED RABBIT ONE young rabbit, one egg, two ounces of butter, breadcrumbs, Tartare sauce, seasoning and frying fat. Skin, draw, wash and wipe the rabbit; cut it into neat joints, and fry in butter in a saute pan until three-parts done; sprinkle with a little pepper and salt; put the pieces to cool ; then trim ; dip each in beaten egg and crumb them ; when set, dip in oiled butter, and egg and crumb again. Place the pieces in a frying basket, and fry a golden colour in clarified fat or lard ; drain ; dish up on a hot dish with a folded napkin or dish paper. Garnish with fried or fresh parsley, and serve with Tartare sauce. Garnish with strips of fried bacon. %THE DUDLEY RECIPES 82 TARTARE SAUCE T)UT the yolks of two eggs in a basin ; place it in a shallow pan containing some crushed ice ; add a teaspoonful of salt, a good pinch of white pepper, a pinch of cayenne and a teaspoonful of mustard. Stir well together, and add gradually a pint of salad oil and about a quarter of a gill of tarragon vinegar. When the sauce is smooth and creamy, stir in a good tablespoonful of cold Bechamel sauce or veloute (whichever is at hand), two tablespoonfuls of chopped gherkins, one of chopped capers, one of chopped parsley and about a teaspoonful of finely chopped tarragon and chervil. Do not mix the gherkins, capers, etc., until the sauce is finished, as it is likely to cause it to turn if put in too soon. A few drops of lemon juice may be added, if the sauce is found to be too thick. % ROAST RABBIT A L’ECOSSAISE EXCELLENT FOR NURSERY OR SCHOOLROOM TAKE a nice young rabbit and truss it for roasting, and stuff it with the following mixture :—POULTRY AND GAME DISHES 83 A quarter of a pound of medium Scotch oat- meal, three ounces of chopped suet, pepper, salt, a teaspoonful of flour, and one whole raw egg. Place the rabbit in a buttered pan, and roast it in a brisk oven for about half an hour until tender, basting it well with butter. Serve with its own brown gravy, and bread sauce in a sauceboat. FRENCH RABBIT STEW ONE or two rabbits (skinned), a quarter of a pound of fat bacon, bouquet garni, two ounces of butter, one ounce of flour, eighteen button onions, one glass of Chablis or Sauterne, three - quarters of a pint of stock, salt and pepper. Wipe the rabbit with a damp cloth and cut it into neat joints, not too large. Cut the bacon into slices ; put the butter and bacon in a saute pan, and stir over the fire for five minutes. Take out the bacon and put on a plate. Peel the onions ; fry them a golden colour in the butter and put with the bacon. Let the butter get thoroughly hot, andTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 84 put in the rabbit. Let each piece become of a nice brown colour; season with salt and pepper; sprinkle in the flour ; let it get nicely brown, and moisten with the stock ; add the wine and bouquet garni. Let it come slowly to a boil; skim ; put in the onions, and let the whole simmer very gently for about an hour and a quarter. The saute pan should be kept well covered when once the con- tents commence to simmer, so as to prevent as much as possible the steam from escaping. About ten minutes before the above-stated time put in the liver, well washed, and cut into four. Before dishing up, take out the pieces of rabbit, onion and liver, and put in another saute pan ; add the bacon. Take off the fat from the sauce and strain over the rabbit. Place a round piece of toasted bread in the centre of a dish ; dress the pieces of rabbit neatly on it, and put the garnish over and round it. Boil up the sauce, and pour over the meat. ■S CROQUETTES OF WILD RABBIT rriAKE a cooked rabbit, minced and prepared into a salpicon with thick Bechamel sauce ; shape into croquettes (cork or cutlet shapes);POULTRY AND GAME DISHES 85 egg, crumb and fry it in deep fat. Drain and serve with brown sauce reduced with sherry. % CUTLETS OF WILD RABBIT f 11AKE the four legs of a large wild rabbit; cut -*L each into two ; remove the bones (reserve the knuckle bones for further use), and flatten with a cutlet bat. Prepare a forcemeat with six ounces of rabbit meat, one egg, two ounces of fat bacon and three tablespoonfuls of white sauce. Season with pepper, salt and aromatic spice. When pounded, pass through a sieve. Fry a dessertspoonful of chopped parsley, tarragon and chervil leaves in a little fresh butter and add to the farce. Spread the cut side of the rabbit legs with this farce ; shape them neatly in the form of cutlets ; season with a little salt and pepper ; wrap each in a piece of pig’s caul and fry a little on each side in butter. When cold, insert small bones to imitate cutlet bones; dip in egg and breadcrumbs; fry in clarified butter or fat; drain ; dish up, and serve with tomato sauce.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 86 FRIED RABBIT OR CHICKEN WITH TARTARE SAUCE ONE young rabbit, or a chicken, two ounces of butter, breadcrumbs, seasoning, frying fat and one egg. Skin, draw, wash and wipe the rabbit; cut it into neat joints and fry in butter in a saute pan, until three-parts done ; sprinkle with a little salt and pepper; put the pieces to cool; then trim ; dip each in beaten egg and then in breadcrumbs. When set, dip in oiled butter and egg and crumb again. Place the pieces in a frying basket and fry a golden colour in clarified fat or lard ; drain ; dish up on a hot dish on silver grid, or dish paper ; garnish with fried parsley and serve with Tartare sauce. Strips of bacon can also be placed round, if liked. RABBIT CATALANE /~\NE rabbit, half a gill of oil, two ounces of butter, four ounces of lean ham, one small onion minced, four ounces of rice, three ripe tomatoes, two pimentos, one small bouquet garni, one gill of white wine, one pint of rich seasoned stock and seasoning.POULTRY AND GAME DISHES 87 Cut the rabbit into neat joints ; trim and wipe them and fry in hot oil over a quick fire ; take up and drain. Fry the ham and cut into dice; place in the butter in an earthenware casserole. To this add the onion ; fry it to a golden colour; then add the rice and fry likewise. Next put in the tomatoes and pimentos, cut into quarters ; moisten with the wine and stock and let it cook gently for half an hour. Take out half the rice ; range the pieces of rabbit in the remainder of the rice in the casserole ; add the bouquet garni and season to taste. Cover with the remainder of the rice ; place the lid on top, and cook in a moderately heated oven for about twenty-five minutes. The dish is then ready for table and should be served in the casserole in which it was cooked. BLANQUETTE OF TURKEY STEW a turkey in white sauce with sliced preserved mushrooms. % FRIED TURKEY WITH TOMATOES Y^UT a cold turkey into pieces; pare it ; A-' season ; egg and crumb it and fry in deep fat. Serve with tomato sauce.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 88 STEWED TURKEY STEW a young turkey in brown sauce with sliced mushrooms. BRAISED TURKEY T)RAISE a young turkey and finish it in Madeira sauce. FRICASSEED TURKEY MAKE a fricassee of turkey and dress it in a border of mashed potatoes browned in the oven. DINDONNEAU A L’ESPAGNOL CUT up a young turkey as for a fricassee and fry the pieces in three ounces of butter. When the pieces are nicely browned, swill the pan with one pint of white wine ; season with salt and pepper ; add a piece about the size of a large pea of crushed garlic and completely reduce ; then moisten with sufficient tomato puree and equal quantities of Espagnol and brown stock just toPOULTRY AND GAME DISHES 89 cover the pieces. Cook in the oven for forty minutes ; trim the pieces and transfer them to another dish and add half a pound of raw quartered mushrooms sauted in butter, twenty chestnuts cooked in consomme, twenty small glazed onions, five quartered tomatoes and ten very small sausages. Strain the sauce over the pieces of turkey and complete the cooking for twenty-five minutes. Serve very hot. DEVILLED TURKEY fTlAKE a cold roast turkey ; cut it into neat joints and cover with devilled butter. Grill over a slow lire and serve with piquante or other sauce. A little curry paste or curry powder should also be used for flavouring this sauce. Devilled Butter is made as follows :— Mix one, or two, ounces of butter with half a teaspoonful of cayenne pepper, a pinch of curry powder, a pinch of ground ginger and a saltspconful of black pepper.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 90 DUCKLING CRAPAUDINE /~\NE duckling, three tablespoonfuls of salad oil, a bouquet garni (parsley, bay leaf, thyme and clove), the juice of half a lemon, pepper and salt and one large fried bread croute. For the Sauce :— The giblets of the duckling, one ounce of butter half an ounce of flour, the juice of half an orange one pint of good stock, pepper and salt. Draw and singe the duckling; slit it open by cutting it through the back ; cut off the wings and use the giblets. Rub the duckling all over with oil; sprinkle over with lemon juice; season lightly with pepper and salt; run a couple of skewers through the breast of the duckling to keep it flat, and let it lie on a deep dish for an hour or two. Place the bouquet of herbs under the bird ; pour over the remainder of the oil and keep covered. Put the whole in rather a deep saute pan ; cover w ith a piece of buttered paper and cook in a rather quick oven for about thirty minutes ; baste fre- quently and when done, dress the duckling on the croute of fried bread. Use the same pan in wThich the duckling wras cooked ; add the butter, and wdien hot put in the giblets, neck, liver and wings of the duck, all chopped up small; fry over a quick fire ; allow toPOULTRY AND GAME DISHES 91 brown ; moisten with the stock and orange juice and stir until it boils ; skim and reduce to about half its original quantity ; season to taste ; strain ; colour with a few drops of caramel ; boil up again ; skim carefully. Pour a little of the sauce round the dish, and serve the remainder separately in a sauceboat. « SALMIS OF DUCKLING ROUENNAISE npRUSS the duckling, after having removed the clavicle. Put it into the oven where it should only remain for eight minutes—four minutes for each side. If possible, allow it to cool for a few minutes that it may be more easily carved. Take care also to wipe it, for, as a rule, the fierce- ness of the oven blackens it. Remove the legs and carve them inside ; season and grill them. Sprinkle a long, buttered dish with chopped shallots, some kitchen salt, not too finely powdered, freshly ground pepper and allspice. Cut the fillets into very thin slices lengthwise about fifteen slices from each fillet and lay them one against the other very neatly on the dish. Sprinkle them with the same seasoning as is already lying under them on the dish, with the exception of shallot, no more of that being required. Remove the remaining stumps of the wings, asTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 92 also the small remaining skin of the breast; season both and set them to grill by the side of the legs. Roughly chop up the carcase ; press it to extract all the gravy and add half a glass of red wine ; pour the collected gravy over the slices of breast. When about to serve, set a few small pieces of butter on the slices of breast; heat for a moment on the stove and then put the dish in a very hot oven, or a salamander, that the glazing may be instantaneous. Withdraw the dish the moment the edges of the slices begin to curl. Set the grilled legs at either end of the dish, the two wing stumps with the skin in the middle and serve immediately. % PATE CHAUD DE CANETON ROAST a very good duckling, keeping it some- what underdone. Cut the breast into very thin slices and line a deep piedish with thin strips of bacon, then a thick layer of forcemeat combined with a little very good essence of gravy. Make the forcemeat as follows :— Put into a saucepan one ounce of very hot fat or butter, half a pound of fresh fat bacon cut into little cubes and brow’ned in the hot butter. Remove the bacon, and into the same pan add, also cut into pieces, half a pound of calves’ liver, half a pound of fillet of veal, salt, pepper, two ounces ofPOULTRY AND GAME DISHES 93 H mushi’ooms, two ounces of truffles, a little shallot, thyme and bay leaf. Fry all these together and moisten with a glass of Madeira. Pound the meat, add any gravy which may remain in the pan, also a little butter, four eggs cut into pieces, and two good tablespoonfuls of brown sauce. Pound all this well, and pass through a coarse wire sieve. Place a thick layer of this forcemeat in the piedish, and arrange on it the fillets of duck, with a little cooked sliced mushroom and a few slices of truffle. Fill up the dish in this way with alternate layers of the forcemeat and duck, placing on the top of all a little good gravy essence and some very thin strips of bacon. Cover with a good short rich crust and bake. Serve hot. « POACHED PHEASANT WITH CELERY SAUCE OELECT a nice fat pheasant, truss it for boiling ^ and place it in a stewpan covered with a light stock ; add one carrot, two onions, two cloves, and a bouquet of parsley, salt and whole pepper. Let this simmer gently until tender. Cut into neat pieces, lay them on a dish, and cover with the following sauce :—THE DUDLEY RECIPES 94 CELERY SAUCE /^iLEAN four sticks of white tender celery only using the hearts ; put them in a stewpan with a piece of butter the size of an egg, one onion, one faggot of parsley, bay leaf and thyme and one clove. Simmer for ten minutes, then wet with a good light stock. Let all cook until tender. Strain off the liquor, bruise the celery in the mortar. Place the puree in the stewpan with one ounce of fresh butter, and one of flour ; work together and add the liquor which was strained off. Boil for a few minutes, and add a gill of cream; pass through a fine sieve. Season and make hot and pour over the joints of pheasant. This sauce should be rather thick. AY the supremes in a saut6 pan with sliced carrot, onion, celery and a bouquet, and allow it to cook without colouring. Cut some French beans into diamonds, taking out the seeds, and cook them ; make a green sauce by passing some of the beans through a fine hair sieve. Mix with a very little Bechamel, finish with yolk of eggs and cream according to the amount of sauce required. SUPREME DE FAISAN A LA MONTPENSIERPOULTRY AND GAME DISHES 95 Dish the supremes on a mashed potato border, saucing them first, and lay the beans in the centre. The potatoes should be mashed with a little cream, and some of the sauce should be served in a sauceboat. PULLED AND DEVILLED PHEASANT TDOACH one or more pheasants, according to the quantity required. Remove all white meat from the breast and pull into small pieces, and mix with a good creamy white sauce. Take the pinions and the legs, and devil them as follows :— Two ounces of butter warmed, one dessert- spoonful of mustard (dry), one tablespoonful of flour, one tablespoonful of Harvey sauce, one table- spoonful of Worcester sauce, pepper and salt. Mix well and dip in egg and breadcrumbs. Pour over the joints, and butter well and place under grill in a tin to brown. Serve the pulled pheasant and the grill in separate dishes. This is excellent, either for breakfast or luncheon. %THE DUDLEY RECIPES 96 SALMIS OF PHEASANT TT> OAST the pheasant, keeping it moderately Av underdone. Quickly cut into eight pieces two legs, two wings (separated from the pinions), and the breast cut into four lengthwise. Skin the pieces and trim them neatly and keep them at a temperate heat in a covered vegetable pan, with a small quantity of burnt brandy and a little clear, melted meat glaze. Pound the carcase and the trimmings and add to them half a bottle of red wine (almost entirely reduced), three chopped shallots and a few mignon- ette peppers. Add one quarter of a pint of good Espagnol sauce ; cook for ten minutes and then strain through a strainer. Reduce this sauce to about one-third and remove all scum; strain it once more through a close strainer; add a small quantity of butter and pour the sauce over the pieces of pheasant, to which add a finely sliced truffle and six grooved mushroom heads. Some croutons fried in butter can be placed round the salmis, if liked. This dish should be very quickly prepared and served, so that it should be eaten very hot and not allowed to stand. «POULTRY AND GAME DISHES 97 SALMIS OF WILD DUCK THIS should be prepared and served in the same way as Salmis of Pheasant; also Salmis of Woodcock. Only in the case of Woodcock, the bird’s in- testines should be added to the sauce, and the meat should be kept rather underdone. SALMIS OF PLOVERS T3R0CEED in the same way as for Salmis of Duck, adding about twelve preserved mush- rooms, cut into slices or chopped coarsely, and omitting the olives. The dish should be garnished with bread croutons brushed over with meat glaze. V WILD DUCK AMERICAINE OTUFF a wild duck with soaked bread, well ^ buttered and well seasoned; braise it and serve it with a brown sauce made with the neck, giblets, wings and liver of the duck. Add someTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 98 chopped shallots, fried in butter, seasoning and port wine. The duck should not be overcooked. STUFFED WILD DUCKS T) RAISE some wild ducks and stuff with a -L* mixture of minced game and chopped mush- rooms. Serve with a game sauce, into which a little red-currant jelly has been incorporated. % BRAISED PARTRIDGES WITH CABBAGE r 11W0 or three partridges, two small cabbages, one carrot, one onion, eight ounces of salt pork or fat bacon, three cloves, a bouquet garni, one glass of white wine, one and a half pints of rich stock, one gill of Espagnol sauce, salt, pepper, nutmeg and two ounces of dripping. Singe, draw and wipe the birds, and truss them with their wings turned inwards. Put them in a roasting tin ; cover with dripping and roast for ten minutes; take up and drain. Wash the cabbages, cut into quarters ; remove the stalks ; cook for ten minutes in salted water and drain.POULTRY AND GAME DISHES 99 Have ready a large stewpan ; put in some slices of pork or bacon, the carrot and onion cut into slices, cloves and bouquet; lay the partridges on this ; put the cabbage on top ; then some more bacon or pork ; add the wine and stock ; season with pepper, salt and grated nutmeg; cover and cook slowly for thirty to forty-five minutes. Dress the cabbages on a dish to form a bed ; place the partridges on this (whole or cut up); garnish with slices of carrot and bacon or pork. Skim and strain the gravy ; add the sauce ; boil up and sauce all over. PARTRIDGES WITH MUSHROOMS mWO partridges, four ounces of lean bacon, peppercorns, two cloves, three ounces of butter, half a pound of fresh or a quarter of a pound of preserved mushrooms, chopped parsley, one gill of stock, seasoning, half a pound of lard- ing bacon, a mirepoix (consisting of a small bunch of herbs, thyme, parsley, bay leaf, sliced onion, carrot and turnip), brown or half-glaze sauce, one glass of port wine, two ounces of cooked ham and meat glaze. Truss the birds; then untruss and bone them leaving the end bone of the legs. Cut the larding bacon into the usual-sized strips and lard theTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 100 breasts of the partridges. Shape them neatly. Line a braising pan with the trimmings of bacon, herbs, sliced onion, carrot, turnip, peppercorns, cloves, and one ounce of butter. Let this get thoroughly hot; put in the birds, larded side up- wards ; season with pepper, salt and aromatics ; put a few slices of lean bacon on top and set it in a hot oven for about fifteen minutes ; then add the port wine and the stock, and braise for about thirty minutes, keeping the birds well basted during the process of braising. Take up the partridges ; cut them in halves and keep hot, and brush over the surface with meat glaze. Chop up the carcases of the birds and put this into the pan in which the birds wrere cooked. Add about half a pint of sauce and boil up quickly ; remove the fat and strain the sauce; skim well and season to taste. Dish up the birds on a border of mashed potatoes, or, if preferred, on a fried-bread crouton. The mushrooms are served in the centre or dressed on either side. Prepare the mushrooms as follows :— Wash and skin the mushrooms ; chop them finely and put them in the stewpan with two ounces of butter and two ounces of ham, also chopped finely, and fried a little in butter. Cook them over a quick fire for about ten minutes; season to taste, and serve as directed.POULTRY AND GAME DISHES 101 SPATCHCOCK OF GROUSE A GOOD BREAKFAST OR LUNCHEON DISH "DICK, draw and singe the bird ; split it down the back and cut through the bone ; wipe the inside of the bird with a damp cloth ; cut off the feet at the first joints ; remove the neck close to the body of the bird ; flatten and season with salt and pepper ; brush over the inside with sweet oil and sprinkle over with finely chopped shallots and parsley; dredge with a little flour; skewer the bird into a flat shape by means of two steel skewers and place it between a well-greased grid- iron. Brush over with oiled butter or sweet oil, and cook before, or over, a clear fire (charcoal or gas in preference to a coal fire). Cook from fifteen to twenty minutes, turning the bird occasionally on the gridiron, and baste plentifully from time to time with oiled butter. When done, take the bird from the grill; remove the skewers and dish up with a sharp sauce (Poivrade or Robert), or a well-prepared tomato sauce. HARE PIE /^VNE small hare, half a pound of calf’s liver, four ounces of bacon, one shallot, half a clove of garlic, two ounces of butter, seasoning, herbs,THE DUDLEY RECIPES 102 thyme, marjoram (half a teaspoonful of each), one glass of port wine, one egg, a spoonful of red- currant jelly, a little stock and a suitable paste crust. Skin the hare and wash it several times in fresh water ; cut into joints and bone each. Put the carcass in a stewpan with water, to make stock ; flavour with cloves, a little sauce, bay leaf and salt. Skim as it boils, and cook gently for one hour. Wipe the meat; cut it into slices and fry in an ounce of butter ; add the shallot, peeled and chopped; take out the meat and let cool. Add the remainder of butter to the stewpan in which the hare was fried ; when hot put in the calf’s liver, previously sliced thinly, and two ounces of the bacon ; fry for a short time and pound all in a mortar till smooth. Rub this through a wire sieve and mix with a well-beaten egg. Season with salt, pepper and aromatic seasoning. Line a raised pie-mould with hot water; prick the bottom and sides with a fork ; line the sides and bottom with thin slices of bacon and with a layer of the prepared farce ; fill up the mould with the fried pieces of hare. Sprinkle the powdered herbs and seasoning in between ; moisten each layer with port wine and red-currant jelly ; cover the top with farce and lay on the crust; fix the latter firmly. Decorate with pieces of paste. Make a suitable incision in the centre of the cover of crust, to allow the steam to escape whilst cooking. Bake in a moderate oven from one and a half to twoPOULTRY AND GAME DISHES 103 and a quarter hours, according to the size of the pie. As the pie leaves the oven pour a little well- reduced stock into it; this is best done by means of a funnel. This pie can be served either hot or cold. « JUGGED HARE /"ANE tender hare, two onions, two cloves, thyme, two bay leaves, twelve small button onions glazed, four ounces of bacon, one ounce of butter, half a glass of white and half a glass of red wine, half a pint of stock, one ounce of flour, seasoning, and eight fried croutons. Skin and neatly draw the hare (if there is any blood left, preserve it mixed with a little sugar); preserve the liver, carefully removing the gall; cut the hare into twelve or fourteen neat joints ; place in deep dish or jar ; season with salt, pepper, nutmeg, sliced onion, two cloves, one sprig of thyme and bay leaves. Add the wine and let it soak, well mixed, for five or six hours ; lift out the pieces and drain on a cloth ; fry them lightly in a saute pan with the butter ; dredge with flour and stir over a brisk fire until a light brown colour ; moisten with stock, red wine and liquor. Fry the bacon, previously cut into dice, and put with the mixture, when the latter boils. Simmer for aboutTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 104 an hour ; put in the onions, previously braised in a saucepan, and keep hot. Chop the liver and heart very finely and mix with the blood (if any) and add it to the stew about a quarter of an hour before it is done. Have ready some croutes of fried bread. Dish up the whole as neatly as possible ; garnish with braised onions and croutons round the dish. Pour over it all the sauce and serve with some red-currant jelly in a sauceboat. A GERMAN WAY OF ROASTING HARE mAKE the back of the hare (the rable) from the root of the neck to the tail (the latter being included); clear it of all tendons and delicately lard with bacon. Roast before a fierce fire for twenty minutes, so that it is only just done. The pan in which tjie rable has been roasted should be swilled with sour cream (this cream constitutes the accompaniment), and a few drops of lemon juice or a tablespoonful of melted meat glaze may be added, if liked. Serve some of the sauce in a boat separately.POULTRY AND GAME DISHES 105 MOUSSE OF HARE / 1IIOP and pound one pound of hare meat, free ^ from skin and bone. Add to it three ounces of finely chopped fried bacon and two ounces of ham. Work in the yolks of three eggs and half a gill of cream. Rub through a sieve and mix with sufficient reduced Espagnol sauce to form a light farce (test it before using). Season well and fill into a plain buttered timbale or charlotte mould. Cook for forty-five minutes. Some chopped truffles or mushrooms can be served as a garnish, if liked. % QUAILS IN CASSEROLE /~100K them in butter in the fireproof dish in ^ which they will be served ; swill with a little brandy ; add a little game essence ; cover and serve very hot. Quails should always be very lightly cooked, so as to preserve their fat. They are quite spoilt if overdone. % POACHED QUAILS TDOACH the quails lightly in good strong gela- tinous veal stock and serve on fried bread croutons.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 106 QUAILS WITH GRAPES /^OOK the quails lightly in butter ; swill the pan A-'' with a few drops of dry white wine and a little “ Verjuice ” ; add half a tablespoonful of strong game fumet for each quail and dish up in a very hot cocotte with about one ounce of freshly peeled grapes to each quail. QUAILS WITH TRUFFLES COOK the quails in butter ; dish them each on a fried crouton and in the centre of the dish set some nice truffles, cooked in champagne and chicken glaze. r# CAILLES DUBARRY TDREPARE some cases made with the following batter :—- A quarter of a pound of flour, one whole egg, two tablespoonfuls of salad oil, a pinch of salt and sufficient water to make a thin batter. Strain it into a deep, small basin. Take a small iron case mould, and have ready some frying fat which has been made boiling hot. Place the mould in thePOULTRY AND GAME DISHES 107 boiling fat to get very hot; then dip it quickly into the batter, taking care that this only covers the outside of the mould ; then dip again at once into the boiling fat and keep it there until the pastry is a golden colour. Unmould, and place on a pastry wire till it is needed. Prepare a good savoury rice, and fill the cases with this just before serving, and place whole on the rice, in each case, a fine fat quail, which has been lightly roasted in the usual way. Serve in a sauceboat separately a very good brown sauce, with some small slices of truffle in it. % COMPOTE OF PIGEONS f I TRUSS two fat, tender pigeons as for roasting. -■- Place them in a casserole (fireproof stewpan) with two ounces of fresh butter. Let them colour over a sharp fire, and add two ounces of streaky bacon cut into small pieces, six or eight small onions, carrots and turnip and small button mush- rooms. Fry all together for a few minutes and add a bouquet and some small green peas. Place the cover on the casserole, and let cook gently in the oven for about three-quarters of an hour, or until the contents are tender. Skim off the fat, and add one tablespoonful of brown sauce, and one table- spoonful of tomato sauce. Let it simmer for tenTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 108 minutes. Remove the bouquet, but serve the pigeons and the vegetables in the casserole. Partridges can be cooked in the same way. 1 GELINOTTES SUR CROUTES A LA RUSSE THIRST roast the birds, then cut them in halves, leaving the wings and legs but removing the backs. Lay the half-birds on fried croutes of bread. Make a sauce from the backs of the birds boiled with a little cream, then seasoned and passed through muslin. Pour this sauce over each fillet before serving, and serve the remainder of the sauce in a boat. PARTRIDGE PIE mwo young partridges, three-quarters of a pound of lean veal, half a pound of boiled bacon or gammon, one gill of Soubise or onion sauce, one ounce of butter, two hard-boiled eggs, chopped parsley, preserved or fresh mushrooms, salt, pepper and aromatic seasoning. Puff or rough paste for covering.POULTRY AND GAME DISHES 109 i Truss the birds ; divide them into halves and fry them slightly in a saute pan with the butter. Line a piedish with thin slices of lean veal and bacon ; lay in the birds ; season with chopped mushrooms, chopped parsley, salt, pepper and a good pinch of aromatic spice. Put a layer of veal and bacon slices on the top, and pour the sauce over this ; cover this with the slices of hard-boiled eggs. Roll out the paste, and cover the pie in the usual manner. Bake for a full hour in a fairly well- heated oven, and pour a little rich stock or gravy into the pie as it leaves the oven. Serve either hot or cold. TO “ POELER ” POULTRY, GAME, Etc. rTlHE following method is adopted :— Take a deep frying-pan, or fireproof earthen pan, and lay in it a bed of vegetables, bacon, etc. (a mirepoix), seasoning, bouquet, etc. Upon this lay the poultry or game. The bird should be trussed and prepared as for an entree, the breast covered with slices of fat bacon. It should be well mois- tened with stock, then placed upon burning embers or hot coals, and its contents gently cooked until tender. Only a little liquid should be used, but frequent basting is necessary, and the liquid must be replenished as it reduces, so that the same quantity always remains.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 110 GRILLED CHICKEN DIABLE mRUSS the chicken as for an entree ; split it open lengthwise along the middle of the back ; flatten it with a butcher’s beater and remove as many bones as possible. Season well and sprinkle Avith melted butter, and half cook it in the oven. This done, coat it thoroughly with mustard mixed Avith cayenne; sprinkle copiously Avith bread- crumbs ; press the latter well down Avith the flat of a knife, so that they may adhere to the mustard ; sprinkle Avell again Avith melted butter, and com- plete the cooking gently on the grill. Dish up, bordered Avith thin slices of lemon, and serve Avith a devilled sauce in a sauceboat. ■s CURRY OF RABBIT PEEL and cut very finely three large Spanish onions, or twelve small onions, and fry them in a vegetable pan—either in oil or in butter—a light brown colour. When cooked, add one pint of milk and one pint of cream and a little lemon juice; cook all together. When ready, pass through a wire sieve ; then add two tablespoonfuls of the best Indian curry powder and half a tea- spoonful of tamaric powder. Mix well and return it to the same pan.POULTRY AND GAME DISHES Take a young rabbit and cut it into neat joints ; lay them in cold water to draw off all the blood ; when this is done, wipe the pieces carefully and place them in the same pan as the sauce (which has been strained through a fine sieve); allow all to cook gently, skimming off the grease as it rises. Season to taste, and serve with boiled rice in a separate dish, and serve some of the sauce in a boat. The rice should be carefully boiled and drained, so that each grain is separate. '# SAUTED CHICKEN CHASSEUR /'ANE fat chicken or fowl, half an ounce of butter, a quarter of a gill of salad oil, one glass of sherry, one onion, two ounces of raw ham, six ounces of rice, one gill of salmis or game sauce, half a pint of Espagnol sauce, ten fresh or pre- served mushrooms, pepper, salt and lemon juice. Draw, singe and cut the fowl into neat joints ; put the oil and butter in a saute pan ; when hot, put in the pieces of chicken. Season with pepper and salt and fry a light brown colour over a quick fire. Add the onion, finely chopped, and the ham cut into slices or squares ; fry a few minutes longer ; drain off the fat ; add the sherry and Espagnol sauce and allow to simmer slowly for about half an hour. IllTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 112 Wash the rice; blanch it in slightly salted water; drain and cook till tender with a little stock and the game sauce ; season with pepper and salt. Put the rice in a buttered plain-border mould ; pack tightly and turn out on to a hot dish. Chop the mushrooms finely and put with the chicken. Add a few drops of lemon juice and cook a few minutes longer. Dish up the chicken in the centre of the rice ; add the sauce, and serve very hot.BANQUET ON THE CORONATION DAY OF THE ROMAN EMPEROR, FEB. 12, 1742 at the Romer Saal—Frankfort on the Main.55 HOT MEAT DISHES XI3Oh, the roast beef of England, And old England’s roast beef! H. FIELDING, “ THE GRUB STREET OPERA,” III, ii A Yorkshire squire, and epicure well known, Set forth to spend his winter months in town. But heard the dev’lish price of beef and pork. Stopp’d short at Highgate and return’d to York. MARTIAL iii (R. GRAVES) % DINNER Chops and tomato sauce. Yours, Pickwick. Chops ! Gracious Heavens ! and tomato sauce ! Gentlemen ! is the happiness of a sensitive and confiding female to be trifled away by such shallow artifices as these ? DICKENS, “ PICKWICK PAPERS” r# A joint of mutton, and any pretty little Tiny kickshaws, tell William cook. SHAKESPEARE, “ HENRY IV,” 2, V, i r* This dish of meat is too good for any but anglers, or very honest men. IZAAK WALTON, “ THE COMPLEAT ANGLER ” r4 A dinner lubricates business. boswellA friendly swarry consisting of a boiled leg of mutton and the usual trimmings. DICKENS, “ PICKWICK PAPERS ” * HOSPITALITY OF THE YEOMANRY Some hold when Hospitality died in England she gave her last groan among the Yeomen of Kent, and still at our Yeomen's tables, you shall have as many joints as dishes. No meat disguised with strange sauces ; no straggling joynt of a sheep in the midst of a pasture of grasse, beset with salads on every side ; but more solid substantial food : no servitors (more nimble with their hands, than the guests with their teeth) take away meat, before stomachs are taken away. Here you have that which in itself is good, made better by the store of it, and best by the welcome to it. fuller Dry bread at home is better than roast meat abroad. The banquet waits our presence, festal joy Laughs at the mantling goblet and the night Illumin'd by the taper's dazzling beam Reveals departed day. BROWNE BARBAROSSA % Let me not stay a jot for dinner ; go. Get it ready. SHAKESPEARE, “ KING LEAR,” I, iv116 FEASTS The latter end of a fray, and the beginning of a feast, Fits a dull fighter, and a keen guest. SHAKESPEARE, “ HENRY IV,” 1, IV, ii55 HOT MEAT DISHES 117 MUTTON CUTLETS REFORM TRIM six mutton cutlets, taking two cutlets to one bone ; flatten with cutlet bat ; dip them in melted butter and roll them in breadcrumbs combined with very finely chopped ham, in the proportion of a third of the weight of the bread- crumbs ; then cook them gently in clarified butter. Dish them lengthways on a hot dish and send the following sauce to table with them in a sauce- boat. Take a small saucepan and mix therein three tablespoonfuls of half-glaze and the same quantity of Poivrade sauce and one small teaspoonful of red-currant jelly ; add one small teaspoonful of each of the following garnishes, cut into short julienne, to the sauce, some hard-boiled white of egg, some very red smoked tongue, gherkins, truffles and mushrooms. The garnish, with some of the sauce, should be served in the dish with the cutlets ; the remainder of the sauce served separately in a boat.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 118 MUTTON CUTLETS PROVENCALE TRIM ten to twelve small mutton cutlets in the usual way ; oil them slightly with salad oil ; broil them on one side only and put them on a dish to get cold. Season the cutlets with pepper and salt. Spread the cooked side thickly with puree a la Provengale ; cover with a mixture of breadcrumbs and Parmesan cheese. Put one ounce of butter in a saute pan ; when hot, lay in the cutlets raw side downwards ; baste the surface with oiled butter and cook in a hot oven for ten minutes. Dish up in a circle ; fill up the centre with small rounds of potatoes ; pour round some half-glaze sauce and serve. Puree a la Provencale is made as follows :— Espagnol sauce with tomato pulp, finely chopped fried onions, sliced mushrooms and chopped parsley. Flavour with lemon juice, garlic and a little cayenne pepper. COTELETTES A LA MAINTENON FRY the cutlets in butter, one side only ; this done, put a heaped-up tablespoonful of a Maintenon preparation on each; shape themHOT MEAT DISHES 119 domewise, by means of the blade of a small knife dipped in tepid water, and place the cutlets one by one on a tray. The Maintenon preparation should be laid on the cooked side of each cutlet and sprinkled with fine raspings and melted butter. Then put the cutlets in rather a hot oven, in order to allow a gratin to form over the surface of the Maintenon mixture, and to finish the cooking of the cutlets ; lay them on a dish lengthwise and serve separately a sauceboat of meat glaze finished with butter. The Maintenon Preparation is made as follows :— Put one pint of Bechamel sauce into a vegetable pan with half a pint of Soubise sauce and reduce to half, whilst stirring over a brisk fire. Thicken away from the fire, by means of the yolks of five eggs, and add four tablespoonfuls of minced mush- rooms, either cooked in the ordinary way or stewed in butter. % HARICOT OF MUTTON BRETON TTEAT in stewpan three ounces of lard ; place therein one half-pound of lean bacon, cut into dice and blanched, also twenty small onions. When the bacon is frizzled and the onions haveTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 120 acquired a good colour, drain both on to a dish. In the same fat, fry three pounds of breast, neck and scrag or shoulder of mutton, all being cut into pieces weighing about three ounces. Keep the meat in the fat until it has acquired a frizzled coat. Drain away half the grease, add three crushed cloves of garlic, dust with two table- spoonfuls of flour, and cook this, stirring the while. Moisten with one quart of water, one- third of an ounce of salt and a pinch of pepper, and boil this, stirring all the time. Add a fagot and cook in oven for thirty minutes. This being done, transfer the pieces to another saucepan ; add the bacon and onions and a quart of half- cooked haricot beans. Strain the sauce over the whole and complete the cooking in the oven for one hour. Dish in a small casserole or in small cocottes. ** CUTLETS A LA MINUTE mAKE some tender neck cutlets and trim them neatly. Put one ounce of butter into a saute pan over a clear fire ; remove the scum as it rises ; place the cutlets in the fat and grill quickly for two or three seconds until both sides are nicely browned ; remove the cutlets and pour away the fat. Put into the saute pan two table-HOT MEAT DISHES 121 spoonfuls of rich brown sauce ; season as usual, and add a few drops of lemon juice. Serve this gravy in a sauceboat with the cutlets and some small fried potatoes in the centre of the dish. ‘S MIXED GRILL COOK some tender mutton cutlets a la Minute, and when done, lay them lengthwise down the centre of a flat meat dish. Arrange on each side neatly some freshly grilled kidneys, some grilled mushrooms and some grilled tomatoes. The number of each of the grills to be according to the number of persons for which the dish is intended. Some brown sauce can be served separately in a sauceboat, if wished. Plainly roasted saddle of mutton or lamb is also excellent seryed with a garnish of grilled kidneys, mushrooms and tomatoes. ■* RAGOUT OF MUTTON TTEAT one ounce of butter in a stewpan. Have ready cut up into small pieces three Spanish onions, two carrots grated, two ounces of leanTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 122 bacon, a piece of celery, thyme and parsley, and fry in the butter for a quarter of an hour. Then add two tablespoonfuls of flour and let it fry brown. Add half a pint of good brown stock and let it simmer gently for two hours. Then pass all through a hair sieve. Make a garnish of small round carrots, turnips, tongue and the whites of two hard-boiled eggs cut into thick julienne, also a few button onions. Braise the best end of neck of mutton, cut into cutlets and pour the ingredients over, leaving a little sauce to serve in a sauceboat. The cutlets should be arranged on a dish length- ways, laid one against the other, with the vegetables arranged round them. HASHED MUTTON SLICE some neat pieces from a cold leg or shoulder of mutton and place in a stewpan ; make a good gravy from the mutton bones and trimmings, adding any dark gravy that you might have over from the previous day’s roast. In another pan, work an ounce of butter into a large tablespoonful of flour ; allow to simmer for a few seconds. Add the gravy and one spoonful of Worcester sauce and one of Harvey; strain through fine sieve over the slices of mutton, and add six or seven sliced gherkins. Allow the hashHOT MEAT DISHES 123 to become very hot in the stewpan, but do not boil it. This should be served with small squares of fried bread placed in the dish round the hash. ANOTHER WAY TO HASH MUTTON TAKE a shoulder of mutton and roast it, then slice it very thinly until there is nothing but bone. Then add to the meat some red wine, a large onion, some gravy, six anchovies, a handful of capers and a little thyme. Mince them well together, and put all these with the meat into a frying-pan over the fire until the mixture becomes very hot. Then take the yolks of eight or nine eggs and the juice of one lemon and add to the above, and stir well together over the fire, shaking the pan until it becomes very thick. Then broil the bone and lay it on the top of the meat when dished. % COTTAGE PIE OF MUTTON "1/TINCE into neat dice any kind of cold meat ; place in stewpan with one pint of good gravy or stock, two tablespoonfuls of flour, one onion, pepper and salt. Mix well, and allow toTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 124 cook gently for half an hour ; add one spoonful of Harvey sauce and one of Worcester. Pour into a dish and cover well with mashed potatoes. BrowTn in oven. A FRENCH WAY OF ROASTING A LEG OF MUTTON /CHOOSE a small leg of fat mutton ; trim and ^ bone it, i.e. remove the hip and thigh bones. Season with salt and pepper, finely chopped parsley, one finely chopped shallot and a bruised clove of garlic (garlic introduced into raw meat loses its objectionable acidity and odour; it renders the meat more appetising and imparts a very fine flavour). Tie up the meat and place it in a baking-tin with a few slices of carrot, one sliced onion and two ounces of butter. Bake it in a hot oven for twenty minutes ; baste frequently, and finish baking or roasting in a slacker oven until tender. The usual time allowed for boned and rolled joints is twenty minutes to every pound and twenty minutes over. When done, pour off the fat from the tin and add some thin brown sauce or stock for the purpose of making the gravy. Season it and pour round the meat.HOT MEAT DISHES 125 LEG OF MUTTON BOULANGERE REMOVE the bone from a leg of mutton; season it well inside and tie up with string. Place it in an earthenware dish and brown it well in the oven on both sides ; then complete its cooking all but about a third ; this done, set round the joint four large sliced onions, just tossed in butter that they may acquire some colour, and eight large peeled potatoes cut into rounds half an inch thick. Sprinkle this garnish with the grease of the joint and then complete the cooking of the joint and the garnish. Serve in the dish in which the joint has been cooked. If preferred, the joint can be stuffed with a sage and onion stuffing with a little thyme added. EPIGRAMMES D’AGNEAU WITH SHARP SAUCE rilAKE two breasts of lamb near the cutlet, and -L braise or boil until quite tender. Remove the bones and press between two dishes. When cold, cut into neat cutlets or rounds ; dip each piece into a well-beaten egg, then into warm butter, and then into bread crumbs. Flatten the crumbsTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 126 with the aid of a knife. Place on a well-buttered baking-sheet, and brown quickly in a sharp oven. Serve with them the sauce made as follows :— Fry in butter one large onion, and work into the same pan one tablespoonful of flour, one gill of good brown meat gravy, one tablespoonful of brown vinegar, one teaspoonful of meat extract, and two lumps of sugar. Boil all together for twenty minutes, strain, and add one tablespoonful of chopped gherkins and one of capers. Serve in a boat with the epigrammes. m EPAULE D’AGNEAU BONNE FEMME FRY in butter a small shoulder of house lamb. This done, transfer it to a fireproof earthen- ware dish with ten or twelve small onions browned in butter and three or four medium-sized potatoes cut into large dice and blanched. Sprinkle the whole well with melted butter and cook gently in the oven. Serve the preparation as it stands in the earthenware dish, placing the dish on a folded napkin.HOT MEAT DISHES 127 NECK OF LAMB A LA BOULANGERE FRY the neck of lamb with butter in an earthen- ware dish, cooking it all but a third, and surround it with four large sliced onions just tossed in butter that they may colour slightly, also eight large peeled potatoes cut into rounds half an inch thick. Sprinkle this garnish with the grease of the joint and then complete the cooking of the joint and its garnish. Serve in the dish in which the joint has been cooked. Shoulder or leg of lamb can also be cooked a la Boulangere, the quantity of onions and potatoes used should be in quantities in proportion to the size of the joint. BEEFSTEAK WITH HERBS PLACE the steak over a hot fire, without adding any salt. Turn it over once and cook for twenty to twenty-five minutes, according to thick- ness. When done, add a little butter, some finely minced parsley, a pinch of salt and pepper, and a few drops of vinegar or lemon juice. Garnish with watercress or fried potatoes.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 128 GERMAN BEEFSTEAK CAKES TAKE one pound of fresh fillet of beef chopped finely; add three ounces of fresh butter, salt, pepper, some chopped parsley and a grate of nutmeg; form this into flat l'ound cakes ; dip them into beaten egg and then into breadcrumbs. This should be done twice ; then fry them in hot fat and serve with fried parsley as a garnish. Serve with them some Risotto and in a sauceboat some Sauce Colbert. Sauce Colbert is prepared as follows :— One and a half gills of Espagnol sauce, one glass of Madeira wine, one tablespoonful of meat glaze, one and a half ounces of fresh butter, one tea- spoonful of lemon juice, one dessertspoonful of chopped parsley, tarragon and chervil mixed. Put the sauce into a small stewpan ; stir over the fire until hot; add the wine and allow to boil for a few minutes ; remove to side of stove and stir in gradually the butter and the meat glaze ; beat up with a small whisk, but do not allow it to boil again. Last of all add the lemon juice and chopped herbs. If desired richer, half an ounce more butter can be used. 9HOT MEAT DISHES K 129 BRAISED ROLL OF BEEF ri 1EN pounds of sirloin of beef, with plenty of fat. Bone the beef and roll up tight. Break up the bones and put in braising pan with two onions, one carrot, one turnip, bay leaf, small sprig of thyme and eight cloves. When hot, place beef on the top and fry for half and hour. Then add two tablespoonfuls of brandy, one and a half pints of brown stock and let gently simmer for two and a half hours. CULOTTE DE BCEUF NORMANDE f 11AKE six pounds of best rump steak, braise it ■*- in a deep pan with one carrot, one onion, a bouquet of parsley, bay leaf and thyme, and enough fat to fry it a light brown colour. Let it be well coloured each side. Drain off the fat, and moisten it with a good light stock. Let it cook in the oven Avith a lid on the pan. Braise gently until tender. Place it on a dish. Reduce the liquor, removing all fat, and add one pint of thick puree of tomatoes ; thicken a little if needed, and serve with the beef. For garnish, place some small onions, young round carrots, turnips, peas and spring cabbage round the beef in groups.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 130 BEEFSTEAK WITH HARD-BOILED EGGS AND SPINACH (or any green vegetable in season) /^100K the spinach (fresh greens or other vege- tables) in water. Strain, cut up, add salt and pepper, and cook with butter. Place this round the beefsteak, and serve with eggs, hard-boiled or poached. BEEF STEWED WITH SWEET HERBS /^iOVER the bottom of a saucepan with carrots ^ cut in round slices. Add a slice of beef, steak or side, a little salt and pepper, a small bunch of parsley, thyme and a bay leaf tied together, sufficient water, and simmer for four hours. MACARONI AND MINCED BEEF 1%/TINCE finely by chopping or passing through LLL a mincing machine one and half pounds of cold beef. Cook four ounces of macaroni in boiling water until tender ; drain and let cool. Heat up half a pint of tomato sauce in a large stewpan ;HOT MEAT DISHES 131 put in the minced beef and the macaroni. Season carefully with salt and pepper. When thoroughly heated, turn on to a hot dish and garnish with sippets of toasted or fried bread. HACHIS DE BCEUF rpAKE some cold beef and mince it as fine as possible and put it in a flat pan. Add to it a good piece of glaze, one onion and some good stock. Cook it with the cover on the pan until it is nearly dry. Then mix into it one egg, a good-sized piece of butter, chopped parsley, salt and pepper. Place some mashed potatoes round the dish and put the mince in the centre. Sprinkle grated cheese over all and brown in the oven. r* BEEFSTEAK TOAST /~^HOP up very finely some cold steak, sufficient to fill one breakfast cup ; cook until tender, in just enough water to cover the meat. Add one teaspoonful of cream or milk, a saltspoonful of salt and a saltspoonful of pepper. Let it come to boiling point ; then add one tablespoonful of butter which has been rubbed into one level table-THE DUDLEY RECIPES 132 spoonful of flour. Let it boil for one second, then pour over the slices of toast and serve hot. % HOW TO SPICE BEEF fTIAKE in preference to all other pieces of rump of beef—the aitch bone. Leave it for four or five days at most in the pickle. Recipe for the Pickle :— Two gallons of water, five pounds of salt, one ounce of saltpetre, half an ounce of brown sugar, the darkest possible. Boil the water and let it get cold ; skim it well ; pour on the salt, etc., the boiled cold water. To make certain that the pickle is strong enough, put a fresh egg into the mixture and if it floats it is all right, but if it sinks more salt must be added. A muslin bag of mixed spice with cloves must be added to the brine. The quantity of spice used must depend upon the size of the piece of beef and according to taste. The quantities quoted are for a piece of beef of from eight to ten pounds. **HOT MEAT DISHES 133 BEEF ROLL /~\NE pound of lean beef, one pound of ham, two eggs well beaten, four ounces of bread crumbs, and seasoning to taste. Put the beef and ham through the mincing machine three times ; then mix it well in a basin with the breadcrumbs, seasoning and eggs. Make into a small roll, tie in a cloth and steam for four hours. * KEDGEREE OF COLD MEAT OlX ounces of cold meat (any kind will do), four ^ ounces of rice, two hard-boiled eggs, one ounce of butter, one very finely chopped onion, parsley, salt, pepper and nutmeg. Remove the skin, gristle and superfluous fat from the meat and chop it, not too finely. Boil the rice in the usual manner, so that when tender each grain will separate ; drain the rice when done. Melt the butter in a stewpan ; add the onion and fry a golden colour ; then add the meat and fry for a few minutes ; stir in the rice ; season to taste with salt and pepper and a grate of nutmeg. Shell the eggs ; chop the whites and mix with the kedgeree. Heap up the whole thoroughly and dish up in a pyramid form. Rub the yolks of eggsTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 134 through a wire sieve and sprinkle over the kedgeree ; also sprinkle over some finely chopped parsley. Place the dish in the oven for a few minutes and send to table. If too dry, a few pieces of butter can be added before sprinkling with the hard egg-yolk. This will melt when the dish is placed in the oven. BOUT one pound of tender cold meat, one pound of potatoes, one tablespoonful of mush- room ketchup, one teaspoonful of chopped parsley, half a teaspoonful of breadcrumbs, two eggs, chopped, lemon juice, fat for frying, salt and pepper. Cut the meat into slices a quarter of an inch thick ; trim them cutlet shape. Put the slices on a dish and sprinkle with salt, pepper and parsley and pour over the ketchup. Wash, peel and boil the potatoes ; dry them and rub through a sieve ; beat up one egg and mix with the mash ; season with salt and pepper ; add the lemon juice or a little grated nutmeg. Cover well each slice of meat with mashed potatoes ; shape and smooth with a knife ; beat up the other egg ; dip each cutlet in the egg and crumb well. When set, egg and crumb again. Fry the cutlets in hot CORNISH CUTLETSHOT MEAT DISHES 135 fat a golden colour ; drain on a cloth ; dish up and garnish with fried parsley. BEEF HASH BOURGEOIS /~YNE pound of cold beef (sirloin, ribs or top side), four ounces of fresh or preserved mush- rooms, two ounces of cooked ham, two finely chopped shallots, one ounce of butter, one gill of half-glaze sauce, half a gill of tomato puree, seasoning, four potatoes cut in slices parboiled and fried in butter. Cut the meat into neat square slices about one inch in size ; cut the mushrooms into thin slices and the ham into dice. Fry the shallots in the butter without browning ; then add the ham and allow to fry a little, then the mushrooms ; lastly, add the meat and stir the whole carefully over the fire for a few seconds ; moisten with the brown sauce and tomato puree ; season with salt, pepper and a grate of nutmeg ; cook slowly for half an hour without letting it boil. Arrange the hash in the centre of a hot dish ; surround it with the fried potatoes, and serve. 1THE DUDLEY RECIPES 136 TO MAKE HALF-GLAZE SAUCE 13 EDUCE three-quarters of a pint of Espagnol sauce with one and a half gills of good gravy, strained and freed from fat; allow to simmer for about fifteen minutes and season with a pinch of pepper. ■a STEAK AND KIDNEY PIE TV/TAKE a paste crust; cut about a pound of rump or buttock steak into thin slices ; dip each slice into a mixture of flour, salt and pepper, and roll a slice of bullock’s or sheep’s kidney and a tiny piece of fat into each slice of beef. Place them in a piedish ; pour in enough water or stock to come half-way up the dish ; wet the edges of the dish and line with a strip of paste ; brush the edge of the crust with egg, milk, or water, and place on a cover of paste. Make a small incision in the centre of the paste and decorate with a few fancifully cut leaves of paste. Brush over with beaten egg-yolk and bake for about one and a half hours. Veal and ham, pigeon, and rabbit pies are made in the same manner. Hard-boiled eggs cut into quarters or slices can be used with the filling ingredients, if liked. A rough puff or flaky crust is eminently suitable for all kinds of meat pies.HOT MEAT DISHES 137 VEAL AND HAM PIE r 11AKE one pound of fillet of veal and cut it into thin slices ; season with pepper and salt, the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs chopped, two or three chopped mushrooms, one onion and a little parsley. Line a deep dish with thin slices of ham or streaky bacon ; then place a layer of the veal and then a layer of the chopped egg, parsley, etc., until the dish is full, and a cupful of very good light stock or gravy. When the dish is full, cover the top over with thin slices of ham or bacon and cover with a short rich pastry. Bake for two hours in a good oven. Remove the top with a knife to see if there is sufficient gravy and, if not, add to it before serving. A GERMAN WAY OF COOKING BRAISED SADDLE OF VEAL mAKE the saddle and trim it on one side flush A- with the bones of the pelvis and up to the first rib on either side ; then cut out the kidneys, leaving a thick layer of fat on the under fillets ; pare the flank on either side so that what is left of it when drawn under the saddle on each side may just cover the fillets. Before drawing the flankTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 138 over the fillet, the joint should be dusted with salt and pepper. Cover the top surface of the saddle with slices of bacon and tie round five or six times with string, so that the bacon and flank may not shift. When the saddle is only intended for a few people, half of it may be used at a time—one fillet —in which case the joint should be cut into two lengthways. BRAISED CUSHION OF VEAL Tj^OUR to five pounds of cushion or kernel of veal (often called fillet of veal), larding bacon, one onion, one carrot, one small bunch of parsley and herbs, two ounces of butter, one pint of stock, half a pint of rich brown sauce, salt, pepper, one glass of sherry, two pounds, or more, of cooked spinach. Free the meat from the skin that covers it ; remove likewise the fat and the sinewy skin show- ing ; then lard the surface with strips of fat bacon, four or five rows neatly arranged. Line a deep saute pan or a braising pan with the trimmings of bacon and fragments of veal, the onion and carrot previously peeled, scraped and sliced, also the bunch of herbs ; place the meat on top (larded side upwards) ; spread over with butter ; season with pepper and salt and put it in a hot oven inHOT MEAT DISHES 139 order to slightly brown the surface of the meat. Then moisten with the stock and wine ; cover with buttered paper and set in the oven to cook from one and three-quarters to two hours. When the meat is thoroughly done, take it up. Strain the liquor ; skim off the fat and reduce to half glaze ; add the sauce ; boil up and season to taste. To serve this dish, place the meat on a hot dish ; surround with spinach as a garnish ; pour a little of the sauce over the meat and serve the re- mainder in a sauceboat. STUFFED BREAST OF VEAL T)ONE the piece of veal and open it where it is thickest, without touching the ends. A kind of pocket is thus obtained, into which the pre- viously prepared stuffing should be placed, care being taken to spread it very evenly. Sew up the opening with coarse cotton, and remember to with- draw the cotton when the veal is cooked. The veal should be braised ; the moistening should be short and the cooking process gentle. For a piece weighing about four pounds, when stuffed, allow three hours in a moderate and regular oven. It should be glazed at the last moment.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 140 STUFFING FOR BREAST OF VEAL TT^OR a piece weighing four pounds, add to one pound of fine sausage meat two ounces of dry Duxelle, two ounces of butter, a pinch of chopped parsley, tarragon and chives, a well- beaten egg and a little salt and pepper. The sausage meat is prepared by cutting into large cubes one pound of fillet of pork and the same weight of fresh fat bacon, seasoned with one ounce of spiced salt. Chop well and pound finely in a mortar ; finish with one beaten egg and one tablespoonful of brandy. Dry Duxelle is prepared as follows :— Slightly fry one teaspoonful of onions in one tablespoonful of butter and oil mixed. Add to this four tablespoonfuls of mushroom stalks and parings, chopped and well pressed in a towel to expel the vegetable moisture. Stir over a brisk fire until the moisture has completely evaporated ; season with salt, pepper and nutmeg and one small teaspoonful of well-chopped parsley, mixing the whole thoroughly. Transfer to a jam-pot or bowl; cover with a piece of white buttered paper and put aside until it is required. Dry Duxelle is used for many things—such as stuffing vegetables, etc.—mixed with other in- gredients.HOT MEAT DISHES 141 FRICANDEAU OF VEAL FTIAKE a piece cut from the cushion of veal, cut with the grain of the meat. It should not be thicker than one and a half inches. After beating it with the flat of a chopper or a cutlet-bat, to break the fibres of the meat, lard it finely on the cut side with strips of bacon ; braize it and glaze it with its own gravy reduced ; dish it up with a garniture of veal quenelles, slices of sweetbread, mushrooms and truffles, and serve with the following “ Sauce Madere.” A cushion of veal is taken from the haunch. The fat lying over the cushion should be carefully preserved. ■a SAUCE MADERE REDUCE three-quarters of a pint of sauce Espagnol with one and a half gills of good gravy (strained and freed from fat); allow to simmer for fifteen minutes ; season with a pinch of pepper and add one large wineglass of sherry or Marsala ; reduce a little longer and finish with a meat glaze. r«THE DUDLEY RECIPES 142 BRAISED AND STUFFED SADDLE OF VEAL X) RAISE the saddle and when it is ready put it on a dish. Draw a line within half an inch of its extreme edge on either side and ends, pressing the point of a small knife along the meat in doing so. Remove the fillets from the joint, severing them from the bone with care. Cut the fillets in regular collops, keeping the knife rather at a slant. In the double cavity left by the fillets spread a few tablespoonfuls of Bechamel sauce, seasoned with paprika; return the colloped fillets to their respective places in the joint, reconstructing them in suchwise as to make them appear untouched, and between each collop pour one half tablespoon- ful of Bechamel sauce, laying in also two slices of truffle. This done, cover the whole surface of the joint with Bechamel sauce, seasoned with paprika, and set under the salamander to glaze quickly. With the help of a large fish-slice, transfer the saddle carefully to a dish. Serve separately in a sauceboat the braising liquor of the saddle, cleared of all grease and reduced. Serve also in a separate dish some savoury rice. r%HOT MEAT DISHES 143 BLANQUETTE OF VEAL T7TROM one to two pounds of cushion or fillet of veal, two ounces of butter, one ounce of flour, twelve fresh or preserved button mushrooms, eight to ten small onions, one bouquet garni, half a gill of Chablis or Sauterne, a quarter of a gill of cream, the yolks of two eggs, lemon juice, seasoning and one pint of light stock. Cut the veal into neat square pieces ; put it into a stewpan with sufficient cold water to cover ; add a good pinch of salt and the juice of half a lemon ; bring it to the boil and remove the scum ; then add the wine and the bouquet. Melt the butter in a small stewpan ; stir in the flour and cook whilst stirring for a few minutes, but do not allow it to get brown ; moisten with a pint of white stock ; boil up ; skim and cook for ten minutes ; then add the cream and the beaten yolks of eggs ; strain over the cooked veal; add the mushrooms, sliced ; heat up without allowing it to boil; season to taste and dish up garnished with little fleurons of light puff pastry, and serve hot. The blanquette can also be served in a circle of light half-puff pastry.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 144 GOULACHE OF VEAL ^\NE and a half pounds of lean veal, one pound of partly cooked new potatoes, two ounces of butter, one onion, half a pint of cream, salt and paprika pepper. Free the meat from skin and sinews and cut it into dice. Cut the potatoes into cubes. Melt the butter in a saute pan ; add the meat and fry lightly for several minutes ; then add the onion finely chopped ; stir over the fire for about five minutes ; season with salt and pepper, and add the potatoes. Pour off the superfluous fat; mix carefully and moisten with cream and a table- spoonful of rich white stock ; season with enough paprika pepper to give the sauce a pink tinge and cook gently for about twenty minutes. It is best to cook the last stage of the goulache in a fireproof earthenware casserole, in which it should be sent to table. Great care must be taken not to break the potatoes whilst cooking. Serve very hot. CALVES’ BRAINS WITH BLACK BUTTER REMOVE the skill from two or three calves’ brains ; wash well and clean them in several waters ; drain, and cook them in richly flavouredHOT MEAT DISHES 145 L stock for about six minutes ; strain well. Dish up and sauce well over with some hot black butter sauce, prepared as follows Black Butter Sauce.—Put one and a half ounces of butter into an omelette pan ; fry over a quick fire until it acquires a nice brown colour; then add about half a teaspoonful of vinegar and one teaspoonful of chopped parsley and salt to taste. This sauce should be poured over the brains, leaving sufficient round them in the dish. Use a little fried parsley as a garnish. % CALF’S HEAD VINAIGRETTE TAKE a very white calf’s head and remove the flesh from the bone. Wash and blanch it by boiling it for a few minutes in water in which are a tablespoonful of vinegar and some salt. Remove from fire, and allow cold water to run on it to cleanse it from all scum. When cold, cut into pieces with a cuttev and place in stewpan with sufficient water to cover. Add two onions, two carrots, bouquet of parsley," bay leaf and thyme, and a spoonful of flour. Allow to simmer until tender, then take out and dish with slices of the boiled tongue placed round it. Garnish with parsley and serve hot.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 146 Serve in a boat the following sauce :— Chop very finely some of the calf’s brain, also a little onion, parsley and chervil. Add some capers, a little French mustard, pepper and salt, a tablespoonful of salad oil and half a tablespoonful of French vinegar. Mix all well together and serve in boat. This sauce should be quite thick. If liked, two hard-boiled eggs chopped very finely can be added. BOSTON BAKED PORK AND BEANS ONE pint of white beans, half a pound of salt pork, one level teaspoonful of salt, half a teaspoonful of white pepper and tablespoonful of New Orleans molasses. Wash and soak the beans overnight ; cut the pork into small pieces about one inch square ; add salt and pepper and molasses and mix well with the beans. Put into a crock with plenty of water, cover, and bake in a slow oven for five hours, stir occasionally and, if the beans become dry, add more water. When cooked, the beans should be light brown in colour, unbroken but not too dry.HOT MEAT DISHES 147 CANADIAN BAKED BEANS ONE pint of white beans, half a pound of pickled pork or bacon, one level teaspoonful of salt, half a teaspoonful of pepper and one tablespoonful of brown sugar. Wash and soak the beans overnight ; boil the pork or bacon with the beans until the beans ai*e tender; add seasoning and put in baking pan. Cut the pork into strips and lay on the top of the beans. Bake about one hour. This is the true pork and beans used so largely in America and Canada. Of course there are variations, such as preparing it in a casserole. The ordinary American or Canadian, however, would not recognize that method. AN EXCELLENT LUNCHEON DISH Tj^RIED pork sausages with mashed potatoes. Fried onions served with them on a separate dish. 1THE DUDLEY RECIPES 148 A SAVOURY HOT-UP mAKE a few slices of cold meat—beef, mutton J- or pork—and sprinkle well with finely chopped onion and pepper. Add a little pepper and salt, and fry in butter or dripping. Serve hot. This is a very savoury dish, and quickly cooked. A FRENCH FAMILY DISH PLACE in cold water, without salt, two pounds or three pounds of bacon, salt pork or mutton. Add a sausage or two, cut into pieces. When these boil, add a few potatoes, a cabbage, a carrot or two, and any green vegetable in season—such as French beans, peas or Brussels sprouts. Boil gently and let simmer for four hours, and serve. What meat is left over can be eaten cold next day, and what vegetables remain can be mixed together with a little butter or dripping and fried in the shape of a thick pancake.HOT MEAT DISHES 149 HOW TO COOK TRIPE 11HIE tripe should be very white, and should be cut into nice pieces and placed in a stewpan with enough water to cover. Season well with salt and pepper, and add six finely sliced onions. Allow to cook gently for two hours. Strain away all liquor, and make a very good white sauce, with one ounce of butter, one tablespoonful of flour and a little milk. Stir this continuously until it boils ; then pour over the tripe and onions and allow all to simmer for half an hour. Add a little cream, if desired, which, of course, improves the sauce. % MACARONI PIE O WELL four ounces of pipe macaroni in milk ^ with a large onion. Put a layer at the bottom of a pie-dish, with some bits of butter and scraped Gloucester cheese sprinkled lightly over it. Cover the whole with well-seasoned beefsteak, then some more macaroni, then a fowl cut in joints and seasoned, and then another beefsteak. Cover the whole with macaroni, pieces of butter and grated cheese instead of crust. Bake in a slow oven.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 150 TO POACH MEAT OR FISH FT1HE definition of poaching is a boiling that does not boil. The term “ poach ” is extended to all slow processes of cooking which involve the use of a liquor. The time allowed for the cooking in each case must differ somewhat widely from the rest. The treatment of them all, how- ever, is subject to one unalterable principle—that the poaching liquor must not boil, although it should reach a degree of heat as near as possible to boiling point. Another principle is that large pieces of fish or poultry should be set to boil in cold liquor, after which it should be brought to the required tempera- ture as quickly as possible. The case may be the same with fillets of sole or poultry, which are poached almost dry, but all other preparations whose mode of cooking is poaching, gain by being immersed in liquor which has reached the required temperature beforehand. * * FOR BRAISING WHITE MEATS EXCEPT for veal sweetbread, which is always blanched before being braised, the meats or poultry should always be slightly stiffened and browned in butter on all sides. This is not essentialHOT MEAT DISHES 151 in all cases, but if they undergo this process they dry less quickly. The meat should be placed in a utensil just large enough to hold them, and deep enough to keep the lid from touching them. Place the aromatics under the meat and moisten with a little veal stock. Set to boil on a moderate fire and reduce the veal stock with the lid of the pan on. When the stock has assumed the consistency of a glaze, add a further quantity of fresh stock and reduce as before. The third time, moisten the veal or fowl until it is half covered and place the pan in a moderate oven. The meat needs con- stantly basting whilst it cooks, in order to avoid drying, and as the stock is gelatinous it forms a coating on the surface, which resists evaporation of the juices. For this reason the stock must be reduced to a glaze before finally moistening. Braised white meat is known to be cooked when, after having been deeply pricked with a braiding needle, it exudes an absolutely colourless liquid. This liquid denotes that the joint is cooked in the centre. % A BOUQUET GARNI rpHIS is much used in French cooking for soups, ragouts, sauces, etc. It is composed as follows :—THE DUDLEY RECIPES 152 Lay on the table a few sprigs of well-washed fresh parsley and place upon this a sprig of thyme, a sprig of marjoram, a bay leaf, a sprig of basil, a celery leaf, a small piece of cinnamon stick, a clove of garlic, a small blade of mace and a pepper- pod of long pepper. Fold the parsley round the other herbs and tie with a string into a neat bundle (bouquet), and use as directed. Excessive use of strong-smelling herbs or spices must, of course, be avoided. % YORKSHIRE PUDDING TO BE SERVED WITH ROAST BEEF f I THERE is scarcely anything in cookery more difficult than to obtain really good Yorkshire pudding that is light but not too dry. It is usually served either heavy or else fried quite dry and tasteless. The ingredients are given below, but everything depends upon the cooking. Mix half a pound of sifted flour with six eggs and one quart of boiled milk. The eggs should be added one by one, and the milk little by little. Season with salt and a very little pepper. Pour this preparation into a deep baking pan containing some very hot dripping, and bake it lightly in theCOLD DISHES M 165 MAYONNAISE OF CHICKEN ALEXANDRA rpAKE one Surrey fowl and boil it gently. When cold, remove the fillets and cut them into neat pieces (not too small); and mix with a good Mayonnaise sauce. Trim and wash two cabbage lettuces. Line a pudding-basin with aspic jelly, and when set ornament it with ox-tongue and truffles cut in pieces. Place in the basin a little of the lettuce mixed with Mayonnaise, then the chicken, the slices of tongue, and so on, until the basin is full. Season and sauce each layer, and coat with aspic. Place on ice until well set, then dip the basin into warm water, and turn out just before serving. Serve with the above the following green sauce:— Bruise in a mortar a little parsley, two spring onions, two gherkins, a tablespoonful of capers, one leaf of spinach, and three tablespoonfuls of thick Mayonnaise sauce. Pound and pass through a sieve, and mix with cream. %THE DUDLEY RECIPES 166 COLD QUENELLES OF CHICKEN OR RABBIT T3 OAST a chicken, or soup fowl, or two rabbits. A\) When cold, remove all white meat, pound well in mortar and season with salt, pepper and a little grated nutmeg, then add two tablespoonfuls of strong chicken essence to moisten the meat. Pass through a fine wire sieve, and add one gill of cream. Line six quenelle moulds with aspic ; place the pounded meat in the moulds with aid of piping bag ; smooth and cover over with warm aspic ; place on ice until set. Make ready a border mould of rather firm aspic jelly. When set, turn the quenelles out of the moulds by dipping them into warm water. Dish on the jelly border and fill the centre with a salad of tomatoes cut small, or cucumber balls. Serve in a boat Mayonnaise sauce mixed with a thick puree of tomatoes. CHICKEN CREAM WITH TOMATOES ABOUT half a pound of cooked chicken meat, three-quarters of a pound of ripe tomatoes, two ounces of cooked ham, half an ounce of butter,COLD DISHES 167 half a pint of aspic jelly, one gill of cream, two tablespoonfuls of Veloute sauce, half a dessert- spoonful of meat glaze, eight tomato moulds, parsley, salt and pepper. Wipe the tomatoes ; remove the stems ; cut into slices and saute them in half an ounce of butter ; season with salt and pepper ; when done, rub them through a fine sieve and incorporate three large tablespoonfuls of aspic jelly. Remove the skin and sinews from the chicken ; put it in a mortar and pound till smooth ; add the ham and pound also ; pass all through a sieve ; mix with it the Veloute sauce and dissolved meat glazed and about two tablespoonfuls of liquid aspic, or, if preferred, substitute with dissolved gelatine to set the puree ; stir well ; add the seasoning; beat up the cream and mix with it. Line each half of the tomato moulds with aspic jelly; when set, mask thickly with the tomato puree ; fill them up with the chicken pur6e. Press each set of halves together tightly and place them on the ice to set. Immerse the moulds in tepid water ; wipe with a cloth ; turn out ; dress neatly on a dish ; garnish with chopped aspic jelly and a feAv sprigs of fresh parsley, and serve. %THE DUDLEY RECIPES 168 PATES OF TURKEY OR CHICKEN PREPARE a good light puff paste and make some small patty cases. The cases must be empty, i.e. the soft portion must be removed from the centre of the pastry. To make the mixture for filling, proceed as follows :— Mince (not too finely) six to eight ounces of cooked turkey or chicken, freed from bone, skin and sinew (a little cold veal may be mixed with it if needed), three to four ounces of cooked ham or tongue and a few preserved mushrooms cut into dice. Melt an ounce of butter in a small stewpan ; stir in three-quarters of an ounce of flour ; blend this over the fire without browning ; then gradually add not quite half a pint of stock and milk. Allow it to boil whilst stirring. Cook for ten minutes, then strain and add the minced meat, etc. Season with salt, pepper, grated nutmeg and tiny pinch of cayenne ; also add a tablespoonful of cream and a teaspoonful of lemon juice, and let the whole stew very gently for another ten or fifteen minutes. Reheat the patty cases and fill them with the prepared mixture. Dish up ; garnish with parsley, and serve. These pates are delicious either hot or cold.COLD DISHES 169 CHAUD-FROID OF PHEASANT T>OACH the pheasant and let it cool in its cook- ing liquor ; cut it up and clear the pieces of all skin; dip the pieces in brown Chaud-froid sauce, flavoured with pheasant fumet. Glaze with cold melted jelly ; trim the pieces and leave to set ; dish up, and serve with a Tartare sauce and some lettuce salad. 1 COLD PHEASANT A LA BERNY ROAST the pheasant and keep it underdone. When it is quite cold, raise its fillets and leave the legs and wings attached to the carcase. By means of scissors, completely bone the carcase ; garnish its inside with a parfait of foie gras, and cover it with a thin coat of foie gras mousse. Replace the fillets upon this mousse, after having sliced them and fill any gaps that may exist between the slices with some of the sauce mousse, thus reconstructing the bird. Let the mousse set thoroughly and then glaze with aspic jelly. Meanwhile coat eight boned, stuffed, poached and cold larks with brown Chaud-froid sauce; decorate with pieces of truffle and glaze them with aspic jelly. Dish the pheasant on a low force- meat cushion ; surround it with the larks andTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 170 garnish with heaps of chopped and very clear aspic. Fresh foies gras do not travel very well, and when sent from a distance often reach their destination tainted; it is, therefore, difficult, whatever care may have been taken with their preparation, to obtain the same results as are achieved by manufacturers who are renowned for their preparation. It is better, therefore, to buy the parfait of foie gras readymade from a good firm rather than to try and make it at home. PARTRIDGE GALANTINE CAREFULLY bone three or four plump part- ridges, and in doing this see that the skin is in no way torn. Cut open each bird lengthways down the back, and spread out on a board (skin downwards), season with salt and pepper and spread with a layer of chicken forcemeat. Upon this, place long strips of cooked ham and tongue, peeled pistachio nuts and rather thickly cut slices of truffles. Add another layer of forcemeat and roll up each carefully; tie up in napkins or pudding-cloths and cook in stock for about one hour and a quarter. When done, press the galantines between two boards and allow to get cold. Remove the cloth ; coat or mask theCOLD DISHES 171 galantines with meat glaze or brown Chaud-froid sauce. Dish up ; garnish with cold aspic jelly round the base of the dish, and serve. % CHAUD-FROID OF PARTRIDGE mWO roast partridges, three-quarters of a pint of brown Chaud-froid sauce, one crisp lettuce, three firm, ripe tomatoes, half a cucumber, one hard-boiled egg, eight stuffed olives, half a pint of aspic jelly and Mayonnaise sauce. Cut the partridges into neat pieces ; free them from skin and trim ; mask each piece completely with a pale-brown Chaud-froid sauce. When set, run over sufficient half-set aspic to mask them. Prepare a bed of mixed salad in the centre of a dish ; arrange the pieces of partridge neatly round the salad. Garnish with chopped aspic jelly. CHAUD-FROID OF QUAILS IN ASPIC rriHE quails should be boned and stuffed with a forcemeat made of gratin and game, or quail forcemeat well seasoned and with a small piece of foie gras and truffle set in the middle of each bird ; then reshape them ; wrap each of them in muslinTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 172 and poach for twenty minutes in good veal stock and allow them to cool in this. When they are quite cold, dry them and dip them, so as to veneer them all over, in a good brown Chaud-froid sauce, prepared with quail essence. Remove the excess of sauce from around the quails ; set them in a square, deep dish ; cover them with very good clear aspic jelly and place them in a refrigerator until they are required. A salad of grapes can be served with these quails, if liked. COLD QUAILS f 11AKE some very fat quails and cook them very lightly in veal consomme. Allow them to cool in the liquor ; then drain carefully and when quite cold, arrange them neatly on a flat dish and serve with them some cold mayonnaise Farquhar sauce, and either cucumber salad or a cold salad of mixed vegetables. CHAUD-FROID OF QUAIL f 11AKE six large, fat quails and remove the -L breast-bone without breaking the skin. Pre- pare a forcemeat of quail which has been pounded with a small pot of foie gras. Fill each bird with the mixture with the aid of a piping bag, close wellCOLD DISHES 173 and sew to keep the birds in good shape, or wrap in little squares of muslin. Poach them for twenty minutes in some good veal stock and the fat from the foie gras pot, together with some finely chopped carrot, onion, parsley, thyme and bay leaf. Poach gently and leave the birds in the liquor until cold. Remove and wipe free of all moisture ; dish with aspic jelly in little heaps round dish, and with the following macedoine of vegetables served in separate dish, or in centre of dish with the quails :— Some small carrots, peas, points of asparagus, French beans cut into dice, a little potato, or any other kind of vegetable at hand. These should be cooked separately until tender, so that each vegetable should retain its colour; add black pepper, salt and a small quantity of oil and vinegar. Some sharp Mayonnaise sauce should be served in a boat, flavoured with onion or horse- radish. % RAISED GAME PIE and a half pounds of flour, one and a half gills of milk, six ounces of butter, the yolk of an egg, pepper, salt, cayenne, nutmeg, one pound of veal, one pound of fresh pork, all kinds of game, such as pheasant, grouse or pigeons, larks or else quails—some of each—a quarter of aTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 174 pound of ham, liver farce or foie gras, one table- spoonful of chopped mushrooms, one tablespoonful of chopped truffles, one teaspoonful of chopped parsley and pistachios, half a pint of good stock and chopped aspic. Make a paste of the flour, mixing the butter and milk into it hot ; add the yolk of egg and a little salt; mix and knead well. Line a raised pie-mould with this paste, about a quarter of an inch thick. Mince the veal and pork together ; season with salt, pepper, cayenne and nutmeg. Place this mince all round the mould inside the paste ; fill in the centre with fillets of pigeon and pheasant or grouse, or else use strips of ham, larks and quails stuffed with liver farce. Sprinkle over the chopped mushrooms, truffles, pistachios and parsley, and a little pepper and salt ; cover over with some of the mince ; wet the paste round and lay on the top cover ; close it well round the edge ; trim it ; and work up the trimmings of paste to make an ornament for the top. Tie a band of buttered paper round the mould about three inches from the top, and bake it in a steady oven for three hours. When the pie is nearly cold, move the top ornament of paste and pour in about half a pint of good stock—not too liquid, or it will soak through the paste—replace the ornament, and when quite cold dish up the pie. Garnish it with chopped aspic and parsley.COLD DISHES 175 COLD DUCK A LA CUMBERLAND rpiE up the ducks, spit them and cook at a quick fire. When cooked, take off the legs and fillets, and skin and make an equal shape. Make out of the pieces a jelly, seasoned with a glass of white wine, the juice of four oranges and a pinch of cayenne pepper. Colour slightly with carmine and put on ice in a mould. Cover the bottom of the mould with the jelly and let it stiffen. Put the fillets of duck on this, and cover it little by little with jelly. Put another row of slices and recommence the operation. By this time the mould should be full. Before serving, dip the mould into hot water and upset the contents on to a dish. Put jelly all round, and serve with Cumberland sauce. % CUMBERLAND SAUCE f I THICKEN by freezing equal quantities of currant jelly and mustard, a pinch of cayenne and the zest of an orange cut a la julienne and whitened. Orange marmalade can be used instead of currant jelly, if preferred.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 176 COLD VEAL A LA RUSSE /^1UT a cold cushion of veal into slices two inches long by half an inch wide, and about the sixth of an inch thick. On each slice spread a little butter, seasoned with salt and pepper combined with finely chopped chives. Couple the slices to- gether as for sandwiches ; round off the corners and put them under slight pressure. Prepare a puree of tomatoes, mixed with a little aspic jelly to make it set. Place this in a plain round mould and put it on ice to set. When the tomato mould is quite firm, turn it out in the middle of a round, cold dish ; arrange the meat slices all round and border the dish with a little clear aspic jelly. A cold Bechamel sauce, mixed with tomato puree and finished with a little cream, can be served in a boat with this dish. COLD SADDLE OF VEAL AN EXCELLENT SUMMER DISH rnHE saddle should be braised and covered with aspic jelly and served with its owrn braising liquor, which has been cooked, cleared of grease poured carefully awray, and the gravyCOLD DISHES 177 served cold in a sauceboat, without having been either clarified or cleared. A macedoine of cold vegetables mixed with Mayonnaise sauce, or tomato salad, should be served at the same time. The ficandeau—fillet or loin of veal—is equally good cold and served in the same way. « DAUBS OF VEAL IN ASPIC f IIAKE a fillet of veal, roll it as if for braising, and place it in a casserole with some small carrots and button onions. Let it cook gently until tender. Dish up the veal and vegetables ; add a little good gravy to the same pan in which the veal was cooked, and let it simmer a little. Remove any grease, season, and serve this in a sauceboat separ- ately. Next day, slice the veal into small rounds ; line a deep dish with the cooked carrots and onions, and lay in the slices of veal. Make hot the gravy in which it was cooked, adding two leaves of gelatine. Remove any fat. When sufficiently cool, pour it over the meat and vege- tables in the dish, a little at a time until all is set pretty firmly. Let it remain on ice until required, then turn out, and it will be nicely jellied. Serve with any kind of green or cold vegetable salad.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 178 COLD RAISED HARE PIE /^iLEAR the fillets, the minion fillets and the ^ legs of all tendons ; moderately lard them and season ; set them in a dish with an equal quantity of truffles and fat bacon strips. Sprinkle with some brandy and leave to marinade for one hour. With what remains of the meat take some fillets of veal and pork in the proportion of six ounces to one pound of hare, fresh fat bacon in the proportion of one and a half pounds to one pound of hare ; add spiced salt and prepare a forcemeat finished with one egg and three tablespoonfuls of brandy per one pound of forcemeat. Rub through a tammy and add a portion of the hare’s blood. Line an oval or round buttered mould with raised pie paste and completely cover the paste with slices of bacon ; then coat the inside with force- meat and fill up the mould with alternate layers of forcemeat, hare’s fillets, truffle and bacon-strips. Finish with a layer of forcemeat ; cover with a slice of bacon ; sprinkle over a pinch of powdered thyme and bay leaf ; close the pie with a layer of paste, which should be sealed down round the moistened edges. Pinch the crust inside and out, and finish off the pie by means of imitation leaves made from paste. Bake in a moderate oven and when the pie is almost cold pour some jelly, flavoured with hare essence, into it.COLD DISHES 179 ROUND OF COLD SPICED DERBY BEEF TITOST excellent for a sideboard dish for a -D-L large party. It should be cut very thin and Cumberland sauce served with it in a sauceboat. The spiced beef can be procured from Mr. Deque, Confectioner, 51 St. Peter’s Street, Derby. This beef is sent ready cooked.HOT MEAT DISHES 153 oven. It should be cut into squares and served at once. It becomes heavy if allowed to stand. Another method is to put the Yorkshire pudding under the joint of beef which is being roasted on the spit after it has been removed from the oven. It thus becomes saturated with the gravy and fat that falls from the roast. LAMB CUTLETS PERIGORD f 11AKE some cutlets of small very tender lamb, two cutlets to one bone. Slightly flatten the cutlets ; dip them in beaten egg and roll them in finely chopped truffle, which in this case answers the purpose of breadcrumbs. Press the truffle with the flat of a knife, that it may be thoroughly com- bined with the egg. Then cook the cutlets in clarified butter. Dish them in a circle and garnish the centi’e of the dish with a mushroom pur^e, a little more of this being served separately in a sauceboat. Some young green peas should be served with this dish. 9THE DUDLEY RECIPES 154 CUTLETS OF MILK LAMB LUCULLUS RILL the cutlets, and at the same time prepare as many breadcrumb croutons as there are cutlets, aud of exactly the same shape and size as the cutlets. Fry the croutons in butter and coat them with foie-gras puree. Place a grilled cutlet on each coated crouton and a thin slice of truffle on each cutlet. Dish them up in a circle and garnish the centre of the dish with a heap of asparagus heads, tossed in butter. r 11AKE some nice cutlets—two cutlets to each bone—egg and breadcrumb them and cook them in clarified butter. Dish in a circle with a slice of truffle laid on each cutlet and set a large heap of asparagus heads, tossed in butter, in the centre. Serve in a sauceboat with the cutlets some cold Mayonnaise sauce a la Farquhar. CUTLETS OF MILK LAMB MARECHALEHOT MEAT DISHES 155 TOURNEDOS OF BEEF TjMLLET steaks are cut laterally from the thickest part of the fillet of beef. They ought to be about one and half inches thick, and weigh from six to seven ounces. Tournedos are half fillets as to weight. The thickness of a tournedos should be about one and a quarter inches, and they should be cut into a nice round shape. % TOURNEDOS BEARNAISE SEASON the tournedos and grill them. Set them on round crusts half an inch thick, fried in clarified butter, and take care not to over-cook them. Cut a nice piece of fat and lay it on the top of each tournedos. Arrange them neatly in a dish (or on a silver grid). Arrange a heap of souffle potatoes in the centre of the dish, and serve with a Bearnaise sauce served in a sauceboat. %THE DUDLEY RECIPES 156 TOURNEDOS OF BEEF BORDELAISE rTIRIM and grill the tournedos and dish them. Set on each a large slice of poached marrow, and serve with a Bordelaise sauce, served separ- ately in a sauceboat.CHAUD-FROIDS AND OTHER COLD DISHES i57DINNER Then from the mint walks forth the man of rhyme, Happy to catch me just at dinner-time. pope % HUNGER Hunger is sharper than the sword. BEAUMONT AND FLETCHER Hunger makes coarse meats delicate. herrick Without frugality none can he rich, and wdJft it very few would be poor. dr. Johnson Liatf with a thrijty not a needy fate. Small shots, paid often, waste a vast estate. HERRICK, APH. 256 Beyond the sense Of light reflection, at the genial board Indulge not often ; nor protract the feast To dull satiety ; till soft and slow A drowsy death creeps on th' expansive soul Oppress'd and smother'd the celestial fire. ARMSTRONGHe was a kind and thankful toad, whose heart dilated in proportion as his skin was filled with good cheer ; and whose spirits rose with eating as some men's do with drink. He could not help, too, rolling his large eyes round him as he ate, and chuckling with the possibility that he might one day be lord of all this scene of unimaginable luxury. WASHINGTON IRVING I Honours a thing too subtle for his wisdom ; If honour be in eating, he's right honourable. BEAUMONT AND FLETCHER He hath never fed of the dainties that are bred in a book ; he hath not eat paper, as it were ; he hath not drunk ink. SHAKESPEARE, “ LOVE’S LABOUR LOST,” IV, ii r«# CHRISTMAS Lo ! now is come our joyful'st feast ! Let every man be jolly. Each room with ivy leaves is drest, And every post with holly. Now all our neighbours' chimneys smoke And Christmas blocks are burning, Their ovens they with bak'd meats choke And all their spits are turning. WITHER, 4c CHRISTMAS CAROL”Know'st thou the land where the lemon trees bloom, Where the gold orange glows in the deep thicket's gloom, Where a wind ever soft from the blue heaven blows, A nd the groves are of laurel and myrtle and rose ? GOETHECHAUD-FROIDS AND OTHER 161 COLD DISHES CHICKEN IN ASPIC EXCELLENT FOR A PICNIC, OR MOTOR LUNCH T)OIL gently in some light stock a nice white -L* Surrey fowl with one carrot, one onion and a bouquet. Let it simmer until tender. Remove, and allow it to get cold. Cut into neat joints, and place in a terrine. Make a nice clear jelly with chicken stock, removing all fat. Pass through the mincer two pounds of lean topside of beef ; mix this with the chicken stock, also a tablespoonful of chopped celery, carrot, leek and parsley, sufficient to flavour. Mix, and stir over the fire until it boils, then strain through a fine soup-cloth. This should be very clear, and a good jelly when cold. Pour gently over the chicken until the dish is full. Some fresh heads of lettuce wrapped in oiled paper should be served with this dish for a picnic lunch. aTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 162 COTELETTES DE VOLAILLE A LA GELEE POACH a good fowl, keeping the breasts very white ; let it get cold. Cut some fillets, not too thick, from the breasts, having them all one size. With the trimmings make a smooth, creamy puree. Line some cutlet-shaped moulds with aspic jelly, place in them a little of the puree, then the fillets of chicken, then a little more of the puree to cover the fillets. When set, add enough aspic to encase the mould. When this is set, unmould and dress on a border of aspic jelly. In the centre place a good salad of young vegetables, mixed with a creamy Mayonnaise sauce, and place round a little cut aspic jelly. A good horseradish sauce should be served in a boat with this dish. CREME DE VOLAILLE A L’ECARLATE rilAKE half a pound of cooked chicken or rabbit, -■*- freed from bone and skin, a quarter of a pound of cooked tongue, half a gill of good Veloute sauce, one and a half gills of good aspic, one gill of thick cream, one large ripe tomato, a little tarragon and163 COLD DISHES chervil, half an ounce of butter, and seasoning of pepper, salt and cayenne. Mince the chicken and tongue, and pound in a mortar until smooth ; add the Velout6 sauce, which has been previously mixed with the half-gill of aspic. Season to taste and rub through a sieve. Cut the tomatoes into slices and saute in a little butter over a quick lire. Rub through fine sieve, and mix with the gill of aspic. Line six to eight moulds (oval shape preferred) with this, and mask the moulds with the Chaud-froid sauce three- quarters of an inch deep. Whip the cream and mix with the chicken puree before it is completely set, and a little chopped tarragon and chervil. Fill up the moulds with this. Place on ice until set; unmould and serve with a garnish of peas, asparagus heads or any other small salad. % POULARDE STRASBOURG rilRUSS and poach a poularde or Surrey fowl A- until it is just cooked ; leave it in the stock until it is quite cold ; then cut the breast clean away from the carcase; cover the carcase with a good Chaud-froid sauce and fill it with a foie gras mixture, made as follows :— Take one nice foie gras (natural); pass through a hair sieve ; mix on ice with whipped cream andTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 164 whipped aspic, enough to make a light but rather firm souffle, otherwise it will not stand firm ; pile the foie gras high and smooth on the carcase and mask all over with clear aspic jelly; keep in a very cold place until wanted. Cut the fillets from the breast into nice cutlets and Chaud-froid over with the remainder of the sauce. Lay them neatly on the dish round the poularde and garnish with aspic jelly. WHITE CHAUD-FROID SAUCE T>OIL one pint of veloute in a stewpan and add three-quarters of a pint of melted white poultry jelly. Put the stewpan on an open fire. Reduce the sauce by a third, stirring constantly the while, and gradually add half a pint of very fresh cream. When the sauce has reached the desired degree of consistency, rub it through a tammy and stir it frequently while it cools, for fear of a skin forming on its surface, for if this happened it would have to be strained again. When dishing up, this sauce should be cold, so that it may properly coat immersed solids and yet be liquid enough to admit of the latter being easily steeped in it.20 SAVOURIESAPPETITE His thirst he slakes at some pure neighbouring brook, Nor seeks for sauce where appetite stands cook. CHURCHILL, “ GOTHAM,” iii Why, she would hang on him, As if increase of appetite had grown By what it fed on. SHAKESPEARE, “HAMLET,” I, ii 1 “ Appetite comes with eating,” says Angeston. RABELAIS 1 Epicurean cooks Sharpen with cloyless sauce his appetite. SHAKESPEARE 1 Truth that peeps over the glass's edge when Dinner is done. r. browning After meat comes mustard ; or like money to a starving man at sea, when there are no victuals to be bought with it. Cervantes There St. John mingles with my friendly bowl, The feast of reason and the flow of soul.A man once asked Diogenes what was the proper time for supper; and he made answer, “ If you are a rich man, whenever you please ; and if you are a poor man, whenever you can” When asked what wine he liked to drink, he replied, 64 That which belongs to another” % HOSPITALITY I charge thee, invite them all: let in the tide Of knaves once more ; my cook and I'll provide. SHAKESPEARE, “ TIMON OF ATHENS,” III, iv My master is of churlish disposition, And little recks to find the way to Heaven By doing deeds of hospitality. SHAKESPEARE, “ AS YOU LIKE IT,” II, iv As much valour is to be found in feasting as in fighting, and some of our city captains and carpet knights will make this good and prove it. Every house was an inn, where all were welcomed and feasted : All things were held in common, and what one had was another's. longfellowLIVING IN MODERATION I meddle with no man's business but my own ; I rise in a morning early, study moderately : eat and drink cheerfully, live soberly, take my innocent pleasures freely. OTWAY20 SAVOURIES 185 N CHEESE SAVOURY TRIM off the crust from two slices cut off a stale tin loaf. Cut each slice into four squares and fry in good beef dripping a light brown. Strew these very thickly with grated cheese (Parmesan and Gruy&re mixed). Sprinkle with salt and a little black pepper. Place in a hot oven until slightly brown, and serve. it GRUYERE FRITTERS WITH KRONA PEPPER TTALF a pound of firm, fresh Gruy&re cheese, free from rind, panurette (grated rusks), one teaspoonful of Krona pepper, seasoning, one egg, frying fat or clarified butter and half a gill of white sauce. Cut the cheese into oval or round slices about half an inch thick. These must be cut of even size. Coat each on both sides with a layer of cold white sauce, and place on a wire tray to set. MixTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 186 a plateful of panurette breadcrumbs with the Krona pepper. Dip each cheese slice in beaten egg and roll in the crumbs. Place them in a wire frying basket and plunge into very hot fat; fry till nicely coloured (it will take about four minutes). Drain ; dish up on a folded napkin or lace-paper, and serve quickly. CUT some pieces of toast into rounds and cover with a thick coating of the following prepara- tion :— Four ounces of fresh butter softened, two ounces of grated Gruyere cheese and two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, a dessertspoonful of cream and a little salt and cayenne. Lay on top some tiny pieces of butter and pass for a moment in the oven or under a salamander. QUARTER of a pound of Cheddar cheese, one ounce of butter, a wineglassful of ale, some celery-salt, Nepaul pepper, two eggs, one tablespoonful of cream, half a teaspoonful of lemon juice, half a teaspoonful of Worcester CHEESE TOAST CHASSEUR CHEESESAVOURIES 187 sauce, and a large slice of toasted, and plentifully buttered, bread. Mince the cheese and put it into a small stew- pan with the butter, ale, a saltspoonful of celery- salt and half a saltspoonful of Nepaul pepper. Beat up the eggs Avith the cream and stir into the stewpan. Mix thoroughly and whisk the mixture over the fire until creamy and partly set. Flavour with lemon juice and Worcester sauce. Pour this upon the hot buttered toast; cut into four pieces ; garnish with sprigs of parsley, and send quickly to table. % SAVOURY CHEESE SLICE six ounces of cheese in a stewpan with half a cupful of cream and a small piece of butter. Stand this on the side of the stove until it dissolves ; then stir in the yolk of an egg and whisk it all together until it has the appearance of custard. Serve very hot on squares of toast. % PETITS ROYALES AU PARMESAN rriAKE two whole eggs and the yolks of three more. Beat well and add to them half a pint of boiling consomme and two tablespoonfulsTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 188 of thick cream ; season with pepper and salt and a little chervil. Mix, and strain through muslin. Butter some small round moulds and fill with the mixture, and poach in a covered stewpan, taking care that they do not boil. When firm, let them remain in the moulds until cold, then turn them out. Butter a silver or earthenware dish, and place in it the small royales, cover them with thick cream and sprinkle thickly some grated Parmesan and Gruy&re cheese, mixed. Place in a hot oven to brown. Do not allow them to boil, only to get very hot. Serve with them some cress or cucumber sand- wiches. 1 FONDANTS A LA CHESTER HALF a pound of flour, half a pound of butter, half a pound of grated Parmesan and Gruy^re cheese mixed, a pinch of salt, a little cayenne and a few tablespoonfuls of water. Cut the paste into small rounds two inches in diameter ; gild them with beaten egg and bake in a moderate oven. Prepare the following cream :— Mix the yolks of six eggs with two-thirds of a pint of fresh cream ; season with salt and cayenne ; allow to set on a moderate fire until it is the con- sistency of custard. When the mixture is almostSAVOURIES cold, finish it with five ounces of the best butter and as much grated cheese. Lay the cream thickly between the rounds of pastry; press together, and serve very hot. The quantities above quoted are for a large party. 1 CHEESE STRAWS FT1AKE two ounces of flour, three ounces of Parmesan cheese and two ounces of butter. Rub all together with the yolk of an egg, a little cayenne and salt, and enough water to mix into a smooth paste. Roll out and cut into strips. They can be twisted or left plain. Bake a golden colour, and serve on a napkin, piled up crossways. SCOTCH WOODCOCK FTIOAST some large slices of bread one-third of an inch thick and cover them with a prepara- tion made with butter combined with some anchovy puree and a little very finely chopped capers. Sprinkle with grated Parmesan cheese ; glaze quickly at the salamander; cut into rounds or squares, and serve very hot. I89THE DUDLEY RECIPES 190 SARDINES A LA DIABLE rTlAKE some sardines; skin, bone and dry them ; coat them with mustard and cayenne ; dip in beaten egg and breadcrumbs ; fry in hot fat at the last moment and dish up on small fried croutons the shape of the sardines. SARDINES WITH PARMESAN CHEESE SIX or eight sardines, a quarter of a pound of flour, two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, one egg, one ounce of butter, salt, cayenne or Krona pepper, and frying fat. Sift the flour on to a board ; make a well in the centre of the flour ; put in a pinch of salt, a little grated cheese, the yolk of the egg and a few drops of water. Work this into a stiff, but smooth, paste, which must be well kneaded for at least ten minutes. Place in the cool for half an hour. Cut the tails off six or eight sardines, skin and wipe gently with a damp cloth. Roll out the paste as thinly as possible and cut into oblong pieces ; oil the butter ; dip each sardine in butter and then roll in grated cheese ; place on a piece of paste, and roll up neatly, sealing the ends with white of egg. Drop into hot fat; fry gently aSAVOURIES 191 golden brown ; take up and drain well; sprinkle over with grated cheese, mixed with a pinch of cayenne or Krona pepper. Dish up with a garnish of fried parsley. LITTLE SARDINE ROLLS CAREFULLY remove the skins from the number of sardines required and wrap each neatly in a piece of puff paste, previously spread over with a little anchovy paste. Brush each roll over with yolk of egg; sprinkle with grated Parmesan cheese and place on a baking-sheet. Mark the surface of the paste crossways with the point of a knife, and bake in a sharp oven for ten minutes. Serve hot, or cold, garnished with parsley. 1 D’ARTOIS OF ANCHOVY "V/TAKE some good short d’Artois pastry with- -*-*-*- out sugar. Cut it into strips (same as for sweet d’Artois) about one inch wide, two inches and a half long ; place between two of the strips the following composition :— Two teaspoonfuls of puree of anchovies, mixed with good whipped cream and a little whole pepperTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 192 and cayenne. These d’Artois can be served either hot or cold—as a savoury or for tea. DEVILLED TOAST a round of bread from a good tin loaf ^ about a quarter of an inch thick ; toast a nice brown; butter plentifully on both sides, and put for a minute into the oven. Then sprinkle with black pepper, a very little salt, and a very little cayenne. Cut into finger-lengths, and dish up very hot. Serve with grated Parmesan cheese. SMOKED HADDOCK ON TOAST FT1AKE a good white smoked haddock and mince it, not too finely. Mix with it a little good creamy Bechamel sauce, the yolk of an egg, a little grated Parmesan cheese and season with a little cayenne pepper. Spread on buttered toast and cook in the oven. Serve very hot.SAVOURIES 193 CROUTES OF SMOKED HADDOCK HALF a dried haddock, half a pint of milk, two eggs, one shallot, one teaspoonful of chopped parsley, one ounce of butter, a little brown bread and some seasoning. Scald the fish ; remove the skin and bones ; break up the flesh into small pieces and put it in a saute pan with the milk. Cook until tender ; take up the fish ; drain and shred it as finely as possible. Melt the butter in a stewpan ; put in the shallot, peeled and finely chopped, also the parsley; mix a little but do not allow it to brown ; then add the fish and stir over a gentle fire. Beat up the eggs ; add about two tablespoonfuls of the milk in which the fish was cooked ; season with a pinch of pepper and a pinch of nutmeg, and stir this into the pan containing the fish. When it begins to set, remove it from the fire. Have ready some neatly cut croutes of fried brown (or white) bread ; dress the mixture upon these, well heaped up ; garnish with parsley, and serve. This dish is good either for breakfast or lunch, or as an after-dinner savoury.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 194 SAVOURY CUSTARD (LIQUID) ONE whole egg, the yolks of two eggs, half a pint of clear consomme, two tablespoonfuls of cream, a little chives, parsley and tarragon, pepper and salt. Put the soup into a stewpan with the chives, parsley and tarragon, and allow it to simmer for a few minutes. Beat up the eggs and strain the soup into the eggs. Return to saucepan, place on fire and allow the custard to thicken. Remove to cool place, add the cream and serve in glass cups when cold. Some cress sandwiches should be served with the custard. CANAPES AUX CHAMPIGNONS TAKE some rounds of bread fried in butter and prepare a very good puree of mushrooms ; heap this upon the croutons, and serve. BEIGNETS OF MACARONI ID OIL half a pound of small macaroni or spaghetti until quite tender in slightly salted water, then cut it up very small, drain and allow it toSAVOURIES 195 cool. Mix with it one ounce of grated cheese and a little rich white creamy sauce ; heat up and stir well. Then add the yolks of two eggs and spread on a dish or plate. When cold, make into round cakes, dip into light frying batter and fry in hot fat. When well drained, dish up and sprinkle with grated Parmesan cheese. A little chopped ham or smoked tongue can be added to the mixture, if liked. MADRAS FRITTERS TT'OUR slices of brown bread, three table- spoonfuls of chutney, one ounce of butter, four slices of cooked ham, frying batter, frying fat and parsley. Stamp out the bread into rounds by means of a plain paste cutter one and a half inches in diameter. Spread each round with butter, and covered the butter sides with a layer of chutney. Place on this a round of ham, the same size as the bread, and press together lightly. Dip each slice into frying batter, then fry a golden colour in hot frying fat. Drain well and dish up with garnish of fried parsley.VEGETABLES AND SALADS 197SALAD MIXTURE IN VERSE Two large potatoes, passed through kitchen sieve, Unwonted softness to the salad give. Of mordant mustard add a single spoon Distrust the condiment that bites so soon, But deem it not, thou Man of Herbs, a fault To add a double quantity of salt ; Three times the spoon with oil of Lucca crown. And once with vinegar procured from town. True flavour needs it, and your poet begs The pounded yellow of two well-boiled eggs. Let onion atoms lurk within the bowl. And scarce suspected animate the whole : And lastly on the flavoured compound toss A magic teaspoon of A nchovy sauce. Then though green turtle fail, though venison's tough, And ham and turkey be not boiled enough. Serenely full the epicure may say, “ Fate cannot harm me—I have dined to-day." % 'Tis not her coldness, father, That chills my labouring breast ; It's that confounded cucumber I've ate, and can't digest. thos. ingoldsby r* Our Garrick's a salad ; for in him, we see Oil, vinegar, sugar and saltness agree ! GOLDSMITHIf the man who turnips cries Cry not when his father dies, ’Tis a proof that he had rather Have a turnip than his father. Johnson Salad and eggs and lighter fare, Tune the Italian spark's guitar ; And if I take Dan Congreve right. Pudding and beef make Britons fight. MATTHEW PRIOR % Better is a dinner of herbs where love is, than a stalled ox and hatred therewith. Better is a dry morsel and righteousness there- with, than a house full of feasting with strife. % PROVERBS All human history attests That happiness for man—the hungry sinner !—• Since Eve ate apples, must depend on dinner. BYRON, “ DON JUAN,” 11, xcix Papa, potatoes, poultry, prunes and prism. All very good words for the lips—especially prunes and prism." DICKENS, 66 LITTLE DORRIT ” To say you are welcome were superfluous. SHAKESPEARE200 HOSPITALITY Bless'cl be that spot, where clieerjul guests retire, To pause from toil, and trim their evening fire ; Bless'd that abode where want and pain repair, And every stranger finds a ready chair. Bless'd be those feasts with simple plenty crown'd, Where all the ruddy family around Laugh at the jests or pranks that never fail, Or sigh with pity at some mournf ul tale : Or press the bashful stranger to his food, A nd learn the luxury of doing good. GOLDSMITH, “ THE TRAVELLER,” line 13VEGETABLES AND SALADS 201 NEW POTATOES A LA CREME COOK some large new potatoes in salted water ; then peel them and cut them into rather thick roundels ; place them in a saute pan and moisten them—sufficient to cover them—with boiling cream. Season with salt and pepper and a tiny grate of nutmeg and reduce the cream. At the last moment finish with some raw, fresh cream and serve very hot. % POMMES DE TERRE SOUFFLEES FT1RIM the potatoes square and carefully cut them into slices one-eighth of an inch thick ; wash them in cold water and thoroughly dry them; then put them into moderately hot fat. As soon as the potatoes are in it, gradually heat the fat until they are cooked, which they will be known to be when they rise to the surface of the frying fat. Drain them in the frying basket and at once plunge them into fresh and hotter fat.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 202 This final immersion effects the puffing, which results from the sudden contact with intense heat. Leave the potatoes to dry; drain them on a stretched piece of linen ; dust over them a little salt, and serve very hot. % POMMES DE TERRE ANNA CUT the potatoes into the shape of cylinders ; slice them into thin roundels ; wash them and dry them in a piece of linen. Set these roundels in circles on the bottom of the mould made for this potato preparation, or into a well- buttered, thick-bottomed saute pan; let them overlap one another and let the lay of each circle be reversed. Season with salt and pepper ; spread a coat of butter upon the first layer and proceed in the same way with the second layer. Make five or six layers in this way, seasoning and spreading butter over each. Cook in a good oven for thirty minutes ; turn the whole over very carefully to equalise the colouring. Turn out upon a saucepan lid to drain away the butter, and then tilt the whole upon a dish in the form of a cake, and serve very hot. %VEGETABLES AND SALADS 203 A SAVOURY DISH OF POTATOES T30IL some potatoes in their skins with a little salt. When done, take out, peel and cut into pieces about the size of a thimble, or a little larger. Put a piece of butter into a frying-pan, and, when melted, add the potatoes, with a little pepper and salt and finely chopped parsley. Serve very hot. ANOTHER WAY TO COOK POTATOES TAKE, say, ten large potatoes, wash, peel and cut into three pieces each potato. Melt a piece of butter, dripping or lard in a saucepan. Add to this a small spoonful of flour, and let it brown. Add two tumblers of water, a little salt, pepper and a small bunch of parsley, thyme and bay leaf. Then put in the potatoes and cook for about an hour. POTATO CHIPS WASH and peel thinly as many even-sized potatoes as may be required, and cut them into very thin slices crossways. Drain them in a ploth, Put them in a frying basket and plungeTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 204 into boiling hot fat. When they are almost cooked, remove them from the fat for about three minutes, to allow the fat to get hot again. Then plunge in a second time for a few minutes longer to acquire a nice golden brown. Take up ; shake well and sprinkle with fine salt. Dish up, and send to table at once. POMMES DE TERRE A LA PAYSANNE T7UGHT cold potatoes (boiled), half a pint of Bechamel sauce, half a gill of cream, two ounces of butter, one teaspoonful of chopped parsley, half a teaspoonful of chopped chives, salt, pepper and grated nutmeg. Cut the potatoes into squares ; put them in a small stewpan, with a little water, on the fire ; when hot, strain off the water; season with salt, pepper and a pinch of grated nutmeg ; put in the sauce and cream ; let simmer gently for about ten minutes. Melt the butter in a frying-pan ; add the parsley and chives ; fry a little and mingle gently with the potatoes. Pile up on a hot dish and serve. The reason why cold boiled potatoes are recom- mended for this dish is because fresh hot-boiled potatoes are apt to go to pieces and get pulpy during the process of this preparation.VEGETABLES AND SALADS o 205 A FRENCH WAY OF BAKING POTATOES T7HGHT to ten potatoes (large), three ounces of butter, four ounces of Gruyere cheese, salt, paprika pepper and panurette. Wash and peel the potatoes ; cut each in half lengthwise and slice thinly crosswise ; cut the Gruy&re cheese into thin slices. Butter a border- mould ; sprinkle the inside with panurette. Melt the remainder of the butter in a stewpan ; fill the mould with alternate layers of slices of potatoes and slices of cheese; season each section with a pinch of salt and a pinch of paprika pepper and pour over each layer a little melted butter. Bake in a moderate oven for about thirty minutes. Unmould into a hot dish, and serve hot. % NEW POTATOES WITH BUTTER IDEEL or scrape twelve to eighteen new round or kidney potatoes (small and even size). Melt two ounces of butter in a saute pan ; when clarified, add the potatoes ; cook over a moderate fire or in the oven ; they will take about twenty minutes, and should be of a rich golden colour when done. Season with salt; sprinkle with a little freshly chopped parsley ; dish up, and serve.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 206 STUFFED POTATOES O ELECT twelve small but even-sized mealy ^ potatoes ; wash and peel them thinly ; cut off the ends of each a little ; scoop out the centre of each by means of a column-cutter ; fry in hot fat a golden colour. Put in a small stewpan one ounce of butter ; when quite hot, add a small boiled Spanish onion finely chopped, a handful of grated Parmesan cheese, the yolks of two eggs and a tablespoonful of breadcrumbs ; season and fill the potatoes and bake them for a few minutes in a hot oven. % CROQUETTES OF POTATOES 71/TAKE a potato puree, seasoned and mixed -C’-L with yolks of eggs ; shape into balls, corks or croquettes ; egg, crumb and fry in clarified butter, lard or dripping. % CROQUETTES OF POTATOES A LA ROUENNAISE TDREPARE some mashed potatoes as for cro- quettes, made into the shape and size of small eggs or olives ; dip in frying batter; fry in hotVEGETABLES AND SALADS 207 fat; drain ; sprinkle with salt and serve on a folded napkin. POTATOES BORDELAISE TDEEL some potatoes; slice thinly and fry •*- lightly in deep fat; then drain, season and finish in a saute pan, containing enough oiled butter and finely chopped fried onions to toss the potatoes. 1 MASHED POTATOES GRATIN HVTASH some potatoes mixed with finely chopped and blanched shallots, parsley and grated cheese ; season with pepper, salt and nutmeg. Dress in the form of a pyramid in a deep dish; sprinkle the surface with breadcrumbs, grated cheese and a few bits of butter. Bake till brown in a hot oven. ■S POTATOES A LA BRETONNE T)EEL some cold boiled potatoes ; cut into squares or large dice ; fry slightly in butter mixed with finely chopped fried onions and chopped parsley. Add enough brown sauce to moisten at the last.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 208 POTATOES AU GRATIN eight cold boiled potatoes into small squares ; put them in a saucepan containing half a gill of cream and a quarter of an ounce of butter, previously warmed ; add salt and pepper and one tablespoonful of grated cheese ; heat up. % FRENCH SAUTE POTATOES /CHOOSE eight medium-sized cold boiled ^ potatoes; cut them into slices about a quarter of an inch thick. Put about one and a half ounces of butter in a saute pan ; when hot, put in the slices of potatoes ; season with pepper and salt and toss over a bright fire until of a golden colour. Dish up ; sprinkle with a little chopped parsley, and serve. CURLED OR RIBBON POTATOES /^UT out of large kidney potatoes with a special cutter pieces in the shape of curls or small ribbons and fry in clarified butter. Season with salt; dish up, and serve. These make a capital garnish for entrees, etc.VEGETABLES AND SALADS 209 POTATO PUREE AU GRATIN PREPARE a potato puree with cream ; season ; dress on a well-buttered gratin dish covered with breadcrumbs and grated Parmesan cheese and a few small pieces of fresh butter. Bake in a very hot oven. SOUFFLE OF CARROTS XXALF a pint of puree of young carrots, one ounce of butter, one ounce of flour, three eggs, a pinch of castor sugar, salt, pepper, nutmeg and cayenne. To make the carrot puree, boil the red part of young carrots in stock or slightly salted water; rub through a fine sieve when tender. Melt the butter in a stewpan ; add the flour ; stir and cook a little without burning the flour; put in the carrot pur6e and let it come to the boil. Season to taste ; separate the whites of eggs from the yolks ; put the former in an egg-bowl, and work the latter, one at a time, into the hot puree. Whisk the whites of egg to a stiff froth and mix gradually into the puree. Fill some buttered ramequin cases with this mixture, and bake in a moderate oven for about fifteen minutes. Serve hot.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 210 SAUTED CARROTS /^LEAN well some very small young carrots, place them in a saucepan with sufficient water to cover them, a piece of butter the size of a nutmeg and a little sugar. Allow them to cook until done and quite dry, and slightly browned in the butter. Then add a little finely chopped parsley, a drop of lemon juice and a small piece of butter. Toss, and serve very hot. A FRENCH WAY OF COOKING CARROTS CUT some carrots, well cut up, into boiling water writh a little salt and a piece of butter. When sufficiently cooked, strain and add a little flour, milk and water and chopped parsley. Serve hot. ANOTHER WAY OF COOKING CARROTS COOK the carrots in boiling water, with a little salt. Strain and add water, a small piece of butter, the yolk of an egg beaten up, a fewr fineVEGETABLES AND SALADS 211 slices of onion and flour, and, if handy, a cupful of broth. Simmer for a quarter of an hour, and serve hot. SPANISH CARROTS T) RAISE some young carrots and finish in rich port-wine sauce. CARROTS MAlTRE D’HOTEL PARBOIL some new carrots (pared and cut into quarters); drain ; season ; cook in white stock, thickened with Veloute sauce, fresh butter, a little sugar and chopped parsley. Serve with fried-bread croutons placed round the dish. \ HARICOT BEANS BRETONNE f I TAKE one pound of small white haricot beans, and put them to soak overnight. Free them from water, and place in a stewpan with a little bacon cut into dice, one onion, one carrot, a bouquet of parsley, salt and pepper to taste.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 212 Allow to simmer gently, then add a piece of butter and a tablespoonful of good rich brown sauce. Place beans on dish, strain sauce through sieve, pour over, and serve. A very little tomato can be added, if wished. % BUTTER BEANS /~\NE pint of butter beans, two ounces of butter, the yolks of five eggs, one gill of rich stock, one tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar, a few drops of lemon juice and seasoning. Soak the beans in water overnight, or longer. Simmer gently in slightly salted water for three hours. Strain the beans and keep them hot. Melt the butter in a stewpan ; allow it to cool a little ; then add the yolks of eggs and the vinegar, lemon juice and stock. Stir these ingredients briskly over the fire until thickened. Reheat the butter beans in this ; season to taste. Dish up on a hot vegetable dish, and serve. % A GOOD WAY OF COOKING FRENCH BEANS mRIM some young French beans, and leave them in their full length without cutting them. Put them into boiling water with a little salt and sodaVEGETABLES AND SALADS 213 and boil until tender. Then strain and place in a saut6 pan with a pat of butter and some seasoning, and serve. % FRIED ONIONS TO SERVE WITH BEEFSTEAK OR MUTTON CUTLETS SLICE the onions finely, flour them and fry in good dripping or clear fat a nice brown colour, and crisp. % CELERY SOUFFLES TTALF a pound of the white part of celery, one and a half gills of milk, half a bay leaf, a small blade of mace, one slice of onion, one ounce of butter, one ounce of flour, pepper, celery-salt, three eggs and one ounce of grated Parmesan cheese. Trim and wash the celery; cut it into slices ; blanch in salted water and drain. Put the milk, celery, bay leaf, mace and onion in a stewpan and boil till tender; remove the mace and bay leaf, and pass the celery through a fine sieve. Put a gill of water and the butter in a stewpan ; add a pinch of celery-salt and stir in the flour as soon as the water boils ; work vigorously with a woodenTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 214 spoon for several minutes over the fire ; put in the celery puree and let cool a little. Add the grated cheese. Stir in the yolks of two eggs and one whole egg; this must be done gradually. Whisk the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth and mingle with the mixture and season with a little cayenne or Nepaul pepper. Three parts fill some paper or china ramequin or souffle cases. Bake in a hot oven for about ten minutes ; arrange the cases on a dish with folded napkin, and serve immediately. SOUFFLE OF GREEN PEAS /^lOOK one quart of green peas with a handful ^ of spinach to give a very green colour. Rub through a fine sieve. Work in with the puree half an ounce of fresh butter, the yolks of three eggs and two tablespoonfuls of Bechamel sauce. Work well over the stove, season and remove. When cool, add the well-beaten whites of two eggs ; mix lightly and place in a well-buttered mould, with a band of paper bound round to support it. Steam gently until cooked—this will take about thirty minutes, according to the size of the mould. Tomato souffle can be made the same way, only baked in the oven instead of being steamed.VEGETABLES AND SALADS 215 SOUFFLE OF ASPARAGUS TAKE about thirty good heads of fresh green asparagus, wash and pick the green tender part only. Boil until tender in water to which a little salt has been added; drain well, and when cold pass through a fine wire sieve, and place on one side. Put into a saucepan a small pat of butter, and when melted, work in a large teaspoonful of flour ; when smooth, add a little milk sufficient to make a creamy sauce and boil. Mix well with this the puree of asparagus, stirring it over the fire. Season with pepper and salt, then place the mixture in a basin to cool. Whisk one gill of cream lightly until rather stiff, the whites of two eggs very stiff. Mix this in very lightly with the puree mixture, place in a souffle case and freeze for two hours. Place some green asparagus cut into lengths of about three inches on the top in small bunches, and serve. BAKED VEGETABLE MARROW inn WO small vegetable marrows, six preserved mushrooms, two ounces of cooked ham, four chicken livers, one shallot, one ounce of butter,THE DUDLEY RECIPES 216 half a gill of brown sauce, breadcrumbs, pepper and salt. Peel the marrows ; cut them in halves length- wise and cook in salted water until tender ; take up, drain and scoop out the seedy portions. Cut the livers into thin slices ; chop the shallots and fry in the butter a golden colour; add the livers and toss over the fire for a few minutes ; then add the mushrooms chopped finely and the ham; season to taste and moisten with a little sauce. Fill the cavities of the marrows with this ; pour a little sauce over each and place them on a buttered saute pan. Sprinkle with breadcrumbs ; add a few tiny bits of butter here and there and bake in a sharp oven for about ten minutes. Dish up carefully, and serve very hot. Great care must be taken not to overcook the marrows in the first instance, else they will break in dishing up. VEGETABLE MARROW AU GRATIN "DLACE some nicely boiled and well-drained slices of vegetable marrow in a buttered dish ; season with salt and pepper and cover com- pletely with a well-reduced white sauce (cold); sprinkle with a mixture of breadcrumbs and grated cheese ; place a few tiny bits of butter here andVEGETABLES AND SALADS 217 there on top, and bake in a hot oven to brown the surface. 1 JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES (FRIED) PEEL six Jerusalem artichokes, wash and cut into strips about a quarter of an inch in thick- ness, wash again after cutting, dry, and toss them in flour ; free them from flour by placing them in a wire basket. Fry in hot fat until they become a golden colour; shake free of fat, sprinkle over a little salt, and serve at once. % MOUSSE OF TOMATOES TAKE half a pound of tomato pulp (cleared of skin and seeds and roughly chopped) and cook it in one ounce of butter; add thereto two tablespoonfuls of Veloute sauce, thickened by means of eightJe.ay.gs pf gelatine per quart of the sauce ; rub through a tammy and add to the preparation, when almost cold, half of its volume of barely whipped cream. Taste the mousse; season with a few drops of lemon juice and the necessary salt and a very little cayenne. Cream for all mousses should be only half whipped. Well-whipped cream gives them a dryTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 218 and woolly taste, whereas when it is only half whipped, it renders them unctuous and fresh to the palate. BAKED TOMATOES T flAKE some large firm tomatoes ; cut them in half, but without detaching them entirely ; remove the seeds and put a small piece of butter and seasoning in the centre of each ; close up ; cover with buttered paper and bake for about twenty minutes. GRILLED TOMATOES rilAKE some large tomatoes ; slice them and broil them in hot butter ; season with pepper, salt, a dust of nutmeg, lemon juice and chopped parsley. Serve hot. 1 TOMATOES WITH MUSHROOMS "IT'IGHT medium-sized ripe but firm tomatoes, ten to twelve preserved mushrooms, or six large fresh cup mushrooms, two ounces of butter, two small shallots, two tablespoonfuls of white breadcrumbs, half a teaspoonful of choppedVEGETABLES AND SALADS 219 parsley, two tablespoonfuls of rich half-glaze or Madeira sauce, eight rounds of fried bread (crou- tons) and seasoning. Remove the stalks from the tomatoes ; wipe them with a cloth. Scoop out carefully the pips and a portion of the pulp, taking great care not to break the sides of the tomatoes. Chop the mush- rooms finely ; when fresh ones are used, wash and dry them first. Peel and chop the shallots ; fry them a golden colour in an ounce of butter ; then add the chopped mushrooms, breadcrumbs and parsley. Mix well and moisten with the sauce ; beat up ; season with pepper, salt and a pinch of cayenne. Fill up the cavities of the tomatoes with this ; put a tiny piece of butter on top of the stuffing of each tomato. Range them in a well- buttered saute pan and cook in a sharp oven for about ten minutes. Dress them on the prepared bread croutons, which must be cut to the size of the tomatoes. Dish up and garnish with a few sprigs of fresh parsley or watercress. Serve hot. CUCUMBER FRITTERS TDEEL thinly a medium-sized cucumber ; cut into slices a quarter of an inch thick ; remove the centre portion by means of a column-cutter. Blanch the slices in slightly salted water for tenTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 220 minutes and drain on a sieve. Place them on a saute pan or flat dish and fill the centre with some liver forcemeat or salpicon of ham. This is best done by the use of a large forcing-bag with a plain tube attached. Prepare a nice light frying batter and let it stand till wanted. Dip each cucumber cube into the frying batter ; see that it is com- pletely coated with batter, then fry in hot fat a golden colour. Drain carefully; sprinkle with fine salt and a little cayenne or paprika pepper ; dish up neatly, and serve hot. % CUCUMBER WITH CREAM SAUCE TWO cucumbers, one ounce of butter, half a gill of cream, one teaspoonful of castor sugar salt, pepper, nutmeg and chopped parsley. Peel the cucumber as thinly as possible ; split each in two, lengthways, and remove the seeds ; then cut the pieces into cubes of even size. Cook them in salted water for fifteen minutes ; take up and drain on a sieve. Put the cooked cucumber in a saute pan with the butter ; season with salt, pepper and nutmeg ; add the sugar and the cream and bring to the boil ; shake the pan well during this process. Dish up ; sprinkle over a little chopped parsley, and serve hot.VEGETABLES AND SALADS 221 p RED CABBAGE WITH BACON ONE red cabbage, two small onions stuck with a clove, two small apples, peeled and cored, four slices of streaky bacon, two ounces of butter, one glass of claret, one dessertspoonful of flour, one pint of stock and seasoning. Trim and wash the cabbage ; cut it into fine shreds, the same as is done for pickling; cut the apples into slices ; cut the bacon into small pieces. Melt the butter in a stewpan ; put in the bacon and fry a little ; then add the cabbage, apples and onions ; stir well ; sprinkle in a dessert- spoonful of flour and moisten with the claret and stock. Cook for an hour over the fire; then season with salt and pepper; cover; and place in a hot oven for another hour. When ready for serving, take out the onions. This dish can be served with any kind of roast or braised meat, poultry or game. % BEETROOTS SAUTEES mAKE some clove-shaped pieces of cooked beet- root and toss them in butter. Season ; dish up, and serve with a rich gravy or thin tomato sauce.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 222 BEETROOTS IN OIL fTlAKE some thick slices of cooked beetroot and fry slightly in sweet oil ; flavour with chopped onion also fried slightly, and finish in a red wine sauce. ‘S CAULIFLOWER GRATIN nnHOROUGHLY clean a cauliflower and boil it ; drain it free of all water. Place in a frying-pan about one ounce of butter and a large tablespoonful of breadcrumbs. Stir over fire until a light brown colour, add pepper, salt and a squeeze of lemon juice, and pour quickly over the cauliflower, which should be served very hot. SPINACHE A LA CREME PREPARE the spinach by well cleansing in plenty of water, and pick the leaves from the long stems. Cook in boiling water which has been salted. When tender, strain and press in a cloth to free from all water, and pass through a sieve. Place in a stewpan over the fire, and work in one gill of cream and a little meat glaze. Season, and serve.VEGETABLES AND SALADS 223 BRUSSELS SPROUTS COOKED IN BUTTER Boil some Brussels sprouts, keeping them somewhat firm, and drain without cooling them. Put them into a saute pan ; season with salt and pepper; add two ounces of butter cut into small pieces to each pound of Brussels sprouts. Cover, and stew in the oven for a quarter of an hour. ARTICHOKES WITH MARROW HEAT up some artichoke bottoms, the edges of which have been previously cut into flutes ; place a slice of blanched marrow on each ; dish up and pour over a hot half-glaze sauce flavoured with lemon juice and a good pinch of cayenne or paprika pepper. CHAMPIGNONS AU BEURRE WASH and peel some cup mushrooms, broil in fresh butter, and serve on toast.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 224 CHAMPIGNONS GRILLES m a RILL, or broil, some fresh mushrooms butter ; place them on buttered toast and bake in the oven. 9 CHAMPIGNONS AUX FINES HERBES / QAUTE some mushrooms in butter and finish in ^ a rich brown sauce containing finely chopped savoury herbs. CHAMPIGNONS A LA PROVENCALE * lARY some fresh button mushrooms in oil; ■L drain and finish in a rich gravy sauce con- taining chopped shallots, a clove of crushed garlic, chopped parsley and lemon juice; season with cayenne pepper, and serve with croutons arranged round the dish. % STUFFED (EGG-PLANT) AUBERGINE TWO medium-sized egg-plants, two ounces of butter, six mushrooms, two chopped shallots, one ounce of lean bacon, two ounces of bread-VEGETABLES AND SALADS 225 crumbs, one ounce of suet, one teaspoonful of chopped parsley, one ounce of grated Parmesan cheese, one egg, salt, pepper and one gill of half- glaze sauce. Cut the egg-plants lengthwise in twos; remove a portion of the interior to make room for the stuffing. Chop the bacon, mushrooms and suet finely. Put the butter and bacon in a stewpan ; when hot, add the shallots and fry a little; mix in a basin the suet, parsley, breadcrumbs (previ- ously soaked in a little milk), and Parmesan cheese. Season with pepper and salt; add butter and shallots, also the yolk of an egg, or, if necessary, the whole egg. Mix well, then put this stuffing in the egg-plants. Range them in a buttered saute pan ; sprinkle with a mixture of breadcrumbs and grated cheese and bake in a moderate oven for half an hour or more. Dish up, and serve with half- glaze sauce. AUBERGINES PROVENCALES CUT some aubergines into halves ; stuff them with Duxelle or mushroom mixture; flavour with a suspicion of garlic and brown in the oven.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 226 “DUXELLE” FOR STUFFED VEGE- TABLES, TOMATOES, MUSHROOMS, Etc. T)UT six tablespoonfuls of dry Duxelle into a small stewpan and add to it three table- spoonfuls of half-glaze sauce, containing plenty of tomato, crushed garlic, the size of a pea, and two tablespoonfuls of white wine. Set the above to simmer until the required degree of consistency is attained. A tablespoonful of fine fresh breadcrumbs may be added to the Duxelle in order to thicken it.227 IT SALADS A FRENCH WAY OF SERVING LETTUCE riplAKE as many cos lettuces as required and divide in half, lengthways (or into four, if large). Wash them carefully in very cold water, drain, and place on ice in a napkin for about an hour to become crisp. Make a sauce as follows :— A little chopped tarragon and chervil, pepper and salt to taste, one tablespoonful of oil and half the quantity of vinegar. Serve the lettuce laid lengthways on a separate plate for each person, or laid all together in a glass dish. Pour over the above sauce just before serving. r5 SALADE VIVOIS CUT three freshly boiled potatoes into very fine dice ; also one spring onion, two beetroots and two tomatoes. Let all lay together, and season well.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 228 Mix one dessertspoonful of vinegar and one dessertspoonful of salad oil with about a table- spoonful of thick cream (or, a dessertspoonful of Mayonnaise sauce wTith a dessertspoonful of thick cream). Heap the vegetables in the centre of a bowl, and pour the sauce over them, and place round the bowl some clean, crisp lettuce hearts. JAPANESE SALAD /^OOK until tender some small rice, and dry it ^ free. Cook also some young green peas and some small rings of new carrots. Drain all and place together ; add a little tarragon and chervil, finely chopped, and season. Mix with the salad one dessertspoonful of vinegar and two dessert- spoonfuls of salad oil. Place in a cool place until served. SALADE ALEXANDRE PUT some tomatoes, celery, truffles, lettuce and points of asparagus into small pieces, and season with salt and pepper. Mix a little of the best olive salad oil, one teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar and enough chopped chervil to flavour.VEGETABLES AND SALADS 229 Pour this mixture over the salad, and mix well all together. Serve in a bowl. UT into dice any pieces of tongue, ham, cooked potatoes, the white part of celery and white haricot beans which have been cooked tender. Add some chives, which have been very finely chopped ; then one tablespoonful of salad oil and one tablespoonful of French vinegar, well mixed. Stir this into the salad, and place on ice to get very cold. CUT into very thin slices one ripe apple, two cooked potatoes, two bananas, two small tomatoes freed from seed, and a few points of green asparagus, or of thick white French asparagus. Make a salad dressing of one tablespoonful of Mayonnaise sauce, one tablespoonful of cream, a little sugar and salt to taste, one small teaspoonful of Chili vinegar, and one small teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar. Mix this all well together until it becomes a thick white cream. Mix the dressing with the salad, and sprinkle a little finely chopped parsley or chervil over the top. SALADE RUSSE WALDORF SALADTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 230 SPANISH SARDINE SALAD REMOVE the skin and bones from twelve to sixteen sardines ; cut them into short pieces, and mix in a basin with two tablespoonfuls of capers. Season with salt, pepper and vinegar, and mix with some finely shredded lettuces. Arrange this in a salad bowl, and garnish with stoned Spanish olives filled with anchovy butter. 9 COLD TOMATOES AMERICAINE CHOOSE six or eight even-sized, but firm, tomatoes ; hollow out as much as possible of the soft centre portions ; remove the seeds and mix the pulp with an equal quantity of stiff Mayonnaise sauce ; to this add some finely chopped celery and a very little chopped ripe pineapple. Fill the tomatoes with this mixture, and place them in an ice-box for at least two hours. When serving, place each tomato on a fresh lettuce leaf in a glass dish with small lettuce leaves ranged round the tomatoes.VEGETABLES AND SALADS 231 ASPARAGUS ROLLS T)OIL a large bundle of asparagus in just enough water to make it tender. Take six stale rolls, cut a neat top slice off each, and scrape all the crumb part away until they are quite hollow. Then place the rolls in the oven to become crisp, with the tops beside them. Boil half a pint of milk, and add to it two well- beaten eggs ; stir until thick, then add a small spoonful of butter and a little salt and pepper. Chop the asparagus into small pieces and add to the mixture, which must be stirred over the stove until it is very hot, but not allowed to boil. Finally, fill the rolls with the mixture, put on the tops, rub butter over them, and set them in the oven for three minutes. These may be served either hot or cold. COLD ASPARAGUS (MOULDED) /"'ILEAN a small bundle of large green asparagus ; peel the stalks lightly and throw them into cold water. Tie them up into bundles of about twenty-five stalks each, cutting the ends evenly. Have ready a stewpan half filled with water slightly salted, and bring it to the boil. Put in theTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 232 asparagus, and cook until tender. Take them up and drain on a cloth or sieve, and let cool. Prepare a vinaigrette with sweet oil, tarragon vinegar, finely chopped parsley, tarragon leaves and chervil, and incorporate this with aspic jelly. Set the asparagus, when cold, into a suitable flat mould with alternate layers of prepared aspic— the first and last layers should be of aspic. Place the mould on ice for about two hours. Turn out on to a dish with a folded napkin ; garnish with parsley, and serve. OOK the asparagus in water ; place it on a sieve and let it get cold. Dish up and put the dish on ice until wanted. Serve with a vinaigrette sauce, composed of three tablespoonfuls of best olive oil, one tablespoonful of best French tarragon vinegar, one teaspoonful of chilli vinegar, one teaspoonful of finely chopped parsley, chervil and tarragon, one teaspoonful of finely chopped gherkins. Season with salt and pepper; mix well, and use as directed. ASPARAGUS VINAIGRETTEVEGETABLES AND SALADS GLOBE ARTICHOKES VINAIGRETTE BOIL the artichokes until tender. When the leaves come away easily, the artichokes are done. Strain, and allow them to get cold. Make sauce of equal parts of salad oil and vinegar, some salt and pepper and a very little mustard. One artichoke should be allowed for each person. The sauce should be served separately. % COLD CAULIFLOWER VINAIGRETTE TTIHOROUGHLY clean a cauliflower and boil it. Divide into branches, and lay the pieces on a sieve to drain and get cold. Fry some bread- crumbs a golden brown in about an ounce of butter, and set them on one side. Mix in a basin one tablespoonful of vinegar and a little chopped tarragon and chervil; add this to the bread- crumbs, and pour over the cold cauliflower. This should be served in a glass bowl. 1 283THE DUDLEY RECIPES 234 CHERRY SALAD ONE pound of sour cooking cherries (fresh or preserved), one tablespoonful of salad oil, one teaspoonful of lemon juice, a few drops of tarragon vinegar, one tablespoonful of cognac, or half a tablespoonful of Kirschwasser, a few tarragon and chervil leaves chopped finely and a tea- spoonful of castor sugar. If fresh cherries are used, remove the stalks and stones ; crack the latter and take out the kernels ; put them with the cherries in a bowl. Mix the remainder of the ingredients above given in a small basin, and mingle with the cherries. Serve in a small salad dish, or glass side dishes. This makes an excellent accompaniment for roast game or duck. ORANGE SALAD T^OUR oranges, half a lemon, one tablespoonful A- of sweet salad oil, one tablespoonful of brandy, half a teaspoonful of castor sugar, half a teaspoonful of finely chopped tarragon and chervil and a pinch of cayenne. Remove the peel and pith from the oranges ; divide the fruit into the natural divisions, re-VEGETABLES AND SALADS 235 moving at the same time all the skin and pips. Put the fruit in a salad bowl; add a few thin slices of lemon, free from skin and pips; pour over the oil and brandy, and season with sugar and cayenne. Add the chopped herbs. Mix thoroughly but carefully, and pile up neatly on a dish. Keep the dish on ice until required for table. PINEAPPLE SALAD CUT half a peeled ripe pineapple into fine shreds (remove the cores before shredding). Mix this with the white part of a small head of celery, cut into small shreds. Place on ice until wanted. A few minutes before serving, mix it with suffi- cient Mayonnaise sauce to moisten and season the salad. Dress neatly on a deep glass dish ; garnish with slices of lemon, and serve ice cold. CUCUMBER SALAD /CAREFULLY peel the cucumbers ; cut them ^ into two lengthwise ; remove their seeds and slice finely ; place them in a bowl; sprinkle with table salt, and leave them to drain off theirTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 236 moisture for twenty-five minutes. This done, press them in a cloth ; place in a glass bowl and season with pepper, oil and vinegar, and sprinkle over a little finely chopped chervil.17 SAUCESThe sauce to meat is ceremony, Meeting were bare without it. SHAKESPEARE “ MACBETH 1 A good crier of green sauce. % RABELAIS Give us the luxuries of life and we will dispense with its necessaries. % MOTLEY Of herbs and other country messes Which the neat-handed Phyllis dresses. % If ever I ate a good supper at night I dreamed of the Devil, and waked in a fright. THE NEW BATH GUIDE SURFEIT As Surfeit is the father of much fast, So every scope by the immoderate use Turns to restraint. SHAKESPEARESHAKESPEARE A merry heart goes all the day, A sad tires in a mile. The most manifest sign of wisdom is continued cheerfulness. montaigne Cheerfulness, Sirs, is principal ingredient in the composition of health. murphy 5Mid pleasures and palaces though we may roam, Be it ever so humble, there's no place like home. J. HOWARD PAYNE % Never put off till to-morrow what you can do to-day. Never trouble another for what you can do yourself. Never spend your money before you have it. Never buy what you don't want because it is cheap. Pride costs us more than hunger, thirst and cold. We seldom repent of having eaten too little. Nothing is troublesome that we do willingly. How much pain the evils have cost us, that have never happened. Take things always by the smooth handle. When angry, count ten before you speak. JEFFERSON240 VIRTUES OF ECONOMY Economy is the parent of integrity, of liberty and of ease ; and the beauteous sister of temperance, of cheerfulness and health; and profuseness is a cruel and crafty demon, that gradually involves her followers in dependence and debts : that is, fetters them with “ irons that enter into their souls” JOHNSTON17 SAUCES Q 241 BROWN CHAUD-FROID SAUCE PUT one quart of half-glaze into a saute pan with the fifth of a pint of truffle essence. Place the pan on an open fire and reduce its con- tents, whilst making this sauce, absorb one and a half pints of jelly, adding it to the sauce in small quantities at a time. The sauce should be reduced to about one-third, but to be certain, its consistency should be tested by allowing it to cool a little. After the reduction, taste it carefully and rectify the seasoning, if necessary. Mix a little Madeira or port wine with the sauce when it is away from the fire, and strain through a fine hair sieve. Stir the sauce occasionally whilst it is cooking until it is sufficiently liquid, but at the same time it must have sufficient consistency to coat solids evenly with a thin coating of sauce. MORNAY SAUCE FOR CHICKENS T30IL one pint of Bechamel sauce with one quarter of a pint of light white stock. Reduce by a good quarter and add two ounces of GruyereTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 242 cheese and two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese. Place the sauce on the fire again for a few minutes, and ensure the melting of the cheese by stirring with a small whisk. Finish the sauce away from the fire with two ounces of butter added by degrees. When Mornay sauce is required to be served with fish, instead of using the light stock, one quarter of a pint of fish liquor should be substi- tuted. 9 CARDINAL SAUCE ONE pint of Veloute or Bechamel sauce, one ounce of butter, the juice of half a lemon, half an ounce of lobster coral, or an ounce of lobster butter, one dessertspoonful of meat glaze, half a gill of mushroom liquor, salt, pepper and nutmeg. Reduce the sauce with the mushroom liquor ; season with salt, pepper and nutmeg; add the lemon juice and whisk in the butter and lobster coral (or lobster butter), the coral finely chopped ; strain or tammy ; return to the stew- pan and add the meat glaze. Stir until smooth and stand the pan in boiling water (bain-marie) to keep hot until required. 9SAUCES 243 SAUCE SOUBISE STEW in butter two pounds of finely minced onions, scalded for three minutes and well drained. This stewing of the onions in butter increases their flavour. Then add one pint of thickened Bechamel sauce ; season with salt and a teaspoonful of powdered sugar. Cook gently for half an hour; rub through a tammy and complete the sauce with one tablespoonful of cream and two ounces of butter. r$ SOUBISE SAUCE MIXED WITH TOMATO T>REPARE a soubise in accordance with the -*- above recipe and add to it one-third of its volume of very red tomato puree. VELOUTE sauce |NE ounce of flour, one and a half ounces of butter, one pint of veal stock, half a gill of mushroom liquor, half a gill of cream, six pepper- corns, salt, nutmeg, lemon juice and a bouquetTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 244 garni (a bouquet garni consists of a few branches of well-washed parsley, a sprig of thyme, sprig of marjoram, a bay leaf, a sprig of basil, a celery leaf, a small piece of cinnamon stick, a clove of garlic, a small blade of mace and a long pepper pod). Cook the flour and ounce of butter together, f without browning ; stir in the stock and mushroom liquor ; add the bouquet and crushed peppercorns ; boil slowly for twenty minutes, stirring frequently ; skim and pass through a sieve or tammy ; place on side of stove and put a few small pieces of butter on top to prevent forming a skin. Just before using it, add the cream ; stir well and let it get thoroughly hot, without boiling. Season with a pinch of salt, a pinch of nutmeg and about a tea- spoonful of lemon juice. The sauce is now ready for use. It serves as a foundation for most white sauces. % TOMATO SAUCE QUANTITIES REQUIRED FOR TWO QUARTS TWO and a half ounces of salted breast of pork, rather fat, three ounces of carrots cut into cubes, three ounces of onions cut into cubes, one bay leaf, one small sprig of thyme, a clove of garlic, two and a half ounces of flour, one ounce of butter, a quarter of an ounce of salt, half anSAUCES 245 ounce of sugar, a pinch of pepper, five pounds of raw tomatoes (or two quarts mashed) and one quart of white stock. Fry the pork with the butter in a deep, thick- bottomed saucepan. When the pork is nearly melted, add the carrots, onions and aromatics ; cook and stir the vegetables ; then add the flour, which should be allowed to cook until it begins to brown ; then add the tomatoes and white stock. Mix all well, and set to boil on an open fire. Add the seasoning, and a crushed clove of garlic ; cover the saucepan and place in a moderate oven where it may cook for one and a half hours. Then pass the sauce through a tammy, and it should boil whilst being stirred. Finally, pour it into a sauce tureen and butter its surface to prevent the formation of a skin. When the puree of tomato is required to add to another sauce, it should be prepared in exactly the same way, only omitting the flour and using only half the quantity of stock. A RECIPE FOR A BEARNAISE SAUCE TTALF a gill of tarragon vinegar, three shallots finely chopped, six crushed peppercorns, the yolks of four eggs, one tablespoonful of white Veloute or Bechamel sauce, four ounces of butter,THE DUDLEY RECIPES 246 one sprig of thyme, a little meat glaze and lemon juice. Put the shallots, peppercorns and thyme with the vinegar in a stewpan with cover, and boil until well reduced ; remove the thyme and add the white sauce and a little dissolved meat glaze. Whisk in the yolks of the eggs, taking care not to let the sauce boil; remove the stewpan from the fire and work in gradually the butter. Only a little butter must be added at a time, otherwise the sauce will get oily. Strain through a pointed strainer or tammy. A little finely chopped fresh tarragon and chervil and a few drops of lemon juice may be added after the sauce is strained. 9 ESPAGNOL SAUCE ESPAGNOL sauce is the foundation for most other sauces. The ingredients mentioned will produce about half a gallon of Espagnol sauce. A smaller quantity can be prepared by reducing the quantities named in proportion, but it is useful to have this sauce always to hand. Three quarts of rich stock, four ounces of lean veal, one bouquet garni, twelve peppercorns, four ounces of butter, four ounces of sifted flour, four ounces of raw ham or lean bacon, one carrot, one onion, one small turnip, two cloves, half a pint ofSAUCES 247 tomato pulp, one gill of claret, one glass of sherry and some mushrooms, either fresh or preserved. Wash and peel the carrot, turnip and onion, and cut them up small and put in a stewpan with the bouquet, cloves, peppercorns and the veal and ham, both cut into pieces. Add an ounce of butter and stir over the fire until of a nice light brown colour. This forms a true “ mirepoix.” Pour off the fat, and moisten the mirepoix with the stock, claret, sherry, tomato pulp and mushrooms ; boil gently for about an hour; skim occasionally. Meanwhile prepare a brown roux, by melting three ounces of butter in a stewpan, stir in the flour and cook very slowly over a moderate fire, stirring all the while with a wooden spoon, until it acquires a chestnut brown colour. Allow the roux to cool a little ; pour in gradually the prepared stock, etc., and stir over the fire until it boils ; then let simmer slowly for another hour, skim well and pass through a tammy or fine sieve. If found too thick, add a little more stock. To prevent a thick crust forming on the top of the sauce, stir occasionally until quite cool. Keep the sauce in a stone jar, or pan, until wanted, and be sure and boil up the sauce each day if not all used up at one time, adding a. little fresh stock, if necessary.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 248 A BECHAMEL SAUCE ONE and a half ounces of flour, two ounces of butter, one and a half pints of milk, one and a half pints of white meat stock, one onion or shallot, one small bouquet garni, ten peppercorns, half a bay leaf, one small blade of mace and seasoning. Put the milk on to boil with the onion (or shallot), peeled, the bouquet, peppercorns, mace and bay leaf. Melt the butter ; stir in the flour and cook a little, without browning; stir in the milk and the stock, which have both been made hot; whisk this over the fire until it boils and let simmer from fifteen to twenty minutes. Take out the bouquet; rub through a sieve or tammy; return to the stewpan ; season lightly with a pinch of nutmeg, half a pinch of cayenne and half a teaspoonful of salt. The sauce is then ready for use. •% ANOTHER RECIPE FOR BECHAMEL SAUCE HALF a pound of white roux (flour and butter cooked for a few minutes in a thick stewpan by the side of the fire and well stirredSAUCES 249 whilst cooking), two and a quarter quarts of boiling milk, a quarter of a pound of lean veal, a quarter of an ounce of salt, one pinch of mignonette-salt, a pinch of grated nutmeg, a small sprig of thyme and one small minced onion. Pour the boiling milk on the roux, which should be almost cold, and whisk it well so as to avoid lumps ; let it boil; then cook on the side of the fire. Meanwhile the veal should have been cut into small cubes and fried with butter in a saucepan, together with the minced onion. When the veal has stiffened, without becoming coloured, it is added to the Bechamel, together with the salt and other aromatics. Let the sauce stew for about an hour, and then pass through a tammy into a sauce tureen ; butter the top lest a crust should form. % SAUCE MILANAISE TJTALF a pint of Espagnol sauce, four small shallots, eight mushrooms (fresh or bottled), a sprig of thyme, one bay leaf, one tablespoonful of olive oil, half a gill of white stock and one glass of Chablis or Sauterne. Peel the shallots and chop them finely; place them in the corner of a clean cloth and hold them tightly wrapped up under cold water; squeeze out the water and put them into a small stewpanTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 250 with the oil; stir over the fire for a few minutes, to blend, but not to colour. Add the wine, the mushrooms finely chopped, the herbs and the stock. Let it reduce well and add the Espagnol. Boil for ten minutes ; take out the herbs ; free it from oil and keep hot in the bain-marie until required. FISH SAUCE mW0 anchovies, four spoonfuls of white wine, six spoonfuls of gravy, three spoonfuls of vinegar, a little whole pepper, some shredded horse-radish, and a little parsley and thyme. Boil all this together, strain and thicken with flour and butter. GOOD FISH SAUCE TARAW gravy from good lean beef. Take two or three anchovies, some eschalots, horse- radish and a little water, and when pretty-well boiled, strain and add to the drawn gravy. Thicken all this with water, and add a little white wine and a spoonful of sweet cream. %SAUCES 251 SUPREME SAUCE PUT one and a half pints of very clear poultry stock and a quarter of a pint of mushroom cooking liquor into a saute pan. Reduce to two- thirds ; add one pint of poultry veloute; reduce on an open fire, stirring with the spatula the while and work in half a pint of good cream, added little by little. When the sauce has reached the desired con- sistency, strain it through a sieve and add another quarter of a pint of cream and two ounces of best butter. Stir from time to time and keep the pan well covered. IVORY SAUCE f 11AKE the necessary quantity of Supreme sauce ; add to this four tablespoonfuls of dissolved pale meat glaze to each quart of the sauce, in order to make the sauce the ivory white tint, which characterizes it. This sauce is served chiefly with poultry and poached sweetbread.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 252 A GOOD CHASSEUR SAUCE FOR GAME PEEL and mince six medium-sized mushrooms ; heat half an ounce of butter and as much olive oil in a vegetable pan. Put in the mushrooms and fry them quickly until they are slightly browned ; then add a teaspoonful of minced shallots and immediately remove half the butter. Pour half a pint of white wine and one glass of liqueur brandy into the stewpan ; reduce this liquid to one-half and finish the sauce with half a pint of half glaze, a quarter of a pint of tomato sauce and one table- spoonful of meat glaze. Set to boil for five minutes more and finish with a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. v DEVILLED SAUCE PLACE in a vegetable pan two ounces of sliced shallots and the third of a pint of white wine. Reduce to two-thirds ; add half a pint of half-glaze and reduce to two-thirds. Season strongly with cayenne pepper and strain through muslin.SAUCES 253 MADEIRA SAUCE PUT one and a half pints of half-glaze into a saute pan and reduce it over a brisk fire to a stiff consistency. When it reaches this point, re- move it from the fire, and add to it the fifth part of a pint of Madeira wine, which brings it back to its normal consistency. Rub through a tammy, and keep it warm without allowing it to boil. PERIGUEUX SAUCE T3REPARE a Madeira sauce, and add to the half- glaze to be reduced half its volume of very strong veal stock and keep it a little denser than usual. Finish this sauce by adding one-sixth of a pint of truffle essence and three ounces of chopped truffles per quart of Madeira sauce. This is useful for entrees, hot pates, etc. « PROVENCALE SAUCE T)EEL, chop roughly, remove the seeds and press twelve medium-sized tomatoes. Heat in a saute pan the fifth part of a pint of salad oil untilTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 254 it begins to smoke a little. Put into this the tomatoes, well seasoned with pepper and salt; add a crushed clove of garlic, a pinch of powdered sugar, one teaspoonful of chopped parsley, and allow it to melt gently for half an hour, when it is ready for use. COLD MAYONNAISE SAUCE A LA FARQUHAR rpiAKE the yolks of three fresh eggs, free from the whites. Put them in a basin with a pinch of pepper, salt and mustard. Work this gently with a wooden spoon ; then add drop by drop a pint or more of the very best olive oil. Stir this well; then add drop by drop a very small quantity of tarragon vinegar. The sauce should be smooth and very thick. Take two or more tablespoonfuls of the above, according to the quantity of sauce required, and add to it about half a gill or more of whipped cream. Mix lightly, and add to it four or more small onions, cut into halves. Allow them to remain in the sauce for about an hour to flavour it; then remove the onions. Mix the sauce again very lightly, and sprinkle with a pinch of very finely chopped parsley and chervil. This sauce is excellent served with grilled, or Spatchcock chicken or game, or mutton cutlets breadcrumbed and served on a grid.SAUCES 255 A GAME SAUCE IS prepared by the essence of game added to a brown sauce, carefully blended and well reduced with poi’t wine. BEARNAISE SAUCE PLACE in a small stewpaii a teaspoonful of chopped shallots, two ounces of chopped tarragon, three ounces of chervil, a little mignon- ette pepper, a pinch of salt and four tablespoonfuls of vinegar. Reduce the vinegar by two-thirds ; take off the fire ; allow the stewpan to cool a little. Add to this reduction the yolks of five eggs ; then place the stewpan on a low fire and add gradually to the yolks six ounces of melted butter. Whisk the sauce briskly, so as to ensure the cooking of the eggs, which by gradual cooking effects the liaison of the sauce. When the butter is combined with the sauce, rub all through a tammy and finish with a teaspoonful of chervil parings and chopped tarragon leaves ; add the seasoning and a pinch of cayenne. This sauce should not be served very hot. It need only be tepid, for it would turn if overheated. Serve with grilled poultry or butchers’ meat.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 256 SAUCE BORDELAISE PUT into a vegetable pan two ounces of very finely minced shallots, half a pint of good red wine, a pinch of mignonette pepper and bits of thyme and bay leaf. Reduce the wine by three- quarters and add half a pint of half-glaze. Allow the sauce to simmer for half an hour. Skim from time to time and strain through a sieve. When dishing it up, finish with two tablespoonfuls of dissolved meat glaze, a few drops of lemon juice and four ounces of beef marrow, cut into slices and poached in slightly boiling water. This sauce may be buttered to the extent of about three ounces per pint, which makes it smoother, but less clear. It is very good served with grilled meats.A FRUIT PIECE. After the picture by Angelo Campidoglio in the collection of Sir John Murray Scott.257 50 SWEET DISHES AND PUDDINGSThings sweet to taste prove indigestion sour. SHAKESPEARE % It is more pleasing to pluck an apple from the branch which you have seized than to take one up from a graven dish. ovid % September blow soft Till the fruit's in the loft. Cherry ripe, ripe, ripe, I cry. Full and fair ones,—come and buy ! HERRICK Now thrice welcome Christmas which brings us good cheer. Minc'd pies and plum porridge, good ale and strong beer. With pig, goose and capon, the best that may be, So well doth the weather and our stomachs agree. Observe how the chimneys do smoke all about; The cooks are providing for dinner, no doubt: But those on whose tables no victuals appear Oh ! may they keep Lent all the rest of the year ! poor robin’s almanack Let us have a talk in my house and dinner in yours.Returning to town in the stage coach which was filled with Mr. Gilman's guests, we stopped for a minute or two at Kentish Town. A woman asked the coachman, “ Are you full inside ? " Upon which Lamb put his head through the window and said, “ I am quite full inside ; that last piece of pudding at Mr. Gilman's did the business for me." There are men that would make you books, and turn them loose into the world, with as much despatch as they would do a dish of fritters. CERVANTES % MOTHER EVE’S PUDDING If you want a good pudding,, to teach you I'm willing, Take twopennyworth of eggs, when twelve for a shilling, And of the same fruit that Eve had once chosen, Well pared and well chopped at least half a dozen ; Six ounces of bread (let your maid eat the crust) ; The crumbs must be grated as small as the dust; Six ounces of currants from the stones you must sort, Lest they break out your teeth and spoil all your sport; Six ounces of sugar won't make it too sweet, Some salt and some nutmeg will m.ake it complete. Three hours let it boil, without hurry or flutter. And then serve it up—without sugar or butter.260 They surfeited with honey ; and began To loathe the taste of sweetness, whereoj a little More than a little, is by much, too much. SHAKESPEARE, “ HENRY IV,” 1, III,R 261 50 SWEET DISHES AND PUDDINGS CREME BRULEE ONE pint of cream, four yolks of eggs. Beat the yolks in a basin, and having boiled the cream for a very short time, pour it on the eggs. Put it all into a saucepan and allow it to come to the boil, stirring all the time; then pour it into a fireproof dish, and allow it to become cool; then strew a thick crust of castor sugar over it, and brown with a red-hot salamander. Serve cold. EXCELLENT RECIPE FOR BAKED APPLES rpAKE nice large apples, and core them without splitting. Place in a china dish and fill each apple with castor sugar, then put a piece of fresh butter the size of a nutmeg on top of each apple. Cover bottom of dish with warm water, and bake in a medium oven for three-quarters of an hour. Serve with apricot sauce.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 262 APRICOT SAUCE QUARTER of a pound of apricot pulp, a quarter of a pound of castor sugar, half a vanilla stick, fresh butter the size of a nutmeg. Boil for five minutes. Serve the apples in a silver or glass dish ; fill each apple with the apricot sauce, and pour the rest round the dish. Serve very hot. The quantity of sauce quoted is sufficient for two apples. KE some good-sized apples, pare and core ^hem ; rub them over with lemon juice, and stew them in syrup flavoured with Maraschino liqueur. Fill the cavities of the apples with red- currant jelly, and place a glace cherry on the top of each. Serve with the syrup. f 11WO pounds of thick slices of apple (cooked in syrup) with one stick of vanilla. After cook- ing, strain through a hair sieve and let it set. Then APPLES PORTUGAISE BOUILLIE NORMANDESWEETS AND PUDDINGS put into a piedish and add the following mix- ture :— Proportion: One quart of milk, five ounces of sugar, three ounces of flour. Boil two-thirds of milk (one-third cold). Mix all together. Boil five minutes. Pour the mixture over the apple. Then bake in a hot oven from fifteen to twenty minutes. The above is sufficient for six or eight persons. n POUDING MARQUISE TTALF a pound of stewed quarters of apple, one cupful of rice, half a gill of cream, two tablespoonfuls of puree of apricot, thick, a quarter of a pound of ground almonds, one whole egg, and a quarter of a pound of sugar. Cook the rice in a stewpan with half a pint of new milk, keeping the grains whole. Set aside to cool. Whip the cream slightly, and, when the rice is cool, add sufficient to make the rice creamy. Place in a deep silver bowl or pudding dish first a tablespoonful of apricot puree, then layers of the cooked quarters of apple, then a thick layer of the rice cream. Repeat this until the bowl is full, then place a band of paper round the bowl, pound the almonds and sugar in a mortar with one egg to mix. Place this on the top of the pudding, rough- 268THE DUDLEY RECIPES ing it over slightly. Sprinkle some thin strips of almond over this and sugar over with pounded sugar, and bake for three-quarters of an hour. Serve with a puree of apricots in a boat, to which a dessertspoonful of brandy has been added. INE a round pastry flan with rich short paste, and arrange in it some cherries sprinkled with powdered sugar and powdered cinnamon (the cherries should be either bottled cherries stoned and steeped in brandy or stoned brandy cherries). Cover the tarte with an almond cream; then place in the oven, and allow it to cook for twenty- five minutes. When it is done, cover the top smoothly with a layer of red-currant jelly, and ice over with icing flavoured with rum. Allow it to get cold, and serve. This cake is excellent either for lunch or tea. TWO ounces of flour, three of butter, three of castor sugar, the yolk of one egg. Mix with enough water to make a stiff paste, roll out rather 264 TARTE A L’ALLEMANDE AUX CERISES OPEN TART OF FRUITSWEETS AND PUDDINGS 265 thin, and line a pastry ring ; fill in with rice, and bake a good colour. When cooked, turn out the rice, and return the pastry to oven to glaze. Fill in with ripe strawberries or raspberries, and pour over the fruit a thick pur£e made of the fruit flavoured with Kirsch, sweetened to taste, and passed through a fine sieve. Serve with cream. In the case of cherries, they should be previously stoned and stewed until tender, and the pur6e should be mixed with two large spoonfuls of apricot jam and two spoonfuls of the liquor in which the cherries are stewed—all to be passed through a hair sieve. « CERISES MONTE CARLO IT1AKE two pounds of fresh cherries and stone them. Put into a saucepan half a pound of loaf sugar and a wineglassful of water. Set the saucepan on the fire and, when the sugar is melted, add the cherries and let them boil gently for a few minutes. Whilst they are boiling, mix a dessert- spoonful of arrowroot in a little cold water until it is quite smooth ; then add this to the cherries, shaking the saucepan well, and taking care that the sugar and the arrowroot blend completely. Place the mixture in small silver or earthenware cups (which should be first heated) or in a largeTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 266 china or silver souffld dish. At the last moment a liqueur glass of Kirschwasser should be poured over each cupful of cherries (or a large glassful over the bowl). This should be set alight and the dish sent to table flaming. Iced or whipped cream should be served with the cherries in a different dish. ANOTHER RECIPE FOR CERISES MONTE CARLO TAKE a bottle of preserved and stoned cherries, a small jar of red-currant jelly, and three large tablespoonfuls of Kirschwasser. Put into a stew- pan to boil; then turn out into a hot souffle dish, and set alight before sending in to the dining-room. Serve ice or whipped cream in a different dish, and some finger-cakes or little pastries. POUDING FROID AUX CERISES TAKE one quart of new milk, one ounce of castor sugar, the yolks of eight eggs, twelve leaves of French gelatine, one quart of whipped cream and the whites of six eggs whipped stiffly, flavoured with Kirschwasser.SWEETS AND PUDDINGS 267 Put the milk into a pan, and allow it to come to boiling heat. Place the yolks of the eggs and sugar in a basin, and work together. Pour over them the boiling milk, mix well, and return to stewpan. Place this pan in another pan of hot water, and stir until it becomes thick like a custard. Remove, and let it cool; then add the gelatine, which has been soaked and melted in a spoonful of water. When this becomes quite cool, add the whipped cream and, lastly, the whipped whites of egg. Mix lightly, and pour into a deep silver bowl. Place on ice to get very cold. Run over the top a little cherry jelly, and serve some fresh ripe cherries as a compote, flavoured with cherry brandy. COMPOTE OF GRAPES TAKE some nice large firm grapes—black or white—skin and stone. Place them in a dish, and pour over a small cupful of syrup made of sugar and water, boiled, and two tablespoonfuls of brandy or Maraschino, or any other liqueur pre- ferred. This compote is excellent served with sweet jelly —the jelly to be served in glass cups.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 268 ORANGE PUDDING ^V/fTX half a pint of strained orange juice with half a wineglassful of brandy and half a liqueur glassful of rum, the yolks of two eggs and two ounces of sifted sugar. Crumble into this three very stale penny sponge-cakes and the same number of macaroons. Pour the mixture into a buttered and papered mould, and bake in rather a quick oven. Or else, pour into a deep piedish and cover with rich puff paste, and bake and serve writh whipped or Devonshire cream. BANANA FRITTERS OELECT some nice bananas, peel them and split ^ them lengthways, and trim off the ends. Put into a deep piedish, and sprinkle over them a glass of Kirschwasser. Prepare a frying batter, dip the bananas into this, then drop them into very hot clarified butter or lard. Fry them a nice colour, drain on paper or sieve ; dredge with castor sugar, dish up, and serve hot. If liked, a little ground cinnamon can be mixed with the castor powdering sugar.SWEETS AND PUDDINGS 269 COLD BANANA PUDDING rTlHREE large bananas, one glass of brandy (or the rind of one lemon and the juice of half a lemon), one and a half ounces of Brown and Poison’s cornflour, one large pint of milk and one ounce of castor sugar. Peel and slice the bananas, place them in the bottom of a glass dish, sprinkle over some of the sugar, and pour on the brandy (or lemon juice). Blend the cornflour with the milk and boil it for eight minutes, stirring all the time ; then work in the sugar. Allow the mixture to cool, then pour it over the bananas. When set and cold, it is ready for serving. Serve some cream with the pudding in a jug or sauceboat. This same mixture can be set in a mould, and turned out when set, and the sliced bananas served round it. PRUNE SOUFFLE T)EAT the yolks of four eggs to a cream with three ounces of castor sugar, and mix them with half a pound of prunes which have been pre- viously stewed, drained, the stones removed and cut up. Add at the last the stiffly whipped whites of the eggs. Turn into a pudding dish, and bake inTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 270 a moderate oven for twenty minutes. Serve at once. If liked, a few chopped almonds may be added to the mixture. Also whipped cream served in a boat. CHESTNUT AMBER TTALF a pint of milk, two tablespoonfuls of chestnut puree, two eggs, two ounces of breadcrumbs, one ounce of castor sugar, one small lemon, one ounce of butter and a little vanilla flavouring. Boil the milk with the thin rind of half the lemon, and pour it over the breadcrumbs. Remove the lemon rind after a while. Beat the egg-yolks, sugar and butter to a cream, and add it to the chestnut puree. Mix all the ingredients together, add the strained juice of the lemon, and pour into a well- buttered piedish. Bake until firm, and slightly brown in a moderately heated oven ; then cover with a meringue made from the whites of the eggs whisked to a stiff froth and sweetened with sugar. Dredge the top with castor or icing sugar, and return to the oven until the meringue is nicely browned. This dish can be served hot or cold. Some whipped or plain cream can be served in a boat with it.SWEETS AND PUDDINGS 271 WALNUT TARTLETS FOR the Paste :—A quarter of a pound of flour, two ounces and a half of butter, half an ounce of sugar and half an ounce of ground almonds. Sift the flour and sugar on to a pastry board, rub in the butter, and add the almonds. Mix with water to form a paste, and roll it out a quarter of an inch thick. Grease well some oval-shaped or small round moulds, line them with the paste, and fill them with the following mixture :— The yolks of two eggs, one ounce of sugar and one ounce of chopped walnut, well mixed. Bake in a moderate oven, unmould, and, when cold, ice the tops of the tartlets with French Mocha icing and place a quarter of a dried walnut on each tartlet. Be careful when icing not to cover the edges of the pastry. 9 A GOOD RECIPE FOR LEMON CHEESECAKES PUT on to boil one pint and a quarter of new milk, with the juice of one lemon, one wine- glassful of vinegar and two well-beaten eggs. Bring slowly to the boil to form a curd. Strain through muslin. When cold, add to the curd one whole egg, one dessertspoonful of thick cream, a quarter of aTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 272 pound of ground almonds, the rind and juice of one lemon and one dessertspoonful of sugar. Pound well together and pass through sieve. Make your tartlets of light puff pastry, fill with the mixture, and bake. ROD GROD A DANISH FRUIT SWEET PUT one bottle of raspberries (strawberries, red currants or cherries, or any other bottled or fresh fruit) with enough sugar to sweeten, and boil for half an hour. Then strain all the syrup through a muslin ; put on to boil again, and mix with it two tablespoonfuls of rice flour ; let this boil until clear and as thick as cream ; then strain into a silver or china souffle dish, and serve cold with whipped or iced cream. % A FRUIT SALAD IN GLASSES PUT into small tumblers, or goblet glasses, layers of strawberries, thin slices of bananas and stoneless cherries. Pour into each glass a tablespoonful of the following mixture :— Half a gill of syrup, the juice of one lemon, strained, one liqueur glass of Maraschino and oneSWEETS AND PUDDINGS 273 liqueur glass of cognac brandy. Mix the remainder with a gill or more of sweet, clear jelly; divide this into equal parts, and pour over the fruit in the glasses. Keep on ice until required for table. A few fancy gateaux or Genoese fingers should be handed round with this dish. '« A FRUIT SALAD FT1HIS delicious and ever-welcome dish is made by slicing various kinds of fruit, fresh or pre- served, such as peaches, apricots, bananas, pine- apple, oranges, etc. Arrange the fruit in layers in a salad bowl or deep glass dish; sprinkle each layer of fruit with castor sugar and pour over a quarter to half a pint of sherry or Madeira, accord- ing to the quantity of fruit used, also a small quantity of plain syrup. Place the bowl on ice for about two hours. Just before serving, add a small glass of liqueur—such as Kirschwasser, Cura§oa, Benedictine or Chartreuse.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 274 A FRUIT SWEET TNTO a pint of cream whisk well three eggs, six stale sponge cakes, crumbled, six tablespoon- fuls of the syrup of preserved strawberries, three ounces of sifted sugar and three ounces of ground almonds. This should all be well mixed to the consistency of a custard, or a little thicker. Butter a mould and pour in half the mixture, then a layer of preserved strawberries, and fill up with the remaining half of the mixture. Bake in a brisk oven until it becomes a golden yellow. This sweet is equally good hot or cold. COMPER PUDDING LINE a china souffle dish with slices of thin bread ; then a layer of currants and rasp- berries, another layer of bread, and so on, until the dish is three-parts full. Then fill up to the top with whipped cream, sweetened, and sprinkle over some chopped pistachios or brown biscuit crumbs. rSSWEETS AND PUDDINGS 275 POUDING PRINCESSE FOUR eggs, two tablespoonfuls of apricot jam, one glass of cream, whipped, three leaves of gelatine melted and vanilla flavouring. Whip the eggs, jam and vanilla over boiling water until the mixture becomes rather thick and creamy; then take it off, and whip until nearly cold; then add the gelatine and whipped cream, and pour into a mould. Serve with apricot sauce or compote of fruits. % CHOCOLATE PUDDING X>RING four ounces of butter to the boil in a -U gill of milk. Then sift in four ounces of grated chocolate and four ounces of cakecrumbs. Stir all this until it thickens and leaves the sides of the pan. Let it cool for a little, then stir in three ounces of sifted sugar, one teaspoonful of essence of vanilla and the well-beaten yolks of three eggs, one at a time. Whisk the whites of the eggs stiffly, and add lightly to the mixture and steam for two hours in a plain buttered mould, or bake for an hour, and serve with the following sauce:— Put half a gill of liqueur syrup into a pan withTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 276 the yolks of two eggs, and one or two ounces of loaf sugar rubbed on the yellow part of a lemon rind and then crushed. Stand this pan in another pan three-parts full of boiling water, and whip the mixture over the fire until it becomes a light, frothy mass. (It must not be over-whipped, or it will curdle.) MADONNA PUDDING rriAKE ten ounces of breadcrumbs, half a pound of castor sugar, half a pound of suet chopped finely, the juice of one lemon and the rind, grated, one egg and one tablespoonful of brandy. Place the suet, sugar and breadcrumbs in a basin with the eggs beaten up and the juice and rind of lemon. When well mixed, add the brandy. Butter a basin or mould, and line the bottom with a few stewed prunes. Pour in the mixture, and steam for one hour. MARLBOROUGH PUDDING FOUR ounces of tapioca (or rice), four ounces of castor sugar, one quart of milk, one stick of vanilla and the yolks of three eggs. Cook the above for twenty minutes.SWEETS AND PUDDINGS 277 s DANISH PUDDING T)ICK over and wash a cupful of pearl tapioca, A- and put it in a saucepan with one and a half pints of boiling water. Cook for one hour, or till transparent, keeping it well stirred. Add a salt- spoonful of salt, four ounces of sugar, a gill of currant or any other jelly, and stir this till dissolved. Then pour it into a dish, and leave on ice till cold. Serve very cold with cream and sugar. POUDING BURBRIDGE T?OVR ounces of brown sugar, four ounces of suet, four ounces of breadcrumbs, half a tea- spoonful of carbonate of soda, one tablespoonful of strawberry jam and one egg. Mix all well together, and steam from three to four hours. Serve with whipped cream. % HUNTERS’ PUDDING QUARTER of a pound of castor sugar, quarter of a pound of suet, quarter of a pound of flour, quarter of a pound of currants, quarter of aTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 278 pound of stoned raisins, the rind of half a lemon, chopped, three Jamaica peppercorns, finely pow- dered, two eggs, half a glass of brandy and half a pint of milk. Mix all together with a pinch of salt and sufficient milk to make the mixture of a proper consistency. Boil for six hours, and serve with sweet sauce. » GINGER PUDDING ONE pound of chopped suet, one pound of breadcrumbs, one ounce of flour, half a pound of golden syrup, one teaspoonful of ground ginger, half a teaspoonful of carbonate of soda, two whole eggs, and sufficient milk to work these ingredients into a firm paste. Butter a basin, and boil for three hours. RIPON PUDDING SIX ounces of chopped suet, six ounces of stoned raisins, four ounces of flour, two ounces of breadcrumbs, the grated rind of one lemon, four ounces of treacle, one whole egg and a little milk. Mix all well together, place in buttered mould and steam for three hours. Serve with Sherry sauce as follows :—SWEETS AND PUDDINGS 279 SHERRY SAUCE PUT into a saucepan one wineglassful of good sherry or Madeira, two teaspoonfuls of pounded white sugar, the juice of one lemon and the yolks of four very fresh eggs. Whip all this well together. Put the saucepan into boiling water for five minutes, whipping it well all the time ; then serve very hot. % ST. CLOUD PUDDING A QUARTER of a pint of strong coffee, four ^ eggs, two ounces of castor sugar, one gill of cream, sponge or Genoese cakes, three ounces of sweet almonds, half an ounce of butter, three tablespoonfuls of apricot marmalade, two table- spoonfuls of Maraschino, angelica and dried cherries. Blanch the almonds; peel and shred them finely; put them on a baking tin and bake in a slow oven till they become fawn colour. Butter a plain Charlotte mould ; sprinkle the inside with the shredded almonds and fill up with small pieces of sponge cake, or Genoese cake, crumbs. Dissolve the sugar in the coffee ; allow it to cool ; add the eggs (previously well beaten), the cream and the Maraschino liqueur ; mix thoroughly and strain into the mould and place the remainder of shreddedTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 280 almonds on top. Cover the mould with a piece of buttered paper and steam in a stewpan contain- ing sufficient boiling water to half-surround the mould in depth. Steam for about two hours ; allow it to cool until it is set; then turn out on to a cold round dish. Warm up the apricot jam with a little water and sugar; strain and mask the pudding with it; place the angelica and cherries round it, or ornament with little rings of angelica and the cherries cut in half. Keep on ice until required for table. SMALL CARAMEL CREAMS TAKE one pound of loaf sugar and place it in a copper sugar boiler. Just cover it with cold water (say, half a pint). Place on a quick fire and boil until a golden colour and to a crack stage. Have ready some small plain moulds, and cover the bottom and sides with the caramel ; then fill the moulds with the following mixture :— Three whole eggs, the yolks of two eggs, one pint of boiling milk and one gill of thin cream. Beat all this together, strain and fill the moulds. Place the moulds to poach in a little water in a covered stewpan, taking care that they should not boil, but just poach. When cold, unmould, place on dish, and let a little of the caramel syrup run round them. Serve with whipped cream.SWEETS AND PUDDINGS 281 SMALL CHOCOLATE CREAMS A QUARTER of a pound of chocolate, three ounces of sugar, half an ounce of French leaf gelatine, one tablespoonful of cr&me de riz, one quart of milk, the yolks of six eggs and one tea- spoonful of essence of vanilla. Soak the gelatine in a little cold milk. Mix the cr6me de riz with half a gill of cold milk. Put the chocolate, sugar and remainder of the milk in a stewpan. Boil gently and stir until the chocolate is dissolved. Add the gelatine and rice, and stir until it boils. Beat up the yolks of eggs in a basin. Pour the milk on them, stir well and return to stewpan. Add the essence of vanilla, and stir over the fire until the mixture thickens like custard. Strain through a fine sieve and allow it to cool. Pour into small round china moulds and set on ice, and serve with a little whipped cream over each. SMALL COFFEE CREAMS fTlHESE can be made in exactly the same way as the small chocolate creams, only substitute strong coffee essence for chocolate.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 282 GERMAN FRITTERS MAKE a batter with one pint of milk boiled up with one ounce of butter and a dust of salt. When boiling, stir in very gradually four ounces to five ounces of the finest sifted flour and stir till the batter leaves the sides of the pan, when it should be left to stand till quite cold. Then add three whole eggs and a teaspoonful of rum, mixing them in gently. Have the frying fat fairly hot, but not actually boiling, and drop in the batter in small teaspoonfuls, when it will form round balls, which must be kept constantly moved to preserve their shape, and colour them evenly. When little cracks appear on their surface, they are ready. Serve with liqueur-flavoured cream. •a GERMAN PUFFS BEAT twenty-six almonds very finely in a mortar, with a spoonful of orange-flower water to prevent their oiling. Then add one-quarter of a pound of butter, warmed, one gill of cream or milk, a tablespoonful of flour, the white of one and the yolks of two eggs, mixing in all the ingredi- ents well and sweetening them to taste. HaveSWEETS AND PUDDINGS 283 ready some buttered cups, fill them with the mixture and bake for half an hour. Serve with a wine sauce. 9 GOLDEN BALLS X)OIL together in a pan three-quarters of a pint of water, a pinch of salt and rather more sugar, and one ounce of butter. When this is absolutely boiling, stir in gradually sufficient flour to make a stiff paste, that requires some effort to stir. Let this simmer for rather under half an hour, then draw the pan from the fire and let it cool a little. Stir in five eggs, one at a time, stirring in the first thoroughly before adding the next. Then turn this paste into a basin and let it stand for at least three hours. When about to use this, stir in two table- spoonfuls of orange-flower water (or any other flavouring to taste). Then break up the paste into pieces about the size of a walnut and fry in very hot butter in a frying-pan. They must not be touched whilst frying, as the motion of the butter will turn them. As soon as they are golden brown, lift them out with a skimmer, drain well, dust with powdered sugar, and serve at once.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 284 GOLDEN FRITTERS CUT some stale rolls into rounds and soak in a mixture of one beaten egg and a little sweetened milk, flavoured with vanilla. Dip these in thick batter ; roll in breadcrumbs, and fry in butter. Serve with sifted sugar, and quarters of orange, or any other compote of fruit. BROWN BREAD PUDDING OlX ounces of breadcrumbs, half a pint of milk, ^ three ounces of butter, four ounces of sugar, three eggs, two ounces of mixed candied peel, grated nutmeg, one teaspoonful of ground cinna- mon and a pinch of salt. A glass of sherry may be added, if liked. Boil up the milk and pour over the breadcrumbs ; add the cinnamon, candied peel (finely chopped or shredded) and a pinch of salt. Work the butter and sugar to a cream ; add the eggs one at a time ; mix in the soaked breadcrumbs and add a little grated nutmeg. Put the mixture in a well-buttered mould ; cover with a buttered paper and steam for about two hours. If wine is used, it should be added last of all. Unmould the pudding on a hot dish, and serve with fruit syrup or custard sauce. This pudding is equally nice served cold.SWEETS AND PUDDINGS 285 RIZ A L’AMERICAINE T30IL a pint of milk, then add three tablespoon- fuls of Patna rice, a vanilla stick and four lumps of sugar; simmer gently for an hour, stirring occasionally. When cooked sufficiently, add one gill of cream, two ounces of raisins and a few sultanas. Put into small marmite pots, and stand on ice until an hour before serving. Then sprinkle on the top a layer of icing sugar, and gratin with salamander. A teaspoonful of whisky should be added to each marmite when served. CUSTARDS IN CUPS f IIHE yolks of six eggs, four whole eggs, one quart of milk, three ounces of pounded sugar, two tablespoonfuls of brandy and a little grated nutmeg, if liked. Beat the eggs well with an egg-whisk. Boil the milk, and pour it on to them, stirring quickly. Strain into a jug and add the sugar. Put the jug to stand in a saucepan of boiling water, and stir until the custard coats the spoon ; then put it aside to cool, stirring occasionally. When cold, add the brandy, fill the custard cups and grate over a little nutmeg, if liked.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 286 BOILED CUSTARD PUDDING MADE WITH BENGER’S FOOD FOR INVALIDS A BREAKFASTCUPFUL of Benger’s Food (prepared with milk, as directed) cold, two eggs and two teaspoonfuls of castor sugar. Add the sugar and eggs, previously well beaten, to the cold food ; pour it into a small saucepan and place on the fire, stirring carefully until it just comes to the boil. Pour the custard into a small piedish, which has been previously wetted with cold water, and sprinkle a little powdered nutmeg or cinnamon on the top. This is excellent either hot or cold. The ingredients may be baked in a slow oven instead of boiled, if preferred. % CORNFLOUR PUDDING ONE pint of boiling milk and two tablespoonfuls of cornflour. Mix the cornflour smoothly in a basin with a little of the boiling milk. Then pour the rest of the milk, mix and return to stew- pan to boil up again. Add a little sugar and cream. Pour into a deep dish and brown in the oven.SWEETS AND PUDDINGS 287 FAROLA PUDDING FIVE ounces of farola (or tapioca), four ounces of castor sugar, one quart of milk, one stick of vanilla and the yolks of three eggs. Boil the milk and add the vanilla and a pinch of sugar. Stir in the farola (or tapioca) and boil for five minutes. Add some cream to the yolks of the eggs and mix all together and place in buttered piedishes. Then place these dishes in a saute pan containing water, and bake for ten minutes. ORANGE TARTLETS TWO Jaffa or St. Michael or four Tangerine oranges, three ounces of castor sugar, three ounces of butter, the yolks of three eggs and the white of one, half a teaspoonful of vanilla essence and about half a pound of puff paste. Peel the oranges very thinly, without cutting any of the white part; chop the rind finely. Cream the butter and sugar; add by degrees the yolks of the eggs ; stir in the vanilla essence, chopped orange rind and two tablespoonfuls of orange juice. Add a pinch of salt to the white of egg; whisk to a stiff froth and fold into the mixture. Roll out the paste ; line from eight to nine tartletTHE DUDLEY RECIPES moulds ; prick the paste with a fork and three-parts fill them with the mixture. Put them on a baking tin ; bake for fifteen minutes in a moderate oven ; then dust with sugar and finish baking. Turn out; cool, and dish up on a folded napkin or dish-paper. OIX eggs, two ounces of butter, a small glass of ^ rum, one tablespoonful of castor sugar, one tablespoonful of cream and a pinch of salt. Break the eggs into a basin ; add the salt and sugar ; beat up well together with the cream and a little rum. Melt the butter in an omelet pan ; when hot, pour in the eggs, etc. Stir, cook, roll and brown the omelet to a light colour ; turn carefully on to a dish ; dust with sugar ; pour the rum round the omelet; light it, and serve quickly. NE ounce of butter, one ounce of flour, one gill of Plasmon stock, three eggs, half a lemon and half an ounce of castor sugar. Melt the butter in a saucepan ; stir in the flour, then add the plasmon stock, the sugar and the 288 OMELETTE AU RHUM LEMON SOUFFLESWEETS AND PUDDINGS 289 lemon rind grated and stir it until it boils. Remove from the fire ; beat in the yolks of eggs and whip the whites to a stiff froth and stir this lightly in. Pour the mixture into a well-greased plain mould, and steam very slowly for about forty minutes. Turn on to a hot dish and pour round it a lemon- flavoured custard sauce.8 SAVOURY RICE AND MACARONI DISHESTHE PURPOSE OF FOOD For what is food given ! To enable us to carry on the necessary business of life and that our sup- port may be such as our work requires. This is the use of food. Man eats and drinks that he may work, therefore, the idle man forfeits his right to his daily bread ; and the Apostle lays down a rule both just and natural that “ if any man will not work, neither shall he eat: " but no sooner alone fall into abuse and excess, than we are sure to suffer for it, in mind, and in body, either with sickness, or ill temper, or vicious inclinations or with all of them at once. Man is enabled to work by eating what is sufficient: he is hindered from working and be- comes heavy, idle and stupid if he takes too much. As to the bodily distempers that are occasioned by excess, there is no end to them. JONES OF NAYLAND The turnpike road to people's hearts I find Lies thro' their mouths, or I mistake mankind. PETER PINDAR Some men are born to feast, and not to fight: Whose sluggish minds, e'en in fair honour's field, Still on their dinner turn— Let such pot-boiling varlets stay at home. And wield a flesh hook rather than a sword. JOANNA BAILLIE (Now), good digestion wait on appetite. And health on both !USEFULNESS OF WOMEN Women so amiable in themselves are never so amiable as when they are useful; and as for beauty—though men may fall in love with girls at play—there is nothing to make them stand to their love like seeing them at work. cobbett % Man's life is like unto a winter's day,— Some break their fast and so depart away ; Others stay dinner, then depart full fed ; The longest but sups and goes to bed. 0 reader, then behold and see ! As we are now, so must you be. JOSEPH HENHOUSE, BISHOP OF PETERBOROUGH, 1663 % At the Berlin Conference, 1878, Lord Salisbury was accompanied as his private secretary by Sir Philip Currie, and Lord Beacons field's private Secretary was Mr. Montagu Corry, afterwards Lord Rowton. Whilst Europe ponders o'er the Eastern question, Our statesmen only think of their digestion, For each amidst the universal flurry. Selects with care his own especial curry. FROM “ PUNCH ” Who does not love wine, woman and song Remains a fool his whole life long. j. H. voss294 The angry word suppress’d, the taunting thought; Subduing and subdu’d, the petty strife, Which clouds the colour of domestic life ; The sober comfort, all the peace which springs From the large aggregate of little things ; On these small cares of daughter, wife, or friend. The almost sacred joys of home depend. HANNAH MORE295 8 SAVOURY RICE AND MACARONI DISHES SAVOURY RICE TO SERVE WITH MEAT PLACE in a stewpan, on the stove, one ounce of butter, and when warm add one chopped onion, and a quarter of a pound of Carolina rice. Stir altogether until a golden colour. Wet with a pint of light stock, and allow it to come to the boil. Place in the oven for about eighteen minutes until quite dry, and serve at once. Or, if the rice has to be kept waiting, it should be transferred to a fresh, dry stewpan as soon as it is cooked, and placed by the fire so as to keep dry and hot. RICE WITH TOMATOES FOUR ounces of rice, one small onion stuck with a clove, one small bouquet garni, three shallots two ounces of butter, one gill of tomato sauce, two, or three, small firm but ripe tomatoes, one ounceTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 296 of gi'ated cheese, pepper, salt, cayenne and a little mace. Pick and wash the rice ; blanch it in slightly salted water, then drain. Put it in a stewpan with the onion, bouquet and tomato sauce. Cook gently until tender, adding a little light stock if the rice becomes too dry as it swells. Remove the onion and bouquet; peel and chop finely the shallots, fry them in half the butter to a pale golden colour. Add this to the rice. Season with salt, pepper, cayenne and a tiny pinch of ground mace. Mix in the cheese and keep hot. Cut the tomatoes into neat slices, fry them carefully in the remainder of the butter, and season to taste. Dish up the rice on a hot dish, garnish with slices of tomato, and serve. RISOTTO PIEMONTAISE FRY in butter a medium-sized onion and add to it half a pound of rice. Put the rice on the side of the stove ; add a very little saffron and a large piece of butter, and stir until it is well saturated with the butter. Moisten the rice with about one quart of light stock. The stock should be added to the rice in seven or eight instalments, and just as it becomes absorbed, a fresh supply should be added. When adding the liquor, stirRICE AND MACARONI DISHES T 297 with a wooden spoon. Cook the rice under cover, and add a few pieces of fresh butter and some grated Parmesan cheese. TO BOIL RICE, AS DONE IN CHINA WASH the rice well in cold water. Drain it through a sieve. Then put the rice into boil- ing water, and when it is quite soft take it out with a ladle and strain again through a sieve. Put it into a clean vessel, and cover it up until it is blanched as white as snow and as dry as a crust. % MACARONI A L’lTALIENNE Z^lOOK the macaroni (small macaroni) in boiling ^ water; completely drain it; put it into a saute pan and toss it over the fire to dry ; season it with salt and pepper ; cohere it with five ounces of grated Gruy&re and Parmesan cheese in equal quantities and two ounces of butter cut into small pieces to each pound of macaroni. Saute the whole well, and serve very hot with some grated Parmesan cheese. The above can be served with lumps of butter added after it has been cooked, and before the cheese is added to the preparation.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 298 MACARONI A LA CAPRICE TWO ounces of macaroni, the pulp of two large tomatoes, one ounce of grated Parmesan cheese, a little anchovy essence, salt and cayenne, and one pint of white or Bechamel sauce. Boil the macaroni until tender and chop up roughly ; then add the pulps of tomatoes, white sauce and cheese, and flavour with the anchovy essence. Stir all together, and pour into a fire- proof dish. Keep back a little of the sauce, and add a small quantity of the grated Parmesan cheese to it. Pour this over the top of the mixture in the dish, and bake until very hot. The top can be browned with a salamander, if required. MACARONI CHEESE mHIS is a cheap, nutritious and easily cooked J- dish. Boil (say) half a pound of macaroni— the straight not the curled kind—for an hour in plenty of water ; strain thoroughly. Add a small piece of butter, and return to the pan for a minute. Remove, and sprinkle on the surface about half a teacupful of grated cheese. Serve very hot.RICE AND MACARONI DISHES 299 SOUFFLE AU MAIS OPEN a tin of maize, put on a sieve and let thin syrup run through, then pass the corn through. Have ready some very thick Bechamel sauce, in which a little onion was fried, and add the puree of maize to this, also a little sugar, pepper, salt, the w’hipped whites and yolks of three eggs, and a little nutmeg, if liked. Work the yolks in before adding the whites of the eggs. Bake for three-quarters of an hour in a slow oven, and at the last in a hot oven. This souffle requires great care in baking. If kept waiting, it does not matter as long as it is kept in a slow oven, but it must be put in a hot oven to finish. Any souffle that remains can be used next day if put in a gratin dish with a little cream and paprika, and is as good as the original souffle. Also it is quite good as a plain vegetable, and makes a very nice dish to serve with game, if all the liquid is drained from it, and it is mixed with a nice creamy sauce.DEER-STALKING IN THE HIGHLANDS—WATCHING THE BODY. From an etching after Sir Edwin Landseer, R.A.21 DIFFERENT WAYS OF COOKING VENISONVENISON One cut from vert son to the heart can speak Stronger than ten quotations from the Greek ; One fat sirloin possesses more sublime Than all the airy castles built by rhyme. PETER PINDAR % Thanks, my Lord, for your venison, for finer or fatter Ne'er ranges in a forest, or smoked in a platter ; The haunch was a picture for painters to study, The fat was so white, and the lean was so ruddy. 9 GOLDSMITH He that strikes The venison first shall be lord o' the feast. SHAKESPEARE HUNGER Famish'd people must be slowly nurs't. Or fed by spoonsful else they always burst. BYRON, “ DON JUAN,” 2, XV, viii Dire was the clang of plates, of knife and fork. The mere'less fell like tomahawks to work. PETER PINDARA BANQUET A table richly spread in regal mode, With dishes piled, and meats of noblest sort And savour ; beasts of chase, or fowl of game, In pastry built, or from the spit, or boil'd, Gris-amber steam'd ; all fish from sea and shore, Freshet or purling brook for which was drained Pontus and Lucrine Bay and Afric Coast. MILTON A general welcome from his Grace Salutes ye all: this night he dedicates To fair content, and you : none here he hopes, In all this noble bevy, has brought with her One care abroad ; he would have all as merry, As first—good company, good wine, good welcome Can make good people. SHAKESPEARE, “ HENRY VIII ” % A hundred thousand welcomes; I could weep, And I could laugh ; I am light and heavy !— Welcome ! Shakespeare, “ coriolanus ” % Sir, you are very welcome to our house : It must appear in other ways than words ; Therefore I scant this breathing courtesy. SHAKESPEARE304 Who'er has travelled life's dull round, Where'er his stages may have been. May sigh to think he still has found The warmest welcome at our inn. SHENSTONE, WRITTEN AT AN INN AT HENLEY21 DIFFERENT WAYS OF 305 COOKING VENISON HOW TO COOK RED DEER OR FALLOW DEER FAWNS THESE fawns are quite excellent if properly cooked. The following recipe is for the way in which to serve the saddle, legs and shoulders of the fawns. Take the joint and dust it lightly with flour and place it in a good oven, in a well-buttered pan to roast briskly until it is a nice brown colour ; baste it well whilst roasting with thick cream—the sauce will become a rich brown colour. When cooked, place the joint on to the dish in which it is to be served, and add to the sauce in the tin two or three tablespoonfuls of cream and a little lemon juice. Let this boil up again, and strain into a sauceboat to serve with the fawn. Red-currant jelly should also be served with these joints. %THE DUDLEY RECIPES 306 CUTLETS OF RED OR FALLOW DEER FAWN A/TAKE nice plump cutlets by taking the meat -D-L of two cutlets to one bone ; flatten them into a good shape. Place in pan over the fire a little clear butter or fat. When this is hot, put in the cutlets and allow them to fry quickly on both sides. Remove on to a plate and add to the liquor in the pan, two tablespoonfuls of brown sauce made from the trimmings or breast of the fawn—or any thick good gravy at hand. Let it reduce for a few minutes, and strain over the cutlets, which should be served on a border of mashed potatoes, very hot. Roedeer cutlets can be served in the same way. % VENISON STEAKS O TEAKS are cut from the loin end of the haunch, ^ as this is the most tender. They should be cut about one inch thick, leaving on them plenty of fat. Run a little salad oil over them and grill quickly a nice brown. The length of time they require for grilling depends upon whether they are preferred juicy or much cooked. Place on dish which has been made hot, and pour over them aVENISON 307 little half glaze, a little chopped parsley and lemon juice and season with salt and pepper. Serve with them some fried onions (and mush- rooms, if any at hand), also a little currant jelly in a boat. VENISON CUTLETS A LA MINUTE T11AKE a neck of tender venison, trim some cutlets, leaving the fat neatly trimmed on the cutlet bone. Place on the fire some clear butter, and allow it to get hot. Fry each cutlet quickly in this a nice brown colour. Remove on to a dish, and add to the pan in which they were cooked, two tablespoonfuls of rich brown sauce (made from vension or other meat). Allow this to boil. Dish the cutlets on a border of mashed potato, and pour the sauce over before serving. Serve with currant jelly in a boat. % TO MARINADE VENISON CUTLETS U>REPARE the cutlets as above, and, after trimming and previous to cooking, lay for five or six hours upon them the following mari- nade :—THE DUDLEY RECIPES 308 One minced carrot, one onion, one clove of garlic, a little parsley, thyme, pepper and salt wetted with a little salad oil. Place this mixture upon the cutlets, and, when ready for use, free them from the vegetables and moisture and cook them as in above recipe. VENISON CUTLETS WITH CHESTNUT PUREE XjpOUR to six venison cutlets, one and a half ounces of butter, one egg, breadcrumbs, chestnut puree, half-glaze sauce and seasoning. Pare the cutlets neatly, flatten and trim again ; season them with pepper and salt; beat up the egg ; dip each cutlet in egg and cover with bread- crumbs. Melt the butter in a saute pan ; when hot, put in the cutlets and fry each side a nice brown colour ; take up, drain and dish up in a circle on a small bed of mashed potatoes. Fill the centre with chestnut puree ; pour a little demi- glaze or other thin brown sauce round the base of the dish, and serve. Chestnut Puree is made as follows :— Boil a pound of large chestnuts for twenty minutes ; remove shell and pell (the brown pith);VENISON 309 boil again in a little stock and when quite tender rub through a fine wire sieve. Season with salt and pepper and moisten with a very little brown sauce, tomato sauce or rich stock. % VENISON CUTLETS POLONAISE CUT eight to nine small slices (half an inch thick) from a leg of venison ; flatten each slice with a cutlet bat and trim neatly. Season with salt and pepper; egg and crumb lightly. Heat up an ounce of clarified butter in a saute pan and fry the slices over a brisk fire until they are light brown on both sides. Have ready a sauce prepared in the following manner :— Crush twelve juniper berries and cook them with half a gill of wine vinegar ; to this add a table- spoonful of meat glaze, half a pint of Velout6 sauce and let simmer gently for ten or fifteen minutes. Strain the sauce ; season and whisk in half an ounce of fresh butter. Arrange the venison cutlets in an entree dish ; pour over the prepared sauce, and serve hot. %THE DUDLEY RECIPES 310 VENISON PIE CUT some pieces of venison, either from the neck or loin or part of a haunch. Add pepper and salt, two finely chopped onions and a little parsley, two or three hard-boiled eggs cut in quarters, a little chopped mushroom and two sheeps’ kidneys cut into small pieces. Place this in layers in a deep piedish, and cover with plenty of good stock or gravy. Make a good half-puff pastry with three-quarters of a pound of flour and a pound of butter or lard, rolling it as for puff pastry. Cover the pie with this and egg over. Bake for an hour and a half. ** VENISON PASTIES TY/TINCE finely about one pound of venison taken JXL from the loin or neck, with no sinew. Add to this a little finely chopped onion and parsley, also two large tablespoonfuls of rich brown sauce made from venison, or any good joint gravy. Mix this with the mince on a plate, and season with salt and pepper. Make a nice short puff pastry with half a pound of flour, half a pound of butter and suffi- cient water to make a firm paste. Place the flourVENISON 311 on a slab, make a hole in the centre, pour in the water and work into a firm paste. Roll out and put in the butter. Fold the paste so that the butter is encased. Let it lay ten minutes, roll out and fold again. Wait another ten minutes, and repeat a third time—three rolls in all. Finally roll out into flat round pasties, fill with the mixture and place on pastry covers. Brush over with beaten egg, and bake a nice brown colour. When baked, pour in at the last minute a little rich brown gravy. These little pies can be made with mutton in the same way as with venison. UT the breast and neck of uncooked venison into nice pieces. Fry them in a pan with a little clear deer’s fat. Add twelve onions, five or six carrots and a bouquet of parsley. When this is well coloured, add two large tablespoonfuls of flour. Mix well over the fire, and allow to cook for about five minutes. Wet with good brown stock, and, when it comes to the boil, place it in the oven in the pan with its cover. Allow to cook gently until tender, then remove all fat, season, and add one tablespoonful of Harvey and one of Worcester sauce. HARICOT OF VENISONTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 312 TOURNEDOS OF VENISON rilHESE are fillets cut from the loin, free from bone. They should be cut a good inch in thickness. Flatten them with a cutlet bat and trim them into rounds. Dip the fillets into warm butter, place them on a grill-iron and brown on each side. Fry some thin rounds of bread, and place one under each tournedos when serving, with a nice round piece of the venison fat placed on top of each. A Bearnaise sauce, sauce Robert or currant jelly can be served separately in a boat, and fried onions and small balls or fried potatoes. UT into small dice some under-cooked venison. Make a nice rich sauce from venison or any other brown gravy which you may have over from any joint. Mix in a stewpan the gravy sauce with the minced venison, some chopped onions, parsley and seasoning. Add one teaspoonful of Harvey sauce. Simmer for five minutes. Place in a deep piedish or earthenware dish and cover with a good mashed potato. Score the top with a fork. Butter well, and brown a nice colour on top, and serve very hot. COTTAGE PIE OF VENISONVENISON 313 This is an excellent dish for a shooting lunch. The mashed potato is best prepared with a little UT some thin slices, with plenty of fat, off a haunch of venison which has been cooked the previous day. Place this ready in a stewpan with cover, and prepare the following sauce :— Take two tablespoonfuls of red-currant jelly, one tumbler of port wine, one tumbler of claret, three bay leaves, six black peppercorns, four cloves and one pint of good brown sauce which has been made of venison essence (the shoulder and sinewy parts serve for this). First melt the jelly, then add the wine, spice and bay leaves. Let this reduce a little, then pour in the brown sauce and allow all to simmer for about ten minutes, and strain through a tammy or muslin. This should be poured over the sliced vension, and all made very hot, but not allowed to boil. Serve in silver dish over a lamp or hot water, with slices of venison fat cut very thin and laid on the top. If the haunch has little or no fat, thin slices of white beef fat can be substituted. This recipe was included in the “ Dudley Cookery Book,” published in 1910 by Mr. Arnold. cream. HASHED VENISONTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 314 DEER’S LIVER /~^UT the deer’s liver in slices, dip each piece in ^ flour, dust with salt and pepper and fry in clear butter until it is a golden brown. If used for breakfast, lightly mask it with demi-glaze. If for lunch, serve with a good brown sauce poured over it, to which is added a squeeze of lemon juice and a little chopped parsley. Some pieces of fried bacon can be served with the liver. DEER’S PUDDINGS r 11AKE some deer’s sausage skins and wash in water in which is a very little salt, turning the skins inside out to be thoroughly cleansed, but not removing the fat which adheres to the insides of the skins. Take a large cupful of finely chopped venison or beef suet, a handful of coarse oatmeal and a little finely chopped onion to season, also salt and pepper. Fill the skins, tie the ends and prick well with a needle to prevent bursting. Boil for three-quarters of an hour and then brown in a saute pan with some hot fat, or grill for fifteen minutes, and serve very hot. This recipe was included in the “ Dudley Cookery Book,” published by Mr. Arnold in 1910.VENISON 315 POTTED VENISON r 11AKE the meat of cooked venison and pound it T in a mortar until thoroughly bruised. Add one ounce of fresh butter, a few peppercorns, a grate of nutmeg, pepper and salt to taste. When well mixed and pounded, pass through a fine wire sieve and place in a small potted-meat dish. Melt a little fresh butter and run it over to cover the top. Put in a cool place until cold. A little thick cream can be added to the potted meat, whilst being pounded, if this is liked. SADDLE OF VENISON A L’ALLEMANDE rTIAKE a small saddle of venison and cut away the flaps. Butter a pan and lay the saddle in it, pouring some butter over the top. Cook it briskly for about twenty minutes, and when it is beginning to turn brown (about half an hour before the meat is sufficiently done) pour half a pint (less or more according to size of joint) of thick, sour cream over it, basting it well until it turns a rich brown. Then add some more sour cream (about half a pint), and allow again to turn brown. If the sauce is not thick, add a very small quantity of flour.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 316 For flavouring, it is better to put into the roast- ing pan a few slices of celery, onion and carrot. Strain through a sieve before serving, and serve some of the sauce separately in a sauceboat. BRAISED HAUNCH OF VENISON REMOVE the spine-bone from a small haunch of venison, trim it and put it in a braising pan with a mirepoix consisting of two carrots, one large onion cut into slices, a head of celery, a few sprigs of thyme and parsley, two bay leaves, twelve peppercorns, three cloves and two blades of mace. Add half a pint of claret and sufficient stock to cover the venison. Cover with buttered paper; bring it to the boil and put the lid on to the pan, and cook in a moderate oven for about three hours. Baste the surface of the venison with its own braise from time to time. When it is done, put it into a baking pan with about a gill of its own liquor well reduced, and brush it over with meat glaze. Keep it hot. Strain the remainder of the braise-stock liquor, add a glass of port wine and a pint of demi-glaze sauce ; reduce well and skim occasionally ; season to taste with salt and cayenne. Serve with some fried onions in a separate dish, or stewed Spanish onions.VENISON 317 u Demi-Glaze Sauce is made as follows :— Reduce three-quarters of a pint of Espagnol sauce with one and a half gills of good gravy (strained and freed from fat). Allow to simmer for about fifteen minutes, and season with a pinch of pepper and salt. HAUNCH OF VENISON ROASTED WHOLE 11/TAKE a very firm paste of common flour and -*-*-*- water. Beat it well and let it rest for a few minutes, then roll it out the thickness of one inch. Butter or grease well a sheet of kitchen paper and first wrap the haunch in this, then encase the joint in the paste and again wrap in kitchen paper (this is to preserve the fat). Lace it well with twine to keep the paper on the paste. Then roast in front of a large fire for three hours—or longer if it is a large haunch. When cooked, remove the paper and the paste, and dish up very hot. Serve in boats, red-currant jelly and gravy.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 318 VENISON CONSOMME FT1AKE six or seven pounds of the knuckle-end of a haunch of venison, three pounds of knuckle of veal and one soup fowl. Place the meat in a stockpot. Cover it with cold water. Let this come to the boil. Skim off the sediment which rises, then add two leeks, two carrots, two onions, a bunch of parsley and a little salt. Let boil gently for six or seven hours, strain, and, when cold, remove all fat and place again on fire in a large pan. When lukewarm, add four pounds of the gravy part of a haunch, which has been passed through a mincing machine and mixed with one quart of water. Add to this, one carrot, two leeks, a little parsley and celery cut into small pieces. Place on fire and allow it to boil, stirring all the time. When it boils, draw to side of stove and allow it to simmer gently. Roast the fowl and place it in the pot. Let all cook for five or six hours, then strain through a soup-cloth, which has been wrung through hot water to remove all taint of soap. Take care that the consomme is clear and bright. Some very small quenelles of venison should be served in the consomme. %VENISON 319 VENISON COLLOPS riWKE one pound of raw venison cut from the loin and free it from fat and sinew. Mince it and place it in a stewpan with three ounces of butter and one large onion cut in four pieces and wet with a pint of good light stock, either made from venison or any stock there may be at hand. Season well with salt and pepper and let all cook ; then remove the onion. Have ready a border of mashed potatoes, pre- pared with a little butter or cream and nicely browned. Pile up the collops in the centre, and serve. The mince should be thick and firm.THE MELTON BREAKFAST. From a mezzotint by Charles G. Lewis after the picture by Sir F. Grant.321 EGG AND BREAKFAST DISHESBREAKFAST Behold ! his breakfasts shine with reputation, His dinners are the wonder of the nation ; With these he treats both commoners and quality, Who praise where'er they go his hospitality. PETER PINDAR The healsome porritch chief oj Scotia's food. 'I BURNS HEALTH Th'ingredients of health and long life are Great temperance, open air. Easy labour, little care. SIR PHILIP SIDNEY Bannocks is better than nae kind o' bread. % BURNS It is the part of a wise man to keep himself to-day for to-morrow, and not to venture all his eggs in one basket. CERVANTES % Many count their chickens before they are hatched; and where they expect bacon, meet with broken bones. CERVANTESADVICE TO YOUNG MEN l ree yourselves from tea and coffee and other slop- kettle. WILLIAM COBBETT Why do they always put mud into coffee on board steamers ? Why does the tea generally taste of boiled boots ? THE KICKLEBURYS ON THE RHINE Things are seldom what they seem, Skim milk masquerades as cream. AN EGG The vulgar boil, the learned roast an egg. POPE, EPISTLE ii, BOOK ii, LINE 85 % I never thrust my nose into other men's porridge. It is no bread and butter of mine ; every man for himself and God for us all. cervantes Spare your breath to cool your porridge. CERVANTES r% For her own breakfast she'll project a scheme, Nor take her tea without a stratagem. young324 Keen appetites and quick digestion wait On you and yours. DRYDEN325 25 EGG DISHES CROQUETTES OF EGGS FOR BREAKFAST OR LUNCH li/TAKE a creamy Bechamel sauce in this way:— Cut into small pieces a little carrot, onion, celery, a sprig of parsley, a very little thyme and bay leaf, and a few grains of whole pepper. Put all these ingredients into the saucepan with a piece of butter and allow them to colour during a few minutes. Take a large spoonful of flour and wet this plentifully with milk and a little cream; season well, and allow the Bechamel to reduce slowly over a small fire, for at least an hour, and then pass. Cut into small dice five or six eggs which have been boiled for ten minutes ; put this into a dish with a little chopped parsley. Pour over sufficient of the sauce to obtain a compact mixture. Mould this at once into little well-buttered moulds, and place upon ice until firm ; then remove from the moulds. Yellow them with egg and fry quickly a nice colour; serve on a dish with fried parsley, and very hot.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 326 CREAMED EGGS FOR BREAKFAST T3REAK into a saute pan two whole eggs, half a gill of good cream, salt and pepper ; work well with a wooden spoon over the fire until thickened. Serve on rounds of buttered toast. The mixture should be carefully stirred whilst cooking to prevent it becoming lumpy. CREAMED EGGS WITH ASPARAGUS SIX eggs, one gill of asparagus tips, two ounces of butter, one tablespoonful of cream, season- ing of salt, pepper and a very little nutmeg. Boil the asparagus tips in salted water until tender ; drain well; place in a saute pan with one ounce of melted butter and saute them over the fire for five minutes. Break the eggs in a basin ; add the cream ; season with a little salt, a pinch of pepper and a grate of nutmeg. Beat up well and place all in a saucepan with the remaining ounce of butter; stir over the fire for a few minutes with a wooden spoon ; add the asparagus tips ; stir again until the eggs begin to set lightly. Dish up on a hot dish, and serve with fried parsley as a garnish. Care must be taken to cook the eggs gradually,EGG DISHES 327 so as to make them smooth and creamy, and not to allow lumps to form. CREAMED EGGS WITH HAM TT^OUR or five eggs, cream and seasoning. Break the eggs into a basin ; add half the butter, cream and seasoning ; beat up well and place in a saucepan with the other half of the butter. Stir over the fire for a few minutes, then add the ham, which should be very finely minced and shredded. Stir again, until the eggs begin to set lightly. Dish up on a hot dish. This dish is good for either breakfast or luncheon. % (EUFS A L’ORLEANS 1V/TAKE some tartlets of short light-crust pastry. Bake a nice light colour and fill with a good puree of chicken. Break into a buttered pan as many eggs as you have tartlets, and put them in the oven to set lightly ; then trim them neatly and place one egg in each tartlet. Serve with fried parsley for garnish. No sauce is needed, as the minced chicken will be rather soft.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 328 FRIED EGGS ANY fat, provided it is well purified, can be used for frying eggs, but pure olive oil is the best. Also to do these eggs properly, they should be done one at a time. Heat some oil in an omelet pan until it begins to smoke slightly ; break the egg on a plate ; season it well and let it slide gently into the pan ; then with a wooden spoon quickly cover up the yolk with the solidified portions of the white, in order to keep the yolk soft. Drain the egg on a piece of stretched linen and proceed in the same way with the other eggs, until the required number is cooked. Serve the eggs on a hot dish, with fried bacon laid round them. POACHED EGGS WITH TOMATO SAUCE T30IL up a pint of tomato sauce in a saute pan. Skim, if necessary, and drop in carefully five or six eggs. Cook them until the whites are firm, basting them well all the time with the sauce. Lift them out very carefully, trim and dish them up on a piece of fried or toasted bread. Pour over the sauce, which must have been seasoned with minced shallot, salt and pepper, and serve very hot.EGG DISHES 329 POACHED EGGS A LA REINE MINCE finely half a pound, or more, of cold cooked chicken, turkey, rabbit, pheasant or veal, freed from skin, bone and gristle. Fry this in a little butter and moisten with sufficient B6chamel sauce to make a nice creamy mince. Keep hot. Poach, in slightly salted water, as many eggs as required and trim them neatly. Put the mince into a dish and place upon it neatly the eggs. Surround the dish with small half-moon slices of bread fried in clarified butter, and serve hot. If liked, a little grated Parmesan cheese can be sprinkled lightly over the dish, and slightly browned in the oven or salamander. EGGS WITH BROWN BUTTER T)UT half an ounce of butter into a small omelet pan, and cook it until it is almost black ; break the eggs into it, season and cook ; then tilt them gently on to a dish, and sprinkle with a few drops of vinegar. Great care must be taken not to break the yolks of the eggs. Another method is to poach the eggs in a dish, as usual, and then cover them with one-quarter of an ounce of prepared black butter and a fewTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 330 drops of vinegar, which should be added after the butter. POACHED EGGS VIN BLANC TDOACH carefully six to eight eggs in slightly salted water, flavoured with white wine and a few drops of lemon juice. Have ready as many fried croutons as there are poached eggs. Take up the eggs, trim them neatly and place one on each crouton ; then dish up. Have ready a sauce prepared with one gill of reduced white wine, an ounce and a half of meat glaze and one ounce of butter. The butter must be whisked in in very small quantities at a time and must not be allowed to boil. Season with a good pinch of cayenne or red Krona pepper. Mask the eggs with the sauce, which must be thick enough to cover them entirely. Sprinkle a little finely chopped parsley over each egg, and serve quickly and very hot. EGGS WITH BLACK BUTTER "lV/TELT half an ounce of butter in a fireproof dish ; break into it four or five eggs ; place in a hot oven for about five minutes ; then pour over half an ounce of butter, cooked to a lightEGG DISHES 331 brown colour, flavoured with a few drops of tarragon or chilli vinegar. Sprinkle with a few dried breadcrumbs, and serve. OAT four lightly poached eggs with Mornay sauce, and sprinkle them well with grated Parmesan and Gruyere cheese mixed with fine raspings ; then transfer them to some croutes of bi'ead fried in lard or dripping. Mask the eggs over with warm butter, and place under a grill to brown, or place them in an open hot oven. IDOACH several very fresh eggs, and put them into cold water to cool. Make a very light mousse of chicken. Butter some tartlet moulds and mask them with the chicken farce. Trim the eggs nicely, and place one in each mould, and poach in a gentle oven for five minutes. Unmould, and place each egg on croutons of fried bread. Place a slice of truffle or of very white mush- POACHED EGGS MORNAY CEUFS SARAH BERNHARDTTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 332 room on top of each, and sauce over with a good half-glaze. Serve the eggs placed round a dish with asparagus points or small fresh green peas in the centre. White sauce should be served separately in a boat. EGG AND ASPARAGUS TARTLETS ARNISH the bottoms of some tartlet crusts with small green asparagus cut into pieces and cooked, and six green asparagus heads about one and a half inches in length, arranged in the tartlets in the form of a star. Place a poached egg, well coated with cream sauce, mixed with half its volume of asparagus pur6e, upon each tartlet, and serve very hot. Garnish with fried parsley round the dish. rPlHE secret of success in cooking an omelet is -■*- swiftness. The fire must not be too hot. Beat well with a fork two eggs—or more, ac- cording to number of persons. Add salt and pepper and half a teaspoonful of water. Put a piece of butter into a frying-pan, and let it get OMELETEGG DISHES 333 thoroughtly hot; then pour in the eggs. After a few seconds, pass a fork under the omelet, and as soon as it is cooked turn over on one side so that the pan is half empty. Turn on to a hot dish in such a manner that the side which was touching the pan will become the upper portion of the omelet. The omelet can be flavoured with finely chopped parsley, or made with mushrooms, also finely chopped ; or minced kidneys, or tomatoes. 1 EGGS A LA TRIPE IdOR six eggs—finely mince two onions, and -L stew them in fresh butter, keeping them white; sprinkle with a little flour, and moisten with a pint of boiling milk to make a smooth creamy white sauce, and cook gently for twenty minutes. Then pass this through a fine wire sieve or tammy, and transfer the preparation to a saucepan, and heat it well. The eggs must be poached hard, and cut into nice slices or quarters, and the sauce poured over very hot. Serve in an earthenware dish.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 334 EGG AND TOMATO RAMEKINS OlX eggs, three tomatoes, six slices of bacon, ^ four pieces of buttered toast, one dessert- spoonful of chopped parsley, one tablespoonful of finely chopped ham and one ounce of butter. Butter well six small china ramekin cases ; sprinkle the bottom of each with chopped ham and parsley. Break an egg into each ramekin case ; place them in a saute pan, half-filled with boiling water ; cover with buttered paper and steam in the oven for about five minutes, or until the eggs are set. Cut the tomatoes in halves, season and put them in a saute pan in a hot oven ; put a very little piece of butter on each, and cook until they are tender. Toast the bread, and cut it into rounds ; fry the bacon ; lay half of a tomato on each round of toast. Unmould the egg ramekins on to the tomato ; arrange these neatly on to a hot dish, with the fried bacon laid round the tomatoes, and serve. % SCOTCH EGGS FOUR hard-boiled eggs, one pound of finely chopped sausage-meat, one gill of tomato sauce, raw egg, parsley, frying fat and bread- crumbs.EGG DISHES Remove the shells from the eggs ; dip them in flour and cover completely with a layer of sausage- meat ; brush all over with beaten egg ; roll in breadcrumbs and fry a nice light brown colour in hot fat. Take up as soon as done ; drain them on a cloth or paper and cut in halves lengthways. Range the eggs, cut side up on a dish, with a little mashed potato under each egg. Garnish with fried parsley, and pour the tomato sauce, very hot, round the eggs, and serve. * CURRIED EGGS TT'OUR eggs, one ounce of butter, three-quarters of an ounce of flour, one onion, half an apple, two teaspoonfuls of curry powder, one and a half gills of white stock, salt and boiled rice. Boil the eggs for ten minutes ; shell them and place in a basin of cold water. Cut two of the eggs into four rounds and each round into two. Cut up smaller the other eggs ; peel the apple and onion, and chop finely. Melt the butter in a sauce- pan and fry the onion and apple a golden brown. Put in the curry powder, flour and a little salt ; stir over the fire for a few minutes ; then add the stock gradually; simmer gently for about ten minutes. Put in the chopped pieces of egg and 835THE DUDLEY RECIPES 336 allow to get hot; turn the curry on to a hot dish and arrange round it the boiled rice. Serve any sauce that may be over in a sauce- boat. /^OOK some slices of hard-boiled eggs in a rich cream sauce ; fry some slices of Spanish onion. Serve arranged in a dish, and sauced with rich cream sauce. UT some hard-boiled eggs in half, lengthways, and remove the yolks. Chop finely some shallots, parsley, sorrel and the yolks of the eggs. Season with grated peppercorns and salt. Fill the halves of the whites of the eggs with the mixture and bake in the oven. Serve with fried parsley as a garnish. EGGS A LA NORMANDE SAVOURY EGGSEGG DISHES x 337 ANOTHER METHOD OF COOKING EGGS (GEORGETTE) T) AKE some fine large potatoes in the oven ; cut A-J each potato in half, lengthwise, with the point of a small knife, and remove the pulp. Cook the interior of each half potato with a fine chicken mincemeat mixed with cream and well seasoned. Place a poached egg, coated with Aurora sauce, in each, and serve very hot. AURORA SAUCE TNTO one half-pint of boiling veloute, put the same quantity of very red tomato puree and mix the two. Let the sauce boil a little ; pass it through a tammy and finish it away from the fire with three ounces of butter whisked into it. % EGGS GEORGETTE r 11AKE some large potatoes in the oven ; open them lengthways with a sharp knife ; remove the pulp from the inside ; rub it through a sieve ;THE DUDLEY RECIPES 338 add a little cream, making it into a smooth puree, and season. Half-fill the potato shells with this puree ; break an egg into every other one ; besprinkle with cream and cook lightly in the oven. Replace the other half of the baked shell, giving the potato the appearance of being whole, and dish up very hot on a napkin. % EGG CUTLETS fT^AKE some hard-boiled eggs and mince them. Mix with them some grated Parmesan cheese and chopped herbs, parsley, chervil, tarragon and chives. Moisten with raw yolks of eggs and a little rich white sauce. Shape like cutlets ; egg and breadcrumb over and fry them in deep fat. Serve with fried parsley as a garnish. PORTUGUESE EGGS T)UT a tablespoonful of tomato pulp into a dish ; -L break the eggs upon this ; season and cook. Between the eggs, and at each end of the dish, put a little heap of thick tomato pulp, and on each of the eggs drop a pinch of finely chopped parsley.EGG DISHES 339 MEYERBEER EGGS r 11AKE the number of dishes so that there is one for each person. Heat sufficient butter in each dish to cover the whole of the bottom; break two eggs carefully into each dish ; baste the yolks with a very little hot butter ; salt slightly and push the dish into the oven. As soon as the white of the eggs assumes a milky white colour, they are cooked and should be withdrawn from the oven and served immediately. Special care must be taken that the eggs are not cooked too much or too quickly, particularly as it should be remembered that the heat of the dish completes the cooking to a certain extent after it is removed from the oven. For the meyerbeer, place a small grilled sheep’s or lamb’s kidney on each dish with the eggs and surround with a thread of Perigueux sauce. Serve immediately.340 14 BREAKFAST DISHES SMOKED HADDOCK KEDGEREE ONE smoked haddock, four ounces of rice, two hard-boiled eggs, two ounces of butter, Krona red pepper and salt, and a little thick cream. Wash and boil the rice ; drain and dry it ; remove the bones and skin from the fish ; break into pieces and remove the shells of the eggs and cut the whites of the eggs into small square pieces. Melt the butter in a stewpan and add the rice to it. Then add the fish, the whites of the eggs, the red Krona pepper and a little grated nutmeg and salt. Lastly, moisten slightly with a little thick cream. Mix all well together. Serve on a hot dish and sprinkle the yolks of the eggs grated over the top. STUFFED BACON ~1\ /TAKE a forcemeat by mixing one teaspoonful of breadcrumbs, one teaspoonful of chopped parsley, half a teaspoonful of chopped onion andBREAKFAST DISHES 341 one tablespoonful of chopped chicken, ham and tongue. Season with pepper and salt, and moisten with a well-beaten egg. Cut some thin slices of bacon, smooth out with a knife and spread evenly with a layer of the force- meat. Roll them up and tie with fine string and fry until the bacon is cooked. Serve on oblong pieces of bread, fried in melted butter to a golden brown. EXCELLENT FOR BREAKFAST OR LUNCH OOK the rice in good rich broth, mixed with picked shrimps or prawns (or shelled and sliced crayfish), some finely chopped fried onions, some grated Parmesan cheese and a very little curry paste or powder, and finish with a small piece of fresh butter. T)ACON should be cut in very thin slices and put in the oven on a baking-sheet. The way of cooking makes more difference than the kind of bacon. Also it is best served upon a grid made to fit the dish. FLORENTINE SAVOURY RICE TO COOK BACONTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 342 BOUCHEES OF RICE TTULL some small bouchee shapes with savoury rice ; fry them in deep fat a light brown colour. Scoop out the centres and fill wTith scrambled eggs. Serve with fried parsley as a garnish. A good dish for breakfast or lunch. SAUTED KIDNEYS SIX kidneys, sliced. Put a little butter in an omelet pan on the stove ; when hot put in the kidneys and fry for about a minute. Season, and flour over with a small teaspoonful of flour. Stir, and wet with sufficient light stock to mix ; add the juice of one lemon and a little chopped parsley. Make hot, but do not allow to boil, as it hardens the kidneys. They should be served in a brown, fireproof dish with small squares of fried bread placed round the kidneys. %BREAKFAST DISHES 343 ROGNONS SAUTES AUX CHAMPIGNONS Ij^OUR to five sheeps’ kidneys, one ounce of butter, two small shallots, eight to ten fresh or preserved mushrooms, one gill of half-glaze sauce, a glass of Madeira, parsley, fried bread croutons cut into squares and seasoning. Remove the skin and core from the kidneys and cut into slices ; season with pepper and salt ; mince finely the shallots and slice the mushrooms. Put the butter into a saute pan, and when hot add the shallots and allow them to colour light brown ; then add the kidneys, and either shake or toss well over a brisk fire for about six minutes ; add the Madeira and cover the pan and allow the contents to infuse for a few seconds. Put in the sauce (which has previously been well reduced) and the mushrooms. Allow the whole to get thoroughly hot, but not to boil, else the kidne\s will become hard. Dish up with the croutons of fried bread placed round the dish and a very little very finely chopped parsley sprinkled over them. Calves’ liver or kidneys may be prepared in the same way. %THE DUDLEY RECIPES 344 GRILLED KIDNEYS DIABLE OTEEP as many sheeps’ kidneys as are required in tepid water ; remove the skins and split each in half without quite detaching them; fasten them on to wooden or steel skewers ; season with salt and pepper, and brush over with sweet oil or liquified butter. Place them on a well-greased gridiron and grill on both sides from five to eight minutes. Dish up on toasted and buttered bread, and serve with a small quantity of devilled butter placed in the centre of each kidney. Kidneys can be grilled in the same way and the centres filled with parsley butter, instead of devilled butter. Parsley butter is prepared as follows :— Mix one ounce of fresh butter with one tea- spoonful of chopped parsley, a sprig of tarragon and one of chervil finely chopped, one teaspoonful of lemon juice and a pinch of salt and pepper. Spread on a plate ; put on ice and shape into pats when quite firm. FRIED HOMINY CAKES TI>OIL up half a pint of white stock and milk U with a large pat of butter and half a bay leaf. Stir in two ounces of hominy. Cook for tenBREAKFAST DISHES 345 minutes, stirring all the time. Season with salt, pepper and grated nutmeg ; remove the bay leaf and add the yolks of two eggs. Spread this on a buttered plate to get cool. Divide the mixture into eight portions, shape into round flat cakes, egg and crumb them and fry in very deep hot fat to a golden colour. Drain, dish up, and serve hot. WHITE PUDDINGS FOR BREAKFAST f I TAKE some well-cleaned pigs’ skins, as for sausage making, and fill them with the following mixture :■— One teacupful of chopped suet, not too finely chopped, one teacupful of medium Scotch oatmeal, a little finely chopped parsley, and one onion which has been chopped small and simmered in a little butter long enough to remove its rawness. Season well with black pepper and a little salt; mix well, and when quite full prick the skins with a needle to prevent bursting. Blanch slowly in water over the fire, but when up to boiling heat, place the pan on side of stove for fifteen minutes ; dry the sausages, fry a golden brown in bacon fat or dripping, and serve on toast.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 346 YORKSHIRE SMOKED HAM COOKED IN BROWN SUGAR fTlAKE a very good smoked Yorkshire ham and soak it in cold water for two days. Then place it in fresh water in a stewpan with a pound of brown sugar. The ham should be allowed to cook very gently (to simmer) for five hours or five hours and a half, and then allowed to grow cold in the liquor in which it wras cooked. It should be pared and covered all over with brown sugar and passed under the salamander to give it a good colour. HAMBURG HUNG BEEF (SCRAPED) f 11AKE two pounds of the beef and boil gently for about two and a half hours. When cold, remove outside skin and scrape with a coarse scraper. Serve on a napkin either for breakfast or lunch. Cold smoked tongue can be treated in the same way. The scrapers can be obtained from any iron- monger.BREAKFAST DISHES 347 GREEN CORN FRITTERS ONE tin of green corn, two eggs, three table- spoonfuls of flour, two tablespoonfuls of finely chopped herbs (chervil, tarragon, parsley, chives, etc.), oil or frying fat. Drain the green corn ; put the flour and herb seasoning into a basin and mix well together ; beat the eggs ; add them and the green corn to the flour and seasoning, and mix well. Season with salt and pepper and shape into fritters. Fry in boiling oil or deep fat to a light brown colour. Dish up, and serve hot with fried parsley as a garnish. CURRY CROQUETTES XpOUR ounces of rice, half a pound of cold meat, one teaspoonful of curry powder, one tea- spoonful of lemon juice, two eggs, breadcrumbs, frying fat, half an ounce of flour, one gill of any kind of stock, one ounce of butter, one teaspoonful of chopped onion and a little chopped parsley. The remains of any cold meat or game will do for this dish—or any cold fish. Free the meat from skin and gristle, and remove the fat ; chop the meat up very finely. Wash, blanch, and boil the rice ; drain and dry it in front of the fire. PutTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 348 the butter and onion into the saucepan, fry it, but do not allow it to brown ; then stir in the curry powder and flour. When this is cooked, but not browned, add the meal and lemon juice ; allow this to cook a little longer over the fire ; add the meat and boiled rice. Beat up one egg and add it to the mixture ; stir just long enough to bind the egg; add a pinch of salt and spread the mixture upon a dish. When cold, shape into balls of even size ; beat up the other egg, and egg the balls ; then roll them in breadcrumbs and fry in hot fat a nice light brown colour. Drain on to a paper or cloth, and dish up in a pile with fried parsley as a garnish.48 TEA CAKES, ETC.A TEA PARTY Now for the banquet we press ; Now for the eggs and the ham ! Now for the mustard and cress ! Now for the strawberry jam ! Now for the tea of our host ! Now for the rollicking bun ! Now for the muffin and toast ! Now for the gay Sally Lunn. w. gilbert r« Thank God for tea ! What would the world do without tea ? How did it exist ? I am glad I was not born before tea. SIDNEY SMITH Would'st thou both eat thy cake and have it ? GEORGE HERBERT You cannot eat your cake and have your cake and store's no sore. Cervantes % LABOURS OF THE MILKMAID Soon as the grey-eyed morning streaks the skies, And in the doubtful day the woodcock flies, Her cleanly pail the pretty housewife bears, And singing, to the distant fields repairs ; And when the plains with ev'ning dew are spread, The milky burthen smokes upon her head.He that will have cake out of the wheat must tarry the grinding. Shakespeare TEA Tea ! thou soft, thou sober, sage, and venerable liquid ;— Thou female tongue-running, smile-soothing, opening, IF ink-tippling cordial, to whose glorious insipidity I owe The happiest moments of my life, fall pros- trate ! COLLEY CIBBER, “ THE LADY’S LAST STAKE ” The gentle fair on nervous tea relies. Whilst gay good nature sparkles in her eyes, An inoffensive scandal fluttering round, Too rough to tickle and too light to wound. CRABBE, “ INEBRIETY ” 1 Her tea she sweetens, as she sips, with scandal. ROGERS Love and scandal are the best sweeteners of tea. FIELDING Economy is of itself a great revenue. CICERO352 FRIENDLINESS OF A FIRE A fire's a good companionable friend— A comfortable friend, who meets your face With welcome glad, and makes the poorest shed As pleasant as a palace. Are you cold ? He warms you. Weary ? he refreshes you. Hungry ? he doth prepare your food for you. Are you in darkness ? he gives light to you. In a strange land ? he wears a face that is Familiar from your childhood. Are you poor ? What matters it to him. He knows no difference Between an Emperor and the poorest beggar ! Where is the friend, that bears the name of Man Will do as much for you ? MARY HO WITT48 TEA CAKES, ETC. 353 EGG SANDWICHES BETWEEN TOAST FOR TEA SUFFICIENT FOR THREE PERSONS T30IL two fresh eggs for ten minutes ; place in -L* cold water, and shell, dry, and pound in mortar ; add one ounce of fresh butter, a little pepper and salt ; mix well, and pass through wire sieve. Cut some rounds of bread about a quarter of an inch thick ; toast slowly a nice brown ; split with a sharp knife whilst hot, place the egg mixture between two pieces of toast, press together, and butter over both outsides with warm butter. Cut into neat sandwiches ; place in oven for three or four minutes, and serve very hot. These sandwiches should be prepared just before they are required, as they spoil if kept waiting.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 354 HOT TEA-CAKE TNTO half a pound of flour rub two ounces of good beef dripping, a pinch of salt, one whole egg, and a dessertspoonful of baking powder and a little milk, just sufficient to make a paste stiff enough to roll into a tea-cake. Cut the egg into a round about the size of a saucer, egg over, and bake a nice brown. When done, cut into rounds and butter each plentifully ; pile up again, and cut the pile into four sections. Serve hot. This is an excellent recipe. HOT TEA-CAKES TTALF a pound of flour, three ounces of butter, one ounce of lard, three ounces of castor sugar, two eggs well beaten and a little milk. Mix to- gether, then add one and a half teaspoonfuls of baking powder, and make into cakes nearly the size of muffins. Bake for fifteen minutes in a very quick oven. Turn occasionally, as they burn very quickly. Split and butter them, and serve very hot. %TEA CAKES, ETC. 355 TEA-CAKES QUARTER of a pound of butter, two ounces of sugar, one pint of milk, two pounds of flour, four teaspoonfuls of baking powder and a little salt. Put the butter into the milk and make it luke- warm. Mix the flour, baking powder and salt to- gether ; add the milk, and knead it well. Make into round cakes, which should be left on a baking sheet before the fire to rise. When risen, put into a hot oven, and bake for half an hour. % LEMON CHEESE-CAKES FOR TEA ONE pound of castor sugar, a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, the yolks of six eggs, the whites of four eggs, the juice of three lemons and the grated peel of two. Place this mixture in a pan, and stand the pan in another one filled with water, which must be allowed to become boiling hot over the fire, stirring all the time until the mixture becomes thick like honey. Stir always one way, and gently, so that the mixture may not curdle. When thick, set the pan in a cool place, and it will thicken as it cools. Place the mixture in a jar.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 356 Make some small round, light tartlets of half- puff pastry and fill them with the mixture. % ALMOND BISCUITS FOR TEA OR DESSERT ONE pound of ground sweet almonds, one pound of castor sugar ; add enough white of egg to make into a paste. Pipe the mixture on to fools- cap paper in rounds, or any shapes desired, and leave to dry until the following day. Bake a pale brown. Damp the back of the paper, and the biscuits will come off quite easily without breaking. If liked, ice with a little water icing, or white of egg and icing sugar, and they can have a dried cherry placed in the centi’e of each biscuit. % CORN CAKES ONE ounce of castor sugar, eight ounces of flour, six ounces of Indian meal, six ounces of white meal, one and a half teaspoonfuls of Borwick’s baking powder, one and a half pints of milk and one ounce of melted butter. Mix all the ingredients together, and mix the melted butter with the milk. Stir all together,TEA CAKES, ETC. Y 357 then make into size required, and bake in a moderate oven. YORKSHIRE MUFFINS f 11AKE seven pounds of flour, one ounce of salt, two quarts of water, a quarter of a pint of brewers’ yeast (if this is not obtainable, use ordi- nary yeast). Place the flour in a basin with the salt. Make a hollow in centre of flour, and pour in the yeast with the two quarts of water, warmed. Beat all together for twenty minutes. Let the mixture rise in the same bowl for about twenty minutes ; then beat down a second time. Turn on to a well- floured pasteboard, and make into nice rounds with the aid of a spoon and fork. Flour these well, and bake on a girdle until they blister ; then turn, and bake on the other side. Keep very hot, and before serving milk round, pull apart, and butter plenti- fully and cut into sections. rd PIKELETS FOR TEA OR BREAKFAST HALF a pound of flour, half an ounce of yeast, one whole egg well beaten, all mixed into half a pint of warm milk ; add a pinch of salt, andTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 358 work into a soft batter. Let it rise for one hour, then cook on a hot greased girdle. Butter them, and serve hot. BREAKFAST OR TEA CAKES OIX handfuls of flour, half a pint of milk, a small ^ piece of butter, about two ounces of yeast and one egg. Put the flour into a bowl, making a hole in the centre of the flour ; warm the milk and butter, and add it to the flour. Mix the two ounces of yeast in a little cold water ; add this to the batter, also one egg well beaten, stirring all well together. Cover it over and set it in a warm place to rise. Knead it and cut into rounds, then leave it to rise a second time. Bake in a good oven for about twenty to thirty minutes, according to size. POTATO SCONES QUARTER of a pound of flour, one ounce of melted butter, one egg, a pinch of salt and a dessertspoonful of baking powder. Mix these ingredients all together with a little milk into a paste ; then drop it in small pats out of a teacupTEA CAKES, ETC. 359 on to a hot girdle, which must be well buttered beforehand. When the paste begins to bubble, turn them over with a knife. They require a very short time to cook. ANOTHER RECIPE FOR SCONES ONE pound of flour, two ounces of butter and one tablespoonful of baking powder. Mix with sour milk or cream. Roll out to the thickness of about an inch, cut into rounds, and bake in a quick oven. SCOTCH OAT-CAKES fTlAKE three-quarters of a pound of Scotch -■- medium oatmeal, half a teaspoonful of carbonate of soda and two ounces of butter. Rub the oatmeal and butter together ; dilute the soda in a little milk. Make into a paste with water, just enough to make a firm paste. Roll out thinly and cut in triangle shapes. Bake on a girdle, then toast in front of the fire for a few minutes. %THE DUDLEY RECIPES 360 OAT-CAKES T7" NEAD, mixed with boiling water, one pound of oatmeal and one ounce of butter. Make it wet enough to hold together and roll out on a pastry board thickly covered with oatmeal. The paste should be a little thicker than a penny. Cut according to taste, and bake either on a girdle or in the oven. COFFEE CAKE T)UT into a copper basin half a pound of sugar -L and eight eggs. Mix well. Place the basin upon hot cinders, or upon the stove, and whisk its contents until they reach a thick light creamy appearance ; then add one teaspoonful of vanilla sugar, six ounces of fine sifted flour and four ounces of melted butter—the latter being carefully and gently poured into the paste without any sediment. Mix lightly with a spoon, and place in a deep flat mould or cake tin, which has been well buttered and floured. Bake in a good oven and allow it to get cold ; cut it into three rounds and spread with the following mixture :— Take a quarter pound of fresh butter, four ounces of powdered sugar, the yolk of one egg and a large tablespoonful of French, or Allen-TEA CAKES, ETC. 361 bury’s, coffee essence. Work the sugar and egg for five minutes, then add the coffee essence, and by degrees work in the butter—which has been made soft—and do this for a few minutes in a cool place. Add a little more coffee, and spread the mixture between the layers of the cake ; pile on one another, and ice the top of the cake with royal icing with a few drops of coffee essence in it. % MOCHA ICING rilHREE ounces of icing sugar, one and a half tablespoonfuls of strong coffee, one and a half spoonfuls of water ; warm over fire in a stewpan until the sugar is dissolved and smooth, then cover the tartlets. 1 GATEAU DE SAVOIE Id OUR fresh eggs, four ounces of castor sugar, two ounces of potato flour, the grated rind of one lemon and the juice of half a lemon. Whisk separately the whites and the yolks of the eggs ; add to the yolks the sugar and other ingredients. Mix well, then add the whites of eggs which have been well whisked. Put in a ring mould and bake in a moderate oven.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 362 GATEAU HOLLANDAISE SEVEN ounces of flour, seven ounces of butter, two ounces of “ Dark Foot ” sugar. Rub all these together and divide into two pieces ; roll out into the size required and bake in a nice hot oven. When ready, cut into flat rounds ; spread orange marmalade thickly on one round, placing the other round on top. It should be short and crumbly, like the best shortbread. YORKSHIRE GINGER CAKE r 11HREE-QUARTERS of a pound of flour, a quarter of a pound of brown sugar, a quarter of a pound of butter, half a pound of golden syrup, one teaspoonful carbonate of soda, one of ground ginger, one of mixed spice, three whole eggs and sufficient milk to moisten. Melt the butter and treacle together and place in a basin the flour, sugar, ginger and spice. Mix and add the butter and treacle, and the three eggs well beaten. Melt the soda in a little milk, and add this lastly to the mixture. Beat all well together, and bake in a well-buttered cake mould in a moderate oven for an hour and a half. This cake is excellent.TEA CAKES, ETC. 363 SLEDMERE GINGERBREAD TTALF a pound of butter, half a pound of castor sugar, half a pound of golden syrup, one pound of flour, half an ounce of ground ginger, one tea- spoonful of carbonate of soda and four eggs. Put the butter, sugar and treacle into a stewpan and place over the fire to melt. Then beat up the eggs and stir the butter, sugar and treacle into them. Add the ginger and soda and stir all together into the flour. Bake in a deep tin, buttered and papered, until it becomes a golden brown, for three-quarters of an hour. When cold, cut into fingers or squares. This is an excellent recipe for children. AN ORANGE CAKE TjpOUR ounces of butter, four ounces of sugar, four ounces of self-raising flour, two whole eggs, the juice and the grated rind of one orange. Mix butter and sugar together, then add the eggs and flour, and juice and rind of orange. Beat all well together, and bake in a moderate oven for half an hour. When cold, ice over, and decorate with crystallized orange quarters. If preferred, this cake, when baked and beforeTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 364 being iced, can be cut into rounds and spread with whipped cream flavoured with orange, then piled together again and iced and decorated. QUARTER of a pound of ground rice, a quarter of a pound of flour, half a pound of sugar, six ounces of butter and four eggs. Add ingredients first, then whisk the whites and yolks of eggs last, and bake. This cake is excellent. Any flavouring can be used, and it can be iced, if preferred. ITALF a pound of butter, half a pound of sugar, three ounces of flour, four ounces of ground almonds, half a pound of grated chocolate, seven Cream the butter and sugar, and add the yolks of eggs, one by one, then the almonds, the choco- late, and the flour and one teaspoonful of sal volatile. Whip the whites of eggs and add them lastly. Bake in a buttered and floured tin for about an hour in a moderate oven. RICE CAKE A CHOCOLATE CAKE eggs.TEA CAKES, ETC. 365 CHOCOLATE CAKE TAKE seven ounces of buttei’, seven ounces of sugar, four and a half ounces of flour, the yolks of twelve eggs and the whites beaten into a froth, and stir all together until it becomes frothy. To make the Icing :— Take five and a half ounces of sugar and boil well with about one gill of water. Then mix it with four and a half ounces of chocolate. When mixed, spread the whole over the cake and place it beside the stove to dry. % SULTANA CAKE QUARTER of a pound of butter, quarter of a pound of sugar, three eggs, half a pound of flour, six ounces of sultanas and one small tea- spoonful of baking powder. Beat the butter to a cream ; add the sugar, working it well in ; then add the eggs, well beaten. Mix all well together, then add the flour, raisins and baking powder. Bake in a moderate oven for an hour and a quarter.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 366 BUNS D UB about two ounces of butter into some flour with a little sugar. Mix half an ounce of yeast in a pint of warm milk with one egg. Mix these all together into a light batter and set them to rise ; then mix into dough and set them to rise again. Add some currants, if liked, and set to rise again. Brush over with yolk of egg and bake quickly. SALLY LUNN TDUT two or three spoonfuls of good thick yeast, the yolks of four eggs, a pint of milk, two ounces of butter and a little salt into a saucepan, and just warm them sufficiently to melt the butter. Add two pounds of flour, and mix it all together into as light a dough as possible. Let it rise for half an hour before the fire, and make into moderate-sized cakes. Then set them to rise for half an hour longer and bake in a quick oven for half an hour. %TEA CAKES, ETC. 367 COCOANUT CAKE THREE eggs, four ounces of butter, four ounces of sugar, six ounces of flour, one small tea- spoonful of baking powder and one ounce of dessicated cocoanut. Beat the butter to a cream ; add the sugar and work them well together; then add the beaten eggs, and, lastly, the flour, baking powder and cocoanut. Bake for about three-quarters of an hour. Allow to cool and ice with wet icing, and sprinkle quickly with cocoanut. 9 SNOW CAKE /"YNE pound of arrowroot, eight ounces of sugar, eight ounces of butter, the whites of seven eggs, whipped, and flavouring. Mix the butter to a cream ; then add the sugar and arrowroot, and lastly the eggs. % CANADIAN CAKES A POUND and a half of sifted flour, one pound of sifted sugar, one pound of fresh butter, ten eggs, two teaspoonfuls of orange-flower water, twoTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 368 teaspoonfuls of brandy, half a pound of currants and the peel of half a lemon, grated. Beat the mixture until it is light and creamy ; have ready some square tins lined with buttered paper; put the mixture into them half an inch deep and bake in a quick oven and cut into squares or diamonds. Bake for fifteen minutes. This cake may be iced, but it must be cut before the icing is done. POUND and a half of butter, a pound and a half of sugar, two pounds of flour, fourteen eggs, three pounds of currants, three pounds of sultanas, half a pound of ground almonds, two wineglassfuls of brandy, spice to taste. Mix the butter and sugar first and beat it until it looks like cream ; then beat in the eggs, one at a time. Be sure to keep it well beaten. Then put in the fruit, and lastly the flour and brandy and a teaspoonful of baking powder. Bake in a moderate oven for about two hours and a half. RICH CAKETEA CAKES, ETC. 369 ALMOND SIMNEL CAKE HALF a pound of butter, half a pound of sugar, two ounces of rice flour, four eggs, seven ounces of flour and half a pound of currants. Mix all together in the same way as for a plum cake. Put a layer of the mixture in a cake tin ; then a layer of almond icing ; then another layer of the mixture. Bake in a moderate oven, and when nearly cooked, take it out and place tiny balls of almond icing round the top of the cake. For the Almond Icing :— Take quarter of an ounce of bitter almonds, half an ounce of Valentia almonds, ten ounces of sugar and the whites of two eggs. 1 OMELET PAN ICE CAKE rTTEN ounces of potato flour, two ounces of flour. twelve ounces of pounded sugar, twelve ounces of butter, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, seven eggs and one lemon, grated, or vanilla. Work the butter and sugar to a cream ; add the eggs one by one ; pass the flour and baking powder through a sieve and add these at the last.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 370 POUND CAKES TO MAKE THREE SMALL ONES /’"'iNE and a quarter pounds of best Hungarian N-' flour, twelve ounces of butter, twelve ounces of castor sugar, nine eggs, half a pound of currants, half a pound of sultanas, a pinch of carbonate of soda and a pinch of tartaric acid. Work the butter and sugar to a cream in a basin until nice and light. Add one egg at a time, mixing well, and then the flour and fruit. Bake in a good oven, not too hot, but steady. % ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE RAISIN CAKE TAKE one pound of flour and rub it into a quarter of a pound of castor sugar, three- quarters of a pound of stoned raisins and one ounce of German yeast. Mix with milk (not too stiffly), put in a tin and bake in a moderate oven. Use Hungarian flour for preference. %TEA CAKES, ETC. 371 FAIRY CAKES FOR TEA rpiAKE the weight of one egg in butter, same A- quantity of castor sugar and of flour. Work the sugar and butter into a cream, add a few drops of vanilla essence and gently dredge in the flour. Fill some small moulds (which have been previously buttered and floured) with the mixture, and bake a golden colour ; turn out on a sieve to get cool. QUEEN CAKES T11EN ounces of sugar, twelve ounces of butter, fourteen ounces of flour and six eggs. First beat up the eggs separately, then mix with the butter ; then add the flour and sugar, a pound and a half of currants and a little baking powder. Bake in a quick oven. % BACHELOR BUTTONS YANE whole egg, five ounces of flour, three ounces of castor sugar and three ounces of fresh butter.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 372 Rub the butter into the flour smoothly, adding the sugar ; beat the egg well, and mix all together into a paste, and make into the size of walnuts. Dip each of these once into castor sugar, and place a candied cherry on each. Bake in a steady oven until nicely browned. % RICE BISCUITS TTALF a pound of flour, two ounces of butter, a quarter of a pound of ground rice, a quarter of a pound of castor sugar, a teaspoonful of baking powder and a little essence of vanilla. Mix to a paste with a little cream ; roll out and cut into rounds with a small biscuit cutter, and bake in a moderate oven. r« WHEATEN BISCUITS ONE pound of wheaten meal, six ounces of butter, and two ounces of moist sugar. Mix all together with cream, roll out the paste very thin and cut with a round cutter. Bake in a quick oven.TEA CAKES, ETC. z 373 SWISS ROLL USEFUL FOR NURSERY OR SCHOOLROOM THE weight of four eggs in butter and sugar, and the weight of three eggs in flour. Mix the eggs and sugar to a cream ; then add the flour as lightly as possible. Paper a baking sheet and pour the mixture on it. Bake quickly, then turn out on to a sugared paper. Have ready some warmed raspberry or other jam. Spread thinly all over and roll up tightly and quickly. Allow to remain until cold and cut in slices. WATER BISCUITS i^ANE pound of flour, a little salt and a piece of butter the size of a walnut. Mix to a soft paste with some cream {no water to be used). Turn out the paste on to a slab and beat it well with a rolling-pin until quite smooth. Then roll it, not very thin ; prick with a biscuit docker all over ; place on a hot baking sheet and bake in a hot oven. %THE DUDLEY RECIPES 374 ANOTHER RECIPE FOR WATER BISCUITS TTALF a pound of flour, two ounces of butter -*--L an(j a pinch 0f sait. Mix with cream ; beat well and bake on hot tins. 1 ZWIEBACK GERMAN RUSKS mWO pounds of Vienna flour, three-quarters of an ounce of German yeast, half a pint of milk, half a pint of water, three ounces of castor sugar and a pinch of salt. Sift the flour into a pan and add the salt and rub in a little lard ; make a well in the centre, in it mix the yeast with a little tepid water and very little flour ; melt the butter and work it into the dough. Divide the dough into half-pounds and shape into large rolls. Place them close together on a floured baking sheet when proved ; bake them from forty to forty-five minutes and glaze with sweetened milk. This is called “ milk-bread.” When it is one or twro days old, it should be cut up into even-sized slices, placed on wire trays and dried in the oven till quite crisp. They are then called rusks or zwieback.TEA CAKES, ETC. 375 RUSKS ONE pound of flour, two ounces of sugar, two ounces of butter, half a pint of milk, half an ounce of yeast and the yolk of an egg. Rub the butter into the flour mixed with the sugar ; dissolve the yeast in a little warm milk ; warm the half-pint of milk and add the yolk of egg, and mix with the yeast, and set to rise in a warm place, and then put in tins to rise again and bake in a quick oven. FINGER-SHAPED BREAKFAST ROLLS SIFT one pound of flour and rub into it two ounces of butter. Mix in the whites of three eggs beaten to a froth, and a teaspoonful of strong yeast. Add enough milk (with a little salt) to make a stiff dough, and set it, covered, before the fire to rise, which will take about an hour. Cut into long, narrow strips and put into a quick oven. They will be done in about ten or twelve minutes. Brush over with yolk of egg. 1THE DUDLEY RECIPES 376 FRENCH ROLLS 111VKE a quarter of a peck of flour and rub into it a quarter of a pound of butter. Put in a little salt. Then take a pint of milk and half a pint of good ale yeast, and mix in the same way as other bread. Lay it to rise before the fire for half an hour, covered with a cloth. Make it into rolls, then prick and salt them, and place before the fire again for half an hour. Put in a quick oven for half an hour more. Before serving, rasp them. '« FRENCH TEA BISCUITS f I TWELVE ounces of sifted flour, the yolks of J- three eggs, six ounces of castor sugar, six ounces of butter, orange-flower water, granulated sugar, shredded almonds or pistachios and royal icing. Put the flour on to a board ; make a well in the centre ; put in the yolks of the eggs, sugar and butter, and work into a smooth paste by means of a few drops of milk and orange-flower water. The paste, when finished, should be, in appearance and consistency, the same as short-crust paste. Roll out about a quarter of an inch thick and stampTEA CAKES, ETC. 377 out some rounds or ovals, according to taste and fancy. Place these on a greased baking tin. Spread each with a thin layer of icing to which a little orange-flower water has been added ; strew over with chopped pistachio nuts or almonds and bake in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes. As they come out of the oven, brush over with liquid icing, which will set as the biscuits get cool379 42 HOUSEKEEPER, ETC., AND MISCELLANEOUSA CHEERFUL WOMAN She was a soft landscape of mild earth, Where all was harmony, and calm, and quiet Luxuriant: budding : cheerful without mirth, Which, if not happiness, is much more nigh it Than are your mighty passions. byron % Comfort, like the Golden Sun, Dispels the sullen shade with her sweet influence And cheers the melancholy house of care. ROwe r# Frugality may be termed the daughter of prudence, the sister of temperance and the parent of liberty. He that is extravagant will quickly become poor, and poverty will enforce dependence and invite corruption. % The sweetest honey Is loathsome in its own deliciousness, And in taste confounds the appetite. SHAKESPEARE % Man, through all ages of revolving time, Unchanging man, in every varying clime, Deems his own land of every land the pride. Belov'd of heaven o'er all the world beside : His home, the spot of earth supremely blest. A dearer, sweeter spot than all the rest. J. MONTGOMERYResolve—and tell your wije of your good reso- lution. She will aid it all she can. Her step will be lighter and her hand zvill be busier all day, expecting the comfortable evening at home when you return. Household affairs will have been well attended to. A place for everything,, and everything in its place, will, like some good genius, have made even an humble home the scene of neatness, arrange- ment and taste. The table will be ready at the fireside. The loaf will be one of that order which says, by its appearance, 44You may cut and come again!” The cups and saucers will be waiting for supplies. The kettle will be singing ; and the children, happy with fresh air and exercise, will be smiling in their glad anticipation of that evening meal when father is at home, and of the pleasant reading afterwards. helps Who hath not met with home-made bread, A heavy compound of putty and lead. And home-made wines that rack the head, And home-made liqueurs and waters. Home-made pop that will not foam. And home-made dishes that drive one from home, Not to name each mess For the face or dress, Home-made by the homely daughters ? HOOD, 44 MISS KILMANSEGG ” % She loolceth well to the ways of her household, and eateth not the bread of idleness, old testament382 TOASTS Here's to the maiden of bashful fifteen ; Here's to the widow of fifty ; Here's to the flaunting extravagant quean, And here's to the housewife that's thrifty ! Let the toast pass ; Drink to the lass ; I'll warrant she'll prove an excuse for the glass. SHERIDAN, “ SCHOOL FOR~SCANDAL,” III, iii J-S 7 7383 42 HOUSEKEEPER, ETC., AND MISCELLANEOUS HOW TO ROAST SPANISH CHESTNUTS mAKE the chestnuts and cut off a small piece of the pointed top of the shell, making a small score with a knife the form of a cross. Place the chestnuts in their shells into a little milk and let them boil for about ten minutes or a quarter of an hour, according to their size, so as to allow the milk to soak in through the tip of the chestnut; then remove and dry them carefully. Place them on a tin in the oven to roast for about ten minutes, until the shells are crisp and the insides are soft and mealy. They should be served in a napkin and very hot. TO SERVE A MELON IN HOT WEATHER TT'ITHER lay it on crushed ice, or, after it has been cut, place a large piece of ice in the inside. The seeds of the melon can be removed,THE DUDLEY RECIPES 384 but the juice should be allowed to remain in the fruit. r5 A VERY GOOD RECIPE FOR ORANGE MARMALADE OEVEN pounds of marmalade oranges, one ^ pound of sweet oranges, four lemons, and ten pounds of loaf sugar. Wipe the oranges and lemons and pare off yellow rind, leaving white pith. Cut the rind into small chips ; soak these in salt and water for an hour ; wash repeatedly ; then boil for half an hour in four large breakfast cups of water ; change the water twice, and boil until the chips are soft. Take the white pith off the oranges and lemons and throw it away. Cut up the pulp and put it in a preserving pan with twelve breakfastcups of water, boil gently for half an hour, stirring now and again, and strain through a jelly-bag. Next day put the strained liquid, sugar and chips, and the liquid they were boiled in, into the preserving pan, and boil for from twenty to thirty minutes, skim- ming carefully. Put into glass jars for use, with oiled paper tied over the top of each jar.MISCELLANEOUS 385 LEMON MARMALADE SIX lemons, or more, to make up the weight of two pounds and three pounds of loaf sugar. The lemons used must be clean and smooth. Put them in a copper stewpan and cover well with water; boil them for about two hours, changing the water two or three times during the process ; drain them and preserve the water in which the lemons were last boiled. Cut the lemons into halves lengthways and slice them as finely as possible, removing all the pips. Take three pints of the water in which the lemons were boiled and put it with the sugar into a copper sugar boiler to boil; allow it to boil for fifteen minutes, removing the scum. Add the fruit and boil again until it becomes clear. Strain off the fruit when cold ; boil up the syrup again ; add the fruit; give it another boil, then put it into jars. Let it cool and cover in the usual manner. CRAB-APPLE JELLY "YY7"ASH and drain the crabs (you need not peel ’ * or core them), cover with cold water and allow them to boil gently until they break, but they must not get pulpy. Press the juice throughTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 386 a jelly-bag, and to each pint of juice allow one pound of sugar. Boil quickly until the mixture jellies. It should be clear and red in colour. This jelly is good for sore throat. 9 TO PRESERVE DAMSONS npAKE the damsons before they are quite ripe and wipe them clean, one by one. To every pound of damsons add one pound of sugar dis- solved in half a pint of white wine. Boil this to a syrup and add the damsons, stirring and skimming all the time. GRAPE MARMALADE r 11AKE some nice ripe grapes, pick them from their stalks and remove the seeds. Place the pulps in a pan, and set it over the fire, which must be clear and gentle. Skim well, and when it is reduced to one half, strain it. Boil over the fire again, allowing enough sugar to sweeten. Put the marmalade into pots, cover with oiled paper, and store in a dry place. This is an excellent recipe when grapes are plentiful and cheap.MISCELLANEOUS 387 HOW TO MAKE GOOD OATMEAL PORRIDGE TO make good porridge, the oatmeal should be rather coarse, what is called “ medium ” oatmeal. Put into a saucepan about three-quarters of a pint of water, and allow it to come to the boil. Shake into the boiling water gradually, two large handfuls of the oatmeal (about six large, heaped-up tablespoonfuls) and add half a teaspoonful of salt. Keep on stirring the porridge with a wooden spoon until it is well mixed, then draw the pan to the side of the fire and allow the porridge to simmer for about twenty minutes. Pour into an earthenware or china basin, and serve. OATMEAL GRUEL SOAK for two hours, four ounces of coarse Scotch oatmeal in one pint of water, or half milk and half water; then strain and boil until it thickens. If too thick add a little more hot milk. The gruel is greatly improved by adding to it a small quantity of cream.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 388 ANOTHER RECIPE FOR OATMEAL GRUEL r 11WO tablespoonfuls of medium oatmeal, and a ^ pinch of salt. Mix with water into a smooth paste. Put a pint of milk on to boil, and when boiling pour over the paste, mixing both together. Then boil for ten minutes or a quarter of an hour, and strain. A little cream added improves the gruel. % HOW TO MAKE GRUEL FROM PREPARED GROATS f 11AKE two large tablespoonfuls of the groats -L and mix with a little cold water or cold milk until it forms a thin paste. Pour over this a pint of boiling milk, and keep stirring. Place the pan on the fire, and allow the gruel to boil until it thickens. A little cream added before serving is a great improvement to the gruel. %MISCELLANEOUS 389 RICE GRUEL T>UT one ounce of ground rice into a pint of water—or half water and half milk—and let it cook for forty minutes. Sweeten to taste, and add a little cream, if liked. TO KEEP BUTTER FRESH T) UTTER can be kept perfectly sweet and cool -L* by being wrapped in a damp muslin cloth and placed in a shallow dish containing a little fresh cold water, the cold is produced by evaporation, the cloth absorbing the water. The muslin cloth should be previously steeped in water to remove all soap, etc. % TO KEEP MUSHROOMS T3RESERVED mushrooms—tinned or bottled— once opened, should be kept covered with salt water or vinegar. They will thus keep good for several days. All tinned provisions should be removed from the tins the moment they are opened and placed in bottles, or china, or glass, covered dishes.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 390 HOW TO BOTTLE MUSHROOMS rriAKE one to two pounds of very small button mushrooms, rub them with a dry cloth, trim off the stalks and peel them ; then put them in a basin and sprinkle over with plenty of fine salt (large button or cup mushrooms are treated in a similar manner, but the red portion and the stalks should be removed). Those mushrooms which are black round the stalks are unsuitable for preserv- ing in bottles. Pour sufficient white wine vinegar, well diluted, over the mushrooms, and bring them slowly to the boil. Shake them while in the pan ; pour off the liquid and drain the mushrooms on sieves or a cloth ; boil them a second time with a fresh lot of diluted vinegar. As soon as boiling point is reached, remove the pan from the fire and bottle when cool with enough vinegar to keep the mush- rooms covered. Cork and seal. Another way to bottle button mushrooms is to use salt water and lemon juice, proceeding as above. The bottles, as soon as corked, must then be wrapped round with straw and steamed or boiled from two to three hours, according to size of bottles. This is a more tedious process than the former, but the mushrooms will be found to have more flavour.MISCELLANEOUS 391 AN EXCELLENT OLD-FASHIONED RE- CIPE FOR MINCEMEAT FOR CHRISTMAS MINCE PIES /~\NE pound of stoned raisins, one pound of clean, picked sultanas, one pound of currants, a quarter of a pound of mixed peel, one tablespoon- ful of mixed spice, one pound of apples peeled and cut into pieces, one pound of castor sugar, three lemons and three oranges (the grated rind and juice), two pounds of lean, cooked fillet of beef, free from fat, one pound of very finely chopped beef suet, one pint of cooking brandy and one pint of rum. Pass twice through a mincing machine the raisins, peel, sultanas, apples and beef, to make it very fine. Place this in a large bowl ; add the currants, sugar, spice, chopped suet, orange and lemon rind and juice ; wet it with the wine ; mix all well together and place in jars for about four weeks before using. This will keep for months in a cool place if well tied down to keep the air from it. %THE DUDLEY RECIPES 392 SPICED SALT CONDIMENT TT^OR flavouring pies, galantines and other -•*- dishes, is prepared as follows :— Mix one pound of table-salt with three and a half ounces of mixed spices—cinnamon, nutmeg, ginger and mace—and the many different sorts of peppers, also pimento, cayenne and paprika. This salt can be bought ready-made at the best grocers. It should be kept dry in air-tight boxes, so as to retain the aroma. ALLSPICE mms spice also can be bought ready-made at the best grocers, but it can be prepared at home as follows, the ingredients must all be very dry :— Five ounces of bay leaves, three ounces of thyme (half of this wild, if possible), three ounces of coriander seed, four ounces of cinnamon, six ounces of nutmeg, four ounces of cloves, three ounces of ginger root, three ounces of mace, ten ounces of mixed pepper, half black and half white, one ounce of cayenne. Put all these ingredients into a mortar and pound them until they are able to be passed through a very fine sieve. Put the powder whichMISCELLANEOUS 2 A 393 has passed through the sieve into an air-tight box, which must be kept dry. Before being used, the spice should be mixed with table-salt, which should be dried and passed through a sieve. TOMATO PICKLE SIX pounds of tomatoes, two teaspoonfuls of ground ginger, a quarter of an ounce of garlic, one pint of vinegar, one teaspoonful of allspice, one tablespoonful of salt, and one tablespoonful of castor sugar. The tomatoes must be quite ripe. Take and bake them in an oven until tender ; remove the skins and place the tomatoes in a stone jar with the above ingredients. Mix together thoroughly and keep in a cool place for a few days ; then rub all through a sieve (a silk or cotton one); boil up in a copper or earthenware pan with sugar and vinegar—rather more sugar than vinegar—let cool, then put it into bottles, cork and seal well, and store away in a cool but dry place. Capsicums, green and red, shallots and lemon juice can be used in the preparation of the tomato pickle, as it then becomes more of a condiment.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 394 GUNNERS5 DELIGHT A PICKLE /^HOP finely eight ounces of crab apples (or ^ ordinary sour apples), eight ounces of onions and two ounces of chillies (increase this quantity of chillies, if required hotter), and mix with this one tablespoonful of salt and a little cayenne. Boil one pint of white wine vinegar ; pour this over the above mixture, and bottle when cold. CUCUMBER LOTION FOR THE FACE TAKE some small ripe cucumbers and pound them in a mortar into a pulp. Strain through a muslin and mix the juice with an equal quantity of rose water. This lotion is most cooling and excellent for the skin—also good in the case of sunburn. These small cucumbers can be bought quite cheaply in any market.MISCELLANEOUS 395 LAIT VIRGINALE A COOLING FACE LOTION, FOR USE AFTER TRAVELLING OR MOTORING TAKE one ounce of simple tincture of benzoin and add it drop by drop to one quart of rose or elder-flower water. Cleanse the face thoroughly, by gently rubbing in some cold cream ; wipe this off with a soft towel, then apply the lait virginale with a soft sponge or a wad of medicated cotton- wool. COLD CREAM THIS recipe is to be found in the “ Dudley Cookery Book,” published by Mr. Arnold in A FACE LOTION mW0 tablespoonfuls of orange-flower water (or elder-flower water), two tablespoonfuls of rose water, nine grains of borax. OrTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 396 Six drops of essence of roses, eight ounces of distilled water, thirty-five grains of subcarbonate of soda. % HAIR WASH rAlSSOLVE one ounce of camphor in a pint of rum. Leave it to stand, well corked, for two or three days. Strain off and bottle. Use twice a week. 1 TO REMOVE STAINS FROM FLOORS TT^OR removing spots of grease from boards, take a quarter of a pound of Fuller’s earth and a quarter of a pound of pearlash and boil together in a quart of water. While hot, lay the mixture on the greased parts, allowing it to remain on them from ten to twelve hours, after which it may be scoured off with sand and water. A floor much spotted with grease should be completely washed over with this mixture the day before it is scoured. Fuller’s earth and ox-gall boiled together form a very powerful cleansing mixture for floors or carpets. Stains of ink on floors are removed by the application of strong vinegar or salts of lemon.MISCELLANEOUS 397 TO REMOVE STAINS AND MARKS FROM BOOKS SOLUTION of oxalic acid, citi’ic acid or tartaric acid may be applied to paper and prints, without fear of damage. These acids which take out writing-ink and do not touch the printing, can be used for restoring books where the margins have been written upon, without injuring the text. TO TAKE MARKING-INK OUT OF LINEN FTSE a solution of cyanide of potassium applied with a camel’s-hair brush. After the marking- ink disappears, the linen should be well washed in cold water. TO REMOVE WINE STAINS FROM LINEN 1_T OLD the articles in milk, while it is boiling on the fire, and the stains will soon disappear.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 398 TO REMOVE FRUIT STAINS FROM LINEN T3 UB the part, on each side, with yellow soap ; then tie up a piece of pearlash in the stained linen. Soak well in hot water, or boil afterwards. Expose the stained part to the sun and air until the stain is removed. MARBLE MAY BE CLEANED T>Y mixing a quantity of the strongest soap oil with quicklime to the consistency of milk, and laying it on the marble for twenty-four hours. Clean it afterwards with soap and water. % ANOTHER RECIPE FOR CLEANING MARBLE fTlAKE two parts of common soda, one part of pumice stone and one part of finely powdered chalk. Sift it through a fine sieve and mix it with water. Rub the marble well all over with the mixture and the stains will disappear. Then wash the marble with soap and water, and it will be as clean as it was at first.MISCELLANEOUS 399 DINING TABLES MAY BE POLISHED T)Y rubbing them well for some time with a soft -L' cloth and a little linseed oil. TO CLEAN CANE-BOTTOMED CHAIRS rpURN the chair bottom upwards and with hot water and a sponge wash the canework well, so that it may be completely soaked. Should it be very dirty, soap must be added to the water. Let it dry in the open air or in a place where there is a thorough draught, and it will become as tight and firm as when it was new, provided that none of the strips are broken. TO CLEAN OILCLOTH /~\ILCLOTH should never be scrubbed with a brush, but after being first swept, it should be cleansed by washing with a large soft cloth and lukewarm or cold water. On no account use soap or hot water, as either will injure the paint, and in time remove it.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 400 TO TAKE INK STAINS OUT OF MAHOGANY FURNITURE OTAINS and spots may be removed from ^ mahogany with a little aquafortis or oxalic acid and water, rubbing the stain with a cork dipped in the liquid until the colour is restored. Then wash with water ; dry well and polish as usual. FOR REMOVING INK STAINS FROM MAHOGANY TDUT a few drops of spirits of nitre in a tea- spoonful of water; touch the ink spot with a feather dipped in the mixture, and as soon as the ink disappears, rub it over with a rag wetted in cold water, or there will be a white mark which will not be easily effaced. TO REMOVE INK STAINS FROM A COLOURED TABLE COVER FAISSOLVE a teaspoonful of oxalic acid in a teacupful of hot water. Rub the stained part well with a flannel or linen rag dipped in the solution.MISCELLANEOUS 401 TO PRESERVE STEEL GOODS FROM RUST AFTER bright grates have been thoroughly cleaned, they should be dusted over with un- slacked lime, and thus left until wanted for use. Coils of piano wires, thus sprinkled, will keep from rust for many years. Table knives which are not in constant use ought to be put in a case in which sifted quicklime is placed about eight inches deep. They should be plunged to the top of the blades, but the lime must not touch the handles. TO REMOVE OIL OR GREASE FROM HEARTH OIL or grease may be removed from a hearth by covering immediately with hot ashes, or with burning coals. FOR CLEANING BRASSES ON MAHOGANY FURNITURE FT SE either powdered whitening or scraped rotten- stone, mixed with sweet oil, and rubbed on with chamois leather.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 402 A RECIPE FROM MESSRS. SCHUL- THERS, GERMAN ROSE GROWERS, FOR THE PREVENTION OF MIL- DEW ON ROSES FAISSOLVE in two and a quarter pints of water thirty eight grains of sulphide of potassium. Allow it to stand for two hours, then add a quarter of an ounce of ordinary soft soap. Let it stand for some time, then filter the mixture and it will be ready for use by spray or syringe. Repeat the operation every fortnight at any convenient time of day, and whether the sun shines or not. The tender shoots or blooms will not be injured in any way by this treatment. If you treat your plants in this manner from May until autumn, you will have beautiful blooms all through the year free from mildew. TO TURN HYDRANGEAS BLUE mWO ounces of ammonia alum to every gallon of water. Water the plants with this twice a week from the moment they start into growth in the spring, and the pink flowers will gradually turn blue.A DAY’S PLEASURE. Men laugh and riot, till the feast is o’er, Then comes the reckoning, and they laugh no more.” The “Star and Garter”, Richmond.12 BEVERAGESRing for your valet—bid him quickly bring Some hock and soda water, then you'll know A pleasure worthy Xerxes, the Great King : For not the best sherbet, sublim'd with snow, Nor the first sparkle of the desert spring, Nor Burgundy in all its sunset glow, After long travel, ennui, love, or slaughter, Fio with that draught of hock and soda water. ^ BYRON, “ DON JUAN ” Ftfto things surpass old wine ; and they may preach Who please—the more because they preach in vain. Let us have wine and women, mirth and laughter, Sermons and soda-water the day after. BYRON, “ DON JUAN,” 2 clxxviii Three cups of wine a prudent man may take ; The first of them for constitution sake ; The second to the girl he loves the best; The third, and last, to lull him to his rest. Brisk wine some hearts inspires with gladness, And makes some droop in sober sadness ; Makes politicians sound to battle, And lovers of their mistress prattle : While with “ potations pottle deep ” It lolls the serious sot to sleep. HORACEA bottle of cold tea without either milk or sugar is, according to Mr. Colqulioun, of “ The Moor and the Loch” the best thirst assuager a sportsman can carry out with him. % 'Tis a little thing To give a cup of water ; yet its draught Of cool refreshment, drained by fevered lips, May give a shock of pleasure to the frame More exquisite than when nectarean juice Renews the life of joy in happiest hours. TALFOURD, “ ION,” I, ii % Wine, Wine, thy power and praise Have ever been echo'd in minstrel lays ; But water, I deem, hath a mightier claim To fill up a niche in the Temple of Fame. Traverse the desert, and then ye can tell What treasures exist in the cold deep well ; Sink in despair on the red parch'd earth, And then ye may reckon what water's worth. 9Tis mighty easy o'er a glass of wine On vain refinements vainly to refine. To laugh at poverty in plenty's reign, To boast of apathy when out of pain. CHURCHILL406 GOOD NIGHT To all, to each, a fair good night. And pleasing dreams, and slumbers light. SCOTT, “ MARMION ”12 BEVERAGES 407 TURKISH COFFEE WITHOUT GROUTS A SIMPLE way of preparing Turkish coffee which is excellent; but the very best coffee berries must be used, and they must always be quite freshly roasted. The coffee must be ground rather coarsely and immediately before using. Quantity for two persons : Place in an open saucepan four large teacupfuls of quite boiling water, either over the stove or, if made in a room, over a strong spirit lamp. Allow the water to boil, then put into it three very large heaped-up table- spoonfuls of the freshly ground coffee. Stir with a tablespoon for about three minutes until it boils again and the top is covered with white creamy froth. Remove saucepan and put in two lumps of sugar and two teaspoonfuls of cold water dropped in very gently. Allow the coffee to remain in the pan for from four to five minutes ; then place a strainer over the cups and ladle out the coffee with a sauce ladle, so that it is served with a creamy froth onTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 408 the top of each cup, and the grouts all strained off through the strainer. TURKISH COFFEE T30IL some water in a Turkish saucepan. When it is quite boiling, take it off the fire (or spirit lamp) and put into it a teaspoonful of powdered sugar and two teaspoonfuls of freshly ground, freshly roasted coffee (it is best to grind this in a Turkish mill). Stir well, and return it to the fire (or spirit lamp) until the coffee rises to the surface ; take it off again, and allow the coffee again to sink. Repeat this three times, and the third time add a teaspoonful of cold water to settle the grounds. Serve the coffee in Turkish cups. The Turkish saucepan with spirit lamp and the mill, also the coffee, can be obtained from Picard in Regent Street. % RECIPE FOR SLOE GIN T)OUR one gallon of the best gin over two or -L three quarts of sloes ; allow to stand for three months, then strain off the gin. Add to the gallon of gin two and a half pounds of loaf sugar ; shake it occasionally. When the sugar is dissolved, the sloe gin is ready for use. If not sweet enough, add a little more sugar.BEVERAGES 409 MARTINI COCKTAIL TTALF a sherry glass of best gin, a quarter of a sherry glass of Italian Vermouth, a quarter of a glass of French Vermouth. Shake up in a tumbler with small pieces of ice. and serve in a small claret glass with two small pieces of the outside rind of a lemon. AN EXCELLENT RECIPE FOR MOSELLE CUP WITHOUT LIQUEURS /~\NE bottle of sparkling Moselle to one bottle of soda water placed in a glass jug with a sprig of borage, iced to taste. EGG FLIP BREAK an egg into a basin and pick out care- fully any little strings or thickness ; then beat it up well with an egg-whisk until it froths. Have ready some hot milk (not boiling, but hot), about a teacupful, and one lump of sugar. Stir this into the egg, and add a teaspoonful of brandy.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 410 If made with port wine, add three tablespoonfuls of hot water instead of milk. LEMON WHEY T30IL half a pint of milk in an enamelled sauce- pan ; add the juice and the rind of half a lemon. Let it simmer for two minutes, then strain through muslin. Flavour with a tablespoonful of Marsala or sherry, and sweeten to taste. 9 CAMOMILE TEA pAMOMILE tea is excellent to drink the last ^ thing at night, and many people like a small cupful of it after lunch and dinner instead of coffee. The camomiles should be German camomiles, and can be procured at Roberts, French chemist, in Bond Street, or any good chemist. English camomiles are large and very bitter, and should not be used for this. The camomiles should be prepared like ordinary tea—by infusion in boiling water, then served in a tea or coffee pot or silver jug, very hot, after having been strained through muslin or a strainer.BEVERAGES 411 BRAN TEA AN EXCELLENT DRINK FOR SORE CHEST AND THROAT IT is made in exactly the same way as ordinary tea—by pouring boiling water on the bran. Two or three teaspoonfuls for one cup. The bran should not be too coarse, or it is greasy. A little lemon peel, butter or sugar may, if liked, be added. Oatmeal tea can also be made in the same manner. LINSEED TEA FOR COLD, OR SORE THROAT T)UT two tablespoonfuls of whole linseed into a stewpan with one quart of water, and let it boil gently for half an hour. Strain into a jug, and add the juice of two lemons and sugar to taste. OATMEAL WATER T)UT one teacupful of fine oatmeal in a stewpan containing seven quarts of cold water, and stir it well. Put it on the stove to boil; allow itTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 412 to boil for five minutes ; then strain it through muslin into a jug. Add lemon and sugar to taste. r« FOR EXTRACTING GAS FROM EFFERVESCING DRINKS : A “MOSSER” A LTHOUGH effervescing drinks are most at- tractive and refreshing, many people object to the gas, which induces distention and flatulence. A small wooden stick with a wheel cut at the end and used as a whip in a glass of aerated water or champagne, with which to dispel the gas, will, at the same time, retain the briskness of the beverage. These “ Mossers ” can be obtained at Messrs. Farrow and Jackson, 8 Haymarket, W., or 16 Great Tower Street, E.C.413 So Noah, when he anchor'd safe on The mountain's top, his lofty haven, And all the passengers he bore, Were on the new world set ashore, He made it next his chief design To plant, and propagate the vine, Which since has overwhelm'd and drown'd Far greater numbers on dry ground, 0/ wretched mankind, one Than all the flood before had done. butler SI 7 Zoas tranquil solitude And such society As is quiet and good. shelley SI The Wife was pretty, trifling, childish, weak, She could not think, would not cease to speak. CRABBE SI 72 is no* necessary to be drunk one's self To relish the wit of drunkenness. boswell’s “ life of Johnson ” Si Drink makes men hungry or it makes them lie ; And he that's drunk o'er night i' the morning's dry. G. WILKINS, “ MISERIES OF ENFORCED MARRIAGE ” SI Drink to me only with thine eyes, And I will pledge with mine : Or leave a kiss within the cup And I'll not look for wine. ben jonson 2 BFor he on honey-dew hath fed, And drunk the milk of Paradise. % COLERIDGE Let me have men about me that are fat. Sleek-headed men, and such as sleep o’ nights : Yond’ Cassius has a lean and hungry look ; He thinks too much : such men are dangerous. SHAKESPEARE, “ JULIUS C.ESAR,” I, ii Though gay companions o'er the bowl Dispel awhile the sense of ill; Though pleasure stirs the maddening soul The heart—the heart—is lonely still From wine what sudden friendship springs ! Wine fills the veins and healths are understood To give our friends a title to our blood. HAPPINESS OF HOME WALLER To be happy at home, is the ultimate result of all ambition ; the end to which every enterprise and labour tends, and of which every desire prompts the persecution. It is indeed at home that every man must be known by those who would make a just estimate either of his virtue or felicity ; for smiles and embroidery are alike occasional, and the mind is often dressed for show in painted honour and fictitious benevolence. Johnson 4M415 CHEERFULNESS IN A WIFE A cheerful temper—not occasionally, but habitu- ally cheerful—is a quality which no wise man would be willing to dispense with in choosing a wife. It is like a good fire in winter, diffusive and genial in its influence, and always approached with a confidence that it will comfort and do good. Atten- tion to health is one great means of maintaining this excellence unimpaired, and attention to household affairs is another. The state of body which women call bilious is most inimical to habitual cheerfulness ; and that which girls call having nothing to do, but which I should call idleness, is equally so. I have always strongly recommended exercise as the first rule for preserving health; but there is an exercise in domestic usefulness which, without superseding that in the open air, is highly beneficial to the health of both mind and body, inasmuch as it adds to other benefits the happiest of all sensations, that of having rendered some assistance or done some good. Let me entreat my young readers, if they feel a tendency to causeless melancholy, if they are afflicted with cold feet and headache, but above all, with impatience and irritability, so that they can scarcely make a pleasant reply when spoken to,— let me entreat them to make a trial of the system I am recommending—not simply to run into the kitchen and trifle with the servants, but to set about doing something that will add to the general comfort of the family, and that will, at the same time, relieve some members of the family of a portion of daily toil. I fear it is a very unromantic con- clusion to come to, but my firm conviction is, that half the miseries of young women, and half their ill tempers might be avoided by habits of domestic activity. mrs. ellis416 The road to home happiness lies over small stepping-stones. Slight circumstances are the stumbling-blocks of families. The prick of a pin, says the proverb, is enough to make an empire insipid. The tenderer the feelings, the painfuller the wound. A cold, unkind word checks and withers the blossom of the dearest love, as the most delicate rings of the vine are troubled by the faintest breeze. The misery of a life is born of a chance observation. If the true history of quarrels, public and private, were honestly written, it would be silenced with an uproar of derision. JESSE Tender-hearted stroke a nettle, And it stings you for your pains ; Grasp it like a man of mettle, And it soft as silk remains. 5Tis the same with common natures : Use 'em kindly, they rebel ; But be rough as nutmeg-graters, And the rogues obey you well. aaron hill The sweetest fruit may often pall the taste While sloes and brambles yield a safe repast. BLACKLOCK We live in deeds, not years ; in thoughts, not breaths, In feelings, not in figures on a dial. We should count them by heart throbs. He most lives Who thinks most, feels the noblest, acts the best. BAILEY417 CHEERFULNESS-A LIFE INSPIRATION Be cheerful, no matter what reverse obstruct your pathway, or what plagues follow in your trail to annoy you. Ask yourself what is to be gained by looking or feeling sad when troubles throng around you, or how your condition is to be alleviated by abandoning yourself to despondency ? If you are a young man, nature designed you “to be of good cheer ” ; and should you find your road to fortune, fame, or respectability, or any other boon to which your heart aspires, a little thorny, consider it all for the best, and that these impediments are only thrown in your way to induce greater efforts and more patient endurance on your part. Far better spend a whole life in diligent, aye, cheerful and un- remitting toil, though you never attain the pinnacle of your ambitious desires, than to turn back at the first appearance of misfortune, and allow despair to unnerve your energies, or sour your naturally sweet and cheerful disposition. If you are of the softer, fairer, portion of humanity, be cheerful, though we know full well that most afflictions are sweet to you when compared with disappointment and neglect ; yet let hope banish despair and ill- forebodings. Be cheerful; do not brood over fond hopes unrealised, until a chain, link after link, is fastened on each thought, and wound around the heart. Nature intended you to be the fountain- spring of cheerfulness and social life, and not the travelling monument of despair and melancholy. HELPS418 TEA In China cold water is disliked and considered unwholesome, and therefore tea is taken to quench the thirst, which it does best when unmixed, without either milk or sugar. The practice of scenting tea is very common in China, and various odoriferous plants are employed for this purpose. In Russia, a squeeze, or a slice, of lemon often takes the place of our cream ; and in Germany, where the tea is made very weak, it is common to flavour it with rum, cinnamon or vanilla. “ The most perfect way of using tea” says Professor Johnson, “ is that described, I think, by Captain Basil Hall, as that practised on the Coast of South America, where the leaves, after being exhausted by infusion, are handed round the company on a silver salver, and partaken of by each guest in succession. The exhilarating effects of the hot liquid are in this practice followed by the nutritive effects of the solid leaf.” A Chinese legend relates that a pious hermit, who in his watchings and prayers had often been overtaken by sleep, so that his eyelids closed, in holy wrath against the weakness of the flesh, cut them off and threw them on the ground. But a god caused a tea shrub to spring out of them, the leaves of which exhibit the form of the eyelid bordered with lashes, and possess the gift of hinder- ing sleep. DR. URE r* Claret is the liquor for boys, port for men ; but he who aspires to be a hero must drink brandy. JOHNSONPRINTED BY WILLIAM BRENDON AND BON, LTD. PLYMOUTH