229 PRESERVES. ing, and do them before the seeds become large. —Currants aud damsons maybe done in the same way. To keep Damsons for Winter pies. Put them in small stone jars, or wide mouthed bottles; set them up to their necks in a boiler of cold water, and lighting a fire under them, scald them. Next day, when perfectly cold, fill up with spring water; cover them. Another tcay.—Boil one-third as much sugar as fruit with it, over a slow fire, till the juice adheres to the fruit, and forms a jam. Keep it in small jars in a dry place. If too sweet, mix with it some of the fruit that is done without sugar. Another icay.—Choose steen-potsif you can get them, which are of equal sizetop and bottom (theyshould hold eight or nine pounds) ; put the fruit in about a quarter up, then strew in a quarter of the sugar; then another quantity of fruit, and so till all of both are in. The pro- portion of sugar is to he 31bs. to 91bs. of fruit. Set the jars in the oven, and bake the fruit quite through. When cold, put a piece of clean scraped stick into the middle of the jar, and let the upper part stand above the top ; then pour melted mutton-suet over the top, full half an inch thick, having previously covered the fruit with white paper. Keep the jars in a cool dry place, aud use the suet as a cover; which you will draw up by the stick, minding to leave a little forked branch to it to prevent its slipping out. To preserve Fr uit for tarts, or Family-desserts. Cherries, plums of all sorts, and American apples, ga- ther when ripe, and lay them in small jars that will hold a pound; strew over each jar 6oz. of good loaf-sugar pounded; cover with two bladders each, separately tied down; then set the jars in a large stew-pan of water up to the neck, and let it boil three hours gently. Keep these and all other sorts of fruit free from damp. To keep Lemon juice. Buy the fruit when cheap, keep it in a cool place 2 or 3 days, if too unripe to squeeze readily; cut the peel off some, and roll them under your hand to make them