DOMESTIC COOKERY. 270 and either wet with skimmed milk or not, form one of the best foods. Turkeys and fowls thrive amazingly on them. The milk must not he sour. The best age for sitting a hen, is from two to five years ; and you should remark which hens make the best brooders, and keep those to laying that are giddy and careless of their young. In justice to the animal creation, however, it must be observed, there are but few instances of bad parents for the time their nursing is necessary. Hens sit twenty days. Convenient places should be provided for their laying, as these will be proper for sit- ting likewise. If the hen-house is not secured from ver- min the eggs will be sucked, and the fowls destroyed. Those hens are usually preferred which have tufts of feathers on their heads ; those that crow are not looked upon as profitable. Somefine young fowls should berear- ed every year, to keep up a stock of good breeders; and by this attention, and removing bad layers and careless nurses, you will have a chance of a good stock. Let the hens lay some time before you sit them, which should be done from the end of February to the beginning of May. While hens are laying, feed them well, and sometimes with oats. Broods of chickens are hatched all through the sum- mer, but those that come out very late require much care till they have gained some strength. If the eggs of any sort are put under the hen with some of her own, observe to add her own as many days after the others, as there is a difference in the length of their sitting. A turkey and duck sit thirty days. Choose large clear eggs to put her upon, and such a number as she can properly cover. If very large eggs, there are sometimes two yolks, and of course neither will be productive. Ten or twelve are quite enough. A hen-house should be large and high ; and should be frequently cleaned out, or the vermin of fowls will increase greatly. But hens must not be disturbed while sitting; for if frightened, they sometimes forsake their