DOMESTIC COOKERY. 256 enough, the addition of another quarter of a hundred weight of raisins would be sufficient, and the wine would still be very cheap. When the raisins are press- ed through a horse-hair bag, they will either produce a good spirit by distillation, and must be sent to a che- mist who will do it (but if for that purpose, they must be very little pressed;) or they will make excellent vinegar, on which article see page 121. The stalks should be picked out for the above, and may be thrown into any cask of vinegar that is making, beingvery acid. JRaisin Wine without Cyder. On four hundred weight of Malagas pour one hogs- head of spring-water, stir well daily for fourteen days, then squeeze the raisins in a horse-hair bag in a press, and turn the liquor; when it ceases to hiss, stop it close. In six months rack it off into another cask, or into a tub, and after clearing out the sediment, return it into the same, but don’t wash it; add a gallon of the best brandy, stop it close, and in six months bottle it. Take care of the pressed fruit, for the uses of which refer to the preceding receipt. Sack Mead. To every gallon of water put four pounds of honey, and boil it three quarters of an hour, taking care to skim it. To every gallon add one ounce of hops ; then boil it half an hour, and let it stand till next day; put it into your cask, and to thirteen gallons of the liquor add a quart of brandy. Let it be lightly stopped till the fermentation is over, and then stop it very close. If you make a large cask, keep it a year in cask. Cowslip Mead. Put thirty pounds of honey into fifteen gallons of water, and boil till one gallon is wasted; skim it, take it off the fire, and have ready a dozen and a half of le- mons quartered ; pour a gallon of the liquor boiling hot upon them; put the remainder of the liquor into a tub, with seven pecks of cowslip-pips; let them remain there all night, and then put the liquor and the lemons to eight spoonfuls of new yeast, and a handful of sweet-