THE USE OF THE MISTRESS OF A FAMILY. XXxiii constant consumption, should be laid in accordingly ; such as paper, soap, and candles, of these, more hereafter. To give unvarying rules cannot be attempted; for people ought to form their conduct on their circumstances ; but, it is presumed that a judicious arrangement according to them, will be found equally advantageous to all. The minutue of management must be regulated by every one’s fortune and rank ; some ladies not deficient in either charge themselves with giving out, once a month, to a superintending servant, such quantities of household articles as by observation and calculation they know to be sufficient, preserving for their own key the large stock of things usually laid in for very large families in the country. Should there be several more visitors than usual, they can easily account for increase of consumption, and vice versa. Such a degree of judgment will be respectable even in the eyes of domestics, if they are not interested in the ignorance of their employers; and if they are, their services will not compensate for want of honesty. When young ladies marry, they frequently continue their own maids in the capacity of housekeepers ; who as they may be more attached to their interest than strangers, become very valuable ser- vants. To such, the economical observations in this work will be as useful as the cookery; and it is recommendablo in them to bo strictly observant of both, which, in the course of a year or two, will make them familiar in the practice.—It is much to be feared, that for the waste of many of the good things that God has given for our use, not abuse, the mistress and servants of great houses will here- after be called to a strict account. Some part of every person’s fortune should be devoted to charity: by which “ a pious woman will build up her house before God, while she that is foolish (i. e. lends nothing to the Lord,) pulls it down with her hands.” No one can complain of the want of gifts to the poor in this land; but there is a mode of relief which would add