THE USE OF THE MISTRESS OF A FAMILY. XXXV another place. There are, however, some who are unfortunately capri- cious, and often refuse to give a character because they are displeased that a servant leaves their service ; but this is unpardonable, and an absolute robbery, servants having no inheritance, and depending on their name for employment. To refuse countenance to the evil, and to encourage the good servant, are actions due to society at large ; and such as are honest, frugal, and attentive to their duties, should he liberally rewarded, which would encourage merit, and inspire servants with zeal to acquit themselves.—It may be proper to observe, that a retributive justice usually marks persons in that station, sooner or later, even in this world. The extravagant and idle in servitude are ill prepared for the industry and sobriety on which their own future welfare so essentially depends. Their faults, and the attendant punishment, come home when they have children of their own; and sometimes much sooner. They will see their own folly and wickedness perpetuated in their offspring, whom they must not expect to be bet- ter than the example and instruction given by themselves. It was the observation of a sensible and experienced woman, that she could always read the fate of her servants who married; those who had been faithful and industrious in her service, continued their good habits in their own families, and became respectable members of the community ; those who were the contrary, never were suc- cessful, and not unfrequently were reduced to the parish. A proper quantity of household articles should be always ready, and more bought in before the others be consumed, to prevent inconveni- ence, especially in the country. A bill of parcels and receipt should be required, even if the money be paid at the time of purchase ; and, to avoid mistakes, let the goods be compared with these when brought home. Though it is very disagreeable to suspect any one’s honesty, and perhaps mistakes have been unintentional; yet it is prudent to weigh