214 DOMESTIC COOKERY. fruit on to boil in fresh water till they are tender, shifting the water to take out the bitterness. In the meantime, make a thin syrup with fine sugar, and put the oranges into it, and boil them up; turning them round, that each part may partake of the syrup, as there need not be enough to cover them, and let them remain in it hot till they'are to be served. About half anhour beforeyou want them put some sugar to the pulp, and set over the fire: mix it well, and let it boil; then add a spoonful of white wine for every orange, give it a boil, and then put in a bit of fresh butter, and stir over the fire to thicken ; fill the oranges with it, and serve them with some of the syrup in the dish. Put the bits on the top. To Jill Preserved Oranges ; a cor ner disli. For five take a pound of Naples biscuits, some blanch- ed almonds, the yolks of four eggs beaten, sugar to your taste, four ounces of butter warmed, grate the biscuits, and mix with the above and some orange-flower water. Fill preserved oranges, and bake in a very slow oven. If you like them frosted, sift sugar over them as soon as tilled; otherwise wipe them. Custard to fill will do as well; if so, you need not bake the oranges, but put it in when become cold. Whole Oranges Carved. Cut on the rinds any shape you please with a pen- knife ; cut a bit off near and round the stalk, and with an apple-scoop take all the pulp carefully out; put them into salt and water two days, changing it daily : boil them an hour or more in fresh salt and water; drain them quite dry; let them stand a night or more in plain water, and then another night in a thin syrup, in which boil them the next day a few minutes. Do this four days successively. Let them stand six or seven weeks, observing often whether they’ will keep well; other- wise boil the syrup again. Then make a rich syrup. Puttered Orange-juice, a cold dish. Mix the juice of seven Seville oranges with four spoonfuls of rose-water, and add the whole to the yolks of eight, and whites of four eggs, well beaten; then