CONTENTS. xxiii PAOE Paste for chapped hands, and which will preserve them smooth by constant use , , , , For chapped lips , , Hungary water , , Honey water , , , Lavender water , , An excellent water to pre- vent hair from falling off, and to thicken it , Black paper for drawing patterns , , , Black ink, two ways of making , , , To cement broken china , An excellent stucco, which will adhere to wood- work , , , , Mason's washes for stucco, blue and yellow , , Roman cement or mortar for outside plastering, or brick-work , , To take stains, iron- moulds, and mildew, out of linen , , , To make flannels keep their colour and not shrink , 290 ib ib ib ib ib 297 ib ib 298 ib ib 299 300 To preserve furs and wool- len from moths , , ib To dye the linings of of furniture, &c. 300. Buff, or salmon colour, according to the depth of the hue; Pink, 300. Blue. , , , ib To dye gloves, to look like York tan or Limerick, according to the deepness of the dye , , , 301 To dye white gloves a beau- tiful purple , , , ib A liquor to wash old deeds, &c. on paper or parchment, when the writing is obliterated, or, when sunk to make it PACE legible , , ,301 To prevent the rot in sheep, ib To prevent green hay from firing , , , 301 To preserve a granary from insects and wea- sels , , , , ib To destroy crickets , 302 Directions to Servants. To clean calico furniture when taken down for the summer , , , ib To clean plate , , ib To clean looking-glasses , ib To preserve gdding, and clean it , , , 303 To clean paint , , ib To clean paper hangings , ib To give a gloss to fine oak wainscot , , , 304 To give a fine colour to ma- hogany , , , ib To take ink out of maho- gany , , , ib Floor cloths, 304. To clean them , , , 305 To dust carpets and floors, ib To clean carpets , , ib To give boards a beautiful appearance , , ib To extract oil from boards or stone , , , 300 To clean stone stairs and halls , , , ib To blacken the fronts of stone chimney-pieces , ib To take stains out of marble, 306. Iron-stains , 307 Two ways of preserving irons from rust , , ib To take rust out of steel , ib To clean the back of the grate; the inner hearth, and of cast iron stoves, the fronts, 307. Another way to clean cast-iron and black hearths , ib