SURGICAL OBSERVATIONS,Strahan and Prcflou, Print«rt-Street, London.SURGICAL OBSERVATIONS DISEASES RESEMBLING SYPHILIS; HONORARY MEMBER OE THE ROYAL MEDICAL SOCIETY OP EDINBURGH, AND OF THE MEDICAL SOCIETIES OF PARIS, PHILADELPHIA, &C., SURGEON TO CHRIST’S HOSPITAL, ASSISTANT SURGEON TO ST. BARTHOLOMEW'S HOSPITAL, PROFESSOR OF ANATOMY AND SURGERY, TO THE ROYAL COLLEGE OF SURGEONS, AND TEACHER OF ANATOMY AND SURGERY. PRINTED FOR LONGMAN, HURST, REES, ORME, AND BROWN, AND ON DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. t By JOHN ABERNETHY, F.R.S. THE THIRD EDITION. L ONDON: PATERNOSTER-ROW. 1814.I ' ;■■■■' \'iV V‘ C, * • / r' H.. U l/A ,113*3: ,r . . « < ' < • •' \ • :i i •; • , v >•* . • ' * . ' t' t>, ' Ji. c * . »VJ !« ,1 • ' • • •' i ifSURGICAL OBSERVATIONS. vol. ii. b fon On the Origin, Symptom, and Treatment of Difeafes produced by the Abforption of morbific Animal Matter, and which in Appearance frequently refem« ble Syphilis. m—»»■ t SECT. I. Introductory remarks. SINCE the publication of Mr. Hunter’s accurate obfervations on the Venereal Difeafe, it has been generally admitted that certain modifications of animal matter, being applied to a fufceptible furface of the body, will in many inftances excite an ulcerative difeafe, in which the difeafed part fecretes mat- ter precifely fimilar to that which had excited it. Thefe kinds of infedtious matter Mr. Hun- ter called morbid animal poifons, in order to diftinguifh them from thofe poifons with which fome animals are furnifhed for purpofes con- nected with their economy. Mr. Hunter fur- ther (hewed that the animal matter of one per-ON DISEASES 2 foil might induce difeafe in another, even though the perfon from whom the matter was derived had no difeafe*. As Mr. Hunter’s opi- nions have been confirmed by the fubfequent experience of other practitioners, and appear to have obtained pretty general affent; and as feme of the cafes which I mean to bring for- ward feem ftill further to confirm and illuftrate thefe opinions, it does not appear neceffary for me at prefent to enlarge on thefe fubjects. Infectious matter may be the effeCt of dif- eafe in one perfon and the caufe of it in an- other, and yet it would appear a folecifm were we to call the infectious matter itfelf dif- eafed or morbid. Befides, as fome kinds of animal matter, which are not the products of difeafe, are neverthelefs capable of exciting it, I have, in the firft edition of this book, called all kinds of infectious animal matter, morbific animal poifons, which term there appears no reafon to change. • It cannot, I think, on due confideration of the fubje<ft, be denied, that many fores are in- # See his cafes of difeafes induced by the tranfplanta- tion of teeth, and the fucking of children, in his work on the Venereal Difeafe. 7 ducedRESEMBLING SYPHILIS. 3 duced on the genitals, by fexual intercourfe, which are not the effedts of the venereal poifon, and that many of them infedt the conftitu- tion, and produce fecondary fymptoms refem- bling thofe of that diforder. It may be afked, however, if thefe difeafes be not vene- real, what are they? As they are all the confequence of fexual intercourfe, they may, in one fenfe of the word, be faid to*be vene- real. To avoid ambiguity, therefore, I fhall in thefe pages denominate that difeafe which broke out at the fiege of Naples, and which Mr. Hunter has defcribed as the venereal difeafe, by the name given to it by nofological writers, that is. Syphilis ; and I fhall call thofe difeafes, which differ from it in their progrefs and mode of becoming well, though they ftrikingly refemble it in appear- ance, by a name importing thefe circum- ftances, that is, Pfeudo-Syphilitic Difeafes. To prepare the mind of the reader to take an impartial furvey of thefe fubjedts, I think it will be ufeful to make a few preliminary obfervations relative to the probable origin of pfeudo-fyphilitic difeafes. b 2 Celfus4 ON DISEASES Celfas defcribes eight fpecies of fores with which the genita.s were affected in confe- quence of fexual intercourfe; and as this was long before Syphilis was known, it follows that there mull; be other caufes producing them. Some of the fores deferibed by Cel- fas are not unfrequently met with at prefent, and they are not fyphilitic. Sores alfo frequently form upon the genitals of fe- males in confequence of that irritation which accompanies difeafed fecretions from the va- gina. Sores, for inftance, very frequently fucceed to gonorrhaea in the lower clafs of females, who pay little attention to cleanli- nefs, and do not abllain from fexual inter- courfe. Sores frequently break out on the prepuce and glans of the male, in confequence of the irritation which gonorrhaea or other difeafes of the urethra produce in thefe parts. Thefe fores generally heal without the ufe of mercury, frequently without inducing any conftitutional difeafe: and when they do in- fe£t the conftitution, the difeafe occafioned by them is not fyphilitic. I merely mention thefe circumltances at prefent, to (hew that it is poflible for ulcers to form which may not \resembling syphilis. 5 not be fyphilitic, and yet the difcharges from them may prove morbific, and produce difeafe in others. Even difcharges from the genitals of one perfon, where no ulcers, exift, are capable of exciting ulcers in another. I am aware that no argument can be grounded upon the ob- fervation of this fact in common cafes, where the parties have been promifcuous in their intercourfe with others, and theii veiacity cannot be relied on. But I have known both gonorrhaea and ulcers occafioned by connexion with perfons who had no fyphilitic difeafe, where the veracity of the parties might be relied on, and where no promifcuous jntercourfe could be fufpe<5ted. The cafes of fuppofed gonorrhaea arifing from fexual intercourfe with perfons who apparently have no difeafe are fo very common as to need no exemplification.* I think, however, it will be proper * Neverthelefs it may be ufeful to relate one inftance of this kind. A married medical man of more than forty years of age, connefted himfelf with a married lady, his patient: (he alfo was of an age in which “ the heigh day of “ the blood is tame.’' This a£t was puniihed by what he believed to be a molt malignant clap, which continued on him, with little mitigation, for more than a year. b 3 The6 ON DISEASES proper to adduce fome inftances, in which ulcers have taken place in confequence of the application of irritating matter which was not of a fyphilitic nature, becaufe cafes which can be cited in proof of this fact mull: be rare occurrences, and not likely to be met with except in the extenfive pradtice of a large city. CASE I. A gentleman was connected with a female who was kept by another gentleman, and de- rived from fuch connexion feveral very irri- table and foul fores, which broke out on the prepuce, but which, however, had not the fyphilitic charadters. As neither the woman nor her keeper had any difeafe, he had no wifh to take mercury, nor had I, being confulted on his cafe, any defire to recommend it to him. The fores did not heal until between two and three months, though a variety of local appli- cations were employed. He at length, how- The patient had, however, ftri&ures in his urethra of which he was not aware, and was readily cured after the period I have mentioned, by the ufe of bougies. Neither the female nor her hufband had any difeafe, nor was there any promifeuous connexions if the word of the parties may be relied on. ever.resembling syphilis. 7 ever, became perfectly well, and I cautioned him not to be again connected with the fame woman. But his inclination got the better of his prudence, and another crop of lores, equally irritable, foul, and tedious, took place in confequence of a fecond connexion. Thefe fores were treated in the fame manner as be- fore and (lowly healed. After fome lapfe of time, he again erred in the fame manner; and again received the fame punifhment. He had no conftitutional difeafe from thefe fores. CASE IT. A gentleman had been my patient with ftri&ures in the urethra, which were nearly, though not perfeaiy well. A large bougie could be paffed with facility, but it gave fome pain on palling thofe parts of the urethra where the (Iri6tures had been, and there (fill exifted a very trivial difcharge from that canal. Under thefe circumftances he con- nected himfelf with a female, who, there was good reafon to believe, had had no com- munication with any other perfon. She, however, had in confequence of this con- 33 4 nexion,8 ON DISEASES nexion, four fores which formed upon the under furface of the labia pudendi, two on each fide. Thefe fores were very irritable, and became larger than a fixpence, and of an oval form. They threw forth exuberant flefh of a livid hue, were very tender, and had a great deal of inflammation furrounding them. Various dreflings were employed without amending them, and after a month had elapfed I was induced to recommend from io to 15 grains of the pil. hydrarg. to be taken daily. After another fortnight, as no amendment was perceived, and the mouth was not affedted by the medicine, the patient rubbed in 2 drachms, by meafure, of mercurial ointment every fecond night. A fecond fort- night elapfed without any amendment in the fores, though the mouth was flightly affected. At this time the uneafinefs of the patient and her friend induced me to defire they would confult another furgeon, who thought the fores fyphilitic, and wiflied that the quantity of mercury fhould be increafed, fo as more decidedly to affedt the mouth. In confe- quence of this confultation, the patient rub- bed in the fame quantity of mercurial oint- mentresembling syphilis. 9 ment every night, and difcontinued the inter- nal ufe of the medicine. At the conclnfion of another fortnight, the mercury fuddenly aftefted the gums, and produced a degree of ptyalifm which prevented its furthei ufe. Still the fores were not amended, and on the abate- ment of the ptyalifm, I again had recourfe to local means without refuming the ufe of mer- cury, the inefficacy of which had been fully proved. The fores now healed rapidly under the local ufe of a folution of cupr. vitriolat. Wherever mercury has been ufed, it muft be difficult to decide whether cafes are or are not fyphilitic. I think it very clear, however, that the cafe juft defcribed was not of that nature; and, as to the fores healing fuddenly it is a very common occurrence when no mercury is ufed. For fores which are not affedfed by a local application in their inci- pient ftate, will fometimes heal rapidly if the fame application be made to them in an ad- vanced ftate, when the adfivity of the clifeafe is abated, or its nature changed by its con- tinuance. Though no conftitutional affedfion fuc- ceeded to the fores induced in the foregoing cafes, * *IO ON DISEASES cafes, yet that the fyffem is liable to he con- taminated by abforption from ulcers of this defcription will clearly appear from the cafes related in the fubfequent part of this paper: and at prefent, to corroborate this fact by the teftimony of another, I (hall relate a cafe which was communicated to me by an emi- nent and accurate furgeon in this town. CASE III. A gentleman lately married complained to his furgeon of a running from the urethra, which fo ftrikingly refembled a venereal go- norrhsea that the latter could not but afcribe it to infection. He had afterwards a fwelling of the prepuce, and fores on that part, which confirmed the furgeon in his opinion, and pro- duced a kind of diffention between his pa- tient and him, the one affirming that the difeafe was venereal, the other that it could not poffibly be fo. as his wife had no difeafe, and he had had connexion with no other wo- man. The effedl of this litigation was, that the furgeon would not urge the taking of mer- cury, nor would the patient require the ad- miniftration of that medicine, though a bubo, forethroat, and eruptions fucceeded, which couldRESEMBLING syphilis. 11 could not be diftinguifhed from fimilar com- plaints of a fyphilitic nature, but all of which fpontaneoufly got well. The narrative of the following cafe was lately fent to me by Mr. Watfon of Sioui- port. It is an inftance of the nurfe being in- fected from the child, and fimilar inftances in this refpect are not unfrequently met with. Yet it contains fome interefting circumftances which are explanatory of my prefent fubjedt, and I therefore take the liberty of inferring it in this place. CASE IV. Mrs. F., after fuckting a nurfe child about four months, perceived a fmall ulcer on the breaft near the nipple, which fhe believed fhe caught from the child, as it had a bad note and fore lips. At this time the ulcer was about the fize of an almond, and of the fhape of one. As it did not heal from fimple dreflings, the furface of the fore was rubbed with argent, nitrat. and a wafh of calomel in lime water was afterwards applied. Under this treatment the ulcer healed, and a gland in the axilla, whichON DISEASES 11 which had enlarged, fubfided. This happened about three weeks after the patient had firft confulted me. Two months afterwards, the patient had a fevere febrile attack, accom- panied with fore throat, of which fhe foon recovered. To this fucceeded a copper- coloured eruption, which came out on all parts of the body. No medicine was_given at firft, but as the patient became uneafy, fome compound calomel pills, with fmall dofes of nitric acid were directed. She took about 12 pills, and fmall dofes of the nitric acid for the fame length of time, when they were dis- continued. In about two months all the eruptions had difappeared, except fome white blitters, which had lately formed about the labia pudendi, and which gave her pain, when fhe walked. This complaint was removed in a few days by a folution of fulphat of zinc. About a week afterwards, her hufband (hew- ed me a fore on the penis, covered by a black fcab. It was about the fize of a fixpence, the furrounding (kin was much inflamed, but the bafe of the fore was neither hard nor thickened. In a few days, a fecond fore ap- peared in the courfe of the abforbents between thRESEMBLING SYPHILIS. *3 the fir ft and the groin. The inguinal glands now became enlarged, and one of them fup- purated. In about three weeks from the firft appearance of the fore on the penis, the patient was attacked with feverifh fymptoms, which were followed by an eruption, different from that which his wife had been affe£led with, but very fimilar to the erythema papulatum fyphiliticum, reprefented by Dr. Willan. The fores on the penis fpread rapidly for fome days, but did not penetrate deeper than the fkin, and after being twice touched with ar- gent. nitrat. they foon healed with the ufe of calomel in lime water. The abfcefs in the groin was opened by a lancet, and the wound ulcerated ccnfiderably, but afterwards healed by the fame means, that had been ferviceable to the other fores. This patient never took any mercury, ex- cept once, when fome calomel was given with other aperients, as a purge. It may be rationally fuppofed that the dif- charges from fuch fores as I have defcribed, as well as the difcharges from Lcreting fur- faces i14 ON DISEASES faces not in a ftate of ulceration, may prove morbific and excite local difeafes, or if ab- forbed may contaminate the conflitution. Cafes which render thefe opinions probable, are fo frequent, that every furgeon muft, I think, have remarked them. In confequence, however, of his preconceived opinions, he might diftruft: the veracity of his patients, and treat the difeafe as if it were fyphilitic, and the confequences of fuch condudf will be difplayed in the fubfequent part of this paper. After thefe preliminary obfervations, which are defigned to fliew how fores on the geni- tals may arife from fexual intercourfe at pre- fent, as they did even in the time of Celfus; I may further remark that from the time of the breaking out of the lues venerea, it is probable fuch fores continued to occur, and were con- founded with the fores induced by that difeafe: thus we may account for the opinions de- livered by old authors, of even fyphilis getting well fpontaneoully, or by the adminiftration of medicines of acknowledged inefficacy. EveVy furgeon mull; have feen cafes of fyphilis gettingresembling syphilis. *5 netting progreffively worfe, till correded by mercury, and regularly yielding to the efreft of that medicine, and being permanently cured by one adequate mercurial courfe ; fo that his obfervations will induce him to ad- mit the accuracy and juftnefs of the deiciip- tion of that difeafe which Mr. Hunter has given, in a great number of in (lances. Fur- ther, when from the infenfibility of the conftitution to the operation of mercury it has been difficult to excite its fpecific effedt, how numerous are the cafes of chanci es, ulcers in the throat, and nodes, that have remained ftationary and unvarying under a long ufe of mercury, and yet have yielded and become perfectly well, when by more enrgetic meafures the conftitution has at length been affedled by this medicine. To identify what I confider as true fyphilis, and to excite the reader’s attention to that difeafe, fo that he may contrail it with thofe which make the fubject of the prefent publication, I ffiall here infert a cafe which was related ill the firll edition of my furgical and phyfiolo- gical eflays, to fliew the efficacy of mercurial fumigations in affecting the conllitution, wheni6 ON DISEASES when other modes of adminiftering mercury had failed to produce its fpecific effeft. * CASE V. A young man had a chancre by the fide of the fraenum preputii, which had all the charac- ters of true fyphilis. It was of a circular form, with a thickened edge and bafe; there were no granulations, and matter adhered to the fur- face. For this, he took mercurial pills in large quantities, which never affedted his mouth, though occafionally they produced griping * It is not my intention to republilh the cafes in proof of this fa£t, becaufe I think that the prefent one is fuf- ficient to evince its truth. It feems, however, right to mention, that my opinions on this fubjeft are unaltered, and to repeat, that I have found mercurial fumigations employed in the manner recommended by the Chevalier Lalonette, a phyfician in Paris in 1776, to be, in the ma- jority of inftances, a more powerful and innocent means of producing a mercurial affection of the conftitution than in unftion or the internal ufe of mercury, and equally cer- tain of radically curing the difeafe for which it has been thus adminiftered. The fumigating powrder which I have ufed inflead of Liilonette’s is calomel walhed in water, containing a fmall quantity of ammonia, fo that the pow- der may be deprived of its muriatic acid, and aflume a dark grey colour. pains.RESEMBLING SYPHILIS. 17 * * * * pains, and made him feel very unwell. He was obliged at this time to travel pretty con- ftantly, fo that he could not conveniently rub in mercurial ointment. When the mercury was taken in fuch quantities as to make him feel ill, and to diforder his bowels, the fore looked red on the furface, and feemed dif- pofed to heal, but when he diminifhed the quantity of the medicine the fore affumed its former difeafed charadters. After the chancre had continued for two months, a fmall bubo formed, fuppurated, and burft. By perfevering in the internal ufe of mer- cury to the greateft extent that he could do, the chancre healed and the bubo got well about the fame time. This happened four months after the occurrence of the chancre, and fix weeks after the breaking of the bubo. As at laft having got the chancre to heal by pufhing the ufe of mercury to an extent that made him feel very uncomfortable, and much indifpofed, he left off the medicine fooner than he ought to have done. In two months more his former occupations ceafing, he re- turned to London, where he afterwards re- mained. Shortly after his return, which VOL. II. wasj8 ON DISEASES % was in September 1788, one of his tonfils Teemed a little enlarged, indurated, and ten- der, To as to occaTion a difficulty in degluti- tion. In the courTc of a week it ulcerated, and the ulcer acquired by degrees all the charadfers of Typhilis. It was of an oval form, excavated, without granulations, and with matter adhering to its Turface. The Tame circumftances took place in the oppo- Tite tonfil and an exadtly Timilar Tore formed in it. As the hiftory as well as the appearances of the primary chancre left no doubt of its nature, and as the fecondary Tymptoms were equally unequivocal, he immediately began a mercurial courTe: being healthy, and his bowels not eaTily difturbed, he took, on an average, from two to three grains of calcined quickfilver, or calomel joined with opium, every day for three months; and alfo ufed mercurial ointment during the Tame period, beginning with two drachms, and gradually increafing it to an ounce daily : beTides which, he had for a fhort time taken a Tolution of hydrargyrus muriatus. Yet all this Tcarcely produced any Torenefs of his gums, or cauTed any vifible amendment in the ulcers of his throat;V RESEMBLING SYPHILIS. 19 throat; the only effedt it had being that of preventing them from becoming worfe. His bowels indeed were occafionally diffurbed by the medicines, but were eafily quieted by opium. To rub in the quantity of mercurial ointment ufed towards the latter part of the courfe, the patient fpent nearly an hour and half every night and morning; but as he be- came weaker, he perfpired confiderably in confequence of this exercife, which tended to fruftrate his endeavours, by preventing, or at lead greatly diminifhing, the abforption of the medicine. No ground being gained by purfuing this plan, Sir Charles Blicke recommended mer- curial fumigation according to Lalonette’s method, which he had occafionally employed with fuccefs, and which would not only re- lieve the patient from the fatigue of rubbing in the ointment, but prevent any farther irri- tation of his bowels, by fuperfeding the in- ternal ufe of mercury. The patient was ac- cordingly expofed, for half an hour each night, to the fumes produced from half an ounce of the powder; by which means.ON DISEASES 20 in lefs than a fortnight, his conftitution and mouth became properly affedted by the mer- cury j the ulcers healed foon afterwards; and in about a month he was permitted to dis- continue the remedy. In this cafe the difeafe in all its circum- ftances precifely agreed with the defcription of fyphilis given by Mr. Hunter. It was un- changeable in its charadters it regularly and progreffively got worfe when no mercury was employed, it was ftationary when oppofed by that medicine, and it was permanently cured by an adequate mercurial affcdtion of the conftitution. Having been educated in the old fchool, under profeffors who prided themfelves in pofTeffing theTadtus and Vifus eruditus, I was anxious to obtain that happy difcrimi- nation of colour that fhould enable me to pronounce from the copperifh tint of an eruption that it was undoubtedly venereal. But my endeavours were ineffedhial; and much was I gratified by the-publication of Mr. Hunter’s book, which furnilhed me with a clueRESEMBLING SYPHILIS. 21 a clue to guide me through the labyrinth in which I had been bewildered. All my ob- fervations, while a ftudent, correfponded with Mr. H.’s, and when I experienced as well as witnefied the perplexities of pradlice in thefe difeafes, I faw nothing contrary to his de- fcription. I faw cafes of true fyphilitic dif- eafe, which had been regular in their progrefs and increafe, when no mercury was ufed, re- gularly and permanently cured by that medi- cine. "I alfo faw difeafes refembling the venereal, which were neither regular in their progrefs nor cure. Each year additional fadts prefented themfelves to eftablilh thefe opinions, and none appeared to contradidf them. The following cafe in particular, of a medical ftudent of the hofpital, made a ftrong impreflion upon my mind. CASE VI. This gentleman thought that he had in- fedled a flight cut on his hand (which was fituated in front and juft below the little finger) with the difcharge from a bubo in the groin that he had opened. The wound fretted out into a fore about the fize > c 3 ofON DISEASES 22 of a fixpence, which he fhewed me, and which I affirmed had not the thickened edge and bafe, and other characters of a venereal chancre. I therefore recommended him to try the effeCt of local means, and not to ufe mercury. . In about a month the fore, which had fpread a little, became again contracted in its dimenfions, and affumed a healing appear- ance. At this time pain was felt extending up the arm, and fuddenly a confiderable tumour arofe over the abforbing veflels, which proceed along the inner edge of the biceps mufcle. This tumour became nearly as big as a fmall orange. As the original fore feemed now difpofed to heal, and as there was no furrounding induration, I could not believe it fyphilitic, and therefore recom- mended him ftill to abftain from mercury, and apply leeches, and linen moifted in the aq: litharg: acet: comp to the tumour formed over the inflamed abforbents. Under this treatment the tumour was dif- cuffed, and the fore at the fame time healed. * AboutRESEMBLING SYPHILIS. 23 About three weeks afterwards the patient called on me, and faid that there were vene- real ulcers in his throat; and in each tonlil there was an ulcer deeply excavated, with irregular edges, and with a furface covered by adhering matter; ulcers, in fhort, which every furgeon, who depends on his light as his guide, would have pronounced to be fy- philitic. Shortly after alfo, fome copper- coloured eruptions appeared on his face and bread:. He (hewed his difeafes to feveral furgeons, on whofe opinion he relied, who, without hefitation, affirmed that they were fyphilitic, and that the mercurial courfe had been improperly delayed. Whilft the patient was looking out for lodgings, in order that he might go through the mercurial procefs, a circumfcribed thick- ening and elevation of the pericranium cover- ing the frontal bone appeared; it was of the circumference of a half-crown piece; and was, in ffiort, what every furgeon, who is guided only by his fight and touch, would, without hefitation, have called a true corona veneris. I now told the patient that J was Hill c 4 more-2.4 ON DISEASES more inclined to believe his difeafe was not fyphilitic, from the fudden and fimultaneous occurrence of this node with the fore throat, &c. Other furgeons thought differently j and I believe this very fenfible and amiable young man imagined that his health would become a facrifice if he any longer attended to my opinion. He was preparing to fubmit to a mercurial courfe, when very important con- cerns called him inftantly into the country. He went with great reludtance, taking with him mercurial ointment, &c.: and after a fort- night I received a letter from him, faying that he found his complaints benefited by his journey, that bufinefs had prevented him from beginning the ufe of mercury for a few days, that he now found it was unneceffary, for his fymptoms had almofl difappeared, and fhortly afterwards he became well. At the time, and ever fince, I confidered this cafe as meriting publication, as being a moft unequivocal inftance of a difeafe occur- ring, which could not from appearance be diftinguifhed by furgeons of the greateft experience from fyphilis, and which, how- ever,25 resembling syphilis. ever, was undoubtedly of a different nature ; and I believe that there is no one, who would not have decided on this cafe, as tnofe did who declared it to be fyphilitic, unlefs they had had an opportunity of watching its pro- grefs very attentively. This cafe probably made me more fcrupulous than I fhould otherwife have been in admitting difeafes to be fyphilitic, till their unabating progrefs efta- blifhed their nature beyond the poflibility of doubt; and from this hefitation in deciding I have been enabled to prove, that a great number of cafes, in which mercury would have been employed, have got well without the ufe of that medicine. In the courfe of pradtice, I frequently met with cafes of a nature fimilar to the fore- going. In thefe, I had opportunities of trac- ing conlfitutional fymptoms from the pri- mary fores which had caufed them, a circum- ftance which cannot frequently be done in hofpital pradtice. I faw that the primary fores had not the charadter of fyphilis, not- withftanding the fecondary fymptoms often ftrongly refembled thofe of that difeafe. As, however,ON DISEASES 2 6 however, I did not meet with other furgeons who thought as Mr. Hunter did on this fub- je£t, and as my obfervations fo ftrictly coin- cided with his, I thought it right in the firft volume of my Surgical Obfervations, pub- lifhed in 1804, to excite the public attention to thefe cafes by laying before it the following Effay, but previoufly I enquired of the beft furgeons in London, whether conftitutional fymptoms of fyphilis do ever fpontaneoufly amend? To this enquiry no one decidedly replied in the affirmative, whilfl all without hehtation agreed that they were generally, if not eonfiantly, progreffive, unlefs checked by the operation of mercury. In confequence of this opinion, fo concurrent with Mr. Hun- ter’s defcription of the difeafe, I was induced to publifh the following cafes and remarks.27 resembling syphilis. SECTION II. On Pfeudo-fyphilitic Difeafes becoming well fponta- neoujly. MR. Hunter, in his excellent Treatife on the Venereal Difeafe, has related feveral cafes fuppofed to be fyphilitic, and fome of which were certainly not fo, as they got well without mercury j but in the greater number the employment of this medicine rendered their nature doubtful. Mi. Hunter alfo, who was as cautious in drawing conclu- fions as he was accurate in making obferva- tions, expreffes himfelf in many inftances fo diffidently on the fubjeft, as, in my opinion, not fufficiently to imprefs the minds of his readers with the certainty, importance, and frequency of fuch fadls. He concludes his obfervations by intimating “ that undefcribed difeafes, refembling the venereal, are very numerous, and that what he has faid is rather to be confidered as hints for others to prole- cute this inquiry further, than as a complete account of the fubjedt.” As it has occurred to me very frequently to meet with fuch cafes,ON DISEASES 28 s cafes, and as the necefilty for difcriminating them from fyphilitic difeafes appears to me of the higheft importance, I fhall profecute the fubjedt by relating fome unequivocal cafes of difeafes ftrikingly refembling fyphilis, but which, however, were diforders of a different nature, provided it be admitted that fyphilis does not fpontaneoufly get well without the aid of medicine. The neceffity for difcrimination between thefe difeafes will appear upon a flight con- fideration of the fubjedt. If a furgeon, who does not fee that extent of pradtice which occurs in a metropolis, adminifters mercury in one of the difeafes refembling fyphilis, he finds perhaps that the fymptoms yield flowly; and even after a confiderable and debilitating courfe of that medicine they may recur. They are then counteradted by a ftill more fevere ufe of mercury, till they perhaps fpon- taneoufly ceafe, which may not happen till the patient’s conftitution is fo enfeebled, that if it do not fall into other ftates of difeafe it very flowly regains the ftandard of health. Such cafes would induce the furgeon to confider theresembling syphilis. 29 the venereal difeafe as peculiarly difficult of cure, and liable to recur on the remiffion of even a fevere courfe of mercury. The con- fequence of this opinion is, that he employs mercury to an unneceffary and injurious de- gree in his general prafrice. I do not mean, however, by thefe remarks to imply, that, in my opinion, fyphilitic dif- eafes are equally fufceptible of cure in every inflance by mercury ; nor am I an advocate for what has been termed an alterative courfe of this medicine. Cafes which frequently occur have convinced me that it requires a -very confiderable mercurial effect to cure fyphilis in fome inftances; and that this effe£t muff be continued for a confiderable time in order to infure a cure. Mr. Hun- ter probably wifhed the fubje6t of difeafes refembling fyphilis to be profecuted, in hopes that fome diftinctive characters might be difcovered as peculiar to them; but the following cafes fhew that thefe difeafes enfue from primary infected fores of very diffimilar appearances, and fometimes arife without any primary fore having been obferved. 1 Whilft30 ON DISEASES Whilft, then, the primary fymptoms are thus variable, and fuch as may perhaps in the greater number of cafes be diftinguiflied from thofe of fyphilis, the fecondary or conflritu- tionai fymptoms often fo strikingly refemble thofe of that difeafe, as not to be discriminated from them by fight, though in general they may be by their progrefs. I have kept no particular account of the numerous cafes which I have met with, but the five following inflrances happened in my own private practice within a few months, and the circumftances of them are drill frefli in my memory. The cafes are drawn up from narratives which I requeued the pa- tients themfelves to make out of their own difeafes. CASE VII. A gentleman had a fore on the lower part of the prepuce near the freenum, which v«as much irritated by travelling from the country. When he came to town there was a good deal of furrounding inflammation, and a thickening adjoining the edges of the fore 3 which 1RESEMBLING SYPHILIS. 31 which were irregular, and feemingly difpofed to fpread. An appearance of granulations had taken place on the furface of the ulcer, which was at this time as large as a fhilling. I gave him the pilulae hydrargyri, whilft I tried by local means to quiet the irritation of the fore, and of the furrounding parts. As the fore appeared to heal {lowly, and feem- ingly in proportion to the quantity of mer- cury taken, the patient rubbed in at the fame time fome mercurial ointment, and continued to do fo till after the fore was well, which was. in about a month. In three weeks after he had left off thefe medicines, this patient ap- plied to me on account of an ulceration on the velum pendulum palati, and on the fur- face of one tonfil ; and foon afterwards ulcers took place on the edges of the tongue, and on the infide of the lips and cheeks. Copper- coloured fpots alfo came out on his arms and legs, and all over his body. They were very numerous, but none appeared on his face. By waiting and watching the progrefs of the difeafe, I found that fome of the ulcers amended ipontaneoufly, and that the palate got well. I therefore exhorted him to refrain , from32 ON DISEASES The from mercurial medicine, and he went into the country. A medical gentleman, whom the patient confulted, was very anxious to try fomething to cure this difeafe, when his patient was feized with a fevere febrile com- plaint, during the continuance of which all thefe doubtful fymptoms difappeared, and there has not been any return of difeafe fince that time. CASE VIII. A gentleman had a fmall fore on the pre- puce, at a little difiance behind the corona glandis, which did not appear like a venereal chancre, and therefore no mercury was ufed. After about a fortnight, during which time it could fcarcely be faid to be better or worfe, it fuddenly became confiderably indurated in its circumference, and the furrounding parts became inflamed. The hardnefs was fo con- fiderable that it refembled one of thofe indu- rated chancres which fo frequently occur; and in confequence of this flriking refem- blance, another furgeon, whom the patient confulted at this time, infilled on his con- fining himfelfto his chamber, and ufing mer- cury attentively.33 resembling .syphilis. The quietude of the patient, with fome little attention in regard to local applications, foon removed the inflammation and hardnefs, and the patient, who was controlled by no- thing but his fears, difcontinued his medicine after thrice ufing fome mercurial ointment, and returned to his former mode of life. £ About a month afterwards, he called on me with an ulcer in each tonfil, one of which was deeply excavated, with irregular edges, and covered by adhering matter. Shortly af- terwards, copper-coloured fpots appeared on his body, but thefe difeafes all difappeared in about a month, without ufing mercury. CASE IX. A gentleman applied to me with a very irri- table fore, or rather excoriation, extending it- felf over the left half of the corona glandis. It was unlike a fyphilitic fore, as may be fup- pofed from this defcription, yet, as the pa- tient was young and healthy, I advifed him to take fome of the pilulae hydrargyri to guard againfl: the poflible confequences of ab- ruption, and to bathe the parts affedted with vol. ii. r> theON DISEASES 34 the aq. litharg. acet. comp. c. opio, and to apply folded linen moiftened with the wafli round the penis. The prepuce foon became fwoln and inflamed, fo that he was unable to re- trafr it, and the attempt gave him great pain. He was therefore diredted to cleanfe the part by injedting frequently the decodtion of white poppy heads of a lukewarm temperature. After a week he tried a very weak folution of vitriolated zinc, and other metallic falts, but they all increafed his pain, and he was obliged to return to the ufe of the anodyne wafli. When he had perfevered in this courfe three weeks without any evident amendment, he confulted another furgeon, who recommended the difcontinuance of the mercurial medicine, and in lieu of it, the free ufe of the bark. This medicine he took for a week without any amendment; he then tried the nitrous acid for ten days, and afterwards took cicuta. In about two months he was able to retradl the forelkin, and then the folution of vitrio- lated zinc appeared to leflen the irritability, andresembling syphilis. 35 and contribute to the fkinning of the fore, which was merely on the furface, not having been attended with any lofs of fubftance. Afterwards the penis being fubjedted to fome accidental irritation, the fame kind of forenefs fpread over the other half of the corona glandis j but this difeafe was not ac- companied with fo much tendernefs as the former one, and got well in lefs than a month. As foon as it was well, the patient had an ulceration of the velum pendulum palati, round which the cuticle affumed a whitiih colour; the ulceration fpread acrofs the palate, but it was evident that the part firft affedted got better, whilft the ulcer be- came worfe in the parts laft affedted. Two or three ulcers took place upon each edge of the tongue, and fome on the infide of the lips. At the fame time many copper-coloured fpots appeared on the face, bread, arms, and lower extremities j they came out in fuccef- fion, were of an oval lhape, about the lize of a fixpence, and had a ftrikiogly fyphilitic afpedt. © 2 BelievingON DISEASES 3 6 Believing that the primary fymptoms of this difeafe were not fyphilitic, and obferving that fome part of the ulcer on the palate heal- ed, and that fome of the fores on the tongue and lips got better, whilft new ones broke out, I recommended the patient to ufe no mercury. He went into the country, where all thefe maladies gradually difappeared, and in about a month he was perfectly well. CASE X. A perfon, whofe irregular habits of life gave reafon to fufpedl the exiftence of fyphilis in the conftitution, had ulceration of the ton- fils, not fuperficial, but deep. Thefe were accompanied with copper-coloured fpots on the face and bread:, and eruptions on the head admidft the hair, accompanied with a great deal of fcurf. Thefe got well by anointing the head with ung. hydrarg. nitrat. mixed with fimple ointment, which made me doubt whether the other difeafes were really fyphilitic, and caufed me to delay the ufe of mercury. The complaints did not amend, nor did they get materially worfe. There was attending thefe difeafes a good deal ofRESEMBLING SYPHILIS. 37 general indifpofition ; the appetite failed, and no deep took place till the morning. At this time a tendernefs and thickening of the periofteum of the tibia took place. Though other medicines did not appear to be of any fervice I ftill was averfe to the ufe of mercury. Tired of delay, the patient con- fulted another furgeon, who declared the dif- eafe to be venereal, and defired that mercurial ointment might be ufed. The patient ac- cordingly rubbed in two or three nights with- out feeling any effeCt from the medicine, and then fet off on a party of pleafure to Brigh- ton, where all the difeafes gradually difap- peared without any further ufe of mercury. CASE XI. A gentleman had an enlargement of a gland in the groin, probably from the abforption of fome infectious matter, though he was not confcious of having had any fore. A fecond and a third gland became enlarged, the inte- guments became thickened and inflamed, and a very large bubo formed. It fuppurated and burft in three places. The general tumefac- d 3 tion38 ON DISEASES tion fubfided, but by no means difperfed, and finules remained where the abcefles had been. About this time I faw the patient, which was two months after the firft appear- ance of the difeafe. Shortly after this, he had an ulceration, which fpread over the velum pendulum pa- lati, and except that it was more fuper- ficial, much refembled a fyphilitic ulceration. It continued fo long without amendment, that I began to think it was fyphilitic. Bark was now given plentifully, and the ulcer evidently amended. The patient went afterwards to the fea-fide, where the bubo gradually dif- perfed : many months however elapfed before it entirely difappeared. The ulcerations of the velum pendulum palati alfo healed flovvly j and ulcers, which afterwards appeared in the back part of the pharynx, got well likewife without mercury. Thefe cafes are not related as being rare or curious, but becaufe they all occurred to me within the fpace of a few months, and becaufe fufficient time has elapfed fince theirRESEMBLING SYPHILIS. 39 their occurrence to {hew that there is no probability that there will be any recurrence of thefe or fimilar fymptoms. It mufl be allowed that they are inconteftable inftances of difeafes getting well without mercury, which could not be diftinguifhed by mere infpedtion from fimilar difeafes truly fyphilitic. For though mercury was employ- ed in fome of the cafes, it was ufed at fuch a time, or in fuch quantity, that it cannot in the lead: influence our decifion as to this point. For inftance, in the firft cafe though mercury was employed for the cure of the primary ulcer, and did apparently contribute to it j yet the fecondary fymptoms got well without mercury, which, according to the opi- nions now prevailing among furgeons, is a proof that neither was fyphilitic. It may in- deed be fuppofed that the fyphilitic poifon may be modified by certain conftitutions, and its effects fpontaneoufly difappear ; and fome may queftion if the fecondary fymptoms were the confequences of the fores or abiorption to which I attribute them. What I have written is, I believe, in conformity to prevailing opi- d 4 nions.ON DISEASES 40 nions, and I forbear to enter into uncertain difcuffions. Thefe inftances, however, though not fe- 1e£ted for the purpofe, fhew that the primary Infected fores which are capable of producing iecondary fymptoms, ftrikingly refemb- ling thofe of fyphilis, do not themfelves poffefs any uniform characters. In the firft cafe the ulcer had no uncommon appearance ; it was of the fize of a fhilling, with fretful edges, and every where covered with granu- lations. In the fecond there were no appa- rent granulations, and a great degree of indu- ration fuddenly furrounded it, giving it a ftriking refemblance to the indurated vene- real chancre. In the third, the fore furface was extremely irritable but though the dif- eafe exifted for a long time, the ulcerative procefs did not eat into the part; and at the conclufion of the cafe there was no lofs of * ’ fubftancfc. In the fourth and fifth cafes, the abforption of the matter, which caufed the fecondary fymptoms, either took place with- oiit any breach of furface, or the primary foresJ RESEMBLING SYPHILIS. 41 fores were too infignificant to excite atten- tion. I lately attended a gentleman who had an ulcerated throat, and eruptions cn the head, which broke out between the fecond and third month after the appearance of a fore on the prepuce, which fore healed in a few days with no other treatment than bathing it with a folution of acetated lead, and applying to it a piece of lint moiftened with that liquor. This circumlfance made him difregard the primary fore, but he was allured by a furgeon, whom he confulted, that the fecondary fymptoms were fyphilitic; they however got well without mercury. It is probable, that the poifon of fyphilis is of fo acrid a quality that it always excites local ulceration of a peculiar and progreffive nature, whilft the morbific poifons which produce pfeudo-fyphilis may be abforbed without any evident ulcer, or from a trivial ulcer, which may heal fpontaneoufly; and if the confequent conlfitutional fymptoms are confidered as the effeas of the former difeafe and tieated as fuch, I need not fay what confufion muft be produced in the mind of42 ON DISEASES of the furgeon who purfues this conduct, and how bewildered his opinions muft be refpedt- ing venereal difeafes. If, for inftance, in the eleventh cafe, a furgeon had confidered the fecondary fymptoms as fyphilitic, and employed mercury fucccfsfully for their cure, he would fet this down as a cafe of fyphilitic bubo occurring without a previous chancre, and be inclined in his general pradtice to ufe mercury in all cafes of buboes without chancre, left conftitutional difeafes fhould enfue. There, however, does not appear any thing that fhould exempt the glands of the groin from enlargement, and difeafes to which other abforbent glands are fubjedt, whilft they are particularly liable to irritation and confe- quent difeafefrom diforders of the urethra and other parts, to which they are connedted by means of their veflels. The ufe of mercury as a fpecific, therefore, in enlargement of thefe glands, unlefs they have been preceded by a chancre, muft, I think, be confidered as improper. I have met with many fimilar cafes lince thofe five that have been related, and of which,RESEMBLING SYPHILIS. 43 which, from their fudden and almoft fimul- taneous occurrence, I was induced to take a written account: within thefe two months, I have feen two cafes of eruptions and three of fore throats. The eruptions took place par- ticularly about the hands and feet: in one cafe, the patient has been falivated for them; thedifeafe, however, recurred, and afterwards got well without the ufe of mercury. In the other, there were warts and fores on the pre- puce, and buboes in the groin, which fuppu- rated and burft : the eruptions fo ftrikingly refembled thofe of fyphilis, that all the me- , dical men, who accidentally faw the patient, exclaimed that they were fo, with a confi- dence proportioned to their profeffional fkill and accuracy of obfervation. Indeed in this cafe, and in others, I have been almofl im- pelled to ufe mercury, in confequence of the opinion and willies of the patient and thofe of his friends. The hiftory however of this difeafe did not accord with that of fyphilis) the warts had preceded the fores; fome fores healed, and others broke out j and at laft, fome of the eruptions began to get well, and the reft gradually difappeared. The thirdON DISEASES 44 third patient had a fore throat for which he had been falivated: it afterwards recurred, when it got well without mercury. The fourth and fifth had ulcers in the throat and on the lips and tongue. They all got well without mercury. One of the patients who had the fore throat had been falivated, but the difeafe recurred. In the other two I forbore to ufe mercury, and I have reafon to fay they will do well without it. In one of the latter cafes there were ulcers on the tongue and the infide of the lips. If, then, the occurrence of fuch cafes be frequent, and the neceffity of diferiminating them from thofe of fyphilis be of great im- portance, we may folicitoufly enquire by what circumifances we are to diftinguifh be- tween difeafes fo fimilar in appearance, but fo different in their nature. Mr. Hunter feemed to wifh the profecution of this fubjedf, probably from the expedfation that fome cha- radters appropriate to thefe difeafes might be detedfed: I have not, however, been able to difeover any; the fidlitious difeafe in appear- ance fo exadlly refembles fyphilis that no ob- fervation,RESEMBLING SYPHILIS. 45 fervation, however acute, feems to be capable of deciding upon its nature. Although the ul- cers in thefe ambiguous cafes generally fpread more extenfively along the furface of the part which they affeft, yet this does not conftantly happen, as is ftiewn in the eighth cafe. In this cafe, however, the induration which fur- rounded the chancre occurred fuddenly, and went away as rapidly. The progrefs, there- fore of the two difeafes was very diflimilar*. * On the fubjeft of induration furrounding chancres I think it may be ufeful to relate the following cafe, and to mention that I have known fimilar ones in a lefs degree : A ftudent in furgery fhewed me an indurated chancre, for the cure of which he had ufed a great quantity of mer- cury, which had affected his mouth for a long time, though not feverely. The fore fo exaftly refembled a bad indurated venereal chancre that I did not hefitate to recommend him to remain at home, and rub in fo as to produce a flight fali- vation. But as no amendment was perceived after a fort- night’s confinement, and under a confiderable affe&ion of the mouth, I was induced to enquire more ftriftly into the local treatment of the fore, which I found he was con- ftantly irritating by various ftimulating applications. He alfo affirmed that the hardnefshad feveral times gone away and returned again. By bathing the part with milk and water, and dreffing it only night and morning with mild falv'e, the hardnefs quickly abated, and though he defifted from the mercurial courfe it foon became perfectly well. It46 ON DISEASES s It muft alfo be remarked, that true fyphilitic fpots and ulcers fometimes affume the ap- pearance of other difeafes, and do not poffefs their ordinary chara&eriftics. Since, then, our fenfes fail us in our en- deavours to difcriminate between thefe two difeafes, and fince the moft important circum- ftance is to diftinguifh whether the difeafe be fyphilis or not, we may enquire whether there are any circumftance in the progrefs of thefe different difeafes which will ferve us in diftinguifhing one from the other. It appears to me that there are and thefe cafes are publifhed not merely to fhew the fre- quency of fuch occurrences, and the neceflity for difcrimination, but to engage a more ge- neral attention to the means by which fuch diftindfion may be made. A very fimple fa£t has enabled me in moil cafes to diftinguifh between the two difeafes 3 yet, fimple as it is, if it be generally true, it is very important} and if it were univerfally true, it would be of the high eft confequence. The fa<ft alluded to is, that the conftitutional fymptoms of fyphylis are generally progi;effive, and never difappearRESEMBLING SYPHIilS. 47 difappearunlefs medicine be employed. It may be added too, they are as generally relieved under an adequate effedt of mercury on the conftitution. An attention to fuch plain and limple circumftances has been of great ufe in diredling the medical treatment which I have purfued, and I am induced to folicit the public attention to them, that others may de- termine the value of fuch remarks. I have afked the opinion of feveral fur- geons of great pradiice and abilities refpedling this queftion; Whether conftitutional fymp- toms of fyphilis do ever fpontaneoully amend? and no one has decidedly replied in the affir- mative, whilft all, without hefitation, agreed that they were generally progreffive till checked by the effedf of mercury. It feemed ufelefs to feek further information; for what furgeon is there at prelent, if he fees difeafes that cannot be diftinguifhed by the fight from fyphilis, and hears that they arofe in confe- quence of a chancre, that would fufpend his judgment, and forbear toadminifter mercury? If I have lived in the habit of fo frequently detecting the jmpofing appearances of the fe- 8 condaryON DISEASES condary effedts of thefe difeafes, it is becaufe I have been upon the watch, and becaufe they have occurred in patients in whom I have feen the primary fores, the appearance and progrefs of which have excited my fuf- picion as to their nature. I have ftated the rule as general, but not univerfal; for I could myfelf relate cafes of difeafes, in which, from the great abatement, and even difap- pearance of fymptoms, I have concluded the difeafe was not fyphilitic; yet, from the duration of the diforder, or from the fubfe- quent aggravation of its fymptoms, the pa- tient has defired, and I have recommended the ufe of mercury, and the difeafe has been fuccefsfully treated as fyphilitic without its real nature being afcertained. The rule which has been mentioned relates to the conffitutional fymptoms of the vene- real difeafe, for the primary ones, chancres, do fometimes heal fpontaneoufly, generally however, though not conftantly, leaving a thickening or induration of the affedted part. They may alfo be induced to heal by topical means, without mercury, with fimilar events. SomeRESEMBLING SYPHILIS. 49 Some enlargements of glands in the groin will alfo in like manner fublide. It may be fairly fuppofed that if fome chancres heal fpontaneoully, conftitutional difeafes arifing from the fame caufe, may, in like manner, fometimes get well with- out mercury. The queftion can only be folved by experience. Delay will, I am fure, frequently enable a furgeon to decide, that the difeafe is not fyphilis; but there are cafes in which no amendment takes place, and the furgeon is as it were forced, from the pro- grefs of the difeafe, to employ mercury, though doubtful of its nature. In recommending prudent delay and atten- tive obfervation, I hope and believe that I am not recommending any thing likely to be of dangerous confequences. The venereal dif- eafe is generally foon checked by the ufe of mercury; and in conftitutions where much medicine is required to counteradl its effedts, that medicine may be given with freedom, By delay and obfervation we perhaps may perceive that eruptions and fore throats, which could not from appearance be diftin- V0L* n* E guifhed50 .* ON DISEASES guifhed from venereal, fpontaneoufly amend : that fome eruptions fcale and become well, and the probability will of courfe be that the reft will do fo likewife: or that an ulcer mends in one part though it may fpread in another, when the natural inference is, that the difeafed adtions in the fore will gradually ceafe, and health return fpontaneoufly; and that what has occurred in one part of an ulcer will fuc- ceflively take place in the others. In recommending delay it cannot, I fup- pofe, be thought that I would advife any one to wait till an ulcer deftroyed the velum pen- dulum palati, or did material injury to any important part. There are cafes where the progrefs of the difeafe obliges the furgeon to ufe mercury, even though he may be fufpicious that it is not fyphilitic. The effect of ex- citing a mercurial affedtion of the conftitu- tion, where we feel ourfelves under the ne- ceflity of employing that medicine, in dif- eafes refembling fyphilis is, as far as my obfervation enables me to determine, very various. It fometimes cures them very fud- denly, and very differently from the gradual amendment which it produces in truly fyphi- liticRESEMBLING SYPHILIS. 5* litic difeafes. Sometimes, however, thefe difeafes yield more (lowly to its operation, arid are cured permanently. Sometimes the difeafes recur in the fame parts after a fe- vere courfe of mercury; fometimes mercury ' merely checks the difeafe, and can fcarcely be faid to cure it; in which cafe it feems impor- tant to fupport the ftrength of the conftitu- tion, and to keep up that mercurial effect which controls the difeafe, and can be borne without material derangement of theconfti- tution for a great length of time. Some- times alfo the ufe of mercury aggravates thefe difeafes. Again, in fome conftitutions, fyphilitic difeafe may affume unufual characters, and be very difficult of cure. It mud then be fcarcely poffible to difcriminate between thefe anomalous cafes of fyphilis and tnofe of dif- eafes refembling it, unlefs fome new diftino tions are difcovered. But I fupprefs any further cbfervation on the lubject, having accomplifhed the inten- tion of this paper, which was to depidt a f c E 2 kind5* ON DISEASES kind of cafes which very frequently occurs in this metropolis, and which is, I believe, too commonly treated as fyphilitic, but which may be diftinguifhed not to be fo by a little prudent delay and attentive obfervation. The frequent cafes of fuch diforders which I have recently met with has fuggefted the idea that they are increafmg of late; nor is it impro- bable, fince they are like fyphilis, propagated by promifcuous intercourfe from fecretions, or fores not fo readily curable by mercury as thofe that are fyphilitic, and fome of which are not from their nature fo prohibitory of that intercourfe. It is now many years fince this paper was drawn out as a fubjefr for difcufiion at a me- dical fociety; and, after fuch an interval, the chance of any of the diforders which are defcribed in it returning is diminifhed almoft to nothing. I have fince met with confider- able numbers of fimilar difeafes, which give confirmation to the opinion that they are fre- quent occurrences. In fome later cafes, when the difeafe has been long protra&ed, and the patient very anxious to get rid of it, I haveRESEMBLING SYPHILIS. 53 have given a little calomel for tha iurpole, but not fo as to invalidate the opinion that the difeafe was not fyphilitic. Having waited, for inftance, four months from the occur- rence of a fore throat with eruptions, and being allured by the progrefs of the dif- orders that they were not fyphilitic, I have diredted that the compound calomel pills* fhould be taken in fuch dofes as to control the difeafe without weakening the conftitu- tion, which generally difpofes the fores in the throat to heal, but I have taken care to remit the ufe of even this fmall quantity of mer- cury if it feemed to heal the fores too fpeedilyj for it feems to me better to let the difeafe exhauft itfelf than fuddenly to cure it, as in the latter cafe it is very likely to return. In confirmation of this opinion I may men- tion, that, about five years ago, a gentleman applied to me to undergo a falivation for the cure of a fore throat, for which he had been falivated three times, once in each fucceeding * The pill, as preferred in the pharmacopeia of St.Bar- tholomew’s HofpitajL contains I grain of calomel, i grain of the precipitated fulphur of antimony, and 2 grains of powdered gum guaiacum, combined by foap. E 3 year.54 ON DISEASES year. I need fcarcely fay that it was one of thofe ulcerated throats which have been de- fcribed. All medicine was abftained from; and in between three and four months the fores fpontaneoufly became well, and have never fmce recurred. The whole of this paper has been written upon the prefumption that difeafes which fpontaneoufly get well are' not fyphilitic, which is, I believe, the general . opinion. It may, perhaps, be queftioned by fome, whether the difeafes here recorded may not be modifications of the venereal difeafe* The praCtical rules of conduct will not, how- ever, be altered even if fuch a fuppofition were verified, fo that it does not feem necelfary to difcufs this point: it may however be right to remark, that there are cafes which would induce the belief that ulcerated fore throats, eruptions, and nodes on the bones, fimilar to thofe defcribed in this paper, may occur from a general difturbance of the conflitution, without the abforption of any infectious matter. The objeCt of this paper being firnply to excite attention to fuch cafes as are recorded in55 RESEMBLING SYPHILIS. in it, I did not think it neceffary to enlarge much upon a circumflance which, however, is a ftrong evidence of the neceffity of difcri- minating between fuch difeafes and true fyphilis. The circumfiance to which I al- lude is, that though a.courfe of mercury may at the time remove all the fymptoms for . which it has been employed, yet it will not cure the conftitutional difeafe; for the fymp- toms will recur when the medicine has been difcontinued after repeated and fevere courfes of mercury, as will be fully fhewn, by cafes which I fhall afterwards relate. Having written the foregoing account, I intended here to conclude, having, in my own opinion, accomplifhed my purpofe, which was to profecute in fome degree the fubjeft which Mr. Hunter deemed worthy of inveftigation, and to depidl the circumflances of difeafes which I believe very frequently occur, and which are often confounded with cafes of fyphilis, to the detriment of patients, and the difcredit of our profeflion. But having requefled the opinions of two of my tnedical fiiends on the foregoing paper, one E 4 of56 ON DISEASES of them faid, that he thought the publicaton of it would be injurious, as it might induce the younger fqrgeons to abftain from the ufe of mercury, to the prejudice of their pa- tients j the other gentleman faid, that he thought more explicit defcriptions fhould be given of the cafes in which mercury fhoqld be withheld or employed. In confequence of thefe opinions, I am induced to take a clofer comparative view of the difeafes that are, and of thofe that are not, fyphilitic. I undertake the talk relu&antly, becaufe the brevity with which I mull fpeak of thefe fubjeCts may render my opinions liable to mif- apprehenljon, and becaufe I do not feel com- petent to its proper performance. Yet, by this means, I think I fhall do away the ob- jection of one of my medical friends j for I believe that I am myfelf more likely to err in recommending the too free than the too fparing adminiftration of mercury in fyphi- litic difeafes. Any furgeon who has ob- ferved the ruinous confluences of repeated mercurial courfes in fome conftitutions would probably err in the fame manner and his diflikeRESEMBLING SYPHILIS. 57 diflike to diforder the conftitution by mercury would probably lead hiiji even to ufe it more freely than might be abfolutely neceffary: this he would do in cafes clearly fyphilitic, in order to prevent the poffibility of the re- currence of difeafe, and a repetition of a mer- curial courfe. In doubtful cafes, which are cured by exciting the mercurial adfion in the conftitution, he would adopt a ftmilar mode of treatment, in order to fupprefs the dif- eafe for fo long a time as to make it lefs likely to recur; or if any fubfequent difeafe fhould take place, to render it highly pro- bable that this was not fyphilitic, fince it had broken out after fuch a courfe of mercury as muft be confidered to be adequate to the cure of almoft any difeafe of that nature. By undertaking this talk I lhall perhaps com- ply with the wilhes of my other friends, in ftating -more explicitly the circumftances which fhould induce a furgeon immediately to ufe or abftain from the adminiftration of mercury, and, at the fame time, contri- bute my mite of obfervation to thofe al- ready offered on this ftill obfcure fubjedt of •venereal difeafes. The58 ON DISEASES The moft clearly marked fyphilitic chancre has been excellently defcribed by Mr. Hun- ter. The ftriking charadters of the difeafe are, an ulcerating inflammation without any reparation, attended with induration of the furrounding parts. The defcription is, a fore of a fomewhat circular form, excavated, without granulations, with matter adhering to the furface, and with a thickened bafe and edge. There is another fpecies of chancre in which the difpofition to ulcerate is lefs than ufual, and the difpofition to indurate is greater 5 fo that the ulcerated furface may heal, and leave an indurated knob or tu- bercle in the affedted part. « * * There are befides fome chancres in which the difeafed adtion feems to be very inert; in thefe the ulcer is fuperficial, the thickening of the furrounding parts flight, and, after fome time, the ulcerated furface acquires a ftate of health, and cicatrizes, without producing any perceptible granulations. I conclude that the truly fyphilitic chancre fometimes af- fumes59 RESEMBLING SYPHILIS. fumes the appearances juft defcribed, becaufe I have repeatedly confidered the conftitu- tional fymptoms which fucceeded to fuch fores as truly fyphilitic, yet I may have been deceived, for reafons which I fhall afterwards explain. But it is impoffible to depidt by words the various fores, fome of which are of a very irritable nature, that are produced by fexual intercourfe, and through the medium of which the conftitution becomes contami- nated ; neither is it poffible to know from local circumftances whether they be fyphi- litic or Otherwife. It is from their effects upon the conftitution alone, that we can judge whether they were fyphilitic or not. Many we know are not fo, fince they do not produce the conftitutional effedts of fyphilis. The fubjedt can alone be decided by future experience derived from watchful obferva- tion made by unbiafled men. Mr. Hunter thought that fyphilitic poifon might pro- duce a fore which might be modified by the difeafed propenfities of the conftitution and6o ON DISEASES and the part, and thus lofe its diftin&ive chara&ers. Influenced by this belief, he fpeaks but briefly on the fubje6t of chancres. I have alfo feen cafes of conftitutional difeafe, which I confidered as fyphilis originating from pri- mary fores which had not the ufual character of fyphilis: the more, however, that I fee of thefubje£t, the more I am inclined to doubt the corredtnefs of my opinions on this point; and of this I am certain, that the greater number of the conftitutional difeafes originating from fores, which have not the fyphilitic eharadter, differ materially in their progrefs and mode of getting well from thofe which are the confequences of true fyphilis, and that they require a proportionate peculiarity of treatment. However, if, according to the opinion of Mr. Hunter, the a&ion of a fyphilitic chancre may be fometimes fo modified by the difeafed propenfities of the conftitution, or part, as to form an ulcer fcarceiy cognizable as a fyphiliticRESEMBLING SYPHILIS. 61 fyphilitic one, it follows, as a general rule of condudt in pra6tice, that furgeons are not to confide in their powers of difcrimination, but in all cafes of ulcers arifing from impure intercourfe, to adf as if the fore was fyphilitic, to give fufficient mercury flightly to affedt the conftitution, in order to guard againft the confequences of abforption, and, by local and other general means, to cure as quickly as poflible the local difeafe, and thus remove the fource of contamination, and the ne- cefiity for the continuance of medicine. The quantity of mercury neceffary for the cure of a fyphilitic chancre will never, I believe, be found to be fo confiderable as materially to difturb the conftitution. We may therefore, without hefitation, employ it in almoft all cafes of primary ulcers, and be guided as to its continuance or ceflation, its increafe or diminution, by the effedfs which it produces in the fore or conftitution. Mercury in fmall dofes inclines other fores to heal, as well as thofe which are fyphilitic• it may therefore adf beneficially when the difeafe is not fyphilis, and by contributing to the healing of the fore remove the fource of con- tamination Mr-6 2 ON DISEASES tamination and the neceflity for the continu- ance of medicine. It is furely an objedl of im- portance to get the local difeafe well as foon as poffible, and topical applications often greatly' contribute to this defirable event; yet they fhould not be of a very irritating nature, for fuch means frequently aggravate the difeafe, as may be feen in fome of the cafes which are related; nor Ihould our ap- plications be of an aftringent nature, fince by checking difcharge, they incline the difeafe to become indurated, and it requires a longer continuance of mercury to remove a fmall induration than to heal a large fore. This obfervation applies equally to fores of a fyphi- litic nature and to others. Whilft there re- mains an induration, we can never be fure that it may not ulcerate again, upon leaving off the ufe of mercury, nor can we be allured that it may not contaminate the conftitu- tion. Indeed, in the fyphilitic chancre, it feems beft to ufe none but the fimplelb drefs- ings; for when it heals by the effe<5l of mer- cury on the conftitution, we are allured of the adequatenefs of the quantity which is employed to the intended purpofe, and we haveRESEMBLING SYPHILIS. 63 have reafon to believe, that the conftitutional mercurial affection which has fubverted the local adtions of the difeafe, will have prevented its contamination by any matter that may have been imbibed from it. If then we may, for the reafons above ftated, employ mercury without hefitation in primary infedled fores, being governed with refpedt to the degree and duration of its ufe by its effedts, we ought, as has been fhewn in the preceding part of this chapter, to purfue the reverfe con- dudl with refpedt to conftitutional fymp- toms. Here we are required to hefitate, that we may learn the nature of the difeafe pre- vious to attempting its cure* It has ap- peared to me, that a longer and more ac- tive operation of mercury on the fyftem is' neceffary for the permaneut cure of con- ftitutional fymptoms in true fyphilis, than for that of the primary chancre. Here, if we ufe mercury unhefitatingly, we may em- ploy it to an injurious degree, where it is not wanted, and we generally fail in pre- venting a recurrence of fymptoms. Thefe are, I believe, the general rules of practice adopted by the beft furgeons, and they appear toON DISEASES 64 to me, in the prefent ftate of our know- ledge of thefe difeafes, to be judicious. One advantage refults from this plan of conduct, which is, that if conftitutional fymptoms follow from a fore treated in a manner that ought to have prevented contamination of the habit had the fore been fyphilitic, our fuf- picions are excited, and by attentive obfer- vation we may perhaps difcover that the fymptoms are of another nature. In cafes of anomalous fores it may be en- quired, if in thofe, where the event renders it probable that they were of a fyphilitic na- ture, the difeafe deviates materially from its common characters, that of an ulcerative procefs without reparation, and extending in every direction. Do thefe fores enlarge by floughing, or produce granulation or fungus ? Do they fpread otherwife than nearly equally in their whole circumference ? Does the ulceration extend in them only in parti- cular directions ? Do they heal in one part and fpread in another ? or do they fuddenly amend and become worfe without an ade- quate mercurial influence to produce fuch 7 changes ?RESEMBLING SYPHILIS. 65 changes ? Thofe infedted fores which are not fyphilitic have fuch peculiarities, as have been fhewn in the firft part of this paper, and as they are fo very various, it becomes necef- fary to diftinguifh them from thofe which are fyphilitic, by accurately noting the pro- grefs of anomalous cafes of the latter difeafe. It is extremely difficult to form any correct opinions on this fubjedt on account of its in- tricacy, and the almoft impoffibility of ab- ftaining from the ufe of mercury; but it is a fubjedt highly deferving enquiry, and which never can be fairly inveftigated till it be known that the fecondary fymptoms arifing from fores may not be fyphilitic, though their appearances cannot be diftinguifhed from fuch difeafes by fight alone. With refpedt to fores that are not fyphilitic the difficulties of inveftigation are greatly multiplied. If a defcription cannot be given of fyphilitic fores, it feems almoft abfurd to fay any thing of. thofe multiform fores produced by infectious matter, the qualities of which, it is probable, may be varioufly modified, vox. 11. F and66 ON DISEASES and the effecls of which appear equally liable to modification from peculiarities of conftitu- tion. Yet in this intricate fubjefr there are certain fadls which can be diftindtly obferved, and deferve attention. Some of thefe fores fpread by ulceration, and fome by doughing, of which inftances are related in the firft fec- tion of this paper. Even Celfus has deferibed feveral fpecies of fores, which, as Dr. Adams has obferved, we are acquainted with in the prefent day. I have never feen that phage- daenic ulcer, which fuddenly doughs, affedt the conftitution j neither do I believe that furgeons in general have remarked it; thofe who regard all thefe fores as fyphilitic, attri- bute the abfence of fecondary fymptoms to the chancre having been removed by the dough- ing of the furrounding parts. Yet in the cafe related by Mr. French in Mr. Hunter’s Treatife on the Venereal Difeafe, fecondary fymptoms did occur from a fore of this kind, and got well without mercury. It may there- fore, perhaps, be doubted whether this difeafe be not an aggravated form of the fore which doughs more dowly, and from which the con- , - ftitutionRESEMBLING SYPHILIS. 6f F 2 be t ftitution is much more frequently affeCted. Though Dr. Adams has reftri&ed the term phagedaena to one kind of deftrufrive fore, yet I feel more inclined to leave it as a generic term for all thefe deftruCtive fores, and to divide them into fpecies according to their peculiar characters. Then we may deferibe them as ulcerating phagedaenic fores, and fores which fpread by Hough- ing. Again, the ulcerating or Houghing procefs may extend not in all but in particular directions, and the Houghs may take place from the edges or from the whole furface. As Dr. Adams has treated thefe fubjeCts at large, I refer the reader to his book ; but I will take upon me to deferibe fome fpecies of fores which frequently occur, and are treated generally as fyphilitic, but which! am convinced are not fo. The fores, in one fpecies alluded to, generally break out in fucceflion, and fometimes after confiderable intervals of time; which circum- ftance, if remarked, would render it improba- ble that they arofe from infeCHon of the ulce- rated part, fince fuch fores would probablyON DISEASES 68 be contemporary. The ulcer is at firft in- flamed, and fpreads ordinarily to the flze of the finger nail: its circumference is thickened; it throws out new flefh, which rifes above the furrounding fkin; fometimes there is an appearance of feveral little cells or fpaces in the interfaces of the granulations, if they may be called fo, owing to the whole ulcer not producing new flefli in an equal degree. The edges of the fore generally retain their difeafed date after the middle has become healthy; from this caufe, the healing of the fore is retarded. Thefe fores are flow in healing under any mode of treatment, and they generally get well in the fame fuccef- fion as they broke out. They fometimes form in a circle round the orifice of the prepuce, and caufe a contraction in that part after they have healed. I do not mean to fay that all fores occupying this fitu- ation are not fyphilitic, but merely to ftate, that fometimes after a gonorrhaea of the pre- puce, either originally occurring there, or having happened by a metaftafis of difeafe from the urethra, fores do break out in this fituation at a remote period from the reception 7 ofRESEMBLING SYPHILIS. 69 of the infe£lion, which are not fyphilitic. The fores which I am endeavouring to de- fcribe, feem to be the confequence of an irri- tated ftate of the prepuce, from which there is fometimes a flight general difcharge, like that which takes place when the gonorrhasa fliifts its fituation from the mouth of the urethra, and becomes the gonorrhaea of the prepuce. The glands in the groin fometimes fwell from irritation in thefe cafes, and gene- rally fubfide again, though I have known them fuppurate : but I never faw any fecon- dary fymptoms fucceed to this fpecies of ulcer. > In the earlier part of my pra&ice, in con- formity to general rules, I ufed to give mer- cury in thefe ulcers to fecure the conftitution again ft infe&ion, whilft I tried to heal the fores, as fpeedily as I could by topical appli- cations. Slightly deftroying the furface with the argentum nitratum every fecond day, and dreffing with the folution of zincum vitriola- tum, were the local means which feemed to be moft fuccefsful. An attention to the hif- tory of the difeafe, and frequent applications for advice from perfons who had been fe- F 3 verely70 ON DISEASES verely and unavailingly falivated for the cure of this fpecies of fore, foon embol- dened me to abftain from the ufc of mercury; and I have ne^er found, though I have met with a confiderable number of inftances, that I have in this refpect acted wrong. I fhall mention the circumftances of a cafe which occurred to me no long time ago. A gentleman had a flight irritation in the urethra, and after a few days, found the prepuce a little fwollen, with a fmall difeharge from beneath it. This was checked by a weak folution of zincum vitriolatum; and afterwards three fores, fuch as I have deferibed, broke out in fucceflion, for which he ufed mercury fo as to affe6t his mouth. The fores flowly healed, but two new ones made their appearance, and the mer- curial courfe was perfevered in. Thefe fores alfo healed flowly, and a running came on from the urethra, no new fores having appeared. The mercury was left off, the gentleman came to town, and was much dif- trefled to find that three other fores, exadfly likeRESEMBLING SYPHILIS. 71 like, the former ones, now broke out, but the difcharge from the urethra had ceafed. At this period he applied to me, and gave me the foregoing narrative of his diforder, with an aflurance that he had expofed himfelf to no new rifk of infedtion. I employed only local means for their cure, being fatisfied by the hiftory as well as the appearance of the fores that they were not fyphilitic. Near a month elapfed before any confiderable amend- ment took place, when a fwelling appeared in the groin, and the fores healed fuddenly in a few days. Leaches and Goulard’s wafh were employed to difperfe the bubo, but in vain: it fuppurated, and formed a very un- healthy abcefs. There was a great deal of furrounding eryfipelatous inflammation, the cuticle feparated from the furface of the bubo, the Ikin became livid, and gave dif- charge to the matter by a partly floughing and partly ulcerating procefs. This, how- ever, proved the crifis of the complaint: the abfcefs having thus broken filled up, and healed in the courfe of about three weeks, fince which the patient has had no return of F 4 difeafe.ON DISEASES 7 2 difeafe. This gentleman was liable to have fores break out fpontaneoufly on the pre- puce : they got well readily by bathing them with a weak folution of zincum vitriolatum j and I believe that perfons who have naturally an irritable ffate of the prepuce are moll: ob- noxious to fuch affections. We muff not, however, impute the occurrence of thefe pe- culiar fores to mere irritability, but to fome fpecific contagion. The difcharge from the urethra in fuch cafes is not considerable, nor attended with much inflammation or chordee, nor does it increafe in violence j it may therefore be eafily diftinguifhed from common gonorrhaea and its varieties. Sometimes, in a common gonorrhaea, the difeafe Shifts its ground and attacks the fore- fkin, and fores form about the orifice of this part. Thefe are of a different nature from the fores which I have been defcribing; their furface is generally gloffy, not producing ex- uberant new flefh, and their colour is un- healthy.RESEMBLING SYPHILIS. 73 healthy. They generally get well as the dif- eafe returns to its original fituation in the urethra. I merely mention thefe circum- ftances to induce attention, and to prevent furgeons from confounding the fores which I have been defcribing with any other fimi- larly fituated, but different in their nature. I wifh alfo to excite attention to another fpecies of fores which I have frequently met with, and which differ confiderably in their progrefs from thofe truly fyphilitic. The firft appearances of the fores are various, but in their progrefs a thickening in the furrounding parts takes place, whilft the centre is foft and lefs difeafed than the cir- cumference. I have feen the furrounding parts much elevated, and an opening leading into a cavity in the middle. I have feen them, on the contrary, heal with a flat furface, and acquire a circular hardnefs, the middle being quite foft, and the area of the circle gradually increafe. I have known fores heal apparently well and fmoothly, and after- wards the edge has acquired a circular hard- nels like a ring of fome firm fubftance. In74 ON DISEASES In all thefe fores I have given mercury in dofes fhort of producing a tendernefs of the gums, and the difeafe has gradually but flowly got well. In the greater number of cafes no conftitutional affedtion has enfued. In fome, however, it has, but it has got well without mercury, or with fuch fmall dofes as would certainly not have cured fyphilis. So that thefe obfervations concur with the hiftory of the difeafe, in inducing me to believe that fores of this defcription are not fyphilitic. Under this head of fores which occur on the genitals, and which are not fyphilitic, I may mention one fpecies that I have feveral times feen on the fide of the penis, which is herpetic, affedting new parts whilfl thofe firfl affedted get well; fo that the fore may exift a long time, and be very troublefome, though its fituations may have varied confiderably. I have alfo feen a circle of fmall fores, like what takes place in tinea, occur on the out- fide of the prepuce in confequence of fome acrimonious fecretions being applied to it in fexualRESEMBLING SYPHILIS. 75 fexual int.ercourfe. Some difeafes, whatever may be their primary nature, do, after a time, extend themfelves between the integuments and the fubjacent parts. I have known many difeafes which burrow in this manner treat- ed as fyphilitic, and, as the event of the cafes has proved, improperly. Indeed, the progrefs of fuch difeafes is fo different from that of fyphilis, that it is natural to difcredit their being fo. Difeafes which proceed in this manner feem to be of an irritable nature, and to affedt mod thofe parts which have leafl powers of life, which appears to be the caufe of their peculiar mode of extending them- felves. To corroborate this remark, that fores which burrow are not likely to be fyphilitic, I may mention the cafe of a gentleman of the medical profeffion, who had a fore" of this defcription, whicn began on the dorfum penis, near to the pubes, for which he rub- bed in two months, and had his conftitution confiderably affedled; neverthelefs, the fore fpread and burrowed under the integuments of the pubes, and the mercury was left off. The76 ON DISEASES The difeafe became communicated to a confiderable diftridt of the integuments of the bottom of the belly, and to thofe of the fcrotum. The affedled parts fometimes ulcerated, and fometimes healed. A great variety of local and general remedies were tried without benefit. No mercury was ufed except in very trivial quantity. The cavities beneath the fkin were in fome parts laid open, at different periods of the difeafe; but without much advantage. After two years and a half the difeafe became well, when nothing but fimple dreflings were applied, and when he took nothing but decodlion of farfapariila and fmall dofes of rhubarb. I have in the foregoing pages endeavoured to reprefent briefly the circumftances of the primary ulcers of difeafes which are, and of thofe which are not, fyphilitic, and to ftate the general rules for the adminiftration of mercury; and, at the fame time, I have de- fcribed fome fores which have not, as far as I know, been diftinguifhed, and which, in my opinion, are not fyphilitic, though they are generally treated as fuch. To take a fimilar compa-RESEMBLING SYPHILIS. 77 comparative view of conftitutional difeafes arifing from thefe various fores would render this paper too prolix. I hope it will be feen that I do not prefume, nor do I fee caufe, to deviate from the eftablifhed rules of prac- tice founded on the general experience of furgeons. It would indeed, in my opinion, be prefumptuous in an individual to form general rules drawn from his fcanty expe- rience ; I may be allowed, however, to re- mark, that individuals of the profeffion are likely to err by inferences drawn from their own pradlice; and it appears to me that fome profefiional men at prefent are inclined to believe all fores arifing from impure con- nexion to be fyphilitic, whilft others may be too fcrupulous in expecting all fyphilitic fores to pofiefs their common chara&ers. The truth probably in this, as in other cafes, lies between the extremes. Much, however, it mull be acknowledged, remains to be af- ceitamed, and I think that thole furgeons would do efiential fervice to fcience, who would give an accurate account of the ir- regularities of the venereal difeafe. But fuch an account never can be given by one, who efteems78 ON DISEASES efteems all difeafes fyphilitic, which rcfemble them in appearance. The foregoing cafes will, I think, at leaft prove this to be fact; and it was a principal incitement to their publication, that if this fadt were gene- rally admitted, it might excite that fcrupu- lous attention and impartial obfervation of fyphilitic difeafes, which would probably lead to accurate diftindtions, ai)d the removal of that obfcurity with which they have hitherto been furrounded. I have fupprefled many obfervations of my own on this fub- jedt, from a belief that it is better to fay nothing than to offer opinions not fully confirmed by fadts. The idea that fyphilis is a moft variable and Proteus-like difeafe, has probably arifen from thofe irregular difeafes which I have defcribed in the firff fedtion of this paper having been confounded with it. The opinion is however prejudicial, as it checks attentive obfervation by declaring its inutility. If it fhould be in our power, as I fhould hope it may, by diredting our attention to the hiffory rather than to the appearances of thefe difeafes, to diflinguifh fyphilis from other complaints, then wc may 10 alfb79 RESEMBLING SYPHILIS. alfo be able to deferibe the irregularities of this difeafe, and to inform others when it alTumes deceptive characters, and purfues an unufual track, what difguife it puts on, and what courfes it follows.8o ON DISEASES SECTION III. On the conftitutional Origin of Pfeudo-Syphi- litic Difeafes. |N order further to elucidate the nature of pfeudo-fyphilitic difeafes, I publifhed fome cafes in which they originated fpon- taneoufly, or without there being any rea- fonable ground for fuppofing that morbific animal matter had been imbibed to con- taminate the conftitution. The cafes in- cluded in this feftion were firft publifhed, amongft others which were defigned to fhew the importance of corre&ing diforders of the digeftive organs in attempting to cure local difeafes. A diforder of thofe organs con- ftantly exifts in thefe cafes; and produces, or at leaft aggravates and protra&s a ftate of weaknefs and irritability of conftitution; to which the origin of the difeafe muft un- doubtedly be referred. CASE xn. A gentleman refiding in the country, who had been many years married, and whofe moral81 RESEMBLING SYPHILIS. moral charadter prevented any fufpicion of his having expofed himfelf to venereal infec- tion, had an ulcer in the right tonfil, poiTeffing every character of a truly fyphilitic fore. The figure of the ulceration was oval; it had ex- tended itfelf deeply, and prefented a furface covered with adhering matter, and without the lead: appearance of granulations. It had continued three months without amendment, although various medicines had been employ- ed during that period. Thefe circumftances impreffed the minds of the medical attendants with an opinion, that the difeafe was fyphi- litic. On me they had a contrary effedt. I thought that a fyphilitic ulcer would have become materially worfe in that time, as mer- cury had not been ufed to arreft its progrefs. Finding that the patient had a furred tongue, and diforder of the digeftive organs, I recom- mended, as the firft objedt of attention, the correction of that derangement of the flo- mach, from which the fore-throat had pro- bably originated. The patient went to the fea-fide, where his throat was alternately better and worfe; but the dimenfions of the ulcer were not enlarged. Three months V0L*n* G elapfed82 ON DISEASES elapfed before I faw the patient a fecond time; when I told him that my aigument againft the complaint being fyphilitic was greatly ftrengthened. It was manifeft that the diforder, to which I had imputed the fore, ftill exifted. Being unwilling however that the refponfibility fhould reft entirely upon myfelf, I advifed him to confult another furgeon, who, judging of the natuie of the fore from its appearance, (which indeed was ftrikingly charadteriftical of fyphilitic difeafe,) recommended a courfe of mercury. The patient underwent, in confequence of this advice, a regular mercurial courfe; dining which the fore got well. Between two and three months afterwards another fore formed in the palate, which had the characleis of a fyphilitic ulcer, in a ftill more ftriking de- gree, if poffible, than the former. It was fituated juft where the foft palate pio- ceeds from the bone. It was of a circular figure, and fo deep as to expofe the bone. The circumference of the ulcer was tumid and inflamed; its edges were not fmooth, but had a tendency to ulcerate. There was no appearance of granulations, and the dif- 1 r charge^3 RESEMBLING SYPHILIS. charge adhered to the furface of the ulcer. The patient now applied to me again ; when I repeated my original opinion, that thefe fores depended on the ftate of the health in general. He confulted another furgeon, who recommended the ufe of the Lilbon Diet- Drink, with the application of the oxymel asruginis to the part ; under which treatment the ulcer healed; and no other complaint has fince occurred, though two years have clap fed. CASE XIII. A gentleman, who was habitually fubjedt in a great degree to diforder of the digeftive organs, had an excoriation of the prepuce, which had continued about three weeks, when copper-coloured eruptions came out all over his body, fo Itrikingly fimilar to thofe which are venereal, that fome of his medical attendants recommended the imme- diate ufe of mercury. It was however agreed to delay the mercurial courfe for a little time; and to give the patient half a grain of calomel, with thiee grains of hemlock night and morning, and a folution of magnefia vitriolataON DISEASES 84 in mint-water, fo as to keep the bowels freely open. The fpots began to die away almofl immediately, and foon difappeared altogether. The patient then mentioned that he had feveral times had the fame kind of eruption, which had difappeared in like man- ner upon taking fome opening medicines. In calling the reader’s attention to thofe difeafes of the bones which refemble fyphi- litic affections, I fhall not pretend to relate any cafe in detail; for furgeons can feldom trace the progrefs of thefe difeafes for them- felves, but are obliged to rely on the doubtful hiflory given by their patients. I fhall en- deavour to fketch the principal parts of the fubjedl, referring to particular cafes, merely to fhew that the pidlure is not drawn from fancy, but is copied from nature. I have been frequently confulted on account of fuppofed venereal affedtions of the bones; where the periofteum has been thickened and tender, and the bone enlarged, and the con- comitant pains have been fo much aggravated at night as to deprive the patient of reft. The 7 hiflory-RESEMBLING SYPHILIS. hiftory of the cafe has removed all fufpicion of a venereal origin; while general indifpo- fttion, a furred tongue, lofs of appetite, and other attendant fymptoms, have clearly indi- cated great diforder of the chylopoietic vifcera. By attending to the ftate of the digeftive or- gans in thefe cafes, the patient’s health is amended; the general rheumatic pains are diminifhed; deep is procured; and the difeafe has receded almoft entirely. A fter fome time has elapfed, the bone may again fwell, the fwelling may again be checked, and return no more. Perhaps fimilar difeafes may take place in other bones, at times very remote from the firft occurrence of the diforder. If mercury be not employed, there are deciftve circumftances in the hiftory of the cafe, which proves that it is not fyphilitic. Some- times fuppuration takes place, and expofes the bone: this occafionally proves a kind of crifts to the difeafe at that part. But the circum- ftances of thefe affections are fo variable as to preclude a complete enumeration of their fymptoms. G 3 I (hall86 ON DISEASES I fhall briefly mention the cafes of two pa- tients, by whom I was confulted about the fame time, in order to identify the difeafes to which I allude. Both thefe gentlemen had been married for many years; and there was not the leafl: reafon to fuppofe that any mor- bific poifon had been imbibed. They became generally indifpofed, had reftlefs nights, pain in the head, and about the fhoulders j and a painful thickening of the periofteum of the tibia, with enlargement of the bone, took place. The chylopoietic vifcera were diforder- ed in both thefe cafes. One gentleman had ufed mercury repeatedly to a confiderable ex- tent, which produced a temporary alleviation of his difeafe; but his fufferings feemed to be augmented upon theceflation of the mercurial excitement. The other patient never ufed any mercury. They both experienced a confider- able mitigation of pain from thofe medicines, which corrected the ffate of the chylopoietic organs. Their difeafes were checked, and never became again fo bad as before attention had been paid to the fiate of the vifcera. Both thefe patients were better or worfe as the ftateRESEMBLING SYPHILIS. 87 no r | ftate of the bowels varied; and they both gradually, but flowly, recovered. Similar difeafes are fo common, that I be- lieve every furgeon of experience will admit that affedlions of the bones, with wandering pains, often occur from general diforder of the health. I have never feen thefe cafes unac- companied by diforder of the chylopoietic organs; and I have always found them mofl benefited by whatever has tended to rectify the fundtions of thefe organs. There was no reafon, in any of the cafes alluded to, to fufpedt the abforption of poifon. I will add another, to corroborate this jftate- ment. A gentleman, who had been married about eight years, and had no venereal difeafe during that period, was feized with a violent fever. Shortly after his recovery, a thicken- ing of the periofteum on the parietal bone took place. The fcalp was alfo much fwollen, fo as to threaten fuppuration. He was at this time in ill health, and had great derangement of the digeftive organs. By attention to this latter dilorder, the fwelling fubfided, and no g 4 traceON DISEASES 88 trace of it remained. The patient afterwards went into the country, where his health was Hill more amended. In about twelve months he had feveral tumours of the fame kind in different parts of the cranium; one alone threatened to fuppurate: for thefe he under-, went a mercurial courfe, which relieved them, fo as to induce him to perfevere in it to an extent, which almoft conflantly cures venereal difeafe. His health, during the latter part of the mercurial courfe, being much difordered by the medicine, his difeafes became pro-t portionally aggravated ; he therefore defifled from the ufe of mercury ; at which time his complaints were but little better than at their commencement. Thefe difeafes, however, gradually got well in the fpace of little more than a year; ftill the patient continued in a bad ftate of health, the fymptoms of which were a furred tongue, indigeftion, and faulty biliary fecretion. I add another cafe, which came under the obfervation of Dr. Baillie. A ftudent of me- dicine, who attended the le&ures in Windmill- ftreet, was obferved to look very much out of health $RESEMBLING SYPHILIS. health; and, on enquiry, it was found that he had nodes upon his fhins, which fo exadtly refembled thofe that are venereal, that no doubt was entertained of their being of that nature. It was therefore earneftly recom- mended to him not to delay the mercurial courfe, which feemed requifite for the cure. He was very reludtant to comply with this advice, and declared upon his honour that he had fimilar fwellings before he had had any fexual connexion. This declaration made this propofal to be laid afide; and the nodes got well by a ftrong decodlion of farfaparilla, without a (ingle grain of mercury being em- ployed. Now, if this account be accurate, it Ihews that difeafes like fyphilis can arife from diforder of the health, even without any fexual intercourfe. All furgeons of experience will, I believe, admit that difeafes refembling fyphilis occur from diforder of the health in general. In all the cafes which I have inftanced, there was not the leaft reafon to fuppofe that any mor- bific poifon had been imbibed to produce the difeafes which exifted. I wifh much to have this90 ON DISEASES s this point afcertained or refuted by the general experience of furgeons. The cafes,which would tend to eftablifh it, mud: be of rare occur- rence. Mod: of the inffances, to wdiich I have alluded, occurred in men who had been long married, and on whofe veracity I could rely. There is alfo,in my opinion, fufficientintrinfic evidence in each cafe to prove that the difeafe was not venereal. It was this kind of cafes which I had in view in my lad: publication, in difcuding the queflion whether thofe dif- eafes,- which may be denominated pfeudo- fyphilitic, arife from fome modification of the venereal poifon, or from a peculiarity of con- ftitution in the patients, who are expofed to the adhon of truly fyphilitic virus. I have there laid, that “ it deierves to be obferved that difeafes refembling fyphilis do occur, without any reafon to fuppofe that any mor- bific poifon has been admitted into thefyflem.” I have been induced to dwell upon this fub- jedt, which may perhaps be confidered more fpeculative than ufeful, becaufe if the opi* nion were verified, it would explain the oc- currence of pfeudo-fyphilitic difeafes in a very {hiking and latisfadlory manner. • If local difeafesRESEMBLING SYPHILIS. g V difeafes refembling fyphilis may take place in the throat, fkin, and bones, from a certain ftate of weaknefs, and irritability, of conftitution, then various modifications pf animal matter being abforbed may fo diforder the general health as to induce fuch a date of weaknefs and irritation, as is likely to produce thofe fymp- toms, and fuch fymptoms are rather to be re- garded as arifing from the propensities of the conftitution, than from the peculiar proper- ties of the matter which has been imbibed. It is fliewn in my former publication, that the poifon which produces pfeudo-fyphilitic fymp- toms is fometimes abforbed without an evi- dent breach of Surface in the fkin; fometimes from a trivial fore which foon heal3 j whilft, in other cafes, it produces local fores of van-* ous and diflimilar characters.92- ON DISEASES SECTION IV. On the Effeffs of Mercury in Pfeudo-Syphilitic Difeafes. TTAVING thus by the publication of the cafes related in the two preceding fee- tions, endeavoured to excite a general invef- tigation of a fubjedf which I think every one will admit to be highly important, I proceed to relate fome additional cafes of difeafes which I confider as pfeudo-fyphilitic, and in which mercury was employed for their cure, in order to fhew the effedts refulting from its ufe. I was neceffarily precluded from bringing forward fuch cafes in my firft attempt to elucidate this fubjedt, becaufe my objedt at that time was merely to fhew, that difeafes, which could not by fight be diftinguifhed from fyphilis, yet differed from it in the primary fores from which they originated, and alfo in their progrefs; for they got well without the adminiftration of mercury, and generally recurred after the fevereft courfe of that medicine. The lat- terRESEMBLING SYPHILIS. 93 ter fad will, indeed, be more ftrikingly ma- nifefted by the fucceeding cafes. I was alfo prevented from relating cafes of this defcrip- tion, becaufe the adminiftration of mercury may be fuppofed to render the nature of the fubfequent fymptoms ambiguous 5 fince they may be confidered as the effedt of that dis- order of the conftitution, which the poifon and the antidote have conjointly produced. As the tide of public opinion feemed at that time to run ftrongly againft me, I men- tioned, that any experienced furgeon, who regarded the cafes in queflion as anomalous cafes of fyphilis, would do a molt effential fervice to fociety, if he would lay down pradtical rules for the treatment of fuch dif- eafes. As no one has undertaken this talk, I fhall endeavour to accomplifh it j for I think, that the cafes which I fhall relate will at leaf; {hew what mercury will do, and what it will not do, in thefe difeafes. An attempt to eftablifi rules for the treatment of thefe difeafes appears to me of great importance j becaufe difcordance of opinion is both dis- creditableON DISEASES 94 creditable to the profeffion, and injurious to patients. Before, however, I relate the fadts from which I mean to deduce the pradtical rules of treating thefe difeafes, I wifh briefly to recapitulate the reafons which induce me to think that they are not fyphilitic; and alfo to advert to the arguments which I have heard brought forward, by thofe who entertain a contrary opinion. I wifh, alfo, to conflder the effedts likely to be pro- duced on the conftitution at large, by the abforption of morbific animal poifons; and to difcufs the probable effedts of mercuiy, adminiftered in different degrees; becaufe I think it neceffary, that all thefe circum- ftances fliould be borne in mind, whilft the reader perufes the cafes, in order that he may form a proper judgment of the nature and treatment of thefe perplexing difeafes. I concur, then, with Mr. Hunter in opinion, that thefe difeafes are the effedts of kinds of animal poifon different from that whichRESEMBLING SYPHILIS. 5 •which produces fyphilis, firft, becaufe they may be contradled from parties who have no fyphilitic difeafe; and that I perceive how they may be contradled at prefent, as they were in Rome, during the time of Celfus *. Secondly, becaufe I fee fuch dileafes occur- ring in perfons whofe conffitution is difor- dered, but where there is no reafon to fup- pofe that any poifon has been imbibed -f*. Thirdly, becaufe thefe difeafes differ from fyphilis, in often getting well without mer- cury, and in recurring after the fevered: courfes of that medicine Yet I wifh, as a comment on the latter claufe, to obferve, that though it may be regarded as a general rule, it is not abfolutely without exceptions. We have fometimes recourfe to the ufe of mercury, on account of the deftrudtive pro- grefs of difeafes, which we have the ffrongeft reafons to believe, are not fyphilitic; and mercury fometimes cures thefe difeafes, with- out relapfe. It is indeed not improbable. * See the cafes related in the preliminary remarks, f See the cafes related in the 3d fedtion. t See the cafes related in the 2d fedtion. thatON DISEASES 96 that the alteration, which mercury produces 3 in the ftate of the conftitution, may occa- fionally cure a diforder which is not fyphi- litic. Formerly, when I met with a cafe in which the conftitutional fymptoms were re- gularly progreflive till mercury was em- ployed; if they yielded, and were cured by an adequate courfe of this medicine, I con- cluded that the difeafe was fyphilitic, and I regarded, therefore, any deviations which I might have obferved in the progrefs of the primary fore, as the effect of fome peculiarity in the patient’s conftitution. Of late, how- ever, I have thought this inference to be erroneous. I fhall next advert to the arguments of thofe who think differently. Firft, it is faid, that the fpontaneous cure of thefe dif- eafes is no proof that they are not fyphilitic. Secondly, the peculiarity of the difeafe is ac- counted for by peculiarity of the patient’s conftitution, which may not only contribute to modify the difeafe, but alfo to prevent its ordinary cure by mercury; becaufe the conftitution may be incapable of bearing at onceRESEMBLING SYPHILIS. 97 once, fo much mercury, as is neceffary for its cure. Cafes, however, {land in diredl oppofition to thefe opinions. For thefe difeafes may be contradled by perfons of very healthy conftitutions; and I have known patients, who have contra6led pfeudo-fyphi- litic difeafes, contra6l alfo real fyphilis, both a fhort time before and after the pfeudo- fyphilitic affedlion. Further, in many per- fons, who are the fubjedls of pfeudo-fyphi- litic difeafes, the difeafe recurs, without the intervention of any new exciting caufe, even though a mercurial courfe has been fub- mitted to, greater in degree and longer in duration than is neceffary for the cure of true fyphilis, even though the mercury has alfo afled on the patient’s conftitution, in the mod regular and complete manner. It is indeed, highly probable, and accordant to general obfervation, that thefe difeafes will be greater and more obftinate in weak and irritable conftitutions, than in thofe that are healthy, and this circumftance has probably given rife to the preceding fup- pofitions. VOL. 11. H I wifh98 ON DISEASES I wifti alfo to confider the probable effeCt: : which would be produced on the conftitu- tion from the admiflion of morbific anima i matter into the circulation. Such infec- i tious matter is likely to produce irritability or weaknefs of the nervous fyftem, and con- A fequent general diforder. The nervous dif order is likely, more efpecially, to difturt : the funftions of the digeftive organs, am by their re-action to become prolonged ant I aggravated. In almoft every cafe of pfeudo : fyphilis a diforder of the digefiive organ i is manifeft, and in many, moft evident be nefit is derived from correcting this, as fa as we are able. It is probable, that the diforder of th nervous fyftem, and conftitution in general will be more tranfient in fome conftitution than in others; and is likely to be prolonged by every thing that induces debility, ant irritability. Indeed, if we have no fpecifi remedy, or means of counteracting the ef feCts which the poifon has produced 3 th rational indications of treatment would b to tranquillize and ftrengthen the fyftem iiRESEMBLING SYPHILIS. 99 in the expedition, that the effedts refult- ing from the action of the poifon, will gradually fubfide. Analogy would lead us to expedt, that the diforder of the nervous fyftem, induced by the operation of the ] poifon, would, as it declined, become inter- mittent, and recur in paroxyfms. I have premifed thefe obfervations, that the reader may bear them in his mind, during the perufal of the cafes, alluring him at the rfcnje time, that they are the refult of pradfi- cal remarks. I wifh alfo to explain my ideas refpec- ting the operation of mercury. Firft, fmall dofes of that medicine do not feem to affedt the conftitution in general, but merely to adt upon the digeftive organs; yet by this operation they are often produdtive of the moft important benefit, as has been fhewn by cafes recorded in the firft volume of thefe obfervations. As in difeafes produced by the abforption of morbific poifons, the digeftive organs are difordered, in confequence of nervous irritation, and in fome patients, in a moft remarkable degree, owing probably H 2 tO IICO ON DISEASES - i - < • “ to a pre-difpofttion to diforder in them, fo an attention to keep thefe organs in as cor- : redlly natural a ftate as poflible, is an objedt of primary importance. Secondly, mercury , exhibited in larger dofes, exerts an influence; on the conftitution in general, though fcarcely. perceptible by its effedf upon the pulfe or; fecretions j but by affedting the nervous; fyftem, in a peculiar manner, and by in-- : during a fpecific ftate of conftitution, it coun- -1 teradls that morbid irritation which has be- • fore prevailed, and is the effedf of thepoi- H fon. Thus mercury relieves many other diforders, as well as thofe which are fyphi- i litic. The dofe which is neceflary to pro- duce fuch effedfs, muft vary in different perfons. Such a ftate of mercurial excite- ment, or adtion, as is neceflary to produce thefe effedfs, may alfo be kept up without inducing debility; — on the contrary, pa- tients frequently become ftronger and more healthy under its influence, becaufe it con- trols the irritation attendant on difeafe. Thirdly, a greater mercurial effedf upon the conftitution produces an acceleration of the pulfe, renders the conftitution in general 6 irritableRESEMBLING SYPHILIS. 101 i irritable and weak, and produces a more evident and confiderable diforder of particu- ■ lar organs. Such an affedtion cures com- pletely and radically fyphilitic difeafes; whilft others, which had been checked and cured by a flight mercurial affecfion, often increafe j and break out again, under that which is ; greater in degree. This violent adfion of mercury never fails to weaken and diforder the conftitution in general; and thus, with its powers impaired, and its fundfions de- ranged, it has ftill to endure the continuance of the difeafe. The cafes, which I fhall now bring for- ward, are feledfed, becaufe I think they ihew as great a variety of circumftances incidental to thefe difeafes, as could be dis- played in an equal number of examples. I could have crowded the book with inftances, tending more diredtly to illuflrate and con- firm the opinions delivered in it. My objedt has, however, been, not to reprefent the fubjedt as more clear than it will appear in pradlice. h 3 CASE102 ON DISEASES CASE XIV. A medical ftudent, had, without any pre- g vious chancre, an indolent bubo, which ; had increafed in the courfe of two months, to , the fize of a fmall egg, at which time I firft j faw him. After about three weeks, it inflamed r and fuppurated. The inflammation was of an unhealthy nature, and the bubo ulcerated, forming a foul ulcer, about three inches. - and a half in length, and two and a half in breadth. During this procefs, he was much ; difordered in his health, and he confined i himfelf to his bed. Lint, moiftened with a watery folution of opium, was applied to the fore; it was covered by a drefling of fpermaceti cerate, and linen moiftened in fome wafh was applied over all, to regulate the temperature of the part. Under this, treatment the fore granulated, cicatrized, and had contracted into a fmall compafs, when the patient’s health again became dif- ordered, and an ulcer formed, on the upper furface of the velum pendulum palati. He fnuffled in fpeaking, and blew from one noftril thick mucus, fome matter, and occafionally blood. Pain extended in the n courfe I[RESEMBLING SYPHILIS. I03 courfe of the euftachian trumpet towards the ear. His diforder was fo troublefome at night as to preclude deep, and his dtuation was ): altogether fo uncomfortable as to induce him to have recourfe to mercury. He according- ; ly rubbed in two drachms of mercurial oint- $r ment, for ten fuccedive nights. In this time i. the mercury produced a flight effedt upon >' the gums, and relieved him fo much, that he determined, notwithftanding my remon- ftrances, to difcontinue it, feeling himfelf perfectly well. In about fix weeks fubfe- quent to this, he had a painful affedlion of the upper part of the tibia, attended with a colledlion of fluid under the fafcia. He was feverifli at night, and had but little deep; his ftomach and bowels were during the whole of the diforder, affedfed in the manner I have de- fcribed in the drd: paper j he had no appetite, and when he was mod indifpofed, his tongue was extremely furred. He again ufed mercury, but after having rubbed in about fix times he difcontinued it, as he found himfelf vvorfe, which he attributed to the ufe of the mer- h 4 cury.104 ON DISEASES cury. The diforder of his leg did not in- creafe, but after fome little time diminiftied; ftill, however, it prevented him from walk- ing about, and he had occafionally fits of pain in it, which, after continuing for a few days, abated, fo as to leave him com- paratively eafy. Thus his leg continued from about February to June, when he took lodgings in the countrv. He had, about a month after the affedlion of his leg, a fimilar attack in the elbow, the progrefs of which was alfo fimilar. His health was improved by his refidence in the country, and he was foon able to walk about, which contributed to his recovery. He for a few days took a little hydrarg: muriat: in decodl: farfae, but * left it off by my defire, as I was convinced that his difeafe was not fyphilis; and as the fymptoms were declining fpontaneoufly. He was once or twice induced to befmear the fkin with mercurial ointment ; but ex- cepting this, he ufed no mercury, and by the autumn of the year, all local difeafe had left him. His health, however, was not correctly right, his tongue remaining furred, and his bowels irregular. He pafied throughresembling syphilis. 105 through the winter without any relapfe. In about a year afterwards he had fome rheu- matic complaints, from which he foon re- covered, and has continued well fince, except that he has been fubjedt to occafional returns of rheumatifm *. CASE XV. A gentleman about thirty years of age, of a healthy robufl: habit, had a fore behind the corona glandis, which I faw on the third or fourth day after its appearance. It was then nearly as large as the nail of the finger, and fo deep as to defcend to the liga- mentous fubftance of the corpus caverno- fum penis. It was indurated in its circum- * The chief circumftances, which feem to me ,to deferve attention in this cafe, are, that probably infectious matter was abforbed, without any evident breach of furface or primary fore; that the conftitutional fymp- toms were at firft fuddenly cured by a fmall quantity of mercury; that afterwards the ufe of mercury rather aggravated them, in confequence of which it was dif- continued; that the diforder of the conftitution after- wards gradually fubfxded; and that the whole of the mercury employed feems quite infufficient for the cure of fyphilis. ference.ON DISEASES 106 ference, and there was no appearance of any new growth from its furface. This ulcer appeared to me to have been too rapid in its progrefs to be fyphilitic; however, as it had moil of the charadters of fores of that nature, I recommended the patient to take fifteen grains of the pilul: hydrargyr: daily, to bathe with milk and water, to be very gentle in the application of mild dreflings, and to keep the penis furrounded by fome linen, moift- ened with a cooling lotion. After a fort- night had elapfed, an enlargement of the glands in the right groin took place j and as the fore had not fpread, I recommended him to rub two drachms, by meafure, of mer- curial ointment, into the right thigh every night, wifhing to produce an evident mer- curial affection of the conflitution, with a view to difcover what effect it would have on the fore. In about a w*eek, the confti- tution was affedted by the mercury, and the gums were flightly tender and fwollen the fore was, however, rendered worfe; it be- came enlarged, and inflammation took place round it. The inundtion was therefore omitted, but the pills were continued. As theRESEMBLING SYPHILIS. 107 the mercurial irritation fubfided, the fore became tranquil, and the bubo ftationary. In about five or fix weeks from the begin- ning, granulations appeared, and the fore began to heal, fo that by the feventh week it was quite well. In healing, that edge which , was next the body' got well firft, while the other rather fpread, fo as to en- croach a little on the back edge of the corona glandis. The bubo gradually fubfided. When the fore was healed, (the patient (till continuing the mercurial pills,) he was feized with difficulty of fwallowing, and uneafy fenfations on the upper part of the foft palate, caufing him to fnuffle in fpeaking, and to blow his nofe frequently. I advifed him to defift wholly from the ufe of mercury, that thefe conftitutional fymptoms might go on unchecked by that medicine, obferving at the fame time, that if they were fyphilitic, and required the ufe of mercury, it might be ufed with more freedom, and perhaps effeft, in confequence of this fufpenfion. The diforder rapidly increafed, and it was much worfe in the night, when the fenfations were fo diflurbing, that the patient could obtainIo8 ON DISEASES obtain no reft. The pain extended to the ear, and matter and blood were fometimes bjown from the nofe. The health of the patient was much difordered; and, as he faid that no courfe of mercury could harafs and weaken him fo much as the continuance of this difeafe, is was agreed in confultation, that he ftiould begin a mercurial courfe, and that the dif- eafe fhould be treated as fyphilitic. The patient confined himfelf to his chamber, and rubbed in two drachms, by meafure, of mercurial ointment every night. In the courfe of a week the difeafe was much miti- gated ; in a fortnight, at which time the gums were fwollen and tender, it was well. The mercury was continued (fo as to keep the gums as fore as they could be, without producing that ftate of difeafe which would have obliged us to defift from the ufe of it) for three weeks more, when a new occur- rence took place. The left tonfil became fomewhat enlarged, and an ulcer was formed upon its furface. This, another furgeon who was confulted, attributed to mercurial irritation,RESEMBLING SYPHILIS. IC9 irritation, whilft I, on the contrary, felt allured that it was the effe6l of the difeafe breaking: out anew under the full effect of mercury. As the courfe of mercury was deemed perfe&ly adequate to the cure of fyphilis, it was now difcontinued. The ulcer however continued to fpread, nor did it ceafe till it had entirely deltroyed the ton- fil, when it healed. About three weeks afterwards, and fix weeks after the difufe of mercury, a fimilar ulcer formed on the oppo- fite tonlil, which purfued exactly the fame courfe, and ended in the fame manner. After about three weeks more an ulcer ap- peared to have formed upon the upper fur- face of the velum pendulum palati, in a litu- ation correfponding to the firft, but on the oppofite fide. It was attended with the fame difficulty of deglutition, alteration in the voice, occalional difcharge of pus and blood from the nofe, and tormenting pain, extending to the euftachian trumpet. It feemed in vain to ufe mercury, and I felt great apprehenfion that this ulcer might de- ftly the foft palate. It fortunately hap- pened otherwife; for (after continuing for aboutON DISEASES IIO about a fortnight to fpread, fo that its edge could be diftindtly feen on the margin of the velum palati, and left fide of the uvula), it healed, leaving no greater imperfection than what was produced by an adhefion of the left fide of the uvula to the foft palate, which took place during the healing of the ulcer. After this complaint was well, va- rious eruptions appeared on different parts of the body, many took place on the head, forming fores which were flow in healing, and many fores, which were formed in like manner on the trunk of the body, became herpetic, healing in one part and fpreading in another. An inflammation and indura- tion of the coverings of the lower part of the right tibia alfo took place, which fub- fided, fo as to leave but little appearance of any diforder having exiffed. During thefe -occurrences the patient took the deco£t. farfae, and Lifbon diet-drink, nitric acid, cicuta and bitters, and was as attentive as poffible to keep his bowels regular, which was difficult, as his digeftive organs were throughout the whole of the complaint dis- ordered- He had alfo lived a good deal in the %Ill resembling syphilis. the country, and made occafional excurfions to the fea-fide, and ufed the tepid falt-water bath. Upon his return from one of thefe, about fix months after the difcontinuance of mercury, he felt himfelf fo perfectly well, that he indulged himfelf in dining with his friends, and undertook a journey into the country on bulinefs. The exertion attend- ing this undertaking feemed to have operated in re-inducing difeafe, for he was foon laid up with a rheumatic affe6lion of the right foot, and one of the teftes became enlarged to a confiderable degree, but it was indolent. Nodes alfo appeared on the middle of either tibia, which regularly increafed. The en- largement of the teftis fubfided, when the other became afte&ed in the fame manner. For between two and three months after the patient’s return to town he confulted various lurgeons, who knew nothing of the hiftory of his cafe, and they fo uniformly concurred in affirming it to be fyphilitic, that the pa- tient was even anxious to ufe mercury again. As the nodes did not abate as the other fymptoms had, and as they did not yield to the application of leeches, evaporating lo- tions112 ON DISEASES tions, or bandages, I thought an alterative courfe of mercury at this period even advif- able, to fee if it would controul this local affedlion. The nodes were not like venereal nodes. They were elevated and bony, and there was a fmall quantity of fluid beneath the periofteum. 1 would have divided the periofteum at firft, but I was reftrained by the apprehenfion of the wounds becoming fores, and of exfoliation taking place and aug- menting the patient’s already diftrefsful fitu- ation. He now rubbed in fmall quantities of mercurial ointment, without confining him- felf. This courfe was attended with manifeft benefit j infomuch as to imprefs his mind with an opinion that a more liberal ufe of mer- cury would now cure him. In this opi- nion he was confirmed by fome furgeons whom he had confulted, and he therefore refolved to flay at home and rub in every night till his conftitution was aftefted by mer- cury. By the accomplifliment of this objedt, however, he was made materially worfe. His pains were tormenting, the nodes inflamed, and threatened to ulcerate. The mercury was left off, and I divided the periofteum to the extentRESEMBLING SYPHILIS. 113 extent of an inch and a half on the furface of one node, and let out fome ferum mixed with pus. The knife in palling down grated againft different portions of bone which were heaped up to a confiderable height above the level of the tibia. The node was no longer painful. The wound healed, and pain oc- curred again in a flight degree and gradually increafed. The fame treatment was purfued with refpect to the node on the other fhin, and the confequences were the fame. After the wounds had healed the pain gradually re- turned, and in about a month he found himfelf nearly in the fame ftate as before his confinement. Under thefe circumftances he again began to take diet drink, with fome mild mercurial pills, which never perceptibly affedfed his conftitution, and under the ufe of which he became mufcular and fat, and by this treatment the pains left him, and in the courfe of three months he was well*. CASE '* The principal circumftances worthy of remark in this cafe are, that the primary fore though refembling fyphilis |n many refpe£ts differed in others. It was aggravated y the .free ufe of mercury, and it healed on one fide v°l* n. j whilftON DISEASES 114 x CASE XVI. A gentleman between twenty and thirty years of age, refiding in the country, had an ulcer in the prepuce, which, to ufe the words of his furgeon, had more the appear- ance of excoriation than chancre ; it was fuc- ceeded by a bubo and ulcerated throat. For each of thefe difeafes he ufed mercury fo freely as to convince fome of his medical at- tendants that the difeafe could not be fy- philitic ; his furgeon faid enough to cure twenty fyphilitic patients. The ulcers in his whilfl it fpread on the other. The conftitutional fymp- toms were fpeedily cured by a flight mercurial affe&ion, but they broke out again under a fevere courfe of mer- cury. Many conftitutional fymptoms got well without the ufe of mercury, and when at laft it was employed again on account of the ftubborn nature of the nodes, thefe difeafes yielded to a flight, and were aggravated by a fevere courfe of mercury. The difeafe laflly yielded to an alterative courfe of mercury, fo flight as not mani- feftly to affedt the conflitution, and during which, the t patient got mufcular, fat, and healthy. The fubjedt of this cafe was a remarkably healthy man, and had before contradded fyphilitic difeafes, which were regular in their progrefs and cure. Mercury alfo affcdted hi3 conflitution in the mode which is confidered moll de- < Arable for the cure of fyphilis. throatresembling syphilis. 115 throat were fometimes better and fometimes worfe, both during the continuance and after the ceflation of the mercurial courfe. After about a year and a half from the commence- ment of the difeafe I firft faw the patient, and informed his furgeon, that in my opi- nion pfeudo-fyphilitic difeafes generally gave way to an alterative courfe of mercury con- joined to deco£tion of farfaparilla. About nine months afterwards the patient came again to town; his throat was not ulcerated, but his nofe was greatly difeafed. Some afte£tion of that part had taken place when I firft faw him, which had encreafed to fuch a degree, that he was almoft conftantly blowing from his nofe tough mucus and pus, mixed with blood. The fkin covering the ofla nafi was alfo very red, fo as to threaten the giving way of the arch of the nofe. He was much emaciated and feeble, and had a chlorotic appearance. Under thefe circumftances, I defired him to drink a pint of deco&ion of farfaparilla daily, to keep his bowels ftri&ly regular, and to take 1 2 five1if) ON DISEASES five grains of the pilul: hydrarg: every night, defiring to fee him at the expiration of a week. After that time, when he called on me, he faid he could perceive no difference whatever in his difeafe. Thinking that perhaps in ano- ther week the mercurial effect would be in- creafed, fo as to affeft the conftitution and controul the difeafe, I made no alteration in the quantity of the medicine; but when at the expiration of that time, I found the difeafe undiminifhed, I recommended him to take five grains of the pilul: hydrarg : night and morning. After the expiration of another week, when he called upon me, he faid that the difeafe of his nofe feemed gone, though when he blew it fome purulent difeharge ftill took place. The mercury had no effect upon his gums, and he looked more healthy and felt ftronger than he had done before he began the mercurial courfe. Finding the diforder fo completely fubdued by this quantity of mer- cury, and wifhing above all other confidera- tions, that the patient ftiould acquire fome mufcular ftrength and vigour of conftitu- tion, I advifed to take but one pill daily for the future, and to obferve whether the fymp- tomsresembling syphilis. 1l7 toms fubfided or increafed under its ufe. In one week more there was no difcharge from his nofe, even when the air was forcibly diiven through it. And after three weeks had elapfed, or at the end of fix weeks, he had be- come fo mufcular, fat, and healthy looking, • as to produce the greateft aftonifhment in all who had feen him before, and faw him after that ftiort interval of time. This furprizing recovery muft be afcribed to the youth and ftrength of his conftitution relieved from diforder. I mention it parti- cularly, to fhew that the quantity of mercury that controlled the difeafe did not weaken the conftitution. When the patient returned into the country, I recommended the con- tinuance of the pills every other night for fome time, to prevent any relapfe; but I was informed that he foon let them off, and has fince had no diforder *, CASK * When a difeafe refembling fyphilis attacks the nof- trils, we are almoft compelled to ufe mercury, fince wq cannot fee the character, extent, and progrcfs of the ulcer; yet extenfive experience demonflrates in a man- ner horrible to obferve, how many fuch difeafes purfue a *noft deftrnftiye courfe uncontrouled, nay, often aggra- i 3 vated 1118 ON DISEASES CASE XVII. A gentleman had a, trivial fore upon the prepuce, and being engaged to marry in the courfe of a few months, he underwent what was considered as a more than adequate courfe of mercury, for the cure of the difeafe. After he had married, however, his throat ulcerated. His furgeon hefitated in pro- nouncing it to be fyphilitic, and its progrefs contra-indicated that fuppofition, for one fore healed and another broke out, or ulcera- tion again enfued in the fame place. One of the tefles afterwards became conliderably en- larged without pain, and fores broke out upon the fcrotum, which was much thickened, and in the perinseum. Six or more months palfed during the progrefs of the difeafe to this flate, when I was firft confulted on the cafe. It was in the fpring of the year, and we agreed vated by the moft powerful effects of mercury. The cafes above recited, I therefore deem worthy attention as they lhew that difeafes refembling fyphilis may occur in the nofe as well as elfewhere ; and that our pra&ice Ihould be regulated by the fame principles in treating thefe, as in other fymptoms of venereal difeafes. thatRESEMBLING SYPHILIS. 119 that he fhould fpend the fummer at the fea- fide. During this fummer the fores on the fcrotum healed, and it regained its natural ftate. The fwelling of the teftis fubfided. His throat occafionally ulcerated and healed; but a kind of difeafe feemed to fpread along the alveolary procefs from behind, for the teeth loofened and came out, and in fome parts the gums ulcerated. This happened on the left fide of the mouth, and it ad- vanced as far $9 forwards as the firft fmall grinder, which (till remained firm. In November he remarked, that whenever his ftomach and bowels were difordered, his com- plaints were aggravated; and by the means which were fuggefted for regulating thofe organs, he palfed through the winter with- out any increafe of diforder. In the fuc- ceeding fummer fores broke out again on the perineum, and by the flde of the rectum, which healed under dreflings of red preci- pitate ointment. He had alfo a flight en- largement of the teftis, which foon got well. In the fucceeding autumn the difeafe in the alveolary proceffes feemed to trouble him, and there was a flight difcharge from the 1 4 nofe.ON DISEASES 120 nofe. I had recommended him to abftain from the ufe of mercury, while his difor- ders were ftationary; but fearing that there might be an increafe of difeafe in this part, I advifed him to take the compound decoc- tion of farfaparilla and one of Plummer’s pills night and morning. Under this treat- ment he foon recovered, without any per- ceptible effect of mercury on his conftitution, and has remained well fmce. Though I feel pretty confident, for the rea- fons ftated in the preliminary obfervations, as well as thofe contained in the third fedtion, that many difeafes which refemble fyphilis, do not originate from that poifon, I am by no means equally certain, that none of the cafes which I am now promifcuoufly re- lating, might not have arifen from that fource. Such an affertion would be to deny the poflibility of the effedls of fyphilitic poifon being modified by the difeafed pro- penfities of the conftitution. It would be alfo to affirm that there is only one kind of fyphilitic chancre, and one kind of conftitu- tional fyphilitic difeafe, which is far fromI 21 RESEMBLING SYPHILIS. being my intention. I merely ftate, that when the primary fores differ materially from the ordinary chara£lers and progrefs of fyphilitic chancres, that they may fairly be fufpe£ted to be of a different nature; and that in general the conftitutional fymptoms will be found equally to deviate from the progrefs of fyphilis, and confequently to require a different mode of treatment. I proceed to relate fome cafes of this defcrip- tion, and to give an account of the conflitu- tional fymptoms fubfequent to thefe kinds of fores, in a few cafes, that the reader may judge of them for himfelf. CASE XVIII.’ On burrowing Sores. A gentleman, forty years of age, who had lived very freely, in the month of July 1806, contra£led a fore between the prepuce and glans penis, near the fraenum, which he be- lieved to have originated from fome acrimony in the fecretions. This probably was the opinion of his furgeon, as he merely recom- mended cleanlinefs, and a poultice, until the fpreading122 ON DISEASES fpreading of the fore induced him to ufe mercury. A confiderable fweliing of the prepuce was occafioned by the irritability of the fore, which continued to fpread by ul- ceration forwards, fo as to extend over the whole of the lower half of the glans, to within the eighth of an inch of the urethra, and backwards between the integuments and lower half of the body of the penis for more than half way to the fcrotum. It did not prevent him from denuding the glans, and cleanfmg away the difcharge in fome degree, but the extent of the fore backwards could not be feen. It had continued to fpread gradually for more than two months, al- though the mouth was affedted by the ufe of a great deal of mercury. His conftitution was much enfeebled, in a great .meafure owing to the mercury he had ufed, In this ftate he came to London, and confulted me. Fearing that the fore might continue to fpread if the mercury was laid afide, I de- fired him to rub in every fecond night, fo as ftill to keep his conftitution under the influ- ence of that medicine, while I endeavoured to correa the fore by local means. Various waflies were tried, for inftance, weak folu- tionsRESEMBLING SYPHILIS. I 23 tions of fulphate of zinc, and nitrate of filver, calomel, and muriate of mercury in lime i water. In lefs than a month the fore was nearly healed, except in that part which co- vered the urethra about half-way below the penis; and here the ulceration feemed kept up by the efcape of fome urine from the canal, and he had at this time a frequent propen- fity to void his urine. It appeared probable, that the urethra had not been in a found ftate prior to his contradling this complaint, and that it had derived additional irritation from the proximity of the fore to the mouth of the canal, as well as from that part where its ulceration had occalioned an opening. At this time an indolent enlargement of the right teftis took place, and fo large a hydro- cele was formed, that I was much inclined to pundture it, to relieve him from the in- convenience occafioned by its weight. The patient, however, was anxious to return into the country, where he was directed to con- tinue the fame mild mercurial courfe. In »>A January, 1807, he returned to town, and dur- ing the interval, the hydrocele difappeared, though fome enlargement of the teftis ftill continued.I 24 ON DISEASES continued. The aperture of the urethra had inflamed and ulcerated, leaving an exter- nal fore. The other part of the penis which had been ulcerated, continued firmly healed. His health, however, was much dil'ordered. He had a rheumatic fwelling of the finger, and a node upon one fhin, with rheumatic pains in various parts of his body. Finding conftitutional fymptoms ap- parently originating from a fore, for which from its commencement mercury had been ufed unremittingly, I advifed him to dif- continue rubbing in, and he went to Bath in purfuance of the recommendations of fome of his friends. I previoufly, however, intro- duced a bougie, and found feveral ftri&ures in the urethra, which had probably exifled before he had contracted the other com- plaint. As a bougie of a moderate fize palled through the urethra, I merely advifed local warm bathing. During a month’s refidence at Bath, he fuffered much from pains in the tibia, but the nodes had not increafed during that period. An ulcer larger than the furface of a fhilling, with thick- ened inflamed and fpreading edges, deep in theRESEMBLING SYPHILIS. 125 the middle, and without granulations, had formed near the outer angle of the orbit of the eye. Some fores of the fame nature, but lefs in degree, took place alfo on the arms. Wifhing to know if thefe fymptoms were truly fyphilitic, I determined to try if they would get well without mercury. A poultice of bread and water was applied to the fore on the face at night, and a dreffing of fimple cerate in the day. The edges of it were oc- cafionally touched with argent, nitrat. to controul their fretful difpolition, and under this treatment the ulcer healed. The pa- tient was anxious to return into the country; and as I thought his health might be better than in town, he returned to his own houfe with an injunttion not to ufe mercury if it could be avoided, and there his pains in a meafure fubfided. After fome time, how- ever, the nodes on the fhin became more prominent, though lefs painful. The nof- trils alfo became very much affected by the difeafe. He blew from them pus in a fluid form, and concrete lumps refembling (to his own words) t{ the internal parts of the noftrils, but this,” he continues, “ gradually wentON DISEASES 3 125 went off, leaving the noftrils as clear as be- fore. My general health now improved, and encouraged by this circumftance, I was induced to make a journey to London in the month of June, where I lived more freely than before, and took frefh cold. Upon my return home, I had a recurrence of the pain and fwelling in my fhin bones, and the pain of the legs to fo great a degree, that it was efteemed prudent to confult a phyfician, who recommended nitrous acid, two mer- curial and an opiate pill at night. Milk diet was alfo recommended, which confti- tuted my principal food. The acid was continued a fortnight, the pills about a month, but little Relief from pain was expe- rienced. The nodes gradually leffened, but the pains were unabated, and occupied my knees and ancles as well as fhins; they continued during the night, and remitted in the morning.” On the weather becoming very cold, he was recommended to pals the winter in fome warmer place than the fitua- tion in which he refided. He came to town and confulted Dr. Baillie as well as me. He was advifed to take the decoction of farfa-RESEMBLING SYPHILIS. 127 | parilla, with a fmall quantity of hydrarg: mu- ?i riat: and to controul the night pains with £ extrad of henbane. This plan anfwered r very well, and he returned into the country, where he faid his ftomach was fo much nau- feated by the medicine, that he was obliged to leave it off. He came to town again in the beginning of January, 1808, in a very emaciated and crippled ftate, owing to rheu- matifm. His nights were pafled in great pain, and this terminated in profufe perfpiration in the morning, fo that he feldom rofe till paft noon on the following day. He was fcarcely able to walk, and dreaded the leafl expofure to air, which confiderably aggra- vated his pains. Some fores had again bro- ken out upon his face, and one of the largeft was fituated on the front of the ear, extend- ing over the tragus, the difcharge from which generally filled the concha, and this obftruc- tion together with the irritation, made him very deaf. I had often expreffed to the pa- tient my convidlion that an alterative and undebilitating mercurial courfe would tem- porarily cure his difeafe, but wifhed to fee him when that medicine was employed, that I mightON DISEASES 7 courfe 1.48 I might obferve its effe£fs. He now took a pint of decoftion of farjap: daily, and five grains of the pil: hydrarg: every night, and in about a fortnight he was fo much reco- vered that he was able to ride out, which he did as often as the weather permitted. At the end of the third week, he went into the country, a fhort diftance from town, to fpend a week, from whence he rode at the expiration of that time, eighteen miles with- out flopping. His rheumatic pains had nearly left him, and the fores on his face were healed. In fhort the ceflation of the difeafe was as ftriking and as rapid as in almoft any cafe, that I had feen, but he was not reftored to perfe6t health. Though comparatively mufcular and flrong, he did not acquire that ftrength which he had pof- feffed prior to the occurrence of the difeafe, nor did he look healthy. He continued in town taking the fame medicine a fort- night longer, during which time he com- mitted, in confequence of the liberty he had acquired, feme little irregularities, fuch as fitting up late, and eating and drinking too much. The effeft of this alterativeRESEMBLING SYPHILIS. 129 f< courfe of mercury, which did not produce | any evident mercurial aCtion in the confti- tution, and under which the patient ac- quired a furprizing degree of ftrength and apparent health, fully equalled and even furpafled my expectation. Inferring the pro- bability of a relapfe, and that half the dofe of the medicine was not likely to be in any degree prejudicial to theconftitution, I recom- mended him to return into the country, and to continue the fame medicines, taking the mercurial pill every fecond night only. The patient, however, did not profecute the plan laid down, and his health has continued greatly difordered ever flnce this period. He has been fubjeCl to various local difeafes, but their nature was fuch, that I believe no un- prejudiced perfon could confider them as fyphilitic. He has had fevere rheumatifm, but it never produced a local attack on a bone, fo as to refemble a fyphilitic node. He has had gout, to which he had formerly been fubjeCt. HaL ■ He had a great degree of inflammation and induration of both his legs. He had violent VOL. 11. K painI3° ON DISEASES pain about the firft joint of the great toe, and matter feemed to have formed beneath the periofteum, for, upon the abcefs breaking, the bone was denuded. He has a rednefs, thickening, and tendency to ulceration, of the integuments of the alae nafi. The patient had formerly lived very freely, and the alteration in his ordinary modes of life, with the effedt of mercury on his con- ffitution when employed freely, at firft, for the cure of the primary fore, feem conjointly to have produced this deplorable derangement of his conflitution. Under thefe circumftances, he fometimes took the compound calomel pill in the dofe of one grain of calomel each night, and it generally appeared to be of fervice to him. Sometimes he took no mercury. His local difeafes did not feem to be much affe&ed either by the ufe of mercury in this degree, or by its difcontinuance. When once, without my knowledge, he took the compound calomel pill more freely,resembling syphilis. 131 it evidently was injurious both to his health in general, and to his local difeafes. CASE XIX. 0 A gentleman had a fore between the pre-. puce and corona glandis, which was treated as a fyphilitic chancre. After a time it be- gan to fpread in the cellular fubftance, between the integuments and body of the penis towards the pubes. In proportion as the fore became worfe, the quantity of the mercury adminiftered for its cure was in- creafedj fo that he had gone through a very confiderable courfe of mercury, which had made his mouth very fore, and had greatly impaired his ftrength. The fore, however, was not amended, but when I firft faw him was extending itfelf ftill nearer to the pubes and more round the penis. I diredted him to clean away the difcharge by fre- quently injedling a warm decodlion of poppy heads, and to keep a bread and water poultice round the penis. After fome time the ikin of the dorfum penis ulcerated, and gave an outlet to the difcharge in this di- k 2 redlion.132 ON DISEASES retion. The degree of difeafe which took place feemed to have been prejudicial to the front of the prepuce, for it became very cede- matous, and the ulceration fpread rapidly forwards fo as to divide it, leaving the glans and body of the penis projecting above the feparated and tumid fides of the prepuce. The fore gradually got well without any other medical treatment than what appeared necelfary to regulate the actions of the bowels. He took indeed occafionally fome decoction of farfaparilla and fome nitric acid. The patient had no fubfequent con- ftitutional difeafe. Refpecting thefe fores, which I have called burrowing fores, I may obferve, that only a few of them begin to burrow in the firft inftance. It is generally an after procefs, and may be confidered in the greater number of cafes as the effect of a new action taking place in the fore. It is, however, fo dif- cordant to the progrefs of true fyphilis, that I cannot believe it to be an effect of that dil- eafe. If we have any doubt we muft look to the conftitutional fymptoms which fuc-resembling syphilis. 133 ceed to them, and thefe we find to partake more of the nature of pfeudo-fyphilis than of true fyphilis. Some burrowing fores do not fo affe£t the conftitution as to produce fecondary difeafes, whilft others do. I have recorded a fpecimen of each, and think it unneceflary to cite more; though I could bring forward a confiderable number. The fecondary fymptoms in the firft cafe were very obftinate, and thofe furgeons, who are inclined to believe all thefe difeafes fyphi- litic, may probably think the fymptoms in this inftance were fo. To me, however, it appears that the moft potent mercurial courfe was inadequate to the cure of the primary fymptoms, and would have been fo to thofe of a fecondary nature, while the latter were readily controulable by an alterative courfe, and in fome inftances got well fpon- taneoufly. It is alfo my opinion, that their continuance depended much upon the dif- ordered ftate of the conftitution produced by former irregularities of living, by the irri- tation of difeafe, and the debilitating effecfs of the too free ufe of mercury for the cure of the primary fore. I could produce many K 3 inftancesON DISEASES 13 4' inftances in which the fecondary fymp- toms were more flight and more clearly pfeudo-fyphilitic, than in the one which has been related. The prefent cafe I brought forward becaufe it made a ftronger impref- fion on my mind, than thofe which were lefs vexatious, and becaufe I do not wifh to reprefent the fubject of the fecondary difeafes in pfeudo-fyphilis, as lefs obftinate and fevere than they will often be found to be. CASE XX. On Jloughing Sores. A gentleman about thirty years of age,; applied to me on account of a floughing fore about the fize of a {billing on the dorfum penis. I defired him to drefs it with a watery folution of opium, covered withfper- maceti cerate fpread on linen, and to furround the penis with linen kept conftantly wet with water. His bowels were obftinately coflive. his tongue much furred, and he had fo much fever and head-ache, that the ufe of mercurj feemed to be prohibited by the difordered bate of his conftitution. The fore fpread lc asresembling syphilis. *35 as nearly to encircle the penis, and to occupy its whole length. Various dreflings were employed until the furface of the fore was no longer floughy, but the edges were thick- ened and very fretful. Thefe were touched every day with argent: nitrat: which feemed to counteradl their fretful ftate: they after- wards became healthy, and the fore healed in the fpace of two months from its com- mencement. Before the fore healed, fymp- toms of conftitutional diforder appeared. The throat became fore, but did not ulcerate in any material degree. Spots came out on the Ikin and bread:. He had afterwards a rheumatic affedtion of the knee and foot. All thefe fymptoms difappeared fucceffively without the ufe of mercury, to which medi- cine he had fo flirong an averfion, that it would have been difficult to perfuade him to take it: he foon recovered from the effedl of his diforder, and felt as well as before he had contradted it. The medicines which were taken in this cafe, were farfaparilla, nitric acid, bark, and aperients. Secondary fymptoms do not fucceed to every iloughing fore, and thefe fymptoms occalionally approach k 4 moreON DISEASES I36 more to the nature of fyphilis than in the preceding cafe; yet I have known no in- ftance in which, either from the irregularity of the progrefs of the fymptoms, and their infufceptibility of cure by the powerful adtion of mercury, they could not be dif- tindfly recognifed as pfeudo-fyphilitic. CASE XXI. A gentleman had a Houghing fore, which fpread round the prepuce, without extend- ing backwards to the integuments covering the body of the penis, yet its breadth was fo confiderable as to involve, the whole of the prepuce, which it eventually deftroyed. The furgeon who find faw the patient had given him mercury, but, doubting the propriety of its continuance, I was confulted, and imme- diately oppofed its further ufe. Fumigations with cinnabar were found to be more effi- cacious than any other applications which were tried to this fore; thefe quickly arrefted the Houghing procefs, but an ulcerative one continued till the prepuce was eaten away. After two months from the com- mencementRESEMBLING SYPHILIS. 137 mencement of the fore, when it was nearly healed, the conftitution of the patient be- came much difturbed, and fecondary fymp- toms appeared. Thefe were fpots and blotches of rather a livid afpect, the latter of which in many parts of the body fpread out into extenfive fores which had a hough- ing appearance. One on the outfide of one foot and ancle was as large as the palm of the hand. The original fore was alfo irritated by the difturbance of the conftitution, and began to ulcerate again very rapidly, info- much that the glans penis, and a conftderable part of the corpora cavernofa, were de- ftroyed. Neither fumigations nor any other of a great variety of applications appeared to retard the deftrudtive progrefs of this fore, and mercury was employed. The patient was ordered to rub in two drachms by meafure of mercurial ointment every night for five weeks, when his gums became tender and fwollen, and his conftitution confiderably influenced by the mercury, yet no material alteration took place in the difeafe. The un- availing effect of mercury being proved, the patient went into the country, where all thefeI38 ON DISEASES thefe complaints gradually difappeared. His health, however, was ftill difordered, and new fymptoms came on. His nofe became flightly affedted, and he had pains in his bones. He now removed to the fea-fide, and after continuing there for a confiderable time, he wrote to me, faying, that ulceration had taken place in his nofe, which had de- flroyed the feptum narium, and that the in- teguments, covering a kind of node on one fhin, had formed into a foul and fretful fore. I now recommended an alterative mercurial courfe. He took five grains of pil: hydrarg: at night, and a pint of the decoct: farfae daily, and in the courfe of four or five weeks he was apparently well, having ac- quired health and ftrength at the fame time. In a lecond letter he exprefled his great fur- prize at his amendment, and wiihed for my further diredtions. I then defired he would take the pil: hydrarg: every fecond night, it the ftate of the biliary fecretion required it; but as that was not the cafe he took no more of that medicine, and has fincc remained perfectly well. CASERESEMBLING SYPHILIS. 139 CASE XXII. A gentleman had a very irritable fore on the prepuce, juft behind the corona glandis, which was covered with {lough; this having been thrown off was fucceeded by another Hough, and the fore fpread laterally to the right and left; but it neither extended back- wards fo as to affedt the fkin covering the body of the penis, nor forwards fo as to touch the glans; neither did it eat deeply into the part fo as to affect the corpus caver- nofum. I tried various dreffings, but none feemed to do much good. I touched the furface of the fore with argentum nitratum, but that did harm. I therefore was obliged to foothe this fore, fince I could not corredt it. A falve made of fpermaceti cerate, with as much aq: litharg: acet: and tindh opii as could be incorporated with it, feemed to anfwer beft; and the parts were kept cool by en- veloping them in linen moiftened with the decodtion of poppies. The moft perfedt quietude was enjoined, and the part laid upon a pillow with the extremity rather raifed above a horizontal line. I had given the patient fome pilulas hydrargyri in the firft in- ftance,140 / ON DISEASES fiance, but his conftitution was fo deranged by the irritation of the fore that it would have been abfurd to perfevere in the ufe of mercury. The fore continued to (lough, and to extend in a circular direction nearly all round the prepuce, the lower part of which became extremely fwoln. This took up nearly two months: about five weeks after the commencement of the difeafe, a fpot ap- peared more than an inch from the corner of the mouth. It was foon covered over with a fcab, which rofe far above the furface. It had increafed to the fize of a fixpence, when I thought right to drefs it, that I might diftiri- guifh the furface of the fore. I found that the ulcer was very deep, but I could not fee the furface for a very vifcid difcharge, which adhered to it like mucus. Poultices and va- rious dreflings were employed, but the ap- pearance of the fore was unchanged, and it gradually became of the fize of a (hilling. At length a kind of fungus (hot from that edge of the fore fartheft from the mouth. A fimilar fpot had made its appearance on the ear, and was alfo increafing. The adtivity in the difeafe of the prepuce had gradually de- clined,141 resembling syphilis. dined, and I began again to try fome medi- cated applications: —the fore feemed much benefited by touching it daily with argentum nitratiimj but when this was omitted the flougby appearance of the fore again took place, and it increafed in dimenfions. It was now agreed at a confultation that this patient fhould ufe mercury, and he rubbed in two drachms, by meafure, every night for fix weeks. As the mercury took effedt it feemed to operate beneficially on the fpot on the ear, which gradually died away; and on the fore of the penis, which alfo gradually acquired a healthy appearance, and the parts became found, except at one part where the prepuce was not quite deftroyed, and which ftill retained an unhealthy appearance. The mercury, how- ever, did not affedl the fore on the cheek; the fungus which I mentioned feemed to in- creafe, and, after a time, fkin formed over it fo that the fore healed in an unhealthy man- ner at the edge fartheft from the mouth. But it ftill fpread in the other dirediion till it reached the angle of the mouth, and it after- wards extended itfelf along each lip. On the tipper lip it had fpread to the extent of one third142 ON DISEASES third of an inch, and ftill retained the fame difeafed appearance which characterized it at the beginning. It was deep, and its furface could not well be feen on account of a vifcid matter which adhered to it. It was now agreed in confultation to leave off mercury, left the irritated ftate of the mouth fhould increafe the deftrudtion which the ulcer was committing on the lips. The fore now no longer fpread; it very flowly loft its difeafed ftate, and healed. This alfo happened in the remaining difeafed part of the fore on the prepuce. 4 CASE XXIII. Of Sores which become indurated in their Cir- cumference. A medical man contradted a fore on the prepuce, which, while it was healing, became indurated in its circumference, and when healed, it became foft and apparently healthy in the middle. The patient had taken and rubbed in mercury from the commencement of the complaint j in fliort, he treated it ftridtly as fyphilitic. When it affumed the appear- 1RESEMBLING SYPHILIS. 143 appearance and charadfer which I have de- fcribed, he fhewed it to me. I advifed him to continue the mercury, in fuch fmall quantity as not to affedt his health, until the induration fubfided, left from want of this precaution it fliould fret into a fore. Under this plan of treatment, however, conftitu- tional fymptoms occurred. The throat became ulcerated, and numerous fmall fpots came out all over the body. His health was alfo much difordered, and he could only take fitch fmall quantities of mercury, as could have no influence on true fyphilis. He took at the fame time the decodt: farfae. All the fymptoms gradually difappeared, and he got perfectly well in the courfe of a few months. CASE XXIV. A gentleman who had juft left London on a vifit to fome friends in the country, per- ceived a fore on the prepuce, which he undertook to manage for himfelf. He drefled it limply, and took from ten to fifteen grains of the pil: hydrarg: daily. After a month he came to town with the fore much enlarged, having difeafed indurated edges, but with a healthy144 ON DISEASES • * healthy furface. As his mouth was affected I deftred him to continue the mercury in lefs quantity, fo as not materially to difturb his conftitution. The fore healed under this treatment, in the courfe of another month, but it exhibited the appearances which cha- racterize thofe ulcers of which I am now fpeaking. It was foft in the middle, but had a circular hard rim, of the extent of a fh.il- ling. At this time his health was much difordered, and his throat ulcerated. Deep and foul ulcers alfo took place in his cheeks oppofite to the grinding teeth, and fome fores appeared on his tongue. His gums were . fpongy, and loofened from his teeth, like thofe of a perfon having fcurvy. I now recommended him entirely to difcontinue the mercury, and to take the nitric acid, which he did, in the dofe of from 60 to 90 drops daily. Under this treatment, both the conftitutional fymptoms, and the remaining induration of the primary fore got well in the courfe of fix weeks. Nearly a year after- wards, he had a fevere and intractable oph- thalmy, attended with nervous fymptoms, and diforder of his conftitution. After aresembling syphilis. 145 time, fpots again appeared on his fkin, and he then applied again, to me. By taking decodtion of farfaparilla daily, and five grains of pil: hydrarg: every fecond night, at the fame time paying attention to keeping his bowels regular, his health was reftored, and all thefe complaints totally difappeared in about five weeks. Thefe circumftances occurred in the fpring of the year, and in the autumn the pituitary membrane of his nofe began to ulcerate, and it continued to do fo more or lefs during the whole winter, and even fome difcharge con- tinued for the fpace of a year. * The ulcera- tion deftroyed a great part of the cartilaginous part ofithe feptum narium, fo that the alas nafi being lefs fupported funk a little, and made the termination of the bones apparent beneath the Ikin. The deformity was, however, too tri- vial to attradl the notice of an indifferent or inattentive fpedfator. For this difeafe the alterative plan of treatment which had been fo fuccefsful on the former occafion was again inftituted, though with little advan- tage. At firft, when the patient’s appre- ‘ V0L* h. l henfionsI46 ONT DISEASES henfions were confiderable, as the alterative courfe of mercury failed to do good, the dofe was increafea even fo as to affeft the mouth, but the difeafe was fo evidently ag- gravated by it, that the medicine was for a time left off and with manifeft advantage. In the autumn of the fucceeding year a new difeafe occurred. A large deep ulcer formed in the throat, which had all the chara&ers of fyphilis. It, however, very fuddenly ac- quired its largefl dimenfions, being about an inch in length and half an inch in breadth. It was fituated obliquely between the top of the tonfil and the front of the velum palati. It was very deep. As fo little fuccefs had attended the alterative courfe of mercury in the ulcerative difeafe of the nofe, and as the progrefs of the prefent ulcer could be noted, no mercury was employed, and in about a month this ulcer was well, and the patient has not fince had any relapfe; and, from the length of time which has fmce elapfed, it is highly probable that he never will have any. I have already laid, that fores which indurate in their circumference do not m o everyRESEMBLING SYPHILIS. 147 every inftance produce conftitutional fymp- toms. Apprized of their nature I generally order for the patients that dofe of mercury, A which may be taken without affeCting the conftitution, as a difcutient of the hardnefs, and I have known nearly fix months elapfe before it has been completely difperfed. This kind of partial induration is fo different from the progrefs of true fyphilis, that I think it mull be readily granted not to be of that nature. It mull however be alfo re- membered, that fores which indurate in all parts are not always fyphilitic. As I have already related two inftances I think it un- neceffary to add more. Having thus endeavoured to reprefent the conftitutional effects refulting from fores, which differ materially in their characters and progrefs from fyphilitic chancres, I wifh to fubjoin another cafe, though I am doubtful whether the difeafe originated from infedtion, or was the product of conftitu- tional diforder. I think it deferves to be recorded on account of its duration. L 2 In rlON DISEASES I48 In the year 1793, a gentleman aged twenty-fix, who had been married two years, had a paralytic affedtion of the whole of the left fide, from which he gradually but not completely recovered in about nine months, the latter of which he fpent in the country, and he attributed much benefit to the country air. About four months from the commencement of the paralyfis, he had an indolent enlargement of the tefris as big as a large lift, which did not fubfide, but in 1796 fuppurated, broke, and very flowly got well. In 1797, he had an ulcerated fore throat, for which he went through a very regular and fevere courfe of mercury. He was confined from July to November, and the mouth was in a greater or lefs degree affedled during the greater part of that time. The throat foon got well. The year 1798 he fpent in the country, and regained his health and ftrength in a very confiderable degree. In 1802, a node appeared about the middle of the right fhin, which was removed by a blifler kept open for fome time. He had at the fame time a pimple on the nofe which formed a fcabby ulcer, but flowly got well t fromresembling syphilis. 149 from the application of a folution of the hy- drarg: muriat: He had fubfequentiy feveral eruptions, forming fcabs upon the trunk of the body and arms which did not ulcerate, and got well without medicine. In 1804, there was a thickening about the os calcis and tendo achillis, which threatened to fuppurate. In 1805, I firft faw the patient; his tongue was furred, the fecretion of bile irregular, with a great degree of nervous irritation. He was alfo fubjed to rheumatic pains which particularly affeded his knee. I recom- mended a ftrid attention to the hate of the bowels, and foothing applications, with preffure to the heel. Under this treatment the heel gradually got well and the fpots dis- appeared. In the fpring of 1806 fome nodes appeared on different parts of the Ikull, when I told the patient to profecute the fame plan of treatment, and if they got better to difregard them, but if worfe, to let me fee them. In the autumn of this year, he called upon me with the nodes on his head confiderably augmented; one on the right fide of the forehead was as big as a large walnut, and threatening to break, and two L 3 on*5° ON DISEASES on the left parietal bone, but of lefs fize, had broken and healed. There was alfo a very confiderable node near the top of the left tibia, which had been opened by cauftic, and had left a foul ulcer. I then recom- mended the decodh farfse with a compound calomel pill, night and morning. This plan was continued from November to the end of May, when the decoction was left off, though the pill was continued in a fmalier dofe for fome time longer. Under this courfe, which never produced the flighted: mercurial effedt on the confutation, all thefe complaints got well, and the patient became healthy and fat, and, as he fays, better than he has been from the commencement of his dif- orders which is fourteen years ago. This cafe appears to me to be very fimilar to that related at page 87. In neither do I believe that the fymptoms were the efFedfs of poifon imbibed, but on the con- trary, of a difordered date of health. Whild I was attending this patient, his wife’s throat ulcerated to a confiderablfr degree.resembling syphilis. I 51 degree. Both tonfils were ulcerated, and the ulcer continued from one along the edge of the velum palati to the extremity of the uvula. The ulcers were hollowed, covered by vifcid matter, and furrounded by inflam- mation. I fhould without hefitation have pronounced thefe fores fyphilitic had they fucceeded to a chancre. Another furgeoti had no doubt of their nature. The patient’s bowels were difordered, and fhe felt generally unwell. I diredfed her to take fome decoc- tion of farfaparilla, and fmall dofes of rhu- barb, whilft I attentively watched the pro- grefs of the ulcer. In the courfe of a week it was fo decidedly amended that I had no doubt of its not being fyphilitic. Where it ran down the fide of the uvula, it had granulated, and was in a great meafure healed. As the difcharges from the bowels were blackifh, I directed five grains of the pilul: hydrarg: to be taken every night for a fortnight, which gradually corredled the biliary fecretion, and in that time the ulcers were perfectly healed. The patient took the pills every fecond night for another fortnight, when the bowels l' 4 beingON DISEASES *5* being in all refpe&s right, and the conftitu- tion in general relieved from all diforder, they were difcontinued. About fix months afterwards, this patient being in the country, thought {he had caught a cold in her head, as fhe had frequent occa- fion to blow her nofe, and as fhe fnuffled in fpeaking; this complaint gradually increafed, and after a fortnight had elapfed, {lie perceived a difficulty of deglutition, which alarmed her, becaufe it reminded her of her former indifpofition. She was at this time alfo very unwell, and felt in the fame manner as when her throat had ulcerated. Thefe fymptoms gradually increafing, after another fortnight fhe came to town. There was no doubt but in this fecond attack ulceration had taken place in the upper furface of the velum pa- lati, for the ulcer had eaten through the foft palate at a fmall diftance from the termina- tion of the bone, there prefenting a circular aperture, about as large in circumference as a pea. This complaint was made perfe&ly well in three weeks, by the fame treatment as was inftituted in the former. The health i inresembling, syphilis. in general, and the digeftive organs parti- cularly, were difordered in the fecond attack as they were in the former one, and both were fet right by the meafures that were purfued. I have known many ulcerated throats, which could not, by infpedfion, be dif- tinguiffied from fyphilitic difeafes, and which were even fuppofed to be fo on account of the difficulty of curing them, arife from an irritable Hate of the Ifomach, and they have readily got well by fthe treatment above defcribed. The foregoing cafe might have been one of this defcription. Might it not, however, have arifen from contagion, and have been caught from her hufband ? I have recorded it chiefly on this account; for I am de~ firous of mentioning, that I have feen feveral inftances of pfeudo-fyphilitic difeafes commu- nicated from hufbands to wives, where there were no fores, nor apparently any morbid dif- charges from the genitals. If this fuppolition be true, it would probably be confidered as a very curious faff, and I mention it to excite generalON DISEASES 15 4 general obfervation, by which alone it can be confirmed or confuted. I fhall briefly relate another cafe, fuggefting the fame opinion. A gentleman had been my patient on account of a chancre, for which he regu- larly took mercury fo as (lightly to affect his mouth. He had afterwards an ulcerated throat, which got well without the ufe of any medicine. Shortly afterwards he mar- ried a very healthy woman, who in about three months became very unwell, and had pfeudo-fyphilitic difeafes, for which a mer- curial courfe was inflituted without benefit. As I had attended the hufband, I was once confulted on her cafe. She had then a deep and foul ulcer between the ala nafi and upper lip. Her difeafes after- wards got (lowly well under a plan of treatment calculated to reftore her general health. I am 1 aware that the cafes which I have related by no means reprefent all that deierves to be difplayed, in order to convey to the readerRESEMBLING SYPHILIS. 155 reader that extenfive knowledge of the fub- jedt which a furgeon living in this metropolis may and ought to poflefs. For example, I have not related any cafe to (hew that the primary fores, in many inftances, are fubjedt to paroxyfms of dis- order ; that they will amend and feem in- clined to heal, and when, from their appear- ance, the greateft hopes are entertained, on a fudden, a renovation of diforder takes place and more parts become difeafed or deftroyed. This circumftance happens whether mer- cury be employed or not, and under an equal operation of mercury on the patient’s conftitution. Alfo in fyphilitic and pfeudo- fyphilitic affedfions, fometimes difeafes occur which are the effedt of derangement of the conftitution at large, fuch as unhealthy ab- ceffes and fores; and whilft mercury, if em- ployed, acts beneficially on the Symptoms for which it was adminiftered, it often has a prejudicial effedt on thefe acceflory difeafes. I have now lying before me the written re- cords of many cafes fimilar to the foregoing, each156 ON DISEASES each of which exhibits fome interefting va- riety obfervable in thefe difeafes. I forbear, however, to adduce more inftances, from a convidtion that recorded cafes will never make a forcible impreffion on the minds of pradtitioners, and that they merely ferve to induce attention to the occurrences which are met with in practice, fo as to lead each perfon by obferving circumftances to which he had perhaps before been too little attentive to acquire pradtical information and know- ledge from his own experience.>57 BESEMBLING SYPHILIS. SECTION V. On the 'Treatment of Pfeudo-Syphilitic Difeafes. \ , rp*HE impropriety of putting patients under a full mercurial courfe, fuch as is necef- fary for the»cure of fyphilis, without taking into confideration the nature of the pri- mary fore, or watching, even for a fhort time, the progrefs of the conftitutional fymp- toms, muft, I think, be to every one fuffi- ciently evident. If the conftitutional fymp- toms proceed in the manner detailed in the fecond fedtion, and get well fpontaneoufly, it would be abfurd to ufe mercury j but if they areprogreffive, and threaten to deftroy parts of importance, even though we may have great reafon to believe that they are not truly fy- philitic, an alterative courfe of mercury, with the addition of decodlion of farfaparilla, feems t0 be, in general, the moil efficacious means of effedfing a temporary cure. In the fecond fedfion, I {fated, that after having waited till I was allured that the con- ftitutional*58 ON DISEASES ftitutional fymptoms were not truly fyphi- litic, and, confequently, did not require for their cure a ftrong mercurial courfe, I ge- nerally gave the compound calomel pill with a view to fhorten the duration of thofe fymp- toms. This pratlice has been faid to be ridiculous. I only wifh to fhew that, in general, it is the mod; fuccefsful that can be purfued. The cafes which have been related atteft, that an alterative courfe of mercury will cure difeafes which a potent one will aggravate j and that neither courfe can be confidered only as producing the tempo- rary effedt of curing the prefent fymptoms without eradicating the conftitutional difeafe. In proof of this point, I could adduce the moil abundant and cleared: evidence. 1 take the liberty to mention, that fome emi- nent furgeons of this metropolis, who con- cur with me in opinion refpe£ting the nature of thefe difeafes, are averfe to em- ploying mercury for their cure; and as fuch fentiments and practice may become very generally amongft thofe who clearly perceivfe that the molt powerful mercurial courfes will not radically cure thefe difeafes, andresembling syphilis. 159 and that they will get well without that medicine, I feel it neceflary to difcufs the fubjedt a little more at large. I have found a compound calomel pill or five grains of the pilul: hydrarg: taken every fecond night, fufficient in many cafes to heal fores more rapidly than I wifhed, while in others, the fame pill taken every night has been infufficient, and the difeafe has been controlled and cured when the pill was taken night and morning. The dofe which has been moft fuccefsful, has been one that has not perceptibly affedted the mouth nor weakened the conftitution ; during its ufe, on the contrary, patients have ac- quired mufcular ftrength and increafe of bulk. The conflitutional fymptoms in thefe cafes frequently occur when the patient’s health is much diforderedj and it may be feared that any courfe of mercury, however trivial, may increafe the weaknefs and irri- tability of the conftitution. However, it will be found, on the contrary, that an alterative courfe160 ON DISEASES courfe of mercury, by controlling the difeafe, will produce a diminution of irritability, and increafe the ftrength of the patient. All per- fons who are not familiarly acquainted with the fadt are extremely furprifed at the won- derful acquifition of bodily ftrength and vi- gour obtained by the patient during the ufe of a medicine which they have always confi- dered as likely to debilitate. The difficulty is to afcertain the precife dofe that fhall cure the local difeafes, without apparently pro- ducing any mercurial effedt on the confti- tution in general. This dofe muft neceffarily be various, as the fufceptibility of being adfed on by mercury varies greatly in different perfons. Refpedling doubtful cafes, and of this de- fcription muft many be, which are prefen ted to the notice of a furgefan who has had no op- portunity of obferving the charadters of the primary fore, 6cc. I wifh to afk the follow- ing queftion. If a difeafe that may be fuf- pedted to be fyphilitic gets wrell, when the patient takes only five grains of the pilul: hydrarg: each night, (taking alfo the decoc-161 RESEMBLING SYPHILIS. tion of farfaparilla in the day,) without the mercury apparently difturbing his conftitu- tion, but on the contrary, contributing to the increafe of his flrength, ought fuch a difeafe to be regarded as fyphilitic, and requiring a perfevering courfe of mercury for its cure ? Were I to anfwer this queftion agreeably to the didtates of my own experience, I fhould reply in the negative, becaufe I have feen many fuch inftances,' wherein it was evident that the difeafe was of the kind which I have termed pfeudo-fyphilitic. Within thefe few months three cafes have come under my obfervation, in which the throat was deeply and very badly ulcerated, and the general health greatly impaired j and yet all the pa- tients got well in about a month by luch a courfe of medicine as I have defcribed, increaf- ing in health as the local difeafe amended, and without any mercurial effedt on their conftitution being manifeft. This is a point of pradfical condudl, much deferving of confideration, and requiring to heeftabliihed. It would appear wrong to ufe ^ore force for effecting a purpofe than is requifite. In fyphilis the cure of the difeafes162 ON DISEASES for which mercury is adminiftered is a proof of the fufhciency of the mercurial courfe. Syphilitic fymptoms will not, however, as far as my experience enables me to determine, give way to fo trivial a quantity of mercury. Therefore the mode of cure of thefe difeafes may ferve as a tefl of their nature, and as a guide for our conduct on a recurrence of fymptoms, in cafes where no other evidence can be obtained. Were this queflion determined, were it decided, that truly fyphilitic fymptoms would not yield to an alterative courfe of mercury, which produced no apparently mercurial effedl on the patient’s conftitution, but under which it acquired a natural degree both of tranquillity and ftrength, another enquiry would yet remain. Are we war- ranted in continuing or augmenting the mercurial courfe, in order to prevent a re- turn of the fame or fimilar fymptoms? Wen my own experience to diredt me in my repl) to this queftion alfo, I fhould again anfvvei in the negative; becaufe I have frequently in fuch dubious cafes, put patients under ; full mercurial courfe, in order to prove, thaRESEMBLING SYPHILIS. 163 any relapfe ffiould occur, the difeafe could not be fyphilitic, or curable by fuch a courfe of mercury. The cafes to which I allude were thofe of officers and perfons of ftrong conftitutions, in which it feemed neceffary to eftabliffi this fa£t, with a view to the fubfe- quent treatment of any fymptoms that might occur. Yet in thefe cafes new fymptoms were manifefted. I have alfo been frequently con- fulted with refpect to the degree to which a mer- curial courfe ffiould be carried, and the time it ffiould be continued, that had been inftituted for the cure of pfeudo-fyphilitic fymptoms, which had been miftaken for thofe of true fy- philis; and I have recommended that it fliould be continued, to that degree and for that dura- tion, that fhould render a repetition of it un- necelfary, by proving it to be unavailing, ffiould a recurrence of fymptoms enfue. Yet in thefe cafes alfo, either the fame fymptoms returned or fimilar difeafes took place, and in moft inftances thefe returning fymptoms have got well without the ufe of mercury. The cafes alfo, which I have detailed, fhew how unavailing the mold potent courfes of mer- cury are, in effecting the radical cure of thefe m 2 diforders.164 ON DISEASES diforders. It feeins therefore better to defift from the ufe of medicine, when the local dif- cafes are well j and fliould they recur, to cure them again by an alterative couife of mer- cury, which appears, from its effe6fs, to be not only innocent, but even falutary. In fome cafes which I have attended, aftei having cured the local fymptoms by an alterative courfe of mercury, with the addition of the decodfion of farfaparilla, without producing the flighted: apparent mercurial eftedf on the ■ patient’s conftitution, I have recommended the continuance of half this innocent quantity of mercury for a confiderable time, in order to prevent a relapfe, and in many mftances this plan of treatment has feemed to fucceed,. whilfl: in others it has failed. In fome cafes of pfeudo-fyphilis, one fet of fymptoms will difappear without the ufe of mercury yet new fymptoms occurring, they will be progreflive and deftruaive fo as to re- quire mercury for their cure. The reverfeof this alfo happens: one fet of fymptoms feemed to require, and to have been cured by an a - terative courfe of mercury; yet others, lub e* quently arifmg, may difappear without its ad- miniftrationaresembling syphilis. 165 miniftration. Even an innocent and akera- tive courfe of mercury fhould not, in my opi- nion, be haftily reforted to. The objeCl which we are to keep in view, throughout the whole treatment of the difeafe, is to tranquillize and invigorate the conftitution, and only to check or cure deftruCtive or very diftrefling fymptoms by an adequate quantity of mercury. Though an altera- tive courfe of mercury is fo generally bene- ficial, yet in fome inftances it aggravates thefe difeafes. There are perfons of fo peculiar a conftitution, that the fmalleft dofes of mercury cannot be given without producing irritation and diforder. Mercury alfo may fail to be beneficial, when adminiftered at one period of thefe difeafes, and yet have the moft de- firable effeft at another. It may for inftance fail to do good at an early period of the dif- eafe, when it is in a ftate of confiderable a&ivity, and yet may counteract and fubdue it, when its vigour is on the decline. The cafes furnilh examples of thefe faCts. i,‘ t ... Though in general the decoction of larfa- pariila appears to be the belt medicine that can be given in addition to alterative dofes M3 ofi66 ON DISEASES of mercury; yet, when the conftitution of the patient is weak, it is ufeful to give me- dicines of a tonic and cordial kind. This pradtice is peculiarly proper, when it re- quires a more powerful operation of mer- cury than I have in general defcribed, to control and cure urgent fymptoms. * Such is the refult of the obfervations I have made on the treatment of thefe moft * It may be thought by fome, that I have relied too much in the treatment of the foregoing difeafes, upon the internal adminiftration of mercury, and have not fufficiently tried its effects by inun£tion. I therefore think it right to ex- plain, that it feems to me immaterial, whether a mild oxyd of mercury, fuch as fhould be contained in mercurial oint- ment, and quickfilver pills, is abforbed from the Ikin or the alimentary canal. I generally find that as much of the quickfilver pill can be taken internally as is neceflary to produce the degree of mercurial afFe&ion of the fyftem, which is requifite for the cure of pfeudo-fyphilitic fymp- toms, without in the lead disordering the funftions of the digeftive organs; but on the contrary, with evident benefit by exciting and maintaining the natural and healthy actions of thofe organs. It is right, however, to add, that the pilul: hydrarg: which I have always employed, has been procured from the Apothecaries’ Hall; and that when it has been ob- tained from other places, its effe£ts have by no means correfponded to what I have reprefented of them, either in this, or the preceding volume. vex-resembling syphilis. 167 vexatious difeafes 5—difeafes which muft, I believe, perplex all furgeons, whatever opi- nions they may entertain refpedting them, and whatever conduct they may purfue with a view to their cure. They, who believe them all to be fyphilitic, and regard mer- cury as the only remedy, muft be perplexed by difcerning its inefficacy. They who abftain from it muft be perplexed by obferv- ing the pertinacious nature of the difeafe, and the frequent recurrence of new and dif- treffing fymptoms. They who fteer a middle courfe, as I have done, will not avoid diffi- culties. Without any particular inveftiga- tion of the nature of venereal difeafes, two different modes of treatment feem to have been adopted by the profeffion. One party has ufed mercury liberally for evident reafons. It feemed neceffary for the cure of fyphilis, and it has been fuccefsful in cafes of that difeafe. Believing all venereal difeafes to be of that nature, and further incited by fre- quent recurrence of fymptoms, one party of profeffional men has ufed mercury, as I believe, in a moft injurious degree; whilft others, from witneffing the beneficial effedls of an alterative courfe of mercury in pfeudo- m 4 . fyphiliticON DISEASES 168 fyphilitic difeafes, have confideredfuchacourfe to be all that was neceffary in every inftance. No improvement in praCtice could poflibly take place, whilft former opinions prevailed i whilft furgeons regarded every conftitutional difeafe that had the appearance of fyphilis to be really of that nature, and treated it accord- ingly. This was done, whatever might have been the characters and progrefs of the pri- mary fore from which it originated 5 and even when it was preceded by no fore, it was confidered as an inftance of fyphilis long lurking in the conftitution. Even Mr. Hun- ter, who fo accurately obferved difeafes, and fo clearly diftinguiflhed, that there were many difeafes refembling fyphilis which were not of that nature, muft have been exceed- ingly perplexed in his opinions and pradtice. As he believed chancres might be modified by the difeafed propenfities of the conftitu- tion, when he met with ulcers in the throat, eruptions, and nodes confequent to fuch chancres, which, not even his accurate ob- fervation could, I will venture to affirm, in many cafes diftinguifh from thofe of fyphilis, he muft, I think, have deemed it right to treat themRESEMBLING SYPHILIS. 169 them as if they were fyphilitic. The cafes, to which I now allude, are recorded in the fecond fedtion. Ifr-i \ But in thefe cafes, the fymptoms will recur in general after the fevered: courfe of mer- cury. That he met with fuch cafes, and was perplexed by them, may be inferred from his opinions, he having accounted for fuch failures by faying, that mercury will cure the difeafe when in an adtive flate, but will not cure the difpofition to difeafed adtions, which certain parts may have af- fumed. I believe, however, it will be found that mercury cures both the adlions and dif- pofitions to adt in true fyphilis, and that the perplexing cafes were of a different nature to that difeafe. How far the difeafed adiions incited by fyphilitic poifon admit of confi- derable modifications from peculiarity ofcon- ftitution in the primary fores or chancres, we have, I believe, yet to learn. There ire, however, good reafons for fuppofing that when a poifon is abforbed without inducing a fore, and when that fore is of a nature very difcordant to thofe of fyphilis, that the con- ftitutional fymptoms will be found equally to differ170 ON DISEASES differ from thofe of fyphilis in their nature, and require a different mode of treatment. Having been inflruCted by Mr. Hunter to believe, that there were difeafes refembling the venereal difeafe, which were different in their origin and progrefs, having perceived nothing to contradict, but on the contrary, every thing to confirm that propofition, I have in this publication avowed my opinion of their exiftence to a far greater extent than Mr. Hunter fuppofed. Knowing how much opinions influence our judgment and con- duct refpeCting faCts which come under our obfervation, I have even wifhed that thefe opi- nions, if they be correCt, might become general and confirmed. Being confcious that they have not been haftily adopted 3 and that in furvey- ing the faCts upon which they are founded, I have endeavoured to keep my mind as unpreju- diced as poffible, I fliould think myfelf guilty of a culpable timidity, were I not to avow them. If the opinions be correCt, it muft indeed be acknowledged, that cafes of true fyphilis are much lefs frequent now than formerly, and for this I have endeavoured to affign a reafon in the fecond fe&ion. Well aware howRESEMBLING SYPHILIS. 171 how liable an individual is to err, in form- ing general conclulions from his own limited experience, and confcious that the opinions which I entertained refpedting thefe difeafes werp different from thofe of a great number of eminent furgeons, I at firft publifhed my obfervations on the fubjedt in portions ; and the fame apprehenfion as to the pof- fibility of error has now induced me to re- publifh them in a lefs methodical manner than I could have wifhed. I thought this mode would fhew better the rife and progrefs of thofe opinions which I cannot but enter- tain j inafmuch, as they appear legitimately to be deduced from facts. Had I publifhed all I knew and thought relative to thefe fubjedts under another title, had I called the book additional obfervations on venereal difeafes, or on progreffive and remittent fyphilis, it might have been better received, becaufe it might have been more accordant to the notions of others. Yet in whatever way I might have reprefented the fubjedf, the difference would only have been in the manner of difplaying it; there would have been none in the matter to which it related, as that confifts of adtual occurrences in pradfice.On Difeafes of the Urethra ; particularly of that part, which is fur rounded by the proflate Gland. SECTION I. T^VERY furgeon will, J believe, acknow- ledge, that an obfcurity hangs over the fubjedt of ftridtures of the urethra, which pre- vents us from perceiving the caufe of many circiimftances, which occur in daily pra&ice. Contradlions of this canal are fometimes rea- dily enlarged to their natural diameter by the introdudlion of common bougies, and the cure thus effedled is permanent.' In other cafes it is difficult to procure even a temporary enlargement of the contradled part; and the ffridture returns, when the means by which it was relieved are difcontinued. This variety in the event of different cafes may, in fome inftances, depend on the kind and duration of the difeafe in the ffri&ures themfelves j yet, in many others, I am convinced that it is owing to other circumftances, which it is my defign *ON DISEASES OF THE URETHRA, &C. 173 » / defign to confider in the prefent paper. Be- fore my obfervation had been diredfed to thefe circumftances, I was much puzzled to account for the difcordance in the refult of cafes apparently fimilar. I was equally unable to underftand fome occurrences, like thofe which are reprefented in the follow- ing cafe. CASE I: A gentleman, whofe life was made un- comfortable by a very frequent and very- urgent propenfity to void his urine, applied to me for advice. Two ftridlures were dis- covered in the further part of the urethra, which did not oppofe the paflage of a bougie as large as a goofe-quill. Some difficulty was experienced when the bougie entered that part of the urethra which paftes through the proftate gland; and the patient complained of pain, which was confiderably increafed at the orifice of the bladder. The inftrument, how- ever, entered the bladder, though with diffi- culty * and it feemed to be grafped by the fphindter. The proftate was enlarged to twice its natural fize> which circumftance leemed to174 ON DISEASES to me, to explain the canfe of the flight im- pediment which occurred to the palfage of the inftrument through it. The urethra was unufually long in this patient; and though bougies had been frequently introduced, I fulpedt that they had never been palled into the bladder. The patient was of this opinion, from the peculiar fenfations which he expe- rienced, and which he had never felt before. He called upon me four days afterwards, faid that he was much relieved, and requefted to have the operation repeated. The fame bougie which had been ufed before now palled with much greater facility. The patient Hill felt peculiar fenfations, though much diminilhed in degree, as the inftrument went through the proftate. It entered the bladder without dif- ficulty, and without appearing to be grafped. I now introduced a larger bougie, which went through the ftri&ures with lefs difficulty than the fmaller one had done on its firft intro- duaion. This produced the fame uneafy fen- fation on entering the proftate; it was re- tarded for a moment at the orifice of the bladder, and was flightly grafped at its en- trance. All the fymptoms were Hill more re-OF THE URETHRA, &C. 175 lieved by this fecond introdu&ion. The fame operation was repeated a few times j at firft every fourth day, and afterwards once a week, till a bougie of the largeft fize could be pafted without occafioning any uneafinefs. The pa- tient, during the latter part of the time, did not require to void his urine more frequently than is common. He was relieved from a great trouble; and though many years have elapfed, he has not experienced fimilar in- convenience. Such cafes as the preceding induced me to fufpedh that a ftridture might exift in the ori- fice of the bladder. The following cafe gave me new, and, as I think, juft ideas relative to this fubjedt. Whether the opinions be cor- reft or not, the cafes, it muft be admitted, deferve attention. CASE II. A gentleman, more than feventy years of age, had experienced for about fix years a difficulty in voiding his urine, which gradu- ally incieafed, till the ftream became very fmall. This was attended with a frequent propen- fity176 ON DISEASES fity to difcharge the urine, which difturbed him every fecond or third hour during the night. At laft a complete retention took place when he was in the country; and a furgeon attempted to introduce a fmall ca- theter, which however was prevented, by a ftridture, from palling farther than fix inches. The patient immediately came to London, when I diredfed him to take fome caftor oil, and to bathe the perinseum and adjacent parts frequently with warm water. After fome time the urine flowed again, and he was relieved from the prefent urgent fymptoms. In two days I examined the urethra, and found a ftric- ture at fix inches, through which I could not pafs even a very fmall bougie. I touched this with the argentum nitratum j but the appli- cation did not produce any alteration in the circumftances of the difeafe. On the third day the bougie palled on to a ftridfure, at feven inches, which was alio touched with cauftic; and the fame treatment was repeated with another ftricture, at the diftance of half an inch from this. The bougie now palled through all the ftri&ures, and entered the proftate, when I was obliged to withdraw it imme-OF THE URETHRA, &C. 177 immediately, from a fudden attack of pain and faintnefs. No enlargement of the proftate was difeovered by an examination per anum; nor was it tender when compreffed. I told the patient that I confidered it very defirable to introduce a tubular inftrument into the bladder, but that the minutenefs of the ftream of urine rendered it doubtful whether this could be accomplifhed. I requefted him to call in another furgeon, that the attempt might be made by us conjointly. A flexible varnifhed catheter, containing a ftrong wire, was readily pafled into the proftate, but could not be made to enter the bladder. The at- tempt was not long perfevered in, from an ap- prehenfion of doing injury, if the inftrument were not guided in the right track. No blood flowed upon withdrawing the catheter. A flight retention of urine followed this at- tempt j but, after a few days, the patient was in the fame ftate as before. On examining the urethra four days afterwards, I found that the fmalleft bougie would not pafs farther than fix inches; fo that the contradlion of the fir ft ftricture had been re-excited by the irritation occafioned by our late attempt. As the appli- cation of the argentum nitratum had fo fud- vol. ii. n denly i178 ON DISEASES denly and completely relieved this ftridfure in the firft inftance, I now repeated this appli- cation, although I knew that the ftricture was merely fpafmodic. In the courfe of a few days a fmall bougie was introduced into the proflate, and afterwards a larger one. I now wifhed to afcertain whether I could pafs the bougie into the bladder, or learn, by means of that inftrument, the caufe of the obftruclion. As the patient found that he could void his urine moll eafily when lying on the left fide, it feemed probable that the orifice of the ure- thra might be found in that dire&ion. I therefore depreffed the point of the inftru- ment, and carried the other extremity towards the right groin, when moft unexpectedly it went forwards into the bladder. When the bougie was withdrawn, a confiderable quan- tity of clotted Jblood and mucus, with fome matter, oozed out of the urethra; and the pa- tient afterwards voided in a large flream about eight ounces of turbid and foetid urine mixed with mucus; after which he felt as if his bladder were completely emptied. From this time he had no occafion to void his urine more frequently than is natural, and he ex- pelled it in as large a ftream, and with as muchOF THE URETHRA &C. 179 much facility, as he had ever done at any period of his life. The bougie was for fome time introduced every third day, and after- wards once a week. It paffed eafily not only through the urethra, but into the bladder, when guided in the direction which has been mentioned. At firft the point was foiled with blood and matter, but afterwards thefe ap- pearances were no longer obfervable, which led me to conclude that the circumference of the ulcerated orifice of the bladder had com- pletely healed. Two years afterwards this gentleman experienced a recurrence of his former complaints; a fmall bougie only could now be introduced into the bladder. A larger bougie was paffed through the ure- thra on the next attempt; but was not carried forwards into the bladder, from an apprehenfion of irritating the proftate. After a few days the larger bougie was introduced into the bladder, and met with a little refift- ance at its orifice. From this time it paffed with the fame facility as when I difcontinued my former attendance, and the patient found himfelf equally well. Two years have now elapled, without any neceflity for repeating thefe operations. N 2 Inl8o ON DISEASES In this cafe a difeafe took place in the proftate gland, without producing any evi- dent enlargement or tendernefs of its fub- ftance, though it had proceeded to a ftate of ulceration. The difeafe feems to have ope- rated on the continuous parts in two direc- tions ; backwards upon the bladder, rendering that organ irritable; and forwards upon the urethra, caufing ftridlures, which were in fome degree organic, though chiefly of a fpaf- modic nature. It muft be allowed, however, that the obftrudlion of the aperture into the bladder by the difeharges from the ulcerated furface contributed in a great degree to main- tain the irritability of the organ, by impeding the difeharge of the urine. This difeafe was alfo of a nature that admitted of relief, and the paflage of a bougie feemed to effedt its cure. It had, however, a tendency to recur, and the ufe of the bougie lefl'ened the irri- tability of the part, and arrelied the progrefs of the difeafe. The circumftances of this cafe do not indeed unfold the caufe and precife nature of the diforder, which, however, will in my opinion be elucidated by thofe which follow. TheyOF THE URETHRA, &C. l8l They induced me to fuppofe that thofe in- fiances, which I had formerly met with, and which appeared fo unintelligible, were of a fimilar nature; and they made me par- ticularly attentive to the flate of the urethra, where it Daffies through the proflate gland, as I faw the poffibility of this canal being difeafed, without the proflate being mate- rially implicated in the diforder. The fol- lowing cafe occurred foon afterwards. CASE III. A gentleman, between fifty and fixty years of age, had for twenty years been fubjedl to occafional fits of dyfury. I was defired to fee him in one of thefe, which had been very fevere and long continued. He was obliged to void the urine at leafl every hour. The calls were fudden and urgent, and the pain continued for a confiderable time after the urine had been difcharged. He had fome fever, which fuch irritation would naturally produce. A moderate-fi zed bougie flopped at two flridlures, but spalled through them without much difficulty: when it entered the pioflate, the patient complained of burning N 3 pain ;l82 ON DISEASES pain; of a ftrong irritation to make water; and grew fo faint that I had merely time, by a gentle preffure, to afcertain that the bougie would pafs into the bladder: when I withdrew it, the point was covered with blood. The patient was directed to bathe the perinEeum with warm water frequently, if the dyfury was urgent. He was much relieved by the introduaion of the bougie, and did not want afterwards to void his urine oftener than every fecond or third hour. The calls were lefs urgent, and the fubfequent uneafi- ■ nefs lefs in feverity and duration. After two days, a bougie of the fame fize was intro- duced to the extent of eight inches, and with- drawn; no blood adhered to its furface. A fmaller bougie, much curved, was now palled into the bladder ; the patient complained 0 the fame uneafy fenfation as before, when it entered the proftate; but he did not grow faint. The point was bloody for three quar- ters of an inch, but lefs fo than on its firK introduftion. More relief was experience this time. The urine was now voided only every fourth hour. Two days afterwards the bougie was again introduced «nOF THE URETHRA, &C, I 83 bladder, confiderably curved, and with the point carried along the upper furface of the urethra, where it paffes through the proftate gland. The point was foiled with a yellowifh fluid, flightly tinged with blood. As the patient was getting much better, the ope- ration was not repeated till after four days, and then after the interval of a week; at which time the blood and the yellow fluid had entirely difappeared. The urine was not voided more frequently than natural, nor was its expulfion attended or fucceeded by any painful fenfation. The ftridtures in this cafe felt firm, and not eafily dila- table : I thought it neceflary to relieve them, left they fhould contribute to re-induce the irritation in the proftate; but the patient felt himfelf fo well, that he was averfe to any thing which might renew his former fufferings, and he has had no fymptoms of dyfury flnce that period. The proftate in this patient was not enlarged nor tender. Concluftons fimilar to thofe, which were deduced from the former cafe, may be more fairly drawn from this; viz. that a difeafe may occur in the membrane of the urethra n 4 wher184 ON DISEASES where it paffes through the proftate, and that it may render the bladder irritable, and produce ftridture in the urethra; for in this , cafe there was no mechanical obftrudtion to the expulfion of the urine to produce irrita- . tion in the bladder. It alfo appears, that the • difeafe admitted of relief by the introduction of a bougie. I have lately met with another cafe in a younger man, who is between twenty and thirty years of age, and who was afflicted with fimilar fits of dyfury, the caufe of which could not be afcertained. I palled a bougie : for him a few times, but found no ftridture in . the urethra. The fame painful fenfations were produced in the proftate, as in the pre- ceding cafes. The bougie did not appear at the time to relieve the dyfury ; but the com- plaint gradually ceafed, and the patient left town. He has been much better fince this time, and attributes his relief to the paffage of the bougie. CASEOF THE URETHRA, &C. 185 The CASE IV, A gentleman, about fixty years of age, was affedted with dyfury, which increafed with violence, though various means were em- ployed during two years for his relief. He voided his urine every fecond hour, or oftener, with great pain and fevere irritation ; which continued for fome time after its expulfion. He had fuch a fenfation of heat and uneafi- nefs in the perinaeum, that he could not bear to bring his thighs together; and he was obliged to ufe a culhion, with a vacancy in the middle, when he fat down. He could not ride in a carriage, or even walk out, al- though his general health was good. A moderate-fized bougie halted a little at two ftridtures, and when it arrived at the proftate produced a violent burning fenfation, a vehe- ment propenfity to void the urine, and extreme pain at about two inches from the orifice of the urethra; which part was always particu- larly painful during the time of voiding the urine, and after its expulfion. On withdraw- ing the bougie, which had entered the bladder, its point was foipid to be covered with blood.ON DISEASES The proftate being examined, felt rather broader than ufual, bat was not tender. The patient was relieved by the introduction of the bougie, which was repeated on the third day : 1 it went more freely through the ftriclures, . and the fenfations, caufed by its paffage through the proftate, were diminifhed. The point of the bougie was bloody. I afcertained that the blood came from that part of the urethra which is fituated in the proftate, by introducing a large bougie to the diftance of eight inches, and then withdrawing it: the point was not in the leaft foiled with blood. The fecond introduction of the bougie pro- duced conftderable relief. The urine was re- tained longer, the uneafy fenfation in the pe- rineum was diminifhed, and the patient cou.d walk or fit down more comfortably. The bougie was ufed every third or fourth day for three weeks; and then once a week for a month longer, its fize being gradually in- creafed. The appearance of blood on the point gradually ceafed : it was afterwards LUUO Xiwm, II ally ceafed. The water was only nowOF THE URETHRA, &C. lS? only at intervals of four hours, the fubfe- quent pain being either trivial or entirely wanting; the uneaiinefs in the perinaeum was fo inconfiderable, that the patient could walk for leveral hours, and fit down without pain. The feminal difcharges had been attended with extreme pain, fo great as almoft to pro- duce fainting, before the ftate of the proftate had been relieved : they afterwards took place without any unufual fenfation. Thefe cafes fhew that the urethra may be- come irritable and difeafed, where it paffes through the proftate gland, without any ma- terial diforder of the contiguous parts. They induced me to pay particular attention to the ftate of that part of the urethra; which at- tention will, in my opinion, be found of great confequence in diredling our treatment of thefe diforders. As it would render this pa- per extremely voluminous to detail the par- ticular cafes which I have met with, I fhall merely relate the obfervations which I have made, and the inferences which I have drawn from them; that the profellion in general may inveftigate the fubjedf, and determine how far thefe obfervations and opinions are correct. Firft,188 ON DISEASES The Firft, then, it has appeared to me that a- ftate of inflammation and irritation may take place in the remote part of the urethra to a greater or lefs extent. It may produce in the proftate that peculiar fenfibility of the part • which I have deferibedj and in the perinaeum it may caufe contradtions of different parts of: the canal. Either of thefe affedtions may be more permanent than the other, even where each part has been equally affected in the be- ginning. This ftate of inflammation and irri- tation is frequently produced by gonorrhoea, though it may occur from other caufes. If: a bougie be introduced injudicioufly, when this diforder firft occurs in a gonorrhoea,, numerousfpafmodic'ftridtures* are met with;. the patient becomes alarmed by the difficulty of paffing the inftrument, and by the name of ftridtures, andconfults a more experienced furgeon, who diredts local warm bathing, and the application of leeches to the perinaeum. . . r! •’ f • ' *' J * * I have ufed the term fpafmodic ftridtures in the in- diferiminate manner in which it is generally employed, though I am aware that it is objeftionable: a ftridure from fpafm is not a ftridture; and a ftricture may be irritable or fpafmodical, or other\yifc«OF THE URETHRA, &C. I 89 The diforder is cured; the patient expe&s that | ftriftures remain; a full-fizedbougie is intro- duced to fatisfy him, which paffes without the lead: difficulty. I am unable to determine, whether in fuch cafes the urethra is affeCted in the fird indance in that part which paffes through the prodate, as I never made any ex- amination under thefe circumdances, though I think it very probable that it is fo. When a gleet becomes unufually protracted, it is frequently owing to the effeCls of this difor- der in the remote part of the urethra, main- taining a degree of irritation in the front. Under thefe circumdances, it is allowable to introduce a bougie, when driCtures will fre- quently be found in the perinseum; and in many cafes, the patients whom I have attended have experienced thofe fenfations, which are charaCleridic of tendernefs in the membrane of the urethra, where it paffes through the prodate. If, therefore, we look to the origin of thofe cafes, which we are called upon to attend in their advanced dages, we might ex- pert to find the diforder of the urethra various I refpeff to the kind and extent of the d difeafe. That it will be found fo in practice 1 my * idoON DISEASES I9O I do not hefitate to affirm, from the obferva- \ tions which I have already made relative to this fubje£t. In fome cafes, ftrictures in that part of the canal, which is fubjeft to fuch con- tra£tions, will be the foie difeafe. In others, an uneafinefs, and fuch fenfations as I have defcribed, will be complained of as the bougie paffes through the laft inch of the urethra, which is contained in the proftate gland. In fome cafes alfo, the ftri&ures will be the lefs degree of the difeafe, and the irritation in the. proftrate the greater; and in fome cafes it will I be found that nothing is difcoverable which can fairly be denominated a ftricture, and yet the tendernefs which I have defcnoed exifts sj in a mod; painful degree. A ftudent of the hofpital who had a flight gleet, but of long continuance, having alfo fome pain and irritation aftei voiding his. urine, though without any frequent defire to void it, paffed a bougie, which arrived at the proftatic part of the urethra without im- pediment, or caufing him to feel any parti- cular uneafinefs; but when it glided on through the proftate, it occaftoned, he laid,/ OF THE URETHEA, &C. I9I a burning pain and irritation, fo peculiar, as : not to admit of defcription, and fo fevere, that he could not have believed it, but on the evidence of his own fenfes. My obfervations have alfo led me to believe, that the inflammation of the teftis, which is fo frequent an attendant on gonorrhoea, is i excited by inflammation of this part of the urethra, and not by a fympathy between that gland and the urethra in general. I ' In deducing thefe difeafes from the inflam- mation which gonorrhoea excites, I mean only to trace them from a very common origin. The fame diforders frequently take place without having been preceded by that complaint. An attention to the circum- ftances, which have been mentioned, feems to me to explain the contradi&ory events which happen, when a fimilar plan of treat- ment is purfued for the cure of difeafes of the urethra. When ftridlures are the foie difeafe, they are often readily, and gene- li lally permanently, cured. When an irri- tation, fuch as I have defcribed, exifts in the proftate.1 92 ON DISEASES proftate, it is difficult to enlarge the con- traded portions of the canal; and, when that is accomplilhed, the ftridures recur, as acaufe : of irritation to the urethra Hill continues. In fome cafes, the enlargement of the ftritlures fails to mitigate the dyfury, and in others it is augmented by the meafures which have been employed to cure the Urielu res, when the flate of irritation at the neck of the blad- der has been unadverted to. Many patients s have applied to me under thefe circumftances,. after having been under the care of other fur- • geons. They have Hated, that fmall bougies > only could be paffed in the full inftance, and that though the iargeft could now be intro- ■ duced, the complaint was no bettei; nay, fome . have thought themfelves materially worfe. A bougie has paffed in thefe cafes eight inches, without meeting any confiderable obftru&ion, or exciting much fenfation; but, after this . point, it caufed amoft acute and burning pain, with vehement defire to make water. Some have enquired if I was withdrawing the bougie, whilft it was flowly proceeding, and fome have complained of great pain in the front of the urethra. Similar cafes have oc- curredOF THE URETHRA, &C. 193 curred in my own practice. I have relieved ftriflures, without materially benefiting my patients; of late years, I may venture to fay, without making them worfe; becaufe I have been cautious not to hurt the canal, where it pafles through the proftate. Some cafes of diforders of the urinary organs are made worfe by the attempt to cure ftriftures; and I think I deliver an important admonition, to the younger part of the pro- feffion, when I caution them to beware, in their attempts to cure ftridtures, that they do not irritate nor injure the laft inch of that canal, where there are no ftrictures, but in which confiderable diforder may nevertheless exift. -- In fome cafes of difeafed urethra, which I have not unfrequently met with, ftridtures are found, through which a fmall bougie pafles with difficulty; and it produces thofe lenfa- ; tions, in palling through the proftate, which I have defcribed, as peculiar to that part of tne canal when in a difeafed ftate. The ' Patient, however, experiences relief from the v°t. ii. o intro-ON DISEASES introduaion of the bougie; and if it be paffed again on the third day, it will meet with no obftruction from the fti'iftures, and caufe Ids uneafinefs in palling through the proftate I have then taken a bougie of a larger fize, fuch as it would have been impoffible to in- troduce in the firft inftance, and this has paffed through the ftriftures to the diftance of eight inches; but I have forborne to cairy it any further, left I fhould irritate the urethra near the neck of the bladder. It appears therefore to me, that you may relieve or ag- , gravate ftriaures in fuch cafes in Pt°Portlon as you diminifir or augment the morbid fen i- bility of the remote part of the urethra; and an attention to the ftate of this part is on this account of the greateft-unportance. Having thusadverted to the probable origin „f the difeafe, which I am endeavouring to defcribe and its conneaion with ftriaures, “*.oobr„«, lid fenfibility in that portion of the met . which paffes through the proftate m y P haps exift as a fymptom ofanirnalebW J. If the lining of the bladder bejnOF THE URETHRA, &C. 195 flamed and irritable, it is probable that the diforder will extend into the urethra for fome fmall diftance. In the fourth cafe, I believe that the difeafe in queftion was com- plicated with an irritable Hate of the bladder; but whether it was to be conlidered as an adjunct circumftance, or in the relation of caufe or effedt, cannot be determined. The irritability of the bladder was diminifhed, but not cured, by the treatment which leflened this difeafe. In one gentleman, who appa- rently died of an irritable bladder, and who complained of the fenfations, which I have defcribed, in an acute degree, on the bougie palling through the proftate, the difeafed parts were examined, but very trivial morbid appearances were-difcovered. The lining of the bladder was not perfedfly natural, and was inflamed; yet the difeafed appearances were not ftriking; and in the urethra the deviation from the healthy ftrudture was Hill lefs obfervable. It is not improbable, however, that fuch morbid fenfibility of the proftatic urethra ftay arife from an irritable bladder. Perhaps, o 2 alio.} K fl ^5 on diseases alfo, it may occafionally arife from the irrita- i tipn of the laft ftritture. Many patients with ftriftures, who complained much of the fen- fations at the neck of the bladder, at the (<! commencement of the treatment of their complaint, have afferted, that they felt no unufoal l'enfations when the bougie paffed through the proftate, after the ftnftures had | been cured. Yet, though I would admit that a tendernefs of the canal of Jie uretna in K the proftate may fometimes arife from 1 s i proximity and continuity with the lining of: the bladder, or with the laft ftnauie, t in - it more frequently exifts as an ongma an J independent difeafe. It has been ^wn h it may render the bladder irritable, and exci j contraftions in the urethra-Some cafes haj been adduced, which fltew that this ate my t exift, and yet the bladder may not be: con- ftantly irritable, but that it may be aftefted fits. I have alfo met with a cafe where this. fenfibility exifted in an extreme d^’ yet it feemed to have very little mfluen the bladder. I have likewife known 1 irritable ftate of the urethra complicated w enlargement of the proftate. n T nro*OF THE URETHRA, &C. 197 I proceed, in the next place, to relate what I have obferved refpedting the treatment of the difeafe, which I have been defcribing. The three firft cafes flfew, in a ftriking man- ner, the advantage derived from the intro- duction of bougies ; and I have feen many fimilar ones, though I fcarcely think fo de- monftrative of the utility of this mode of treatment. I know fome patients with oc- cafional attacks of dyfury, and who have this tendernefs of the remote part of the ure- Ithra, in whom the paflage of a bougie, together with warm bathing of the perinseum and ad- jacent parts, very fpeedily relieves a difeafe, which had proved very tedious and diftrefling, before thefe meafures were adopted. If a bougie be introduced, for the firft time, in a cafe of this defcription, fevere pain is felt, and faintnefs is occafioned: if this operation be repeated three days afterwards, the pain per- haps is much lefs fevere, and it may dimi- nish at each fucceeding introduction of the lif inftrument. Should this be found to be the cafe, furely nothing need be farther faid in commendation of this mode of treatment. 1 The morbid fenfibility of parts is dimi- o 3 nidled I198 ON diseases niftied by it. This happened in the three : firft cafes in a remarkable degree, and I have known it take place in many others. Nor is there any thing in this event that fhould ex- cite furprife: every furgeon is familiar with li the fame circumftance, with relation to ftiic- tures in the urethra. The firft introductions < of a bougie are very painful; the fubfequent | ones become to be even difregarded. Still, however, I think it may be ufeful to dwell a little on this fubjeft, and to confider the pro- bable caufes of thefe effeas, as it may tend to eftablifti rules for our condud in praaice. It . i; appears to me, that wediminifh the morbid as »| well as the natural fenfibility of parts by doing i them a degree of violence, fhort of that which produces a kind of region in them, by which their fenfibility is heightened. This is, in- deed, the confideration which guides my pradtice in thefe and in many other cafes. If, even in ftriaures of the urethra, the fen- fibility of the canal becomes increafed by the introduaion of bougies, or, in other words, « if inflammation is excited, furely it is wrong to profecute fuch meafures at this junftu.e I If ‘he morbid fenfibility be dimimlhed, we may i5OF THE URETHRA, &C. 199 may ufe more freedom in the profecution of our meafures. In palling the bougie, in the cafes now under confideration, it ought at firft, I think, to be fo fmall as not at all to diftend the irritable urethra. I have always curved it confiderably, and kept the point in contaCt with the upper furface of the urethra, as it paffes through the gland. I recom- mend warm bathing to the perinseum, with a view to obviate or diminifh irritation. If I find, on the fecond introduction of the bougie, the fenfibility of the parts diminifhed, it induces me afterwards to proceed more freely; but at all times with a caution excited and regulated by the confideration which I have mentioned. Now, though fuch con- duff has been fuccefsful in many inftances, I anfconcerned to Hate, that it has failed in fome others; and, when I clearly afcertain that I am not likely to fucceed, I ceafe to make farther attempts by the introduction of bougies, and purfue only general methods, fuch as warm bathing, bleeding by leeches, &c. When there are ftriCtures, which it is right to enlarge, and when the irritation of the proftatic part of the urethra is not relieved 0 4 by2,00 ON DISEASES by the meafures which have been fuggefted, I pafs the bougie through the laft ftritture, without carrying it on, fo as to irritate the tender part of the urethra, which lies behind it. A knowledge of the nature of difeafes cannot but be defirable, even though it does not enables us to cure them all. If ftrictures are removed, and dyfury remains, I believe it is common to confider it as arifing from an irritable bladder: now, though this may be generally true, there are many exceptions. I do not find that attention is paid to that de- fcription of cafes, which makes the fubject of the prefent paper: I was unacquainted with them till I met with the cafes which I firft mentioned ; the knowledge which I have thus obtained, has enabled me to afford relief in many cafes, and has prevented me from error in others.201 OF THE URETHRA, &C. SECTION II. On the conjlitutional Origin and Treatment of Difeafes of the Urethra. TTAVING in the preceding fedion pointed A out one caufe which renders ftridures and other difeafes of the urethra difficult of cure, in this, I fhall advert to another; I mean a ftate of irritability and diforder of that canal, produced or maintained by confti- tutional caufes. To explain my ideas on this fubjed, I wilh, in the firft place, to excite the attention of the profeflion to the confti- tutional origin of diforders of the urinary organs. That they are very liable to be dis- ordered by the ftate of the health in general, is very apparent. Indigeftion becomes a caufe of foul and unhealthy urine, in confe- quence of much unaftimilated matter being conveyed into the blood with the chyle. Nervous irritation affeds the kidney' and im- pairs its fundions, fo that whilft under its influence, fcarcely any thing but water is fe- parated by that organ from the blood. The nervous irritation at the fame time operates onON DISEASES 202 on the bladder, and creates a frequent and fometimes urgent defire to void this unfti- mulating urine. Many perfons during the day, or until they have dined, are greatly in- commoded by this circumftance; whilft on n the contrary, after dinner, nervous irritation ceafmg, and the urine becoming in confe- quence loaded with falts and animal matter, the bladder will retain the acrid urine, even in a large quantity, for a great number of hours. In other cafes, nervous irritation takes place, and limpid urine is frequently voided after dinner $ which I merely mention, be- caufe it may tend to throw light on the caufe and nature of the nervous irritation *. If the kidnies and bladder can thus be operated upon by nervous irritation, it is reafonable to fuppofe, that the urethra will participate * The qualities of the urine are fometimes the only circumftances by which we can difcover that there is ge- neral irritation of the nervous fyftem ; they alfo denote imperfea digcftion ; they may further indicate the ftate of the blood; and for all thefe reafons they deferve par- ticular attention and inveftigation.OF THE URETHRA, &C. 203 in the affe&ionj and I am convinced by numerous obfervations, that many difeafes of the urethra, in both fexes, originate from a continuance of this kind of conftitutional dy- fury. The cafes of fuch difeafes occurring in females who have paffed the middle period of life, will probably be confidered as affording themoft unequivocal proofs of the corredtnefs of thefe opinions. Under fuch circumftances, I have known in different inftances, ftric- tures in the urethra, induration and tender- nefs of the whole tube, and even ulceration of its orifice to enfue. Though I have feen relief obtained in cafes of this defcription by bougies and local remedies, yet I believe the treatment of fuch difeafes ought to be conftitutional, and that fuch treatment will fucceed in curing the difeafe without local remedies. I know one inftance in which the dyfury had been very fevere, and two con- fiderable ftriCtures had formed in the urethra; there was alfo a thickening accompanied with whitenefs and hardnefs of the mem- brane of the vagina, caufing a contraction in the orifice of that canal; yet all dyfury ceafed, and no inconvenience was experienced upon theON DISEASES 204 the patient’s acquiring better health; which change was effected partly by medicine, and partly by removal into the country. Wo- men will fuffer a great deal from thefe dis- orders before they reveal their diftrefs j and when from the urgency of the Symptoms, and the belief that they have a ffone in the bladder, they are willing to Submit to exami- nation, the diSorder may be Speedily and completely relieved and cured by means which have the effedt of tranquillizing ner- vous irritation. It may be ufeful to relate a cafe in proof of this affertion. CASE V. A lady, between thirty and forty years of age, who had long Suffered very considerably from dyfury, agreed to permit an examina- tion to be made of the nature of a difeafe, which, from the Severity of its effedts, fhe could but believe to be of a very Serious and alarming nature. On enquiry, I found, that though fhe voided her urine frequently, and with great pain,OF THE URETHRA, &C. 205 pain, yet it flowed freely, and that flie did not fuffer that extreme and continued pain afterwards, which is generally the confe- quence of the ftone. I found alfo, by enquiry, that her bowels were not in a proper ftate, and her tongue was much furred. Supposing that a ftate of nervous irritation might be caufed or aggra- vated by diforder of the digeftive organs, I obje6led to making any examination of the ftate of the urethra, &c. till the functions of thofe organs were put right by medicine, becaufe I was aware that nothing but a con- viction of the indifpenfable neceftity of exa- mination would have induced her to fub- mit to it. In a very fhort time, the ftate of the primae vise being corrected, and her health in general amended, all dyfury com- pletely ceafed. ipt;:-. Dyfury of this defcription is liable to oc- cur in paroxyfms. I have known it alternate with diforders of the bowels, and with rheu- c matic affection, which, I think, fhews that there is a common conftitutional origin, pro- ducingON DISEASES 2o6 i duringfuch various complaints; and I repeat, that I have known fuch dyfury lead to actual,difeafe of the affedted organs. It is very common for men, who have been mar- ried many years, and who perhaps never had gonorrhoea (or if they had in their youth, it is probable that it had left no diforder in the canal of the urethra,) to gradually acquire, as they advance in life, difeafes of the urinary organs. Surely, then, the origin of fuch difeafes muft be regarded as fpontaneous, and likely to be induced and maintained by whatever occafions irritation in the affedled organs. There is, however, no period of life exempt from this kind of dyfury. Children are fre- quently much affedted by it, and at that age when the bodily powers are generally in the greateft vigour, if they become difordered, dyfury occurs in common with other difeafes. I have mentioned in the firft part of thefe obfervations, in fpeaking of the conftitutional origin of local difeafes, that I have known dyfury of this defeription.OF THE URETHRA, &C. 207 I fubjoin another ftriking cafe of confti- tutional dyfury, occurring in a child. * CASE VI. A child, about two years of age, became affe&ed with dyfury, for the relief of which various means were tried without benefit: on the contrary, the fymptoms increafed, and ftrikingly refembled thofe occafioned by a ftone in the bladder. The calls to void the urine were frequent and urgent, and the pain afterwards very fevere. There was an elongation and ftridture of the orifice of the prepuce, which induced a furgeon who at- tended the child, to divide that part, as he thought it might contribute to the difficulty experienced in expelling the urine. Under thefe circumftances, the child was examined by a furgeon of great profeflional eminence, who had no doubt that the fymptoms were caufed by a ftone, which he thought he felt; yet recommended that no operation fhould be attempted till it had increafed in fize. The child continued to fuffer in the fame manner for two years, when I was defired to examineON DISEASES 2o8 examine him. I could not, however, difcover any (tone, and upon enquiry, I found that the fchild complained of confiderable pains in his loins, and that his digeftive organs were greatly difordered in the mannei that I have defcribed in the firft volume of thefe obfervations. Unirritating and undebili- tating dofes of the pilul: hydrarg: were given every fecond night, and ftrid attention was paid to keep the bowels clear, without in- ducing what is ordinarily called puiging. The effedl of this treatment was furprifing, all the fymptoms were immediately relieved, and they completely ceafed in a month, at which time the functions and lecretions of the digeftive organs appeared to be fo cor- reaiy healthy, that all medicine was dilcon- tintjed. After fome months, a flight lelapfe of dyfury took place, which immediately ceafed, upon refuming for a fhort time the fame plan of treatment j and the boy has fince remained perfectly well though feveral years have elapfed. \ If, then, irritation of the urinary organs, even’to a degree produftive of local difeafesOF THE URETHRA, &C. 209 in them may occur from conftitutional caufes, and more apparently from a diforder of the digeftive organs, I need not then urge the propriety of our endeavouring to keep the latter organs, as nearly as pofiible, in a ftate of health, whilft we are endeavouring to relieve the difeafes of the former by local meafures. !Of the beneficial effedts of fuch condudt, I could relate many inftances, but it does not feem neceflary to detail cafes in proof of fo felf-evident a propofition. I have explained, in the firft volume, my ideas of the mode by which relieving diforders of the digeftive or- gans, relieves and cures local difeafes j and in local difeafes of the pelvic vifcera another rea- ■j fon may be fuggefted for the benefit which is obtained. It has been obferved, that in difor- Iders of the digeftive organs, the lower part of the inteftinal canal is frequently moft affedted. Irritation in the redtum muft affedl the plexus of nerves, from which not only that inteftine, but the pelvic vifcera in common derive their energies; and thus it may lead to a fimilar participation of difeafe. 'll 51 31 VOL. II. P A210 ON DISEASES SECTION III. On feme Effehs of Difcafes of the Urethra. I shall take the prefent opportunity of ex- _ citing the attention of the profeffion to fome effe&s of diforders of the urethra, which jb have not hitherto received in my opinion a j fufftcient {hare of attention. If a violent b affedlion of this canal can produce a conef- ponding degree of inflammation of the teftis, as it frequently does in gonorrhoea, it may , reafonably be expeaed, that a lefs degree o t > diforder in the urethra may produce a milder irritation of the teftis, which may terminate, in a ftow difeafe of that gland. Indeed it has > appeared to me that there are two circum- fences caufing irritation andl consequent di - • j eafe of the teftis: one is, diforder ot the urethra; and the other, that derangement ot the conftitution at large, which I have de~ feribed in the firft part of thefe obfervations. I need not point out how inefficacious any . local treatment of an irritated or difea 'i»».»b.. ”"»««3S £21 I OF THE URETHRA, &C. which produced it ftill to operate in full force for its continuance. I proceed to re- late a few cafes, in which irritation origi- nating in the urethra firft caufed, and fub- fequently maintained, difeafe of the teftis. CASE. A gentleman who had been confined with a chronic difeafe of the left teftis, which had proved very refradtory and irreducible by various means employed for its cure, applied to me when the gland was four times its na- tural fize, and very hard. I recommended the application of three or four leeches once a week, a bread and water poultice at night, and aq: ammon: acetat: during the day. This treatment was purfued for fix weeks with very little benefit. I then changed the poultice to one made of linfeed, over which mercurial ointment was fpread. The oint- ment was alfo rubbed upon the fcrotum in the morning, and a foft rag applied over it. The patient likewife took a compound calomel pill every night. P 2 ThisON DISEASES 1\1 This treatment was alfo perfevered in for about fix weeks, but with no manifeft advan- tage. I then put two fetons * through the fcrotum, and continued the poultice at night and a drefling of fpermaceti cerate during the day. Under this treatment the teftis diminifhed very confiderably in fize, but at the end of two months, the fetons had gia- dually come out, in confequence of the ul- ceration which they occafioned.. Short y afterwards, the teftis became painful, and it enlarged to its former dimenfions, fo that no advantage was obtained from all thefe endeavours to reduce the difeafe. I had fre- quently enquired of this patient Reding the ftate of his urethra, and been as often told that he was not confcious of any difoidei exifting in that canal. Now, however, on repeating my enquiries, he faid, that he hat * Setons may be conveniently made and worn in the- Ueatmcntot local micaica , rfW ^ loca, stances of diieaied , mercury, TnX oft“ confiderable cour.es of mercury. yicid, and Eet well when fetons were empioyed^^OF THE URETHRA, &C. 213 CASE. p 3 remarked the ftream of urine to be fmall, and that tire calls to void it were more ur- gent than formerly. On paffmg a bougie, I found two ftriftures confiderably contradfed, ' and a tender ftate of the urethra where it paffes through the proftate. Thefe dif- eafes being relieved, all irritation in the teftis ceafed, and the enlargement rapidly fubfidedj fo that in two months it was fcarcely larger than the other, and all difeafe had ceafed. This happened without any other local ap- plication than a poultice at night, and fup- port by a bandage. Even the poultice at night was foon difcontinued. This patient has had no return of difeafe of the teftis, and many years have clapfed fince the occurrences which I have been relating. The following cafe was drawn up by a medical man, of confiderable information and talents, who was himfelf the fubjeft of it, and who was convinced with refpect to his own cafe of the truth of thofe opinions which I am now offering to the public. .214 ON DISEASES CASE. -- , aetat. thirty, about four years fince had an uneafy fenfation in both tefticles, which, however, occurred fo feldom, and was fo trifling, that he paid little atten- tion to it; about a twelvemonth after, he found the left tefticle harder than natural, but not enlarged; for fome time previous to this, he had been obliged to void his urine very early in the morning from great irri- tation to do fo; but not too frequently du- ring the day; and occafionally had a tight- nefs and fenfe of conftriftion in the peri- nseum, with frequent aching pain in the glans penis. The tefticle remained in the above-mentioned ftate (without pain or in- creafe) till March 1806, when he received a blow from an accident on borfeback; no violent pain was immediately felt, nor did any apparent alteration take place till about a fortnight after, when he perceived the tefticle larger and much harder than it had hitherto been j and it gradually though flowly increafed till the end of Auguft, when he faw Mr. Abernethy. The teftis was at this time of twice its natural ftze, hard and pain- ful lOF TIIE URETHRA, &C. 2I£ ful to the touch. Leeches were applied once a week, and the tefticle was kept fufpended, and wrapped during the day in a cloth dip- ped in tinft: opii: and water, and an evapo- rating poultice was applied at night. By this treatment it gradually became lefs, but the hardnefs ftill continued. He faw Mr. A. again in September, and was then defired to rub camphorated mercurial ointment upon the tefticle, and cover it with a foap plafter. The tefticle ftill kept decreafmg, but re- mained equally indurated till the twentieth of November, when it fwelied with confi- derable pain and irritation, and began to adhere to the fcrotum *. He again faw Mr. Abernethy, who introduced a fmall bougie, and found a ftridfure about fix inches from the orifice of the urethra, and a fecond the eighth of an inch from the former. The bougie pafted without much pain or diffi- culty through the ftridtures, till it came to the proftate when much pain and fenfation * The teftis was now about three times its natural fize, and at the upper part of the epidydimis, the fcrotum had adhered to the fubjacent part, and was fo inflamed as to indicate the probability of the formation of an abfcefs. p 4 ofON DISEASES 2l6 of heat, irritation, and a ftrong inclination to make water were felt; the bougie, however, palled into the bladder, and was clofely held by the fphindter. The perinseum was then order- ed to be bathed night and morning with warm water, and a bread and water poultice to be applied to the tefticle, which were done, and at the end of the week, the pain and irritation in the tefticle were greatly relieved; the fame bougie was then palled, but with greater eafe, and the painful fenfations which had before been felt on its entering the proftate were much diminilhed. The warm bathing and poultices were continued, and the fame bougie palled at the end of the following week with ftill greater eafe and {lighter fenfations. At the end of the third week the ftrictures were touched with kali pur: which produced little irritation 5 and on the week following a much larger bougie patted with eafe; the warm bathing and poultices being continued in the interval. During the three following weeks the large bougie palled with great eafe; no irritation was felt after it, and the fenfations, whilft it was going through the proftate, were flio-hter each fucceftive time. TheOF THE URETHRA, &C. 2t7 The tefticle at the end of this time, (feven : weeks,) was reduced to its natural fize, and | was become nearly undiftingui (liable from one that had never been difeafed. Shortly after the fir ft introduction of the bougie, all the (hooting pains and occafional ; uneafinefs of the teftis ceafed, and it fo ra- pidly and regularly declined as the (late of the urethra amended, as to leave no doubt but that the amendment of the teftis is to be af- cribed to the relief of diforder in the urinary : canal. I ' CASE. A gentleman between twenty and thirty years of age, confulted me on account of an hydrocele, from which I difcharged about fix ounces of fluid. The tefticle did not ap- pear enlarged, but both it and the bag of the tunica vaginalis feemed very tender to the touch. I recommended that the parts fhould be fupported, and that Goulard’s wadi fhould be applied. In about fix months the f tunica vaginalis was more diftended than at firft, and as the part was troublefome from its2l8 ON DISEASES its fize and fenfations, it was again punc- tured ; and the fame circumftances were noted upon the evacuation of the water. The hydrocele again collected, and when it was full, which happened in about fix months, the patient was dehious or naving the tunica vaginalis injected, in older that he might be made radically well. As there was nothing prohibitory except the tendernefs, I confented to his-defire; but when the fluid was difcharged this time, he complained of greater pain than formerly, and could fcarcely bear me to touch the tefticle, which made me diflike to perform the operation, and it was £ therefore poflponed till the next time that the I hydrocele fhould become full. I thought it right, however, to direft the application of leeches, once a week, and of linen kepi damp I with Goulard’s wafh*. Under this treatment the * I have known many cafes of hydrocele, the conference of irritation and inflammation, cnredby evaporatingwafl.es, M and it would be right .0 diftingu.fh the kin I 0f hy< - ff celc, upon which fueh treatment may be expected to ha beneficial effeft. Without fubh difcrimina.ion a furgeo^ feeing a hydrocele cured by thefe means, would prof.euOF THE URETHRA, &C. 219 the hydrocele filled very {lowly. After four t months had elapfed, the patient confulted me relative to fores which frequently broke out upon the prepuce; fome of which were §{vety tardy in healing. He alfo was fubjedt : to a confiderable collection of that fubftance I which is fecreted to moifben and lubricate the 1 prepuce. I told him that thefe fymptoms were the effedts of irritation of the prepuce, and { was led to inquire more particularly into the !-ftate of the urethra than I had done before, becaufe I thought both thediforder of the teflis I and the prepuce might originate in the fame I caufe, that is, difeafe in the urethra. On examining that canal with a bougie, I found ftridtures, and a tender flate of it where it 1 paffes through the proftate. By local warm bathing, and the occafional and gentle ufe of bougies, the morbid fenfibility of the canal 1 the fame meafures in an indolent, and, as I may call it, 1 c*ropfical hydrocele; or finding the means fail in many cafes from their indifcriminate ufe, he may be induced to confider the treatment upon the whole as inefficacious; and thus negledt it in cafes, in which it is likely to be beneficial. was h220 ON DISEASES was diminifhed. The ftridlures were touched with kali purum, and in conclufion, I could pafs a large-fized bougie without occafioning any particular uneafmefs in one part more than in another. The effedt of this treatment was, that the remaining fluid of the hydrocele was foor difperfed, and the teflis was no longer irri- table or painful when comprefTed, fo that even the fufpenfory bandage was laid afide, noi has any inconvenience been experienced fince that time, which is more than four years ago The fores alfo on the prepuce healed, and that part was much lefs irritable, but it ftil remains fo in fome degree; indeed, fores have been fince contradled from fexual intercourfe which circumflance may perhaps have con- tributed to prolong the diforders of that part I alfo fufpedt that the urethra may agair have become in fome degree irritable. In the foregoing cafe, it is faid, that th< habitual occurrence of fores on the prepuce lec221 OF THE URETHRA, &C. led me to fufpedt diforders of the urethra; and this is an effedl of fuch diforders, which I think has been but little adverted to, and which is neverthelefs deferving of particular attention. That diforders of the urethra do, in many cafes, caufe temporary or con- tinual irritation in the external parts which are continued from its orifices, I (hall prove by the recital of a few cafes. CASE. A gentleman between forty and fifty years of age, had for fifteen years been fubjedf to fores about the prepuce and glans, fo as to oblige him to pay conftant attention to pre- vent and control them. He had confulted many eminent lurgeons, who recommended various wafhes and modes of treatment. A new application had generally the effedl of healing the fores, but when perfifted in for fome time, gradually loft its effedl. When the patient confulted me, the whole of the lkin covering the glans, and lining the pre- puce, was thickened and white, and the pre- •Puce was fo thickened, that though it was naturally large and loofe, it was difficult to unfold222 ON DISEASES unfold it. There were numerous fores of an oblong form in the tranfverfe direction, i appearing like chops, covered by adhering pus. I told the patient that it was neceffary . \ to enquire whether there were any caufe maintaining this irritable {late of the pre- puce, and mentioned that I had obferved it very frequently to depend upon ftridlures of the urethra. The patient had no fufpicion that he had fuch diforder, for he voided his urine readily, and not much more frequently than is common. Upon examining with a bougie, however, feveral much contra6led and very firm flridtures were difcovered; and thefe being relieved, the fores on the prepuce healed without any further attention, than what cleanlinefs required. The forefkin be- came foft and pliant, as did alfo the (kin which lined it, and is extended over the glans. This cafe occurred many years ago; and as I have not feen the patient fince, I conclude that the relief which he thus ob- tained was permanent. ToOF THE URETHRA, &C. 223 To fliew that flridfures may exift in the imethra, and may perhaps prove the caufe of more vexatious diforders, though the original exciting caufe efcapes obfervation, I may mention an inftance which occurred to a medical man. CASE. This gentleman had been fubjedf to fores which frequently broke out on the prepuce without any evident caufe. There was not, however, any ftriking evidence of general irritation in that part, as in the former in- ftance. Sometimes the fores which occurred, put on the appearance of chancres j and in confequence of the advice of his friends, he underwent a falivation. The fores for which the mercury was employed, healed under the ufe of that medicine, but broke out upon its difcontinuance. He then confulted me, and upon my mentioning my fufpicions of ftric- tures exifting in the urethra, he fmiled at the opinion, and faid that it might be given to patients in general, but not to thofe of the medical profeffion. I told him that nothing would convince me that I was in error, but his224 ON DISEASES his permitting me to examine by means of a bougie. Two confiderable ftrictures were found, and thefe being relieved, the fores .* healed under fimple dreffings. The gentle- man, however, did not refide in London, and I know not the further hiftory of the cafe, which I mention merely for the pur- pofes that have been dated in the beginning. I have alfo feen a very troublefome phy- mofis, in which the prepuce could not be retradled without great difficulty and pain, depending upon the fame caufe, in a cafe in which the patient had been long accuftomed to the daily ufe of bougies *5 but after the ftrictures ,# As ftridbures of the urethra depend on a difordered ftate of parts of the canal, fo when the introdu&ion oi fimple bougies fails to cure them, the too frequent ufe ol thofe inftruments fometimes keeps up and aggravates ar irritation, which might otherwise, perhaps, fubiide. Thu is a fubjett foreign to my prefent purpofe ; but I mention it, to introduce the following cafe, which deferves pub- lication. A gentleman more than fifty years of age, had for more than twenty years been in the habit of introducing bou- gies for himfelf, which lie generally kept in for an hout daily. AtOF THE URETHRA, &C. 225 ftri&ures had been touched with kali, and the conftant ufe of bougie defifted from, the phymofis relaxed, and the prepuce could be retraced without the lead: difficulty or un- At length his urethra became fo irritable, that he could fcarcely void his urine, which he was frequently called upon to attempt. Apprehenfive of cauftic bougies being em- ployed, he confulted me, and I found I could introduce a fmall bougie without much difficulty; it halted at fe- veral ftri&ures, but with very gentle preffure it palled through them. I recommended him to bathe the peri- nteum and contiguous parts with warm water, by means pf a fponge, night and morning, and told him, I wiffied to introduce the bougie again after three days had elapfed He was extremely apprehenfive that the paflage would Completely clofe during the interval, and llrongly remon- ftrated againft fuch inefficient pra&ice. On' the third day he acknowledged that he palled his urine more freely, and the bougie which I had fir ft introduced went through the urethra without impediment. I took one of a little larger fize, and palled it with the fame fort of refiftance which the firft had met with. The warm bathing was continued, and by purfuing thefe meafures for three weeks, I palled a bougie one-third larger than he had been able at the bell of times to do for many years. The patient now voided his urine in a large ftream and not more frequently than is common ; in Ihort, he felt felf perfe&ly well. Since that time, no bougie has een introduced, except once, annually by myfelf, that he "light be allured that the ftridures had in no degree contra&ed. S VOL. II. eafinefs.ON DISEASES 22 6 cafinefs. I have alfo known many cafes of warts yield to the fame treatment. Thefe cafes are related to (hew, that irritation and difeafes may be induced in ] parts, which have a fympathetic connection with the urethra, even where the original affedtion may have been too trivial to attract attention. It appears to me to be of the ntmoft importance to inveftigate, as far as poffible, the caufes of difeafes; for how can we expect to cure the effedt, while the pro- i ducing caufe continues to operate ? The fecondary difeafe may alfo become even of an eftabliflied or malignant nature, if there be difeafed propenfities in the conftit'ution or 3 affedted part. * Difeafes in the canal of the urethra may not only caufe fuch effects as I have repre- fented, by producing a ftate of irritation on the continued furface of the glans and prepuce, but they may alfo caufe fores con- tradted from fexual intercourfe to be very irritable, peculiar, and flow in getting well. I have feen many fuch inftances, but none in whichOF THE URETHRA, &C. 227 which the fa6t was more ftrikingly apparent i than in the following cafe. CASE. A gentleman, who had juft arrived in this country, had connection with a female, which was followed by general irritation of the prepuce, and furface of the glans. Shortly afterwards fix fores formed, three of which became of confiderable fize. I de- fired him to wadi the parts three times a day with the poppy-fomentation, and to encircle the penis by linen kept damp with it, in order to leffen the heat of the part. He at the fame r time took five grains of the quickfilver pill | night and morning. After fome days, he could no longer re- > tract the prepuce, fo that he was obliged to ' cleanfe the part by means of a fyringe. After a little time, a weak folution of zincum n vitriolatum was tried, but the pain it occa- fioned was too fevere to permit its continu- ance. It was therefore left off, but after four days tried a fecond time, when the pain which it occafioned was very tolerable, and 0^2 asON DISEASES 228 as it diminiflied daily, it allowed us to in- creafe the ftrength of the wafh. After a few days he was able to retradt the forelkin, when the fmaller fores were healed I and the principal ones had granulated, fo that a fungus bulged forth above their fur- , face; they appeared of a tawny colour, and c their edges were flightly thickened. I llightly f; touched thefe fores every third day with ar- u gentum nitratum, which appeared to do them much good. The vitriolic wafh was con-i< tinued. In about five weeks from the com--:a mencement of the diforder, the patient was- v quite well. The mercury had occafionally af- s fedted the bowels, which obliged the patient t; frequently to omit his pill in the morning, n It never affedfed the gums, nor did I urge the j continuance of it, after his fores were healed, ) becaufe I did not believe them to be fy- \ philitic. i About three weeks afterwards, being in company with fome difiolute females, he had his paffions much excited, and one of them forcibly comprefled the penis with her. hand, lbOF THE URETHRA, &C. 229 I hand. The irritable ibate of the forelkin 5; again took place, and a great number of 1 fores broke out, particularly behind the glans, 1 which appeared like chops, being long and \< not wide, and the matter, which they dif- 3 charged, adhered to the furface. I •* After a few days he could not retradf the I prepuce, fo that I can give no diftindf account I of thefe numerous fores. It appeared that : they were very fretful, for the external Ikin t became inflamed oppofite to them ; and they 11 gave much pain when preffure was made on the inflamed part. The external inflammation and tendernefs on preffure changed their fltuation, fhewing, that a fore which was moft fretful at one time, became lefs fo at another. * The fores were, however, fo painful as to prevent the patient from fleeping; and as j 110 amendment of the complaint took place in three weeks, though various local mea- fures were employed during that period, the patient wilhed to ufe mercury, and I ac- 3 quiefced23° ON DISEASES quiefced in his defire. As this medicine for- merly affedled the bowels, I defired him to rub in two drachms by meafure every night, which was done for one week, without any amendment in the fores, or indeed any per- ceptible effedt on the confutation. The patient now complained of a pain in the perinaeum, when he voided his urine; and I directed him to bathe that and the conti- guous parts for feven or eight minutes, with comfortably warm water by means of a large ; fponge, three times a day. This produced a moll evident diminution in the irritability of the fores, and convinced me that there w^as a ftricture; I therefore introduced a bou- gie, and found tw'O ftrictures, the front one of which was fo tight and tough, as to admit but a fmall bougie to pafs through it, which it grafped and indented. The warm bathing was continued. I touched the fhidlure with kali, as Mr. Whately has recommended. From the time that the ftridture became an objedt of attention, the lores had fo ra- pidly amended, that in a few days the patient i was enabled to retradt the prepuce ; when it / was found, that though the fores had been ; numerous' orOF THE URETHRA, &C. 231 numerous and extenfive, they had % been merely fuperlicial, and had not deflroyed any part. From the time that I firft pafTed the bougie and afcertained a ftri&ure, the mer- cury was difcontinued, nevertlielefs the fores healed fo rapidly, that in ten days they were perfectly well. After the fenfibility of the ftricture had been heightened by the touch of the kali, the patient complained of acute pain in the fores when he made water; and once, when I touched fome of the fores with argentum, nitratum, he complained of equally fharp pain in the perinaeum. I lately attended a married man, who had been for many years tormented by occafional fores forming about the prepuce, whicli were fo irritable, as to be prohibitory of fexual in- tercourfe. In the laft attack they were con- fidered by feveral furgeons as fyphilitic, but as they had not the characters of that difeafe, I diffuaded the patient from the ufe of mer- cury otherwife than as an alterative. This patient upon taking food had the pain and 8 inflam-232 ON DISEASES inflammation of his fores fo aggravated, that he was obliged to rife from table, and bathe the affedted parts with warm water. Thefe fores immediately loft their irritability, and even rapidly got well, upon a ftridture in the urethra being relieved by local warm bathing and the ufe of bougies. I have ftill further, to obferve, with re- fpedt to the occaflonal confequences of dif- eafes of the urethra, that many difeafes of the glands in the groin originate from them. I fliall not, however, detail any cafes in evi- dence of this fadt. It will be fufhcient to fay, that I have feen feveral cafes of enlarged inguinal glands difperfed by relieving dis- orders in the urethra; and I have feen in- ftances of foul and irritable fores, lofing their difeafed characters, and healing from the fame caufe. The latter event is not, indeed, likely to be a frequent occurrence. In a gonorrhoea, the glands in the groin are commonly irritated, and fometimes flight- ly fwollenj the fwelling rarely increafes and fuppurates, except in cafes where there 11 1S -