HORACE COX, QUEEN” OFFICE, BBEAM’S BUILDINGS, B.C. ■ nr; SERIES X YEGETH5LES LOKDOM Prioe One Shilling.22101424348Med K8588THE ‘‘ QUEEN ” COOKERY BOOKS.Advertisements. THE HYGIENIC VEGETABLE RACK. {KEGISl'ERED.') CLEANLY & CONVENIENT^—“ The Oueenr No. 2. 36 inches High 24 „ Wide 12 in. back to front. Price i6/6 The storing of the small quantity of Vegetables that must be kept in every well organised Household (such, for instance, as Carrots, Turnips, Onions, &c.) is a troublesome matter. The articles are ordinarily all crowded together, becoming stale, or decaying, to the detriment of the rest of the provisions. It is to obviate this unwholesome method that the Hygienic Vegetable Rack has been devised; it takes up very little room and can be stood on the floor or hung on the wall. There are four separate bins which enables the vegetables to be kept apart, all the dust &c., falls to the ground and can be swept up, whilst the open wire reveals any single article which may have become unfit for use, thereby ensuring its instant removal. THE HOUSEHOLD SUPPLY & ATMOSPHERIC CHURN CO, LTD., 119, NEW BOND STREET, W.THE lUEEN” COOKERV BOOKS f No. 10. A^EGETABLES. COLLECTED AND DESCRIBED BY S. BEATY-POWN ALL, I’lepai'tmental Editor “ House\vife and Cuisine,” Queen Newspaper, and Author of “ A Book of Sauces.” LONDOJT: HORACE COX, “f^UEEN” OFFICE, WINDSOR HOUSE, BREAM’S BUILDINGS, E.C.'5 /30 3 93 LONDON : FEINTED BY HORACE COX, WINDSOR HOUSE. BREAM’S BDILDINO.S, /OR ^ ^" WELLCOME INSTITUTE LIBRARY Coll. welMOmec Call No.PEEFACE. Little, if any, originality is claimed for the following recipes, most of which have appeared in the Cookery columns of the Queen during the last eight or nine years, from whence they have been collected at the request of many readers of the Queen, to save reference to back numbers not always wdthin reach. Additional recipes have, how- ever, been given, to bring this little work as much up to date as possible; but all these, like the previous ones, have been carefully tested, and are all (as I know from practical experience) well within the capacity of any ordinary “ good plain cook,” gifted with fair intelligence and a little goodwill. I desire also to take this opportunity of acknow- ledging my indebtedness to the various authors of standard foreign cookery books, and also to offer my grateful thanks to Mrs. A. B. Marshall, and several other well-known chefs, whose kindness has so materially helped and rendered possible my work in these last years. S, Beaty-Pownall. June, 1902.Ad vertisements. 1, ■ SPRIMCS ., ■ OCUGHTS J jl,imcox^nshire: jparm rrodxjce. WHITE CLOVER HONEY. Speciallj^ selected from the best Apiaries, and de- clared by connoisseurs to be the finest English Honey ever introduced to the pubhc. Each jar bears over the cap a Red Guarantee Label with the words, “ Guaranteed Pure English Honey,” without which, and the registered picture label, none is genuine. Sold in lib. and 21b. Glass Jars at Is. or 2s. by the usual dealers, or a Is. Jar will be sent direct from the factory for stamps. Is. 3d. CHEESECAKE CURDin Jars, Is. and 2s. ORANGE BUTTER, in Jars, 6Jd. and Is. Free Samples of the Cheesecake Curd and Orange Butter sent on giving your own and Grocer's name and address, or jar of each DELIGHT mailed free for P.O. 3s. 6d. Sole Makers and Proprietors: SPRING & CO., Ltd., Brigg, Lincolnshire.LIST OF PREVIOUS PARTS. No. 1. Soups. 2. Ices. ., 3. Pickles and Preserves. ,. 4. Entrees. .. 5. Meat and Game. .. 6. Sweets (Part 1). „ 7. ,, (Part 2). „ 8. Breakfast and Lunch Dishes. .. 9. Salads, Sandwiches, and Savouries. ,. 10. Vegetables. These tvill he followed by : Fish. Cakes and Biscuits. Household Hints.A dvertisements. By Appointment to the KING and the Prince of Wales. «» D. S. F. MUSTARD. See that Colman’s name is on the Tin. CORN FLOUR. For Blanc Manges, Custards, &c. Self-Risinff Flour. For Bread, Pastry, Cakes, Puddings. Scones, &c. io8, CANNON STREET, LONDON, and CARROW WORKS NORWICH.VEGETABLES. La mode est une roue qui tourne, says the French proverb, and in no department of kitchen work is this proverb truer than in the matter of vegetables. Time was when potherbs, “sallets,” and green stuffs (jf many kinds formed a very noticeable portion of our national fai’e, as a little study of the cookery books of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries testify; and it may be cpiestioned if even the best instructed of our modern cordons bleux might not be puzzled if asked to send up a dish of hops or a tansy. Curiously enough, with the Hanoverian dynasty the popularity of vegetables appears to have gradually diminished, until in the first half of the nineteenth century the list in general use had shrunk to the narrowest limits, in all save the richest and most recherche households ; whilst the idea of cooking a vegetable, save by plain boiling, never seemed to occur to the ordinary British mind, either upstairs or down. Now, like our meat, British vegetables are well in the front rank until they enter the kitchen, after that—well, there the trouble Bo VEGETABLES. begins. If only the poor things were properly boiled even, at any rate if monotonous their flavour and crispness would be discernible. But in nine cases out of ten they are over-steeped, over-boiled, and lastly im- properly and insufficiently drained, with the results only too unpleasantly familiar to most of us. In cooking vegetables of all kinds certain points demand attention (which too frequently they do not receive), and the first of these is cleanliness. All root vegetables, such as potatoes, carrots, etc., require to be well scrubbed and then thoroughly rinsed in fresh clean water, before being peeled, or otherwise prepared for the pot. All vegetables which may contain insects, such as cauli- flowers, cabbages, etc., should be thoroughly soaked in well salted water, and then well rinsed. Seakale, salsify, and celery need special attention in washing to get rid of sand and gravel between the stalks, in consequence of the way they are earthed up. When thoroughly cleansed by washing, etc., remove all withered and discoloured leaves, and any trace of decay or discolouration. Potatoes unless new (when they only require to be well scrubbed with a coarse cloth) should be peeled very thinly. Turnips, on the contrary, should be thickly peeled, as their rind is hard and wooden. Carrots, unless very old, merely require scraping; the same rule applies to salsify, whilst scorzanera, like beetroot, should not be peeled till cooked. All root vegetables peeled or scraped before cooking should be thrown into cold water till wanted, and in the case of white vegetables, such as artichokes, celery, cardoons, salsify, etc., this cold water should be noticeably saltedVEGETABLES. and acidulated with lemon juice or vinegar to preserve the colour. Unless specially directed to the contrary, put all vegetables on in salted boiling water ; boil root vegetables in a covered pan, and green vegetables of all kinds, whether foliage, stalks, seeds, or pods, in an uncovered pan. Many cooks advise tlie addition of a little soda to the boiling water, whilst others actually put in a copper penny to ensure the vivid colour of all green vegetables, but this is neither whole- some, nor necessary. If young vegetables are chosen (and even on economic grounds no other should be used), and if an untinned, uncovered pan (from which the steam can easily escape) be chosen, and plenty of boiling water be allowed, there will be no difficulty about the colour. To salt the water one or two full tablespoonfuls or a ^oz. to loz. of salt to each gallon of water, is the right allowance, to which may be added, for green vegetables, one-third this amount of sugar, to enhance the flavour. Peas especially are improved l)v this addition. The more water used in boiling V O cabbages, greens, etc., the less offensive will be the odour given out by them. A piece of bread tied up in a muslin bag and boiled with the cabbage is said to be a remedy against the smell, but this cannot be relied on. After about fifteen minutes boiling this crust should be removed and burnt at once. Unless the water in which the cabbage was boiled is wanted for vegetable stock (remember it forms a basis for two or three French soups, notably sowpe aux choux au, /romagre), it should be poured away at once, whilst still hot. Many cooks advise its being poured off into earth, as they declare if poured down the drain or B 2VEGETABLES. 4 sink pipe, no subsequent rinsing will remove the smell this, however, is a mistake, as, if poured down the sink directly it is strained off the cabbage, whilst still boiling hot, it will cause no inconvenience ; though to make doubly sure a jugful of hot water may be poureil after it. All vegetables that may have a bitter flavour, sucli as turnip-tops, greens, etc., should be either blanched {i.e. put on in cold water which is brought thoroughly to the boil, then poured off, the vegetables being at once re-covered with absolutely boiling water), or when half-boiled the water may be poured off and replaced in the same way. This methed of cooking applies most especially to such things as turnip-tops, endive, dandelion, or cabbage, which are occasionally most unpleasantly acrid. But, if the bull may be forgiven, boiled vegetables are best when not boiled at all, but simply steamed. It is easy enough to do this, especially if the very useful little “ Eapid ” steamer, procurable for a few pence at most good ironmongers, be amongst the kitchen utensils. For steaming, salt the water as usual, and add to it a good bouquet of herbs (parsley, green onions, bay leaf, etc.), then lay the vegetables carefully trimmed, washed and dried, on the little steamer, and steam them steadily till cooked, when they are lifted out, well drained, and served on a very hot vegetable dish. Treated in this way, the commonest “ greens ” will be a revelation to most people. A point to remember is that age and condition affect the time of cooking very mueh. A stale, half withered vegetable takes twdce as long to dress properly, even granting it can be brought back to decent condition.VEGETABLES. If you must use such things, however, mind, after well washing and rinsing them, to let them stand for some time in cold spring water to freshen them. If you are i;sing canned vegetables of any kind, turn them, directly the tin is opened, into a sieve or colander and let the water from the tap run on to them for some time, to remove all trace of the “ tin ” flavour such vegetables almost always acquire. Root vegetables, such as carrots, parsnips, beetroots and potatoes, should be stored in layers of sand (having the latter thick enough to prevent their touching each other in any way) just as they are lifted from the ground. Onions for storing should be hung up in a cool, dry room. Old housewives used to plait the stalks together into ropes, and these were hung from a nail in the kitchen. Formerly in London the onion seller with his long, neatly plaited “ ropes ” of silvery onions, was a common and welcome sight to thrifty house- wives. A point on which to be very particular in winter, is the danger of vegetables being frost bitten, for then they are difficult, and sometimes impossible, to use satisfactorily. If, however, the misfortune has occurred, try the following method: Prepare the vegetables for cooking—cleaning, peeling them, etc.— then lay them in enough cold salted water to cover them very completely (this is important), and leave them thus all night in a warm place. Of vegetable garnishes there are many, but these will be given later with the vegetables required, such recipes being, for convenience sake, given alphabeti- cally. The two principal garnishes are the mao doine^VEGETABLES. 6 either hot or cold, and the jardiniere. For the hot macedoine, take equal quantities of carrots and turnips cut into balls or olives with a scoop, French beans cut into lozenges, peas, fresh flageolets, and asparagus points or sprue cut to the size of peas ; cook these all separately in salted water, adding to this a little sugar in the case of carrots, turnips, and peas. When ready (mind they are not over done), drain well, mix them and serve; or else toss them in a very little melted butter or appropriate sauce, according to what they are to accompany. Or, cut some carrots, potatoes and turnips to match some small pickling or silver onions (having equal parts of each), boil these separately, and, when cooked and drained, toss them all together in a saucepan with a good pat of butter, till glazed, and keep hot till Avanted. These macedoines may be served mixed, or each kind in a separate little heap, as preferred. It is not necessary to have all, or indeed any, of the vegetables given above, for you may use any sorts you think most suitable, only bearing in mind that for a macedoine there must be at least three kinds. If to be served cold cook the A^egetables as above plainly, and leave them, when thoroughly drained, till cold, when they are mixed together with either an oil or vinegar dressing or mayonnaise sauce. A little fresh liquid aspic may be added in this case, so that they will dish rockily. The difference between a jardiniere and a macedoine garnish lies chiefly (generally) in the way the vegetables are cut, and indeed the names are interchangeable Avith most chefs, though a jardiniere is always a hot garnish, Avhereas, as said above, the macedoine may be served hot or cold.I VEGETABLES. It may perhaps save time and trouble to give here a table of the approximate times of cooking vegetables. Artichokes (globe).—From thirty minutes upwards, according to age. Artichokes (Jerusalem). — Thirty to thirty-five minutes. Artichokes (Japanese).—Like the Jerusalem arti- choke. Asparagus.—Twenty minutes in the usual way; thirty to forty minutes by Sir H. Thompson’s method. Beans (broad).—Fifteen to thirty-five minutes, according to age. Beans (French).—Fifteen to twenty minutes. Beetroot.—One and a half to two hours, either to bake or boil. Brussels sprouts.—Ten to fifteen minutes. Cabbage.—Fifteen to twenty minutes. Carrots.—Old, one hour ; young, twenty to thirty minutes. Cauliflower.—Fifteen to twenty minutes. Celery.—Stewed, two to three hours ; baked, three to four hours. Marrow (vegetable). — Ten to twenty minutes, according to size and age. Potatoes.—Old, twenty-five to thirty minutes ; new, fifteen minutes. Peas (green).—Ten to twenty minutes. Salsify.—Thirty to thirty-five minutes. Over- cooking hardens it. Seakale.—Twenty to thirty minutes. Like salsify this toughens if overboiled. Spinach.—Ten to twenty minutes.8 VEGETABLES. These are naturally only for the ordinary boiled vegetables. For more uncommon kinds and dishes. o the proper time will be indicated in the recipes. All green vegetables should be gathered before sunrise or after sunset, as if gathered with the sun on them tliey go stale very soon, and lose their fresh, crisp flavour. Also remember that any cold vegetables make delicious toasts if minced, stirred till hot with butter, cream, or stock, piled on hot buttered toast, well dusted with grated cheese and set in the oven for a minute or two till the cheese is browned. Artichokes (Artichauts).—Of these there are three kinds, the Globe, the Jerusalem or sunflower {gira- sole), and the latest addition, the Japanese artichoke, or Stachys tuberifera, introduced and first grown in this country, I believe, by Sir Henry Thompson. The Globe artichoke, which is, in reality, a kind of thistle, may be cooked in a number of ways. To boil it plainly (as it is most usually seen in this country), the artichoke must first be well soaked in salt and water to remove all insects ; then cut off the stalk close under the head, take off the hard leaves just at. the bottom of the globe, and trim off the sharp tops of the rest. Now place the artichoke, head downwards, into fast-boiling water, salted as for other vegetables (use plenty of water, as this removes all chance of the bitter flavour sometimes noticed in these vegetables), adding to this the juice of a lemon, or a little white vinegar, and boil it till the leaves will come off easily if lightly pulled. If the artichokes are }'Oung (and they are only fit for boiling when they are young), this will take about half an hour. Drain off every9 VEGETABLES. 0 particle of water, place a trebly folded napkin on a hot dish, set the artichokes on this, and serve very hot, with sauce handed separately in a boat. A large variety of sauces may be served with them, beginning with ordinary melted butter.—Sauce blanche : Melt 2oz. of delicate white roux, season to taste with salt and white pepper, moisten it with about half a pint of boiling water, or milk, as you like, and stir it over the fire until it boils and thickens ; then lift it off the fire and strain to it the yolk of an egg previously beaten up with the juice of a lemon, stir it and serve. Oiled butter : Boil ^Ib. of butter very gently at the side of the stove for twenty to thirty minutes, being careful not to let it catch and so discolour ; when perfectly clear, and looking like good salad oil, pour it off very carefully—not to disturb the sediment— into a previously scalded sauce-boat, adding a little white pepper and lemon juice if liked (mind it is well skimmed whilst boiling. This is really “ clarified butter,” and is used by first-class chefs for frying croutons, cutlets, &c.), bechamel, and many other recondite sauces. It is well to remember that for boiling, green artichokes are preferable to those tinged with purple, whilst those growing in a round, tight ball do not need their leaves to be trimmed. A French method of cooking artichokes, well worth the trouble, is the following, given by M. Urbain- Dubois : Trim the vegetable as before, then quarter it, scoop out the “ choke ” {i.e., the undeveloped flower), rub the inside well with lemon juice, and three parts boil in acidulated salted water; then drain well, place in a buttered stewpan, season with salt andVEGETABLES. 10 white pepper, put little morsels of butter over them, and stew gently over a slow fire till cooked, when they may be served with a maitre d'hotel sauce (to half a pint of rich bechamel or good brown sauce—if you wish it brown—add the strained juice of a lemon, a dust of cayenne, a teaspoonful of minced parsley, and, worked in at the last, l^oz. to 2oz. of butter broken up small, working one piece well in before adding the next), or any other sauce to your taste. Artichokes cooked thus are excellent cold en vinaigrette (i.e., three parts best olive oil to one part tarragon vinegar, seasoned to taste with salt and pepper, and beaten up with a fork till perfectly blended. To this some cooks add a little French or English mustard, but this is a matter of taste; beat up the salt first wdth the vinegar, or it will not dissolve, and the sauce will be unpleasantly gritty, an objection often made against this sauce); artichokes en salade are also delicious and easy to prepare. Trim as before, then quarter them and remove the choke, dropping each piece as finished into cold water, to which you have added the juice of a lemon or a tablespoonful of best white vinegar, as this preserves the colour. Leave them in this water for a little; when wanted, slice them and serve with a vinaigrette sauce, plain or with prawns, olives, filletted anchovies, plovers’ eggs, &c., as you please. Artichokes treated thus, or indeed plain cooked artichokes left till cold and sliced, make excel- lent fritters, if seasoned with pepper, salt, oil, and vinegar, and as Artichauts en beignets are a favourite dish abroad. Stuffed artichokes go by many names, according to their stuffing mostly. The method ofVEGETABLES. 11 preparation is this : Trim the artichokes as before, and boil for twenty minutes in salted and acidulated water ; the stamens and small inner leaves should now lift out easily, then with a silver spoon remove the choke, fill the cavity thus left with any farce to taste, introducing a little also between the leaves, and tie each up closely to keep in the stuffing, place them close together on a baking tin, pour sufficient olive oil over them to insure each being properly moistened, and bake for about half an hour, then remove the strings and serve. If you make a d'uxelles (equal quantities of onion and shallots, minced, with double the quantity of raw minced mushrooms, seasoned with pepper and salt and some finely minced parsley, all fried together in butter), add to this a little bacon minced (say a small slice for each artichoke), and use for the farce, the artichokes will be a la barigoule ; if you mince some washed and boned anchovies with a shallot or two (according to quantity), and a very little powdered thyme, pepper, and salt, a few freshly made breadcrumbs, and a few drops of oil to moisten it all, and use this as the stuffing, they become d VItalienne ; if you mince three well cleansed large fresh mushrooms, and mix it with a slice or so of ham also minced, half a small onion fried and minced, |oz. grated cheese, a full teaspoonful of mixed and finely minced herbs, with the crumb of a French roll previously soaked in milk or stock, and a tiny dust of grated nutmeg, and use this for the farce, they become A. a la Parmesane ; in short any dainty forcemeat can be used in this way and served as A. far CIS.VEGETABLES. 12 Artichoke bottoms are perhaps more generally used than the Avhole vegetable, probably because they are so easily canned, and they produce many vegetable entremets. Where artichokes are home grown, it may be useful for the cook to know how to preserve them, in itself no difficult matter. Boil the artichokes in plenty of fast-boiling, salted, and acidulated water till the leaves will lift out easily. Then drain them well, remove all the leaves, and carefully scoop out the choke with a silver spoon ; trim and drain the bottoms well, strain them dry, and set them on a baking tin in the oven till firm. Store in an air- tight box, and to serve them, re-heat in any sauce to taste, and serve when thoroughly hot. To cook artichoke bottoms from the fresh plant, cut off the top leaves, trim the under ones, and boil them in slightly salted water till they peel easily; now skin, re-trim, and cook them in salted acidulated water with a little butter and flour (this keeps the colour good) and leave them till cold in this liquor. Artichoke bottoms are cooked in many ways. For instance—Fried artichoke bottoms: For these parboil fresh ones, or re-heat the well-washed canned ones in boiling acidulated water till thoroughly hot, then either dip them in batter or in beaten egg and breadcrumbs, and fry a golden brown in plenty of hot fat. Fonds d'artichauts meringues: Prepare a rich puree of mushrooms, with ^Ib, of mushrooms, re-heat some nice artichoke bottoms, put a good spoonful of the purcb into each, piling it well up, then cover it with a meringue au Parmesan (stiffly whipped egg whites seasoned with salt, corallineVEGETABLES. 13 pepper, and grated Parmesan cheese), with a bag and pipe, in a spiral, snail shell fashion, set it on a buttered baking tin in the oven till the mt'ringue is well coloured, then sprinkle with minced parsley and coralline pepper, and serve at once. Fonds d'artichauts d la Morny.—Take some freshly cooked (or heated canned) artichoke bottoms, allowing one for each person, and set each on a crisply fried and well-drained round crouton, pour the Morny sauce over them, with the melted cheese over, brown it lightly with the salamander, and serve very hot dusted with minced parsley and coralline pepper. The sauce is really in two parts; the sauce, made by stirring half a pint of rich veloute over the fire with 2oz. grated Parmesan cheese, and a good dust of coralline pepper, till it boils, then tammy or sieve and use. The cheese mixture : For this slice thinly 3oz. of Gruyere, and stir these over the fire with two table- spoonfuls of thick cream and a dust of coralline pepper, and use as soon as the cheese is completely melted. A simpler form of this sauce is made by using 2oz. of Parmesan and the same of Gruyere to the full half pint of veloute, stirring in at the last half a gill of cream and a dust of coralline pepper. This need not necessarily be browned. Fonds d'artichauts aux asperges u la Cannes.— This is a very dainty vegetable entremet, and is given as a specimen of what may be done with veget- ables only. Prepare a sauce thus: Dissolve loz. of Lemco in a gill of good clear stock (if strictly vegetable ingredients are to be used, vegetable glaze and strong vegetable stock must be used), and bring14 VEGETABLES. it to the boil with a wineglassful of sherry, a dust of coralline pepper, and a thickening of |oz. of arrowroot rubbed smooth in two tablespoonfuls of mushroom essence or liquor, stir it all till it boils, then stir into it some cooked asparagus points cut in inch lengths, and some sliced truffles, and keep them hot till wanted (asparagus left over from the previous day may be utilised thus). Meanwhile heat some cooked arti- choke bottoms in the oven in a lightly buttered tin with a wineglassful of sherry, till the latter is all but absorbed; have ready some sliced tomatoes half an inch thick, previously baked in a buttered tin (with a seasoning of pepper and minced parsley), covered with a buttered paper for twelve or fifteen minutes ; then place an artichoke on each slice of tomato, fill up the centre with the asparagus and truffle ragout and serve. Cooked artichoke bottoms left till cold, then seasoned with oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper, are constantly used filled with vegetables and other ragouts, or small mayonnaises or salades a la mignonne. Artichokes, Jerusalem (Topinambours).—These are really a sort of sunflower, and derive their name from the well-known sunflower habit of turning to the sun. They were introduced originally by the Spaniards from South America, and their French name is a corruption of that of the native tribe from which they were originally derived. To boil them, wash and peel them, trimming them as much to a size as possible. Some cooks cut them into cones, or halls, but this is a wasteful process, and it is best to choose the vegetables as much of a size as possible. Each must be dropped as trimmed into acidulated saltVEGETABLES. 15 and water, or they will blacken. The method of cooking depends on their age. If young, put them on in boiling salted water (two tablespoonfuls of salt to the gallon of water); in the middle of the season put them on in warm salted water; and when they are old let the water be cold. They take about twenty minutes boiling from the time the water boils up after they are put in, and should, when cooked, be quite tender. Drain them and serve with white sauce over them. If liked they can be lifted out when three parts cooked, and finished off in rich brown stock or gravy, when they are known as Topinambours au jus. Or lift them out when a little more than half cooked, drain them and bake on a buttered tin, serving them with oiled or plain melted butter, or either a vinaigrette, or any sauce to taste. These are known as topinambours au four. Or again, when three parts cooked, put them into a pan with a nice white sauce, to which you have added one or more tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese, salt, and a dust of coralline pepper, and let them simmer gently till cooked, when they are served as T. au Parmesan. If half a gill of cream be added to the sauce instead of the cheese, and they are finished as before, they are known as T. d la cr<‘me. Or if when parboiled, they are finished in a pan with a small pat of butter and enough tomato sauce to cover them well, they are, when cooked, served as T. aux tomates. If, when cooked as before, they are sliced into a well-buttered silver or fireproof dish, strewn with lightly baked breadcrumbs, grated cheese, pepper, salt, minced parsley, and a squeeze of lemon juice, a few morsels of butter scattered overVEGETABLES. 16 the top, and baked for ten to fifteen minutes, they are served as T. au gratin, a name also applied to the following : Have ready a puree of artichoke, dilute it slightly with veloute or white sauce, season it with freshly ground black pepper and salt, and turn it into a well-buttered fireproof dish, dust it with freshly- grated cheese (a spoonful or so may be mixed with the puree if liked), and bake till the top is nicely coloured. Jerusalem Artichoke Mould {Crime de topinambours). —Make a puree with 21b. of artichokes, by rubbing them when cooked through a sieve, and when sieved stir into it a custard made with half a pint of new milk and the yolks of four eggs, whisk it all well together, then add the white of one egg, pepper and salt; turn it all into a buttered mould, and steam it for an hour. Turn it out, and serve with either tomato, maitre d’hotel, or veloute sauce, or the simpler sauce given for Artichokes a la Morny. If preferred, the mould, when cold, may be set on ice, and when icy cold, turned out and served with iced savoury cream or iced mayonnaise sauce. Most vegetables can be treated in this way successfully, especially black salsify or scorzanera, if a few drops of essence of anchovy be added to the diluting sauce. Mashed {Puree de topinambours).—Wash, peel, and boil the vegetable in salted milk or water, or half and half, till tender, then drain and rub them through a sieve; squeeze all the water from them, put the puree into a clean pan, with a small piece of butter, a spoonful of cream, white pepper, salt if necessary, and a tiny grate of nutmeg if liked, stir17 VEGETABLES. it all over the fire till fairly dry and quite hot, and serve. Jerusalem Artichoke Chips.—Peel and slice some rather large artichokes, dropping them as you do so into salted and acidulated water to preserve the colour, then, when wanted, lift them out with a slice, drain and lay them on a clean cloth, dry well, put a few at a time into the frying basket, and fry like potato chips. Drain well, and serve dusted with a little salt and coralline pepper. Fritters.—Slice some parboiled artichokes, quarter of an inch thick, flour these lightly, egg and breadcrumb them, and fry a golden brown in plenty of hot fat. Or they may be cut into fingers, dipped in frying batter, and fried as before. Artichoke, Japanese {Stachys Japonais). — This may be treated in the same way as the ordinary Jerusalem artichoke, though it is a trifle more delicate in flavour. Do not use strongly flavoured sauces with it, or the special aroma will be lost. It is delicious served cold with plain cream. Or when cold it may be sliced and served with either a French or a mayon- naise dressing. ' Asparagus {Asperges).—These should be carefully picked over, the stalks well scraped with the back of a knife, and made into small bundles, keeping the heads very even ; then with a sharp knife cut the stalks also even, and tie the bundles up with a tape. There are two methods of cooking them, the old and the new. The former is to lay them longways into fast boiling salted water (allow ^ oz. salt to half a gallon of water), with a lump of sugar, and boil cVEGETABLES. 18 sharply, uncovered, for ten to twenty minutes; then lift them out very carefully, drain well, remove the tape, and serve on a trebly folded napkin with any sauce to taste. The great objection to this method is that half the time the stalks are not cooked, whilst the heads are overdone, and usually floating loose on the water. The new method is that advised by Sir H. Thompson in his valuable little book, on “ Food and Feeding.” For this you require properly a small frame made for the purpose, but, failing this, cut the stalks very even, and tie them up in a bundle large enough to keep steady, then place them upright in a deep pan, with boiling water to within two inches of the tops. In this way the heads will only be steamed and will be just cooked right, though kept on the fire for thirty to forty minutes, which time will render the major part of the stalk tender and eatable, instead of, as usually happens, tough and stringy from insufficient cooking. Having cooked the aspara- gus, lift it out and dish as above on a delicately white and triply folded napkin The old-fashioned custom of dishing this (and other vegetables) on a slice of toast is a relic of barbarism, dating from the days when cooks were careless about draining their veget- ables. Never serve the sauce in the dish with the asparagus, but always in a separate boat. Some gourmets aver that to eat asparagus in perfection it should be served if hot with a cold (if not actually iced) sauce, or if cold with a hot sauce. The favourite sauces for this vegetable, if served hot, are white sauce (see Sauce blanche), Sauce mousseuse (season half a gill of boiling water with nutmeg, pepper, and salt, stir inVEGETABLES. 19 the yolks of two eggs, and whisk this all well together at the side of the stove without letting it boil; then work in bit by bit 4oz. of butter broken up small, whisking it all till it looks like cream ; now add a squeeze of lemon juice and serve in a hot tureen ; this sauce is equally good with artichoke bottoms, cold slaw, &c.), oiled butter {beurre fondu), Hollandaise; or Sauce mousseline (for this put half a gill of cream, four egg yolks, a pinch of salt, a grate of nutmeg, and three crushed peppercorns into a pan, and stand this in the bain marie, or in another larger pan, half filled with boiling water, and whisk it all together with a whisk, adding loz. of butter (cut up into very small pieces) gradually, not adding one piece till the previous one is perfectly amalgamated, and whisking it all the time ; when the sauce looks like a rich frothy cream it is ready, and for company purposes should be tammied, and just before serving should be finished ■off with a few drops of lemon juice); for cold asparagus use plain iced cream seasoned with a little white pepper, mayonnaise, or tomato cream, &c. The water in which the asparagus was cooked as always best as .a foundation for the sauces used with it, but always be careful to keep the sauce delicate, or the natural ^flavour of the asparagus will be lost. This is not so important when canned asparagus is used. The latter, by the w^ay, should always be served cold, thus : Lift it carefully from the tin, or bottle, on to a colander, and let the water from the tap run on it 'for a minute or two, then set it on ice till wanted. Be careful in lifting it, for the heads break very easily, Asparagus served plain thus is known on menus c 2VEGETABLES. 20 as asperges en branches, sauce, rfc., according to the sauce chosen. Asparagus left over from a previous meal is also delicious if the tender part is cut into inch lengths, two or three pieces being dipped together in good frying batter, and dropped into boiling fat till delicately coloured, then well drained, dusted lightly with coralline pepper, and served as pointes d’asperges en heignets, or asparagus fritters. Or lay the cooked asparagus in a well-buttered and crumb-sprinkled piedish, dusting each row, as it is put in, with white pepper, a little salt, and grated Parmesan cheese, finish off with seasoned white breadcrumbs, a squeeze of lemon juice, and sufficient oiled butter to moisten it all, and bake till hot and lightly coloured; serving it as scalloped A. or A. au gratin. Or cut the green part of the cooked asparagus into pieces the size of peas, and toss these in a pan, with sufficient butter to moisten it, pepper, salt, and a squeeze of lemon juice, over a slow fire till hot, and serve as A. en petits pois. For obvious reasons, unless there is any asparaguf left over, it is better, for this dish, to use asparagus sprue (long slender sprouts which run up after the blanching of the asparagus is over), as these have the right flavour, but are cheaper, as they are useless for decorative purposes. Asparagus sprue treated as above and inserted in the folds of a savoury or cheese omelet, makes a delicious and uncommon dish. Aubergine, Brinjal, or Egg Plant (by all of which names this vegetable is known), is one that is every year more often seen, and deserves far more attention than it has hitherto attained. It certainly offers anVEGETABLES. 21 agpeeable change at a season wlien vegetable changes are hard to discover, and may be cooked in the following ways: A ubergine, baked.—Choose the vegetables as much of a size as possible, wash them and set them on a baking tin in the oven (a moderate one), and bake from one to one and a half hours, turning them now and again whilst cooking. These are excellent with roast meat. They may be roasted also in an American oven in front of the fire, cooking them very slowly, and placing a tiny pat of butter on each as you send it to table. grilled.—Slice the aubergine through in ^in. thick slices, and grill them over a clear fire. When nicely browned on both sides send to table on a hot dish, sprinkled with a little salt, and freshly ground black pepper. stuffed.—Scoop the centre of the fruit out and fill it with any nice mince (such as you would use for stuffed tomatoes), raising it in a dofiie shape and scattering it with browned sifted breadcrumbs, bake for twenty-five to thirty minutes. Or, peel and halve the aubergines, remove the centre, and mince this finely with some chives, parsley, the pulp of a tomato or two (according to the number cooked), minced parsley, the yolk of one or more hard-boiled eggs, some well-washed and boned anchovies minced, a little grated Parmesan cheese, and some crumb of bread scalded either in boiling stock or seasoned boiling water, and squeezed fairly dry. Stuff the aubergine with this mixture, dust with sifted and browned crumbs, sprinkle with oil, set in a baking tin with a little oil and water in it, and bake in the oven.VEGETABLES. 22 Aubergines, stuffed.—Halve four aubergines length- ways, scoop out some of the flesh, and mince this with half its bulk of crumbs soaked in strong stock, and the same amount of minced mushrooms, seasoning it all with salt, pepper, minced parsley, and three or four minced shallots; stir in 2oz. of fat ham or bacon minced, with a teaspoonful of olive oil, and fry it all till par-cooked in l^oz. of butter. Xow stuff the aubergines with this mixture, smooth over with a hot, wet knife, dust wdth breadcrumbs, and bake for twenty-five to thirty minutes. — d la Languedocienne.—Halve the veget- ables lengthways, remove the seeds, and with the point of a sharp knife score the inside across and across in squares or lozenges, being careful not to pierce the skin, sprinkle well with fine salt, freshly ground black pepper, and a grate of nutmeg, and grill over a clear, gentle fire, moistening it now and again with salad oil. fried.—Peel and slice down the aubergines lengthways, scoring the inside as described in the previous recipe, dust them with fine salt, and leave them on a drainer ; when wanted press them well in a clean cloth to extract the bitter juice that flows from them, then fry as they are in hot oil; or, they may be dipped in egg and breadcrumbs and fried in hot fat, or if preferred, dip them into frying batter and fry a golden brown. Drain well, dust with coralline pepper, and serve. scalloped.—Three parts cook some nice aubergines, slice, and with a plain cutter, stamp the slices in rounds the size of an oyster, then marinade23 VEGETABLES. them for five minutes in lemon juice or vinegar. Beat up two egg yolks with a tablespoonful each of cream and new milk, seasoning this well with salt, freshly ground black pepper, a tiny grate of nutmeg, and a few drops of essence of anchovy. Now drain the slices from the acid, lay them in a well-buttered piedish, or china or scallop shells, previously dusted with finely grated breadcrumbs and minced parsley or chives, pour the egg, milk, &c., over them, strew the top with seasoned breadcrumbs, and bake just enough to heat it all thoroughly, and to colour the crumbs. Aubergines d La Turque.—Cut the ends from the egg plant, and remove the centre of the fruit with, a teaspoon, replacing this with a mixture of equal parts of cold cooked rice and minced cooked meat, seasoning with blanched and finely minced onion, freshly ground black pepper, and salt; now fry the fruit with a bouquet (thyme, parsley, bay leaf, &c.) in oil, butter, or clarified dripping, for two or three minutes, then drain it, lay in a stew pan with sufficient thin' tomato sauce to cover it and the bunch of herbs, and stew gently till tender; then remove the herbs and dish the vegetable on a hot dish with the tomato sauce over and round it. As a general principle the aubergine may be cooked by any process adopted for tomatoes, with which, indeed, foreign cooks treat it as interchangeable. Balm {Baume).—This herb was formerly more used than it is in the present day, when its chief use is as a flavouring for claret-cup, and such like drinks. Bananas {Bananes) have of late years become almostVEGETABLES. 24 as common as oranges, and are fast becoming a stand- ing dish in our menus. Their flesh is wonderfully nourishing, and wlien reduced to flour is largely used in the preparation of various cakes, puddings, &c. ■ They are equally good served as vegetables, especially if used when half ripe, or green. The following are some of the ways in wliich they may be utilised fcr this purpose: Bananas, boiled.—Peel and halve six or seven green bananas, and put them in a pan with a breakfastcupfui of milk, a teaspoonful of salt, half that of white pepper, and simmer them gently and steadily for twenty-five to thirty minutes. Make a roux with a tablespoonful of butter and a dessertspoonful of flour, pour the liquid from the bananas on to it, stir all together, and let it just boil up. Place the bananas on a hot dish, and serve with the sauce over them. curried.—Put a teacupful of desiccated eocoanut into a basin and pour half a pint of milk over it, then cover down the basin and let it stand for one hour. Peel and slice six or seven green bananas, and put them into a pan with an ounce of butter in which you have previously fried a good tablespoonful of curry powder, and brown them lightly. Now add to them a teaspoonful of essence of anchovies, a teaspoonful of either Worcester sauce or of Yorkshire Relish, a little salt and cayenne, and last of all the milk in which the eocoanut was steeped. Let it all simmer together for a quarter of an hour, then stir in a well-beaten whole egg, and dish very hot in a wall of nicely boiled rice. fried.—These may be peeled, halvedVEGETABLES. 25 lengthways, and treated exactly as described for fried aubergines. Basil (Basilic).—A favourite seasoning herb on the continent, where it generally is connected with tomatoes, whose flavour it is supposed greatly to enhance. In this country it is chiefly used amongst the herbs added to turtle, mock turtle, and other gelatinous soups. Basil vinegar, (made like tarragon vinegar) is often added to salad dressings. Bay Leaf (Feuille de laurier).—These are much used for flavouring, and generally appear in the bouquet garni. Best used fresh, but if gathered in the summer, tied in bunches, and hung up in a warm dry place in a paper bag to keep off the dust, they are very useful. A very good extract may be made, when leaves are plentiful, by packing them pretty tightly in a bottle and pouring on to them sufficient rectified spirit to cover them well; let this stand ten days, then bottle off and seal. This gives a nice flavour, but must be used carefully, or it may give a slightly resinous taste. Beans.—Of these there are, in this country at least, really only two kinds of fresh beans, the broad bean and the haricot bean, the last being divided into two varieties, the dwarf or French bean, and the scarlet runner. Besides these there are the dried beans, the flageolets, the haricot or Soissons beans, the Lima or butter bean (very good fresh, but seldom or ever seen in that state in this country), and the South American black bean, also known as frijoles. Broad' Beans (Feves de marais).—These must never be cooked when old, as they are then fit for nothingVEGETABLES. 26 but horse feed ; indeed, unless very young, they should always be cooked until the skins crack, then shelled,, and served, after being tossed over the fire with a pat of butter, lemon juice, pepper and salt, and some minced parsley; or worked into a pretty stiff puree. To boil broad beans, put them on in absolutely boiling water, and cook them very gently till the skins crack, which, if fairly young, they will do in twenty to twenty- five minutes; then at once lift them out, drain them remove the skins by rubbing them on a clean cloth, and toss them till quite hot in butter, &c. as described above ; or put them when shelled into good parsley or maitre d’hotel sauce, and cook them gently till ready. There are two points to be remembered in cooking beans—(1) be careful with the salt, for if ton much is put in they burst and spoil, so it is better tn put in too little, as more can be added when re-heating them. (2) Cook beans always very slowly, especially if getting elderly, but remember that once broad beana are really old nothing will soften them, and prolonged cooking only serves to harden them. For a puree, boil the beans in plain salted water (^oz. salt to half a gallon of water is about the right average) till tender enough to rub through a sieve ; then stir them over the fire to a stiff mash, seasoning them with salt, pepper, and minced parsley, and moistening them with butter or thick cream. Beans and Bacon.—Put into a pan a nice piece of back or streaky bacon, with plenty of water to cover it, then boil it for half an hour, when you add in the beans and cook them together till the latter are tender. They can then be drained off and served plainVEGETABLES. 27 on a hot dish, round the piece of bacon ; or the latter can be dished separately, the beans being served in a vegetable dish, finished off by any of the preceding recipes, as you please. Beans, French {Haricots verts).—In this country we all but invariably cook these beans when too old. They should only be just old enough for the bean to be formed in the pod, while the whole is tender enough to need nothing beyond the breaking or snipping off of the tips and the consequent pulling away of the- string that goes round them. This is of course to town dwellers a counsel of perfection; but those pos- sessing gardens wdll soon realise the difference. If, however, necessity obliges the eating of French beans when old enough to require stringing and slicing,, remove the tip with a sharp knife, tearing away the string, and then cutting them through diagonally (Fig. 1) if to serve as a vegetable, or in lozenges (Fig. 2) if to be used for a garnish. When beans, however,. Fig. 1.•28 VEGETABLES. are old enough for this, it is better, where possible, to let them grow till the bean can be shelled from the pod, and then serve them (either fresh or dried) as flageolets. To boil French beans {haricots verts) remove the string, &c., as mentioned before, and put them on in plenty of absolutely boiling lightly salted water, with a teaspoonful of sugar for a good dish, and boil them fast in an uncovered pan for ten minutes if young, but allowing from ten to twenty if old. Drain well and serve plain, or mixed with any saucei such as maitre d’hbtel, bL^hamel, parsley butter, Hollandaise, Soubise, tomato, &c., to taste. It takes about a gill of sauce for each pound or pint of beans. Some cooks, to ensure the colour and crispness of their beans, add a morsel of soda, the size of a small peai to the boiling water, but this effectually prevents the use of the bean liquor for '^soup-making,^ foj* which it is very useful; if the beans are young and fresh the plan given above answ'ers admirably; whilst if by any chance the beans are none of the freshest and brightest to start with, if you cook them nt all, it is best to stew them thus : Butter a stew pan. Jay in the beans, dust them -with salt, and cover them with second stock, let them stew very gently, keeping them well covered with the liquor, and adding ■a, little more as that in the pan evaporates. When tender drain off the beans and keep them hot in a vegetable dish; meanwhile thicken the strained broth in which they were cooked with ^oz. of butter .and the yolk of an egg beaten up with a spoonful ■of milk, and when this is all 'well blended pour it •over the beans and serve. If preferred, beans cookedVEGETABLES. 29' thus may be drained, served with beurr noir, or 7wisette {i.e., fry 2oz. to 4oz. of butter till of a rich brown,, then add to this half a gill of tarragon vinegar, a little pepper, and either minced green tarragon or parsley, as you please). Or again, mince enough fat bacon to make two tablespoonfuls, mix this; with about a teaspoonful of finely minced onion, shallot, or chives, and fry these together till the onioni colours lightly, then lay in the cooked and drained! beans, with a little lemon juice or vinegar to taste,, and toss it all over the fire for a minute or two till it is all thoroughly heated, and serve very hot.'^Thia. is the well known haricots verts au lard. Scarlet runners, when young enough, are cooked exactly like- French beans. Haricots verts panaches. —Boil in the usual way,, separately, about a pint of old shelled French beans {flageolets) and a quarter of a peck of young beans, strung but not sliced. When these are quite cooked, drain them well, toss each lot in butter for a minute- or two till glazed, then mix and serve very hot. French bean salad.—Boil very young beans that only need stringing, drain and dry on a clean cloth. When perfectly cold season them with freshly ground' black pepper and salt, sprinkle them generously with oil, then at the last add a few drops of best tarragon or chili vinegar, and sprinkle lightly with minced green tarragon and chives if liked. Some people dress old beans, when cooked and cold, with black pepper, salt, cream, and lemon juice. Beans, French, to preserve.—Gather the beans- when just at perfection, and not too old, and lay them•30 VEGETABLES. in earthenware crocks, in which a thin layer of salt is’first put, then a layer of beans, then more salt, and so on till the crock is full, being careful to cover well at last with salt; lay a clean cloth over it, and cover down the crock with a clean, dry slate, and store in a cool, dry cellar. Lima {butter beans).—These are, when fresh and young, cooked whole, in plain salted water, then drained and served with a pat of butter, a squeeze of lemon juice, white pepper, and salt. But when dried, soak, say, a breakfast cupful of the beans for two ^o four hours (some cooks soak them all night), then drain well and cook in plenty of boiling salted water till tender, which they should be in an hour. Then turn them out on to a hot vegetable dish with some morsels of butter, toss them together till this is melted, and serve hot. These beans are usually ■chosen for the well-known American dish of baked beans and pork. For this you soak a pint of the beans overnight, and boil them next day for about three- quarters of an hour in a pint of salted water, then lift them out when the skin breaks easily, drain them well, put half into a pipkin (in xVmerica a proper bean-pot is used), lay on this about ^Ib. of salt pork after scoring the rind well, cover it with the rest of the beans, sprinkle with salt and pepper, then pour over them a tablespoonful of molasses and enough salted water to cover them, put the lid on closely, and bake in a slow oven for six to eight hours. The white haricot beans may also be used for this, but then use white sugar instead of the molasses, and bake for nearly double the time.VEGETABLES. ;u Butter beans when boiled and drained are excellent when served with maitre d’hotel butter, or any sauce to taste. Beans, Jlageolets.—These, when dried, should be I blanched for five minutes in boiling salt and water, then drained and thrown into cold water, well rinsed in this, I and again drained off ; now boil them in fresh salted I water till quite tender, when you pour off the water, and toss them for a few minutes with butter, pepper and salt. If properly cooked they ought to be quite I glossy. They can also be served, when cooked, with any sauce to taste. When used fresh, i.e., when too old to serve in the pod, though still green, they are cooked precisely like peas, only omitting the spray of mint. Beans, Haricot, dried {Haricots blancs).—These are I the dried seeds of the haricot bean, sometimes also called the Soissons beans ; they make an excellent vegetable when fresh ones are not easy to procure, and if pro- perly cooked are as nourishing as they are appetising. Well wash lib. of these beans and put them on in a large saucepan full of soft water (beans, like other vegetables, are the better for plenty of water whilst cooking, whilst if hard water be used they toughen in the cooking and never get soft; it must also be remembered that these beans must only be simmered, for if allowed to boil at all hard they will burst and spoil), let this just boil up (not more), then draw the pan to the side of the stove, and only allow them to simmer till they are about half done. They take from two to three hours altogether. You now add a little salt, and ^oz. or so of butter or clarifiedVEGETABLES. dripping, and let them cook again till done, which you can make sure of by pressing one between your finger and thumb, and if tender the beans are ready. Now strain them off and save the liquor, which is a most excellent basis for many kinds of soup (indeed, few English women appear to know that haricot soup made precisely like our national peas soup is a capital variante on that deservedly popular winter puree). The beans are now ready to be served in a variety of ways. Ex. gra. : Brown delicately a minced (medium sized) onion in loz. of clarified dripping, then at once stir in the beans, dusting them with a little sifted flour, stirring and moistening them gradually with one or two spoonfuls of the liquor they were cooked in, then let them cook gently at the side of the fire, in a covered pan, for ten to fifteen minutes, and serve as stewed haricots, or H. a la Lyonnaise. Or, stir the strained beans in a clean pan with ^oz. or so of butter, tossing them in this, and adding a tablespoonful of veloutc sauce, white pepper and salt, and at the last the yolks of one or more eggs,-and serve as H. Monceaux. Or, stir to the strained beans two or three tablespoonfuls of any good gravy, till it is all quite hot, adding at the last |oz, of fresh butter, and serve very hot, as H. au jus. If the beans are served as in the preceding recipe, only using veloutc, bechamel, or melted butter for the gravy, moistening it at the last with a good pat of maitre d’hotel butter, the beans are known as H. a la Francaise, or <)■ la maitre d'hotel. Prepared according to any of these recipes they are excellent as a separate vegetable, whilst, if arranged, when drained, round a wellVEGETABLES. 33 roasted joint of mutton, and generously moistened with the gravy from the meat, they have the heartiest approval of no less an authority than Sir H. Thompson, and it may be added also of most people who try them. Haricot Pudding.—Haricots, like lentils, &c., can he cooked in exactly the same way as the commoner peas pudding, which, however, they excel in delicacy. au lard.—Cut some bacon (or ham) into dice, and toss it in butter for a few minutes, then stir in the drained beans, season with pepper and salt, and serve when very hot. puree.—When the beans are cooked and drained rub them through a hair sieve, moistening it with a little stock, season to taste and use. Beetroot {Betterave).—These are usually boiled thus : Wash the roots well, but be careful not to chip or break them in any way (a knife must on no account be used), or the juice will run, and the beet will be left colourless and flavourless^ When perfectly clean put it on in a panful of boiling, slightly salted water, and cook it for one and a half to two hours, according to size. When cooked the skin is peeled off, and the root sliced, when it may be served hot with either a poulette sauce (veloute sauce, to which at the last are added the yolks of two eggs—for a pint of sauce—and at the very last ^oz. of fresh butter broken up very small, with a drop or two of essence of mush- rooms) or (i la creme, i.e., heat some cold cooked beetroot in a little nice stock or milk ; when hot lay the beet on a hot dish, thicken the stock with a yolk of egg and cream liaison, and serve it over the hot D:u VEGETABLES. vegetable. Or hollandaise sauce may be served with similarly warmed beetroot. Or again, the cold sliced beet may be put into a pan with one or more ounces- of butter (according to quantity), pepper and salt; when this is quite hot stir in one or more egg yolks beaten up with a tablespoonful of lemon juice for each egg, let it all get quite hot and serve. For Beetroot d la Poitevine put a gill of brown sauce into a pan with a little minced onion, and some powdered mixed spice^ when this is quite hot lay in the cooked and sliced beetroot (for this quantity use a small, or half a large root), and when this is hot through put in a teaspoonful of good vinegar, mix gently and serve. Beetroot, baked.—This is by most people considered the best way of cooking beetroot. You prepare it in the same way, then put it in a slack oven and let it bake very slowly for several hours (from four to eight hours) according to size and the slackness of the oven. When cooked, peel and slice as before. It is very nice served hot thus : Toss half a finely minced onion in a little butter till it begins to colour, then lay in the beetroot cut into large dice, with pepper and salt to taste, and two or three table- spoonfuls of good tarragon vinegar ; serve when it is all hot. salad.-—Yor this freshly boiled, but cold beetroot may be used, mixed with either a vinai- grette or a mayonnaise dressing; or else the beet may be prepared thus : Boil a blade of mace, ^oz. of root ginger, and 1 drachm of scraped horseradish^ in enough vinegar to thoroughly cover the sliced beet when laid into it, then lay in the beet and put it35 VEGETABLES. into wide-mouthed bottles, and cover down tightly. This does not keep well, so should be made fresh and fresh. Some cooks add to the above spiced vinegar two cloves of garlic, peeled and pounded with a dust of salt and a tablespoonful of moist sugar, moistening with half a pint of the liquor in which the beet was cooked, and half a pint of best vinegar. It must be remembered that it is not only the root of the beet that is edible ; the leaves when young are excellent treated exactly like spinach, a remark by the way that applies also to young nettles and watercress. Cooked thus the leaves are particularly good if minced, reheated in white sauce, seasoned with salt and pepper, and served on croutons of fried, or toasted and buttered bread. Borage.—This plant is chiefly used for flavouring and decorating claret and other cups, for which both flowers and leaves are used. Broccoli.—These are cooked precisely like cauli- flower. Broccoli Sprouts.—For these see “ Greens.” Brussels Sprouts {Choux de Bruxelles).—Trim the sprouts neatly, wasli them thoroughly, and have them all as much of a size as possible, or they will not cook evenly. When thoroughly washed (be careful about this, for they harbour insects terribly), put them on in plenty of boiling and well salted water, and boil them sharply in an uncovered pan. They must be pressed down occasionally under the water whilst cooking. They take about twelve minutes or so to cook, and must not be overdone, or they are spoilt. Drain them very carefully, so as to get every drop of moisture from n 236 VEGETABLES. them. If properly cooked they should be a delicate green and quite tender. Always choose the smallest sprouts, the large ones are fit for nothing but a puree, in Avhich form, however, they are capital, though seldom seen. Brussels sprouts may be cooked in many ways. For instance, when almost cooked, strain them and dry them gently in a clean cloth, then toss them over the fire with a good piece of butter, pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg to taste, till thoroughly cooked. Or, parboil the sprouts, then lay them in a pan when well drained and dried, with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, and finish cooking in some good strong stock or gravy, serving them as Choux de Bruxelles au jus. Or bechamel or maitre d'hotel or alleviande sauce may be used instead of the gravy, of course varying the name. Or cold sprouts may be lightly fried in butter or clarified dripping, seasoned with pepper and salt, and served piping hot. They need care in the frying, or the colour will be spoilt. Or, lastly, a layer of cold sprouts may be placed in a fireproof dish, covered with a layer of grated cheese, minced parsley, a ver}" little chives or shalot, pepper and salt, then more sprouts, and so on till the dish is full, finishing with the cheese, &c., to which you add a few fine breadcrumbs, and some morsels of butter or clarified dripping, then set it in the oven till it is all hot, and the top nicely browned, and serve as C. de Bruxelles au gratin. Brussels sprouts au lard.—Soak the sprouts in the usual way, choosing the smallest, and trimming them evenly ; then put them on in slightly salted water, and boil for fifteen minutes, when thev must be laid on •/VEGETABLES. a sieve to drain. Cut 6oz. of either ham or bacon into dice and fry these till crisp, but not discoloured ; now- lift out the bacon, lay the sprouts into the pan it was in, sprinkle the sprouts with coralline pepper, and fry them for five minutes in the bacon fat. Now mix the bacon with them, and turn it all out on to a hot dish, strew a spoonful of grated Parmesan cheese over it and serve very hot. Brussels sprouts d la creme.—Soak, trim, and well blanch a pound of sprouts, then drain them well, and put them in a saute or frying pan, with about half a gill of good veloutc sauce, season with salt, pepper, and a grate of nutmeg, pour in a gill of single cream or new milk, and let them simmer very gently for five minutes or so, tossing them pretty constantly over the fire. Serve very hot. Burnet.—A herb formerly much more used than at present, both in salads and sauces. At one time it was an indispensable part of a ravigotte composed of green tarragon, burnet, chives, and chervil, all delicately minced. Cabbage {chou).—Trim off the outer leaves from two summer cabbages, halve them lengthways, and steep them for an hour in acidulated salted water; now put them into just boiling water, and when they have boiled fast for fifteen to twenty minutes, pour off the first water and replace it with fresh boiling and salted water, and cook till done. (Always boil in plenty of water.) Test with a skewer to see if it is cooked, and then place it on a drainer by the fire till all the water is drained oft’, and serve. Cabbages are really better if steamed, though38 VEGETABLES. cooks aver the colour is not so good, but this is chiefly a matter of care. Some people also place the cabbages before serving between two plates, to extract all possible moisture, but the pressure must be even and gentle, or the vegetable will become a “ mash.” It takes half an hour to cook altogether. A tea- spoonful of sugar to every dessertspoonful of salt is a great improvement. If properly cooked soda is absolutely unnecessary. Cabbage cake.—Wash and boil a large cabbage, put it in a colander, and press out all the water with a reversed plate. Butter a piedish, and dust with crumbs, then put in a layer of cabbage, then a layer of any finely-minced cold cooked meat, repeating these layers till the dish is full, when you cover with four or five slices of fat bacon, and set it in a moderate oven. When the bacon is cooked, and the rest heated through (in about forty minutes), turn it out and serve with gravy round it. steamed.—Prepare the cabbage exactly as for boiling, drain it well, dust it lightly with salt, then lay it in, or on, the steamer ; fill the under part quite half full of boiling water, and boil it all sharply over a quick fire for fifteen minutes or so, according to size. dressed.—Cabbage may be served in a variety of ways, besides plainly boiled, with very little trouble. For instance, d la maitre d'hotel : Boil the cabbage whole as above, then when cooked press it lightly but firmly to extract all the water, halve it lengthways, arrange it neatly on a hot dish, season with white pepper, a little salt, and a grateVEGETA.BLES. 39 of nutmeg, sprinkle with a little dissolved butter, and a squeeze of lemon juice, and serve very hot. (Savoys are]especially good cooked thus.) Or prepare the cabbage as above, turn it out in a neat pile, and cut it sharply into squares, finishing as in the previous recipe. Or, a la creme: When cooked turn the cabbage out on a board, shred it finely, and toss it in a pan with h to loz. of butter, pepper, salt, nutmeg, and (if liked) powdered mixed spice, moistening it gradu- ally with cream, allowing it all to simmer very gently till the cream is absorbed, and serve hot. (The cabbage must be rather underboiled at first for this dish). Or, au lard: Boil and shred the cabbage as before; have ready equal quantities of ham or bacon (fat and lean), and onions, cut into dice, and fry these together till the onion is just coloured, and the bacon nearly done, then stir in the shred cabbage, seasoning it with a little pepper, and stir it altogether over the fire till the bacon is quite cooked and the cabbage perfectly hot. Cold cooked cabbage is excellent rechauffe thus. Cabbage, steiced.—Cut the stalk of a good firm cabbage off close, trim and quarter the cabbage, and soak it for an hour or two in cold, salted, and acidulated water; then drain well, and lay the quarters in plenty of fast boiling salted water, and boil uncovered for twenty minutes (more or less according to size); then drain well on a reversed sieve. Meanwhile mince a good slice (from 2 to 3oz.) of fat bacon with a little shallot and some powdered sweet herbs, salt and pepper, and spice to taste ; fry it all till the bacon is melted, then lay in the drained and shred cabbage.40 VEGETABLES. with sufficient stock to cover it all well, bring it to the boil, then draw the pan aside, and only let it simmer gently till the cabbage is cooked. Drain and dish the cabbage, thicken the liquor it was cooked in with a little roux, pour it over and round the cabbage, and serve hot as chou braise au lard. If when cooked and drained as above, you finish it off in any nice sauce to taste, it is known as chou braise b I’espagnole, aux tomates, a la Morny, d la bechamel, drc., according to the sauce chosen. Cabbage, red.—Though seldom seen in this country save as pickled cabbage, this is an excellent vegetable if treated by any of the recipes given above. Or the following German recipes may be tried : C. rouge () Vallemande. Trim, soak, and quarter a good red cabbage, then bring it to the boil in cold salted water, drawing it to the side of the stove directlv it has boiled up, and draining off the water; and let it simmer in sufficient boiling weak or second stock to cover it, with half a gill of good vinegar, till it is tender. Now turn it out, shred it finely, then return it to the pan with its liquor, and a little more stock if needed, season with salt, pepper, a teaspoonful of moist sugar, and |oz. of butter. Mix this all well, and let it boil up, then serve at once very hot. Or, prepare a good red cabbage as above, and when drained put it on with a large pat of butter, and let it stew in this till tender, stirring to it when perfectly cooked a liaison of one or more egg yolks beaten up with a little cream or milk, and serve hot or cold. In Germany good clarified dripping or goose fat is used for this dish. Cardoons (Cardons).—These, if fresh, should be cutVEGETABLES. 41 into convenient pieces, and the prickles at the sides removed; the cardoons are then blanched for fiftee<n minutes in salted acidulated water, after which they are drained, the outer skin removed, by scraping and rubbing, each piece as finished being dropped into cold acidulated water. If tinned cardoons are used, turn them out of the tins on to a colander, let all their liquid drain off, then hold them for a minute or two under the running tap to remove any trace of the tin. To cook either sort, lay the pieces in a pan on some sliced fat bacon, cover with more bacon, and pour in enough unskimmed white stock or milk to cover it, season with salt and white pepper, with a mushroom or two if liked; bring it slowly to the boil, then let it'all simmer very softly till cooked ; now lift it gently on to a hot dish, and serve with the liquor in which it was cooked slightly thickened with a [liaison of egg yolk and lemon juice, as cardans d la poulette. They will take from two to three hours to cook. If you blanch the cardoons as above, stew them gently in rich brown gravy instead of the white stock till tender, then drain them, and keep them) hot whilst you reduce the gravy by rapid boiling almost to a glaze, and pour this sauce over and round them, they are known as C. au jus. When cooked thus cardoons are often served with marrow, as cardans d la moclle. Prepare the marrow in this way: break the bones, and remove the marrow in as large'pieces as you can, blanch them for five minutes in boiling stock, then drain and set them aside till quite cold. When wanted slice them neatly, re-heat them in hot stock in the bain-marie, and serve on the cardoons42 VEGETABLES. or round them in little hollowed cases of fried bread or tiny patties of cheese pastry. Cold cardoons are excellent with either vinaigrette or mayonnaise sauce. Carrots (Carottes).—These are naturally only at their best when young, for then the hard core is not developed, but if, as often happens, it is necessary to cook old carrots, remember that both their flavour and their colour are improved if they are not cut in any way till cooked. Scrape them and cook them, then trim, slice, and otherwise prepare them. Young carrots take from twenty to thirty minutes to cook, according to age and size ; old carrots will take at least an hour’s cooking; whilst large and very old ones, towards the end of their season, may take quite two hours. Carrots need attention, for if overboiled they lose flavour, still they must be cooked till tender. Old carrots when they must be used for an entree, should be cooked whole, then sliced, quartered, or trimmed when tender, and carefully re-heated in sauce or stock to taste. la maitre d'hotel.—Choose your carrots as much of a size as possible, wash and wipe them well, then parboil them for ten minutes in fast boiling water. Now drain them, trim and halve them if necessary, and toss them over the fire with 1 or 2oz. of butter, white pepper, salt, a pinch of caster sugar, some finely minced parsley, and a good squeeze of lemon juice. Let them cook thus for fifteen to twenty minutes, according to size, until tender, then serve very hot. d la menag'ere.—Wash and well rub a bunch of young carrots, and blanch them as before.VEGETABLES. 43 slice them a quarter inch thick, and put them on with loz. of butter, one and a half pints of milk, a good pinch of salt, and a grate of nutmeg. Boil in a partly covered pan over a sharp fire for twenty minutes, keeping them well stirred all the time with a wooden spoon, to avoid all risk of burning. When the milk has well boiled in, serve very hot. Carrots d la flamande.—-Parboil, drain, and well rub an ordinary sized bunch of young carrots, and put them on with loz. of butter, a coffeespoonful of caster sugar, some finely minced parsley, white pepper, and salt to taste, and as much water as will be needed for sauce. Simmer the carrots till tender (fifteen to twenty minutes), shaking them occasion- ally ; then stir in off the fire the yolk of one or two eggs beaten up with two or three spoonfuls of cream or new milk, and serve very hot. Of course old carrots may, if requisite, be cooked by these methods, but in that case cook them till almost done before cutting them, then slice them or otherwise trim them, only using the red part, and throwing aside the hard yellow core. If old carrots are parboiled, the red part being scooped out in olive shapes and finished off by stewing them with a good pat of butter, a coffeespoonful of caster sugar, pepper and salt to taste, Avith sufficient stock to prevent their burning, the pan being shaken all the time they are cooking, they make a delicious garnish for cutlets, fillets of beef, &c., which are then known as la, Nivernaise. . glacees.—Choose very small young carrots, and after blanching and drying them, trim them evenly or shape them into little balls; now put them44 VEGETABLES. on with a lump of loaf sugar and sufficient stock to just cover them ; boil them sharply together till the stock is reduced to a glaze, then add l^oz. fresh butter, and a dust of salt, and toss them in this till the liquor is all absorbed and the carrots are glazed with the butter. Carrot salad.—This may be a very simple or a , very ornate dish as you please, but the method is the same. Slice some cold cooked carrots evenly, and arrange them neatly with capers, minced parsley, and chives, fillets of anchovy, hard-boiled and quar- tered eggs, stoned or farced olives, &c., &c., to taste. If young carrots are used, they should be braized, and mixed with plovers’ eggs, stoned olives farced with savoury anchovy cream, cubes of foie gras, fines herbes, and mayonnaise; plain vinaigrette being used for the common version. souffle.—To half a pint of carrot puree add a dessertspoonful of fine sifted flour, a good pinch of caster sugar, a little salt, and ^oz. of fresh butter; boil till very thick, then work in the well- beaten yolks of six eggs, beating these well in, now mix in lightly the stifHy whipped whites, pour it all into a papered souffle dish, and bake as usual. As a matter of fact, any vegetable when reduced to a puree can be cooked in this way. (Half the above quantities make a nice dish.) mould.—Well wash and scrub two or three large carrots, and boil them for two hours. Now scrape and sieve them, and stir this puree over the fire with loz. of butter or well-clarified dripping, and when this is quite hot and well blended, stir in45 VEGETABLES. a well-beaten whole egg, and season to taste with pepper and salt. Press this all firmly into a well-buttered basin, and bake ten minutes, then turn it out, and use either alone or with veloutcs bechamel, or white sauce over and round it, or as a centre for a dish of cutlets or fillets. If the carrot mixture is pressed into well-buttered dariol moulds, and baked till firm, these moulds make a very nice garnish for roast or stew'ed meat. Carrot puree. — Boil some large w^ell-coloured carrots till quite cooked (this will take quite one to two hours, according to their age and size); then drain and rinse them in cold water; melt loz. of butter, and w'ork into it smoothly a dessertspoonful of fine dry flour, and then the carrot pulp, with a dash of white pepper, and a dust of caster sugar, and stir it altogether over the fire till the puree is quite smooth and of a nice consistency, according to the purpose for which you require it. A little more butter or a spoonful or so of cream is an improvement to this. Cauliflower {choufleur).—Trim these neatly, remov- ing all unnecessary leaves, cut the stalk across to make it stand level, then cut it across and across, without, however, cutting through to the flower. Now place it head down in a basin of acidulated and salted cold water, and let it soak for an hour or tw'o, to remove any insects. To cook it, plunge it again head downwards (this is to keep the flower white) in plenty of boiling salted water, to which you have added a little caster sugar (a teaspoonful to the gallon of water is about right), and let it boil sharply un- covered. Watch it carefully whilst cooking, for if4ti VEGETABLES. overdone it is utterly spoilt. (Never use a tinned pan to cook cauliflowers in.) When cooked drain well, and serve in a hot vegetable dish, either plain or with any sauce to taste (such as bechamel, brown butter, cream, curry, estragon, hollandaise, Morny, tomato, white sauce, &c.), round, but not over it ! {Estragon sauce is plain melted butter or white sauce, to which have been added a spoonful of finely minced fresh tarragon, a drop or two of tarragon vinegar, and a small piece of butter quite at the last.) In France, the sauce, which is usually kept somewhat thick for this purpose, is poured first into the dish, the cauliflower being carefully stood up in the middle of it. When cauliflowers are small or ill-grown, cook them as above, then arrange them head down in a pudding basin of suitable size (previously scalded out with boiling water), arranging the florets neatly, press them gently into shape, tlien lay the dish on top of the basin, reverse the latter quickly, and remove it; the cauliflower should turn out in a compact tidy head. When served thus the sauce sent up with it may be poured over as well as round it, for cauli- flowers needing such treatment are seldom of a good colour. One of the nicest sauces for these cauli- flowers is Allemande, made thus : Take l^oz. of white roux, or stir together over the fire till quite smooth l-|oz. fresh butter and a spoonful of fine flour, then moisten this with half a pint of milk or white stock (or half and half), add a drop or two of essence of mushroom, and stir it over the fire till it thickens and is perfectly smooth; now lift it off the fire, add a tiny pat of butter broken up small, and, when it isVEGETABLES. 47 pretty well dissolved, stir in the yolk of an egg pre- viously beaten up with the strained juice of a lemon,, and use. It must be remembered that broccoli can be served by any recipe given for cauliflower. Cauliflowers lend themselves particularly well! to reheating, though of course a freshly cooked' vegetable may be used. The following are some ways of treating cooked cauliflower :— Cauliflower au four.—Break up the cold cauliflower into little sprays, and arrange them neatly in a well- buttered dish ; beat up together half a gill of dissolved, butter, three-quarters of a gill of new milk or cream, and a teacupful of freshly grated and sieved white- breadcrumbs, season with pepper and salt, add in a well-beaten whole egg, pour this all over the cauli- flower, being careful to have it well covered, and bake till nicely browned. A more savoury version of this is— au gratin.—For this arrange the veget- able (either freshly cooked or left from a previous meal) on a buttered fireproof china dish, pour over it sufficient liquefied butter to moisten it nicely, dust it lightly with freshly ground black pepper and some grated Parmesan cheese; have ready equal parts of freshly grated and sieved white breadcrumbs and grated Parmesan, and strew this liberally over the dish, moistening it well with liquefied butter, repeating this strewing, if necessary, to cover the cauliflower well, and bake till browned. fritters {choufleur d la Villeroi).—Break a not too cooked cauliflower up into tiny sprays, dip these into any rich and very thick white sauce.VEGETABLES. 48 and leave them till this is fairly set on them ; now dip them in frying batter till well coated, and fry a golden brown in plenty of hot fat, then drain well, dust with fine salt and coralline pepper, and serve piled up on a napkin. A variant of this dish (known as choufieur en beignets) consists in marinading the cold and broken-up vegetable for an hour or so in a little tarragon vinegar, with whole peppercorns and cloves, then draining it lightly, dipping it into the batter, and finishing olf as before. For the batter put into a basin 2oz. fine flour, the yolk of an egg, a dessertspoonful of salad oil, and a good half gill of cold water; mix it all till quite smooth, then let it rest for a little. When wanted for use add the well-beaten white of the egg, mixing it in very lightly and quickly, and use. Cauliflower souffle.—Cut up a nice cooked cauliflower into neat sprays, and put a layer of these in a well- buttered souffle dish, covering this again with a layer of sliced raw tomato, and repeat these layers till the cauliflower is used up ; then cover it with a souffle mixture, dust the top with some browned bread- crumbs, and some tiny morsels of butter, and bake in a moderate oven for thirty minutes. For the souffle mixture, stir together over the fire 2oz. butter and l^oz. fine flour, moistening this with the yolks of two small eggs, and a short half pint of milkf season with a dust of coralline pepper and a pinch of salt, and’when it boils stir in 3oz. of grated Parmesan cheese, and at the last the whites of three eggs pre- viously whipped to a stiff froth with a pinch of salt. Cold cooked cauliflower can of course be warmedVEGETABLES. 49 up in any of the sauces given above for fresh cooked vegetables, and is also excellent in salad, either by itself or mixed with other things. It is equally good with a plain vinaigrette sauce or with mayonnaise, tomato mayonnaise being especially good. Celeriac (celSri-rave), also known as turnip-rooted celery, is a vegetable that is only slowly recovering its former popularity. It is a great favourite abroad, in Germany especially. To cook it, peel the roots (which are the parts eaten), either quarter or slice them, and boil in plenty of salted and acidulated boiling water till tender; then drain, and serve with any sauce to taste. In Germany, especially if to be used en salade, a very favourite way, the celeriac is cooked in weak stock instead of water. If parboiled as above, and finished off by stewing in any rich sauce to taste, it is particularly good, as it is also as a puree, when it makes an excellent garnish for cutlets, poultry, duck, &c. Its great advantage is that it is at its best when celery is unprocurable, and can be stored in the autumn like any other root vegetable. Celery {celeri).—Besides being excellent raw, celery makes a particularly good vegetable entremet, as palatable as it is hygienic. It is considered most wholesome for rheumatic persons. For most purposes celery is first cooked thus : Trim the roots, and cut the heads neatly to the same length, say six inches, well wash them, and tie them up in neat bundles with string or tape; now put them in a pan with an onion, a blade of mace, some whole peppers, salt, and enough boiling water to cover them generously; bring this all to the boil, and let it cook for about E50 VEGETABLES. «wenty-five minutes. You then drain it, place it on a hot dish, and serve with good allemande, bechamel, cream, Parmesan (a rich white sauce, made with loz. of butter, a dessertspoonful of flour, half a pint of the liquor in which the celery was cooked, a spoonful of grated Parmesan cheese, and a drop or two of lemon juice; stir over the fire till it is thick, and smooth and use), espagnole, or any sauce to taste, of course varying the name of the dish according to the sauce used. A little lemon juice should always be added to the water in which celery is cooked, as this preserves its colour. Some cooks also consider it best to blanch the celery first by plunging the heads of celery, when trimmed, &c., into fast boiling water, and letting them cook for ten minutes, after which they are carefully drained, wiped, and put on in either brown or white stock, milk, or milk and water to cover them ; this is gently brought to the boil again, then drawm to the side of the stove, and kept at simmering point till the celery is tender, which will take from one and a half to two hours. It can then be drained, and served very hot, with a few drops of lemon squeezed over it, and a small pat of butter on each head, or it can be served with any sauce recommended for asparagus. If the liquor in which the celery was cooked is freed from fat, slightly thickened and served with the vegetable, the dish is known as ederi au jus. When stewed thus, it may be served with marrow precisely as described for cardans au mo'iUe. Any cold celery left over can be served au gratin, or cut into neat pieces, dipped in good batter, and fried a golden51 VEGETABLES. brown in plenty of boiling fat, then drained well, and served hot, dusted with coralline pepper. Cold celery is also excellent if gently re-heated in good curry sauce. If stewed celery when tender is rubbed through a hair sieve, then thickened with a little butter and flourj moistening it with either a spoonful or two of cream or of brown gravy (according to the colour you wish it to be), it makes an extremely nice garnish for poultry, game, &c. Remember that for cooking purposes the outside leaves, if stewed gently, are quite as good as the heart, which should be reserved for use raw as salad. Celery is excellent as a salad with a French or a mayonnaise dressing,, as preferred, either alone, or preferably mixed with other vegetables, such as sliced tomatoes, blanched walnuts, cold sliced (waxy) potatoes, spring onions,. &c. To be eaten in perfection the mayonnaise should be stood on ice till all but frozen, and the dish should be set in another filled with crushed ice. Chervil {cerfeuil).—This pretty little plant is mostljr used for decorative purposes, and for flavouring sauces, &c. It lasts, however, so short a time in it& fresh state that it is best to treat it like parsley, i.e., dry, powder, and bottle it. Chestnuts (marrons).—These are but little used in this country save as stuffing for turkeys, &c., or as marrons glaces, the well-known sweetmeat. Yet they may be prepared in various ways, and make a most excellent vegetable. boiled.—Wash the chestnuts, and cut each across diagonally at the stalk end, tie the nuts loosely in a napkin, and cook them till perfectlyVEGETABLES. SCO tender in boiling salted water; then take them up, remove the skins, turn them on to a napkin on a hot dish, and serve at once with butter, salt, and white pepper, and, if liked, a little claret. Or, remove the outer skin, and blanch them as you do almonds, in boiling water, till you can remove the inner skin Basily, throwing each as done into a basin of salted and acidulated cold water. Now stir together smoothly ^oz. of flour and loz. of fresh butter, moistening this, when blended, with half a pint of rich well- flavoured stock; when this boils up season it with salt and pepper, lay in the chestnuts, let the sauce just reboil, then draw it to the side of the stove, and allow it to simmer steadily till the nuts are perfectly tender but unbroken. These are excellent as an accompaniment to roast meat or poultry. Chestnut pur(k is cooked as above, the nuts being rubbed through the sieve as soon as they are tender, then finished off with a pat of butter, a dust of caster sugar, a grate of nutmeg, and sufficient espagnole or good brown sauce to bring them to the right consistency, if to be used hot. If for use with a chaufroix, allow the puree to get cold, then mix into it lightly and quickly two or three spoonfuls of stiffly-whipped cream. stuffing.—For an average good turkey, cut the tops from 2 to 31b. of chestnuts, and bake them for fifteen minutes ; now peel off the skins, and lay the nuts in a pan with just enough second stock to cover them, bring this to the boil, then draw the pan to the side, and only allow them to simmer till the chestnuts are tender, and have absorbed all the53 VEGETABLES. stock. (Keep them covered with a buttered paper whilst cooking.) Now rub the nuts through a fine wire sieve, mix them with a pat of butter or 6 to 8oz. of fat bacon cut into dice and fried, a pinch of caster sugar, and a dust of coralline pepper, and insert as much as you require into the body of the bird, sending the rest to table in a vegetable dish. Chestnuts with truffles.—Toss 12 to 16oz. of fat bacon (cut into dice, with two minced shallots) over the fire till lightly coloured, then add twenty to thirty cooked chestnuts, also cut into dice, and 4oz. of truffles, previously roughly minced; season to taste with freshly ground black pepper, salt, and a little powdered spice and herbs. Stir this altogether over the fire for a few minutes, then use. Chicory {Chicoree).—See Endive. Chives {Ciboule, ciboulette, or civettes).—These are a small kind of onion, differing, however, from the ordinary sort by the fact that the leaves and not the bulbs are used. They are greatly used for flavour- ing and seasoning, and, properly speaking, should alw'ays form a part of any d’uxelle fourniture or fines herbes garnish. They should, when possible, be used directly they are gathered, as the flavour passes off very quickly, and in consequence they are not often seen in greengrocers’ shops. Their flavour is far more delicate than that of the onion proper, and is almost indispensable for the perfect success of certain dishes, such as civets de lihre, &c., which are said to derive their name from the cives or civettes used in their preparation. Colcannon. — Take equal parts of cold cooked54 VEGETABLES. cabbage, sprouts, or greens of any kinds, and pota- toes, rub them all through a sieve, mixing them well as you do so, work in 1 or 2oz. of butter (or clarified dripping), pepper and salt, and one whole egg. Press this mixture tightly into a well-buttered small pudding basin, and bake from thirty to forty minutes in a hot oven. Serve very hot, alone, or as a garnish for fried boiled salt beef. Corn, Indian {Ma'is).—This vegetable, though very popular—both fresh and dried—abroad, in the United States especially, has only of late years come into favour in this country; though for several years preparations of it have been used under other names freely. Moreover, few people in this country appear to know that the polenta they enjoy served in various ways in Italy, is nothing more nor less than porridge made from Indian cornmeal. This is exceedingly good, and when vegetables are scarce makes a very appetising accompaniment to roast meat. For this purpose prepare a porridge exactly as if using oatmeal, sifting the meal into the boiling salted water, with one hand as you stir it with the other, keeping up the stirring till the polenta is cooked. You will find a small handful of meal to the pint of water ample. If prepared thus it makes by no means despicable porridge if eaten with salt and milk, or sugar or golden syrup. But for other .purposes, add to it whilst cooking a good pat of butter, and sprinkle in grated cheese alternately with the meal, till the mixture is thick. Now turn it out, and leave it till cold, then slice it, and cut the slices into diamonds or squares, fry in boiling fat or oil till lightly coloured,55 VEGETABLES. and serve with mushroom or tomato puree. This polenta makes a very savoury dish if prepared as above, left till cold, then lifted in spoonfuls, these being arranged neatly in a well-buttered piedish, liberally sprinkled with bits of butter, grated cheese, and coralline pepper, and baked till of a pretty golden brown. This is known as Gnocchi alia Napolitana. If preferred, tomato puree or any good sauce or gravy may be used instead of the cheese, &c. If, however, the green corn in the ear be available, the following are some of the ways in which it may be utilised : Corn, Indian, to boil.—Choose short, thick ears, and strip off all but the inner layer of husk, turning this back to remove the “ silk ” from the corn and any bad grains; then fold it back, tie it up at the top, put it in a large pan half full of boiling water, and boil steadily for fifteen to twenty minutes, according to the size of the ear; now remove the strings, and serve very hot, with a boat of melted butter, Holland- aise sauce, or oiled butter, as you please. Or, remove the husks and silk from six young corn cobs, lay them in a pan with sufficient water to cover them, add a gill of milk, |-oz. of butter, and a small handful of salt, and cook for twenty minutes. Serve very hot in a napkin. N.B.—This last is the best way of cooking canned corn. grated.—Boil some corn by the first recipe, then grate off all the grains and heat over the fire with a little salt, white pepper, butter, and a spoonful or so of cream, and serve very hot. fritters.—Remove the grains from some cold boiled corn, mix these with good frying batter.VEGETABLES. drop the mixture by spoonfuls into hot fat, and fry to a golden brown. Drain, and serve dusted with fine’salt and coralline pepper. Corn, Indian, roasted.—Husk and silk the cobs as before, brush them over with butter, season them with salt and pepper, and lay them in a baking tin in front of and close to a clear hot fire; let them toast till they are nicely browned, turning them now and again to ensure their colouring evenly, and serve very hot. and tomatoes.—Peel and cut up small a pound of tomatoes, put them into a pan with butter, salt, and pepper, and let them all simmer gently at the back of the range till they are reduced to two- thirds of their original bulk. Have ready six ears of corn previously husked, silked, and cooked for fifteen minutes in salted water; cut the grains from the cob, stir the former in among the tomatoes, and serve hot. succotash.—Have ready half a breakfast- cupful of grated or canned corn and the same of cooked beans. (If French or string beans are chosen, cook in just enough salted water to cover them ; if Lima or butter beans are used, cook till perfectly tender; whilst if dried beans are preferred, they must be soaked for twenty-four hours and then cooked as usual.) Mix the corn and the beans, season to taste with salt and pepper, add just enough milk to moisten it all, stir in a teaspoonful of flour and a full tablespoonful of butter, let it just boil up well, then serve. If over-cooked the corn toughens. 'pie.—Stir together a tablespoonful each of sifted flour and butter over the fire till perfectlyVEGETABLES. 57 blended (or take an equivalent amount of white roux) and moisten with about a gill of milk or single cream, season to taste with salt and Avhite pepper, then stir in the yolks and whites of two eggs beaten separately, and lastly the grains cut from four or five ears of cold boiled (or canned) Indian corn, and bake twenty minutes in a shallow piedish. Corn, Indian, omelet.—Grate the grains from six boiled cobs, and mix this pulp with three eggs whipped as for an omelet, and finish in the usual way, after seasoning it to taste with salt, pepper, and minced parsley. stewed.—Grate enough uncooked green corn to make a heaping cupful, add one quarter of a cupful of new milk, a dust of flour, pepper and salt to taste, and a teaspoonful of butter.^ Bring it slowly to the boil, lifting it off directly that point is reached, and serve. Cold cooked or canned corn may be served thus, but should be added to the boiling milk, &c., and only just stirred over the fire till perfectly hot, without further cooking. oysters.—Pour off the liquid from a can of Indian corn, and mash the corn finely in a mortar, dredging it, as you pound, with wheat flour. Now mix in two well-beaten eggs, gradually, beating it all thoroughly, and seasoning it with a saltspoonful of salt and a little essence of anchovy. Shape the mixture quenelle fashion, with two small teaspoons, into little oval cakes, one inch thick, and fry a golden brown in plenty of hot fat (half butter, half lard, being considered the best friture). This is an American recipe.58 VEGETABLES. Corn salad {Mdche, or doucette).—This plant, also known as “ lamb’s lettuce,” is most useful by itself in the early spring, when real lettuces are not ready, or it is an excellent addition to almost any other salad, lettuce especially. It requires thorough washing before using. Cucumber {Concombre).—T\i\s, is more generally brought to table raw, as a salad, but it makes a very appetising vegetable entremet if cooked. boiled.—Remove the ends and the peel from a good (but not too large) cucumber, halve it lengthways, remove the seeds, and cut it into neat pieces ; now put it on in plenty of boiling salted water, let it reboil, then simmer gently for five minutes; after which you drain it dry, softly pressing it in a clean cloth to remove superfluous water; now place the pieces in a clean pan with a dust of salt, pepper, and nutmeg, and a short half pint of good gravy, and let them simmer very gently till tender, but not broken. It will take about twenty minutes altogether. These are called C. au jus. If after parboiling them as above, you place them, when drained, into a pan with a good pat of fresh butter, some minced parsley, white pepper, salt, and lemon juice, and let them stew very gently for fifteen or twenty minutes, they are known as C. d la maitre d'hotel. Or, when drained, if finished off in a delicate white sauce, to which at the moment of serving you add an egg yolk beaten up with the juice of a lemon, it becomes C. d la pouletle. fried.—Peel, split, and seed the cucumber, and cut the pieces into neat even shapes, then lay59 VEGETABLES. them separately on a large dish, strew fine salt over them, turn another dish over them, place a 3 or 4lb. weight on this, and leave them to drain for three or four hours. Then pour away all the water that has come from them, dry the pieces carefully in a clean cloth, then shake them in another dry cloth in which you have put a good handful of flour, and toss them gently in this till each piece is neatly and evenly floured; have ready a kettle of hot fat or oil, put the pieces, a few at a time, in the frying basket, and immerse them in the hot fat till they are nicely coloured ; drain them for a minute or two in front of the fire, then pile them up in a hot vegetable dish, and serve. Cucumber au gratin.—Prepare and parboil the cucumber as before, cutting it, however, in long strips lengthways; lay these pieces in a well-buttered fireproof dish, strew it with freshly grated Parmesan cheese, seasoning this with a very little salt, some coralline pepper, and some fresh breadcrumbs, and bake for fifteen minutes till nicely browned. Besides these ways, cucumbers may be cooked in any of the ways suggested for aubergines or vegetable marrows. Dandelion {Dent de lion).—^This very common plant, in addition to many medicinal qualities, is by no means to be despised either as a salad (by itself or in connection with other things) or as a vegetable entremet, and in this country at least possesses the merit of being uncommon in either form. The young leaves are in condition for salad (raw) from the middle of April till about the end ofVEGETABLES. 6U July, though for cooking purposes the leaves may be used later, whilst the roots (which are a very fair substitute for salsify) are in season from the end of June until October. For use as salad the roots and the withered or imperfect leaves should be cut away, the rest being carefully washed in two or three waters to get rid of the sand which clings to them, then blanch, drain, and dry them well, and mix them with a French salad dressing. They also make an excellent salad J la Comtoise, i.e., after washing and drying them, lay them in the bowl, and pour to them 1 or 2oz. of fat bacon—previously cut into dice, and fried for four or five minutes till of a golden colour— then pour a tablespoonful of vinegar for each ounce of bacon into the frying pan, let it just heat up, pour it all over the salad, mixing it all well, and serve. These salades d la Comtoise, made with many sorts of vegetables, are very popular in France. Dandelion, stewed.—Pick the leaves well over, wash them in two waters, and then throw them into cold water to steep for one or two hours; now drain them well, and put them into a pan of boiling salted water, and boil them for twenty to thirty minutes till cooked. They are then lifted out in a strainer, plunged for a minute in cold water, then gently pressed with the hands till all possible moisture is extracted, and chopped fine. Now stir in a pan an ounce of butter or good clarified dripping, with a dessertspoonful of flour, moisten with a full tablespoonful of strong gravy or stock, seasoning it with pepper and salt, and stir it all together till blended, when you lay in the chopped dandelion, and stir it with a wooden61 VEGETABLES. spoon till it is thoroughly mixed and quite hot (this takes from eight to ten minutes), stir in just at the last a spoonful of rich brown sauce or thick cream, as you please, turn it out on a hot dish, and serve garnished with croutons of fried bread or fleurons of cheese pastry. Always use plenty of water in blanching this vegetable, as this obviates the extreme bitterness sometimes noticed in the leaves, especially if overgrown. Dandelion should always be gathered early in the morning, for the sun toughens the leaves. The roots require to be well scraped, and boiled in acidulated salted water till they are firm but thoroughly cooked, when they may be finished off in any of the ways given for celery or salsify. They are specially good as fritters, or au gralin. Egg Plant.—See Aubergine. Endiie (Chicoree or Escarole).—Abroad several kinds of this plant arc used both for salad and cooking, but the kinds best known in this country are the broad-leaved or Batavian endive {escarole), the curled endive {chicoree), and the wild endive, or succory, as it is sometimes called {barhe de capucin). For salad, endive is w'ell picked over and washed, and served by itself or with other salad herbs, with a French salad dressing. Abroad a “ chapon ” {i.e., a thin crust two inches by one inch, dusted with a little fine salt, and then well rubbed on both sides with a peeled clove of garlic till strongly flavoured) is laid in the salad bowl, tossed about with the mixture, and left in or removed before serving, as preferred. This “ chapon ” is in France a popular addition to most salads. If endive is cooked, it is prepared precisely62 VEGETABLES. by the directions given for dandelion, being first blanched, and then finished off in butter with lemon juice, cream, or any rich sauce or gravy, as you please It takes a little longer both to blanch and to cook than dandelion. Fennel (Fcnouil).—An indigenous plant, formerly more used than in the present day. It is nowadays chiefly used for garnishing various kinds of fish, mackerel, salmon, &c., or is minced and served with the melted butter sauce sent to table with these fish. The fennel should be blanched, well dried, and finely minced before it is added to the sauce. Few people seem to know that if mackerel, before broiling, are wrapped in fennel, and thus laid on the grid, the fla vour of the fish is greatly enhanced. Fennel seeds are also used abroad in the preparation of a liqueur known as fi'nouillette. Garlic {Ail).—This is far more popular abroad than it is, or is likely to be, in this country. At the same time, if judiciously used, it often greatly enhances the flavour of many dishes. For instance, a peeled clove of garlic inserted in the knuckle end of a leg of mutton before roasting will give a peculiar taste much appreciated by connoisseurs, though the less cultivated gourmet would probably not realise the origin of the strange aroma. The clove should of course be removed before serving. The best way to use garlic for our taste is either as garlic vinegar or wine. The preparation is the same for both. Put half a dozen peeled cloves into a wide-necked bottle cover generously with either good vinegar or sherry (or Marsala), cork it down closely, shake it now andVEGETABLES. 63 again every day for a week, then pour off the liquid, and keep it in small, closely-stoppered bottles. A drop or two is sufficient of either to flavour a salad, soup, or sauce. It should be remembered that unless a distinctly marked flavour is desired, it is best only to peel the clove, but not to cut it. “ Good King Henry."—This plant, also known as “ English mercury,” is common about farmyards. It is in season in June and July, the leaves are cooked exactly like spinach, and the stalks like asparagus, with any sauce to taste. When cooked and cold they make an excellent salad. Greens.—This name is applied to a very mixed collection of vegetables: broccoli sprouts, green kale, turnip and beetroot tops, dandelion, &c., all coming under this heading. The method is much the same in every case. Pick them well over, trim them neatly, tie them up in even bundles, and boil them sharply in plenty of fast boiling water (this obviates the bitter taste often noticed in them), uncovered till cooked; then turn them on to a sieve, throw a double cloth over them, and leave them in a warm corner by the fire till thoroughly drained. Now lift them out, take off the string, arrange them neatly in a hot vegetable dish, and serve with white sauce or any salad dressing handed separately. If cooked carefully in this way they make a very nice dish, but, strictly speaking, are better if steamed; for this, after washing, picking over, and tieing up as before, lay them in the steamer, adding a good bunch of herbs to the salted water, and let them cook sharply till done. The time of cooking dependsVEGETABLES. 64 somewhat on the age and the kind of greens, but fifteen to twenty minutes is a fair average. Greens are also excellent if cooked in any way advised for spinach, especially au gratin. Herbs.—Of these there are a great variety, far more being in use formerly than are now acknow- ledged. It is a great pity the use of these is neglected, as by them were obtained the flavours we all admire in foreign cookery, and try to reproduce by the lavish use of cruet sauces of various kinds, which, however, never give the same delicate aroma or savour as the natural herbs do. The herbs in most frequent use are basil (excellent in connection with tomatoes in any shape), chervil, chives, cress, fennel, marjoram, mint, sage, savoury, thyme, and tarragon. To these may be added bay leaves and horseradish, though these are scarcely herbs. Of course herbs are best used fresh, but as this is impossible all the year round, the best plan is to pick them when in perfection, and dry them slowly on sheets of white paper, either in the sun or in very gentle heat, and then powder them finely, putting each sort up sepa- rately in wide-mouthed, closely-stoppered bottles, each labelled with the name of the particular herb. This is both a thriftier and cleaner way of saving them than the old-fashioned method of hanging them in bundles from the kitchen ceiling A tea- spoonful of dried herbs equals a dessertspoonful of fresh ones, measured after they are minced. M. Gouffc recommends the preparation of a special herb mixture for use in stuffings, stews, &c., and the .advice of so noted a chef is not to be despised. “ Pound6.5 VEGETABLES. together as fine as possible 3oz. each of dried thyme, bay leaves, and nutmeg (or mace), l^oz. each of dried marjoram, rosemary, and whole black pepper, and ^oz. cayenne pepper. When perfectly fine sift this into closely-stoppered bottles. Mind no stalks are left in.” If to loz. of this seasoning you add 4oz. fine table salt, you get the well-known French Sel e-pice. Whilst on the subject of herbs a word must be said re the bouquet, or “ bunch of herbs,” so frequently mentioned in cookery books. A bouquet consists of a spray of thyme, a bay leaf, and five or six fair-sized sprays of parsley, all tied tightly together. There is also a more elaborate bouquet known as B. garni (though this name is also given to the previous one). For this lay a small handful of parsley on the table, on this lay the thyme and bay leaf, with one or two small green onions, a strip of lemon peel, a tiny blade of mace, one or two cloves, and, if liked, a small strip of celery; now fold the parsley well all over this in a little torpedo-shaped bundle, tieing the ends tightly so that its contents cannot escape, and leaving a bit of string by which to lift it out at the last. This is quite worth the trouble, as it can be dropped in and lifted out so easily, and avoids all chance of bits of the herbs being left in the dish at the last. Hops (Houhlons).—The tops or tender young shoots of these were formerly much used as a vegetable, being generally cooked like asparagus, i.e., tied up into neat bundles, boiled for twenty minutes in water, to which a little stock had been added, and served with any sauce to taste. Though not purchasable in shops, hops are easily procured in the hop country. F06 VEGETABLES. where these young shoots are trimmed off and thrf)wn away. The shoots should be used before the lieads are fully developed. Cold cooked hops make a deli- cious salad if left on ice, and then served with'a French or mayonnaise dressing. Hops, fried. — Scrape the shoots a little, well wash, and three-parts boil them in acidulated salted water, then drain, sprinkle with salt, and leave till perfectly cold. Then flour them, dip in beaten egg and fresh breadcrumbs, and fry a golden brown in boiling fat. Serve plain, sprinkled with salt, or with any sauce to taste, handed separately. Horseradish (Raifort).—This is chiefly used as a condiment or a garnish, but is seldom if ever cooked. For garnish choose a young tender root, scrub it well, and scrape it down finely into tiny shavings. It is also added to various sauces as described else- where. It may be kept fresh for a considerable time by burying it in sand in a cool place. Or, again, it may be sliced, and these slices dried very slowly in a slack oven, or before the fire, till fit to pound, after which the result is sifted, bottled, and labelled as mentioned for dried herbs. Accidents have happened before now from inexperienced cooks mistaking monk’s-hood or aconite root for horse- radish with deadly effect, therefore the former should never be allowed to grow anywhere near the latter. Cooks should also know that there is a marked difi’e- rence usually in the roots, the aconite being cone- shaped, tapering rapidly to a point, whereas the horseradish root is like a cylinder, long and of even size for a considerable part of its length.VEGETABLES. ()7 Kohl-Rabi {Chou-rave). Tliis vegetable, also known as the turnip-rooted cabbage, is excellent, though little used. It should be cut young, when it is like, but more delicate than, the turnip. It may be cooked like a turnip, or is particularly good cut into balls, cones, or small egg-shapes, three-parts boiled in acidulated salted water, and finished off in butter, being served at once with a dust of salt and freshly- ground black pepper. It is also good if mashed like turnip, mixed with a little flour to make it thick enough to roll, shaped into balls in your well-floured hands, egged and breadcrumbed, and fried a golden brown in hot fat. Laver.—This seaweed grows on many parts of the coast, and is particularly good stewed. It is in con- dition in late autumn or winter. Wash it in cold water till thoroughly free from sand, grit, &c., adding a pinch of bicarbonate of soda to the last rinsing water, and letting it steep in water for some hours to remove the bitterness. Now stew it very gently in either rain water or milk till tender, and of the consistency of mucilage, when it may be Served at once ; or can be strained and finished off like spinach ; or when boiled to a dark green colour it may be lightly seasoned with salt, and when cold stored away in closely-covered earthenware pots, when it will keep from fifteen to thirty days in a cool place. It will then only need,re-heating with a pat of butter, a squeeze of lemon juice, and a little white pepper. Laver has many local names, such as dulse, sloke (in Scotland), stoke (Ireland), or ribbon weed. Leeks {Poireaux).—Well boil and wash the leeks, F 2VEGETABLES. t)8 cutting the green off close to the white, and trimming them neatly. Tie them up into small bundles, and blanch them in salted water, draining this off, and finishing their cooking in more absolutely boiling acidulated and salted water, drain them well, and serve with melted or oiled butter, or any white sauce handed separately. They may also, after blanching, be finished off either in milk or stock, to which you add a bouquet, but be careful to keep them as white as possible, as this is a great point about leeks. They may also, when blanched, be cut up and put in a sauce- pan with a large pat of butter, a dust of flour, pepper and salt to taste, and just sufficient milk or stock to moisten them, and allowed to simmer till done. Work into them just as you serve them either a spoonful or two of rich cream, or the yolk of an egg beaten up with the juice of a lemon. Leehs, stewed.—Trim and boil the leeks in acidu- lated salted water till three-parts cooked, then place them in a pan with a good pat of butter, half a pint of cream or new milk, and a teaspoonful each of caster sugar and flour strewed over all. Stir it over the fire till the sauce is reduced and thickened, adding just at the last the yolks of one or two eggs mixed with a spoonful or so of cream, and serve on a hot vegetable dish. If after boiling till tender, the leeks are sieved, finished off vfith the butter, cream, &c., as above, and served with fried croutons, or cheese pastry fletirons, they make an extremely nice puree. Cold cooked leeks are also very good if finished off au gratin, or served with a French oil and vinegar salad dressing; whilst the following makes anVEGETABLES. extremely pretty fancy salad: Cut the leeks into neat, even pieces; dip a large tomato for a minute into boiling water, remove the peel, and when it is cold and firm, slice it. Break up a well-washed lettuce into small pieces, arrange these on a glass dish, then lay on it the sliced tomato and the leeks alter- nately, season with a vinaigrette, or mayonnaise sauce, sprinkle with minced tarragon and chives, and serve garnished with filleted anchovies, picked shrimps, or prawns, olives, &c., as you please. Small tomatoes seeded and the flesh well pressed back with a spoon, then filled with the prawns, &c., form a very pretty garnish for this dish. Leeks are specially good in soups, as they impart a richness and a velvety substance given by no other vegetable ; whilst if three parts cooked in boiling salted water, dried, and cut into julienne strips, and finished ofl in either milk or stock, with a dust of caster sugar, they make a very effective garnish. Lentils {Lentilles.)—Lentils do not generally meet with the appreciation their nutritious and palatable qualities deserve, though many people will admit the value of the well-known Revalenta Arabica, which is, did they but know it, simply a preparation of lentil flour mixed with a certain proportion of fine barley or wheat flour. a la maitre d'hotel.—Well wash a pint of lentils in plenty of cold water, then put them on in a pan of cold water with an onion stuck with three or four cloves, a blade of mace, and a bayleaf, and boil them till tender, adding a little more cold water occasionally as that in the pan evaporates. When quite70 VEGETABLES. tender, but not mashed, drain them from the water, stir to them 2oz. of butter, a teaspoonful of minced parsley, pepper and salt to taste, and a good squeeze of lemon juice, let it all reheat, and serve. Or, when the lentils are tender, stir to them just as they are to be served, the yolk of an egg beaten up with a table- spoonful of lemon juice, and serve with white sauce round the pile. Lentils are also very good if a nice piece of bacon be boiled with them, and when ready, served with the lentils finished off d la maitre d'hotel round it. Lentils au lard.—Cut an onion into dice, and fry it a pale golden brown in butter, then add twice as much fat bacon cut to match, and when this is cooked mix in a pint of lentils boiled as above, moisten it all with a little stock, season to taste with pepper, and a very little salt, with a spoonful of minced parsley, and let it simmer very gently till wanted, moistening it with a little more stock if necessary. Variations of this are produced by using good roast meat gravy, tomato, or brown onion sauce {bretonne) instead of the stock. Lentils also make an excellent puree if when boiled tender they are rubbed through a sieve, and then reheated with butter and a little stock till of the required consistency, when a little minced parsley and a squeeze of lemon juice are added just at the last. Prepared thus they are an excellent accompaniment to broiled or stewed game, cutlets, &c. The lentil purc% makes also a very nice pudding on the lines of a peas pudding. The nicest lentils are the Egyptian, known in France as lentilles d la reine. Lastly there are: curried.—BoW three or four good table-71 VEGETABLES. spoonfuls of lentils in enough slightly salted water to cover them generously till cooked, but not broken, then strain off every drop of liquid. (Remember that the water in which lentils are boiled, is, like haricot liquor, an excellent foundation for vegetable stock.) Fry a good-sized onion cut in rings in butter till tender, then in the same pan fry half a teaspoonful of mild curry powder for a minute or two, then add three tomatoes, peeled and sliced (canned ones will do), and a heaped teaspoonful of creme de riz (or rice flour), a teaspoonful of curry paste, and half a pint of stock, or preferably cocoanut or almond milk (pour boiling water on the nut, cover the basin, and leave it to infuse till perfectly cold and strongly flavoured, then wring out every drop of liquid and use ; take -ioz. of nut to half a pint of water), add the liquid slowly, stirring it all the time to keep it smooth, then stir in the lentils carefully, with a lump of sugar, the juice of half a lemon, and loz. of butter and let it all stew together till quite thick. Serve in a wall of well-boiled Patna rice. Lentils may also be cooked by any method recommended for haricots. Lettuce.—Of this plant there are two kinds, the cabbage lettuce (laitue) and the Cos lettuce {romaine); the former deriving its name from its cabbage-like shape, the second is said to come from the island of Cos, whence it is believed to be derived, but there is considerable doubt on the subject. In this country the lettuce is chiefly eaten raw, but it also makes an extremely appetising vegetable entremet if nicely prepared, whilst the stalks used formerly to be greatly appreciated served like asparagus.72 VEGETABLES. Lettuce a la creme.—Well wash three or four good-sized cabbage lettuces, trim them, and remove all faded or discoloured leaves, and blanch them for eight or ten minutes in fast boiling water; then rinse in cold water, dry them well, and cut them in quarters or eight parts, according to size; now lay them in a clean pan with 2oz. of butter, a dust each of white pepper and salt, and a tiny pinch of caster sugar ; let this all simmer together very gently at the side of the stove for two to three hours, stirring it pretty often with a delicately clean wooden spoon. When they are quite tender stir in the yolks of two eggs beaten up with rather more than half a gill of good cream or new milk, and when this is quite hot (mind it does not boil) serve on a hot dish, garnished with fleurons of puff paste. Cos lettuce may be cooked in the same way, but take rather less time. stewed.—Trim, blanch, rinse, and dry them as before, put either some slices of fat bacon or 2oz. of well-clarified dripping in a pan, lay the lettuces (halved) on this with an onion, and some sprays of parsley, and pour in sufficient unskimmed stock to cover it all, lay a buttered paper on top, and simmer it for two hours till the liquor is reduced to a glaze; then lift out the lettuces on to a hot dish, skim all of the liquid very carefully, add it to some nice brown sauce, pour this over them, and serve. If liked, after blanching and drying the lettuces, some nice forcemeat of any kind may be introduced between the leaves, the whole tied neatK* into shape, and finished off as in the preceding recipe. Lettuces are nice if minced rather finely after blanching73 VEGETABLES. and drying, and cooked as in L. a la cnme, only allowing a good dust of Parmesan cheese and a sprinkle of coralline pepper to each lettuce. Cooked in this way, any lettuce left over may be placed in a well-buttered fireproof dish, moistened with a little ■cream, strewn with grated breadcrumbs and Par- mesan cheese, with a few morsels of butter over it, •and set in the oven till nicely browned. Marjoram {Marjolaine).—This herb is much used for flavouring forcemeats, soups, &c., being reckoned ■especially good seasoning for sausages. The kind most used is that known as “ knotted ” or “ sweet marjoram.” Mint (Menthe).—This herb is used both fresh and dry in cookery, the kind preferred for culinary purposes being the spear mint. A spray of mint is put with young green peas when they are to be boiled, and also by some people with new potatoes; but, as a rule, fresh mint is chiefly used for mint sauce made thus: Chop enough fresh and well washed mint to fill a quarter of a-pint measure, then mix with it a gill of good vinegar, half a gill •of cold water, and l^oz. of caster sugar, let it stand for a little, then serve with roast lamb, &c. The success of this sauce depends on the fineness with which the mint is minced, and the allowing it to stand for at least two hours before using it. Morels {Morilles).—A kind of spongy-looking mushroom, which grows in some parts of England, but is more often procured in a dried condition from the Italian warehouses. It is chiefly used for flavour- ing sauces, but can be served fresh by any recipe74 VEGETABLES. given for mushrooms. As, however, the flavour of the morel is far more delicate than that of the mushroom, seasoning must be carefully used. Mushroom {Cepes, champignons, &Cj)—Of these there are a large variety, far more kinds being eaten abroad than in Great Britain, where considerable suspicion attaches to all but the best known varieties. Tlie worst is that there is no infallible method of ascertaining which kinds are wholesome, and if not perfectly wholesome, mushrooms are distinctly jx)isonous- In France very strict supervision is exer- cised over the mushrooms sent to market, so that accidents are comparatively rare. French cooks assert that if a silver spoon be placed in the pot or pan in which the mushrooms are cooking, if they are unwholesome the silver will discolour, in which case they throw the fungus away. But it must be borne in mind that however good mushrooms are when fresh, they become unwholesome, if not actually poisonous, when stale, and in no foreign market would the sale of such black-fleshed fungi as may frequently be seen in our English greengrocers’ shops be permitted. It is best, therefore, to be somewhat particular as to the origin and the freshness of the mushrooms we use. It may also be well to add the directions constantly given in French cookery books, and also by the Prefecture de la Police in Paris, for the treatment of persons poisoned by mushrooms. After such poisoning, neither brandy, ether, sal volatile, vinegar, nor water should be given; oil, butter, and milk are alike useless; an emetic must be taken at once, with a sharp aperient, and the doctor75 VEGETABLES. should immediately be sent for. Granted, however, due precaution in their use, few things are nicer or more useful than the mushroom. Mushrooms a la Bordelaise.—Ghoose the thickest and firmest mushrooms for this, and wipe them well; cut the underside across in lozenges, allow them to marinade for two hours in oil, pepper, and salt, then broil them. Mince two or three shalots (according to the quantity of mushrooms) with half their bulk of minced parsley, and fry these in either butter or oil, with pepper, salt, and a good squeeze of lemon juice. As soon as the shalot has begun to colour pro- perly, pour this mixture on to the mushrooms, which should have been placed top downwards in a hot vegetable dish. Freshly ground black pepper should always be used for this dish. a la Bourgeoise—Pick, wipe, trim, and halve the mushrooms; put some slices of good streaky bacon into a stewpan, and cook them over a slow fire for twelve to fifteen minutes, then add the mush- 1‘ooms, some minced chives or shalots, parsley, and freshly ground black pepper, dredging a very little dour over it all, and moistening it with a little stock and white wine (French for choice); stew the whole gently, and when the sauce is quite thick pour it all on to squares of fried bread, and serve dusted with coralline pepper, and a little vinegar or lemon juice. a la creme —Choose small mushrooms for this, and boil them for a few minutes in some good rich veloutc or cream sauce; remove the crumb of a rasped French roll, and set the crust in the oven tillVEGETABLES. 76 ■quite hot and crisp, set this on a hot dish, fill it with the mushrooms, and pour the rest of the sauce, &c., round it. Mushrooms, baked.—For this use the flaps; wash, peel, and remove the stems, then place in a baking dish, seasoning them with pepper, salt, and a very little pounded mace, if liked, lay small pieces of butter on the top, and bake from twenty to twenty-five minutes, according to size; then serve on the dish they were cooked in, with a tiny pat of maitre d’hotel butter on each, and a light dust of coralline pepper. braised.—Choose the mushrooms as much of a size as possible ; trim and dry them very carefully, then fry them in a little oil or butter till partly cooked, and of a nice brown colour. Now drain them and put them in a pan with just enough strong brown stock or gravy to keep them from burning, and let them cook till done, then lift them out, and reduce the liquor in which they are cooked by a sharp boiling, adding to it a small piece of glaze or Lemco, and when this is all well reduced pour it all over the mushrooms, and serve. This makes an excellent garnish for- roast or stewed meat; mushrooms stewed or braised with any kind of meat should be taken out when rather more than three parts cooked, well brushed with dissolved glaze, and set in the oven or in front of the fire for a minute, if liked very brown; now glaze them a second time, and dry them as before. broiled.—For these choose large, even sized mushrooms, and marinade them, in a little oil or oiled butter, for twenty-five to thirty minutes; brush the gridiron over with a little of this oil, andi 4 VEGETABLES. place the mushrooms on it stem upwards, and broil! them rather quickly, basting them now and agaim with some of the marinade oil. Mind they do not stick to the bars. Serve very hot, dusted with a little salt and freshly ground black and coralline pepper. Middle sized mushrooms take about twenty minutes- to cook, but remember that mushrooms, if under- cooked, are indigestible, whilst if overcooked they waste very much. They can be served plain, or if liked with a little clear gravy. Mushroom croquettes.—Wipe and trim the mushrooms, cut them into dice, and cook them with an ounce of butter till soft; add, whilst the mushrooms are hot, enough fine breadcrumbs to make a stiffish paste,, season with salt, pepper, a tiny spray of minced parsley, a dust of grated nutmeg, and an egg to bind it all; now tui’n it out, and when cold make it into balls the size of a chestnut, brush these with the white of an egg, roll them in fine breadcrumbs, and fry in plenty of hot fat till of a golden brown, drain well and serve. Another version is : Add a well beaten egg and a few breadcrumbs to half a pint of any good rich mushroom puree. Now cut some rounds of fat bacon, and lay a teaspoonful of the mushroom mixture on to half the number of rounds of bacon and cover with the rest- of the bacon, pinching the edges well together to keep in the mince ; press them into a good shape, egg them, and roll in either breadcrumbs or crushed vermicelli, and fry as before. devilled.—Remove the stalks even with the head, and peel and trim the mushrooms, brush them over inside with oiled butter, season highly-78 VEGETABLES. witli salt, freshly ground black pepper, and cayenne, and broil for fifteen to twenty minutes over a clear fire, and serve very hot. Mushrooms, dried.—Well wash the mushrooms in plenty of cold salted water, trim off all decayed and ilefective parts, and spread them on sheets of stout paper, on trays or baking sheets, and let them dry gradually in the sun, or a slack oven, till all their Tuoisture is evaporated, and the mushrooms are quite <lry. They can then be stored in airtight boxes. Or, choose moderate sized mushrooms, and thread fhem on a string, or coarse thread, and hang them up in a dry place where there is plenty of air, but no sun; when perfectly dry put them into bags, and keep them in a dry, airy place, shaking them over occasionally. essence.—Put 2lb. of well washed and dried mushrooms into a pan with two tablespoonfuls of lemon juice, and ^oz. of salt, cover the pan closely, and cook them over the fire for a few minutes ; now pour one quart of very rich poultry or white stock on to the mushrooms, let them boil together for about ten minutes, then strain off through muslin, and when the essence is cool bottle off and cork down closely. Another way which produces an even stronger essence is this : Sprinkle button or flap mushrooms with a little fine salt, and let them stand for three hours, when you mash them well; next day strain off the liquor that will flow from them, and boil this down till reduced to half. This does not keep long, but many people prefer it because of its strong natural mushroom flavour. This essence is often mentioned in cookeryVEGETABLES. 7!> books, and much used in cookery, but the directions for making it are seldom given. Mushroom ketchup (f resh) —When using mushrooms for any purpose, do not throw away the stalks and trimmings, as these make an excellent flavouring for all kinds of sauces, stews, &c., in which mushrooms are used. Put all the trimmings of the skin and stalks into a saucepan, seasoning them with freshly ground black pepper, and adding enough slightly salted water to float them well; bring this to the boil, let it simmer for fifteen minutes, then strain through fine muslin and bottle off. Keep it tightly corked and in small bottles, for once opened it will not keep. pie.—Line a raised pie mould with thin short crust, spread on this about a tablespoonful of seasoned white breadcrumbs, then a two inch layer of peeled and halved mushrooms; cover this with two tablespoonfuls of breadcrumbs and five or six little balls (the size of a nut) of butter, or well clarified dripping. Repeat these layers till the mould is full, finishing with breadcrumbs and butter, cover with more short paste (leaving a little hole in the centre), and bake in a quick oven. Meanwhile stew the mush- room stalks and trimmings with a few spoonfuls of weak stock or water, and a very little salt, until this broth is very strongly flavoured; now dredge in a little fine sifted flour, add half a gill of cream or new milk, let it all boil together for a few minutes, then strain it, whilst hot, into the pie, just as you are about to serve it. The seasoning of the breadcrumbs is a matter of taste, some people only adding minced parsley or chives, freshly ground black pepper, andVEGETABLES. su ;i very little salt, whilst others use a third of the bulk of breadcrumbs or Parmesan cheese, and season it rather strongly with coralline pepper ; others, again, substitute parboiled and cut up macaroni for the bread- crumbs, and moisten with the mushroom essence and some tomato sauce. This last version is especially popular in Italy. Mushroom powder.—Well wash and wipe half a peck of large mushrooms (removing all decayed or defective parts), cut off the stalks, and place the mushrooms in a pan with ^oz. of powdered mace, two spoonfuls of ground pepper, two onions stuck with some cloves, a handful of salt, a few allspice, and a little nutmeg if liked, 4oz. of butter and no water. Let this stew together gently to draw out the juice well, then toss it briskly over the fire till the moisture is all absorbed j now spread them on sieves to dry, either in the sun, or in a cool oven, till they can be powdered. This powder must be bottled in very clean, dry, and small bottles, well corked down, and then sealed. A tea- spoonful added to any soup or sauce, a minute or two before taking it off the fire, gives a strong rich flavour. They take some time to dry, and may have to be put into the oven two or three times before they are fit to powder, as they must be done very slowly. puree.—Well wash lib. of mushrooms, dry them carefully and mince them, then put them on in a pan with l^oz. of fresh butter, and let it all cook gently at the side of the stove for six to eight minutes j now mix in two tablespoonfuls of freshly made white breadcrumbs, season with salt and coralline pepper, stir in a tablespoonful of good brown sauce, let it justVEGETABLES. SI boil up, then mix in a teaspoonful of finely minced parsley, and serve. This is excellent as a garnish for cutlets. &c.. but a rather more delicate form of puree (delicious as the filling of an omelette, &c.) is made thus : Well wipe ^Ib. of good fresh mushrooms, peel them, and cut off the stalks, and gently tap the top of each mushroom to remove any dust or grit adhering to the gills ; put the stalks and trimmings into a pan with a little salt and freshly ground pepper and just enough water to float them all, bring this all to the boil, simmer for twelve to fifteen minutes, then strain through fine muslin. Now put the trimmed mushrooms into a pan with this ketchup, rather more than half a gill of new milk, with a pinch of salt and a. dust of pepper j bring it all well to the boil, then only let it simmer for fifteen minutes, and lift off the pan, let the mushrooms cool in their own liquor, then lift them out, draining them as you do so hack into the pan, dry them gently, and rub them through a sieve, using ^oz. of fresh butter to help them through Xow strain the mushroom liquor to half a pint of good sauce (brown or white, according to what you want it for), and stir it over the fire till the sauce thickens and coats the spoon ; now stir in the puree and keep the pan containing this in the bain-marie, or in a second larger pot three parts full of boiling water, till wanted for use. This makes delicious little vegetable entremets if served as darioles de champignons n la moelle. i.e., have ready some little batter or pastry cases, fill them with this purtT. and pbice on each a good cube of blanched marrow prepared as for cardes I'l la. moelle, sprinkle with GVEGETABLES. 82 minced parsley and coralline pepper, and serve very hot at once. Mushroom souffh'.—Melt together loz. each of fine flour and butter, and moisten with rather over a gill of cream or new milk, and when this is perfectly smooth and thick stir in one by one four well beaten egg yolks, and five or six large minced mushrooms. Stir in at the last five well beaten egg whites, and pour the mixture into a papered souffle case and bake. When fresh mushrooms are unobtainable, mince half a tin of champignons, and stir these with a teaspoonful or so of the mushroom powder into the panada, and finish as before. salad.—Wipe and chop the mushrooms into dice, and put them on in a pan with a little good salad oil and two or three slices of peeled lemon, and let this all simmer gently together till the mush- • rooms are cooked, when you set them aside to cool. When perfectly cold lay them in a salad bowl with a little minced parsley and chives (or slialot), pepper and salt, and toss it all together with a French oil and vinegar &dad dressing. scalloped {au gratin).—Wipe, trim, and peel the mushrooms, and place them heads down in a well buttered baking dish, dust them pretty thickly with freshly made and sieved white breadcrumbs, minced parsley and chives, and a little grated Par- mesan cheese (or ham if preferred), sprinkle it well with liquefied butter, and bake for ten to fifteen minutes. stewed.—Melt a good pat of butter in a pan with a little salt and freshly ground black pepper,VEGETABLES. s;j lay in some tliorouglily cleansed button mnshrooms (halving or quartering these if necessary), and toss them over the fire till cooked, which they shonld be in about ten minutes. A very nice dish of this kind may be made with the large flap mushrooms in pi’e- cisely the same way, only let them stew gently for eight to ten minutes instead of tossing them, and serve in the dish they were cooked in, with a dash of lemon juice. Or, peel some large mushrooms, remove most of the inside with a silver spoon, and broil them. When the outside is brown, put them in a stewpan with sufficient second stock to cover them, with a spoonful of sherry and a squeeze of lemon juice, add to this a little roux, or a teaspoonful of flour dissolved with |oz. of butter, and let it cook for a minute or two after it just boils up, then turn on to a hot dish, and serve garnished with fried croutons, or flewrons of cheese pastry. Mushrooms, stuffed.—Peel and trim some good fresh mushrooms; mince the peel, trimmings, &c., and two or three Avhole mushrooms, a small onion, and a spray each of parsley and green tarragon. Stir this mixture over the fii'e for two or three minutes in a little butter or bacon fat, adding to it (for five or six good mushrooms) a tablespoonful of fresh white breadcrumbs, a good dust of freshly ground black and coralline pepper, salt, and a very little cream or new milk. Put the trimmed, whole mushrooms heads down in a baking tin, divide the mince between them, piling it up well in the cups, and bake for eight or ten minutes. Stamp out some rounds of hot buttered toa.st to match che mushrooms, strew theseVEGETABLES. 84 quickly with a little minced parsley, chives, and coralline pepper, set them on a hot dish, place a mushroom, head down, on each, pour any gravy from the mushrooms over them and the toast, and serve very hot. Mushrooms sur le plat.—For this dish you need two soup plates that will stand the fire. Butter one of these well, and lay some small mushrooms in this, putting a pat of maitre d’hotel butter (the size of a good hazel nut) on each, with a very few drops of water. Lay a strip of any common paste round the edge of this plate, reverse the other plate over it, pressing it well down into the paste to keep in all the steam, and bake from twenty to twenty-five minutes. When ready remove the top plate and the paste, wipe the rim of the under plate, and serve the mushrooms at once and very hot. If preferred they can, when ready, be lifted on to rounds of hot buttered toast on which you have poured the sauce in the dish. Nasturtiums (also called Indian cress).—It is gener- ally used raw in salads and sandwiches, the leaves alone being used in the latter case, but both flowers and leaves going into the salad; or pickled, the young shoots being particular good as pickles, and the young seeds if carefully treated being equal (and to many tastes superior) to capers. seeds, pickled.—Gather the seeds before they are fully ripe, and whilst quite green. Wash them well in plenty of cold water, drying them gently in a clean, soft cloth, and put them when dry into glass bottles ; for every pint of seeds take a teaspoonfulVEGETABLES. 85 of salt, two cloves, half a teaspooiiful of finely scraped horseradish, and a leaf of green tarragon (or failing this a little tarragon vinegar), add to this sufficient good vinegar to cover the seeds thoroughly, and pour this mixture into the bottles, corking and sealing them. This is a very easy recipe, but the following, though entailing a little more trouble, is to my mind nicer : For each pint of good vinegar allow a teaspoonful of salt, a small teaspoonful of peppercorns, and two chillies, and boil these all up together, then let it get perfectly cold, when you pour it on the seeds bottled as befoi-e. Cork and seal well, and keep from six weeks to two months before using. yasturtiam salad.—-Gather the requisite amount of flowers, taking with these a few of the young shoots and small leaves, mix and place these in a salad bowl, and strew them with about a tablespoonful of finely minced chervil and some salt; mix together the juice of two lemons and three tablespoonfuls of best salad oil till perfectly blended, pour this over the nasturtiums, stir them all up well together to dis- tribute the dressing evenly, and serve at once. vinegar. — Pick sufficient flowers to loosely fill a quart bottle, and pour in sufficient good malt vinegar to fill it, adding a minced shalot or two, a clove, and three or four pepperc(jrns to this quantity. Cork down tightly and let it stand for two months, then rub it all through a very fine sieve, add salt and a little cayenne to taste, and bottle off in small bottles, corking and sealing it down tightly. Nettles.—These make a most wholesome and ex- tremely palatable vegetable, and in many parts ofS(! VEGETABLES. the country “ nettle broth " is still an inevitable dish in the early spring, being held unrivalled as a blood purilier. Xettles are at their best in March and April, though the tender young shoots may be used at any time, but never gather them once the tlower appears on the plant, as then the stalk becomes hard and string}’, and tlie leaves acquire a strong flavour. 'J’o cook them, Avash them well in two or three waters, then dry them thoroughly but carefully in a clean soft cloth, tie them into neat even bundles, and steam them till cooked ; now drain well, remove the string, set them tidily on a hot dish, dust lightly with salt and Avhite pepper, and serve with liquefied butter, or beurre fondu in a boat. (For beurre fondu put ‘ioz. of fresh butter into a pan with about half a teaspoonful of salt, quarter of a teasjDOonful of white pepper, and a dessertspoonful of lemon juice. Stir it all over the fire with a freshly scalded wooden spoon till the butter is about half melted, when the pan is lifted off the fire and the stirring continued till the butter is perfectly dissolved. This gives it the creamy taste, never found when the butter is completely melted on the fire.) Xettles when Avashed, dried, and minced, may be used exactly like spinach. Okra.—This \\’est Indian delicacy is the pod of a shrub, native in the West Indies, but noAv also intro- duced into America and India, Avhere these pods, from their gelatinous nature, are much used in soup making, to Avhicli they add both body and flaA’our. In this country they have so far only been generally knoAvn as pickled or canned, in-Avhich latter case theyVEGETABLES. !S7 are mostly used in the preparation of (/u7iibo or okra soup. When procurable green, and young, they may be cooked in several vays, after the first boiling. Boiled okras.—Fov this well wash, drain, and trim the okras neatly at both ends, then plunge them in fast boiling salted water, and let them cook for fifteen minutes or so till tender ; now drain and serve them with cream, tomato, veloutth or any sauce to taste. (Be careful not to choose a too pronounced sauce, or the native flavour of the okra Avill be lost.) Cold okras make a capital salad mixed with endive and a French salad dressing. They mix well with tomatoes, and any left over make an excellent gratin, cooked with sliced tomato, freshly ground black pepper, salt, Parmesan cheese, and either a good pat of butter, or one or two tablespoonfuls of cream. Olives {Olives).—These are best known in this country bottled in a light brine, in which condition they are used for hors d’oeuvres, savouries, garnish, or sauce. There are three kinds, the French, the Italian, and the Spanish, of which each kind has its admirers. To prepare them for savouries, &c., they are usually rinsed and " turned,” as it is technically called, i.e., the stone is removed. To do this properly, with a sharp penknife cut a thin slice from the stalk end to make it stand straight, then peel it from the thick end like an apple, but keeping the blade of the knife close along the stone all the time, to remove all the flesh in one thick spiral, which, if properly done, will readily press back into shape again. The cavity left by the stone is then filled with a fillet of anchovv, anv savourv butter, thick mavonnaise, &c..VEGETABLES. 8S to taste. As a garnish, the olive is usually served as a ragout, thus : Stone the olives and set them in a pan with enough good stock and light French wine (in equal parts) to cover them, just bring.this to the boil again, then simmer gently till tender. This makes a delicious sauce for fillets or tournedos of beef, and is the proper sauce for salmi of duck, wild or tame. Save for salmi, brown sauce and a little sherrv may replace the stock and the French wine. Olives, mock.—Choose small unripe green plums, and stone them with a column cutter. Put them into a jar with vine leaves between them, dust with a little fennel seed, a good amount of salt, and a tiny pinch of powdered alum, pour over them sufficient boiling oil to cover them, and when cold tie down. If plums prepared thus are stuffed with fillets of anchovy or sardine, packed in jars, and covered with good spiced vinegar, they make a by no means to be despised version of olives farcies. Onions (Oignons).—These, unlike other vegetables, need no cleansing beyond the removal of the stalk and top ends, and of one or two of the outer skins. But they do need blanching, a point often overlooked by our cooks, and hence the accusation of coarseness often brought against this vegetable. As soon as they are trimmed, blanch them by putting them on in slightly salted cold water, and as soon as this boils up strain it off, and if to be served plain boiled, finish boiling the onions in fresh salted boiling water till cooked, which will take, for large Spanish onions, from two to three hours, smaller ones of course taking proportionately less.VEGETABLES. 89 Onions n la Muscovite.—Blanch the onions as above, allowing them, however, to remain in the blanching water till they are quite half cooked, then drain them and leave them till perfectly cold. Now remove the centre with a column cutter, or scoop it out with a teaspoon, being careful not to cut it through, then mince these centres with half their bulk of mushrooms and a small spoonful of freshly made breadcrumbs, put this all into a pan with a little good espagnole sauce, and pepper, salt, and a very little nutmeg, and stir it all over the fire till of a nice consistency ; then fill up the onions with the mixture, dust the top with breadcrumbs, put a tiny pat of butter, or well clarified dripping, on each, and bake in a moderate oven till nicely coloured. Serve very hot. cm gratin.—Blanch the onions as above, then finish cooking them in milk and water till tender enough to sieve (or if preferred to mash), mix them with a little of the liquid they were cooked in, a spoonful or two of cream, and a seasoning of salt, M^hite pepper, and a little cayenne ; pour this puree into a Avell buttered piedish (or shells, as you please) previously dusted with breadcrumbs, grated cheese, and seasoning, cover the top with the crumbs, cheese, seasoning, and a few drops of lic{uefied butter, and set in the oven for a few minutes till the top colours nicely. Another form of this dish is to slice down some cold cooked onions (they should be rather under- cooked) and arrange them alternately with peeled and sliced tomatoes, in a dish prepared as before, and finish off as in the previous recipe. baked.—Blanch and three parts boil in!»0 VEGETABLES. milk and water, or plain water, six large Spanish onions, then place them on a well buttered baking tin, or dish, cover with breadcrumbs and morsels (d’ butter or clarified dripping, and bake for about one hour in a moderate oven till nicely coloured and quite tender, and serve in the dish they were cooked in. Onions en casserole.—Top, tail, and peel some nice Portugal onions, then peel off one or two more skins and mince these, placing this mince with the whole onion into an earthenware casserole with ^oz. of butter or clarified dripping for eacli onion, and let them cook slowly on the hot plate for about two hours, till perfectly tender. Serve in the casserole. fried.—Blanch the onions for five minutes {i.e., let them boil on for five minutes after the blanching water has boiled up), then lift them out, and let them cool; after which slice them across finely into rings, toss these rings lightly in a clean cloth with a little flour, then place them (not too many at a time) in the frying basket, plunge them into very hot fat, for five or six minutes, till of a bright golden colour, drain, sprinkle with salt, and serve crisp and dry. glazed.—Trim some small pickling or silver onions, and place them in a well buttered saute pan, dusting them generously with caster sugar, shake the pan gently, and directly they begin to colour moisten them with enough stock to cover, add a little salt, and let them cook gently till tender and well coloured, and the stock has formed a glaze on them, rolling them over gently from time to time to glaze them evenly, and serve.VEGETABLES. Union juice.-—This essence is most useful for riavouring. Kemove the outer skin, and grate the onion with a coarse grater ; wring it through a clean cloth, extracting every drop of juice. Or, pound the onions in a mortar with very little water, then strain off and bottle in closely stoppered bottles. A little garlic is a great improvement. If in a hurry, halve the onion, and partly scoop, partly press the juice out with a strong plated spoon, from the half. jjurre Bretunne.—Blanch and parboil the onions for five minutes, then drain and chop them coarsely, and put them on in a pan with 4oz. of butter or well clarified dripping, for six onions, and a good dust of sugar, with pepper and salt to taste; stir this well till the onions are nicely and deeply coloured, then dredge on to it a tablespoonful of fine flour, and moisten it well with some good brown stock. Let this all simmer together till thoroughly cooked (about an hour or so), then rub it all through a sieve. Use stock according to the required density of the puree. Soulnse.—Made precisely as before, but butter must be used for the dripping, and equal parts of milk and white stock for moistening, care being taken never to let the onions colour. A spoonful of cream should be added at the hast. —— salad.-—dust blanch tomatoes and onions and peel them (using one large onion for five or six tomatoes), and when perfectly cold slice the onion as thinly as possible, and the tomatoes about a quarter of an inch thick. Dish in alternate layers with aVEGETABLES. 1*2 vinaigrette sauce (one gill salad oil, two dessertspoonfuls of vinegar, a saltspoonful of salt, and half a one of white pepper). Mix well and garnish with chives or onion threads. Onions, sauti's. — Trim some small pickling or silver onions and blanch them for fifteen minutes, then drain off and put them in a pan with plenty of butter, tossing them in this till done, but being very careful neither to let them colour nor break. stewed.—Trim, peel, and parboil some nice Spanish onions for ten minutes in salted water ; then dry them and halve them lengthwise. Put into a pan a slice of fat bacon, a bouquet, two or three cloves, some whole peppers, and a lump of loaf sugar, cover well Avith good white or brown stock (according to what you want the onions for), bring this just to the boil, then let it simmer for about t\Am hours. Now set the onions aside and keep them hot, mean- while strain the liquor (if brown), remove all fat, and boil it up sharply till well reduced, then serve over and Avith the onions. If preferred the onion liquor may be, Avhen reduced, added to any sauce to taste, Avhich is then served Avith the onions, the name of the dish varying according to the sauce used. The first method is knoAvn as au jus. stuffed.—These are served like the Museo- A'ite dish, only varying the stuffing, which may be of any kind of cooked meat, seasoned and mixed to taste. Or, again, when trimmed as for the onion en casserole, a slice is cut off the top, the centre scooped out, and rejAlaced by a trimmed and seasoned kidney, the top is fastened on again, and the Avhole is then finished9;J VEGETABLES. ofl; as in that recipe, the centre scooped out being^ minced and added to the peel, arranged round the whole onion as described. Onion threads. — These are a most excellent garnish to salads of all kinds, more delicate even than chives. They are simply the young stalks thrown up by the seeds when planted eight or ten days. Onion and celery seed are both invaluable if lightly planted in shallow boxes and kept well watered in a warm corner of the scullery, or some place of the kind, and are then always at hand for flavouring. Parsley iPersil).—This is used chiefly as a garnish, either fresh or fried. It is also a component part of the Avell known bouquet, or bunch of herbs so fre- quently mentioned in cookery recipes. A point not sufficiently realised by the average cook is that the stalks of the parsley are fully better for the bouquet than the leaves, which can in this way be reserved for garnishing purposes. For use raw, pick the heads off neatly into little bunches (removing any hard coarse stalks), wash them gently, dry them in a very clean cloth, and use. Remember that to keep parsley fresh and crisp for table, the stalks only should be placed in water, for if the leaves are allowed tO’ steep, they decay very quickly, and acquire a most unpleasant smell and flavour. fried.—This, if well cooked, should be as green as when first plucked. Choose the freshest and greenest pieces, wash them carefully, dry them gently in a clean cloth, being careful not to crush them, then remove any long or coarse stalks, and set them ready for use. When vou have fried whateverVEGETABLES. tlie parsley is to accompany, draw the pan to the side of the stove, leaving the basket, however, in the fat; let the latter cool for three minutes or so, then drop in the parsley, and heat the fat very gradually, till the parsley is crisp, which it will be in about a minute ; then lift the sprigs (jut and drain them well on kitchen paper. It is better to have the fat rather too cool than too hot, for in the latter case the parsley would burn and discolour, whereas in the former it simply means cooking it a little longer. Be very careful when throwing the parsley into the hot fat to keep your head turned away whilst doing it, as the cold sprays often make the fat spurt up. Parsley, to blanch.—Pick the parsley into little sprays, and put these into cold salted water ; just lu'ing this up to the boil, then strain oft’ the leaves, rinse them well in cold water and use. — — to mince.—The parsley shoidd always be well washed and very thoroughly dried in a clean clotli; it must then be picked free of all stalks, the leaves being pressed together with the fingers, and shred across and across as finely as possible, No\v ■collect this mince in the corner of a cloth, fold it over very tightly, put it under the running tap, and rub and rinse it in water till the water becomes ■quite green, then wring it dry again and use. The little extra trouble this entails is fully repaid by the appearance of the parsley, which will be as fine and dry as dust, and of a vivid green tint. juice.—Pick the fresh green leaves, pound them well in a mortar, and squeeze oft all the juice possible into ii jar ; stand this in the bain-marie.VEGETABLES. 1):. or in another pan full of boiling water, and leave it till the juice is warm, and then use. Parsley for winter use.—There are two ways of preserving parsley. One is in powder as follows : well wash and pick over some nice parsley, and tie it up into neat bunches ; blanch these for three to four minutes in boiling salted water, then drain them on a sieve in front of ;i sharp fire, very slowly, till they are dry enough almost (but not quite) to crumble, then store in wide mouthed, tightly stoppered bottles ; when wanted, soak for two or three minutes in warm water. If treated thus they may be hung up in paper bags in a warm kitchen till the parsley crumbles, when the leaves should be powdered, sifted through coarse muslin, and closely corked down in small, wide-mouthed bottles. The other way is, after washing and picking over the parsley, to dry it in a cloth, and put it in a single layer on a tray, or a tin lid, in a warm, but not too hot corner of the range or oven, and let it dry as quickly as possible, then store as before in small, wide-mouthed bottles. mock.—When parsley is not to be had tie up a little parsley seed in a piece of muslin, and lay this in the sauce, gravy, Ac., you wish to flavour, adding, where the green leaves are also rec^uired, some finely minced and blanched spinach, <jr other- green stuff. These directions may seem to be given at undue length, but few things are more useful in cookery than parsley, and, it must be added, few meet with worse treatment. Parsnip {Panais) <'i la creme.—Peel some nice fresh parsnips, wash them well, and with a vegetable cutterVEGETABLES. }tii scoop tlieni out in ball or olive shapes, using only the outer part of the vegetable ; nov place these in a stewpan, in sufficient cold salted water to cover them, add a squeeze of lemon juice, and bring it all to the boil; then strain and place the balls in a stew- pan with 2oz. of fresh butter (for a good sized dish), add a gill of creajii, and the same of very good bechamel sauce, season with coralline pepper and salt, cover with a buttered paper, put the lid on the pan, and let it all cook gently for thirty to thirt}'-five minutes ; sprinkle with a little ffnelj" minced parsley and the juice of half a lemon, turn out on a hot dish, and serve very hot. Parsnip halls.—peel, and boil some parsnips from one to one and a-half hours, according to their size; when tender drain and mash them with a wooden spoon. Now put two breakfastcupfuls of the mashed parsnips into a pan with one teaspoonful of salt, two tablespoonfuls of butter, the same of cream, and a dash of pepper, mix this all well, and stiritover the fire till bubbling ; then lift the pan from the fire, stir in one whole egg, and let it stand till cold, when you roll the mixture into balls in your well- floured hands, egg and breadcrumb them, and fry a golden brown in plenty of hot fat, then drain well, and serve very hot. boiled.—When to be served plainly boiled only just Avash, and well brush them, but do not cut them ; lay them into a pan, and pour over them just sufticient boiling water to coA'er them ; Avatch this reboil, then draAV the pan to the side, and let the par.snips simmer till quite tender, which Avill take about97 VEGETABLES. an hour and a half. Let the water put on with the parsnips reduce until, when they are cooked, there should scarcely be any water left in the pan. Never add any water during the cooking. Cooked thus, parsnips will possess a rich, creamy taste, and will be found as wholesome as they are nourishing. Parsnip cones.—Put the parsnips on in plenty of boiling water and boil for twenty to twenty-five minutes, then pour off this water and replace it with more fresh boiling water, and continue the cooking till the vegetables are nearly tender, say for twenty-five minutes longer. (They may now, if liked, be served halved or quartered, with melted butter or egg sauce.) When nearly cooked cut the parsnips into even cone shapes, and toss these gently over the fire with a pat of butter, white pepper, salt, and a pinch of caster sugar till quite cooked. Serve plain, or with maitre d'hdtel, fines herbes, or any other nice white sauce to taste. The parsnips must be quite young for this way of cooking. Young carrots or turnips also are very nice prepared thus. fried.—Wash and three parts cook the parsnips, then peel and cut them into shreds length- ways, and fry a delicate golden brown in a little butter. (jarnish.—Wash and three parts cook the parsnips, then peel and shred them as in the previous recipe ; put them on in boiling water, with salt and the juice of a lemon, and finish cooking them; then strain off the water, mix in a pat of warm butter and a good spoonful of minced parsley, toss it all lightly together over the fire, add a squeeze of lemon H98 VEGETABLES. juice and use. Parsnips may be mashed after boiling them till tender enough to sieve, when you work in a little butter, milk, or cream, with white pepper and salt, over the fire, till brought to a nice consistency. They may also be scalloped thus : Take two cupfuls of mashed parsnip, as for parsnip balls, and pile this in a well-buttered fireproof dish ; sprinkle thickly with breadcrumbs, and some morsels of butter, or clarified dripping, dust with coralline pepper, and bake till nicely browned on the top. A few drops of essence of anchovy, or two or three spoonfuls of rich shrimp sauce laid over the bottom of the dish before putting in the parsnip, make a particularly good scallop. Parsnips may also be used as salad thus : Slice, or quarter, the cold cooked parsnips, and toss them lightly in sufficient French salad dres- sing to coat them well; then dish with a garnish of spring onions, or onion threads, and some cold, hard-boiled eggs, halved and filled with anchovy, ham, or shrimp butter. Pea {Petits pois) to boil.—Put the peas on in plenty of salted water, with a spray or two of mint, and cook them as fast as possible with the lid off ; when cooked, drain them, lift out the mint, strain the peas, and put half of them into a hot vegetable dish, putting a small pat of butter in the centre, gathering the est of the peas well over it, and serve hot. These are known as Petits Pois d VAnglaise, and are immensely improved by adding a pinch of sugar when putting in the butter. The other and best way, to my mind, is to put tlie freshly-shelled peas into sufficient fast boiling water to cover them nicely, adding a dessert-99 VEGETABLES. Spoonful each of salt and caster sugar for each quart of water used; boil the peas very fast with the cover off, for ten to twelve minutes, then drain the peas in a colander, and serve at once on a hot dish. A small spray of mint may be added this way if liked, but remember never to put any soda with peas, as it utterly ruins the young ones. Half an ounce of mint is required for each quart of water, which quantity is sufficient for one pint of peas (do not cook peas in a tinned saucepan). Abroad a kind of pea is often used of which the shell is served with the peas ; these pods are rather flat and broad, and are cooked thus : Partly cook them in a little salted water, and when nearly tender, drain them and lay them in a pan with a pat of butter, some finely chopped parsley and young green onions, with, if liked, a stewed lettuce, strained and shred rather fine; season with white pepper and salt, and a dust of flour, and moisten with a little good stock. Cook this all together till quite tender, then stir in a tablespoonful of cream, and serve very hot. This is an excellent way of using the after crop which often appears on the pea vines too late to ripen properly, but of course the peas must be of a really good kind. It may be added that many foreign housewives consider old peas are improved if the shells are strung and clipped like French beans, and then put on in water with 2oz. of mint, a dessertspoonful of salt, and a little less of sugar, and boiled very fast for half an hour ; this pea- pod water is, then carefully strained, and allowed to boil up again, when the peas are put in, and are allowed to cook for half an hour. Remember when peas are H 2VEGETABLES. 100 shelled and have to wait, they slionld be put into a dry basin, and lightly covered with a damp cloth. Peas, jugged.—Shell a pint of green peas, and put them into a jar with a tight closing lid, la}dng in with them a tablespoonful of butter, a saltspoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of powdered sugar, a spray of mint, and a dust of freshly ground black pepper ; cover the jar down very tightly, and put it in a stew- pan or bain-marie half full of boiling water, cover down the pan, and let the water boil sharply, examin- ing them from time to time to see if they are done ; young peas will take from thirty to thirty-five minutes in this way, older ones of course needing longer cooking. This method is a particularly good one for tinned peas. The peas should be turned into a colander or strainer, and held under running water till any “ tinny ” taste is entirely removed, finishing them as before ; twelve to fifteen minutes will be ample in this case. Peas cooked in this way, or eA^en if freshly boiled, can be diversified in many ways. For instance, ham, or bacon, cut into small dice, fried crisp, and stirred into the peas as you dish them, give the well known petiis pois au lard, or au jambon ; or, when you pour them into the dish, mix in a few spoonfuls of bichamel or veloutc sau'^^. or cream, or butter, as you please. These are excellent as a garnish, and take their name from the sauce, c^’;c., added at the last. steived.—Th\s is the best method of cooking old peas, though abroad it is often used for young ones. Melt a couple of ounces of butter with a small sliced onion, a bunch of parsley, and either someVEGETABLES. 101 sprays of mint, or half a head of lettuce tied up together; add white pepper and salt to taste; let this cook till the onion is very faintly coloured, when you add the peas, a small teaspoonful of sugar, and as much water, or stock, as will float them ; half a pint is suthcient for one and a half pints of peas. Now let them stew very gently till the peas are perfectly tender (young peas take half an hour thus), then remove the lettuce, onions, and parsley, thicken the liquid with a little white roux (or ^oz. each of butter and flour simmered together till perfectly smooth and well blended), shake the saucepan well to mix all this thoroughly, add, if necessary, a tiny dust of caster sugar, and serve. French cooks often stir in at the last the yolk of an egg beaten up with a little milk, instead of the Hour and butter thickening. They also put in the onion whole, for the convenience of lifting it out. Peas cooked in this way are known as Petits pois a la Franfaise, or a la Bourgeoise. Peas en puree.—This is the best form of cooking old peas. Boil them as described above, preferably in the pea pod water, till tender enough to sieve, then add a tablespoonful of cream, ^-oz. or so of butter, a little freshly ground black pepper, salt, and a dust of sugar, and use either as a mould or forced out with a pipe and bag. salad.—Cold boiled peas may be utilised as an extremely pleasant salad, either by themselves, or in conjunction with young carrots, &c., and either a French dressing, or a good mayonnaise sauce. Thus treated they are an effective addition to a dish of lamb cutlets en Bellevue or en Chaufroix.VEGETABLES. 10‘> Peas, dried.—These can he utilised when fresh peas are unobtainable, and, nicely prepared, make a decidedly praiseworthy addition to the menu. The ordinary yellow dried peas may be used, but the green- dried Italian peas are preferable, if only for their appearance. Soak the peas for eighteen to twenty- four hours, then throw away this water, and put the peas in a pan with a couple of onions stuck with two or three cloves, a bunch of thyme and parsley, a bayleaf, and some peppercorns all tied up together, with enough cold water to fill the saucepan. Bring this to the boil, then allow it all to simmer till the peas are quite tender, when the water is poured off and they are tossed over the fire with a pat of butter, a drop or two of spinach or vegetable green colouring, pepper and salt, a tiny dust of sugar, and a spoonful of cream or good stock to moisten them, and served very hot. If liked, the "peas may, when tender, be sieved, moistening them during the sieving with either their own liquor or a little stock, and finished off as before. A thick slice of bacon boiled with the peas in the first place is a great addition. pudding.—For this the ordinary dried peas may be used, but the pudding is far more delicate if the green-dried Italian peas are used, together with a drop or two of vegetable green colouring. Tie up a pint of peas very loosely in a clean cloth, and put them on in a panful of cold water, bring this gently to the boil, then let it all cook steadily for at least two hours, when you sieve the peas, mix them with \ to loz. of fresh butter, a finely sliced onion, with pepper and salt to taste. Now tie the peas up ap103 VEGETABLES. tightly as you can and let them boil for an hour longer. N.B.—Haricot beans or lentils make an excellent pudding. Pimpernel (Pimprenelle).—This was formerly a favourite pot-herb, and is still in much request in France as an important part of the fourniture of salads. Potatoes {Pommes de terre).—Potatoes are a staple food in Great Britain, but it is safe to say that nowhere are they so badly treated and wasted. Their goodness depends largely on the cooking, and on the choice of kinds. For boiling, baking, &c., the floury kinds should always ba chosen, but for salad, and the various French ways of cooking them, choose a waxy potato. French cooks always choose a special long-shaped and waxy tuber, which they call “ Vite- lotte." The failure of our cooks in mastering the art of pommes souffiees, sauti'es, <Tc., is frequently due to ignorance of this fact. Well scnib and thoroughly rinse the potatoes first, and then peel them (very thinly) as soon before use as possible, for if left soaking in water for ever so long, as is often their fate, they lose flavour and goodness. If potatoes are peeled too thickly they are apt to break to pieces in the cooking. If you are particular as to your potatoes, never let them be peeled at all before they are cooked, as if peeled before cooking they become watery. boiled.—Choose even sized, well cleansed potatoes, and put them on in plenty of fast-boiling salted water (use a tablespoonful of salt to half a gallon of water), jiist bring the water to the boil again, then let them only simmer steadily till perfectly104 VEGETABLES. cooked. (If you must use uneven-sized potatoes, put the larger ones into the boiling water a few minutes before the smaller ones, so as to have them ready together.) Test them with a skewer, and as soon as this pierces them easily they are ready; now strain the water off them at once (if left in the water after this point they are apt to burst), shake the saucepan lightly, and set it at the side of the stove, remove the lid, replace it by a folded clean cloth or napkin, and let them stand for five minutes or so, by which time, if the potatoes are of a good kind, they will be quite dry and floury. Now take them up, peel them quickly, and send to the table at once. If preferred they may be served unpeeled, or “ in their jackets ” as it is called, which is the Irish, and certainly the best, way of serving them. The reason for giving potatoes plenty of water to cook in is that all starchy things, as they are, need plenty of room to swell in, and if crushed together in a small quantity of water, are very apt to burst. When potatoes are old they must be peeled before cooking, and, moreover, must have the “ eyes ” and bruises cut out of them. In this case fill the saucepan with cold salted water, trim and peel the potatoes, dropping each as done into the pan 5 now just bring this all to the boil, and let it all simmer for twenty minutes or more, according to size, then strain oft’ the water and either finish as before, or strain, shake oft any moisture left on them, and serve at once as they are. In Ireland potatoes are always cooked in their jackets, and for this purpose are put on in an iron pot, with a good supply of salted water, and boiled till the skins crack .•105 IVEGETABLES. the water is then drained off, and the pot left on the fire with a doubled cloth on it for fifteen minutes or so, and then served. Cooked thus they always have what an Irish cook calls “ a bone in ’em,” i.e,, they are a trifle firm in the centre, though a mass of flour all round. Potatoes take about twenty-five minutes to boil, if full grown or old. Olive potatoes, or potatoes “ turned ” with a veget- able cutter to any shape required, are boiled exactly in the same way, only needing extra care not to cook them too fast, or to overboil them, in which case they break Pommes Anna.—This is a capital way of using potatoes when too old to boil nicely, though of course the dish is very delicate if made with young ones. Wash, peel, and slice thinly as many potatoes as you require, then arrange them in layers in a well buttered charlotte mould, seasoning each layer as you pack it in, with salt and dissolved butter. Continue these layers till the mould is full and closely packed, then cover with a buttered paper, and bake in a hot oven for one to one and a quarter hours, when you turn it out on to a hot dish, and serve at once. The mould must be put into the oven directly it is packed, for if left standing the potatoes are apt to go black. A particularly dainty entremets glaoi also goes by this name, which is prepared thus : Rub three or four medium-sized plainly-boiled potatoes through a fine wire sieve, stir into this puree a gill of rich bechamel sauce, in which you have previously dis- solved foz. of best leaf gelatine, season it all with fine salt, coralline pepper, and a teaspoonful of finelyVEGETABLES. 106 minced parsle}^ adding at the last half a pint of very stiffly whipped cream, and set it on ice till all but firm. Line a plain hexagon or round mould with aspic jelly, and garnish this with little pea-shapes of cooked potato and cucumber, sprays of chervil, stamped- out rounds of tomato aspic, and, if handy, little fancy shapes of sliced truffle, setting this garnish with a little more jelly. When this is fairly firm pour in the potato pur^, and put the mould away on ice till set; then turn it out and serve with the following sauce ; Cut up the rest of the cucumber used for the garnish into dice, and cook this till tender enough to sieve, and when cold add to this puree a gill of mayonnaise, half a gill of whipped cream, a tablespoon- ful of tarragon vinegar, and a pinch each of salt and caster sugar. Colour this with a drop or so of vegetable green colouring (keep it very delicate), add at least two tablespoonfuls of just liquid aspic, and use. Potatoes I'l la creme.—Slice down a plateful of raw potatoes (using the waxy or Yitelotte ones for choice), then put into the pan 2oz. of butter and a small tablespoonful of fine flour, and stir this gently together till smoothly blended, but quite colourless; then moisten it gradually with a pint of cold milk (hot may be used, but the cold is richer), stirring it all the time. Directly this boils lay in the potatoes, which should be well covered with the milk, add a little salt, put the lid on the pan, weighting it with a heavy weight, and let it all simmer till cooked, which it should be in about half an hour. Serve in a hot vegetable dish, sprinkling it as you dish it with q, teaspoonful of finely minced parsle;VEGETABLES. 107 Potatoes () la mmtre d'hotel.—Boil some rather small kidney (or preferably waxy) potatoes in their skins, then peel and slice them to double the thickness of a penny ; now put into a pan 2oz. of good butter rubbed up with some finely minced parsley, and directly this is melted lay in the sliced potatoes with a little salt and white pepper, and a squeeze of lemon juice. Cover down the pan and let its contents cook for a quarter of an hour shaking the pan and turning the potatoes over to get the bottom layer to the top during the process. It does not matter if a few of the slices brown a little, in fact they improve the dish, but they must be the exception. (\ la mart'chale.—Prepare the potatoes as for Pommes Anna, and stew them very gently in butter till tender ; now turn them out of the pan, and arrange them in a well-buttered fireproof dish in layers, dusting each layer with grated Parmesan, white and coralline pepper, and moisten with dissolved butter. When the dish is full, bake in a gentle oven for thirty minutes, and serve in the dish they were cooked in. Ordinary cold boiled potatoes are nice cooked this way, if the buttered dish is dusted with fine white breadcrumbs, finely minced parsley, grated cheese, and black and red pepper, the potatoes being laid in as before, finishing the top with crumbs, cheese, At., and cooking it till it browns nicely on the top. This is known as P. an gratin. n la Parisienne.—For this slice down some cold cooked potatoes, season lightly with a little white pepper and salt, and let them beat, without cooking, in some good Soubise sauce, Tliere arc108 VEGETABLES. many varieties of this dish, for cold potatoes may be advantageously reheated in ^tomato, rich Alle- mande, maitre d’hotel, or indeed any good rich white sauce for a change. Floury jX)tatoes are not so good for this as more waxy ones, as the former, unless very carefully handled, are apt to go to pieces. Potatoes, baked.—For these choose large ones, as much of a size and shape as possible, wash them well, and scrub the skins perfectly clean; then dry them thoroughly and bake in a good, but not too fierce oven, turning them now and again whilst baking. A few minutes before they are ready, prick them once or twice with a fine skewer to let out the steam, serving them when cooked on a napkin, and sending butter to table with them. There are many variations of this dish, one being the famous pommes Georgette; for this, when the potatoes are baked (which, by the way, takes from an hour and three- quarters to two hours, according to size), cut the top off neatly, and scoop out a good deal of the inside, being careful not to break the skin; mash this through a masher, keeping it as light as possible, and mix it quickly with some rich shrimp sauce, replace it in the potato, cover it with the piece cut off, return it to the oven to get thoroughly hot, and serve. Another form of this dish is made by mixing grated Parmesan cheese, a good dust of coralline pepper, and a little minced parsley with the potato snow, and finish as before. The great secret in these last two dishes is to have the potato as light and floury as possible, as otherwise it soddens when mixed with the other ingredi'uits. Baked potatoes need watching109 VEGETABLES. whilst cooking, for if left too long before pricking they will hurst; whilst if pricked too soon they dry up, shrivel, and harden. Potatoes, baked.—Another form of baked potatoes is not so often seen as it was formerly, when meat was roasted at the open fire. For these boil some good floury potatoes (be careful not to overcook them), then remove the skins carefully. About an hour before the meat is done, dredge the potatoes lightly with fine flour, and place them in the dripping-pan under the meat, letting them finish cooking with it; now drain very carefully, and serve as hot as possible, either as a garnish to the meat, or separately. border.—Boil the potatoes and peel them, then rub them lightly through a wire sieve. For three average-sized potatoes allow loz. butter, one raw yolk of egg, and a dust of coralline pepper, mix these well, and shape it into a border with your well- floured hands, using as little flour as you can; when shaped brush it all over -ndth beaten egg, mark it with a knife, and bake a golden brown. This is very useful for mounting cutlets, fillets of beef, &c. Be careful to get the potatoes just cooked sufficiently, hut not too much, as they require to be very dry for this use. cases.—Peel some rather large potatoes, rinse them well in cold water, and halve them length- ways ; now, with a sharp-pointed knife, mark round the flat surface thus obtained about an eighth of an inch from the edge, and with a vegetable scoop care- fully take out the inside, so as to leave a kind of cup an eighth of an inch thick; of course the halves110 VEGETABLES. must in the first instance have been trimmed so as to match as neatly as may be. Put each case when ready into a basin of cold, salted, and slightly acidu- lated water, till you have prepared the required number, then lift them out, dry each well on a clean cloth, and fry them in clean, hot fat for three or four minutes till they feel tender; they are then lifted out, and drained for a minute; now let the fat reboil, and just as you want to serve the cases, drop them into this, and let them crisp and colour nicely; then drain well, dust them lightly with minced parsley and coralUne pepper, and serve filled with any nice mince or ragout to taste. Potatoes, curried.—Slice finely a Spanish onion and a good-sized apple, and fry them in 2oz. of butter or clarified dripping till of a delicate brown; now dredge in a tablespoonful each of curry powder and fine rice flour, and fry these also, then moisten with the juice of a lemon and one and a half pints of any light stock (meat or vegetable), and let it all cook gently together till the onion is tender, when you sieve it all into a clean pan, add to it cooked potatoes, cut into slices the size and thickness of a florin, and let it get hot together; serve with a border of rice seasoned with coralline pepper. Duchesse.—Boil or bake half a dozen good potatoes, then rub them through a fine wire sieve, and mix this puree with an ounce of butter, the yolks of two eggs, a little salt and white pepper, and some finely-minced parsley. Shape this paste into little balls in your well-floured hands, flatten these with a floured rolling pin till an inch thickIll VEGETABLES. and slightly oval in shape, and fry them in plenty of hot fat, turning them over and over, and serve directly both sides are well coloured. These duchesses are variously flavoured by different cooks, some adding grated Parmesan, others grated ham or tongue, to the mixture, and most consider a dash of nutmeg or mace a great improvement, but these of course are matters of taste. Other cooks keep them ball- shaped, making them originally about the size of a chestnut, and then egg and breadcrumb them, and fry them in plenty of hot fat; but these are strictly either potato halls or potato croquettes. Another way is to divide up the paste into strips, powdering these well with grated Parmesan and coralline pepper, then with your well-floured hands roll each strip into sticks three or four inches long, and rather thicker than a pencil, egg and breadcrumb these, fry, drain, and serve dusted with freshly-grated Parmesan and coralline pepper; these are sometimes called Batons au Parmesan. Potatoes, fried.—Peel and cut the potatoes into wedge shapes, like the divisions of an orange both in shape and size ; have ready some very hot fat, and try this by dropping in a piece of the potato, if this becomes firm and colours lightly in a few seconds, the fat is ready. Now put your potatoes into the frying basket, and plunge this gently into the friture, being careful to keep them well covered with the fat; in three to four minutes they will be ready, when you lift the frying basket from tlie fat, allowing the potatoes to drain back for a minute into the pan, then place them on kitchen paper,112 VEGETABLES. and allow tliem to drain for a minute or two in front of the fire. Dust witli fine salt, and serve at once very hot. These are the real Fommes Frites of the Parisian restaurants ; but tlie potatoes may be sliced or cut into any shape preferred, or cut as you peel an apple, these ribbons being dropped into boiling fat precisely as before. If you cut the jjotatoes ((dioosing very long ones) into long, narrow strips, one-eighth of an inch in depth and width, crisping them for twelve or fifteen minutes in a little cold acidulated water, and fry them in the same way as the fried potatoes, they are the well-known Pommes Failles or Potato Straxos. Some cooks prepare these potatoes in the same way as described for the potato cases, frying them twice. The well-known American novelty, Saratoga Potatoes, are simply potatoes washed, peeled, and sliced as evenly and thinly as possible (a special cutter is generally used for this, and saves much labour, though not absolutely indispensable), and fried as above till perfectly crisp and of a pretty golden brown, then drained, dusted with salt, and served very hot. These, and indeed most well-fried potatoes, may be kept in airtight tins for some time, and only recpiire reheating for a few seconds in boiling fat. Potatoes, mashed.—Boil some potatoes, and steam them till perfectly dry, when you beat them up with a common kitchen fork, adding in as you do so a little butter, pepper, and salt, Avith a little milk or cream, Avorking (hem Avith the fork till they are smooth and Avhite ; then arrange them in a vegetable dish, marking them Avith the fork. If liked, when113 VEGETABLES. the potatoes are prepared in this way, they may he piled up neatly in a fireproof dish, and set in the oven till nicely browned on top. Potatoes for mashing may be baked if preferred, which of course makes them lighter. The French method of mashing potatoes is more of a puree than ours ; for this, when the potatoes are boiled, drain off all the water, and return them to the pan, lightly mashing them as before, and working them to a smooth, creamy con- sistency, with an extra amount of butter and a spoonful or two of either good stock or cream, season- ing it with white pepper and a grate of nutmeg ; this can never be moulded, but is sent to table when of the consistency of very thick cream. Indeed, as a matter of fact, a little whipped cream is often added to it at the last. Potatoes, new, to boil.—These should be cooked as soon as possible after digging. Well wash them and rub them with a dry cloth, but never attempt to peel them. Put them on in boiling water, and let them cook for fifteen minutes, when you drain off the water, and let them dry like old potatoes. They are then usually put into a vegetable dish with a little melted butter, and sprinkled with a little minced parsley. A favourite way of serving new potatoes, when cooked as above, is to dish them in a pile, and pour the following sauce over them : Melt together loz. of butter and loz. of flour, with a pinch of salt, and when this is smooth and perfectly blended, moisten gradually with half a pint of cream or new milk, and bring it to the boil ; pour this over the new potatoes, and serve dusted with finely-minced IVEGETABLES. 114 parsley, as Potato^s a la creme. They may also be served a VHelvetienne. For this, when washed and wiped, fry them singly rather slowly in boiling fat till of a dark brown (this takes about twenty minutes), drain them well, sprinkle them with fine salt, and serve very hot. When properly cooked, the centre of the potatoes will be found dry and floury. Potatoes, neiv, mock.—This is an excellent way of using waxy potatoes, that no amount of boiling will make floury. Three parts boil the potatoes in the usual way, then lift them out, and cut them to the size and shapes of small new potatoes; have ready some white sauce slightly flavoured with mace, and place the mock potatoes into this, let this just reboil, and simmer the potatoes in this till thoroughly done ; now turn them out on to a hot vegetable dish, and serve with the sauce in which they were cooked, to which you have added, just at the last, either a small pat of fresh butter, or the yolk of an egg beaten up with half a gill of new milk, and some finely-minced parsley. Old potatoes trimmed, boiled as above, well drained, and tossed in a little butter and lemon juice till well coated with it, make an imitation of new potatoes by no means to be despised. sautes.—Slice some boiled potatoes moder- ately thick; dissolve some butter in a saute or other shallow pan, and toss the sliced potato in this till nicely coloured on both sides, when you turn them into a hot vegetable dish, pour the brown butter in which they were cooked over them, and serve very hot, sprinkled with chopped parsley and salt. People are very apt to confound fried and sautedVEGETABLES. 115 potatoes, though they are by no means the same thing, and indeed are cooked quite differently. West country cooks very often cook cold cooked potatoes in this way in bacon fat, and serve with fried bacon, in which form they are decidedly good. Potato snow.—Choose the whitest potatoes, and put them on in cold water; when they begin to crack, strain them and set them in a clean pan before the fire till they are dry and falling to pieces, then rub them lightly through a wire sieve into the hot vegetable dish they are to be served in. Some people place a small pat of butter on to the first layer of these grated potatoes, but it is hardly to be recom- mended, as it is apt to make the potatoes sodden. souffle.—Wash and bake three large potatoes, and when cooked halve them, remove the inside, and sieve this; work into this the yolks of two raw eggs and the whites of four, well-whipped, two tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese, l^oz. of warmed butter, and a dust each of coralline pepper and salt; fill the half skins with this mixture, sprinkle the tops with a few browned breadcrumbs, some grated Parmesan cheese, and a little coralline pepper, with some morsels of butter, and bake for fifteen minutes in a moderate oven. If preferred, this mixture may be baked in a regular souffle dish, and is very good in that way. souffiees.—^This is a version of fried potatoes very common abroad, but requiring a little knack and some practice to ensure success. Cut the potatoes into the wedge shapes recommended for the fried potatoes, put them on in the hot fat in the same way, I 2VEGETABLES. 116 and cook them till tender and very li/2;htly coloured, shaking them all the time they are cooking ; now lift the basket out of the fat, and put them aside for a minute in a warm place, return the frying kettle to the fire, heat the fat very (piickly, and return the potatoes to them, stirring them very gently for a minute or two in it, when they should be puffed up and swmllen ; tlien drain them well, and serve very quickly on a hot dish, dusted with salt. 'Die great secret in cooking these lies in the first frying ; they sliould he cooked first till on lifting one and biting it, it bites quite short and soft, and is only very faintly coloured on the outside. Be very careful only to put a few at a time into the pan the second time, because if they knock together in the frying they will harden and not puff out properly. They are well worth the little trouble they entail. It is manifestly impossible in a book of this size to give even a tithe of the almost innumerable methods of cooking potatoes, but the above may serve to help an intelligent cook in the production of variety. Pumpkin (Potiron).—Seldom seen in this country save as soup, hut abroad, in the United States especi- ally, it is a great favourite, especially as “ pie ” ; hut its normal condition is m,ashed, for which vou take a good slice from a large pumpkin, remove the outside peel, and the seeds with the pulpy tissue adhering to them, and cut the flesh into inch cubes ; cook these in boiling salted water for twenty minutes or so, till tender, then drain well, press out every drop of liquid, and heat the pulp up lightly with a little butter, pepper, salt, and a little cream if handy.VEGETABLES. 117 Another (French) method is, after preparing the pumpkin as before, to dry the cubes in a clean cloth, dust them with tine dry flour, and place a layer of these cubes in a fireproof dish brushed over with oil, dusting this layer well with black pepper, minced parsley, chives (or shallot), and good salad oil, repeating these two layers till the dish is full; bake till tender, when you pour off any superfluous oil, and serve. Some cooks add grated Parmesan cheese to the seasoning. Pumpkin pie.—Prepare the pumpkin as before, and cook it in a small cpiantity of water till quite tender, then sieve it. To each teacupful of this puree allow one well-beaten whole egg, a teacupful of milk, and caster sugar to taste. Season this with some ground ginger and nutmeg, beat it all well together, and pour a breakfastcupful of this into an ordinary dinner (or, if preferred, soup) plate, previously lined with puff pastry, and bake. Eat cold. Purslane {Pourpier).—This was formerly much valued as a garden herb, but nowadays it is seldom seen, though some old-fashioned cooks still use the young shoots in salad, and the older ones as potherbs. Abroad it is still in request, for salads especially, but even for “ fines herbes ” the French cook considers purslane, or pourpier as she calls it, indispensable. Radish (Radis).—These in this country are seldom if ever seen otherwise than raw, yet formerly here, and still on the Continent, they may be met with cooked, and very good they are. Well washed and trimmed, radishes, the round ones especially, form a favourite hors d’oeuvre.VEGETABLES. 118 Radish, boiled.—Trim the radishes neatly, plunge them in fast-boiling salted water, and cook till tender (about thirty minutes), drain, and serve with melted butter. leaves, boiled.—Pick over the leaves, removing any old or faded ones and the thickest of the stalks. Let them steep in cold water for half an hour, then drain and boil them in fast-boiling salted water till tender (from twenty-five to thirty- five minutes). Now lift them out, mince pretty finely, season with a little butter, pepper, and salt, and serve. They may also be finished off like spinach. Specially good with roast ham, pork, &c. Rampion.—A plant of the campanula tribe, formerly much more in request than at present, though abroad it is still cultivated and liked. The roots were the part liked, and were gently boiled till tender, then served hot with melted butter, or cold with oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt. Ravigotte.—This is a name applied to minced herbs served abroad for a garnish, either to salads, savoury butter, or sauce. The commonest form is green tarragon, chervil, chives, and burnet, but almost every cook has his or her special blend of herbs for this pur- pose. In France, where the salad is often prepared at the dining table, the herbs are chopped and dished in separate little heaps to allow the mixer to make his own proportions. Saffron, or Saffern (Safran).—The dried stigmas of the winter crocus, much used formerly as a flavour- ing for cakes, hashes, <fcc., and still used in the Levant in pilaffs, &c. Its use probably died out in thisVEGETABLES. 119 country from the difficulty of buying it pure. It is sold as “ hay saffron ” and “ cake saffron.” Where the flavour is liked, it is well worth keeping as an extract, made thus : Put a small amount of saffron in a jar, say half an ounce or so, and pour on to it a full gill of boiling water, leave till all the colour is extracted, then use or bottle. Sage (Sauge).—This is a kind of Salvia, much used in the preparation of stuffing for duck, goose, or pork. The leaves are used fresh or powdered, but in the former case any cook who respects her art will care fully blanch the sage leaves for five minutes in boiling water, and dry them carefully, before mincing them for stuffing, to which they give a strong, crude flavour if this precaution is omitted. Salad (Salade).—-This is a mixture of either raw or cooked vegetables, served cold, tossed in either a French salad dressing or in mayonnaise sauce. In this country we have an evil habit of mixing raw vegetables to an almost infinite extent, but abroad, where delicacy of flavour is more studied, one or at most two, vegetables are tossed in the dressing, and served with a fourniture of minced herbs chosen from the following list: Parsley, chives or onion threads, tarragon, chervil, purslane, pimpernel, &c. Salad is a most wholesome companion to meat of every kind, and should be seen almost daily on our tables. Lettuce of either kind is not the only founda- tion necessary, for endive, tomatoes, onions, &c., may be served alone or in combination, or with cold cooked vegetables as you please. This, needless to say, refers to plain salads simply; fancy saladsVEGETABLES. 120 (previously described in No. IX. of this series), may be composed of almost everytbin;^, fish, flesh, fowl, or vegetable. The two following recipes give examples. Salad Uauloise.—Wipe, cleanse, and slice some raw mushrooms, mixing them with sliced truffles, cold cooked (waxy) potatoes, and cos lettuce. Serve with a French or mayonnaise garnish. Hongroise.—Scald, peel, and slice rather thickly, some ripe and well-coloured tomatoes, dust them plentifully with freshly-ground black pepper, salt, a dust of cayenne, and some very finely-minced shallot or chives; now sprinkle these slices with oil and tarragon vinegar, and set them on ice till wanted. Serve garnished with whipped or clotted cream, into which you have stirred some coralline pepper and finely-minced chives or parsley. See that this is icy cold when served. For a French salad dressing, put into a basin a good pinch of freshly-ground black pepper, half a tea spoonful of salt, and a scant tablespoonful of tarragon (or plain) vinegar, and stir this well together till the salt is perfectly dissolved; now work into the mixture three full tablespuonfuls of good salad oil (Provence oil is generally the sweetest); lay in your salad, and toss it well over and over in this dressing till each leaf, &c., has imbilied its proper share, then lift them out with the salad servers into the salad bowl, and serve. Never mix salad in the salad bowl unless you have personally wiped every leaf, &c., or you will find a sloppy residuum at the bottom of the bowl that will quite spoil the flavour. Do not forget either that salad should only be mixed justVEGETABLES. 121 as it is wanted. For mayonnaise, put into a basin one raw egg yolk, an eggspoonful of mustard (either French or English, or lialf of each), and a pinch each of salt and white pepper; mix this all with a deli- cately clean wooden spoon (a special spoon should always be kept for salad-mixing), adding, drop by drop, enough good oil to bring it all to the consistency of butter, and, lastly, add a teaspoonful or so of best vinegar, plain or flavoured. This will make about half a pint of sauce, and will take up about one-third of a pint of oil. There are, of course, many different forms of mayonnaise, but these have been given with the fancy salads to which they belong. Never, if possible, let a mayonnaise salad stand after it is mixed, or the vegetables will get soppy and sodden ; whilst exposure to the air will give the dressing a most unpleasant, rank flavour. Salsify {Salsifi}.—This vegetable appears to be returning to favour again, after being almost forgotten for many years, and it is certainly well worth culti- vating and preparing. There are two kinds, the white salsify and the black or scorzanera ; the former is eaten in its first year’s growth, but the latter is not ready under two years. Scorzanera should never be scraped or peeled till it is cooked, as if cut or scratched when raw all its flavour and juice exudes. h) boil.—For lib. of the vegetal)]e put into a pan rather more than a pint of water, half a tea- spoonful of salt, a dessertspoonful of vinegar or lemon juice, and about 2oz. of butter or well clarified dripping, stir this till it boils, then lay in the salsify, neatly trimmed and cut into three inch lengths.VEGETABLES. 122 Let it just reboil, then draw it to the side, and let it simmer slowly but steadily for half an hour; now drain well, and serve with melted butter, drawn butter, or any nice white sauce to taste. The pot lid should be kept a little off whilst the salsify is cooking. Cooked thus the salsify may be drained, floured, and fried; or dipped in batter, fried in hot fat, then well drained and served hot, dusted with grated Parmesan cheese and coralline pepper. Or it may be served with marrow, and a rich brown sauce, after the style of cardes a la, moelle, or, indeed, by any recipe given for celery, cardoons, &c. Delicious vegetarian patties may be made thus : Prepare a rather thin puree of salsify (by boiling it till tender enough to sieve, rubbing it through, moistening it as you do so with some of the water in which it was cooked, and seasoning it to taste with white and coralline pepper, salt, a few drops of lemon, and the same of essence of anchovy); stir into this small, rather thick slices of previously cooked salsify, let it all reheat, without actually boiling, stir in an egg yolk beaten up with a spoonful or two of cream, or use two or three spoonfuls of thick cream, and pour this into some small puff pastry patties, dust with a little finely-minced parsley and coralline pepper, and serve at once. If made with salsify this is a delicious dish, but if scorzanera is used, and the flavouring is carefully done, the oyster taste is unmis- takeable. For this reason the Americans call scor- zanera the “ oyster plant.” Cold cooked salsify, sprinkled with oil and vinegar, and a fourniture of minced herbs, is very nice with either a FrenchVEGETABLES. 123 salad dressing or mayonnaise, but perhaps even more delicate if sprinkled with minced chives, parsley, coralline pepper, and lemon juice, and served with plain cream stood on ice till perfectly cold without being actually frozen. A dainty garnish for cutlets and fillets of all kinds is made thus : Cleanse and peel the salsify {not scorzanera), throwing each piece as trimmed into slightly salted and acidulated water to preserve the colour. When prepared, put the salsify into a panful of salted and acidulated water, with ^oz. or so of butter, and cook it for an hour, then drain, shred it very finely, and use. Samphire {Bacile or Perce-pierre).—This plant grows wild all along the sea coast, and has been held in honour as a pickle for generations—to such a point that other plants somewhat like it have been substituted for it when the supply of samphire ran short; but as these substitutes are not as aromatic as the real plant, this adulteration for some time brought the original into disrepute. But once the real samphire has been seen and tasted (the raw fleshy leaves have a salty, spicy taste), it is easy to distinguish. It should be gathered in May, or, at all events, before the flower begins to show, for after that it becomes hard and stringy. Choose the greenest samphire, and lay it in a pan with three or four table- spoonfuls of salt over it, then pour in sufficient cold water to cover it, and let it steep for twenty-four hours. Now drain off the water, and lay the samphire in a large copper pan with a good tablespoonful of salt, cover the pan down closely, and let it cook over a very slow fire till it is quite crisp and green; then124 VEGETABLES. lift it off at once, for if allowed to stay on tlie fire till it softens it is spoiled, rack it at once in a jar, cover it, and, wlien cold, fasten this cover down tightly. Another way is to prepare the saniphire as before, hut when drained from the steeping Avater, dry carefully in a clean cloth, lay it into jars, and pour over it sufficient boiling white wine vinegar (previously boiled Avith a small amount of ginger, mace, and Avhole pepper) to cover it, let it stand till cold, then cover doAvn tightly, and store. This Avill be ready for use in a fortnight. Sauercraut (Choucroute).—This is a German form of pickled cabbage much liked abroad, and gaining in popularity even here. It is generally bought ready prepared, but the process is not a difficult one. For this choose large, firm, and Avhite cabbages, trim off the outside and all damaged leaves, and wash it well in plenty of well-salted water. Now shred it down very finely, removing all the tough stalks; wash the discarded green outer leaves (not the damaged ones) carefully in cold salted water, then with them line neatly a firkin or clean Avooden tub, and place on this a layer of the shred cabbage, then a layer of salt; continue these layers till the tub is nearly full, pressing doAvn the shredded cabbage with your fist or a potato masher, so as to pack it as closely as possible. Noav cover the cabbage Avith a clean board, set a heavy weight on this, and leave it in a cool dry place for six weeks. A pint of salt to the peck of cabbage is the usual proportion, and to this many German houseAvives add peppercorns and a little powdered coriander seed. To cook it, wash125 VEGETABLES. the required amount thoroughly in two or three waters till it is only pleasantly salt, then put it on in plenty of boiling water, and let it cook steadily till tender, when it must be drained, and served on a hot vegetable dish. Any left over can be fried in butter, or dripping, or minced and heated with a little butter, cream, or good meat gravy. Abroad it is usually cooked with a piece of pickled pork, bacon, or sausages, and served with the meat upon it. Tt is especially good with sausages. Scallian—This, often mentioned in old cookery books, is simply another name for shallot, which see. Seakale {Chou de mer).—This may be cooked in any way recommended for celery, and is particularly good au gratin, in fritters, served with any rich sauce, or cold as a salad. Seakale takes twenty minutes to boil and needs attention, for if in the least overboiled it hardens and toughens, and nothing will soften it. Shallot {Echalotte).—A kind of small onion, much used for flavourings, sauces, &c. Its flavour is more marked, but also more delicate, than that of the common onion. It is used for fourniture, and for a d'uxelles mince, when chives are unobtainable. It makes a most delicate flavouring, if infused either in vinegar or white wine. Skirret (Chervis).—Brought over from China, this root was at one time very popular, as it is a good winter vegetable, if dug up as soon as the plant’s summer growth is over. The root (fleshy white tubers the size of a finger), with a delicate sweet taste, ig the part eaten, and may be cooked in anyVEGETABLES. 126 way given for parsnips. Abroad it is much used as a garnish. Slaw.—This is an American preparation of cabbage, and can be served both hot and cold ; in the former case it is a very nice vegetable entremet, in the latter it is a more or less recondite form of cabbage salad. hot.—Well wash a good white cabbage, using plenty of water for the purpose, shred it very fine (in America a special sheer is used), drain it thoroughly, place it in a pan, and fora quart of shredded cabbage pour in a good half pint of boiling water ; dust it all with half a teaspoonful of salt, cover down the pan, and let it boil till nearly tender, wliich it should be in about half an hour ; at the end of this time pour in a gill of milk and a teaspoonful of butter, and let it cook till this is all absorbed. Now turn it into a liot vegetable dish, and serve either with a Bcarnaise sauce or with the following : Dissolve in a tablespoonful of best white vinegar a pinch each of mustard, flour, salt, and caster sugar, with a tiny pinch of cayenne, stir into this a well beaten whole egg, then add a teaspoonful of butter, and stir it in the bain marie till fairly thick, when you add half a gill of boiling milk, and use it. Some cooks use thin tomato sauce instead of the above. An- other way is to prepare the cabbage as above, and boil it, till perfectly tender, in fast-boiling salted water. When thoroughly cooked, drain off all the water, stir into it a tablespoonful of butter, half a teaspoonful of salt, a dust each of cayenne and freshly-ground pepper, and from half to a gill of best vinegar, according to taste ; cover down the panVEGETABLES 127 and leave it at the side of the stove for five minutes or so till the sauce and the cabbage are well blended. Slaw, cold.—For this choose a good, firm head of cabbage, remove the outside and faded leaves, and shred it finely as before; steep it for an hour or so in very cold or iced water, then drain well, and serve either with a French oil and vinegar dressing, or with the hot sauce recommended for hot slaw, only using double the quantities there given and making the sauce in the usual way, and pouring it over the raw shred cabbage instead of mixing it all over the fire. Sorrel {Oseille).—This is such a wholesome vegetable that it is a great pity it is not more commonly used in this country. Abroad veal is seldom seen unless accom- panied by a puree of sorrel. It is best cooked with butter, preparing it thus: Pick it over well, nip off the stalks, and, if thick, tear the midrib from the leaves, tearing these also into shreds if large ; then well wash it in several waters, finally leaving it in a colander under a running tap for a little ; then drain, shake off most of the moisture, and put it in a pan with a dust of sugar and loz. of butter for each quart of picked sorrel, the moisture adhering to the latter being sufficient to cook it, with the butter. Let it cook till well reduced (it reduces a great deal), and when quite tender dust in a little fine flour, stir this over the fire till well mixed, when it must be all rubbed through a sieve, reheated, and blended with a little more butter or some cream, or some good veal gravy, and, if liked, a little more sugar.VEGETABLES. 128 and use. Sorrel may also be cooked by any recipe given for spinach. Sorrel is one of the things that require specially to be used fresh, hence probably its unpopularity here, where there is not sufficient demand to ensure a constant fresh supply. To soften the acid flavour objected to by some, use half and half sorrel and spinach, or one part spinach to three of sorrel. If the sorrel is old, and consequently rather more acid, mix it in the same way with lettuce instead of spinach, and allow a little more caster sugar. Spinach (Epinards).—Pick over the spinach (about 2 to .3lb.), removing all faded or imperfect leaves and any coarse stalk. Well wash in two or three waters, then either put it on in a pan with a little water, or only the water adhering to the leaves after washing, and let it cook till tender, which takes from ten to fifteen minutes. Now drain well, and rub it through a sieve. Melt together loz. of butter with a teaspoonful of flour, till perfectly smooth, add this to the spinach with pepper, salt, and a little new milk or cream, or good gravy, stir it all well together till hot, and serve. Spinach improves by reheating, and in France a largo quantity is cooked at a time (generally by the cri^meries, from whom it may be bought ready for re-heating and finishing off). But to ensure success with spinach cooked thus, the vegetable when blanched should be well drained, pre.ssed, and chopped, then sieved and finished oft’ with butter or cream, or an addition of rich veal stock as preferred. (French cooks almost invariably Stipulate for an extra allowance of butter when1-29 VEGETABLES. spinach is used.) When made thus into a puree it is served with croutons and poached eggs, or onufs mollets, as preferred. In England spinach is, after well washing, put on in a generous amount of boiling salted water, the leaves being pressed down from time to time to keep them covered whilst cooking. They are then strained, pressed, and finished off as before. Remember that the young leaves of nettles, beetroot, watercress, turnip tops, and even curly kale, are excellent treated as spinach. Spinach aux olives.—Take the requisite quantity of cold cooked spinach and stir it over the fire, season- ing it with a few drops of lemon juice, white pepper, salt, and butter, stirring in at the last a little cream, rich stock, or sauce, as preferred. Have ready as many scpiare croutons of delicately fried bread as you have guests, pile each up with the hot puree, and set on the top of each a stoned olive filled with anchovy or ham butter, or a rolled fillet of anchovy, and serve very hot as a vegetable entremets or a garnish. au gratin.—Remove the stalks and centre string from a pound of spinach, put it on in cold, slightly salted water, bring this to the boil, then strain it well, pressing all the moisture out of it gently, so as not to break or mash the leaves. Well butter a fireproof dish, dust it with a mixture of fine white breadcrumbs, grated Parmesan cheese, pepper and salt, lay in the spinach at full length, sprinkling it, as you place it, with the same mixture of crumbs, cheese, &c. ; dust it lightly with coralline pepper, lay tiny morsels of butter all over it, cook it fifteen minutes in a moderate oven, and serve very hot. K]30 VEGETABLES. Sjdnach greening.—This natural colouring is made in the same way as parsley greening, but does not keep as well. Souffles.—Prepare a pound of spinach as before, and, when sieved, put it into a basin with the yolks of three raw eggs, a pinch of white pepper, a dust of sugar, two tablespoonfuls of stiffly-whipped cream, and the whites of four eggs whisked to a stiff froth ; mix this all lightly together, pour the mixture into previously oiled, dried, and papered souffle cases, put a tiny pat of butter on each, and bake twelve to fifteen minutes in a moderate oven. Serve directly they are cooked with a dust of browned breadcrumbs on each. Sprue.—These are the long, thin green shoots that spring up on the asparagus roots when, after blanch- ing, these are allowed to grow naturally and uncovered. They are nicely flavoured, but of course are of no use for regular dishes, such as asperges en branches, &c., but they are excellent for garnishes, en petits pois, au gratin, en mayonnaise, in sauce, or as a filling for omelets, &c. See Asparagus. Stachys Tuberifera.—See Artichoke, Japanese. Succotash.—This is a favourite American dish, usually made of a mixture of cooked Indian corn and beans of various kinds. This dish is usually procured in tins, or canned, in this country, when directions for preparing are given with it; it makes a very nice entremets if curried, thus : Fry three or four tablespoonfuls of onion rings in butter till nicely browned, then in the same pan fry a full teaspoonful of curry powder; now add about a tablespoonful131 VEGETABLES. of fresh tomato pulp, moistening this all nicely with milk, stock, or water, and when slightly thickened stir in a tin of succotash, a teaspoonful of curry paste, and |oz. of cornflour or crime de riz, and let it all simmer very gently together till quite hot and well blended, then serve in a wall of rice, adding at the last a squeeze of lemon juice and a tiny pat of butter. Tansy.—A strongly-flavoured, aromatic herb, for- merly much used for colouring and flavouring pud- dings, omelets, sauces, &c., the leaves being crushed to obtain the juice, which gave both aroma and colour to anything to which it was added. Seldom, if ever, seen nowadays, though formerly a tansy pudding had as definite a place in the culinary calendar as mince-pies or Simnel cakes. Tarragon (Estragon).—This herb is in request for flavouring, its delicate green colouring and peculiar but aromatic flavour making it a great addition to salads, sauces, &c., and an effective garnish, usually in conjunction with chervil. When green it should always be used fresh, as if the least stale the flavour is greatly diminished. For this reason, when it is not to be had fresh, tarragon vinegar (made by infusing the young green shoots in the best white vinegar) should be used, minced parsley or spinach giving the requisite green appearance. Thyme (Thym).—Of this horticulturally there are many varieties, but for the kitchen two suffice, the common garden' thyme and the lemon thyme. Both are used fresh and dried, for flavourings, sauces, salads, and forcemeats, but for the latter purpose the lemon variety needs to be used with caution. K 2132 VEGETABLES. Tomato {Tornate).—The use of these has only become common of late years, tomato sauce alone having established itself here up to the latter half of the past century. Tomatoes may be baked, boiled, devilled, grilled, &c., or served en jmree, or as an entremets dressed in a variety of ways. The great secret about tomatoes is not to leave them to cook over long, as this destroys the delicacy of their flavour entirely. If served raw they are excellent as a salad, either alone or in conjunction with other vegetables, Avhilst they play an important part in hors d’oeuvres and savouries. For eating raw, and indeed for most entremets, they should be peeled, and this is easily done if they are dipped for a moment (only) into scalding or boiling water, when the peel comes off quite easily. But on no account leave them in the water, for soaking ruins them. baked.—Choose medium and CA'^en-sized tomatoes, remove the stalks, and halve them ; well butter a baking dish (using butter or Avell-clarified dripping, as you please), and put some more butter on and round the halves (using about 2oz. altogether for eight averaged-sized tomatoes), and bake for twenty minutes, more or less, according to size. If the tomatoes run large, peel them, slice them rather thickly, lay them in a single layer, touching but not overlapping, in a Avell-buttered baking dish, brush them over Avith a little liquified butter or dripping, dust with freshly-ground black pepper, a little salt, and some finely-minced parsley, and bake for seven to eight minutes, serving them very hot, Avith a tiny dust of sugar (unless very ripe) and a fcAv drops133 VEGETABLES. of lemon juice. When cooked thus they may be served as a garnish round roast meat, the liquor in the baking-tin being poured over them at the last; or they may be served separately thus : When cooked lift the slices on to a hot dish, and keep covered; meanwhile, add a little stock or good meat gravy to the liquor in the baking-tin, let it just boil up, and serve poured over the tomatoes. These are very good if placed on croutons of fried bread cut to match, and dusted with minced chives and coralline pepper, the gravy poured over all, and, lastly, a cube of hot marrow set on each. Needless to say, these must be served at once, very hot. Tomatoes, devilled.—Slice the tomatoes rather thickly after peeling them, coat them with butter or well-clarified dripping, with Avhich you have rubbed up some mustard flour, dust generously with freshly-ground black and coralline pepper, and bake or grill sharply for five to ten minutes, according to size and thickness. fried.—These make a delicious accom- paniment to roast meat or fried bacon. Choose small tomatoes (the so-called “ bird ” kind, about the size of a large cherry are nicest), as whole and perfect as possible ; heat a little fat or butter in a pan (or use the bacon fat when the rashers have been lifted out), and toss the tomatoes in this, gently turning them now and again with a blunt skewer (if pricked with a fork, the juice and flavour all exudes) till they are glazed and cooked, which they should be in from eight to ten minutes, and serve. gratinees.—There are two or three_waysVEGETABLES. IM of doing this ; for instance, peel and slice the tomatoes, and arrange them in a well-buttered dish, previously strewn with crumbs, grated cheese, pepper and salt, either in layers by themselves, or alternately with parboiled and sliced onion, cover these with grated j cheese, breadcrumbs, pepper, salt, and minced chives i or parsley, and repeat these layers till the dish is , full, finishing with the crumbs, &c.; put some morsels of butter over it all, and bake for twenty minutes or so. Or, again, choose large tomatoes, cut a thick slice off the top (or if very large, halve them), scoop out as much of the flesh as you can without endanger- ing the skins, and put the latter aside. Now fry a small tablespoonful of minced chives in ^oz. of butter, till nicely coloured, then add the scooped out pulp of half a dozen tomatoes, and stir it altogether over the fire till the tomatoes are cooked; then sieve it, add sufficient freshly-grated and seasoned white breadcrumbs to thicken it, mix to it the well-beaten yolks of two eggs'for every three tomato cases, and fill the tomato cases with this mixture, dust them lightly with grated cheese, put a tiny pat of butter on each, and bake on a buttered baking-tin for ten minutes, and use. Tomato puree.—Break up six good tomatoes, and put them into a pan with 1 to l^oz. fresh butter, with a small quartered onion, a bouquet (thyme, parsley, bay-leaf, &c.), one clove, and enough cold water just to cover the tomatoes; add a little salt and some peppercorns, bring it gently to the boil, shaking the pan from time to time lest the pim'e should stick to the pan, and when tender enough sieve135 VEGETABLES. it; remove the pips and the peel, rubbing the sieve well to extract every drop of pulp, leaving the pips and the skins quite dry, scrape the residue under the sieve, and add it to the rest of the puree, for this is the best part. Cook this uncovered, or the purt% will be too thin. This puree, if made rather thick, and mixed with a little grated Parmesan cheese, minced chives, and coralline pepper, makes delicious tomato souffles, according to the recipe given for spinach souffles. Tomatoes, steioed.—Peel, stalk, and slice as many tomatoes as you need, and lay them in a pan (enamelled for choice), with loz. of butter or delicately-clarified dripping for each ^Ib. of sliced tomato; cover the pan, and cook very slowly till tender, which they should be in about twenty minutes, then serye. If liked, the tomatoes need only be halved instead of sliced. stuffed.—Prepare the tomatoes as for tomates gratinees, removing the pips and pulp with a silver spoon, and set these cases on a well-buttered baking dish. Mix the pulp, freed from pips, with breadcrumbs or cooked rice, minced or grated ham, tongue, or any meat, finely-minced shallot, thyme, marjoram, parsley, pepper, and fait, and fill the cases with this mixture, piling it up well, shake a little salad oil, or put some morsels of butter over each, and bake for a few minutes. If liked, mush- rooms may be used instead of meat, whilst anchovies, capers, truffles, &c., can one and all be used as you please. The proportions are two tablespoonfuls of freshly-made white breadcrumbs and a teaspoonful136 VEGETABLES. of minced chives or shallot for each tablespoonful of ham or other flavouring. This is a very favourite and most useful dish, as all sorts of scraps can be used for it. Broken up cauliflower, asparagus, fish, &c., can all be used instead of meat. Tomatoes may be cooked in so many ways that it is impossible in a book of this size to do more than give a few recipes ; but, given these, an intelligent cook will not find it hard to evolve other little dishes. It may be men- tioned that tomatoes blend admirably with macaroni, and are a great addition, quartered, to any casserole and most stews. Tomato garnishes.—Tomatoes may be used in various ways for garnish. For instance, choose small ones, cut a slice off the stalk end, and with a silver spoon scoop out the pips, and a little of the pulp, then press back the flesh with the bowl of the spoon, season the inside lightly with pepper, a very little salt, oil, and a few drops of tarragon vinegar, minced parsley, and, if liked, chives, then fill up the centre with any nice mayonnaise to taste, putting on the top an olive stuffed with anchovy butter or a rolled anchovy fillet. These make an excellent garnish for cold roast meat. If larger tomatoes are used they may be scalded, peeled, and halved, the inner side being treated as above, and then filled up with any dainty salading to taste. For instance, Avith cold fowl, or a chaufroix of lamb cutlets, prepare the tomatoes thus, then fill them with asparagus points or young green peas tossed in mayonnaise sauce, and, if liked, set a plover’s egg or a cube of foie gras truffe on the top of each. This last is, of137 VEGETABLES. course, not indispensable. Or a plain lettuce salad only, seasoned with a vinaigrette dressing, is very effective served in this way. With cold game, fill up with a mushroom salad. Another pretty garnish may be made by cutting small unpeeled tomatoes with a sharp knife into sections the shape and size of the divisions of an orange, seasoning these with oil, tarragon vinegar, freshly-ground black pepper, salt, and minced-parsley, or green tarragon and chervil. These can be used alone or in a salad. Mind that for this the tomatoes are not over ripe or soft, or the appearance of the garnish will be spoilt. Some cooks fry such sections and serve them hot, dusted with pepper and salt, piled up as an accompaniment to roast mutton, &c. Truffles {Truffes).—These, in any soigne kitchen, should be used fresh or not at all. The bottled truffles are practically useless, as their flavour has almost entirely perished, and there is nothing left but a leathery, indigestible substance, which, but for fashion, we should never dream of trying to eat. Of truffles there are two kinds, the black or common one, and the Piemontais or white truffle, seldom if ever seen in this country. If bought fresh, truffles should be very carefully washed and brushed with a good stiff nail brush, to remove every trace of earth and sand from the rough skin, then peel them, put them on in a pan with sufficient chicken stock and sherry, in equal quantities, to cover them, a table- spoonful of butter or the fat off rich soup, an onion, and a bouquet; let this all cook gently together for fifteen minutes in a closely-covered pan. NowU8 VEGETABLES. turn them out into a basin, and leave them to get cold in their own liquor. They can now be trimmed if necessary, but remember that all such trimmings, together with the stock in which they were cooked, must be saved, as the former are excellent for force- meats, Ac., whilst the latter is perfect for sauces, gravies, &c. Never use the rough outer skin. Other ways are the following : Truffies, steamed.—After washing and peeling the truffles as above, fill the lower part of a steamer with two parts water to one of sherry, arrange the truffles on the steamer, and steam for an hour. Serve in a napkin. The proper truffes d la serviette, are cooked when washed and brushed (but not peeled) by wrapping each in a sheet of wet paper, and burying them in hot wood ashes for an hour, when thev are taken out of the papers and served in a napkin. d Vltalienne.—Well wash, peel, and slice some nice fresh truffles, lay these in a buttered fire- proof dish, strew them with finely-minced parsley, chives, or shallot, pepper, and a little salt; pour enough best salad oil over them to moisten all nicely, then cover them down closely, set them in the oven for fifteen to twenty minutes, and serve with a squeeze of lemon juice over them at the last. au champagne.—Line a stewpan with sliced ham, lay the washed and peeled truffles on this, with some sliced onion, peppercorns, cloves, and salt, pour in sufficient champagne to cover all this generously, just bring it to the boil, and draw it to the side and let it all simmer gently for an hour or more; then lift the truffles out carefully, andVEGETABLES. U9 serve in a napkin. The liquor makes delicious sauce for cutlets, &c. Turnips (Navels).—Of these there are practically (for culinary purposes) two kinds, the English and the French, the latter being the most expensive, and, according to a good many cooks, possessing the most flavour, but this I venture to believe is a good deal due to their never being seen on the market save when young. As a matter of fact, once they are past their first youth, turnips should, according to connoisseurs, never be served save mashed. If old, turnips should be rather thickly peeled, but when really young it is sufficient to well wash and scrape them. To boil them put them on in slightly salted water, let this reboil, then draw it to the side of the stove, and let them simmer gently till done, which, for young ones, will take from twenty to thirty minutes, whilst older ones require from forty-five minutes to an hour and a half. These latter may he halved or quartered, according to their size, and then naturally take more or less time to cook, according to their size. mashed.—Cook the turnips as above, drain them and sieve them, put on this pulp with a pat of butter, pepper, salt, and, if liked, grated nutmeg, stir them well over a slow fire till the puree is suffi- ciently thick and dried, moistening it if necessary with a little new milk or cream. sauced.—New turnips boiled as above can, when well drained, be served with either of the following sauces : First stir together loz. of butter, and a dessertspoonful of flour till smooth, season140 VEGETABLES. witli pepper, salt, a dust of sugar, and a very little grated nutmeg if liked, moisten with a gill or so (according to quantity) of new milk or cream, let this just boil up, lay in the turnips, let it simmer altogether for a few minutes, and serve as Navels a la cn'me. If you add to the above sauce the yolk of an egg beaten up in one or two spoonfuls of cream, they become Navels a la Pouletle. Or, if preferred, tomato, bechamel, veloute, or cheese cream sauce (given for artichokes) may be used in the same way with advantage. Turnips cooked in this way must be small and even, both in shape and size ; failing this, however, they should be trimmed into little even-sized cones or pear shapes, but for ordinary purposes it is best to avoid this, as it entails a good deal of waste. Turnips, glazed.—Choose some new turnips as above, or, if preferred, cut them into quarters, shaping these a little like the sections of an orange ; parboil them in salted water for five or ten minutes, then drain them thoroughly, and place them in a well- buttered saute pan, sprinkle them with plenty of powdered loaf sugar, set the pan on the fire, and, as soon as the turnips begin to colour, moisten with a little clear stock, season with pepper, salt, and, if needed, a little more sugar, let them stew' gently till quite tender, and serve with their sauce over and round them. Turnip Tops.—These, in season in the earl}^ spring, may be cooked by any of the recipes given for spinach, but take a little longer to cook. They are excellent au gralin. It must be remembered in cooking these141 VEGETABLES. that a large quantity of water must be allowed in the boiling, as this removes the bitter taste some- times noticed in this vegetable, especially when they are no longer in their first youth. Old turnip tops should never be used under any circumstances,, but if by any accident they must be cooked when slightly passed their prime, they are immensely improved by being blanched first for five to ten minutes or so in boiling water, then pouring this: away, rinsing the turnip tops in cold water, draining them Avell, and finishing them off in fresh boiling: salted water. Late in the season the large stalks, of these tops are excellent if blanched and cooked like celery or salsify. Vegetable Marrow {Courges a la motile).—These- vegetables are, in this country, usually served far too old. To be eaten in perfection they should not be larger than a fairly large duck’s egg; in this state they need not be peeled, a great advantage, as, being so watery, directly they are cut marrows lose a great deal both of their moisture and of their flavour ; if chosen small, they should be put on in boiling salted water, boiled fast for fifteen minutes or so, and served whole with maitre d’hotel, tomato, or cheese cream sauce to taste, and, if cold, make a delicious salad with a vinaigrette sauce. baked.—When baked, vegetable marrows are almost always served stuffed, either with meat, fish, or any of the savoury stuffings recommended for aubergines, tomatoes, &c. Cut an average sized vegetable marrow in half, remove the pips and the pulp adhering to them, fill each half with the stuffing,.142 VEGETABLES. tlien put these together again, wrap them up in a well-buttered paper, and tie the marrow into shape, lay this on a buttered baking-tin, cover down closely with another tin, and bake; when ready lift them out carefully, dish them on a hot dish after removing the papers, and serve with tomato sauce and some good clear gravy. The time these will take to bake must necessarily depend on the size of the marrow. Another way is to halve the marrows lengthways, remove the pips, &c., and parboil them in salted water, with an onion stuck vdth two or three cloves, and a bouquet; now drain them carefully, set the halves in a generously buttered baking-tin, and fill them up with farce to taste, dust this with freshly- grated breadcrumbs, grated Parmesan, minced parsley, pepper, and salt, cover with a buttered paper, and bake for twenty minutes or so. Vegetable Marrow au gratin.—Peel and parboil a couple of medium sized marrows, quartering these lengthways, drain them carefully, and arrange them in a well-buttered dish (previously rubbed with cut shallot); .sprinkle them generously with grated Parmesan •cheese, fresh breadcrumbs, coralline pepper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg, put some morsels of butter all over the top, and bake for about twenty minutes. It is manifestly impossible, in a book of this size, to give even a tithe of the ways in whieh vegetables can be cooked, and especially is this the case with vegetable marrows, which can be sent to table in almost as many ways as potatoes can be, so space ■can only be afforded for two recipes seldom seen in this country-VEGETABLES. 143 Courges au jus.—Mince finely a small piece of fat bacon, and fry it with a small minced onion, season- ing it with pepper, salt, and minced sweet herbs ; when the onion begins to colour lay in the marrow (which should have been peeled, the pips removed, and the whole quartered lengthways); pour in enough good brown stock to cover the marrow thoroughly, and let it stew very gently till tender. Now dish the marrow and keep it hot whilst you strain the sauce and thicken it with a little brown roux (or butter and flour cooked together till perfectly blended and smooth, and brought to a light coffee colour), pour this thickened sauce over the marrow, and serve very hot. Courges en fricot.—Peel and seed a fairly large vegetable marrow, and cut it into strips one and a half inches long by three-quarters of an inch; put these on a plate, strew plenty of finely-powdered salt over them, cover them with another plate, and let them stand for about two hours ; now lift the plates together, and pour off all the water you can, then dry the strips in a clean cloth, being careful not to break them; turn them into another well-floured cloth, and toss them about lightly to coat each piece evenly with flour. Put a few of these pieces at a time into the frying basket, and boil in very hot fat. Directly the strips begin to colour and to crisp, lift them out on to a sheet of kitchen paper, and let them drain in front of the fire till the rest of the pieces are all cooked in the same way; dust with fine salt and coralline pepper, and send to table with a quartered lemon and144 VEGETABLES. brown bread and butter. Vegetable marrows are very good mashed, and in that condition are extremely nice cooked like Duchesse potatoes, or fried in batter. Vegetable macedoine.—This is a very favourite French garnish, and is used both hot and cold. The vegetables are cooked separately in salted boiling water, then drained, and tossed in a little butter and a morsel of sugar till nicely glazed, when they are piled up in a shape, and put in the centre of the dish as a garnish to cutlets, &c. Another way is, when parboiled, to mix them with just enough rather thick sauce (white or brown, according to the use you wish to make of them) to make them adhere, and toss them over the fire in this till quite hot, and serve them as before. A macedoine should contain four different kinds of vegetables, and frequently does consist of many more. French beans, flageolets, haricots, turnips, asparagus points, peas, celeriac, broccoli, cauliflower, &c., can all be used, and the colours should be nicely assorted. Root vegetables, such as carrots or turnips, &c., should be either cut into dice, slices, or small olive shapes, whilst the cauliflower is broken up into tiny sprays. cold.—Prepare the vegetables exactly as above, and leave them till cold, then mix them with just liquid aspic, or any mayonnaise aspic to taste, and either mould them or serve them piled up rockily in the centre of a dish. There is another garnish of this sort known as the Jardiniere, and it is often difficult to distinguish between the two, as many cooks seem to use the two words inter- changeably ; but I believe, strictly speaking, thisVEGETABLES. 145 vegetable garnish is called a maa'doine, when moulded or heaped up altogether, whilst if the different veget- ables are served round the dish to be garnished, in separate little heaps, each kind by itself, it is known as a Jardiniere. Vegetable souffl'.—^Almost any kind of vegetable may be made into a souffle, if boiled till quite soft, carefully dried in a clean cloth, and then sieved ; to half a pint (a breakfastcupful) of this puree add two tablespoonfuls of any rich and thick sauce to taste, the yolks of two eggs, with pepper and salt, and at the last the whites of the eggs beaten to a very stiff froth; pour into one large, or several small, paper souffle cases, and bake in a hot oven for twenty minutes for the large case, or ten to twelve minutes for the small ones, and serve at once. These souffles may be vai’ied almost indefinitely by using different flavourings; for instance, grated Parmesan, coralline pepper, minced parsley or chives, &c., may be all used, or two kinds of vegetables may be mixed, making a puree with one and stirring in the other in cubes or sprays, according to its nature. Thus a puree of tomatoes mixed with broken-up cauliflower, and seasoned with coralline pepper and grated cheese, makes a very palatable vegetable entremets. for soup.—The question of the proportions of vegetables to be used in soup making is one that often perplexes novices, so we may here give the ideal proportions observed by M. Gouffi^ and other first-rate chefs. For each pound of meat in stock- making allow 3^oz. each of carrots, turnips, and large onions, 4 to .5oz. leeks, rather under ^oz. of celery, L146 VEGETABLES. and two-thirds of an ounce of parsnip. These last are not indispensable, but may be replaced by extra carrots; the leeks, also, if not at hand, may be replaced by an extra Spanish onion or so ; whilst in winter the pro- portion of turnip may be reduced by fully one-third. These proportions are for pot au feu, clear soup, or consomme. 'Watercress (Cresson).—This is seldom used here save in the raw state, and if well washed and nicely seasoned with oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt, makes a decidedly praiseworthy salad, alone or mixed with other salading. But it .also is very good if cooked, and, in Germany especially, is much liked, both as a vegetable entremets and as soup. d Valleraande.—Well wash the cress in several waters, then chop it lightly; stir together over the fire 2oz. each of butter and flour till per- fectly blended and delicately browned, now moisten it with half a pint of water (or weak stock) and stir it all till it boils; season it with white pepper, salt, a grate of nutmeg, and sufficient lemon juice, or vinegar, to acidulate it pleasantly, lay in the cress, let it boil up well, and serve. steioed.—Pick over and well wash the cress, then boil it in plenty of boiling salted water till nearly cooked, when it must be lifted out, and drained on a colander to remove all the water possible. Mean- while melt l^oz. of butter, then lay in the cress, dredge it lightly with a little sifted flour, and stir it for ten minutes over the fire; now add half a pint of good stock, season as before, and cook it all for ten minutes more, stirring it all the time. Serve147 VEGETABLES. very hot, garnished with croutons, or fleurons of cheese pastry, and quartered hard-boiled eggs. Yams (Ignames).—Of these there are several kinds, the white, or “ floury ” ; the Guinea; the hard; the yellow, or “affoo”; the negro; the Japanese; and the Indian yam. The white yam is generally considered the best. These tubers are in appearance something between Jerusalem artichokes and potatoes, particularly the sweet potato or batata, which they greatly resemble, though actually belonging to different species. They can, however, be cooked in the same way. boiled.—Peel them, and wash them well in cold water to remove the slime which is apt to cling to them; now put them on in cold water, and when half cooked, add salt to taste. They take about the same time to cook as potatoes. roasted.—Well wash and lightly scrape, but do not peel the yams, then bake in a hot oven till the skin is crisp, and the inside soft. Serve as they are in a napkin, sending butter and pepper to table with them. Or, when cooked, they may be quickly peeled, and coarsely sieved and served like “ snow potatoes.” Yams may also be boiled, and mashed with an egg, a little butter, pepper, and salt, and served plain; or made into balls and fried like potato duchesses ; or balls of the mashed yam may be dipped in batter and fried; or the yams may be washed, peeled, sliced, and fried till crisp in hot fat; or they may be devilled, by slicing them as before, buttering both sides well, dusting these thickly with salt, cayenne, and freshly-ground black pepper, L 2148 VEGETABLES. and broiled; or, lastly, they may be parboiled and served sliced in curry sauce; or, when parboiled, cut into straws and fried in hot fat. Indeed, yams may be cooked in most of the ways advised for potatoes.INDEX. Artichoke, 8. Globe, 8, 9. ,, en salade, 10. ,, fritt e r s (or beignets), 10. „ stuffed, 10, 11. „ to preserve, 12. „ a la barigoule, 11. „ a ritalienne, 11. „ alaParmesane,!!. Bottoms, fried, 12. „ en salade, 14. „ meringu^es, 12. ,, a la Cannes, 13. „ „ Morny, 13. Jerusalem, 14. „ cream mould, 16. ,, chips, 17. ., fritters, 17. „ mashed, 16. ,, a la creme, 15. „ au four, 15. „ „ gratin, 16. „ „ jus, 15. ,, „ Parmesan, 15. „ aux tomates, 15. Artichoke, Japanese {Stachys tubenfera), 17. Asparagus, 17, 18. au gratin, 20. canned, 19. en petits pois, 20. „ branches, 20. fritters, 20. omelet, 20. sprue, 20. Aubergine (Brinjal, or egg- plant), 20. baked, 21. fried, 22. grilled, 21. scalloped, 22. stuffed, 21, 22. k la Languedocienne, 22. ,, Turque, 23. Balm, 23. Bananas, 23. boiled, 24. curried, 24. fried, 24. Basil, 25. Bay leaf, 25.150 INDEX. Bay leaf extract, 25. Beans, 25. broad, 25, 26. „ and bacon, 26. French, 27. „ or flageolets, 27, 30. ,, stewed, 28. „ an lard, 28. „ panaches, 29. „ salad, 29. „ to preserve, 29. dried, or butter, 29. baked, and pork, 30. Haricots blancs, 31. „ a la Fran9aise, 32. „ „ Lyonnaise,32. „ „ Monceaux,32. „ au jus, 32. „ ., lard, 32. pudding, 32. puree, 33. Beetroot, 33. baked, 34. leaves, to cook, 35. salad, 34. fi la Poitevine, 34. Borage, 35. Bouquet garni, 65. Brinjal (see Aubergine). Broccoli, 35. sprouts, 35. Brussels sprouts, 35. ^ la crt'-me, 37. au gratin, 36. „ jus, 36. ,, lard, 36. Bru.ssels sprouts rechauffes, 36 Burnet, 37. Cabbage, 3, 37. cake, 38. dressed, 38, 40. steamed, 38. stewed, 39. a la cr^me, 39. „ maitre d’hOtel, 38. au lard, 39. red, 40. „ a I’allemande, 40. Cardoons, 40. a la moelle, 41. „ poulette, 41. au jus, 41. Carrots, 42. a la flamande, 43. ,, maitre d’hotel, 42. ,, menagere, 42. „ Nivernaise, 43. glazed, 43. mould, 44. old, 43. puree, 45. salad, 44. souffle, 44. Cauliflower, 45-47. au four, 47. ,, gratin, 47. fritters (Villeroi), 47. en beignets, 48. souffle, 48. Celeriac, 49. en salade, 49. Celery, 49. au gratin, 50.151 INDEX Celery au jus, 50. curried, 51. en puree, 51. ,, salade, 51. “ Chapon,” 61. Chervil, 51. Chestnuts, 51. boiled, 51. puree, 52. stuffingf, 52. „ with truffles, 53. Chicory, 53. Chives, 53. Colcannon, 53. Corn, Indian, 54. ,, boiled, 55. „ fritters, 55. „ grated, 55. ,, omelet, 57. „ oysters, 57. „ pie, 56. ,, polenta, 54. ,, roasted, 56. „ stewed, 57. „ succotash, 56. „ with tomatoes, 56. „ gniocchi alia Napolitana, 55. salad, or lamb’s lettuce, 58. Cucumber, 58. a la maitre d’hdtel, 58. ,, poulette, 58. au gratin, 59. „ jus, 58. fried, 58. Dandelion, 59. salade a la Comtoise, 60. Dandelion, stewed, 60. Egg plant (see Aubergine). Endive, 61. salad, 61. Fennel, 62. Fenouillette, 62. Garlic, 62. vinegar or wine, 62. “ Good King Henry,” 63. Greens, 63. Herbs, 64. M. Gouffe’s mixture, 64- to store, 64. j Hops, 65. I fried, 66. salad, 66. i Horseradish, 66. Kohl-rabi, 67. Laver, 67. Leeks, 67. au gratin, 68. en salade, 69. stewed, 68. Lentils, 69. a la maitre d’hdtel, 69. au lard, 70. curried, 70. Lettuce, 71. a la creme, 72. stewed, 72. Marjoram, 73. Mayonnaise, 121. Mint, 73. sauce, 73. Morels, 73. Mushrooms, 74. k la Bordelaise, 75.INDEX. 152 Mushrooms ala bourgeoise,75. „ creme, 75. „ moelle, 81. au gratin, 82. baked, 78. braized, 76. broiled, 76. croquettes, 77. devilled, 77. dried, 78. essence, 78. ketchup, 79. pie, 79. powder, 80. puree, 80. salad, 82. souffle, 82. stewed, 82. stuffed, 83. sur le plat, 84. Nasturtiums, 84. pickled, 84. salad, 85. vinegar, 85. Nettles, 85. Okra, 86. au gratin, 87. boiled, 87. Olives, 87. mock, 88. Onions, 88. a la Moscovite, 89. au gratin, 89. ,, jus, 92. baked, 89. en casserole, 90. fried, 90. Onions, glazed, 90. juice, 91. puree Bretonne, 91. „ Soubise, 91. salad, 91. .sautes, 92. stewed, 92. stuffed, 92. threads, 93. to store, 5. Parsley, 93. fried, 93. juice, 94. mock, 95. to blanch, 94. to mince, 91. to store, 95. Parsnips, a la creme, 9.5. balls, 96. boiled, 96. cones, 97. en .salade, 98. fried, 97. garnish, 97. scalloped, 98. Peas, 98. a I’anglaise, 98. a la bourgeoise, 101. „ fran^aise, 101. au lard, 100. boiled, 98. „ in the shell, 99. dried, 102. jugged, 100. pod-water, 99. pudding, 102. puree, 101.153 INDEX. Pea salad, 101. stewed, 100. Pimpernel, 103. Potatoes, 103. boiled, 3, 103-105. k la creme, 106, 114. a I’Helvetienne, 114. a la maitre d’hotel, 107. „ marecbale, 107. „ Parisienne, 107. baked, 108. au gratin, 107. balls. 111. batons au Parmesan, 111. border, 109. cases, 109. croquettes, 111. curried, 110. fried. 111. new, to boil, 113. pommes Anna, 105. „ „ glacees,105. „ au Parmesan, 108. „ duchesses, 110. „ frites, 112. „ Georgette, 108. „ olives, 105. ,, pailles, 112. „ Saratoga, 112. „ sautes, 114. „ soufl04es, 115. mashed, 112. snow, 115. souffle, 115. Pumpkin, 116. mashed, 116. pie, 117. M Purslane, 117. Radish, 117. boiled, 118. leaves, boiled, 118. Eampion, 118. Eavigotte, 118. Saffron, 118. extract, 119. Sage, 119. Salad, 119. artichoke, 10. „ bottom, 14. „ Japanese, 17. bean, French, 29. beetroot, 34. carrot, 44. celeriac, 49. celery, 51. Comtoise, a la, 60. dressing and mixing, 120. endive, 61. fourniture for, 119. Gauloise, 120. Hongroise, 120. hop, 66. leek, 69. mushroom, 82. nasturtium, 85. okra, 87. onion, 91. parsnip, 98. peas, 101. potato, 103. salsify, 122. tomato, 132. Salsify and scorzancra, 16, 121.INDEX. 154 Salsify and scorzanera, boiled, 121. garnish, 123. patties (vegetarian), 122. salad, 122. Samphire, 123. Sauce a la cr^me, 33. allemande, 46. asperges, 19. beurre fondu, 86. „ noir, or noisette, 28. blanche, 9. Cannes, 13. d’uxelles, 11. estragon, 46. maitre d'hotel, 10. mayonnaise, 121. mint, 73. , Morny, 13. mousseline, 19. mousseuse 18. oiled butter, 9. poulette, 33. slaw, 126. vinaigrette, 10. Sauercraut, 124. Scallions, 125. Seakale, 125. “ Sel epice,” 65. Shallots, 125. Skirret, 125. Slaw, hot and cold, 126-127. Sorrel, 127. Souffle mixture, 48. Spinach, 128. au gratin, 129. Spinach aux olives, 129. greening, 130. souffle, 130. Sprue, 130. Stachys tuberifera, 130. Succotash, 130. Tansy, 130. Tarragon, 130. Thyme, 130. Tomatoes, 132. baked, 132. devilled, 133. fried, 133. garnish, 136. gratinees, 133. puree, 134. souffle, 135. stewed, 135. stuffed, 135. Truffles, 137. a ITtalienne, 138. a la serviette, 138. au champagne, 138. steamed, 138. Turnips, 2, 139. ii la cr^me, 140. „ poulette, 140. glazed, 140. mashed, 139. sauced, 139. tops, 140. Vegetables, 2, 3, 4. canned, 5. for soup (proportions), 3, 5, 145. frostbitten, 5. garnishes, 5.INDEX. 155 Vegetable jardiniere, 6, 145. macedoine, 5, 6, 144, 145. marrow, 141. „ an gratin, 142. „ „ jus, 143. ,, baked, 141. „ boiled, 141. „ en fricdt, 143. old, to cook, 4. root, to prepare, 2. souflae, 145. time for cooking, 7. to gather, 8. Vegetables, to steam, 4. white, to prepare, 2. Watercress, 146. k I’allemande, 146. stewed, 146. Water, to salt, 3. Yams, 147. baked, 147. boiled, 147. curried, 148. fried, 147. mashed, 147. roasted, 147. sieved, 147. f■QiDBURVs COCOA Absolutely Pure, therefore Best- TAKE CARE when drinking Cocoa to have the pure article only, as many so-called “ Pure ” Cocoas contain added matter that is not only unnecessary, but sometimes positively harmful CADBURY’S COCOA IS ABSOLtTElY PlRt, and untampered with^ and can be taken with the greatest benfit in Childhood, 'n Youth, or in Old Age I b " Without exception the most popular Cocoa of the day; we are.glad to give it the highest praise. For Nourishment there IS nothing superior to be found" --h\e.o\CAi. Magazine CaDBURYs Cocoa is a Perfect Food.