“THE BEDFORD HEAD,” MAIDEN LANE, COVENT GARDEN. PROPRIETOR WILLIAM WARD. “ The portion of Maiden-lane in which this tavern stands is an interesting part of Old London, and full of agreeable memories. It was next door that Andrew Marvell, the poet and patriot, lived ; and here it was that he was lodging when Lord Danby, ascending his stairs with a message and bribe from the king, found him too proud and honest to accept his offer. It is said that he was dining off the pickings of a mutton bone, and that as soon as the Lord Treasurer was gone he was obliged to send to a friend to borrow a guinea. “Voltaire, on his visit to England, resided two doors off, at the house of a fashionable French peruquier with the sign of ‘ The White Peruke.’ He was then young, had been imprisoned in the Bastile for a libel, and on his release he came over here, and procured many subscriptions for the‘Henriade.’ He remained here many years, becoming acquainted with Pope, Congreve, Young, and other celebrated literary men of the time ; and to the old tavern, tradition asserts, they frequently resorted. “ Exactly opposite is a portion of the premises belonging to Messrs. Godfrey and Cooke, of Southamptou-street, the oldest chemist aud druggist’s shop iu the metropolis, having been established in 1680. “ A hundred years ago, Mr. Ambrose Godfrey, who lived here, proposed to extinguish fires by a ‘ new method of explosion and suffocation,’ thereby anticipating the “ fire annihilators ” of the present day. “ At No. 26 was born Turner, the celebrated landscape painter, and here he lived till the year 1800, often spending an evening within the walls of the ‘ Bedford,’ till he was elected an Asso- ciate of the Royal Academy. “ The present tavern, under the direction of Mr. Ward, is extremely well conducted, and in the spacious room above the members of an excellent Literary and Artistic Club, called the ‘Re-Union,’ meet thrice a-week for the interchange of social and friendly feeling, and the discussion of those subjects which are most intimately associated with literature and art.”—London Newspaper.