4 Call and mark the register, and insist upon clear and polite responses. The title of the lesson should be on the black- board. Write the recipe of the first lesson on the blackboard, and dictate this slowly to the class, letting them write the in- gredients and method, from time to time as convenient, in their note-books. It is often best to let the class watch the teacher till the dishes are prepared, and then write the recipes while the food is cooking. In no case should the writing prevent the pupils from seeing the whole process. Wash your hands, and draw the children’s attention to this, then weigh out ingredients. If the class has had several lessons, question how to manage if no scales are at hand, and show measurements in spoons, etc. (if the first lesson, show this). Put all the ingredients upon plates, and prepare them, being scrupulously clean and tidy in the work. Show the food in basins and saucepans at all important stages, ask questions, and speak so as to emphasize all the various processes, refer to past lessons, and contrast mode of preparation. After finishing each dish, carefully wipe down both table and board before beginning anything else. By setting the example make the class clearly understand that, when practising, they must be clean and tidy also. When all the dishes are prepared, allow the children to change their positions, and relax their attention for about five minutes (do not allow any noise), then close their note-books. Clean the blackboard, and when time permits, question the recipe from the class, writing each ingredient (with price) on the blackboard as it is named. Let the class add up the cost, and write this, showing how to choose the material. Question the mode of work, and write this also. At a first lesson the teacher should demonstrate the washing up and tidy putting away of all the things used during the lesson, instead of a blackboard lesson, or in addition to a shorter scheme. If time permit, write the food value of the dishes cooked (or one of them) very briefly and simply on the blackboard, and allow the children to copy it. The blackboard scheme should be a summary of the most important parts of the lesson, and should always have a direct bearing upon the practical work in a lesson to young children. In questioning, summon the careless and back-