io8 How to Fry. To fry is to boil in fat or oil, therefore the fat must boil, and it must cover whatever you wish to fry. When fat boils it is quite still—leaves off moving or bubbling, and a thin blue smoke or vapour rises from it. Oil takes longer to boil than fat, is nicer and more economical to fry in, as it wastes much less in use. Oil will not clarify like fat, but must be strained after use, so as to get all the sediment and pieces out of it. Fat can be kept a long time to fry in ; it should be strained after using, and it can be clarified often, provided that it is not allowed to bum; if it is burnt it is spoilt. Meat and fish should not be fried in the same fat. To Clarify Fat. Cut up any scraps of cooked or uncooked fat into small pieces, and put them into a stewpan with enough cold water to thoroughly cover them. Let this boil with the lid off until all the water has evaporated or boiled away in steam, and nothing is left of the pieces of fat but dry brownish bits. You must stir it occasionally, for fear it should burn. When this has cooled a little, it must be strained through an old sieve or strainer into a basin. When quite cold, it makes a cake of pure white fat, which is used to fry in instead of lard or oil. It is also used in plain cooking in the place of butter. A good basinful of fat will last a long time for frying in, provided it is not allowed to burn; if it burns, it is spoilt, and must be thrown away. Fat should always be strained after you have used it, to get out all the little pieces of bread- crumbs, etc., which would stick to whatever was fried in it next time; it can be reclarified very often, and fresh fat added to it. If you have not enough pieces of fat left from the trimmings of your meat, it can be bought of the butcher for from fourpence to eightpence the pound. Fish and meat must not be fried in the same fat. To clarify dripping.—Pour it out of the dripping-pan into a basin with about half a pint of cold water; when it is cold, take the cake of dripping off the water, scrape all the sediment oft the bottom of the cake and wipe it dry; throw away the water, which will contain all the impurities.