57 Remove skin, gristle and part of the fat (if very fat) from the meat, chop it very fine; chop up the piece of onion, fry it lightly in a little butter or dripping, add the meat. Stir a few seconds over the fire, add then a little flour and last of all the stock, season with pepper, salt and a little grated nutmeg, and chopped parsley. Spread on a plate to cool. Put the flour in a basin, add a pinch of salt, shred the dripping finely, or if you use butter divide into little bits and rub in the flour with the tips of your fingers, when well mixed and perfectly smooth, add a little water, and make it into a stiffish paste, then roll out on a floured board, stamp out some rounds about three and a half inches in diameter, put some of the prepared meat mixture in the centre of each, brush the edges with beaten egg, or water, fold over to form a half circle, press the ends together so as to well close the edges. Beat up the egg, dipBthe rissoles in it, crumb well and fry in hot fat. Savoury Meat Rolls. Ingredients. Half pound of the remains of any kind of cold Meat. One pound of mashed Potatoes. Two whole Eggs. About an ounce and a half of Flour. A handful of crushed Vermicelli. Pepper and Salt. A dessertspoonful of chopped Parsley. A tablespoonful of melted Butter Sauce. Mince up the meat very fine, removing skin and gristle (any kind of meat will do, if you have any scraps of ham or tongue add it in a proportionate quantity with the other meat). Season the mince with pepper, salt and a little grated nutmeg if liked, mix with the sauce and add the chopped parsley. Have ready the mashed potatoes, work in the flour, beat up the eggs and add the same, retaining sufficient to brush over the rolls, season to taste, and stir over the fire in a stew-pan to form a stiff paste. Roll out the paste about a quarter of an inch in thickness, cut it in oblong pieces, about four inches long and two inches across, put a dessert- spoonful of meat upon each piece, wet the edges, turn over to give it the shape of rolls, press down the ends firmly and trim. Brush the tips with beaten egg, sprinkle with crushed vermicelli, place on a greased baking sheet and bake in a hot oven until of a light brown colour, dish up and serve hot.