FISH. 5 To judge if a large fish be sufficiently boiled, draw up the fish-plate, and with a thin knife try if the fish easily divides from the bone in the thick parts, which it will when done enough. Keep it hot, not by letting it sodden in the water, but by laying the fish-plate cross- ways on the kettle, and covering with a thick cloth. If left in the water after it is ready, fish loses its firmness, and becomes woolly. Serve fish on a napkin. The dish looks more complete if fried fish be served round the boiled, alternately placed with the roe or melt, and hand- somely garnished. Observe, great care is necessary to drain the water from the boiled fish, that the dryness and colour of the fried around it may not be lessened. To fry Fish.—Having nicely cleaned and washed it, dry it completely : dip it in yolks of eggs beaten, and then in a dish of stale white bread-crumbs ; if you wish it to look in the highest perfection, repeat the egg and crumbs, and instantly plunge it into a thick-bottomed frying-pan, in which have ready a sufficient quantity of dripping or lard, boiling-hot, to cover the fish. Let it gently boil until it becomes a beautiful yellow brown, and is done enough; if the latter, before the colour be obtained, the pan must be drawn to a cooler part of the fire to finish. Turn a large dish upside down, lay a sheet of cap paper on it, and carefully place the fish upon it before the fire, and put another sheet over, that all the grease may be absorbed. The crumbs should appear distinct. As the frying liquor must not be suf- fered to become black, it will serve again with a little fresh. But it gives a bad colour; oil is the best thing to fry in, if the expense be no objection. Frying-pans suited to the sizes of fish, and oblong instead of round, will be found particularly useful, as much waste of lard will be prevented. Fish will look better when fried, if, after cleaning and drying, they be floured, and laid some minutes be- fore the fire to take off the damp.