SWEET DISHES AND SWEETMEATS. 279 A Cornel Cover for Sweetmeats. Dissolve eight ounces of double-refined sugar in three or four spoonsful of water, and three or four drops of lemon-juice; then put it into a copper untinned skillet; when it boils to be thick, dip the handle of a spoon in it, and put that into a pint basin of water, squeeze the sugar from the spoon into it, and so on till you have all the sugar. Take a bit out of the water, and if it snaps and is brittle when cold, it is done enough; but only let it be three parts cold, then pour the water from the sugar, and having a copper form oiled well, run the sugar on it, in the manner of a maze, and when cold you may put it on the dish it is to cover : but if on trial the sugar is not brittle, pour off the water, and turn it into the skillet, and boil it again. It should look thick, like treacle, but of a bright light gold colour. It is a most elegant cover. Calf’s Feet Jelly. Boil two feet in two quarts and a pint of water till the feet are broken, and the water half wasted ; strain it, and when cold, take off the fat, and remove the jelly from the sediment; then put it into a saucepan, with sugar, raisin wine, lemon juice to your taste, and some lemon- peel. When the flavour is rich, put to it the whites of five eggs well beaten, and their shells broken. Set the saucepan on the fire, but do not stir the jelly after it begins to warm. Let it boil twenty minutes after it rises to a head, then pour it through a flannel jelly-bag, first dipping the bag in hot water to prevent waste, and squeezing it quite dry. Run the jelly through and through until clear; then put it into glasses or forms. The following mode will greatly facilitate the clearing of jelly :—When the mixture has boiled twenty minutes, throw in a tea-cupful of cold water ; let it boil five minutes longer ; then take the saucepan off the fire, covered close, and keep it half an hour ; after which, it will be so clear as to need only once running through the bag, and much waste will be saved.