DOMESTIC COOKERY. 68 cayenne, at first; and ten minutes before serving throw in some shred parsley, and a very small bit of tarragon and knotted marjoram cut as fine as possible : just be- fore you serve, add the squeeze of a lemon. Garnish with forcemeat-balls, and bits of bacon rolled round. Another way.—Boil the head almost enough, and take the meat of the best side neatly off the bone with a sharp knife; lay this into a small dish, wash it over with the yolks of two eggs, and cover it with crumbs, a few herbs nicely shred, a little pepper and salt, and a grate of nut- meg, all mixed together first. Set the dish before the fire, and keep turning it now and then, that all parts of the head may be equally brown. In the mean time slice the remainder of the head and the tongue, but first peel the tongue ; put a pint of good gravy into a pan, with an onion, a small bunch of herbs, (consisting of parsley, basil, savory, tarragon, knotted marjoram, and a little thyme,) a little salt and cayenne, a shalot, a glass of sherry, and a little oyster liquor. Boil this for a few minutes, and strain it upon the meat, which should be dredged with some flour. Add some mushrooms, either fresh or pickled, a few truffles and morels, and two spoonsful of ketchup ; then beat up half the brains, and put this to the rest with a bit of butter and flour. Simmer the whole. Beat the other part of the brains with shred lemon- peel, a little nutmeg and mace, some parsley shred, and an egg. Then fry it in little cakes of a beautiful yellow- brown. Dip some oysters into the yolk of an egg, and do the same; and also some relishing forcemeat-balls made as for mock-turtle. Garnish with these and small bits of bacon just made hot before the fire. Calf’s Head fricasseed. Clean and half-boil a head; cut the meat into small bits, and put it into a tosser, with a little gravy made of the bones, some of the water it was boiled in, a bunch of sweet herbs, an onion, and a blade of mace. If you have any young cockerels in the house, use the combs ;