DAIRY. 353 trouble in rearing;, because it will be difficult to make it take milk in a pan. Take it from the cow in the morning, and keep it without food till the next morn- ing ; and then, being hungry, it will drink without difficulty. Skimmed milk and fresh whey, just as warm as new milk, should be given twice a day in such quantity as is required. If milk runs short, smooth jr-ruel mixed with milk will do. At first let the calf be out only by day, and feed it at night and morning. When the family is absent, or there is not a great call for cream, a careful dairy-maid seizes the opportu- nity to provide for the winter-store : she should have a book to keep an account, or get some one to write down for her the produce of every week, and set down what butter she pots. The weight the pot will hold should be marked on each in making at the pottery. In another part of the book should be stated the poultry reared, and the weekly consumption. Observations respecting Cheese. This well-known article differs according to the pas- ture in which the cows feed. Various modes of prepar- ing may effect a great deal ; and it will be bad or good of its kind, by being- in unskilful hands, or the contrary; but much will still depend on the former circumstance. The same land rarely makes very fine butter and re- markably fine cheese; yet due care may give one pretty good, while the other excels in quality. When one is not as fine as the other, attention and change of method may amend the inferior. There is usually, however, too much prejudice in the minds of dairy-people, to make them give up all old custom for one newly recommended. This calls for the eye of the superior. A gentleman has been at the expense of pro- curing cattle from every county noted for good cheese, and it is affirmed that tlie Cheshire, double Gloucester, North Wiltshire, Ghedder, and many other sorts, are so excellent.as not to discredit their names. As the cows are all on one estate, it should seem that the mode of 2 A