90 DOMESTIC COOKERY. the head; let it drain twenty-four hours; then lay upon it two ounces of saltpetre, and the same of common salt; in three days’ time lay the head and salt into a pan, with just water enough to cover it, for two days more. Wash it well; and boil until the bones will come out, remove them, and chop the meat, as quick as possible, in pieces of an inch long; but first take the skin care- fully off the head and the tongue ; the latter cut in bits as above. Season with pepper and salt. Put the skin of one side of the head into a small long pan, press the chopped head and tongue into it, and lay the skin of the other side of the head over, and press it down. When cold it will turn out and make a kind of brawrn. The head may probably be too fat, in which case prepare a few bits of lean pork with the head. Boil two ounces of salt, a pint of vinegar, and a quart of the liquor, and when cold pour it over the head. The ears are to be boiled longer than the head, cut in thin strips, and di- vided about it, the hair being nicely removed. Re-boil the pickle often. Another mock Brawn. Boil a pair of neat’s feet very tender; take the meat off, and have ready the belly-piece of pork, salted with common salt and saltpetre for a week. Boil this almost enough ; take out the bones, and roll the feet and the pork together. Then roll it very tight with a strong cloth and coarse tape. Boil it till very tender, then hang it up in the cloth till cold; after which keep it in a sousing liquor, as is directed in the next page. To collar Pig’s Head. Scour the head and ears nicely; take off the hair and snout, and take out the eyes and the brains : lay it into water one night; then drain, salt it extremely well with common salt and saltpetre, and let it lie five days Boil it enough to take out the bones ; then lay it on a dresser, turning the thick end of one side of the head towrards the thin end of the other, to make the roll of equal size ; sprinkle it well with salt and white pepper, and roll it