VEAL. 59 oysters, (each cut in four,) four ounces of fat and lean bacon, or ham shredded, two ounces of fresh butter, two ounces of crumbs of bread, a dozen of chives, a little parsley, and a small sprig of dried knotted marjoram, minced extremely fine, a dessert-spoonful of salt, and a tea-spoonful of white sugar, mixed up with two eggs. Roll this in the veal, which tie up so close as to prevent the seasoning being lost. Lard the veal, and wrap it in a large sheet of paper, well buttered: fix it in a small cradle spit; and allowing twenty minutes for every pound, keep it at a proper distance to become gradually hot through, and by degrees bring it nearer to the fire. When within twenty minutes of being ready, take off the paper, flour the meat lightly, and make it a light brown; then glaze it, and serve with a rich gravy in the dish. Neck of Veal. Cut off the scrag to boil, and cover it with onion- sauce. It should be boiled in milk and water. Parsley and butter may be served with it, instead of onion-sauce. Or it may be stewed with whole rice, small onions, and peppercorns, with a very little water. Or boiled and eaten with bacon and greens. The best end may be either roasted, broiled as steaks, or made into pies. As it is a dry joint, larding is a great improvement, if roasted. Neck of Veal a-la- braise. Lard the best end with bacon rolled in parsley chopped fine, salt, pepper, and nutmeg : put it into a tosser, and cover it with water. Put to it the scrag-end, a little lean bacon or ham, an onion, two carrots, two heads of celery", and about a glass of Madeira wine. Stew it quick two hours, or till it is tender, but not too much. Strain off the liquor; mix a little flour and butter in a stewpan till brown, and lay the veal in this, the upper side to the bottom of the pan. Let it be over the fire till it gets coloured; then lay it into the dish, stir some of the liquor in, and boil it up, skim it nicely, and squeeze orange or lemon juice into it, and serve with the meat.