Standard Works on Medicine, Surgery, &c. 3 By SAMUBli COOPBR, Senior Surgeon to University College Hospital; Professor of Surgery in the same College; Surgeoti to the Queen^s Bench, fyc. ^c. A DICTIONARY OF PRACTICAL SURGERY; comprehending All the most interesting Improvements, from the earliest times down to the present period; An Account of the Instruments and Remedies employed in Surgery; The Etymology and Signification of the principal Terms; and Numerous References to ancient and modem Works. Forming a Catalogpie of Surgical Literature, arranged according to subjects. The Seventh Edition, Revised, corrected, and enlarged, 1 thick vol. containing upwards of 1500 pages, 30s. bds. Eatractfrom Author’s Preface. “ In bringing out this Dictionary in its present state of improvement, I beg to declare myself deeply indebted to the surgeons of almost every country, but especially to those of Great Britain and Ireland,. France, Germany, Italy, and the United States. For many valuable contributions, I feel obliged to Sir Astley Cooper, Sir Benjamin Brodie, Mr. J. G. Crosse, M. Velpeau, Professor Regnoli, my colleague Professor Qualn, and my esteemed and talented pupil, Mr. Thomas Morton, of University College. The doctrines and practice of the cele- brated Dupuytren I have explained and considered with all the attention which so high an authority deservedly claims; and I will add, that as many of his observations appear to me the best ever delivered in certain parts of surgery, the introduction of them into this extensively circulated book may be an important advantage to the profession and the public.” Tlie following estimate of the character of this Dictionary is from the pen of Dr. Reese:— “To condense and arrange all the novel and interesting facts which clinical experience is furnishing, and upon which alone the edifice of time science can be erected, is a task worthy of the immense labour which Mr. Cooper has bestowed on each succeeding reprint of his Dictionary, and one to which he has proved himself entirely adequate. Tlie extensive and multiplied resources to which he has access, furnish him with facilities possessed by few; and in availing himself of these, he has exhibited an industry, and, for the most part, an impartiality, worthy of all praise. “ It has long been esteemed a standard work, is adopted as a text-book in our Universities, Colleges, and Schools of Medicine generally, and finds a place in the library of every surgeon in the country.”—(Pre/. to Amer, Ed.) By the same Author, THE FIRST LINES OF THE PRACTICE OF SURGERY; explaining and illustrating the doctrines relative to the PRINCIPLES, PRACTICE, AND OPERATIONS OF SURGERY. Sixth Edition, Corrected and augmented, in one volume, 8vo. price 18s. Eatractfrom Preface. “ The Author indulges the hope, that the present Edition will be found both more correct and comprehensive than the preceding one; and that, as it contains numerous additional observations on the diagnosis, causes, and treatment of diseases, as well as on pathology and surgical anatomy, it will be infinitely better calculated to serve as an introduction to the scientific and the practical parts of surgery. Wliile the work will probably afford considerable assistance to students, it is hoped that many of the observations and precepts contained in it will not be altogether useless in the arduous field of practice. On bringing out this new edition, however, the Author’s principal desire is, that it may answer as a text-book for the lectures annually delivered by him to the Surgical Class of the London University.”