Standard Works on Medicine, Surgery, &c. By DR. THOMAS, Hon. Member of the Literary, Historical, and Philosophical Societies of New York. THE MODERN PRACTICE OF PHYSIC; EXHIBITING THE Character, Causes, Symptoms, ProgTiostics, Morbid Appearances, and Improved Method of Treating THE DISEASES OF ALL CLIMATES. Tenth Edition, revised and considerably enlarged, one thick volume, 8vo. price 18s. bds. Extract from Author’s Preface. “This edition will be found to contain much new and important information under the head of most of the Diseases, besides having two others introduced into it which were not treated of in any of the former impressions, viz. Delirium Tremens (which there is great reason to apprehend has often been confounded with Phrenitis or Inflammation of the Brain) and Malignant or Spasmodic Cholera. A slight alteration has also been made in the nosological arrangement of the diseases; the order of Exanthemata, or Eruptive Fevers, having been brought forward, and placed next to those of the continued type and of an idiopathic nature, instead of succeeding such as are looked upon as only symptomatic, viz. the Phlegmasise and Haimorrhagia;, as in the preceding edition.” By DR. T. R. BECK and DR. JOHN R. BECK, Of New York. ELEMENTS OF MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE. Sixth Edition, Brought down to the present Time; including the Notes of Dr. Dunlop and Dr. Darwall. One thick vol. 8vo. price 21s. boards. *,* In this edition, every chapter has been thoroughly revised, and in several cases nearly rewritten. On two subjects—Insurance upon Lives, and Medical Evidence—Essays have been added; and the Chapter on Infanticide, originally contributed by Dr. John Beck, is again furnished by him, in an enlarged and greatly improved form. By R. T. H. EAENNEC, M.D. Regius Professor of Medicine in the College of France. A TREATISE ON THE DISEASES OF THE CHEST, AND ON MEDIATE AUSCULTATION. By R. T. H. Laennec, M.D. Translated from the latest French edition, with copious Notes, and a Sketch of the Author’s Life, by John Forbes, M.D. F.R.S. Fourth Edition, Considerably enlarged and improved, with many additional Notes, and an extensive Bibliography of the different Diseases, with Plates, 8vo. 18s. boards. Extract from Editor’s Preface. “ During the six years which have elapsed since the publication of the last edition, much has been done to increase our knowledge of the Pathology of Diseases of the Chest, and to improve the means of their successful investigation; and it has been my duty as annotator and com- mentator to put the reader in possession of all such improvements as were known to me, and seemed likely to be useful or interesting to him. I would therefore fain hope that the present edition may appear to competent judges to present a tolerably accurate and complete view of the actual state of our knowledge of the Pathology, Diagnosis, and Treatment of Diseases of the chest.” By the late DR. HOOPER. THE PHYSICIAN’S VADE-MECUM; OR, ' A MANUAL OF THE PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF PHYSIC : Containing the Institutions of Medicine, the Symptoms, Causes, Diagnosis, Prognosis, and Treatment of Diseases; witli a Select Collection of Formula;. By Robert Hooper, M.D. New Edition, considerably enlarged and improved, by Michael Ryan, M.D. Fcp. price 7s. Gd. cloth. Frotn Editor’s Pnface. “I have deemed it an essential addition to the work to prefix a summary of the Principles or Institutions of Medicine, which embrace the rudiments of Physiology, Pathology, am! Thera- peutics; I have also introduceil Etiology, Symntoniatology, and Semeotics, aifirgiveii a fuller description of the Signs of Diseases than will be found in any work of this size hitherto published.”