2 Standard Works on Medicine, Surgery, &c. By the late DR. HOOPER. A MEDICAL DICTIONARY; CONTAINING An Explanation of the Terms in PHYSIOLOGY, PRACTICE OF PHYSIC, SURGERY, ANATOMY, MATERIA MEDICA, BOTANY, MIDWIFERY, CHEMISTRY, PHARMACY, And the various Branches of Natural Philosophy connected with Medicine ; Selected, arranged, and compiled from the best Authors. The Seventh Edition, Revised, corrected, and enlarged. By KLEIN GRANT, M.D. &c. Lecturer on Therapeutics at the North London School of Medicine. One thick volume of 1400 pages, price 30s. boards. Extract from the Editor’s Preface. “ The object of the Editor has been to improve it in its details without altering the general principle of its construction. Nevertheless, several changes have been made, the expediency of which it is presumed will be admitted. Thus, there were formerly nume- rous mineralogical articles which had no immediate relation to any branch of medical science ; in the present edition, notices of those mineral substances only are retained which have been at some time or other employed medicinally, or have reference to some particular point in chemistry. The space thus left vacant has been re-occupied with the principal terms of comparative anatomy and zoology—sciences intimately connected with medicine, and essential to its philosophical cultivation. The biography has been entirely expunged, since it was too meagre to be of much utility, while an extension of it would have excluded matters which had a more decided claim to admission On the subject of drugs, and their prepa- rations, the Editor found an immense mass of information ready to his hand; and this, with some corrections and numerous additions, now affords a very extensive view of the Materia Medica and Pharmacy of all ages. Great care has been taken to mention the proper doses and modes of administration of medicines, in order to render this part of the work as practically useful as possible. “ The general plan of this Dictionary having been adhered to, very extensive alterations have been made in the details of its execution. The Editor, conceiving that, after all, the main object of a lexicon is the definition and derivation of terms, has bestowed much labour on this part of the work, which it must be acknowledged was before extremely defective, a very large proportion of the terms having been erroneously derived and ill defined, and many terms in familiar use omitted altogether. The lexicography in this edition is therefore in a great measure new, and it is hoped that the work, as it now stands, will be found to contain a tolerably full and accurate explanation of the terras used in medicine and the collateral sciences. “With respect to the longer articles, or those in which an exposition of the subject follows the definition of the term, the Editor has not had an easy task to perform. The views contained in some of these articles were nearly obsolete, and in the greater part considerable alterations and additions have been found necessary. Many of them have been replaced by articles entirely new, which have either been supplied by the Editor, or selected from sources which seemed most appropriate as combining full and accurate information with condensation of style: a few, relating to subjects on which scarcely more is known now than formerly, remain with little alteration. Tlie greater part of the articles on the practice of physic are new, or nearly so. “ In order to connect the different articles on comparative anatomy, zoology, and botany, scattered through the work, two new articles have been given under the heads Animal Kingdom and Vegetable Kingdom, which the Editor hopes may be found useful. “ Finally, the Editor trusts, that on a comparison of the present with the preceding edition, it will be found that the work, in passing through his hands, has gained both in accuracy and extent of infonnation.”