REPORT ON SURGERY. 268 insensible. After a while he improved, and was able to walk down to the quay, a distance of 200 yards. On board he became, again, quite insensible, and remained so. On admission he was quite comatose. On examination a slight depression was felt under the cicatrix of the wound in the temple. The pupil of the left eye was dilated, the riglit contracted; the pulse was 56 ; the respiration was stertorous; the in- sensibility complete ; touching the cornea with a feather did not pro- duce the slightest irritation. His head was turned to the right side. A stellate fracture of the frontal bone was found. A circular piece of hone was removed with a trephine, and the inner table found to be de- pressed. The dura mater was intensely congested, exceedingly tense, and bulged, hernia-like, out of the opening. An incision was made into it, letting out only turbid serum. Improvement followed. The respira- tion ceased to be stertorous, the pulse rose to 64, the left pupil became less dilated, and sensation was restored to the cornese. He soon re- lapsed, however, and died about thirty-six hours after admission. At the post-mortem, “ on removing the calvaria the membranes were found intensely congested, and a large abscess between the dura mater and the bone was found pressing on the left hemisphere. It was a remark- able circumstance that the abscess was not found immediately connected with the portion of depressed bone. It is, I think, a circumstance much to be regretted that the operation of trephining and elevating the depressed portion of bone was not performed when the symptoms of pressure first manifested themselves. (‘Dub. Jomm. Med. Sci.,’ Dec. 1872,437.) Trepliiniru] for abscess xoithin the cranium.—Prof. N. R. Smith relates (‘ Baltimore Med. Journ.,’ Dec. 1870) a case:—A clergyman received a blow from a sharp stone over the left parietal bone. Separation of a small sequestrum followed. There remained a fistulous opening, which never closed during the long period of twenty years. When he came under care, examination with a probe, through the fistula, showed a cavity two and a half inches in depth between the bone and the mem- branes of the brain. The sinus was smaller than a quill. Trephining was proceeded with. The bone was found of ivory hardness, and much thicker than common, and of unequal thickness. The operation was proceeded with, however, without hesitation, as the membranes were known to be far removed from the inner surface of the bone. When the piece was lifted up about three ounces of fetid pus escaped. Ho cerebral disturbance followed. The patient “entirely recovered,” and remained well sometime afterwards. (‘Am. Journ. Med. Sciences,’ April, 1871, .59.5-) Trephining in cerebral disease.—A paper, by Dr. W. Pepper, on this suhiect, with the narrative of a successful case, will be found in the ‘ Ain. Journ. Med. Sciences,’ April, 1871, 411. The patient was a man, mt. 21. He had suffered from constitutional syphilis, had febrile symp- toms like tertian ague, intense headache, left hemiplegia, strabismus and ptosis, increasing coma and stertor, and a node on the right frontal bone. ’ Anti-syphilitic treatment failed to give relief Innury to the brain.—Mv, Callender notes three cases of injury to the brain and tabulates others, with the object of directing attention, first.