REPOUT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 183 scrofulous habit, For three years his right foot had increased consi- derably in size (measures of his two feet are given for comparison). It was hard, of the consistence of bacon, and took no impression from the fingers. Its sensation was diminished, there was almost complete analgesia, but not anaesthesia. The patient demanded amputation on account of the inconvenience to which he was put by the affected limb,and the operation was performed. In addition to the histological changes generally found, the amputated foot presented a considerable number of small soft cheesy masses of different sizes, enclosed in a fine mem- brane and situated in the subcutaneous intermuscular tissue. Some of the cysts contained also pus and blood. He considers this “tuberculo- caseous” form of elephantiasis to be not uncommon in Algeria. Anderson (‘Lancet,’ 1871, ii, 844) records eight cases of ele- phantiasis arabum, and three of elephantiasis grjecorum. One of the patients suffering from the latter was 'a jyoung Highlander who had never been out of the country; another was a boy set. 12, who had returned from India four years before ; and the third was a girl 8ct. 15, who had come home from Jamaica at the age of seven, about which time the disease commenced on the face. The eruption consisted for the most part of yellowish-red tubercular patches of difierent sizes, the sensation of which was deadened. . MoUusewn.—Balmanno Squire (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1872, i, 4^) claims to have discovered in molluscum contagiosum spores with rounded angles, which he believes to be the special vegetable parasite of the sebaceous glands, just as that found in chloasma is of the epi- dermis, and that of favus and tinea of the hairs. Duckworth (ib., 98) reminds him that Hardy had already described such parasitic structures. Ferrier (ib., ii, 682) considers the existence of a vegetable parasite to be entirely negatived by the result of his investigations. When the secretion expressed from the follicles was treated with caustic pc^ash and examined under the microscope, it gradually^ became clear, from saponification of the fat, and the outlines of the epithehal cellular con- tents became sharp and distinct. In the secretion so treated, especially the soft central part from the large tumours, he has seen one ov tyro unmistakeable torula-cells in the act of germination, not diff’ering in size or form from those of penicillium. But, in addition, a great many other spore-like bodies were to be observed in the angles of the cells, appa- ■ently multiplying by germination, and even lengthening out into nycelium. They were of various sizes and forms, and had a peculiar lUyCGiiUUJ. -LXTC/J \JS. VMXXWU.W 7 .i. T. J. vacuolate aspect. They might readily be mistaken for true spores; but he has come to the conclusion that they are artificial products ot the action of the caustic potash on the fatty matters. In the contents 0 the follicles, after several days’ maceration in ether, he has tailed to detect any spore-like bodies, nor has he been able to produce any such appearance by treating them subsequently with caustic potash. A or could he find any spores in the small and still firm tumours. Ho has attempted, with the same result, to cultivate the secretion in iasteur s solution. He gives the case of a child, aged nine months, in whom twenty-two molluscous tumours were situated on the lips, cheek, a c