79 DISEASES OF THE NEllVOUS SYSTEM. posterior lobe of tlie right hemisphere, surrounded by a thin layer only of brain substance. This further communicated with the lateral and middle ventricles, and terminated in a vast pouch in the posterior lobe of the left hemisphere. Numerons hydatids were found through- out the cavities. The whole brain, including the central ganglia, was more or less softened. Tlie second case is that of a boy, set. i8, who after frequent attacks of intermittent fever suffered from aciite supra- orbital neuralgia. Hemiplegiai, followed by coma, occurred, and tour days later he died. Post-mortem, the whole right hemisphere was found to be destroyed by a large cyst filled with hydatids. As in the former case, it was surrounded by a thin layer of brain substance, but was compressed by the skull bones. Zuber (‘Gaz. des Hop.,’ 1872, 730) records the occurrence of two hydatid cysts in the lung of a man, aged 22. The symptoms were those of acute tuberculosis. Rupture of one sac took place into the pleura and was followed by death. Hirschberg (‘ Perl. Klin. Woch.,’ 1872) removed cysticerci from the eye of a woman and of a boy. The ‘ Lyon Me'd.’ (x, 341) quotes a case recorded by Armour (‘Detroit Review of Med.’), in which portions of taenia solium were passed by a child three days old. Dickinson, “Three Cases of Trichiniasis after Eating Home-fed Pork,” ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, i, 446. Huber, “ Einige Notizen liber Echinococcus Multilocu- laris,” ‘Virch. Arch.,’ liv, 269. Frommaun, “ Zur Casuistik der Trichiniasis,” ib., liii, SOI. Fagge and Durham, “On the Electrolytic Treatment of Hydatid Tumours of the Liver,” ‘Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ liv, i. Giraud-Teulon, “ Cysticercus Ladriqiie (C. cellulosai) dans le corps vitr4” ‘Gaz. des Hop.,’ 1872, 12. Surmay, “Tenia Mul- tiple,” ib., 900. Leidy, “ Taenia caused by the use of Eaw Beef (T. medio-canellata),” ‘Amer. Journ. Med. Sci.,’ Ixii, 293. Preston, “A Lumbricus discharged through an Abscess about the Hip-joint” (boy, set. 13), ‘Lancet,’ 1872, ii, 777. Welch, “The presence of an Encysted Echinorhynchus in Man,” ib., ib., 703. Vegetable Parasites. Richter (‘Zeitschr. f. Parasitenk.,’ iii, i) finds, on examining the central portion of warts, an extremely large number of micrococci in and between the epithelial cells, and on placing them in a solution of ammonia and sugar obtains numerous and largely branched mycelia. Hallier (“Des Parasiten des Infections Krankheiten,” ‘Zeitschr. f. Parasitenk.,’ ib., 157) publishes the results of his experiments on the faeces of sheep which died of foot-and-mouth disease. Tuckwell (‘St. Barth. Hosp. Rep.,’ viii, 125) writes on the ringworm of cattle and its communicability to man. li. Diseases of the Nervous System. Hysteria. Charcot ( Gaz. des Hop.,’ 1871, 55^) gives a lecture on two cases of hysterical contraction of the limbs, one, a woman aged 40, representing the hemiplegic type, the other, a girl aged 21, representing the paraplegic type of the afiection.