REPORT ON SURGERY. 244 had been said to slip up and down), about the size of a 32-lb. shot, enclosed in a firm capsule. It was fibro-cartilaginous in structure. From its upper part a firm band had passed upwards. This was met with in the operation as a pedicle of the thickness of the thumb, and tied before being cut. The man recovered. He was a tailor, and bad noticed the tumour about seventeen years. A figure of the enormous tumour is given. (‘Lancet,’ Aug. 5, 1871, 187.) Medullary carcinoma in the axilla.—Mr. Durham removed an encepba- loid tumour of the armpit from a man sot. 48. The tumour had been growing about five months, and was secondary to a small growth in a mole above the elbow. (‘ Med. Times and Gaz.,’ Aug. 12, 1871, 189.) Osteoid cancer.—An interesting but somewhat obscure case of osteoid cancer of the ulna, &c., is detailed by Dr. Joseph Bell. (‘ Edin. Med. Journ.,’ May, 1871, 1006.) Multiple lymphoma treated hy arsenic.—Billroth describes in the ‘Wiener Medezin. Wochenschr.,’ No. 44, 1871, the case of a woman who was affected with universal hyperplasia of the lymphatic glands. On each side of the neck was a tumour as large as a fist, and in the fauces lay one (proceeding from the tonsils) as large as a hen’s egg. As this produced dyspnoea, it was removed by the galvanic cautery. There were also tumours, as large as apples, in the axillae and groins, and as large as hens’ eggs in the bend of the elbow. The mesen- teric glands were felt to be enlarged, and the spleen was double its normal size. There was no leukaemia. Recovery took place in four weeks under the use of Fowler’s solution. In such cases, Billroth remarks, subcutaneous injection and electrolysis have not been found to have any effect in reducing the size of the tumour. Rectilinear ecraseur.—Dr. Nott describes aud figures a rectilinear ecraseur. It may be compared to a pair of scissors. The blades short, strong and serrated—to crush—and the handles long, strong, and provided with a screw, by means of which the crushing power is exerted. In treating external hsemorrhoids the pile is crushed and then cut off. In internal piles the ecraseur is applied, removed, and then a ligature is tied in the groove formed by the crusher lor safety. The crusher may be used in any case in which an ecraseur is deemed advisable. The tissues are squeezed together and then a cut is made in front of the ecraseur, or after this is taken oil, through the line of indentation. In amputation of the penis no bleeding occurred, and the tissues quickly united. He removed a finger by crushing through bone and all. The end soon healed over. (‘Amer. Joum. Med. Sci.,’ April, 1872, 378.) Treatment of tumours hy subcutaneous injection.—In a paper on tnis subject, read before the Surgical Congress in Berlin, and nublished in the ‘ Archiv fur Klimsche Cbirurgie, xv Dr_ Heme remarks that the high expectations which were formed when Thiersch and Nussbaum called attention to injections into the means of destroying tumours have not been realised. W e Deiieve that hitherto, surgeons have not bad clear ideas as to the object to be Stained »d’thaf they have acted rather empiricaUy m regari to choice of the fluids to be injected and to their strength. Again, tne