329 EESECTION OF NERVES^ ETC. by Dr. Billroth in the manner proposed by Paravieini, of Milan, in 1858. The corner of the mouth being held wide open, an incision three centimetres long, running obliquely from within outwards, is made along the anterior border of the ramus of the jaw through the skin and the anterior fibres of the internal pterygoid muscle. The connective tissue between the pterygoid and the periosteum is then torn through with the finger, the nerve is easily reached at its entrance into the dental canal, and a portion is removed. The lingual nerve is easily avoided by taking care to trace the nerve to its entrance into the bone. In Menzel’s case the nerve was raised on a hook, and a piece four lines long was excised. The bleeding was very slight. Billroth raised the periosteum from the bone, and having surrounded the nerve with a thread, cut out a piece ten centimetres long. Menzel says that the mtrabuccal method of excision of the lower dental nerve is attended with less extensive injury and is less dangerous than the other plans • that It leaves no disagreeable results—such as scars, facial paralysis, or salivary fistula; that the nerve is readily rendered accessible, and may be excised even to the extent of ten centimetres ; that the hemorrhage 13 slight; and that the operation is not difficult of performance Dr described by Dr. Meusel, of Gotha, in the Deutsche Klmik for mvernber, 1871, in which the intrabuccal operation was performed, but both the dental and the lingual Lrves were divided. He believes that this is the first case in which ™e operation has been performed on the living subject. Paravieini operated only on the dead body, and up to a recent date his proposal had no supporters, but several opponents. " ^ ^‘^Posure and extension of the ?8?/Jn rccoyery.—Iu the ‘Lancet,’ ,0 triumph. The patient was a soldier who had been injured in the ™ sufiered from spasm of the arm, from anaesthesia and from nain' to the probable seat of the mischief Dp Im’rl i stretched it, then the nerves aronnd the ® them, and lastly the cords of the h h- | artery and stretched dividl,ally and ZoroLly S^^^^^ The m Dr^GarLr has^opra'^oth^^atfenr if possible; but successful cases h“e occurred a funnel-shaped, metallic vessel dn 11 is attached which hot wate^Ts to be rour^d bp^^^ ^ through venient handle. To the other end Is ^ to enter the vein. About five inches metal, capillary point segment of glass tub in a 4ort fa, 1X1 oraer that it may be known when the