SPECIAL SENSE.-“TONGijE. 29 dride with varying proportions of potash and magnesia; the second class includes the same substances as are found in the tissue proper, and in the same proportions relatively to the albumen present m that class, but existing in solution and in the colloid state; the third class includes the same substances as are found in the two others, a,nd, moreover, a small quantity of chlorine and soda, which, although relatively minute, is never absent. The constituents of this class are crystalloid, and consequently diffusible, the phosphoric anhydride and potash being present precisely in the proportion required to form a neutral tribasic phosphate, or a pyrophosphate, as the formula 2KOPO5 can equally be 2KOHOPO5. Dr. Marcet further believes that flesh contains in store a supply of nourishment equal to about one third more than its requirements for immediate use, this being apparently a provision of nature to allow of muscular exercise during prolonged fasting. .He maintains that the numbers representing the excess of phosphoric anhydride and potash in blood over the proportion of these substances in an equal volume of serum, in the regular normal nutrition of herbivorous animals, appear to bear to each other nearly the same relation as that which exists between the phosphoric anhydride and potash on their way out of muscular tissue ; and he points out that vegetables used as food for man and animals, such as flour, potatoes, and rice, transform jihos- phorio anhydride and potash from the crystalloid or diffusible into the colloid or undiffusible state, and that it is only after having been thus prepared that these substances appear to be fit to become normal con- stituents of blood and contribute to the nutrition of fiesh. A final remark, and one which he considers to be worth consideration, is the fact established by the whole of his investigation, that there is a constant change of rotation in nature from crystalloids to colloids, and from colloids to crystalloids. Petersen,* as the result of numerous analyses of the flesh of sheep, pigs, horses, and oxen, finds that the amount of water varies in these difierent species as much as y36 per cent.; calves have the most per cent.), pigs the least (71'93 per cent.). The proportion of nitrogen varies but little. Thus, the fresh muscle of oxen contains 3'29 per cent, of nitrogen, that of the pig 3*23, of the sheep 3'15, of the calf 3* 18, and of the horse 3 ’48 per cent. The proportions are somewhat different if the fat is first removed, the average for fresh meat, taking all the animals, and the fat being removed, is 3*33 per cent., which equals i3’39 for the dry muscle also free from fat. Dr. H. Weiskef finds that the administration of food poor in lime or phosphoric acid, for a considerable period (six weeks), to goats produced no appreciable change in the composition of the bones, nor was their fragility increased. The animals, nevertheless, lost their vigour, and it was probable that if the use of such food had been long continued pathological appearances would have been produced. On the other hand Dr. Subbotin;]; finds that the kind of food administered to pigeons, calves, dogs, and man, exercises a considerable infiuence on the amount of haemoglobin contained in the blood, highly albuminous compounds * ‘ Zeitschrif t fiir Biologic,’ viii, 166. f Idem, vii, 179. J Idem, vii, 185. ' ’ »