EXCISION OE BOTH ASTRAGALI—OP TARSO-METATARSAL JOINTS. 227 &c., being bent backward. In doing this a thin piece of the cup of the scaphoid was sliced off. A part of the external malleolus was also sliced off, owing to want of room. Mr. Lund then made use of a strong, blunt hook (figured), with a cutting concave edge. This hook was used, as a lever, to lift up the astragalus, and passing it round the calcaneo-astragaloid ligament, by simple traction, the latter was severed. This proved to be the key of the operation. Seizing the bone with lion forceps, a few touches of the hook set the bone at liberty and it was removed. In operating on the second foot, only the hook was used, and the astragalus was removed alone. Everything was done m accordance with Mr. Lister’s directions for antiseptic treatment, ihe result of the operation was all that could be desired. On the sixty-first day elastic traction was employed. The boy then had shoes ordered, and at the end of a month he could walk well Mr Solly in one case removed the cuboid bone, but there does not appear to be a case of removal of the astragalus, for talipes, on record. (‘ Brit Med. Journ.,’ Oct. 19, 1872.) ^ _ ^Excision of the os calcis.~Mv. Gant prefers the horizontal, horseshoe wrflT f A vertical incision forming a eei-tiap, like a Syme, is useful m certain cases, as adapted for Syme’s amputation, if necessary. Results of partial excision, in 42 Lses 38 were for disease—23 caries, 12 necrosis with sequestra and i necrosis. Of the 25, i died, the day after the operation of diar- rhma, 14 recovered at periods varymg from six wee& to six months 2 required a second operation, but recovered, and i underwent secon- dary amputation; while, of the remaining 7, the result is not stated' the 12 cases, 3 recovered, x required a second, i secondary amuu' tation and, of 7, the result is not stated. Gomplete excision —o/t8 cases (the particulars of which are authenticated), in 14 the dkLse was scrofulous ; and in ii, of these, this condition was entirely consL \ originated from a nail having been run into j- followed sprains. Of the ii cases i dipd nf diphtheria, 7 recovered, and with perfect use nf fbn i u ^ suffered secondary amp’utatiou, a £ rL^rrence oLle • ? remaining tarsal bones and owing to erysipelas Of the 2 induced by injury, 2 recovered completely; and the result of the tv^i was doubtful. The general results of the complete excision nf calcis in 34 authenticated cases—i died of diphth^eria o ^ pletely, 4 underwent secondary amputation^ and nf ^^°''"®red com- not pven. lu one ease of caLToTthros calcis ii'r‘r/r moved the cuboid bone and a small nnr.f r bone. The patient recovered and wffh a ?h m cuneiform nently serviceable foot- this result beino- sound and perma- ankle-joint had free mMion Se after two years The or sti4. The case TreZie^^n the aid of a crutch (‘Lancet,’ Aug. 5, i8^, ^85) -3rd, 1864. excised. The foot ^was^thoro^uehlv ^9> whose os calsis he of six years." 0/ ae second neMars<.l tone and euheiuent eacieion of all