TTRMrPLEGIA AND APHASIA. 87 Cncliton described it, to the latest period. He rejects the theories of Dax and Broca, and believes “that the organ of language is situated in both hemispheres, and in tliat part which is nourished by the middle cerebral artery; and that while the more frequent occurrence of right hemiplegia., in connection with aphasia, is in great part the result of the anatomical arrangement of the arteries, which favours embolism on that side, there is strong evidence to show that the lett side of the brain is more intimately connected with the faculty of speech than the right.” Histories of fourteen cases of aphasia, which had come under his obser- A'ation, follow; and from these he concludes that in all of which hemiplegia formed a feature, the aphasia was of the ataxic form, while when there was no hemiplegia, the aphasia was amnesic. In the one the individual was deprived of speech, because he could not co-ordinate the muscles used in articulation ; in the other, because he had lost the memory of words. He thinks that this point has not been noted before, and that the phenomena indicate very clearly the seat of the lesion and the physiology of the parts involved. When the grey matter of the lobes, which presides over the idea of language and hence over the memory of words, is alone involved, there is no hemiplegia, and no diffi- culty of articulation. If the corpus striatum, or some other part of the motor tract is attacked, the lesion is followed by hemiplegia and ataxic aphasia; and if amnesic aphasia is also present, the hemisphere is like- wise involved. Bristowe (‘ Path. Soc. Trans.,’ xxiii, 21) records the case of a woman, set. 48, in whom the left corpus striatum with the brain substance between it and the island of Reil was entirely destroyed by a clot. Dur- ing life she had complete motor hemiplegia, temporary aphemia, and slight amnesia. Baginsky (‘Berl. Klin. Woch.,’ 1871, 428) records two cases of aphasia, in men set. respectively 42 and 40, in consequence of disease ot the kidneys, and discusses at some length the relation of the two diseases, and especially the anatomical seats of the aphasic lesion. Simon (‘ Casuistisclie Beitrage zur Lehre von der Aphasie,’ ib., 537) writes a very interesting paper with eases of the affection. He allows that the lesion is to be found in the third frontal convolution, though not always on the left side, and thinks that the faculty of speech probably resides in both, though we are in the habit of using only the left. His last case is that of a man who was thrown with his horse, and, attempting to get into his saddle again, was found to have complete aphasia, and a small wound in the head. Death followed later from meningitis, and a splinter of bone was found impinging on the third left convolution, with softening of this end of the third convolution, and the island of Eeil. Hughlings Jackson (‘Lancet,’ 1872, i, 72) gives a minute report of the case ot a healthy girl, set. 17, in whom a right-sided convulsion was followed by defect ot speech, trom which she recovered. The convul- sions did not resemble those which occur in hysterical women, and was like those occurring in brain disease; and he infers that there must have been some pathological process, as yet unknown, in the region of the corpus striatum.