374 REPORT ON MIDWIPERYj ETC. percliloride of iron. This was used at first every second day, and afterwards daily. It diminished the local pain, but frequent injection caused sleeplessness and palpitation. Tor eight months the injections were continued, generally every fourth or fifth day. The membrane ceased to be expelled, and menstruation became regular. After de- scribing the nalced-eye appearance of the membrane, Solowieff says that a transverse section under the microscope shows three layers, which, proceeding from without inwards, may be called the fibrinous, the glandular, and the granulation layers. The fibrinous layer consists of fibrin, among the fibres of which lie red, and occasionally white, blood- corpuscles. In the glandular layer the glands are of the usual size, and contain cylindrical epithelium with round cells, the cells being of various sizes, and the largest containing sometimes three nuclei. The granulation tissue consists of round and lengthy protoplasma-cells, with a large nucleus. The cells lie in a delicate, somewhat fibrous, inter- mediate substance. The vessels form loops on the inner surface. The innermost surface is irregularly covered with mucus. No epithe- lium is to be seen. These three layers, however, pass so gradually the one into the other that a sharp line of demarcation cannot be drawn, and a division can only be made according to the predominance of one or other element. Membranous dysmenorrhoea is also elaborately described by Michaud and Lagrave (‘Arch. Gener. de Med.,’ i, 187a). Dr. Barnes writes on the essential cause of dysmenorrhoea, as illus- trated by cases of menstrual retention. He seeks, by comparison of difterent cases of dysmenorrhoea, to discover a common essential cause. Having adverted to the evidence accumulated in proof that cases of neuralgic and constitutional dysmenorrhoea are being gradually transposed under closer clinical analogies to the class of obstructive dysmenorrhoea, the author states the proposition that the essen- tial condition in a large proportion of cases is really retention ot flnifl He illustrates this by several cases of congenital and if the initial steps m tue |jiu^;ci3o yji. -i-r