90 ■REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEOTCTNE, liei eincm .Talive nlLen Knaben,” ‘Oeaterr. Jahvb. f. PascUatrik,’ 1872, i, 123. Broadbeiit, “Cases of Acute Cerebral Disease, with Autopsies” (1, Sero-purulent ettusiou into ventricles of brain, obscure symptoms; 2, Basic tubercular meningitis), ‘Med. Times and Gaz.,’ 1871, ii, 376. Heller, “ Ein Fall von Hydrocephalus Exter- nus,”, ‘ Deut. Arch.,’ x, 207. Gant, “ Case of Apoplexy Treated by Venesection,” ‘Lancet, 1871, ii, 577. Hugblings Jackson, “Remarks on the Difficulties in the Diagnosis of the Causes of Apoplexy,” ib., 1872, i, 505. ’Whitcombe, “Meningeal Apoplexy ” (male, set. 51), ‘ Brit. Med. Jouru.,’ 1872, i, 27. Foot, “Apoplexy, Ex- travasation of Blood at the Base of the Brain, Cylindroid Aneurism of Fourth Stage of Vertebral Artery (male, aet. 60), ib., ib., 424. Rittmann, “Die Vorliinfer der Apoplexie und Syncope,” ‘Wien. Med. Ztg.,’ 1871, 60. Stille, “Simple Acute Meningitis” (man with chronic tubercular phthisis, death from coma and collapse, no tubercles, only injection of meninges, with pus and lymph on pia mater of con- vexity of brain), ‘ Amer. Journ. Med. Sci.,’ Ixi, 419. Buttenwiesen, “Function und Adspiration eines Chronischen Hydrocephalus mittelst der Spritze von Bresgen,” ‘ Deut. Arch.,’ x, 301. Schmid, “ Zur DifEerentialdiagnose von Apoplexie und Embolie des Gehirns,” ib., 305. Korber, “Des Cheyne-Stokes’sebe Respirations-Phanomen bei einem an Meningitis Tuberculosa leidenden 9 Monatlichen Knaben ” (no autopsy), ib., 600. The Ophthalmoscope in Diseases of the Nervous Syste7n. Bouchut (‘ Gaz. des Hop.,’ 1871, 97) gives the following as seen in cases of acute affection of the brain and spinal cord. Optic hypersemia and venous stases in the retina, coinciding with congestion of the meninges or thrombosis of the sinuses. Optic neuritis, with or without exudation, the result of meningo- encephalitis. Papillary oedema diagnostic of cerebral compression. Tubercles of the choroid always accompanied by tubercles of the meninges or the viscera. He gives three cases with autopsies : _ I. Girl, set. 2; tubercular meningitis and general tuberculosis; during life almost entire disappearance of the optic papdla, which pre- sented a uniform red colouration masking its outline ; dilatation of the retinal veins ; no choroidal tubercle. 2. Girl, set. 8 ; double optic neuritis and miliary tubercles of the choroid; general tuberculosis. 3. Girl, set. 3 : atrophy of both optic nerves, as seen with the oph- thalmoscope ; a tubercle (scrofulous tumour,—Eep.) of the cerebellum, the size of a hen’s egg, and two the size of nuts, at the surface of the right cerebral hemisphere ; enormous quantity of fluid in the lateral ventricles; no miliary tubercles anywhere. . ^ Socin (“ Beitrag zur Behre von den Sehstorungen bei Meningitis ; ‘ Deut. Arch.,’ viii, 476) records two cases, in a man, set. 31, and a female, set. 37, in whom, suffering with meningeal symptoms, the same sort of appearances in the optic disc were observed as in children with tubercular meningitis. Broadbent (‘ Path. Soc. Trans.,’ xxiii, 216) records a case of dropsy of the sheath of the optic nerve in meningitis. The patient, a girl, jst. 10, had complained of headache for a fortnight. She had vomited lay in a state of torpor with her eyes half closed, the pupils large and sliieffish, the right rather larger than the left. She had well-marked taches cerelrales. The optic discs were well defined, of a dusky pink