M UEPOUT ON PHYSIOLOGY. bonic acid eliminated from the skin of the whole body in twenty-four hours, at a temperature of 86° Fahr., is about 4 grammes, or 60 grains, whilst the amount of that given off by the lungs is, perhaps, goo grammes, or 13,500 grains. Dr. Bernstein* * * § remarks that no attempt has hitherto been made to construct an apparatus approximatively resembling the conditions under which an exchange of gases takes place in the placenta. He gives the details and a drawing of an ingenious instrument he has constructed with this object in view, and shows that the exchange of gases dissolved in fluids is extremely small. Schifff has made many researches on the influence of artiflcial respira- tion having an important bearing on the preservation of life in concus- sion and compression of the brain and on the circulation. Arthur Eansome,J in a paper on the mechanical conditions of the respiratory movements in man, shows that the clavicles have more upward than forward motion, and move less than either sternum or ribs. The ribs move upwards more decidedly than the sternum, and the upward dimensions of the respiratory movement of the chest, as a whole, are sufficiently accounted for by the upward rise of the ribs, their chord length being taken as radius, their vertebral attachments as centres. The outward indications, as given by the stethometer, are also probably to be accounted for by the simple radial rise of the costal ends of the costal cartilages, the sternal articulation being taken as centre. The extent of the forward indications may be accounted for either on the hypothesis of the ribs becoming straightened in in- spiration or of their being previouslj'^ unbent in expiration. As regards the actions of the intercostal muscles, the external intercostals (i) draw the ribs upwards, (2) separate their anterior ends, (3) straighten them. On the other hand, the action of the internal intercostals is (i) to draw the ribs downwards, (2) to bring their anterior extremities nearer together, (3) to bend them inwards. The diaphragm also bends in the lower ribs. Mr. F. Le Gros Clark§ has also discussed somewhat fully the mechanism of respiration, especially showing the importance of the passive tension of the diaphragm. Dr. Eattrayll enters into some interesting details in regard to the more important physiological changes induced in the human economy by change of climate. He concludes that natives of colder climates, and especially the young, debilitated, and diseased, should leave the tropics, particularly during the rainy season. Even adults should leave them if they lose flesh and strength, and frequent change to more beneflcial climates or higher altitudes is advisable for all who live in them. He concludes also that the primary effects of great changes of climate is on the circulation, the blood being drawn surface-ward by heat and driven inward by cold, hence a difference in the relative * ‘Ludwig’s Arheiteu,’ 1870, 5th Jahrgang. t ‘Centralblatt,’ 1872, 756. j ‘ Proceed, lioy. Soc.,’ xxi, 11. § ‘Meet. Roy. Society,’ May 25, 1871. II ‘Proceed. Roy. Soc.,' 1871, xix, 295.