ALcoaot. 463 ai*6 given a few hours before a dose of opium they prevent headache, giddiness, and nausea, as. well as increase the hypnotic action of the opium. The itching of the skin is also lessened. Bartholow* considers that the bromides of potassium, sodium, and ammonium agree in their mode of action, and produce similar symptoms. They all produce weakness, trembling, impaired co-ordination, and paralysis. This effect he ascribes to diminution of the irritability of the muscles themselves, and also of the motor nerves. They depress the heart and lower the temperature. They diminish the activity of the brain, and procure sleep. The action on the muscles and nerves is greatest with the employment of the bromides of potassium and am- monium ; least on the heart with the use of the sodium salt, and most with the administration of the bromide of ammonium. On the brain bromide of potassium acts most, and bromide of ammonium least; whilst the potassium salt is intermediate in its activity. The toxic action is greatest in bromide of potassium, and least in bromide of sodium. Arsenic.—Vaudryf finds that arsenious acid, in doses of i-6oth to i-ioth grains, quickens and strengthens the pulse, facilitates respira- tion, improves the appetite, aids digestion, increases all secretions with the exception of the urine, imparts muscular activity and a general feeling of comfort, and causes an increase of weight. After it has been given for some time the feeling of comfort disappears, but again returns when the dose is increased by i-3oth to i-i^th grain. Doses of i-6th to 2-5th grains cause disturbance of the intestinal canal. In some persons even i-i2th grain will occasion diarrhoea. The author considers the effect of arsenic on respiration to be due to stimulation of the vagus. Animals gradually acquire a tolerance of arsenic. Arsenate of quinine.—Prof. GiovJ has given this salt successfully in cases of neuralgia involving the brachial plexus, in doses of i|—2 grains, the treatment being continued for eight or ten days. Mercury.—Dr. J. H. Bennett § records experiments which show that calomel, blue pill, and corrosive sublimate, digested in the stomach, do not irritate the orifice of the common bile duct in the duodenum, nor does their application or any other kind of local irritation cause in- creased secretion or flow of bile into the duodenum. The gall-bladder is not contractile, and therefore does not contract on the application of either direct or reflex irritation. Pressure on the gall-bladder or liver, in consequence of extensive contractions of the neighbouring muscles, causes a copious flow of bile into the duodenum. Byasson || finds that corrosive sublimate, when given by the mouth, appears in the urine in two hours and in the saliva four hours after its administration. It does not appear in the sweat. Its elimination is completed in twenty-four hours. Alcohol.—Parkes and Wollowicz^ have investigated the action of alcohol when taken in the form of claret as well as in the form of * ‘Amer. Journ. Med. Sc.,’ 1871, p. 359. t ‘Virchow and Hirsch’s Jaliresber.,’ 1871, n. ?i2. t ‘Schmidt’s Jahrb.,’ cli, p. 271. § ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, p. i, II ‘ Journ. de I’Anat. et do Physiol.,’ 1872, p. i?oo. ^ ‘ Pr. Koy. Soc.,’ xviii, p. 362.