103 DIPHTHERIA AND CROUP. further experiments, in continuation of his former papers on the pro- duction of diphtheria by specific spores. _ He fed rabbits ot ditferent I acres on tlie cultivated fungi, so as to eliminate all diphtheritic exuda- tion. The symptoms produced were loss ot appetite, malaise, increasing inability to swallow fluids, elevation of temperature, diarrhoea, or, in the older animals, obstinate constipation and almost complete sup- ' pression of urine. The animals were killed, and the post-mortem I appearances were, on the whole, as follows: Hy pereemia of the stomach, ulcers in it and in the duodenum, which was covered with whitish masses ; hypersemic kidneys, and in some cases albuminous urine. Microscopic examination showed the presence of the peculiar I spores and filaments in white masses, and in other parts, even among the glands of Lieberkiihn, in the tubules and pelvis of the kidney, in the ureters, and in the urine. No symptoms followed the swallowing I of penicillium glaucum, nor were its spores found in any ot the organs ! examined. He concludes that, through the destruction of the mucous membrane openings are made into the blood-vessels, lymphatics, &c., by which portions of the fungus make their way into the circulation, ‘ setting up a general disorder, which has its special seat in the kidneys, where the spores and filaments are developed to an enormous extent. The same origin and course of symptoms and microscopical appearances he finds in the diphtheria of children. The latter name he would apply I to the local afiection of the fauces, and that of diphtheritis to the secondary I symptoms. In reference to Grohe’s experiments with other fungi, he believes that the peculiarity of the diphtheritic fungus is that, while other spores must be artificially injected to produce like symptoms, the former makes its own way through the tissues which it first destroys. In a third paper (‘ Virch. Arch.,’ lii, 493) he discusses the physiology of ciliated epithelium and the development of the exudation in croup and diphtheria. On mucous membranes with smooth epithelium the exudation is thick and closely adherent; on others with ciliated or cylindrical epithelium it is creamy and easily stripped otf. He holds that croup and diphtheria are not identical, though they may be de- veloped side by side, and may pass from one into the other. Oertel (‘ Deut. Arch.,’ viii, 242) writes an extremely full and very long paper on experiments made in reference to diphtheria. 'With the same view he makes use of several very instructive autopsies made on human bodies. According to him diphtheria causes con- stant capillary haemorrhages, most numerous in the subepithelial and submucous tissues, next in the pleura, pericardium, diaphragm, dura mater, and in the capsules of the lymphatic glands, and again in the brain and spinal cord, in the sheaths of the nerves, and in the large organs. Micrococcus is developed and proliferates in the diseased mucous membrane and extends into the blood, into the neighbouring lymphatic glands, and over the whole body. i. Am- monia and other chemical irritants set up a pseudo-membranous inflammation in the larynx and trachea. The writer made this experi- ment on fifteen rabbits, and caused an inflammation agreeing in all its symptoms with croup as it occurs in the human body, and becoming fatal through suffocation. There was no aflfection of the other organs.