, UTEEINE TUMOUHSj ETC. 375 cannot be doubted that the flexion was the source of trouble, and bis experience leads him to think that flexions by themselves, independent oftoeir complications, ought to be considered as a pathological change deserving special treatment, (‘Graz. Med. di Torino,’ 1871.) Dr. Edis writes in favour of dilatation of the cervix uteri by graduated bougies in cases of anteflexion and dysmenorrhoea. He commences with an ordinary No. 8 bougie and passes it once a week, gradually increasing the size, and he allows it to remain in for about ten minutes. This method of treatment is capable of far more universal application than the insertion of a stem into the uterus. Three illustrative cases are added. In the first case the patient had been married sixteen years and was sterile. She sufiered great dysmenorrhoea, but was soon relieved by the above treatment. The second case was that of a woman, act. 38, married seven years, sterile. Not only was the dys- menorrhoea relieved, but she became pregnant. The third case could not tolerate a stem, but dilatation by metal bougies had the effect of getting rid of all inconvenience at the catamenial period. (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Nov. 1871.) Molliere relates a case where a patient, after using a cold vaginal injection a few days after menstruation, was seized with severe peritonitis, from which she died (‘ Journ. de Bruxelles,’ May, 1871). Uterine Tumours, ^c. Dr. Hegar describes (‘Archiv f. Gynak.,’ii, 1,1871) sarcoma of the uterus. He submits that this morbid growth is more common than is generally believed. It occurs in two principal forms:—(i) There are multiple tumours, more or less distinct; (2) there is a diffuse infiltration. In situation and relation to the uterine wall they pre- sent a great likeness to the intramural fibrous tumours. The seat is almost always the body of the uterus. Veit’s case, in which the cervix was affected, is unique. For the most part the sarcomatous tumours repose, with a broad basis, upon the inner surface of the fundus and body, projecting into the enlarged cavity, as not seldom do the intramural fibro-myomas. A kind of stalk is rare. Sometimes, as West says, together with the intra-uterine tumours there is a second division, which develops itself towards the abdominal cavity either in the iliac fossa or in Douglas’s pouch, reaching even to the lumbar region. The intra-uterine tumour seldom possesses a distinct investment, but a thick, smooth, fibrous capsule may exist. Invasion of the new formation into the cervix may take place. Either a uniform infiltration of both walls or of one wall and lip, with or without ulceration of the os uteri, or tumours connected with those of the body spring from the inner surface of the neck, or, lastly, larger tumours proceeding from one lip fill, monstrous hypertrophies, the vagina. In a second order of cases the sarcoma presents itself as a diffuse infiltration of the mucous membr^e, submucous membrane, and even of the proper muscular wall. There is on the inner surface of the uterus a large ulcerated suriace, with fungous granulations, necrotic debris of the original