28i IIRPOIIT ON SURGERY, a nove/Z]T°? >'7 Maoleod, of Glasgow, con.I.lno.l witl. Li? W,“h 1, He made the ineiaion by ti.rustmg h s knife through the cheek in front of the ramus of the jaw, and then t?rsi?l “““Hi- Tte vessels weie secured by toi Sion. He thus obtamea free access to tbe root of tbe tongue. “ The tongue was then seized close to its root between the finger and thumb ^ other carried under the tongue a strong curved needle, threaded with four pieces of ligature. These drew back trough the channel made by the needle the chains of two ecraseurs, one afto the other. One was fixed so as to divide the tongue near the larynx the other was to separate it from the floor of the mouth. The instru’ meuts were worked simultaneously, and in about seventeen minutes clean removal was efiected, absolutely without haemorrhage. (‘ Lancet ’ April 20, 1872, 540.) ° ^ ’ the riffJd half of a ivoman's tongue Buchanan’s modi- fication of Syme s operation. Ilic patient was 71 years of age. At time of note she vas 72, and there was no recurrence (‘ Edin. Med. Journ.,’ Aug., 1872, 678). A suc- cessful case 111 a woman, aged 62, under the care of Mr. Canton, is noted in the Lancet (Jan.^ 20, 1872, 80). The tongue was dr.awn down below the maxilla, and divided by an ecraseur. Mr. Lee records a case. He divided the jaw, and passed ligatures, 111 a special manner, through the base of the tongue before cutting it awav JMo hseinorrhage occurred. The patient recovered. (‘ Clin. Soc. Trans.,' iv, 114.) _ Abscess of the Tongue.—Dr. Pooley records a case of abscess of the tongue in a girl seven years old (‘ Am. Journ. Med. Sci.,’ April, 1872, 385). Congenital liyperirofliy of the tongue.—A case was shown to the Clinical Society by Mr. Lawson. (‘ Traus.,’ v, 158.) In a case under the care of Mr. Simon removal of 'portions loith the ieraseurv^QsB practised and death followed. Eeport of the case by Mr. Arnott. (‘Path. Trans.,’ xxiii, 109.) In a case of congenital hyjiertrophy of the tongue which came under the care of Mr. Lairlie Clarke he used the ecraseur with success. The patient was four months old. The jirotruding portion only was re- moved. (‘Lancet,’March 30, 1872,433, and ‘Path. Trans.,’ xxiii, in.) Fatty masses in a ranula—adipocere.—In a case of ajiparently ordinary rauula, Mr. Waren Tay evacuated five masses, like lumps of firm butter, from a cyst under the tongue. Dr. Tidy pronounced them, from che- mical examination, probably in the condition of adipocere. They were not ordinary fat. (‘ Path. Trans.,’ xxii, 238.) A fatty tumour tinder the tongue resembling ranula is recorded by Mr. Churchill who gives a resume of other cases. (‘ Path. Trans.,’ xx, iii, 234.) Fibrous tumour of the tongue.—Dr. Pooley records the case of a young woman (set. 23), who came under his care for a tumour of the tongue of twelve months’ duration. It was hard to the touch, and placed far back. It had a broad base. Bleeding occurred occasion- ally. It was removed with wire ecraseur with some difficulty owing to its density. There was no bleeding. The patient soon recovered. After removal the tumour was as large as a bantam’s egg perfectly spherical inform, with a pedicle an inch in diameter, had several stellate cracks or fissures extending through the mucous membrane with which it was covered^ which were undoubtedly the source of tbe repeated h^e-