DISLOCATIONS. 247 anterior and posterior ligaments of the joint were, of course, ruptured, as were, likewise, the inter-clavicular and rhomboid ligaments. The inter-articular cartilage was torn from its attachment to the sternum and cartilage of the first rib, and was carried upwards and inwards aloog with the clavicle. The only deviation Ifom its normal state observable in the subclavius muscle was that it ajipeared relaxed and altered in direction. Dr. Stokes then gives an account of seven other cases already published, and remarks—“ It will be seen from the preceding r^sum^, that the archives of surgical science, previous to the publication of the present case, contained only seven examples of the injury under consideration. The case I have described constitutes the eighth, and is peculiarly valuable as being the first (as far as I am aware) in which the anatomical characters of the injury were accurately established hjpost- ‘nwrtem examination, for the account given by Du Verney is totally des- titute of value as a dissection of the injury. It is a luxation of neces- sarily rare occurrence, for it not only requires for its production that the force applied should be very great, but that it should also act on the shoulder in an unusual direction, viz. downwards, inwards, and probably backwards. The result of this threefold impulsion is that the clavicle, converted into a lever of the first order (the fulcrum of which is con- stituted by the first rib) is forced, at its sternal extremity, upwards and inwards.” (‘Dub. Journ. Med. Sci.,’ Dec. 1872, 4^0.) Dislocation of both ends of the clavicle.—Dv. Stanley Haynes records the case of a girl, set. 13. Spontaneous dislocation forwards of the stpnal end of the clavicle and partial luxation upwards of the acro- mion one occurred while she was washing the back of her neck one morning._ The bone could easily be replaced, but it was diflicult to retain it in place. In a note Mr. Erichsen states there are three cases own work, and one by Mr. Hamilton (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Jan. 27, 1872.) Paralysis of the arm after dislocation of the shoulder-joint.-Dr Bernhard relates in the ‘ Berliner Klin. Wochenschr.,’Nm . 1871 two cases in which dislocation of the head of the humerus was foUowed aL? thl^-^^^‘ reduction was effected eight days after the mjury, in the other the dislocation was reduced on the dav of slight power of extension of o hXl Vr ^"^Sus became very distinct in the attempt t sensibility was increased in some parts but was somewhat in the forearm. In the second ca?e the forearm could be bent on the arm and the head could be moved sh^htlv wbil^ voluntary power over the muscles of the shoulder wis coSldv W more than four weeks althono-h iKp ^7 ® ight degiee at the end of had become increase?’ voluntary power over the muscles a f «'--Mr. Callender records standing under choloform ® of the humerus, of one month’s .. iasr.;