POISONS. 437 With one and a half time the minimum lethal dose.-—The range lies between o'o^ and 2‘i grains of atropine. With twice the minimum lethal dose the range is from o’l to I'a grain of atropine. With three times the minimum lethal dose the range is still more limited, recovery taking place only in one place in which o’i6 grain atropine was administered. Doses three times more than the minimum lethal dose of physostig- mine cannot be successfully antagonised by atropine. Another set of experiments shows that the smallest quantity of atropine that, in conjunction with half the minimum^ lethal dose of physostigmine administered five minutes beforehand, is sufficient to cause death, is about ten grains per three pounds’ weight of rabbit. Ill, Deteronination of the influence of the interval of time between the administration of the two substances upon the dose of atropine required to counteract a given dose of physostigmine. The plan of this third series of experiments was that the dose of physostigmine was constant (one and a half time the minimum lethal dose, viz. o'12 sulphate of physostigmine per 3 lbs. weight of animal), while the dose of atropine and the interval of time between the ad- ministration of the two substances varied. The experiments are—(«) those in which the two substances were simultaneously administered ; (i) those in which atropine was administered after physostigmine ; (c) those in which atropine was administered before physostigmine. (o) In these the range of successful antagonism lies between o'o^ and 3’3 grains of atropine. (b) The results of administering atropine flve minutes after physos- tigmine have already been given. Ten minutes afterwards: the range in this case is from o'3 to 2'5 grains of atropine. Fourteen minutes afterwards; only one experiment was made, in which o'3 grain sulphate of atropine was successful. Fifteen minutes afterwards: death is pre- vented by doses of atropine ranging from o'3 to i grain. Beyond this interval atropine does not antagonise physostigmine. (c) Five minutes before: the range of successful antagonism is from O'05 to 37 grains of atropine. Another set of experiments with varying doses of atropine, adminis- tered at different intervals before the minimum lethal dose of physos- tigmine, shows that o'o^ grain exerts successful antagonism with an interval of twenty minutes or less, but not if the interval be prolonged beyond this. Doses of half a grain of atropine antagonise one and a half time the minimum^ lethal dose of physostigmine, if administered thirty minutes before this, but not if the interval be longer. Doses of one grain and a half antagonise physostigmine within an interval of sixty-five minutes. Three grains of atropine administered an hour and thirty-five minutes before the same dose of physostigmine successfully antagonise it, but not if the interval is prolonged to one hundred minutes or more. Three grains, however, is near the maximum limit of the range in the case of simultaneous administi’ation, and, accordingly, not far from the limit in