470 REPORT ON MATERIA MEDICA^ ETC. epileptiform and’choreiform convulsions, where the acts usually lasted +1,^^ ^ eleven days, uninfluenced by medication or moral suasion, the influence of the drug was distinctly perceived after two doses (four grains ^ery hour) were taken, hut ten were necessary to entirely break off the attack. Dr. Hamnioiid also speaks highly of the bromide in headache from mental excitement. In wakefulness it is inferior to other bromides, as, e.g. bromide of calcium. Digitalis. Dr. Rudolph Boehm,* * * § of Wurzburg, has investigated the physiological actions pf digitalis and digitalin. He finds that digitalin increases the irritability of the inhibitory nerve-centres situated in the heart, and exercises a specific action on the muscular fibres of the heart, first of all increasing their contractility, next rendering their contractions irregular, and finally conferring upon them a peculiar rigidity. The essay is a long and valuable one. Dr. A. Weilf contributes a paper on the physiological actions of this drug. His memoir is very instructive, but as the object of the experi- ments, ^ made upon frogs, was to demonstrate the mechanism of the reflex inhibitory centres (reflexhemmungs mechanismen), we do not think it necessary to do more than make a short reference to them. He finds—(i) That small doses of digitalin (i-6oth of a grain) dimi- nish very considerably in decapitated “reflex frogs” (a term applied to to frogs in which, on the previous day, the cerebral hemispheres had been separated by cutting through the bones) the frequency of the heart’s action, the heart’s beats being stopped, sooner in the decapitated animals than in those which had not been so treated. The same oc- curred with doses of i-3oth of a grain. (2) Small as well as large doses act as excitants of the inhibitory centres. (3) Large and small doses induce a period at which division of the medulla oblongata no longer restores the reflex irritability, at which period also the irritation of the inhibitory centres has given place to paralysis of the cord. Pre- vious to this, the action of the digitalis is limited to the brain, so far as reflex excitation is concerned. Grourvat J finds that a moderate quantity of digitalin paralyses the motor nerves of voluntary muscles in frogs, and that a large quantity destroys the irritability of the muscles themselves. It seems to act as a stimulant to involuntary muscles. It causes contraction of the arte- rioles and raises the blood pressure. The cardiac pulsations become slower, stronger, and more regular, after a moderate dose. The slow- ness of the pulse is due to the increased blood pressure, and is propor- tional to this. The contraction of the arterioles produced by a moderate dose soon passes ofi*, but lasts longer when a large dose has been given. After the contraction has ceased they become paralysed and dilated. Their contraction causes diminution of the sweat and the secretions of mucous membranes and glands, but the amount of urine is increased. Ackermann § has investigated the action of digitalin—ist, on the heart; 2nd, on the arteries; and 3rd, on the temperature. He finds * ‘Arch. f. Anat.,’ v, p. 153. t ‘Arch. f. Physiol.,’ 1871, p. 252. j ‘ Gaz. Mod.,’ 1871, No. 26, et seq,-, ‘Gaz. des H6p,,’ cxxxii, p. 526. § ‘Perl. Klin. Wchiischi’.,’ 1872, 27; ‘Dent. Arch. f. Kliu. Med.,’ xi, p. 125.