360 llEPOET ON OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE AND SURGERY. a wound^ of the ciliary body. The same author thinks it doubtful whether in all cases of panophthalmitis the disorganisation of the ciliary nerves is sufficiently complete to give entire immunity from the danger. Whenever, he observes, he has seen symptoms threatening the second eye follow a panophthalmitis, he has generally also found that the latter had left a painful stump. Although much in the history of sympa- thetic ophthalmia is still obscure, it is, at least, [certain that any kind of injury to the ciliary nerves may excite it, and, unfortunately, the commencement of the mischief is often highly insidious. The patient is only brought to the surgeon by subjective symptoms at a time when the intractable disease has gone too far for vision to be preserved. Moreover, the commencement differs much in different cases, being indicated in some only by very slight concentric contraction of the field of vision, or by slight fatigue on looking at near objects, in others by rapid loss of sight, constant dazzling and dancing of objects before the eyes, or by lacrymation with photophobia. That there is no available remedy but enucleation, and that this often fails[when practised how- ever early after the appearance of symptoms, is known to all surgeons, and it may, therefore, be laid down that the enucleation of a shot blinded eye will preserve its fellow the more certainly the sooner it is performed, and that it should be performed prior to the occurrence of the smallest lacrymation or contraction of the field. In the case of common soldiers and others of the less educated classes, liable to be distant from skilled ophthalmic surgeons at their own homes, and to be tardy in seeking advice for their ailments, enucleation should be per- formed as a prophylactic measure in all perforating shot wounds causing blindness. The woollen seton recommended by v. Grafe is, at least, of questionable trustworthiness for the end in view; and the section of the ciliary nerves, advised by v. Grafe and first practised by Meyer, is open to the objection that it is difficult to be certain of dividing all the nerves by which mischief may be done, and that, when divided, they may reunite and restore the danger of sympathetic afi’ection. It has been urged that for the reception of an artificial eye a wasted globe IS better than enucleation. On this gi’ound, Himly advised free division of the eyeball in panophthalmitis, and Williams the abscission of the an- terior half by passing a cataract knife through the equator, and complet- ing the section by scissors. Apart from the free bleeding from the cho- roidal vessels that would often be produced by such a course, it is evi- dent that the movements of such a stump would be very imperfect, since the recti muscles are inserted in front of the equator. It cannot be denied that an artificial eye moves better when placed on the remains of the globe than when on the conjunctiva and muscles only ; but it is also true that the stump is often irritated by the foreign body, and that sympathetic ophthalmia may be thus produced. With regard to the method of enucleation Cohn observes that, although the operation is very easy when dealing with an unopened eye ball of ordinary tension, and with a natural conjunctiva, it becomes very difficult when the conjunctiva is swollen and the eyeball ruptured or very soft. In the former case the points of insertion of the muscles are not easily found. Dr. Cohn thinks it a matter of indifference which