IIEPOIIT ON SURGERY. 280 da^’s after tlic operation. The stones weighed, together, 9-j grammes (1461- grains). They were, like the former one, formed of cystine nuclei followed by two layers of earthy phosphate and one of cystine. The third case was that of a boy. mt. 7, who three years previously bad had hsematuria, unattended by any pain ; tins soon diminished, and a short time after its first appearance he passed urethram, without pain, a yellowish, firm substance of the size of a pea. Some time later he became very restless at night, would spring out of bed if not re- strained, and endeavour, but in vain, to pass urine. The next morning he would have no recollection of what had occurred. He had also violent itching over the whole body, which was reported to then have a bronze colour. In the daytime bright coloured urine was frequently passed in small quantities. In the summer his condition improved; but in the winter of 1863, irritation of the extremity of the penis set in. His urine when examined in March, 1864, was found to be straw- coloured, slightly turbid, of acid reaction, and to deposit a sediment containing hexagonal plates of cystine. This, however, was not found in the sediment on subsequent examinations. During the summer he again improved ; but in the winter the symptoms became more severe ; his fasces were frequently mixed with mucus and blood; there were alternate suppression and incontinence of urine; and he was taken into hospital in May, 1863. On the day after his admission. Dr. von Dumreicher removed, by the lateral operation, a stone about an inch in diameter, weighing about ten grammes (153'4 grains) and consisting entirely of cystine. The operation was followed by a severe attack of cystitis and pericystitis, which, however, was subdued in the course of ten days by inunction of mercurial ointment into the abdomen and warm applications. The urine passed partly through the urethra on the fifteenth day; and the patient was discharged, cured, four weeks after the operation. The fourth patient was a man, set. 35, who was admitted into hospital in November, 1870, having suffered for two years from pain in the bladder and other symptoms of stone; for nine months he had had constant dribbling of urine. None of his family were known to have suffered from calculus. The patient was thin, and his skin was almost bronze-coloured. The liver was not eidarged, nor was there pain in the hepatic region. On sounding, a hard body, which could not be pushed into the bladder, was felt in the prostatic portion of the urethra. It did not give a very clear sound on being struck, and its surface was felt to be rough; a small portion which followed the removal of the sound, was, on examination, found to consist of cystine. The urine was of acid reaction, of spec. grav. 1007 ; it was cloudy and yielded a flocculent sediment of pus, together with epithelial cells from the pelvis of the kidney and casts from the tubes of Bellini. The quantity of colouring matter and uric acid in the urine was much diminished ; the urea and salts were in normal amount; and there was a good deal of albumen. There was no cystine in the sediment. The median operation of lithotomy was performed on November 17th, and the stone was removed in three pieces with a quantity of detritus; the whole was calculated to weigh forty- five grammes (694^ grains). The patient went on well for some days ;