CHOLERA. 49 relatiou of certain conditions of subsoil water to cholera were not sup- ported by this epidemic ,nor did the directions given by him as to the disinfection of latrines, &c., prove more efficacious. The affection visited several places which had been perfectly free, and spared others which had suffered, in former years. Moore translates (‘ Brit. Med. Chir. Bev.,’ xlvin, 462) a paper by Schleisner, on the cholera in Copenhagen in 1866. Thirty cases of cholerine, suspicious diarrhoea, and cholera remained on board ship in the roadstead, of whom two died; sixty-one, of whom six died, were admitted into the hospital. In the city itself only four cases occurred,^ of which the first died. This immunity of the city, to the port of which 2233 ships arrived between May and December from infected localities, was due to the stringent measures adopted. These the author gives at length—strict quarantine; daily inspection of the ships for the first three days of their stay in harbour; strict regulations as to lodg- ing-houses and inns, as regarded the reception of seafarers, &c.; the formation of a cholera hospital in an isolated position near the harbour ; disinfection of all latrines; special supervision of the city itself by the sanitary police; and of all institutions, orphan houses, schools, &c., by the medical officer of health ; and the removal of the occupants of such houses as might be first attacked by cholera. Thompson gives a report (‘ Army Med. Eep.’ for 1869, xi, 392) on an epidemic of cholera at Thayetmyo, British Burmah, in 1869. A portion of the 76th regiment was stationed there from February, 1868, to April, 1869. At the end of the latter month cholera, which had not appeared before, broke out in a coolie village. In May, it attacked a barrack in which the married soldiers lived, and spread rapidly, till they were re- moved to a more elevated and easily isolated spot, when no further cases occurred. Fauvel (‘Bull, de I’Acad. de Med.,’ xxxvi, 599), read before the Academy some notes on cholera,in which he sketches its march in Europe. In Eussia, where it never entirely disappeared since its importation in 1865, it was still epidemic, at the end of 1869, in several provinces in the centre and the west. It gradually diminished, till it seemed to have disappeared about the middle of 1870. In July of that year it again broke out at Taganrog and Eostow, spread along the shores of the Black Sea by Kertch, Odessa, and Poli, from whence it was propa- gated inwards to the transcaucasian provinces. The rapid extension along the coast coincided as usual with the arrival of travellers from affected parts. It was by no means severe and ceased again at the end of September. In the early part of that month a few cases occurred in St. Petersburg, where it reappeared in February, 1871, and was regularly epidemic. In May it also broke out in Moscow and the neighbouring provinces ; next month at TV^ilna, at Sulwalki, not far from. Koenigsberg, and at Eiga; at Nijni-Nowgorod, and Kazan; and in the south again at Taganrog, where it raged with especial violence, 11,942 people being attacked between June 12 and July 22, of whom 4489 died (ib., 694). At the end of July (1871) it appeared at Koenigsberg (ib., 983); in August successively at Dantzig, Stettin, Berlin, on the 19th at Posen, and on the 29th at Fraukfort-on-the-Oder, and almost at the same time at 4