REPORT ON SURGERY. 270 back, a little blood in the urine, a transient pain in the testicle or glans penis. By degrees the bleeding becomes more copious, the pain in the back more severe, and symptoms of urinary irritation appear, in an in- creased frequency of micturition, in pain in the glans penis, in the bladder, or in the perinsoum. In children there may be, before passing water, shrieking, shuddering, and pulling the foreskin and pinching the glans penis, the child sometimes finding a temporary relief after the water has passed. In the later stages of the disease the pain in the bladder and the urinary distress is most severe, and there is tenderness in the hypogastrium. The urine, which from the first is usually alka- line, may contain nothing abnormal but blood and broken-down epithe- lial scales. After a time it comes to be loaded with pus, and to be offensive. I have observed that the qualtity of the urine is liable to great variations, that it may, at one time, be full of blood, at another, free from it; that the pus may disappear and again reappear. Ab- scesses may form in the loins, prostate, vesiculse, perinasum, body of the penis, or testicle; and these are preceded, in the last-named organs, by deposits of tuberculous matter, which may be recognised as indura- tions or lumps some time before the formation of matter. Urinary abscess or extravasation is not rarely the result of these suppurations. In a case (a boy) under Mr. Wormald’s care, in addition to very severe' urinary symptoms, phosphatie deposits could bo detected with a sound in the mucous membrane of the bladder. The blood in the urine may be bright coloured, as from the bladder, or coffee-coloured, as in stone in the kidney; it may be largely increased in quantity by exertion or shaking, jarring movements of the body. As before mentioned, in some stages of the complaint, the subjective symptoms are identical with those of stone ; in no case, therefore, where tuberculosis is suspected, can the diagnosis of the disease be confirmed until the non-existence of stone in the bladder be ascertained by physical examination, and until, by watching the progress of events, the existence of renal calculus is nega- tived.” He narrates the case of a man, mt. whose symptoms began with pains in the back, followed by irritability of the bladder and fre- quent micturition, with hasmaturia. After eighteen months, “ pain commenced in the bottom of the bladder,” followed by pain in the penis and most acute pain in the glans, especially just at the moment the bladder was being emptied. The tenderness in the periuaeum was so great that he could not sit. At this time the urine was bloody, puru- lent, and full of mucus. No stone could be found. He died after three years. Changes (detailed) were found in the kidneys, ureters, bladder, and prostate. One patient was under observation many y;ears. Another, a boy, let. qi, died in about four months. He had urinary symptoms, and a tumour was felt below the right kidney. After dearth this was found to be, probably, due to a deposit in the ureter. The chief changes were in the kidneys. The case of a lad, set. 14, is noted. Mr. Smith calls attention to the similarity between the symptoms and those in pulmonary mischief. On the one hand, suppuration, hemoptysis, increased secretion of mucus, with the occasional recurrence of a spas- modic expulsive, muscular effort (in the form of cough). On the other, suppuration, hematuria, increased secretion of mucous, with spasmodic