250 llEPORT ON SUllGEUY. the patient was in a state of nervous excitement, and the displacement was not very strongly marked, Dr. Salleron deferred any attempt at reduction. On the fifth day, while the patient was turning himself in bed, he felt a sudden shock in the pelvis, accompanied with a noise which his neighbour (no doubt with exaggeration) described a.s being as ^ loud as a pistol-shot, but which was distinctly heard by a man in the third bed from the patient. Immediately after this he was able to lie comfortably on his back. When he went out of hospital, three months after the receijDt of the injury, he could walk tolerably well, but the right thigh was somewhat atrophied. Its con- dition had improved, somewhat, when he was seen twenty days after- wards. In a subsequent portion of his memoir Dr. Salleron treats, at length, of the pathology, symptoms, diagnosis, prognosis, and treat- ment of dislocations of the pelvis. Pathology.—In disjunction of the pubic symphysis, the interarticular cartilage is not (except, perhaps, in exceedingly rare cases) torn through its central part, but is separated from the bone on one or the other side. This has been noticed by Malgaigne, Backer, and Cloquet, as well as by Dr. Salleron. The fibrous ligaments surrounding the symphysis are more or less torn. The inferior ligament is generally detached from the interarticular fibro-cartilage, and torn away from its attachment to the descending ramus of the pubic bone that is detached. Its lower edge seems to be usually uninjured, but its upper border is irregularly torn to a greater or less extent, especially at the sides, where it is attached to the bone. Lacerations of the perinseum and rupture of the urethra or of the bladder, although produced simultaneously with the dislocation, are not produced by it. Rupture of the bladder generally arises from direct pressure. The wound in this case is linear, and has well-defined edges, while in perforation of the bladder by fragments (which, in rare cases, takes place in cases of dislocation com- plicated with fracture) the edges of the wound are irregular. Reten- tion of urine or dysuria may occur in consequence of the deviation of the prostatic portion of the urethra to one or the other side. The precise mechanism of this displacement requires to be explained by post-mortem examination; but Dr. Salleron believes that it arises from the manner in which the pubo-prostatic ligament, on the side of the dislocation, is affected. When it is merely stretched, the prostate and the ui’ethra with it are drawn towards the affected side ; when it is torn through, the prostate and urethra are displaced towards the opposite side. This displacement of the prostate has been noticed in one case by Richerand, and in two by Dr. SaUeron. In displacement of one of the pubic bones directly forwards, there is no injury of the triangular ligament and no deviation of the urethra from its course. Simple luxation of the sacro-iliac articulation may be partial or complete. In the partial form, the ligaments uniting the ilium to the sacrum are torn, while the ilio-lumbar ligament is only partially lacerated. The ilium becomes somewhat tilted, so that its upper portion is carried somewhat forwards, and its lower part correspondingly backwards. The tuberosity, which lies behind and a little below the posterior, superior, iliac spine’ passes beyond the posterior edge of the articular surface of