SMALLPOX. 487 Scarlet fever.—Dv. Alfred Carpenter* propounds some new ideas re- garding tiie causation of scarlet fever. lie brings forward a number of facts relating to the diffusion of this disease in Croydon, which seems to warrant the conclusion that scarlet fever may originate, de novo, from the decomposition of blood outside the organism under certain unknown conditions. The fatal cases of scarlet fever occur in Croydon chiefly in three places, which have this in common, that they are in the neighbourhood of slaughter-houses, from which the drainage is imperfect. He holds that, unlike typhoid, scarlet fever is independent of the sanitary state of the district, inasmuch as it prevails to a great extent where good drainage, &c., has driven typhoid away. ^ Cases are given where scarlet fever broke out, and proved very fatal, in new houses which had been built on land previously manured with blood from slaughter-houses. Copeman f believes that the scarlet fever miasma is difi'used chiefly by the faeces, and hence he recommends that these should be thoroughly disinfected. Dr. Geo. Johnson^ considers that the infective period of scarlet fever lasts over a month from the first day of the disease. The carriers of the poison are the secretions of the throat, the nose, and the epidermic scales. Also the faeces and the urine may carry the contagion. He recommends as prophylactic treatment the isolation of the patient and burning a fire night and day in the apartment. All carpets, &c., must be removed, and the attendants must wear easily washed clothes, and avoid intercourse with other persons as much as possible. Excreta, urine, &c., must be carefully disinfected. In order to avoid infection from the skin, the patient should be bathed, once or twice a day, as long as desquamation goes on, in a warm bath, and afterwards rubbed with camphor oil, or better, with carbolic acid soap, during the bath. When the patient is well, the room and everything in it must be thoroughly cleaned out and disinfected. The doors and windows of the room should be left open for a long time, and a fire kept con- tinually burning in it. Children living in a house where scarlet fever prevails must be kept from school, in order to avoid any risk of their propagating the contagion. Smallpox.—year 1871 was chiefly remarkable at home through the prevalence, first in London, and afterwards generally in England, of a far severer epidemic of smallpox than any which had been wit- nessed of late years, or probably since the general use of vaccination. It appears to have killed in England, within the year, nearly 23,000 persons, including 7876 of the population of London.§ The severity of the epi- demic became evident in two ways—first, by the extraordinary multitude of persons whom the disease attacked, and secondly, by the extraordi- nary intensity of the disease in the individual cases. To illustrate the latter point, it may suffice to mention that at the London Smallpox Hospital, where 930 cases were treated during the year, the deaths, in * ‘Lancet,’ 1871, pp. no, 148. t ‘ St. George’s Hosp. Rep.,’ vol. v. No. 3, p. 55. J ‘ British Med. Journ.,’ 1870, ii, p. 315. § ‘ First Report of the Local Government Board,’ 1871-72, p. lii, (blue book).