UEPOET ON MATERIA MEDICA AND GENERAL THERAPEUTICS. BY THOMAS STEVENSON, M.D. Lond,, E.E.C.P. Sulphovinaie of sodium.—M. Eabuteau* proposes the use of this salt as a purgative, and states that it possesses the following advantages, (i.) Its taste is very slight at first, and is afterwards sweet, so that it is taken without difficulty'even hy children. (2.) It is the mildest in its action of all the saline purgatives, and is especially useful in colic. (3.) It produces no pain or tormina, and is exclusively a dialytic pur- gative ; hence it is useful during menstruation and pregnancy. (4.) It presents all the advantages, and none of the disadvantages, attending the use of citrate of magnesium. In the first place, the sulphovinate is more agreeable to take, especially when administered in seltzer water, than the citrate; and in the next place, it does not tend to the produc- tion of calculi, as the citrate of magnesium is apt to do. (5.) Sulpho- vinate of sodium acts as a purgative when given in relatively small doses. Rather less than an ounce of the salt dissolved in seltzer water is invariably sufficient to produce in an adult five or six stools. 2-1 drachms suffice for a child, and this dose produces very appreciable effects even in an adult. (6.) It does not produce after-constipation, as saline purgatives are so apt to do ; this owing to the rapidity with which the sulphovinate of sodium is eliminated after its absorption. Peroxide of hydrogen.—Dr. John Day, t of Geelong, finds in pessaries containing peroxide of hydrogen a convenient method of destroying the offensive odour which accompanies the discharges of patients svd- fering from cancer of the uterus. The following is his formula: Melt, with gentle heat, twelve drachms of cocoa-butter, and well stir in until thoroughly incorporated eight scruples of ethereal solution of peroxide of hydrogen. When nearly cold divide into eight pessaries. One to be inserted into the vagina every night and morning, or oftener if necessary. They keep well. * ‘Gaz. HeM.,’ June 10, 1870. f ‘Austr. Med. Journ,,’ 1871, p. 303.