326 EEPOltT ON SUROEUY. correctness of these observations by experiments on dogs and rabbits, the extremities of which were encased in plaster of Paris, and examined at periods varying from one to ten weeks. In most cases, at the end of ten weeks, the same appearances were found in young rabbits as bad been described by Bonnet and Teissier. In one case there was crepi- tation in the joint. The synovia contained numerous red corpuscles and epithelial cells ; and the cartilages were found to have undergone proliferation of the nuclei, with conversion into a fibrous tissue rich in spindle-shaped cells. Menzel concludes that the retention of the articular surfaces in contact by means of the surrounding elastic structures has a mischievous effect; and that the ulceration of the cartilages is analogous to bedsores, arising as it does from the constant pressure of the same points against each other. Sip-joint Disease.—K clinical lecture by Dr. Sayre on the treatment of hip-joint disease with a description and figure of his own splint for keeping up extension will he found in the ‘Brit. Med. Journ.’ July 22, 1871, also ‘Med. Times and Gazette,’ July 29. . 0.11. Dr. Morton publishes a lecture on the subject of excision in disease of the hip (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’Jan. 20, 1872). Chronic Eheumatic Arthritis.—Numerous specimens have been exhibited by Mr. Hutchinson (‘Path. Trans.,’xxiii, X94). Loose Cartilages in the knee-joint.—Ur. Square records twenty-four consecutive and unselected cases, cured, without anxiety or accident, by subcutaneous incision (‘Brid. Med. Journ.,’Sept. 23, 1871). . . , . Mr. Lister speaks of the removal of loose cartilages under the antiseptic dressing (‘Brit. Med. Journ..’ Aug. 26, 1871). Spina lijlda treated ly tapping and pressii/re.—A child, set. 25 days, was brought into the San Jose Hospital, in Lisbon, under the care of Dr. Camara Cabral, on November 21,1871. It^had spina bifida in the lumbo-sacral region ; the tumour was 40 centimetres in circumference, and measured 17 centimetres, longitudinally, and 10 transversely. It was transparent and fluctuated, but appeared to contain solid matter as well as fluid. Convulsions were not 'produced by manipulating the tumour, nor was there any paralysis or other sign of injury of the nGrvous systein. On tlie 29th it was tapped by means of Dieulaioy s aspirator, and 409 grammes of yellow, transparent fluid, containing much albumen, were removed. Compression by means of adhesive nlaster was employed. Some vomiting and loss of appetite were the only symptoms that followed the operation. The tumour refilled m the course of a few days, it was therefore again tapped, 2 jo grammes of fluid being remoyed, and on December 14th, 425 grammes were drawn off. On two subsequent occasions 175 and 12 j grammes were removed by the aspirator; the fluid had become more albuminous thp it was at first. The last two operations were followed by meningitis whmh vielded to remedies. The child recovered, and was exhibited by Dr. Cabral at a meeting of the Lisbon Medical Society, on February 17. (‘"o Correio Medico de Lisboa,’ March i, 1872.) Dr. Morton records a cas^ cured by injections (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ April 6, 1872). TRceration of the jugular veins.—Dr. Gross writes an elaborate paper n-n ulceration of the jugular veins, communicating witli an abscess or nr, nnen sore He also alludes to the cases which have been recorded, to Xh arteries hare been opened by nlceration, &c., and to Mr, B.r-