233 CLEFT PALATE—TUMOUllS OF THE BREAST. throuo-h He only divided the muscles in a few cases, trusting to incisions. (‘St. Barth. Hosp. Eep.,’ vii, 1.^3.) Mr. Francis Mason describes a plan he has adopted for improving the voice after a cleft of the palate has been closed. The operation may be performed at any time after the closure. A narrow spatula is passed behind the soft palate and then an incision is made in the soft palate on either side, just at the inner side of the hamular process. The palate retracts by muscular action and is converted into a loose, movable curtain, which, effectually shuts off" the communication between the posterior nares and the mouth. A diagram is given. Eleven cases have been operated on. (‘St. Thom. Hosp. Eep.,’ ii, 271.) Mr. Hulke operated on a little girl, set. 2^, who had a cleft of the soft palate, under the influence of chloroform, using Smith’s gag. The sutures were torn out at the end of a week in a fit of coughing. He operated again at the end of thirteen months, using silkworm-gut sutures. Perfect union throughout the whole of the cleft resulted. (‘ Lancet,’ Oct. 14, 1871, 339.) Dr. 'Whitehead records two cases in which he operated successfully, the patients being anaesthetised. In several cases he believes bone has been produced in the new palate.—(‘ Amer. Jour. Med. Sciences,’ Jan. 1872, 75.) A case of cleft of the hard and soft palates operated on successfully at one operation, in a man of thirty- five, is recorded by Dr. Whitehead. A special gag and various instru- ments, which are figured, were employed. The patient was reheved. (‘Amer. Journ. Med. Sciences,’ July, 1871, 114.) Scissors for removing sutures,—Mr. Thomas Smith uses a pair of scissors with a fine hook at the end of one blade, and there are fiat surfaces on each blade, behind the cutting edge, to seize the suture fast when divided. (‘Lancet,’ May 13, 1871, 645.) Improved gag for use in operations on the mouth, ^c.—In a clinical lecture on epithelioma of the tongue Mr. Wood describes and figures a gag somewhat similar to Mr. Smith’s, acting on both sides, but without a tongue-piece, very strong and having a transverse connecting piece passing under the chin. (‘ Lancet,’ Sept. 28, 1872.) Removal of tumours of the Ireast.—The results of Mr. Syme’s practice in the removal of tumours of the breast show, that of fifty-five opera- tions which he performed, for simple tumours, recovery followed in all. In 147 cases of carcinoma, death followed in 10. Two of the patients died of shock ; the others of erisipelas or of inflammatory affections of the thoracic viscera. (‘ Edin. Med. Journ.’ July, 1871, 32.) Cancer of the Ireast.—In the ‘ Lancet,’ for Sept. 16, 1841, 398, is a record of cases of cancer of the breast, with special reference to the return of the disease after operation (compiled by Dr. Andrea Eabagliati) from the Bradford Infirmary. The following summary is given. Out of 10 patients, on whom 11 operations were made for cancer of the breast: —2 died of the operation; 3 ha,vedied since, i of return of the disease locally, and 2 died from constitutional return (of these i in the liver and I in the lung); in 2 more the disease has recurred locally; and in 3 there has been no recurrence of the disease up to the time of the of the last 3 patients the longest interval between the date 01 the operation and the time of the note was nine months,