237 REMOVAL OF BRONCHOCELE. was reached as quickly as possible, regardless of the bleeding, and tied in two halves. The inferior thyroid, of the left side, is mentioned as oi the size of the common carotid in its normal condition. The patient did well. Dr. Greene says these are the only cases he has attacked, and though they turned out so successfully he is not anxious to deal with another; at the same time he would not hesitate in a similar case, as the possibility of extirpation, even in the worst cases, is established. The several steps in the operation are—(i) exposure of the tumour by linear incision of ample length, avoiding most sedulously any wounding of the tumour or of its fascia propria; (2) division of the fascia propria upon a director; (3) the reflection and the enucleation of the tumour with the fingers and the handle of the scalpel, paying no attention to hcemorrhage, however profuse, but going as rapidly as possible to the base of the gland and compressing the thyroid arteries ; (4) transfixion of the pedicle, from below upwards, with a Hunt, curved needle, armed with a double ligature, and tying each half; or, when practicable, dividing the pedicle into as many portions as there are main arterial trunks, and tying each portion separately ; (^) excision of the gland and subsequent dressing of the wound as in ordinary cases. “ It is and always will be exceedingly rare that any such interference is warrantable ; never for relief of deformity or discomfort merely, only to save life.” “ If it is beyond all question determined, in any given case, that such an opera- tion gives the only chance for snatching a fellow-being from an untimely grave, be it remembered that accurate, anatomical knowledge and a per- fect self-control, under the most trying ordeals through which a surgeon can pass, are indispensable to its best performance.” (‘Am. Jour. ‘Med. Sciences,’ Jan. 1871, 80.) Dr. Morell Mackenzie writes on the treatment of hronchocele (‘ Lancet,’ May 4, 1872). In “ simple or adenoid bronchocele ” he uses iodine, blisters, iron, &c. For the “ fibrous” he employs a seton passed through the substance of the gland. The seton should be of twine (six to twelve threads, according to the size of the tumour). In “ cystic bronchocele” he uses injections of perchloride of iron. The cyst should first be emptied and then a solution of perchloride of iron (two drachms of the salt to an ounce of water) is injected through the canula, which is then plugged and fastened in. The injection is repeated every two or three days till suppuration is established. The tube is then withdrawn and poultices are employed. Figures of patients before and after opera- tion are given. Other varieties of the disease are considered. Congenital, cystic tumour of the necTc successfully extirpated.—Dr. Hardie records the case of a baby, set. 5 months, who had a congenital cystic and solid tumour of the neck. After various methods of treat- ment had been tried, as the child seemed likely to die if nothing further was done, an operation was performed. Haemorrhage was checked as he proceeded. The baby on several occasions seemed nearly dead. Both sterno-mastoids were divided. The operation took an hour and five minutes. The child recovered perfectly and remained well. (‘Lancet,’ Nov. 9, 1872, 667.) Removal of a, cystic tumour of the nech.—Dr. Walter F. Atlee removed a cyst, of the size of a goose-egg, from the neck of a young man. Various