REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 118 paroxysm. lu 105 out of the iii it was situated in front of tlie fra3num; in four out of the other six its varying position was accom- panied by some abnormal disposition of certain teeth. He considers it to be due to the rubbing of the tongue against the latter in the act of coughing. He looks upon it as a valuable diagnostic sign in cases in which the cough is not heard at the time when the patient is seen. Prestwick, “Cod-liver Oil in Wkooping-cougk,” ‘Lancet,’ 1871, ii, 812. Murray, “Extract of Nettles in Wkooping-cougk,” ib., 1872, i, 539. Grantham, “Effects of tko V.aponr of Ammonia in the Treatment of Wkooping-cougk,” ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ iS/j, ii, 323. Pnemionia. Eevillout (‘Gaz. des Hop.,’ 1871, 273) discusses the question whether pneumonia is a disease having a defined course and type, and whether it be true, as Jaccoud affirms (‘ Traite de Pathologie Interne,’ Paris, 1871, ii) that it cannot be abridged a single hour. He looks at the affection from the point of view of other diseases, e. g. albu- minuria, syphilis, &c., and concludes that the holding of any such view transforms the physician into a fatalist (“ transforme en un Musuhnan dans le sens Arabe et precis de cette expression ”). Parquharson (‘Edin. Journ.,’ xvi, 988) brings forward ten cases in support of his view as opposed to those of Trousseau, Hughes Bennett, and Sturges, which convince him of a special lowering of vitality which almost invariably attends extension of infiammation to the apex of either lung. In some remarks on the treatment of pneumonia he gives a single case in which he thinks aconite cured an extremely doubtful {Sep.) case of the affection. Eitzmaurice (‘Dublin Quart. Journ.,’ lii, 386) concludes from his own observation that pneumonia in children and infants, and in some cases in which chest symptoms are absent, is often mistaken for other ailments, as dentition, worms, &c. He considers the law as laid down by West that if the posterior part of the chest is free from a consider- able amount of crepitation the infant is not suffering from any serious lune disease, to be inaccurate. His own experience leads him to believe that simple hepatized lung is oftener found in other parts of the chest. “ Bv keeping the ear perseveringly to the chest, when exhaustion takes nlai (after crying, &c.), the hurried breathing facilitates the discovery of tubular breathing, the first sign of pneumonia generally observed in the child.” Blistering is, in his opinion, the sheet-anchor in this disease; and dressing with mercurial ointment he finds, excludes the air more effectually than simple dressing. He gives four cases to niustrate his position. The fourth case, which he seems to have looked upon as croiip, he “cured” by giving large doses of decoction of "TtnrCes (“The Etiology of Pneumonia,” ‘ St. George’s Hosp. Eep.,’ V 13 O writL on the general infiuence of the weather upon the so-called inflammatory diseases of the chest. Taking the average of ten years « Croupy cougk and laryngeal stridor are ^oi-e frequently tkan is generally ad- mitted tkc to-erunners of simple brouclutis in ckildieu. A. B. .