DISLOCATION OP THE BONES OF THE PELVIS. 21-9 movement in every direction, that a vacant cavity existed where, normally, the compact semilunar bone is found. The constant pressure kept up by the luxated bone caused forced and jiainful flexion of the fingers and wrist. All attempts at reduction were useless. Three weeks after the injury Dr. Chisolm removed the bone through a single incision, two inches in length, in the median line. The operation was more tedious than was expected. The bone was rotated so that the concavity for the reception of the rounded head of the os magnum looked directly up the arm, whilst the convex surface belonging to the radio-carpal joint w'as facing the fingers. All the ligaments were not torn through, but the bone was forced amongst them, twisted and stretched over it so that it was tied down firmly in its new position. Its reduction would have been quite impossible, owing to the irregular surfaces of bone in contact. A small fragment of the scaphoid was found attached to the semilunar, torn ofl"at the time of the injury. (‘Lancet,’ Oct. 28, 1871, 605.) Dislocation of the hones of the pelvis.—Dr. Sallerou contributes an elaborate memoir on the subject to the ‘Archives Generales de Mede- cine, for July and August, 1872. During a period of forty years, there have come under his notice, in the military hospitals, more than thirty cases of severe injury of the pelvis, most of them being instances of fracture with dislocation, often complicated with other severe injuries, and rapidly fatal. In three cases, there was simple dislocation without fracture. In one of these, a man, aet. 26, fell from a height of twelve metres, and dislocated the left iliac bone, upwards and backwards; the second piece of the sternum was also dislocated upwards and forwards, on the first. Eeduction was readily efi’ected by fixing the pelvis’ steady extension, by a towel placed round the thigh, and push- posterior, superior, iliac spine downwards and forwards. Attempts were made to reduce the dislocation of the sternum, but without effect. The patient left the hospital, able to walk without crutches, about seven weeks after the receipt of the injury. In another case, a Zouave, ast. 36 dislocated the right iliac bone forwards and slightly upwards by a faU from a height of five or six metres. On placing him on his back, the right antero-superior spine of the ilium was seen to be ten or twelve millimetres higher than the left, and the right pubic bone projected forward, beyond that of the other side. The crista fill was nearer to the false ribs on the right side than on the left There was no impairment of the movements of the hip-joint. On sXron make a further exammation. Dr. balleron felt a sudden movement, accompanied by a sound which was m^ni^fation^o^ tr^^^^^^ • relieved, and the ampulation oi the pel™ became leas painful than it had been On again placing him on his back, the projection forwards of the risht o?remfes““Thflefti*T r“2t':dt7the7attr^^ related, and the patient was unable to lie on his back without pain. As