HEPORT ON SUEGERY. 333 tlie free detacliment of the remainder from the subjacent parts ; on the fact that tbe apparatus was kept on for a very long time (it was taken off at night) ; the repression of the granulations ; and the free division of the new cicatricial tissue forming in bands. Dr. Buck refers to other cases and apparatus. (‘ Am. Journ. Med. Sciences,’ Jan. 1872, 53.) Treatment of cicatrices.—Mr. Lister advocates division of cicatrices, stretching of the edges of the wound by india-rubber bands and the careful employment of antiseptic dressing. The latter consisting in applying folds and bandages of gauze (antiseptic) with a piece of water- proof material interposed next the skin as a “protective.” Underneath the outmost fold also a piece of waterproof material is inserted to make any discharge travel through a quantity of the gauze. The gauze admits air freely, but removes the septic germs. (‘ Edin. Med. Journ.,’ Aug. 1871, 145.) Ossification of the marrow of hones.—At a meeting of the Academy of Medicine in Paris on January 9th, 1872, M. Demarquay presented a specimen of ossification of the medulla of the humerus. It was taken from a young man, set. 20, who had had his humerus fractured by a gunshot a year previously. An attempt was made to preserve the the limb, but the wound did not heal; numerous abscesses formed on the chest, and the arm became greatly swollen, and presented, through its whole extent, fistulous openings leading to diseased bone. The patient’s health being much impaired, disarticulation of the limb was per- formed. The humerus was divided longitudinally, and it was then found that the periosteum had formed a layer of new bone covering the whole shaft, but leaving openings through which the dead bone could be reached. The whole of the shaft had undergone necrosis. ^ The medulla had undergone ossification at the ends of the diaphysis, its periphery being transformed into bone, and the central part destroyed. Scapulo-humeral periarthritis.—Dr. Simon Duplay gives an elaborate description, in the ‘Archives Generales de Medecine’ for November, 1872, of an affection which is, he says, very_ common, but has scarcely, if at all, been thoroughly described in surgical works. Jarjavay, how- ever, in a paper on displacement of the tendon of the long head of the biceps, published in the ‘ Gazette Hebdomadaire,’ in 1867, gives a very accurate account of the early stages of the disorder. He says that con- tusions of the shoulder and sprains of the arm are very oftp followed by inflammation of the subacromial synovial bursa, producing the fol- lowing symptoms :—A sensation at the time of the accident as if some- thing were displaced; tumefaction of the shoulder; pain, preventing the movements of the arm, especially abduction; flexion of the forearni on the arm, and rigidity of the biceps muscle; increased pain, with crepita- tion beneath the acromion when the arm is raised and abducted, and disappearance of the pain and return of the power of movement after rest and the use of a sling, with the application of lotions to the shoulder. This description of Jarjavay is applicable to the acute form, but Dr. Duplay has extended his researches also to the chronic form of the afifection. After describing the symptomatology, diagnosis, pro- gnosis, and treatment, and giving several cases, he sums up in the lol- lowing conclusions(i) Direct or indirect injuries of the shoulder are