263 GUNSHOT INJUllIES. Simon believed tliat necrosis was a much more common result of the splintering of bone than Dr. Volkmann supposed. He could not call to miud one instance of extensive splintering in which necrosis did not occur. Several other sui’geous also took part in the debate. Gunshot loounds; experience in the late war.—Mr. Sandford Moore, Assistaut-Surgeon, 4th Dragoon Guards, gives his experience on certain questions connected with the treatment of gunshot wounds, in the ‘ Lancet’(April 8, 1871, 476 and 502.) i. There are two operations which the whole experience of the war goes to show should be aban- doned, at any rate in field hospitals, or until aU further necessity for removing the patient is ended, viz.—(a) excision of the knee-joint; (IS) amjjutation by the fiap method in the upj)er or middle third of the leg. The first operation has been almost invariably followed by a fatal result. The latter operation has the disadvantage that the posterior flap becomes very heavy and separates from the anterior flap. If the flaps are made of skin only, they take longer to make and do not offer so good a covering to the bone, as that produced by a circular amputa- tion. The German surgeons have advocated leaving amputation of limbs for gunshot wounds till the third day. Carbolic acid was used as a disinfectant simj)ly. Marine lint was very useful. Various matters in connection with the surgery of the late war are noted by Dr. Murray in “ Four Days in the Ambulances and Hospitals of Paris under the Commune.” (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ May 20, &c., 1871.) Eenmi'ks on the Prussian Siege of Paris, by C. A. Gordon, will be found in the ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Sept. 16, 1871. Remarks on the instruments designed for exploring gunshot wounds to detect bullets or other foreign bodies, by Prof. Longmore, will be found in the ‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Dec. 23 and 30, 1871. Under the title of “ BecoUections of Work done in an Ambulance,” Mr. MacCormac relates many interesting cases of gunshot wounds. His pajDcrs are illustrated. A statistical table showing the number of the various operations performed, and the results of the same is given in the last communication (March ii, 1871), (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1870 and 1871.) See also a case of excision of the shoulder and'elbow- joints antea. The Classification and Tabulation of injuries and surgical operations is dealt with, at lengtli, by Prof. Longmore (‘ Med.-Cbir, Trans./ vol. liv, p, 201-46). The War Department of the United States has issued a report on the surgical cases in the army from 1865 'to 1871. (‘ Circular ’ Ho. 8.) It_ contains an immense amount of valuable detail on all ’kinds of injuries and statistics of proportion of recoveries, &c. Three successful cases of amputation at the hnee-joint were performed the condyles being removed. ’ Siimgery of the arteries in gimshot wounds.—M.. Verneuil communi- Society of Paris five cases of injuries of large t r 11s y a s and jiieces of shell, in which hsemorrhage was arrested Pfformance of primary amputation aUowed the ti" °i 1-^ '^Gssels to be examined. The arterial coats were divided, throughout, at the same level, as if they had been cut by a knife ; and