REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 138 fatty degeneration and rupture (see under that head). He then describes aneurism of the heart, the walls of which are formed of the thin and altered cardiac walls, all the layers of which may be detected near the base, but in many cases over the rest of the wall the muscular layer has disappeared. Occasionally bony plates are found in the sac. This affection seems to occur with nearly the same frequency at different ages, but always with a marked preponderance of males in the cases collected. It may originate in inflammation, fatty degene- ration, or the bursting of an abscess. The lesion is most frequently seated at the apex, and is not accompanied by any special symptoms. Fothergill also discusses (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1872, i, 236) the subject of hypertrophy and dilatation. As to its mode of origin, “as some name must be used to cover what we do not know, hypertrophy may be called a trophic action of the cardiac ganglia,” by which the heart resists dilatation. He thinks that in time it may be possible to demonstrate that it is the consequence of an increased blood supply to the muscular structure, dilatation of the coronary vessels, and secondary elongation of the heart-fibres. Thompson (“ Distrain of the Heart,” ‘ St. George’s Hosp. Eep.,’ v, 119) records three cases, to show that dilatation of the heart is not always a chronic disease, but may arise suddenly and from an accidental cause. Two of these occurred in men, set. 23 and 28, and the other in a girl, set. 19. The post-mortem appearances are given in the first two cases, the last one recovered. He has seen seven of these cases altogether, and of the whole number three made a good recovery, the constitutional disturbances passing away, though the heart remained permanently injured. Smith (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1872, i, 597) showed to the Pathological Society of Dublin the heart of a young man, set. 22. He had caught cold some time before his admission into hospital; oedema of the feet, general anasarca, and cyanosis followed. The area of prsecordial dulness was increased; there was no murmur, but the first sound of the heart was doubled, and ultimately the action of that organ became strikingly vermicular. The left half of the tongue became swollen, and the patient died rather suddenly. The pericardium contained half a pint of serum; there was no recent pericarditis ; the heart was much dilated, but its valves were normal. The right auricle was much en- larged, but not hypertrophied. Wagstaffe (‘Path. Soc. Trans.,’ xxii, 12) records a case of fibrous tumour of the heart. The specimen had been lying in pickle for fifteen years before it came into his hands. The patient from whom it was taken was a female child, set. 3 months, which seems to have died from convulsive fits. At the post-mortem it was found that the peri- cardium was distended with a quantity of pinkish serum. The heart was greatly enlarged, its shape elliptical, the apex nearly as large as the base and on one side of this, towards the right ventricle, the muscular structure appeared to be thinned, and presented an almost tendinous appearance. The cavities of both auricle and ventricle were dimi- nished by the projection into them of the septum, in which could be felt a tough inelastic mass. On cutting down upon this it was found