HEPOllT ON SURGERY. 27i. plete cure by absorption niay be expected; but, in exceptional cases, suppuration may occur in the cavity of the tunica vaginalis, and in others, still more exceptional, in the body of the testis itself. He alludes to gonorrhoea as causing epididymitis, and then asks, “ What is the connexion between prostatic irritation and orchitis ?” He thinks it duo to the direct communication of the tube of the vas deferens with the structures concerned; he disbelieves in the mere sympathy theory. ‘‘ I believe that whenever there is pain in the cord, that pain begins before the epididymis is affected; and I believe, further, that if the vas deferens be carefully examined you will almost always find clear proof that it is thickened and inflamed.” In support of his view he insists on the following facts :—(i) That, as already stated, in a vast number of cases there is conclusive proof that the vas is involved. (2) That in a few cases the opportunity occurs for observing that the vas is inflamed before the testis is involved. (3) That now and then the inflammation begins and ends in an inflammation of the vas and never gets to the testicle at all. (4) That according to the admission of all surgeons the orchitis begins in the epididymis—i.e. iu the part directly continuous with the vas deferens—a fact which the theory of sympathy cannot in the least explain. Against the theory of the direct extension is the fact of the extreme rarity of symmetrical orchitis. The affection may alternate (“ see-saw orchitis,” Hicord) from one to the other testis, but is very rarely seen in both at once. The subsidence of the discharge on the appearance of the orchitis may be due to sympathy, ox*, as Dr. Humphrey points out, to the efficient counter-irritation caused by the orchitis. Mr. Hutchinson agrees with Dr. Humphrey that so long as the discharge lingers the patient is liable to swelled testicle, and, there- fore, treats the discharge vigorously in all stages. As regards treat- ment of severe cases Mr. Hutchinson says, “ when the pain is intense, and when it persists in spite of the use of ice, I believe that thepi’actice of incisions is not only safe, but very valuable.” In slight cases inci- sions, if harmless, are unnecessary. In cases in which abscess_ is threatened an incision cannot be made too early. “ A. free incision into the tunica vaginalis leads to no ill consequence, whatever, excepting the inconvenience of suppuration of the sac ; and if you chance to let out the pus the relief is immense. A free incision through the tunica albuo-inea into the testis itself does not lead to gangrene of the testis, nor always, even, to fungous jirotrusion. When the testis is swollen it appears to relieve pain, much with the same certainty that iridectomy does in acute glaucoma, and my impression is that it is likely in critical cases to diminish the danger of gangrene on the one hand, and of consecu- tive atrophy on the other.” (‘ Med. Times and Gaz., April 15 and 22, 1871 4.10 447.) Dr- Garden mentions in detail cases in which orchitis followed lithotomy in India. (‘ Med. Times and Gaz.,’ July 29, 18 71, 126) His proportion has been about one in fifty-two; the left side seems more Mten affected, in_ connexion with the incision. In five out of sixteen cases mentioned it is noted that abscesses formed. 'enlargement of the prostate gland,—m, Quain writes on sc^e forms of enlar4ment of the prostate gland. In one case, a patient, set. 68, had very little trouble if he was careful to pass water frequeutly enough.