REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 34 tlie blood in ligatured portions of vein. He finds that the endothe- lium, the muscle-cells, and the connective-tissue corpuscles, all take part in the proliferation which occurs in inflammation of the wall of the vein; and in reference to the third point, the blood in the ligatured portion remained fluid as long as no changes took place in the endothe- lium, hut coagulated immediately the latter became inflamed. Samuel has made numerous experiments into the results obtained by the injection of various secretions, &c. A reference to his papers will he found below. G-uterbock (‘ Arch. f. Klin. Cbir.,’ xiii, 240) answers the remarks made by Gussenbauer (ib., xii, 811) on his former work regarding the more delicate processes which take place in the healing ot wounds in the cornea by primary intention. Bizzozero (‘ Giaz. Med. Ital. Lomh.,’ 1871, 62) calls attention to the fact, already observed by Buhl, Bemak, Eberth, and others, that in pus, especially when it has been taken from an epithelial or epidermal sur- face, certain large bodies may be seen enclosing a nucleus, and some- times a very large number of cells, unlike the pus-cells, either in their appearance or chemical reaction. He opposes the endogenous develop- ment of these cells, as put forward by the above writers. In the puru- lent contents, mixed with blood, of the anterior chamber of the eye, he has found large cells containing red blood-cells. , Duval (‘ Arch. d. Phys.,’ 1872, iv, 168) strongly opposes Cohnheim s views as to the origin of pus. He holds that the “ plasmatic cells^ 01 the cornea do not remain fixed, but undergo hypertrophy and prolifera- tion, and that the appearances of cells having passed through the blood- vessels in the mesentery is due to the mechanical rupture 01 lym- phatic sacs in the operation of withdrawing the membrane from the Norris (‘Proc. Boy. Soc.,’ xiv, 556) concludes—i. Both white and red corpuscles pass out of the vessels through apertures, which can neither be seen before their ingress into, or after their egress from, the vessel-wall, but only during the period of transit. 2 An essen- tially primary step in the process is that the corpuscles shall adhere, or, more properly, cohere, to the wall of the vessel. 3. These cohering corpuscles shall subsequently be subjected to pressure from within. V Mosengeil, “ Beobachtungen iiber ortlicbe Warme-Entwickelimg bei Entziin- dunee^’‘A?ch. f. Klin. Cbir ’ xiii, 70. Samuel. “Die Subcutaue Wirkung der Secrete,’” ‘ Centralbl.,’ 1871. 43.1- W;. “ j, • j *90^ Tfl T^iiti'idGs Gift in (Icn feputis^ id. 435* ^ 1871, 1, 473- S’ , gg Bizzozero, “Saggio di Studio sulla cosidctta rirnrik M.?I ..TbeP,th.,o.yof ma... matik” ‘New York Med. Journ.,’ xvi, 155-