230 EEPORT ON SURGERY. tumour of the antrum. The patient recovered. The growth proved to be fibrous, and was undergoing calcareous cliange. A complete account of the histology is given by Dr. Goodhart. (‘ Med. Times and Gaz.,’ May 25, 1872.) Excision of the superior maxilla.—A case in which Dr. Gott excised the superior maxilla for encephaloid disease is recorded in the ‘ Am. Journ. Med. Sci.,’July, 1871, 289. Removal of hoik superior maxillce.—Mr. Canton removed the left superior maxilla from a woman, set. 35* in 1864, for myeloid tumour, and, in 1871, the other maxilla for fibrous tumour. The deformity was remarkably slight. (‘ Lancet,’ Jan. 20, 1872, 79.) Anchylosis of the lower jaw ; formation of an artificial joint on each side.—tiv. Maas relates, in the ‘ Archiv fur Klin. Chirurg.,’ xiii, 429, the case of a man, set. 27, who was admitted into the hospital, at Breslau, on account of inability to open the iaw. At the age of 7 he had scarlet fever; during which, however, he was not confined to the house. About this time, in consequence of a cold, he was seized with severe pain in the articulation of the jaw, on both sides, so that he could not open his mouth. The pain ceased, but the inability to move the iaw increased, and became complete when he was 10 years old. Mis food consisted partly of fluids, partly of finely divided meat, which he managed to thrust into his mouth between the molar teeth, which Avere deficient. The shedding of the milk-teeth was attended with much difficulty and pain ; the permanent teeth were arranged irregularly and most of them were displaced laterally. On admission the patient had a pale, vellowish aspect, was in moderately good condition, and spoke dis- tinctly though with a somewhat muffled tone, ihe upper part of the face was well developed; but the lower jaw was retreating, and the alveolar- edge was observed to be far behind the corresponding part of the upper iaw Attempts to move the jaw produced pain in the articulation on the iight side, but failed, utterly, in opening the mouth, even ^ wL narcotised. Dr. Middeldorpf made an incision along the lower edge of the jaw on the right side, and, by means of the chain saw and Lifton’s forJeps, removed a wedge-shaped piece of bone, having its base wL. The r^esult of this was that the mouth could be opened pas- sively to the extent of about an mch. The teeth were found to mosDy carious, or to be so abnormally placed as to be useless ; one molar^on the left side, and two on the right, stood out horizontally froi the alveolar border. The teeth were for some time to produce separation of the jaws. T e , , very Se effect f aod, between four and five oneration the left side of the jaw was operated on by Dr. ± ischer in a shnilar manner Dour months after this the patient could voluntarily open hisTorh, to the extent of centimetres ; and h.s general con- ■"‘‘rsfttir^rrmr^ «-nar case to the Dr at Turin. The patient was a lad set. 17, Eoyal seven years old. Inability to open the who had W “ “ 7i Zt in a few months he was quite unable to rpalatfthe jSs opened the mouth forcibly dunng narcos,s,