410 REPORT ON MIDWIFERY^ ETC. the pubic arch, so as to prevent the vis a tergo from acting so directly downwards upon the perinssum. When rupture takes place the rent usually commences at the fourchette and extends backwards, but sometimes it begins near the centre of the perinasum and extends forwards. He believes that the most frequent cause of laceration is an unusual breadth of the perinaeum. Dr. Aveling has collected the history of forty-four cases of post- mortem parturitioriy and deduces the following conclusions. Expulsion of the contents of the uterus may take place after death without the aid of art. This may occur in cases in which no symptom of natural parturition existed before death. Spontaneous evolution of the fcetus, and prolapsus, inversion, and rupture of the uterus may occur post- mortem. These phenomena are explained either by the contracting power which persists in the uterus after the death of the rest of the body, or (and this is the more frequent cause) by the pressure exerted upon the uterus by gases of decomposition pent up in the abdomen. A child may continue to live in the uterus for many hours after the death of its mother. (‘ Obst. Trans.,’ 1872.) Deformities of the Pelvis, and Dystocia by the Mother. Prof. 0. Spiegelberg gives (‘Archiv f. G-ynak.,’ ii, i, 1871) an elaborate report of two cases of obliquely distorted pelvis. The first case was that of a woman who had sustained a fracture of the right tibia in its lower half when three years old. The pelvis was contracted on the right side, and there was synostosis of the right sacro-iliac joint, and considerable shortening of the right lower limb. Premature labour was artificially induced in the thirty-fifth week of pregnancy. The second case is described as one of inflammation of the right sacro-iliac joint and secondary atrophy of the surrounding bones without synos- tosis. Delivery by perforation and cephalotripsy. Discussing the etiology, he states the two chief causes to be the inordinate pressure ou one half of the pelvis and the one-sided atrophy of the bones entering into the sacro-iliac joint. Either of these factors may be the primary one. Dr. Harris describes (‘Amer. Journ. of Obst.,’ Nov. 1871) the usual forms of pelvic deformities, and illustrates his paper by several typical examples. . , . , , Petit relates a case of oblique-ovate pelvis, in which the labour was quite natural. The child was of medium size. The brim of the pelvis, contracted on the left, was 12^ centimetres (about ^ mches) in its greatest oblique diameter, from the right ilio-pectineal eminence to the left sacro-iliac synchondrosis, and 9 centimetres (a little over 3^ mches) in the short oblique diameter, from the left ilio-pectineal eminence to the left sacro-iliac synchondrosis. The distance from the sacro- vprtebral angle to the left ilio-pectineal eminence was 6 centimetees, and to the right nine and a half. (‘ Bull. Med. du Nord, Eeb. '^H-nst Braun writes (‘Arch. f. Gynak.,’ iii, i) on a case of funnel- shaped pelvis,