REPORT ON ’OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE AND SURGERY. 354 liad been the subject of stauuugspapilla, he found considerable thicken- ing and an oedematous condition of the inner sheath, and of the lax cel- lular tissue separating it from the outer. This tissue was “much hypertrophied, and in most places increased almost to be an interme- diate layer.” The case now recorded seems powerfully to support Schmidt s view, since in no other way could the sudden occurrence of so great a degree of stauungspapilla be explained. The intracranial pressure must have been increased by the presence of the projectile, and the arachnoid fluid forced between the nerve-sheaths and against the lamina in such a way that the circulation and the nerve conduction were both alike arrested. It may be urged against this view that, as the ophthalmoscopic ex- amination was not made until the eighth day, there is no evidence as to the time at which the changes in the disc occurred. But Dr, Cohn contends that it would be far-fetched to assume a descending neuritis, in view of the instantaneous blindness, and refers again to the slow pulse as an evidence of pressure. It may also be objected he says, that a stauuugspapilla is not a suflicient explanation of total blindness, since many cases have been observed in which this condition has co- existed with almost normal vision. He points out, however, that there would be a vast difference between the sudden traumatic compression and even the same degree, if more gradually produced. He refers also to another possible objection, namely, that on Schmidt’s hypothesis every case of compression of the brain would be attended with stauungs- papilla, which he admits is not the case. He suggests the possibility that something may depend upon the part of the brain from which the increased pressure proceeds, and points out the need for careful oph- thalmoscopic examination in all perforating wounds of the brain. At present he is aware of only one recorded case at all similar to the fore- going,* and this was examined very superficially. a. The second case of brain injury befell Jaschke, jet. 23, who re- ceived a shot in the head before Paris,'’on the 20th of September. He fell, remained unconscious for half an hour, and on recovery found his left arm and leg paralysed, and an acute pain in the left side of the head. He was removed to the Gonesse Lazareth, and knew then where he was. He was wearing his helmet when wounded, and the ball passed through the right flap of the helmet and split against the skull. Half passed out through the back part of the right half of the helmet, the other half lodged in the brain, whence it was removed, three months later, by Prof. Konig, at Berlin, Dr. Cohn saw the case for the first time on the iith of April. There was then a cicatrix over the right parietal bone, not sensitive on pressure, measuring in length and in breadth and depth. The patient had complained from the day of the injury of a dazzling before the right eye, there being no dazzling of the left, and both being of normal aspect. After reading for half an hour the dazzling of the right eye became excessive, and was attended by lacrymation. If he abstained from reading he had no inconvenience, it being only produced by exercise of the accommodation. The left * Demme, ‘ Spezielle Cliirurgie, der Schusswuaden.’ Abtli. 2, p. 7.