THE MECHANISM OP LABOUE. 407 refractory child that refuses to come into the world in the usual manner. Duncan points out that such a pressure represents a strain to which the maternal machinery could not he subjected without instantaneous and utter destruction. The possession and use of a considerable portion of such a power would render the torceps and the cephalotribe weak and useless insti-uments; the mother could bray the child as in a mortar. Such a power would, if appropriately applied, not only expel the child, but also lift up the mother, the accoucheur, and the monthly nurse—all at once. If this force were applied just as the chief resistance to deliyery was oyercome, the child would be shot out of the vagina at the rate of thirty-six feet per second. See also on the mechanism of labour, Schatz, ‘ Arch. f. Gynak.,’ m, i, 1871. In a paper on relaxation of the pelvic articulations during pregnancy (‘ Amer. Journ of Obst.,’ Nov. 1871), Professor King, after answering some of the objections which have been raised, states that physiological enlargement of the pelvic canal, in addition to that which takes place during pregnancy from thickening of the interosseous cartilages, is further increased during parturition by the muscular efforts of the female forcing the wedge-shaped sacrum downwards and; backwards between the two iliac bones. He adds that the practical inference from this is that “square on the back” is the proper position for delivery; that the feet or knees should find a firm support on a surface disposed evenly transverse to the axis of the body, and that two sheets, one for each hand, should be so arranged that the woman may pull on them, not diagonally, but in a line parallel to the axis of her body, so that the spine may exert its downward force evenly upon the base of the sacral wedge. On the mechanism of the expulsion of the placenta.—Dr. Duncan (‘Edin. Med. Journ.,’ April, 1871) states that the belief that the placenta generally descends into the vagina inverted, so that its foetal surface is turned outwards, is erroneous. The part which presents at the os uteri, and subsequently at the os vaginae, is not the foetal surface, but the edge of the placenta, or a point very near the edge, and that the mass is folded up longitudinally during its expulsion. If the placenta descends inverted it is generally the result of pulling at the cord. Much less space is required for the passage of the placenta by the natural mechanism, and if the placenta is expelled inverted, as Baudelocque, Schultze, and others describe, the forcing of the placenta into a cuplike space cannot be effected without a hollow space being offered for the reception of blood, or, indeed, without a certain force being exerted to produce the folding and a vacuum, which force will also tend to draw blood into the hollow from the open uterine sinuses. The third stage of labour should be left to nature, or, if interference is required, the natural mechanism of the birth of the iilacenta should be as closely imitated as circumstances admit. Professor Hodge, in an elaborate paper on the synclitism of the equatorial plane of the foetal head in pelvic deliveries, criticises the reasons adduced by Sir James Simpson and Dr. Barnes in favour of