478 llEPORT ON PUBLIC HEALTH, States his own conclusions in the following theses, (i) In India there are S tL ^ rp^ f prevalence fluctuating according to the season fo7’ in ^+1 ^disease and its endemicity cannot be looked kpnwn ? ^<^oked for in a yet un- the specific disease-germ and the soil and •; I^dia has at all times periodicaUy difi^used Itself in the form of epidemics from the endemic districts over other tUe currents of_ air, specially the monsoons (the miasmatists, Brvden) othps human intercourse, specially through the excreta of cholera patients (contagionists, Macnamara), while others allow the diffusion m both these ways. The proposition goes on to state that neither of these views sufficiently explains the facts, but that along with human local and periodical conditions, and that diffusion by currents of air alone is certainly not in harmony with what has been observed in India. (3) That which determines the local thriving of the cholera germ, which may be called a?, does not proceed from the human organism, but from the localities due to yet unascertained processes in the soil. This principle aiiplies not only to the endemic circle but to all places in which epidemics of cholera are deyeloped. The substratum furnished by the locality or soil, on which the local and periodical disposition for cholera epidemics is depen- dent, may be called y. The cholera germ x is able to trayel with human beings, the true substratum y is associated with the locality, (4) That part of the cholera process which goes on in the soil, and on which the periodic rhythma of cholera prevalence is essentially depen- dent, both in the endemic and epidemic regions, requires, in addition to other conditions, a certain medium amount of soil moisture. Both great persistent dryness (as in deserts) and excessive continued moisture (as in the Granges Delta towards the end of the rains) of the soil are alike unfavorable to cholera. On this account, it hapjiens that in the dry and hot districts with scanty rain-fall, which abound in Djiper India, cholera usually prevails in association with the rains (summer or monsoon cholera), whilst in the moist and hot regions with very abun- dant rain-fall prevailing in Lower Bengal, cholera abounds in the rainless spring (spring cholera of Calcutta) and is put to flight again by the monsoon rains. Places which, like Madras, under otherwise like conditions, stand as regards their rain-fall in the mean between Lahore and Calcutta, show also, with tolerable regularity, spring and summer cholera in one and the same year. Whenever, as the result of altered conditions of rain and temperature, the moisture or soil-water conditions in a place deviate from the formerly existing rule, the periodical rhythma and prevalence of cholera of that place are likewise altered, so that such a place, for example Bombay, instead of prevalent spring cholera, can also exceptionally have monsoon cholera and vice versa. One and the same amount of rain acts on differently associated soils, and on soils which differ in their dryness or moisture in entirely different ways. Just such diversities as are dependent on the reception of water