IIEPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. m Gangrene and Abscess. Senator (“ Ein Eall von Lungenabcess mit allgemeinein Haut- empbyseni,” ‘ Vircb. Arcb.,’ liv, 278) publishes a case of abscess of the lung supervening on pneumonia, breaking through into the subcuta- neous tissue and causing general subcutaneous emphysema. The latter came on suddenly and with great rapidity, and was due, according to the patient, to violent crying out. The autopsy revealed a cavity in the posterior part of the left lower lobe, about the size of a fist, and filled with purulent fluid. The pleura and layer of muscles which limited it were ecchymosed, rotten, and boggy. A sound could easily be passed from it in several directions into the pleural cavity. Salkowski (‘Berl. Elin. “Woch.,’ 1871, 169) writes on this rare and little known afi'ection, and gives a case, occurring in Leyden’s clinique, in which abscess followed an attack of croupous pneumonia of the right lower lobe. The patient was an ill-conditioned man of 49, who had been a drinker. The dulness cleared up with all symp- toms of a crisis on the eighth day; next evening a fresh attack of pyrexia occurred, with tearing cough and abundant, thick, puriform, sputa. On the fifteenth day shreds of lung-tissue were found in it under the microscope, which gradually increased in amount and in size, reaching the length of an inch. A month after the first commence- ment of the affection these shreds were found for the last time; the sputa altered in character, became muco-purulent, and lastly dis- appeared. About the same time the thorax sank in, the general condition of the patient improved, and on the fiftieth day he left able to work. The diagnosis of lung abscess is based especially on the sputa; the temporary presence of shreds of lung-tissue, the absence of signs of decomposition or fungus spores, prevent its being confounded with gangrene; the accompanying symptoms leave out of question the possibility of phthisis, in which affection, also, the elastic fibres may be found. The treatment consisted of inhalation and exhibition of car- bolic acid, quinine, cod-liver oil, and wine. Waring-Curran (‘Lancet,’ 1872, ii, 669) gives a somewhat doubtful case of abscess of the right lung bursting through the diaphragm and umbilicus. The boy is still alive; in February, 1871, he had typhoid fever, followed by pneumonia; in September, 1872, a swelling ap- peared under the edge of the ensiform cartilage, which, four days later, “ had moved, and was lower down, to the right, in the sheath of the rectus muscle.” Next day this swelling burst and gave exit to an enormous quantity of offensive pus. Leared (ib., 1871, ii, 47) records the occurrence of gangrene of the right lung in an intemperate man, set. 49, who had fallen from a height of eif^ht feet into the water, and had been submerged twice. He quotes two cases as occurring after immersion in water out of four iases of gangrene of the lung recorded by Stokes, and a case mentioned bv Lankester in which gangrene followed the repeated dashing of cold water over a woman poisoned by opium. Death occurred in Leared s case thirty-five days after_ immersion. The temperatures taken were remarkable for sudden oscillations.