UTERINE TUMOURS; ETC. 379 depressed to the vulva by the band of an assistant placed over tbe hypoo-astrium, a tenaculum fixed in the cervix, and the vagina cautiously dilated so as to admit the entire hand. An incision should afterwards be made into the most depending part of the tumour, and its capsule stripped off it as much as possible. The removal of the tumour will often prove an easy task, and even cases apparently most difficult will yield to a persevering, bold, and cautious effort. Eeports of five com- pleted cases are given without a single death. Thomas has, however, had two fatal cases from peritonitis during the preparatory dilatation. He does not wish to be understood as comparing the advantages of enucleation with those of excision or ecrasement. Enucleation is to a great extent a dernier ressort, to be employed only when the less dan- gerous methods are entirely impracticable from the fact that the sessile nature of the attachment does not allow of its being grasped by a wire or chain. (‘Amer. Journ. of Obst.,’ May, 1872.) Dr. Meadows writes on the treatment of fibrous tumours of the uterus, and recommends more frequent and decided resort to operative interference, especially in the interstitial and submucous varieties. These tumours are to be regarded as essentially foreign bodies, and nature’s method of dealing with them, when fair play is allowed her, is to expel them. In order to do this a dilated os uteri and uterine con- traction are essential, and when these are wanting it is the duty of the physician to remedy the deficiency by free division of the circular fibres of the cervix uteri in several directions, and by promoting contraction of the uterus by every means in his power. These two measures will be greatly aided by subsequent detachment of the tumour, making it more and more like a foreign body. An illustrative case is added. The neck of the uterus was freely divided, and the patient advised to return in three months. The os uteri then admitted the finger, and the tumour could be felt presenting. The next stage was then attempted, viz. the separation of the tumour from its attachment as far as the finger could reach. This was repeated, the descent of the growth was facilitated by the administration of ergot, and it was ultimately removed, the patient being discharged cured. The author states that he has never attempted, and does not think that he ever will attempt, the process of gouging, enucleation, or destruction by the actual cauterv Brit Med. Journ.,’ Dec. 1871.) j’ \ A case of death from septicaBmia after the removal of a uterine fibroid is recorded by Dr. Emmet. The growth had been cut into masses by scissors and broken up. (‘Amer. Journ. of Obst.,’ Eeb. 1872 ) Spencer Wells reports a successful case of removal of a uterine fibroid by abdominal section. (' Med. Times Gaz.,’ July, 1871 ) Dr. Kidd, in a paper on uterine fibroids (‘Dublin’ Journal’ Aug. 1872), states that in some cases he has dilated the uterus and applied nitric acid This is often beneficial; the tumour is checked in its growth, and the hemorrhage very much lessened. Dr Kidd has Been very senous results from the perchloride of iron introduced into the uterus for these tumours. In the last case in which he tried it the woman got a low form of metritis and died. He points out that in cases of mtra-uterme polypi the tumour often bulges out the w^all of