445 j?oisoi^§. droffen. Notwithstanding that oxysulphide of carbon is a chemical curiosity, it is so widely distributed in nature that its poisonous action is a point of much interest. « t ,i n Nitrous oxide.—Purcell* reports a case of death from the inhalation of nitrous oxide. A woman, 20 years of age, apparently healthy, died suddenly after four teeth had been extracted, while under the influence of nitrous oxide. The cause of death was supposed to be asphyxia,. Little congestion of the lungs was found, however, and shock seemed to be the real cause of the fatal result. . CarUlic The toxicology of this substance, now so extensively used in medicine, has of late received much attention,"!" and fatal cases have frequently resulted from its administration either by accident or for the purpose of self-destruction. Its use as a remedial agent has also been put to more rigid and extended tests. Salkowski found carbolic acid to be useless as a remedy in smallpox. In gangrene of the lungs it was more successful when given in the form of pills. If given in the liquid form, the solution must be highly dilute, for a one per cent, solution causes thickening of the stomach. The remedy was found to be useful in gastric affections. The use of the pure diluted acid never causes pain, nausea, or vomiting. This ob- server has also carefully inquired into the physiological effects of car- bolic acid, and his results are of great interest. When injected into the blood carbolic acid produces both local and general paralysis, and the muscles penetrated by the substance shrink and their fibres lose their electric excitability. When injected the heart’s beats decline in frequency to nearly one half. Convulsive movements are also set up, simulating those produced by strychnine, and these may be excited in the upper extremities after the prolonged therapeutical employment of carbolic acid as a remedy. The following is the cause of the symptoms observed in rabbits:—A few minutes after the administration of the acid fibrillary quiverings of the muscles may be noted, then more dis- tinctively convulsive movements. The animal continues to run about ac- tively, but the tremors increase in severity. Respiration becomes slow and the animal becomes restless. The limbs gradually lose their power, and eventually the rabbit falls on its side. In endeavouring to rise, clonic spasms, salivation, and dilatation of the pupil are excited. Sen- sibility is diminished, and with lethal doses of the. phenol gradually diminishing tonic and clonic spasms are excited. The urine is seldom tinged with blood, nor is it albuminous. The detailed course of symp- toms appears to be dependent on an action of the poison upon the central nervous system, and must not be confounded with the local paralysis at first produced by injection of phenol. Carbolic acid is quickly absorbed into the circulatiofa, and rapidly excreted, so that there is no fear of its exciting a cumulative effect. A part of it is oxidized in the circulation into oxalic acid. The dark colour of the urine so frequently observed after the use of carbolic acid ensues as well after the internal use as after the external applica- ‘Phil. and Med. Sm’g. Eep.,’ 1872, p. ,^43, ‘Arch. f. Physiol.,’ v, pp. 335 and 470'; ‘I p. 25, et seg.; ‘Schmidt’s Jahrh.,’ civ, p. 272. Dent. Klin.,’ 1870, p. 341, et seq., 1871,