DIPHTHERIA AND CROUP. 105 Kraft-Ebing (‘Deut. Arch.,’ ix, 123) gives the following contribution to paralysis occurring after diphtheria. A man, set. 30, sulFering from the affection, was attacked in the course of a few days with a progressive paralysis gradually extending to all the extremities, leaving the bladder and rectum intact. The paralysis was accompanied by cutaneous and muscular anaesthesia. In the course of four,or five months the symptoms disappeared. At the end of abdut twenty weeks the contractility of the muscles was lost to faradisation, but normal to galvanism. He looks upon the case as another proof of the peripheral origin of the paralysis in diphtheria. (Cf. Buhl, “Einiges fiber Diphtherie,” ‘ Centralbl.,’ 1871, 361.) Giiterbock (‘ Virch. Arch.,’ lii, 323) records five cases of subcutaneous emphysema occurring in diphtheria without tracheotomy. He agrees completely with the views of Virchow as to the mode of its occurrence, and with Traube considers it a symptom of interlobular emphysema of the lung. It is rare, much rarer' than that which takes place during or after tracheotomy. The five cases, like those given by Sachse, Bartels, and Hueter, terminated fatally; while in eight cases of emphysema of the skin after tracheotomy three recovered. Kersey (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, i, 366) describes an outbreak of diphtheria (forty cases) in "West' Kent, without any apparent cause. Some cases occurred near thC lesser Stour, others oh ground nearly a hundred feet above, and a mile from the river. Eour terminated fatally. One case is given at length, in which the membrane was extensive, albumen present in great amount, and there was paralysis of the pha- rynx and of accommodation, followed, during convalescence, by paralysis of the extremities and of the muscles of the neck and back. Greenhow described to the Clinical Society (ib., i, 488) a case of diphtherial paralysis in a female, set. 26, treated successfully with faradisation. Underhill (ib., 323) exhibited five trache® on which tracheotomy had been performed for membranous croup in children, a thick layer being present in all. Tracheotomy does not seem to have been successful at the Children’s Hospital, Birmingham, having been performed eight times between Sept. 1870 and Feb. 1871—twice for croup following scarlet fever, and once for diphtheria, once for oedema of the glottis fol- lowing gangrene of the tonsils in enteric fever, and four times for mem- branous croup, in each case with fatal result. G. Buchanan (ib., 217) holds that tracheotomy is admissible only in the sthenic form of these diseases, when other treatment has failed, and the tendency to death is from apnoea rather than exhaustion, and before the vital powers are lessened by the struggle for breath. A clear indication for the operation is a well-marked and increasing drawing-in of the costal cartilages and intercostal spaces, with a moderately good pulse. He gives, in full, a case in which the tube was removed on the eighth day, in a boy of six years and he adds a table (cf ib.,310) of thirty-nine cases in which he performed tracheotomy—fourteen in croup, twenty-four in diphtheria, and one in which a chicken-bone had lodged in the glottis ; twenty-six were fatal; nineteen of the operations were in children under four years, two of which were successful; and twenty