62 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE, Hleasles and Rutheln {lluheola). Poss (‘ Edin. Journ.,’ xvii, 981) gives a case ofrotheln occurring in a man, aged 27. He defines the affection as “ scarlet fever combined, with catarrh, the catarrh being coexistent and coetaneous with the entrance of the scarlet fever virus into the body of the patient, the symptoms of the catarrh at once showing themselves and aggravating what is usually the period of incubation in scarlet fever.” Ills reasons are founded on the similarity of the rash and the period of incubation (in rotheln, 4 days; in scarlet fever, 3 days, with an invasion period of one day). Dunlop (‘Lancet,’ 1871, ii, 464) gives an account of an epidemic of rotheln occurring during the summer months of 1871 at St. Helier’s, differing in no particulars from the affectioTi as generally described. Eleischmann (“ Zur Eothelnfrage,” ‘Wien. Med. Woch.,’ 1871, No. 30), describes the symptoms given by various writers as charac- teristic of rotheln. He thinks that many of the so-called transitional or mixed forms may be explained by the simultaneous course of two acute exantbems (scarlet fever and measles) in the same patient. From his own observations he looks upon Thomas’s “ large spotted” type of rotheln as an urticaria (erythema urticatum) ; the “ small spotted” type he considers to be a specific affection, in which he seems to lay stress on the absence of the eruption from the face, the absence of peeling and the rapid fall of temperature. Jaccoud, “De quelques Complications et Suites de la Rougeole,” ‘Gaz. des H6p.,’ 187I) 1?r Vezien, “ Kapport sur un Epidemic de Rougeole qui a regne pendant les mois de Fevrier, Mars, Avril, et Mai a Dunkerque,” ‘ Rec. de Mem. de Med. Milit.,’ x.xvii p. 300. Variola and Varicella. It is impossible to do more than pick out a few from the very numerous papers published on variola during the two years past; the bibliography of the affection might be prolonged indefinitely from both French and English papers.* Clemens (‘ Deut. Klin.,’ 1871, 281) describes the case of a girl aged 21, in whom the eruption was extremely thick on the left half of the body, and only small on the right half, especially the right face. On the third day of the eruption red spots appeared on the right face and arm, on the fifth day these had become large vesicles of pemphigus. One only was visible on the right leg. These vesicles did not originate in aborted smallpox pustules; they were smooth, filled with yellowish serum, and healed without leaving a scar. Simon (‘ Arch. f.Derm.,’ iii. 242), supplementing his former account of the prodromal exauthem of smallpox (see last ‘ Eeport,’ p. 77)? gives several cases in which it was present. From these it is evident that it sometimes appears as the very earliest symptom, so that it is possible to diagnose the coming affection in a patient who exhibits little or no fever, and few or no subjective pains. The first symptom was a sensa- tion of heat or itching of the abdomen. He refers the characteristic seat of this eruption to the axilla, and the inner and front part of the upper * Capt. Butler gives a good report (“ The Great Lone Laud,” London, 1872, App., <p. 317) of the epidemics of small-pox among the Indians of the Missouri and ^Saskatchewan, especially during the years 1869-70.—A. B. 8.