IlEPORT ON SURGERY, 388 ligature passed round this small branch at once stayed the bleeding le margins of the wound were freely touched with tincture of muriate of iron, and the edges of the wound in the neck were brought together with sutures. The patient was fed by a tube. The wound became un- healthy looking, slight haemorrhage occurred, checked by iron. The patient gradually became weaker, and died nine days after the operation. No post-mortem allowed. Mr. Annandale remarks, “The history of the case, the detection of the foreign body by means of the probang, and the condition determined at the operation are, I think, sufficient proof that a sharp fragment of bone had lodged in the oesophagus, and wounded its walls. This wound had been followed by ulceration, which, in its progress, had involved the arterial branch and caused the hmmorrhage. It seems probable that my first introduction of the probang displaced the bone, and that this accounted for the relief of the symptoms and the disappearance of the inflammatory swelling in the neck. Had the bone remained in its original position, an abscess, pointing externally, would have been the result. Trom the fact that no difficulty in swallowing was experienced after the introduction of the probang, it is likely that the bone passed down into the stomach. Had I not possessed a clear history of this case, and had I not also dis- tinctly felt the bone and ascertained its position, operative interference would scarcely have been justifiable; for although the blood was evi- dently coming from the pharynx or oesophagus, it was impossible to bo certain as to its exact source.” “ The discovery that the wounded vessel was not a branch of the carotid, but of the subclavian artery, is an ex- cellent, but, at the same time, rare illustration of the important prin- ciple in the treatment of wounded arteries, namely, to search for the bleeding-point itself and secure it, if possible. Ligature of the carotid artery, in this case, could have had no influence in restraining the hmmorrhage from the bleeding vessel.” The pi’ogress of the case, for the first few days, was all that could be desired. The fact that the patient had been hemiplegic for some time on the left side, and was not in a good state of health, tended to diminish her chance of recovery. The bleeding after the operation was only from the sloughy edges of the wound in the neck, not from the oesophagus, and blood never came by the mouth. (‘Edin. Med. Journ.,’ April, 1872, 880.) Radical Cure of Inguinal jffenu'a.—Professor Fayrer records cases (‘Med. Times and Gaz.,’ April 6, 1872). Herniotomy, —Mr. Erichsen operated on a male infant,, aged six toeeJcs for strangulated inguinal hernia. The child recovered from the opera- tion, but died a month later from pleurisy and peritonitis. (‘ Lancet,’ May 18, 1872.) Mr. J. D. Hill performed herniotomy in a case of congenital scrotal hernia in aii infant eighteen months old. Strangula- tion had existed twenty-four hours. The sac was not opened. The baby recovered. (‘Med. Times, and Gaz.,’ April 8, 1871, 395.) Sir James Paget has contributed Clinical Lectures on Strangulated Hernia to the ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ i and ii, 1872. Direct Inguinal Hernia in the Female.—Mr. Squire, ‘ Path. Trans.,’ x.\li, 148. • Strangulated Femoral Hernia; reduction in masse.—Beported by Mr. Morris, under the care of Mr. Lawson. (‘ Path. Trans.,’ x.xii, 148.)