212 llEPORT ON SURGERY. A successful case, for cancerous disease, is recorded by Dr. Bramwell. The patient died, however, five months later. Reference is made to other cases. (‘Edin. Med. Journ.,’ Nov. 1872.) A successful case, for osteo-sarcoma recurring in the femur, is recorded by Mr. Croft. (‘Path. Trans.,’ xxiii, 203.) Reamputation at the hip.—George A. Otis records in detail a success- ful case (‘ Am. Journ. Med. Sciences,’ Jan. 1871, 141)- He alludes to the comparative safety of exarticulating the femur, for diseased condi- tions succeeding a previous amputation in the continuity of the thigh. He enumerates twenty-one cases, nine belonging to military and twelve to civil surgery. This distinction is valueless, as the causes for operation are strictly analogous. In twelve cases, the operation was done for “ chronic osteo-myelitis,” in six, for recurrence of tumours, &c., and, in three, it was compulsory on account of haemorrhage or gan- grene. Eourteen, of the twenty-one (66 per cent.), were successful. We may conclude, therefore, that in incurable disorders of thigh-stumps, resulting either from injury or disease, disarticulation at the hip is the proper remedy. By using a gutta-percha artificial stump, nine or ten inches in length, firmly strapped to the pelvis by a broad chamois-lined canvas band, an ordinary artificial limb for thigh-stumps can be used. Supra-condyloid a/mputation of the thigh.—Mr. Stokes writes lurther on this subject. He has found the operation a successful one, and quotes cases, noted by others, since his communication to the Med.-Chir. Soc. (see last ‘ Retrospect.’) (‘Dub. Journ. Med. Sm.,’ Dec. 1872, 426.) Amputation through the femoral condyles.—Mr. Richardson gives two cases (successful). In one he removed the patella, in the other he lelt it having removed the cartilage. He divides the rectus. In the latter case the patella united well. Two other cases are mentioned (success- ful), under the care of Mr. Morgan. (‘ Dub. Quart. Journ., 1871, 2/7.) Amputation at the hnee-joint.-ln a clinical lecture on a case ot fibro-plastic tumour of the leg, in which he performed amputation at the kWioint, Mr. Erichsen makes some remarks on this operation. He preferi along anterior flap, slightly rounded at the the pateUa. If the latter is removed the flap is liable to live, and if it is left, there is a liability to suppiration ^ synovial pouch under the quadriceps extensor. He leaves cartila- ginous surfaces of the femur and patella. ( Lancet, ^87^^ ^ Dr. Staples records two cases in which he performed through the knee-joint. One patient was a man, set. 41. Ibe opera- tion was performed for inflammation of the leg ^ f was made in front, an inch or an inch and a half below the tibia The flap was dissected up far enough to reach the join, 0“ ttTu^r k five moihs he QfnT-P nnd had to stand “ constantly upon his feet all day. Ihe ot e patient was a boy, twelve years X similar operation was performed, and a button ol cart „