AFFECTIONS OF THE PEEITONEUM, KIDNeV, ETC. 167 liiiiibcH' glands occupisd almost the entire right half ot the abdominal cavity. In the other, a girl, aged i years, the left half of that cavity was nearly filled by a mesenteric tumour. A full report of the microscopical appearance of both tumours is given. Vigla, “ Peritonite'granuleuse” (man, set. 21, autopsy), ‘Qaz. des H6p.,’ 18^1, 253. Hm-ard, “ Peritonite chronique” (man, mt. 39), ib., 264. Lange, “ Eigentliumlicber Verlauf einer Peritonitis," ‘ Berl. Klin. Woch.,’ 1871_, 74. Id., “Peritonitis mit Pex’iorchitis bei einem 3 Wochen alten Knaben,’^ ib., ib. Egan, “ Peritonitis Meretricium,” ‘Brit. Med. Journ./ 1871, i, 475. Murchison, “Multiple Hydatid Tumours of the Liver (?) and Peritoneum, in part successfully Eemoved by Opera- tion" (woman, mt. 29), ‘Path. Soc. Trans.,’ xxiii, 126. Id., “Multiple Hydatid Tumours of the Liver and Peritoneum" (man, set. 45), ib., 129. Greenhow, “Loose Tumours from the Peritoneal Cavity,” ib., 241. Southey, “ Old Peritoneal Adhesions interfering with the Rise of the Uterus into the Abdomen at the Fourth Mouth of Pregnancy; Cystitis; Retention of Urine; Distension of the Bladder j Death from General Peritonitis” (with autopsy), ‘ Lancet,’ 1871, i, 610. Affections of the Kidney. {a) Nephritis.—"Wood, writing on acute dropsy, scarlatinal and idio- pathic (‘Am. Journ. Med. Sci.,’ Ixii, 75), attempts to show that a large proportion, if not all, cases of this kind, are due not to a mechanical im- pediment to the circulation, but to a peculiar condition of the cellular tissue, whereby its natural secretion or exhalation is enhanced, so that the water may be said to be actively thrown or drawn out from the vessels. Prom a review of different cases and writers he concludes—i. That in acute Bright’s disease, whether originating from scarlet fever, arsenical poisoning, or cold, the dropsy is not a result of the kidney disease, but with the latter is dependent upon a common cause. 2. That an irritant poison, organic or otherwise, may give rise to dropsy without any appreciable organic disease. 3. That exposure to cold and wet may produce dropsy, without other disease, and that there is, therefore, such an affection as idiopathic dropsy. 4. That acute dropsy is mostly, if not always, the result of irritation of the cellular tissue. G. Johnson (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ .1871, i, 3),in a “Lecture on the Diagnosis and Prognosis in cases of Bright’s Disease,” insists upon the necessity of a careful examination of the urine in aU cases of deranged health. The urine in cases of the acute affection is usually scanty, of normal specific gravity, more or less blood-tinged, highly albuminous, and contains numerous epithelial and blood-casts, with scattered renal epithelium and blood-discs. The hsematuria of acute Bright’s disease is distinguished from that of renal calculus by the presence of these casts, bmah and large hyaline casts also occur, the latter moulded in tubes trom which the gland-cells have been removed, the former from those whose walls were still covered by them. Another form of tube-cast is tha,t which contains small round cells with compound nuclei (exudation- cells). 1 he appearance of these in great numbers is a less favourable sign than when epithelial easts alone are present. In some undoubted cases _oi acute Bright’s disease the urine, though highly albuminous, contains no blood and. retains its normal colour. When symptoms of the disease have continued beyond a month or six weeks, more or less