474 REPORT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. ^isease appeared at Gonfudah amonR troops recentiv eon oiConstantinople, and it prevailed chieflv^among th? gS close of the y , remarkable diffusion of cholera in Europe durins 1^^°’ ^ question of considerable interest aid of im? 1 Director of tL ImpeS Medical Department of Eussia, is of opinion that the diffusion was not a new epidemic, but that it was a recrudescence of the epidemic of i86<: an opmon which is shared by Dr. Eauvel.* Mr. Eadcliffe “unable to accept this theory as sufficient to explain all the phenomena of the eeS^bvattention to the fact that this diffusion was pre- eeded by the most considerable development of cholera in North Persia particular y in the Caspian provinces of the kingdom, that had occurred for several years. Previous outbreaks of cholera in North Persia of like extent had been invariably followed or accompanied by the appear- ® disease in Eussia The history of cholera in Persia since 5 s of much interest in relation to the subject under consideration Ihe persistence and recurring activity of cholera in Persia from i866 to 1871, although paralleled by previous periods of long-continued pre- valence of the disease—for example, from 1851 to 1861—have led some observers on the spot to question whether the malady is not becomiuff naturalised in Persia From 1865 to 1868 the general movement of cholera in Persia had been from west to east. With the return of a band of ^Jilgrims from Meshed in July 1868 when cholera raged with great violence, a reverse movement began’ mid with it indications of greater diffusiveness of the malady. This diffusion, in the course of i86g, spread over the greater portion of Northern, Western, and Central Persia, and throughout Irak-Arabi in the pashalik of Bagdad. ’ Mr. Eadcliffe is of opinion that the prevalence of cholera in Persia cannot be rightly studied without, at the same time, a study of the prevalence of the disease in India. Now, in 1867, cholera, which had broken out with much fierceness among the multitude of pilgrims assembled at Hurdwar for the great annual religious Hindu fair held there, followed in the track of the pilgrims returning northwards into Afghanistan, and towards the close of the year it was prevalent at Cabul. In 1869 it again became epidemic over the whole of the Bombay Presidency and Northern India, and spread anew into Af- ghanistan. The great trade route between Persia and India through Afghanistan, by way of Herat to Meshed, has been the track chiefly fol- lowed in previous invasions of Persia by cholera migrating from Northern India ; and Meshed, from its large commerce, as the principal centre of trade between the two countries and Afghanistan, and also from its being the focus of a great pilgrimage from all parts of Persia, has always played a very important part in the diffusion of cholera when the disease has been introduced there. Mr. Eadcliffe thinks that the outbreak of cholera at Meshed in 1868, and the subsequent diffusion of the disease from that city was more pro- * ‘ Bulletiu de I’Academio de Medecine,’ xxxvi, 694.