453 MUSSELS. Husemann* publishes a paper on the poisonous action of fungi, embracing all that is known on the subject, but embodying no new poisons.—The medical profession is greatly indebted to Dr. Dayrert for his magnificent work on Indian snakes. It embraces the whole range of the subject, beginning with coloured lithographs and anatomical descriptions of various snakes, followed by an experimei^al inquiry into the reputed cures for their bites. The poison of the cobra is the most deadly of all. Dr. Dayrer says that it is most deadly in warm weather; that it seems to act through the circulation, and kills by some occult influence—whatever that may mean—on the nervous system. He distinctly lays it down that the poison is capable oi being absorbed tbrough the nuicous menibraiies, though, of couise, much less rapidly than from an open wound or through the serous membranes. As the poison kills when introduced into the stomach there is a certain amount of risk attending the act of sucking a wound inflamed by a poisonous snake. The venom of the cobra kills every living creature, except the cobra itself, and, perhaps, some other deadly snakes. Dr. Dayrer has tried, perhaps, every known reputed remedy for the treatment of poisonous snake bites, and always unsuccessfully. The lightning-like rapidity with which the venom diffuses into the blood holds out little hopes of any remedy being applied with success. Even immediate ligature and amputation, as appeared from experiments upon animals, is of little avail. Among the remedies used we may enumerate, ligatures, amputations, Aristolochia indica, carbolic acid, liquor ammonise injected into the blood, liquor potassm, Condy’s fluid, eau de luce, brandy, and other stimulants, the Cape antidote, norbish, quinine, ipecacuanha, various secret nostrums, as the Tanjore pill, &c. There appears, then, to be no known antidote to the poison of the deadly Indian snakes, and it is probable that the only successful treatment (successful only in rare cases) is amputation or excision, the application of ligatures, the actual cautery or burning by strong acids, and the use of stimulants internally. Dr. Fayrer is of opinion that the most successful means for staying the lamentable loss of life now going on in India from the bites of these venomous reptiles is the offering of sufficient pecuniary rewards to the natives for the destruction of venomous snakes. In 1869, out of a population of 120,972,263,—11,416 persons died from the effects of snake bites, an annual rate of mortality of 0^94 per 1000 persons living. SnaJce poison.—Mr. Vincent EichardsJ asserts that the poison of venomous snakes may be absorbed by mucous and serous surfaces, and even by the skin. This opinion is supported by the authority of Dr. Fayrer, who observes, that the poison is deadly when applied to a mucous or serous membrane, to the stomach, or the conjunctiva. Poisonous mussels.—M. de Beunie§ attributes the occasional poi- * ‘ Schmidt’s Jahrbilcher,’ cxlix, p. 89, and d, p. 89. t ‘The Thanotophidia of India.’ By J. Fayrer, M.D. London, 1872. X ‘Med. Ann, of Med. Sc.,’ xxix, 162. § ‘ Journ. de Pharm. et Chem.,’ 1871, p. 298.