394 REPOllT ON MIDWIPEBYj ETC. Joulin contributes some observations on the laminar membrane o£ the human placenta, the state of the chorion, and the placental circula- tion at term, and concludes that at the end of pregnancy the chorion has disappeared as a continuous membrane from the foetal surface of the placenta, and that the greyish resisting tissue which covers the placenta is not the chorion, but a membrane of new formation, which he calls the laminar membrane. He illustrates the evolution of this membrane by reference to the condition of the placenta at various stages of its development. (‘Bulletin de 1’Academic de Med. de Paris,’ March, 1872.) An interesting case of recurrent discharge of fluid from the uterus during pregnancy is recorded by Dr. Dyce Brown (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ May, 1872). The first gush of clear fluid, just tinged with blood, took place at the fourth month, and was repeated almost weekly until the sixth month, when labour came on. The amniotic sac was then felt tense, and required to be ruptured, after which a large quantity of fluid escaped. A similar discharge has occurred in the two subsequent pregnancies of the same patient. Pabbri writes (‘ Presse Med.,’ xxiii, 29, 1871) on the hydrorrhoea of pregnancy. Dr. Matthews Duncan writes on long delay of labour after discharge of liquor amnii. He gives an illustrative case, and refers to the researches of Winkler, proving that the amnion has the power of secretion and absorption in a high degree. Firm compression of the foetus may take place without active uterine contraction, and it is firm compression by active uterine contraction that is incompatible with the continuance of pregnancy. (‘Obst. Trans.,’ 1872.) Similar cases are also recorded by various writers in the ‘British Med. Journ.,’ and by Doughty (‘Amer. Journ. of Obst.,’ May, 1872). In the ‘ Graz. Med. de Paris,’ Oct. 1871, is an account of some pecu- liar cysts' of the placenta described by M. Jacquet. He believes that they were developed at the expense of the sheath of the placental vessels, ciud he calls them perivascular cysts. Jacquet admits four kinds of placental cysts—(i) gelatinous cysts originating in the laminated tissue between the chorion and the amnion ; (2) perivascular cysts ; (3) sanguineous cysts, from the placental sinuses; and (4) the ordinary cysts of the villi (hy^atiniform degeneration). p Oii calcification of the placenta.—Dr. E. Friinkel gives ( Arch t. Gvniik. ’ ii, 3 1871) three cases in which a careful examination 01 the placenta was made; and he concludes that calcification of the placenta most frequently follows the course of the capillaries and small vessels of the villi, though it may be more diflTuse and intermediate, and then its origin, according to Langhans, is from the epithelial layer of the villous trunks. Most commonly capillary incrustation proceeds from the vessel wall, spreads through at all points, and forms, as it were, a coating for the cavity of the vessel, without as yet rendering the vessel impervious. It usually, though not always, begins at the extremities of the villi, and may also show itself at separate points in the trunks. Dilfuse not too extensive, calcification is without influence on the sup- port of the foetus, while, indeed, a less extensive capillary petrificaUon especially in the earlier months of pregnancy, interferes with the foetal