SUllGEEY. 363 6th and 8th of January, both being light days, with snow on the ground and sunshine. Moreover, it seemed hardly credible that the S of the affected eye should range in the same time from to Dr. Cohn observes that there were only three possible explanations, either am- blyopia from concussion of the retina, or amblyopia of long standing, or simulation. Such an effect from concussion is not very rare after injuries of the bones of the face ; but, as the ophthalmoscope threw no bght upon the question, the only other evidence of it was the some- what sluggish action of the pupil. The prism tests of A. v. Graefe and of Alfred Graefe are sufficient for the detection of simulated monocular amaurosis, but they are useless against simulated amblyopia. The only way to detect such cases is by repeated trials with different types, and with and without glasses, in order to discover whether the state- ments of the patient are consistent with each other. In this case Dr. Cohn felt himself unable to arrive at a positive diagnosis, and therefore refrained from prescribing the hypodermic use of strychnine, to which he would have had recourse if he had placed full confidence in the statements made to him. Another injury to the right eyebrow by a shell splinter, infiicted on the 30th of October, 1870, and producing great impairment of sight, came under observation on the 20th of March. Dr. Cohn then found a dark coloured projection, which seemed, when seen in the inverted image with an ocular of -f-3, the size of a large pin’s head, occupying the region of the macula lutea. The patient with this eye could dis- cern moving fingers, but could not count them, and letters of No. xx appeared distorted. The left eye was emmetropic, with S = and read from 4!" to 22", and 3 from 4" to 40" fluently. He was not treated, but was warned of the possibility of sympathetic disorder, and he returned on the 17th of April with a complaint of failing vision in the left eye. He said that a darkness appeared before it after ten minutes’ reading, and that he saw round black spots floating to and fro. He could only read 3 Snellen with a near point at 8". Enucleation of the right eye was performed, and on the 17th of July the vision of the left eye was again normal. The excised globe was found to present a subretmal haemorrhage, which had lifted up the retina over the fovea into an elevated fold projecting into the vitreous, but left the microscopic elements apparently unchanged. The case is important as illustrating the occurrence of sympathetic irritation four months after an inconsiderable haemorrhage, without participation of the ciliary body in the injury, and without inflammation. An appendix to the report contains two cases of injury to the lids treated successfully by plastic operations, but of no special interest ’ ^ Foreign lody in tie orlit.—F)v. Borel,* of Rouen, describes a case in wnich the amber mouthpiece of a pipe was imbedded in the orbit by a blow, and was discovered and removed, after the lapse often days withoutinjury to the eye. •' ’ Neio instruments. Only a few new instruments have been produced. Among the most mportant of these are the self-opening scissors of Dr. Noyes, of New York, in which the handles terminate in flattened * ‘Annales d’Oculistique,’ 1872, i, 245.