3l SPECIAL SENSE.—TONGUE. of the right hand and leg are due to structural pecuHarities which are located in the left hemisphere of the brain. The grea,ter develop- ment of the left hemisphere he attributes to its receiving a freer supply of blood than the right. ^ .1 • Oser and Schlesinger* state, as the essential result of their experi- ments, that movements of the uterus may be induced by arrest ot the respiration, by rapid hiemorrhage, and by arrest of the passage ol the blood to the brain. They found that the best animals for the purpose of experiment were kittens under the influence of woorara. _ Valentinf shows that the muscles of the embryo possess their true and normal currents with negative variation on contraction long before their development is complete, and so also nerves, which as yet do not appear to possess a medullary sheath, possess the power of transmitting motor impulses, and also exhibit their normal electric currents and negative variation during activity. Hermann^ finds that living muscle offers very much greater resistance to an electric current passing in a direction across the fibres than to one transmitted along them, the proportion being as 7 to i ; in the nerves it is as 5 to I. . Hugo Kronecker, “ On the Laws of Muscular Exhaustion, in the ‘ Monatsberichte d. k. p. Akad. d. Wissenschaften zu Berlin,’ 1870. Eick§ “ On the Change in the Elasticity of Muscle during Contrac- tion.” An important contribution to our knowledge of the physiological effects of severe and protracted muscular exercise, especially in regard to its influence on the excretion of nitrogen, has been made by Dr. Austin Elint,|l as the result of his analysis of the food consumed and urine passed by Mr. "Weston, during a remarkable attempt which this pedestrian made to walk 400 miles in five consecutive days. Although he did not accomplish this task, he succeeded in walking 317-1 miles in that space of time. By the aid of several eminent physicians and scientific men of Hew York, Mr. Weston was subjected to most careful observation for five days before the walk, for the five days of the walk, and for five days after the walk, and the results are given in a series of carefully prepared tables. The general conclusions of Dr. Elint’s inquiry, in this case at least, are decidedly opposed to the observations of Eick and Wislicenus and many modern experimenters, whilst they corroborate the old view of Liebig that the elimination of nitrogen is to a great extent a measure of the waste of the nitrogenized elements of the tissues, and that this is increased by exercise.^ Prof. Humphry’s** lectures, and still more recen-tly published treatise on myology, contains the results of many careful dissections of the muscles of the Cryptobranchus Japonicus, the Uromastix spinipes, * ‘Strieker’s Med. Jahrbiicher,’ 1872, 30. t “ Histological Eesearches,” ‘ Zeitschrift fiir Biologie,’vii, 1871, 105. :|; ‘ Pfliiger’s Archiv,’ part vi, 1872. § “Ueber die Aenderung der Elasticitat des Muskels -wahrend der Zuckuug, ‘ Pfliiger’s Arcliiv,’ 1871, 301. II Pamphlet reprinted from the ‘ New York Med. Journ.’ for June, 1871, or. II See an abstract in ‘ Amer. Journ. of Med. Sci.,’ Jan., 1872. '' ** ‘ British Med. Journ.,’1872. /f