llEPORT ON SUIIOERY. 258 it ho found a little “dent ” into which he could put his finger. After rest in bed for a time, he could walk as on admission. There was found, on careful examination, .a slight swelling at the junction of the lower and middle thirds of the calf, or perhaps rather higher. The right calf measured half an inch less in circumference than the left. The wasting was quite perceptible to the touch and seemed to involve, chiefly, the inner part of the gastrocnemius, for, when the calf muscles were put in action, it was that part which remained flabby, while, apparently, the soleus could he felt to act beneath it. Possibly the rupture had involved only the tendon of the gastrocnemius before its junction with the soleus. The calf of this leg was considerably weaker than that of the other, so that he could not stand on tip-toe on the corresponding foot; he limped with the left foot. Mr. Hutchinson remarked that no cause was assignable for the occurrence of these injuries. The health was good ; no fractures of any other bones had occurred. The dilference in the condition of the two arms was probably due to the too early use of the right one. He thought it was not difficult to obtain close union after these fractures, although very difficult to get actual bone. It was of interest to note that absolute atropy of the triceps on the right side by no means disabled the arm. In this respect the case was parallel to what happens after atrophy of the quadriceps extensor of the tliigh. The man could use the arm well, except in extension, and followed a laborious occupation without discomfort. The reason why a muscle should atropy in consequence of non-union of the bone into which it is inserted is not quite obvious; but Mr. Hutchinson has repeatedly noticed this result after badly united fractures of the patella, and some- times very good ones. He had never before noticed it after ununited fracture of the olecranon. (‘ Lancet,’ July 29, 1871, 159.) Fracture of the head of the radius.—Specimen described by Mr. James Adams (‘Path, Trans.,’ x.xii, 205). Fracture of the ilium hy muscular violence.—A case of fracture of the anterior, superior, spinous process of the ilium from muscular violence is reported in the ‘Am. Journ. Med. Sciences,’ Jan. 1871, 277. The patient was under the care of Drs. S, Joy and J, W. McWhinniewho recorded the case in the ‘ Canada Med. Journ,,’ Sept., 1870, A very muscular youth, 8st, 17, in turning at a certain point while running in a foot race, felt something snap in his right hip, walked a few steps and fell, “ On examination distinct motion and crepitus could be felt by pressure over the process, also by placing the thumb over the origin of the sartorius and rotating the thigh. The fracture extended into the notch below, but there was no great tendency to displacement save when the leg was abducted, thus placing the sartorius upon the stretch, the process doubtless being partially kept in place by the fibres of the tensor vagina3 femoris arising from this process on the one hand, and Poupart’s ligament on the other, when tension was taken off the sartorius.” The patient was kept in bed with the thigh flexed and the shoulders raised. In two weeks the patient made a good recovery without displacement remaining. , . > at Another case is recorded by Mr. Hyde (‘Brit Med. Journ., Hov. 9, 1872).