APPLIANCES IN FRACTURES. 255 Compound dislocation of the foot.—Mr. Spencer Smith gives a clinical lecture on two cases of compound dislocation of the foot, complicated, in one of them, with compound fracture and dislocation of the astra- galus. Eecoverj in both instances, with useful limbs. One patient was a man, set. 37, the other a married woman, set .28. (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Eeb. 17, 1872.) Plastic apparatus in surgery, especially plaster of Paris.—Dr. St. John writes an elaborate paper on the employment of plaster of Paris splints in the treatment of fractures. He enters, at length, into the history of the employment of plastic apparatus, the advantages of such apparatus, the method of applying the splints, and. the cases in which he has himself used this mode of treatment. He tabulates his results. A great deal depends on the manner in w'hich the apparatus is put on. In fracture of the femur, ether is administered, and extension is kept up by a traction apparatus while the plaster is applied. The limb is padded with blankets. The plaster should be cut up the middle soon after its application; he generally makes two cuts, one on each side of the middle line, and thus removes a strip an inch wide. He prefers a Marp, shoemaker s knife as the most useful instrument for doing this. He sums up as follows. He has endeavoured (i) to show that the results are at least equal to those of any other instrument, and, in some fractures better. To support this ground he adduces 192 cases of simple fracture (30 being of the femur) and 26 cases of compound fracture. (2) That union is not delayed by this splint, as aUeged by some. On this point he appeals to the records of 313 cases, 192 of the gypsum apparatus and 12/ of the starch, felt, leather and pasteboard. (3) That t e splint may, with safety, be applied, at once, in fractures of all bones, n support of this point there are 176 cases in which this splint was applied within forty-eight hours from the date of the accident, of which 69 are smiple and 23 compound fractures (gypsum apparatus') 2 c? are ’1, *■ 8®* complete detafls as to results thepatients having been discharged from the hospital wearing the splints’ Ac but whose records are given beyond the date, when we maF Sure catior the earty appli- by machinery. The frarture had^n ^ wrist-joint. There wl X jbout two inches above the showed the mechanism of the “green-rtLk l^igber up, which describes and figures a speoime?