EXCISION OF THE SHOULDEll-JOINT. 215 as performed, it, also, warrants me in placing this case upon record, as one of successful resection for gunshot injury of the elhow- and shoulder- joints of the same arm. (‘ Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ Iv, 207.) Excision of the shoulder-joint.—Two cases are recorded by Mr. Ewens. Both patients were females; one set. 18, the other 32. Both recovered well, though much out of health at the time of the operation. The disease had existed for long. In the first case, an oval flap was made, in the second, a vertical incision at the posterior border of the deltoid with a superior transverse cut. (‘Lancet,’ Sept. 16, 1871, 390.) Mr. Grant, after alluding to the usual conditions requiring excision of the shoulder-joint, notes that the amount of bone to be removed is rarely extensive, the disease being usually limited to the head of the humerus, while the glenoid cavity is comparatively seldom affected, and, even then, may usually be left untouched or only scraped. The resulting state of the joint would seem to be that the limb can never be elevated above the horizontal line; while in many cases it hangs down without any power whatever in the deltoid, at a greater or less distance from the scapula. The movements of flexion, extension, and adduction are usually free; abduction can often be efiiected to the extent of raising the arm considerably from the side, and there is, generally, sufiieient power in the forearm to carry heavy weights, and perform many of the ordinary domestic tasks. Mr. Grant mentions a case, under his own care, in which excision was successfully performed, but the patient died subsequently of internal disease. He also narrates the ease of a young lady, mt. 17, at the time the note was made, whose right shoulder- joint inflamed acutely after exposure to cold (?) six years before. Suppuration followed, and a copious discharge occurred from several sinuses for two months, when the joint was excised by Mr. Lane. A vertical incision, down the inner border of the deltoid, with a short transverse cut superiorly, was made. Two inches and a half of the humerus were removed, and the glenoid cavity, in a deeply carious ^ate, was freely gouged. The patient made an uninterrupted recovery, ihe arm, at the end of the six years, was four inches shorter than its fellow, but she could move it freely backwards and forwards, without howeve^ the power to raise it horizontally unless aided by the left hand. The motions of the forearm were perfect, so that she could work readily, write, or play the piano. (Ibid., Sept. 2, 1871, 21O conditions appropriate for excision uHlftl if S r “P Ijy Mr. Gant as-(i) Functional in- 1 ty of the limb, depending on disease of the joint, resulting in arcWosTs” w 11 ir without thi superventio? of iurtifr exc Ln ^ f “.f position of the limb, will also justity excision. (3) As regards the amount of bone removed there is not the same limitation as in the case of the Imee-ioint. K is n“ so portant to keep within the limits of the epiphyses The removal of “bL“ ‘ "t Swtll ““‘r ‘'’Z artieula'^rlrof tLL“the followed hi’ i«I ® section ends too nearly in contact, is apt to be ioUowed by osseous union, and an unsuccessful result of the opiatiou