lU REPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. of fhe blood discharged powerfully influence the result. When the flow oi hlcod has ceased, both the rapidity of the current and the pressure quickly return to their normal amount. With the diminished velocity and pressui’e of the blood current the frequency of the heart’s beats augments, the sounds (especially the second) are diminished in inten- sity, and the temperature of the body falls 2° or 3° Fahr. M. Nolet,* * * § in investigations made to determine the nature and cause of vascular murmurs, finds that a sound is produced even in a tube of uniform calibre, providing the rapidity of the current be sufficiently great. Thus, in a thick-walled tube of caoutchouc having a diameter of about 2-3rds of an inch (i8’75 mm.), a bruit becomes audible when the rapidity of the current was about five and a half feet a second (1600— j700 mm.). The smaller the tube the greater the velocity required to produce a bruit. G-reater velocity was required with metal tubes than with caoutchouc, in consequence of their greater smoothness. The presence of a constriction caused a bruit to become audible with greatly diminished velocity of current, the sound being produced both before and beyond the constriction, but chiefly beyond. The presence of a dilatation also causes a bruit, but the velocity of the current must be great. The larger the dilatation the greater the rapidity of current required, hence the absence or diminution of murmur in large aneurisms. The sound is most audible at the entrance to the dilatation, and in all cases the bruit is due to the formation of eddies. Dr. Mayerf has investigated the action of strychnine on the blood pressure, and finds that it immensely augments it, which he attributes to its excitant action on the vaso-motor centre in the cerebrum, causing contraction of the smaller arteries, and not to the tetanic convulsions of the voluntary muscles. Ewald HeringJ from his experiments on dogs, shows that moderate expansion of the lungs by insufflation through a canula in the trachea, which is then closed, causes increased rapidity of the heart’s action. He proceeds to demonstrate that this effect is not due to the increased pressure exerted upon the external surface of the heart, nor to altera- tions in the condition of resistance in the difi'erent parts of the circula- tion, nor to difierences in the interchange of gases, nor to any dislocation of the heart’s position, but that it is efected reflectorially through the vagi. The insufflation, he thinks, excites certain sensory fibres of the lungs, and these stand to the cerebral centre of the inhibitory fibres of the heart in the same relation that the fibres of the depressor nerve do to the cerebral centre of the vaso-motor nerves. Both of these centres are in a state of constant excitation, which is lowered by the irritation of the above-mentioned fibres. These fibres are therefore to be regarded as inhibitory nerves for these centres. For other papers see O. Schmiedeberg, researches on the action of certain poisons (muscarin, atropin, daturine) on the heart of the frogi§ * ‘Beitrage aus clem Pliysiolog. Laborat. zu Leitbiii,’ 1871. f “ Studien zur Physiologic des Herzens uiid dei* Blutgofasse/^ Dr. Sigmund Mayer in ‘Strieker’s Jahrbiicber,’ 1872, iii. t ‘ Strieker’s .lalirbiichcr,’ 1872, 37. § ‘ Ludwig’s Arbeiten,’ 5th Jahrg.