241 ENCHONDIiOMA OP THE JRIBS. made behind the growth, parallel to the vein. As little use was made of the knife as possible when once the superficial incisions had laid bare the nervous cords. The carotid artery was found to lie in a groove on the anterior surface of the tumour, and had to be cautiously moved aside. The tumour could be felt to spring from the surface of the first rib, close to the margin of the scalenus. It was removed in two pieces. Mr. Birkett remarked that the rough surface would soon be smoothed down. He had never known a growth of this sort to recur. The powth itself seemed of ordinary, cancellous bone, with a thin layer of investing cartilage. (‘ Med. Times and Gaz.,’ May 27, 1871, 602.) Enchondroma of the ribs; operation; death.—Dr. Menzel relates (‘ Wien. Med. Wochensch.,’ JSTo. 15, 1871) the case of a man, set. 36, who was admitted into the hospital in Vienna, under Dr. BiUroth, in October, 1870, on account of a tumour under the right clavicle, which he had first noticed in the preceding January. It was five inches by four in diameter, and reached from the lower'border of the clavicle to the third rib, and from the sternum beyond the line of the nipple. Its surface was smooth, and it was firm and hard. The skin was not afi’ected. The tumour was immovable on the ribs, and was covered by the pectoral muscle. It did not pulsate, nor could any bruit be heard in it. There was no displacement of the heart nor any sign of disorder of the circulatory or resjDiratory organs. With regard to the question of operation, it was considered, on the one hand, that if the tumour were left it might endanger the patient’s life by outward growth and consequent ulceration and sloughing, or even by inward growth and com- pression of the lungs and large vessels ; while, on the other hand its removal might be attended with danger from opening the cavity of the pleura. It was accordingly determined to cut down the tumour to the mvel of the chest-waU, and this was accordingly done on October 27 Ihe wound was dressed with carbolic acid. On the third day the patient became very feverish (temperature 104° Fahr.), and stated that on deep expiration fluid escaped from the wound. On examination it was tound that the remaining portion of the enchondroma had slouched away, leaving an opening through which an india-rubber catheter could be passed dovvnwards as far as the lower part of the upper lobe of the lung. Adhesions had formed round part of the Opening. The pleSa roMo3f hours first with warm water, Ld then with niv hypermanganate of potash (five grains to the pint). From JNov. 2 to 9 the patient went on weU; but the perforation had been enlarged, partly spontaneously and partly by the removal of necrosed portions of the second and third ribs. On Nov. q dulness on nprcns smn was noticed at the lower part of the right side of the chesrand • upwards. On account of the increasing difficultv of breathing, paracentesis, by means of Dieulafoy’s aspirato^r was ne/ rmed between the eighth and ninth ribs, and 1400 cubic centimetres ttfe dZ bTthfT rdievTd for I'- - 16