156 UEPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. farctus of Kaempf; the diarrhcea tubularis, pellicular enteritis, pseudo- membranous enteritis of later writers. The disease is characterised by attacks of abdominal pain, followed by the discharge of moulds or long tubes. There may be but one attack ; more generally the paroxysm is followed by others at varying intervals. The shortest time for an attack to last is, according to his experience, a week. The discharge is preceded by distension, sense of burning, colicky pains, and, at times, a sluggish state of the bowels, and succeeded by a condition of com- parative health. Palpitation of the abdominal aorta is common; be- tween the attacks the bowels are irregular, the patient suffers from disturbance of his general health and nervous system, and irritable bladder, with discharge of large quantities of mucus. He gives the notes of seven cases. The membranous discharge may come away with every movement of the bowels, almost continuously for months, perhaps years. The microscopic examination of the tubes passed shows a transparent, amorphous, basement-substance, here and there indistinctly fibrillated, and having imbedded in it granules, free nuclei, and small, shrivelled, irregular, and rather granular cells. There are not many well-marked epithelial cells, nor white or elastic fibrous tissue cells. The chemical reactions of the membranes do not throw much more light upon them. He discusses the differential diagnosis of the affection, looks upon the prognosis as unfavourable, and suggests rest in bed, ap- plication of hot water to the abdomen, slight purgatives, and an easily digested diet, as most suitable during the attack. The treatment in protracted eases consists in a strict regime, the disuse of purgatives, the steady use of iron, acids, bismuth, injection of nitrate of silver, and the application of the continuous current. Whitehead (“Mucous Disease,” ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, i, 143) gives an historical account of the same affection. Out of 120 writers on the disease, he cannot refer to any half dozen who have described it by the same name. He considers himself justified in stating that the cha- racteristic discharge from the bowel may be divided into three stages: —(1) Masses of more or less inspissated mucus, having the appearance of jelly. They are perfectly membranous, and contain only the merest trace of albumen. (2) Tubular casts of the gut, which occur as cylindrical sheaths, and also membranous shreds or flakes of various forms, which can be shown to be nothing more than fragments of the tubes in various stages of development. These contain an abun- dance of albumen, but no fibrin. (3) Membranous shreds of lymph, mixed with blood and pus. This form contains both albumen and fibrin in abundance, the latter in a fibrillated form. Middle-aged persons, children, and old people, may be held as liable to the disease in the order in which they are enumerated. It occurs far more frequently in females than in men. Constipation, and the retention of excreta Avithin the system, while it is a consequence, is also an exciting cause of the dis- ease. It is generally observed in persons of a cold temperament and relaxed habit of body, with feeble circulation, cold extremities, and a peculiar whitish-yellow paleness of skin; in those who are apathetic, and wanting in decision and energy in their moral and intellectual cha- racter, though at the same time they possess a highly excitable condi-