13 RESPIRATION AND ANIMAL HEAT. tenstern corroborates the experiments of Lascbkewitsch and Krieger, that death results in these cases from cold, and the phenomena of the respiration corresponded with those observed in cold. Quincke and Pfeiffer* * * § show that with each inspiration the passage of the blood through the left ventricle is accelerated. Schifff maintains that section of the lateral columns of the cord at the level of the first cervical nerves arrests the respiratory movements of that side. He states also that, the lungs and vagi being removed from the body, electrical excitation of the vagi causes contraction of the parenchyma of the lung. LandoisJ and Ceradini§ have experimented on the action of the heart on the respiration. The former finds that some air is expelled with each systole of the heart, the latter that the effect is more complicated. The opposite investigation, viz. the action of the respiration on the cir- culation, has been pursued by Dr. Hering.|| Experiments made in 1865 by MM. Estor and St. Pierre seemed to show that a considerable quantity of oxygen disappears from the blood, even whilst passing through the larger arteries. This statement is, however, contested by MM. Mathieuand D’lJrbain,^ who maintain that there is scarcely any appreciable difference in the amount of oxygen contained in the blood of the carotid and crural arteries ; they have, however, found that when the difference in the size of two vessels is very great the blood coursing through the larger one contains more oxygen and less carbonic acid. In a second paper, in which they give the results of their experiments on the influence of external tempera- ture on the amount of gas contained in arterial blood, they show that in warm-blooded animals the quantity of oxygen absorbed by the blood varies inversely with the temperature of the air they breathe, being in- creased in winter and diminished in summer. This is conformable with the physical fact that the exchange of gases through a moist animal membrane is more rapid at a low than at a high temperature. M. Paul Bert** has studied, in the physiological laboratory of the Sorbonne, the influence that changes in the barometric pressure exercise on the phenomena of life. Wlien warm-blooded animals are suddenly exposed to air so rarefied that it will only support 15 to 18 centim. of mercury, convulsions, followed by death, are rapidly induced, with the appearance of bloody froth in the bronchi. If it be done by degrees, however, they will live in a very rarefied air (12 centim.) for some time, though all ultimately die from asphyxia. Birds cannot live at a lower pressure than 18 centim. The lower the pressure the more oxygen remains unexhausted. Hermann Aubert, of Itostock,'f'f finds that the total amount of car- * ‘Reichert und Duhois Reymond’s Archiv,’ 1871. t ‘ Pfliiger’s Archiv/ iv, 225. t ‘Berlin Klin. Wochensch./ 1870, 9. § ‘ Annali Universali,’ iv, 587. II ‘ Sitzungsber. der K. K. Akad. zu Wien,’ Ixiv. Brown-Sequard’s ‘Archives de Physiologic,’ 1872, 190 and 304. ** ‘Rev. Scient.,’ zde ser., i, 166. tt ‘ Pfliiger’s Archiv,’ vi, 1872, xi.