285 SPASMODIC STRICTURE OF THE CESOPHAGUS. niorrliages. In structure it was a firm fibroid and resembled accurately, as it did also iu its symptoms, the well-kuowu fibroid polypi of the uterus. One case is quoted from Paget, another from Cooper’s ‘Dictionary,’ and one from ‘Boston Med. Surg. Journ.,’ all the author could find. The patients were young men. (‘Am. Journ. Med. Sci.,’ April, 1872, 38^). Dr. Titts records the case of a woman, mt. 30. In examining her throat and while depressing the tongue he noticed a tumour rising up at its base, of about the size of a filbert. It was situated in the median line, so far back that it was difficult to pass the finger behind it. It was exceedingly hard, incompressible and im- moveable. It was not apparently pedunculated. In a few mouths the growth steadily increased in size, and almost filled the whole of the fauces. Prof. Bigelow operated. He removed the tumour with the ccraseur. It was pronounced fibrous or fibro-recurrent. At the end of two years there was no recurrence. (‘Am. Journ. Med. Sci.,’July, 1872, 122.) Sir James Paget Hysteric or spasmodic stricture of the oesophagus. considers this condition the homologue, in the pharynx or oesophagus, of that want of harmony between the organs of sjDeech and respiration which produces stammering and appears to depend on a want of per- fect concert between certain involuntary muscles and muscles acting under the control of the will which are designed to act in harmony. In the latter case the muscles of respiration do not act in time and unison with the organs of speech ; in the former, instead of the normal contraction of successive portions of the upper part of the alimentary canal from above downwards which transmits the food regularly from the mouth to the stomach, there occurs an unruly contraction of certain fibres which, as long as it continues, bars the passage of food as com- pletely as if sorne permanent obstruction existed. The degree of this contraction varies^ in different cases; iu some it only compels the patient to take his meals apart or inconveniences him whenever his attention is in any way directed to the act of swallowing : while, in others, it produces contraction so obstinate and complete that the maintenance of life by means of gastric digestion is wholly prevented. In these cases recourse must be had to enemata, and it will be found necessary to- make use of something more than beef tea and brandy and by injecting preparations containing fats, starches, sugars, and vegetable as weU as meat juices, to sujiply all the ingredients which are contained in a natural diet, and are essential to the building up of Of the fact that vegetable jiices could thus be effectually introduced into the system, he had recently enemata somV^of°fh ^ ^ patient with whose nutritive emata some of the essence of water cresses proposed by Mr Wyatt flafou^of '^’Sht be diminished, because the stant as to ho p f mouth had become so strong and so con- disagreeable. (‘Lancet,’ Jan.7, 1871, ii.) (hd -m-f > an article in the ‘ Archiv fiir Klin, be fninui ri T Ill’- Billroth suggests that this operation may be found practicable in cases of cancer of the oesophagus. He remarks