57 relapsing eever. which he prefers to look upon as one of acute petechial typhus rather than of cerebro-spinal meningitis. Relapsing Fever. Tennent (‘ Glasgow Med. Journ.,’ n. s., iii, 355) gives at some length an analysis of 352 cases of relapsing fever admitted into the Glasgow Fever Hospital between March 16 and Oct. 20, 1870. these cases (17 per cent.) died; one, a man, mt. 45, became affected with paraplegia; a child, set. 9 months, had severe convulsions; the other four died from syncope, the typical form of death in this affection. In three of these four cases, however, there was already existing a chronic disease (mitral obstruction; granular kidneys; bronchitis). Experience seems to show that relapsing fever very rarely proves tatal to healthy persons. The post-mortem examination of one of these three cases showed the presence in the spleen, which weighed oz., of three fluctuating tumours containing sanious fluid, and disorganisation of the spleen tissue. . 1 i i • » Charteris (ib., 347) draws attention to “ Post-febrile Ophthalmia as a result of some cases of relapsing fever. It seems to have been first observed in Dublin in 1826, and in Glasgow in 1843 And 1844* The ophthalmoscopic examination of one case out of 20 showed the vitreous somewhat turbid, with black flocculi floating in it. The optic disc was indistinct, the retinal vessels congested, and the retina ot a dull greyish tint. The pathology of the afl’ection is obscure. Notes of these cases are given. Eobinson (‘Lancet,’ 1871, i, 644) gives an account of the outbreak of relapsing fever, at Leeds, in 1870. The first case seems to have oc- curred on March 31. Out of 361 cases coming under notice, there had been in 219 previous communication with infected persons. Privation due to the dissolute habits of the patients themselves or their parents, existed in 261 instances. Typhus was said to have attacked the family of the first patient simultaneously with the relapsing fever, and typhoid was epidemic throughout the period during which relapsing fever pre- vailed. The mortality from the three diseases in Leeds during 1870 was as follows : From relapsing fever (July—October), 13 ; from typhus, 131, the highest numbers being from May to October; from enteric fever, 182, the highest between July and November. After drawing attention to the fact that former writers had remarked on the relations between intermittent and relapsing fever. Senator (‘Berl. Klin. Woch.,’ 1871, 379) gives his own experience of an epidemic in Berlin in 1870, which beside numerous cases of intermittent and recurrent fever, presented also some case of a character between the two. The patients seemed to be affected at first with true recur- rent fever, which later on, and not only during the course of convales- cence, yielded to one of a regular intermittent type. He gives six cases, and concludes that (i) intermittent fever supervenes in the course of a recurrent fever, at any rate, after the first attack ; (2) it may appear during convalescence from the latter; (3) and that it is sometimes observed at the end of epidemics of recurrent fever, in dis-