351 StJllGERY. follows tliat scarcely any single surgeon enjoyed opportunities of observing many cases of injury to the eye, and hence Dr. Cohn has felt himself bound to make public the histories and results of 31 such cases that came under his own treatment. While on duty at the railway station at Saarbrucken, where hundreds of wounded passed daily, it was his custom to select the cases of injury to the eyes for treatment in his hospital at Heinitz ; and his colleagues, Drs. Discher, Waldeyer, Spiegelberg, Finne, Friinkel, and Busch, selected cases for him in the same manner at Forbach, Neunkirchen, and Ottweiler. In this way 14 cases were obtained, and the remaining 17 were seen for the first time after the close of the war, some at his own eye hospital at Breslau, others at a barrack hospital in Berlin. He treated 8 cases at Heinitz, 4 at Forbach, i at Saarbrucken, i at Heunkirchen, 6 at Berlin, and 7 at Breslau. .A.mong the 31 shot wounds there were 2 of the biain, 16 of the eye only, p of the face, and 4 of the cranium Among the 16 wounds of the eye the eyeball was ruptured in 8 cases and grazed in 2. In 3 the lids were wounded by fragments of shell and in i a fragment had penetrated the ciliary body. Of the 0 wounds of the face 3 implicated the superior maxilla and 4 the zygoma, and of the 4 wounds of the cranium i was of the temporal and 3 were of the frontal bone. The right eye was wounded in 13 cases, the left in 14. in one case double blindness and in another double nystagmus were produced by injury to the brain. ^ ^ In the 31 cases the following 70 conditions were observed. Dr Oohn has stated them, some in German, some in Latin, and some in p raseology hybrid between the two languages, so that his original words are quoted when his meaning does not seem to be absolutely Total loss of the eye {Totaler Defect des Auqes) Wasting of the eyeball . . ' Extensive wound of the eyeball {Vulmsperfectu Foreign body m eyeball Opacity of cornea . Hsemorrbage into anterior chamber Iritis Partial loss of iris {Defectus iridis partialis) Iridodyalysis , . . ^ ' Traumatic mydriasis Opacity of anterior capsule Hffimorrbage or opacity in vitreous body Kupture of choroid . Haimorrhage in choroid 'I-"” Cborio-retinitis with exudation Haimorrhage at yeUow spot Disease at yellow spot Detachment of retina Atrophy of optic nerve Complete amaurosis Inflammation of optic nerve Amblyopia without visible change Sympathetic affection without visible chanire Weakness of internal recti . ^ bulbi) 2 3 4 I 1 * 2 3 1 2 5 2 5 2 1 1 I I I 1 4 2 2 I 4 3