IIEPOET ON SUllGEllY. ^8G that tho disease is geuerally limited to one part, aud tluit attempts at dilatation often only increase the evil by tending to ulceration. lie suggests that after removing the diseased portion (if the cancer bo situated sufficiently high), the resulting cicatrix would be capable of dis- tension by bougies ; and that the healing powers would be analogous to that which takes place in the urethra after the loss of a portion of this canal by ulceration, sloughing, or injury. From a large dog, Bill- roth removed an inch aud a quarter of the oesophagus, and united tho lower end of the tube to the skin by two sutures, so as to allow tho introduction of a tube through which milk was to be conveyed into tho stomach. On the fifth day, it was found possible to introduce a tube through tho mouth; at first it had to be guided along the wound by means of the finger, but afterwards this became unnecessary. Tho sutures were removed a week after the operation. There was at first a great discharge of mucus through the wound; this gradually decreased, the opening became smaller, and in two months entirely closed; aud an oesophageal bougie of the size of a large index finger could be readily passed. Tho dog was fed with meat, potatoes, &c., and throve well. A little more than two months after the operatiou, it was killed ; the cicatrix was found to be annular, scarcely half a line wide, and readily distensible. JPoreif/n bodies impacted in strictured ossophar/ns: cesophagotomy.— Dr. Menzel relates, in the ‘Archiv fur Klin. Chirurg.’ xiii, 678, the cases of two children, patients in the General Hospital in Vienna, in whom stricture of the oesophagus had been produced by swallowing irritant fluids, and in whom also foreign bodies subsequently became impacted in the strictured portion. Tlie first patient was a boy aged 6, who, a year previously, had swallowed some strong lye, in conse- quence of which great narrowing of the oesophagus occurred. He was brought into hospital on account of having swallowed a breeches button. Dr. Billroth removed this by cesophagotomy, and the patient was dis- chai’ged, with the external wound healed, on the twenty-first day after the operation. The second patient, a girl, had strictured oesophagus, the result of swallowing nitric acid, and was unable to swallow solid food. She was brought to the hospital on account of having been for ten days unable to take any food whatever through the mouth. A slender oesophageal tube, however, was passed, through which some milk was introduced. After this, the condition varied; sometimes deglutition was tolerably easy, sometimes quite impossible; on some occasions a bougie of moderate size could be passed, while on others this could not be done, and it occasionally seemed as if a foreign body were struck, though this could not be distinctly made out. The child gradually lost strength, became feverish, and died on the forty-eighth day after admission. At the necropsy, there was found in the oesophagus a semi- lunar aperture leading into a cavity in the submucous tissue, in which lay a blue glass bead, of the size of a pea. A narrow, fistulous canal led from the bottom of the cavity to a collection of pus in the mediastinum. There was also purulent effusion in the right pleural cavity. Dr. Bean relates in the ‘Tribune Medicale,’ January 21, 1872, the case of a boy, a^ed 8 who had a peach-stone impacted in the oesophagos beneath the f 1