REPORT ON MATERIA MEDICA, ETC. t ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Oct. 14, 1871, 435. Chlorides. Eabuteau* has found that common salt, when given in considerable quantities, greatly increases tissue change and the excretion 01 urea. At the same time it increases the secretion of gastric juice acidity. On this account animals which get much salt digest their food well, but do not get fat. The red blood-corpuscles become more numerous when salt is taken, and this, along with its other pro- perties, will render it useful in phthisis and diabetes. Very large doses of salt are purgative. Salt food produces constipation, because the salt is absorbed into the blood, and lessens the exosmosis into the intestines. Small doses of salt are, therefore, very serviceable in diarrhoea and dysentery, when other remedies fail. Chloride of ammonium acts as a diuretic, increases the excretion of urea, quickens the pulse, and seems to raise the temperature. It does not impair digestion. It is not diaphoretic. Large doses induce vomiting, and cause temporary weakness of the lower extremities. Sal ammoniac alone has a specific remedial action in bronchial catarrh; but all ammonium compounds increase expectoration. Chloride of potassium increases the excretion of urea, but has only a slight diuretic action. It increases the appetite, and causes slight con- stipation. It slows the heart, and Eabuteau thinks this salt might be used instead of digitalis. Chloride of magnesium, injected in large doses into the veins, slows the heart like chloride of potassium. Two and a half drachms produces purgation, not accompanied by colicky pains, and not succeeded by constipation. It is also pleasanter to take than the sulphate of mag- nesium, and Eabuteau, therefore, recommends it in place of the latter salt, in doses of 7 drachms for men, drachms for women, and half an ounce for children. The dose should be dissolved in a considerable quantity of water. Ferrous chloride does not coagulate either egg- or serum-albumen, and hinders the coagulation of blood. One grain injected directly into the circulation stops the heart like potassium chloride. The blood remains fiuid. Ferrous chloride is chiefly excreted by the intestine. Ferric chloride is reduced by albuminous substances, and undergoes reduction in the body. It is quickly absorbed. Eabuteau recommends the employment of ferrous chloride in medicine, and he finds that re- duced iron, ferric oxide, and ferrous carbonate are converted into ferrous chloride in the stomach. Gold and palladium chlorides are reduced in the body, and when given for a long time produce albuminuria and renal afiection. The author considers that there is a particular kind of albuminuria pro- duced by metals, as albumen appears in the urine in poisoning by lead, nitrate of silver, and the salts of uranium and cadmium. Bromides.—Woodf finds that, by combining bromide of potassium with tincture of cannabis indica, the dose of bromide may be raised to a drachm and a half three times a day without any bad effect following. The bromide in doses of one drachm frequently causes melancholy when given alone. Dacosta thinks that if 40 to 60 grains of bromide * ‘ Union Medicale,’ Ixxiii, p. 150 et seq., ‘ Comp. Rend.,’ Ixxiii, 24, p. 1390.