397 DISEASES OE PEEGNANCY. elusions During pregnancy albuminuria may supervene (i) in conse- quence of vesical catarrh, which occasionally results from pressure on the urethra and the neck of the bladder; (2) from general catarrh of the urinary passages, with pyelitis ; (3) m consequence of congestion of the renal vessels ; and (4) from parenchymatous diseases of the kidneys. In the puerperal state albuminuria may result (i) from vesical catarrh, brought on by the mechanical irritation of a catheter, or by the exten- sion of the inflammatory process from the genital organs to the bladder, or by severe labour ; (2) from general catarrh of the urinary passages with pyelitis, arising from a simple extension of a primary catarrh of the bladder, or from contiguity to inflamed parts, while sometimes pyelitis may supervene as an independent idiopathic affection; (3) froui congestion of the renal vessels as in uncompensated insufficiency of the valves of the heart; and (4) from textural disease of the kidney, which may appear as a primary parenchymatous nephritis, or be secondary to the extension of inflammation from the bladder, or result from pressure on the ureter, or be the metastatic inflammation of py- — • - Physiological albuminuria does not exist either during pregnancy mmia. or in the puerperal state. Dr. Hermann Lebert, of Breslau, relates three cases, intended as a contribution to our knowledge of the causation of heart disease and disease of the vessels in connection with child-bearing; Case 1.—Acute articular rheumatism at the fourth month of preg- nancy, symptoms of mitral endocarditis, repeated rigors, indications of embolism in the left lower and the right upper extremity, abortion, death from oedema of the lungs. Endocarditis with ulcerative destruction of the bicuspid valve, embolic obstruction of the subclavian artery, of the termination of the aorta, and of the first part of each iliac artery. The uterus was full of blood-clot, but no pathological change existed in its walls. Case 2.—Severe puerperal fever, great dyspnoea, with abundant rhonchi and a bellows murmur in the vicinity of the tricuspid valve. On opening the body there was found purulent inflammation of the tricuspid, a large embolism in the right portion of the pulmonary artery, with purulent inflammation of the same. The inner surface of the uterus showed a well-marked uniform injection of its vessels, with everywhere a rather thick epithelial layer. The organ was twice the size it should be at the fifth week after labour, but its structure appeared normal. There was inflammation of the right spermatic vein. Case 3.—Abortion at the sixth month, periovaritis, pleurisy, swelling of right knee and left elbow ; death on the twenty-fourth day. Em- bolism in the pulmonary artery, double pleurisy, gangrene of the lower lobe of right lung, thrombus of vena cava inferior, obstruction of the left renal vein, periovaritis, periuterine purulent phlebitis, and endo- metritis. (‘Arch. f. Gynak.,’ hi, i, 1871.) Dr. A. Gusserow relates (‘Arch. f. Gyniik.,’ ii, 2, 1871) five very interesting cases of a high degree of anaemia in pregnant women. The character of the symptoms and the cause of the disease were strikingly alike in all. The age of the patients varied from twenty-four to thirty- six ; they had previously enjoyed good health, and four of them had been before pregnant. Slowly, in the course of pregnancy, and with-