190 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. to tlie published cases of cylindromatous tumours, and calls the one described by himself angioma mucosum proliferum. Do Morgan, “On the Origin of Cancer,” ‘Lancet,’ 1871, ii, 6. Arnott, “Notes on the Pathology of Malignant New-growths; Carcinoma,” ‘Mecl. Times and Gaz., 1871, i, 566. Silver, “ Cancer beginning in the Inguinal Glands and extending upwards along the Lymphatics into the Chest” (man, act. 23), ib., ii, 769. Coats, “The Structure of the Myxoma and Sarcoma, with Illustrative Specimens,” ‘Glasgow Med. Journ.,’ iv, 35. Kaschewarowa-Rudnewa, “ Myoma Striocellulare seu Rhabdomyoma Myxomatodes Vaginae,” ‘Virch. Arch.,’ liv, 65. Lang, “Eih Beitrag zur Kenntniss der sogenannten Dermoidcysten,” ib., liii, 128. Armauer-Hansen, “ Beitriige zur normalen uud pathologischen Anatomic der Lymphdriisen,” ib., Ivi, 280. Peris, “ Beitriige zur Geschwulstlehre,” ib., 437. Acker, “ Zur Pathogenese der Geschwulst- metastasen,” ‘ Deut. Arch.,’ xi, 173. Neumann, “Ueber Sarcome mit endothelialen Zellen nebst Bemerkungen iiber die Stellung der Sarcome zu den Carcinomen,” ‘Arch. d. Heilk.,’ xiii, 305. I.—CLIMATE AND HEALTH-RESORTS. Holden (“ Ostracism for Consumption,” ‘ Amer. Journ. Med. Sci.,’ Ixi, 107) asserts that the efficacy of a long sea voyage is gradually becoming more evident. The testimony even of those who have simply crossed the Atlantic on their way to Italy, Madeira, or Syria, will be almost universally found in its favour. "Within a week after losing sight of land the cough frequently subsides or changes in character, dyspnoea is relieved, the appetite returns, and with it a sense of new vigour and hope of recovery. The voyage to Cape Horn, Sydney, and thence to San Francisco by sea, &c., offers all the combined benefits to be looked for. As to American resorts, he recommends Florida, Aiken, South Carolina, and Minnesota. At the same time the object of his paper is to “protest agsinst the growing recklessness in sending patients who fail to improve out of sight.” Maclaren (‘ Med.-Chir. Eev.,’ xlvii, 193) writes on a long sea voyage in phthisis pulmonalis. He gives short notes of his own and nine other cases, and relates some useful facts as to the voyage to Australia. From the time of leaving England the temperature steadily rises until the vessel is close on the line, generally in a month or five weeks; it then gradually falls, until the most southerly point in the passage is gained, which may, perhaps, be in another month; during the remainder of the time it rises slightly until Australia is reached. He sketches the good hygienic conditions in which the patient is placed—pure un- contaminated air, pure water, absence of drains, good food, with gene- rally a large proportion of fat. “ But a sea voyage is a rough remedy, and it cannot be expected that it will be beneficial in every case.” Kattray (‘P^oc. Eoy. Soc.,’ xviii, 529; xix,_293) describes some of the more important physiological changes induced in the human economy by change of climate, as from temperate to tropical, and the reverse. Tropical climate causes loss of weight and depression of both mental and bodily energy. With hard work and diet of salt meat the loss is greatly increased. Sesary (‘ He la temperature de la ville d’Alger au point de vue des Maladies Chroniques de la PoitrineAlger, 1872) shows that the study of maximum temperatures is of more importance from a medical