173 ANALYSIS OF THE URINE, ETC. from the kidneys or the ureters. In the former case (t) the microscope shows in the urine rings with colourless contents, and a double or single outline smaller than normal blood-cells. The altered blood- corpuscles do not occur in haemorrhages from the ureters. (2) The colouring matter of the blood-cells is soluble in urine, and the_ latter exhibits dichroismus, on account of the solution in it of haemoglobin free from oxygen. The first appearances are explained by the fact that the blood-cells have lingered some time in the so-called tubes of Bellini, G-enerally cylinders also occur, composed of blood-cells in rolls, the diameter of which proves them to be true casts of the same tubes. Laborde, “Augmentation de TUree dans certalnes Maladies,” ‘Gaz. Med.,’ 1871, 522. Fowler, “Quantitative Analysis of Urea,” ‘New York. Med. Journ.,’ xvi, 277. Maly, “Zui- Bestiminung der Harnsaure,” ‘ Pfluger’s Arch.,’ vi, 201. Salkowski, “Die Bestimmung der Harnsaure,” ib., v, 210. Gaetbgens, “ Zur Frage der Ausscbeidung freier Siiurendurch den Harn,” ‘Centralbl.,’ 1872, 833. Seegen, “Ueber eine Methode, minimale Mengen Zucker in Harn mit grosseren Sicberheit nacbzuweisen,” ib., 68. Manassein, “Ueber Quantitative Bestimmung des Zuckers in diabetiscben Harne nacb dem Unterschiede im specifiscben Gewichte des Hams vor und nach der Gahrung,” ‘ Deut. Arch.,’ x, 73. Liborius, “ Beitrage zur Quantitativen Eiweissbestimmung,” ib., 319. Treskin, “Die Veranderungen des Harnes bei liingerem Verweilen in der Blase,” ‘ Centralbl.,’ 1872, 147. Jaffe, “Ueber den Ursprung des Indicans in Hams,” ib., 2. Soborow, “ Ueber die Kalkausscbeidung im Harn,” ib., 609. Mehu, “Etude sur une Urine a Sediment violet,” ‘ Bull. Gen. de Therap.,’ Ixxxiii, 260. Lebon, “ Sur la Xanthine et sa recherche dans les Calcus vesicaux,” ‘ Compt. Eend,,’ Ixxiii, 47. Thompson, “ Diagnosis by Examination of Urine in obscure forms of Urinary Disease,” ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 187j, i, 6. Tidy and Woodman, “On Ammonia in the Urine in Health and Disease,” ‘Lancet,’ 1872, i, 809. Treskin, “Ueber die Anwend- barkeit der Methode zur Harnstoffbestimmung von Bunsen fur das Blut.,” ‘ Virch. Arch.,’ Iv, 488. Eosentein, “ Das Kohlensaure Ammoniak und die Uramie,” ib., Ivi, 383. Leai-ed, “Eenal Calculi of Cystic Oxide” (from woman, set. 30), ‘Path. Soc. Tx-ans.,’ xxiii, 165. G. AFFECTIONS OF THE SKIN.* General.—Neumann (‘Wien. Med. Zeitg.,’ 1871, 295) writes on the changes found in the involuntary muscles of the skin in cutaneous afiec- tions. In variola he finds always great increase in size, perfectly distinct from the true hypertrophy of the muscles which Derby, Eossbacb, Korner and others, have shown to be present in lichen ruber, icthyosis, elephantiasis arabum, prurigo, and sclerema adultorum. It is impossible to decide whether in these cases we have to deal with an hypertrophy or an hyperplasia; the individual fibres, as well as the rod-like nuclei, are very .much enlarged, and with them the whole muscle. Derby refers this increase in size to increased muscular exertion in pressing out the secretion from follicles with narrowed openings. In addition to this hypertrophy there is atrophy of both muscle-cells and nuclei. Smith (‘Dub. Journ.,’ Hi, 353) gives an analysis of 1100 cases of skm disease treated at the Adelaide Hospital, Dublin, since September, * to be laid to the charge of writers on diseases of the skin. No one but the entomologist can rival them in the smallness of their distinctions: their varieties, like those of insects, are already distinguished by the names of the authors who had the good (!) fortune to describe them ftrst,—A, B. S.