2'^8 IIEPORT ON SURGERY. the tarso-metatarsal articulations.—The patient was a middle-aged man, who had had a plank fall on his foot four months before admission. There was a sinus leading down to the second metatarsal bone, wliich was carious in nearly its whole extent. On Nov. 24, 1871, Mr. Holmes dissected out the second metatarsal bone. Various abscesses formed subsequently, and on Jan. ii, 1872, Mr. Holmes made a semilunar incision on the dorsum of the foot, and dissected the flap upwards. He tben disarticulated at the tarso-metatarsal articu- lation, and sawed off the ends of the four tarsal and then of each of the four remaining metatarsal bones. The disease seemed to be con- flned to the portions of bone removed ; on Tebruary rqth he was sent to Wimbledon. On April 8th “ the wound was entirely healed, except a small, superficial sore at the inner part. He could just put his foot to the ground. The toes were movable to a very slight degree, appa- rently from the traction of the extensor tendons being transmitted through the cicatrix. The second toe was out of the line of the others, riding upwards between the first and third toes, which touched each other. This, however, had been the case before the operation. Ihe man was well satisfied with the condition of his foot.” “ Many still regard excision of the ankle with disfavour ; yet, as far as 1 can judge from a limited, personal experience, there can be no question that, m cases of traumatic origin, sound union may be confidently expected, and the patient in such cases recover rapidly, and with a foot little interior to the healthy one. Three such cases have occurred to me and recovery has been very rapid in all of them. But excisions of the bones or joints of the foot itself are still less generally practised, although the ex- perience of many surgeons testifies to the great success which some- times ensues upon the complete removal of the os calcis, tlie jtragalus or other single bones of the tarsus, while, if I mistake not, commo experience also testifies to the rery frequent follows upon gouging or other partial measures. It is worth re- membering als? that the prospects of a surgical ^ much better in such cases as can be clearly traced to a traumatic pause ” f‘Clin. Soc. Trans.,’ v, 207.) _ , . , , Mxeimn of He lower jaw.—In narrating a case m which he removed uart of the lower iaw in connection with epithelial cancer the fences, Ac llr -Watsln Especially lays stress on the advantages of the plan he ado’pted He made an incision from the angle of the raouth ohhqnely downwards to the base of the jaw as far as the Soier P wS^he^i^ldef in“hfhiXid and the inser- 'i tCtfesues !way from the hone upon its outer or masseteric it fhiPi Sly accomplished hy twisting the articular process aspect, tl ^ the bone the parts anterior and internal out of Its bed, dividing p the internal maxillary artery. t the posterior and lateral aspect of the buccal