150 UEPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. were atlieromatous. The writer gives a table of 12 cases in which this description of aneurism was found; its most frequent termination is by- rupture into the pericardium. Barth (‘ Arch. d. Heilk.,’ xii, 253) gives a case of dissecting aneurism in a man, set. 57. After a motion of his bowels he was suddenly seized with paralysis and loss of sensation in the right leg, accompanied by severe pain in the chest. During the succeeding days the pains appeared in the right leg, and also in the left. The right leg was cold. Dour days after another motion, death occurred somewhat suddenly. The autopsy showed about three pints of blood in the left pleura, into which projected a large tumour, the size of a child’s head. The left ventricle was hypertrophied, but there was nothing else abnormal about the heart. The sheath of the aorta and pulmonary artery within the pericardium were infiltrated with blood. The commencement of the aorta was atheromatous. In the lower and middle part of the arch was a rent through the internal and muscular coats, about 4 cm. broad. Close by and for 10 cm. along the thoracic aorta, the sheath and mus- cular coats were hollowed out by a large effusion of blood. The latter communicated through a rent in the sheath in the highest part of the arch with a collection of coagulated blood under the pleura, bulging into the left pleural sac, and slightly into the posterior mediastinum. The writer explains the pain in the right leg by supposing that the dis- sected portion of the aortic wall was pressed against the opposite wall, Bomewbat in tlie fashion of an alternating valve, and so temporarily hin- dered the outflow of blood to the body. Other papers on aneurism and disease of the aorta are; Tirifahy, “Anevrysme de la Crosse de I’Aorta,” ‘PresseMed. Beige,’ 1871, 109. Vallin, “Observation d’Anevrysme de I’Aorta, ouvert dans la bronclie gauche, ‘Eec. de Mem. de Med. milit.,’ xxvii, 310. Duchamp, ‘ Anevip’sme de l Aorta, ‘Lvon Med.,’ viii, 326. Heath, “ Sacculated Aneurism of the Ai^h of the Aorta siniulating Aneurism of the Innominate Artery,” ‘Path. Soc. Trans.,^ xxu, 95. Croft, “Aneurism of the Thoracic Aorta; cured Popliteal Ane^ism, ib.,_7oo. •Williams, “Aneurism of the Arch of the Aorta bursting into the (Esophagus, _ih., 102. Morris, ‘Aneurism of Abdominal Aorta which had burst behind ^the peiito- neum and subsequently into the peritoneal cavity,” ib., 104. Whipham, Dissecting rnem-ism of th^first potion of tie Arch of the Aorta,” ib., 113. Hawkes, ‘‘Rupture Tm^ of Brain” ib., 114 Biiumler, “Case of Aneurysm of the In- • I ’ Arfprv -nressiun- on the ri°-ht Pneumogastric and Recurrent Nerves, ib., Sd Embolism S le^ZlZ Srebral Artery,” ib. 70. Ledliard, :;C-e of sudden :riht lac” history of syphilis), ‘ Dublin Jour m,’ hi 36 Foot giving rise , .o,, j,o. Moxon, “Sudden death from Sub- Abdomen, Med. Times and (I ..^ 7 > > « Case of Aneurism of the acute piicanlium ; temporary improToment under tl.e ^"‘Vlodldf ■ B'it Med. Journ ■ .87. use of M d' “ 1 casT uf Aneurism of the Aorta simulating peripaneut pateucy of lh:iorti‘ti;es| with au^p^