LEGISLATION. 495 is V6ry variable, is used iu the proportion of i part acid to of water. Carholic acidimoderis prepared by mixing loo parts of peat, gypsum, earth, sand, sawdust, or charcoal, with i part of carbolic acid previously mixed with water. The crude acid is recommended, used in double the above proportion. If carholic acid salts are employed twice as much is required as of the acid itself. Carholic acid lime-iohite is made by mixing i part of carbolic acid with loo parts of milk of lime. Solution of chloride of lime should be made by mixing i part of the chloride with loo parts of water. Bromine may be used, but with great care, on account of its highly poisonous action. Its saturated solution in water is the best substance to be used, and may be employed where chloride of lime and the like are directed to be employed. The preparation of bromine water should not be entrusted to unpractised hands. Solutions oigreen vitriol and other metallic salts are prepared by agitating an excess of the salt with water. Suvern's mixture is made from loo parts slaked lime, parts coal- tar, and 15 parts chloride of magnesium, mixed with water. Legislation. The Sessions of the British Parliament of 1871 and 1872 were the occasions of the passing of the following Statutes bearing upon the public health:—the Local Grovernment Board Act, 1871; the Pactory and Workshop Act, 1871; the Metropolis Water Act, 1871; the Infant Life Protection Act, 1872; the Pactories Steam Whistles Act, 1872 ; and the Adulteration of Pood, Drink, and Drugs Act, 1872. The Local Government Board Act, 1871, provided for the con- stitution of a central board, now known as the Local Glovernment Board, to which w^ere transferred all the powers and duties vested iu the old Poor Law Board, those vested in the Medical Department of the Privy Council Office, those vested in the Secretaries of State under Local Government Acts, and certain sanitary functions of the Board of Trade. This Act was a necessary preliminary to the bringing in of a new Public Health Bill. The Pactory and Workshop Act, 1871, transferred from the local sanitary authorities to Her Majesty’s Inspectors of Pactories the supervision of the hours of labour limited and prescribed by previous statutes for women and children, pd introduced certain modifications 01 the legal hours of work in certain trades and occupations. The Metropolis Water Act, 1872, provides, under certain regulations, mr a constant water supply to the houses in London and its suburbs. 1 ha,ve been framed, but the Act has hitherto been a dead letter The interests of small property holders are too powerful to permit local authorities to put the provisions of the statute in force; hence London remains with a, for the most part, intermittent water-supply. ^ ’