REPOUT ON MIDWIFERY^ ETC. 396 generally said that the uterus descends in the last month. (‘ Schmidt’s Jahrhiicher,’ B. clii, H. i.) Dr. Hutton states (‘New York Med. Journ.,’ July, 1872) that he has been able to predict the sex of the child in utero in seven cases, with- out a failure, by auscultation. When the foetal pulsations number 144 per minute the child is a female ; 124 per minute, a male. A variation of six beats per minute, from 124 upward and from 144 downward, will not endanger the diagnosis, provided auscultation be practised in the ninth month of pregnancy. Of fifty-seven cases examined by Steinbach he was correct in forty-five, and Brankenhausen was correct in all the fifty cases which he examined with a view to determine the sex of the child. Dr. Brunton relates a case (‘Obstet. Trans.,’ 1871) in which the entire ovum was expelled at the seventh month, and although at least fifteen minutes elapsed before the membranes were opened, yet the child was rescued alive. Dr. Heywood Smith did not see why the child should not have been alive. It was not in the condition of a child born with the stimulus of the external air producing inspiratory effort, and so incurring the danger of drowning, but in this case, with the ex- ception of slight loss of heat, the child was in a natural condition, its circulation continued as if it had been still in utero, with the substitu- tion merely of aeration by the atmosphere, acting directly upon the uterine aspect of the jdacenta, for the maternal blood. Dr. Grigg said the practical lesson from the case was to take care, should the placenta be expelled before the birth of the child, to expose its uterine surface to the air. t-, i Conception under unusual circimstances. — Dr. it. Ulsnausen re- lates (‘Arch. f. Gynak.,’ ii, 2, 1871) two cases in which conception occurred while each of the patients was wearing an intra-utermo stem. The first case was that of a woman who, since her last con- finement, had sufi'ered from menorrhagia and anteflexion of the uterus, for which an intra-uterine stem pessary was introduced on the 28th of June. She menstruated for the last time on the 6th of Decem- ber, and was delivered of a strong boy on the 25th of September. The instrument was removed on the i^th of January, conception having pro- bably occurred about the 19th of December. The second parent had suffered from perimetritis after her last labour, and had anteflexion of the uterus, for which she wore an intra-uterine stem. Menstruation was regular and profuse; the last period was on the 8th of September. Th^e pessary was removed on the i8th of October, and she was confined of rSri weighing 4 kilog., on the 24th of June. -The ovum and the Lstrumentwe?e'probably twenty days together in the uterus in this case. The pessaries were made of hard caoutchouc, with a globular head. Diseases of Pregnancy. Dr. E. Kaltenbach writes an elaborate article on albuminuria and diseases of the urinary organs in the child-bearing period ( Arch. . ’ iii I 1871)- He relates cases as proofs ot eacli propositiou whTch hekys ’dow.,and™ up his researches in the followmg con-