SCAPULO-HUMEIIAL PEUiARTIIRITIS. 333 very frequently followed by inflammation of the tissues surrounding the seapulo-humeral articulation. This periarthritis is more especially localised in the subacromial synovial bursa and the subdeltoid areolar tissue, and gives rise to thickening and induration of the areolar tissue and of the walls of the subacromial bursa, and also to the formation of adhesions and fibrous bands, which impede or entirely prevent the head of the humerus from gliding on the concavity of the acromion and the inner surface of the deltoid. (2) Periarthritis is distinguished from disease of the interior of the shoulder-joint by the absence of deformity, and if there be any swelling, it is only in the acute stage, when it is limited to the summit of the shoulder. The characteristic symptoms of periarthritis are the following:—(a) The movements of the shoulder are impeded, sometimes to such an extent that the arm cannot be extended horizontally. In all the movements of the joint the relations of the humerus to the scapula remain unchanged, and the latter bone plays round its clavicular attachment. In some cases these movements are accompanied by crepitation, (b) There is pain on moving the arm, not at the level of the articulation, but beneath the acromion, at the attach- ment of the deltoid to the humerus. Pain is also caused by pressure below the acromion, at the level of the coracoid process. Sometimes, also, there is a sensation of tingling and of numbness along the limb as far as the hand. ^ (c) The forearm is sometimes semiflexed, and at- tempts to extend it produce pain in the fold of the elbow and in the neighbourhood of the coracoid process. (3) Periarthritis of the shoulder must be carefully treated at its commencement, if we would avoid the rigidity to which it gives rise. Gymnastic exercises of the limb, electricity, douches, and. shampooing, are the best methods. (4) In cases of chronic periarthritis the only means of procuring a rapid and comj)lete cure is at once to break down the adhesions and the fibrous bands. The use of chloroform is indispensable for this opera- tion, which may require to be repeated if the result be not satisfactory (5) After the adhesions have broken, the patient must be placed for some time under a course of gymnastic exercises, electricity, douches &c., until the limb has regained its power of movement. Periostitis of the temporal hone.—In an intere.^itincr pli'm'pnl