REPORT ON MIDWIFERY^ ETC. 87G tissues and of the new formation hanging to it. Other parts show better preserved, hut also rough wart-like elevations, knobs or polypous excrescences. The diffuse infiltration may penetrate all the tissue strata, so that the new growth presents the aspect of an enormous uterus, retaining its ordinary shape. The two kinds, distinct and diffuse, are at times blended. It is remarkable that apparently sound parenchyma is at times disseminated through the diseased tissue, recog- nised as foci by the microscope. The first origin of the degeneration is commonly sought in the mucous membrane, proceeding from whence the submucous and muscular tissue is invaded. The colour of the tumour is generally greyish-white, even white, but sometimes reddish- grey. The consistency differs. The tumour is soft, so that it breaks down under the fingers or the polypus forceps, like brain substance or wet mortar. It may, however, be denser, like a soft or even a hard myoma. The round-cell sarcoma and the medullary forms are most frequently found. The cells are either of medium size or small.^ The basis substance -is homogeneous, finely striped, not seldom delicately netted, as in gliosarcoma. The spindle-cell sarcomas appear to be more rare. Combinations of round and spindle cells are more common. When a large proportion of fibrous connective tissue enters into the constitution of the tumour it acquires a firmer consistency. The pro- portion of fibrous connective tissue may be so great that we are compelled to admit a transition form, a fibro- and myo-sarcoma. In some cases the fibrous tissue is so preponderant that only very careful iuvGstigation can detect tlie significaiit different tissue. Such mixed tumours may have existed from the beginning, but a sarcomatous proliferation may spread through a groundwork of pro-myoma. Virchow speaks of proliferation process of myxomatous character into the rich and extensive interstitial tissue of many myxomas. Numerous vessels penetrate the structure of many sarcomas. The concurrence of carcinomatous and sarcomatous tumours is less common than the transition forms and mixed forms of myofibromas and sarcomas. Secondary deposits of the sarcoma in distant organs are seldom men- tioned, as in the lungs, the parietal pericardium ; they only appear after long duration of the disease. Deposits in neighboupg organs are somewhat more frequent, as extensmn of the degeneration to^the vagina, to the rectum, with consecutive stricture and ileus. Deposits in the lumbar and retro-peritoneal glands occur. The etiology is obscure. It has been met with in puberty pd in the climacteric ueriod in virgins and in women who have borne children. Ihe previous health has been described as excellent. But ^ number of cases distress pointing to antecedent disease of the sexua organs has been complained of, as dysmenorrhoea, irregular, frequent, protracted menstruation, discharges, rather watery than leucorrhoea, abortions, stpility, and f ^^^^imes hysterical pd^ habits One of the earliest signs of the existence of the tumour is menorrhagia. This is very often attended by irregular or pepstent hemorrhages Offensive mucous discharge was in one case the firspyrup- tom, being followed by bleeding. Peculiar luemorrhages and offensn puriform or flesh-water like discharge are rarely absent. These di - I