254 REPORT ON SURGERY, confirmed most of Bigelow’s views. An illustration is given. (‘ St. Thomas’s Hosp. Eep.,’ii, 142.) Simultaneous dislocation of both femora.—Mr. William Pollard records a case in a man, get. 53. The right was thrown into the thyroid foramen and the other on the dorsum. Beduction was effected by manipulation. Two months later, he could walk perfectly. His recovery was delayed by an attack of gout in the left foot. (‘ St. Barth. Hosp. Bep.,’ viii, 103.) Hip and shoulder dislocations and their reduction without traction, by Rushton Parker. (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Sept. 7, 1872.) Dislocation of the knee.—A man, set 50, slipped from a ladder and severely lacerated the soft parts of the calf of the left leg and the skin of the popliteal space, and also dislocated the left tibia outwards and slightly backwards. After two months he came under the care of Mr. Erichsen. At that time the leg was fixed nearly at a right angle and was quite useless. With the aid of chloroform the reduction was effected without any great difiSiculty, (‘Med. Times and Gazette,’ Oct. 14, 1871, 470.) Simultaneous dislocation of the three cuneiform bones.—An instance of this extremely rare injury is quoted in the ‘ Gazette Med. de Paris,’ Dec. 30, 1871, from the ‘ Gaz. Med. de I’Algerie.’ It is described by Dr. Bertherand. The subject was a man, get. 37, an infirmier, who fell on the soles of his feet from a height of four metres. After being under treatment for some time, he left the hospital completely disabled by lameness. When M. Bertherand saw him, the right foot was strongly flexed on the leg, especially on the inner side. The first three metatarsal bones, with the cuneiform bones, were raised, forming a higher plane than that of the dorsal surface of the foot. On the ex- ternal side of this elevation was a vertical surface consisting of the outer surface of the third cuneiform bone detached from its articulation with the cuboid. On the inner side was a depression, increasing con- siderably in this direction the normal concavity of the plantar arch. Behind, there was another depression, the upper surface of the sca- phoid lying lower than the back of the cuneiform joint, _ In this cavity the tendons of the tibialis anticus muscle, on the inner side, and of the extensors of the toes, on the outer side, were felt very distinctly. The foot was atrophied ; the tarso-metatarsal joints were nearly ankylosed, and the length of the inner border of the foot was shortened to the extent of about 15 millimetres. The patient walked on the heel of the affected foot, it being impossible to bring the first three toes to the ground. Subastragaloid dislocation of the foot.—A case of dislocation of the foot inwards from beneath the astragalus came under the care of M. Gosselin in January, 1872. The foot was turned inwards, with the under border looking upwards ; there was a rounded projection on the exterior side of the foot, in front of which a depression could be felt, and on the inner side, was a depression having an antero-posterior direction, at the bottom of which the inner malleolus could be in- distinctly felt. Deduction was readily accomplished under chloroform. (‘ Gaz. des Hopitaux,’ 10 Eevrier, 1872.)