REPORT ON MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE. 442 Nitric acid.—Stevenson* relates a case of suicidal poisoning with about three ounces of nitric acid. Death resulted in seventeen hours. In this case there was perforation of the stomach and ulcera- tion of the colon. The perforation apparently occurred after death or just before it. The ulceration of the colon may have pre-existed. Other cases are reported by Malmsten,f and by Dougall.J Hydrochloric acid.—Fatal cases of poisoning by hydrochloric acid are detailed by Drs. G. Johnson,§ Paul,|| and Nager.^ Ammonia.—Stevenson** relates a case of poisoning by a teaspoonful of the strong liquor ammoniae, sp. gr. -88. Death supervened quite suddenly, without asphyxia. Castantt describes the symptoms resulting from the inhalation of ammonia vapours. Caustic potash.—Kager^f^ describes a case of poisoning by caustic potash which proved fatal in twenty-two hours under symptoms of lobular pneumonia. Nitrate of silver.—T. Scattergood§§ gives details of a case of poisoning by nitrate of silver. A student, while applying a stick of lunar caustic to the throat of a fifteen-months child, accidentally let the piece drop out of his fingers, and it was swallowed by the child. The piece was three quarters of an inch in length. Vomiting of the contents of the stomach immediately followed. Large quantities of common salt were given, vomiting occurring repeatedly. Diarrhoea set in and convulsions, under which the child died, six hours after the commencement of the symp- toms. The chief post-mortem appearances were corrosion of the great curvature of the stomach and superficial corrosion of the duodenum and commencement of the jejunum. No nitrate of silver was found in the contents of the stomach, as it had all been decomposed by the antidote. Chronic lead poisoning.—Heubel|l|| has made chronic lead poisoning the subject of an experimental research, with special reference to the theories of Henle and others, that lead exerts a specific action on the pale and striated muscular fibres. Analysis of the viscera of four dogs which died under symptoms of eclampsia saturnina showed that in chronic lead poisoning the bones contain the largest quantity of lead, next the liver and the kidneys. The central nervous organs contained less, but a greater quantity than the muscles, intestines, and blood, &c. He therefore denies a specific affinity of the muscles for lead. That the symptoms of lead poisoning are due to spasm of the blood-vessels, as stated by Henle and Hitzig, he considers disproved by the state of the pulse during an attack. That it acts directly on * ‘Gruy’s Hosp. Eep.,’ 3rd ser., xvii, p. 223. + ‘ Schmidt’s Jahrb.,’ civ, p. 7. j ‘ Glasgow Med. Joui-n.,’ 1872, May. § ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1872, p. 221. II ‘Bull. Gen. de Thm-ap.,’ Oct. 20, 1872, p. 364. ^ ‘Arch. d. Heilk.,’ 1872, p. 213. ** ‘Guy’s Hosp. Rep.,’ 3rd ser., xvii, p. 225. ff ‘Montpellier Med.,’ Nov. 1871, p. 577. jj ‘Arch. d. Heilk.,’ 1872, p. 213. §§ ‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, pi 527. III! ‘Virchow und Hirsch’s Jahresher.’ for 1871, i, p. 316.