373 DECIDUA MENSTRUALIS. that the latter is merely a blood state, while the former is a disease of the nervous system, which may or may not produce the latter. Eaci- borsky also regards chlorosis as due to disorder affecting the ganglionic nervous system. Virchow has lately written on the relation between chlorosis and vascular abnormalities (‘Ueber die Chlorose,’ &c., Berlin, 1872). A ease of “ supplementary” hsemorrhage from the breasts in a girl who had not menstruated is recorded by Meynet. The patient was seventeen years of age on admission to Hotel Dieu, and stated that for eight months she had each month suffered from a rather free discharge of blood, lasting two or three days, from a crack in the nipple, some- times on one side, sometimes on the other. The hmmorrhage was preceded by pain and swelling of the breasts. Although she had never menstruated, she suffered, at the time of the monthly discharge from the breasts, from abdominal pain and a sensation of fulness. The patient was under observation for three months, and the above- mentioned facts were observed each month. In two months after she left the hospital, where she had been treated by tonics, menstruation appeared naturally, and nothing abnormal was subsequently noticed in the breasts (‘Lyon Med.,’ March, 1872). A case of so-called vicarious menstruation by haemorrhage from the nose is related by Obermeier. The epistaxis ceased durinsr presnancv (‘Virchow’s Ai’chiv,’ 1872). ^ ^ ^ Dysmenofrlicda. BecidiM Menstrualis.—A. case of the inflammatory form of dys- menorrhoea. Dr. A. Solowieff, of Kasan, relates (‘Archiv f G-ynak. ’ n, I, 1871) a case of the above. The patient was twenty-one years of ap, and had been ill three years. Menstruation began at eleven, was always irregular, and accompanied with great pains. Married at sixteen and a half Pregnant in four months. Labour at full time. Lett off suckling at eight months. The first menstruation after wean- mg was paanless, but the following period did not appear at the proper time, and the patient suffered from a sensation of weight in the lower ppt ot the abdomen and especially in standing up and in walking ^ fortnight, attended with strong pains, and on the third day a mass, the exact shape of the uterine cavity, was passed. These pains did not disappear, but increased in sevmty at each menstrual priod. The vagina was red and so sensitive that it could not even be touched. A similar mass appeared at each period Meptruation was always delayed a week or two. Patient bedridden' Great mritabihty; n different parts of the body hyper-' »sthesia of the skin especially of the abdomen ; disorders of diVestfon • ttie introduction of a very small speculum was, with great trouble congested than natural, and somewhat touching Xh called forth a succession of reflex hysterical symptoms. Various kinds rea men were employed, but the most useful was the injection of