181 CHELOID—PAPILLOMA—ELEPHANTIASIS. auce, and under the microscope the structure was that of condensed fibrous tissue. Papilloma.—Gerhardt (‘Jahrb. f. Kinderheilk.,’iv,2 7o) gives two cases of j^apilloma of the skin, somewhat resembling the case of papilloma area-elevatum published by Beigel (‘ Path. Soc. Trans.,’ xx, 414). The cases were unmistakably connected with some central nervous disorder. The first case is that of a girl, aged 6 years, in whom papillomata were present over the whole of the right side of the breast, and the whole right arm. The left half of the nose, the left upper lip, a portion of the left cheek, and the skin behind the left ear presented papillomatous swellings. Prom the age of 3 the child had had incomplete epileptic attacks, which became fully developed later. In the second case, a man of 61, the growths occupied almost wholly the right half of the body, especially the axilla. He gives a minute microscopical account of the tumours, which he refers to increase in the papillae, accompanied by melanotic pigmentation of the skin. Both cases also must be ex- plained by the implication of certain nerves; the affection in the second case following the distribution of spinal nerves, while in the fipt it pointed to some such morbid condition as generally obtains in diseases of the base of the brain. Vanlair (‘Bull, de I’Acad. de Med. Beige,’ v, 941; and ‘Virch. Arch.,’ lii, 292) has made researches into the histology of elephan- tiasis arabum. According to liim the erysipelatous zone, which separates the healthy from the diseased portions, and is characteristic of the first stage of the malady, differs from ordinary erysipelas. It is limited to the papillary zone of the derma ; the morbid change commences below, in the dermatic alveolar zone. There is progressive and j)roportionate hyper- iffasia of the three layers (papillary, connective-tissue, and elastic) of normal derma, with progressive atrophy of the panniculus adiposus Ihe epidermic hypertrophy is consecutive to that of the subjacent vas- cular tissue. The sweat-glands remained, while the hair-foUicles and sebaceous glands had disappeared ; there was interstitial hyperplasia of the nerve-fibres; in the superficial portions of the muscles the longi- tudinal striae were exaggerated, while the transverse were effaced. The lymphatics and glands were unaltered. The subcutaneous veins (sap ena, &c.) were varicose, with their walls hypertrophied in places. He throws no further light on the cause of the hyperplasia. ^ . ^ 489) bas examined into the pathology of the sweat-glands in elephantiasis. He finds that the morbid change commences in sweUing and proliferation of the epi- sweUed un^'"S. 1? obstructed and the sac iX an indisW undergone proliferation degenerate homogeneous, glassy mass, in the middle of which ogeneous circular structures sometimes appear, the smallest re S seen S with structureless. ThJ glands themselves are next seen niled with the same material. The ducts are affected enrliei’ pap°e' “ plate iu Slw Hattute (‘Eec. de Mem. de Med. Milit.,’ xxvi 112) records tliP occurrence of elephantiasis in an Arab, a=t, about a’a, strolg but ol a