385 DISEASES OP THE VAGINA, Dr. Baruea furnislies (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Sept. 1871) an accurate description of the anatomical conditions connected with hypertrophic elongation of the cervix uteri. The whole pelvis and its contents in such a case were removed after death, and a vertical section was made in the median line. The entire length of the uterus was about seven inches. The fundus and body were somewhat lower in the pelvis than natural; the body had undergone apparently very little elongation. The two lips of the os uteri were much hypertrophied and somewhat everted ; they formed a mass covered by the everted vagina outside the vulva. The base of the bladder was carried down along with the down- growing interior wall of the cervix uteri, forming a sacculated pouch below the level of the urethra, and, therefore, below the symphysis pubis. The urethra was also distorted into a curve, of which the con- vexity looked upwards, the bladder end of it being carried downwards along with the base. The peritoneum, descending behind the abdo- minal wall, was reflected upwards over the bladder (the cavity of which was enormously enlai’ged) at a point about two inches above the sym- physis pubis. It descended behind the bladder quite down to a point on a level with the sacculated pouch of the bladder, that is, below the level of the lower margin of the symphysis pubis. Rising over the fundus uteri, the membrane descended behind, forming a Douglas’s pouch quite below the vulva. Dr. Barnes points out that it would not have been possible to remove more than a portion of the os without opening the retro-uterine pouch. The specimen also explained the difficulty commonly encountered in keeping the protruded parts inside the pelvis by pessaries. No folds of intestine descended between the pelvic viscera in the anterior or the posterior peritoneal pouch. Barnes also writes (‘St. Thomas’s Hosp. Rep.,’ 1871) on “the hypertrophic polypus of the os uteri, and its relation to hypertrophy of the cervix uteri.” Cervical hypertrophy is known frequently to pursue a very uniform course, affecting the whole structure of the cervix alike ; but sometimes one lip, and sometimes even a part of one lip, is more especially affected. A small lobe continues to grow under the same stimulus that determines the general hypertrophy. It grows a little more quickly, then its base, being compressed by the firm structure of the os on either side of it, is squeezed and elongated until it assumes the characteristic polypoid shape. The structure of these hypertrophic polypi entirely accords with this theory of their forma- tion. They are generally small, but sometimes as large as a cherry commonly single, but it is not infrequent to find two or three, and some show a tendency to lobulation. Diseases of the Vagina, Winckel gives (‘Arch. f. G-yniik.,’ ii, 3, 1871) an analysis of fifty cases of vaginal cysts, including four under his own care. The cysts may be divided into three kinds :—(i) mucous cysts, originating either in open or closed follicles; (2) interstitial, submucous, or placed in the hbro-muscular layer; and (3) sub-serous, situated above, in the pen-vaginal connective tissue underneath the peritoneum, below 25