REPORT ON MIDWIEERYj ETC. 378 ment by Dr. T. Hay. Before the operation it was evident that an in- verted uterus existed, but its large size could not be accounted for. The stump of the inverted uterus occupied almost as high a position within the abdomen as the organ does in its natural position. The patient was thirty-two years old, the mother of one child, six years of age. The entire mass removed weighed one pound. The fibroid was found im- bedded in the parietes of the uterus, and from pressure and distension the tissues covering it were very much attenuated, and round the base so thin and firmly adherent as to be separable only with great difidculty. (‘ Amer. Ileporter,’ Dec. 1871.) Dr. Valette relates (‘Lyon Med.,’ April, 1871) a case of inversion of the uterus, in which the uterus was extirpated by the caustic liga- ture. The patient was forty-two years' of age, the mother of seven children, the youngest child being four years of age. Two years previously she began to sufier from severe metrorrhagia, and eight months before admission she was seized with severe pain like that of labour, which ceased immediately on the appearance of a firm tumour at the vulva. There was much anxiety of countenance, constant pain confining her to her bed for seven months, and allowing her no rest at night, great anaemia, and for two months incontinence of urine. The vaginal inlet was obstructed by a large tumour, composed of two parts. The lower portion was as large as a fist, firm, not tender, of a pale rose colour. The second portion, situated above the preceding, from which it was separated by a pedicle, three centimetres in diameter, was smooth, and redder than the lower portion. The first was a fibrous polyp, the second the inverted body of the uterus. Valette deterniined to extm- pate the whole of the tumour, which was done by the instrument he describes. There was no hemorrhage, and recovery was uninterrupted. The pulse after the operation never exceeded 88, nor the temperature C. He points out the disadvantages of (i) simple excision with a cutting instrument, (2) ecrasement, and (3) ligature; and con- siders the caustic ligature, many years ago advocated by toutaret, as bv far the safest procedure. _ .7 , • j ^ Gaillard Thomas writes on the enucleation of sessile uterine fibroids. The methods of dealing with these growths he enumerates under three UpaTlg (i) the setting up within their tissue a process of sloughing, (1) the Upairment of their nutrition by direct and deep incisions, and G) their removal by enucleation. The first method presents great dangers from septicsemia; the second is attended hmniorrhage, and is withal very uncertain as to results; so that the third although by no means free from danger, presents itself as a valu- able resourl in a most intractable afi-ection, for the reason that it is the most efi’ectual and least hazardous of the procedures now at our disnosal The day may come when electrolysis will take the place of enucleation. Enucleation should not be resorted to unless the state of the natient absolutely requires it on account of prolonged and dan- {xerous hsemorrhages. Dull and complete opening of the os internuin should be effected by tents, and the attachments of the to.mour shou d be ascertained as accurately as possible. Thomas finds a pliable whale- bone rod very useful for the latter purpose. The uterus must then be