70 UEPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. thiemia, and gives three other cases, which presented hyperplasia of the medullary cells. AValdeyey, ‘Diffuse Hyperplasie des Kiioclienmarkcs, Leukamie,”‘Virch. Arch.,’ Ju. Neiimnnn, “ Kcrnhaltige Dlut-zellen hoi Leukainio und bei Neugehoreueu,” Avcly d. Heuk., xii, 187. Id., “ Ein ncuer Pall vou Lcukuemie niit Erkrniikung des Knochenmarkes,” ib., xiii, 481. Hosier, “ Die Pathologic und Therapie der Leukamie,” Berlin,i872, 283 (reviewed ‘ Deut. Arch.,’ ix, 359). Earaes, “Case of Leucocytlijemia,” Dubl. Journ., li, 388; ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, i, 653. Ward, “Leukaemia Lym- phatica ” (man, set. 24, with autopsy), ‘ Lancet,’ 1872,^577. Patchett, “ Leucocy- thsBinia, gi’eat hypertrophy of spleen, constant deposit of uric acid in urine ” (woman, set. 23, death from fractured base of skull, autopsy), ib., ib., 682. Microcythemia. Under the term 3Iicrocythemia, Vanlair and Masius (‘ Bull, de 1’Acad. Med. Beige,’ v, 5^5) describe a morbid state characterised by the presence in the blood, in considerable numbers, of red cells (microcytes), distinct from the ordinary blood-cells. One case, that of a young woman attacked soon after her first confinement, is given in full, and the paper, which enters at great length into the symptoms, the exami- nation of the blood and urine, &c., seems to be based upon this ease. The symptoms are described as pains over the epigastrium and spleen, hypertrophy of the latter, atrophy of the liver, remittent jaundice, tem- porary aphonia, and paralysis of the limbs. A sister of the patient was said to have presented the same train of symptoms some years previously. Progressive Muscular Atrophy ; PseudoMuscular Hypertrophy. Martini (“ Zur Kenntniss des Atrophia Musculorum Lipomatosa,” ‘ Centralbl.,’ 1871, 641) has examined the muscles of a patient who died of this affection, both in the fresh state and after hardening in chromic acid. He observed in the striated substance round or oval fissures, at first small, which either had a central position, singly.; or in pairs, or were distributed over the transverse section of the primitive bundle to the number of ten or twelve. The fissures increased from atrophy of the striated substance or the unchanged septa, till at last tubular fibres, analogous to. the muscles of insects, were formed. Their contents consisted of a homogeneous protoplasmic mass (serous, as opposed to simple atrophy). This observation disposes of the view that in progressive lipomatosis no other change takes place but increase or decrease in thickness of the muscular fibres. The same change (serous or tubular atrophy) is found to take place in other cases, in which the muscles become atrophied through pressure of new and growing tissue (fat, sarcoma). Eulenburg (‘Yirch. Arch.,’ liii, 361) records three cases, m which the affection first showed itself in three sisters successively in the eighth year of their age. They were the only children of healthy parents, who do not seem to have presented any hereditary affection, and were them- selves quite well up to this period. He gives a full account of cases, and compares with them the report by Meryon (‘ Haz. des Hop.,’ 1854, No. 127) of the occurrence of the affection in four brothers, and another,