COMPLICATIONS AND ACCIDENTS OE PREGNANCY. 399 irritable bladder in the latter months of pregnancy are due to an obliciue or transverse position of the fcetus in utero. He relates three cases in which this troublesome symptom'disappeared after rectifica- tion of the child’s position by external manipulation. Dr. Hicks sug- gests that this results from the disturbance to the form of the bladder by the altered form of the uterus. In the ‘ Gaz. Med. de Paris,’ Feb. 1871, Dr. Zagiel relates a case of pregnancy complicated with cystic disease of the left ovary. Labour ter- minated successfully for both mother and child. Dr. R. P. Harris records (‘ Amer. Journ. of Obst.,’ 1871) a case of ovarian dropsy of fifty years duration. The patient was three times pregnant during its existence, and each labour had a successful issue to both mother and child. Two cases of ovarian tumour coexistent with pregnancy are also to be seen recorded in the ‘ Amer. Journ. of Med. Sci.,’ July, 1871, p. 2,91 and p. 295. A case of ovarian cystic disease with pregnancy coexisting is also mentioned by Dejpaul (‘ Lancet,’ July, 1871, p. 165). The cyst was tapped, and no refilling took place after the patient’s confinement. He thinks it a question worthy of notice whether the pressure of the developing uterus had a great share in efiecting a cure in the case. The‘Archives Generales,’ January to March, 1871, contain articles by Dumaivon on pregnancy, labour, and child-bed, complicated with ovarian cysts. A girl, set. 16, was admitted into St. Bartholomew’s Hospital with retention of urine at the fourth month of pregnancy. She was seized with sudden abdominal pain and died. A post-mortem examination revealed the fundus of the bladder, the caecum, the lower part of the small intestine, the fundus of the uterus, the sigmoid fiexure, and the extremity of the omentum to be all matted together by very old adhesions. A little recent lymph was spread over the rest of the peritoneum. On breaking down the old adhesions a sort of cavity was discovered behind the bladder and above the uterus, which contained a brown turbid liquid. This cavity communicated with the bladder by a sloughy hole in the posterior wall of the latter. The bladder pre- sented large sloughy patches that implicated all its coats. (‘ Lancet,’ May, 1871.) Funk relates a case of reposition by the fingers of an incarcerated re- troverted uterus in two successive pregnancies. The first was successful, the pregnancy proceeding to the full term; in the second, death of the mother succeeded to abortion, gangrene of the bladder and peritonitis. (‘Oesterr. Ztschr. f prakt. Heilk.,’ xvii, 26, 1871.) Dr. Eoss relates (‘Lancet,’ July, 1871) a case of double uterus with concurrent pregnancy. Twins, advanced to between the fifth and sixth months of utero-gestation, were born in July. Menstruation occurred regularly after this, and in four months another child was born at the full term. A careful examination of the uterus afterwards revealed that a vertical septum extended from the fundus to the cervix uteri, completely dividing it into two separate cavities. A peculiar case of complete prolapse of the gravid uterus at the fourth month in a patient, £et. 20, who had voluntarily half starved her- self, and allayed the cravings of hunger by incessantly smoking, and who