TEVEU AFTER SURGICAL OPERATIONS. 317 symptoms of articular rlieumatism, without any injury of the tissues. According to Hueter the most simple result of the decomposition of pus is ulcerative destruction of the granulations, which manifests itself as diphtheritis, and, in an extreme stage, as hospital gangrene. Diph- theritis in its mildest form may be successfully combated by the use of carbolic acid in the proportion of one part in] twenty, applied four times daily. ^ Hueter prefers the watery to the oily solution. In diphtheritic inflammation attacking the areolar tissue, spreading rapidly with redness and swelling, and leading to the formation of foetid pus, incisions must be made and the tracks of the wound freely mrigated. In the puljey and gangrenous form of traumatic diphtheria Hueter prefers the actual cautery to all other treatment. He believes that while the cautery destroys the monads, its action extends beyond the tissues that are burnt. Much may be done, in Hueter’s opinion to prevent erysipelas by the use of disinfectant dressiugs. He iiraises ^ means of a,rresting the extension of erysipelas ; it is applied j ®ointment consisting of two parts of tar and one of lard, which is energetically rubbed in with the hand for four hours, and repeated two or three times. Other observers, however, have failed to hnd this method efficacious even though the inunction has been repeated twenty times. Fever following surgical operations.—Mr. Spencer Wells has given some clinical lectures on this subject (‘ Med. Times and Gazette,’ Jan. l^F^i V’ lecture he mentions three cases m which high temperature and other signs of fever were clearly due ovarian cysts, or to decomposition of diately after the removal of the cysts, and the patients completely^e- covered. In all these cases the fever was of the type now commonly termed pycvnnc. He then mentions a case of what might be 3 urcvmze t^Yev in a patient, mt. i6, admitted with what appeared to be at nJpT'''' exploratory incision was made, and Mr. Wells the cmcum, its appendix and the ascendino-colon which had been pushed forwards bv the cvst bphirirl tTq +i ^ i (what was suspected before) that it 4s a cVeVhjLn^hr^ ^The tTfnl? ‘“PPf pint, of fluid remov^ STeuiuJt yst was fastened to the abdominal wall. Before the 4pra4n rose foToo ‘o,",oT3o“S 102 4 at the end of ten hours—a risp nf c-° in +on u ’ mi morning, and io4° ffi the ^ tempera^ to 104-2° in the rose to 108'4° and at nio-ht if w'n<a afternoon it fourth day, htr temperaW fn4f ' 1 ' 111°. Mr Wells savs “ L upwards of how did the operation check xp fl^®®tions follow—Birst, lead to its presLce in efcesB from the decomposition of urea ? Ld ® arumonia resulting to fever heat or hyperpyrexia tLp uremia lead j'Pcrpyrexia.H The post-mortem showed the left