REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 66 that of a man, set. 151, who about six months before death became greatly emaciated. He presented psoriasis palmaris, plaques muqueuses, and glandular changes, but his digestion was pretty good. He died suddlenly, and the autopsy showed a greyish-red infiltration of all the iittdstiual,layers, extending from the lower part of the jejunum to the Cfl^ial valve, '’in the middle of the infiltration was a polygonal ulcer, parallel with the length of the intestine, its base formed % the sub- mucous-•1lis8^/6, and with well-defined edges. The peritoneum covering it^'Was injected and oedematous, and contained dilated lymph-vessels, binder the microscope were found numerous round, partly fatty cells. Tlae writer enters into the diflTerentiation between this syphilitic afiec- tion, tuberculosis of the intestines, typhoid, and leuchjemia. The two other cases were those of newborn children, and gave the same micro- scopic appearances as the first. Simon (ib., iii, 537) quotes the views of several authors on the fol- lowing questions :—whether deposits in the liver (gummata) are so fir characteristic of syphilis, that without any further history, or the presence of any constitutional affection, the disease may he recognised ; and whether there are cases in which hereditary syphilis may lie latent for years, even up to puberty, before it is developed. In opposition to Dittrich, who answers both questions in the affirmative, the author con- siders them still unsettled. He gives two cases, from his own ex- perience, as matter for the discussion of these points. Bradley (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, i, 116) gives the case of a child, four months old, in whom a syphilitic eruption was accompanied by the presence of albumen in the urine. There was no history of scarlet fever. The eruption and the albumen both yielded to mercurial treat- ment. He found, later, albumen present in two out of twenty cases of hereditary syphilis, and infers that syphilis may be a cause of granular or waxy kidney ; and that the chronic albuminuria resulting from these changes should be treated with small doses of mercury. Lane, “ Clinical Records of the Therapeutic Value of Iodine in the Treatment of Syphilis,” ‘Lancet,’ 1871, i, 267. Berkeley HiU, “Clinical Records of the Therapeutic Value of Iodine in the Treatment of Syphilis,” ib., i, 305. Buzzard, “ Clinical Records of the Therapeutic Value of Iodine in the Treatment of Syphilitic Nervous Affections ib., i, 339, Lee, “On Contagion (Syphilitic),” ib., i, 47f- Berkeley Hill “Early Syphilis,” ib., ii, 599. Eo.x (Tilbury), “ Primary Sore on the Lip of a Child, ib., 1, Hutchinson, “Report on Vaccino-Syphilis,” ib.,_ 11, 143. Watson, “ Ptosis, Mydriasis, and Hypermmia, with Aiimsthesia ot the left side of the 7?m a Syphilitic Patient” (female, set. 22), ib., ib., ii, 676. Jeaffreson, “Syphilitic Ptosis and kraplegia,” ib., 1872, i, 252. Pollock, “ Case of Paralysis m a Syphilitic Sub- iect treated by large doses of Iodide of Potassium: cure, ib, ib., 1, 255. Dowse, “Syphilitic Growth of right Cerebral Hemisphere ” (woman, set. 33, autopsy), ib., ib., i cio Pairlie Clarke,* ‘Case of Icthyosis Linguae” (in a syphilitic subject, male, ffit q8) ib, 1872, i, 648. Lockbart Clarke, “ Case of Syphilitic Disease of the Brain, complete paralysis of right arm, partial paralysis of right leg, aphasia ®t. 47). ib i 677 Bristowe, “ Softening of the Brain following Syphilis, death (male, at. 22’- thickening of membranes and of right posterior cerebral artery, the latter occu- pfed for an inch of its length by a cylinder of adherent fibrine, softening of antenoi part of left optic thalamus, left crus cerebri, and posterior part of outer wall of 1 ip lentricle) ‘Lancet,’ 1872, i, 826. Hulke, “Syphilitic Stricture ot Rectum, &c. fwoman mt. 2:;, with autopsy), ib., ii, 79- Venning, “The Modern iMatment of Syphilis/’ based on the evidence adduced before the Committee appointed to luquii