207 LIGATURE OF THE COMMON ILIAC, &C. attention.” “ Up to the present time the distal treatment of aneurism has been, with rare exceptions, judged mainly upon the results of the application of the permanent ligature.” “ I have a strong feeling that the distal treatment of aneurism by means of pressure in one of its forms, is likely to be followed by as much success as has already attended the treatment by pressure when applied to the proximal side of an aneurismal tumour.” (‘Med.-Cbir. Trans.,’ Iv, 22^.) The case of rapid cure of aneurism hy pressure, under the care of Dr. William Murray, is published by him in a small volume with an account of the post-mortem, and remarks on the mode of treatment generally. Ligature of the common iliac artery for haemorrhage from an abscess due to sacro-iliac disease.—Mr. Morrant Baker narrates a case of unusual character, in which he ligatured the common iliac artery. The patient, a youth of 17, a gardener, a month previously, whilst digging, felt a pain in the right hip. On examination the whole of the right gluteal region was found occupied by a tense, elastic swelling, giving on pressure a distinct sense of fluctuation, acutely tender, and at one point, near the posterior inferior spine of the ilium, apparently protruding, abscess- like. It was opened, and a small stream of apparently arterial blood escaped, but there were no jets. The swelling did not diminish. The haemorrhage was easily stopped. The swelling was so like an abscess that a colleague, who was consulted, thought an arterv had been wounded over it, and that a deeper incision had better be made. Chloroform was given, and an exploration made. The Anger entered a large cavity between the iliac bone and the glutei muscles. The iliac and psoas regions were full and tense, and on examination through the rectum a swelling was found in the right ilio-rectal fossa. It seemed that blood had filled the gluteal, iliac and ischio-rectal regions. On enlarg- ing the gluteal wound a steady stream of arterial blood welled up through the great sciatic foramen. This was firmly plugged. It was decided to ligature the common iliac artery. This was done by a curved incision near the anterior spine of the ilium without much diffi- culty. On removing the plug from the sciatic foramen, some bleeding still occurred. This was easily stopped again. The gluteal wound becaine offensive, and the gluteal region and upper part of the thio-h passed into a state of gangrene. The leg and foot, however, remained unaffected. The patient died forty hours after the operation The sacrc-ihac joint was found open and gaped on pressure, and the neigh- bouring bone was diseased. The remains of a large abscess were found involving the branches of the internal iliac artery. No trace of aneu rism_ could be found. No afi'ection of the peritoneum or of any ab- dominal or thoracic viscera was found to require notice “ It is there fore, to be presumed that disease of the sacro-iliac joint ^;as the beginning of mischief, which, by extension in the pelvis, led ultTmate y a successful case C lLccI,' Mr.'