EEPOET ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 154 indicating that the mucous membrane of the stomach is in a healthier condition. In these cases (ib. xviii. 378) the stomach was emptied between breakfast and dinner, at first once a day, then after the lapse of two or three days, and at last dispensed with altogether. Schliep (‘Lancet,’ 1872, ii, 831) communicated a paper on the same subject to the Clinical Society. The results of the application of the stomach pump had been eminently satisfactory, and appeared in general in the following order:—Vomiting ceased, the pains disappeared, the appetite and action of the bowels soon became better, the general health was improved, and the patient’s weight was increased. He had tried soda, creasote, bromic acid, and permanganate of potash for wash- ing out the stomach with good effect. The patients soon became accustomed to the tube, and there was but little fear of sucking some mucous membrane into its opening. This had occurred only once in about six hundred applications of the pump by the writer, and was followed by no bad consequences. Crisp showed to the Pathological Society (‘Trans.,’ xxiii, 137) a dilated stomach from a woman aged 60, who had suffered for some years from indigestion, flatulence, acidity and pyrosis. Her skin was of a yellowish, coppery tint. She had also commencing cirrhosis of the liver. Habershon (‘ Guy’s Hosp. Eep.,’ xvi, 399) records the three following cases :—The first was that of a woman, aet. 47, who had had pain and vomiting after food for a year, and had become gradually weaker. Her feet and ankles swelled, and soon after her abdomen became enlarged. On admission, there was anasarca of the whole of the lower extremi- ties, oedema of the abdominal walls, and ascites. The heart sounds were very feeble ; the urine free from albumen. About a month later she was seized with violent pain in the epigastrium, soon became col- lapsed, and died. At the autopsy the abdomen was greatly distended, and contained a considerable quantity of fluid, of a milky appearance, in the peritoneum. The stomach also was greatly distended with dark- coloured fluid, consisting of serai-digested food and blood. The pylorus was very much thickened; the submucous cellular tissue was an inch in thickness, white, fleshy, and oedematous, without cancerous juice, the thickening becoming gradually less, but reaching nearly five inches from the pylorus. The muscular coat was very much hypertrophied, a quarter of an inch in thickness at the pylorus. Tliere was slight ulceration at one point as large as a threepenny-piece. The microscope showed that “ the greater part of the white tough substance was com- posed of organised flbrous tissue, but in parts the substance was a more delicate tissue, with numerous small, spindle-shaped cells, with very long tails blending in the intercellular fibroid or fibrillated texture.” The mucous membrane itself was not afi“ected. The other organs, ex- cepting the heart, which was small and atrophied, were normal. The case is considered to be one of sarcomatous disease of the pylorus. In the second case, a man, rat. 43, in whom there had been scarcely any vomiting, a large cancerous ulcer existed in the stomach; it reached the pylorus, but the ulceration had removed the obstruction. The growth and’ ulceration extended for three inches at least into the