888 REPOllT ON MIDWIFEU'if, ETC. chronic. From a clinical point of view we cannot recognise the j division into follicular, parenchymatous, and peritoneal. Slavjanshy j contributes an article on the same subject. (‘Arch. f. G-ynak.,’ iii, 2, j 1872.) See also Matthews Duncan. (‘Edin. Med. Journ.,’Sept. 1871.) . Dr. Edis relates a case of abscess of the ovary in a girl set. 12. The ' right ovary was found to be distended to the size of an orange, its walls were much thickened and covered internally by flaky purulent ^ lymph; the posterior surface had given way, allowing the matter to escape into the peritoneal cavity. There was also general chronic peritonitis. (‘ Obst. Trans.’ i87i)- o z-xr . - • > Professor Gaillard Thomas records (‘Amer. Journ. of Obstetrics, 1871) five cases of malignant disease of the ovaries. He concludes fhat the circumstances which most prominently point to the existence of the disease are:—(i) The rapid development of a solid tumour in an ovary, with marked depreciation of the strength, vital forces, spirits, and general condition of the patient. (2) The occurrence of oedema pedum and spanmmia at an early period, and consequently dependent upon a general blood state, and not the consequence of pressure by the tumour. CD Lancinating and burning pains through the tumour. (4) Cachectic appearance. (5) The occurrence of ascites without evidences ot hSatic, renal, or cardiac disease, or of chronic peritonitis; the fluid accumulating in such large amounts as to force aside the supernatant intestines and produce dulness in place of resonance on percussion in dorsal decubitus. „ mi Dr. Brown records a case of solid cancer of the ovary. The tumour weighed nineteen pounds. On section it was found to be tough and fibres in structure, and to have in its interior a few small cavities containing a purulent-looking fluid. The closely resembled those found in many scirrhous cancers of the breast. C‘Amer. Journ. of Obst.,’ May, 1872.) . ^ Dr. Parry writes an interesting article on sudden enlai^ements of, and hmmorrbage into, ovarian cysts. (‘Amer. Journ. of Obst., JNo . '^Mn relates twenty-five cases of ovarian cysts in which from ex- cessive distension of the cyst wall, or from some traumatic cause runture of the cyst occurred. Seven of the cases were cured^, five af ^bf&strtwo aVr repeated rupture. Eighteen died; .^e from collapse six from acute^peritonitis, three from chronic peritonitis and M “ ruptured cyst were purulent fatal peritonitis occurred. Ovafiotomy. Mr Spencer Welle has lately (‘ Med.-Chir. Sec.,’ Noj- 'Sm) 'om^ pleS Se analysis of 500 eases of ovariotomy performed by h.m.