POISONS. 439 sliglitly to modify the effects of strychnine, without, J^owever, prevent- ing a latal result; hut another experiment showed that the supposed antidote has no proper antidotal power over the alkaloid. Ihere was no good evidence obtained of an antagonism between strychnine and tincture of iodine. When strychnine and aconitine were given in com- bination the symptoms that followed were purely those ot strychnine poisoning. . ^ . Antagonism letween atropine and morphine.—Firmy* relates a case m which he injected subcutaneously, for neuralgia, a solution containing one twenty-fifth of a grain sulphate of atropine, combined with a quarter of a grain of acetate of morphia. In ten minutes after, symp- toms of acute atropine poisoning resulted, viz. dilated pupils, dryness of the throat, rapid pulse, frequent respiration, delirium, and unconscious- ness, causing great alarm. Twenty minutes after the commencement of the symptoms of intoxication one third of a grain of morphine was injected, with the result, in five minutes, of entirely changing the cha- racter of the symptoms and inducing tranquil sleep, lasting the whole nit^ht. Next day the patient was quite well. lOr. A. Littlef asserts that the antagonism between belladonna and opium is incontestably established, and brings forward a series of cases, old and new, collected chiefly by American physicians in support of this view. In one case of an infant poisoned by opium, tincture of belladonna was successfully administered in doses of fifteen drops twice repeated. In another case, of an adult who had taken twelve to fifteen grains of sulphate of morphine (the patient had been in the habit of taking morphia in small doses), extract of belladonna was given with apparently excellent results, five grains of the extract having been given in divided doses. Administered after opium, belladonna fails to exercise its full influence on the pupil. It is indubitable that bella- donna neutralizes or counteracts some of the effects produced by mor- phine, but it is more doubtful whether the lethal action of opium is prevented by the administration of belladonna. Strychnine as an antidote to chloral.—M. OreJ finds that—i. Not only does injection directly into the veins of i-6oth grain of strychnine (a fatal dose for a rabbit of 4-|- lbs.) fail to prevent the animal suc- cumbing to a drachm of chloral, but the presence of the alkaloid is not manifested by any spontaneous characteristic phenomenon. 2. The injection into a vein of i-24th grain of strychnine occasions spon- taneous and well-marked convulsions. 3. In proportion as the dose of strychnine is augmented (i-i8th grain), death supervenes with greater rapidity, and the poisonous property of the alkaloid becomes more marked. 4. If the dose be increased beyond i-pth grain, the action of the chloral is then completely masked, and the animal dies from strychnine-intoxication. The antidote thus becomes a toxic agent. 5. Whenever it is attempted to combat the effects produced by a fatal dose of chloral by means of strychnine, introduced either subcutaneously or into a vein, the animal always succumbs; most frequently in conse- * ‘Dublin Journ. Med. Sc.,’ July, 1872, p. 38. t ‘ Philad. Med. and Surg. Rept.,’ xxiv, p. 334. J ‘ Gaz. Med. de Paris,’ 1872, p. 401.