ARTIFICIAL MAXILLARY JOINT REMOVAL OF THE SCAPULA. 231 and inserted a wedge; this, however, was so troublesome to the patient that it was removed. Eesection was now determined on, a perpendi- cular incision was made on one side, and the head of the jawbone, after tlie periosteum had been separated, was removed by the chisel and hammer. This had no appreciable effect; and it was only after the operation had been repeated on the other side, that the jaw could be freely moved. The wounds were healed in six weeks, and the move- ments of the jaw were normal. Nothing abnormal could be found in the excised portions of bone; but the inter-articular cartilages were absent. (‘Wiener Med. Wochenschr.,’ No. 27, 1872.) Removal of the scapula.—Mr. Spence exhibited to the Med.-Chir. Soc. of Edin. a tumour involving the scapula, which he had removed. The tumour had been growing for twenty-three years. The patient, a man, set. 65, was in general good health. The tumour was apparently very loosely connected with the textures around it. Mr. Syme saw the man eighteen years before, and told him that it might not trouble him if he let it alone. When first seen by Mr. Spence, the tumour was not so large as it had become at the time of removal, and was exhibited to the society. It was movable, bound down by the tissues to the scapula, but apparently not connected to the bone. The man came into the^- hospital in bad health, took erysipelas, recovered, and was dismissed fo^'" a time. When he came back there was a change in the tumour. Th'“ pain was very great at night, and the pulse was quickened. The growtu> was still apparently movable and smooth on the surface, but from the appearance of the skin and of the patient Mr. Spence was of opinion he would have to remove the scapula. He made a preliminary incision, and the tumour felt so loose he thought it would come away, but when he came to a deeper part he found a soft mass involving the glenoid cavity. Accordingly he proceeded to perform excision of the tumour with the scapula. After examining the part, carefully, he found a series of prismatic bodies of milk-white appearance and opaque. He removed them, and they turned out to be lymphatic glands. He thought the growth malignant. The man recovered well. One difBculty in the after-treatment was found to consist in the tendency of the head of the humerus to project through the line of incision. At this part, there being nothing but skin, the head of the bone came against it and had a tendency to protrude. When, during the operation, the clavicle is sawn expedite matters, the sharp section of bone projects beneath the thin skin, and the overhanging arch is wanting. He would be inclined in future, to disarticulate the clavicle, and so leave the coXint incision and less un- oie mL i"® humerus and would produce a better result. “EdirMerj„l™.7ug‘ysT »coy«io, remit rot'etM been introduced into practice by M Dieulafoy for the purpose of preventinf^ the access of bllddei^^hesV&T'^^It^b^^ «Lispected to contam fluid—of the b adder, chest, &c. It has been improved by Weiss and others. It