REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. vaccine sooner, but the pustules had appeared the same morning, and the patient died on the 3 xst. Another child suckled by the same nurse was successfully vaccinated on the 27th; but was seized on the ninth day with a very mild form of varioloid and did well. The nurse pre- sented on the loth of February five pustules around the nipple of the right breast. These commenced on the 4th of February. There had been, and there was no other part attacked, not even the opposite breast, which, as it was the seat of an abscess, had not been frequently used. G-uilland regards this case as an instance of true inoculation from the nursling to the nurse. Being protected by early vaccination she was susceptible only of a local effect. (‘ Lyon Med.,’ April, 1871.) A foetus expelled in the sixth month of pregnancy, while the'mother was suffering from smallpox, had distinct pustules all over its surface. (Simpson, ‘Edin. Med. Journ.,’ May, 1872.) See a case of iucubation of smallpox in utero. (Townsend, ‘Med. Times and Graz.,’ June, 1872.) See also the case of a foetus born with a pustular eruption' the mother at the time sufiering from smallpox. (‘ Lyon Med. ’ Oct! 1871. ) Poliak writes on Timmorrhage from the kidneys in infants (‘ Wien. Med. Presse,’ xviii, 1871). It is liable to follow severe attacks of diarrhoea in infants under two months old. In addition to the appear- ances of the urine there is pain produced by pressure in the lumbar regions, and there is also great restlessness. Poliak thinks, from post- mortem examination, that the parenchyma of the kidney is not the seat of disease. The young patient’s strength should be kept up by good milk and by tonics. Eecovery is rare. • The Jaundice of Newly-born Children.—Dr. Kehrer believes that first- born children are rather more frequently attacked than others. Early purging of the meconium does not hinder the development of jaundice. We must, then, abandon the idea that the jaundice is caused by resorp- tion of the meconium, which is rich in bile in newly-born children. In jaundice in newly-born children we find the liver throughout, or in parts, yellow coloured, from the bile contained in the liver-cells. Frerichs thought icterus neonatorum due to diminished tonicity of the capillaries of the parenchyma of the liver, which takes place when the flow from the umbilical vein is stopped, and permits of increase of bile in the blood. Hardenhain admits that after compression of the aorta the pressure of the secretion in the ductus choledochus falls off. Virchow thinks that infantile jaundice results from catarrh and stop- page of the bile-duct. The disease commenced usually on the second or third day, and seldom on the first or fourth day of life. The prognosis is generally good. (See ‘ Amer. Journ. of Obstetrics,’ Nov. 1872. ) Gueniot relates (‘ Gaz. des Hop.,’ Ajiril, 1872) a case of congenital invagination of the rectum. Dr. Dawson related to the New York Obstetrical Society the case of a child six weeks old, who was the sub- ject of an invagination of the colon, csecum, and a portion of the duo- denum into the rectum, and which were bound together by exudation where the peritoneal surfaces were opposed. The diagnosis had not been made during life. (‘Amer. Journ. of Obstetr.,’ Nov. 1872.)