REPORT ON MIDWIFERY; ETC. 400 then placed a heavy weight on her abdomen, is related by Biggs. (‘Western Lancet,’ Aug. 1872.) A case of exfoliation of the female bladder is recorded by Dr. Wardell. The patient was twenty-eight years old, and about three months preg- nant ; retention of urine for five days; abortion. On the twelfth day she complained of great pain over the pubes. A membranous mass was seen to protrude through the meatus urinarius, and this was fully expelled in half an hour. On examination it seemed as if the whole of the mucous coat of the bladder had been thrown off. The patient made a good recovery. Similar cases are reported by Dr. J. J. Phillips, who points out that retroversion of the gravid uterus by leading to retention of urine is one cause of the accident; by Mr. Spencer Wells, whose two cases occurred after severe cystitis following par- turition ; and by Mr. W. Whitbead, who states that muscular fibre and serous tissue are often attached to and incorporated with the mucous lining expelled. (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ June 10, 24, July i, and Oct. 14, 1871.) Dr. Graily Hewitt contributes (‘ Obst. Trans.,’ 1871) a paper on the vomiting of -pregnancy, and believes that it results from flexion of the uterus, either forward or backward; the tissues of the uterus, including the nerve ramifications pervading it, being compressed at the seat of flexion and thus leading to the sickness. A somewhat similar view is also advocated by Hubert in the ‘LyonMed.,’ Oct. 1871. Mr. Metcalfe Johnson recommends the simple hydrated phosphate of lime, in doses of from three to ten grains, in the sickness of pregnancy. (‘ Med. Times and Gaz.,’ July, 1871.) Gimbert writes in favour of the bromide of potassium administered in large doses by rectal injection for severe vomiting during pregnancy. He relates a case in which various remedies were tried in vain, but after three days the above method proved very successful. (‘ Bulletin de Therap.,’ 1872.) A case of excessive vomiting at the sixth month or pregnancy is recorded by Dr. Campbell (‘Boston Journal, 1872). Aftei various ineffectual kinds of treatment, the membranes were ruptured, and relief was speedily obtained; but labour did not come on for twelve days after puncturing the membranes. _ , Pypingskold relates two cases of uncontrollable vomiting during early pregnancy; one was kept alive by nutrient enemata, the other died without being delivered. (‘Lo Sperimentale,’Jan. 1871.) Mr. Ling records (‘ Lancet,’ Sept. 1872) a case in which a patient, four months pregnant, was seized with agonising abdominal pains, fol- lowed by intense syncope and death in twelve hours. The abdominai cavity was filled with blood. A large hole existed at the fundus uteri, four inches in diameter; the edges of the wound were jagged, but the substance of the uterus was firm. The placenta was found with its attached surface presenting upwards in precisely the position it would take if adhering normally to the fundus, and the foetus surrounded y the unruptured membranes was contained in the uterus. The uterine tissue presented in some parts only spoilt-looking granular remains of the muscular structure with extravasated blood, suggesting an injury