36 RBPOllT ON PUACTICAL MEDICINE. Lastly, there is a class, the subject of his present paper, which com- prehends the poisonous affections, distinguished from the preceding by the fact that their intimate cause is to be found only in the granular protoplasm of the new formations. Sanderson (‘Thirteenth Rep. Med. Off. Privy Coun.,’ app. p. 48, and ‘ Quart. Journ. of Micr. Science,’ xi, 323), assisted by Perrier, has further investigated the conditions under which microzymes (bacteria) are developed in various solutions, and in organic tissues and liquids. The experiments are given in full, and lead to the following conclusions, whereas fungi (torula, &c.) may be transmitted from one solution to another by means of the air, such is not the case with microzymes ; there is no developmental connection between the two, and their apparent association is one of mere juxtaposition. If proper precautions, boiling the solution, e.g. Pasteur’s, and rinsing the vessel with boiling water, are taken, the solution may be exposed for a length of time in an open vessel without any development in it of bacteria, while there will occur a free’growth of penicillium. If a drop of ordinary distilled water be added to the solution used, bacteria will be developed in abundance ; but such development will not follow if the distilled water be pre- ^Thi^same'^writer (‘Nature,’, 1873, Jan. 9) relates minutely fifteen experiments made in his presence by Bastian with infusions of hay and turnip He is content to have established, at all events, to his own satisfaction, “that by following Bastian’s directions, infusions can be prepared which are not deprived by an ebullition of from five to ten minutes, of the faculty of undergoing those chemical changes which are characterised by the presence of swarms of bacteria, and that the development of these organisms can proceed with the greatest activity in hermetically sealed glass vessels,^^ from which almost the whole of the air has been expelled by boiling.” ^ i 1 j Lostorfer (‘Wien. Med. Jahrb.,’1871,45Qbasdeve oped organisms resembling sarcina ventriculi from the blood of several healthy persons. He insists that they are not introduced from without, and tries to support his view by reference to cases recorded by Virchow, Zenke?!^ and Cohnheim; as to the occurrence of sarcina m the ^Terrier (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1872, i, 98) has sarcin® in the Wood of man. rabbits, cats, dogs, and frogs drawn 7“^!^ vosaols and placed under a temperature of 100 He agrees wi Lostorfer as5o the presence of numerous tefraefr™ or in pairs from which sarcina are developed ; and he Suds that the vLwne mnicles coustautlj seen in fresh fa tivatWn.S assume the characters of sarcinm, w.th wWch he holds them llLtian^ft'' ia3) holds that the blood is not the only source of sar^it.” 'refrier^L dispo.^^^ rce r LThe^he prese:ce‘'’:f T phosphate m the fluid in which Ne*p/eu c Gas. Med.,’ .87c, 3a) has found bacteria (iS.