9 CIRCULATION. ference of the aorta i centimeter above the valves, maximum 58 8 millimeters, minimum 31-0 millimeters; diflerence, 27-8 mm. 2. In- ternal circumference of the descending thoracic aorta 12 cm. below the origin of the left subclavian, max. 407 mm., min. 13-2 mm.; difference, 27'5 mm. 3. Internal circumference of the abdominal aorta 3 cm. above the bifurcation, max. 337 mm., min. i3'2 mm.; difference, 20'i mm. 4. Internal circumference of the pulmonary artery 2 cm. above the valves, max. 58-0 mm., min. 307 mm. ; difference, 277 mm. The smallest diameter of the arterial vessels was found most frequently in cases of chronic pneumonia and tuberculosis. Cyon and Steinmann* find that the rapidity of the current of blood in the veins is nearly as great as in the arteries, and they describe the conditions which lead to variation in the rapidity of the current. Dr. Miescherf conducted experiments to determine what influence section with preservation of certain portions of the spinal cord exercised upon the reflex action of certain nerves arising below the lesion upon tlie blood pressure. He concludes that the centripetal fibres of the sciatic nerves capable of reflectorially increasing the blood jiressure run (in that portion of the medulla which extends between the third lumbar nerve and the last dorsal) either entirely or principally in the lateral white medullary columns of the cord. Again, he finds that in the same region of the cord the centripetal fibres of the left sciatic chiefly run in the right and in smaller proportion in the left lateral column, and vice versa. Lastly, he shows that the fibres of this nature coming from the lower regions of the cord, run in its outermost portion, whilst those that enter at the higher planes run wholly or partially in the neighbourhood of the median plane. Ceradini,! T. Lauder Brunton,§ and Lick,|| have investigated the effects of heat on the action of the heart. A. H. Garrod has published a paper on the construction and use of a simple cardio-sphygmograph; ^ and another on the mutual relations of the apex cardiographic and the radial sphygmographic traces.** The remarkable increase in pressure in the arterial system occurring with stoppage of the respiration is generally accompanied by increased vascular contraction, and MM. Dogiel and Kowalewsky f"!* have shown that in curarized dogs there is also a coincident decrease in the rapidity of the arterial current in the crural artery. Gatzuck’s observations made on dogs show that venesection, especially from the anterior extremities, retards the mean velocity of the current of blood in the carotid and crural arteries and their branches and, generally speaking, the mean pressure also falls, though it occasion- ally remains unaltered or even augments. The quantity and rapidity * Bull, de I’Acfid. des Sci. de St. Petersbourg,’ xvi, 266. t ‘ Ludwig’s Ai'beiten,’ 5th Jahrg. t § II 11 *# tt u ‘11 Mecanismo delle Valvole Semilunari del Cuore,’ Milano, 1871. ‘ St. Bartholomew’s Hospital lleports,’ vii, 216. ‘ Pfliiger’s Archiv,’ v, 38. ‘Humphry and Turner’s Journal,’ v, 263. ‘Proceed. Roy. Soc.,’ xix, 318. ‘ Ptliiger’s Archiv,’ iii, 489. CeuLrulblatt,’ No. 53, 1871.