493 iDISlNfECTtON. Some further useful and new information on this subject is also con- tained in a paper by Dr. Zapolsky.* , , p n • • , The Chemical Society of Berlinf has issued the following instruc- tions for disinfection. They are so valuable that we give them almost in full: _ j 1 i- f Excrementitious matters and privies.—Dor commodes, solutions oi permanganate of potash or of carbolic acid are to be used, also for pus- basins and chamber utensils, rinsing with carbolic acid _ solution, leaving a little of the solution in the vessels after the operation. Dor spittoons, carbolic acid powder. Dor night stools, carbolic acid powder if they are to remain unemptied, and solutions of permanganate of potash if they are emptied immediately. Dor closets with separate recep- tacles, carbolic acid powder to the solid, solution of carbolic acid to the liquid, excrement. Dor water-closets use carbolic acid water. Dor privies communicating with cess-pits use carbolic acid powder, solu- tions of chloride of manganese, green vitriol, or other metallic salt; applying the disinfectant to the surrounding soil also. Dor privies communicating with dung pits, sprinkle with carbolic acid powder or with a solution of carbolic acid in water. Dor sanitary pipes use carbolic acid water. Dor latrines in camps and barracks use lime, gypsum, or, at all events, earth, and change the site of the latrines frequently. Dung-heaps are to be treated with carbolic acid powder. Urinals are to be treated with carbolic acid water and solution of chloride of lime (we have found chloride of lime of little use in deodo- rising urinals; the chloride soon expends itself in liberating nitrogen from urea.—Ed.). Spent charpie, lint, bandages, &c., should be col- lected in vessels of tinned iron containing permanganate of potash or carbolic acid, and then burnt. If the above are thrown into dust-bins, chloride of lime is to be employed. Straw, hay, and the like, from transports for the wounded, and soaked mattresses not again to be used should be treated with chloride of lime, and burnt as quickly as possible. Animal refuse from slaughter-houses and lairs are to be buried deeply and covered with quicklime or with chloride of lime. Enclosures. — These include sick-rooms, railway carriages, and waggons (and things used for transports of every kind), cowstalls (especial attention must be paid to the mangers), workrooms in factories, schools, prison-cells, sentry- and watch- boxes, lavatories, barracks, living-rooms, urinals, operation-rooms, dead-houses, ware- houses filled with animal matter, slaughter-houses, and ship-decks. The floors of these are to be scoured with carbolic acid water, and the walls and ceilings lime-washed with carbolic acid and lime, and the air is to be purified by the evaporation of wood-vinegar, or carbolic acid (from the powder). If the rooms are unused—and only then is an actual disinfec- tion of the air feasible the floors are to be washed with a solution of chloride of lime or of hypochlorite (liq. sodse chloratm, &c.) or a solution of chloride of manganese. Place about the room or other vessels containing chloride of lime with either hydrochloric or acetic * ‘ Medizin.-Chem Untersuch.,’ p. 842. t ‘Deut. Ztaclir. f. Staatsarznkd,’ n. f. xxix, p. 164