TEMPERATURE AND FEVER. 39 The eleventh case, that of a man whose affection seems to have "been probably phthisis ex hsemoptysi, is imperfect. Yet the author relies upon this case as a typical example of a class ‘‘ made up all cases ot acute tuberculosis, where no existing cause in the shape of pus can be discovered.” He thinks that all chronic pneumonic changes consist m part of adenoid formation. , . , n Birch-Hirschfeld (‘Arch. d. Heilk.,’ xii, ^oi) records eight cases ot miliary tuberculosis occurring after typhoid fever, with a full description of the microscopical appearances found ; and another case ot the same affection (ib. 556) following epididymitis in a soldier aged 24. Mandl, “ Du Tubercule compare a quelques autres Produits pathologiques,” ‘ Bull, de I’Acad. de Med.,' xxxv, 823. Fonssagrives, “ Du role de I’Blemeut inflammatoire dans le Production des Tubercules pulmonaires,” ib., 827. Klein, “Quelques Con- siderations sur laTuberculose,” ‘ Th^se de Strasbourg,’ 1870. Moxou, “ Inflammation and Tubercle,” ‘Med. Times and Gaz.,’ 1871, i, 64 and 153. Temperature and Fever. Pilz (‘Jahrb. f. Kinderheilk.,’ iv, 414) finds that the temperatures taken in the rectum of healthy children almost confirm the fact found also in adults: that the temperature rises from the first hours of the morning towards noon, reaches its highest in the first hours of the afternoon, and then in the evening begins to sink again. As a rule the elevation is not continuous but interrupted. The greatest rise occurs in the hours from 7 to 8, or even up to 9 a.m. The fall of the temperature begins as Pinlayson had already shown (see last ‘ Bien. Rep.’) almost always at six, seldom at seven in the evening. This fall is generally more sudden than in adults; the difference in temperature amounts in the first hour sometimes to i‘i°. The night temperatures, which are incomplete, agree with those given by Pinlayson. Manassein (‘ Pfliiger’s Archiv,’ iv, 283) subjected rabbits to swinging, the swing making from twenty-eight to thirty double vibrations in the minute. In all cases the temperature fell: its maximum fall being i'2° C., its minimum o'3° C., and its mean o'66° C. The effect was distinct in fifteen minutes, and lasted from half an hour to two hours. The tendency to sleep was very marked. The animals were closely enveloped in wool before swinging, to prevent any fallacy in the experiment of mere depression of temperature from renewal of the air ; parallel expe- riments with and without wool are given. As a more practical experi- ment he injected decomposing matter into rabbits, thus causing pyrexia, and by swinging them afterwards, reduced their temperature even to the normal degree. Prom experiments made on 174 different animals the same writer (‘ Centralbl.,’ 1871, 689) concludes that circumstances that increase the temperature of the body diminish the size of the red blood-cells, as lor instance septicaemic poisoning, exposure to a high temperature, or inclosure in a space surcharged with carbonic acid ; while on the other hai^l breathing oxygen, exposure of the whole body to cold, the administration of hydrochlorate of quinine, hydrocyanic acid, and alcohol, which lower the temperature, cause also an increase in the size