PEMPHIGUS—PSORIASiS—PITYRIASIS. 177 was Icejit constantly applied. On the fiftieth day there was no rash whatever, nor did it return. Piti/riasis.—T. Fox (‘ Path. Soc. Trans.,’ xxii, 313) showed a man, set. 49, who presented the condition originally described by Devergie under the term “pityriasis pilaris,” in a perfect form. Six months previously he had been attacked with pityriasis rubra, which within a week from its commencement involved the whole body. After a general tonic treat- ment of six months’ duration, the appearance of pityriasis pilaris was produced by the interfollicular portions of the skin gradually assuming a healthy appearance, whilst every follicle remained plugged and dis- tended by little whitish, hard knots, the size of pins’ heads, and slightly larger, which gave the surface, in certain parts, the feel and aspect of a rasp or nutmeg grater. This condition was observed at the hack of the neck, all over the back, over the chest, on the outer parts of the arms. In tracing the disease from the lower limbs upwards transitional stages between pityriasis rubra and pilaris were observed. The disease began to break up into patches by the appearance of healthy islets of skin here and there; at other places were red papules more or less isolated. These latter were seen to be produced by the distension of hair-follicles by plugs of epidermis, which had been shed from the lining membrane of the follicle. The condition found com- pletely confirmed the truth of Devergie’s description. The same winter (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, i, 392) publishes a clinical lecture on lichen ruber with reference to a case occurring in his own practice. A woman, mt. 46, had been well up to the age'^of 38, when she became subject to boils and severe onychia. Two years and a half later an attack of lichen ruber commenced, with intense itching and redness of both eyes. At the end of eighteen months the face began to redden considerably; she complained of excessive debility Aine months subsequently the redness had spread to the head, neck' aud back, and the reddened parts were somewhat scaly. Soon the whole body was afi’ected. The redness was removable by pressure and was accompanied by burning and itching, especially towards eveninff and morning. The patient had sufi-ered for the last year or two from neuralgia inthe_ shoulders and arms, indigestion, and menorrhagia, bhe was admitted into hospital in November, 1869. She was then thin. At various times during the day the skin was the seat of con- siderable itching whenever the eruption was present; this irritation was paroxysmal lasting half an hour or more. The colour of the face was deep red; the skin dry, wrinkled, and indurated, resembling xero- ™ reddened, and covered hj miZte scapula the sk n appeared to be discoloured by a minute sub cutaneous mottling due to the presence of small reddish-brown flattish papules, of the size of pins’ heads, seated at the follicles and thlT^ f ^ exceedingly minute white scales. The front of the whole of mind the mnb hc^^ appearance, except n? hn hr "’7i lower part of the abdomen. On the bak ?L^!h marked; the leg was very ou„h below the knee ; the scales were confluent over the ankle. Tim n