290 RJSPORT ON StmOEE,-^. recovery, the only disturbance of any kind being inflammation of tbe testis in consequence of tbe pressure to wbicb it bad been subjected. M. Demarquay says that the treatment of hernia by aspiration is in- dicated in the following circumstances :—i. In all congenital hernias, or in recent berniae which have become strangulated at the moment of their formation ; 2, in old herniae that were perfectly reducible a few days before strangulation took place; and in recently strangulated, large, umbilical hernise. The operation, he says, should be performed only at an early period, when there is reason to believe that the intes- tine has not yet undergone any destructive change. (‘ Bull. General de Ther.,’ 13, 1871.) Mr. Jessop says, “I remember the late Mr. Teale, in i860, while introducing an acupuncture needle twenty or thirty times through the abdominal walls in a case of excessive tympany following herniotomy, remarking to the students around him that, in his early days, he had been accustomed, under similar circumstances, to use the trocar after the manner of veterinary surgeons ; but that, of late years, he had pre- ferred the acupuncture needle as being at the same time less dangerous and equally efficient.’’ Mr. Jessop has used the aspirator with satis- factory results on several occasions. (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Dec. 7,1872.) Diaphragmatic hernia.—Dr. A. Popp, in the ‘Deutsche Zeitschr. filr Chir.,’ Band i, has collected forty-two cases of diaphragmatic hernia, adding two observed by himself. He arrives at the following conclu- sions :—The oesophageal opening very rarely gives passage to the hernia ; in most cases, there is an abnormal cleft in tbe oesophagus, either con- genital or the result of injury. The hernia is generally on the left side ; an aperture on the right side being covered in by the liver. The causes of injury were, stabs in tw^enty-one cases; gunshot wounds in three ; falls in ten; and in three, the causes were, respectively, violent ex- ertion, a fall with a violent twist of the body, and the being run over by a carriage. In most cases, the hernia was formed of the stomach, transverse colon, or a portion of the omentum. In five cases, the hernia was in the right pleural cavity, in thirty-two, in the left. The dia- gnosis is difficult, but may be aided by the history of the case and by auscultation and percussion. J. Sargent relates a case of diaphragmatic hernia in the ‘Boston Med. Surg. Journal’ for Pebruary 22, 1872. In 1831, a woman, named S—, was injured by the handle of a hay-fork, which entered the vagina and broke the first rib on the left side. She recovered, and died in*^i87i of peritonitis. At the necropsy, the left pleural cavity was found to contain, besides the compressed lung, the stomach, the trans- verse colon, several inches of the descending colon, and a considerable portion of the small intestine. In the left half of the diaphragm was an irregular opening four inches in diameter. j v i- Obturator hernia.—Dr. Chiene describes the conditions found by him in the body of a woman, set. 73, in the dissecting room. On opening the abdomen a portion of the ileum was found strangulated in the opening at the upper part of the obturator foramen. _ On dissecting down- wards, among the adductor muscles of the thigh, a sac, the size of a pigeon’s egg, was exposed. It was brought fully into view by cutting