243 TUMOURS. truded through some of their expanded walls. Pulsation in a non-can- cerous tumour connected with bone is a nearly certain sign of growth within bone, except in the case of certain specimens of myeloid epulis, and when such pulsation is felt it is no indication that severe bleedino- will ensue in the removal of the tumour, for it is only derived from the arteries in the walls of the bone-cavity lodging the tumour. When these means of diagnosis are insufficient an exploratory puncture or incision may be made; and generally in cases of doubt it may be well to attempt the simple removal of the tumour, and in case of failure to proceed at once to its excision, or to resection, or to amnutation. (‘ Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ liv, 253.) On deeply seated atheromatous tumours of the necTc.—Dr. Max Schede in the ‘ Archiv fiir Klin. Chir.,’ xv, relates three cases in which the tumour lay on the sheath of the large vessels ; in one it was attached to the styloid process. In two of the cases, the inner wall of the sac was formed of cells arranged in from six to ten layers, superficially resembling large, flattened epithelium, and, in the more deeply seated parts, becoming gradually elongated into spindle-cells standing per- pendicularly on the cyst-wall. Outside the cellular layer was a sac of connective tissue, the inner part of which consisted of close, concentric iayers ot fine, fibrillar tissue, interspersed with a homogeneous finelv granular substance. Purther outwards, loose connective tissue was met with. There were no traces, of glands or of hair-follicles. In a third cas^e iodine had been injected before the removal of the cyst, ihe epithelial cells here showed pale nuclei, and the capsule of con- nective tissue presented signs of inflammatory infiltration, and con- tained a large amount of young tissue. On the outer part, the apsule presented the structure of a lymphatic gland; this appearance was found, on close examination, to be due to the incorporation of ymphatic glands with the wall of the sac. Schede believes that these cysts Lye their origin in branchial fistula. In one of the cases the patient s twin-sister had persistence of branchial clefts. The extirpa tion of such cysts is attended with difficulty; puncture followed^ injytion of iodine, is more likely to be useful ^ Conyemtal,fbro-cellular tumour in the buttock.—Mr. Bryant removed of a “an, at. <0 He had ys had it, he said, but it had only caused inconvenience fnr’ +wr> Sept aCsVr C « _ Bemoval of a large, scrotal tumour —Mr Bickpr<.fefli i- interesting case of a large scrntfll narrates a very testes. The mass wm ch^ h saving the cutaneous tissue. Embedded^ M nueuaea in this was the original growth (which