REPORT ON SURGERY. 252 further back than that of the other side. The crest of the ilium is Jiearer the false ribs than is normal; the postero-superior spine can be felt (if there be not too much contusion and ecchymosis) projecting more or less backwards, and lying nearer the middle line than that of the other side ; the hollow of the sacrum is increased. The pubic bone on the side of the injury is raised above the other, and is carried more or less outwards and forwards, according to the extent of displacement and rotation of the ilium. The displacement outwards is the result of the approximation of the postero-superior iliac spine to the middle line. Tavignot has recorded a case where the pubic bone, of one side, was dis- placed in such a way as to ride over the other ; Dr. Sailer on, however, believes that there must be some error in the description, especially, from the ready recovery of the patient, there is no reason to suppose that there was also fracture. The leg of the affected side appears shortened, but it is only apparently so, and the measurements from the antero- superior, iliac spine to the malleolus are the same on both sides. In consequence of the rotation of the ilium, the foot is generally everted, sometimes to such an extent as to imitate fracture of the neck of the femur (as in cases described by Enaux and Glerdy). In luxation of the iliac bone forwards, the transverse diameter of the pelvis is increased, and the displaced bone forms a visible projection. The antero-superior, iliac spine is thrown forwards and, generally, a little downwards—some- times, however, upwards. The postero-superior, iliac spine is depressed, and cannot, often, be readily felt; the sacral hollow is moi’e or less obliterated. The limb nearly preserves its normal length and direction; the foot may be more or less inverted. The symphysis pubis is little, if at all, injured, but, sometimes, the sensibility of the part is very great. In both forms of dislocation there is deep-seated pain in the pelvic and ilio-sciatic regions, increased by the slightest, passive movement, and especially by pressure with the fingers. Active movement of the limb is abolished, or is restricted to slight flexion of the toes. If, however, the limb be well supported it can be flexed and extended to a limited extent without pain. In luxation upwards and backwards, in conse- quence of the laceration of the subpubic ligament, there is stretching or deviation of the urethra and a resistance to the passage of a catheter; in the luxation directly forwards, there is little disturbance in the pubic region, and the flow of urine is free. In luxation upwards and back- wards, there is no compression or laceration of the nerve-trunks to such an extent as to produce numbness or paralysis; in the dislocation directly forwards, the sacral nerves may become stretched, producing more or less marked and persistent disorder of their functions. When the luxation is unaccompanied by fracture, the bladder and urethra are generally uninjured. Occasionally, however, rupture of the bladder has occurred in such cases, probably as the result of direct pressure during the accident. Except when the coccyx is dislocated forwards, there is no disturbance of the rectum. In the three cases of simple dislocation, observed by Dr. Salleron, the displaced iliac bone was completely immovable. Key has described an instance where the iliuna was dis- located backwards and the finger could be laid in the sacro-iliac joint. In this however, the bone must have been displaced outwards. When