336 EEPOllT- ON SUllGEliy. incoherent and unmanageable. There was great turgescence of the vessels of the right side of the neck. On the 4th of December the pa- tient was so much better as to require no further attendance. It was at this time that the atrophy of the right side of the tongue was first noticed, though it was not then so marked as it afterwards became. On March 29th, 1871, the patient was found to be suffering in an aggra- vated degree, and, in addition, there was an alarming dysphagia, toge- ther with paroxysms of suffocative cough, which recurred about three times in the twenty-four hours. She could only put the tongue out very slowly, and seemed unable to do so at all at first. The tongue was crimped and puckered along its whole right side from base to apex, but these appearances were most marked in the anterior two thirds, and an actual loss of substance had taken place, so that this half of the organ seemed small and wasted. The loss of substance was bounded by the median raphe, and the contrast between the plumpness of the left side and the shrivelled aspect of -the right was very striking. The tongue was soft throughout; there were no hard nodules on it. N0 alter- ation was noticed either in the common sensation of the organ or in its special sense of taste. When the tongue was protruded there was no deviation to either side. The paroxysms of dyspnoea became more frequent and more severe, and on the 7th of June, in one of these pa- roxysms, she died. There was no post-mortem. Two published cases are quoted, one recorded byM. Dupuytren, and the other by Sir James Paget. Mr. Pairlie Clarke remarks that in his case he thinks there was good reason for supposing that the affection depended on the in- volvement of the right hypoglossal nerve in a secondary cancerous growth, either inside the cranium or at the upper part of the neck. The facts which lead to this conclusion are—the existence of an undoubted cancerous tumour, which was removed sixteen months before death, after it had been growing about a year; the general cachexia; the in- tense and deep-seated pain on the right side of the head and neck; the fulness and turgescence of the vessels ou the right side of the neck,^ denoting an obstruction to the circulation; the frequent attacks of dyspnoea and dysphagia, which probably depended on pressure on the pneumogastrie and glosso-pharyngeal nerves. These symptoms, together with the absence of paralysis of the extremities and the_clear- ness of the intellect, seem to indicate that the disease was not in the brain or medulla oblongata, and make it probable that there must have been an adventitious growth pressing upon the right hypoglossal nerve, and implicating more oi' less the pneumogastrie and glosso-pharyngeal nerves. The different situations in which such a growth might be placed are discussed, and the evidence which exists to show that the condition of the tongue might depend on an affection of the nerve itself is considered. An experiment on a rabbit is detailed. In an appendix, cases more or less similar are alluded to. An illustration of the state of the tongue is given. (‘ Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ Iv, 90.) [Abstracts of various papers on Cancer, Tetanus, Electrolysis, Treatment of Deformities, etc., etc., have been unavoidably omitted. J