REPORT ON MATERIA MEDICA, ETO. 464i brandy. ^ The eflPects of both of these are the same in many respects. They quicken the heart and dilate the vessels. There was no distinct alteration in temperature in the axilla or rectum, nor any change in the excretion of nitrogen or phosphates either in the urine or faeces. They do not consider the dietetic effects of claret to be the same as those of brandy and water, but the differences could not be discovered by the method of experimentation they employed. Ten ounces of claret con- taining about one fluid ounce of pure alcohol caused no unpleasant heat or flushing. Twenty ounces produced both. Alcohol began to appear in the urine. The authors consider that the use of alcohol by healthy persons is unnecessary and may be injurious. Bouvierf found that when fever was produced in animals by the in- jection of putrid matters, those which were treated with alcohol resisted the fever much longer than others. Their temperature could be reduced several degrees by the administration of alcohol. He obtained good results from the use of alcohol in typhus, but not in intermittent fever. Eabowt found that wine and brandy, in doses of two or three table- spoonfuls, increased the temperature in 23 cases, and left it unchanged in 2. The rise was generally o'q—07° Pahr., but often only o’2° Pahr. A rise of temperature was also noticed during collapse, when the admi- nistration of wine was attended with much benefit. Manizu J and Pokker§ found little change in the temperature of the human body after the moderate use of alcohol, but Pokker observed a slight fall in a dog. It somewhat diminished the excretion of urea in the dog, and the effect of a given quantity was the same whether it were given in repeated small doses or in one large one. Pokker regards it as food, and indicated in all diseases where there is danger of death from inanition. He does not consider it to act as a febrifuge. Danet || gives several cases showing that the mortality in pneumonia is least when patients are treated with alcohol and blisters, greater with digitalis and blisters, and greatest with antimonials and blisters. He has also seen benefit from the use of alcohol in congestion of the lungs, and mentions the beneficial effects of its local application in cases of purulent infection. Subbotin^ finds, from experiments on rabbits, that a considerable quantity of alcohol is eliminated by the skin and lungs in the first five hours after its introduction into the body. Twice as much alcohol is eliminated by the skin and lungs as by the kidneys. This result is in dii’ect opposition to the statement of Lallemand, Perrin, and Duroy, that alcohol is excreted chiefiy by the kidneys. Part of the alcohol probably undergoes combustion in the body. Chloral hydrate.—Dr. A. Monti** contributes a paper on the employ- ment of chloral hydrate in the diseases of children. This observer noted that in children, when the dose was proportioned to their age, * ‘ Centralblatt f. d.'Med. Wiss.,’ p. 801. f ‘Berl. Klin. Wchnschr.,’ 1871, No. 22, p. 257. ‘Diss. Bonn.,’ 1870, ‘Virchow and Hirsch’s Jaliresber.,’ 1871, p. 324. § ‘Virchow and Hirscb’s Jabresber.,’ 1871, p. 324. II ‘Gaz. des Hop.,’ 1871, 418, 421; ‘Ztscbr. f. Biologic,’ vii, p. 361. •a • Zeitscb. f. Biologic,’ vii, p. 361. ** ‘ Jahrb. f. Kinderheilk.,’ v, p. 63.