313 TRAUMATIC PEVER. Loydeu, to an increase of temperature in tlie part. 5. In the fifth chapter, Billroth examines the influence of various injuries on the tem- perature of the rectum in dogs. He finds that even severe lesions, such as the ligature of arteries, or long incisions through the skin, have no constant effect on the temperature in the rectum within three hours, even when the experiments are performed on animals that have been suffering from illness. 6. The application to the extremities of the nerves of mechanical and chemical irritants, such as injection of air or water into the subcutaneous tissue, irritation with croton oil or with ammonia, &c., had no constant effect in elevating the temperature in dogs, even when continued for two or three hours. 7. The influence of irritation of the vaso-motor nerves on the temperature has been studied by Billroth by means of (a) the introduction into the vessels of canulsp or pieces of tangle, which produced no result; (b) the introduction of purely mechanical embola, such as starch or powdered charcoal suspended in water. The injection of these into the systemic arteries was followed by a fall in temperature rather than a rise; when they were introduced into the jugular vein, and thus reached the pul- monic circulation, fever was not a constant result, but the temperature presented a remarkable series of tolerably regular falls and rises, such as had already been noticed by Albert and Strieker. 8. In the eighth chapter Billroth speaks of septicsemic fever in a dog. A filtered in- fusion of putrid_ muscular tissue, swarming with vibriones, when injected in large quantities into the arteries, veins, or subcutaneous areolar tissue, rapidly produeed_ death ; when injected in smaller quantities (five centigrammes or less) it produced fever of a remittent type, lasting several hours. 9. Regarding pyemic fever in dogs, experiments are described in the ninth chapter, the result of which was that the injec- tion of pure j)us, or of pus diluted with water, was sometimes followed by fever, sometimes not. 10. A similar inconstancy of results attended the injection, in a similar manner, of water, of serum, and of the fluid ot hydrocele, ii. In commencing, in the eleventh chapter, a critical examination of the results described in the preceding part of his essay' Billroth says that their great variety is one of the principal obstacles to their use in forming a theory of fever. Two phenomena only are constant—the rise of the temperature after muscular action, and after the injection of putrid mattep. Referring to the eflTect of muscular action he says that the artificial tetanization of limbs and the efi'ect of voluntary muscular movements can be accepted as starting-points in the inquiry only so far as they show that an elevation of temperature is produced through irritation, direct or reflex, of the muscles. It is owever, not proved that a similar elevation of temperature can be exerted reflexly by the irritation of sensory and vaso-motor nerves. The curves presented by the temperature in the various experiments are regula™? ffte?’the^ steadyLd tolerably 1 S ® ™.iection of water there was a single marked ise; and in other instances, especially after the injection of putrid H is\S-ibwf^f were two marked elevkons rise ?nd^?h!f fr ^ ®^Periments the same cause produced the nse, and that this was m all cases called forth and regulated by the