845 SURGERY. of two millimetres (one on each side) from the sclerotic. If the cornea be of twelve millimetres horizontal diameter, the section thus made will he of eleven or eleven and a half millimetres, while that of von G-raefe never exceeded ten or ten and a half. This enlargement of the section is not necessarily attended by a large excision of the iris. A large coloboma may be avoided by not drawing out too much iris prior to excision; and, when the excision is made, it is always possible, if the iris should tend to lock itself into the angles of the wound, to replace the extremities of the sphincter by slight movements over the cornea with the convexity of the caoutchouc spoon. It is an important point in De Wecker’s section that the same rule suffices for all cases and persons, and, unlike Graefe’s, requires no modi- fication for very large or very hard lenses, or for eyes of small corneal diameter. Tlie division of the capsule is effected by a forceps resembling iris forceps, but furnished with a screw to regulate the extent of separation of the blades, and with a point on each blade to serve as a cystitome. The forceps being introduced closed and horizontal, until it reaches the inferior margin of the pupil, is then turned into a vertical position, so that its points perforate the capsule. The blades are then allowed to expand, so that the two points incise the capsule horizontally at the level of the pupillary margin. Still expanded, they are drawn towards the section, making two parallel incisions in a vertical direction. When nearly at the margin of the lens the blades are closed, the points making the second horizontal incision, and thus cutting out a square portion of capsule, corresponding to rather more than the pupillary area. As the blades are closed this portion is seized between the for- ceps teeth, and is withdrawn altogether from the eye. The forceps cystitome should on no account be introduced until the cut margins of the iris are restored to their proper position. After the operation both eyes are covered by circular pieces of fine linen, over which are pads of ungkzed wadding, so placed as to fill all the space between the orbital margin, the bridge of the nose, and the prominence of the cheeks. These pads are retained by a binocular flannel bandage, which exerts slight pressure over the eyes and renders the lids immovable. On the evening of the operation a dose of chlorai, hydrate is administered, and on the following morning, if the pupil is sufficiently dilated and free from cortex no atropine is used. It is only employed when the aqueous is a little turbid, when cortical masses remain, or when the iris is threatened with inflammation. The foregoing observations are followed by a table giving full details of each case and of the results obtained. Extraction without opening the capsule.—Hv. Hermann Pagensteeher* gives the results of the more recent experiments of his brother Dr Alexander Pagenstecher, in this method of operating, which, during the kst few years, he has appbed to 140 eases. Careful observation has led to the conclusion that the method is specially applicable to certain groups of cataracts, wlnle others are more successfully removed by j. ^ The delicacy of the latter in certain cases, and its intimate union with the zonula, contra-indicate the general adoption * ‘Annales d’Ooulistique,’ 1871, ii, 136.