RErOitT ON StmGEIlY. 324 tliyroid membrane and subsequently to continue the section upwards and downwards as far as necessary. Cases in which extensive inci- sions have been made have proved as successful as those in which the thyroid only has been divided. It is advantageous, if tracheotomy have not already been performed, to insert a canula during the operation and leave it in for a few days at any rate. If the growths be few, in certain cases, it may not he necessary to leave the tube in. The result of Mr. Durham’s consideration of the subject shows, ist., that the dangers and difficulties attending operative procedures are neither so numerous nor so considerable as have been represented and commonly supposed ; and, 2ndly, that the success hitherto achieved has been so marked and so indisputable as to justify and encourage, in any such case as may seem appropriate an earlier, bolder, and more ready resort to this method than has hitherto prevailed. (‘ Med. Chir. Trans.,’ vol. Iv, 17—90.) In a most’complete monograph, well illustrated. Dr. Mackenzie enters thoroughly into the consideration of the whole subject of laryngeal growths. He details 100 consecutive cases treated by himself, and also gives a resume of cases treated by others. Of 93 of his cases in which growths were removed joer vias naturales, in 72 a cure resulted. Stricture of the trachea.—In an article on operations on the air- passages, in the ‘ Archiv fiir Klin. Med.,’ xiii. Dr. Trendelenburg re- lates the case of a girl, a3t. 19, who came into hospital in Berlin in June, 1867, suffering from dyspnoea and complete aphonia; she had for several years had hoarseness, dif&culty of swallowing, and shortness of breath. On the 27th, Dr. Trendelenburg opened the trachea below the thyroid body, on account of an urgent attack of dyspnoea. In perform- ing the operation he noticed that the peritracheal tissue was much thick- ened and indurated. Dour months later an ulcer formed at the point where the canula pressed, and increased rapidly. A second tracheotomy was accordingly performed above the thyroid body, but it was now found that the canula would not pass, in consequence of a stricture, which would only admit a very fine urethral bougie. An attempt had been made at first to examine the parts with the laryngoscope, but had failed in sequence of the diseased state and faulty position of the epiglottis. A lonc^ slender canula was introduced with an india-rubber plug, into the lower opening; the plug was inflated, and pressure was exercised on the oranulations surrounding the opening, so that they now disappeared. Attempts were now made to treat the strictured portion by internal incision; but the only result was to produce emphysema of the neck. Dr. Trendelenburg accordingly, on March 19, 1870, laid open the trachea from the cricoid cartilage to the lower opening; the tissue cut like cartilage. Conical pieces of tin, gradually increased in size, were introduced. The patient, who had been unable to speak, was able to utter sounds at the end of five days, when the canula and pieces ol tin were removed. After three weeks, the strictured part was found to be dilated to the extent of 1-2^ centimetre; the wound in the trachea was nearly healed, but respiration through the glottis was still very imnerfect. On examination, it was found that the obstruction was caused by the epiglottis, which was ulcerated and much swollen and