REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 110 nut, and containing bloody fluid. The kidneys were also enlarged, and contained the same kind of nodes as the liver. On account of the ad- vanced decomposition it was impossible to make any further examina- tion of these three organs. The mediastinal tumour was 20 cm. long, 21 broad, and 13 thick, adherent to the right lung, the pericardium, and the large vessels. The left and larger portion of it was almost com- pletely solid, richly vascular in parts, but distinctly fibrous. In the fibrillar intervening substance were numerous spindle-shaped cells, like those of spindle-celled sarcoma; but the chief mass consisted of obliquely striated spindle-cells, containing one or more large nuclei. The older elements were striated throughout their whole thickness, the younger only on the surface (Virchow’s Myoma striocellulare). Their derivation from normal muscle was impossible, as the cells had double prolongations, like the branched muscle-cells of the heart. The right and smaller half of the tumour consisted of small cysts, about 23 cm. in diameter, containing on their inner surface small outgrowths and vesi- cles, like those found in proliferating ovarian cysts. In many places the cysts were confluent. In the middle of the tumour was a cavity, 25 by 13 cm., which was surrounded by a leathery wall and enclosed hair, small plates of epidermis, cholestearin, and fat. Other cavities were lined with ciliated epithelium. In the neighbourhood were small scattered portions of hyaline cartilage, with a thick perichondrium, ex- tremely like the cartilages of the bronchi, though no connection between the two could be made out. In one place the tissue was finely spongy, and in the meshes were roundish, granular, nucleated cells, like gland- cells, the stroma being made up of sarcomatous round and spindle- cells. In the tumour on the rib were cysts, striated muscle-cells, and patches of carcinoma. One patch, the size of a hemp-seed, consisted of round alveoli made up of elastic fibres, like foetal lung. This tumour was entirely surrounded by perichondrium, and was not connected with that in the mediastinum. The variety of elements entering into the formation of this growth points to a foetal origin. The ciliated epithelium and cartilages in the large tumour and the elastic fibrous network in the small “recall so vividly the organs of respiration that the mind is compelled to think of an aberration of particles, which originally belonged to bronchi and lungs.” Still, there is a difficulty in holding this view in the face of the fact that the greater part of the large growth, and the whole^of the small one, was developed during the latter part of the patient s life. We must therefore, especially with regard to the tumours in the ab- dominal glands, consider it as a “ heterochronous, metastatic gro\vth. The paper concludes with remarks on dermoid cysts of the mediastinum and their possible starting-points, and on lympho-sarcomata (thymus, bronchial glands, skin). ... ^ „ s , Gueneaii de Mussy (‘ Gaz. Hebd.,’ viii, 462, &c.), writes a long paper on “ Bronchial Adenopathy in the Adult.” He looks upon this afi^ection of the bronchial glands as secondary, and following lesion in organs traversed by the lymphatic vessels which feed them; under the influence of constitutional predisposition they acquire such development as to become the predominant element in the disease; in some cases they