UHPOllT ON PUACTiCAL MEDICINE. 180 In reference to tliis paper Liicke (“ Zur etlmiscb.en Dermatologie,’ ib., 217) gives a case of tbe same kind (“paculosis” of Grintrac) occur- ring in tbe G-ermanic race. A boy of nineteen bad for eight years bad symmetrical thickening of tbe epidermis on tbe soles of bis feet and tbe palms of bis bands. He looks upon tbe affection as a local one, and obtained temporary relief by removing tbe thickened epidermis, by ap- plications of liquor potassse, by tincture of iodine, and by alkaline baths. ^ 1 T -1 Kobn(‘Wien. Med. Wocb.,’ 1871,^0. 24) writes on keloid. lie shows that Alibert was tbe first to describe this cicatrix-like tumour of tbe skin ; and that tbe name cancroid, afterwards changed to cbeloid, bore no reference whatever to any resemblance to cancer, but to the likeness which tbe peculiar processes in keloid present to the feet ot a crab. Keloid may be described generally as a _ flat prominence, implanted in the skin, sharply defined, raised half a line to several lines above tbe surrounding level, tough and elastic, and in appearance very like an hypertrophied scar ; of a white gbstening colour, m parts ot a rosy red. It is generally painful on pressure; in many cases severe pain exists of a burning or stabbing character; and by means ot this innate pain Alibert and other writers make a distinction between true and false keloid. Its most frequent seat is the skin of the_ upper part of the trunk, the sternum, the mamma, the lateral regions^ot the thorax, the back, and the neck. From his own and Hebra s cases Kohn finds that it occurs in the proportion of one to two thousand ot the other diseases of the skin. The general health is not affected by the disease. Little is known as to its development and course as the opportunity seldom occurs of following it from its earliest to its latest stages At first small brownish-red streaks are noticed m skin, flat’ or slightly raised, resistent on pressure, and sensitive. They may erow very slowly until they reach a certain extent, and then lem Ltiouar/. After a time the keloid may become or undergo the so-called retrograde metamorphosm. and Hebra have seen spontaneous disappearance m a ® ^ to its etiology, very small local injuries or irritations ha\e been trac as the cause-leech-bites, blistering-plasters, and, in Hshino- with a whip. Scars in some cases may also be the oi keloid“ It is not always possible to make a certain diagnosis between the keloid rnrbypertrophied scars. On making vertical sections of the affected skinf^ick masses of fibrous ^ Tiarallel with the surface in the corium, normal layers ot which seem to Fol {‘p“c. Trans.- xxii, 3 y) *owed four t— in size from a small fist to a walnut, which were removed from the ea r'r, T-iiTinicT, Tliev are very common among them, ana of ."W perorations made in the ears for earrings. rSrthey plLe^ a%ense, white, glistening, fibrous appear-