151 ANEURISM—AEPECTIONS OE THE MOUTH, ETC. Woodniau. “Aneurism of the Alclominal Aorta presenting unusual Features (solely ffit. 52, gangrene of right leg two years before), ih., ii, 380. Egan, Aoitic Aneurism,” ib., 1872, i. i 00. Browning, “Eupture of Aorta within the Pericardium (man, mt. 34), ib., 661. Lincoln, “A case of Aneurism of the Arch of the Aorta treat;i by Electrolysis,” ‘New York Med. Rec.,’ vi, 127. Moxon and Durham ‘ On a ease of Abdominal Aneurism cured by Compression of the Aorta (man, ‘Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ Iv, 213. Bryant, “A case of Abdominal Aneurism ti^ated by Distal Pressure ” (man, mt. 30), ib., 225. Habershon, “ On some Obscure Forms of Abdominal Disease, i. Aneurism of the Abdominal Aorta simulating spinal disease. 2. Aneurism of the Aorta both in Chest and Abdomen; rupture; symptoms resem- blino- those of renal calculus. 3. Aneurism of the Abdominal Aorta at the Loeiiac Axis”: gastric symptoms; pain in the testicle; rupture behind the peritoneum, ‘ Guy’s Hosp. Reports,’ xvi, 389. Domville “ Case of Aortic Aneurism (man,_ mt. 40), ‘Lancet,’ 1871, ii, 287. Sparks, “Intrapericardial Rupture of the Aorta in a Boy of 16,” ib., 13. Sebrotter, “Case of probable partial Obliteration of Aorta (man, mt. 28, still alive), ib., ib. Waters, “ Clinical Lecture on Thoracic Aneurism (three cases, and another already published), ib., 1872, i, 247. E. Diseases oe the Organs oe Digestion. Affections of the Mouth, Pharynx, and Salivary Glands. Isainbert (‘Gaz. Hebd.,’ 1871, 7^7) gives a sketch of scrofulous (pbaryngo-scrofulous) angina. It is, according to him, characterised by a slight degree of ulceration, or only erosion, of the follicles situated especially at the back of the pharynx; syphilitic ulcerations, on the contrary, commence on the velum, pillars and epiglottis before attack- ing the posterior wall of the pharynx. The scrofulous ulceration may, however, spread to these parts, and to the orifice of the Eustachian tube and the arytenoid cartilages. They are indolent and unaccom- panied by any swelling of the cervical glands. They are yellow, rough, and covered with muco-purulent matter. In the worst cases the whole mucous surface is obscured by a greyish deposit, the breath is foetid, and yellow pointed pustules like small boils are visible. It is not always easy to distinguish the scrofulous and syphilitic lesions of the pharynx, though the diagnosis is generally easy in extreme eases ; but the treatment which cures those due to the syphilitic poison only aggra- vates the scrofulous ulcers, which are healed by tonic and anti-scrofulous remedies. Adhesions of the velum may follow their cicatrisation, and must be remedied by surgical means; the deafness which often succeeds, and is due to obliteration of the Eustachian tube cannot apparently be cured. He recommends iodide of iron, general tonics, cod-liver oil, and local applications of tincture of iodine, either alone or with opium; sethereal tincture of iodoform; solutions of chloride of zinc, or concentrated chromic acid; inhalations of a powder composed of iodoform and lycopodium; and in cases in which the ulceration is accompanied with haemorrhage, the local use of perchloride of iron. In the discussion which followed the reading of this paper in the Societe Medicale des Hopitaux, Lhbbe strongly opposed the term “ scrofulous ’ as applied to the affection, on the ground that scrofula is not a disease, but a diathesis. Lubanski (‘ Lyon Med.,’ viii, 426) writes upon “ Ulcerative angina,” which complicates ulcerative stomatitis in soldiers, and is more pro-