IIEPOIIT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 132 tion of the heart in a number of bodies. He holds that the assertion that in enlargement of the left ventricle the heart is increased vertically, and in that of the right ventricle is increased in breadth, is not strictly true. The ‘Lancet’ (1872, i, 149) contains an abstract of a lecture by Duchek, in which he discusses the origin of the bruit du diahle. This murmur is modified by the strength of the pulse in the carotids (moments of reinforcement) and by acceleration of the respiration. He holds that it is due to the vibration of the half-opened valves in the bulbus of the jugular vein behind the insertion of the sterno-mastoid, and requires for its production a rapid circulation of blood and a normal pressure of the blood in the thorax. If the latter is increased by valvular failures, emphysema, &c., the murmur is not heard, and hence the general view that this murmur excludes insufficiency of the mitral. Allbutt (‘St. Gfeorge’s Hosp. Eep.,’ v, 22) writes on the effects of overwork and strain on the heart and great blood-vessels. He gives the following as the order in which the chronic morbid changes seem to present themselves for consideration:—(i) Dilatation of the right heart, (2) dilatation of the left heart, (3) in reason, if not in time, hypertrophy of the left ventricle, or both ventricles, (4) chronic inflammation of the aorta and aortic valves, (3) dilatation of the aorta, (6) incompetence of the aortic valves, with (7) further compensatory hypertrophy of the left ventricle, (8) loss of compensatory hypertrophy, with consequent rapid failure, and often with consequent mitral regurgitation. This order of succession may be complete, or may present these variations among others, that after the fourth stage the inner coats of the aorta may and often do give way, or aortic incompetence takes place. He meets with simple dilatation and hypertrophy so constantly in patients who have been subjected to over-exertion that he places them together, unhesitatingly, as' the beginnings of mischief. He further examines into the facts which bear upon the above assertions, giving sphygmo- graphic tracings of different cases. In several cases he has been ternpted to attribute phthisis to hemorrhage into the lung; it is at least remarkable that many of those suffering from pulmonary phthisis seem to have enjoyed good health up to the time when froin some cause or other hemoptysis occurred (cf. ‘ Med. Times and Gaz., ^^Stone'^(^Hew York Med. Eec.,’ vi, 36) feels quite certain that a large proportion of diseases of the heart may be warded off or very much miti- gated A large proportion of heart diseases arise from inflammation, Ihich occurs mostly in the young, and a much larger number than is supposed begin purely as functional derangements which it not relieved lead on to dilatation, insufficiency of the valves, and all the consequences of obstructed circulation through the organ. He lays stress^pon not waiting for a friction sound or murmur, lor instance in the rheumatism of children, but exhibiting drugs at once. His remarks on functional derangement contain nothing new. , . , , 1 1 Snelling (ib., 6)-gives short notes of twenty cases in which the sub- clavian beuLs-murmur was heard. He gives a table in which the cases