409 ON THE MANAGEMENT OF THE PERIN^EUM. the walls of the uterus. The treatment recomniended is to pass the finner and separate the united surfaces, but when they are beyond reach it is best to rupture the membranes. _ Hour-glass and other irre- gular contractions after delivery are attributed to the same cause. (‘Amer. Journ. Obst.,’ May, 1872.) M. Mattel, writing on false cramps during pregnancy and labour, says that they are to be explained by the pressure which the foetus exerts on the course of the nerve which borders on the painful part, though the pressure be made far from the seat of pain. But these pains may also exist without pressure on the nerve^s, and may be a reflex pheno- menon of uterine trouble. (‘Gaz. des Hop.,’ Hov. 1872.) Tachard wndtes on the use of electricity in midwifery. He believes that uterine contractions cannot be induced by it unless they have already commenced, and that uterine inertia coming on during the ex- pulsive stage of labour is not to be treated by electricity, but that in the stage of dilatation, when applied to the lumbar region it increases the contractions, both in duration and intensity. The cervix dilates more readily, the expulsion of the placenta immediately follows the child, and neither the mother nor the child sufiers from the treat- ment. Dr. Chantreuil speaks favorably of uterine expression as a means of delivery. He bases his observations on 540 cases in which the practice was followed. (‘ Gaz. Med. de Paris,’ July, 1871.) On the management of the 'perincBum during labour.—Dr. Goodell gives an elaborate historical account of the practice, and of the various methods employed. He concludes that when it seems necessary to aid nature the best method is to insert one or two fingers of the left hand into the rectum, the woman lying on her left side, with her knees well drawn up and separated by a pillow, and to hook up and pull forward the sphincter ani towards the ‘pubes. The thumb of the same hand is to be placed upon the foetal head, scrupulously avoiding all contact with the fourchette. The right hand is to assist the thumb in making the head hug the pubes, or in retarding its advance, and is to press back the head from the perinseum and thus to repress reflex uterine action. By this method the perinseum is brought forward without direct pressure, and its dilatation is diffused over its entire surface. The aid rendered is not liable to sudden interruption by any movements of the mother, and the circulation of the blood is left free. Dr. Goodell believes that the rapid springing back of the fourchette over the pro- jecting nose, or the subsequent rapid expulsion of the shoulder often produces lacerations. These are also well controlled by the above method, in the former instance, by merely pulling forward the sphincter ani, in the latter by adding the support of the right hand to the emerging shoulders. (‘Amer. Jour. Med. Sci.,’ Jan. 1871.) ^ Dr. Swayne states (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ July, 1872) that his expe- rience proves the inefficiency of support for the prevention of perineal lacerations. There is seldom any great danger of rupture until the head is^ protruded so far that the accoucheur can grasp the exposed portion with his thumb and fingers. When this can be done the best plan is to press the head forwards as much as possible under