449 ATROPINE. Hydrocyanic acid would thus appear to act upon the blood in the same manner as it acts upon fermenting solutions, which immediately on the addition of the acid cease to ferment. . . . , NitrO’lenzol.—Bahrdt* * * § describes several cases of poisoning with nitro-benzol, one of which proyed fatal. Three young persons about the age of 20, prepared a liqueur by filling an ordinary wine-bottle with one part of water, two parts of alcohol, and, as was said, twenty drops of nitro-benzol. One of the boys drank largely of the mixture about 8 o’clock in the morning. Death occurred about ^ p.m. The symptoms and post-mortem appearances are minutely described. The general summary is given in the following propositions: (i) even with a fatal dose of nitro-benzol there is a latent period of from one to twm hours (2) this latent period is independent of the kind of preparation, or of the quantity swallowed; (3) even during the latent period a peculiar greyish-blue discoloration of the skin is observed; (4) rapid pulse, intermittent respiration, unconsciousness coming on gradually or sud- denly, and dilatation of the pupils, are constant signs of poisoning with nitro-benzol; vomiting and convulsions are usually observed, but may be absent. A transitory recovery may occur even in fatal cases; (j) nitro-benzol poisoning differs from prussic acid poisoning by its longer latent period, the greyish-blue colour of the skin, and the dark- brown colour of the blood; (6) as treatment, Bahrdt recommends in the first instance the use of the stomach-pump, the inhalation of ammonia vapour, and copious transfusion (2—3 ounces) ; (7) after death there is a distinct smell of bitter almonds; the blood is dark brown and fluid, and the endemic rigidity is well pronounced and of loug duration. Gliloral hydrate,—Several cases of poisoning by chloral have been reported in the medical journals at home and abroad. As most of the cases are in English journals and easily accessible, we merely give the references. See on this subject the papers by B. W. Eichardson,f Hunt and Watkins,! lSrorris,§ Fuller,|| Shaw,^ and Burr.** Maschkaff reports a case in which, after the administration of a drachm of chloral hydrate by a dentist for the purposes of anaesthesia during the extraction of teeth, death resulted within a few minutes after the operation. Atropine.—Prof. H. C. Wood, jun.,!! of Pennsylvania, has confirmed the observations of Messrs. Wharton Jones and Lemattre, that bella- donna and atropine have little or no influence on the pupils of pigeons ; and has established the fact, that belladonna, stramonium, and hyos- cyamus resemble morphine in their want of action on these birds. It appears to be almost impossible to immediately kill them with the * ‘Arch. f. Heilk.,’ 1871, p. 320. t ‘Med. Times and Gaz.,’ 1871, i, p. 169. j ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, i, p. 193. § ‘Lancet,’ 1871, i, p. 226. II Ibid., 1871, i, p. 403. TT ‘Phil. Med. and Surg. Rep.,’ July, 1871. ** Ibid., Dec., 1871. tt ‘Wien. Med. Wochensch.,’ 1871, No. 48. t! ‘Araer. Journ. Med. Sc.,’ Ixi, p. 128. 29