117 BRONCHITIS—ASTHMA—WHOOPING-COUGH. inent of tho Syrup of Peter Lamouvoux), ‘Gaz. des Hop.,’ 1871, 510. _ Local Bleedina in the Dilated Eight Ventricle of Chronic Bronchitis,” ‘ Hint. Med. Journ., 1872 i 128. Greenhow, “Lungs from a Case of Cured Phthisis, Death from Capillary Bronchitis, Cavities lined with False Membrane in both Lungs, Prolifera- tion of Interlobular Connective Tissue, and great thickening of the Pleura (man, ajt 20), ‘ Path. Soc. Trans.,’ xxiii, 47. Wilks, “ Bleeding in Emphysema and Bron- chitis ” (woman, £ct. 60, relief), ‘ Lancet,’ 1872,!, 88. Leyden, “ Tyrosin in Sputum_ (o-irl, with putrid bronchitis), ‘ Virch. Arch.,’ Iv, 239. Neureutter, “ Bronchiektasio mid hochgradiges Emphysem als Compensation bei oinem sieben Jahi' alten Knaben, ‘Oesterr. Jahrb. f. Paediatrik,’ 1872, 18. Bronchial Asthma. Leyden (‘Zur Kenntniss des Asthma Bronchiale,’ Eostock, 1871) describes a peculiar expectoration occurring in bronchial asthma. It is scanty, very tenacious, and transparent. It contains a mass of fila- ments and flakes, some very marked from their thickness and yellow colour. They are brought up from the flnest bronchi, and contain in their meshes granular mucus-corpuscles, and generally a large quantity of very beautiful and peculiar crystals, of an elongated octahedral form. The largest are visible under a power of 300 diameters, the smallest under one of 600, Crystals of the same kind have been described by Friedreich in croupous bronchitis, and they are probably identical with those found by E. Neumann in the medulla of the bones. In the blood of leuchaemic patients Leyden thinks that these crystals may act as mechanical or chemical irritants on the peripheral ends of the pneumogastric in the mucous membrane, and provoke reflex contraction of the muscles of the small bronchi. Weber, “Dag Aubree’sche Geheimmittel gegen Asthma Nervosum,” ‘Deut. Arch.,’ viii, 217. Lessdorf, “Asthma Nocturnum Periodicum. Morphium Injection Palli- ativmittel; Comprimirte Luft Eadicalinittel,” ‘Dent. Klin.,’ 1871, 15. Anstie, “ On the Pathological and Therapeutical Eelations of Asthma, Angina Pectoris, and Gastralgia,” ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, ii, 550. Gaskoin, “On the Treatment of Asthma,” ib., 1872, i, 339. Thorowgood, “A few Eemarks on the Treatment of Asthma,” ‘Med. Press and Circ.,’ 1872, i, 27. Whoo])ing-cough. Stefi’en (‘Jahrb. f. Kiuderkr.,’ iv, 427) confirms the good results obtained by the employment of quinine in whooping-cough, as first pointed out by Binz, and verified by Breidenbach. In the majority of cases he found it work speedily and readily, failing only in a few. He employed pretty strong doses, half to one gramme in the twenty-four hours, in children from two to five years. He gives two cases in full. In a case of a child of three years, who could not be got to take the drug, he used injections for the purpose. In three days nine injections, containing altogether two grammes of quinine, were given, with allevia- tion of the symptoms. MaeCall (‘ Glasgow Med. Journ.,’ 1871, iii, 162) during the winter of tound ulceration of the frsenum linguae in iii out of 2^2 children attacked with whooping-cough, or in about 44 per cent. The aftection varied in degree from a mere abrasion to a deep fissure with a grey or yellowish surface, and often bleeding during or after a