357 SURGEEY. flamed. Movement downwards lost, movement inwards and outwards limited, movement upwards very limited. The right eye had M = -Jy, with p!p. for No. 2 at 4-^", and was painful when used for very near vision. Tield normal. Dr. Cohn warned the patient of the possibility of sympathetic ophthalmia, and advised him to submit to enucleation if the field should become contracted, or if the pain felt in accommodation should increase. On the 6th of October he saw the case again, and found a better state of things. The p.p. at 2", the field normal, and all pain and inflammation had subsided. 5. Gommenginger, I., set. 22, wounded on Aug. 6th at Spicheren, and seen by Dr. Cohn on Aug. 13th. A bullet had entered at the junction of the nasal bones with the frontal bone, shattering the cribriform lamella of the ethmoid and the zygomatic process of the right superior maxilla, tearing the right eye out of the orbit, and issuing on the lower and back part of the cheek, in front of the right ear. The orifices of the wound and the cavity of the orbit were covered by healthy granulations, with abundant purulent secretion, and pus was also discharged from the nose and mouth. Crepitus could be clearly felt about the zygoma. The cheek was much swollen and very painful on pressure, the swelling simulating facial paralysis. In the course of time many splinters of bone were removed, and recovery took place. On the 23rd of Sept, the patient was discharged, the left eye being of normal aspect and free from discomfort. 6. Max, K., set. 27, wounded at Le Bourget on the 21st of December, at 9 a.m., when in the act of leaping over a ditch. Eelt as if his left eye had been pierced by a needle, then lost consciousness and fell into the ditch, where he remained two hours. At five in the evening found him- self a prisoner in the hospital at St. Denis. Had a sensation of empti- ness in the left orbit, and was told that his eye was gone, but does not know whether it had been removed by the surgeons. The wound was inflicted by a round ball from a Eemington rifle, and the ball, which he savv, seemed torn, as if it had been itself explosive. A portion of the patient’s gold spectacle frame was imbedded in the bullet, and near this a portion of one of the lenses, fused to an opalescent condition. The bullet was extracted on the sixth day after the injury, from the left sterno- mastoid, about below the lobe of the ear. After sufiering many pri- vations he was given over to a Prussian outpost on the 5th of Eeb., and Dr. Cohn saw him on the iith of May. The margins of the lids were united towards the outer canthus, so that the fissure could not be opened more than 3 and about t!' of the frontal process of the malar bone was wanting. The palpebral conjunctiva was almost of natural aspect, the ocular somewhat swollen. Nothing could be seen of the eyeball, the place of which was occupied by a cicatrix of two branches meeting at an angle, and with somewhat swollen margins. In the inner and upper part of the orbital cavity a probe detected some hard substaime, somewhat but not very sensitive, possibly remains of an eye- a . Eight eye M=3i, S = i, with difficulty, and under good illumina- tion. bndlen No. i was read fluently from 2" to 4". Eield of vision nonnal. On the 15th of May, in very good daylight, he read S=i with 4. Dr. Cohn instructed him concerning the premonitory signs of