REPOllT ON MEDICAL iUEISPEUDENCE. tion of the substance, and is attributed to oxidation of phenol in the mneys, but from the intensity of colour of the urinary secretion no conclusion can be drawn as to the saturation of the organism with the ’ mi Salskowski thinks to be combined in the urine with an a kali. The above-described symptoms of phenol intoxication are better ests 01 the saturation of the body with carbolic acid than is the colour 01 the urine. Bromine water forms no test of the presence of carbolic acid in the urinCj for it fails to detect that substance in the normal urine. Hoppe-Seyler found the symjitoms of phenol intoxication ensuing on the application of a concentrated aqueous solution of the agent to the abdomen of animals to agree pretty closely with those cited by Sal- skowski. Hoppe-Seyler was enabled to detect phenol in the blood, liver, kidneys,^ and brain, after death from its administration, and, above all, in the brain in much larger quantities than in the other viscera. It would hence appear that phenol accumulates in the central organs of the nervous system after the manner of anesthetics. (As carbolic acid is not an acid, it is very desirable that its scientific name, phenol, should be substituted for the term carbolic acid.—En.) Several fatal cases of poisoning by carbolic acid are reported, both suicidal and accidental. Jeffreys and Hainworth* give details of a case of suicide in a man, aged years, who swallowed from half an ounce to an ounce of commercial carbolic acid. Death resulted in fifty minutes. A. Ogstonf relates a case of a man, 45 years of age, who died thirteen and a half hours after swallowing by mistake for spirits an ounce to two_ ounces of phenol. After death the smell of carbolic acid was distinctly perceptible in the ventricles of the brain, the bladder, blood, and organs generally. ZimmJ gives a similar case, where from one to one and a half ounce of the commercial acid was taken in mistake for cognac. Death resulted in sixty hours after swallowing the poison. 'White§ observed dangerous eflects, not proving fatal, resulting from the application of carbolic acid in necrosis of the tibia. Hydrocyanic acid.—Preyer|| has published perhaps the most elabo- rate and complete monograph on the actions of the above poison ever issued, and has arrived at conclusions the importance of which can scarcely be exaggerated. A most valuable index of the bibliography of the subject is added. Preyer divides the symptoms exhibited during the course of a fatal case of poisoning by prussic acid into three stages—a preliminary stage, before the animal falls ; a convulsive stage, ending in collapse; and a paralytic or comatose stage. During the first or preliminary stage the breathing is rendered laborious and the frequency of the respirations diminished, whilst during the second or convulsive stage the respirations are diminished to an extraordinary extent. In the last, the paralytic or comatose stage, either the respirations undergo a * ‘Med. Times and Gaz.,’ 1871, i, p. 423. •}■ ‘Brit. Med. Journ./ 1871, p. 116. X ‘Virchow uud Hirsch’s Jahresber. £.,’ 1871, i, p. 337. § ‘New York Med. Gaz.,’ p. 274. II ‘Die Blausiiure’ (pamphlet).