OVAillOtOMi?—CLAMPSj JETC. 30 tion, forming what I denominate, in my book on the diagnosis of ovarian tumours, ^peritoneal inflammatory cyst.” (‘Am. Journ. Med. Sci.,’July, 1872, 133.) Large ovarian cyst; tapping; inflammation; great prostration; ovariotomy; recovery.—Mr. John Clay records the case of a patient extreme prostration resulting from inflammation of an TTrP'P 'f.nnmnrr wllPn /^TTo»n*/-\^-i-vrviTr ^44-1^ who was in >vuu vvao lu cAwemt) prostration resulting irom innammation 01 ar ovarian cyst after tapping, when he performed ovariotomy with success (‘Lancet,’ Sept. 7, 1872.) Cases of ovariotomy, under the care of Dr. W. L. Atlee, are given. (‘Am. Journ. Med. Sci.,’ Jan. 1872, 113.) In one case the cyst was full of pus, and was everywhere adherent. Neither clamp nor ligature was used, the vessels of the pedicle having been destroyed by inflammation. A second case was one of cyst of the broad ligament. A third was mul- tilocular with extensive omental adhesions. All the patients recovered. A case is also recorded which was under the care of Dr. John L. Atlee. The cyst was multilocular, there were slight adhesions, and the patient recovered, (p. 118.) Wound of intestine during ovariotomy, with recovery.—Mr. C. Heath records a case in which he operated for ovarian disease, and, in enlarging the abdominal wound with scissors, cut a piece of intestine which becam? entangled between the blades. He stitched the intestine to the ab- dominal wound, and so formed an artificial anus. After some time he applied the actual cautery to induce the opeuing to contract. It never quite closed; but the patient became fat, and a pad and belt sufficed to prevent all extrusion of fecal matter. Mr. Heath remarks that he believes no similar case is on record, and it will serve as a warning to surgeons to be on their guard against adherent intestine. If such an accident should occur he thinks the plan he adopted the best which could be carried out. (‘ Clin. Soc. Trans.,’ v, 3 < ) ^ew clamps, /c.-Dr. W. L. Atlee describes and figures a new clamp, constructed so as to ensure a parallel grip, and admitting adap- tation to a narrow or wide pedicle. (‘Amer. Journ. Med Scfence^’ April, 1871, 370.) Atp. 398 of the same journal he narrates seven cases of ovariotomy. Two of the patients recivered, five died Durthe? cases are given July, 1871, 128. They are three in number The paWs recovered, but in one, the tumour was not removed r. Dawson has invented a new clamp It is oval Onp limTi r-P+ “ILe? V.8hape1\Te™ ° limb £ed, aad then cut throagb wSb blades, the straight ends nnc,wp ' ^°^ceps with stirrup-shaped Btirrup fit into «oss-bar" of ?he these, then the tumour is cut off afn p grasped with fectly. There wae po h.morrba’ge';^ He 20