SPECIAL SENSE. TONGUE. 1" “Bewegungen des Gehororgans,” ‘Centralblatt,’ 1871, 593. S5 Ihlder* finds the nerves of the tongue in birds end in a ganglion-cell. He also describes a special form of bulb of ellipsoidal p- simple connective-tissue investment and transversely placed nuclei. The nerve ends with a well-marked swelling. _ . E. 'Wolferzt arrives at the following results from his conclusions in regard to the innervation of the lachrymal glands : i) The lachrymal is the proper excito-secretory nerve of the gland. (2) The subcutaneus mate has the same but less energetic action. (3) After section of the lachrymal no reflex can be excited through the fifth, but readily through the optic. (4) Excitation of the sympathetic sometimes gives positive, sometimes negative results. (5) The secretion continues after section of the lachrymal and sympathetic (paralytic secretion). (6) Poisoning with woorara excites the secretion even after section of the lachrymal, though less than on the opposite side. Ph. Lussana| adduces fresh evidence, chiefly of a pathological nature, in support of his views respecting the nerves ministering to the sense of taste. These cases show that the lingual in man presides over_ the gustatory sensibility of the anterior portion of the tongue, for in a woman in whom a portion was removed by Prof. Vanzetti, sensation was entirely abolished, though the form, colour, and nutrition of the organ remained unimpaired. But the lingual nerve in man is composed of the lingual proper and the chorda tympani, and there are cases of complete paralysis of the fifth on record in which, nevertheless, the gustatory sense was retained. On the other hand, there are cases of paralysis of the facial in which gustatory sensibility is lost, though the fifth is intact. Hence Lussana concludes that the sense of taste in the anterior part of the tongue is due to the chorda tympani. Dr. Schapringer§ finds that on contracting his tensor tympani, over which he has voluntary control, all notes below seventy vibrations are rendered inaudible. Other papers on the special senses are by Dr. Swan Burnett,|| E. Masch, E. Kessel, and Prof. Eudinger.^ A most elaborate paper, entitled ‘ Etudes d’Anatomie Comparee sur les Organes du Toucher chez divers Mammiferes, Oiseaux, Poissons et Insectes,’ by M. Jobert, is contained in the i6th vol. of the ‘ Annales des Sciences Haturelles,’ 1872. At one of the meetings of the Medico-Chirurgical Society (Eeb., 1872), Dr. W. H. Broadbent read a paper on the mechanism of thought. His theory was based partly on the results of dissection, partly on remarkable cases of loss of speech and paralysis. He considers that the impressions derived from the several senses are conducted by fibres radiating from the crus cerebri and central ganglia to the convolutions * ‘Eeichert und Dubois Eeymond’s Archiv,’ 1870, 238. Honigscbmied, “Ver- breitung der Becherformigen Organe der Zunge,” in ‘ Centralblatt,’ No. 26, 1872. t Inaug. dissert., Dorpat, 1871, Abstract in ‘Centralblatt,’ 1871, 838. I “Sur les Nerfs du Godt,” ‘Brown-Sequard’s Archives de Physiologic,’ 1872, 150 and 334. § ‘Wien. Akad. Sitzungsber.,’ l.\ii; and Humphry and Turner, 1871, 4or. II “ On the Functions of the Cochlea,” in the ‘ Medical and Surgical Eeporter, Nov. 4, 7871. ^ ^ ’