496 REPORT ON PUBLiO lIEALTtl. he Infant Life Protection Act, 1872, contemplates the periodical examination and licensing of all houses where baby-farming is carried on as a practice, and is intended to insure for infants sent out to nurse, proper food and attention; and, in the event of death an inquest is directed to be held. The Pactories Steam Whistles Act requires the sanction of the local sanitary authority for the use of steam whistles and trumpets in order to prevent annoyance in quiet neighbourhoods. ’ The Act of 1872 to amend the law for the prevention of adul- ^ration of food and drink and of drugs is a most important one. i>y the old statute of i860 it was made penal to adulterate articles of food and drink with substances injurious to health. By the Pharmacy Act of 1868, the provisions of the above statute were extended to druf^s; but the adulteration of drugs was deemed of such importance to the community that all admixtures of drugs were declared to be adultera- tions. These Acts were entirely inoperative, and not being obligatory, were never put in force. The recent statute amends the definition of adulteration, and enacts a penalty for the mixer, and the person who orders admixture, as well as for the vendor of adulterated articles of food, drink and drugs. It is thought that the law now stands thus, I. All admixtures of drugs are adulterations injurious to health. 2! Pood and drinks are adulterated when they are mixed with substances injpious to health, and also when substances are fr'audulently to in pease weight and bulk. 3. Local authorities are empowered to appoint analysts, who must have competent medical, chemical and microscopical knowledge, and it is supposed that the Local Government Board can compel recalcitrant local authorities to apppoint analysts. The Public Health Act, 1872, is a most important measure, pro- viding ^ for the constitution of urban and rural sanitary districts, authorities and officers; bringing the whole of Bngland under sanitary regime, and giving the central Local Government Board a direct voice in, and control over, the proceedings of the local sanitary authorities. It is ppected that this statute will speedily be supplemented by a consolidation of sanitary law—a reform much needed.