441 POISONS. acute pliosplioi’us poisoning with copper and oil of turpentine. His experiments were made on rabbits. The conclusions he has arrived at are as follows(i) The statements of Bamberger, that oil ot turpentine as an antidote to phosphorus is inert, are erroneous; (2) all the ani- mals which were treated with turpentine, after having been poisoned with phosphorus, lived longer than those which received copper; (3) the dose of phosphorus which could be borne when turpentine was given was much greater than that where copper was employed as an antidote ; (4) the temperature never rises so high when turpentine is administered as when copper is used; (^) owing to the great rise in temperature animals poisoned with phosphorus lose weight more rapidly when treated with copper than when treated with turpentine. In addition to these facts, the animals which were treated with copper were much stronger physically than those treated with turpentine. As an example of the influence of turpentine, he gives the following experi- ment. To one rabbit 25 minims of phosphoretted oil along with 80 minims of olive oil were given, to another the same dose of phos- phorns along with 80 minims of French oil of turpentine. _ The first died, the latter remained quite well. He regards turpentine as the best antidote to phosphorus. Tissue changes in phosphorus poisoning.—Voit* and Bauer’investigate phosphorus poisoning in relation to the fatty degeneration of the tissues and organs which it causes. By giving phosphorus to dogs deprived of food for several days they found that the ordinary symptoms of phosphorus poisoning and fatty degeneration of all the organs were produced. The fat could not have come from the food, as the animals were in a state of starvation, nor from the other parts of the body, as there the fat had all disappeared for the same reason. It must therefore have been produced by the decomposition of the albuminous tissues. They show by experiment with Yoit’s respiration apparatns that in phosphorus poisoning the fatty degeneration is due both to diminished oxidation of fat and to its increased production from the transformation of albumen. They find with Schultzen and Riess that the urea is increased, but they found no abnormal products in the urine, except in fatal cases a little sarcolactic acid. They did not find leucin or tyrosin in the urine, but found these abundantly in the liver, heart, and blood of dogs poisoned with phosphorus. The nitrogenous products of the decomposition of albumen are therefore converted into urea in all cases in the dog, and in slighter cases of phosphorus poisoning in man. In severe cases in man the decomposition is imperfect, and the higher products of decomposition are excreted. They think that the greater rapidity of degeneration in acute yellow atrophy of the liver is the chief difference between this disease and phosphorus poisoning. Corrosive Poisoning. Sulphuric acid.—Cases of fatal poisoning by this substance are related by Malmsten and Schauenburg.f 1 ! ''' P- 946; ‘ N. Eep. Pharm.,’ 3 t ‘ Schmidt’s Jahrb.,’ civ, p. 7. + ^ .7 ^^7 P' 34®'