289 ASPIRATION OF STRANGtlLATED INTESTINE. Catqut sutures to the tendinous openings in hernia.—Mr. Lister has successfully emjDloyed catgut sutures in stitching up the tendinous 02)enings in operating on ventral and umbilical hernise. (Address, ‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’Aug. 26, 1871.) Strangulated TImhilical Sernia; operation ; sac opened; recovery.-—Dr. Arnison mcntious two cases. (‘Lancet,’Nov. 2, 1872.) Incarcerated scrotal hern'-.a; operation; artificial anus: recovery.— The case of a man, set. 63, under Mr. Hutchinson’s care for hernia presented features of interest. The hernia was incarcerated from im- paction of faeces ; there was an absence of strangulation, and yet the bowel was sloughing. There was no vomiting and no constipation, but the prostration was extreme. Great relief followed the oj)eration. The right scrotum was enlarged, swollen, tender, and of dusky red hue. On incision, the hernial sac was found distended and fluid was let out. The neck was quite free. The intestine contained a large mass of faeces of almost stony hardness and was sloughing at one part. The mass was turned out and the margins of the bowel stitched to the edges of the wound. The artificial anus gradually closed. (‘ Lancet ’ Aug. 24, 1872.) ^ Treatment of strangulated hernia hy puncture of the intestine.—In the Med. Times and Gazette,’ Ajeril 20, 1872, Mr. Bryant records the case of a man, aet. 71, the subject of strangulated scrotal hernia and upon whom he performed herniotomy. It was necessary to expose the bowel in order to return it. Owing to the restlessness of the patient however, the gut again descended in a few hours, and aU attempts to reduce it failed, until the large intestine was punctured in four or five places with a grooved needle and a quantity of flatus let out. The patient recovered without any bad symiitom. Mr. Bryant advo- cates puncturing the intestine in certain cases of hernia. He thinks It imssible that some herni£e may be reduced without any cutting one- ration at_ all. He intends trying puncture in large scrotal and umbi- lical herniffi, and thinks the plan adapted for all cases of acute internal ^rangulation, due possibly to bands or twists. In the ‘ Med. Times and r iT' u ^ strangulated hernia treated success- fully by puncture are referred to. T oEE' P^^f^'ture of the intestine in hernia.—Dv. Leon Labbe records a case of strangulated inguinal hernia in a man, *t. 70 m which aspirating puncture of the intestine was employed. Fluid Tas SrT- related to the Academy of Medicine, in May 1872 the case of a young man, to whom he was called, sufi-er ng Sstran’ gulated congenital hernia. M. Demarquay sa^ him ^ the second rX:fthe hoSttt 1 and atltpted to PoS»tpt7o"anVwrth& He then ?ppUed of liouid Afi-PvwnifN^r,r £ ^^^®^^irie about 120 grammes whicli had none down J’ ^ mmntes to see whether the swelling, rheTbdoi®n ^ pSn?g““S replaced the intestine fn treated h, rest, snrall diesis of o^.'Sirdtt > andXirfgrd 19