THE PUEEPERAL STATE. 421 mother or the child, its action is certain, the contractions it induces pe regular and natural, and it is free from danger at whatever pmod of pregnancy it is administered. See also Delioux de Savignac, Bull. Gen. de Therap.,’ vol. 8i. Dr. Denham concludes that ergot of rye does not act as a poison on the foetus. Physiological experiments on animals are in favour of me view that ergot is, at all events, not a powerful or violent poison. He believes that when ergot is administered between the sixth and ninth months the life neither of mother nor child is affected, and that labour is not induced by it until the full period of utero-gestation is com- pleted. (‘Dub. Obst. Soc.,’1872.) _ _ Dr. Thompson believes that ergot should be administered with great care in persons of feeble cardiac power. (‘Brit. M!ed. Journ., Aug. 1872.) IV.—The Pueepeeal State, Professor Martin adheres to the view previously put forward by him as to the nature of puerperal fever, that it is due to a diphtheritic pro- cess set up in the female genitalia, this diphtheritis spreading by an infiltration of the pelvic cellular tissue, occasionally by extension along the mucous membrane direct to the peritoneum, or more frequently through the lymphatics. In reference to the influence of retained decom- posed portions of placenta in setting up puerperal fever he points out that fragments are frequently retained in utero without setting up any decomposition or putrid absorption, so that in the former cases some other incident must be sought to explain the occurrence. He thinks a preceding inflammation of the genitalia, as seen in several cases of gonorrhoea before labour, has some influence in producing the diphthe- ritic condition after labour; although, as a rule, the poison gains access in other, and very different ways. Martin points out that diphtheritic affection of the genitals does not exclusively attack lying- in women, although they are particularly subject to it. Dubois observed that at the time when puerperal fever was epidemic, the young midwives of the Maternite were occasionally, during menstrua- tion, attacked with a febrile affection analogous to that affecting the women whom they attended. In reference to the treatment, the prophylactic measures are the most important, but digitalis, quinine, and baths are indicated for the fever, while disinfectant vaginal and uterine injections are insisted upon. (‘Alleg. Mediz. Zentr.,’ Aug. 9 and 12, 1871.) The pathology of puerperal fever is discussed by Omboni. (‘ Gazz. Lomb,,’ 25, 26, 1871.) Dr. Waldeyer, of Breslau, writes (‘Arch. f. Gyniik.,’ hi, 2) on the occurrence of Bacteria in the diphtheritic form of puerperal fever. After referring to the labours of Mayrhofer, Haussmann, Coze, and Feltz, in the same direction, he states that he has examined the diph- theritic deposit on the inner surface of the uterus, the puriform masses in the lymphatic vessels of the uterus and of the broad ligaments, the peritoneal exudation (both the fluid exudation and the yellowish-white- purulent fibrinous flakes), and in one case the thick exudation in the