REPOliT ON SURGEllY. 201 have terminated in recovery. In Mdbus’s case there was a tumour below the occipital bone on the right side. It might have arisen from either the occipital or the vertebral artery; but pulsation was not arrested by pressure on the occipital artery, nor was the tumour dimin- ished by compression of the carotid. In Kocher’s case it was, at first, uncertain whether the vertebral or the deep cervical artery was injured ; but the haemorrhage, on the removal of the dressing, and the result of introducing the finger as far as the transverse processes of the vertebrae, soon rendered the diagnosis clear. In a number of cases, traumatic aneurism of the vertebral artery has been supposed to be seated in one of the branches of the carotid. Kocher adopts Barbieri’s explanation of this. It is that, when the carotid is compressed against the so-called carotid tubercle, on the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra, the vertebral artery is also compressed, at its point of entry into the foramen of the transverse process. The deception is not removed by compressing the carotid at a higher point, for the vertebral may pass up in front of the transverse processes. If it be desired to compress the vertebral alone, the plan recommended by Barbieri must be followed, of applying deep pressure, from without inwards, at the inner edge of the sterno-mastoid muscle. Kocher says that compression of the vertebral with the carotid may be avoided by applying pressure to the latter, laterally, through the sterno- mastoid muscle. In nine of the recorded cases the wound was at, or above, the second cervical vertebra; in two, it is stated, merely, to have been at the upper part of the neck, and, in six, it was below the second vertebra. In four of the latter cases it was in the neighbourhood of the external carotid and its branches. Barbieri believes that the seat and direction of the wound and the situation of the swelling will aid the diagnosis, but Kocher dissents from this opinion. With regard to treatment, Kocher, following Barbieri, says that in three cases there is no record. In one case, death was the result of haemorrhage; in another of compression of the medulla oblongata by the elfused blood. Another patient died of meningitis, and another of septicsemia following suppuration of the areolar tissue of the neck. One patient died of haemorrhage after the removal ot a bullet. In eleven cases, the carotid artery was tied, through error in diagnosis, and this operation probably rendered the evil greater, by increasing the pressure of the blood in the vertebral artery ; indeed, in two of the cases thus operated on, the patient died of violent haemorrhage from the seat of injury, and, in three, from bursting of the aneurism. In five cases liga- ture of the carotid was followed by paralysis and death. Liicke, m a case in which the aneurism increased rapidly after ligature of the carotid injected chloride of iron into the sac, and also applied plugs saturated with the perchloride ; the patient, however, died with symp- toms of paralysis. Maissonneuve, in a case of gunshot wound, tied both the vertebral and the inferior thyroid arteries, and removed the bullet The hsemorrhage was arrested, but death occurred irom infi - tration of pus into the spinal canal, and consequent infiammation. In Mobus’s case the treatment for the first seventeen days consisted in the application of bandages and cold lotions. Haemorrhage then