27 SPECIAL SENSE.—TONGUE. bv the contractile substance, which when the “^scle is at rest is only dfmlv visible, becomes marked by a well-defined outline, and to super- £l observation the decrease in length appears to be compensated for hTL increase in breadth. This is, however, by no means the case, but the dimly defined spot representing the position of the contractile sub- stance has become quite disproportionally attenuated, whilst tjie ter- minal disks are not, as might be expected, attenuated, but are actually thickened. It would hence appear that the muscular fibre has under- gone a change in its histological character, and is not a mere shorter and thicker body than when at rest. The change consists in this—that the contractile substance, which in the resting fibre is accumulated^ around the median disk of each muscle-element, leaves this position during con- traction, and becomes applied to the corresponding terminal disks. Hence instead of each element containing as it does, during rest, an entire transverse stria in its middle, it exhibits during contraction one half of this stria at each end. Merkel recommends the chelse ot a crab to bo ituniersed in alcobol; tho alcohol penetrates but slowly, and although it causes the outer fibres to contract, the innermost ones _ are dead, and therefore relaxed, before the fluid reaches them, and sections show all the intermediate stages, Donitz* maintains the old view of fibrils as opposed to the compart- ment theory of the structure of muscle. Wagenerf admits the existence of Hensen’s intermediate band, but maintains there are from two to eight adjoining striae, which, though very fine, are constantly present. He describes the contraction of the muscles of an insect in the following terms : The anisotropal substance with Hensen’s intermediate stria and the adjoining striae shorten and approximate to one another, and then the two isotropal striae, which at first are separated by the broad anisotropal substance, become so closely compressed together that they are only divided by a faint line. DanilewskyJ shows that the quantity of albuminoid compounds in muscle diminishes, though to an inconsiderable extent, in tetanus. The alcoholic extract of tetanized muscle contains more nitrogen than that of resting muscle, which from various considerations renders it evident that during contraction there is an increased disintegration of the muscle- substance. During contraction a phosphorized body (lecithin) is pro- duced. "Warm alcohol withdraws from muscle exclusively the products of its retrogressive metamorphosis. Mohammed Hafiz remarks that the vital properties of transversely striated muscular tissue render it a 'priori probable that its blood cur- rent should present some peculiarities. Opposite conclusions might be drawn from a consideration of the physical and chemical changes occurring during contraction in regard to the flow of blood through the muscles; on physical grounds it would be natural to suppose that less blood would traverse the tissue, whilst the larger amount of carbonic acid eliminated would rather seem to show that more blood traversed it. * ‘Reichert und Dubois Reymond’s Archiv,’ 1871, 434. t ‘ Sitzungsberichte der Gesell. der Gesam. Nat. zu Marburg,’ 1872, 25. t ‘ Centralblatt,’ No. 28, 1872.