200 REPORT ON SURGERTf. ments, in the neighbourhood, were oedematous, and the veins were in a varicose state. As ligature or compression appeared to be impossible, it was determined to try the plan of injecting ergotin subcutaneously, as recommended, by Langenbeck. The solution, used, consisted of a di’achin of Boujean’s ergotin, and three drachms, each, of glycerine and alcohol. Of this, a portion, containing half a grain of ergotin gradu- ally increased to three grains, was injected in the neighbourhood of the swelling, at first every second day, afterwards every third day. Alto- gether fifteen injections were made between October 25^^ December ist. A diminution of the tumour was first noticed after the fourth injection, and after this continued steadily. The injections pro- duced sharp pain, lasting for about two hours, but not followed by abscess. At the points of injection, however, there was left some in- duration of the skin and subcutaneous tissue, which compressed the veins and, probably, bad a similar efiect on tbe aneurism. In the beginning of December, the supraclavicular fossa was free from the tumour; digital compression was now applied during three hours, in the morning and three, in the afternoon, for six days; under this treat- ment the tumour totally disappeared. As a precautionary measure, ten injections containing, each, three grains of ergotin were administered at long intervals, and compression, with a bandage and pad, was kept up for some time. The aneurism, when the patient was last seen (July, 1870), was quite cured, forming a hardened mass attached to the sternum and clavicle. . n • tj 1. • Muscular spasm relieved by compression of arteries—Broca naving found in his own person, that compression of the femoral artery relieved cramp of the leg, conceived the idea of applying the same treatment to constant, violent, muscular contraction in a case of fractured leg which came under his care. The spasms were so violent and painful that the limb could not be put up in splints. On applying pressure to the femoral artery the contractions at once ceased and on them recurring, at a later time, when the dressings were being readjusted compression was again applied successfully. (‘ Journal de Med. e Chir Prat.,’March, 1871.) a x, Aneurism of the common carotid artery; A man, set. 39, came under t4 care of Mr. James Lane on account of a large, pul- sating tumour on the right side of the neck, of nine months duration. Tim frtery was ligatured about two inches above the sterno-clavicular ioint with^a silk ligature. Increase of temperature was noted on the fame for the first two days. The normal and finally, below that of the opposite side. The man pre sented himself for examination eleven weeks ^^f^r the operation, an scf cely any trace of the tumour could be discovered. (‘ Lancet, Oct. narrates a case in which he ligatured the left common f ,q.Tp?v below the omo-hyoid, for aneurism. The patient dmd IvsTate/’ It was found that he had a cancer of the rectum which liberated into the peritoneum and set up peritonitis. The condi- Uon ii the wound and cf the aneurism had been Tery satafactory. (‘Lancet,’ June 3, 1871, 74i-)