HEPOUT ON PHYSIOLOGY. 4 causing the lymphatics of the tendons to absorb, by a kind of suction- power, the lymph within and surrounding the muscular masses. He ascertained the amount of lymph discharged from the thoracic duct in a given time, both when the muscles were quiescent and when excited to powerful and sustained action by induced currents of electricity, and found that the proportion varied from i : 4-4^ to i : 24-5 in favour of the period when the muscles were called into play. Lesser * corro- borates Genersich’s results, and recommends the insertion of a glass tube into the thoracic duct of fasting dogs for the procurement of large quantities of lymph. He obtained in this way as much as 300 c.c. of lymph in a few hours. Hammarsten t analysed the gases of the lymph thus obtained, and found as much as 40 per cent, of carbonic acid. Nasse:{; investigated the circumstances that influence the flow and for- mation of the lymph. He flnds that ligature of the carotid diminishes the rapidity of the current in the cervical lymphatics, and causes an in- crease in the amount of water and a diminution in the amount of fibrin in the fluid traversing them. Ligature of the veins produced opposite effects. Irritation of the sympathetic, or rather of the vago-sympa- thetic, caused a diminution of the lymph current and augmentation of the coagulability of the lymph. Section of the sympathetic had re- markably little effect. Goltz § has demonstrated, in an interesting paper, that the nerve- centres have a direct and considerable influence on the process of absorption. Popper II has investigated the mesenteric glands of dogs by means of the chloride-of-gold method of Cohnheim and Gerlach. He finds the capsule of the lymphatic glands contains fasciculi of non-medullated nerve-fibres, from which nerves pass off, which penetrate into the sub- stance of the gland, where they form a fine plexus, some of the fibres of which are traceable into connection with the cell-elements. Here and there were found stellate cells resembling ganglion-cells. Dr. E. Klein and Dr. Burden Sanderson,^ in a paper on the normal and pathological histology of serous membranes, describe the arrange- ment of the lymphatics in them. They show how the lymphatics communicate at various points, not only by true stomata, but also by means of protoplasmic processes of the lymph-canal-cells which run to the surface between the endothelial cells with the serous cavity. _ These last they call pseudo-stomata. In a later number** of the same journal Dr. Lavdowsky lays claim to the merit of being the original discoverer of the true stomata, and the same histological feature was observed by Dr. Winogradowtt in the amnion. KohrigJ^; shows that various substances, as turpentine, solution of * ‘ Berichte der konig. Sachs. Gesellschaft der Wisscnsch.,’ 1871. t Idem, 1871. j ‘ Henle uiid Meissner’s Bericht fiir 1871,’ 121. § ‘Pfliiger’s Arcbiv,’ v, i. II ‘ Archives of Medicine,’ v, 46. ^ ‘Centralblatt,’ Nos. 2, 3, and 4, 1872. ** No. 17. ft ‘Rudnew’s Archiv,’ iii, 1871, i. ‘Archiv d. Heilkunde,’ 1872, xiii, 341-388.