TREATMENT OF CICATRICES FROM BURN, ETC. 331 performance and slight cicatrices left afterwards. An illustration is given. The disease is removed by a quadrilateral-shaped incision. Prom the outer (and inferior) angles of the defect, incisions should be made downwards and outwards to the lower border of the inferior maxilla, terminating at about one inch and a quarter from the sym- physis. From the apex of the chin two other incisions, united above, should be made, parallel to the first ones, but underneath the chin, and each of them from half to three quarters of an inch in length. ’ The soft parts included within these four incisions should then be dissected off* the inferior maxilla as far as the inferior extremities of the two lower incisions (those, namely, beneath the chin) and these latter then permit the soft tissues of the chin to be pushed upwards, so as completely to fill up the defect made by the removal of the morbid growth. (‘ I)ub Journ. Med. Sci.,’ Dec. 187a, 444.) ' ^ Treatment of cicatrices from hurn.—'Dr. Buck records the case of a child affected with extensive cicatrices of the front of the neck, &c on whom he operated successfully. A broad band extended from’the chin to the sternum, approximating them to within two inches of each other At both lateral edges of the band, the adjacent, continuous sound skin receded, and formed a deep pocket behind the band itself BO that the fingers pressing from opposite sides were easily made to meet, with the skin only intervening. A photograph is given showing the great width of the band well. _ The patient being under the infiuence of ether, the entire cicatricial band was divided into three serrated, irregular fiaps, interlocking each other. One of the three was central with its apex upward at the symphysis menti: the other lateral, with their apices downward, and resting on the . diverging incisions carried from the sympmsis downward and outward to either edge of the band at the clavicles. From these terminal points an incisfon wafmSe alon^ either margin of the band, upward and outward, to the edge of the jaw. The three flaps were then dissected up from the subiacent loose, connective tissue, from their apices towards their bases. The disLc’ tion was carried beyond the limits of the scar. The flaps were adiSed lines of cicatrix formed and were notched.' The advanced means of an apparatus which is described in detaiUnd ^4urS^^^ T parallel bars were fixed along the back from the pelvis t? the' the chin above the collar thus fiirflic obliged to lift means of a screw behind, the chin could\e % patient recovered satisfactorily A woodcut offdepressed. The gi-ven. In the course of soine remarks D. t f .^^^1 appearance is of the removal of tl.e indurated cicatrized parts ty Z^gW^g, an”