REPORT ON SURGERY. 314 same means. For some time, in the cases where the double rise of temperature was observed, Billroth attributed the first elevation of temperature to the irritation directly produced by experiment, and the second to the supervention of a secondary inflammatory process. This double rise, however, did not follow the injection of serum or of hydro- cele fluid. This double elevation of temperature Billroth suggests may be explained by assuming a defect in the regulation of the production of heat. If the regulating apparatus be regarded as nervous or mus- cular, it may be supposed to become exhausted by excess of work; that then the rapid effect of the pyrogenic action will be held in check by the renewed energy of the regulating apparatus; and that, this again becoming exhausted, the progressive influence, though there is no new formation or increase in quantity of it, again produces a rise of tempera- ture, In Billroth’s opinion injections of water (with or without embolic matters), of putrid fluid, of pus, of blood serum, of hydrocele fluid, &c., all give rise, alike, to pyrogenic action ; but the time of appearance and the duration of this vary. Putrid matters and some forms of pus (as well as other substances) depress and even destroy the regulation of heat, and hence arise the longer duration and greater intensity of the elevation of temperature after the injections of these than after that of water. If the respiration and insulation be greatly lowered at a time when the pyrogenic action is still powerful, death is attended with a rise of temperature. If, on the other hand, the pyrogenic agent paralyse the regulating apparatus of temperature before the heart and lungs fail, then the temperature falls rapidly, and there ensues a state of vita minima recognisable only by a few respirations and by diminished action of the heart, the temperature of the body falling to a level with that of surrounding objects. 12. In the last chapter Billroth discusses the question. In what way is fever excited by inflammatory processes ? According to Zimmerann, the combustion in the seat of,inflammation is the source of the excess of heat which becomes distributed over the body. According to this hypothesis the heat of the inflamed part should always be greater than that of the blood, which, however, according to Mosengeil and Billroth, is not always the case. Traube and Senator suppose the increase of temperature to be due to a diminished expendi- ture of caloric, while Leyden and Liebermeister hold that there is an exaggerated production of heat in fever. Another hypothesis js that the septic substances introduced into the blood serve as materials for combustion; the production of fever by the injection of water or of serum, however, renders this improbable. If the ordinary doctrine be accepted, that increased temperature in fever is due to an exaggeration of the normal calorific process, the question arises. How is this brought about ?—in what way does the local inflammation exert an influence on the apparatus which regulates the production of heat ? In spite of the experiments of Brener and Chrobak, Billroth does not admit that irri- tation of the sensory or of the vaso-motor nerves produces fever by reflex action. The hypothesis which appears to him more probable is, that matters are carried from the inflamed or sloughing part_ into the blood, and act on the nervous system in such a way as to impair its power of regulating the production of heat. Billroth does not admit