TREATMENT OF TUMOURS BY SUBCUTANEOUS INJECTION. 245 cases, in which the treatment has been tried, have been those in which operation appeared unadvisable, and in which, therefore, no convincing I’esult could be expected. In primary cancer, the treatment ought to be tried at the earliest stage of the disease. In his paper, Heine referred to cases in which, after the injection of a watery solution of carbolic acid, cancer of the parotid and indurated syphilitic ulcers and pajjulae were said to have been reduced. In his experiments on cancer he modified the operation by injecting the fluid chiefly into the periphery, so as to act on the youngest proliferating cells, to bring their growth to a standstill, and to prevent the escape of the cancerous elements into the neighbouring lymphatic glands. A woman, £et. 48, the mother of three children, had had a tumour of the right breast for a year, and one of the left for six months. Their external appearance and an examination of excised portions showed them to be carcinoma- tous. Erom the left breast an indurated cord of lymphatics led to an enlarged axillary glaud of the size of a chestnut, and in the neigh- bourhood of the same breast several small, hard nodules were embedded m the skin. A solution of chloride of zinc (0-5 to i per cent.) was injected in the neighbourhood of the breast several times (the quantitv used being from five to seven charges of Pravaz’s syringe) but produced only severe pain, without any effect on the size of the tumour On October 31 Dr. Heine began to inject a solution of 1 per cent, of hydrochloric acid m quantities represented by from two to hve charges _ of Pravaz s syringe, at intervals of twelve or fourteen ys the injections being made between the breast and the axiUa. At the end of eight months a notable reduction in the size of the thrinf observed The enlargement of the axiUary glands and t e indurated lymphatic cord disappeared in a month from the com- mTn^se^S One gland, only, was removed for the purpose of microscojpic examination, and showed that the cancer-cell masses were broken down into a homogeneous, finely granular material he pam produced by the injection was slight. After the third iniec ion fever set in and lasted three months ; in Heine’s opinion it could and with an absorption-fever. It was treated with quinine^ and with carbolic acid in eight-grain doses in pills, with the efi-ect on^v of an?^®''4rtfcaUy'^in^ ‘"^^^^etres, HansvLsely! traostLely, afcw x^vertLuT 6^ tioo was omitted for a the end of the eighth month ’thi increased in size. At having for some time left her ^n good health, the fever mammary can^erln a woLnIn^l f ‘^<^ber cases, one of ulcerated the inguinal regioS L a secondary ulcerated cancer of febrile symptoms, molecular mpit1ul°d *>?<lyochlorie acid produced shrinking, ta two lastaacei D? hLo trophy of the prostate by mjectins aolutioi1‘if‘™H^®‘^ *“ ‘VP®*’’ 6o parts of tincture of fodiw. an® 8 parts ff ioHS®’ f ^ * As Dr HpJno r.vor.1-- *. T ° parts or iodide of potassium m A. Dr, Hens prartaes at Innspruct. he probably refers to the Austrian tineture“