DISEASES OF JOINTS^ ETC. 325 inclined backwards. A portion of it was removed with good effect; the breathing, liowever, did not become quite free, as there was paresis of the vocal cords, which yielded, however, to tlie application of elec- tricity continued for some time. The canula could not be removed, as this was in a few hours followed by renewed shortness of breath. The patient, however, gained the power of walking and ascending stairs with the canula closed; and in time she learned to introduce bougies herself through the glottis. Joint disease, necrosis.—Mr. Treves narrates some interesting cases of necrosis of the ends of bones leading to joint disease, and in which after the removal of the sequestra the latter subsided. A boy, set. ii, was admitted with disease of the left knee following necrosis of the end of the femur. He also suffered from necrosis of the lower end of the right tibia. The disease probably followed on an attack of rheumatic fever eleven months previously. The knee was much swollen, was contracted, and there were sinuses. After five months’ residence iu'the hospital at Margate, Mr. Treves made an incision below and on 'the inner side of the joint, and removed in three fragments a large seque- strum, which had become separated from the lower end of the femur. It was between two and three inches long, and about an inch in diameter, and corresponded to the lower third of the shaft of the femur; passing downwards it had been discharged through the con- dyles and the knee-joint. Eecovery with useful limb followed. Sequestra had previously been removed from the tibia on the inner side. A boy, set. 7, had disease of the knee and a sinus in the popliteal space, probably of twelve months’ duration. After about nine months’ residence, Mr. Treves removed a sequestrum from the back of the outer condyle of the femur. The boy was_ discharged able to walk on the limb. A boy, set. 10, was admitted with disease of the hip. A sinus on the front and outer side, led to bare bone. At the end of about mne months a sequestrum was removed from the inner side of the joint, the sinus having passed under the femoral vessels and opened on the inner side. The child did well. A boy, set. 7, had disease of the nkle. After seven months a sinus on the outer side was enlarged and a small sequestrum, which had separated from the lower end of the tibia towards its fibular side, and lay in contact with the joint, was removed through the joint. _ Tour months later the child could walk with ease. The average time required for the separation of the sequestrum was about eighteen months. (‘Lancet,’ Hov. 18 i8^ Disease of joints from continued rest. — Dr. Menzel writes nn fEia subject in the ;Archiv fiir Klin. Chirurgie,’ 1871 He remaX th^^^ Cloquet and other authors observed some time ago that ankvlosis was sometimes the result of prolonged disuse nf mi of the eonrlhinr. nf aisuse ot joints. The earlier stages ° w^ich ankylosis is the termination were fu-st In® W e==™iuation ofsTx’indMdul Wn limbs, and hid tteeby een jjrevented for long periods from using the joints. They found in mem'b w n iufiltiation of the sy“ovS membiane, and ulceration of the cartilages. Mensel has tested the