f 78 llEPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. aa epidemic of ' observed in the eyes. The patients bad a peculiarly fixed stare/with at any rate at first, perfectly free movement of the eyeball. The latter decreased as other symptoms of the presence of the trichinm in the muscles of the eye showed themselves. Simultaneously occurred obsti- nate mydriasis, which the author refers to paralysis of the third nerve (the short root of the ciliary ganglion). Maurer (“ Eine Trichinosisgruppe aus Eayern,” ‘ Dent. Arch.,’ viii, account of an outbreak of trichinosis, rare in the south oi Q-ermany, at Erlangen. Almost all the cases could be traced to one butcher’s shop. One patient, already'afi'ected with phthisis, died; and the post-mortem inspection proved the presence of trichinae. Zenker (“ Zur Lehre von der Trichinenkrankheit,” ib., 387) puts together the above case of Maurer’s with other autopsies of cases of trichinosis occurring in Bavaria (three in Wurzburg, and two in Erlangen). In opposition to the vulgar opinion, he holds that the rarity of the aftection is due to the small quantity of raw flesh eaten, not to the rare occurrence of afiTected pigs. The latter is contradicted by the frequent occurrence of trichinie in rats. In opposition, too, to the views of Leuckart, Pagenstecker, and others, he considers these animals as alfected secondarily, and as a consequence of affected pigs in the same neighbourhood. Erom materials gathered in Saxony, Bavaria, Wiirtemberg, and Austria, he deduces certain averages as to the fre- quency of trichinae in rats. At the same time he sees no reason to doubt the truth of KUhn’s observations, that these trichinous rats are eaten by pigs.* Ttie author concludes by giving certain veterinary advice which may conduce to the prevention of trichinosis among rats. Eeeb (‘Eec. de Mem. de Med.,’ xxvii, 31) gives two cases of hy- datids of the brain, the first in a boy set. 5 years, in whom the most marked symptoms were a left-sided chorea, and affections of the sight accompanied by dilated, uncontracting pupils, and atrophy of the optic nerve. A prominence was gradually developed on the right parietal bone, becoming soft and pulsatile, then gradually disappeared. Later on the tumour again appeared, increased in size, with fluctuating con- tents. It was twice punctured, seventy-two grammes of liquid being removed the first time, and seventy the second. Convulsions of a tetanic character set in some time before death. At the autopsy were found three communicating cysts, one subcutaneous, the second between the bone and the dura mater, and the third, larger, in the * The taste of these animals is as varied as that of the higher ones who devoiu’ them. The pigs of Estremadura are said to eat locusts; and, according to Eord (‘ Murray’s Handbook for Spain,’ 1869, part ii, p. 176), the Duke of Arcos shut up his pigs in places abounding in vipers, on which they fattened. Of “ ces petits jambons vermeils” the Due de St. Simon (‘ Mem.,’ x.v, 30) writes with infinite gusto, “ Ces jambons ont un parfnm si admirable, uu gout si releve et si vivifianfc, qu’on est surpris; il est impossible de rien manger si exquis.” Cobbold (‘ Brit. Med. Jouru.,’ 1871, ii, 394) draws attention to another entozoon (Stephanurus dentaius) found in the hogs of America and Australia.—A. B. S.