REDUCTION OF OLD DISLOCATION OP THE FEMUR. 253 both iliac bones are dislocated backwards, and especially when there is also luxation of the pubic symphysis, the severity of the injury and of the symptoms, generally, renders the diagnosis easy. In cases where the local injury and the visceral lesions are not so severe or complicated as to involve immediate danger, the use of anaesthetics will probabiy enable the surgeon to make his diagnosis more accurate; when, however, the injuries are so severe as to be obviously fatal, at a more or less early date, Dr. Salleron thinks that the surgeon should abstain from minute examination, and make, merely, a general diagnosis. Prognosis.—Even in the more simple cases the prognosis requires to be carefully made, and in the complicated cases it is very unfavorable—the bladder being often lacerated, the urethra ruptured, and large vessels being torn, giving rise to extravasation into the pelvis and sometimes into the peritoneum. Together with these lesions there are almost always injuries of the head, chest, and spine. Other complications, of which the observation of cases has shown the possibility, are contusion of the sciatic nerve, concussion of the spinal cord, intra-pelvic suppuration, &c. The prognosis is especially unfavorable in cases of dislocation of both iliac bones backwards, or of the sacrum forwards, on account of the great disturbance of the parts which this lesion produces. Treat- ment.—Dr. SaUeron advises immediate attempts at reduction in all cases of disbcation of the pelvic bones, whether fracture be also present or not. The patient must be kept lying'on the back in a state of absolute rest, and any complications that arise must be treated accordine to their nature. ° Reduaion of a dislocation of the femur after five and a half months.— Dr. M Kee records a case. The patient was a woman who was thrown out ot a trap on the left knee. She was at a distance from any advice. After nve and a half months the dislocation was diagnosed and reduced bv manipulation under chloroform. There seemed to be some tendency in the other hip to become dislocated during pregnancy. Great difficulty was experienced m keeping the femur in its place iter reduction. It pipped out once but returned with an audible snap. (‘Am. Journ Med. Sciences,’ Jan. 1871, 281.) ^ ^ «^ourn. Dr. James Norton notes a case of dislocation of the femur backwards and upwards, with fracture of the acetabulum, which was reduced n-FtPT months. (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ May « i8?“ ) ^ Unreduced dislocation of the femur.—Mr! MacCormac describes a specimen of unreduced dislocation of the femur Tha nof + man, St. 70. A weight of metal M Zhim his'^aM^^ injured extensively. The symptoms of the dislocation were inversion of leTht b\T f Thetendonoftbeobturatorinternus7^wtS7elr7^^