REPORT ON SURGERY. 224 Was, and had been, at work as a labourer in the country, and could walk long distances. The writer says Dr. Buck was the first to remove a wedge of bone from the situation of the joint to remedy anchylosis, and this is the operation which has since been generally adopted when drill- ing is impracticable. Dr. Hodges gives nineteen cases, of which ten recovered, eight died, and amputation was performed in one for delayed union. Lyon gives eleven other cases, of which ten recovered and one died; eight had useful limbs, one was discharged with firm union, but before the limb had been used; and in one case ifc is merely stated that the patient recovered. The author has collected nine other cases. Of these, eight were cured and one died. Of twenty cases, therefore, since Dr. Hodges’s record, only two have died. The former fatality is not easily explained. Sir W. Bergusson has also operated, successfully, on two cases of osseous anchylosis after excision of knee in faulty positions, by removing wedges. Of forty-one cases in all, of operations for osseous anchylosis, thirty patients recovered, ten died, and in one case amputation was performed. Bigures of the patient, before and after operation, are given, and a tabulated statement of eleven cases, recent. (‘Am. .Journ. Med. Sciences,’ April, 1871, 321.) Mr. James Adams records the following case, and remarks that there are certain cases of knee anchylosis which can easily be cured by the operation of subcutaneous osteotomy, and there are others in which anything short of an excision of a wedge-shaped piece is wholly useless. Diagrams are given of the state of parts in his case, and the shape, &c., of the piece removed by him. The patient was a lad, set. 14, fairly nourished, but pale. The right leg was fixed at a right angle, the skin, at the point of fiexure, was marked by numerous cicatrices on all sides, some, especially those in the popliteal space, were puckered in and ad- herent to the bones. There was absolutely no pain or tenderness; there was the most complete rigidity (under chloroform) ; the adjacent portions of the bones were expanded and rounded, so as to leave no in- terval or depression between them; the position of the patella could not, with certainty, be made out. The disorganization of the joint occurred when he was one year and a half old, consequently the limb had been wholly useless for twelve years and a half; notwithstanding this there was not much wasting, and no appreciable shortening. A semicircular flap was cut and raised. The original point of union of the bones at the joint was sought for, but no indication of it could be found. A cut was then made with the saw, nearly vertically, through the femur above the condyles, not extending quite through the bone, and this was joined by a second, oblique cut, sloping from before down- wards and backwards, meeting the first about halt an inch in front of the posterior surface. The piece between them was then removed, and the remainiugiportionbroken, by flexing the limb. The vessels were thus completely avoided. The ends were smoothed down with a chisel until the limb could be easily straightened. It was then put up on a back splint specially made, and the wound covered with wet lint. A certain amount of suppuration followed, and a few abscesses required opening. At the end of eight weeks there was firm union. One noteworthy cir- cumstance was, that for several days after the operation, the boy was