TUBERCLE OF THE URINARY TRACT. 2G9 to the frequency with which convulsions or rigidity are associated with paralysis of the left side of the body as compared with that of the right; secondly, to the occurrence of these symptoms in cases of injury or dis- ease of those parts of the right cerebral hemisphere which lie above the corpus striatum. (‘Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ liii, 129.) jffections of the lungsfrom injury to the base of the brain.—Dr. Brown- Sequard, in the course of some experiments on guinea-pigs, was struck by the frequency with which the lungs are altered consecutively to a lesion of the brain. One of the most frequent causes of death was pneumonia. He made sjDecial experiments to ascertain the immediate effects of an injury to the brain on the lungs. “ The results obtained were startling. In almost all cases of injuries by crushing or section of the pons Varolii ecchymoses were found in the lungs.” Injuries to other parts of the base were followed, sometimes, by the same effects, and it is extremely probable that a slight pressure uqion the pons by effused blood is sufficient to qiroduce it. Injuries to the medulla and spinal cord rarely produced an effusion in the lungs. “ Many experiments have shown that it is not through the par vagum, but through the sympa- thetic nerve, especially by its spinal roots, which throw themselves into the first thoracic ganglion, that the peculiar influence of the irritated pons Varolii exerts itself, producing a pulmonary hemorrhage.” The condition of the lung, as regards distension or collapse of the air-cells, does not seem to influence the production of hemorrhage. It is not essential that there be a continuation of breathing. Hemorrhage is not the only result; an anemic condition, oedema, and emphysema can also be produced. The latter can occur when not a single respiratory movement takes place after an irritation of the base of the brain, either by crushing or cutting. (‘ Lancet,’ Jan. 7, 1871, 6.) Tuberciflar disease of the urinary mucous membrane.—Mr Thomas ^mith writes on this subject, with special reference to the symptoms, &c., during life. He quotes various authorities to show what has been already written respecting the disease, and then explains that his paper refers to what is often called strumous or scrofulous disease of the urinary, mucous membrane, and which commences as a tuberculous in- filtration of the submucous tissue of some part of the genito-urinarv mucous membrane (probably most often first in the kidLy). To the ^ yellowish, cheesy deposit, though in its earliest stage it is stated to be a deposit of grey or miliary tubercffi Later on in the disease it is often associated with tubercle of the sub' fS t body of the penis, or the prostate It Lstly' 1.S ™°Tod of Hf/ H diyhesis, and occurs before tbe imaie period of life. He describes the condition' of the nrefbm advanced stagesbutVe pass on to the adv.ee IS not generally sought, being, perhaps, a slight aching in the