428 REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. produced in the development of the allantois is large between the sixth and seventh week, so we must look anterior to this time for the cause. He thought it probably due to an obstruction to the free circulation of blood in the veins of the left side of the vascular zone. Mr. Macgillivray relates a case of congenital hypertrophy of the left nand and arm, for wliicli he ligatured the brachial artery with a sue- cessful issue. (‘Austral. Med. Journ.,’ Jan. 1872.) Hr. Bailey, in an article on trismus nascentium, in the ‘Amer. Journ. Obstet.,’ 1871, quotes the opinions of several authorities on the sutyect, and says that in his experience, since 1853, he has not observed a single case of lockjaw when due regard was paid to the management and dressing of the umbilicus. Tumefaction and redness, without sup- puration should always excite apprehension. Unsuitable dressing, both before and after the separation of the cord, are common exciting causes. In the early stage of the disease soothing applications to the umbilicus are of great service. Dr. Bailey does not think that negro infants are more liable to it than white children. Dr. Widerhofer, of Vienna, speaks highly of the value of chloral hy- drate in the treatment of tetanus neonatorum. He has had six cases (out of ten or twelve) of recovery under treatment by chloral. (‘ Lancet,’ March 18, 1871.) BieJeets.—Dr. Blache, of Paris, writes (‘Practitioner,’ Sept. 1872) on rachitis and mineral inanition. He quotes the conclusions of Dusart: —(i) That in all living beings, whether vegetable or animal, the pre- sence of phosphate of lime is necessary for the transformation into cells of the azotized matters supplied by food, and that to preserve their vitality the tissues must be constantly traversed by a kind ot current of phosphate of lime; (2) that the vital activity peculiar to each species is always in proportion to the quantity of phosphate of lime contained in it; and (3) that when the food is deficient in phos- phate of lime the tissues draw from the osseous skeleton that which is necessary for nutrition. He then inquires by virtue of what action do albuminized substances assume, in presence of calcareous phosphate, the form of cells, and of tissues of every nature without its being demon- strated that the salt of lime forms any constituent part of them. Knowing the property possessed by salts of lime of precipitating albu- men in an insoluble state, may it not be admitted that there takes place in the organism an analogous phenomenon, but with this modification, that in the living medium this precipitate assumes the figured form and becomes organised in tissues ? If children too young or persons debili- tated from various causes are subjected to a course of alimentation ex- clusively composed of the flesh of young animals, the liquid albumen will be easily absorbed, whilst the solid parts containing the salts of lime will resist the action of the debilitated stomach, and will be ejepted. It is not organizable elements which are wanting, but an organizing ao-ent, and mineral inanition ensues indirectly as surely as by adminis- tering aliments deficient in salts of lime, such, for instance, as wheat alone. Blache believes that the good efi’ected by cod-liver oil in rickets is due entirely to the exciting action produced through the whole ex- tent of the digestive tube by the volatile oily acids to which it owes its