119 PNEUMONIA. /i8r'7 66) tlio higliest number of deaths in England from bronchitis occurs in the middle of Jannarj, while for pneumonia it is neaxdy two months earlier, e. at the end of November. As regards the influence of temperature, it would seem that cold does not necessarily afiect the pneumonia rate, but always and markedly the bronchitis rate, lor instance, a low temperature towards the end of October, and again in the middle of November, 1869, is followed by a bronchitis rate greatly in excess of the average, while pneumonia, though not unaffected by the change, is only slightly so, and remains to the end of the month much under its average. Then, with excessive cold and_ a north wind, it rises considerably. Again, extreme cold in the middle of January, 1867, is followed by a large increase in the rate of bronchitis, while pneumonia actually decreases in the same time, and to the end of the month remains below its ten years’ average, the direction pf the wind being north-west and south-west. His data show that rain increases the rate of bronchitis out of all proportion with that of pneumonia. During the rains of the monsoon in India the latter disease shows a remarkable decrease. Wind is favourable to pneumonia, chiefly, if not altogether, when its direction is northerly or easterly. The writer shows that these facts are generally confirmed by a comparison of years of high and low mortality. Popoff (“ Experimente liber Lungenentziindung,” ‘Wien. Med. Jahrb.,’ 1871, 553) injected ammonia into the lungs of dogs narcotised by morphia, in order to set up inflammation. No symptoms of pyrexia occurred under these conditions, the morphia diminishing the tempera- ture (Strieker and Albert). The blood pressure was increased in all cases immediately after the injection. In dogs which had not been narcotised there was an increase of temperature, lasting for twenty- four hours. Lebert (“Heber die Yeranderungen der Kdrperwarme in der primitiven acuten Pneumonie,” ‘Deut. Archiv,’ ix, i) after a full and exhanstive paper on the temperature of pneumonia, gives the following among other conclusions:—The affection may occur with slight and even no pyrexia; there are no so-called critical days ; double pneu- monia, as well as being more dangerous to the patient, has a longer course; lobar pneumonia, if accompanied with diffuse bronchitis (by no means to be confounded with broncho-pneumonia), has slow conva- lescence ; a pneumonia may, much more frequently than is generally supposed, have a protracted, subacute, or even chronic course, without any necessary result in true tuberculosis, though it may frequently tend to shrinking of the lung and bronchiectasis. In a sixth of the" cases observed by the writer no crisis occurred. Hayem (‘ Gaz. Med.,’ 1871, 399) records the following case in which death occurred suddenly during convalescence from pneumonia. The patient was a woman, ^t. 49, who had passed safely through a simple inflammation of the right lung, and at her own request had been allowed to leave her bed. During the day she went to the closet, but ^ere cried for help, and was found on the floor in a state of syncope. Replaced on the bed, she was very pale, her extremities cold, her re- spiration anxious, but she was still conscious. She had had no oedema