SURGERY. 347 cision. The author also finds that loss of vitreous occurs both less frequently and to a less extent than before. The subsequent treatment is the same as after other forms of opera- tion. The advantages claimed by the author are— The extraction of the lens within its capsule removes all predispo- sition to iritis. In 200 cases operated upon there has not been one of primitive iritis. The method excluded all secondary operations. The visual acuity is greater after this operation than after any other. In 12 per cent, of the cases S = i. 4 Notwithstanding these advantages, it is not attended by a larger proportion of lost eyes than ordinary linear extraction. The defects consist in the difiiculty of execution, and in the diffi- culty in certain cases of arriving at an exact diagnosis. Loss of vitreous occurs pretty frequently, but has never been found to interfere with the union of the section. It is necessary to observe that after these operations it is compara- tively frequent for the anterior portion of the vitreous body to become turbid. Without considering whether the same thing does not occur in other methods, it need only be said that such turbidity completely disappears after a while. It most usually appears after loss of vitreous, but seems to bear no relation to the quantity that may escape. Astigmatism after cataract operations.—Woinow* has been engaged with Eeuss in the study of astigmatism in aphakial eyes. He has arrived at the conclusion that the cylindrical glasses employed for ordinary astigmatism, and based upon ophthalmometric data concern- ing the curvatures of the cornea, will not always neutralise aphakial astigmatism, and that other glasses are to be preferred, of different forms and with their axes differently directed. Hence he’believes that aphakial astigmatism is not due to the cornea, but that it is seated in and due to the curvatures of, the posterior pole of the eyeball. He finds also that many aphakial astigmatics require a different cylinder and a different direction of the axis for vision of near objects, and he explains this by the supposition that a certain rotation of the globes takes place during convergence.f _ Glaucoma.—?vot Quaglinoi publishes an account of some expe- riments intended to determine what is the value of iridectomy in the treatment of glaucoma, and leans to the conclusion that the incision in the sclerotic is the essential element in the operation He has prac tised sclerotomy upon several eyes already lost from glaucoma, and has found a permanent diminution of tension and a clearing of the media as the result. Since then he has used sclerotomy also in progressive eases, and has been well satisfied with it. He operates with \ lance * ‘Prot. cle la Soc. Pliys. Med. de Moscou/ 1871. t This seems subtle; but surely the ordinary cause of astigmatism after cataract operations is the alteration m the curvature of one meridian of the cornea, due to f ‘ Annali di Oftalmologia,’ 1871.