REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 152 perly called “ pseudo-membranous stomatitis.” lie had occasion to observe the affection as it occurred in an epidemic of “ ulcerative stomatitis” in a portion of the garrison at Lyon during the late war. Of twenty cases five presented well-marked ulcerative angina, in two of which the stomatitis was absent. The patients’ condition was generally good, but they complained of pain in swallowing; examination of the throat showed one or two more or less extensive yellowish patches on the pillars of the fauces and the tonsils. He lays great stress upon their yellow colour ; they were seldom grey or blackish like the deposit in diphtheria. The underlying ulcerations were only slight, not sur- rounded by any swelling or induration of the mucous membrane, and with no tendency to spread. The affection never extended beyond the isthmus of the fauces; generally it was unilateral. The pain was only slight. The submaxillary glands generally took no part in the dis- turbance, though sometimes they were only slightly swollen. The breath was always foetid. The patients continued their occupations throughout the affection ; there was no pyrexia; in one case only were there slight febrile symptoms at the commencement. The length of the angina depended on the treatment; generally all symptoms disap- peared at the end of a fortnight. Change of air and diet, gargles, and the application of nitrate of silver, were the means employed. Crisp, “ Cancer of the Tongue and Simple Stricture of the (Esophagus ” (female, at. 64), ‘ Path. Soc. Trans.,’ xxii, 128. Bristowe, “ Cancer including Pharynx, Larynx, neighbouring Lymphatic Glands and Lungs” (woman, set. 48), ib., 132. Bradley, “ Adhesion of the Velum Pendulum Palati to the Posterior Wall of the Pharynx; loss of the epiglottis, syphilis,” ib., xxiii, loi. Thorowgood, “Salivary Calculus removed from the Orifice of the Parotid Duct,” ib., 103. Arnott, “ Macro-glossia or Congenital Enlargement of the Tongue,” ib. 109. FaiiTie Clarke, “Hypertrophy of the Tongue,” ib., iii. Id., “ On a Case of Unilateral Atrophy of the Tongue,” ‘ Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ Iv, 91. Stroppa, “Faringite ed esofagite flemmonose con sup- purazione delle tonsille ed edema acuto della glottide ” (the last the cause of death, man, set. 47), ‘ Gaz. Med. Lomb.,’ 1871, 277. Decaisne, “Paralysie du voile du palais, application de sangues, guerison” (woman, set. 98, with simple angina), ‘Gaz. des Hop.,’ 1871, 278. Heidenhain, “ Ueher die Wirkung einiger Gifte auf die Nerven der (Jlandula Submaxillnris,” ‘Pfliiger’s Arch.,’ v, 40. Handheld Jones, “Treatment of Acute Tonsillitis with Belladonna,” ‘Lancet,’ 1871, i, 12. Id., “Case of Pseudo- tonsillitis,” ib., 504. Laseque, “ Stomatite erythemateuse,” ‘Gaz. des Hop.,’ 1872, 81. Packard, “ Report of a Case of Tonsillitis associated with Parotitis; Laryugo- Tracheotomy, death” (boy, set. 4I years), ‘Amer. Journ. Med. Sci.,’ Ixiii, 404. Priestley, “On Cancrum Oris,” ‘Brit. Med. Jomm.,’Ji, 577. Dujardin-Beaumetz, “DesTroubles de la Secretion Salivaire,” ‘Gaz. des Hop.,’ 1872, 211. Affections of the (Esophagus. Porro (‘ Annul. TJniv. di Med.,’ ccxvii. 421) records a case, with plates, of congenital atresia of the oesophagus, the lower part of which communicated with the trachea. A newborn female child, after beginning eagerly to suck, was suddenly seized with cough, choking, and regurgitation of the milk. The introduction of a sound proved the condition of the tube. The child lived two days. The upper portion of the oesophagus was found to terminate in a blind end 2^ cm. below the glottis: from the blind end a bundle of muscular fibres was