168 UEPOUT ON PEACTICAL MEDICINE. oil begins to appear in tbe casts and in the desquamated epithelium. Johnson has, however, seen cases of recovery even after the presence of oily casts and cells. The disease is essentially a curable one ; its prognosis more favorable in the young and middle-aged than in the old, and in those who are able to avoid exposure to cold and other bad influences. Among the earliest signs of amendment are a copious secre- tion of urine, paler and of lower specific gravity, and decrease of dropsy. The albumen is usually the last symptom to disappear. If the urine continues albuminous for more than six months the prognosis is more doubtful, but such cases do get well. Scanty secretion of highly albu- minous urine, frequent and distressing vomiting, dropsical elfusion into the serous cavities, are all symptoms of grave though not fatal import. Eecovery sometimes occurs, in the acute disease, after the most formid- able symptoms of uraemic poisoning have been present. Grull and Sutton publish ('Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ Iv, 273) a paper on Bright’s disease with contracted kidney (arterio-capillary fibrosis) in which they arrive at the following conclusions:—(i) There is a diseased state characterised by hyalin-fibroid formation in the arterioles and capillaries. (2) This morbid change is attended with atrophy of the subjacent tissues. (3) It is probable that this morbid change commonly begins in the kidney, but there is evidence of its beginning primarily in other organs. (4) The contraction and atrophy of the kidney are but part and parcel of the general morbid change, (j) The kidneys may be but little if at all affected, whilst the morbid change is far advanced in other organs. (6) This morbid change in the arterioles and capil- laries is the primary and essential condition of the morbid state called chronic Bright’s disease with contracted kidney. (7) The clinical his- tory varies according to the organs primarily and chiefly affected. (8) In the present state of our knowledge we cannot refer the _ vascular changes to an antecedent change in the blood due to defective renal excretion. (9) The kidneys may undergo extreme degenerative changes without being attended by the cardio-vascular and other lesions charac- teristic of the condition known as chronic Bright’s disease. (10) The morbid state under discussion is allied with the conditions of old age, and its area may be said hypothetically to correspond to the area vasculosa.” (ii) The changes, though allied with senile alterations, are probably due to distinct causes not yet ascertained. Johnson, in a paper read before the same society (‘ Med. Times and Gaz.,’ 1872, ii, 688; ‘Lancet,’ 1872, ii, 882), strongly opposes the views of these writers, and maintains that the appearances noticed by them are due to distension of the coats of the vessels by the reagents ^^Eo°berts (‘ Brit. Med. Joum.,’ 1871, ii, S21) opposes Dickinson’s view that the abuse of alcohol is not one of the most important causes oi Bright’s disease, and gives a table of the proportional number of deaths from intemperance, from diseases of the kidney, and diseases ot the liver in different districts. 4.1 u Bradley (ib i, n6) relates the case of a child, four months old, covered with syphilitic psoriasis, whose urine was higlfiy albuminous, and whose facef arms, and legs were cedematous. The microscope