POISONS. 443 the pale and striated muscular fibre is very it causes of the contracted muscular fibres on^tiie ends of the sensory nerves. The obstinate constipation he attributes to abnormal irritation of the splanchnic nerve, whic inhibits peristaltic action. If the peristalsis were colic it ought to lead to diarrhoea rather than constipation. To the irritation of the splanchnic he likewise attributes by refiex action the slowing of the pulse and diminution of the urine observed during the attacks. The rapid atrophy of the muscles m lead poisomng he attri- butes to general interference with nutrition which lead causes in a marked degree, and partly to the paralysis itself, which he attributes to direct actiL of the poison on the intra-muscular ends of the nerves, and not on their central ends. The nerve tissues have a special affinity for lead. To its action on these, both in their central and peripheral parts he attributes the symptoms of chronic saturnine poisoning, and the repeated attacks he regards as caused by the occasional absorption of the lead into the blood from the organs m which the poison is de- posited That lead does not exert a desiccating effect on the tissues, as supposed by Talk and Hitzig, -he disproves by experimental analyse. The symptoms of encephalopathia saturnina, both acute and chronic, he attributes to direct deposition of lead on the brain. Eclampsia Sjitur- nina he refers, with Traube and Eosenstein, to capillary anaemia of the brain. He does not think, however, with Eosenstein, that this anaemia is due to direct action on the vessels, but to oedema of the brain, which is generally found, exerting compression on the vessels, and in cases where oedema is not marked to the diminished diuresis giving rise to a uraemic condition from accumulation of the urinary constituents m the blood. The diminished diuresis does not seem to act by causing an accumulation of lead in the system, as only traces of lead are excreted through the urine. Sulphate of copper.—relates a case of suicidal poisoning with sulphate of copper. Death ensued in three days. Among other symptoms jaundice occurred, a symptom which has likewise been ob- served occasionally by others. Maschka attributes it to fatty degenera- tion of the liver, as in arsenic and phosphorus poisoning. Sulphate o/2;iMc.—Well-recorded cases of poisoning by white vitriol are, perhaps, rare. Tardieu and Eoussinf record a very instructive case, which terminated fatally. The remarks which accompany the paper are well worthy of perusal, though they are too long for useful abstraction. Carlonic oxide.—Zuntz J investigates the question whether the car- bonic oxide compound with haemoglobin is a fixed compound or not. In opposition to commonly received opinions as to the toxic action of this gas, Donders has recently stated that carbonic oxide may be expelled from blood saturated with this gas by means of indifferent gases, such as oxygen, hydrogen, or carb^onic acid. Naurocki and Pokrowsky deny * ‘Wien. Mod. Woclienscli.,’ 1871, No. 26. t ‘Ann. d’Hyg.,’ xxxvii, p. 329. X ‘ Pfliiger’s Arcliiv. f. Physiologic,’ v, 584.