398 fcEPOUT ON MIDWIFEUY^ ETC. out any apparent cause, tliere supervened such severe anaemia and hydraemia, that towards the eighth month the foetus was expelled, and each patient died soon after. In none of the organs could be found any marked change except the appearances of extreme anaemia and hydraemia and their consequences. The brain and its membranes were very anaemic. The slight fatty degeneration observed (though not in all the cases) in the substance of the heart and in the abdominal viscera was, he believes, simply the result of the blood-change, and not the primary cause. The alterations which are known to occur in the blood during pregnancy seem, in these cases, to have been carried so far as to become a pathological condition. Gusserow recommends, in similar cases, that abortion should be induced, or at least, as early as possible, premature labour. Transfusion may be necessary. Matton, of Bouzonville, writes (‘ Journ. de Bruxelles,’ May and June, 1872) on pneumonia during pregnancy and on puerperal fever. In the first place the author considers the modifications which pregnancy in- duces in the blood. These consist in an increase of the fibrine and the water, and a diminution of the corpuscles and the albumen; thus preg- nancy predisposes to inflammations. If the amount of fibrine exceed certain limits, we have, succeeding to the inflammatory, the purulent diathesis, and if it is the watery part which is increased beyond measure, we have in addition a seroiis cachexia. According to Andral during the first six months of pregnancy the amount of fibrine is diminished, and is met with in increased quantity only after the sixth month. Matton then quotes thirty-eight cases of pneumonia during pregnancy, and states that nineteen cases out of twenty re- covered when the pregnancy was not intei’rupted in its course, but only nine out of eighteen got well when labour supervened. Bor him puer- peral fever is the combined result of an essential fever of internal origin, due to the condition of the blood and other ill-understood causes, and a local phlegmasia. -.i i. • Spiegelberg writes on the complication of pregnancy with chronic heart disease. (‘Archiv. f. Gynak.,’ ii, 2, 1871.) Complications and Accidents of Pregnancy. Dr. Madge reports (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Dec. 1871) a case of paralysis during pregnancy. At an early period in the pregnancy the patient complained of severe pain in the hands and feet, which soon became excessively sensitive and painful. In a few weeks this hypei- iBsthesia was succeeded by anaesthesia, and there was also loss 01 motion. Small doses of ergot of rye were taken for several weeks without any perceptible benefit; this was ordered on account ot its contractile effects on the smaller vessels, thus lessening congestion, which it is believed existed in this case in the grey matter of the chord. Faradisation was then used, and sensation returned in two months, but motion not until later. A dead foetus, of about four months, ot a dark muddy colour, and surrounded by muddy liquor amnii was ultimately expelled. The patient made a good recovery. Dr. Playfair points out (‘ Obst. Trans.,’ xiii) that some cases of