NyEVUS VAUIX—AMPUTATIONS. 211 varicosities proved to be enlarged lymphatic vessels filled to distension with a milky serous fluid. (‘Edin. Med. Journ.,’ May, 1871, 1012.) Removal of ncBvoidgrowths with the ecraseur.—Mr. J. F. West has re- peatedly employed the ecraseur/or the removal of naevoid growths, with great success. He narrates cases in the ‘ Lancet,’ March 4,1871, 302. Treatment of ncevus hy subcutaneous rupture of vessels.—Dr. Mezger describes, in the ‘ Arch, fiir Klin. Chir.,’ xiii, the case of a child, three months old, who had a large nasvus on the left ala nasi. On prolonged expiration the tumour increased in lividity and size. Dr. Mezo-er compressed, with his finger, the vessels proceeding from the tumour,°so as to distend its capillaries with blood. He then rapidly squeezed the naevus, thus rupturing the vessels in the interior. This operation was repeated several times, with the result of producing extravasation of blood and slight inflammation, followed, ultimately, by complete disap- pearance of the naevus. Treatment of varix by subcutaneous injection of ergotin.—Dr. Paul Vogt, in the ‘Berliner Klin. Wochenschr.,’ March 4, 1872, speaks of subcutaneous injection of ergotin as an effectual and safe remedy in varix. In a case which he described he used a solution of 2 grammes of aqueous extract ot ergot in alcohol and glycerine (each 7^ grammes) mjecting a syringeful in the immediate neighbourhood of the varix* One of the enlargements disappeared after the first injection, and another a tew days after a second, made two days subsequently to the nrst. At the points where the injections were made, there remained some hard, circumscribed infiltration, which was not attended with much pain, and disappeared gradually. In six weeks, during which the patient (an old man) went about as usual, no trace of enlargement of the veins could be detected. The treatment was afterwards adopted with excellent results in several patients in the surgical clinic at (xreifswald. Vogt has also used ergotin injection successfully in vari- cocele, haemorrhoids, and certain forms of naevus. Death rate after amputation.—During the three years which have elapBedmnce Mr Callender published his last note on thLIubieet Sir James Paget and he hare performed amputations in twenty-flve cases, consecutively. Without; one fatal result. There was one primary amputation of the thigh and nine for disease; eleven of the^leg for disease; two others (primary) upper extremity, and two for disease statistics are to be relied upon, no stronger evidence could be given of the healthy condition of the hospital wards durincr EeV,’vHi,^i790^° Recurrent hemorrhage after amputation.—K case of recurrent hfPmnr artery in the lep'-<^fnmr> ViLi j i ^ ’ B^S^-fure of the bleeding were much diseased. (‘Edin.Xi Jour”’1086) prilr^7 oSeessfnl,