REPORT ON MIDWIFERY^ ETC. Puerperal Convulsions.—Halbertsma writes (‘ Med. Centr.,’ ix, 27, 1871) on the etiology of eclampsia. Veratrum viride in large doses is recommended as a substitute for bloodletting in puerperal convulsions (‘ Amer. Journ. of Obstetr/ 1871). Cases of puerperal eclampsia treated by venesection are recorded by Swayne (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Peb. 1871); and by Jones (ibid., April, 1871). A case of puerperal convulsions successfully treated by chloroform. Boss (‘ Lancet,’ Aug. 1871). Puerperal convulsions treated by hydrate of chloral, Purley (‘Edin. Med. Journ.,’ JSTov. 1871); Geikie (‘Canada Lancet,’March, 1871); Starley (‘Americ. Practit.,’ 1871); Perris (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ April, 1872). Two cases successfully treated by chloroform are recorded in detail by Dr. E. E. Townsend. In one of the cases there was smart uterine haemorrhage after delivery, but the bleeding had no effect what- even in controlling the convulsive attacks (‘Dublin Quart. Journ.,’ Peb. 1871). Dr. Whidborne advises the use of suppositories of chloral hydrate, when that drug cannot be taken by the mouth. (‘Lancet,’ June, 1871.) A case of sudden death seventeen days after delivery is recorded (‘Obst. Trans.,’ 1871) by Dr. Playfair. A slight pleuritic attack succeeded labour, and death probably resulted from embolism. The inflammatory complication had apparently produced an increased hyperinosis of the blood above that already existing; and hence in- flammatory affections in the puerperal state should be regarded with a greater suspicion and anxiety than at other times. A case of sudden death seventeen days after delivery was related by Dr. Eingland to the Dublin Obst. Soc. The heart was found small, soft, and flabby, with much fat deposited'externally. The pulmonary artery and its two branches were Ailed with a large though soft clot. The uterine walls were so thin, as almost to resemble the urinary bladder. Dr. Madden contributes a series of eases of sudden death soon after parturition. (‘Amer. Journ. Obst.,’ 1871.) Mr. Bassett relates thirteen cases of secondary hcemorrhage coming on between the third and the thirty-second day after delivery. Pive were due to the irregular and inefiicient contraction of the womb, with clots in its interior; in four cases the haemorrhage arose from a retained portion of placenta; and the remaining cases were due to retained portion of membrane, fibrous polypus, inversion of the uterus, and imperfect involution. (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Aug. 1872.) Dr. Jenks exhibited to the Philadelphia Obstetrical Society a speci- men of placenta suecenturiata, which had been retained for flve days after the delivery of the child and of the placenta proper. It was adherent to the uterus, and had evidently been connected with the umbilical cord by a delicate funis of its own. Its presence had given rise to a constant haemorrhage. (‘Amer. Journ. of Obst.,’. 1871.) Prom a careful microscopical examination of an enlarged, imperfectly involuted uterus. Dr. Snow Beck concludes that the enlargement is more due to the increased size and amount of the “ soft tissue” of the uterus than to the increased size of the contractile flbre-cells. Although the blood-vessels are loaded with fluid blood there is no evidence of the