146 REPOUT ON PllACPlCAL MEDICINE. as follows—(a) cases occurring in persons free from structural disease of the heart, or of any organ having a nervous connection with it; whether (i) in the young, in whom degenerative changes have not com- menced, or (2) those in middle or advanced life in whom they made considerable progress; (b) cases of distinctly reflex origin; (c) pal- pitation associated with structural disease; (d) due to mechanical dis- placements of the heart; {e) palpitation as a prominent symptom in certain conditions of blood—ansemia, gout, exophthalmic goitre, ex- cessive smoking or tea-drinking; (/) cases, of which he gives three examples, two with autopsies, characterised by the occurrence of pal- pitation in definite attacks of sudden access, and by the proportion which is observed between the perversion of the heart’s action, and the patient’s sensations, and by the evidence of disturbed innervation of organs connected with the heart. They form the transition, as it were, from palpitation to angina pectoris. He discusses (ib., 266) the treatment of palpitation, which consists in the removal of the imme- diate cause, regular hygiene and diet; tonics—iron, arsenic ; diffusible stimulants and anodynes; local applications, snch as belladonna, Althaus has advocated the application of the galvanic current to the pneumogastric and sympathetic nerves in their conrse, and Waller their compression in the neck by the thumbs ; Nunneley thinks these two methods deserve study. Moinet (‘Edin. Med. Journ.,’ xvi, 608) discusses the pathology ot angina pectoris, and concludes that it is a paralysis occurring in and dcpendino" upon a weakened heart, as no other theory can account for the symptoms and history of the disease. As to treatment he recom- mends, during the paroxysm, diffusible stimulants and opium, hot brandy and water, sinapisms to the feet, and placing the hands and feet in hot water; and generally tonics, galvanism and bleeding. Under the term of “irritable heart,” Da Costa (‘ Amer. Journ. Med. Sci. Ixi 11) describes a form of functional disorder which he observed in upwards of three hundred soldiers during the American war. The men had been for a longer or shorter time in active service, and com- plained of inability to march, on account of dyspnoea, dizziness, palpi- tation, pain, and a feeling of oppression and tightness in the chest. In numerous cases there was a history of some _ disturbance of digestion. Thouffh the men seemed to be in good condition, this derangement ot the heart’s action was very chronic, and the heart itself became in time hypertrophied. In addition to the palpitation, an almost constant symptom^was the sharp paroxysmal pain at the heart; there in- creased frequency of the pulse, much affected by position, &c., a hard and ierky pulse,^disturbance of the -nervous and digestive fujiptions Both sound^ of the heart were equal and short, sharp and metallic, but generally unaccompanied by a murmur; when the latter ^^YS^’^the Ls usually systolic. The causes of the affection are analysed, the writer enumerates certain preceding conditions of ill malarial fevers diarrhoea, hard field service, long marches. The pre Swsfng causes may be misuse of tobacco and spirits, venereal excesses, dispo g Z „ Da Costa looks upon the affection as tSSu S a disordered’ innervation on a heart rendered irritable by