feEPORT ON PEACTICAL MEEICINE. 148 traction of the smaller arteries. He sketches the role which the white blood corpuscles play in this retarded blood movement, and supports his theory by quoting Eanvier and Cornil (‘Arch, de Physiol.,’ 1868, t. i), according to whom the white blood corpuscles are found within the protrusions as well as on the free surface of the internal coat, in endarteritis. Kelly (‘ Path. Soc. Trans.,’ xxii, 93) records the case of a child, cet. three months, which had been cyanotic from birth. A loud systolic bruit could be heard all over the thorax, but most distinctly at the apex. The child generally had a convulsive attack every morning. At the autopsy the aorta was found arising from the right ventricle, and the pulmonary artery from the left. The right ventricle was hyper- trophied, the ductus arteriosus closed, the foramen ovale open. The valves of the heart were healthy, the bronchial and coronary arteries given off normally. Pye Smith (ib., xxiii, 80) gives a case somewhat similar. The patient was a male child, 14 weeks old when it died, in whom there had been persistent cyanosis since birth. The heart was large for the age. Externally it scarcely appeared ill-formed, the apex being formed by the left ventricle. The right ventricle was hypertrophied, and half as thick again as the left. The septum was perfect. Arising from a short conus venosus on the right side was the aorta, with three ppfect semi- lunar valves, and two coronary branches ; it next gave ofi an innominate, carotid, and subclavian branch, shewed an open ductus arteriosus at the usual point, and then turned down to the left side of the chest. The orifice and the whole of the aorta were small, but nowhere con- stricted. The pulmonary artery arose from the left ventricle, with valves larger than those of the aorta; it was enormously dilated, as was also the right auricle, which was hypertrophied as well. There was a cribriform opening in the foramen ovale. The writer makes some valuable remarks on the origin of this not very rare abnormality. Dyce Brown (‘Lancet,’ 1871, i, 677) relates a case of stenop of the pulmonary artery, followed by tubercular phthisis, occurring in a female, mt. 25. Both her parents had died of phthisis. Prom the age of two years it had been noticed that she was cyanotic. About the af^e of 23, she began to have a cough, and died at last of profuse hemoptysis. There was a very loud systolic bruit during life. The autopsy showed slight enlargement of the heart, hypertrophy oi the right ventricle, atrophy of the left; slight thickening of mitral and tricuspid valves; closed foramen ovale; stenosis of the right conus arteriosus, with a hard and distinctly cretified nm all round The pulmonary valves were normal. About half an inch from this contracted orifice, to its right, was a triangular opening in the septum v^- triculorum Both lungs contained miliary tubercles and cavities. He refers to Lebert’s remarks on stenosis of the pulmonary artery (see ‘Med. Times and Gazette,’ 1870, Jan. i.). Peacock » Cases of Malformation of the Heart”—(i) entire obliteration or atresia of the orifice and trunk of the pulmonary artery; cyanosis; death from cancrum oris fhov set 2i) • (2) great contraction, or stenosis, of the pulmonary artery; defect m thc^septum^of the ventricles and aorta, arising equally from the two cavities; no