136 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. evidence gained elsewhere, tlie author concludes that the original cause must have been embolism. The second case was that of a man, aet. 63, who had been much addicted to drink. On the evening before his admission into hospital he was suddenly attacked with vomiting and inability to swallow. On his admission there was general muscular weakness, but complete intelligence and liveliness. There was complete loss of power to swallow, though the velum contracted well. There was tremor, but no paralysis of the upper extremities, slight hypermsthesia of the lower; he tottered if he attempted to stand, and showed a tendency to fall towards the left side. Next day he died. The valves of the heart were found thickened and atheromatous, as also the arte- ries at the base of the brain. One centimetre from its opening into tlie basilar the left vertebral artery was completely obstructed by deco- lourised, yellowish clot. No traces of infarctus were found in any of the abdominal organs. Charcot remarks on the cases, that the symptoms observed were extremely similar to those seen in labio-glosso- pharyngeal paralysis. King, “A Case of Aortic and Mitral Valvular Disease, with Extensive Infarction of the Spleen and Cerebral Softening” (man,03t.32), ‘Path. Soe. Trans.,’ xxiii, 63. Id., “ Aneurism of the Aorta associated with Fracture of the First Kib, and Embolism of Left Middle Cerebral Artery ” (man, 03C. 42), ib., 70. Molliere, “ De I'Embolie des Arteres Mesenteriques, etudes critiques et bibliograpbiques,” ‘ Lyon. Med.,’ viii, 691. Ramskill, “Thrombosis of Right Iliac Vein, Embolism of Pulmonary Artery, Sudden Death ” (man, set. 35), ‘Med. Times and Gaz.,’ 1871, i, 660. Merkel, “ Cheyne- Stokes’schen Respirationstypus mit Pendel-bewegungen der Augapfel. Rheumatische Endocarditis; Encephalitis in Folge von Emholie der Arteria fossae Sylvii dextra” (girl, set. 22), ‘ Deut. Arch.,’ x, 201. Schmid, “ Zur Differentialdiagnose von Apoplexie und Embolie des Gehirns,” ib., 305. Cohnheim, “Untersuchungen fiber die Em- bolischen Processe,” Berlin, 1872, pp. 112 (reviewed, ib., 316). Pericarditis. "Wilks (‘ Guy’s Hosp. Eep.,’ xvi, 196) writes on adherent peri- cardium as a cause of cardiac disease, and discusses the different views held by Hope, Corvisart, Barlow, Chevers, &c. He holds it probable that loose cellular adhesions have no appreciable influence on the action of the heart, but that the thickened pericardium of a carti- laginous consistency, investing the heart closely, arising from an inflam- mation at an early period of childhood, does lead to obstruction of the circulation, and then to dropsy, after the manner of heart disease. The condition of adherent pericardium cannot be regarded as a rare one. Ble gives six cases in which death was apparently due to this affection, and is almost inclined to offer the proposition, that in a well-marked case of disease with cardiac symptoms in young persons without any valvular bruit pericardial adhesions may be fairly expected. In older persons, of course, we should look rather to degeneration of muscular tesue ’ Of the cases recorded in this paper, five were males, aged re- spectively 21,9, 12, 26, and 24; the other is that of a girl, aged 16. The symptoms common to all were dyspnoea, cyanosis, dropsy; in none was any bruit heard; in all the pericardium was universally and closely adLrent. (The first case has been recorded already by Barlow, ‘Guy’s Hosp. Eep.,’ ser. 3, xi, 437--^%^ )