UEPOUT ON PEACTICAL MEDICINE. n parts. (To show that these appearances were not due to any mode of preparation, he made various comparative researches on muscle from a boy who had died of acute inflammation of the lungs.) The muscles examined showed no granular or fatty appearance. He refers to other investigations in cases of progressive muscular atrophy, in which a simple, non-fatty degeneration of the fibres has been found, and he thinks that upon these grounds a sharp distinction between the two forms of disease can be drawn. He believes that the connective- tissue induration of the muscle represents an earlier stage of the affec- tion ; that the fatty infiltration of the muscles, like the lipomatosis occurring after the division of nerves, is one stage of the same patho- logical disease. But the development of fat is no essential symptom of the affection, and Duchenne’s name of paralysis pseudo-hypertrophica is, therefore, still the most convenient. The affected muscles reacted with a weak induction-current as healthy ones: with a strong current, only feebly, and without power of locomotion. A long disquisition succeeds on the contractions occurring in paralysis pseudo-hypertro- phica, and on the secretion of urea. As to whether the disease be a primary affection of the muscles, or due to an affection of the central nervous system, he thinks cannot as yet be decided. Duchenne (‘ Gaz. des Hop.,’ 1872, 634) publishes a note on the patho- logical anatomy of pseudo-hypertrophic paralysis in five more cases, which only confirm his former researches. Barth, “ Beitrage zur Keniitniss der Atrophia Musculorum Lipomatosa ” (man, ast. 44, autopsy), ‘Arch. d. Heilk,’ xii, 121. Tillaux, “Atrophic Musculaire Consecutive aux Congelations,” ‘Bull. Gen. de Therap.,’ t. 80, p. 226. Banks, “On Progressive Muscular Atrophy” (three cases, one death, autopsy incomplete), ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, i, 2. Pepper, “Clinical Lecture on a case of Progressive Muscular Atrophy,” ‘Philadelph. Med. Times,’ 1871, i. No. 18 (quoted in ‘ Centralbl.,’ 1871). Auerbach, “Bin Pall von wahren Muskelhypertrophie” (man, set. 21), ‘ Virch. Arch.,’ liii, 2.^4. Down, “ Case of Paralysis, with apparent Muscular Hypertrophy,” ‘ Trans. Path. Soc.,’ xxi, 24. Id., “ Case of Pseudo-hypertrophic Paralysis," ih., 29. Chapot-Duvert, “ Atrophie Musculaire Progressive, gu&ison au moyen des courants continus,” ‘ Bull. Gen. de Therap.,’ t. Ixxi, 134. Orsi, “ Cenno sulT Ipermegalia Muscolare, Paralitica, Progressiva, e Storia Clinica di uno caso della stessa,” ‘Gaz. Med. Lomb.,’ 1872, 117. Butliu, “ Condition of the Muscle in Pseudo-Hypertrophic Muscular Paralysis,” ‘ St. Barth. Hosp. Rep.,’ viii (1872), 124. Greenhow, “Case of Progressive Muscular Atrophy,” ‘Clin. Soc. Trans.,’ v (1872), 210. Davidson, “On Pseudo-Hypertrophic Muscular Paralysis” (three cases, with photographs, &c.), ‘Glasg. Med. Journ.,’ iv, 289. Diabetes. Zimmer (“ Die Hachste IJrsache des Diabetes Mellitus‘ Dent. Klin.,’ 1871, 41) quotes the experiments of !^:mard, Pavy, &c., to show that the production of sugar from glycogen js increased in the liver by great congestion, in the muscles by contraction, and in the whole body by large venesections. The mode of working in all these cases he finds in the larger amount of water acting as a ferment upon the glycogen of the different organs. The same process occurs in artificial diabetes, only in larger amount and for a longer time. In Bernard’s experiment of pricking the floor of the fourth ventricle, in division of the splanchnic nerve in destruction of the upper cervical ganglion, or extirpation of