CHOLERA. 475 bably an extension of tbe outbreak in Northern India in 1867, than a revivication of the epidemic of 1865-57. At any rate, in Russia as in Persia before adopting the recrudescence theory, the better understood effects'of reimportation during the migratory period of the disease must be more clearly excluded. . -n • • o< The reappearance of cholera in an active form m Russia in 1869, when the disease was prevalent in Northern Persia, is sufficiently intel- ligible in the light of previous diffusions ; but the locality of the reap- pearance, Kiev, an inland town of South Russia, and the absence of any extension of cholera across the Russo-Persian frontier or to the Russian coast of the Caspian, in either 1868 or 1869, appeared at first sight to shut out absolutely any connection by importation in the ordinary course of traffic between the two countries. The result of investigations into the lines of traffic between the two countries was to elicit the important fact that since 1864 there had been a great displacement of traffic between Persia and Russia in Europe. Previous to the date given the main lines of traffic were by way of Astra- chan and by way of Trebizonde; but since 1864 the traffic has been largely diverted from these routes to routes traversing Transcaucasia to the coast of the Black Sea at Poti, and thence to the ports of South Russia. This route has been greatly promoted by the Russian Govern- ment, and still further to develop the traffic from Persia along the Poti route, a railway has been projected from Poti to Baku, by way of Tifiis and Blizabethpol, and will shortly be opened. It is a most noteworthy fact that the outbreak of cholera in South Russia should coincide with the wide prevalence of the disease in North Persia, and the establishment of a direct and more rapidly traversed route of traffic between South Russia and Persia. Mr. Radcliffe justly suggests that a more probable explanation of the outbreak in South Russia in 1869 or 1870, and of the subsequent large diffusion of the disease in Northern Europe, is to be sought in the movement of cholera, in some way (from imperfection of data) as yet unknown, along the route into Russia, rather than the assumption, less consistent with our knowledge of epidemic diffusion of the disease beyond the limits of India, of the recrudescence of the well-nigh extinguished epidemic of 1865. If this suggestion be correct, the establishment of the route by way of Poti and the ports of South ^Russia, as the principal line of traffic between Persia and Russia, is a matter which seriously affects the sani- tary welfare of Europe, particularly when considered in connection with the development of railway communication between Central Europe and the Russian Coast of the Black Sea. With the completion of the Transcaucasian railway it may be anticipated that “ contagions current in Persia will become current in Europe.” Cholera on the Upper Nile.—Of great interest in connection wdth the events above narrated by Mr. Radcliffe are the facts relating to the recent prevalence of cholera in Nubia.* Cholera broke out in the Taka country, in Upper Nubia, in June, 1872. This country, of which the capital town is Karsala, lies between the rivers Atoara and Barca, and communication between it and Egypt, is chiefiy maintained through the * ‘ Cholera on the Upper Nile,” The ‘ Times,’ January 3, 1872.