llUPTUKE OF HEART. 145 of a farthing, completely plugged with a black clot. “ This hole was apparently the result of ulceration (! Rep.), and must have existed for some time, as the edges were completely rounded off, and the plug of clot adherent,” In the case recorded by Wiltshire (ib., 1872, i, 290), a woman, £et. 57, who had during life presented symptoms of ulcer of the stomach, suddenly died. In addition to the ulcers in the posterior wall of that organ, a rupture, three quarters of an inch long, was found in the right ventricle. The muscle was markedly fatty. Hughes (ib., ii, 41) gives a case very like that of Thompson. The patient, a man of about 36, had been in his usual health, and had worked hard all day. At midnight after retiring to bed, he complained of nausea, and of pain “ as if his liver was being torn to pieces.” Soon after he died. The autopsy showed a rent, half an inch in length, in the wall of the right ventricle, about midway between the apex and base, close to and parallel with the longitudinal sulcus. The walls of the heart, though not examined microscopically, were soft and thin— probably fatty. Lowe (ib., 524) also gives a similar case occurring in a woman, set. 66, who after going to bed in her usual health, woke with sickness and vomiting, and died about seven hours later. Here the rupture was found in the left ventricular wall, immediately to the left of and parallel to the sulcus, and measured about three quarters of an incli in length. The substance of the heart was soft and flabby, and pale in colour. Watson (ib.,'’ 659) publishes a case of rupture, to the extent of an inch, in the wall of the left ventricle, parallel with the sulcus. The patient was a woman, set. 71, and the muscular tissue of the heart was pale and flabby. Westcott (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1872, i, ^554) records a case in which the symptoms of nausea and vomiting, though as in some other cases they might have been premonitory (?) of the mischief in the heart, are doubtful from the fact that the patient, a man, set. 6^, was more or less a drinker, and the rupture might have been the result of the vomiting {Rep.). In this case the heart showed the following appearances: on the wall of the left ventricle were three longitudinal fissures, the lowest extending through the entire thickness of the wall, and mea- suring rather over a quarter of an inch in length : internally the rupture extended to three quarters of an inch. Some of the musculi papillares were ruptured, and the microscope proved the fatty deeene- neration of the muscle. ^ Sherman (‘ New York Med. Eec.,’ vi, 345) publishes the case of a man in Whom, alter being crushed between two railway cars, the heart was lound ruptured in three places. N'eurosis of the Heart. Nunueley ( Lancet,’ 1871, i, 228) groups cases of palpitation of the eart lor convenience, and in the absence of any scientific classification, 10