229 EXCISIONS OP THE MAXILL.E. cavity, the division of the lower jaw affords easy access, and entire control over the bleeding. In most cases it is not necessary to extir- pate any of the bone. If extirpation is required two things deserve notice in effecting it: ist, that an incision which ascends no higher than the level of the lobe of the ear suffices and thus avoids division of the portio dura; 2nd, that in the removal of the jaw, at the articulation, division of the internal maxillary artery may easily be avoided. (‘ Ed. Med. Journ.,’ Jan. 1871, 6^1). In order to avoid division of the facial nerve and parotid duct in removing the inferior maxilla, Mr. Lizars has adopted the following plan of operating. He made one straight cut from the angle of the mouth towards the upper part of the lobe of the ear as far as the pos- terior margin of the ascending ramus of the maxilla; he denuded the jaw of its periosteum, the masseter and that part of the temporal muscle attached to the external and lower part of the coronoid process (usiii" the handle of the scalpel principally), extracted the lateral incisor, and divided the jaw with the bone-pliers (the subject being young); then its cut end, drew it outwards and upwards, thus facilitating the removal of the mucous membrane and muscles from its inner surface, dividing the inferior dental nerve and internal lateral ligament with the knife, and by keeping close to the bone, avoided the internal maxillary artery. The coronoid process and neck of the iaw now being free, were divided with the pliers, and nearly the half of the jaw easily removed. (Communicated to the ‘Lancet,’ Sept. 28, 1872, by Sir W. Fergusson.) ’ r > / » Tumour of the lower jaio.—Mx. Hamilton records a case of cvstic tumour of the lower jaw, on which he operated successfully. The condyle was disarticulated at the joint, and nearly one half of the bone was removed, f w ' Med. Sci., April, 1872, p. 283). A case under the care I Mr. Christopher Heath, in which he removed a large fibro-cystic tumour of the lower jaw, is noted in the ‘Lancet,’ March 23, 1872, 397. and‘Path. Trans.,’xxiii, 181. 6, 1, Excision of half of the lower jaw.~Mx. W. Thomas, of Birminffham removed the left half of the lower jaw on account of a myeloid tumour! ihe growth had been recognised for about seven years. The left lower incisor tooth was extracted, an incision made along the ramus from the the taw rft tr ‘‘P’ dissected up, aud the jaw dinded at the symphysis: after a little dissection the tumour was rem^oved by sawing the bone below the condyle, and then after rf tt mtut7wt‘^ mucous membtn; ..nited n Stitched together, and the flap of skin laid down and twentt t sUver wire sutures. The mass removed tethed tUn Vi itfound to court ot a little &™rTAtn“T“7® I pinkish-white substance a rnthtTfterThtr * * substance were two cysts. Seventeen Td Resented no ,‘°k “ excellent health, JulyPjHfy , , recurrence of the disease. (‘LanceV W^Cg^^n'removT;! '"’“7 sapsrior «oau7i«.-Sir fergusson removed the greater part of the sifiierior maxilla for a