259 FRACTURE OP THE PEMUR.j ETC. Ununited, extra-capsular fracture of the nech of the thiyh hone.—Mr. Listei*, in the case of a man, ast. 45, who had fractured his thigh eighteen mouths before without union having occurred, cut down at the seat of fracture, felt the ends of the bones gouged them, and then dressed the wound antiseptically, applying strong support. Bleeding occurred sub- sequently and the wound had to be stulfed with lint (antisej)tically). Complete recovery resulted and the man walked well. (Address, ‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Aug. 26, 1871.) Spontaneous fracture of the femur.—Mr. Durham records a case in a man, set. 44. Re-union occurred and the patient remained well four years later. The pathology remained open to doubt. (‘ Clin. Soc. Trans.,’ iv, 63.) Fracture of the femur.—Dr. Montgomery writes on the impractibility of restoring to its full length a thigh-bone shortened' by fracture, as apparently demonstrated by experiment. In a case of fracture of the femur in a muscular man he tried reduction after death; the fracture was transverse with overlapping to the extent of one inch and a quarter. The force employed by four men reduced the overlapping half an inch. A weight of one hundred and twenty pounds was then ajiplied over a pulley and left for seventeen hours. The overlapping was then only a quarter of an inch. “ I venture the opinion that in most, and probably 7 fracture of the femur whether transverse or oblique toith shortening, the fractured ends of the bone cannot be placed in exact opposition by any force which can be safely applied to livino- tissue. It IS admitted by most liters on surgery that shortening of the hrab in fracture of the thigh is to be expected and is generally found alter proper treatment. -Would it not be more correct to say it is a ways found (when produced by a fracture), because a shortened cannot be fully extended to its normal length after the broken ends of bone have passed eacAother ?” (‘Am. Journ. Med oci., July, 1872, 112.) resection of the tiUa.—Dv Ed ward Bennett records a case of ununited fracture of the tibia and nrevtoislv "VhT f “ accident had occurred four months 1 fiacture waa compound. On proceeding to operate a mass of tissue was found between the ends of the bonfs The over lapping ends of the tibia were cut off and the union of the fibSa' ankle DTHratgomervlin of the tibia near the by means of a weight^ “““essfully employedM^^ extension plan of fixing the Shtto Ait “ “°*fioation of the usual April, 1871, 35, ) “ *° J°"™- Med, Sciences,' fractured S icnciusiois a.r “1 .P^duction of these the odontoid process Ins (Jon? ? liealthy condition of parts omoia process has greater strength than either the anterior ring