22 HEPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. holds good for the -descending current, whilst the converse obtains for the ascending current, important series of researches was undertaken by Fritsch and Hitzig* * * § on the effects of stimulating various parts of the cerebral hemispheres by means of the galvanic cupent. The skull was removed with the exception of that part covering the superior longitudinal sinus in dogs. The irritation of the surface of definite regions of limited extent of one hemisphere called special groups of muscles on the opposite side of the body into action. Thus, irritation of one spot pro- duced contraction of the muscles of the back of the neck, another the extensors and abductors of the fore leg, another the flexors and rotators, others the muscles of the hind leg and of the face. The irritation pro- ceeded principally, if not exclusively, from the positive pole. Heidenhaint investigated the changes of temperature in the brain resulting from excitation of the sensory nerves. He compared the temperature of the brain with that of the aortic blood by the thermo- electric method, and convinced himself that the brain constantly possesses a higher temperature than arterial blood, and that this dif- ference increases considerably on excitation of the sensory nerves. There is a coincident fall in the temperature of the blood traversing the aorta, vena cava, and hepatic vein; this fall is occasioned in some way by the medulla oblongata, since it does not occur if a section of the cord be made just below the medulla. The fall in the temperature of the blood is accompanied by a rise in the pressure, both in the arteries and in the veins, and with an augmented rapidity of the blood-current in both. He attributes the changes in the temperature of the blood to an increased loss of heat from the surface. SchiffJ has continued his researches referred to in the last ‘ Biennial Eeport ’ on the extrication of heat during the functional activity of the nervous centre, and shows clearly that the augmented temperature depends on modifications of the circulation, and is primarily due to the vaso-motor nerves. _Dr. Franz Riegel,§ after repeating the experiment of division of the spinal cord opposite the sixth cervical vertebra and corroborating the fact of the general fall in the temperature of the body that follows that operation, appears to think it may in part be due to paralysis of the vaso-motor nerves leading to dilatation of the vessels and consequent increased evaporation and exposure of the blood to the cooling influence of the air and radiation, but that it is chiefly due to an absolutely diminished production of heat, in favour of which view he adduces various arguments, Fick|| gives an account of a series of experiments he made on the efiects of heating and cooling the blood passing to the vaso-motor and cardiac nerve-centres, and states that, to his surprise, he obtained only * ‘ Reichert uud Dubois Reymond’s Archiv,’ 1870, 300. f ‘ Pfliiger's Ai-chiv,’ iii, 504. i Brown-Sequard’s ‘Ai-chives de Physiologic,’ January, March, May, and July, 1870. § ‘ Pfluger’s Archiv,’No. 12, 1872. II Idem, V, I.