194 REPORT ON SURGERY. temperature of this surface is so much reduced that the ether is too slowly evaporated, to change it tor a warm one. (3) To give the vapour freely, at first, so as to bring the patient under its infiuence as quickly as possible, by which the tendency to struggling is lessened. The two chief inconveniences, which Mr. Haward has found, are, the un- pleasantly noisy excitement sometimes manifested when the patient is recovering from its influence, and the rapid diffusion of the vapour about the room, which is to some disagreeable. The easy inflamma- bility of the vapour must also be borne in mind. A table of thirteen cases of deaths from chloroform is given, and also a table ot cases in which ether was administered, ninety-seven in number. In only one, was there after-sickness, and, in that case, the patient only vomited once, an hour after the operation. (‘ Med.-Chir. Trans., Iv, 5.) Anrp^thetics bv Dr. Jones (‘ Brit. Med. Jonrn.,’ Nov. 23 and 30, 1872). Chloroform cmd its administration. Dr. Vivian Poore (‘ Lancet,’ Oct. 12, 26, Nov. 16, Dec. 14, 1872) contributes clinical remarks on cliloroform and its adminis- ^^^Chloroform accidents, by J. T. Clover (‘ Brit. Med. Joiun.,’ Ju^' S, i87i)._ A clinioal lecture on Death from chloroform, by Mr. Ericbsen, is given in Bi . If either, hj John Couper (‘Brit. Med. Jourm ’ 18^72^^^ The administration of ether, with a figure of an apparatus, by Di. Mo ( ^^MUr'Z'a^anasiheticlhy Dr. Morgan (‘Brit. Med. Jrarn.,’ Oct. V’ g x The administration of ether, by G. E. Norton (‘ Brit. Med. Journ., Dec. 7, 1872). 'JkK}"?artid^ in ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Nov. 2, &c, 1872. Nitrous oxide still holds its place as a safe anesthetic, ^^pted, at anj rate for short operations ; chiefly the extraction of teeth. A case is iust’now reported from Exeter, in which death followed the administra- tion of nitrLs oxide, but the pulse and respiration were ^^ot'ced foi minutes after serious alarm was excited. There was no post- mortem The case will probably remain doubtful as to the exact way in Xch death occurred. (‘ Brit. Med. Journal,’ &c., Feb. 1, 1873.) Antisevtic surgeryLister’s address, before the Brit Med. Assoc enters fuUyf into the question of antiseptic surpry. It las DuSik i/ all the medical journals, and, therefore, must be -bip tn most readers Bull abstracts referring to previous papps ^"rpiten in Bien. Eetrosp.’ We need, now, only refer to the are given in preceai ^ dressin^^; the chief novelties, we believe, carbohppray and the gauze adopted in many noted in the J ,, . fibres of which are impreg- scribes it as securely lodged in insoluble resin, which holds ‘elacity. while, at the eame time, a tp carbo prevent the adhesiveness, which the mixture of little paraffia otherwise possess. The fabric .a porous. itt^T^oifeJ silh a?d“pTacS over thf protective. In order to compel the dis-