REPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. •jf ‘ Proceed, of Roy. Med. and Chir. Soc.,’ vi. No. 8. ■ • ’i.* mcreasmg its amount, pure farinaceous and other non-nitrogenous food diminishing it. Eabbits, on the average, have 8'4i per cent, of hemo- globin, well-nourished dogs i3'8o per cent., man 13'i6 per cent. In anemia and chlorosis it may fall as low as to 4'63 per cent. Prof. Haughton,* in his lectures on animal mechanics, states that according to his experiments the muscles of the arms of a young man accustomed to athletic exercise are capable of raising 94-7 lbs. per square inch of their sectional area. The muscles of the leg are stronger and can lift 110-4 lbs. per square inch of sectional area ; those of the abdomen 107 lbs.; he takes the mean at 104 lbs. A single ounce in weight of the muscle of the human heart will lift 25'576 lbs. through the height of one foot in a minute. Heidenhain,t after discussing the views of Harless, Cyon, and others, respecting the tone of the voluntary muscles, gives the results of his experiments, which have led him to the conclusion that the tone of muscles is simply the expression of their healthy nutrition, and has no relation with their nervous supply. Nigetiet and HeppnerJ observe that Heidenhain long ago showed that the production of acid in acting muscles augments with their tension during contraction. They made experiments to determine whether the same holds good for the other compounds resulting from the metamorphosis of muscular tissue, and, adopting Helmholtz and Eanke’s mode of procedure, that is, comparing the alcoholic with the watery extract (the latter decreasing, the former increasing, during the period of activity), they found that in muscles under otherwise pre- cisely similar circumstances, but of which one was weighted whilst the other was not, the former yielded more alcoholic and less watery extract than the other. Dr. A. Henocque§ states the nerves supplying smooth muscular tissue are distributed in three plexuses—(i) a basal or fundamental plexus, containing numerous ganglia situated externally to the muscle; (2) an intermediate plexus ; and (3) an intra-muscular plexus, situated in the interior of the fasciculi of smooth fibres. The terminal fibres are every- where alike, dividing dichotomously, and ending with a slight enlarge- ment or button, or in a punctiform manner. These swellings are situated in difierent parts of the smooth muscle, often near the nucleus, or on the surface, or between the fibres. M. A. Sawicki|| shows that the quantity of uric acid excreted by the kidney is in relation with the food rather than with the amount of exercise taken. Dr. W. Ogle^ shows that both the right leg and right arm are used preferentially by many animals as well as by man, and in man before any education is commenced. From various observations made on right- and left-handed individuals he has arrived at the conclusion that, like the faculties concerned in speech, those associated with the predominance * ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ May and June, 1871. t ‘Pfluger’s Archiv,’ iv—x. t Idem, iii, 574. § Brown-Sequard’s ‘Archives,’ 1870, 397. II ‘Pfluger’sArchiv,’1872, vi.