395 PHYSIOLOGY AND PATHOLOGY OP THE OVUM# blood and gaseous interchange, and thus may lead primarily to the death of the fcetus. Calcification of a mature placenta with a living child is only an indication of completed intrauterine growth ; and from a similar point of view is to be regarded as secondary cal- cification, noticed when the foetus is from other causes dead and macerated. . Ahlfeld, of Leipzig, writes on the determination of the size and the age of the child before labour. The attempt is made by Ahlfeld to deter- mine the size of the foetus for two reasons; firstly, in order to.ascertain the period of gestation, and, secondly, to make out before labour if any disproportion exist between the foetus and the genital passages. To arrive at the first point attention is paid to the woman s statements, the height of the uterus, the development of the abdomen, the condi- tion of the inferior segment of the vaginal portion of the cervix uteri, and the state of the external genitals. To ascertain the second point particular attention is paid to the size of the head, the hardness of the bones which form it, and the condition of the sutures and fontanelles. The uterine contents determine the form of the uterus, so that in the middle of pregnancy, when the foetus forms the principal part of the ovum, the form of the uterine walls is moulded to the posi- tion and attitude of the foetus. There thus results an ovoid, the two poles of which are constituted by the head and the breech, and the separation of these two gives the length of the foetal axis, and this is always about half the entire length of the child. Having placed the woman on her back, with the thighs flexed, if the long axis of the uterus be from above downward, the position of the fundus uteri is marked on the abdomen, and then one arm of Baudelocque’s pelvimeter is guided by the finger along the vagina to the occiput of the child ; the length from head to breech is thus ascertained, and by doubling this we have the entire length of the child. If the long axis of the uterus be trans- verse, the position of the head and the breech is marked, and the dis- tance between them measured. The author has collected in eight tables the results of measurements made in 250 cases, and at the same time the estimation of the weight of the foetus. In the fortieth week the greatest length is estimated at centimetres, the shortest at 48 ; in the thirty-ninth week, 56 and 46 centimetres ; in the thirty-eighth, 60 and 44; in the thirty-seventh, 54-4 and 40. The second table proves the truth of the statement already made, that the entire length of the child is about double that of the foetal axis. The third table gives the results of measurements made in the intervals of uterine contractions ; the fourth, of those made during uterine action. The fifth gives an account of the measurements in transverse and oblique positions, and the sixth the relation which exists between the length of the newborn child and the two transverse diameters of the head. The seventh table gives the height of the uterus in each week of pregnancy, and the last table the relation between the height of the uterus and the length of the intra-uterine foetal axis, and the length of the newborn child. The increase in the size of the uterus is about half a centimetre a week, at least, in the last third of pregnancy. The height of the uterus continually increases to the end of pregnancy, although it is