296 REPORT ON SURGERY. Intestinal obstruction; formation of artificial anus in small intestine.—' Mr. McCarthy records a case of obstruction of the bowels caused by cancerous disease, in which he made an incision in the abdominal wall, opened the first piece of intestine which presented and stitched it to the edges of the wound. The patient lived for forty-eight days having been much relieved by the operation. Death was caused immediately by failure of the heart. The carcinoma had originated in the cardiac end of the stomach and had involved the splenic flexure of the colon. There was not the slightest evidence of peritonitis. Mr. McCarthy remarks on the absence of 'peritonitis. It is stated by authorities to bo almost inevitable after such an operation. Another point of interest was the fact of there being very fluid, but otherwise normal, faecal matter in the portion of the bowel between the artificial anus and the obstruction. It is also noteworthy that the patient recovered. (‘ Med.- Chir. Trans.,’ Iv, 267.) Oastrotomy for intestinal obstruction.—Dr. Buchanan operated on a young woman who had symptoms of acute intestinal obstruction, suc- cessfully. The patient was 29 years of age, in good health. The symptoms began with severe pain in the abdomen followed by vomiting. On the third day, stercoraceous vomiting occurred. On’the fourth day. Dr. Buchanan saw the patient. The voice was husky; her counte- nance was anxious and pale ; the extremities were cold ; her pulse was weak; and she was restless and uneasy in whatever position she lay. The abdomen was distended with flatus. The most careful examination failed to detect any point which could be referred to as the seat of the obstruction. An incision was made from the umbilicus downwards for about four inches. As soon as the peritoneum was opened a quan- tity of turbid serum flowed out and was collected, altogether about a pint. It had very much the appearance of whey, with flocculi, like pieces of curd, floating in it. It was very acrid, smarting the skin when it came in contact with the hands. The intestines were glued together and one coil was sharply bent on itself. The right hand was intro- duced into the abdominal cavity and a thorough exploration made. The intestine was removed from the pelvis with slight jerks to liberate any portion possibly strangulated. An assistant kept the bowels from protruding from the abdominal cavity. The pelvis was sponged out. The wound was secured with deep and superficial sutures. The patient did well afterwards. She had an attack of swelling of the left lower ex- tremity resembling phlegmasia dolens. Dr. Buchanan alludes to cases of spontaneous recovery in intestinal obstruction, but remarks that there are few, if any, in which stercoraceous vomiting has gone on un- interruptedly for more than forty-eight hours which have not terminated fatally. The cause of the stercoraceous vomiting he supposes to have been the twist of the intestine held down by adhesions or else the acrid peritoneal fluid. Mr. Hancock, in 1848, performed a somewhat similar operation and let out a quanity of greenish, flocculent serum with decided relief of the symptoms and ultimate cure of the patient. In a paper which Mr. Hancock read before the Medical Society, he advo- cated opening the peritoneum in other cases of peritonitis in “ cases where the effused fluid destroys rather by its character than its quan-