422 REPORT ON MIDWIPERY, ETC. pleural cavities and pericardium. In aU these he has found bacteria in a remarkably large quantity. In the diphtheritic patches they lie between the pus-cells and those of the partly mortified tissue elements. The puriform contents of the lymph channels consist of pus-corpuscles and (in large proportion) of bacteria, and these latter are also to be found in the peritoneal flakes, mixed with pus-corpuscles, young cells, and fibrine masses. In the last case, on which Waldeyer bases his observations, the post-mortem examination was made six hours after death, the body was yet warm, and nowhere were there any indications of decomposition to be observed in the organs. The occurrence in all the cases of bacteria within the pus-corpuscles is very noteworthy. Waldeyer believes that the changes originate on the inner surface of the genital canal, and creep upwards along the lymphatics to the peri- toneum. An exudative purulent inflammation of the abdominal parietes occurs, which quickly extends to the diaphragm; and then we find inflammation of the diaphragm, and still further pleuritis and peri- carditis. Contribution to the Study of Fuer'peral Septicoemia.—The following is the summary of the conclusions arrived at by M. d’Espine in his long and elaborate articles on this important subject, recently published in the ‘Archives Generales de Medecine.’ i. Puerperal septiceemia'con- sists of a series of symptoms, the gravity of which is in direct relation to the quantity of septic matter absorbed by breaches of surface in the utero-vaginal canal. These symptoms are not peculiar to the puer- peral state, and ought to be classed with those produced by septicaemia in the wounded and in animals. 3. The source of puerperal septicaemia is always the uterus or vagina; and all causes which prevent the heal- ing of the bared interior of the uterus, or which favour the production of septic matter in its neighbourhood, have an important action in its production. 4. The most common channel of absorption is through the lymphatics, and its passage through them can generally, but not always, be traced by lymphangitis. 5. Peritonitis is the result of the conveyance of septic matter through the lymphatics of the uterus, and it may be compared to the local inflammations which develop round infected wounds. 6. The effect of septic absorption is to develop con- gestions and inflammations in internal organs, chiefly in the lungs, kidneys, and intestines; subserous ecchymoses and interstitial apo- plexy ; internal and external inflammations, which localise themselves in the neighbourhood of the serous membranes; during life, these actions are recognised by fever, diarrhoea, pulmonary congestion, epis- taxis, and often by fugitive cutaneous eruptions. 7. Milk fever has no existence; febrile action in the first week after delivery almost always depends on absorption of lochia through slight abrasions or lacerations of the utei’o-vaginal canal. It may continue for some weeks should the uterus not be firmly contracted, or should the lochia be foetid. In the latter case ulcerations, through which absorption takes place, may almost always be found either on the cervix or in the vagina. 8. These Blighter affections are often, but not always, accompanied by angioleu- citis and slight perimetritis. When the septic poison continues long we may have consumption and death {phtUsie septigue). 9. Puerperal