303 SUPPURATING OVARIAN CYSTS^ ETC. panied by external peritoneal inflammation. The flrst question we have to decide is whether it is possible to distinguish the symptoms of suppuration from, those of peritonitis. When occurring in the acute form after the operation of tapping, I believe the diagnosis may be made with moderate certainty, from the rapid refllling of the cyst, with rigors, sweats, high temperature and general fever. But few such cases would, I imagine, afford any opportunity for surgical treat- ment. Mr. Sj)encer Wells has recorded one successful case of ovario- tomy during acute suppuration in a lecture in the ‘ Med, Times and Gazette.’ It is more important in a surgical ]3oint of view to.inquire into the symptoms and treatment of that chronic form of suppuration which is more common and more tractable that the former.” Quota- tions from authors on this subject are given. Mr, Holmes says “I much regret that the thermometer was not used in the case-1 have related, but the heat and dryness of the skin were certainly not present nor was the tongue of the character described by Mr. Wells. In fact,^ the patient was so free from any indication of general fever that it never occurred to me to take thermometical observations, nor is it likely that a very elevated temperature could have coexisted with symptoms otherwise so ill-defined. The sickness which came on shortly after the abdominal pain and tenderness was of no value as a diagnostic sign, since equally troublesome sickness occurred before the tumour had been meddled with in any way, and when the fluid was certainly not purulent. Ho rigors were observed at the time, and on question- ing the patient afterwards she said she had never had any. There remains the rapM and extreme emaciation combined with a peculiarly feeble pMse. It is difficult to convey in words an idea of the strange patient; it really seems to me that this ema- ciatmn and this peculiar pulse were the only general symptoms which ought to have attracted ouv observation, and on which a diagnosis could founded. _ But I would also call attention to the fact of the patient having complained of acute tenderness when the cyst was pressed upon in yanous parts.” -1 think I might say that in aSL case in which this general tenderness to pressure coincided with symptoms aM ^tb m emaciation otherwise unaccounted for to coCc'^ I be disposed 7 a occurrence of chronic suppuration within the cvst “VrSh f ca‘se>°tw t wouldVobably have ended and might, after all, have been futTlf Th! !• ’ -Poe alternatives are to pull the