205 COMPRESSION IN ABDOMINAL ANEURISM. appearing, astringent solutions, and, later, iced cataplasms were used. Two months after the receipt of the injury the patient was seized with severe pain, during which the aneurism diminished, and at last disap- peared, the patient recovering. Ligature of the vertebral artery, Kocher observes, is impossible, except in a portion, about six centimetres long, between its origin and its entrance into the transverse foramen of the sixth cervical vertebra; and, in most of the cases, the only remedy, in cases of wound of the vessel, is the introduction of a plug saturated with some disinfecting fluid and pressed deeply. If this fail, two resources are left—the appli- cation of styptics and the Hunterian ligature of the artery. The latter operation has been twice, only, performed on the living subject—once by Maissonneuve, in the case already referred to, and once by Smyth, of New Orleans, in a case of regurgitant haemorrhage after ligature of the innominate for subclavian aneurism. Distal ligature of the ver- tebral artery, between the occipital bone and the atlas, as has been sug- gested by Dietrich, would be both difficult in performance and uncer- tain in result. In applying styptics it is doubtful whether they should be intro- duced deeply. In one case the nerves lying behind the artery were injured, and in another, attended with lesion of the bones, dangerous inflammation of the spinal meninges took place. If simple plugging fail, the wound must be laid well open, so that the surgeon can see the bottom of it; and the styptic must be applied immediately and exclu- sively to the bleeding orifices of the vessel. The best styptic is the solution of perchloride of iron. It is most important that the move- ments of the head should be restrained by means of a stifi’ cravat. When an aneurism has formed, digital compression of the artery on the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra, or injection of ergotin, in the neighbourhood of the tumour, may be tried. 'Attempts to produce coagulation by electricity, or by injecting coagulating fluids into the sac, are inefficient and dangerous. The Hunterian operation is uncertain in result, on account ol the collateral circulation. The treatment in which Kocher has most confidence is the early laying open ot the sac and plugging, and, when possible, the direct application of solution ofperchloride of iron to the bleeding ends of the vessel. Abdominal aneurism cured by compression of the aorta.—Dr. Moxon and ^Hr. Durham record a case in which an abdominal aneurism was cured by compression of the aorta. This is the only case recorded precisely similar to the one narrated by Dr. Murray. The aneurism could be dis- tinctly felt over a space extending from rather less than an inch below the cartilages of the false ribs to the level of the umbilicus, and from the right ot the median line to about midway between the median line and the left border of the abdomen, or rather further. The patient was kept in bed and perfectly at rest for eleven days. Very sparing diet only was allowed, and pills of acetate of lead and opium were adminis- tered every SIX hours with the view of diminishing the desire for food. The tourniquet was screwed down very slowly until the pulsation was completely arrested, the patient being under the influence of chloro- lorm. The lower extremities were enveloped in cotton wool and hot