24 llEPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. distribution of tbe non- Qullated nerve-fibres in the membrana nictitans. He nlaces tbe Enf??membrane in a one-half per cent, solution of chloride of g Id for an hour, next cautiously transfers it to pure water, at the same tliTeSEl^^ ^ bright light for some days, and then brushes olf the epithelium and mounts the specimen in glycerine. He describes four orders of nerves the finest, which he traces to the internal surface ot the capillaries and to the cells of the epithelial investment, are deli- cately varicose and require a ISTo. 9 or 10 immersion lens. • Relieves he has traced the finest branches of certain nerves into the interior of the sarcodic masses forming the chromoblasts of flat flshes where they become connected with the nucleus and pigment- granules. Dr. BealeJ in a paper in the same journal contests this statement. bchobl§ describes the termination of the nerves in the wing of the bat, and states that some form an extremely fine plexus, whilst others end in tactile corpuscles in close relation with the hairs, the former minister, he thinks, to sensations of temperature and pain, the latter to ordinary tactile impressions. Th. Engelmann|| gives the result of his investigations upon the inner- vation of the contractile gland-cells of the frog. He shows that these glands can be made to contract by direct irritation, by various kinds of excitation applied to the peripheric extremity of the divided sciatic nerve, and also reflectorially. Pfiuger^ shortly discusses the objections that have been advanced against his views respecting the mode of termination of nerves in glands. To show the correctness of his statements he recommends the fresh Bubmaxillary gland of the ox or sheep to be taken and fine sections made ; these must be at once teased out with perosmic acid sp. gr. 1003, and covered with a thin glass in a shallow cell. In the case of the liver sections must be made from the fresh gland and placed in watch-glasses filled with Beale’s carmine solution for fourteen days. Each section must then be washed with the above solution of perosmic acid and mounted. Other papers on the nervous system are by Gr. Valentin,** Wundt,ft Bernstein,JJ J. K:6nig.§§ Eichardson,|||| Navratil,!^ Michael Lavdovsky.*** * ‘Quart. Journ. of Microsp. Sci./ January, 1872. t ‘ Monthly Microscopical Journal,’ vi, 285. J Idem, vii, 45. § ‘ Archiv f. Mikroskop. Anatomie,’ vii, i. II ‘ Pfliiger’s Archiv,’ iv, 1871, 3, and v, 498. If ‘ Ai’chiv fiir Physiologic,’ 1871. *# Positive und Neg. Stromschwankungen als Zeichen gewiss. Zersetzungsstufen der Nerv. und der Muskelmasse,” ‘ Zeitschrift fiir Biologic,’ vii, no. ft ‘Mechanismus d. Nerven u. Nerven Centra,’ Erlangen, 187 r. jj ‘ The Effects of Stimulation of Nerve and Muscle,’ 1871, Heidelberg. §§ “The Effects of Electric Stimulation of Nerve and Muscle,” ‘ Wien. Akad. Sitzungsbericht,’ Ixii, 537 ; and Humphry and Turner’s ‘ Journ of Auat.,’ 1872, 223. IIII “ Theory of a Nervous Atmosphere,” ‘Med. Times and Gaz.,’ i, 1871. HIT “ The Functions of the Laryngeal Nerves,” ‘ Med. Times and Gaz.,' June IS, 1872. *** “ The Termination of the Nerves in the Urinary Bladder of the Frog,” ‘ Cen- tralblatt fiir die Med. Wiss.,’ No. 3, 1871.