201 ANEURISM LIGATURE OP ARTERIES. Aneurism of the innominate—apparent cure—A. case ia which aneurism ot the innominate was dia^noseclj and. in which a cure appa- rently followed, is recorded by Mr. Morgan. Ice was applied and sul- phate of iron and digitalis (three drops of the tincture twice daily) given internally. The treatment was continued about a month. The man resumed his occupation, having been qnite nnable to do so before. The man remained, apparently, quite cured at the time of the last note, at the end of eighteen months. (‘Dub. Quart. Journ.,’ Deb. 1871, ^44-) A case of axillo-suhclavian aneurism was treated by digital pressure on the cardiac side. Sloughing of the skin and deep tissues occurred around the sac. Ultimately a partial cure resulted. The patient was a man, set. 45, under the care of Mr. Gray. (‘Lancet,’ Deb. 10, 1872, Aneurism of the ascending portion and arch of the aorta, treated hg ligature of the left carotid artery.—A man, set. 48, a farm labourer, came under the care of Dr. Cockle for an aneurism of the arch of the aorta. The symptoms are given in detail. The left carotid artery was liga- tured above the omo-hyoid by Mr. Heath. The wound healed quickly. The symptoms, of tumour pressing forward the sterno-clavicular articu- lation and bulging into the neck, of impulse, of inequality of the pupils, &c., diminished or disappeared. At the end of four months he had con- tinued to improve, and walked fourteen miles in one day. He was shown at the College of Surgeons, and his case was commented on b}'- Mr. Holmes. (See ‘Lancet,’ July, 1872; ‘Clin. Soc. Trans.,’ v, Subclavian aneurism; temporary compression of innominate artery by an elastic compressor specially contrived ; ulceration of vessel ; antiseptic ligatwre; secondary hcemorrhage on fifth and sixth days ; death.—Mr. Bickersteth communicated the case to the Med.-Chir. Soc., Nov. 26, 1872. (Abstracts ‘ Med. Journ.’) ’ Ligature of the subclavian artery.—Sir W. Dergnsson ligatured the subclavian artery for axiUary aneurism (‘Med. Times and Gaz.,’ Deb. 25, 1871, and ‘ Brit Med. Journ.,’ March 4, 1871). He found the omo- hyoid a good guide. The patient died. A second case is also reported (‘Med. Times and Gaz.,’ April 22, 1871, 453). The aneurism was traumatic. A healthy young man was wounded, five or six weeks before, with the prongs of a pitchfork, one of which entered at the anterior margin of the deltoid muscle, and probably damaged the axillary artery. The wound healed, but soon afterwards a pulsating swelling was noticed in the armpit. When admitted, there was a tumour, the size of an orange, high in the axilla. Sir W. Dergusson remarked that he would have been justified, as it was a case of wounded vessel, in cutting down and tying the artery above and below ; but there are exceptions to the best surgmal rules. The wound would be extensive; the vein might also be afiected; there might be great haemorrhage; compression of the subclavian is a doubtful safeguard. An objection to the proximal ligature might be found in the “ collateral circulation.” This objection, however, though abundantly proved as regards the brachial artery, has never yet been established as regards the axillary.