210 REPORT ON SURGERY. for the pulsation again returned at the end of twenty-four hours, and they had to press for some time longer. In the second case simple flexion was tried. On the seventh day very little pulsation remained, and the pressure of a tourniquet was added over the femoral. At the end of another week the pressure was gradually removed. In six weeks from the beginning of the treatment the patient was allowed to walk about. (‘ St. Barth. Hosp. Eep.,’ viii, 139 ) A case of aneurism of both popliteal arteries treated successfully by compression of the femorals is noted by Dr. Eendle. (‘ St. Barth. Hosp. Eep.,’ vin, 107.) . . Aneurism, false.—Mr. Spence narrates some interesting cases oi laise aneurism. A man came under his care for the results of a stab in the upper and inner part of the calf of the left leg, inflicted accidentally six weeks previously. Haemorrhage had occurred repeatedly. Pressure on the femoral did not check venous haemorrhage. Mr. Spence felt convinced that the posterior tibial artery and vein were wounded. He made an incision, about eight inches long, along the inner aspect of the calf dividing the gastrocnemius and soleus muscles and exposed the vessels. It was seen that the posterior tibial artery was injured close to the bifurcation of the popliteal, and also one of the venae comites. A lieature was applied above and below the wound in each vessel, and another was applied to the anterior tibial, just below the bifurcation of the popliteal. The ligatures were left hanging out, and wet lint ap- nlied to wound. The patient recovered, and resumed work as a post- man in a country district. Mr. Spence remarks on the ^ interest in the case. The patient was in a very unfavorable condition, the limb greatly swollen. The operation practically amounted to liga- turing the lower part of the popliteal as well as a large vein, J®*' covery followed. ^He also details a case oi false aneurism^ the radial. The hemorrhage at the time of the wound was controlled by a pad, &c., and the wound healed; nevertheless an aneurisin formed which had every appearance of being an acute abscess. ( Me . aHery above elbow, for anemiem below the bend of the eluTX:L Z\loere was a MgH division The aneunsm suited from a sprain, and involved only the radial, so this ™ tied hy Mr Hulk” the elbow. Compression and flexion had failed, f‘Med Times and Giaz.,’ April i, 1871, 363.) • ^4. r,.,, ^ Tourniauet —Mr. Bulley has devised a double tourniquet for com- Times and Graz., Jan. 27, 1872, 950 . -d„4. n Hr Pai-prson describes a case. Ine cm rrmph like alee severely affected r,emity was much en arpeh and^^^^^^^^^^^^