121 PNEUMONIA—IIYPERTKOPIIY. antimony, and blisters, had a return of the affection on going back to work too soon, and in whom a recurrence to the same treatment was impossible. Eapid recovery followed the exhibition of the lead in doses of five, increased to fifteen centigrammes, in the day. He next applied it to cases of the disease in old and feeble people, in whom the heroic treatment above mentioned had had no effect or could not be resorted to; and lastly, he employed the drug in cases of pneumonia occurring in all ages. He publishes in full 14 out of 33 cases. The mortality was over 10 per cent. The average period of the pneumonia, dating from the commencement to the cessation of the physical signs, as revealed by the stethoscope, was io'23 days. Papillaud, “Du Traitemenfc de la Pneumoiiie,” ‘Gaz. MM.,’ 1871, 312. Hosier, “ Ueber biliose Pneumonie und dadurcb complicirfcen Typhus recurrens,” ‘ Deut. Arch.,’ X, 266. Alt, “Ueber die Behandlung des crouposen Pneumonie mit Veratrin” (with curves of pulse and temperature of three cases, besides one in the text; twenty-one cases given altogether), ib., ix, 129. Weigand, “Zur Pneumoniefi-age,” ‘Berl. Klin. Woch.,’ 1872, 6. Liebig, “ Behandlung der chronischen catarrhalischen Pneumonie mit erhohtem Luftdruck,” ‘Wien. Med. Woch.,’ 1871, No. 20. Moxon, “Acute Interstitial Pneumonia,” ‘Lancet,’ 1872, ii, 779. Williams, “Pneumonia,” ‘Med. Times and Gaz.,’ 1872, i, 121. Bead, “ Oxygen in Diseases of the Lungs” (sixteen cases of phthisis, acute and chronic pneumonia, and chronic bronchitis, in which the gas was used regularly, and for a sufficient time to warrant the drawing of a conclusion as to its effects), ‘ New York Med. Journ.,’ xiv, 382. Brown Induration and Hypertrophy. Delafield (‘Amer. Journ. Med. Sci.,’ Ixi, 95) records his observations on “ pigment induration” of He lungs, based on twenty autopsies, in which he found this change in connection with disease of the heart. The lungs are small, their lobes adherent to one another and in part to the costal wall; the pulmonary pleura thick and opaque. On section the lung-tissue is resistent, very dry, containing scarcely any am, blood, or serum. The microscope revealed (i) new pigment (2) hypertrophy of the walls of the air-cells, (3) dilatation of the capil- laries,_ and (4) a marked increase of cellular elements within the alveoli. An analysis of the cases shows that mitral stenosis is almost always accompanied by pigment induration of the lungs; that simple mitral insufficiency causes it in nearly half the cases; and that aortic disease causes it in one fourth. A full analysis, with tables, is given of the post-mortem appearances in the other viscera, &c. Eindfleisch (‘ Centralblatt,’ 1872, 65) writes on the muscular tissue ° 11 j bronchi, which becomes much hypertrophied in the so- called brown induration of the lungs. He describes a peculiar and distinct layer of circular muscular fibres as surrounding the smallest bronchi, forming a kind of sphincter where they open out into the infundibula; these circular fibres send loops into the openings of the latter, which are also surrounded by smooth muscular fibres. These fibres may be easily made out in the normal lung by those who have observed them in the hypertrophied condition. Hyperfopbie und epiMblen HepatUu.