EEPOE-T ON MIDWIl'EUY, ETC. 370 pus from the vagiua. She died in forty-eight days after the operation. Neugebauer refers to several published cases of the kind, in which the age ranged from fourteen to twenty-seven. The length of time between the onset of the pains from retention of the menstrual discharge and the commencement of the treatment on account of the hsematometra varied from five weeks to fifteen years. Out of fifteen cases operated upon, eight recovered and seven died. Two cases of hsematometra in the closed canal of a bicornite uterus are also recorded by iFreund and Wheeler (‘Boston Journal,’ July, 1872). Steiner also writes (‘Wien. Med. Woch.,’ xxi, 29, 1871) on hsematometra. .. ^ ^ „ . Breisky relates (‘Archiv f. G-ynak.,’ 11, 1, 1871) a case of pyom^ra and pyokolpos lateralis in a girl the subject of a double uterus. She had five brothers and two sisters, all well formed. Often, as a chilcl, she had suffered from abdominal pains, supposed to be due to worms; at the age of sixteen she began to sufier regularly every month for three or four days from severe pelvic pains, but no menstrual discharge appeared There was obstinate constipation, great ansemia, and diffi- cult micturition. When on the point of seeking medical advice some- thing burst, to her great relief, and a quantity of pale red, thickish, foetid fluid escaped. The difficult micturition returned; Breisky punc- tured a swelling in the vagina, and an abundant quantity of pus was discharged. The cavity of the abscess was carefully washed out. Subseauent dilatation enabled the condition of parts to be ascertained, and Breisky divided the vaginal septum and part of the uterine septum The patient made a good recovery, and the right half of the uterus (the seat of the abscess) afterwards underwent such contraction S il cavity appeared shorter than that of the left. As ascertamed by the sound the right measured 4 cm. and the left 6 cm. ^Two cases of absence of the vagma are recorded by Bianco. In the first case, mt. 2 j, the vulva was normal; no trace of a vagina existed, but it was determined to attempt the formation of one. The tissue which had to be dissected was a little more resisting than ordinary ppllnlar tissue The uterus was reached and punctured on account of mLZai retention. After a severe attack of the uatient recovered. A second puncture was necessary in fifteen ’ and when the patient was last seen the vagina was much contracted. Tn tirsecond case, mt. 20, the treatment was more pccessful, the vnfrina being kept dilated. Branco controverts the opinion of Scanzoni that complete absence of the vagina is not met wfih except in conjunc- finn with absence or a rudimentary state of the uterus, and ne y tion ^^^^,?;®SnLitv of the vulvm He shows that the develop- “'rrof L /Sf^rga^B place in three aoncB, indepen- one of® the Other - the external parts in the external layer of £ te “:giris|s to tSd tion should not be performed at a menstrual peiiod. ( oui Bruxelles,’ Nov. 1871.)