REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 40 of the red cells. Hydrochlorate of morphia formed an exception, causing diminution of temperature, and of the size of the red cells. This is to be explained probably by the inhibitory influence this drug exerts on the respiration (carbonic acid poisoning). Lastly, acute anaemia (blood- letting from an artery) causes increase in the size of the cells. In a more or less popular paper on the “Effect of Exercise upon the Bodily Temperature” (‘Alpine Journ.,’ 1871, May), Allbutt thinks that in his own case two depressions of temperature—one during a descent, the other during a gentle ascent of lower slopes—were due to lack of fuel. He thinks that with a full and assimilating stomach, good heart and lungs, a warm-blooded animal is not liable to lose the balance of his forces during wholesome exertion. He thinks that the thermo- meter is the best test of the latter in different persons. From his own case he concludes that hard exercise in a mountainous district accele- rates the morning rise, carrying it '2° or ‘^° above the average level of health ; that it also favours an earlier occurrence of the evening fall, it the exertion be ended, carrying it '1° or, perhaps, ‘2° below usual night level; and that any depression during exertion signifies either deficiency of food or inefiiciency of internal work (and see ‘ Proc. Eoy. Soc.,’ xix, 289). Mignot (“ L’abaissment de la temperature comme signe de mort ‘ Gaz. Hebdom.,’ 1871, 676), after remarking that Laborde had asserted that the temperature during life never fell below 30° C. (86° E.), allows his observation to be right as far as it has reference to adults. The researches of Eoger, Hervieux and Mignot himself, show that in newly born children, whether affected or not with sclerema, death was pre- ceded by a period of gradually increasing depression of temperature, the thermometer descending sometimes as low as 23 C. (41 4 concludes that a depression of 5° below the normal carries with it a fatal prognosis. He thinks that the fact may be useful in determining death, and suggests that a line should be marked on thermometers made on purpose, at 30° and 21°; and that no certificate of death should be given till the axillary temperature has been proved to have fallen as low as the first number in adults and the second in the newly born. Liebermeister, Virchow, and Senator indulge in a discussion on tem- perature and the means of regulating it: the references to their papers may be found below. 1- ^ i Pudzinowitsch (‘ Centralbl.,’ 1871, 211) gives the results of twelve experiments on the relation of the cutaneous perspiration to temperature in febrile conditions, without any certain conclusions. Vergely (‘Gaz. Hebdom.,’ 1871, 489) case of intense headache, accompanied by elevation of temperature. A girl, apd 21, had complained for two or three months of pain m the pad, attacking her at first at intervals, but constant for several days before her pmis- Sion into hospital. The whole head was affected, but espcially the supra-orbital and temporal regions. She complamed also of pain in t le lumbar region. Her pulse was 90 ; but there was nothing n her general state otherwise. The temperature during the first five fkvs reLhed 30-8° 0. (io3°‘6 E.) and40° C. (104° E.), and wappom- panied by irregular and frequent pulse. On the cessation of the hea -