In REPOUT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. Analysis of Urine, S{c. Wernicli (“ TJeberpostmortale Harnansammlung,” ‘ Centralbl.,’ 1871, gives the results of certain experiments. He removed the urine by noeans of a catheter in a number of women a quarter or half an hour before death ; at the autopsy he found from 30 to 30 grammes of cloudy urine in the bladder. In one case in which death took place almost while the operation was being performed, and in which the bladder apparently contained not a single drop, over a table-spoonful was with- drawn with a catheter eight hours after death. Falck (‘ Virch. Arch.,’ liii, 282) finds from experiments that urea injected into the blood of dogs is passed unchanged with the urine in the course of the following hours. In a third section (s. 313) he gives a full historical review of researches into the physiology of urea. Seegen (‘ Pfiuger’s Arch.,’ v, 359) opposes the views of Briicke, Kiihne and others, as to the presence of sugar in normal urine, and decides from his own experiments that none is present in the healthy state, and that continued excretion of even very small quantities is accom- panied by all the symptoms of diabetes. The same writer (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1872, i, 469, and cf. ‘Cen- tralbl.,’ 1872, 68), while considering that Trommer’s is the most delicate test for sugar, asserts that its delicacy only holds good with a watery solution of sugar. For this reason he filters the urine through animal charcoal, which retains most of the constituents of the urine, more especially the colouring matters and uric acid, these substances pre- venting the precipitation of the suboxide when it is formed. Having filtered the urine several times till it is completely colourless, he washes the charcoal on the filter with a little distilled water, and to this water, when filtered off, he applies Trommer’s test. In this way he can detect o‘i per cent, of sugar. For quantitative analysis this filtration cannot be performed, as the charcoal always retains a certain quantity of sugar which cannot be removed again by washing. Barclay (‘Lancet,’ 1871, ii, 117) writes on the chemical relations of urates and phosphates. Years before, he had been puzzled by the presence of phosphatic deposit in decidedly acid urine. In a case which he now records of severe diarrhoea the neutral urine contained a turbid floccu- lent deposit insoluble by heat, but dissolved by acid in combination with heat, insoluble also by acid without heat. The_ microscope showed the presence of globular, highly refracting urates, with some crystals of oxalate of lime. ,1.1 Wanklyn (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1872, i, 133) shows that, though the strength of the urine in health is subject to great variation, a certain relation is maintained between the mineral matter (salts) and the organic matter existing in the urine. In five specimens of healthy urine there was never a larger proportion of organic matter than 17 times as much as the mineral matter. In disease, on the other hand, the proportion of organic matter is increased. _ n • %’aube (‘ Berl. Klin. Woch.,’ 1871, 333) gives the following as dif- ferential tests in deciding whether blood contained in urine has come