REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 114 Some days later, after a rigor and persistently higli temperature, the efiusion returned, and another operation removed 2100 grammes of opalescent fluid containing a few flocculi. A drainage tube was kept in the wound after a third withdrawal of pus; the opening was enlarged and the cavity washed out with iodine and alcohol, the para- lysis of the right side gradually disappeared, but the patient died at length of exhaustion. At the autopsy the left pleural cavity formed an enormous purulent sac; the heart contained only recent clots ; the left corpus striatum was softened, and two branches of the middle cerebral artery were obliterated by a compact mass of the consistence and colour of wax, the blood-vessels being completely healthy. He looks upon this as an embolus detached from one of the cavities of the heart, and supports his theory by the fact that about the time at which the apoplectic flt occurred a gangrenous patch appeared on the right foot, due, probably, to the same cause. He remarks on the rarity of this case, and is able to And only two other similar ones. The first is recorded by Potain (‘ Bull, de la Soc. Anat.,’ 1861, 39)’ . this case, that of an elderly woman, who was attacked suddenly with hemiplegia during an acute attack of pleurisy, and died in twenty-four hours, the anterior cerebral artery was found obliterated, and the heart contained old clots. The second case was published by Robinson (‘ Army Med. Eep.’ for 1869). Here, in a soldier, ^t. 22, also suffering from pleuritic effusion, paralysis of the left side, occurring about two months before death, was connected with softening of the right corpus striatum. Eenault (‘ Union Med.,’ xii, 291) records the case of a man, let. 27, under the care of Besnier. The patient had effusion on the right side, and died suddenly in his bed. The autopsy showed a large fibrinous clot, completely filling the right auricle, extending into the ventricle and pulmonary artery. The cerebral arteries were perfectly healthy. Besnier, who had purposely deferred an operation, concludes that in ail cases in which there is considerable effusion, on the right side as well as the left, thoracentesis ought to be performed- as promptly as possible. Death was due in this case, he thinks, to general arrest ot the circulation caused by the large clots in the_ right heart. Hayden publishes CDubl. Quart. Journ.,’lii, 49) ^ record of four cases of diaphragmatic pleurisy, together with the particulars of mx cases already published by^Andral in his Clinique Medicale. He concludes that the affection is characterised by . j- I Sudden and severe pain in either hypochondrium, extending in the line of the costal cartilages, generally likewise down the corre- sponding side of the abdomen, occasionally upwards to the tip of the shoulder, and aggravated by movement of body, full breathmg, coug , *^^2.^S^allow and thoracic breathing, dorsal decubitus, and compa- rative freedom from pain in that state of rest. v i. j i / Absence of febrile action in mild cases uncomplicated by general nleuriHs, pneumonia, perihepatitis, or other form of acute inflamma- tion; and^in severe cases, whether complicated or not, symptoms of colkp^e^r^iai complete suspension of respiratory sound in the base of