283 EPITHELIOMA OF THE TONGUE—GALVANIC CAUTERY. Eintlielioma of the tongue treated hj the galvanic cautery.—Drs. Audrea Gozziui and Peleo Puccioni relate, in ‘ L’Imparziale,’ (Nos. 15 and 16, 1872) a case in which an epithelioma of the tongue was re- moved by the galvanic cautery. The patient was Signor Mazzoni, a gentleman aged 64, who had always enjoyed good health, until, in October 1871, he observed an excoriation on the upper part of the left side of his tongue. In course of time, this presented the ordinary cha- racters of epithelioma; and, an operation being decided to be neces- sary, it was determined to apply the galvanic cautery. The operation was performed on April 10, 1872, in the presence of Senator Prof. Burci and Drs. Casetti and Billi. The tongue was drawn out of the mouth by a double hook passed through the healthy portion, and held by an assistant. The end of a needle was then introduced, which had been made for the purpose; it was in the form of the letter S, chan- nelled on its surface, and carried at one end a platinum wire milli- metre in diameter, and 50 centimetres long. It was introduced into the fold of mucous membrane which is reflected from the base of the mouth on the inferior surface of the tongue, as nearly as possible at a point which left three-flfths of the base on the left side, and two fifths on the right. When the eye of the needle appeared on the upper sur- flice of the tongue, the platinum wire was seized with a forceps, and, having been freed from the needle, one end was drawn out of the mouth and placed in contact with the other end, the needle having been with- drawn in the reverse direction to that by which it entered. The ends v'ire were then fastened down by a serre-noeud on the apex of the tongue. The loop was then heated by the galvanic cautery, and in twenty seconds the parts with which it was in contact were distinctly cauterised. The wire was now allowed to cool, and was again tightened; tiftei which tho cautery was applied as before. By proceeding in tbis way, the longitudinal division was eftected in eight minutes. The tongue being held aside well out of the mouth, and the angle of the mouth and the cheek held by a blunt hook, and pieces of wood being placed between the molar teeth,_the wire was applied transversely, as far back as^ possible; and the division in this direction was completed in seven minutes The whole operation occupied seventeen minutes; it was unattended either with haemorrhage or with flow of saliva. After the operation, the patient rose from the chair on which he had sat, and walked to his bed without assistance. Ice was given him to suck, and he was ajj^wed soup and wine, which he swallowed slowly, but without the fifteenth day the eschar fell off, after which f become profuse, diminished and soon ceased • and the patient became able to eat solid food. On the eighteenth day after the operation Signor Mazzoni was able to walk out.^ During the ^®. ^ad been able to attend to his professional duties\s a kwyer, conveying his mstmetions for some days by means of writing tum3°^ ^^® ®PitJieliomatous character of the tkiTtbp.pT the case was reported, three months after the opera- tion, there were no signs of recurrence. fnlWpi!!Tfff ^'^^^^^^^^9fetongue.~m. Eurneaux Jordan suceess- y removed the tongue of a patient suffering from carcinoma, by the