SI NEUVES. actually fused with the sheath of Schwann, whilst its inner surface is received into a kind of cup formed of the white substance of Schwann. It would, therefore, seem that each interannular segment represents a cell. He finds, as Erommann and Grandry had already done before him, that the cylinder axis under the action of nitrate of silver pre- sents alternately light and dark striae not distantly resembling muscular tissue. Tamamseheif excised nerve-fibres from the sciatic or brachial plexus and moistened them with serum. He finds that many nerve-fibres are bound together into a fasciculus by a sheath made of flattened cells which can be rendered visible by nitrate of silver, and which probably belong to the lymphatic system. Shortly after removal from the body the cylinder axis breaks up into a series of spheroidal bodies which he terms corpuscula nervea, and which are capable of spontaneous movements. They equal the red corpuscles of the blood in size. Pure albumen undergoes changes of a similar nature. Engelmann* calls attention to certain contractions indicated by wrinkles in the sheaths of nerves, but not accompanied by shortening, when the nerves are removed from a living animal and quickly sub- mitted to the action of induction shocks whilst lying in a weak solu- tion of common salt. Ho wrinkles are visible in naked axis cylinders. Eutherfordf has investigated the varying excitability of the nerves in various parts of their course. He argues against Pfliiger’s avalanche theory, and maintains that the excitability of any point in the trunk of a spinal nerve, whether afferent or efferent, is inversely as the dis- tance of that point from the nerve-centre. SchlischJ finds that stretching the nerves of frogs with a weight of forty grammes had little effect on their excitability, but when the weight applied was greater than this the excitability rapidly diminished. Schiff § has again investigated the functions of the spinal cord as a conductor. He has satisfied himself that the posterior columns convey tactile impressions. W hen divided, no other part of the column can supply their place, and after a few days, when the disturbing conditions have subsided, tactile sensibility is entirely and permanently lost. Dittmarjl concludes, from his experiments on rabbits poisoned with woorara, that a system of fibres exists in the spinal cord which, though they do not belong to the nerve-roots, are capable of responding to the action of direct stimuli, and can transmit the impulses thus generated a ong the spinal cord to the medulla oblongata, where they undergo reflection into motor nerves. V. Willy^ states that it is generally admitted that the degree of excitation of a nerve measured by the extent of contraction of the muscle to which it is distributed augments with the length of the segment of the nerve through which the current is transmitted after tms 13 closed or after it is opened. He finds, however, that this only * ‘Pfliiger’s Archiv,’ v, i. t Humphry and Turner’s ‘ Journal of Anat. and Physiol.,’ 1871, 329. t Zeitschrift fiir Biologie,’ vii, iv. J 1 i > 0 § ‘ Centralhlatt,’ 1872, 774. II ‘ Ludwig’s Arheiten,’ 1871. IT ‘ Pfliiger’s Archiv,’ 1872, 275.