SCARLET FEVER. Cl J. Harley (‘Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ ^(1872), 103 ; ‘Brib. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, ii 740) writes on the morbid anatomy ot scarlatina and the rela- tion between enteric and scarlet fevers. He gives notes of twenty- ei‘^ht cases, the majority of which died on days ranging consecutively from the third to the fifteenth day, and the remainder on the 17th, 20th, 29th, 33rd, 41st, and 69th days. More or less albuminoid or fatty degeneration of the kidneys existed in six cases, and in these death ocLrred on the 15th, 17th, 20th, 29th, 41st, and 69th days re- spectively. In the rest these organs were healthy. The pathological changes common, with a few exceptions (depending on the time of the disease), to all, were—i. The formation of fibrinous clots in the heart and great vessels during a pyrexial state, at any period of the disease— the commonest cause of death during the early stage of scarlet fever. 2. Marked derangement of the hepatic function as shown by the deteriora- tion of the bile. 3. Gieneralinfiammation of the lymphatic system of glands (ordinary lymphatic glands, tonsils, and solitary glands of the tongue, spleen, mesenteric, solitary, &c.). From these pathological conditions he thinks that ^‘fehris lymphatica is the appropriate scientific dejinition of scarlatinafi and he asserts that from this view one general conclu- sion as to the connection of scarlet fever and enteric fever is inevitable, viz. that the pathological changes accompanying an attack of scarlet fever include all those of the first stage of enteric fever, and are so far identical with them. Whence it follows that the transition from the former disease to the latter is nothing more than a natural pathological sequence, readily determined by any cause which may increase the intestinal irritation. The writer gives six cases of the coexistence of enteric and scarlet fevers, and proposes the term “abdominal scarla- tina,” already suggested to his own mind in writing the article on “ Enteric] Fever,” in Eeynolds’ ‘ System of Medicine,’ “ as the appro- priate definition of a disease which every intelligent practitioner will sooner or later meet with.” (The report of the discussion on this paper will be found in the ‘ Brit. Med. Journ.’ as above.) Kelly and ISTowlan (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, i, 342) record a case of severe scarlet fever in a girl, set. 3 years, in whom an abscess was formed under the angle of the right jaw, extending down the neck and spreading over the clavicle. This opened spontaneously, and the whole clavicle came away, necrosed only at the acromial end. The patient recovered with unimpaired movement of the arm (I). (‘Path. Soc.,’ Dublin). Meynet (‘ Lyon. Med.,’ viii, 124) records the occurrence of scarlet fever in a child only fifteen days old. Marcbioli, “ Sopra di una Epidemia di Scarlattina,” ‘ Gaz. Med. Lombard,’ i872, 109. Barclay, “Observations on Scarlet Fever, especially with reference to its epidemic character,” ‘St. Georgre’s Hosp. Eep.,’ v, 167. Copeman, “On Scarlet Fever,’’ ib., 55. Chappie, “ Scarlet Fever in India,” ‘ Lancet,’ 1871, ii, 188. Crocker, “Iron in Scarlatina,” ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, ii, 255. Pyle, “On the Contagion of Scarlatina and Smallpox,” ib., 34. Aldis, “Scarlet Fever for Ten Years (i860—1870) in the Parish of St. George,” London. Hutchinson, “Case of Renal Retinitis, with peculiar History as to Scarlet Fever,” ‘Lancet,’ 1871, i, 479. Gueueau de^Miissy, “Sur quelques formes graves de Scarlatina” (three cases), Gaz. des Hop., 1871’ 305. Langicr, “Note sur la Rechute dans la Fievre Scar- latme,” ‘Gaz. Hebd.,’ 1871, 545.