SUEGEEY. 34 pupil afterwards, combine to render such union probable; and the anterior adhesions are as perilous to the eye, if not more so, as those which they supersede. Dr. de Wecker relates the case of a gentleman who had a single, very fine band of anterior adhesion in his left eye, passing from the inner and lower portion of the pupillary margin to the small circumscribed scar of a nearly central corneal ulcer. Several ophthalmic surgeons attributed frequent attacks of peri-orbital pain to the presence of this adhesion. Nothing seemed more easy than to detach it, and the attempt was made, without success, first by Prof v. Hasner, then by Prof Knapp, and, lastly, by Dr. de Wecker himself. Dr. de Wecker made a small incision at the margin of the cornea, allowed the aqueous to escape slowly, and seized the iris near the adhesion with forceps. He found, however, that he tore the tissue of the iris instead of breaking the adhesion, and desisted after three attempts. Every operation was followed by union of the iris to the corneal wound, so that the patient gained three fresh synechiso without losing the old one, and without losing the pains for which he had sought' advice. Dr. de Wecker recommends, in all such cases, the excision of the portion of iris that is adherent. Suture of the etjelids.—Yevneml* related to the Societe de Chirurgie de Pans some cases in which he had pared the edges of the eyelids and united them by suture, in order to prevent ectropion after the extirpa- 1 epithelioma of the lower lid, and after other injuries likely to be followed by a contracted cicatrix, and also for the cure of ectropion actually established by such contraction. In one case he maintained the union of the margins of the lids for fourteen months. The results in aU his eases were very encouraging, and he advocates the employ- ment of his method in preference to plastic operations, which are usually only imperfectly successful.f ^ PurowJ confirms Passavant’s account of the excellent qualities of the so-cal ed marine grass (obtained in China from the spinning organ of the silkworm) for sutures. _ The threads produce no suppurftion^Tyen if they are sufi'ered to remain for weeks, and are especially adapted for £ r. f aDout the eyelids. In the same paper he refers to “ collodion for twisted sutures. As soon as the collodion IS dry the pins may be removed. He uses English sewin^ ne^les with broad points (glovers’ needles ?) and floss sillf Warlomont§ mentions a method suggested to him by the elder aumlot coutribatiou to ophttalmic surgery of entirely * ‘Gaz. Hcbd.,’ 1871, 473. ivrLr, and by Mr Bowman, by the § ‘Ann. d’Oculistique,’ 1871, i, 73. ^ ^ Wochensclir./ 1871. 155,