15 DEGLUTITION. activity of the external and internal organs, the function of the skin auo-menting, those of the lungs and kidneys diminishing. The respiration and circulation are both more languid, yet the temperature rises about 2° F. Gr. V. Liebig* * * § contributes a paper on the influence exerted upon the respiration by increased or diminished atmospheric pressure. He finds that residence at high altitudes has a tendency to develop the respiratory power and the strength generally, hence it is useful in all cases of diminished elasticity. For other papers on respiration see Gustav Strassburg.f H. Sanders Ezn, on apnoea and dyspnoea.:]; L. Goldstein.§ F. Kratschmer.H Wolffbey^ finds the arithmetical mean of the tension of the carbonic acid in the alveoli of the lungs to be 3'$6, and the tension in that of the blood to be 3 •4.3 per cent. Clifford Allbutt** * * §§ has contributed a paper on the effect of exercise on the bodily temperature, showing in opposition to M. Lortet that the regulating power of the organism holds good under great variations of muscular exertion, though once or twice low temperatures were noticed, perhaps attributable to some accidental deficiency in combustion. For other papers see Eansome,tt especially Horvath.J;]; DEGLUTITION. The subject of the nerves presiding over deglutition has been care- fully investigated by MM. Waller and Prevost,§§ and they sum up their results in the following words;—(i) Feeble induced currents applied to the central extremity of one of the superior laryngeal nerves after division cause arrest of the movements of the diaphragm in expiration, as stated by Kosenthal, and rhythmical movements of deglutition. (2) Movements of deglutition may be produced by irritation of the central cut extremity (d) of the recurrent nerves; (5) of the vagi, when the irritation was made above the origin of the superior laryngeal nerves ; (c) of the glosso-pharyngeal (at least in the dog and cat, but not in the rabbit). (3) On laying open the buccal pharyngeal and laryngeal cavities, with a view of determining what nerves excite movements of deglutition on being irritated, and the results of dividing the several nerves successively, they found that in rabbits (a) the glosso-pharyngeal * ‘ Arehiv f. Klin. Med.,’ viii, 445. t ‘ Pfliiger’s Arehiv,’ vi, 1, 65. t ‘Maandblad voor Natuurvvetenschapen,’ 1870-71, 113; and ‘ Centralblatfc,’ ij S * J • § “ Ueber Warmdyspnoe,” ‘ Centralblatt,’ 1871, 678. tiJlblatV auf Athmung und Kreislauf,” ‘ Cen- 1 ‘ Pfluger’s Arehiv,’ 1872, 23, “Ueber die Athmung der Lunge.” * See.,’ xix, 289, 1871. ofAna?omj!^,87?No.“^ Human Breath in Health and Disease,” ‘Journal U ‘Centralblatt,’’ i872,'Nos. 45, 46, and 47. §§ Brown-Sequard’s Archives,’ 1870, 185 and 323.