273 OIlCiriTIS FROM ]^ROSTATIC INFLAMMATION. simple and cheap construction. Cases treated are narrated. (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Sept. 23, 1871.) Incontinence as a symptom of retention of urine.—Mr. Hutchinson writes on this point and mentions cases. (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Jan. 21, 1871, 60.) Perdstent priapism.—See cases ‘ Bien. Eet.,’ 1867-8, 317. Dr. Mackie records the case of a gentleman, mt. 70. After much treatment, without eftect, a free incision was made into the corpus cavernosum, com- mencing at the corona glandis. Clotted venous blood escaped and bleeding followed; the patient was relieved. The acute symptoms had lasted three weeks. Eftusion of blood into the structure of the corpus cavernosum was finally suspected. The treatment was so successful that the author recommends its early adoption in like cases. (‘ Edin. Med. Journ.,’ Nov. 1872.) Urinary fistula of the penis treated hj tirethroplasty.—M.v. John Wood publishes a clinical lecture on this subject. (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Aug. 24, 1872.) See also Mr. Pemberton’s address on surgery (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Aug. 10, 1872), and a note by Mr. J. E. Lane on ante- scrotal, urinary fistula. (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Aug. 24, 1872.) Epithelioma simulating lido.—At a meeting of the E. K. Glessellschaft der Aerzte in Vienna in January, 1871, Dr. Gleber related the case of a man, ast. 28, who had an epithelioma in the right groin. The patient had excoriation after sexual connectiou, which was followed byenlarue- meut and induration of the inguinal glands. Antisyphilitic treatmmit was employed, and it was only when this failed and the disease con- tinued to spread, that it was suspected that the case might be one of ^iithelioma. Microscopic examination confirmed the latter opinion, .ur. Deber also related another, similar case, in which the dilferentiai diagnosis between syphilis and epithelioma was attended with difficulty and was only cleared up by microscopic examination. (‘ Wiener Med’ Wochenschr.,’No. 4, 1871.) ^ v cuci juea. Orchitis from irritation in the prostatic In a clinical lecture on this subject, Mr. Hutchinson details various cases in which orchitis termmatmg in suppuration and requiring incisions, occurred in con- nexion with the passage of prostatic catheters, lithotrity, lithotomy &c cases. ±ie then remarks, “ these instances of inflammation of the testis in association with some source of irritation existing in the urethra are d inflalamatiou of £ v”s deteiens only, as evidenced by deep-seated pain in the iliac fosso snH matiof of thrvas dp^r symptoms. (2) In connexion with inflam“- inn • j 1 deferens an abscess may form over its conrsp miri ■it'ireXnd riny The°mfl "a “ay present deferens and extend to tLe inflammation may involve the whole vas tinuous with it vi/ iLp o poi^Lon of the testis which is directly con- In a fourth group of caserthe unaffected. tunica va-iu?lis Ld thfIp i ^ I-the lu thircCs are all involved these cases the eftusion is usually serum only and a speedy and com: 18