196 B,EPOET ON SURGEllY. draws a comparison between the results observed from i860 to 1867, when, under Billroth, the open treatment was but rarely followed, and those met with in 1868-1872, when, under Rose, this plan was followed almost without exception. There were no alterations ot any importance in the building or other arrangements of the hospital during the time. Kronlein first gives a history of the subject. In 1856, Vezin, o Osnaburgh, described, in the ‘ Deutsche Klinik,’ the results ot thirty amputations which he and Bartscher had performed m the course ot twenty-one years, and of which only three had proved lata . in i«59, Burow, of Kdnigsberg, stated that he had had only three deaths in 62 cases of amputation. Vezin and Bartscher applied no kind of means for uniting the wounds; while Burow used sutures half an hour after the operation, tying them, however, in such a way that they could be readily loosened in case of distension. In all other respects the wounds were left without dressing. In 1866, Burow had increased the number of his cases to 94, still with only three deaths. In 1867, Passavant stated that he had followed the method in cases of resection ; it was also adopted by Billroth and Esmarch, while Stromeyer Pirogoff, and Liicke, spoL with more reserve of its value. Rose s plan ^pees with that of Bartscher and Vezin ; he does not attempt to obtain healing by the first intention, but regards careful arrest of hsemorrhage, and as perfect rest as possible, as conditions necessary for success. ^ In the statistical portion of his essay Kronlein gives results obtained in the larger amputations extirpa ion of the breast, and the conservative treatment of complicated fractures. Du ng wears i860—1867 there were 140 amputations, of which 72, or 6^ 4 P cent were fatal; from 1867—1871 there were 85, with a mortality 0 •if or 20 per cent. Neither the place of the amputation nor its cause the age or sex of the patient, or the mode of operating. Produced open method of treatment hae proved superior to all others. rpp-ardine the occurrence of Some interesting statistics are proportion of deaths, ^h^erTSaeli™ of erysipelas Kronkm^^^^ ^ by natural means, as is that at °zS; • and heCggesta that it might be obviated by well-regulated artificial ventilation.