302 REPORT ON SURGERY. existence the bowels acted regularly. In two other cases death followed. Ten cases of ovarian disease operated on at the Hospital for Women are detailed in the ‘ Lancet,’ 1871 (March 2, 9, and 16). In all the cases the pedicle was tied and dropped in. A double ligature was passed through the centre of the pedicle and tied on each side, and then one of the ligatures encircled the whole pedicle and was tied again. The abdominal cavity was always thoroughly cleansed out with sponges on holders, wrung out in warm water before the sutures were inserted. When the wound was brought together a broad strip of strapping was placed across the abdomen tightly from hip to hip, and a large linseed- meal poultice with a drachm of laudanum was applied and changed every four or six hours and continued for six or seven days. Seven of the patients recovered, three died. Dr. W. D. Atlee records a successful case of ovariotomy, and also a case in which he successfidly removed an enlarged uterus which loas considered to he an ovarian tumour. Dr. W. L. Atlee’s clamp was used in each instance. (‘Am. Journ. Med. Sciences,’ July, 1871, t_56.) Dr. Packard relates a somewhat similar case. The tumour was not removed. The patient died (Oct. 1871, 433). (See previous ‘ Bien. Eetrosp.’ also.) Mr. Keith records a third series of 50 cases. Of the last 100 cases there have been 84 recoveries. Eight of the last 30 patients died: 2 from obstructed intestine, i from acute septicaemia, and 3 from perito- nitis. In 2 of these the adhesions were considerable, in i moderate, while, in 3, the tumours were non-adherent. In 6 of the fatal cases, the clamp was used; in i, catgut ligatures to one ovary and clamp to the other; in another the long ligature of Dr. Clay. In nearly one third of the cautery cases, bleeding took place from large vessels and ligatures were necessary. (‘Lancet,’Nov. 16, 1872.) Treatment of sitppurating ovarian cysts and pelvic adhesions in ovariotomy.—Mr. Holmes remarks on a case of ovarian disease in which after a preliminary tapping, apparently revealing a single cyst without complications, suppuration of the cyst ensued. The patient com- plained of constant pain in the right iliac fossa, and became very emaciated. She was sent to a convalescent home at Wimbledon. When she had improved as much as she was likely to do, Mr. Holmes operated. A large quantity of pus was let out. Many adhesions were found, but all were separated till the brim of the pelvis was reached; here there were very firm adhesions. The remains of the cyst were pulled out as far as possible, the intestines returned into the belly and the lower portion of the cyst clamped. The wound was united; next day there was a little oozing of blood from the walls of the cyst, which were nearly half an inch thick. A strong ligature was passed through the mass above the clamp, and the exposed edges of the cyst were seared with the acttfal cautery. The clamp was removed on the third day. The sloughing stump gradually receded and tympanites became developed. She recovered gradually, but completely. Mr. Holmes remarks, “ The internal inflammation which leads to suppuration will, I should suppose, usually, if not always, be accom-