143 RUPTURE OP HEART. Heart” ('man rot. 27, probable congenital stenosis of pulmonary artery), ‘Lancet, 187 f ii 12 Tranbe, “Ueber den Doppelton in der Cruralis bei insufScienz der Aortenldappen,” ‘Berl. Klin. Woch.,’ 1872, 573- “Retrecissement de PArtere pulmonaire ” (man, set. 36, rheumatic fever ten years before), Gaz. vui,_43i. Peacock “ Extensive Disease of Heart of long duration, Obsiructive and Regurgitant Disease of the Mitral Valves, and Obstructive Disease of the Aortic Valves” (boy, aet. 17), ‘ Trans. Path. Soc.,’ x.'dii, 59. Id., “ Obstructive and Regurgitant Disuse of the Aortic Valves and Eegurgitant Disease of the Mitral, Albuminuria, Bloody Tumour of Thigh” (man, mt. 20), ib., 61. King, “ A Case of Aortic and Mitral Valvular Disease, with extensive Infarction of the Spleen and Cerebral Softening (man, mt. 32), ib., 63. Kelly, ‘‘Acute Chorea associated with Valvular Disease of the Heart ” (girl, set. 9, vegetations on tricuspid and mitral), ib., 95. Black, ‘‘ The Relative Frequency of Disease between the Eight and Left Sides of the Heart, &c., ‘Lancet,’ 1872, ii, 253. Hupture of Heart. Quain, in his third Lumleiau lecture (‘Lancet,’ 1872, i, 459) discusses fatty degeneration of the heart and rupture. Out ot 88 cases of the latter, 63 occurred in persons over 60 years of age, 33 between 60 and 70, and 24 between 70 and 80. The two sexes are aflected with equal frequency.* Out of 100 cases death was sudden— i.e. within one or two minutes—in One patient, however, lived eight days, one six days, one three days, and five lived over 48 hours. The seat of rupture in 100 cases was 76 times in the left ventricle (45 in its anterior wall) ; 13 in the right ventricle (9 in its anterior wall) ; seven times in the right, and twice in the left auricle; four times in the septum. The heart had undergone fatty degeneration in 77 ; in 6 it was “ softened in one case the rupture was due to the bursting of an aneurism, in one to an abscess. In 12 the heart was said to be healthy or not examined, but in most mention is made of endocarditis or changes in the coronary artery. Barth (‘Arch. Gen. de Med.,’ xvii, 5) bases a paper on “spontaneous rupture of the heart” upon 24 cases recorded in the ‘ Bulletins de la Societe Anatomique’ during the forty years between 1826 and 1863. Of these 7 were men and 17 women. (3nly two were under 60 years of age, the rest were between the ages of 60 and 84. The following were some of the apparently determining causes of the rupture:—■ Vexation or anger, an over-large meal, brandy taken in the cofiee, the effort of getting into bed, and in five cases the effort of defecation. In the majority of cases death was sudden. In all the cases, without exception, the rupture was in the left ventricle; in nine cases it was situated about the middle of the heart, in four near the base, and in eight near the apex; its average length was about 2 centimetres, with generally irregular ecchymosed borders. In one case only is the heart stated to have been healthy, but in this case the coronary arteries were ossified and diminished in calibre. In all the other cases the heart pre- sented circumscribed infiltrations of blood, ecchymoses, and soft and * This seems more like the truth than the statement made by some other writers, according to whom rupture of the heart is more common in males than females. Tlie abstracts in the text show twenty-one cases in the latter against twelve in the former.—A. B. S.