387 JDiSEASES OF THE OVARIES. The absolute certainty whicli the two needles _ give of the points of insertion for each stitch being exactly opposite is a great recommenda- tion for their use. Chrschtschonovitch writes on the termination of nerves in the vagina. The mucous membrane contains numerous branched cells, resembling connective tissue corpuscles, arranged just beneath the laminated pave- ment epithelium with almost the same regularity as in the cornea, while others are scattered irregularly through the membrane. The nerves penetrating through the muscular layer to the mucous membrane consist of large bundles of medullated fibres, which here and there contain groups of ganglion cells. From these, smaller trunks are given off, still medullated, which enter the proper mucosa or rete Malpighii; as these pass towards the surface the medullary sheath is gradually lost, and the fibres either bend back or join with a fibril from a neighbouring trunk, forming a very superficial plexus, or apply themselves to the wall of one of the small vessels, ascending to supply the papillae of the membrane. Some few of them, destitute of medullary sheath, may be seen ascending between the epithelial cells; but the author agrees with Hensen and Klein in stating that the nerves do not join with the branched connective corpuscles. The smooth muscular fibre fasciculi of the membrane are surrounded by a very rich plexus of uon-medullated nerve-fibres, from which individual fibres are given off that exhibit here and there granule-like enlarge- ments, and penetrate between the several muscle cells. He thinks it probable that these last are encircled by the ultimate fibrils. Follow- ing the branches given off to the epithelium from the sub-epithelial non-medullated plexus, he finds that they break up in the deeper layers into a plexus of fibres encircling the epithelial cells, amongst which are large branched corpuscles. (‘Lancet,’Hov. 1871.) Diseases of the Ovaries. Professor Waldeyer describes (Archiv f. Gynak., ii, 3, 1871) a difi'nse fibroid of the ovary of peculiar structure. The tumour measured 13 cm. in length, ii in breadth, and 10 in thickness, and weighed 910 grammes ; and had the shape of a greatly enlarged ovary. Ihere was on the surface one cyst nearly the size of an apple, and two small, transparent cysts, the size of peas. The consistence of the mass T^s unusually hard, so that there was a difficulty in making a section 01 it. It had a close resemblance to closely meshed spongy bone or an osteoid tumour. Waldeyer then describes its microscopical cha- racters, and states that it ivanted only the characteristic grouping of the cells at the epithelial like margins of the trabecula, and the firm throughout homogeneous state of the trabecular substance itself to render the resemb ance between it and an osteoid tumour complete, both macroscopically and microscopically. The cystic cavities showed on their inner surface a short cylindrical epithelium. etiologically there exist several species, Wenorrhagic, rheumatic, traumatic, inenLual, puerperal, clinically there are the very acute, the acute, and the