REPORT ON SURGERY. su Treatment of imrsistent inflammation.—Mr, John Marshall writes ou the employment of solutions of the oleates of mercury and of morphia in the local treatment of “ persistent” inflammation. They consist, essen- tially, of solutions of oxide of mercury in oleic acid, being, in reality, the oleate of mercury dissolved in oleic acid, but to these solutions is added a certain quantity of morphia, which, in its uncombined state, is readily soluble in, and doubtless unites with, the oleic acid. The oxide of mercury precipitated by caustic potash or soda from a solution of the metal in nitric acid (which is a yellow impalpable powder) is, when recently made and well dried, readily soluble in oleic acid, especially when aided by a temperature of about 300° Tahr. The solutions are named according to the amount of oxide they contain. The 5 per cent, is a perfectly clear, pale, yellow liquid. They should not be rubbed on the skin, but merely smeared on. As a rule, from ten to thirty drops are sufficient for one application. This should be repeated twice daily for four or five days, then at night only, then every other day. In a case of chronic inflammation of the knee-joint treated, twenty to thirty drops of the ^ per cent, solution also containing a grain of morphia in the drachm were applied night and morning for about ten days, and then at longer intervals. A piece of linen was kept on the joint, then a layer of cotton wool, and over this a bandage from the foot to above the knee. The patient could walk at the end of a month. The 5 per cent, solution with the addition of an eighth part of ether is useful in sycosis, chloasma, and other forms of tinea. It destroys pediculi and their ova. In congenital syphilis a drop of the 20 per cent, ointment, about the size of a pea or bean, placed in the child’s axilla night and morning for five or six days is an effective and cleanly means of treatment. (‘ Lancet,’ May 25, 1872, 709.) T'eatment of e-pistaxis—T^v. E. Kiichenmeister, of Dresden, proposes to treat epistaxis by an instrument which he calls the “ rhineurynter,” and wffiich is, in fact, an imitation of the “ colpeurynter.” It consists of an india-rubber tube about 20 or 24 centimetres long, with a dia- meter of half or three-fourths of a centimetre, and ending in a bulbous extremity about i-l- centimetre long and from i to i-g- centimetre wide. The tube is guided into the nostrils by means of an ordinary sound, and the latter being withdrawn, air or water is injected so as to distend the bulb, which thus fills the naso-pharyngeal cavity and presses against the walls of the nares. (‘ O^ter. Zeitschr. fiir prakt. Heilk.,’ No. 22, 18^1 ^ Nasal mucous menibrane used in uranoplasty. M. Lannelongue com- municated to the Surgical Society of Paris, in May, 1872, the history 01 the case of a lad, set. 17, who had congenital fissure of the hard and soft palate. He had also harelip on the left side, which was remedied bv operation. The cleft in the hard palate was a centimetre in breadth, and to its right border was attached the septum narium. This suggested to Lannelongue the idea of transplanting the nasal mucous membrane. He accordingly made two perpendicular incisions in the membrane, before and behind, joined the upper ends by a transverse cut loosened the flap thus formed, and fastened its free border to the left edge of the fissure'after paring the latter. Union followed, and a fortmght after