WOUND OF (ESOPHAGUS—U/EJIOKIIHAGE—OPERATION. 287 niauubriuin sfcerni. CEsopliagotomy was performed, but the foreign body could not be reached. The connective tissue between the oeso- phagus and trachea was carefully torn by the finger to the extent of about 3 centimetres, till the mediastinum was reached. The sharp end of the peach-stone was now felt, and the foreign body, having been brought into a favorable position, was pushed into the oesophagus and removed. The wound in the oesophagus healed within a fortnight. Removal of an artificial plate with false teeth from the oesophagu,s.—A lady in an epileptic fit swallowed a tooth-plate. At first it could not be felt from the mouth, but after some time could just be detected. At the end of about twenty-four hours Dr. Matthews succeeded in tilting up one end as it lay across the oesophagus, and then extracting it. (‘Lancet,’ May 13, 1871, 643.) Passage of an artificial tooth-plate along the alimentary canal.—Mr. Henry Smith was called to see a corpulent butcher who had swallowed an artificial plate, with two teeth, and projecting hooks on each side. Mr. Smith tried to withdraw the foreign body which he could just feel, but failed in his attempts, and therefore decided to push it into the stomach. This he accomplished. Nine days later the plate passed per auum. (‘Lancet,’ April i, 1871, .^140.) Hremorrhage frominternal woxmd of oesophagus—operation.—Mr. Ann- andale records the following case:—A lady, aged 52, while dining, swal- lowed a bit of bone which she felt lodged in her throat. A few streaks of blood were noticed to pass by the mouth. The day after a small swelling formed over the inner border of the left sterno-mastoid, about the middle of the neck. On the fourth day this was still evident, hard to the touch, and about the size of half a small walnut. An ivory- headed probang passed down the oesophagus struck against some hard substance on the left side, immediately opposite the swelling in the neck. This hard substance could not again be felt. The pain and difiiculty in swallowing bad vanished. The next day only a slight sore- ness was felt in swallowing. On the twelfth day haemorrhage occurred suddenly from the mouth. The blood brought up was arterial and un- mixed, except with a little saliva and mucous. The haemorrhage re- curred after some hours and it was decided to cut into the neck, with the hope of discovering and removing the source of the luemorrhafre which appeared to be connected with the lodgment of the foreign body in the (Ksophagus. An incision was made on the left side of the neck as if foi’tying the common carotid below the omo-hyoid, and the artery haying been_ exposed, a ligature of catgut was passed loosely round in order to be in reserve. A careful dissection was then made to the inner side of the artery, so as to lay bare the (esophagus, with the result of exposing a wound (if this canal. The wound was a quarter of an inch m ength situated in the left side, and passed completely through the somewhat ragged, and a continuous nnfWd occurred from them. A very fietid odour was oTiio • ' fi ° could be detected. A small artery was found ^ cesop agus close to the wound. This artery passed up- underneath the carotid, and was, from its situation and ec ion, considered to be a branch of the inferior thyroid artery. A