REPORT ON SURGERY. 218 moid cavity of the ulna, together with fibrous bands passing between the ulna and the humerus, constituting a partial, fibrous anchylosis of the joint. (‘ Ed. Med. Journ.,’ Jan. 1871, 652). An old case of dislocation of the elbow, treated by excision, and according to the antiseptic method, is noted by Dr. Marshall. (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ May 27, 1871). A.ncliylosis of the elbow ; excision of the extremity of the humerus.— The anchylosis followed a comminuted fracture of the articular extre- mities of the humerus, radius, and ulna, in a patient about twenty years of age. Dr. Watson performed a new and original operation. A linear incision was made over the inner side of the olecranon, in the line of the ulnar nerve. The latter was dissected away with the soft parts and turned over the inner condyle. The joint was then opened, freely, in front of the internal condyle, and the latter removed with cutting pliers. The external condyle was then cut off, through the same wound, but from within outwards and from below upwards, and was twisted out of its bed with lion forceps. The end of the humerus was then turned out and smoothed off with the saw. The insertions of the triceps and of the hrachialis anticus are not interfered with, and, therefore, the movements afterwards are more perfect. (‘Edin. Med. Journ.,’Dec. 1871,559-) Excision of both elbows. — Mr. Cooper Eorster records a case of excision ol both elbows. (‘Lancet,’ Jan. 6, 1872.) Excision of the elbow for compound dislocation.—The case of a woman, set. 40, of intemperate habits, who was admitted into the Sunderland Infirmary, under the care of Mr. E. A. Malins, is recorded in the ‘Lancet,’ Aug. 31, 1872. The accident occurred on January 17th. The dislocation could not be reduced even under chloroform. There was a wound, on the inner side, and another behind. The latter was enlarged and excision was performed. The patient did well afterwards. On March ist the wound was quite closed. The patient could bend the forearm to a right angle, and rotate it without assistance. It is interesting to note that, although the patient was an unhealthy syphi- litic woman, and the parts were considerably damaged, yet the result was good.” Iodide of potassium was given her. Excision of the wrist.—One of the patients whose case was recorded in the ‘ Lancet,’ 25th March, 1865 (ease No 5), was exhibited by Mr, Lister to the Med.-Chir. Soc. of Edinburgh, at the end of about seven years. The result was very satisfactory. (‘Edin. Med. Journ., Aug. 1871, I44-) In one case, Mr. Hancock made a semilunar incision across the dorsum, dissected up a skin flap, and pulled the extensor tendons aside. (‘ Lancet,’ Jan. 20, 1872.) Mr. Sydney Jones records a case; the patient was a male, set. 45; a useful hand resulted. Mr. Lister’s method was adopted. A lithographic illustration of the con- dition of the patient is given. (‘ St. Thom. Hosp. Eep.,’ 11, 283.) Drawings of a specimen, showing the results of an excision ot the wrist, are given in the ‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Jan. 7, 1871, 12. Excision of proximal phalanx of right thumb for enchond^ma.— Eoyes Bell narrates a case (with illustrations) in ‘ Lancet,’ Dec. 14, Excision of the hip-joint.—Mv. Gant mentions the following con-