315 TEAUMATIO PEVEE PEOM GUNSHOT WOUNDS. that there is any difference, except in degree, between the products of inflammation and those of putrefaction. The opinion has been main- tained that the introduction of septic or of inflammatory products into the blood or areolar tissue gives rise to fever by first exciting infiamma- tion. This, however, is opposed to the fact that fever may follow the in- jection of water, serum, or hydrocele fluid, where, without inflammation, an influence is produced on the nervous system through the medium of the blood. It is, therefore, rational to suppose that pus and putrid matters act, not through inflammation, which is not always present, but rather indirectly on the nervous system through the blood. In con- clusion, Billroth expresses his renewed conviction that that hypothesis of traumatic fever is the most probable which assumes that materials are absorbed into the blood from the focus of inflammation, and give rise to fever, probably by acting on the nervous system. This hypothesis he considers to be applicable, not only to inflammatory and traumatic fever, but also to the initial form of infectious diseases before the appearance of local symptoms. This subject has been investigated in its relation to gunshot wounds by C. Hueter (‘Volkmann’s Sammlung Klin. Yortrage,’ No. aa), and by von Eecklinghausen (‘Verhandl, der Physikalisch. Mediz. Gesellsch. in Wiirzburg’). Hueter treats of traumatic fever in its relation to gunshot wounds. Wounds made by small bullets, and regular in shape, often heal without any fever. On the other hand, severely lacerated and con- tused wounds are often accompanied with much fever. This difierence in the course depends essentially on the amount of decomposition of the secretions from the wound, induced by vibrionic germs. In cases, especially where the tissues are moist and albuminous, and not charged with oxygen, the vibriones multiply immensely and bring about destruc- tion of the highly complex albuminous substances, the products of the healing up of which become sources of fever and increased tempera- ture. Traumatic fever is at first essentially septictemic. The vibrionic germs are, perhaps, introduced into the wound with pieces of clothing carried with the projectile, or by the use of dirty charpie at the first dressing. The treatment must then consist in the prevention of the introduction of septic matter and of its absorption from the wound, and in the subdual of inflammation and fever. The septic process is best obviated by careful organisation of the hospital and local disinfection of the wound. As, however, the former is not always within the control of the surgeon, he must give more attention to the latter. Hueter recommends irrigation of the wound with permanganate of potash, which, he says, destroys vibriones. The wound is then to be dressed with charpie soaked in an oily or watery solution of carbolic acid. _ To prevent the absorption of septic matter, the escape of the secretions of the wound must be assisted by caoutchouc or metallic drainage tubes. The products of decomposition produce, not only fever, but also inflammation and suppuration. Traumatic fever setting in with the commencement of suppuration is of a septicopyoemic cha- racter ; with the cessation of the putrefactive process and the advance of suppuration, it becomes pysemic. But the pus itself must be