UTERINE TUMOURS, ETC. 381 strong clamp was put on, which sloughed off on the fourteenth day. The tumour weighed eight and a half pounds, ilecovery was uninter- rupted. (‘Obstet. Trans.,’ 1872.) Dr. 'W. F. Atlee relates a case of fibrocystic disease 01 the uterus, believed to be ovarian, which was subjected to operation. The mass weighed five pounds. The patient recovered. The uterine cavity was not lengthened. (‘Amer. Journ. of Med. Sci.,’ July, 1871.) Dr. Lloyd Koberts records the successful removal of a fibrocystic tumour of the uterus, supposed before operation to be an ovarian tumour. No increase in length of uterus. Tumour weighed twenty- three pounds. (‘Obstet. Trans.,’ 1871.) Gayet quotes a case of cystic myoma of the uterus mistaken for an ovarian tumour, in which, before the operation, the tumour was tapped and several quarts of a transparent yellowish fiuid were withdrawn. (‘Lyon Med.,’ March, 1872). hir. Spencer Wells, in some remarks on the differential diagnosis of uterine from ovarian tumours (‘Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ liv) states that there are more than a hundred cases on record where the abdomen has been opened with the object of removing an ovarian tumour, but the operator discovered that the tumour was not ovarian, but uterine. Visible enlargement of the abdomen is more often general in cases of ovarian tumours, and partial in uterine tumours, being confined to the lower part of the abdomen until a very large size has been attained. The depression of the umbilicus is diminished, or the umbilicus may become prominent in large ovarian cysts. This is rarely seen in uterine tumours unless fluid is also present in the peritoneal cavity. Enlargement of the superficial veins of the abdominal wall is more common in uterine than in ovarian tumours of moderate size. Nearly all uterine tumours, though visibly moving above, seem to be fixed below in the hypogastric region. Very great proportionate increase of the space from the pubes to the umbilicus is more common in uterine than in ovarian tumours. As a rule, the fluid portion preponderates in an ovarian tumour, the solid in a uterine tumour. The mobility of ovarian tumours is generally greater from below upwards than that of uterine tumours. Vascular murmurs are common in uterine, very rare in ovarian, tumours. The diagnosis is much aided by examining by the vagina and the rectum. For remarks on the differential diagnosis of fibrocystic disease of the uterus and ovarian tumours see also Lee (‘ New York Journal,’ Nov. 1871), Beatty (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Nov. 1871), and discussion at Obstetrical Society (‘ Obst. Trans.,’ March, 1872). Dr. Snow Beck furnishes a careful microscopical account of the structure of the uterus^ (‘Obstet. Trans.,’ 1871). It is made up of fusiform fibre-cells, which form strim, bands, or layers, having in the unimpregnated organ a small amount of amorphous transparent tissue surrounding each fibre-cell, and of oval or round corpuscles and minute molecules or granules imbedded in a considerable amount of transparent amorphous tissue, and constituting what he terms the soft tissue of the uterus. The internal surface is composed entirely of soft tissue, and this has the utricular glands imbedded in it. The soft