85 HEMIPLEGIA AND APHASIA. node. In the cases distinguished by Bastian, Hughlings Jackson, W. Ogle, Sanders, &c., as amnesic or amnemonic, and ataxic or aphasic, the lesion has occurred at different points. Broadbent quotes his eighth case in illustration. Here, while the object seen no longer evoked the appropriate name, the name and the object presented to- gether were recognised as pertaining to one another; the channel between the visual centre and the mind (the intellectual centre) was interrupted. The same condition occurs in severance of the auditory ])erceptive centre from the intellectual centre. Spoken words have lost their meaning to the patient, and he will have no idea whether be is saying what he wishes or not. Both as to mental condition and seat of lesion these cases would be different from amnesic and aphasic cases. The author states at some length the result of his own observations on the course and distribution of the fibres in the cerebral hemispheres. He enumerates the convolutions which have no direct communication with the crus, central ganglia, or corpus callosum, the said convolutions being latest in order of development, and constituting the diflference between the human and quadrumanous brain, “ withdrawn, so to speak, from the outer world,” and “receiving the raw material of thought from the convolutions on which sensory impressions impinge, and em- ploying for the transmission outwards of the volitional product those convolutions which are in communication with the motor ganglia and tract.” He adopts, with modification, the theory of Bastian (“ On the Muscular Sense and on the Physiology of Thinking,” ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1869, May), giving it an important extension, and applying it to the facts ot cerebral structure. After considering the two distinct aspects in which words may be considered—i, as motor processes, 2, as intel- lectual symbols—aud expressly stating that reading and writing have been kept out of sight for the sake of clearness, and the mechanism of thought as sufficiently explained in the consideration of that of speech, he gives the following as a reswme of his theory : (1) Words, as remembered sounds, will be represented by cell-groups at the summit of the receptive side of the nervous system, which, for reasons given, is supposed to be situated in the marginal convolutions of the hemispheres. (2) From these cell-groups, when definitely formed, impressions will be transmitted to a cell-area in the superadded convolutions, to which also impressions conveying to the mind the various properties of ob- jects indicated by the words will be transmitted ; all these impressions are associated, and the word is employed as the symbol for the result- ing idea of the object. (3) Almost simultaneously motor cells in the corpus striatum are grouped for the production of articulate words, under the guidance of the remembered sound, in response to eff“orts at imitation, which are at first more or less parrot-like. The cell-groups for spoken words once formed are however, employed almost exclusively in intellectual expression. (4) Ihe receptive cell-groups for remembered sounds will be found in the marginal convolutions of the two hemispheres, which are symme- trically associated by the corpus callosum, and the cell-groups for spoken sounds will be found in the two corpora striata; but the absence of