58 REPORT OX PRACTICAL MEDICINE. tricts which were formerly free from it. And these facts lead him to believe that recurrent fever sets up a special liability to malarial poison- ing. At the same time there is no relationship between the two affec- tions ; on the contrary, the fact that one infectious malady is no safe- guard against another, proves that the two are perfectly distinct. Relapsing fever again made its appearance in London, in November, 1872 (‘Lancet,’ 1872, ii, 895), attacking eight cases, all in the same family—three brothers aged 21, 19, and 3, the mother aged 40, and four sisters aged 16, 12, 7, and 3. Insolatio {Sunstroke). Thin (‘Edin. Journ.,’ xvi, 780) describes a number of cases of sun- stroke met with in Shanghai in 1866, at a time when the thermometer registered 96° Eahr. in the shade. He thinks the attack is not to be attributed to great heat alone, but to the glare of the sun, and probably to an atmosphere charged with electricity. All the cases could be directly traced to exposure to the sun’s rays falling on the head or the nape of the neck. The symptoms varied extremely: in the worst case complete coma was followed by speedy death ; in others the coma lasted only a few hours, and was succeeded by complete recovery; in other cases a temporary paraplegia was a common sequela. Sometimes the attack could scarcely be distinguished from the commencement of a continued fever. He thinks that the affection is due to paralysis of the vasomotor nerves of the head, and in some cases of the spinal cord as well. Macdonald (‘Lancet,’ 1871, ii, 289) gives two cases of sunstroke in men aged 63 and 34, the first one fatal. Ilis remarks on the cases sup- port Thin’s views as to the causation of the affection, both attacks having occurred between 6 and 7 p.m., not at the hottest part of the day, but at a time when the air appeared dry, rarefied, and full of electricity. Clapham (ib., 1872, i, 464) publishes the “ particulars of a case of sunstroke recorded by the patient” (the writer). The Acute Exanthemata. Hofmann (‘ Zeitschr. f. Parasitenkunde,’ iii, 103), in a paper on the rational treatment of the acute exanthems, especially measles and scarlet fever, after stating that it would consist in the removal of the causes of these diseases, the contagious nature of which, as Hallier has clearly shown, consists in the presence of true fungi, considers that the latter must be rendered harmless by the administration of remedies capable of killing them, or that they must be eliminated from the body as soon as possible. The former plan—that employed by Binz in typhus (typhoid?)—is impossible in scarlet fever and measles. Hof- mann, therefore, employs the second method, and following Steinfacher, envelopes the patient in sheets wrung out of cold water, and surrounded by a woollen cover or dry sheet. The entire nervous system is in this way powerfully excited, heat withdrawn from the body, and when the temperatures of the body and cloth are equalised, a more or less profuse sweating occurs as a result of the hypermmia of the skin.' On this