84 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. Injury of the Head, followed by Delirium, Epileptiform Convulsions, and Aphasia” (man, ajt. 27), ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1872, ii, 97. Hemiplegia and Aphasia. Perroud (‘Jjyon Med.,’ viii, 65) attempts to verify by statistics Brown-Sequard’s assertion that the left hemisphere is the centre of in- tellectual and animal life, the right that of organic life. The number of hemiplegic patients observed by himself being too small for his pur- pose, he presses into service a note of Charcot, published in the ‘ Journal de Physiologie,’ in 1868, containing the history of 27 cases of hemi- plegia, in which death occurred in the course of a few days after tlie sudden attack. They were all complicated with bedsore of the thigh of the paralysed side, and this “lesion of nutrition” depended, in 16, on lesion of the right hemisphere (sores on the left side), and in 11 on lesion of the left (sores on the right side). Perroud gives an analysis of 70 cases of chronic hemiplegia observed by himself during the last four years, in 32 right-sided, 38 left-sided. Of the former, 24 had no trouble of nutrition, 8, i. e. one fourth of the cases, had. Of the latter, 26 had none, and 12, i. e. one third of the cases, had. Pieber (‘ Klinische Studien iiber die Brown-Sequard’sche Spinal- lahmung,” ‘Wien Med. Zeitg.,’ 1871, 166, &c.) records four cases of spinal hemiplegia, with muscular paralysis on one side and anaesthesia on the opposite side. He thinks these cases are more common than is generally supposed, and as overlooked when, as is often the case, sen- sation returns, while the paresis remains. He gives (ib., 173) a tabular arrangement of the four cases. Verneuil gives (‘ Bull, de 1’Acad, de Med.,’ Jan. 1871) an account of the case of a man, set. 46, in whom, after being thrown from a cart, only numerous contusions could be found, but who presented symptoms of violent delirium, right hemiplegia, and cerebral compression. He died fifteen days later, and the autopsy showed complete rupture of the two internal coats of the left carotid, with a clot in its canal, extending into the branches of the Sylvian artery. There was extensive softening of almost the whole middle lobe. Broadbent (‘Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ Iv, 145) has published an important paper on the cerebral mechanism of speech and thought. His object has been, by means of the light thrown upon cerebral physiology by cases of loss or derangement of speech, to construct a theory of the subject stated, and to connect this with the facts of cerebral structure, so far as they are at present known. The paper opens with ten cases, the autopsies of which are given as fully as the histories of all. These cases, so far as they bear on the question, are entirely corroborative of the view which assigns a close functional relation with articulate speech to that part of the upper edge of the fissure of Sylvius which forms the posterior end of the third frontal convolution of the left hemisphere. The writer criticises cases which may seem to bear on the other side of the question, and states that this part of the hemisphere is not the seat of a “faculty of language,” but simply a part of the nervous or cell- and-fibre mechanism, by means of which speech is accomplished, which mechanism may be damaged elsewhere, above or below this particular