451 TOBACCO. tains especially a much larger proportion of pyridine, which is the most yolatile base of its series, and is very stupefying. The physiological actions of the various alkaloids oi the pyridine and picoline series were not tested separately, but a mixture of the bases was used for experiment. Two mixtures were employed, one consisting chiefly of the first three alkaloids of the series, pyridine, picohne, and lutidine; the other chiefly containing the higher members of the series, collidine to viridine inclusive. The experiments upon animals with these liquids do not appear to havo been very elaborate •, it was, how- ever, ascertained that they both acted very like nicotine, inducing con- traction of the pupils, laboured breathing, general convulsions, and, if in sufficient doses, death. On section the bronchial tubes and lungs were found to be congested. Singularly enough, the effects were more quickly produced when the liquids were taken internally than when injected beneath the skin. They did not act so rapidly in any case as nicotine. Vohl and Eulenberg adduce the case of a man whom they know to be able to swallow the juice from a tobacco-pipe without apparent effect. They do not tbink, nevertheless, that his case militates against the rule that pyridine bases powerfully affect the animal organism. Since plants which are known to contain no narcotic are occasionally used by smokers as substitutes for tobacco, and it is known, moreover, that the pyridine bases are among the products of the destructive dis- tillation of most nitrogenized vegetable and animal substances, the authors deemed it of importance to investigate the action of the pyri- dine bases from various sources, and those produced from stramonium, willow wood, dandelion, and Boghead coal, were employed. The ac- tions of these bases were very similar to those resulting from the use of the alkaloids obtained from tobacco, but the effects were weaker, and except after the use of the alkaloids produced from willow wood, there was no contraction of the pupil. The vapour of picoline was found to be highly poisonous. As regards opium, Vohl and Eulenberg are of opinion that its action when smoked is not due to the alkaloids which the drug naturally contains, but to the bases produced by its destructive distillation, which differ somewhat from those produced by the distillation of tobacco. Heubel,* who has made an experimental inquiry into the active prin- ciples of tobacco smoke, with special reference to the researches of Vohl and Eulenberg on this subject, thus sums up his conclu- sions:— (i) Tobacco smoke undoubtedly contains nicotine. This is proved both by chemical analysis and physiological experiment. (2) By the slow combustion of tobacco, as in ordinary smoking, a compara- tively large amount of the alkaloid becomes volatilised in the smoke. (3) The nicotine in the tobacco smoke occurs chiefly as a nicotine salt. (4) Tke reason why nicotine, though volatile and easily decomposed, is not all destroyed during the process of smoking, appears to be, in a measure, due to the fact that the alkaloid in the leaves, as well as in the smoke, is not free, but is in the form of stable salts (malate and * ‘ Centralblatt f. d. Med. Wissensch.,’ No. 41, 1872.