HEPOUT ON MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE. 450 extracts given by tbe mouth. Three grains of pure sulphate of atropine were given to a pigeon, and retained, and yet the dose did not appear to interfere materially with the wellbeing of the bird. It is very possible, however, to kill the birds with the poison by enormous doses hypo- dermically^ injected. These experiments show what care must be exercised in drawing conclusions in toxicological research from physio- logical investigations. Dogs will bear almost heroic doses of atropine, and the horse will tolerate with impunity an enormous dose of strych- nine.* Hence conclusions as to the antidotal or non-antidotal effects of two poisons on the human subject cannot be drawn with certainty from experiments on the lower animals. Tobacco.—Drs. Vohl and Eulenbergf have published an elaborate ex- perimental essay on the toxicological relations of tobacco, with especial reference to the chemical constituents of tobacco smoke. After an account of the introduction of tobacco into Europe, a summary is given of its chemical history, and the statement is made that the narcotic action of tobacco has been attributed to nicotine in error. The authors adduce analyses and experiments of their own in support of this view. Stress is laid upon the fact that some forms of tobacco which produce powerful physiological effects contain but little nicotine. In snuff this alkaloid varied from ‘0392 to ‘062 per cent., whilst strong chewing to- bacco contained a mere trace of nicotine, and some kinds contained none at all; hence nicotine intoxication is out of the question in the use of these sorts of the weed. They were thus induced to analyse the smoke of strong tobacco containing so much as 4 per cent, of nicotine, the tobacco being burnt both in pipes and as cigars. The gases given off were found to consist of oxygen, nitrogen, marsh gas, carbonic oxide, carbonic acid, and sulphuretted hydrogen. The smoke was drawn first through a solution of potash, and the acids thus absorbed examined; then through dilute sulphuric acid, and the bases thus collected were examined. The potash solution was found to contain a neutral carbo- hydride (CigHjg) and several other carbo-hydrides, hydrocyauie acid, the fatty acids from formic to caprylic acid inclusive, phenol acid, suc- cinic acid, and kreasote, but no benzine. In the acid solution were found ammonia and ethylamine, besides the following homologous bases:—Pyridine, OgHgll; picoline, CgH^^N; lutidine, C7HgN; collidine, ; parvoline, C9H13N; coridine, CjoHigN; rubidine, CJ1H17N ; and, perhaps, viridine, CjgHiglSr. Hot a trace of nicotine could be detected. The authors ascribe to the pyridine bases, and not to nicotine, not only the nausea and other unpleasant symptoms experienced by per- sons beginning to smoke, but also the more chronic affections to which inveterate smokers are liable. Parvoline greatly resembles nicotine in odour and in physiological action, and might readily be rnistaken for this alkaloid, but they Sffer essentially in their respective boiling points. The well-known fact that a much stronger tobacco can be smoked with impunity in cigars than in a pipe is explained thus. The smoke of a pipe contains much more volatile bases than that of a cigar, and cou- * ‘Amer. Journ. Med. Sci.,’ Ixi, p. 377. f ‘ Vrtljhrsscrft. f. Gericht. Med.,’ N. F. xiv, p. 249.