REMOVAL OP GROWTHS FROM THE LARYNX. 333 similar proceeding to tliat adopted in the last case was carried out. The fourth patient, under the care of Mr. Bryant, was a boy, aged three years. Tracheotomy was first performed and then, by means of a curved bistoury, an incision was made upwards from the opening in the trachea. Some hemorrhage, as in the other cases, then occurred, but was quickly stopped by exposure, torsion of vessels, &c. In the course of a fortnight the canula was removed, and in three weeks the wound was entirely healed. More than a year later he was in excellent condition. The fifth patient, under the care of Mr. Davies-Colley, was a boy, four years of age. Tracheotomy was first performed and then, on a subse- quent occasion, an incision in the middle line was made through the cartilages and upper rings of trachea. The growths were most exuberant. A month later the tracheotomy tube was discontinued in the day time* but subsequently its use had to be resumed. A second operation was’ performed seven'months later and has apparently been quite successful. In the second, third, and fifth cases nitrate of silver was applied after the removal of the growths, in the fourth perchloride of iron was used. Appended to the paper are notes of all the cases in which similar operations have been performed of which the record is accessible The cases are 3 2 in number; including his own, 3 7. In at least 19 of these the operation was completely successful, in 7 partially successful, and in 4 temporary benefit resulted. (In a note 2 other successful cases are mentioned.) In 3 cases the result was negative. Five cases were not completed but were progressing favourably. In 2 cases death appears to We resulted from the operation. Dr. Mackenzie, in his monograph on Growthyn the Larynx,’gives 9 out of 28 as the proportion of deaths, but Mr. Durham considers that 7 of these deaths occurred from circumstances unconnected with the operation. He gives the facts nf the cases. Mr. Durham remarks on^he difficultierattWi^^^^^^^^^^ operation. First with regard to hemorrhage. If the incision be kept strictly to the median line it is impossible that any large vessel can be wounded. Any woimded vessel is fully exposed^ The wound beW open, if blood pps down the trachea it is soon coughed up again^ Bleeding Ironi the interior of the larynx is easily controlled by pres^sure or styptics. The introduction of a canula, if not already in SSn and the insertion of a small piece of sponge into the trachea above the w'thp^S f1 aid in securing free respiration and hindlr- mfnts nf blood down the air-passages. The spasmodic move- ments of the larynx and the paroxysms of cough often cause delav bnt these generally subside after a time. Division of cartilacrpq ff * proceeding seems to Mr. Durham unneccssnrv a some important part of the larviiY i. ' ^ unless necessa^musthLemoved w “ prohahly host to begin hy Styrotr anf