REPORT ON MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE. 438 the case where atropine is administered five minutes before physostig- mine. Another set of experiments shows this remarkable result, that if four and a half grains of atropine are given ten minutes before the physos- tigmine, death occurs, but recovery takes place if the atropine is admi- nistered fifteen or twenty minutes before. When five grains of sulphate of atropine are administered before the same dose of physostigmine death occurs if the interval of time be one of fifteen or twenty minutes, but recovery generally occurs if the interval be one included within the wide limits extending from twenty-five to one hundred and seventy-five minutes; while death, again, occurs if the interval be one so great as three hours. A very interesting chain of events is therefore presented, for it is seen that certain actions, produced with sufficient intensity to cause death when the two substances are simultaneously administered, lose the power of doing so when the atropine is administered at an interval of twenty-five minutes before the physostigmine; while the now unob- scured counteraction of the lethal eflect of this dose of physostigmine which makes the loss perceptible, persists till the interval is increased to three hours. The whole of this remarkable investigation is tabulated and illus- trated by diagrams. The one substance is shown in the most conclu- sive manner to exert a remarkable and decided physiological antagonism to the other, and that the fatal effect of three and a half times the mini- mum lethal dose of physostigmine may be prevented by atropine. “ The existence of such an antagonism encourages the hope that the power of directly counteracting disease is far from unattainable, and it supplies a strong incentive to efforts designed to determine the conditions of disease and the actions of remedies with an exactitude sufficient to show how the remedial action may be applied as a counteracting influ- ence to the diseased condition.” _ A-iitctoouisiu of vctTious poisons.—Prof. of PGnnsylvania, has investigated the following supposed antagonistic poisonsMorphine and atropine, morphine and hydrocyanic acid, morphine and strych- nine morphine and aconitine, morphine and arsenic, strychnine ajnd tobacco, strychnine and aconitine, strychnine and tincture of chloride of iron, strychnine and tincture of iodine, strychnine and Calabar bean, and atropine and Calabar bean. ^ ., , i • r j The antagonism between hydrocyanic acid and morphine was toimd to be very slight, if, indeed, it exists at all. The positive antagonism of atropine and morphine could not be satisfactorily demonstrated; on the contrary, the converse would seem rather to be proved by one ex- periment, the morphine intensifying at least one portion of the atropine impression—its paralytic effect. Strychnine and hydrocyanic aeid.can in no sense, he thinks, be considered antagonistic; nor can strychnine and tobacco be regarded as true antagonistic poisons, although, so far as relates to the human subject, we have the testpony of some autho- rities that tobacco does really appear to antagonise the toxic iriAu^ce of strychnine. In one experiment tincture of chloride of iron seemed ^ ‘ Ainer. Jouru. Med. Sc.,’ Ixi, pp. 133, 373-