KEPOirr ON PllACTICAL MEDICINE. 8;J E'pilepsy. Brown-S^uard (‘ Arch, de Physiol.,’ 1872, iv, 204) has arrested the fits of epilepsy which have been provoked in guinea-pigs, by section of a portion ot the spinal cord, or of the sciatic nerve, by irritating the throat or larynx by carbonic acid gas. The strength of the gas must be such as to be almost insupportable by the experimenter, and must be injected with a certain amount of force. Injection of tlie gas simply into the nose of the animal is insufidcient, though the case may be different in the human subject. The author has also verified the experiments of B-osenthal, that pulmonary insufflation arrests tlie epileptic attacks provoked by strychnine. At the same time he looks upon the explanation given as absolutely false, and thinks the arrest to be due not to superoxygenation of the blood, but to the mechanical irritation of the air upon the branches of the vagus distributed to the bronchi, and to the nerves of the diaphragm. The same results followed the same experiments made on pigeons and a duck. The same writer (‘ Gaz. Med.,’ 1872, 466) communicates to the Societe de Biologic the experiments he has made to determine the path followed by irritation, which has been set up by section of the sciatic nerve, in order to reach the upper part of the spinal cord, and produce attacks of epilepsy. Section of the nerve, high up, and especially removal of the nerve, constantly produce epilepsy. But section of the cord immediately above the origin of the nerve does not do so. This unexpected fact makes him think that the epileptic symptoms are not due to section of fibres of the sciatic, but rather to section of fibres of the sympathetic contained in the sciatic nerve. He therefore attempted to divide the tilaments of the sympathetic passing to the sciatic, but the task was difficult, and the results transient. On the other hand, section of the last dorsal and first lumbar roots, which furnish sympathetic filaments to the sciatic, did produce epilepsy. He thinks, therefore, that artificially produced epilepsy is probably due to section of tlie sympathetic nerve. Westphal (‘ Berl. Kliu. Woch.,’ 1871,448) has repeated and confirmed the experiments made by Brown-Scquard on guinea-pigs with reference to the artificial production of epilepsy (see last ‘ Report,’ 107). Another interesting and new fact is shown by these experiments—that a blow on the head may set up in guinea-pigs the same epileptiform condition as direct injury to the cord, or section of the sciatic nerve. Immediately or soon after the blow an attack of general convulsion, or a series of attacks, occur. At this time there is no “ epileptogenic zone of skin, by irritating which even slightly general convulsions may be provoked ; four or five weeks later, however, a cutaneous zone may be found, irritation of which provokes at first certain reflex movements, and later the epileptiform attacks. This zone has the same position near the angle of the lower jaw—as in Brown-Sequard’s experiments, and its local sensibility is diminished. The epileptiform condition lasts from one and a half to two or more months, and gradually disappears. A female guinea-pig, which had been rendered epileptic by a blow, gave birth to two youug ones, in whom, on irritating the “ epileptogenic