107 THE RESPIIlATOllY MUllMUR, ETC. 4. ^ Arr'h ’ llv Moos, “ Ein Pall von selbstandiger Diphtlieritis ,o , ; Arch Schiiller <‘Primarer Croup iler Nasenschleimlmut, Jahib. t. KindeiiieiiK., v, 33 Bouclmt’ “Traitenient clu Croup par l’:fimctique,” ‘ Gaz des H6p., /8.72> “On the Medical Treatment of Diphtheria/’ ‘ Glasgow Med. Journ., in, 219. Balfoui, “Chlorine-water in the Treatment of Diphtheria,” ‘Edm^Med. Journ. 313. Menzies “On an Epidemic of Diphtheria observed at Naples m 1^1, with an attempt’ to determine the common origin of Cerehro-spinal Fever, and Diphtheria.” ih., xviii, 217. “ Quinia in Croup.” ‘Amer. Journ. Med Sci ’ Ixi =08. ^Murchison, “Case of Diphtheria, with extension of the Mem.brane to the’Bronchial Tubes ” (man, mt. 24). ‘ Path. Soc. Trans./ xxii, 35- f ful Case of Tracheotomy in Croup” (boy, 7, removal of the tulm on eighth day), ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, i, 5.5i- Greenhow, “Paralysis alter Diphtheria (man, £Et. 32), ib., 1872, i, 538. Giacchi, Natura e Therapia deU’ Angina Dilterica, loppi, 1872; pp. 23. The Mespiratory Murmur, ^c. Stone, in a valuable paper “ On .^Egophony” (‘ St. Tbos. Hosp. Eep.,’ 1871, 187), observes “that a pure musical vibration within the limits of the ordinary speaking voice is not transmitted at all, either through consolidated lung or through a layer of pleuritic fluid; but that the same note, when vocalised and modified by the addition of vowel sounds, immediately passes through the media at a changed pitch. He found that the e and 1 sounds, which Helmholtz obtained with great diflSculty in his experiments, and only by reinforcing the extreme high harmonics at the expense of the fundamental notes, were exactly tbe sounds on which aegophony was most distinct, whether in a living lung or an india-rubber bag containing water. He concludes that aegophony has for its cause the fact “ that the layer of fluid, while it stops the larger and coarser vibrations of the ground-tone, lets pass the finer and closer undulations of the high harmonics.” In reference to the peculiar mode of respiration first described by Cheyne, and later by Stokes, C. Brlickner (‘Virch. Arch.,’ lii, 155) writes on what his father had taught twenty-two years ago as pendulum- like respiration. He notices it especially in children affected with tuber- cular meningitis. After the pause the patient breathes at first almost inaudibly, but with gradually increasing force, till the highest point is reached, the respiration gradually falling till the pause again recurs. The latter generally lasts as long as the sum of all the respirations be- tween two pauses. The number of respirations varies in difterent patients, sometimes only 6—8, in others 20—30. According to the elder Bruckner, the symptom is caused only by the presence of watery fluid within the skull, and the son has also noticed it in cases of the same kind only. Merkel (‘ Deut. Arch.,’ viii, 424) records a case in which the same phenomenon was present. The patient, a man, set. 44, was first seen in the autumn of 1866, extremely anaemic, and suffering from haemor- rhoids. His arteries were rigid. At the end of 1869 he had an apo- plectic fit, followed by left-sided paralysis. His respiration at that time was at first superficial, and increased in depth, but not in frequency, till it developed into a well-marked dyspnoea. This condition lasted for