REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 390 Dr. Atlee records seven cases of ovariotomy, and describes a new clamp for the operation. By means of this clamp the pedicle is com- pressed in the linear direction of the wound, and at the same time it limits within certain points the expansion or spreading of the pedicle when the blades are screwed together. (Ibid.) A new ovariotomy clamp is described by Dr. Dawson (‘Amer. Jour. Obst.,’ 1871), and a pump for facilitating the operation by Dr. Lente. « , . , Dr. Tracy reports six eases of ovariotomy, five of which were suc- cessful (‘Austral. Med. Journ.,’Aug._ 1871); and a successful case performed during an attack of peritonitis. (‘Med. Chir. Soc., 1872.) Dr. B. S. Schultze relates (‘Arch. f. Gynak.,’ ii,_3, 1871) four cases, two of which recovered. One of these patients had two children subsequently; the other menstruated through the abdominal wall, and the discharge from the site of the incision often lasted some hours longer than that from the vagina. Mlartin also contributes seven cases. (‘Berl. Klin. Woch.,’March, 1872.) Dr. G. H. B. Macleod writes (‘Lancet,’ Jan. 1871) on an improved method of dividing the pedicle in ovariotomy, and describes an instru- ment of his own construction which he employs to grasp the pedicle finely near its uterine end. The cyst is tlien cut away by dividing with a knife the extreme distal end of the pedicle, and the stump is cau'^ht by special forceps at a short distance from the part grasped by the''instrument above mentioned. By slowly turning the forceps while the first instrument is kept at rest, the stump is twisted oii close to the edge of the instrument by which it is held, and may then be returned with safety into the abdominal cavity Dr. Macleod relates a successful case in which this plan was adopted; the patient was quite recovered about the time the clamp is found to separate in most cases. He says that it is a question for further observation now far the simple grasp of the first instrument, if contmued for a short time might sufidee to close the vessels of the pedicle without the Won. Mr. Jessop relates (‘Lancet,’ Sept 1871) two cases in which the nedicle was successfully twisted by the above method. Dr. Hayes recommends a method for securing the vessels of the pedicle, which he^ calls “ the subperitoneal.” The proceeding resembles the Tubcutaneous ligature of nmvus. The pedicle is first co^mpressed by a clamp and a needle armed with stout catgut ligatoe is Passed beneath a good thickness of the serous surface of the pedicle, but suSSal to the principal vessels. The needle bemg withdrawn at thrside opposite the point of entrance is again passed into the aper- ture of exirandpushecl between the vessels and peritoneal covering on tWdVo^^^^ vessels opposite its first passage, until it can be with- torn through the opeing made hy t rDuZ fhe ligature are to be strongly tied, and cut off short. ( Dub plnarSes^a°Iuo’ee®M case of ovariotomy in which a tnbperito- neal* fibroid of the uterus was removed at the same time. ( Gaz. iawsou^Talt has introduced a new form of trochar for use in