96 REPOllT ON PllACTJCAL MEDICINE. p ”■ 1 “ U«bcr eiu Eigentliumliches Verhalten Secundiirer Degeneration des Ruckenmarks (w.th plate), < Arch. f. Psych.,’ ii, 374. Schiile, “ Weiterer Beitrag /an Hirn-Uuckemnarks-bcleroae,’’ ‘ Dent. Arch.,’ viii, 223. Kelp, “ Hirnsklerose,” ib.. Multiple Sklerose des Hirns und Ruckenmarks,” ib., 478. Otto, Casuistischer Beitrag zu Multiplen Sklerose des Hirns und lliickenmarks,” ib., 531. hibstein, “ Sclerosis Medullm Spinalis et oblongatse als Sectionsbefund bei einen I'alle von Sprach- und Coordiuatiousstorung in Armen und Beinen in Polue von lyphus Abdominalis,” ib., 595. Infantile Paralysis. Damaschino andSoger (‘ Q-az. Med.,’ 1871, 457) commence their long paper by tracing the history of the affection and the suggestions made by different authors as to its cause. Heine (1840) andDuchenne (1855) referred its origin to the spinal cord, though they had no pathological evidence of disease in the latter. Bouchut placed the anatomical seat of the lesion in the muscles, and the disease among the muscular paralyses (myogeniques). Cornil in 1863, and with Laborde in the fol- lowing year, gave the result of their anatomical investigations, and the later writer recorded a second case also ; their example was followed by Prevost and Vulpian in 1865, Olivier in 1869, Charcot and Joffroy in 1870, and in this last year also Parrot and Joffroy. Damaschino and lloger themselves had opportunities of a full examination of three cases in 1868, 1869, and 1871, of which they now give full reports. The first case was that of a boy aged two years, who for two months had suffered with paralysis of the left arm with atrophy of the deltoid—a consequence of hemiplegia occurring after dysentery. Paraplegia set in during measles, of which last affection the child died. The second case was observed in a boy set. 2^ years, who for six months had had paraplegia, with atrophy and deformity of the left leg, less marked in the right. He also died of measles. The third case was that of a boy of 3 years, who had paraplegia and paralysis of the muscles of the left back for thirteen months before he died of broncho-pneumonia. The symptoms during life and the pathological appearances were similar in all three cases. The changes in the muscles were of the ordinary character, consisting of fatty and fi.broid degeneration of the fibrillse. In the spinal cord the writers found the same lesions of the grey sub- stance and the anterior and lateral columns, differing, in the three cases, only in its seat; in the first case, in two places, the cervical and lumbar enlargements; in the second, chiefly in the latter position; and in the third case, in the same region, but on both sides. The mic- roscope revealed changes in the vessels, thickened walls, prolife- ration of their nuclei, atrophy of the ganglion-cells and their pro- cesses, as well as of the nerve-fibres. There was also thickening ol the connective tissue (sclerosis), especially marked in the third case. These facts lead the authors (ib., 578) to the conclusions that the lesion of the spinal cord is essential and primary, and that the pathological appear- ances found justify their use of the term “ spinal infantile paralysis” (“paralvsie spinale de I’enfance”). The lesion they consider to be a myelitis', especially of the anterior grey substance, of which the atrophy of the nerves and muscles is the consequence.