460 REPORT ON MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE. * ‘ Vrtljhrsschrffc f. Gericht. Med.,’ N. F., xv, p. 58. Eecliymoses after suffocation.'—Dr, Juliua Lukomsky,* of Kiev, pub- lishes an interesting criticism on the ecchymoses which Tardieu has described as characteristic of death from suffocation. In order to arrive at a satisfactory settlement of the questions at issue. Dr. Lukomsky made an elaborate series of experiments on the pressure of the blood in the various vessels during the time that animals were being suffocated. By suffocation (eptickung) is meant, in a restricted sense, all causes of death by mechanical applications for the purpose of excluding air, ap- plied to the mouth and nose, to the air passages and oesophagus, pres- sure on the chest and abdomen, and suffocations by being buried in earth, or in any pulverulent material. During suffocation it was found that both the arterial and venous pressures were materially increased. After this had been established be- yond doubt, the variations in respiration were noted—ist, after simple closing of the trachea so as to produce suffocation; 2nd, after suffoca- tion induced by irritation of the nerves; 3rd, after suffocation conse- quent on_ section of the nerves ; 4th, by occlusion of the trachea after forcing air into the lungs under increased pressure ; 5th, in suffocation by rarefaction of the air. It was thus proved, on comparing the pressure of the blood and the variations in the mechanism of respiration during suffocation, that—(i) during suffocation a typical change in the rhythm of respiration takes place ; (2) a considerable increase of pressure was noted in both arteries and veins, especially in the region of the thorax; (3) there was a diminution of pressure in the pulmonary artery; (4) the greatest increase in the pressure of the blood coincided with the period of most powerful respiratory effort, i. e. with expiration. Dogs were the animals experimented on. The connection between the arterial and venous pressure and Tar- dieu’s ecchymosis is next traced. In normal respiration, during in- spiration, there is an increased flow of blood into the right heart, a quickened action of the heart, and consequently an increased arterial pressure; whilst during expiration the converse obtains. But in suffocation the greater effort at and duration of each inspiration in- creases the flow of blood to the right ventricle. In consequence of a diminution of pressure in the pulmonary artery, blood flows more quickly from the right into the left ventricle, and consequently both the activity of this and the pressure in the arteries are heightened. But when a rapid and energetic expiratory effort follows upon the climax of inspiration, and this effort at expiration adds an increase of pressure to the already heightened arterial pressure in the thorax, it is seen that there is a direct connection between the altered relations of the respiratory mechanism during suffocation and the development of the peculiar form of subpleural ecchymosis which Tardieu has pointed out as a diagnostic sign of suffocation. The memoir is enriched with experiments bearing upon the altered rhythm of resj)iration and varia- tions in arterial and venous pressure when suffocation is artificially pro- duced by various means, as, e. g., by section of nerves; but these expe- riments, valuable as they [are, are of more interest to the physiologist than to the medical jurist.