275 EXTROVERSION OE THE BLADDER. but if be overstayed the time he almost certainly had an attaek of re- teutiou. He finally died of idiopathic erysipelas. The bladder was touud to be in great part filled with a firm tumour which reached above tlie pubes. A section of the whole having been made the tumour was found to be the prostate gland enlarged in an unusual position, above the urethra instead of below it, as is common. The upper end was conical and inclined the urine towards the urethra. The bladder proper was almost wholly within the abdomen. TV^hen he had attacks of re- tention, during many years, one passage of the catheter relieved him till his next attack. _Ho urine constantly remained behind in the bladder, nor did the kidneys become aifected. Engravings are given and notes of other cases. In one case, besides an enlargement of the prostate, a large sac bulged backwards from the bladder. In another case, general symptoms were occasioned by the accumulation of “ resi- dual urine.” (‘Med. Times and Gaz.,’ June, 1872.) Amimtahon of the penis for carcinoma—Dr. Johnson narrates four cases, in one, he saw the patient eleven years afterwards, and in ano- ther three years afterwards, and no return had occurred in either case, though the glands were more or less involved at the time of the opera- tion. ( Edm. Med. Journ.,’ Sept. 1871, 243.) ^ Melanosis of the Penis; Amputation. Mr. T. Holmes, ‘ Path. Trans.,’ xxiii, 175. Inversion of the Uadder.—Mv. Croft records a case of inversion of the bladder. The patient was a female infiint, mt. 14 mouths. The blndder was ■’eUimed. The case did well. Three other cases recorded |hr‘pLre“of riusTf S C sTSriloap Eepl/ li^xiroversioii of the urinarif bladder.—Dr. P. F Maurv Ins miei-sforl successfu ly on two cases. The patients were boyr*^ and ?cn^vdiner-™-“' °P«ation consisted in mikint a curvilinear incision commencing on the outer third of Poupart’s Hp-i° meut, carried down below the hernim and scrotum to the middle of fhe perinieum, and thence along the opposite side to a point correspondino- to tlm commencement of the incision. This flap wL care^xZ d^ sected up completely denuding the hernia, of their cutaneoufeoveriuT A vftlvG like iDcisiou was mude iii oue flan so -fn niii^ -*-i • j^' tte bhddS'then was obtained Siufficient to coyeHu minal ‘walls’and a ‘Ira^ror 17^0^ "'f operations, the other onir^ &sT7o7 l7ckrerthe7,k^7'’“ now covered in, a small urinal can he J-be_bladder is recumbent posture and the ci'nof • ,. retained in the