34<8 REPOllT ON OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE AND SURGERY. ;j; ‘ Annales d’Oculistique,’ 1872, i, 70. knife, as if for iridectomy, and withdraws the blade very gently, pressing upon the iris as he does so. If prolapsus should still take place he waits until the protruding portion is distended by the resecretion of aqueous humour, and then punctures it in the direction of the radial fibres. After this the prolapsus may generally be readily replaced. Dr. de Wecker, at the Heidelberg Congress of 1871,* referred to Quaglino’s results, and stated that he had himself made trial of sclerotomy in a somewhat different manner. He introduces a Grraefe’s cataract knife, by puncture and counter-puncture, as if to make a flap two millimetres in height, the point passing through the sclerotic very near the corneal margin. He then divides the sclerotic for two thirds of the distance between the punctures, leaving the central third undi- vided, and retains the knife in the chamber until the aqueous has escaped, when it is slowly withdrawn. In this way he avoids prolapse of the iris. His cases seemed to him to establish the value of sclerotomy in reducing tension, and to show that a cicatrix of filtration was the condition essential to a cure. Ulcus serpens cornece.—Pagenstecherf strongly supports Saemisch’s treatment of creeping ulcer of the cornea. The treatment previously employed at Wiesbaden consisted of atropine instillations, with warm poultices and compression, and it often yielded good results. But com- plete or nearly complete loss of vision was sufficiently common to render a trial of Saemisch’s method desirable. The results were— I. The ulcerative process was restrained within its existing limits, and thus the size of the eventual leucoma reduced to a minimum. a. The base of the ulcer became clean and less turbid, and the sur- rounding infiltration wholly disappeared in the course of a few days. 3. The pus or turbid matters in the anterior chamber were in great part evacuated, and the absorption of the remainder much promoted. The risk of occlusion of the pupil by the organization of false mem- brane was thus greatly diminished. 4. The tendency to iritis rapidly diminishes, and complete dilatation of the pupil is soon produced. 3. Existing ciliary neuralgia is commonly completely relieved, either immediately or after the lapse of a few hours. The precepts laid down by Saemisch were rigorously followed in the making of the incision. The after-treatment consisted in the appli- cation of a moist compress, the instillation of atropine, the application of a pressure bandage at night, and the frequent reopening of the incision. This last, however, was not continued for so long a time as by Saemisch, but only for from five to eight days. Corelysis.—Uir. de WeckerJ entirely condemns operations for detaching posterior synechia, either by corelysis or by Passavant’s method. He thinks that all such operations are usually followed by anterior synechia, the peripheral part of the iris becoming united to the corneal wound. The way in wdiich this wound is irritated by passing hook or forceps through it, and the necessary dilatation of the * ‘Aimales d’Oculistique,’ 1872, i, 87. f ‘ Kliniscbe Monatsblatter fiir Augenboilkunde,’