411 DYSTOCIA BY THE CHILD. The causes, nature, and treatment of rigidity of the os uteri. Dr. Isham (‘Amer. Journ. of Obstetr.,’ July, 1871). _ . ^ -w, Dr J. J. Phillips (‘ Lancet,’ March, 1871) relates m detail three cases of "successful version with living _ children after failpe of the forceps. In each case the conjugate diameter of the pelvis was nar- rowed. In the first it measured very little over three inches; in the second, three inches and a half, but the foetal head was very large and firm ; and in the third the jutting of the sacral promontory had pro- duced a marked depression on the left parietal and frontal bones of the foetal head. . . . -r, , For remarks on turning in pelvic contraction see Jdoning. ( ±>erl. Klin. Woch.,’ viii, 34, 1871.) , , , . ^ ^ ■ n. -j j ■ An interesting case, showing the behaviour ot uterme fibroids during pregnancy, labour, and the puerperal state, is recorded by Dr. Madge (‘ Obst. Trans.,’ 1872), and a case of inertia of the uterus during labour from the existence of two fibroid masses at the fundus by Depaul (‘ Gaz. Med. de Paris,’ Aug. 1871). Magdelaine also writes on the complication of pregnancy and labour with subperitoneal fibroids of the uterus (‘Arch. Gener.,’ xvii, 214). In a case of fibrous tumour, nearly filling the pelvis and complicated with pregnancy. Dr. Habit induced premature labour, and, with the patient under chloroform, lifted up the growth out of the pelvis. Successful result to mother and child (‘ Wien. Med. Zeitsch.,’ 1871). Cases of fibroids of the uterus, not interfering with the action of the organ at the time of labour are related by Dr. Goodell (‘Amer. Journ. of Obst.,’ 1872) and by Mr. Harries (‘Guy’s Hosp. Gaz.,’ Hov. 1872). Chantreuil writes on cancer of the uterus in reference to conception, pregnancy, and labour. Out of sixty cases, twenty-five died during labour or in the puerperal state, thirty-five were restored to health for a time. In the twenty-five fatal cases rupture of the uterus during labour occurred six times, nine cases died from peritonitis, seven died after serious operations, and thrice the cause of death was not ascer- tained. Twenty-eight out of the sixty children were born alive. During the earlier months of pregnancy the body of the uterus is developed independently of the cervix, which is the usual seat of cancer, and thus gestation is but little interfered with until the latter part of pregnancy, when premature labours are frequent. Occasionally can- cerous infiltration of the cervix prevents its dilatation, and becomes also, a cause of unusual prolongation of pregnancy beyond the normal period. Pregnancy hastens the progress of uterine cancer. The line of treatment which he advocates is either the induction of abortion, the performance of the Caesarean section at term, or the incision of the neck of the uterus and application of the forceps. The last method he describes as almost always fatal to the mother and offering less chances of life to the child. (‘ Du Cancer de I’llterus, &c.,’ Paris, 1872.) Dystocia hy the Child. Dr. Eeimanu, of Kiew, relates (‘Archiv f. Gyn'ak.,’ ii, i, 1871) a case of difficult labour resulting from the simultaneous presence of