OBSTETRIC OPERATIONS. 415 round it, wlien, making traction, the pelvis and lower extremities soon descend, followed by the trunk. (‘Xiancet, Feb. 1871.)^ Depaul relates two cases of shoulder presentation in which he decapitated, and insists on the operation in severe cases of the kind where turning is impracticable. (‘Jour, de Bruxelles,’ July, 1871.) Dr. Cappie suggests (‘Edin. Med. Journ.,’ 1871) that in using the forceps the task of introducing, guarding, and directing the blades should be trusted entirely to the fingers of the right hand, and that in the first stage of introduction the left, crossed over the right wrist, should have little more to do than to support the shank or handle of the instrument. By thus acting the ordinary obstetric posi- tion does not require to be disturbed, and the forceps can in this way be applied in many instances where it would otherwise be impossible. Barclay introduces a new form of midwifery forceps. It combines Tigler’s male and female blades with the length, strength, and curve of Simpson’s. (‘Lancet,’Jan. 1872.) Easbender publishes four cases of version performed by the method of Braxton Hicks. He points out that one great advantage of the bi- manual method is that it facilitates cephalic version; in podalic version there is always the risk of certain accidents, such as compression of the cord, the crossing of the arm behind the neck, constriction of the neck of the uterus around the child’s neck, which, by prolonging extraction, more or less compromise the child’s life. Easbender performed cephalic version in three of the four cases, each of these was a case of shoulder presentation, and podalic version in the fourth, a case of pla- centa praevia. (‘Beitrage zur Greburt. und Gynak.,’ Berlin, 1871, i, 8.) Professor Halbertsma recommends that an external examination of the uterus should be substituted during labour for the internal exami- nations which are so frequently made. It has been proved that internal examination may generate infection. By external examination alone we can, in most cases, ascertain the position of the child, whether it has sunk deep into the pelvis, and by auscultation whether there is danger for the child. We shall in this way not be able so well to ascertain whether the delivery is proceeding, yet the nature of the pains and the flow of liquor amnii are some indications. The flrst and second cranial positions can often be diagnosed by external investigation alone. When there is danger of infection from the accoucheur the external ex- amination should be the rule, the internal one the exception. (‘ Med. Times and Gaz.,’ June 10, 1871.) Drs. Braxton Hicks and J. J. Phillips, in a paper published in the ‘Obst. Trans.’ for 1871, call attention to the imperfect and unscientific manner in which the usual tables of mortality after obstetric operations have been compiled, and to the delusive conclusions to which they con- sequently lead. A brief abstract of a very large number of cases traced to their original source is added, and the conclusion at which the authors arrive is that, in a very large majority of the fatal cases, death resulted either from the condition which rendered the operation neces- sary, or from the too long delay of instrumental assistance. Dr. Matthews Duncan writes (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Hov. 1872) on