ANOMALIES OF STRUCTURE. 371 A woman, set. 26, who had miscarried four times, was found, after death, to hare the ovary, Fallopian tube, and ligaments of the left side entirely absent. This side of the uterus was perfectly free, and the muscular structure was smoothly covered by peritoneum throughout. Ling ('Lancet,’Sep, 1872), A patient, set. 18, who had never men- struated, died in St, George’s Hospital, and the uterus was found to be absent, though the ovaries were well developed. The only representa- tive of a uterus was a small nodule of fibrous tissue found in the folds of peritoneum between the rectum and the bladder (‘ Lancet,’ Aug. 1872). Cases of absence of the uterus and the vagina form the subjects of interesting remarks on malformations of the female genitalia by Eichet and by Gallard (L’lJnion Med.,’ 1872). Dr. Aikman describes a case of double uterus and vagina. A septum, rather thicker than the vaginal wall, extended from about three quarters of an inch above the hymen to midway between the uterine orifices. The uterus, which had a tumour attached to its fundus, was four inches long. It was divided into two cavities. The left cavity was perfect as far as the internal os, it then tapered to end in the left Fallopian tube. The right cavity had the usual shape of the right half of the uterine cavity, and communicated freely with the rif^ht Fallopian tube. (‘ Glasgow Journal,’ May, 1872.) ° A case of congenital absence of the uterus and vagina is recorded by Dr. Smith (‘Brit, Med. Journ.,’ Nov. 1872). The vulva was well formed, the mammae were large and flabby. Absence of vagina and uterus. Warner (‘Boston Journal,’ Jan. 1872). Double uterus and vagina in a young woman who died of epilepsy, ihere was only one kidney. Eoberts (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ June. 18727. ’ uterus with concurrent pregnancy. Boss (‘Lancet,’ July, Schatz records seven cases of incomplete union of the female genital canal in adults ( Arch. f. Gynak.,’ ii, 2, 1871). Schatz also relates a remarkable case of deformity of the urino- genital systeni in an infant. There was a double uterus, a doXe vagina, a double bladder, and a double vesico-vaginal fistula. The mother of the child was a healthy woman, and had previously had one child, a boy in every way well formed. In this, her second labour contained only one artery. (‘ Arch. f. Gynak.,’ hi, 2, 1872 ) Dr. Squarey contributes (‘Obst. Trans.,’ 1872) three cases of nb.pnpp of the uterus, the patients being sisters ^ ^ ^ * absence breasts. (‘Lancet,’ June, 1871.) ^