REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 38a t’.ssue also penetrates into the walls of the uterus, and is met with in decreasing amount towards the outer surface. It will thus be seen that Dr. Beck does not admit the existence of a defined mucous mem- brane on the inner surface. Uterine Cancer. Spiegelberg writes (‘ Arch. f. G-ynak.,’ iii, 2, 1872) on the diagnosis of the first stage of cancer of the neck of the womb. He says that the hardness and unyielding character of malignant deposit, as compared with the firm and rough consistence of benign induration, is well known, but he relies on two other signs which may be briefly de- scribed as follows:—In malignant degeneration the overlying mucous membrane is always immovable, firmly connected with the underlying tissue, which is not the case in simple hyperplastic induration ; and while the latter, under the pressure of a sponge-tent in the cervix, dilates regularly and becomes looser, softer, and thinner, the cancerous infiltration continues unaltered, firm, and hard, and does not become stretched. Spiegelberg is not in favour of operative interference when the disease is far advanced. Dr. Madge, after a careful examination, reported that a specimen exhibited by Dr. Protheroe Smith before the Obstetrical Society was one of epithelial cancer of the lining membrane of the body of the uterus, which destroyed portions of the uterine substance without affecting the cervix. The bulging masses noticed on the inner surface were made up of a variety of elements, minutes granules, oil-globules, epithelial cells, and other cells of an irregular and nondescript character, with a little earthy matter, all contained in a stroma of connective tissue. (‘Obstet. Trans.,’1872.) Dr. Henry Bennett records a case, very obscure as regards the dia- gnosis during life, of malignant disease of the body of the uterus. The patient was fifty years of age, had ceased to menstruate for two years, and a uterine tumour was casually discovered by the hand on the hypo- gastric region. The uterus was enlarged to about the size of four months’pregnancy, perfectly free from adhesions, movable in every direc- tion ; there was no vaginal discharge. The sound passed four inches. In forty-eight hours after this she was seized with peritonitis and died. A large encephaloid cancerous tumour was found in the uterine cavity. (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Sept. 1872.) , . , Arpem, in ‘ L’Impartiale ’ of Plorence, publishes a case which, it the diagnosis be correct, shows the marked influence of gastric juice on uterine cancer. The patient was fifty-eight years old, with malig- nant disease of the rectum and of the neck of the uterus. After stopping the haemorrhage by the perchloride of iron, seven drachms of artificial gastric juice was divided into three parts and used locally every day for three weeks. Ultimately the ulcers were completely healed ^^Dr. Eouth writes (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Aug. 1872) in favour of gastric i uice for uterine cancer. The effects which he has observed to be produced by the juice on cancerous sores have been solution of sloughs,