UEPOET ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 178 arms were affected in the same way. The nails were thin and their roots red. The soles of the feet and the palms ol the hands were free from disease ; the extensor surfaces of the fingers were red, indurated, scaly, and showed a disposition to crack. During her stay in hos^ntal the patient improved greatly in every way, hut had a relapse in May, 1870, from which she again recovered. Dox considers the case to he one of well-marked pityriasis rubra, due to “ a general congestive con- dition, dependent upon perversion of the regulative influence 01 the nervous system.” There was “ active dilatation of the minute blood- vessels, followed by effusion of plastic matter into and about the follicles, hypertrophic growth of the root-sheath, and m some cases ot the papillary layer of the skin.” The treatment consisted of a^aline and bran baths every night, with an oxide of zinc and chalk lotion applied many times a day. The internal treatment was directed to the procuring of sleep, and the regulation of the general functions _ Fruriqo.—Gay (‘ Archiv f. Derm. 11. Syph.,’ in, i) gives with a plate the results of his microscopic researches into the changes taking place in the skin in prurigo. He thinks that the different parts of the skin are more or less affected: the rete Malpighii, the hair-bulbs, sweat-glands, corium, and papillse. The changes in the rete consist of increase in the cells of the deep and some of the middle layers, due probably to proliferation. Their thickness extends also to the horny layer, ihe vessels of the hair-sac are found dilated and enlarged. The erector muscles, the outer sheath of the root, and the papillie, are greatly de- veloped. The sebaceous glands are generally diminished in size, and the cells of the openings horny in character. On the other hand, the sweat-glands are ddated, their cells loosened from the membrana pro- ' pria and their blood-vessels also dilated. The same dilatation is found iM the vesLls of the papillm; the ceUs of the corium are very marked, and are mixed with branched and wandering cells ; the papillse are en- LrgeT In concfusion, he agrees with Neumann, that the erup mn of prurigo is due to increase in young cells and the presence of a flu 6xud.Jxijiou 111 ijliG tissii6 of fliG ptipillsG* i ii rvnno E Wilson (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, ii, 34) records the occurrence of a pruriginous eruption in a man, ffit. 3 7. T he papules were of a kind to be^felt rather than seen, and apparently due to congestion and infil- teatn of The vruto co’at of the follielea. The number ot epota never exceeded ten or twelve. On scratching them an angular or square-shaped excoriation remained which dried up mto a thin redd scab The patient had formerly suffered from gout. “The writer (ibid., i, Is) publishes chieiy in the face, a few on the fingers, the whole eruption did not ^Igge Soc. Trans.,’ xxii. 309) f®“***'S J“od S" «ie t^enlth. those parts where the cuticle was