REPORT ON SURGERY. 240 latter being laid bare but not denuded of periosteum. The patient was discharged, cured, in eight days. The tumour was about three and a half inches in its longest diameter, and weighed between three and a half and four ounces. It was enveloped in a distinct, investing capsule, and microscopic examination showed that it was mainly composed of very perfect cartilage with a good deal of fibrous tissue intermixed. Figures of the man’s condition before and after operation, and of the tumour, ai*e given. (‘Lancet,’ July 29, 1871, 156.) In the number for August 5, 186, Mr. Bickersteth remarks on the cases of Dr. King and Dr. Watson,* and observes—“When it is rememberedthat all innocent tumours, properly so called, are enclosed in a complete and distinct invest- ing capsule, which is separated from the surrounding parts by a simple layer of condensed, cellular tissue, surrounding the capsule proper, it appears to be often unnecessary, in order to remove them, to do more than make an aperture large enough to admit of their passage exter- nally, and then they are capable of being easily shelled out, by the aid of the finger or some blunt instrument, with much better precision and much less risk, than by the most elaborately conducted dissection. This observation is specially appropriate with regard to tumours occupyingthe position we are now considering.” “ The deep and almost inaccessible position of such growths secures them from the accidental agencies liable to excite inflammation and consequent adhesions in tumours situ- ated more superficially. If it is clearly ascertained that they admit of as much movement as the confined space in which they are lodged per- mits, I believe they may generally be easily and safely removed by the method I have described, and without any external excision or any elaborate dissection.” In Oct. 1864 a woman, set. 35, was admitted suffering from great difidculty in swallowing and from occasional attacks of dyspnoea, caused by a growth of firm, fibrous consistence on the right side of the pharynx. The tumour bulged over to the left side, but did not project externally as the former one did. The tonsil was stretched over it, but could be moved on it and was not adherent to it. In every direction, except below, its limits could be defined, but it passed down- wards into the lower part of the pharynx beyond the utmost reach of the finger. The tumour had been observed for some years, but had latterly increased rapidly, and the unfortunate woman was emaciated by starvation and in imminent danger of suffocation. Incisions were made similar to those described above, the flaps separated and turned up, and the tumour seized with vulseUum forceps. By the aid of the finger the whole growth was very quickly enucleated. It proved to be of the size of a moderately sized, ripe fig and of purely fibrous struc- ture. The patient left, in ten days, cured. Removal of an exostosis from the first rib.—The patient, a female, let. 20 was under the care of Mr. Birkett. She had noticed a swelling on the side of her neck for four months. There was a hard swelling felt, deeply placed, on the left side of the neck, close to the main artery, and with the cords of nerves going to the brachial plexus Posing over it so that they could be felt rolling over the tumour. The external ju’t^ular vein coursed along the anterior margin, and the incision was ^ * See ‘ lletrospeet,’ 1869-70, 308.