REPOllT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 74 had had rheumatism, and whose grandfather had sutFered from convul- sions and paralysis. In May and September of 1868 the child had had two attacks of eclampsia. In April, 1869, there was swelling of both his leet, with fever. This was followed by choreic movement of the hands and face, and head symptoms. By the end of May the child was com- pletely well. The same attack occurred a year later, and at this time a rasping murmur was heard over the heart, disappearing soon after- wards. The patient was well again by the middle of May. The author looks upon this case as one, not of simple articular rheumatism, but of meningeal affection. Andrew (‘ Clin. Soc. Trans.,’ v. 229) gives the case of a boy, set. 16, in whom a wide daily range of temperature in rheumatism was asso- ciated with disease of the heart, vegetations on the mitral valve, and infarction of the spleen. Handfield Jones (‘Lancet,’ 1871, ii, 636) gives a summary of five cases of acute rheumatism, treated with drugs. He concludes that the affection has no fixed period of continuance, but is on the contrary subject to very considerable variations. These, he thinks, depend on the quality of the individual system, by which also the choice of remedies should be guided. He gives alkalies in cases where the urine and sweat are acid; where the pulse is small and the patient weak they are injurious ; in such cases quinine in full doses is very often of great service. Blisters, which are valuable agents in relieving pain, do not curtail the course of the disease; in some cases they add to the nervous irritabi- lity. Purgatives should always be given at the outset, and when the tongue is foul, &c. The subcutaneous injection of atropia is generally the best remedy for the pain. Foster (‘ Brit. Med. Jour.,’ 1871, ii, 722) gives an account of articular pains, resembling in all particulars those of rheumatic fever, observed in two diabetic patients, to whom lactic acid had been administered. Esmarch (‘Berl. Klin. Woch.,’ 1871, 422) employs ice continuously till all the symptoms of acute rheumatism have disappeared. He records four cases in which it was used with the very best results. He lays stress on the difference between this employment of ice and cold applications, asserting that the latter may, from the continual change of cold and warmth, make the affection worse. Both (‘ Yirch. Arch.,’ liv, 375) gives an account, with plates, of the autopsy of a pig, six months old, which eight days before death was seized with loss of appetite, and symptoms resembling those of so- called malignant erysipelas. The free edges of the tricuspid were thickened ; vegetations were present on the other three sets of valves; both hip-joints, the right knee, and left shoulder-joint had increased fluid, and thickened and hypersemic synovial membranes. He concludes from the alterations found, that this was a case of recurrent valvular endocarditis combined with recent inflammation of the joints.* Pox, “ On the Treatment of Hyperpyrexia, as illustrated in Acute Articular Eheu- luatisin by means of the External Application of Cold, London, 1871, pp* 7^'' Anderson, “Cerebral Kheuinatism” (3 cases, no marked post-mortem appearances), ‘ Hrit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871,1,529. Gillard, “The Treatment of Acute Rheumatism. * Might this not be a case of pyaemia ?—A. B. S.