REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 142 tlie disease of the aorta and the cardiac plexus, he speaks of the morbid series termed by angina, aortitis, and aortic insufficiency, and in con- clusion he holds that the hypertrophy which generally follows in- sufficiency is not to be looked on as a compensatory and helpful process, but as a complication of the worst kind, aggravating the patient’s condition. lliegel (‘ Deut. Arch.,’ viii, 129) in a case described by him, recog- nised the symptom to which Duroziez first drew attention as found in aortic insufficiency—a double sound in the femoral artery. In this case a double sound, not a blowing murmur, was audible in both femoral arteries. With Traube he thinks it is characteristic of a very advanced stage of insufficiency; at the same time an elastic state of the arterial walls, and great hypertrophy of the left ventricle, are necessary re- quisites for the production of the symptom in question. Consequently, it is better heard in young people with healthy vessels and true hypertrophy of the left ventricle, while it disappears, or is diminished, in extensive atheroma of the artery and fatty degeneration of the heart. Paul (‘Union Med.,’ xii, 716) writes a very long paper on stenosis of the pulmonary artery after birth, its symptoms and complications, and the pulmonary phthisis which frequently succeeds it. The paper is based on twenty-seven observations. He discusses the modes in which it may occur, the almost constant secondary hypertrophy of the right ventricle, the insufficiency as well as stenosis of the pulmonary valves, and the affections of other valves of the heart which may accompany it. Its characteristic symptom is a systolic, more or less rasping murmur, heard over the origin of the pulmonary artery, and in its direction. Cyanosis is not a consequence of this stenosis. Pepper, “Ulcerative Endocarditis, Embolism of Kidneys’' (man, aet. 30, no autopsy), ‘Amer. Journ. Med. Sci.,’ Ixi, 431. Padova, “ Endocardite Ateroinatosa, iusufficienza e stenosi della mitrale; essudato pleurico recidivante; access! d’asma accompaguati da furor uterino in donna di 68 anni,’’ ‘ Gaz. Med. Lomb.,’ 1872, 197. Balfour, “ Clinical Lectures on Diseases of the Heart, (i) On the Murmurs and other ])hysical signs distinctive of Mitral Stenosis,” ‘ Edin. Journ.,’ xvii, 431. Beveridge, “Case of Direct Mitral or Presystolic Murmur” (girl, a3t. 17, autopsy), ‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, ii, 353. Habershon, “ Heart Disease ” (two cases—i, man, aet. 30, with aortic insufficiency, &c.; 2, boy, aet. ii, with mitral obstruction and insufficiency, embolism), ib., 710. Hayden, “Cardiac Hypertrophy, Pericarditis, Mitral and Tri- cuspid Constriction and Inadequacy, Aortic Obstruction and Reflux ” (man, aet. 23), ib., i, 91. Sieveking, “ Case of Hypertrophy of the Heart, with Double Tricuspid (?) Murmur,” ib., 62. Allbutt, “Tricuspid Regurgitation” (man, aet. SS- autopsy), ib., 63. Fitzgerald, “Visible Pulsation of the Arteria Centralis Retinae in a Case of Incompetency of the Aortic Valves,” ib., ii, 'J2^. Johnson, “A Lecture on Disease of the Valves of the Heart,” ib., 1872, i, 34- Duckworth, “Case of Heart Disease with Loud Musical Murmur, which passed away,” ib., 1871, ii, 667. Gray, “ Endo- and Peri-carditis without Affection of the Joints, following Subacute Rheumatism, after a five weeks’ interval of obscure febrile symptoms,” ‘ Med. Times "and Gaz.,’ 1871, i, 41. Powell, “ Case of Mitral Obstructive Disease (funnel mitral) terminating fatally’ with cerebral complication; with remarks on this form of heart disease,” ib 20R Salter, “Double Aortic Murmur, Bulging of Axilla from Hypertrophous Elongation of Heart, Absence of Regurgitant Pulse,” &c., ib., 539. Loomis, “Interesting Cases of Cardiac Diseases,” ‘Nevv York Med. Rev, vi, 328 Sp^rks. “ Disease of Tricuspid and Pulmonary Artery Valves, without Affection of the Lett