BLOOD. 7 poisoning during exposure to a higti temperature and to an atmosphere containing an excess of carbonic acid ; whilst they enlarge under the influence of oxygen, and by the action of agents lowering the tempera- ture of the body, as cold, quinine, hydrocyanic acid, and alcohol. The action of quinine upon the white corpuscles ot the blood has been-studied by Geltowsky,* Kerner,t and Binz J All agree in stating that it renders them round, darkly granular, motionless, and unexcitable. Dr. A. Marcet§ maintains that blood is a colloid fluid, but that it also contains 7'3 per looo of diffusible constituents. The proportion of diffusible constituents in serum is 9'25, these quantities diffusing out in twenty-four* hours. The proportion of chlorine is remarkably uniform, being 3'06 per 1000. Blood contains phosphoric anhydride and peroxide of iron in a perfectly colloid state. SchmidtII devotes a long paper to the consideration of the cause of the coagulation of the blood. He considers that, besides the fibrino- genous and the fibrinoplastic substances, a third substance or ferment must be present; this is generated either in the white corpuscles or in the plasma, but not in the red corpuscles. Schiffer ^ demonstrates that no coagulation of blood takes place in the living vessels, even though considerable quantities of free fibrino- plastic substance be injected into them. Boll** finds that, owing to deficiency of fibrinogen, the blood of the foetal chick does not coagulate before the twelfth or fourteenth day, and then only imperfectly. Hzemoglobin can be distinguished by the spectroscope in the blood on the third day of incubation. Kleinff describes the development of the earliest blood-vessels and corpuscles. Boyd MossJJ describes a peculiar ciliated hsematozoon, which he found on several occasions in the blood of the Ceylon deer (Muntjac), and T. B. Lewis§§ describes a peculiar kind of Bilaria as being constantly present in vast numbers in the blood of patients affected with Chyluria. The views of Waller and Cohnheim respecting the origin of pus- globules from the white corpuscles of the blood have met with an opponent in Dr. Duval,|| || who, from the results of his experiments upon the cornea, has arrived at the conclusion that the pus-corpuscles appearing in severe inflammation of that membrane result from the proliferation of the''plasmatic cellules of the corneal tissue, and not from the white corpuscles. Lostorfer^[^ has published some observations on the presence of fungi * ‘ Practitioner,’ June, 1872. t ‘PHiiger’s Archiv,’ v, 27. t ‘Practitioner,’ Sept. 1872. § ‘Nature,’ May 18, 1871. II ‘ Pfliiger’s Archiv,’ vi, pts. 8 and o. IT ‘ Centralhlatt,’No. 10, 1872. ** Dubois Ileymond’s Archiv,’ 1870, 718. 1872* 4S8 ’ Vienna, 1871; and ‘ Humphry and Turner’s Journal,’ 1% ‘ Monthly Mic. Jouni.,’ 1871, vi, 181. §§ Pamphlet, 1872. nil Brovyn.Sequard’s * Archives dePhysiologie,’ 1872, 176. *Hir Strieker 8 Jahrbucher,’ 1871, 451 ; 1872, 96.