23 NEUVES. negative results, thougli when such changes were induced in the blood nassine to the respiratory centres very marked effects were observed. _ ^ Ludwig and Owsjannikoff*find that the vaso-motor centre extends in the medulla oblongata from i mm. under^ the corpora quadrigemina to 4 or 5 mm. above the calamus scriptorius and on either side ot the middle line. . . n , For a full abstract of Ludwig and Hafiz’s paper on the vaso-motor nerves of arteries distributed to muscles in ‘ Ludwig’s Arheiten,’ 1870. (See Brunton’s report in ‘Humphry and Turner’s Journal,’ 1872, p. 229.) These experimenters show that the vaso-motor nerves distributed to the arteries supplying certain muscles may have a totally distinct origin and course from the proper motor nerve of the muscle. The biceps femoris, for example, is motorially innervated from the sacral plexus, but its vaso-motor nerves are contained in the lumbar plexus and run with the crural nerve, whence they pass to the branches of the femoral artery. The vaso-motor nerves distributed to arteries supplying muscles are easily exhausted, and when such arteries are exposed to high blood pressure they contract powerfully. , i 1 The question of trophic nerves has been discussed by Schiefferdecker,t Fischer,^ Joseph,§ and Sinitzin.|| _ ^ Schiefferdecker gives the details of a series of six cases of injury of the nerves of the upper extremity. The trophic disturbances were atrophy of muscles, thickening and strong pigmentation of the skin, and augmented desquamation of the epidermis. The finger-nails becarue curved, like talons, with transverse ridges ; the arm covered with Fair, and there was an excessive secretion of sour sweat. The temperature was below the normal. He attributes some of these symptoms to lesion of certain trophic nerves, and others to disturbance in the distribution of the blood supply. Sinitzin shows that after section of the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic the conjunctiva and choroid are capable of resisting an amount of irritation to which they would other- wise speedily succumb. It is worthy of particular notice that Sinitzin found the symptoms of impaired nutrition in the eye consequent upon section of the fifth pair of nerves can be altogether abrogated by sub- sequent ablation of the superior cervical ganglion, a strong proof that such alterations and lesions of nutrition are not the direct result of the nerve injury, but depend upon impaired or modified blood supply. Brown- Sequard^ observed gangrene of the ear in rabbits after injury'of one corpus restiforme with hereditary influence on the young. He also observed pulmonary haemorrhages after injury of one side of the pons. Dr. C. Westphal corroborates M. Brown-Sequard’s statements in regard to the artificial production of epilepsy in guinea-pigs. He finds that this condition may be induced by slight blows on the head, and attributes the convulsions to slight extravasations of blood which he finds in the medulla oblongata and cervical and even dorsal portion of the spinal cord. * ‘Ber. d. Sachs. Gesell. der Wiss.,’ 1871, 135. f ‘ Berlin Klin. Wochens.,’ 1871, 160. § ‘ Centralblatt,’ 1871, 721, ^ ‘Gazette Medicale,’ 1871, pp. 14 and 24. X Idem, HS- 1 Idem,161.