CONTAGION AND INFECTION. 35 Contagion and Infection. Cliauveau (‘Compt. Eend.,’ Ixxiii, ii6; ‘ Gaz. des. Hop.,’ 1871, p. 181) had already (see last ‘Bienn. Eep.,’ p. 35) shown that the con- tagious property in poisonous fluids consists of solid particles held in suspension by them. His experiments were made in the three following sets:— 1. If a poisonous fluid capable by injection under the epidermis of pro- ducing a well-marked and circumscribed local lesion of the skin be mixed with a large quantity of water ; and if this fresh solution be employed for inoculation, the lesion is either not produced at all, or it is produced with exactly the same characters. In a certain number of inoculations, all made under exactly the same conditions, a greater or less number were unsuccessful according to the degree of dilution of the fluid. 2. The solution having been washed and filtered, and the corpuscles thus separated, inoculation with the precipitate was successful, while with the filtrate it failed; consequently, the solid particles alone, i. e. without serum, possess the property of contagion. 3. If a poisonous liquid be covered with a layer of distilled water, the substance in solution in the former is rapidly diffused. Inocula- tion with this water gives negative results. Chauveau has attempted to prove that the same holds good for air : that poisonous substances are not dissolved in it, but suspended in it in the form of small particles. The poisonous substance was put into a capsule standing on a flat disk of glass and covered with a small bell glass or cylinder. The whole was placed on a sand bath heated to 40° C. (104° F.). The evaporated fluid was condensed on the walls of the cylinder, the condensation being furthered by moistening the latter with ether. He made the experiments chiefly with variola and sheep- pox, always with the same result, that inoculation with the distilled fluid had no eff’ect. He also repeated the experiments with the poison of epizootic typhus (cattle plague?) with the same negative results, having inoculated with the water extracted from fluids supposed to he extremely virulent, e.g. the tears, the discharge from the nose, and the matters from the diarrhoea stools. In another and a very long paper (‘ Gaz. Heb.,’ 1871, viii, 638) the same writer concludes from numerous experiments that small organisms do not occur either in the blood or in the pathological products of infec- tious disease. The experiments were made with fresh lymph and the blood and pus of variola, the sheep-pox, glanders, and cattle plague. The specifac poison of an infectious disease resides in its cell-elements. In summing up the paper he lays down that— Among contagious diseases there is a large class of maladies nronerlv called parasitic, due to the presence and the multiplication of minute animals and vegetables (trichinae ; psorosperms of the silkworm, &c.). Ihese are not to be placed among the virulent or poisonous Another class is composed of the septic diseases, which ought to be looked upon as produced by the rapid multiplication in the blood ermen ing proto-organisms, by whose decomposition more or less severe poisoning is set up. ^