ULCERATION OF THE JUGULAR VEINS. 327 kett’s case of abscess of tbe neck opening the arch of the aorta. He says that erosion of the blood-vessels is by no means to be anticipated in cases of abscess, &c., of the neck, as they are strengthened by fibri- nous deposits outside, and often coagula inside. The pressure of an abscess on a vein often causes its obliteration, whereas arteries appear more disposed to ulcerate. Having met with a ease of fatal haemorrhage from perforation of the internal jugular vein, in consequence of difi'use or gangrenous cellulitis, after an attack of scarlatina, he turned his attention to the subject. He gives the details of twelve cases, from which it would appear that ulceration of the jugular veins attacks the two sexes with equal frequency, and to be eminently a lesion of early life, since lo of the 12, in which the age is noted, occurred between the second and thirteenth year, the average being the sixth year, while in the remaining 2 the patient had attained the age of maturity. The efiicient cause of the destruction of the coats of the vessels was, in 11 instances, diffuse cellulitis following their course, and that disorder must be regarded, in at least 10 of the cases, as one of the secondary expres- sions of the morbid poison of scarlet fever, developed immediately after its termination or during convalescence from it. When the cellular in- flammation has culminated in an abscess which has been opened by the surgeon, or has opened spontaneously, haemorrhage from perforation of the jugular veins may be looked for within the first week. In 2 of the cases the bleeding was immediate; in i it was deferred until the seventh day; but the average date of its appearance was the fifth day. After haemorrhage has once occurred, investigation of the cases narrated shows that a fatal result may be anticipated. In 3 instances it occurred immediately, % being found dead in their beds; i was fatal in a few hours; while in 6 other cases, in which the date is recorded, it varied from thirty hours to the fifth day after the first haemorrhage, the average being the third day, and then from repeated recurrence of the loss of blood. Three distinct pathological processes are probably included in the perforation of the vein. In i case there was probably a limited necrosis from cutting off of the vascular supply, an eschar of upwards of an inch in extent having plainly been visible before death. In another the vein gave way from the loss of the support of an abscess. In all the other cases the ulceration was due to progressive inflamma- tory changes or difi’use (suppurative) phlebitis. In only 2 was there thrombosis of the affected vessels. In one case the coagulum was of a limiting nature, in the other the thrombus had softened, and led to secondary^ obstructions and metastatic deposits. The appearance of the ulcer IS noted in ii instances. In i the external jugular vein was pertorated like a sieve, m a space three quarters of an inch in extent ” In another there were two openings in the internal jugular vein, one of about the size of a pea, and a second in the form of a slit half an inch in length. In all the othps the opening was single. In 2 it was cir- cular while in the others it was of an oblong or ovoidal form, and varied from four to twelve hues in length. In only i was there any inflam- matory appearances about the margins of the opening or of the internal coat of the vessel. In only 2 cases were the edges of the ulcer irregular or jagged. In the remainder it appeared as if the walls of the vein had