ABSORPTION. 3 Metcalfe Joliuson,* speaking of the transmutation of form in certain Protozoa, observes that if an examination be made of some of the green growths on moist surfaces we shall find one composed of a dust, to which the name of Chlorococcus has been applied; another, a green scum on the surface of a liquid, which has received the name of Euglena ; a third, forming patches of dark green slime, is called Oseillatoria ; a fourth, Lingbya; a fifth, Vaucheria; and a sixth, Schizonema. More detailed examination of these separately named products, and a study of their life history, leads to the opinion that they are all stages of de- velopment of some one common source, which he believes to be the Monad. He has himself watched and here depicts the transformation of Paramsecium into Vorticella, and of this into Gallidina elegans. The truth of the doctrine of pangenesis has been put to a practical test by Mr. P. Gralton,t by breeding from rabbits of a pure variety, into whose circulation blood taken from other varieties had previously been largely infused; the results were absolutely opposed to the idea of pangenesis, the animals continuing to maintain in their offspring the purity of the breed. Dr. Bree has published ‘ An Exposition of Fallacies in the Hypothesis of Mr. Darwin.’ Mr. Huxley,’‘A Manual of the Anatomy of Vertebrated Animals.’ Dr. Ord, ‘Hotes on Comparative Anatomy.’ ABSORPTION. In regard to absorption, H. Auspitz ^ has made many experiments on the absorption of solid substances from the serous cavities, using for this purpose starch-meal, the grains of which preliminary observations showed to be easily recognised under the microscope when injected into the blood. The grains were found to be taken up in their solid form. The presence of oil or fat greatly favoured the process of their absorption. The examination of the skin after the infricatiou of starch-meal salve showed the grains to have penetrated into the tissue of the corium, into the subcutaneous connective tissue, and into the muscles connected therewith, but not into the fundus of the sebaceous glands or of the hair-follicles. Neumann’s § researches with mercurial ointment showed, on the contrary, that when this was well rubbed into the skin it penetrated into the hair-bulbs, sebaceous follicles, and for a s ort distance, into the sweat-ducts. He believes it is absorbed from ^ f o'f time in the form of sublimate. HrSi corrosive sublimate pS of toTalf' containiog a mall pro- Genersich,|| m a paper on the absorption of lymph by tendons and lascim, shows that the action of the muscles playsVimportant pLtIn ‘Month Mic. Journ.,’ v, 222; vi, 184 ami 217, 1871. 1 recced. Iloy. Soc./ xix, 1871. ‘Wiener Med. Jalirbiicher,’ N. P., 1871 iii. ^Wiener Med. Wochens.,’ 1871. ‘Ludwig’s Arbeiten,’ 5 Jabrg, 1870.