420 REfORT ON MIDWIFERYj ETC. with a tube proceeding from it on each side, terminated by a stopcock, is filled with water and connected with the silver tubes. The cocks are then turned straight, and the operation commenced by compressing the india rubber on the efferent side and squeezing the bulb. This forces two drachms of water into the afferent vein. The afferent tube is then compressed and the bulb allowed to expand slowly, when blood will be drawn into it by the efferent vein. By repeating this process any quantity of blood can, at any rate, be transmitted. Dr. Eichardson stated at a meeting of the London Medical Society (‘ Lancet,’ Eeb. 1871) that the details of the operation of transfusion had reference to the needle, the knife, and the passage of fluid into the veins. The needle he recommended is curved, probe pointed, and with an opening in the under side at the top, curved so that when intro- duced into the vein, if the end is held down, the apex applies itself to the upper wall of the vein, whilst the under side of the needle is free and allows the blood to escape. As to the knife, it should be one to enter the vein at once, having a small blade with a cutting edge along the entire of one side, and only for about one eighth of an inch on the other. As to the passage of fluid, all syringes are bad. The mere ele- vation of the vessel containing the blood above the patient is sufficient. He uses a vessel constricted at the base and then widened out gradu- ally to the top. At the constricted part a wet valve is formed by a floating ball when the vessel contains fluid, and this fluid gets low in the vessel. At the lowest part of the vessel is an arm attached to a tube, and this tube is connected with the needle, the fluid from the vessel finding its way along the tube to the needle. Dr.r Higginson contributes a report of thirteen cases of transfusion. The average quantity of blood injected was nine ounces, the largest quantity was twenty ounces, and the smallest four ounces. No sub- stance was mixed with the blood, and it was not subjected to any mani- pulation. Ten of the cases occurred in obstetric practice, and four of these recovered. (‘Liverpool Med. Surg. Eep.,’ 1871.) A successful case of transfusion is recorded by Dr. Eingland. (‘Dub. Journ.,’ Jan. 1872.) Dupierris publishes twenty-four cases of post-partum haemorrhage treated by the injection of a solution of iodine into the uterus, all with a successful issue and no accident. (‘Bulletin de Therap.,’ 1871.) Dr. Booth also writes on injection of iodine in post-partum haemor- rhage. (‘Virginia Eecord,’Dec. 1871.) —Monteverdi records (‘Gaz. Med. de Paris,’ No. 8,1872) the results of various experiments made to determine the action of quinine on the uterus. He invariably used the sulphate, and found that this substance exercised a general tonic influence on the various organs, but especially on the uterus. About half an hour after its administra- tion it produced slight contractions of the uterus independent of pain, and these contractions became gradually of longer duration and stronger, with distinct intervals of rest, in every respect similar to the ordinary pains of parturition. These effects lasted two hours. The dose em- ployed was about twenty centigrammes. Quinine appears to him preferable to ergot of rye, since it has no injurious effect on the