REPORT ON SUROERY. 3^8 been removed by a sharp scalpel. In only 2 of the cases did tho contents of the vein communicate with a closed abscess, and blood flowed at once upon an incision being made into it. It is scarcely pos- sible to diagnose sucli a condition. In 2, however, there were sus- picious symptoms. In i there existed “ a certain tremor, which was perceptible by the hand, and noise which could be heard with the ear,” while, in the other, pulsation was very evident, and it could not be de- termined whether it was resident in the tumour or communicated to it by the carotid artery. In both cases there were no signs pointing to the presence of venous blood, but a careless examination might have given rise to the supposition of an aneurism. Introduction of air was only met with in one instance. A month before the death of the patient, while dressing her neck, there was slight bleeding, followed by a gurgling sound, &c., and alarming syncope, from which she gradually recovered under the use of stimulants. “ The practical lessons to be deduced from the study’of the facts contained in this paper are,—Tirst, that acute, destructive inflammation of the tissues of the neck and deeply seated abscess, which has existed for some time and suddenly takes on acute action, may, if unchecked in their progress, lay bare and perforate blood-vessels, and that this result is to be feared more particu- larly when diffuse cellulitis follows grave forms of scarlatina or other acute speciflc diseases. Secondly, that scrofulous abscesses and ulcers are not always indolent, but may, under favorable circumstances, that is, in an enfeebled, broken-down condition of the system, rapidly assume a phagtedenic condition, and lead to the same complication. And thirdly, that the large arterial and venous trunks are more liable to be involved than their branches.” Incisions should be made early to check the inflammation. If the surface of the sore be unhealthy, chloride of zinc in solution, &c., may be used. Poultices should be avoided. If the gangrenous action be extensive and spreading, the hot iron may be lightly applied. The general condition of the patient must be attended to. As to the treatment of the hemorrhage little can be said, as all the cases proved fatal. In all the cases in which it is possible to apply a ligature, and the disorganized condition of the parts does not contra- indicate its employment, it should be resorted to in preference to other hemostatic agents. It is perfectly safe, and is not open to the objec- tions which can be justly urged against compression.* _ In the cases detailed the latter was utterly ineflicient. If it be tried it should be in the following wayAn assistant’s finger should be placed above the wound, a small piece of sponge should be held in contact till it adheres to the orifice, and should then be supported with a compress and adhesive strips. Instead of the sponge, a piece of lint dipped in dilute solution of persulphate of iron may be employed. This will exercise a beneficial influence in checking gangrenous action and correcting the ofiensive discharge. (‘Am. Journ. Med. Sciences,’ Ainil, 1871, 337.) Intrabuccal resection of the inferior maxillary nerve.—pv. A Menzel, of Vienna, describes in the ‘ Archiv fur Klin. Chir.,’ xiii, two cases in which resection of the lower maxillary nerve was performed by him and * See ‘Retrospect,’ 1867-8, p. 283, and ‘Am. Jonru. Med. Sciences,’Jan. and April, 1867,