17 biGESTION. Brake!,* who maintains the existence of both peristaltic and ’ of anti- peristaltic movements, and states that if a loop of the intestine of a cat be pinched a wave may be followed in both directions, travelling as far as to the pylorus and to the ileo-csecal valve at the rate of an inch and a half in a second. The large intestine, the ureters, and the uterus,' exhibit similar waves. H. Sanders Ezn,f in pursuing the same inves- tigation, places the animal in water at blood heat, containing o'6 per- cent. of common salt, and opens the abdominal cavity. The intestine in his experiments was always at rest. After a little while slight wavy movements occurred; mechanical excitation had little effect. Violent movements occurred when the animal was asphyxiated, but these did not occur if the two vagi were previously divided in the neck. Excita- tion of the cut peripheric extremities induced contraction, commencing, for the most part, at the lower extremity of the duodenum and the upper end of the ileum. The right vagus induced the former, and the left the latter. Sanders Ezn observed antiperistaltic movements in one case of diarrhoea, but in all other cases the movements were peristaltic. Dr. Dalton J states that he has arrived at the following conclusions in regard to the sugar of the liver:—(i) Sugar exists in the liver, how- ever rapidly it may have been examined after removal from the body, even in the living animal. (2) The quantity present, under these cir- cumstances, is at least two and a half parts per thousand. (3) The he- patic sugar thus found does not proceed from the arterial blood circulat- ing through the organ, but is a normal product of the tissue of the liver. Gustav Strassburg § gives a modification of Pettenkofer’s test for the detection of the biliary acids in urine, which he states is extremely delicate. It consists in dipping a piece of filtering paper into the urine, to which cane sugar has previously been added, drying it, and then dropping some concentrated sulphuric acid upon it. A beautiful violet tint appears. V. Lair and Masius || apply the term sterco-bilin to a new colouring matter obtained from the feculent contents of the intestines. Its ab- sorption band is precisely limited by the lines b and E. It is soluble in water, alcohol and chloroform, insoluble in sulphuric ether. A very long paper will be found in the ‘ Comptes Eendus’ for May 29, 1871, by M. Payen, on the substances used as food during the siege of Paris. Amongst these blood in the form of blood-puddings, horseflesh, the dried albumen of eggs, and preserved fruits, occupied a prominent position. A. Gusserow ^ shows presence of urea in liquor amnii, and passage of iodine from stomach of mother into urine of foetus. Eor other papers see Leube,** "Weiss,ff Maly.J;|: * ‘Pfliiger’s Archiv,’ iv, 1871, 33. f ‘ Centralblatt,’ 1871, 479. I In a paper read before the New York Academy of Medicine, June 15, 1871. § ‘ Pfliiger’s Archiv,’ iv, 10. || ‘ Centralblatt/ 1871, 369. *# tTT 1 StofFwecbsel des Foetus,” ‘ Archiv fiir Gyutec.,’ iii, 241. Ueher die Eruahrung von Kranken dm-ch Zufuhr des Ernahrimsrs-materials ner anum. ° ^ Glycogens im Thierkorper,” ‘ Sitzuugsher. der Wien Akad. d. Wissenschaft,’ Ixiv, 1871. ‘ Umwandlung von Bilirubin in HarnfarbstofF,” ‘ Centralblatt,’ 1871, 847. 2