SYPHILIS. 65 infecting organisms. The two papers contain discussions in which Wedl, Strieker, &c., took part. The latter adds a note, in which lie says that, on sending certain test-specimens to Lostorfer, the presence or absence of syphilis was pretty generally diagnosed. Wedl, who elsewhere (‘Allg. Wien. Med. Zeit.,’ 1872, 46) makes fun of the whole subject, declares that he has for some time found the said corpuscles in healthy as well as in syphilitic blood, and looks upon them as fat-cells. Vajda (“Lostorfer ’sche Syphiliskorperchen,” ‘Wien. Med. Woch.,’ 1872, s. 172) improved on Lostorfer’s method by keeping the blood con- tinuously in a moist chamber. His observations were made on the blood of thirty-five patients. He describes the corpuscles at length, and concludes that they occur in syphilitic, leuchsemic, and carcinoma- tous blood more frequently than in healthy; that they are sometimes absent in syphilitic blood ; that they are made up of an albuminoid (s. 200), probably a compound of phloretic acid,* with some combina- tion of an amide, and that they are neither vegetable organisms nor fat-cells. Biesiadecki (“ TJeber die Lostorfer ’schen Korperchen,” ib., s. 172) comes to almost the same conclusions, and says that his colleague Stopezanski looked upon Lostorfer’s corpuscles as granules of para- globulin. Owen Bees (‘Guy’s Hosp. Eep.,’ 1872, 250) considers that the fol- lowing symptoms especially aid the diagnosis in cases of cerebral disease having a syphilitic origin, (i) The paralytic seizure is gener- ally the immediate result of some violent exertion, or of some long- continued muscular efi’ort carried on to fatigue, and the collapse is often so great as to threaten immediate dissolution. (2) The hemiplegic or paraplegic symptoms are very irregular in character; the right arm and leg may be paralysed, the latter scarcely affected, while the left leg has lost motor power; or there may be hemiplegia of one side and anaes- thesia of the other; or loss of sensation may affect only one limb, generally the arm. (3) Pain in the head and tenderness of scalp are scarcely ever wanting. (4) Aphonia has been observed in many cases in the early stage. He believes strongly that mercurial treatment is essential to the removal of the gummous deposits, and gives three cases —one with autopsy—in illustration of his view, which he states as fol- lows .—Syphilitic deposits may, like various forms of malignant disease, be present in the brain-substance, without producing symptoms, or only slightly incommoding the patient. An exciting cause may inter- vene and induce infiamination, which results in deposits made up of the ordinary components of the blood. These are easily absorbed by the iodide of potassium; the symptoms disappear and the patient is con- sidered perfectly cured. But the original syphilitic deposit still remains unabsorbed, and a recurrence is imminent, unless recourse be had to mercurial treatment, in order to effect the removal of the gummous mass. Oser ( Arch. f. Derm, und Syph.,’ iii, 27) describes three cases of extensive syphilitic ulceration of the small intestine. The first was the product of Phloritzin, a substance which occurs in the bark of the apple and other Huit trees, the composition of which is given by Strecker as ^42^24^20 -A-. 13. b. 5