491 ENTOZOA. sunk in ths ground. Ho riiisos £i novol cntorion of tlio fitnoss of rain- wator for drinking purposes. If i-s a. familiar fact tkat rain-water un* * * § dergoes a sort of fermentation, by wbicb it is freed from various organic matters, wbicb bave been washed out of tbe atmosphere. Subsecjuently various animal organisms are developed in tbe water. Dr. Prestelsays that, as long as entomostracss (cypris, cyclops, dapbnia,, &c., i. e. water- iieas, &c.) are active in tbe water, it is fitted for drinking purposes. The animals may readily be separated by a very coarse method of filtra- tion. Whenever such water becomes an unhealthy and non-potable liquid tbe above organisms perish. The author also asserts that in marshes the mortality is in inverse ratio in different years and seasons to the amount of rainfall; a diminished rainfall in one month is followed by an -increased mortality during the succeeding month, and, vice versa, an unusual rainfall during one month is followed by a diminished mortality during the next month. The saying, “More rain the less sickness,” may be accepted as an axiomatic truth. Air and rain.—Dr. Angus Smith* has published an elaborate but highly diffuse work on the above subject, and intended as the begin- ning of a chemical climatology. Its great merit consists in the large number of facts embodied in it; and Dr. Smith, from his official posi- tion as (General) Inspector of Alkali Works for the British Govern- ment, has had better means than almost any man living of getting at facts bearing upon the subject of which he treats. He shows that small differences from the mean of 2o’96—the percentage of oxygen in pure air—may make vast differences in its healthiness or unhealthiness ; and also that a moderate increase in the percentage of carbonic acid, formed at the expense of the oxygen, may have much to do with the unhealthiness of air. It must not be forgotten that when the carbonic acid is derived from the act of respiration, organic impurities are also brought into play, and these the author attempts to determine quanti- tatively by Wanklyn, Chapman, and Smith’s process of oxidation by an alkaline solution of permanganates, and estimation of the resultant ammonia—a process which has been found to be exceedingly valuable for the determination of the amount of nitrogenous organic impurity in drinking waters. Dr. Angus Smith’s work is merely tentative and of a preliminary character, so that it is rendered unsuited for .brief abstraction. No doubt he will extend his researches, and endeavour to draw some useful general conclusions from them. Alcoholism.—Several exhaustive essays upon this topic have appeared. We can merely indicate the titles of some of these :—M. Ach.- Boville,f jun., on ‘ Practical Means for Combating Drunkenness;’ Dr. Jules BergeronI on ‘ The Eepression of Alcoholism.’ Petroleum.—M. A. Chevallier§ has investigated the dangers attending the manipulation, stowage, and use of petroleum. The physiological * ‘ Air and Kain.’ London, 1872. t ‘ Ann. d.’Hyg.,’ [2] xxxvii, pp. x, 299. X Ibid., xxxviii, p. i. § Ibid., xxxviii, p. 277.