"mediastinal growths. Ill to be attacked primarily, for instance, as in children, “ tubercles be present in them while absent in the lungs. And in children - ^ ^ 1 ii 15 _• fV»oY^ m fliA Q.nnlf, in resembling hooping-cough, and dyspnoea; abnormal sensibility about the seat of the affected glands, in the interscapular or subclavicular space, with spontaneous pain there, due probably to the intercostal nerves, and consequently to be looked upon as reflex. The expectoration is little in comparison with the cough; sometimes bronchitis is a compi- cation, or even in some cases the starting-point of the adenitis. ^ He sketches at some length the plan he follows in percussing out the limits of the gland enlargement, whether in the neighbourhood of the trachea or the bronchi, and the alteration caused in the voice and the respira- tion. In addition to these signs, the character of the cough, the dyspncea, the depression above the sternum during deep inspiration, the respiratory sibilus often audible at a distance, and the attacks during which the cough and dyspnoea become more violent, all draw attention to the bronchial glands. These latter attacks, according to Eonssagrives and Eilliet and Barthez, are to be attributed to a rapid congestion or some temporary movement of the glands. As the disease advances symptoms of compression and strangulation show themselves, and death occurs either from this cause or from breaking down of the glands and their rupture into the trachea, bronchi, lung or pleura, where they sometimes set up pneumothorax, and in other cases into the oesophagus or mediastinum. He speaks shortly of the differential diagnosis from consolidation of the lung, from aneurism and other mediastinal tumours ; and as to prognosis, though he allows that the affection is almost always fatal, yet he thinks he has seen cases in which it has retrograded. He has noticed it as a complication in bronchitis, pneumonia, pleurisy, whooping-cough, measles, and typhoid fever. The paper concludes with the histories of six cases. Murchison (‘ Path. Soc. Trans.,’ xxii, 68) showed specimens of lymph- adenoma from the mediastinum aud kidneys from a woman act. 21. Bennett (ib., 70) also showed a growth of a same kind from a girl set. 17 ; and Payne and Clapton (ib., xxiii, 270) record a case of mediastinal and intra-cardiac tumour, also like lymphadenoma, but having a greater preponderance of cells (lympho-sarcoma). Clarke (‘Lancet,’ 1872, ii, 10) records the following:—A mason, set. 30, had been perfectly well up to six weeks before his admission into hospital; at that time, after lifting a heavy stone, he noticed a swelling in his neck and complained of dull aching pain down the right arm, dyspnoea, dysphagia, and partial aphonia. The chest and arms, espe- cially the right, were very oedematous, and the superficial veins were much enlarged; there was some flattening below the left clavicle; defi- cient movement and dulness of whole of left side, back and front; and on right side, below clavicle to fifth rib. The patient died of exhaustion a fortnight later. At the autopsy “ a large solid mass of a carcinomatous nature” extended over the whole of the upper part of the thorax, closely connected with the left lung and adherent to the right pleura; the left