llEPOM ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. taiued^ results of certain climates on similar cases. He then gives £t statistical account of of the above looo cases who at one time or another were submitted to the influence of warm climates for periods varying from one to eleven years. He gives a short description of the climates of difierent places, and concludes that, comparing the deaths of those who wintered abroad and those who did not do so, there was an extension of four months and a half in favour of the climate cases. Condie (‘Amer. Journ. of Med. Sci.,’ Ixii, 119) discusses the question of the contagiousness of phthisis, and gives three cases which seem to give more or less probability to this theory. The third case is that of a previously healthy man who died of consumption nineteen months after his wife had succumbed to the same disease. To the question whether it be proper for consumptives to marry, C. J. B. 'Williams (‘Brit.Med. Journ.,’ 1871, i, 164), E. Barnes (ib., 191), and H. Bennet (ib., 295), agree with "Virchow in giving a nega- tive answer. Tait (‘Dubl. Journ.,’ lii, 317) wishes to substitute the term for the muscular irritability often seen in patients suffering from chest affections, and first noticed by Graves and Stokes. These writers described the appearance, after percussion, of a number of little tumours exactly corresponding to the number and situation of the points of the fingers where they had struck the integuments of the chest. They continued visible for a few moments and then subsided, but could be again made to appear by repeating the percussion. Their appearance seemed to be due to the contraction of muscular fibres, in consequence of the irritation of the blow (factitious urticaria of Gull, &c.—JRejp.). Tait gives short notes of 117 cases in which he noticed the phenomenon, and a table of 90 other observations in which it was present. Only 26 of his 117 cases died, and he finds one comfort in the fact “that the majority of practitioners have no very accurate notion of how many cases of consumption there are which recover—get well as absolutely as do cases of measles.” (The writer gives no physical signs in the majority of the cases, and hints only slightly at the post-mortem appear- ances in two cases (53 and 55). The whole paper is most careless and dogmatic.—Bep.) Ludwig, “ Im Oberengadin entstandene todtlich verlaufene Phthisis,” ‘ Arch. d. Heilk.,’ xii, 494. Hirsch, “ Beitrag zur Casuistik der galoppirenden Luugenschwiud- sucht (kasige Pneumonie),” ‘ Berl. Klin. Woch.,’ 187^, J98. Pilz, “Ein Fall vou chronischer Pneumonie mit Gehirntuberculose und Ektasie der Speiserohre,” ‘Jahrb. f. Kinderheilk.,’ iv, 433. Van der Corput, “ Nouveau mode de Traitement de la Phthisie au moyen de i’huile de Foie de Morue saponlfiee par la Cbaux,” ‘ Bull. Gen. de Therap.,’ 80, 205. Perroud, “ De quelques Phenomenes uerveux survenant dans lo cours de la Phthisie Pulmonaire,” ‘ Lyon Med.,’ ix, 6. Mayet, “ Inflammation des Follicules clos de I’lntestin dans la Phthisie,’ ib., 33. Boudant, “ De la Phthisie aux eaux de Mont-Dore,” ib., vii, 439. Tyson, “ Cirrhosis and complete Atrophy of the Left Lung, Cheesy Deposit with Miliary Tubercle throughout the Eight Lung” (man, mt. 26), ‘Amer. Journ. Med. Sci.,’ Ixi, 163. Id., (i) “Phthisis, Cavity at Apex k each Lung, disseminated Miliary Tubercle and Cheesy Deposit” (boy, ost. 19); (2) “Phthisis, Cavities, Cheesy Deposit only” (girl, ast. 25), ib., 429. Hutchinson, “Phthisis diagnosticated by aid of the Microscopic E.xamination of the Sputa” (boy, set. 19, with autopsy), ib., 153. Condie, “Tubercular Pneumonia,” ib., 365- “ Hconioptysis iu Coiisumptive Patients/^ ib., Ixiii, 97* Hectic Fevei, ib.,