63 VARIOLA AND VARICELLA. arm (the triangle of the upper arm). He answers generally in the affirma- tive tlie question whether this eruption is entirely pathognomonic of a coming variola; but he gives two cases in which, though it was present, the latter affection did not occur, and these he looks upon as eases of variola sine variolis. As to its nature, he places the exanthem in the same category as other vasomotor neuroses of the prodromal stage. G-ubler and Laborde (‘Gaz. des. Hop.,’ 1871, 529) describe some of the nervine symptoms of variola. Frequently there was paralysis of motion and sensation jn the lower extremities ; paralysis of the bladder ’ at the commencement and end of the affection, sometimes with cystalgia. In two cases there was aphasia in a young woman at the beginning of a slight attack, and in a soldier on the second day of the eruption. Both cases recovered, in both the movements of the tongue were unaffected, the intelligence was perfect, and the patients referred to the throat, which was not abnormally affected, as the cause of the aphasia. Cartaz (‘ Lyon Med.,’ viii, 200) gives the results of an examination of the brain in 106 cases of smallpox, of which 49 were varioloid, and 13 hgemorrhagic. Of the other 44 albumen was present in one out of 12 men, and in six out of 32 women. It was present in all the haemorrhagic cases. He holds that the albuminuria occurs in the con- valescing stage of smallpox, and in the majority of cases lasts only a few days. Eommelaere (‘ Bull, de I’Acad. de Med. de Belg.,’ v. 214) writes on the relation between variola and varicella. According to him the poison of variola exhibits itself in three different clinical types—variola, varioloid, and varicella; persons exposed to the contagion of varicella may take variola; and he advises that on an outbreak of varicella recourse should be had to the precautions employed against variola (re-vaccination, isolation, &c.). He enters into the pathological changes found in smallpox. In the cases examined by him there were pustules on the respiratory tract, the vocal cords, near the pylorus, and in the large intestine; enlargement of the solitary glands, spleen and mesen- teric glands, and Beyer’s patches ; extravasation in the liver, kidneys, ovaries, bladder and pericardium, &c.; fatty degeneration of the liver and of the heart muscle. Vulpian (‘ Bull, de I’Acad. de Med.,’ xxxvi, 912) discusses the mode of formation and structure of the pustules in smallpox. Weigert (‘ Centralbl.,’ 1871, 108) has found bacteria in the skin of several patients suffering from smallpox. Wyss (‘ Arch. f. Derm.,’ iii, 529) has studied fully the anatomy of the extravasations in haemorrhagic smallpox, and purpura variolosa (haemorrhagic smallpox without pustules). The hair and sweat glands seem to be unaffected in both diseases. In the early stages of smallpox he finds that the papules are formed not only by distension of the cells of the epidermis, but also by oedema of the papillae. According to Iluchard (Arch. Glen, de Med.,’ xvii, 348), death in smallpox is due either to septicaemia or asphyxia. In the latter case the pustules may be found extending from the pharynx aud larynx, throughout the respiratory tract, as far as the finest bronchi. Eevillout (‘ Gaz. des Hop.,’ 1871, 274) prevents the occurrence of