391 PERI-UTERINE CONDITIONS. oviriotomy It is claimed that this instrument has the following aStaS'over those at present in use:-thatthe penetrating edge Ss a^d Les not tear, miking a wound which the tube completely Ss and it is easily retracted. The cutting point may be used as a knife to slit open smaller cysts contained in the major one, and of which the contents may be so viscid as to be unable to pass along any trochar. The catches adapted to the trochar are such as to obviate any possibility of its slipping. (‘Med. Times Gaz.,’Dec. 1872.) ^ Dr Goddard relates (‘Obst. Trans.,’ 1871) a case of ovariotomy performed by Mr. Wells at the third month of pregnancy. Recovery. Labour at term. Living child. Mr. Wells has performed ovariotomy in four cases during pregnancy, each time with a successful result. Barker performed ovariotomy successfully in the case of a girl set. six years and eight months. The tumour was tapped and easily ex- tracted. Besides the fluid contents it contained the elements usually found in a dermoid cyst. (‘Philad. Med. Times, 1871.) Mr. Spencer Wells relates (‘Med. Times Gaz.,’ Jan, 1872) three cases of suppurating ovarian cysts with a high temperature, which were successfully operated upon, the temperature falling quickly after the removal of the ofiending cyst. Peri-uterine conditions, ^c. Dr. Meadows writes on pelvic hsematocele, especially on its diagnosis and treatment. He relates two cases in which he punctured the tumour; and believes from his own experience and from an analysis of Bernutz’ cases that puncturing should be more frequently practised, that this is generally best done by the rectum, but that as a rule it should not be undertaken during the flrst _ month after the effusion has taken place. An interesting discussion followed the reading of this paper. (‘ Obst. Trans.,’ 1871.) Dr. Snow Beck, writing on the source of the hemorrhage in pelvic hematoma, believes it to be highly improbable that the blood ever regurgitates from the uterus through the Fallopian tube, as the con- sequence of some disorder of the menstrual function. There is no post-mortem evidence that this occurs except where there is permanent obstruction to the outward flow of the catamenia and consequent dilatation of the uterus. (‘ Obst. Trans.,’ 1872.) Delpech records (‘ Gaz. des Hop.,’ Sep. 1871) a case of phlegmon of the broad ligament, proceeding to suppuration, and causing death by bursting into the peritoneal cavity. The patient was forty years old, never married, and the cause of the phlegmon appeared obscure. The pain flrst came on suddenly, eight days after the cessation of menstruation. Dr, Hart narrates (‘Amer. Jour, of Obstetrics,’ 1871) an interesting case of hydrocele of the round ligament, which at flrst was mistaken for a strangulated hernia. The tumour was larger than a hen’s egg, flattened, situated above Poupart’s ligament, in the direction of the inguinal canal. When exposed, an exploring needle was introduced,