MERCUEIAL INJECTIONS IN SYPHILIS. 309 used subcutaneous injections in more than aoo cases of syphilis in hospital and in private practice, and has twice only met with abscess as a result. The patients were of both sexes, of various ages and con- stitutions, and affected with syphilis in very various stages. Some patients had as many as thirty injections j usually one daily, sometimes one every second or third day. The parts chosen for injection were generally the trunk, sometimes the arms, care being taken to avoid parts that were liable to be lain upon, or to be subjected to movement or pressure. The process of injection was performed with great care, and the patients were required to protect the parts well and keep’ them at rest. The solution used in almost all the cases was that re- commended by Lewin—four grains of bichloride of mercury in an ounce of distilled water. If patients are allowed to go heedlessly to their ordinary occupations immediately, or two or three hours after the injection, the occurrence of inflammation and abscess must be a'scribed to this and not to the operation. The pain attending injection in Sigmund’s cases varied much, but was usually very slight and of short duration; in most cases, it was at once allayed by cold applications. In a few cases, the pain was severe and lasted for some time, no matter at what part or with how much gentleness the injection was made. Patients in whom this occurs are not ht subjects for subcutaneous injection; in them even the addition o± hydrochlorate of morphia to the solution does not prevent the occur rence of the pain. _ The details and difficulties of the operation are scarcely worth con- sideration. Good instruments pe easily procured, and can be easily kept in good order. The operation is not a difficult one, and even if it rZfCIToiitl if Stomatitis and ptyalism occur frequently if the patients do not cleanse Sigmundhas\ery seldormet S even slight affections of the gums in his patients, but he uses pronhv- ctic measures. He has never met with disturbance of the cir^ulatio^n and respiration or any other general disorders of any iZortaC attributable to the mercury. The methodically continued use of all heart™ acSor?^m^^^ ^ moderate increase of the earts action and of the temperature: gastric disturbances oftpn tinn^nf^fL attributed generally rather to the dietetic condi- of the patient than to the treatment. The secretions nf fLo i • and Mneys are but rarely disturbed in caaes wb“st be It would be Luo sMe t„ r° ^^ treatment of syphilis, intervals manifests itself' so ?erbrti:fitL“Lst^^^^^^^ SJ^^pS^e^