139 DISEASES OF MYOCAUDIUM; ETC. to be a pinkish-white tumour, fully the size of ben s egg, lying between the muscular layers of the septum, which it had dissected from one another from base to apex. This distension had given rise to the thin and tendinous appearance of the heart-walls when seen from the outside. Wagstaffe discusses shortly the structure of this tumour, and remarks on the rarity of simple tumours of the heart. Payne (ib., 125) gives the autopsy of a woman, let. 41, who presented during life the signs of malignant disease of the liver. Within the right auricle, in tlie corner of the appendage, was a small nodule of new growth the size of a pea, projecting into the cavity among the trabeculie ; a similar nodule was found in the apex of the left ventricle. These masses were of a whitish colour, and on microscopical examination presented very definite cancerous structures. Inside the iliac veins, just at their junction, but more in the left than in the right, was a mass resembling a blood-clot, but of a peculiar pinkish colour and spongy texture. Sections of pieces hardened in chromic acid showed a network of organized tissues enclosing areas of red blood-corpuscles. There were further considerable masses of undoubtedly cancerous growth in various organs, especially the liver, in the lymphatic glands, and the lumbar vertebra. The author remarks on the rarity of cancer of the heart, and holds that in this case it cannot be clearly decided that there was any mechanical transference of the disease from the veins to the heart. Goodfellow (ib., xxiii, 53) publishes the case of a man, let. 48, who for some months before death had suffered from palpitation, dyspnoea, and pain in the cardiac region, which gradually increased in severity. There were symptoms of valvular affection produced, as was found after death, by vegetations on the aortic valves, and ulceration of the one corresponding to the anterior fiap of the mitral. Between them was an aneurismal sac, of a conical form, passing upwards between the posterior wall of the aorta and the left auricle, which it compressed; it then curved forwards, and terminated in a rounded end projecting into the pericardium. Its walls at this part were as thin as tissue-paper, quite transparent, and evidently on the point of giving way. Murchison (ib., 54) gives a case of aneurism of the left ventricle in a woman, set. 63, the subject of contracted kidneys. At the inner edge of the mitral valve, and slightly behind the posterior flap, was a pouch in the muscular wall, which would have admitted a cherry ; at the bottom of this was a rounded opening, the size of a pea, which led into a sac as large as a small orange situated in the posterior wall of the left ven- tricle, and in the intraventricular septum. It protruded slightly into the right ventricle. At its upper and back part the walls were formed by thickened pericardium. Townsend (ib., 96) describes an aneurism of the left ventricle in a healthy man, 83t. 42, who died from the effects of an accident. Here there was at the apex of the ventricle a bony tumour very much resembling, both in appearance and size, the half of a hen’s egg. In sawing through it a cavity was found opening by a small circular orifice into the left ventricle, and containing blood. Crisp (ib., 87) records the occurrence of three abscesses in the left