454 REPORT ON MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE. sonous qualities of the edible mussel (^Mytilus edulis) to their feeding on the spawn ot star fishes. Star fishes spawn in the months of April, May, July, and August, and it is chiefly in these months that mussels exhibit poisonous properties. He states that the spawn of the star-fish possesses a very irritant action, and that the slightest contact with it causes violent itching, and may even occasion inflammation resulting in gangrene. The following notes relate to the detection of poisons. Phosphorus.—M. Poulet* gives a very simple method of detecting this poison when being excreted in the urine, in which it appears as hypophosphorous acid. The urine is calcined after the addition of nitric acid; when, as the liquid approaches the state of dryness, the mixture suddenly catches fire and burns with a peculiar kind of deflagration. This test must, however, be liable to many fallacies; deflagration alone in the presence of nitric acid cannot be regarded as conclusive evidence of the presence of a lower oxide of phosphorus. Dalmonf describes a new reaction for phosphorus. A stream of hydrogen is passed through the organic substance supposed to contain phosphorus; and the issuing gas is ignited, and a narrow glass tube inverted over the flame when detonations, accompanied by a peculiar luminous appearance, will be observed. With care, and by a peculiar artifice, a beautiful green ring of flame may be obtained. If the inte- rior of the tube be previously moistened with distilled water, and after the above experiment with a solution of nitrate of silver, a brown preci- pitate, speedily becoming black, wiU be observed. No platinum tip for burning the gas is required. Neubauerf also describes an improved and simple method of obtaining Mitscherlich’s phosphorus reaction. The matter to be tested is distilled in an ordinary flask provided with a cork, through which passes a glass tube bent twice at right angles, the terminal and vertical limb of which has three glass bulbs blown upon it. _ Before dis- tillation, the substance to be tested is treated with a few drops of diluted sulphuric acid and a fragment of green vitriol, in order to retain sulphur, which hinders the reaction. A finery stream is seen descending through the bulbs if phosphorus in the free state be present. The end of the tube may be made to dip into alcohol, which retains a consider- able quantity of phosphorus, and if a few drops of the alcoholic solution of phosj)horus be dropped into water, and shaken in the dark in a bottle, the whole appears luminous. Moreover, the alcoholic solution reduces a solution of nitrate of silver, giving a black precipitate, and a similar reaction occurs with sulphate of copper as a reagent, but the liquid does not blacken lead salts as sulphuretted hydrogen does. Kydrocyanic acid.—Almen § points out an error in the ordinary mpthod of applying the sulphocyanogen test for the detection of hydro- cyanic acid. When the suspected solution, or rather a portion distilled off from it, is treated with ammonium sulphide and evaporated on a * ‘ Gaz. Med. de Paris,’ 1872, p. 400. f ‘Ztschr. f. Anal. Chem.,’ 1871, p. 132. J Ibid., p. 254. § ‘ Neu. Jalirb. d. Pharm.,’ xxxi, p, 22O.