492 REPORT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. wj ?• petroleum are a peculiar action on the brain and portions of the oil, known as petroleum ether or benzoline, may be used as an anaesthetic. It is known that workmen who are engaged in petroleum warehouses suffer severely from inhala- Bntozoa in relation to public health and the sewage guestion.~Dv Spencer Cobbold* is of opinion that the utilization of sewacre for the purposes of irrigation greatly contributes to the diffusion and growth of parasites in man and the domestic animals. He mentions facts which seem to render this not merely a hypothesis; the common occurrence of entozoa, the difficulty of diagnosing the diseases caused by them and the enormous number of ova which they produce. Parasites once intro- duced into a locality can by means of sewage irrigation become ende- mic. In regard to the enormous reproductive powers of entozoa he mentions the case of a girl under treatment for bilharzia hmma- tobium, whose urine daily contained so many as 10,000 ova of this parasite. Disinfection.—Prof. Hoppe-Seylerf has made a valuable contribution to our knowledge of putrefactive and fermentative processes, and he has also investigated the influence which several reputed disinfectants exert upon these processes. Our review will embrace this latter portion of the subject only. After reference to Pettenkofer’s well-known views as to cholera- germs, the author asserts that, although deodorants, as, e. q. sulphate of ipn, destroy the ill-smelling products of fermentation and putre- faction, it must not be supposed that the infective materials of such diseases as cholera and typhus are thereby necessarily destroyed, and that in carrying out disinfection we must not rest contented with merely destroying bad smells. 'He is of opinion that metallic salts act as disinfectants chiefly by precipitating ferments, and along with these the lower organisms also. He has proved that i-20th of green vitriol suffices to prevent all development of infusorial life in a solution; but it is questionable whether the ferment and the organisms are re- spectively so changed and destroyed as to be incapable of showing their activity renewed under altered conditions. As regards carbolic acid, Hoppe-Seyler finds that the destruction of the lower organisms is admirably achieved by the use of a very small quantity of this agent, but that the prevention of fermentation demands the employment of a much larger amount of it. One per cent, of carbolic acid will effectually put an end to organic life, but two per cent, is required to prevent putrefactive changes. Sulphurous acid gas appears to the author to be the most eff'ective agent for destroying germs in the air. Rather less than —3 ounces of sulphur burnt in each 100 cubic feet of the space to be dis- infected entirely prevents the growth of fungi. These quantities of sulphur give one and two volumes per cent, respectively of sulphurous acid gas. * ‘ Med. Times and Gazette,' 1871, i, pp. 93, 315, 236, 363. t ‘Medizin.-Chem. Untersuch.,' 1871, p. 561.