rLEUEISY^ ETC, lU after Its exit, it may be pretty certainly assumed that the effusion will not reoccur, or if it does reoccur will do so in so small a quantity as to be soon reabsorbed. Bebier gives a lecture (‘Graz, des Hop.,’ 1871, 349) on a case of pleuritic effusion on the left side, in a man, mt. 26. His views are nearly the same as Paul’s. The dangers caused by the effusion he considers to be displacement of the heart, and the hindrance thus placed in the way of its functions, the slow asq)hyxia resulting from com- pression of the lung, the long-continued fever and suppuration, with its tendency to tuberculosis, and the deformity caused in the thoracic walls. ^ He also discusses the objections brought against the operation, and gives the following as indications for it. It is necessary in cases where the effusion does not yield to ordinary remedies, and where it increases; when the patient is too feeble to wait for any length of time the absorption of the fluid; when the opposite lung is attached with bronchitis or any other affection preventing its full and normal working, and when there is any reason to suppose a tendency to tuber- culosis. As regards the period at which the operation should be per- formed, jt is ordinarily the ninth or eleventh day of the affection • in general it may be delayed until symptoms of inflammation have snb- sided. An exception is to be made in cases of necessity, when it should be performed on the fourth day of the effusion. Bouchut (ib.,503) describes the different modes of operating incases ot pleuritic effusion, from the earliest times. He himself prefers Dieulafoy’s aspirator. Evans (‘ St. Thom, Hosp. Eep.,’ ii, 69) reviews the literature of paracentesis thoracis, and gives tables of cases observed by diflerent by hmself He insists upon an early evacuation of the eftused fluid, and inclines to the view that the sudden death by no means_ uncommon in cases of pleuritic eflusion, is due to coagulation of blood m the pulmonary artery. 01 Various pap^s discussing the propriety of tapping in pleurisy and empyema by Mler Priestley, tofglas PowelCanf be loend in the first volume of the ‘ Brit. Med. Journ.’ for i8,r The »f ttis subject are auffloient proof of the interest taken by Ereiich writers in paracentesis ^ cffSTon'en ttekKdf™^ of pleuritic imrformed The patient die3 ion, and the autopsy revealed a large “ abscess” in thp Ipff 1 ^i • i M' 1 T\/r^j les Epanchements dela Ple'vre ” ‘Epp flp the right extremities ^Thnr-in f 8