02 ItEPOUT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. between general and partial ncute idiopathic cerebritis. He considers the diaposis ot the disease not difficult. It ditters from the apoplectic lorm ot sottenmg, in the absence of aphasia and paralysis, as well as other general teatures of progress ; from the convulsive form, in the absence ot epileptiform attacks at the beginning, and the greater con- stancy and duration of the convulsions when they do occur; from the delirious form, by the mode of invasion which is never by delirium, and by the less marked character of this svmptom throughout. Fleischraann (‘ Wien. Med. Woch./ 1871, No. 6, &c.) records a case of cerebral tubercle in a boy let. 2 years. The tubercle liad commenced in the left thalamus, as a hard, rough, cheesy mass, which extended into the left cerebral crus ; here it had completely destroyed the fibres of the inner surface. The symptoms were exactly those described by Afanasielf (ibid., 1870, No. 9) in section of one cerebral crus. Thev were partial paralysis of the left oculo-motor nerve ; dilatation of the pupd, which was unaffected by light; paralysis of some of the facial muscles of the trunk and extremities of the right side; tremor of the right hand ; increased cutaneous sensibility of the right side, with the exception of the head ; ophthalmia ; hypermmia of the retina, choroid, and optic disc of the left eye; incapacity of retaining stools or urine; abnormal fluctuations in temperature. Cordier (‘ Lyon Med.,’ viii, 583) records the case of a boy of 12, suffering from caries of the ribs and empyema, in whom three quarters of the left cerebellar lobe had been destroyed by a “ tuberculous ” {i. e. “ scrofulous,”—liep.) tumour, without giving rise to any symptoms. Hughlings Jackson (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, ii, 328) publishes a case of tumour of the middle lobe of the cerebellum iu a boy set. 5. The tumour was a “ tuberculous” one, of the size of a billiard ball. The diagnosis was grounded on (i) the enlargement of the head, with- out any evidence of rickets ; (2) blindness (double optic neuritis) ; and (3) a reeling gait. Perhaps ot the three the last was of most value, though by itself it would only point to a tumour under the tentorium. Prom time to time the boy had convulsive seizures of a tonic character, during which he was conscious. Broadbent (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1872, i, 476, 622) related to the Clinical Society the history of two cases, in one of which there were two tumours just beneath the floor of the fourth ventricle, near the median line—one in the lower half of the pons, the other near the lower end of the ventricle. The patient was a man set. 46, whose symptoms during life were slight weakness of the right limbs, marked paralysis of the left side of the face, not involving the orbicularis oculi; lateral deviation of both eyes to the right, with double loss ef vision; loss of sensation over the area of the right trigeminus; difficulty of deglutition and indistinct articulation. In the second case, a man set. 6^, gliomatous tumours were found in the occipital lobe, and iu the posterior ascending parietal convolution of the right hemisphere. He had convulsion and paralysis of the left half of the body. Hutchinson (ibid., 185) writes on a case of supposed cerebral tumour in a man set. 27, alive at the time of writing.