affections of the intestines. 157 tion of the nervous centres. Women who suffer during menstrual neriods, and those who are victims to membranous dysmenorrhoea, are neculiarly prone to it. It is often met with m women who are either childless, or have ceased early in their married^ life to hear children. The most common existing cause of the malady is the irritation ot the intestinal canal, produced by crude and indigestible articles ot diet The writer discusses at further length the symptoms and the treatment of “ mucous disease.” McSwiney (‘ Dub. Journ.,’ li, 396) writes on diarrhoea, with green stools, in infants. As to their nature and constitution he leaves them still unexplained. He thinks there may be a “congenital functional digestive weakness,” by which a true gastro-intestinal catarrh would he caused, followed by acid fermentation, and the action of the acids so produced perhaps on the bili-verdin. Eosse (‘ New York Med. Eec.,’ vi, 332) has found the best results from the treatment of cholera infantum with bromide of potassium. The medicine was usually prepared by mixing from twenty to forty grains of the bromide with two ounces of mucilage of acacia; the dose was from ten drops to a teaspoonful according to circumstances. Occa- sionally a drachm of krameria was added to the mixture.^ The food given was the expressed juice of fresh beef, seasoned with cayenne pepper. The ‘ Bulletin de I’Acad. de Med.’ (xxxvi, 322), contains a discus- sion on gastro-intestinal puncture in tympanites, opened by Bouley who affirmed the harmlessness of the operation as practised by veterinary surgeons on animals. Depaul, Piorry, Barth, and others, give their experience of the operation as performed on the human subject, and generally speak well of its results. Beach (‘New York Med. Journ.,’ xiv, 397) records a case of fatal peritonitis in a woman, set. 32. The autopsy showed general perito- nitis, the appendix vermiformis was greenish-black, and contained a hard ovoid mass made up of oat-hulks; between the external surfaces of the head of the ascending colon, the ileum and the appendix was an abcess tying together these parts of the intestine. Murchison (‘ Path. Soc. Trans.,’ xxii, 146) gives a case of the same kind in a girl, set. 18, in whose appendix vermiformis were found three small concretions, the largest about the size of a pea. She died of acute peritonitis due to ulceration and perforation of the appendix. Fonssagrives, “ De la Ponction dans la Pneumatose Gastro-intestinale et Perito- neale,” ‘Lyon Med.,’ viii, 155. Piorry, “Memoire relatif; soit aux Collections de Gaz contenus dans les Cavites Abdominales j Qazo-gastrasie, Qazo-enierasie, &azo- peritonasie {asie, abreviation d.’ectasie), varietes de la Tympanite des auteurs, soit a la Ponction de ventre, pratiquee dans I’intention d’evacuer des Fluids Elastiques,” ‘ Bull, de I’Acad. de Med.,’ xxvi, 943. Watben, “ On Punctures of the Colon for the relief of Tympanites,” ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, ii, 464. Braxton Hicks, “Abdomiual Puncture in Tympanites,” ib., 526. Brown, on same, ib., ib. Saunders, “Puncture of the Intes- tine for the relief of Tympanites,” ib., 583 (and see Hooke and Wilks on the same ®'ffij®ct, ib., 584)' Chauffard, “Ulcere simple du Duodenum; perforation; peritonite generalisee; mort,” ‘ Gaz. des H6p.,’ 1871, 373* Barclay, “A Case of Perforating Ulcer of the Duodenum ” (man, ajt. 56), ‘Lancet,’ 1871, i, 377. Wadham, “A Case of Perforating Ulcer of the Duodenum” (man, mt. 51), ib., 230. Kogers, “ Perforating Ulcer of the Duodenum” (man, rot. 56), ib., ii, 159, Tyson, “Ulcerative Disease of