i ‘Edin. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, ii, p. 39, TUEPENTINE. 461^ amyl produces is cliiefly due to dilation of the capillaries, but considers tnat the power of the heart is also lessened by the action of the drug on its muscular substance. When directly applied to nerves, muscles, or the heart, it lessens their irritability, without causing any temporary- increase at first. It hinders oxidation both within and without the body, and diminishes the temperature and excretion of carbonic acid. When the spinal cord of animals is divided, and they are laid in a warm place, their temperature rises much, and they rapidly decompose. Both of these effects are prevented by nitrite of amyl. He confirms Brunton’s statements regarding its beneficial effects in angina pectoris, and recommends it in synocha and tetanus. Talfourd Jones* gives cases of benefit from the use of this remedy in spasmodic asthma, epilepsy, laryngismus stridulus, colic, and hemi- crania. He recommends it in colic and cholera. Goodhartf noticed a fall of temperature from its inhalation. Lauder BruntonJ mentions that nitrite of amyl was tried in cholera by Hayden and Cruise without effect. He discusses the symptoms and pathology of cholera, and ascribes the difficulty in breathing to con- traction of the pulmonary vessels and obstruction to the flow of blood through the lungs. He shows by experiment that nitrite of amyl dilates the pulmonary as well as the systemic vessels. The fact that it does not lessen the difficulty in breathing, although’ it possesses this power, is explained by its forming a compound with the hsemoglobin of the blood and preventing oxidation, as shown by Glamgee. He, there- fore, recommends it to be given by the mouth, or subcutaneously if used in cholera. Benzine.—This liquid has been found§ useful in allaying the paroxysms of hooping-cough, in doses of 10—20 drops suspended in syrup or mucilage ; or the vapour of benzine may be inhaled. Tar.—Magnes-Lahens|| recommends a convenient method of adminis- tering this substance. The tar is triturated with charcoal till the mass no longer soils the hand, and has a granular aspect similar to gun- powder. The powder can then be administered in various ways—in- haled, smoked, taken into the stomach in various menstrua, &c. Turpentine.—WixTouvton Begbie^ considers that turpentine is ab- sorbed by the skin when applied externally, and eliminated by it to some extent when administered internally. He regards the occurrence of a smell of violets in the urine as indicating to a certain extent a healthy condition of the kidneys. The external application of turpen- tine is not absolutely counter-indicated by renal disease, as the drug is eliminated to_a great extent by the lungs and intestines. The author recommends it as the most trustworthy remedy in purpura hcsmor- rhagica associated with hiematuria. In asthenic typhus with subsultus stupor, or delirium, and in puerperal fever, he has found it efficacious! In doses of 10 30 drops, thrice a day, it is of great service in sciatica, * ‘ Practitioner,’October, 1871,0.213. t Ibid., p. 12. j ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1872, p. 42. § ‘ Aim. de Thm-ap.,’ 1870-71, p. 74. II ‘Bull de Therap., Ixxx, 1871, p. 213, 31?.