306 REPORT ON SURGEEt. the abdomen and closed the wound. The patient made a rapid recovery. Kgures of the forceps are given. (‘ Lancet,’ Jan. 28, 1871, 108.) Dr. Beebe records cases in which he severed the pedicle gradually, and twisted each vessel as it bled, afterwards returning the stump into the abdomen, and closing the wound carefully. Five cases in succes- sion treated in this way recovered. Also another in which he applied a single catgut ligature to the pedicle, and returned the stump, after cutting away the tumour, within the abdomen. (‘ Am. Journ. Med, Sciences,’ April, 1871, 353.) See also Dr. Nott’s rectilinear 6craseur. Gcesarean section.—Dr. Philip Foster records a case in which he performed Csesarean section successfully, as far as the mother was concerned. (‘Lancet,’ June i, 1872, 753.) Dr. Harris has collected cases of Caesarean section performed in the United States, and tabulated them. They are seventeen in number. Twelve of the women recovered, and fourteen of the children were saved. The operations “ were performed during or at the close of the first day of labonr, showing the value of timely surgical interference. In all of the cases but one the child was removed alive.” (‘ Am. Journ. Med. Sci.,’ July, 1872, 290, from ‘Am. Journ. Obstet.’) Vaccino-syphilis.—A case was brought before the Clinical Society by Mr. Thomas Smith (‘Trans.,’ iv, 53). Subsequently two series of cases were brought before the Medico-Chirurgical Society by Mr. Hutchin- son, and were reported on by a Committee. First series, synopsis:— Twelve persons, mostly young adults, vaccinated from a healthy-looking child. Satisfactory progress of the vaccination in all. Indurated chancres on the arms of ten of the vaccinated in the eighth week. Treatment by mercury in aU, Eapid disappearance of the primary sores. Constitutional symptoms in four of the patients five months after the vaccination. The vaccinifer showing condylomata at the age of six months. Second series, synopsis:—Unquestionable symptoms ot constitutional syphilis in nine children who had been vaccinated from the same patient. Suspicious symptoms in six others, and entire escape of a certain number. Vaccinifer a fine healthy-looking child, but with slight, local symptoms, indicative of inherited syphilis. (‘ Med.- Chir. Trans.,’ liv, 317.) Reinfection toith constitutional syphilis.—B.. Kobner, in the ‘ Berliner Klin. Wochenschr.,’ Ho. 46, 1872, remarks that Eicord had asserted that syphilis can be contracted once only during life; a new infection cannot take place. This doctrine has been generally accepted, espe- cially by the dualists; but Kobner calls it in question. He relates a number of cases of repeated infection which he has observed, among which is the following:—A man, set. 40, had, in May, 1866, a sore on the penis, roseola, and sore throat, for which he was treated with mer- cury ; in November, 1868, he had syphilitic sarcocele on the right side, and a node on the manubrium sterni. He was now treated by Kobner with iodide of potassium and mercurial ointment to the scrotum, and at the end of the year was able to resume his work. During the next two years he suffered occasionally from pains in the limbs and sternum, for the relief of which he took iodide of potassium, but did not seek medical