232 REPORT ON SURGERY. was described by M. Dieulafoy, at a meeting of tbe Academy of Medicine in Paris, on April 19, 1870. (“De I’aspiration pneumatique sous- cutanee,mctbode de diagnostic et de traitement,par le Dr. Georges Dieu- lafoy.”) Claims of priority were made by MM. Langier and Jules Guerin, tbe latter stating that he had had an instrument made on the same principle thirty years ago. The aspirator may be described, shortly, as consisting of a syringe with an air-tight piston, capable of creating a vacuum, and a series of fine, hollow needles (or a trocar and canula) fitting on to the syringe. The latter is provided with an outlet as well as an inlet, each having a stop-cock. The syringe is exhausted by drawing up the piston while the taps are turned to prevent entrance of air. A needle is selected, or a trocar and canula, attached to the syringe, and thrust a short distance into the cavity to be emptied. The stop-cock is turned on, and the fluid rushes into the vacuum in the syringe, without the possibility ot air entering the cavity tapped. If preferred, the syringe need not be ex- hausted till the needle is thrust in, and thus the traction force can be regulated. When the syringe is full the inlet tap is shut, the other opened, and the piston forced down. The fluid is conveyed by a tube into a con- venient receptacle. Messrs. Khrone and Sesemann supply a form of apparatus more convenient in some respects. It consists of a large, glass iar, in the top of which is inserted a syringe and a tube. The syringe is. used to exhaust the glass jar. To the tube is attached a convenient length of india-rubber tubing, to the end of which the needle or trocar and canula can be attached. This apparatus is easier to work if there is a large quantity of fluid to be removed. Considerable force is required to draw up the piston of the ordinary syringe, and is tiring after a time. Dr. Anton Lohmayer, of Esseg, a former assistant ot Billroth, gives, in the ‘Wiener Med. Woch.,’ August j and 12, 1871, notes ot 14 cases in which he used the aspirator; cold abscesses, hydrops genu., tumor albus genu., &c. This paper contains an interesting^ historical summary of attempts made in the same direction as that of Dieulatoy. Mr. Jessop gives illustrations of the surgical uses of the pneumatic aspirator in abdominal tumours a pelvm )ii“our phalus, abscesses, effusion into knee-joint, &c. ( Brit. Med. Journ., Dec. 7, 1872.) See, further. Aspiration of intestine. . n • 1 v, i Cleft palate.—Mr. T. Smith narrates forty eases m which he has operated for clefts of the hard and soft palates under 1“ twenty-five cases, he closed the whole cleft at one opera ^lo . of these a cLplete cure was effected; in eight, there was central hole lef^ in two, failure resulted; in three, only the hard palate unM • in one the soft only, and, in two, a large hole remained in the nalate. ’ If it is considered inadvisable to attempt to unite tew at once Mr. Smith recommends that the part of the cle s , broueht together, first, which seems most easily approximated, w