REPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. 6 to be identical with Preyer’s alkaline oxy-haematin or V. Wittich’s lioBmatin. The second kind of colouring matter forms small, dark, blue- black, microscopic crystals, insoluble in water, alcohol, ether, chloro- form, and acids, but readily soluble in alkalies. Prom it hsemin- crystals can be readily prepared. It appears to be identical with Virchow’s hcematoidin. Strassburg’s * experiments corroborate the statements of Pfliiger and Zuntz that on the addition of acids to blood the haemoglobin undergoes- oxidation and splits into bsematin and albumen. Adolf Jarisch f gives the following as the arithmetical mean of four careful researches on the composition of the ashes of the blood of the dog:—Phosphoric acid anhydride i3’32 per cent., sulphuric acid anhy- dride 4'oi, chlorine 3i’43, potash 3'83, soda 42'oi, lime magnesia 0-6^, oxide of iron 8’34 per cent. Dr. J. EichardsonJ; concludes, from his experiments, that the white blood-corpuscle is a cell composed of a cell-wall with contents and a nucleus (or nuclei), which possesses the power of voluntary amoeboid movement, is soluble in water, but is capable of slowly imbibing that fluid and increasing to nearly double its normal size. The cell-wall of the cor- puscle is a membranous envelope, insoluble in water, too thin to exhibit a double contour with a magnifying power of 1200 diameters, but firm enough to restrict the movement of its contained granules. Its exterior is somewhat adhesive, so that surfaces or particles coming in contact with it are liable to become attached thereto. Some phenomena observed lend countenance to a theory that this membrane is dotted with minute pores, which permit delicate threads of the soft protoplasm to be ex- truded, and the edges of which, if the projection still continues during the amoeboid movement, are carried outwards as a sheath to all except the extreme point of the narrow tongue-like process. The material occu- pying the space between the capsule and the nucleus, denominated the protoplasm of the cell (the fibro-plastin of Prof Heynsius), is a soft, jelly-like matter, in which the power of amoeboid motion resides. It appears to be soluble in w^ater and saline solutions in all proportions, and when freely diluted loses its amoeboid power, which, however, is reo-ained in a majority of cases when the excess of fluid is withdrawn. *The laws by which leucocytes take up and part with liquids seem to be simply those of the dialysis of fluids through animal membranes by endosmosis and exosmosis, as studied by Graham, on a larger scale, in 18 • • • 1 JuraszS has investigated the action of bile and the biliary acids upon the blood-corpuscles, and finds that the white corpuscles resist the action of bile better than the red, hence the greater number ot the former in the blood of the hepatic vein. Manassein,|| from the results of numerous comparative measure- ments, finds that the size of the red corpuscles diminishes in septiciemic * ‘ Pfliiger’s Arehiv,’ iv, 4.!;4. f ‘ Strieker’s Med. Jiihrb.,’ iv, 1871. ;J; Piimplilet, 1872. § liuiug. Dissert. Greifswald, 1871. II ‘ Ceutralblutt,’ No. 44, 1871.