47 CHOLEEA. and absence of storms, and the soil-water stood extraordinarily deep ; at the same time the epidemic was preceded, as in former years, by an epidemic of Dengue, which Nageli and others look upon only as an aborted form of yellow fever. As usually is the case, the poorest and filthiest inhabitants suffered most, the epidemic spread- ing rapidly among the suspected coal-ships in the harbour; 599 patients were treated in hospital between Eeb. 4 and March 18, 1870, and of these 99 (i7'8 per cent.) died. The ‘Pall Mall Gazette’ gives (Feb. 2, 1872, 5 [76^]) the following : —“ In an interesting report, lately issued by the health officer of the port of Charleston, South Carolina, the cause of yellow fever in that city is traced to putrefying organic matter. It appears that the soil on which the city stands is sandy and porous, and consequently well cal- culated to conceal poisonous gases, and that the sewerage is altogether defective. Last year, when the epidemic raged more severely among the coloured residents than it had been known to do previously for thirty years, the health officer shows that during the five hot months, from May I to Sept. 25, only one vessel arrived in port having a case of sick- ness on board, and that case was not yellow fever. The disease, there- fore, could not have been imported. Further than this the health officer states that the condition of the atmosphere last year was like that of 1850, when there was another terrible outbreak of yellow fever as it is possible to find in two different seasons. In both instances Charles- ton was exposed for weeks to intense heat, and this was followed by a deluge of rain.” Johnston, “ Eeport on the Epidemic Fever at Trinidad, 1869,” ‘Army Med. Rep. for 1869, xi, 363. “Report on Outbreak of Yellow Fever at Mandeville, Jamaica,” ib., 389. Ullersperger, “Das gelbe Fieber in Valencia,” ‘Dent. Klin.,’ 1871, 1x7. “ Yellow Fever in Buenos Ayres,” ‘ New York Med. Journ.,’ xiv. in. Bailey, “ The Nature and Treatment of Yellow Fever,” ib., xv, 44. Anderson, “ Yellow Fever as it occurred in Wilmington, North Carolina, from 1800 to 1872,” ib. xvi, 225. Cholera. Botkin (‘Berl. IClin. Woch.,’ 1871, 389) gives very full observa- tions, made with reference to the symptoms and treatment of cholera on twenty-three male cases in hospital in St. Petersburg. The ob- servations were made during the March and April of 1871. Of the twenty-three, on admittance into hospital, the temperature was below normal in twelve, and of these four died; in seven it was high, and in the rest normal. After entering into the state of the various organs and secretions and the treatment (with large doses of quinine), he gives his opinion that the cholera process is not the result of a local’effect of the cholera-poison, but the expression of an infection of all the fluids of the body. One of his assistants. Dr. Popofi", injected the fresh vomit of cholera patients into the veins of dogs, and obtained a condition re- sembling the clinical_ condition of cholera, together with characteristic c anges mtestinal canal. The disease, according to Botkin, may- be fatal without any profuse diarrhoea, and it is inconsistent to refer the cyanosis the dyspnoea, the cramps, &c., to the loss of fiuid and thicken- ing ol the blood. He uses quinine on the principle of its employment in