338 HEPORT ON OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE AND SURGERY. has issued a treatise on the lymph-follicles of the conjunctiva ;* Dr. Salomon has written a tract on the diseases of the lenticular system,t founded on v. Graefe’s teaching; Dr. Otto Becker has collected and edited Heinrich Muller’s writings on the anatomy and physiology of the eye Wolnow, of Moscow, has published at Vienna a treatise on ophthalmometry ;§ and various tracts and inaugural dissertations have appeared. Dr. Nagel has commenced a yearly record of ophthalmo- logy,j] which is to embrace the scientific work of all countries. Prof Th. Leber has been added to the editorial staff of the ‘ Archiv fiir Ophthalmologie,’ and the ‘ Klinische Monatsblatter’ of Prof. Zehender have appeared as usual. In Prance Dr. de "Wecker has issued a Prench edition of Jager’s ‘ Ophthalmoscopic Atlas,’ with the original plates, and with a disserta- tion of his own upon the diseases of the deeper parts of the eye Galezowski has completed his systematic treatise,** and has com- menced, in conjunction with Dr. Piechaud, the issue of a monthly oph- thalmic journal.tt lu Holland the usual scientific papers have been added to the annual reports of the Netherlands Ophthalmic Hospital. In Belgium the ‘ Annales d’Oculistique,’ and in Italy the ‘ Giornale d’Oftalmologia Italiano’ have been continued with regularity. (a) Anatomy and Physiology. Ocular tension.—MonnikJJ has published the opinions of Bonders with regard to the principles of tonometry of the eyes, and the results of his own observations with an improved tonometer. Bonders points out that when we determine the ocular tension, either by the finger or by a tonometer, we estimate the force required to make a certain impression upon the tunics of the eye. The tension of the eye de- pends upon several conditions, and we cannot estimate simply and directly the hydrostatic pressure of the contained fluids. The pressure that we exert upon the eyeball from without diminishes its internal space, and displaces a portion of its contents, for which, the con- tents being incompressible, room must be found elsewhere. This room is afibrded (a) by extension of the remaining parts of the ocular tunics, an effect that will vary with their elasticity and with the * ‘Lymphfollikel der Bindehaut des Auges. Histologisclie Studie, von Dr. Schmid,’ Wien, 1871, Braumuller. t ‘ Die Krankheiten des Linsensystems, von Dr. Max Salomon,’ 1872, Brunswick, "ViGW6^» J Heinrich Muller’s ‘ Gesammelte und hiaterlassene Schriften zm- Anatomie und Physiologie des Auges. Zusammengestellt und herausgegeben von Otto Becker,’ Band, i, 1872, Leipsic, Engelmann. § ‘ Ophthalmometrie, von Dr. M. Woinow,’ 1872, Wien, Braumuller. II ‘ Jahreshericht iiher die Leistungen und Eortschritte im Gebiete der Ophthal- mologic,’ Erster Jahrgang, 1872, Tubingen, Laup. ^ ‘ Traite des Maladies du Fond de I’CEil et Atlas d’Ophthalmoscopie, par L. dc Wccker et E. de Jaeger, Paris, Delahaye. ** ‘ Traite des Maladies des Yeux,’ Paris. ft ‘ Journal d’Ophthalmologie de Paris.’ .. tt ‘Tonometers en Tonometrie,’ Dissert iuaug., Utrecht, 1868; ‘Bijbladen, lodo Versing, Nederl. Gasth.,’ v. Ooglijders, 18695 “Ein neuer Tonometer und sein Gehrauch,” ‘Arch. f. 0.,’ xvi, i, 49-