UEPOllT ON MIDWIEEUY, ETC. 404 gestation, of the abdominal form, in wbicb the foetus died at the seventh month without rupture of the containing cyst. Chronic peritonitis supervened, pulmonary vomicfe, colliquative diarrhoea, and hectic. Death resulted from exhaustion at the eighteenth month from the commencement of the pregnancy. (‘ Lyon Med.,’ Ja,n. A case of extra-uterine foetation and superfcetation. (Argles, ‘ Lancet,’Sept. 1871.) An interesting case of extra-uterine foetation is reported by Mr. J ohn- son. After an illness of twelve months the general health improved, and continued good for forty-four years. At the end M this time foetal bones were passed per rectum. (‘Med. Times Gaz., June, Peck reports a case of extra-uterine foetation in which the child, a foetus of four months, was delivered by the rectum. Soon after the mother’s bowels were relieved a foetus passed per auum. The cord was found hanging from the bowel, and portions of the placenta subse- quently passed away. Peck considers the case to be one in which the placenta was attached to the fimbriated extremity of the Pallopian tube, and the child during its growth by the side ot the rectum gradu- ally led to thinning of the tissues, and these ultimately gave way alter the effort of defecation. (‘Journ. de Bruxelles,’ _Peb. 1871.) ihe post-mortem appearances in a case of extra-uterine pr^naucy are described by Dr. M. Duncan. (‘Med. Times and Gaz., July, Adams relates a case of extra-uterine foetation, in which pstrotomy was performed after the full term of gestation. T le pain rom w ic the patient had previously suffered ceased at the end ^ month. There succeeded a profuse purulent discharge from the and portions of the foetal skeleton passed by the same f was also a fistulous opening near the umbilicus from feces escaped. After making an incision through the abdominal wall there was much difficulty in liberating the child, which was surrounded by false membranes. There were three fistulous openings Ije^ween the r Jctum and the cavity in which the foetus was contained. The patient recovered. (‘ Gaz. Mied. de Pans, xxxii, i 7^v p • 4. ii’+ini Edgar recoVds (‘St. Louis Journ.,’ yiii, 4. 1871) a case ot interstitial '"TwSeresting diseussioushaye taken ulaee^ nn tlie treatment of extra-uterine foetation ( Obst. irans., xni, xiv;. Dr Mead^^^^ta^^ i8?a, related a case in wliioh a liying child yyas ?emo“ed by abdominal section, but an placenta and the foital cyst, and this was “t trtt tnSr; cy^st“tuld »n| ’’r ? Sw necisiV for t^rplacenta, its remoyal by atrophy might ?a^?ly "