239 KEMOVAL OF TUMOURS OF THE PALATE. concerned, but succumbed to an attack of erysipelas six days later. The power of swallowing was restored, the wound in the face had all but healed ; the division of the inferior maxilla could not be looked on as hazardous ; no secondary hsemorrhage had occurred ; from the time of leaving the operating table till his death he did not lose one drop of blood. (‘Lancet,’ Feb. 25, 1871, 204.) Removal of pterygo-maxillary tumours hy the mouth.—A man, set. 21, was admitted into the Liverpool Royal Infirmary, May, 1871, under the care of Mr. Bickersteth, for a tumour of the left side of the palate. Eighteen months, previously, his attention was drawn to a slight swell- ing over the left parotid region, which kept slowly increasing in size, but did not cause him any pain or inconvenience. Probably the tumour had existed much longer. There was considerable enlarge- ment in the left parotid region, which evidently pushed the parotid outwards. The left, ascending ramus of the lower jaw was so pushed outwards that its condyle was seen and felt to project beneath the skin outside the back of the zygomatic arch, while the right was at least half an inch deeper than this process. On examination from within the mouth, a firm, dense tumour was found springing from the left pterygo- maxillary region, and pushing the lateral wall of the pharynx inwards. The tonsil was thrust inwards and downwards, and the uvula rested against the anterior pillar of the opposite side. The boundaries of the mass were well defined except externally. When pressure was made externally, the tumour was plainly pushed inwards. There was clearly no attachment to the bone. It was evident the tumour could not be attacked externally without division of the lower jaw and extensive mutilation of the soft parts. On the other hand, to attempt extirpa- tion from within the mouth appeared hazardous and the result doubtful, both on account of the size of the mass and the risk of wounding any large vessels. Nevertheless, relying on the mobility of the tumour and the certainty that it was enclosed in a distinct capsule, Mr. Bickersteth attempted the latter plan. Chloroform was not given. Eirm pressure was made by an assistant. 'A direct incision was then made from behind the left, posterior pillar of the fauces forwards and upwards, through the structures of the soft palate, as far as its junction with the hard palate. This incision, which at once exposed and opened the capsule of the tumour to an extent of not less than two inches, was crossed by another at right angles. With the handle of the scalpel the flaps were now pushed back and reflected so as fuUy to expose the whole of the portion of the tumour which projected into the mouth. This was seized with forceps. The growth was of so friable a nature, however, that it crumbled under pressure. Reliance was, therefore, placed solely on the use of the forefinger aided by pressure from the exterior. By a little perseverance the whole w’as turned out after some diflaculty. Not tuore than a drachm or two ot blood was lost, and no v^sd required ligature. On putting the finger into the chasm from which the tumour had been extracted, it was found to pass behind the articulation of the jaw, and there appeared to be nothing, except the skin and lascia, between it and the exterior The great arteries of the neck and the styloid process and pterygoid plates were easily felt, the