279 CYSTINE CALCULI. £ire the recto-vesical, and the lateral recto-prostatic. In the recto-ve- sical operation, the section enters the bladder at the base of the pros- tate between the seminal ducts, parallel to the long axis of the rectum. Injury of the spermatic ducts or of the peritoneum may be avoided by operating with care. In the lateral recto-prostatic operation, a nearly semilunar incision with the convexity downwards is made along the border of the prostatic and membranous parts of the urethra; the flaps are dissected from the prostate, and under the guidance of the sound, the prostate is divided as in lateral lithotomy. Calculous disease.—Sir Henry Thompson contributes a clinical lecture on the prevention of calculous disease. His treatment consists chiefly in careful dieting, avoidance of sugar, alcohol and fat, and the adminis- tration of Triederichshalle and Carlsbad waters, saline purgatives. He objects to the alkaline waters generally ordered. (‘ Lancet, ’Jan.13,1872.) Calcuhis-cholestearine.—Dr. Duncan showed to the Med.-Chir. Soc. of Edin. a cholestearine calculus weighing 390 grains, which had es- mped from the umbilicus of a young lady. No spinal symptoms weure noticed previously or subsequently. She had had constant dwehaj^' from the umbilicus for three years, during which time the calculus was making its way to the surface. (‘Edin. Med. Journ.,’ June, 1S73, 1127.) Cystine calculi.—Dr. E. Hltzmann describes in the ‘ Wiener. Med. Wochenschr.,’ Nos. 13 and 14, 1871, four cases of cystine calculus, operated on by Dr. von Dumreicher in Vienna. The total number of cases of stone among which these occurred was 103. In three of the cases, the calculus consisted entirely of cystine, and were single; in the fourth, there were three calculi formed of alternate layers of cystine and earthy phosphates. The first case occurred in 1847, in a healthy man, mt. 24. There had been no hismaturia. Lateral lithotomy was performed; the stone was broken during removal by the lorceps. The patient was dismissed cured on the eighth day. The calculus was of the size of an ordinary wal- nut, somewhat flattened at the sides, and of a yellowish colour and waxy aspect. It weighed twelve grammes (185 grains.) The second case was that of a boy, set. 2 years. His mother noticed when he was a year old that he had difiiculty and pain in passing urine. On Eeb- ruary 17th, 1834, Dr. von Dumi’eicher operated by the lateral incision, and removed a calculus of the size of a pigeon’s egg. The child was dismissed, cured, sixteen days afterwards. The calculus, in the dry state, weighed 4-3 grammes (66^ grains). Its surface was of a yellow colour, and was found on microscopic and chemical examination to con- sist ot cystine. Section of the calculus, however, disclosed in the centre a waxy, yellow, glittering cystine nucleus of the size of a coflee- + was covered by a layer a line thick, consisting of earthy phosphate with traces of urate of ammonia ; over this lay a dark brown 1C ayer of oxalate of lime, and over this again a layer of pure cys me, one of earthy phosphate, and, finally, an external layer of cystine. The symptoms of calculus returned three months afterwards: and the patient was operated on a second time in January, 1836; on IS occasion, two calculi were removed. He was sent home, cured, two