127 PHTUiSIS. ou the living and the dead, compel the admission that, whether before or during tuberculosis, haemorrhage is bronchial and not intra-alveolar. All he can admit is that haemorrhage may produce serious consequences in a tissue already diseased; for instance, on the internal surface of a cavity, where a little blood may remain and contribute to irritation. He argues that blood itself is not an irritant to the tissues, as is proved by the ease with which blood is absorbed in bruises. Chronic pneumonic exudation is not to be confounded with tuberculosis.* Hmmoptjsis is a symptom of the latter, or of the morbid state which predisposes to it. Duhrssen (“ Ueber intermittirende Eieber bei chronischer Lungen- schwiudsucht und chronischer Lungentuberculose,” ‘Berl. Klin. Woch.,’ 1871, 613) holds that a regular intermittent pyrexia occurring in the course of a chronic phthisis, and in the absence of any other cause, denotes absorption of cheesy products. The occurrence of such pyrexia in a doubtful affection of the lungs probably points to a tuberculous origin, and means directed against the fever have but little effect. . Paul (“ Conferences cliniques sur la Phthisie,” ^Gaz. des Hop.,’ 1871, 517 ; 1872, 282) does not add much to the literature of phthisis. Ide refers to a peculiar discolouration of the skin, similar to that found in Addison’s disease, which commences on the forehead, and spreads from the eyebrows down to the mouth, and might be confounded with the affection mentioned, or with the chloasma occurring in connection with uterine disturbance. C. T. Williams (‘Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ liv, 95) gives some account of a thousand cases of phthisis seen in private practice, with the object of deducing the amount of influence which the conditions of age, sex, family, predisposition, and origin, exercised on the duration of the malady. The patients belonged chiefly to the upper and middle classes, and each case was at least one year under observation; 625 were males, and 375 females; 41 per cent, of all the cases were attacked between twenty and thirty, 2^ per cent, between thirty and forty, 19^ per cent, under twenty, and 13I; above forty. The average was greater among females than males. Family predisposition was traced in 48 per cent, of the patients ; nearly half of the cases had only brothers and sisters affected. The commonest origin in 315 cases were pleuro-pneumonia (143) and bronchitis (118). Hmmoptysis was present in 57 per cent, of the patients; 198 died after an average duration of life of seven years, eight months, and three quarters; of the 802 living, 72 per cent, have regained their health sufficiently to follow their occupations, 28 were still iuyalids. The author then discusses the views of different writers, and his own statistics ou the conditions which influence the duration of the disease. The same writer (ib., Iv, 233) enlarges on three grounds for form- ing an opinion as to the selection of proper climates for consumptive patients :~i- The alleged immunity of some localities from the disease. 2. The existence in certain localities of atmospheric conditions the reverse of those under which the disease was contracted. 3. The ascer- * It is simply tiresome to read papers by many writers—of what nation it matters not no two of whom either agree about or define their meaniuar of “ tuberculosis.” —A, B. S. °