llEPORT OtJ PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 116 Ijiiffan, “ Observations illustrative of the Use of Dieulafoy’s Pneumatic Aspirator,*^ ‘ Dubl. Quart. Journ.,’ liii, 202. Pitzinaurice, “Cases of Effusion into the Chest,” ib., lii, 388. Julkn (‘ New York Med. Eec.,’ vi, 357) thinks that the indication in suffocative capillary bronchitis is obviously to get rid of the mucous material as speedily as possible, and restrain the hypersecretion of the membrane. Eor this he has very successfully employed the sulphate of zinc and tincture of sanguinaria. Of the former, he gives to a child, £et. 6 to 18 months, doses of one half to a grain, and from five to ten drops of the tincture every two or lour hours; but when called at a later period and the malady threatens suffocation, he gives as much as from three to thirty drops of the latter, at intervals of one half to two hours, regardless of vomiting. He quotes the case of a man whom he found in a state of collapse, and to whom he applied his treatment with success. Isaakson (‘Virch. Arch.,’ lii, 466) has studied the changes in the vessels in emphysema. He finds them much smaller than normal, stretched instead of winding; several in places granular and cloudy, filled with thrombi and not allowing the coloured injection to pass. After the injection of silver solution, the normal appearance of endo- thelium was absent in the earliest stages; here the vessel-wall was finely granular, lined with white blood-corpuscles, which were the starting-points of coagulation and complete thrombosis of the canal. These portions underwent fatty changes and entirely disappeared. He considers this destruction of the vessels to be the primary stage of I^ancet,’ 1871, ii, 745) describes an instrument which he has used with the best results in emphysema, and which, by the_ simple action of a pump, withdrawing air at the end of each expiration, increases the abnormally lessened expiratory power in this aflection. _ HArtcl r‘-Berl. Klin. Woch.,’ 1871, 301) records a case occurring in bronchitis and bnvphysenia. considers to bp. far from uncommon. De Savignac Gen. de Tlieraj.., _ . „