18 llEPOET ON PHYSIOLOGY. A senes of researches undertaken by Q-ustav Meyer * * * § on man and dogs, having for their object the determination of the relative value of ditterent kinds of bread used in Germany, namely, rye bread (Eoggen- brod, Miinehen), white wheat bread (Weizen-brod, Semmel), the Hors- lord-Liebig bread, and coarse rye bread (Pumpernickel), led to the result that, with equal weights of the dry substance, the white wheaten bread was decidedly the most nutritious of the four kinds of bread, since under its use the smallest quantity of faeces were excreted, whilst the largest proportion of nitrogen was extracted in the process of digestion. Next to the wheaten bread in nutritive value was the rye bread fer- nented with leaven (sour dough, Sauerteig), but containing no bran. Then followed the Horsford-Liebig bread (prepared without leaven, but risen or made porous by the extrication of carbonic acid from the bicar- bonate of soda and acid phosphate of lime and magnesia). And lastly, the pumpernickel. When tlxe question of cost came to be considered it was quite a different matter, the white wheaten bread standing at the bottom of the list, and the Pumpernickel and Munich Eoggenbrod occupying the next place. J. Eanket has written an important pamphlet, the general purport of which is to show that during the activity of any organ, not only is the supply of blood to it increased, but there is a diminished supply of blood to the remaining organs of the body, relations which he expresses under the term “functional interchange” (“Punktions-wechsel”), and which have many important practical bearings. _ E. A. ParkesJ has made some further experiments on the effect ol diet and disease on the elimination of nitrogen, and shows that when the nitrogenous food of a healthy man was reduced to one half for five days, and he was then kept for five days more without nitrogen, he was able on the fourth day of such deprivation to do a very hard day’s work. Non-nitrogenous diet appeared to suit him well. The pulse became soft, but not altered in frequency. V. Subbotin § maintains, in opposition to Parkes, Anstie, and other English observers, that when alcohol is ingested in considerable quantity, at least i6 per cent, is eliminated by the bowels, lungs, skin, and kidneys. Dr. Dupre, II on the other hand, shows that at least an ounce of pure alcohol may be entirely consumed in the system per diem, or, at least, that more than this quantity must be ingested before any material quantity is eliminated % the urine and breath. Paalzow.Tf Gen. Pleasanton, of Philadelphia, has a paper on the influence of violet light on the growth of animals and plants.** * ‘ Zeitschrift fur Biologie,’ vii, 1871, i—48. f ‘ Die Blutrertheilung und der Thatigkeitswechsel der Orgaiie,’ 8vo, 187/. t ‘Proceed. Boy. Soc.,’ xix, 1871, 349. § ‘ Zeitschrift fiir Biologic,’ vii, 4. II “ On the Elimination of Alcohol, Eoyal Soc.,” see ‘ Nature,’ v, 274. Tf “Ueher den Einfluss der Hautreize auf den Stoffwechsel,” ‘ Pfliiger’s Archiv,’ iv, 492- ** ‘Academy,’ March, 1872, 95.