ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY. 339 absolute size of the eyeball, since a larger surface will yield more than a smaller one; (b) by an alteration in the shape of the eyeball, which from being spheroidal will become more nearly spherical; (c) by the exit of blood and lymph from the vessels of the eye. It is only after estimating the value of these several factors that a sound judgment U2)on the actual degree of tension can be arrived at. The new instru- ment of Monnik is so contrived as to measure the force that is re- quired in order to indent the coats of the eyeball to the depth either of one fourth or of one half of a millimetre, and the inventor states that this force is about two grammes greater near the corneal margin than at the equator. In his final observations the tonometer was applied at an intermediate part, 6 mm. from the cornea. The tension of normal eyes was found to differ within rather wide limits, and Monnik defines normal tension as that in which a depression of ^th of a millimetre was produced by a pressure ©f between lo and grammes. He calls the eyes soft that require less than lo grammes, and those hard that require more than 15. From a small number of observations it would seem that tension naturally increases with advancing life; that there is frequently a small difference between the two eyes of the same person; and that the same healthy eye, tested at different times, may exhibit a difference as great as three grammes. In moderate degrees r tension was slightly below the normal, in high degrees slightly in excess, in hypermetropic eyes normal. Excess of tension was found in almost all cases of anterior synechia, esiiecially when complicating corneal ulcers or keratitis; in congestive amblyopia, in some cases of cataract, and in glaucoma. Diminished tension was found in aU forms of iritis except the sympathetic, in some cases of cataract, and in detachment of the retina. In sympathetic iritis a reduction of tension folloived the extirpation of the primarily iniured eye. Ihe efect of atropine upon tension was not satisfactorily determined. The instrument used in the researches was made by Verlaan, of Utrecht. ^ Coccius^ practises palpation of the globe by placing the tips of e index fingers first moistened with lukewarm water, directly upon f looks upwards. He believes that he Ln ness Congenital coloboma of the iris.—Qv. Pontit nro^ontprl Med.co Ohirurgical Conference of the UnivSi W^wle of hta Ws of thrieft*eve"1n^^ years, the subject of congenital fissure of the fo -r ” ’ direction downwards and a little inwards as by converaen”^ Thrc,T’ A*™® convex in the segment 20 corresponding with the coloboma. Vision was perfect (S=-, No. . 8n. read at There was no photophobia, although it had existed Bericht uber die Ileilanstalt fur arme Augenkrauke ’ t ‘Aunales ffOcuHstique,’ 1872, ii, 19.