430 REPORT ON MtDWIFERYj ETC. with starchy matters, however they may be rendered digestible. The nutriment nmnished^ by starch does not afford materials for the re- integration of the principal tissues, but it concurs almost exclusively as luei to the process of liematosis, whereas the growing infantile organism needs _ a greater quantity of those nutriments which directly afford materials to the development of the tissues, Practitioner,’ Sept 1872.) ’ ^ I)r. Dobell believes that many cases of infantile wasting occur because the food, deficient in fat, not only fails to nourish tlTe child, but fails to develop the function of the pancreas for the digestion of fat at a later period of life. The craving of the child, due to the deficiency of assimilated fat, is met by starchy food which it has not the power to digest, and which, if digested, cannot supply the place of fat. Of all the satisfactory remedial effects of pancreatic emulsion none equal those produced by it in these cases of wasting in children. (‘Practioner,’ Oct. 1872.) Gold Mod for Infants.—Surgeon King writes in the ‘ Philadelphia Medical Times ’ on this subject“ Our best authorities direct that the cow's milk should be given to the child at the same temperature as that of the mother’s milk, from 90° to 95° Pahrenheit, and when great accuracy is required a thermometer employed. On reflection, it is obvious that these instructions can never be carried out so that the little one will take all its food at the same temperature, for during a meal the bottle becomes cold, and there may frequently be considerable difference of temperature between the first and the last milk imbibed by the infant. It is unnecessary to state that very little will upset the feeble powers of the digestive organs in the early days of infantile life, and this difference in the temperature of the food, I am disposed to believe, is one of the causes of gastric and intestinal disorder which we so often have to deal with among infants brought up by hand. Instead of giving warm milk, I have adopted the plan of giving cold milk entirely—ordering the babe’s bottle to be kept standing in iced water in the summer and in a cold place in winter. This method I have found, from practical experience, to answer remarkably well. If there* is any tendency to diarrhoea I recommend the milk to be heated to 212° Pahr., and afterwards allowed to get quite cold before being used. In private practice I am of opinion that bottle-fed infants generally have their food given them too warm. They soon like it better than warm food, and during the teething period cold milk seems especially agreeable to the inflamed gums of the little sufferers.” (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Aug. 1872.) Vaccination.—Mr. Hutchinson contributes an important report on two series of cases in which syphilis was communicated in the practice of vaccination. The first series consisted of twelve persons, mostly young adults, who were vaccinated from a healthy looking child. The progress of the vaccination was satisfactory in all; but indurated chancres appeared on the arms of ten of the vaccinated in the eighth week. The primary sores rapidly disappeared after mercurial treat- ment, but constitutional symptoms appeared in four of the patients five months after the vaccination, and the vaccinifer showed condy-