EESPIUATION AND ANIMAL HEAT. 11 Eiidinger, “ Ueber die Topograpbie der beiden Yorbofe und die Einstrbmuug deb Blutes in dieselben bei den Fcetus.”* Dr. Grarrodf describes a simple form of cardiograph, and gives the results be obtained from its use. RESPIRATION AND ANIMAL HEAT. Dr. Boldyrew,J in giving the results of bis researches upon tbe histology of tbe mucous membrane of tbe respiratory organs, larynx, and trachea, states, in opposition to others, that he finds mucous glands do exist on the convexity of the cartilages, though they are much flattened and expanded. He agrees generally with Puxy-Axos § in describing the mucous glands as presenting the form of small sacs, some- times divided dichotomously. The excretory ducts are lined by columnar epithelium, the sacculi contain an epithelium in form of the demilune described by Giaunuzzi in the salivary glands. Boldyrew also finds lymphatic follicles, like those forming Beyer’s patches, in the mucous membrane of the larynx. Dr. Sikorsky,II in experiments undertaken to determine the lym- phatics of the lungs, injected carminated ammonia into the lungs of living cats and dogs, which were then removed from the body and frozen, the blood-vessels in the meanwhile being injected with a blue fluid. It was found that, in regard to the deep plexus and in the bronchia, pecu- liar cell-like structures intervened between the ordinary columnar epithelial cells, which were tinted red, and that, either from these or from canals in immediate relation with them, minute vessels ran towards the membrane, and formed a close plexus in the mucosa and submucosa, from which larger vessels arose, that accompanied the bronchia to the roots of the lungs. In the alveoli similar cells and tubes exist, but the plexus is characterised by having many dilatations, and the vessels proceeding from it accompany the veins. Leichtenstern ^ publishes the results of his inquiries into the effects of various conditions upon the volume of the expired air. He first considers the influence of the vagi, and discusses Rosenthal’s views. His experiments agree with those of Rosenthal, and show that section of the vagi, though it greatly diminishes the number of the respirations, does not at once materially alter the absolute volume of air admitted, the depth of the respiration undergoing a corresponding increase in consequence of the excitation of the medulla oblongata by the carbonized blood. After a time, however (some hours), the muscles become fatigued, and cyanosis gradually sets in. He next produced a unilateral pneumothorax ; in a weak rabbit great restlessness and dyspnoea were pro qced , forty-five minutes after, the number of the respirations was n 1 t e above the average, and soon sank below it, clearly on account * t t § II 11 ‘ Journal fiir Kinclorkrankheiten,’ xxix, 402. ‘ Humphry and Turner’s Journ. of Anat. and Phys.,’ 1871. 26s. Brown-&equard’s ‘Archives do Physiologic,’ 1870. 621:. Sitz. bericht. d. Wien. Akad.,’ i86q. ‘Centralblatt,’ Dec. 3, 1876. ‘ Zeitschrift fiir Biologic,’ vii, 197.