REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICRVE. of smallpox. The disappearance of the eruption was followed by a lamellar paling; in the hfemorrhagic case the scales were an inch square. No sequelte were observed. Two of the children died, one of very acute nephritis, while the eruption still existed, the other,’a weak child of three and a half years, from febrile exhaustion. Auchenthaler (ib., 230) gives a case of coincidence of measles and smallpox in a boy of thirteen. Brunton (‘Gflasg. Med. Journ.,’ iv, 27) records the following cases of combined eruptive disease; measles and smallpox in a pregnant woman of twenty-nine; scarlet fever and smallpox in a woman of forty-one, followed by death ; scarlet fever and varicella in a patient of four years. Sansom, “ Case of probatle coexistence of Scarlatina and Variola ” (female, set. 31, with chart of temperature), ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, i, 395. Musket, “Con- currence of Scarlatina and Varicella” (child, set. 3 years), ih., 1872, i, 71. Scarlet Fever. Carpenter (‘ Lancet,’ 1871, i, no) holds that scarlet fever may and often does arise de novo; that it results from incipient decomposition of the blood of vertebrate animals, either healthy or diseased, under the influence of certain conditions of temperature, magnetic state and moisture; that the poison is probably more virulent when produced from diseased material; and that some of the granules contained in blood undergo a certain corpuscular degeneration, and are the exciting agents in the production of the fever, by altering the character of the natural zymosis which is said to be always proceeding within the body. He attempts to support this theory by the histories of various outbreaks of scarlet fever in localities, houses, schools, &c., in the neighbourhood of places where slaughterhouse refuse was stored or used for manure. He believes that the disease would be shorn of its fatal tendency if blood were kept out of the sewers, &c., in fact, if all sanitary regula- tions were enforced. The paper contains an analysis of the preva- lence of scarlet fever in Croydon during the last twenty-two years.* Huber (‘ Deut. Arch.,’ viii, 422)° observed during an epidemic of scarlet fever in 1869 a hsematoma in the neck of a child, ast. 6. It appeared as an oval, indistinctly fluctuating tumour, of the size of a hen’s egg, in the left cervical region, corresponding to the course of the glands. It had presented itself ten days after the commencement of the scarlet fever, and had become rapidly larger during the last two days under the use of poultices. He looked upon it as an abscess, opened it, and evacuated about a handful of pretty firm clot, the re- moval of which was followed by a strong arterial blood stream ; the case ended fatally. He refers to another case of the same kind, which had a more fortunate result. He thinks that a hsematoma may be diagnosed from an abscess by the rapid increase of the former in a relatively short time, and by the comparatively greater hardness and indistinct fluctuation of the tumour. * There is an odd coincidence between the letters used in this paper and those employed in Betteiikofer’s resume of his writings on cholera (‘ Zeitschr. f. Biol.,’ Bd. V, 29s), A. B. S.