REPOllT ON PllACTICAL MEDICINE. 10^ maining, a laryngeal mirror was introduced tbrougli the opening in the trachea, and shosved that the latter was closed below the rima glottidis by swelling of the mucous membrane. Introduced in the usual manner, the mirror showed the epiglottis erect, the cords widely separated, and a circular fleshy tumour with a dark central spot like that seen from below. He looks upon both as cases of laryngitis resulting in per- manent stricture of the submucous tissue below the rima glottidis. In the second case there was undoubted constitutional syphilis. Johnson (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ i8^i, i. 469) arranges cases of spasm of the larynx in the following groups;—(i) Hysterical laryngismus ; (2) laryngismus stridulus in children ; (3) laryngeal spasm, due to pressure on the pneumogastric or recurrent nerves, by aneurism or other thoracic tumour; and (4) that produced by the presence of a foreign body, or the inhalation of irritating gases or dust, or by inflatn- mation of the laryngeal mucous membrane. He gives the case of a girl, set. 22, who suflered from the first cause. Chloral was prescribed in doses of ten grains every six hours, and the laryngeal stridor ceased. The aphonia which accompanied it yielded to galvanism. Havratil (‘Berl. Klin. Woch.,’ 1871, 394) gives the result of his experiments on five dogs and a cat, as to the function of the laryngeal nerves. He finds that the superior laryngeal has no influence on the motor function of the larynx, and the spinal-accessory nerve none on the muscles of the vocal cords. Tait, “Laryngismus Stridulus,” ‘Dublin Journ.,’ li, 117. Mackenzie, On the Differential Diagnosis of Chronic Inflammations of the Larynx ” (simple chronic inflammation, laryngeal phthisis, syphilis, cancer of the larynx). Lancet, 1872, i, 7. Veale, “ On the Movement of Mucus in the Trachea and Larynx, ib., 187/, i’i, 121. Eogers, “Acute Laryngitis, Tracheotomy, Kecovery’’ (in woman, get 2^) ib ib., ifjg. Mackenzie, “Constriction of the Trachea, Syphilitic Deposits in the Liver and Kidney” (man, set. 39), ‘Path. Soc. Trans.,’ xxii, 33. Norton, “Epithe- lioma of the Larynx” (man, set. 62), ib., xxiii, 43. Simpson, “ Clinical Lectures on the Use of the Laryngoscope,” ‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, i, 41S- Bergeret, T^che- otomie non-croupale : Contribution a I’histoire des affections du larynx, Lyon Med., vii, CQ. Fieher, “Vortrage liber Laryngoscope,” ‘ Wien. Med. Ztung., ^1871, 359. Kehn, “ Chloralhydrat gegen Spasmus Glottidis,” ‘ Jahrh. f. Kinderheilk., iv, 130. Diphtheria and Croup. Letzerich (‘Berl. Klin. Woch.,’ 1871, 187) continues to insist upon his favourite fungi as the origin of diphtheria. After the entrance of the spores into the blood and lymph a secondary constitetional disorder, according to him, diphtheritis generalis, is set up. The patients my die rapidly of collapse, or a febrile state may suddenly occur, with head- ache, abdominal pains, nausea, apathy, constipation, with some tyiya- nitis. The urine is diminished in quantity, and often yntains albumen and casts made up of masses of the fungus (!); the lumbar region is tender on pressure. Convulsions often occur in children up to the age of five years. His treatment consists in the use of a warm bath for a oLrter^of an hour, followed by continued applicyions ot hnseed-meal To^c^ tTihelumUv regioi; a teaspoon or dessert-spoon of lime- water every half hour, and in protracted cases quinine. fcaSr paper (‘Virch. Arch.,’ lii, a,.) he gives the results of i.8