343 SURGEEY. was 4^. He concludes that the normal eye among children from 6 to 13 is* not emmetropic, but presents a slight degree of hypermetropia. Cohn’s paper is published in full in the ‘ Arehiv fur Ophthalmologie and the same journal contains also (p. 292) his promised review of Erismann. The details are such that they scarcely admit of con- densation. Maklakotff has examined the refraction of the eyes of scholars twice, after an interval of a year, and his results generally agree with those of Erismann. He found that both the number per cent, of myopes and the mean grade of the myopia increased in the more advanced classes. Among 759 scholars, 284 were of the junior classes. Of these— 208 (73i per cent, were emmetropic. 69 (24i „ ) „ myopic. 7 ( 2i „ ) „ hypermetropic. 307 were in middle classes. Of these— 189 (61 per cent.) were emmetropic. Ill (36 » ) » myopic. 7(2^ „ ) „ hypermetropic. 168 were in advanced classes. Of these— 86 (51^ per cent.) were emmetropic. 73 (43i ) » myopic. 9 ( Sf » ) » hypermetropic. He also found myopia more common among girls than among boys, a circumstance which he attributes to such occupations as sewing, which require the close application of the eyes. Test types.—Burchardt has published^; a set of test objects, which he calls international, originally suggested by the test dots given in the ‘English Army Medical Report for i860.’ His introduction is trans- lated, and specimens of the tests are given, in the ‘ Annales d’Ocu- bstique.’§ He enumerates the well-known disadvantages of types as tests of the acuity of vision, and proposes to substitute for them groups of black dots or circles, variously arranged and of graduated sizes. The intervals between the dots are equal to their diameters, and vision is tested by the distance at which the dots of a given group can be seen and counted as distinct objects. Eor astigmatism he has black circles intersected by white lines in several directions, correspond- ing to the lines of Dr. Fray’s test types. He professes to be able by these tests to determine the state of refraction in each meridian, or in the eye as a whole, without the aid of lenses. It is worthy of remark that the principle of using dots instead of letters is not new, but was suggested by Dr. G-iraud-Teulon to the Ophthalmological Congress of 1862. The author makes no reference to this circumstance. (h) Surgery. Cataract extraction.—Dr. Mazzei, of Florence, in a letter addressed * xvii,_2, 305. t ‘Societe Phys. Med. de Moscou,’ 1871. J ‘ Cassel, Verlag.von A. Preyschmidt.’ § i, 1871, 25 et seq.