165 APPECTIOI^S OE THE LIVER AND SPLEEN. (ff) Various. Steffen Jahrb. f. Kinderheilk,,’ v, 47) gives several tables of the size of the liver and spleen in children, from birth up to 14 years of age. Eobin presented to the Paris Academy of Science, March 18, 1872, some observations by Eitter on colourless bile. The author states that in all cases in which colourless bile was found, the hepatic cells had under- gone more or less fatty degeneration. Eoy (‘Lancet,’ 1871, i, 10) gives a case of rupture of the liver and left kidney in a man, set. 25, the effects of a fall. The liver had three or four rents, extending only a few lines into its substance, on its convex surface. Steiner (‘Jahrb. f. Kinderheilk.,’ iv, 33.3) writes on the presence of blood in the peritoneal cavity of new-born children from sup'erficial rupture of the liver and spleen. He remarks on the rarity of the affec- tion, giving a case of each, and considers that congestive hypersemia, and not disease of the liver, is the primary cause. Other papers referring to the liver are— Dalton, “Sugar Formation in the Liver,” ‘New York Med. Journ.,’ xiv, 15. Bennett, “Report on further Experiments demonstrating that Mercury has no special action on the Liver,” ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, i, i. Habershon, “Lettsomian Lectures on the Pathology and Treatment of Diseases of the Liver,” ib., 1872, ii, 21. Qumcke, “Ein Fall von Aneiu-ism der Leherarterie,” ‘Berl. Klin. Woch.,’ 1871, ^40! Ward, ‘ On some Affections of the Liver and Intestinal Canal, with Remarks oii Ague and its Sequelae, Scurvy, Purpura, &c.,’ London, 1872. Pox, “On some Abnormal Conditions of the Liver accompanied by Jaundice,” ‘ Brit. Med. Journ. ’ 1872, iij 8. Habershon, “Inflammation of Glisson’s Capsule, Occlusion of Vena Portae, Blood Cyst, Dropsy, Peritonitis” (woman, aet. 34}, ‘Guy’s Hosp. Rep.,’ XVI, 405 Solowieff, “ Veranderungen in der Leber unter dem Einflusse der kiinst- S"of Pfortader,” ‘ Centra^.,’ 1872, 337- Gee, “ Complete Oblitera- tion ff the Mouths of the Hepatic Veins,” ‘ St. Barth. Hosp. Rep.,’ vii, 144. Bock and Hoffmann, “Ueber das mikrochemische Verhalten der Leberzellen,” ‘Virch. Arch ’ x^^* Casuistik der Missbildungen der Leber,” ‘Deut. Affections of the Spleen. Payne^ (‘Path. Soc. Trans.,’ xxii, 278) gives the following case of Modgkin s disease complicated with acute tuberculosis. A boy set 10 had presented during life great enlargement of the spleen, which reached from the seventh nb to the crest of the ilium vertically, behind into the lumbar region, and in front almost to the middle line. There was no increase in the number of the white blood-corpuscles. He became padually weaker and died of exhaustion. The spleen was found to contain numerous tumours of the kind caUed l^phadenoma and S^kidnev “ TheT°'^ c same kind were found^in the liver and in^the aaTUP^TOn Ji^'^P^atic glands throughout the body were affected in the same way, and some of them contained masses of a soft caseous earned It fn occupied the whole of the gland, have tTnu tn tl ! t I f scrofulous. There was, in fact, a distinct transi- f addition there were numerous miliary tubercles in the pia mater and lungs.