465 ANyESTHBTICS. within an hour and a half there supervened slight_ suffusion of the countenance and a quasi-intoxicated state, passing in o soun s eep. The pulse, which at first was somewhat quickened, was afterwards re- tarded, the respirations were unaffected, and the temperature ot the body sank. It was only after very large doses of the lijdrate that the numbness of the skin, followed by anesthesia, was preceded by excite- ment and contraction of the pupils. The sleep induced is quite normal, and on awakening there is neither headache nor cerebral congestion, nor any other disturbance of function. Chloral hydrate sometimes in- duces vomiting, but never diarrhoea. The dose is i to 4 grains for a new-born infant; up to one year, i^to 5 grains ; from one to five years, 3 to 10 grains; and for children from five to twelve years of age, from 8 to 18 grains. To infants at the breast i grain was given every fifteen or thirty minutes, till the desired result was obtained. His conclusions are summarised as followsSleep is as readily induced by chloral hydrate in children as in adults. In symptomatic as well as in idiopa- thic convulsions it acts symptomatically, and is contra-indicated only where there is inflammatory disease of the bronchi, lungs, or heart, and the remedy must be used with caution where the child is anaemic or atrophic. Chloral is useful in laryngismus stridulus, chorea, and hoop- ing-cough, except in the third stage of this last, when it acts prejudi- cially by checking expectoration. It proved useless as an anaesthetic in surgical operations and in idiopathic and traumatic tetanus. Husemann * contributes a long and able resume of all that is known regarding the pharmacological and toxicological relations of chloral hydrate. A vast amount of literature has been laid under contribution for the preparation of his monograph. Ancdsthetics.—Kohlerf reviews all the recent work that has been done with anaesthetics. His memoir is a valuable one, and is enriched with cuts of the various forms of apparatus that have been designed for the inhalation of anaesthetics. Byasson and Toilet J have compared the action of trichloracetate of sodium, chloral, and chloroform. The effect of tricloracetate of sodium is more like that of chloroform than of chloral. Chloroform given by inhalation is the most powerful anaesthetic, but when given subcuta- neously it has less action than either of the other two. Chloral, when given by the stomach, is a more powerful soporific than the others, but has less anaesthetic power than chloroform. The authors distinguish three degrees of action in chloral. In the first, it acts as a slight soporific and sedative of the sensory nervous system. This effect is often accompanied by agitation like that occur- ring during unpleasant dreams. In the second, it has a powerful sopo- rific action, lessens sensibility considerably, and produces calm and deep sleep. This may be kept up for a considerable time, without danger, by giving a fresh dose when the effect of one is passing off. In the third, it produces complete anaesthesia, entire loss of general sensi- bility, and muscular relaxation. Heath almost always occurs after * ‘Schmidt’s Jahrb.,’ cli, p. 81. t Ibid., p. 193, j ‘ Journ. de I’Anat. et de Physiol.,’ 1870, p. 570. 30