llEPORT ON MEDICAL JUB-ISPEUDENCE. 434 tissues, and he promises further experiments on the force which renders this translation possible. Elimination of 'poisons.—Dr. Anstie ^ combats vigorously the pre- valent views with respect to the supposed ehmination of poisons, animal, vegetable, and mineral. He appears to be of opinion that there is no tendency in the unaided animal organism to get rid of poisons, and that remedies administered with the object of assisting elimination are, as a rule, powerless. Antagonism of Poisons. The literature of this topic is unusually interesting. Antarjonism between pTiysostigmine and atropine. A very elaborate research on this subject, full of valuable results, has been completed by Dr. Fraser.2 The author first reviews previous experiments on physio- logical antagonism, viz. between atropine and hydrocyanic acid (Preyer), between atropine and muscarine (Schmiedeberg and Koppe), between physostigmine and strychnine, and between physotigmine and chloral (Bennett), and comes to the conclusion that, although in many cases the a priori reasons in favour of the existence of a lethal or of a more or less general antagonism are extremely plausible, the_ experimental data by means of which it has been attempted to establish the reality of the antagonism are, probably without exception, imperfect, and therefore insufiicient to do so. His own experiments were made with a view to determine the existence of a physiological antagonism between ifiiysostigmine and atropine, and the limits of the same. Physostigmine was administered either in the form of an alcoholic extract or of the sulphate of the active principle (curarine) ; preparations chiefly made by himself, but in some cases with those manufactured by Messrs. T. and H. Smith, of Edinburgh. The atropine was administered in the form of sulphate. The subjects of experiment were chiefly rabbits weif^hing about three pounds, in a state of perfect health, and during dieestion. In some cases dogs were used. The plan of the experinients was as follows. In the first place the minimum fatal doses lor rabbits of the extract of physostigmine and of the sulphate of physostigmine resnectivcly were determined by a number of preliminpy experi- ments BO that, on the weight of the animal being ascertained, it was an easy matter to be certain of the dose of the particular prepara- tion that could kill them. Then in those experiments in which recovery followed the administration of a dose of atropine given in combination with a dose of physostigmine equal to, or in excess of, the minimum fatal, the animal used was killed many days after- wards and, when the effect of the two substances had completely disappeared, by a dose of physostigmine less than or only eflual to that frZ which it had previously recovered. , Therefore, when the adminis- tration of atropine prevented an otherwise fatal dose of physostigmine from causing dLth, a perfect demonstration was obtained ot the power of atropine to produce some physiological action or actions that coun- teracted some otherwise lethal action or actions of physostigmine. * ‘The Practitioner,’ viii, pp. i6i, 289, 356. f ‘Trans. Poy. Soc. Edin.,’ 1872, xxvi, pp. 7>3-