225 SUBCUTANEOUS OSTEOTOMY. literally tortured by pain in the back, which was attributed to his beino- obliged to lie in a position which, for obvious reasons, he had not been in the habit of assuming. The limb, at the date of note, was firm and straight, with less than two inches shortening. A few sinuses remained open. (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Oct. 26, 1872.) Dr. liVatson showed to the Med.-Chir. Soe. of Edinburgh a wedge of bone, which he had removed, from the site of the knee-joint, in a case of old-standing, rectangular anchylosis. The patient was an adult male and recovered well. He could walk without assistance. In straighten- ing the limb the hamstring tendons required division. (‘ Edin Med Journal,’ Dec. 1871, ^59.) ^ Complete, lomj anchylosis of the hnee-joint; subcutaneous osteotomy — Mr. Little records the case of a girl, mt. 14. Both knees were con- tracted to a right angle. The left knee was straightened under chlo- ro orm, but the right knee was found to be firmly anchylosed. This had resulted from strumous disease, and the tibia was dislocated. “ A serious operation, such as severing a wedge-shaped piece of bone of the question, considering the feeble state of the girl’s Health, but as a subcutaneous operation, though possibly not successful I deteraitaed to attempt the division of the bone, somewhat after the method of Prof Gross fsee ‘B.en Eet.,- Z867-8, ,56) of Philadelphia." “An mcisioa a Zrd of the outside of the knee, over the lower border of the outer cradyle of the IhX” OwinTIn “<1 posterior aspects of e iimo. Uwing to the alterations in the positions of the hnnpo it was considered IipH-pt^ -n^f were divided, but ness, without her crutches. This c^sp^^ Painlessly, though with lame- neous osteotomy, for the rkief of s pn instance of subcuta- performed in this country. (‘ Med -Chir^ Trans . Vision of the joint (‘Lancet,’ Aug { ig’vi t8o? Mortality.—Cl cafes y died Of fhp^ are sufficient. I of secondary syphilis.’ The average m^Stllitv^thl «--Of the 3S, „„1, a 16