195 ANTISEPTIC AND OTHEIl DRESSINGS. charge to pass through the whole of the gauze before it can reach the surface, some impermeable surface must be interposed between the gauze and the external air. A cheap and light form of macintosh, termed “ hat-lining” by the india-rubber dealers, answers well. A piece of this is cut and placed beneath the layer that is intended to be out- ward. The discharge, then, cannot come straight through. The whole is retained by a bandage carefully applied. The dressings are changed according to the same principles as formerly noted. Carbolic spray.— 1 his is applied by means of one (or more) of Richardson’s spray pro- ducers. The spray is kept playing over the part, operated on, or being dressed. _ The solution of carbolic acid need only be of the strength of one part in two hundred of water. Mr. Lister discusses the treatment ot abscess; ligature of arteries ; application of catgut stitches to ten- in umbilical hernia, &c.; ununited fracture of neck 01 thigh bone ; removal of loose cartilages from knee-ioint: senile ean- fournakf"®'''’ Journ.,’Aug. 26, 1871, and other Some surge^s wash the wound out with a strong solution of chloride Morgan’s plan, noticed in previous ‘ Bien. Retrosp ’) and then dress antiseptically, instead of using the spray the whole time Ue anUsepUc catgut ligature is spoken of, favorably, in many quarters. vious^'r?;? % employment have been noticed in pr': vious Bien. Retrosp. Cases in which secondary hemorrhage has oc- further on. Mr. Lister does not recommend the catgut ligature unless e surgeon can make sure of antiseptic dressing afterwards. A case illustrating the present aspect of the antiseptic system of treat ment m surgery is narrated at length bv Mr Lister Tn tlio o »» ou irl^ry aUut tU h ®f„u7d ^ ry to d vM ft "taa and ra.p ofl the head of the radius to allow of the reduction of a di, location which existed. He did this, with conlidencrundTthe Mu enceof the antiseptic dressing. ('Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Jan. J4. iS?,, 30 ) “"“'r i- thl May Mr. Lister are appended. '^72, 985. Statistical tables of cases treated by Dressings of dry lint, ^c.~ln the ‘ Edin Med Toiirn ’ III Soninrt! cases further or ^ Mr. Callender’s Moason (■ Brit. Mad. essay on this subjer^givef ^ an eases in the surgical clinic at Zurich dtlnglte isTo'rs” ''Z