POPLITEAL ANEURISM. 209 rates the case of a man, set. 32, in whom compression of the femoral cured a fusiform aneurism. He remarks on the nature of the aneurism, and the reasons for adopting the particular mode of cure. Watson’s “ pressure apparatus” was used. Fusiform aneurism in the lower extremity is rare. Mr. Spence has only met with one other case, an aneurism of the popliteal, which he cured by ligature of the femoral. In the present case the oblong aneurism was in that part of the femoral immediately above the origin of the great anastomotic artery, and, as the contents of the dilated portion were quite fluid, such a direct, retrograde feeder would have speedily refllled the vessel and acted as a disturbing element in preventing the formation of a coagulum. Mr. Spence had determined, if compression failed, to cut down on the artery in Hunter’s canal. The exact time which elapsed before pulsation ceased is not noted, but it was the evening of the first day. Mr. Spence lays stress on complete compression. (‘ Med. Times and Gaz.,’ June I, 1872.) Death from secondary hcemorrliage after the lose of a carholised catgiot ligature.—Mr. Holden records a case in which lie ligatured the femoral with a catgut ligature, and in which secondary haemorrhage occurred on the ninth day, and proved fatal almost immediately. At the post- mortem, a large collection of pus was found burrowing in the thigh. At the point where the vessel was tied, there was a small, jagged perfo- ration of the arterial coats. Ho trace of the ligature could be found. (‘ St. Barth. Hosp. Eep.,’ viii, 189.) Popliteal aneurism ; ligature of the femoral artery.—Two cases, under the care of Mr. Savory, are recorded in the ‘Lancet,’ Aug. 3, 1871, 191. The patients recovered. ’ ’ A case of popliteal aneurism, bursting into the knee-joint, and sup- posed to be synovitis of the joint, is narrated in the ‘ Lancet,’ June 24 1871, 851, by Mr. Jamieson, of Shanghai. Mr. Lister mentions (Address, ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Aug. 26, 2871, two cases of diffused, popliteal aneurism treated by ligature of the femoral with catgut, antiseptically. Both patients recovered. In one case, the ligature was applied in “a forbidden region, from the vicinity 01 the profunda or other considerable branches.” Mr. Cooper Forster and Mr. Barwell relate cases of cure by com- pression. (‘Clin. Soc. Trans.,’ v, 103 and no.) j-i- records a case which was cured by voluntary flexion of the leg in about thirty-six hours. (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ April 6 1872. ) ^ ’ Mr; Stokes figures an instrument for arterial compression (Presse whJh L O’Feilly, and gives a narrative of a case in which he used it. The pressure was kept up, night and day, for four Med Sci ’°Dec^T72^432^) (‘Dubi Journ. of Holden, one of which was cured by genuflexion. After thirty hours’ continuous pressure (digital), aided by a bag of shot placed over the fingers, which gabled each person to press for two hours, pulsation quite ceased. Mr. Holden thinks it ought then to have been continued for a while 14