112 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. lung was contracted and adherent to the growth. The mediastinal g anas were much enlarged ; several masses of cancer were present in the liver and pancreas. Risdon Bennett, ‘Cancerous and other Iritrathoracic Growths, their Natural History and Diaposis, pp. 190, London, 1872. Horstmann, ‘Drei Falle von Mediastinaltumor, Inaug. Diss., Berlin. Pohn, ‘ Beschreibung eines Falles von DermOidcyste des Mtidiastiniim anticum/ Inaug. Diss., Berlin, Pleurisi/, ^c. Huss (“ TJeher deh anderseitigen pleuritischen Schmerz,” ‘ Deut. Arch.,’ ix, 242) attempts to find an anatomical explanation for those cases in which pain occurs on the side opposite to that affected with pleurisy. Laennec first described cases in which the pain was felt else- where than on the affected side. Andral challenged the correctness of these observations ; Wintrich has also been unable to confirm them. Various writers have, however, noticed the same occurrence, without being able to give any explanation of it. Gerhardt, in a case observed by him, in which, the patient complained of pain on the left side near the sternum, while the pleuritic rub was to be heard on the opposite side, assumed the existence of anastomoses between the intercostal nerves in the anterior mediastinum. Huss attempted to support this view by investigating the anatomy of eight sterna, and in one of them did find some such connection between the nerves of the two sides. Handfield Jones (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, i, 139) gives a clinical lecture on a case of effusion into the left pleura, in an engineer, let. 19, on whom paracentesis was performed on the twentieth day after his ad- mission into hospital, about eighty-six ounces of fluid being removed. The patient had ascites at the same time, which had also nearly dis- appeared on his discharge. In some remarks on the case the lecturer allows that the presence of weak and distant breathing on the affected side should not cause a postponement of the operation, such as was occasioned here, “for lung-sounds can penetrate through a notable thickness of fluid.” Eedenbacher (‘Deut. Arch.,’ ix, 240) records the following:—A boy, set. 6, previously healthy, had been for four weeks suffering from abun- dant and increasing effusion in the right pleura. He had been treated with quinine and iron, but had rapidly lost flesh. Paracentesis was then performed. More than two pints of pus were removed, with im- mediate relief to the patient. The cavity was washed out twice daily with lukewarm water. The canula was taken out on the fourteenth day. A month later the patient was greatly improved in health, and there was no difference, either in measurement or respiratory murmur on the two sides. Paul (“ De la Thoracentese, comme methode de traitement de la Pleu- resie Aigue,” ‘ Bull. Gen. deTherap.,’ Ixxxi, 83) publishes eight cases of acute pleurisy in patients between the ages of 21 and 56, in which he practised paracentesis with success. They were dismissed well in from two to three weeks later. After remarking on certain precautions to be taken, he asserts the perfect harmlessness of the operation, and, as an aid in prognosis, insists upon the fact that when the fluid readily coagulates