DEPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 406 strated, but which are situated in the uterus itself; and that, like the contractions of the heart, they are independent of the cerebro-spinal system, though physiological and pathological facts prove that the latter has certain influence over them. Oser and Schlesinger record the results of numerous experiments to determine the cause of uterine movements. They experimented chiefly on pregnant rabbits, in which the uterus was generally at rest when they began their observation, and they found that whenever the blood which circulated either through the brain or through the uterus itself became extremely venous, tetanic contraction of the uterus took place. The irritation of the brain which produced uterine contractions was conducted down the spinal cord to the uterus, and when the cord was divided irritation of the brain from venous congestion produced no eflfect. Stagnation of blood in the uterus, produced by compression of the aorta, caused uterine movements of the same tetanic character. If spontaneous movements of the uterus were present, they soon ceased after compression of the aorta was begun; and when arterial blood was again allowed to circulate through the organ a strong contraction of the entire uterus, quickly followed by rest, took place. (‘ Centralb. f. Med. "Wissensch.,’ 1871, and ‘ Brit Med. Journ.,’ June, 1872.) Dr. Matthews Duncan writes (‘Dublin Quart. Journ.,’ May, 1871) on the efficient powers of parturition. The first, and he believes the best, results in the investigation of this subject have been obtained by careful deduction from experiments on the tensile strength of the amniotic membrane. He next observes that if, in an unobstructed and powerful labour, the accoucheur, by the directly opposing pressure of his hand on the fcetal head, arrests its progress for one or several pains, he has in the pressure by his hand, a force which, added to the small amount required to effect parturition, exceeds all the combined powers of labour in this case. Duncan, well accustomed to such work, finds by actual trial with an accurate dynamometer, fifty pounds to be about the highest power he can use situated at the bedside in attend- ance on a case of labour. He believes that very few of the most power- ful labours exert a force of lbs., and that the great majority ot labours are accomplished by repeated impulses, whose highest power probably never exceeds 2^ lbs. He refers to the researches of Dr. Haughton (see ‘ Eetrospect,’ 1869-70), who follows a diflferent method of investigation from the above, and measures the bulk and the extent of the involuntary and voluntary muscles employed in the tunction. Duncan comments on Haughton’s conclusions. He does not say that Haughton is wrong in supposing that the uterus mw exert a ±o^^ce 0 <^4lbs., but he believes that only a very few difficult labours require for their whole work a force exceeding 50 lbs. Ho permieum would long resist a force of 50 lbs. repeatedly applied. He then furnishes arouments in favour of the power of the uterus in parturition as compared with the powers of the voluntary “ijsdes which he be- lieves render Haughton’s conclusion quite incredible that, while the power of the uterus is ^4 lbs., that of the voluntary muscles can be ?2^ lbs. Haughton believes that on an emergency soniewhat moie than a quarter of a ton pressure can be brought to bear upon a