CHOLERA. 477 that city To what extent Europe owes its safety from last year s out- break of cholera in the Hedjaz to the energetic measures adopted by the E-yyptian Government, to prevent the introduction of mtected nilarims into Egypt, and their passage through the Suez Canal to ports in the Mediterranean, it would be difficult to say. But the preventive measures taken were well conceived and well carried out, and they offered the greatest chance of protection to Europe from the importation of the pestilence. . ■ The comparatively light diffusion of cholera in Upper Nubia appears to have been to some extent due to the military cordons established by the Egytian Government. Cholera in the British — Considerable apprehension was entertained in this country during the course of both 1871 and 1872 of an invasion of our shores by Asiatic cholera; and, indeed, England was on more than one occasion invaded by the disease, though, thanks to the precautions taken, no extension of the disease occurred. Having for nearly two years been in Russia,* and since August, 1870, more or less in St. Petersburg, cholera in the sxiring and early summer of 1871 spread somewhat considerably in the Baltic p)rovinces of Russia, and at the end of July began to touch the contiguous parts of Germany, when, soon after, Konigsberg suffered most severely._ With cholera actually epidemic at St. Petersburg, Cronstadt and Riga, and likely soon to become ejiidemic at jiarts still nearer to England, it was evident that ships from the Baltic might in certain cases be a source of danger to this country. Since quarantine in this country was not to be thought of, the steps taken by the British Government were mainly these :—Local authorities (and especially port authorities) were warned of the danger in question, and were advised of the p>recautions which in the jiresent state of our knowledge are regarded as of most value against the infection of the disease ; and every legally jDOSsible facility was given for the local exercise of such precautions. Facilities were given for the examination of ship)S arriving from the Baltic; and a central iusp)ector visited our x>orts to confer with the local authorities as to the provision of hosj)ital accommodation, &c. Never before was the extension of infection from the first imp)orted cases so successfully and completely met. Ground water.—Pettenkoferf returns to the subject of the influ- ence of ground water on cholera and tyjphoid fever in a paper on typ)hoid, cholera, and ground water in Zurich. Spite of the opposition his views have met with, and the facts urged in refutation of the validity of his conclusions, Pettenkofer still adheres to his now well- known views on this subject. Diffusion of cholera in India.—PettenkoferJ in a small work has entered into an examination of the recent reports on cholera in India by Macpherson, Murray, Macnamara, Cunningham, Lewis, Bryden, &c., and * “ First Report of the Local Government Board,” p. Iv. t ‘ Zeitsclirift f. Biologie,’ vii, p. 86. t ‘ Verbreitungsart der Cholera in Indien.’ Braunschweig, 187/. ‘ The Diffusion of Cholera in India.’ Translation in ‘Indian Annals of Med. Science,’ No. xxix, pp. 176—300.