125 CA^CilR—PHTHISIC. he got better aud was still alive when Lebert wrote. In the second case, a girl of 23 presented a fluctuating tumour in the left hypochon- drium, which was supposed to be hydatid of the spleen. In the third case pneumothorax occurred from perforation of the echinococcus cysts through the pleura. During life this case had also been looked on as tuberculosis. Lebert makes some remarks on the diagnosis and etiology of the rare occurrence of primary echinococcus of the lung. The seat is generally in the lung-tissue. In the case recorded by Zuber (*Gaz. des Hop.,’ 1872, 73°)j ^ man, tet. 22, one of two hydatid cysts burst into the pleura and. so caused death. In this case also the symptoms during life were those of tuberculosis. Bird (quoted from the ‘Australian MedicalJournal,’ ‘Lancet,’ 1871, ii, 23) has published a paper on the disease, which seems to be more frequent in Australia. The most common site of hydatids of the lung is the base of the organ. There may be no symptoms, and when they do occur they are those of mechanical pressure or irritation. According to the author, the rarity of visible venous engorgement distinguishes the case from one of intrathoracic cancer. One tapping, followed by bromide or iodide of potassium and kamela, are generally successful. (Ho light is thrown by any of these writers upon the origin of the hydatids in primary echinococcus-cysts in the lung; they seem to con- tent themselves with the fact that it is most common in places where the drinking water is polluted by the excreta of dogs containing the ova of teenia.—Bep.) Phthisis. Condie (“ On Spurious Consumption,” ‘ Amer. Journ. Med. Sci.,’ Ixii, 389) distinguishes a tubercular and a non-tubercular phthisis, which may be very easily confounded. In both there is the same progressive and extreme emaciation, cough, expectoration, debility, hectic fever and night sweats. Their physical signs are also alike. But as regards prognosis it is essential to recognise the difierence, and to do so atten- tion must be paid to the constitution, predisposition, hereditary tenden- cies, and sputa of the patient. In tubercular disease of the lungs the sputa, in the early stages at least, consist most commonly of a white frothy mucus ; later they become consistent and glairy, and of a darker hue. They are intermixed with small whitish particles of a cheese-like appearance—broken-down tubercular matter—and not unfrequently with distinct masses of a well-defined puriform character. The non- tubercular afi'ection occurs somewhat suddenly, in most instances after exposure, with acute bronchitis or pneumonia. Moxon ( Path. Soc. Trans.,’ xxii, 66) finding in the same lung patches with iron grey centre, but surrounded by zones which difiered in character, believes that the case proves the identity of “ grey and yellow tubercles. He assumes that these patches grow from within outwards; that the central is the older portion, the peripheral the most recenh The outer zone of one patch presented grey (miliary) tubercles; that of the other ‘‘ larger, opaque, yellowish-white tubercles of the most scrofulo-pneumonic type.” Both kinds “ were seated in the proper