256 REPORT ON SURGERY. whicli, though the bone was broken across, the fragments were so dove- tailed into one another that they were held firmly in a curved position, separated at the convexity of the curve, jammed together at tiie concavity. This specimen was noticed on a former occasion, but it was not then sketched. Dub. Journ. Med. Sci.,’ April, 1872,351-) . . ^ A simple method of removing silver wire when employed in cases of ununited fracture.—Mr. Mason invites attention to a modification of the plan of transfixing and holding the fractured ends in apposition with twisted wire. He operated on an ununited fracture of the ulna and radius. The smooth surfaces of the ends of the ulna were sawn oif diagonally, so that when placed together the new surfaces accurately corresponded. A hole was bored obliquely through them, and a needle was passed through the hole. The needle was then encircled with a loop of wire, the ends of which, having been firmly twisted on them- selves, were made to emerge, together with the needle, from a small inci- sion in the skin, placed at right angles to the larger wound. By re- moving the needle the wire would be at once disengaged. The radius was treated very similarly. The wire was finer and carried round the needle in a figure of eight. Mr. Mason suggests that it is possible that the division of the fibrous bond of union may be dispensed with, the needle and loop of wire being alone employed ; that the needle may be shorter, so as not to press on the neighbouring structures ; that ivory or other material may be used in the place of the needle ; and, lastly, that the wire, being released, may be left to work its way out, its removal, if required, being efi’ected at any time by traction. (‘ Med.-Chir. Trans., liVj 313.) A clinical lecture on delayed vmion and non-union of hones by Mr. Callender will be found in the ‘ Brit. Med. Journ., 1872. He alludes to obstructed venous circulation as a cause of delayed union. He mentions a ease in which union was delayed for ten months— of the thigh-bone. In the case of a soldier the humerus did not unite for two years and a half In another case the femur did not unite for tioo years. At St. Bartholomew’s there has been but one case in two thousand five hundred fractures. He alludes to abscess of the bone, foreign bodies between the ends, want of apposition, fractures near a ^""'"^rfstdrop from paralysis of the musculo-spiral nerve in fractures of the humerus —Vvol Erichsen remarks that injury to the musculo-spiral nerve in fracture of the humerus must be of r^e occurrrac^ met with no instance recorded in any standard work. He had h^^^e f Ten three instances quite recently. When the mam trunk is injured complete wrist-drop is produced. When the posterior interosseo divismn is iniured,Ve loss of supination and of extension is not so complete The supinator longus and extensor carpi radialis ^ongior, being supplied by branches from the main trunk, are not paralysed, and ^ .S+oin +• hmi0-h verv limited, movement in the sense ot supination T TfpTisionis preserved, though the forearm and hand tall naturally into andextensionis preserveu,^^^ g of a woman, mt. W-rus about the middle; ten weeks