457 WHARTON-KETCHUM TRIAL, remarked that be had not been very well in the night, but he went out, and partoolc of all liis nioals with tho family on that day; and although complaining of not feeling well, he appeared inore cheerful after tea, chatting with the family and smoking until he retired at 11 p.m. Before going to bed he drank a glass of lemonade with a Mrs. Chubb. _His glass contained some brandy, which he himself added. On that night he was again sick, and had slight purging. On the morning of the 26th he complained of sickness and giddiness, and remained in his room during the day, although be ate all his meals. In the afternoon, at the solicitation of the accused, he saw Dr. Williams. At 4 p.in. that physician found him sitting up and vomiting into a vessel which he held. Dr. Williams ordered him to bed, and prescribed creasote and lime-water, thinking him to be suffering from cholera morbus. No mention is made of diarrhoea at this time. Next morning he had much improved, and he dismissed his physician, the latter regarding his patient as well. Throughout this day, however, he was somewhat drowsy, as if under the influence of some narcotic. He stated that he had taken some of his own medicine, and a vial which had contained laudanum was found beneath his bed. On June 27th he appears neither to have vomited nor been purged, but on the morning of the 28th he was found on a sofa nearly insensible. At 10 p.m. Dr, Williams found him in a semi- comatose state, very diflS.cult to arouse, and giving inarticulate answers. On being touched a slight convulsive tremor passed over him from head to foot. His head and face were much congested, of a purplish tinge. His limbs were rigid. He gave only muttered replies to questions, and did not complain of suffering. The respirations were normal, the skin was not preternaturally moist, the pupils were not contracted, but were insensible to light. The treatment consisted of ice to the head, and 40 drops of tinct. of gelseminum in water. This was to be repeated in 2 hours. Whilst the ice was upon the head, he had some convulsions of a peculiar character, the tendency of which was to throw the body from the back to the left side. At i p.m., after a third dose of gel- seminum, the general became very restless, and uttered incoherent cries. The convulsions increased in intensity, giving to the body the true character of opisthotonos. He tore at his neck and abdomen, so as to inflict extensive abrasions ; but it is doubtful whether these movements were not automatic. At 1.30 Dr. Williams administered chloroform, and drew off the urine, suspecting uraemic poisoning, but detected no albumen. Thirty grains of chloral hydrate were given in milk, but the convulsions were so violent that he bit the spoon so that his first tooth was loosened. At 3 p.m. he died in a convulsion. The autopsy was made next day by Dr. Williams, assisted by Prof. Miles and Chew. The brain and abdominal cavity only were examined. Nothing was discovered to account for death, the only thing noted being red punctiform congestion of the cerebral lobes, and doubtful congestion in patches of the alimentary canal. The stomach was se- cured and handed to Dr. Aikin for analysis. It presented nothing of ^ reported that he had satisfied him- self of the existence in the stomach of tartar emetic to the extent of