iBONE DISEASE IN CONGENITAL SYPHILIS. 307 advice. The patient’s wife was treated by Kobner, in the spring of 1867, for tubercular and ulcerative syphilides of the limbs. In Octo- ber, 1871, the male patient had a very indurated shallow sore, with sharply defined edges, on the glans penis; the afiection of the sternum also returned, and the right testis became enlarged, and in parts very much indurated. The induration on the penis disappeared in six weeks under the use of calomel ointment and iodide of potassium, the other symptoms remainingunchanged. The patient remained under observa- tion eleven months, during which time he was treated for acute nephritis and symptoms of spinal irritation no further symptoms were observed and no change was noticed in the residual symptoms of the first attack of syphilis. Kbbner repudiates the idea that the induration ob- served on the penis was the result of a gummatous deposit, and calls to mind a number of instances in which several infections have been alleged to have taken place after the complete removal of all the symptoms of the first attack of syphilis. In 4^ cases of repeated infection the only symptom, in 22, was indurated chancre ; in 23, constitutional symptoms followed; these were severe in one case only. The constitutional afiection was removed in the course of about eight weeks by appropriate treatment; and, except in one case, relapse did not occur. Kbbner arrives at the following conclusions:—(i) Constitutional syphilis is perfectly curable, for it is only when the disease has been completely removed that the system becomes liable to infection, as in a healthy person. (2) Many inveterate, so-called tertiary affections, such as sar- cocele and exostosis, are only local products or remains of an attack of syphilis that has run its course, and are not to be regarded as signs that the whole system is still infected. Parents with tertiary products of this kind may beget healthy children. (3) In more than two thirds of all the cases observed, the cure of the first attack of syphilis was effected by mercury, used sometimes in the form of inunction, but in most instances given internally. ^ Sone disease in hereditary syphilis.—Gr. Wegner has published some interesting observations on this subject in ‘ Virchow’s Archiv.’ He has examined forty children affected with intra-uteriue syphilis, which were either still-born or died soon after birth. In almost all the cases Wegner found pathological changes in the bones in the forms of ossilying periostitis, and of a peculiar disease of the bone at the point ot transition from the diaphysis to epiphysial cartilage. This last- named disease was found in three forms, which Wegner regards as three stages of the same affection. In the first, between the cartilage and the soft spongy bone is found a layer about two millimetres in nckness, shining, sometimes with a level surface, sometimes bulging. He believes it to be the result of iucreased proliferation of the cartilage- cells, with retardation or arrest of the conversion of cartilage into boiie. is consi?p?nbt^^‘^^r^ become doubled in thickness ; there with m»n£rrp« ' epiphysial cartilage-cells ; together calcification of the intercellular sub- f ^ cells near the upper surface of the joint, and some evident neighbourhood of the spongy bone-substance of the ossification of the cartilage. The third stage presents the followino-