444 REPORT ON MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE. ■^e possibility of separating it from blood by means of the vacuum. Zuntz, however, has succeeded, by Pfliiger’s gas pump, in extracting the carbonic oxide. The chief point in the research is that the gas is only given off fitfully and by repeated exhaustions of.the receiver. liis experiments account for the statements that carbonic oxide cannot be so removed from blood, as the process was supposed to be finished after the first exhaustion. These results must modify commonly received opinions regarding carbonic oxide poisoning. There is no need to sup- pose that the carbonic oxide cannot be expelled as such, but requires oxidation into carbonic acid. So long as the heart beats there is reason to hope that, by means of energetic artificial respiration, the blood may be again restored to its normal condition. Podolinski* confirms the statements of Bonders and Zuntz, and shows, in addition, that not only may carbonic oxide be expelled from blood by indifferent gases, but that nitric oxide comes under the same category. Nitric oxide may be expelled from its haemoglobin compound by means of indifferent gases, such as hydrogen. The oxygen, carbonic-oxide, and nitric-oxide haemoglobin compounds are thus in agreement with each other. Oxygen is most easily expelled, next carbonic oxide, and lastly nitric oxide. Each gas can be more easily expelled by the one imme- diately following than by an indifferent gas, and each, again, can like- wise be more easily expelled by the one immediately preceding than by any other indifferent gas, E. and E. S. Turnerf contribute a very interesting account of the symptoms and post-mortem appearances in several cases of carbonic oxide poisoning, resulting from the combustion of coal and peat in closed chambers. Oxysulphide of carbon.—Dr. S. Eadziejewski,J working in Liebreich’s laboratory, has investigated the physiological action of this gas, dis- covered in 1867 by Than. Oxysulphide of carbon appears to be widely distributed in nature, giving to many sulphuretted waters their pecu- liar sweet taste and aromatic odour. It is also a probable constituent of the gases evolved in volcanic districts, and is, perhaps, given off during the putrefaction of organic substances containing sulphur. Its compo- sition is represented by the formula COS; it is, in fact, intermediate between carbonic acid and bisulphide of carbon. It is absorbed by water, and slowly decomposed by this into carbonic acid and bisulphide of carbon. The gas produces in animals toxic effects, which resemble those observed by Eosenthal and Kaufmann in intoxication by sulphu- retted hydrogen. Eadziejewski supposes that oxysulphide of carbon absorbed into the blood splits up, in conjunction with water, into car- bonic acid and sulphuretted hydrogen, a decomposition which takes place, as we have already stated, outside of the body. To this view there are, however, some objections. The oxysulphide is less soluble in dilute alkaline solutions (and hence in the blood) than in water, and even in this latter the decomposition of the gas is very tardy, whilst the oxysulphide is more rapid in its toxic actions than sulphuretted hy- * ‘ Pflliiger’s Archiv f. Physiologie,’ vi, p. 553. f ‘Edin. Med. Journ.,’ March, 1871, p. 106, j ‘Yirchow’s Arch.,’ liii, p, 370.