59 THE ACUTE EXANTHEMATA. increased excretion Steinfacher laid great stress, contending that it eliminated the special poison. To prove the latter position, Hofmann sent the sweat of a child affected with measles, and treated in this way, to Plallier, who reported the abundant presence in it of micrococcus Hofmann has used this plan in numerous cases of scarlet fever and measles, even where the patients were comatose. He found that not only were the febrile symptoms rapidly diminished, but that the con- valescence of the patient was quicker than under other treatment. His own method is as follows:—In slight cases, where the temperature in ano does not exceed 40° C., and when the brain is clear, he envelopes the patient, from the axilla to the hips, in the wet cloth, which is kept on for one or two hours; fresh cloths are applied till the temperature falls to 38° or 38-3° C., which generally occurs in from 2 to 4 days. He then orders a warm bath daily to promote desquamation, and the con- valescence is complete in about eight days. In severer cases, when the temperature is over 48° C., and the patient comatose, he recom- mends the whole body to be enveloped for fifteen or thirty minutes ; the cloths to be renewed after one or two hours. Later on the cloths are left on for one or two hours, twice or three times daily. After removing the cloths the whole body is sponged with cold water, or if the comatose symptoms are well marked, the patient is put into a bath of lukewarm water, and cold water poured over him till slight shivering is produced; and he is then placed in bed. The whole process is repeated whenever the temperature rises. Careful observation of indi- vidual cases can alone determine the temperature of the wet cloths, the frequency with which they should be applied, and other minor points. Ballot (‘ Med. Times and Gaz.,’ 1871, 310) gives some tables showing the number of deaths in Botterdam from smallpox, scarlet fever and measles, from 1778 to 18ii, and from 1813 to 1870. He finds during that period that 1. Epidemics of smallpox were slightly diminishing. 2. Those of scarlatina also diminished and were almost disappearing from the table. 3. Those of measles were always increasing. Eleischmann (‘Jahrb. f. Kinderheilk,’ iv, 174) gives statistics of the mortality of scarlet fever. As combinations of two exanthems he found scarlet fever and vaccinia ; scarlet fever and smallpox ; scarlet fever and varicella; scarlet fever and measles. He considers the in- cubation of measles to be three days. The same writer (ib., 166) gives an account of an epidemic in the children’s hospital at Vienna, of scarlet fever occurring during variola. Five children between the ages of three and a half and eleven years, one in the pustular stage of smallpox, the other in that of decrustation, were found to have a re- currence of high temperature (103-8° F,), which remained high from two to four days, and in the favourable cases fell. With this were pains in the neck, swelling of the tonsils and mouth. In one case the tongue was very injected and red. Soon after appeared an eruption like that of scarlet fever, either diffused over the whole body or limited to certain parts, as the breast and abdomen. In one case which recovered it was bluish red. Haemorrhagic rings surrounded the still present pustules