EPILEPSY. 83 zone,” incomplete but well-marked convulsions could be provoked. In all the experiments the same lesion was found, in the medulla oblongata, or upper cervical region of the cord, small haemorrhages, generally into the sac of the spinal dura mater, less frequently at the base of the brain. According to Brown-Sequard, the essential lesion is more pro- bably that in the spinal cord than the medulla oblongata. Whether this spinal-cord-epilepsy, produced artificially in guinea-pigs, occurs in the human subject, cannot be decided at present. He refers to some- thing resembling the “ epileptogenous zone ” in some cases of epilepsy in men. In the discussion which followed the reading of this paper (ibid., 6i6), V. Langenbeck remarked that epileptic convulsions do sometimes occur in the human subject after injuries, especially injuries to the head, and related a case of the kind occurring in a man set. 44. (And see discussions in the ‘ Societe de Biol.,’ ‘Gaz. Med.,’ 1872, 641.) Martin (‘Wien. Med. Ztng.,’ 1871, No. ^3) gives a case of epileptic fits in a man who had had an injury to the lower part of the thigh; the fits disappeared on the removal of some loose bone. The ‘Lancet’ (1871, i, 356) quotes the opinion of Vance, of New York, that two well-marked groups of epilepsy may be formed in accord- ance with the appearances found with the ophthalmoscope ; the one characterised by %per£emia, the other by anaemia of the retina. “ As the brain is anaemic during sleep, it is natural to suppose that the occurrence of sleep would be a predisposing cause of the fits in the anaemic form, whilst in the congestive form they would be most likely to take place during the day.” Bromide of potassium and depletion are, according to him, indicated in the congestive form ; quinine, iron, and strychnia in the anaemic. ’ _ Lutz (‘ Berl. Klin. Woch.,’ 1871,212) employed bromide of potassium in ten cases ; in three patients no attacks occurred after six months ; in two others the cure was longer; five were still under treatment. He began with one to three grains, daily increased to ten to twenty grains. He found it successful in a case of nocturnal incontinence in a girl of 18, and in nervous headache. He thinks that he found the best results from a combination of the drug with bromide of ammonium. Magnan “Epilepsie Absinthique,” ‘Compt. Rend.,’ Ixxiii, 341. Bu.ssi^re « De la Guerison des Neoroses Coiivulsives, du meillenr mode d’administration du Bromure de Potassmm” ‘Gaz. des Hop.,’ 1871, 501 (three cases of convulsive neuriis cured with the 8jrup of H Mure.). Huppert, “Ein Fall von Balkenmano-el hei einem Epileptischeii Idioten,” ‘Arch. d. Heilk.,’ xii, 243. Auerbach “Ueber uf handlung der Epilepsie, nebst Krankenvorstellung,” ‘Berl. Klin Woch ’ iSvr" 422. Handfield Jones, ‘‘Epilepsy and other Nervous Alfe;tion •reSW from the E.xcessive Use of Alcohol.” ‘Pr.,>o+;f_o_. esuiLuig^iroin Epilepsy 1871, ii, 540. PetirMai,’’’ ib 18 2 i TC’“Remarkable Cases of ‘Le the condition called^ Epilepsy'^’*’ ‘Lancet’ ^8^2 Nature of Seizures of Fifty Years? stSi„g^Xtd ^b^^ “Epileptiform Moir, “ Remarks on a Case of Epilepsy and Delirium Tremens,”‘ib.^T.’, 464? Vanej