183 MOLLUSCUM—HvEMATIDHOSIS—XANTHELASMA. neck, some pedunculated, others sessile, varying in size from a pea to a millet-seed, the largest being on the lips. Two others were situated on the buttocks ; they began to appear at the aged of four months. Some had fallen off of their own accord, and had been succeeded by others. The mother had two well-marked tumours on the left breast, which as far as could be learnt, came after the appearance of those on the child’s lips. She attributed the affection to contagion from a girl, who had “ warts” on the face and body. The tumours speedily disappeared on being evacuated and touched with perchloride of iron. Liveing (ib., i, ii) relates the occurrence of the affection in five chil- dren of the same family between the ages of 5 and 13. In all of them the moUuseum was confined almost entirely to the face. Duckworth (‘Lancet,’ 1872,1,613) showed to the Clinical Society three patients suftering from moUuscum contagiosum. The tumours began three years before in the first child of a healthy woman ; she was next affected about the face and breast; and the second child presented numerous tumours shortly after birth. Lastly, the grandmother, who had slept with the eldest child, and had often nursed the baby, became affected. Alterations in the secretion of the shin.—Wilks (‘ Giuy’s Hosp. Eep.,’ 1872, xvii, 215) records the presence of hasmatidrosis in a woman, set. 35, affected at the time with tetanus, which proved fatal later on. The supposed blood-stains yielded, on chemical examination, a little iron, but unlike the true colouring matter of blood, were quite insoluble in water and alkaline solutions; nor could any coloured solution or blood-corpuscles be procured from the stains. _ Anderson (‘ Lancet,’ 1871, ii, 707) gives a case of the same kind in a girl set. 14 (See ‘ Journ. of Cutan. Med.,’ i, 328). The parts implicated were the arms, the front of the chest, and legs. The hsemorrhage occurred from round erythematous patches, one on the brow; one on the chin; one on each cheek; four in a row on the front of each arm ; two on each upper arm; and two on each forearm. A similar arrano’e- ment was_ found on the sternum and legs. One of the most marked peculiarities in the hsemorrhage was the suddenness of its invasion generally at ii a.m. each day. The writer considers it to have been a case ot vicarious menstruation. Berger (‘ Wien. Med. Woch.,’ 187,, No. 7) and Wiedemeister ( Virch. Arch., In, 437) give cases of ephidrosis unilateralis in men ased respectively 28 and 30. In both the sweating occurred on the left X««^eZas«ta.-Hutchinson (‘Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ liv, 171) writes on xanthelasma palpebrarum with special reference to Addison’s belief that It was usually associated with disease of the liver. He sums up his con- clusions as follows :—It nejev occurs in children, but is fairly common in the middle and senile periods of life; jaundice and enlargement of the liver amlT nf precedes the appearance of the patches, SfLo ^ tint rather than yellow; however great the enlargement of he liver, it may subside’ and the patient recover perfectly; attacks of ’^^tkout any jaundice, in some of the cases • the affection occurs more frequently in females than in males, in the