4.9-i. IIEPOIIT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. acid, or strong nitric acid, or nitric acid and pieces of tin-foil. ulpliur may be burnt (roll brimstone is best) in earthenware vessels about sprinkle carbolic acid water - Courts, market-places, open abattoirs, cemeteries, nattle-nelds, and deserted places of rendezvous here included Above all things, remove the causes of danger (putrefying refuse, corpses, &c. &c.), burying such matters, or covering them with chloride of lime, lime, or earth, further, larger surfaces are, when possible to be watered with a solution of chloride of manganese. The so win" of plants of rapid growth is very advisable. ° _ Water.—'Drin'king water is best rendered harmless by previous boil- ing. Failing this, permanganate of potash may be added till the water IS just tinged by the salt. Turbid water, or^ water that becomes turbid on standing, may be clarified by the addition of a little alum or soda. Carbon filters remain active only when they are frequently calcined with exclusion of air. Floivinq or stagnant wa^er.--Sinks, gutters, conduits of all kinds, pools, &c., are to be_ sluiced with as much water as possible, and to be frequently treated with the following agents: carbolic acid, quick lime, chloride of magnesium, and tar (Suvern’s mixture, see below), alum’ salts, chloride of manganese, and other metallic salts. Body- and led-linen, articles of clothing, ^c.—Linen must be sprin- kled immediately after use with carbolic acid water, and then immersed for some time in boiling water. Mattresses, uniforms, and articles of clothing, are best heated in an oven to 212° to 258° Fahr., and afterwards beaten. When this cannot be done, the actually infected articles are to be burnt, and the rest soaked in carbolic acid water, and then dried in a warm room. Men and living animals that, have come into personal contact with infected matters.—Wash the hands in a solution of permanganate of potash. The animals are to be sprinkled all over with carbolic acid water and especially on the soft parts. Corpses which are to he removed to a distance are to be sprinkled with carbolic acid water, and to be wrapped in cloths soaked in solution of chloride of lime (i in 20.) When possible the abdomen is to be opened—a small opening will suffice—and solid chloride of lime inserted. Wounds.—The treatment of these must always be left to the surgeon. It may, however, be remarked that solutions of pure permanganate of potash and pure carbolic acid should alone be used. Directions for the preparation of the disinfecting materials.—Solutions of permanganate of potash should contain i part of the pure salt in 100 parts of water, or, if the crude salt be used, 5—10 parts in the same quantity of water. It acts, in solution, as a disinfectant, but acts only on the surface of solid masses. Carbolic acid water is obtained by dissolving i part of pure crystal- lized carbolic acid (liquefied by immersing the vessel in wmrm water) in 100 parts of water. Crude carbolic acid, the strength of which