140 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. cardiac wall, in a child set. 4 years, who died from pyaemia. He also adds a table of forty-two cases of the latter disease, to be found in the ‘ Path. Soc. Trans.’ Coats (‘Glasgow Med. Journ.,’ iv, 433) records two cases of cal- careous infiltration of the muscular fibre of the heart. In the first case the salts of lime, probably composed entirely of the phosphates, had been deposited in the fibre in the form of minute round granules, giving the appearance both to the naked eye and under the microscope of fatty degeneration. The patient, a man who died of fever, presented signs of chronic bronchitis and emphysema, with probably some syphi- litic taint. In the second case, one of relapsing fever and pyasmia, the muscular fibres were converted into cylinders having a considerably crystalline texture. The lime salt was deposited in a minutely granular form, and consisted in great part of carbonate of lime, which effervesced on the addition of hydrochloric acid. Endocarditis. Peacock (“ On the Prognosis in cases of Valvular Disease of the Heart,” ‘St. Thom. Hosp. Hep.,’ 1871, 233) regards incompetency of the valves as a more serious defect than obstruction, and incompetency of the aortic more dangerous than that of the mitral valves. On the other hand, obstruction of the mitral is apparently a more important defect than constriction of the aortic valves. He reviews the general questions of diagnosis and treatment at some length. Fagge (“On the Murmurs attendant upon Mitral Contraction,” ‘ Guy’s Hosp. Hep.,’ xvi, 247) writes with special reference to the pre- systolic murmur. The paper contains histories, more or less full, of sixty-six patients, arranged in three groups ; seven in which the mur- mur was heard during life and mitral contraction found after death, forty cases in which the latter condition was found without any pre- systolic murmur being heard, and nineteen in which the murmur was heard but no autopsy made. He gives also two cases in which a peculiar murmur was audible, and in which he diagnosed mitral contraction. Heiberg (‘ Virch. Arch.,’ Ivi, 407) refers to a case of ulcerative endo- carditis published by Winge, and described by him as “ mycosis endocardii.” The patient, a man ast. 44, had bad an ulcer on one of his toes, pains in his joints and rigors. The autopsy, which Heiberg gives, showed vegetations on the valves of the heart, and the microscope revealed the presence of numerous fungi in the vegetations, and also in the emboli found in the renal and other arteries. Winge referred their probable origin to the ulcer on the toe. Heiberg records a case of the same kind occurring in his own practice, in a pregnant woman, set. 22. During life she had rigors and pains resembling rheumatic pains. She had also sores on the sacrum. After death, in addition to these gangrenous ulcers, the autopsy showed ulcerative endocarditis of the mitral valve, with thrombi containing fungi; infarcta of the spleen and kidneys, with metastatic abscesses in the latter. He looks upon the fungus as Leptothrix ; but Virchow, in a note to the paper, though