455 PICROTOXIN. water- or sand-bath, if a trace of cyanide only be present this may be lost throuo-h the volatility of ammonium sulphocyanate. This may, however be prevented by adding a few drops of a solution of caustic soda to the m’ixture before it has reached dryness. Sodium ^ formed, which is not volatile at the temperatiu-e employed. Almen s paper contains other valuable hints on the testing for prussic ^cid. ^ Prever* finds the most delicate reagent for the detection of hydro- cyanic acid in the blood to be Schonbein’s test with f^J^acum and cupric oxide. The following method is recommended for the detection of^the poison in the blood. The blood is diluted with water, and peroxide of hydrogen added ; it then becomes brown gives off but little oxygen, and exhibits a continuous spectrum. Another portion of the blid is distilled with diluted phosphoric acid, and the distillate divided into four portions. One portion is treated^ with ammonium sulphide, evaporated to dryness, and treated with ferric chloride lor the production of red ferric sulphocyanate. Another portion is treated with liquor potassse and ferrous chloride, then with hydrochloric in order to form Prussian blue if hydrocyanic acid be present. A third portion is tested with silver nitrate, whilst to the fourth is added tinc- ture of gniacum and a little copper solution, when, in the event of hydrocyanic acid being present, a blue colour is perceived. ^Emetine.—Panderf states that sulphuric acid in which a little molyb- date has been previously dissolved gives a reddish colour with emetine, speedily changing into green, even with grain of the alkaloid. Even with -g^gth grain of emetine the reagent gives a reddish irides- cence. Bismuth iodide, or cadmium iodide dissolved_ in potassium iodide, gives a precipitate with .g-J^-^th grain of emetine in 25,000 times its weight of water. Emetine is decomposed by fermentation. Brucine.—VanderX has also found Dragendorff’s nitric acid test to be the most delicate for the detection of brucine. If the suspected alkaloid be brucine, yieidj when dissolved in plphuric acid, and a drop of nitric acid allowed to come in contact with it, at first a rose, then an orange, and finally a yellow colour. The stannous chloride test is only one fifth as delicate as the above. The presence of strychnine does not interfere with the nitric acid test for brucine, nor does caffeine interfere with the testing for the alkaloid. Eerinenta- tion does not destroy brucine. Physostigmine.—The same experimenter§ finds that bromine-water gives a red-brown colour with grain of the alkaloid. Calcium chloride gives a red colour after a few minutes with one sixth or one twelfth grain of the alkaloid. Fermentation decomposes physostigmine. Picrotoxin.—In order to detect picrotoxin in beer, Blas|| removes the lupuline by evaporating five quarts of the beer to a small bulk after saturation with soda, and shakes with one tenth of its volume * ‘ Die Blausaure.’ Pamphlet, t ‘ Chem. Ccutr.,’ 1872, pp. 437, 440. t Ibid., pp. 437, 440. § Ibid. 11 Ibid., p. 441.