PAEASITIC SKIN DISEASES. 185 Vanlair (“Sur I’herp^s tonsurans,” ‘Bull, de I’Acad. Med. Beige,’ V, 699) describes a fungus agreeing iu some characters with that described by Kobin as trichophyton tonsurans, in others with a fungus described by Malmsten. Anderson (‘Lancet,’ 1871, ii, 742) asserts that tinea favosa is much more frequent in Scotland than in England; he treated 160 cases of it. “The frequency of favus in mice, coupled with the mousy odour which is one of the characteristics of the complaint, renders it not improbable that favus was originally communicated to human beings from them ” (!). He met with 178 cases of ringworm, 121 of tinea versicolor, due to the presence of microsporon furfur, and 197 of tinea decalvans. Neumann (‘Wien. Med. Ztng.,’ 1871, 89) describes the differences between parasitic and non-parasitic sycosis. In the former the hairs and their sheaths are affected first, while in the non-parasitic form they suffer no change till later; for instance, when the exudation into the hair-sac becomes purulent, the pus-corpuscles make their way between the sheath, and so loosen the hair. In the parasitic affection the deep subcutaneous tissue is affected, in the other only the hair-bulbs and the corium. The ordinary sycosis may remain at a standstill for months and years. The parasitic one spreads very rapidly. In two cases Neumann found, iu the neighbourhood of the pustules and papules, spots and rings of herpes tonsurans, and iu another case mycelia and conidia. As in all these cases he found traces of herpes tonsurans in some form or other, and as this affection preceded sycosis parasitica in 95 cases out of 100, he considers the latter as a form of the herpes affecting the hairy parts of the skin of the face. As to treatment, depilation is not necessary. He employs soft soap, succeeded by the application of Hng. Diachyli (Hebra), weak solutions of corro- sive sublimate, and sulphate of copper, or an ointment containing creasote and sulphate of copper. ° The same writer (‘Arch. f. Derm. u. Syph,,’ iii, 212) gives the results of his experiments on the culture and development of achorion. ^ Kohn (lb., 381) concludes that clinical symptoms prove the identity 01 erythema multiforme and herpes iris and circinatus. He describes the tungi Avhich he finds, and recognises another form of the affec- tion, which he designates as heroes tonsurans maculosus Monti (‘Wmn. Med. Woch.,’‘i87i, No. 37) treats itch in children with balsam of copaiba and carbolic acid. The former produces severe burning and redness of the skin, which lasts for about half an hour. the drug consists in the rapid cessation of the ching after the first inunction; the disappearance of the eruption after three or four rubbings in; and its cheapness as compared wiH Peruvian balsam. The carbolic acid (4 parts to 36 of waterfor to 120 applied thrice a day, and the scabies ought to be got rid of in from two to four days. If longm-^ Present, the treatment must be persisted in for some time Weinberg ( Ueber die Ambulatorische Behandlung Scabieskranker,”