469 MONOBROMIDE OP CAMPHOR. eiven alon^ with chloroform much smaUer doses of chloroform are re- quired to produce complete anesthesia than when it is given alone and the risk of death occurring is thus diminished. The anesthesia lasts a long time, and may he prolonged still farther by small doses oi chloro- ^°^Sibuteau * finds nearly all the principles of opium, with the excep- tion of narcotine, aid the action of chlopform. Morphine is the most powerful in this respect, but narceine is nearly equal to it. Codeine and papaverine have only a feeble action. Apomorpldne.—The action of this substance has been investigated by Vincent Silbert.f The minimum dose required to produce vomiting, when injected subcutaneously, is about one tenth of a grain. A grain and a half given by the stomach produced only nausea in one case, but much smaller doses may sometimes produce vomiting. Quehl X finds that the dose required for subcutaneous injection is T-i2oth to i-3oth of a grain; by the mouth, i| to 2^ grains ; and by the rectum, 2f to grains. No tolerance is produced by its long- continued use, nor does it injure health. Excessive doses, 3 grains or more, do not produce vomiting at all, but cause staggering, weakness, and manege movements. Vomiting is also prevented by division of the vagi nerves. Blaser § recommends simple syrup as the best solvent for apomor- phine. Muscarine.—This alkaloid has its chemical characteristic detailed by Euckert.|| It is recommended by Deneffe^ in delirium tremens. He gives it in doses of 45 to 60 grains daily, in the form of pill. Camphor.—Dr. O. Heubner** has investigated the action of camphor on the heart, and obtained results of much therapeutical interest. The results were obtained by experimenting on frogs. He finds that cam- phor renders the cardiac contractions more energetic, the pauses be- tween the contractions of longer duration, and that the heart bestows upon the circulation greater rapidity. Monohromide of camphor.—Dr. Wm. A. Hammond ft has tested the alleged efficacy of this medicament, and his experience of its use, though thus far limited, is eminently satisfactory. The preparation used was in beautiful crystals free from the slightest yellow tinge, hence it con- tained no free bromine. Employed in two cases of infantile convul- sions due to the irritation of teething, the bromide prevented the further occurrence of paroxysms which, previously to its administra- tion, had been very frequent. In each case a grain was given every hour, rubbed up with a little mucilage. Three doses were sufficient in one, and two in the other case. In a very obstinate case of hysteria, in the form of paroxysms of weeping and laughing, alternating with * ‘ Journ. de I’Anat. et de Physiol.,’ loc. cit. t ‘Untersuch. u. d. Wirk. d. Apormorph. Diss. Derpat.,’ 1871. j ‘Diss. Halle,’ 1872. § ‘ Arch. d. Heilk.,’ xiii, p. 272. II ‘New Rep. Pharm.,’ xxi, p. 193, ‘Presse Med. Beige,’ 1, p. 405. ** ‘Arch. d. Heilk..’ xi. n.