38 IIKPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. Inoculahility of Tubercle. Tuherculosis ? Paraskeva and Zallonis (‘Gaz. Med.,’ 1872, 197) give the results of five experiments on rabbits, which confirm Villemiu’s researches. Tu- bercular matter mixed with the food, or inoculated, provoked deposits of the same kind in the lungs. In a sixth experiment on a fisherman, who was suffering from gangrene of the great toe, dependent on obliteration of the femoral artery, they inoculated him with tuberculous matter in the upper part of his thigh. He died thirty-seven days later, and tubercles were discovered in his lungs and liver. Panse, who transmits the notes of these cases, rightly insists on the frequency with which “ tubercles” are found unexpectedly at post-mortem examinations. Biffi and Verga (“ JSTuovi tentativi d’inoculazione del tubercolo grigio,” ‘ Gaz. Med. Lomb.,’ 1871, 272), working in the Veterinary College at Milan, inoculated two mules, a cow, two sheep, and two dogs, with grey tubercle taken from human subjects, which was rubbed up in water and injected hypodermically. The place at which the fluid was introduced became inflamed and oedematous. The cow was killed two months, the other animals three months after the operation, but not a trace of tubercle was found in either of them. Sangalli seems to have obtained the same negative results in his experiments on twelve mice. Papillon, ISTicol, and Laveran (“Kecherches experimentales sur I’inoculation de la tuberculose,” ‘ Gaz. des Hop.,’ 1871, 342) have re- peated the experiments of Cohnheim and Prankel on rabbits and guinea- pigs. The results agree with those obtained by these observers, by Cdin, Vulpian, Clark, Lebert, Empis, Fox, Sanderson, andWalden- burg,and distinctly contradict the idea defended by Villemin as to the specific nature of tubercle. Cheesy matter is in all their cases, they think, the first starting-point of the general tuberculosis. The lymph- glands in the neighbourhood of the original wound were always the first to undergo the cheesy change. They have never been able to produce an eruption of tubercles on serous membranes. Bogolowsky (“Beitrag zur Impfung mit tuberkulosen Massen,” ‘ Centralbl.,’ 1871,97) made parallel experiments on rabbits with so- called tuberculous pus, cheesy matter, and miliary tubercle. Both sets had symptoms of fever : the latter ceased after a few days in those inoculated with poisoned serum ; in the rest symptoms of inflammation followed, resulting generally in death. The most frequent appearances found were purulent bronchitis, with circumscribed purulent deposits in the lungs, and sometimes in the liver. Crisp (‘Path. Soc. Trans.,’ xxiii, 312) vaccinated eight hens twice, and subsequently inoculated them with smallpox matter. Five died in the course of the year, and presented, post-mortem, the appearances of general tuberculosis. ^ Goodhart’s experiments (‘ Edin. Journ.,’ xvu, 305) on guinea pip and rabbits do not add much to what has already been shown in the inoculation of tubercle by former observers. Nor do the cases he has recorded as occurring in the human subject throw any further light on the presence, together, of miliary tuberculosis and cheesy deposits or pus whatever views may be held as to the connection between the two.