CONTAGION AND INFECTION. J37 Ehrenb.) in the blood of four patients affected with erysipelas, and remarks on the diffusion of the poison. Bennet (J. Henry) illustrates, from his own personal history (‘Lancet,’ 1871, ii, ^37), the fact stated by Paget, that poisonous fluids can exert tlieir influence on the body by imbibition through the skin without any breach of continuity. On several occasions the poison, from post- mortem and uterine examinations, seemed to pass down a hair into^ a hair-bulb; at any rate, a hair was always in the centre of the painful spot. Erysipelas of the arm and chest followed, with considerable con- stitutional disturbance. In a lecture on “Dust and Disease” (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871,!, 661), Tyndall, after some experiments and observations on the polari- sation of light by fine dust, by the sky and the coarser particles of smoke, referred to the theory as to the parasitic character of contagious disease. He believes strongly in the use of a respirator in infectious places. In one constructed for him the air enters the mouth through cotton wool, and by a light valve, which is lifted by respiration, the expired breath passing out by a second valve. Liveing (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, ii, 365) holds that the poison of contagious diseases is an organised poison, each organic particle of which must have a definite period of existence, and then die a natural death, only able to propagate its species during a comparatively short period of its existence. Allowing the difficulty of proving the same for the malarial poison, he yet thinks that its vegetable origin is shown by the facts of the localisation of this poison to certain districts, of the necessary condition of a certain elevation of temperature for its de- velopment, and of the apparent incompatibility of its coexistence with the central part of well-populated towns. It seems as if the congre- gating together of inhabited houses effectually excludes the virus. He illustrates this statement from Eome. Here the central part of the city is perfectly free, at all seasons of the year, from malarial poison, though it abounds in a concentrated form almost within a stone’s throw of those spots which are perfectly healthy. ^ Eimer, “ Beber die Ei- oder Kugelformigen sogenanuteri Psorospermien derWirbel- tbiere, Ein Beitrag zur Enfcwickelungs-geschicbte der Gregariuen und zur Kecntniss dieser Parasiten als Krankheitsursache,” Wurzburg. Bastian, “ Epidemic and Specific Contagious Diseases,” ‘Brit.Med. Journ.,’ 1871, ii,400. Id., “TheModesof Oiiginof Lowest Organisms; including a Discussion of the Experiments of M. Pasteur, and a reply to some statements by Professors Huxley and Tyndall,” London and New York, 1871. Condie, “Immunity from the Action of Morbific Agents” (effects of revac- cination), ‘ Amer. Journ. Med. Sci.,’ Ixi, 124. HaUier, “ Die Parasiten der Infections- krankheiten, ‘Zeitschr. f. Parasitenkunde,” iii, 157. Weigert, “ Ueber Bacterien m der Pockenhaut,” ‘Centralbl.,’ 1871, 609. Lex, “Ueber Fermentwirkung der Bactenen, ib^ 1872, 291. Waldeyer and Cohn, “ Uber Bacterien und Vibrionen,” TTnf* ’ 1"^' 532- Manassein (M.), “ Beitrage zur Kenntniss der Hete und ztm Lehre von der Alkobolisclien Gahrung,” Stuttgart. Manassein (W.), Penicillium glaucum und fiber den Einfiuss T onppp f ®“*wickelung dieses letztereu,” Stuttgart. Sanderson, “On into the Coti k' 1871, i, i. Marcet, “ An Experimental Enquiry Nutrition of Muscular Tissue,” ‘ Proc\ thpUo “ Uutersucbungen fiber die anorganischeu Bestand- S 1. MW f’, .. 425. Kanse. Du roie dosMicrozouir et c.es Microphytes dans le Geiiese, I’Evolution, et la Pn Pans, 1870, pp. 124. Propagation des Maladies/'