HEPOIIT ON PRACTICAL MEDlCINlI. 160 Its cavity was found capable of coutaiuiug only eighteen ounces of waiter, so rapidly had it contracted. Chunder Eoy (ib., lo) records a case in a Mahommedan, o)t. 30, in whom the introduction of a canula was followed by an even stream of dark venous blood ; the orifice of the canula, which was left in situ, was plugged, but the patient died three days later of exhaustion. The post- mortem examination revealed a large abscess occupying the right lohe of the liver, which was transformed into a uniform cyst, bounded by a wall of hepatic substance not thicker than half an inch. A few lines of hepatic tissue intervened between the point of the canula and the cavity of the abscess. Black, “ Abscess of the Liver, Operation, Recovery ” (man, mt. 31), ‘ Lancet,’ 1872, i, 647. Ward, “ Supposed Hepatic Abcess discharging through the Lung” (man, mt. 56), ib., 681. Moxon, “Abscess of the Liver,” ib., ii, 778. Bennett, “Hepatic Abscess,” ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1872, i, 625. Arnould, “ Abces et infarctus duFoie ct de la rate,” ‘ Gaz. Med.,’ 1872, 4. Gallard, “Lecons sur I’Hepatite et sur les Abc& du Foie,” ‘Union Med.,’ xii, 680. (5) 'Parenchymatous 'Hepatitis—Acute Atrophy. Duckworth and Legg (‘ St. Barth. Hosp. Bep.,’ vii, 208) give notes of three cases of acute yellow atrophy of the liver. A girl, ast. 10, had been jaundiced for some days before admission, and after attacks of the most furious delirium, and almost incessant vomiting, died eighteen days later. The hepatic dulness was somewhat diminished. On opening the abdominal cavity, numerous ecchymoses were seen studding the omentum and colon. The liver was adherent by a few old adhesions to the diaphragm ; it did not seem to be shrunken in size. The ccecum and colon were filled with scybalous masses of a pale clay-colour; about an inch below the pylorus there was a small ulcer about the size of a three- penny piece covered by a coagulum of blood. The stomach contained about four ounces of chocolate-like fluid. The bile-ducts contained a few drops of a viscid greenish fluid. The liver was flaccid, and felt doughy ; it was considerably mottled and presented islets of a bright yellow colour, which were continued into the substance of the organ; the acini were quite distinct. The knife was rendered distinctly greasy. In the left lobe there was a light yellow staining of the whole liver substance, and no acini could be made out. Sections of the left lobe showed under the microscope no trace of liver-cells, only an extremely dark and granular appearance, with large and small globules of fat and balls of pigment about the size of a granulation-corpuscle. ^ In the sections from the right lobe a few hepatic cells remained undissolved, but in other respects their appearance was the same. The spleen was soft, the kidneys somewhat degenerated. ^ The other organs were natural. In the other two cases occurring in men, aged 23 and 19, no post-mortem examination could be made. The second of these two was a brother of the girl first mentioned. A noteworthy point in con- nection with other symptoms in the diagnosis of the disease would seem to be the occurrence of severe hepatic pains associated with a temperature either natural or even below the normal. Chamberlain (‘ New York Med. Eec.,’ vi, 265) gives a case of atrophy