435 i>OISONS. The administration of the substances was effected by subcutaneous injection. The following is a brief summary of the first series of experiments: 1. The minimum lethal dose for rabbits of the extract of physos- tigmine is i'2 grain, and that of sulphate of pbysostigmine o'12 grain, for every three pounds’ weight of an animal. 2. The influence that is exerted by atropine upon the lethal action of extract of pbysostigmine and sulphate of pbysostigmine was examined in rabbits, and a description is given of the experiments performed for the purpose. As an instance we quote the following:—A rabbit weighing 2 lbs. ozs. received 0-3 grain of sulphate of atropine, and in five minutes afterwards i'2 grain of extract of pbysostigmine. Ee- covery took place. Ten days afterwards the same rabbit, now weighing 3 lbs., received I'2 grain of extract of pbysostigmine. Death occurred in twenty-two minutes. Many other similar experiments are related with a like result. 3. Several experiments are also described in which the influence exerted by atropine upon the lethal action of extract of pbysostigmine and sulphate of physostigmine were examined in dogs also. As an example the following will suffice:—A dog weighing 11 lbs. received O’13 grain of sulphate of atropine, and five minutes afterwards o’g grain of sulphate of physostigmine. Eecovery took place. Ten days afterwards the same dog, now weighing ii lbs. 4 oz., received o’3 grain of sulphate of physostigmine. Death occurred in seventeen minutes. These experiments clearly demonstrate that atropine is able to counteract the lethal action of physostigmine in rabbits and dogs, but whether it will do so in other animals can as yet only be surmised. 4. The influence exerted on the lethal action of physostigmine by atropine injected directly into the veins, in which case it acts with greater effect; the physostigmine, being injected subcutaneously, was the subject of another set of experiments, as an example of which we give the following;—A rabbit weighing 4 lbs. received 2 grains of extract of physostigmine, and five minutes afterwards o’o3 grain of sulphate of atropine by injection into a facial vein. Eecovery took place. Seven days afterwards the same rabbit, now weighing 4 lbs. 3 oz. received 17 grain of extract of physostigmine. Death occurred in twenty-three minutes. The next part of the research was made with a view to determine whether the counteracting influence of atropine upon the lethal action of physostigmine is successful only within a definite range of doses, and whether this range can be determined experimentally. For this purpose three sets of experiments were made. The chief objects of the first two of these were to ascertain the maximum dose of phy- sostigmine that can be successfully antagonised by atropine, and the range m doses of atropine that can successfully antagonise lethal doses of physostigmine. The chief objects of the third series was to ascertain within what limits of time between the administration