TEMPERATURE AND FEVER. 41 ache after seventeen days, tlie morning temperature was 35-4° tpe evening 37*2° (98-9° F.). His remarks on the cause of the elevation of temperature are scarcely precise. Murchison, writing on the “ period of incubation of typhus, relapsing fever, and enteric fever” (‘ St. Thom. Hosp. Eep.,’ ii, 23) concludes that, 1, the period of incubation of typhus varies in duration in different cases, in a large proportion of tliem being about twelve days, rarely, if ever, exceeding three weeks, and occasionally being entirely absent, the symptoms in the last case commencing almost at the instant of expo- sure to the poison; that, 2, the period of incubation of relapsing fever is more variable, and, on the whole, shorter than that of typhus, a latent period also not occurring in some cases; that, 3, the period of incubation of enteric fever is most commonly about two weeks, though it may be less, not exceeding one or two days. He suggests that the period of incu- bation may vary according as the poison is introduced by the alimentary canal or by the lungs. Begbie (‘Edin. Journ.,’ xviii, 249) calls attention to the “swelled leg of fevers.” He first sketches the history of the affection from its earliest notice by Burke and Cheyne, in 1821, to the present time, and shows that a swelling of the lower extremity different from ordinary oedema or anasarca has been recognised by various writers as occurring in the advanced stages of typhus and typhoid fevers. It has never been described as a sequela of relapsing fever. From a general view of cases recorded by others, and those observed by himself, he considers himself warranted in classifying them as follows :—i, cases dependent on vas- cular obstruction (a) venous or (i) lymphatic ; 2, cases in which in- flammation of the areolar tissue exists. He gives shortly cases in illus- tration of these three varieties, and refers in conclusion to the treat- ment, which consists in rest, bandaging, anodyne fomentations, the ap- plication of leeches, a general dietetic regulation, and the careful watching of any complications which may arise. Liebermeister, “Zur Lebre von der Warmeregulirung,” ‘Virch. Arch.,’ lii, 123. Virchow, “Wirkung kalter Bader und Warmeregulirung,” ib., ib., 133. Lieber- ineister, “ Wirkung kalter Bader (i) “ Ein Brief an den Herausgeber;” (2) “ Ant- wort des Herausgebers,” ib., ib., 432. Senator, “Kritisches hber die Lehre von der Warmeregulirung,” ih., liii, iii. Liebermeister, “Nochmals zur Lehre von der Warmeregulirung,” ib., ih., 434. Id., “Untersuchungen iiher die quantitativen Veranderungen der Kohlensaure-production beim Menschen ” (second article), ‘Dent. Arch.,’ viii, 153. SilujanolF, “Zur Eieherlehre (Experiments on the changes in quantity of Carbonic Acid, Nitrogen, and Chlorine, in artificially induced Eever),” ‘ Virch. Arch.,’ lii, 327. Manassein, “ Chemische Beitrage zur Eieherlehre,” ‘ Cen- tralbl.,’ 1871, 852. Decaisne, “De la Temperature chez I’Enfant Malade,” ‘ Gaz. Med., 1871, 197. Hawkes, “Observations on the Temperature of the Insane,” Lancet, 1872, i, 429. Demarquay, “Modifications imnrimeea a la Tcmnpral-.iirA ‘Centralbl.,’ 1871, 402. Senator, “ Ueher Warmehildung und btoftwechsel im gesunden und fieberhaften Zustande,” ib., 737. Gatzuck, “ Ueber