ENTERIC FEVER. 485 cautious in accepting the opinion, based on the resul^ of chemical analysis, that the use of that water by the population of London is tree The ‘ Second Annual Report of the State Board of Health of Massa- chusetts’* contains a number of queries and the replies to them, from medical men in 163 towns in the State, in reference to the causes of enteric fever. The following is a statement of the questions and answers: _ (1) Have you observed a difference in the prevalence of this disease between bouses supplied with water from wells about the premises and houses supplied with water conveyed from springs or from ponds of unquestionable purity ?—Replies : “ Tes,” 23 ; “no difference has been remarked,” 71; whole supply of towns from wells, 18; indefinite, 51. (2) Can you inform us whether, at times, when typhoid prevailed, the water of the wells was rising or falling, and whether it was higher or lower than the average for the year ? (To this question is appended a note recommending observation of the height of the subsoil water in future, if attention had not previously been directed to it.)—Replies : Rising after being very low, ii ; falling, 16; very low, 28 ; “have not observed,” 100. (3) Have you observed any connection between typhoid fever and foul soil, whether from privies, pigsties, manure heaps, or similar collec- tions of decomposing matter lying on the ground ?—Replies: Tes, 79; no, 43 ; doubtful, 39. (4) Have you observed any connection between typhoid fever and putrid air, whether from rotting vegetables in cellars, bad drains, un- ventilated living or sleeping rooms, or from any other cause ?—Replies: Tes, 90; no, 36; doubtful, 37. Ten towns report that typhoid is a disease almost entirely unknown among them, and they can assign no reason for this. In a table is given the mortality from typhoid fever in the urban population of Massa- chusetts during the last ten years, from which it appears that in 147 cities and towns of more than 2000 inhabitants the average annual rate of mortality from this disease was o'753 per 1000 persons living; whilst in 184 towns of less than 2000 inhabitants the average annual rate of mortality was so much as i‘i89 per 'looo persons living. Typhoid is more prevalent in the smaller rural towns than in the large manufacturing towns, but the mortality from all causes is higher in the latter. Decomposing organic matter is considered in the report as the proximate cause of enteric fever. Typhus.—Grun t is of opinion, from his investigations into the epi- demic of typhus in East Russia, in 1867 and 1868, that the disease is of autochthonous origin, and springs up where filth, poverty, and bad air prevail, and where vegetable and animal organisms find a suitable nidus, and (levelope a poison which disseminates itself further by way of con- tagion. VirchowJ has convinced himself that there are no sufficient grounds * ‘ Dublin Quart. Journ. of Med. Sci.,’ li, p. 480. t ‘■Vierteljahrsc.hr. f. Gerichtl. Med.,’ xiii, p. 203. X ‘ "Virchow’s Arcbiv,’ 53, p. 134.