136 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. pulmonary tissue, and not especially about the ends of the bronchial tubes.” Fox (E. L.) (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, ii, 463) reviewsNiemeyer’s assertions, and opposes them generally. He holds that chronic pneu- monia, when it is found associated with miliary tubercle, is not connected with it as cause and effect, and that the tubercle is only developed in cases in which the patient has previously had the tuberculous taint of constitution. Further, he insists that it is not unusual to find general (miliary ?) tuberculosis without pre-existing cheesy degene- ration. Sommerbrodt (‘ Virch. Arch.,’ Iv, i6j) has made experiments on dogs to test Niemeyer’s theory as to the effect of haemoptysis in causing phthisis. The blood drawn from the carotid artery of the animals was injected through a wound in their trachea, and they were killed at periods varying from one hour to twelve days after the operation. Some of the experiments and the post-mortem results, as well as the microscopical appearances found in the lungs, are given in full. Both catarrhal and croupous pneumonia followed the injection. At the end of a very long paper the writer comes to the conclusion that his experi- ments show that the presence of blood in the kings—haemoptysis—can provoke a catarrhal pneumonia in subjects predisposed to phthisis. In a note (p. 195) he quotes a case of Waldeyer’s, who found in the lungs of a suicide who had divided his trachea, and died three or four days later, the characteristic cells of catarrhal pneumonia in certain portions of the tissue to which the blood had found its way. Korner (“ Beitrag zur Lehre von der Tuberculose,” ‘Wien. Med. Zeitg.,’ 1871, 189) disagrees with Hiemeyer’s views on cheesy pneumonia and tuberculosis. He thinks the distinction between the two is simply artificial, and cannot be supported by anatomical facts, inasmuch as the two results are almost always found together. In addition to this Hiemeyer is unable to say why cheesy pneumonia leads to the develop- ment of tubercle in one case and not in another. Korner adopts Rokitansky’s views as to the anatomical relations of tubercle, and puts forward the following theory as to its origin;—The normal elasticity of the lung can be preserved only by full respiration, and this needs well- developed inspiratory muscles. The latter are ill-developed in patients of the so-called phthisical habit, and here the deformity is secondary. But, on the other hand, it may be acquired, from anaemia, &e. _ In either case the apex of the lung obtains less than normal respira- tory power, and becomes relaxed. Korner concludes that this collapse leads to abnormal pulsation in the vessels, to changes in the circulation in the vasa vasorum, and thus to altered nutrition of the lung-tissue. Kennedy (‘Dubl. Quart. Journ.,’ li, 106) opposes Niemeyer’s views on phthisis, supporting the old theory of the pathology and course of the disease. (It is, perhaps, well that the author admits at the very commencement of his paper that his “ remarks have been put together somewhat hurriedly.”—_ _ According to the ‘ Med.-Chir. Rev.’ (xlvii, 545) Skoda also criticises the doctrines of Niemeyer. He seems to think that observations, both