REPOET ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 16‘2 observation it is accompanied by an early and profound change in the blood, under the influence of which occur various haemorrhages, and jaundice more frequently than in the ordinary form. Its only cause is excessive alcoholic drink. Cheadle (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, ii, 545) gives a clinical lecture on a case of extreme cirrhosis of the liver in a boy set. 18. He had com- plained five months before of debility and wasting, which gradually increased. There was slight enlargement of the liver and spleen; ascites ; oedema of the legs ; wild delirium; paralysis of the right with spas- modic jerking of the left arm and leg, and death by coma. The cirrhosis of the liver was most extreme, the spleen was enormously enlarged and hard, the kidneys were congested, and their capsules adherent. There was an unusual quantity of dark pigment over the surface of the parietal peritoneum about the pelvic region. The boy had been in the habit 01 taking a considerable quantity of drink, especially gin, when at work. There was complete absence of jaundice throughout. Nothing was found in the brain to account for the cerebral symptoms. _ Green also (‘Trans. Path. Soc.,’ xxiii, 133) records a case ot in- terstitial hepatitis and obstruction of the common bile-duct in a boy aged 10. Twelve days before death he vomited, became jaim- diced, drowsy, and screamed at intervals; his pupils were di ated. He died comatose. The brain and thoracic organa were perfectly healthy. The stomach and small intestines contained a very large quantity ot ^^Mox^on*^(ib., i ‘53) describes a case in which suppur^ion took place in syphilitic deposits in the liver of a man aged 29. One of these had onmed a large bile-duct, so that its substance was deeply stained with bile-nigmenk The liver was extensively diseased, having in its upper and middle regions many masses which at first sight had the appearance o?trcLatous tumours decaying in the centre in what appeared to be a fibrous cyst. From these soft were gummata in all gradations down to coinmon depressed TOi'tli paspoiis centi’es. The microscopic character of the sott definite-crowds of’’cells 1-ger in a granular filamentous matrix. One testis showed very c c racteristic gummatous syphylitic orchitis. Eommelaere, “Cirrhose eb P%f“^rescence of 4e Larynx” (man, age not f and Ascites, 231. Handfield Jones, “Case of Cirrb°^ Remarks” (man. Paracentesis Twice, temporary amen ’ 1871, i,’219. Thompson, “ Cirrhosis mt. 34. former ygm-drinker,‘Brit Med. 187^,^, <c&,rhosis of Liver, Ery- of the Liver (man, set. 59), 1^-. ^°7 » > ^ “Incipient Cirrhosis sipelas” (man, mt. a6, &c. TraSa.,- aaiii, <31- ot the Liver and Lnggy Stomach ( associated with Srfofd SsfoAhS Viscera, Chronic Phthisis, and mccrati.n of the Colon” (man, snt. 21), ib., i44-