53 ENTERIC (typhoid) EEVER. believes that tlie innutrition consists in the lack of digestive powers over fats. In the absence of any pathological proof at present, he refers the cause to a permanent degeneration of the mesenteric glands. Gueniot (‘Gaz. des Hop.,’ 1871, 301) records a case of hmmatoma of the rectus abdominal muscle in a man of 22 recovering from typhoid fever. Kraft-Ebing (‘Deut. Arch.,’ viii, 613) gives two cases of suppuration in muscles after typhoid fever. The first was that of a man, set. 24, convalescent from typhoid, in whom a fluctuating tumour appeared, corresponding to the same rectus muscle. The writer believes that there was here a rupture of the degenerated muscle, followed by hsemorrhagic infiltration ; that the latter set up inflammation going on to suppuration ; and that had not incision been made through the skin, &c., the pus might easily have found its way into the peritoneal cavity. In the second case, a man, set. 22, died of pneumonia on the forty- third day of a severe typhoid fever. At the autopsy the whole left psoas muscle, from an inch from its origin down to Poupart’s ligament, was changed into a tumour, which on being opened gave exit to ill-smell- ing pus, mingled with blood, blood-clots, fibres and cell-tissue. The in- ternal iliac and a portion of the transverse abdominal muscle were also of a yellowish-red colour, and contained partly fluid, partly clotted blood. The microscopical examination of all these muscles showed the fibres infiltrated with a cloudy, granular, highly refracting material, the striations partly destroyed, no amyloid degeneration, or rupture (Bruchspalten). The author concludes that suppuration may occur in typhoid fever, from haemorrhage into muscles, and that this depends, as Zenker has shown, from antecedent degenerative changes in the fibres. Clement (‘Lyon Med.,’ viii, 649) records a case of typhoid fever in a man, aet. 22, followed by complete right facial paralysis, with paralysis of the orbicularis and loss of electrical contractility; paralysis of the sensory portion of the trigeminal, the glosso-pharyngeal, auditory, hypoglossah and olfactory nerves ; and paralysis both of movement and sensation in the limbs. He refers the origin of the lesion to the medulla oblongata. Gluge (‘Bull, de I’Acad. Med. Belg.,’ v, 613) records the following as a rare termination of typhoid fever. A boy, set. 6 years, convalescent irom the disease, was attacked a month after its commencement with peritonitis, and very considerable purulent effusion, which made its way out by the umbdicus. The child recovered and the opening had closed a month later. Latham (‘Lancet,’ 1871,11, 81) concludes from his own experience (I) that almost invariably the disease (typhoid fever) proceeds from a special poison contamed in the alvine excreta. (2) That this poison is directly introduced into the alimentary canal, either in the food or, most generally, in the water drunk. (3) That it is not yet proved that the poison IS contained in, or is disseminated by, the exhalation^ rom rains, privies, &c., or that it can be absorbed into the system through breathing air contaminated with such exhalations. He describes an outbreak of typhoid fever at Harston, near Cambridge,