NEW GROWTHS. 474 tice. But when the cancerous growth had already progressed until spontaneous suppuration had taken place, he believed the action of the root was no longer curative, DR. FELL's~PASTE. 686. ^. Zinci chloridi, Pulv. sanguinariae radicis, aa §j ■A-myli, q. s. to form a paste. Apply on pieces of kid or wash leather. This preparation, which has been revived of late years, is but a modification of " Dr. Fell's cancer salve," famous half a century ago. It is a useful application in cancerous sores. Another form of the same is : 687. Zinci chloridi, Pulv. sanguinar. rad., aa Rub together in the open air to a stiff paste. Apply on cotton wool to the entire surface of the cancer. After about two hours it should be removed. The process may be repeated daily " until the wound presents that freedom from cancerous particles which one soon learns to recognize in using this paste" (Dr. J. E. Nichols, Chicago Medical Journal, March, 1875). M. MICHEL, OF PARIS. The famous sulphuric acid paste, devised by this operator for removing external tumors, is made and applied in the following way; Asbestos, as soft and free from grit as possible^ is reduced by rubbing between the hands to the finest possible fleecy powder. It is then mixed thoroughly with three times its own weight of strong sulphuric acid (S O3 H O). A mass is thus formed which may be easily worked with a silver or gold spatula into any size or shape corresponding to the tumor to be destroyed. In the ap- plication of the caustic, the adjoining healthy parts of the skin are carefully protected by applying a zone of collodion and pads of linen, and the patient is so placed that the surface of the tumor is perfectly level. The saturated acid asbestos is then laid on the surface to the necessary thickness. Rapid destruction of the tissues follows, with, after the first half hour or so, but little pain. An oozing of clear watery fluid appears, which must be care- fully sopped up. After twelve or fourteen hours' action, the first