CANCER. In epithelioma, Dr. Garretson prefers it in its purest form; he believes that anything less than killing the part outright will always be found productive of far more harm than good; there- fore he covers the part to be acted on with the undeliquesced crystals of the chloride, corroding away, by the immediate repetition of this agent, the parts, until the diseased scales are all destroyed. The chloride has also been given internally, gr.)^ in a wineglassful of caraway water every morning. Zinci Sulphas has been also used as an escharotic. Mineral Waters. The Eaux de Celles (Ardeche), in France, have been recommended by various eminent French surgeons as beneficial in cancer. In the United States, the Missisquoi water, in Franklin county, Vermont, is said, on high authority, to have proved a valuable palliative in this disease. Both these waters contain considerable quantities of alkaline carbonates and other ingredients, and resemble each other in a general way, but pre- sent nothing which we could single out as probably active against cancerous disease. Sir James Paget attributes their value to the influence they exert on the arthritic diathesis often present in cancer. He says of the Missisquoi water, that its influence on cancer itself, is, he believes, absolutely nothing ; " but it some- times gives comfort 'by the way.'" (^Clinical Lectures, p. 338.) It is probable that some of the mineral springs containing arsenic would be available in cancer. Such a one is that of the stream called Whitbeck, rising in the Black Combe Mountains, in West Cumberland, England, which percolates through arsen- iferous cobalt ores, and contains arsenic in determinable quan- tity. Electrolysis. Various surgeons in Europe and America have reported cures of schirrhous or other malignant tumors by electrolysis. A powerful apparatus must be used, such as that of Kruger & KiRSCHMANN (that of Althaus is too weak). Drs. Beard and Rockwell state that pain may be relieved and sometimes a reduction in size may be obtained by the ordi- nary method of electrolysis, or by simple external faradization or galvanization; and by these methods, also, the tumor may be arrested in its progress for a long time. The prognosis in epithelioma is good, but of schirrhus doubtful. In cancerous tumors of the breast, those which involve but a limited portion of it, where the skin is soft and yielding, and of natural color, not unfrequently yield to electrical treatment. Not only is the pain relieved, but the tumors grow softer and smaller. Some- times their growth is arrested, and they remain stationary for years. Even in the worst forms of cancer the surgeon is fre- quently able to relieve the terrible pain that accompanies it by galvanization. "It is not sufficiently understood what a magic influence an intelligently directed application of the constant current exercises, as a rule, over the throbbing pain of schirrhus." The electrolytic treatment of malignant tumors has also been carefully studied by Dr. William B. Neetel, of New York. He