207 CARBUNCLES AND BOILS. 234. I^. Acidi carbolici, Acidi tannici, Olei ricini, Collodion, Prof. S. D. Gross, believes that it is seldom that a boil can be made to abort. He has, however, occasionally succeeded by a brisk purge, and the application of iodine. He prefers, however, to poultice the part, and make " an early and free incision." In many cases of carbuncle, he has found nothing so beneficial as a blister, large enough to include a considerable portion of the healthy skin, and retained until there is thorough vesication. Pen- ciling the surface well with tincture of iodine, and then covering it with''the following mixture, sometimes produces a very soothing effect: 235. 01. terebinth., 01- olivae, Tinct. opii.^ aa f.§j. M. For local use. Mr. J. L. Erichsen recommends that in the very early stage of carbuncle, when the disease appears as a small, angry, pointed vesicle, situated on a hard brawny base, its further progress may often be completely arrested by opening the vesicle, and rubbing its interior with a pointed stick of potassa cum calce or nitrate of silver. The method by vesication is that employed by the Parisian sur- geon, Jules Guerin. He teaches that the most efficacious mode of cutting short the progress of a carbuncle, and hastening its cure, is to cover the whole of the inflamed part with a large blister, hav- ing a hole in its centre to admit of discharges. The blister must be continued on until complete vesication has taken place, and any portion of the carbuncle over which this has not taken place will remain hard and resistant. When the blister has taken effect the pain is at once relieved, and the redness and resistance of the tumor disappear, and it becomes benign and inert, its enucleation proceeding under the use of ordinary means without the aid of the bistoury. When after the discharge of its contents a deep ex- cavation remains, it is useful to apply to the walls a solution of nitrate of silver, with the object of obliterating the open vascular orifices and impeding the absorption of the diseased liquid. gtt.vnj. gtt.xl f.3j. M.