LESIONS FROM HEAT AND COLD. 194 in which the douche is inadmissible, from the agony it occasions. In some cases life was saved by this remedy; in all it was pro- longed. Treatment of the Sequelce.—Great attention to the function of the skin forms an essential part of the treatment of all the varieties of sequelae of sunstroke, for it is impaired in all. Frictions, bathing, exercise in the open air, are beneficial. When the headache is not fixed, but shifting, it will often be found to depend on a weak con- dition of the digestive organs, and careful treatment, suited to the particular features of each individual case, is required. EDWARD JOHN WARING, M. D., LONDON. Blood-letting was formerly much employed; but from the mor- tality which attended this treatment, in the hands of Dr. Russell and others, it has fallen into comparative disuse. Dr. Morehead, indeed, goes so far as to say, that he " should have no hesitation in altogether interdicting this proceeding in the treatment of sun- stroke." This is, perhaps, rather too sweeping a direction; but it is certain that, except in young, plethoric constitutions, and where vascular action runs high, by far the most successful treatment consists in cold affusion to the head, throat, chest, spine, and epigastrium, the application of ice to the spine, stimulants inter- nally (ammonia, ether, weak brandy and water), and frictions to the surface. In the stage of reaction, leeches to the temples, or cup- ping at the nape of the neck, may be required. RESUME OF REMEDIES. Chloroformuni, internally and by inhalation, has been recommended. Morphia hypodermically, in the dose of gr. yi, has been given with suc- cess by Dr. James H. Hutchinson, in cases marked by nervous symptoms, such as convulsions, jactitation, delirium and general excitement. Oxygen by inhalatidh has been recommended in heat-stroke. Quinix Sulphas is regarded by the British surgeons in India as the most efficient of all remedies in sunstroke, (see above, p. 191.) * Waier, freely drank, cold, is beneficial, as well as its use by free affu- sion. Stimulants are useful by the rectum and mouth. Blood-letting is rarely indicated, and often very dangerous. EXTERNAL REMEDIES. Cantharis. A blister to the nape, or to the shaven bead, produces ex- cellent results if insensibility contmue.