9 CONSPECTUS OF ORGANIC MATERIA MEDICA AND PHARMACAL BOTANY. COMPRISING THE VEGETABLE AND ANIMAL DRUGS, THEIR PHYSICAL CHARAC- TER, GEOGRAPHICAL ORIGIN, CLASSIFICATION, CONSTITUENTS, DOSES, ADULTERATIONS, '^c. By L. E. SAYRE, Pli.G. 1 VOL., SrO, pp. 920. TFITM FOJLDllfG TABLJES. PRICE, IK CTjOTS, ST MA.IJJ, POSX-I'JlID, $2.00. Plan of the Work. The Chnrt.—In the space of seventeen of the'first pages is found the whole Materia Medica, arranged according to Natural Orders. Every d rug is mentioned. Opposite the column of drugs are arranged, in a tabular manner, all the following points concerning it; Ofllcinal Name, Botanical Name, Common Name, Habitat, Part Used, Constituents, Medical Properties, Dose, Officinal Preparations; making in all 10 columns, supplying the place of the cumbrous broadsides heretofore In use for this purpose. ' Geographical Groupln-v of BrnKS.—This comprises three pages, giving the character- istic drugs derived from different sections of the world Botany.—This subject is treated under the following heads: The Cell, Cell Modification, Tissues, Cell Development, Contents of Cells; The Stem, Subterranean Stems, Leaves, Flowers, Fruits and Seeds. The arrangement and display of the material are such as rather to fascinate than tire the student. Natural Ortleris.—This chapter opens with a general treatise upon the subject, followed by a tabular arrangement of the principal natural orders. The most prominent characteristics of these and their sub orders are brought out unencumbered with such details as a manual of botany would give. Drngs —Their Characteristics, Constltnentsi, &c., &c. —This subject occupies the body of the work. In one hundred and fifty pages are embraced not only all the drugs which are officinal in the TT. S. P., but others of any prominence, especially those recently brought into favor. They are arranged according to their physical characteristics, thus bringing together the various parts of the plants, furnishing groups, as follows : Roots, fihizomes, Tubers, Bulbs, Stems, W®ods, Barks, Leaves and Leaflets, Herbs, Flowers and Parts of Flowers, Fruits and Parts of Fruits, Seeds, Cellular Drugs not easily recognized as parts of plants, Drugs destitute of Cellular Tissue, &c., Closing with a chapter upon animal drugs. Tables.—Two tables complete the work; one of the Alkaloids and one of the Antidotes and Incompatibles. OPINIONS OF THE PRESS. The Editor of the New Orleans Medical and Surgical Journal says: " This work is Intended to present in clear and sharply defined descriptions the physical char- acteristics of drugs, botanical classification and geographical origin. " No work of the kind we have ever seen accomplishes so much In its limited space, nor pre- sents them In a better aspect. "The chart of Botanic Materia Medica commencing the work is a mine of information. " The book bears the impress of great labor, and is highly recommended as presenting salient points of great Interest. "The make-up of the book is highly complimentary to its publisher." " This work will be found of especial value by the student, as well as by the practitioner, in times of doubt and difficulty."—(St„Louis) Clinical Record. " In no book have we ever seen so brief and so accurate a description of the several articles of tho materia medica. To all students of this branch It will prove invaluable. Hero Is found only that which must bo remembered, if any Intelligent idea of the subject is retained. In most text books It Is very difficult to separate the wheat from the chaff, and valuable time Is lost during the process of sifting. But in the volume before us all Is wheat.*'—(Tho Detroit) Lancet, J an., 1879. " It Is a very useful work."—(Virginia) Med. Monthly. " An eminently acceptable work."—(Atlanta) Medical and Surgical Journal.