IMPOTENCE. activity the secretory function of various glands, and not seldom accelerates physiological mucous discharges. We cannot, however, depend upon local treatment alone. The excessive use of sedative narcotics, sedentary habits, and genera malnutrition from any cause, demand the general constitutional tonic influence of general faradization. The vesicul^E seminales and the testicles may be affected, and in some patients very powerfully and sensibly, when one of the poles is applied to the lower part of the spine, and the other to some point on the thigh or against the perineum. A very good way to affect the male reproductive organs is to apply one pole firmly ao-ainst the perineum and the other upon the testicles. ^Faradization of the genital organs should not usually be pro- tracted longer than five or ten minutes; galvanization from two to eiaht minutes. The faradic current would appear to be preferable. Impotence, like seminal emissions, may sometimes be treated by connecting the steel sound introduced into the urethra with one of the poles of the faradic current, thus combining the toning effects of pressure with the toning effects of electricity on the relaxed parts. PROF. A. A. o'nEIL, OF SAN FRANCISCO. This surgeon has called attention to the frequency of impotency from elongated prepuce. {Western Lancet, August, 1873.) The vari- ety he refers to, and which he believes most prevalent, affects usually young men from twenty to thirty years of age, married as well as single, and manifests itself by imperfect erections,, and that frigidity which, by force of an immoderate ardor, seizes the indi- vidual even in the very lap of fruition, or, at best, when coition is attempted, produces an almost instantaneous ejaculation of semen, thus violating some one of the indispensable conditions for the perfection of the procreative act; namely, erection, intromission, and ejaculation. For the relief of this condition he has adopted circvmcision with almost constant success, selecting of course such cases where other causes are not apparent. Even when the prepuce is perfectly re- tractile, the operation may be called for, as by exposing the glans, its surface is rendered less sensitive, and hence less liable to be prematurely excited. A narrowed urethral meatus has also been pointed out as a cause 1