87 ANTISEPTIC DRESSINGS. is no danger of lead poisoning, and it brings about rapid subsid- ence of pain and prompt healing. Tcrebcne is an aromatic hydrocarbon, with marked deodorant and disinfectant powers. It has been largely used as a dressing by MR. H. C. WADDY, M. R. C. S., ENGLAND, Surgeon to the Gloucester County Infirmaiy. His use of it in amputation wounds, for instance, is as follows: Bleeding having been stopped by torsion of vessels, the wound is washed with terebene and water. 71. Terebene, f.^j Water, Oj. Shake well together. All bone-dust and blood-clot being removed, and the skin of the limb cleansed, pure terebene is poured freely over the surfaces of the wound, and all crevices filled with it. The limb is placed on a common wooden back splint, with foot-piece properly padded, and strips of strapping fix the thigh, leg, and foot to the splint. The edges of the wound are adapted with the fingers, and strips of lint soaked in terebene (pure) are passed tightly round the limb to maintain them in apposition, plenty of terebene being poured between the surfaces of the wound. No ligatures or sutures are used. Cotton wool is applied outside the lint, enveloping the entire limb from toe to groin, and a bandage soaked in terebene outside the wool. The nurse is instructed to keep the outside bandage soaked in terebene, a small quantity dropped two or three times daily upon it sufficing for the purpose. A wound thus dressed may be left for weeks without a bandage or pin being removed. Before removal of the dressing, it should be well soaked with terebene for three or four hours. This is done by slowly dropping the terebene all over the surface of the band- age. It is then removed carefully, layer after layer being divided with the scissors, and fresh terebene is poured on to moisten any parts which have become matted together, when they easily sepa- rate. If the terebene be frequently applied, there is no unpleasant odor. Of the numerous other dressings which depend' largely for their