117 HEMORRHAGE. PAGLIARI S STYPTIC. 133. I^. Tinct. benzoini, f.^viij Aluminis, Aqute, ib.x. Mix and boil for six hours in a glazed earthen vessel, stirring con- stantly and supplying the loss with hot water. Strain and keep in stoppered bottles. It is said to cause an instantaneous coagulation of the blood. MARTIN S TANNIN SOLUTION. 134. Tannic acid (old), zj Distilled water, §ij. M. After subsidence decant the supernatant fluid. This is highly recommended by Mr. P. Miall, in the Brilzsk Medical Journal, Nov. 7, 1874. He states that it is a most power- ful astringent, almost free from irritating properties. It is one of the best dressings for wounds—far superior to collodion, and even less irritating than the styptic colloid, which it somewhat resembles. If applied by a brush and allowed to dry, it soon forms a pellicle which excludes the air, and gives ease to pain. It may be applied to almost any form of ulcer, and to wounds after amputations or other operations, especially when not very deep. It answers well, for instance, after the operation for hare-lip, painted over the pins and threads, in the same way as collodion is sometimes used. RESUME OF REMEDIES. *Acida. Sulphuric, nitric and acetic acids, when diluted, effectually check bleeding from the smaller vessels and capillaries. Vine- gar, which is always at hand, may often be called into requisi- tion in slight cuts, leech bites, etc. The stronger acids may also be used for their cauterant effect on oozing surfaces. Aconihim, as a cardiac depressant, is occasionally valuable in hemorrhage. Agaric is valuable in leech bites, cuts, oozing from the gums, etc. Alcohol. When the heart is suddenly enfeebled by hemorrhage, alcoholic stimulants may be cautiously given, care being had not to bring about violent reaction. Opium is preferable. Almis Nicana. The bark of the speckled alder contains a large amount of tannic acid, and has been employed with success as a hfemo- static by Dr. T. R. Dupins {Canada Lancet, October, 1871). Cloths saturated in a strong decoction were applied to the bleeding surface. is a valuable styptic. It is an ingredient of Pagliari's styptic _ 133) and others. It may be dusted on after wiping dry. Ammonia. In the exhaustion from severe hemorrhage, some of the