246 LESIONS OF THE ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. Prof. Langenbeck employs the aqueous extract of ergot or Bo7i- iean's crgotin. It is usually administered hypodermically in the dose of gr. \. In a case reported by Langenbeck, thirty grains of this preparation were injected in forty days with great benefit. The subclavian aneurism diminished in size, and the other symp- toms improved. Prof Bartholow gives the following formula: 285. ^. Extracti ergots fluidse (U. S. P.), f-SU- Carefully filter and inject in ten-minim doses. A. T. H. WATERS, M. D., OF LIVERPOOL. In the Lancet, April, 1872, this writer recommends absolute rest, so far as possible, and a restricted diet. The patient should not so much as sit up in bed for weeks. His medicinal treatment is iodide of potassium, twenty grains, three times a a day, continued for months. The application of an ice-bag over the tumor has also produced good results at his hands. Dr. Ward (J/^-^^V^/ Times and Gazette, September 26th, 1874,) also found decided value in the application of the ice-bag. He also administered digitalis with iron, and succeeded in causing the disappearance of the evidences of the tumor in a case of thoracic aneurism. M. DENUCE, OF LYONS. A case of aneurism of the anterior tibial artery is reported by this surgeon {Lyon Medicate, 1876), in which he effected a cure by injecting into the sac the following solution: 286. ^. Ferri percWoridi, g^.^"J Aquas, Seven drops for an injection. The artery was compressed above and below the tumor for ten minutes, at ihe expiration of which time all pulsat.on had ceased. A compressing bandage was applied and kept when tire cure was found to be perfect. Inrmed.ate y u on t introduction of the fluid, cramps came on m a 1 he toes, and rt^re was marked redness of the anterior part of the flesh. Both ol These however, vanished very quickly. D. advises th.s n.ode of treatment oni; in cases in which the artery can be compressed w t certainty'upon both sides of the tumor, and he also adv,s repression by means of a bandage for some tune, to ursu.e the