NEW GROWTHS. 466 ported by a flat resisting frame or shield, a pad, and two belts. The pressure can be graduated as desired. It gives great relief from pain, and is useful in ulcerated cases in restraining hemor- rhage. In some instances it has brought about complete resolu- tion. 4. Locality. It has been observed that in some districts cancer is more frequent, and runs its course with greater rapidity than in others. Observations of this kind may be turned to the profit of those who are able to seek change of climate. PROFESSOR ESMARCH, OF KIEL. This very eminent surgeon read an important paper on the medical treatment of cancer in the Sixth Congress of the Society of German surgeons (1877). He expressed his opinion that the scrofulous and syphilitic dyscrasise predispose to malignant growths, and this furnishes a therapeutic hint. As regard the treatment of cancer it is well known that many malignant growths are capable of cure by early and sufficient extirpation; but in very many cases the patients come too late to allow an energetic radical cure to be carried out. Dangerous tumors are often treated by insufficient means and allowed to become malignant; and then the patients come to the surgeon, who is obliged, to his regret, to perform a difficult operation. What is to be done, in cases no longer fit for operation ? To tell the patients that noth- ing more can be done in the way of operation, is to pronounce .their death-warrant; but there ought to be a final remedy to be ..used in certain cases. Langenbeck, of Gottingen, had under his -care a woman with cancer, for whom he ordered arsenic; the woman, believing she could not recover, took the arsenic in large ■quantities for the purpose of suicide: the result, however, was the cure of the disease. Cancer is essentially an epithelial growth; and the therapeutic action of aj'senic on skin-diseases indicates that it must have a special influence on the epithelial cells. Arsenic is also given to horses to make their skins smooth. Hence there is a reason for using arsenic in cancer; but it must be given in Jarge doses to produce any result—even until symptoms of poison- ing are produced. In this way Dr. Esmarch has produced aston- ishing results in some cases of cancer. One woman who had a cancer of the lower jaw, too far advanced for operation, was com- pletely healed by the use of arsenic. Modern experience of the