DISEASES OF THE SKIN. in the manner about to be described. Its curative powers seem to reside alone in doses too small to be mischievous. It is impossible to push it. But a patient administration of small doses under favor- able circumstances, for weeks, months, or years together, will be found to exercise an almost omnipotent influence over the cuta- neous diseases to which it is adapted. The numerous failures of arsenic may be traced to one or more of the following sources : i. The syphilitic character of the cuta- neous disease; mercury is then wanted, arsenic has no influence whatever. 2. The administration of arsenic during the inflamma- tory or febrile stage of cutaneous disease, under which circum- stances it rarely fails to increase the inflammation, and never does any good. 3. Its administration on an empty stomach, thus ex- citing gastric irritation. 4. Too large doses and too long inter- vals between the doses. 5. The serious error of directing grad- ually increasing doses. The proper method is to increase the dose one-fifth, once or twice a month, if after a fortnight it produces no sensible effect whatever. So soon as it begins to assert itself, the full dose is arrived at, and it should be continued without further increase. Five minims of Fowler's solution thrice daily is suffi- cient to begin with, and this may be reduced as occasion may require. It should be mixed with a little water, or with the bev- erage drank with or after meals. Children above five years old will bear nearly as large a dose as adults. A full dose being first administered at regular intervals, in a few days (or possibly weeks) a pricking sensation is felt in the tarsi, and the conjunctiva becomes slightly inflamed. At this crisis the disease is brought under arrest, and generally from this period appears to be shorn of its streiigth. The dose may now be reduced, and in some cases a very small dose, taken with exact regularity, will suffice to keep the eyelids slightly tender and the skin healing, until at length even the disposition to disease appears to die away under the influence of the medicine. The patient should be ex- amined at first once a week. The medicine must not be entirely abandoned until weeks or months after all disposition to morbid action appears to have subsided. The arsenical course should be pro- tracted, in reduced doses, for about as many months after the final disappearance of the disease as it had existed years before. This will prove the best security against a relapse. In plethoric and inflammatory subjects the disease will yet be hable to relapse,