CARBUNCLES AND BOILS. 209 SIR JAMES PAGET. This last mantioned surgeon entirely rejects the use of the knife, and even dissuades all administration of stimulants or medi- cines, except opium when needed to allay pain. He discounte- nances confinement to bed, or the house, holding that fresh air is very conducive to recovery, and that nothing is really needed beyond keeping the parts clean, and avoiding the contact of the parts with the neighboring integument. This may readily be ac- complished by the application of any soothing plaster. He does not believe carbuncle is a dangerous affection, and thinks that the patients who have died of it really died either of the treatment or of some visceral disease which preceded it. {Cli7iical Lectures,. PROF. S. D. GROSS Considers that when the anthrax has passed into a gangrenous- condition, as shown by the cribriform and boggy condition of the tissues, there is no question but that free and deep incisions are demanded. The operation relieves the pain at once, and checks further extension of the morbid action. Caustics he considers far inferior to the knife. The dead tissues may be removed with the scissors, and the surface of the ulcer touched with nitrate of silver. The wound may be cleansed by syringing with a weak solution of carbolic acid or other disinfectant; and when it assumes a healthy aspect, it may be dressed with a mild ointment, as ceratum opii or balsam of Peru. An alterative course of iodide of potassium, not more than gr.ijss in the 24 hours, with general sanitary surround:- ings, will prevent the return of the disease. MR. T. HOLMES Prefers the use of the caustic potash to the knife. He has found it equally efficacious in relieving the pain, and checking the spread of the sloughing, without any drawback of either shock or hemor- rhage, both of which are often serious in large carbuncles. When^ the skin has not given way, the potash is freely rubbed on till a slough has formed, or, what he considers the better plan, the skinv is divided by the scalpel, and the caustic inserted. Small pieces- should be put in the incision and allowed to remain there. He adds that it is many years since he has practiced tlie free incisioni of carbuncles, preferring the method here described, 14-S