LESIONS FROM HEAT AND COLD. 186 Doracicum Acidum. This is used as follows : 208. 'df. Boracic acid in fine powder, i part White wax, 1 part Paraffin, 2 parts Almond oil, 2 parts. Melt the wax, paraffin, and oil with a gentle heat; then add the acid, and continue stirring until it remains of uniform consistence. Before using it should be reduced to a soft mass by rubbing it in a cold mortar. Calcis Aqua, with olive or linseed oil, is a standard remedy. Calcis Glycerituni. The following glycerite of lime has been found val- uable : 209. Calcis, 5j Glycerinse, f-§vj Chloroformi, 3j-ij. M, For local application. Carbocicum Acidum, in dilute solution or ointment, is a popular and valu- able application. Carbo Ligni. Powdered charcoal dusted on the burned surface is said to be an extremely soothing, disinfectant and healing applica- tion. Collodion, painted over light burns, subdues inflammation. Creasotuvi, as a solution is preferred by Dr. Squibb. (F. 93.) Creice. At St. Thomas' Hospital, London, the favorite preparation for children is: 210. I^. Acidi acetici, i part Aquae, 12 parts Gretas (whiting), q. s. M. Make a thick cream and apply lightly with a brush. Ferri Sulphatis. Added in small quantities to water dressings, or to warm baths for the burnt parts, this has been found an excellent application. For a lotion 3j to aquae Oj. Fuligo Ligni. Dr. Joseph A. Kyle, of Ohio, writes that after an ex- perience of thirty years, he can confidently recommend a preparation consisting of three parts of lard and two parts of soot, or equal parts, in the treatment of all scalds and burns. Pain is allayed, and the skin, after healing, remains smooth. /tf'^^tf'r;^ is a soothing adjunct. (F. 202.) Oakum. Picked oakum is an excellent dressing for the suppurating sores resulting from burns. Not only does it prevent the offensive smell and hasten the healing process, but according to Mr. Robert L Snow, of London, the resulting cicatrixes do ?wt con- tract. The oakum must be wetted with cold water several times a day, and need not be changed more than once in three or four days.