10 OPERATIVE SURGERY AND SURCI CAL ANATOMY. By Professor' Claude Bernard, Membro de I'lnstltut (Aoad6mIo Franqals ot Acaddmle des Sciences), AND Ch. Euette (.De Montargis). Illustrated by 88 PLATES, Drawn from NATURE and Engraved pn STEEL. Translated from the French, and Edited, by Arthur Treherne Jforton. F.R.C.S., Lecturer on Surgery, St. Mary's Hospital, London, etc. In One Tolume, 441 Pages, 88 full-page Steel Plates. Price, Qoth, $8.00; Full Leather, $9.00. This magnificent and classical work deserves the especial attention of the American pro- fession. The names of the authors are a guarantee of its excellence, and it can be claimed, without fear of contradiction, that the artistic finish and anatomical accuracy of the plates surpass any others which have been placed in the market. The remarkably low price at which It is ofi-ered renders It the cheapest, as well as the most perfect work on Operative Surgery ever published In this country. The highest testimonies to Its value have been given by the English and American press. It covers the whole domain of surgery, embracing surgical gynecology and orthopedics, as well as all the most approved general and special operations. . The descriptions are full, clear and accurate, and will be found to be of the most satisfactory character to practical surgeons. The translator, Mr. Norton, has added abundant details of the many improvements In Opera- tive Surgery which have been introduced since the publication of the French work, and where more than one operation may be performed, special reference Is made to that most approved by surgeons of the present day. He does not confine himself to * mere rehearsal of the steps of a procedure, but gives the surgical anatomy of the part, and the points of diagnosis, describes the instruments, and mentions the accidents which may follow. In this manner the work is rendered a standard treatise of great completeness and permanent value. In size It Is a compact octavo, convenient for holding, and for this reason superior to the large atlases. The general contents of the work may be seen from the following summary :— Plates I-VI. Minor Surgery, Arteriotomy, Torsion. " VII-XVII. Ligations of Arteries. " XVIII-XXVII. Disarticulations. " XXVIII-XXXIV. Amputations and Resections. , " XXXV-XLIII. Operations on the Eye and Ear. XLIV-LVII. Harelip, Stammering, Nasal Polypi, Staphyloraphy, Ex- tirpation of Goitre, Bronchotomy, etc. LVIII-LXXI. Operations on the Abdomen, Hernia, Artificial, Anus and Eectal Surgery. LXXII-LXXX. Operations on the Penis, Scrotum and Bladder, Lithotomy, etc. " LXXXI-LXXVI. Operations on the Qenital Organs of Women. " LXXXVII, LXXXVm. Tenotomy, Club root, etc. Each one of the plates contains from two to ten figures, most carefully <Iosignod and engraved.