372 LESIONS OF THE ORGANS OF REPRODUCTION. failed to break the habit, partly because, even if successful, its after consequences, in reference to the marital relations, might be most unpleasant, The simpler operation of infibulation would be positively efficacious, and leave no mutilation behind it. Ciraimcision. Where the prepuce is long and a source of irrita- tion, circumcision should be performed without hesitation. It must not, however, be regarded as a preventive of or even a safe- guard against the habit. Jews frequently masturbate. Infibulation. The most valuable of all operative preventives, is infibulation. This was in common use in ancient Rome, both to prevent masturbation and coition. The best method is to pierce the prepuce close to the extremity of the glans with a sharp pointed silver wire, the ends of which should then be firmly fastened together, and the loop thus left in the part. It rarely causes any troublesome irritation. It may be practiced with equal success on girls, the fibula being made to penetrate the labia majora. Scarification. A sore may be established on the prepuce or clitoris, which will temporarily prevent handling the organ. ORCHITIS (EPIDIDYMITIS). DRS. VAN BUREN AND KEYES, OF N. Y. In mild cases, rest on the back with elevation of the testicle aided by a light, hot, flaxseed poultice and a laxative, are sufficient. In severe cases rest on the back and elevation of the testicle above the .abdomen are indispensable. To effect this, apply a bandage around the waist, and fold a large handkerchief in triangle; place the base of the triangle under the scrotum j tie one acute angle on each side to the waistband, and bringing the right angle over the testicles and penis, pin it to the waistband; sew a tape to that portion of the sling immediately under the scrotum, carry it between the nates and attach it to the waistband. Having arranged this, put the patient to bed, and envelope the testicle from the Start with a tobacco poultice. 498. ]^. Fine cut tobacco, 5j Hot water, f.^x Bring to a boil while stirring briskly, and add : Powdered flaxseed, q. s. To bring to the proper consistency.