393 GENERAL THERAPEUTICS OF NASAL DISEASES. forward and breathing short, rapid breaths, about 40 per minute, interrupting the flow of the fluid every few seconds to allow of the patient resting, and to permit of the nostrils being sniffed out from behind by a succession of violent expirations through the nostrils, the mouth being closed, stopping the fluid from passing into the nostrils the instant that the patient ceases to breathe as I have directed, or on any involuntary act of swallowing taking place on the part of the patient—finally, in all cases, never to allow the patient to blow the nose after using the douche till all the residual fluid has been expelled from the nasal passages by oft-repeated and strong expirations through them with the mouth closed. Lastly, never to begin the douche till the patient thoroughly com- prehends the part that he or she is expected to perform in the course of the proceeding." DR. CONSTANTINE PAUL, OF PARIS. It is recommended by this writer {Bulletin General de Thera- peutigice, Aovii, 1876), that nasal irrigation should be practiced with the patient in the upright position, and the head bent forward, the nostrils occupying the lowest portion of the nasal form. The best apparatus is the original one of H. Weber. It consists of a caoutchouc tube, a yard and a half in length, the nasal extremity having an " ampulla" of horn or glass, which fits into the nostril; at the other end is a U-shaped tube of some solid material for con- venience of insertion into the solution. A special apparatus is not, however, necessary, as an ordinary bone enema pipe, around which linen may be wrapped to give it sufficient volume, so as to fill up the nostril, can be easily adapted to the tube of an irrigator. In such case M. Paul advises that the tap of the irrigator should be at "half cock." The affections in which he has especially em- ployed these irrigators are: ozsena, lupus of the nose, chronic rhinitis, nasal eczema, and acute coryza. He has successfully used the following: 535. I^. Sodse hyposulphitis, Aquae, And, 536. I^. Chloral hydratis, Aquae, gr.xxv f.Sj. M. gr.v f.5j. M.