IMPOTENCE. should possess a very pungent odor, and should produce an almost painfully acute sensation in the nostrils when it is smelt. If properly prepared, a few drops of linimentum sinapis sprinkled over a pad of cotton-wool ten or twelve inches long and four or five inches broad will suffice to produce in a few minutes pretty intense redness of the skin of the back, accompanied by more or less of the painful burning sensation characteristic of mustard. As a rule, however, where it is deemed necessary to keep up counter-irritation of the back for considerable periods of time, it is best to cause the patient to wear a strip of spongio-piline four or five inches broad, and of the length desired. In the case of per- sons with tender skins, the irritation and pain caused by even a very few drops of the liniment (which is diffused by sprinkling and rubbing one part of the spongio-piline against the other), is so considerable, that the application cannot at first be continued for many minutes. After a day or two the patient usually becomes able to bear the strip for several hours, and finds that the sensation of irritation is decidedly more pleasurable than painful. If, as fre- quently happens, the patient, having experienced benefit from previous applications, has sprinkled too large a quantity of the hniment upon the spongio-piline, the irritation produced may be so considerable as to compel an intermission of the treatment for a day or two. The irritated part then usually remains deeply con- gested and hot for several hours, only very rarely presenting any vesications. The great advantages of the linimentum' sinapis over any other similar preparation lies in the fact that it produces a remarkably active irritation of the sensory nerves of the skin, which subsides to a great extent when the preparation is removed, but which can be renewed almost indefinitely without leading to any eczematous, pustular, or ulcerative condition. RESUME OF REMEDIES. Aurum. The chloride of gold, and the chloride of gold and sodium, have a strongly specific power over the sexual organs. Dr. Bartho- Low believes that premature decline of the sexual power in man may be prevented by their use. When the symptoms com- plained of are weak and inefficient erections, inabi ty for the . reproductive act, due to irritability of the organs, diurnal semi- nal losses, etc., these troubles may be removed by the gold salts. Coldness and lack of passion in woman are more certainly cured by these agents than by any other merely medicinal means.