OSTEITIS AND PERIOSTEITIS. OSTEITIS AND PERIOSTEITIS. In both the specific and non-specific forms of these associated affections, Mr. T. Holmes has derived much advantage from the continued use of iodide of potassium, 277. 1^. Potassii iodidi, Tincturse opii, Aquae, This dose three times daily. When inflammation is severe and suppuration threatening, an incision reaching from one side of the tumor to the other often gives instant and permanent relief. In acute cases the local treatment should begin by leeching, fol- lowed by hot fomentations, poultices and opium. Blisters are highly recommended by Professor Cross. He applies one in such a manner as to cover the whole of the affected surface and allows it to remain on until thorough vesication is produced. He also attaches much value to the internal use of calomel, commenced as soon as the patient is properly depleted, and steadily continued until gentle ptyalism is produced. He says there is no remedy which exerts so powerful and controlling an influence over inflam- mation of bone as this, and that there are few cases in which it is not applicable. The value of the seton in chronic osteitis has lately been urged by Dr. J. A. Austin, of England [Lancet, Feb., 1877). He intro- duces one steeped in carbolic oil, and leaves it there for several weeks. It is usually followed by a prompt diminution of the pain and other inflammatory .symptoms. PROFESSOR THEODOR BILLROTH. Acute periosteitis is always dangerous to life, because pyemia is so apt to occur, especially when the femur is involved, and it is the more dangerous the longer the condition remains acute and the further it spreads. In the treatment, we can accomplish more if we are called early; one of the most efficient remedies is painting the whole limb with tincture of iodine. This should be repeated until large vesicles form. When these dry up, more is applied. The patient is to be kept recumbent, which the pain itself usually enforces. Deriva- gr.v-xv gtt.x-xx f.?ss. M.