LITHIASIS. (stone, CALCULUS, GRAVEL.) 339 for in irritability from inflammatory causes, after the acute symptoms have measurably subsided. Gelscinium is frequently an efficient agent in allaying vesical irritability. Opium, in the form of laudanum enemata, is very efficient in simple irri- tability ; also as suppositories. 459. R. Pulveris opii, gr.j-ij Butyri cocose, q. s. For one rectal suppository. Potassii Bromidiitn, and the other bromides, freely given internally, often relieve the pain and spasm. Zinci Oxidtim is added to vaginal suppositories for vesical irritability with advantage. (F. 454.) LITHIASIS. (STONE, CALCULUS, GRAVEL.) PROFESSOR JOHN W. S. GOULEY, M. D., OF NEW YORK. This surgeon, who has given much attention to the removal of calculi by lithotripsy, remarks that there are many cases so treated, where the cystitis continues for a long period; and the opponents of the operation are too ready to attribute it to lithotripsy, losing sight of the fact that this inflammatory condition had existed long before the operation, which has often greatly mitigated and ren- dered it much more controllable. One of the reasons for the continuance of this cystitis is neglect of after-treatment. The French often begin to treat the cystitis before operating, and continue the treatment after the operation until all traces of inflammation disappear. Stagnation of urine is of very common Occurrence in calculous cystitis; patients seldom completely empty the bladder before or after some of the opera- tions for stone, and as long as there is stagnation, even only to a small fraction of an ounce, cystitis will continue, and in a few months may become obstinate, and even give rise to a phosphatic stone. Of late the English have adopted the French practice of constantly withdrawing the residual urine, and of beginning vesical irrigation immfediately after lithotripsy. Many American surgeons now make it a rule to instruct patients to draw off the last drop of residual urine twice daily, and to irri- gate the bladder, and enjoin them to continue this practice until