357 IMPOTENCE. 6. Anaphrodisiacs. The excessive use of tobacco impairs diges- tion and weakens the nervous and muscular systems; opium eat- ing acts in the same way; the frequent use of bromide of potas- sium, camphor, lupulin, and some other substances, diminishes both desire and power. 7. Abuse of the fiinctmi. This may be by excessive sexual indulgence, or onanism, thus removing the power of erection. Proper regimen and a tonic treatment will generally restore such cases. 8. Obesity. The excessive accumulation of fat weakens the sex- ual power. 9. Prolonged continence. The non-use of the function diminishes its activity, and may result in producing inability. Such cases, when otherwise healthy, are usually readily amenable to treatment. 10. Abscess or other acute disease of the prostate gland. 11. Diabetes. It is not rare to find impotence supervene in ad- vanced diabetes. Of course the prognosis is most unfavorable. Impotence is often also one of the first signs of approaching diabe- tes ; and whenever individuals are met with who, previously virile, become weak and impotent without coinciding disease, especially of the spinal marrow, diabetes will usually be found to be the cause. 12. Atrophy of the testes following mumps or syphilis. In addition to these various causes Sir James Paget remarks that all sexual desire and power may cease in apparently, healthy men, without apparent cause, at unusually early ages; thus he has known cases where it has completely disappeared as early as thirty-five or forty years, even in men who had never masturbated and rarely had sexual intercourse. SIR JAMES PAGET. The more common cases of impotence are those due to nervous disorder or to mental defect; and the impotence which is com- plained of or dreaded without any real reason is more common still. Some of these mental and nervous defects hinder or interrupt erection; some prevent emission ; some are only occasional; a few are habitual or even constant. They may be cured, if at all, by means addressed to the nervous system; but they are all hard to cure—as hard as it is to cure stammering, whether in speech or in any other function.