5S6 VENEREAL DISEASES. A very useful formula for injection is that of the "four sulphates": 905. I^, Zinci sulphatis, Ferri sulphatis, Cupri sulphatis, Aluminis, Aquae, The solution is not used in full strength at first, but the first day is diluted with three times its bulk of water. If severe smart- ing follow, it is further diluted. Its strength is gradually increased until its full strength is used or the discharge stops. This being attained, it is diminished in strength step by step until plain water is reached. In this plan ten days should be employed. DR. J. D. HILL, ROYAL FREE HOSPITAL, LONDON. 906. Glycerini acidi tannici, f.giij Olei olivas, Misturas acaciae, aa f.§j. M. This injection our author has extensively employed in hospital and private practice. It should be used in the following manner: The bladder having been first emptied, the bottle containing the lotion is to be well shaken, and about two drachms of it briskly poured into a saucer, and quickly drawn into a syringe. The penis is then to be held in the left hand, with the thumb and little finger respectively placed upon the superior and inferior portions of that organ, close to the symphysis pubis, and the fore and mid- dle fingers resting in like manner upon the superior and inferior surfaces of the glans, close to the meatus urinarius. The syringe, with the piston withdrawn, is now to be taken up with the right hand, and the nozzle, as far as its shoulder, carefully passed into the urethra. The thumb and little finger must press the root of the penis to prevent the passage of any fluid beyond that point. When a sense of tension is felt, the syringe may be withdrawn ; but the fi-ont fingers must previously be so applied as to compress the glans, and thus prevent any escape of the fluid. Next, with the thumb and forefinger of the right hand, the fluid in the urethra is to be set in motion and so kept for four or five minutes. This will be attended with a gurgling noise, from the mixture of air and fluid. Thus, when the injection has insinuated itself within the folds and lacunae of the urethra, it is allowed to escape. In this manner, it aa gr.x f.^viij. M.