119 HEMORRHAGE. Kratm-ria, is a powerful internal astringent. Matico is not an astringent, but has a well-sustained reputation as a hemostatic, both for local use and as an internal remedy. Myristica. Nutmeg, browned like coffee, powdered and applied to the bleeding surface, is a prompt styptic. A case of marked hemor- rhagic diathesis, where it was used "with astonishing success," is reported by Dr. S B. Chase, of Iowa. (^Medical and Surg- ical Reporter, Dec, 1874.) Nux Vomica. Where the hemorrhagic tendency depends upon impover- ^ished blood, a combination of nux vomica and iron is very ser- viceable. *Opiuvi. In the exhaustion after profuse hemorrhage, no remedy is equal to a full dose of opium (see above, p. 113). Plumbum. Acetate of lead in solution is an astringent solution of minor importance. Internally, in doses of gr.v. every hour or two, it is very efficient in visceral hemorrhage. Tannicum Acidum is employed in a variety of styptic preparations (see F. 126, 129, 132, 134). * Terebinihince Oleum. In the hemorrhagic diathesis and internal hemor- rhage, f.^ss of turpentine every two hours, often proves efficient. It is supposed to act as a vaso-motor stimulant. Applied exter- nally it is strongly recommended by Professor Billroth. Some wads of charpie are soaked in it, and introduced into the wound. It is, however, an heroic remedy, not only because its applica- tion induces severe pain, but also because it excites severe in- flammation in the wound and its vicinity. Veratriim Viride as a cardiac depressant, is well spoken of in active hemorrhage (above, p. 113). GENERAL MEASURES. Cauterization. When styptics fail, resort must be had to cauterants. Of these the nitrate of silver, nitric acid, and carbolic acid are most in use. The actual cautery may also be employed. It should be at a black or dull-red heat, and lightly applied. Dr. Thomas C. Stellwagen, of Philadelphia, has recommended pointed sticks of hard or compressed wood as cauteries. These sticks may be made more inflammable by soaking in something like a solution of saltpetre, before drying and passing through the process of condensation, which dentists accomplish by an ordinary draw-plate, such as is used for making wire. To use one, a suitable portion should be burned in the flame of an ordinary match for a few moments, and then, by blowing out the flame, the incandescent portion at the point may be brought to the shape desired, and the temperature raised by passing rapidly through the air, or vice versa, lowered by allowing a trifling coating of ash to accumulate upon the surface. This will burn thus for one or more minutes, according as more or less is charred by the flame, and one or more of the small sticks