THE TREATMENT OF SCROFULA. In children with enlarged cervical glands, muco purulent dis- charge from the nose, tumid abdomen, pasty complexion, scrofu- lides on the skin, and white stools, its steady use will be found very serviceable. It is best given in fluid extract, dose gtt.x-xx, thrice daily, after eating, to a child. Sulphur formerly enjoyed a good reputation in the treatment of scrofula, but it has fallen into disuse. Attention has lately been called to it as a valuable remedy. 732. ^. Sulphuris, 9ij-iv Syrupi, f.^j Aquas, f.§vij. M. Two tablespoonfuls, once or twice a day, in a tumblerful of milk. Taraxacum. Dr. AVm. H. Byford, of Chicago, in a report on scrofula {Trans. Am. Med. Association, 1855}, says that taraxacum of all the vegetable alteratives is the most efficacious in removing scrofulous indigestion in both children and adults. It should not be given by grains, but as much as the stomach will bear. Zinci lodidum has been used externally in enlarged lymphatic glands. 733. '2f.. Zinci iodidi, 3j Adipis, !j. M. DIETETIC AND HYGIENIC REMEDIES. The Grape Cure. In all the dyscrasise, but especially in scrofula, the grape cure is popular in France, Switzerland, and Southern Germany. It consists of confining the diet exclusively to fresh ripe grapes, and is necessarily limited to the fall season. The first meal is taken in the house in the early morning, and is made up of from one to six pounds of grapes. The others, at noon and at evening, should be less in quantity, and eaten in the vineyard; and finally a moderate amount may be consumed before retiring. Bread and water are usually allowed in addition, but no other food or drink whatever; and this strict diet must be persevered in from four to six weeks. Very favorable results are reported from it, both in cases of scrofulosis where there is an unhealthy deposit of fat, and those where there are emaciation and swollen or suppurated glands. There would be no difficulty in carrying it out in many dis- tricts of this country, where the vine flourishes abundantly. Malt Extract. This is a very valuable adjuvant, in the treatment of scrofula and tubercle. It improves the nutrition and often arrests the progress of the disease. It accomplishes the good results of stimulants, without their injurious period of reaction, and other baneful effects. Mineral Waters. The most appropriate mineral waters in scrofula are the saline group, especially those containing iodine. In Eng-