445 TINNITUS AURIUM. TINNITUS AURIUM. In those forms of tinnitus dependent on inaction of muscles, or "paralysis of the intrinsic muscles of the ear," faradism seems to be a really valuable agent. Several cases have been treated in this way at the Central London Throat and Ear Hospital, by means of Stohrer's battery, with very marked good results. The current may be applied either direct to the membrane or over the mastoid process. According to the experience of all practising at this hospital, the latter method is quite as efficient as the former. At a recent meeting of the Harveian Society, London, Dr. Waakes called attention to the value of hydrobromic acid in aural cases of the class under consideration; and in the British Medical jfoiirnal of June 23, 1876, he has narrated two successful instances of its use. Since then other practitioners have employed it with equally good results. Gentle pressure exercised on the external carotids will occasion- ally relieve this symptom. The late Mr. Hilton stated {^Questions of Aural Surgery, page 292,) that he had " had more success with hydrochlorate of ammo- nia than with any other empirical remedy—especially more than with the bromide of potassium, of the efficacy of which he had seen very little evidence." As regards the empirical action of the hy- drochlorate, it is chiefly indicated, on account of its " high diffu- sion power" in those cases in which it is desired to administer " a food to the mucous membranes " (Ringer). DR. LAURENCE TURNBULL, OF PHILADELPHIA. When the tinnitus arises from pressure of cerumen upon the membrana tympani, the treatment is simply to remove the ceru- men by injections of tepid water or weak solutions of soda. Another cause is the growth of stiff" hairs within the meatus; by cutting these away with a curved scissors the affection is relieved. Tinnitus from adhesive mucus on the posterior surface of the membrana tympani, or in the middle ear, may be removed by the catheter or by a few blasts from Politzer's air bag. Foreign bodies in the Eustachian tube, causing tinnitus, can generally be removed by reversing the action of the air bag, caus- ing a suction of air from the tube; or the Eustachian forceps may be used.