THE COMPLICATIONS OF WOUNDS. 134 RESUME OF REMEDIES. '^Acettm. Strong vinegar applied externally, inhaled, and taken inter- nally in teaspoonful doses, properly diluted and oft repeated, is a very efficient restorative, nearly always at hand, and followed by no objectionable reaction. Alcohol. The routine practice of giving brandy and water, or whisky and water, in shock, is of doubtful propriety. Very frequently it is followed by dangerous reaction, disturbance of the stomach, and nervous irritation. AmmonicB Carbonas, and the liquor ammonice. aromatiais are valuable aids in restoring consciousness and strength. Belladonna and Atropia, hypodermically, have been used with advantage in severe shock. Caffea. Small doses of strong, hot coffee, are excellent stimulants in shock. Digitalis is highly spoken of by Dr. T. L. Brunton. (p. 128.) "^Ether may be given by the mouth, thrown into the rectum, or adminis- tered hypodermically. In either way it is a powerful restora- tive. Hyoscyamus, combined with opium, is praised by Mr. Holmes, (p. 130.) Opium, in a full dose, or a subcutaneous injection of morphia, is accord- ing to Dr. Fuller (p. 129) the best treatment in shock. TETANUS. PROF. ROBERTS BARTHOLOW, M. D., CINCINNATI, OHIO. Of all the remedies which have been proposed for tetanus, phy- sostigma must be regarded as the most useful. All cases treated by Calabar bean are not managed with equal judgment and skill. 'Dr. Fraser has indicated [The Practitioner, vol. i, p. 83,) the following mode of using it: Commence the treatment by subcuta- neous injection ; repeat such injection until the system is decidedly affected ; then administer the remedy by the mouth, in a dose three times as large as is found necessary by subcutaneous injection. This plan may be safely followed, even in a child of nine years. If the administration by the mouth continue to produce remedial effects, it should be persevered with; but in severe cases, subcuta- neous 'injection should alone be employed, and it should always be preferred when severe and continued spasms occur, when a fatal result is imminent from exhaustion, and when apnoea threatens a fatal termination. No arbitrary rules of dosage can be laid down.