167 HYDROPHOBIA. HYDROPHOBIA. The current statement in surgical text-books is that in hydro- phobia all remedies are unavailing; that as soon as the symptoms declare themselves, hope may as well be given up; and that prac- tically a euthanasia is as much as medical art, at its best, can ac- complish. On the other hand, there have been reported by excellent authorities at various times cases having all the symptoms of hydrophobia, and following the bite of a rabid animal, which have recovered under treatment. That all of these were simply mani- festations of terror, hysteria or mimetic nerve disease, is a pure assumption by writers who never saw the cases. The opinion, therefore is allowable and probably correct, that a limited number of cases of hvdrophobia have been cured, and that the disease in a few instances either has a tendency to recover, or else may be brought to a favorable termination by appropriate remedies. The correct opinion on this subject is expressed by the learned and eminent Dr. John Mason Good, in the following words quoted in Holmes' System of Surgery. "It is highly probable that a spontaneous cure maybe occasion- ally effected by the strength of the constitution or the remedial power of nature alone. The fact appears to be that the disease requires about six or seven days to run its course, at the expiration of which period the system seems to be exonerated, by the outlet of the salivary glands, of the poison with which it is infected. And hence, if by any means it be able to carry itself through this period, without being totally exhausted, it will obtain a triumph over the disease. Our grand object must therefore be to keep the patient alive, and to prevent a fatal torpitude in the sensorium for a certain number of days, at any expense of stimulants or of sub- sequent debility." [Study of Medicine, vol. 3, p. 303.) MR. YOUATT. The preventive treatment recommended by this eminent veter- inarian has been strongly endorsed by such surgeons as Dr. J. Mason Warren, of Boston, and Nathan R. Smith, of Baltimore. He says: "The wound should be thoroughly washed and cleansed as soon