SUNSTROKE. 191 cases of thermic fever, bleeding should be avoided, good results being produced by the hypodermic injection of morphia and of quinine, by their influence on the vaso-motor nerves, and their power in retarding tissue change. The most severe symptoms having subsided, the febrile condition that follows should be treated by saline's and aperients, with mild diet. If meningitis set in, iodide of potassium and counter-irritants may be used to ad- vantage. In every case removal to a cooler climate is essential, and the sufferer should not, for a long period at least, return to a hot or tropical climate. Undue exposure to heat, work, mental anxiety, or stimulants, should be carefully guarded against. The treatment recommended by Dr. C. Bliss [Medical Record, N. Y.,) is similar in most respects, but there are one or two points worthy of note—for instance, that a condition necessary to the success of any plan or treatment is that it must be applied before the patient's temperature has reached 108° or 109° F. The doc- tor advocates the free use of water at its ordinary temperature in preference to ice, and, when consciousness is restored, the patient should be dried with gentle friction, placed in bed, and covered with a light blanket; light liquid diets and saline aperients, if re- quired. PROF. WILLIAM AITKEN, M. D., EDINBURGH. This writer recommends the following line of treatment of Dr. Barclay: In the class of cases in which death tends to occur suddenly, from syncope, there is little opportunity afforded for relief; but the measures indicated are—the cold douche; keeping the surface wet and exposed to a current of air, or assiduously fanned ; exclusion of light as far as possible; the immediate employment of stimu- lants, external and internal, by the rectum as well as by the mouth. Depletory measures of any kind are not to be thought of. In the less rapidly decisive cases, prompt treatment is of the greatest use, while delay is fraught with the greatest danger. The patient must be immediately stripped of his outer clothing, placed in a semi-recumbent position, and the cold douche applied, from a height of three or four feet, over his head and along his spine and chest, while his extremities are sponged with cold water. Relaxa- tion of the pupil is the first favorable symptom under this treat- ment, which may require to be repeated several times, on account