ERYSIPELAS. 99 I which may be added wine with a view to support the vital powers. The local palliative treatment should consist of sedative fomenta- tions, dredging with flour, and inunction with lard; the mrative treatment is attained by penciling the surface with a solution of filtrate of silver. J. MILNER FOTHERGILL, LONDON. This author maintains that true erysipelas is a totally different affair from that form of dermatitis which follows injuries to the skin. The true form is that often seen in erysipelas of the head and neck. In such erysipelas, tonics, stimulants and half drachm doses of the tincture of perchloride of iron every four hours, to- gether with milk and nutritive food, form the best line of treatment. As external applications he prefers flour, oxide of zinc, cotton wool, or warm solutions of acetate of lead and opium. The traumatic form should be treated by cooling medicines, and applications of lead and opium, or by applying the solid nitrate of silver around the blush, which often arrests its spread. In phlegmonous erysipelas, the most active stimulant and tonic measures are demanded, together with strict antiseptic treatment, and free evacuation of the deposits of pus. Sometimes the pro- nounced asthenia may be successfully combated by a resort to digitalis in addition to the measures just mentioned. DR. F. L. SATTERLEE, OF NEW YORK. The following is the treatment used by this practitioner with the best effect {N. Y. Med. Jour., Dec, 1875): 96. Quiniae sulphatis, Acidi sulphurici diluti, Opii elixir (McMunn), AquEe, For one dose on retiring at night. If the stomach is irritable, put a mustard plaster under the left breast for ten or fifteen minutes before giving the dose; or admin- ister it by enema. After this draught the patient usually sleeps well and perspires freely, the eruption diminishes, and the disease abates. If there is biliousness, free draughts of lemonade; if con- stipation, a simple cathartic is called for. No local application is necessary. In severe cases, not seen early, the dose may require to be repeated a second or even a third night. gr. xxv-xxx gtt.v nxv f.^iss. M.