LESIONS OF THE ORGANS OF URINATION. 342 the tendency to uric acid production there often lies inactivity of the liver. For this, nothing is so valuable as the saline mineral waters, as Piillna, Friederichshalle, Marienbad, Carlsbad or Fran- zensbad (in order of their strength). These waters should be given, from three to ten ounces, with half the quantity of hot water, before breakfast. In regard to diet, the patient should eschew alcohol, saccharine and fatty articles. Butter, cream and pastry are included in the last mentioned. Fresh, green vege- tables may be taken freely, but not sweet fruits, as grapes, pears and plums. All medicinal agents, secret or professional, are solutions of lime, soda or potash, alone or combined. Of all these, the citrate and the bicarbonate of potash are preferred by our author. The former may be taken in doses of gr.xl to gr.l, every three or four hours, in aquae fgiv. The following conditions are essential to success; certainty that the stone is uric acid and of small. size ; that the urine is acid, and never ammoniacal. 462. R. Potassas bicarbonatis, 5xij Acidi citrici, gr.viij-xxiv Aquam, ad f.gxij. M. One or two tablespoonfuls in a glass of water, thrice daily. Each ounce contains 5j of citrate of potassa. DR. VENABLES, LONDON. 463. I^. Sodii boratis, ■ gr.vij Sodii bicarbonatis, gr.ix Syrupi aurantii corticis, f.§iss. M. To be taken during the day, in soda-water, for the red deposit seen in the urine of persons predisposed to gravel. The borax and the bicarbonate of sodium may be replaced by from four to six grains of carbonate of lithium. S. W. BUTLER, M. D., PHILADELPHIA. 464. Fresh root of hydrangea arborescens, 2 pounds Water, 6 quarts. Boil down to two quarts; strain, and add one quart of honey, and boil down to one quart. A teaspoonful twice or three times a day. Dr. Butler highly recommends this remedy in cases of sabu- lous and gravelly deposits in the bladder. Under its use large quantities of sand and gravel have been removed. A fluid extract of the hydrangea arborescens is prepared by the leading pharmaceutists, and may be readily obtained.