GENERAL THERAPEUTICS OF SKIN DISEASES. In Strumous subjects, the diet should consist of as much fatty- matter as possible. Fourth. In children who suffer from ringworm, it is desirable to give as much fatty matter as possible, by means of milk, cream, eggs, and fat meat, if they can be got to eat it. Fifth. In syphilis, the greatest care should be taken to avoid anything beyond the most moderate use of stimulants; their abuse in this disease is a source of the greatest aggravation. Sixth. In all cases in which the onset or early stage of a skin disease is accompanied by febrile disturbance, however slight, or in which the disease is very hyperaemic, stimulants should be avoided, and the plainest and simplest diet ordered. In marked cases of this kind, a milk diet for a while is often found to be very beneficial. Seventh. In some cases in which the skin is hyperaemic, this condition is much increased by the indigestion of food, especially if dyspepsia exists, in consequence of the sympathy existing be- tween the stomach and the skin of the part affected. This state of things is especially marked in such diseases as acne, conges- tion of the face, and non-parasitic sycosis. Stimulants must be avoided, except they be diluted with some alkaline water ; the use of a diet appropriate to the dyspepsia must be rigorously enforced. Eighth. It is said.that psoriasis requires an ample meat diet; but the patient must be dieted, and not his disease—i. e., the diet should be plain and nutritious, and adapted to the constitutional peculiarities of the individual, according to circumstances. Ninth. In all cases where a skin disease has become chronic, and where there is debility, the patient should be allowed a full, unstimulating diet. ARSENIC IN SKIN DISEASES. DR. L. DUNCAN BULKLEY, OF NEW YORK. According to this author, arsenic is valuable in chronic rheuma- tism, hence it is useful in arthritic eruptions; it is serviceable in certain neuroses, as chorea and neuralgia, therefore, in skin dis- eases with neurotic elements; and it possesses anti-malarial prop- erties, and is consequently serviceable in diseases of the skin showing periodic symptoms, as intermittent urticaria, etc., like- wise in patients with other skin diseases who have been exposed to miasmatic influence.