19 THE PREVENTIVE TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION. sive inflammation by mechanically limiting the access of blood is of recent date. Dr. Tito Vanzetti, of Padiia, has practiced with success com- pression of the main artery leading to the inflamed part, thus dimin- ishing the amount of the blood to what is necessary for or com- patible with the separative process. This measure often avoids exhaustive suppuration and gangrene, as well as promptly relieves pain. It has been adopted with much success by Mr. Sampson Gamgee, of London. As early as 1813, Dr. H. U. Onderdonck, of New York, and latterly Mr. C. F. Maunder, of London, have practiced ligation of the main artery of an extremity after severe injury, and with the happiest results. The latter states these conclusions as follows : That ligature of the superficial femoral artery has arrested acute inflammation consequent on wound of the knee-joint. That ligature of a main artery will quickly diminish profuse sup- puration, and prevent death by exhaustion. That, while it arrests profuse suppuration, it will, by allowing the patient to gain strength, afford an opportunity for amputation at a future time. That gangrene and secondary haemorrhage, as the result of lig- ature, should not be anticipated in the healthy subject. That the dread of these has arisen from our knowledge of the consequences of the ligature in instances of known diseased ves- sels—aneurism, for example. That the arterial tension of the rest of the body will be increased beneficially by the ligature. COLD applications. The local preventive treatment of inflammation, according to Mr. Erichsen, is best carried out after removing sources of irrita- tion and placing the part in repose, by the free application oi cold. If the injury be superficial, and not very severe, lint dipped in cold water, frequently removed, may be applied; or, if the skin be un- broken, an evaporating lotion may be applied. Should the injury be severe, cold irrigation will be preferable. This may be done by suspending over the part a large, wide-mouthed bottle full of cold water; one end of a skein of cotton, well wetted, is then allowed to hang in the water, while the other is brought over the side of the bottle. This, acting as a syphon, causes a continual dropping