38 THE THERAPEUTICS OF INFLAMMATION. Another Bread Poultice. Cut stale bread into thick slices, and pour enough boiling water over it to cover it; place the whole by the fire, and allow it to simmer for a short time, then strain off the excess of water, and prepare the poultice. The first of these is a porous poultice; the second a more compact poultice, re- sembling a flaxseed poultice. Carrot Poultice. Scrape the raw carrots into a pulp, or boil them until they are soft and then mash them to a pulp. Either can be used as a stimulant cataplasm in sluggish inflammations. Cataplasm of Fucus Crispus. Spread out evenly a sheet of carded wad- ding, and pour on it a concentrated mucilaginous infusion of Fucus crispus (Irish Moss). Cover with another sheet of carded wadding, and beat lightly with a soft brush to cause the jelly to be evenly absorbed. Then dry at a moderate temperature. When used place the sheet in a large plate and moisten with boihng water. Starch Poultice. Add a little cold water to the starch and blend the two into a pap; then add sufflcient boiling water to make a poultice of the required consistence, which must be spread on linen in the manner already described for linseed poultice. The starch poultice is useful in skin eruptions attended with much heat and pain, and in general when a soothing application is required. Carbolic Acid Poultice. Make a linseed poultice, but substitute the car- bolic acid lotion (acidi carbo. cryst. gr. j, aquae rty, 50) for one- half of the water. {Lojidon Fever Hospital.) Charcoal Poultice. The charcoal may either be mixed with the ingre- dient of the poultice, or sprinkled over the part and covered with a simple poultice, or the following formula of the British Pharmacopoeia may be employed: 34. Carbonis ligni, Panis, §ij Lini, • |iss Aquae, Used as a disinfectant to putrid wounds, etc. f.?x. M. Yeast Poultice. There are two ways of making a yeast poultice. In the first, the yeast and water are added to flour till ordinary dough is made, and the dough is applied while fermentation is going on. In this case, we have simply an application of rising dough. In the other way, warm yeast is spread over the surface of a simple bread poultice. I'he following is the formula of the British Pharmacopoeia: -^t;. R. Beer yeast, fo'^'J Flour, |xiv Water at icqO, f.^vi. M. Used as a stimulant to sluggish or sloughing wounds, etc. Potato Poultice. Dr. McCall Anderson recommends in eczema, at- tended with much inflammation and sensation of heat, the