WOUNDS OF THE HEAD. The treatment of punctured fractures here advocated, is still more strongly urged by Mr. Davies Colley, in Guy's Hospital Reports, 1877. He lays it down as an imperative rule in such wounds' to trephine at once, without waiting for symptoms of irri- tation or compression. DR. G. H. MACLEOD, OF GLASGOW, Professor of Clinical Surgery in the University, urges strongly the avoidance of active interference in wounds of the head, especially in children. He teaches that the simpler the treatment of these cases the better. Active interference is most injurious. The soft- ness of the bones, their elastic connection, and the more free ex- pansion allowed the brain in young children, save them from much of the risk run by adults. Even in cases of severe fracture, with depression, non-interference is the best procedure. The absence of the sinuses and of diploe allows of the brain being easily reached by a blow; but still if time is only given (supposing always that fragments are not actually driven into the brain), he unhesitatingly believes that these young patients have a much better chance by being let alone than from any operation. In a patient aged twelve, a considerable part of the left parietal bone was wholly removed by the blow from a cart-tram falling on him. The brain was freely exposed, yet by simple treatment and non-interference,—beyond guarding him against sources of irritation, and attention to his general health,—he made a perfect and uninterrupted recovery. DR. DAVID W. YANDELL, OF LOx!riSVILLE. This surgeon has called attention to the value of bromide of potassium in injuries to the brain. {Louisville Medical News, July, 1876.) It should be given in full doses (5j) when symptoms of compression arise, especially when secondary to injuries of the head. He believes that its judicious and regular use will not un- frequently obviate the necessity of resorting to the trephine. PROF. D. HAYES AGNEW, OF PHILADELPHIA,* Recommends, as general rules in wounds of the head, to employ stimulants cautiously until the danger of collapse has passed ; then ice to the head, veratrum viride, perhaps general bleeding to deter * Treatise on Surgery, Vol. I., 1878.