GONORRHOEA. 563 chloroform has been inhaled. In many cases mobility can be en- tirely restored, even after anchylosis has appeared to be complete. DR. J. F. M. GEDDINGS, OF SOUTH CAROLINA, This practitioner states that in the first place the gonorrhoea! discharge should be suspended by appropriate injections. The following formula, suggested by Niemeyer, he has found very efficacious in simple gonorrhoea, and there its no reason why it may not prove equally so in complicated cases : 915. Acid, tannic, grs.xxx-lx Vini gallici rub., f.^iv. M. Ft. inject. To be used three times a day. Concerning the use of balsam copaiva, he is extremely dubious. Highly recommended by Lebert and others, the remedy seems contra-indicated by the possibility of its inducing, in certain sub- jects, symptoms similating those of the disease under considera- tion. The local treatment of the affected joints requires absolute rest, leeches, and the cold or warm douche, according to the suscepti- bilities of the patient. After the acute symptoms are subdued, no remedy exercises a more beneficial influence than tke actual cau- tery, applied lightly to many points around the joint, so as only to involve the epidermis and superficial layer of the chorion. Paint- ing with tinct. iodine, blisters, frictions with oil, etc., may be sub- stituted, but with less effect. When the swelling has somewhat subsided, but the joint still remains stiff and painful, the cold douche, with frictions, gives ex- cellent results. In indolent cases, where there is formation of much new tissue in and around the joint, moderate compression and an immovable apparatus should be used. Should adhesions have formed between the articulating ends of the bones, causing spurious anchylosis, Langenbeck's method of forcible extension and flexion in the chloroform narcosis should be practiced. This practice should not, however, be resorted to until the inflamma- tory symptoms have ceased. In cases where there is evidence of purulent accumulation, with caries of the ends of the bones, the question of amputation must be considered. Prichard reports a case where amputation of the thigh had to be practiced for suppu- ration of the knee, affected with gonorrhoeal rheumatism.