37 THE IMMEDIATE TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION. POULTICES. JJ7ien Employed. In the beginning of inflammations, to arrest them and prevent the formation of pus ; also after suppuration, to facili- tate the passage of the matter to the surface and its expulsion, and limit the spread of inflammatory action. Hints and Cautions. It is important that poultices should be applied as hot as can be borne and frequently changed, the old poultice not being removed before the new one is at hand to replace it. In the treatment of boils it is good practice to cover the boil with a piece of opium plaster with a circular hole, and to apply the poultice only over the plaster, or to smear the contiguous surface to the boil with zinc ointment; the object being to pro- tect the adjacent tissues from the action of the poultice, which has a tendency to develop fresh boils. (Ringer.) The princi- pal materials of which poultices are made are linseed-meal, oatmeal, bread, starch, charcoal, yeast, carrots and potatoes. Linseed-meal Poultice. Rinse a bowl or basin with boiling water to heat it, then pour in sufficient boiling water; with one hand sprinkle into the bowl the meal, while with the other stir the mixture constantly with a spoon or spatula till sufficient meal has been added to make a thin and smooth dough. This should be done rapidly, otherwise the poultice will be almost cold when made. The meal should always be added to the water with constant stirring as here directed, for if the water be poured over the meal, the two ingredients are not well blended, and a lumpy, knotty mass is the result. The dough thus made should be spread quickly and evenly over a folded piece of warm linen cut ready to receive it. The following is the formula of the British Pharmacopoeia for this poultice : 33. I^. Lini, ^iv. Olei olivse f §ss Aquas bullientis, f.§x. M. This is a compact and only slightly porous poultice, and re- tains heat and moisture longer than any other kind except oat- meal. It is also more tenacious than a bread poultice, and therefore less liable to break and fall about. But the acrid mat- ter which the linseed contains sometimes irritates a delicate skin, in which case an oatmeal or bread poultice should be substi- tuted. Slippery Elm Poultice. Prepared from the powdered bark of the slippery elm moistened with hot water. It is very light and demulcent, well adapted for burns, excoriations and irritable sores. Bread Poultice. Cut the bread in thickish slices, put it into a basin, pour some boiling water over it, and place the soaking mass by the fire for five minutes; then pour off the water, replacing it with fresh boiling water, and repeat this process ; afterwards pour off the excess of water and press the bread, beat up with a fork and make into a poultice.