361 IMPOTENCE. morbid sensibility of the prostatic urethra, and dilate the stricture. Dilatation of the stricture alone, however, often fails to restore vir- ility, because the stricture tends to maintain the inflammatory con- dition of the urethra behind it. In some instances temporary re- lief follows, but to effect a permanent cure an operation will be required. Dr. Gross gives the preference to retrograde internal incision, performed with an instrument which he devised, and which he has successfully employed in a number of cases. It is fashioned like the bulbous explorer, and defines a stricture with great accuracy. Having been carried behind the stricture, the blade is projected from the bulb, by sliding the button at the proximal extremity of the shaft, and the coarctation, as well as half an inch of the mucous membrane behind and anterior to it, divided on its with- drawal. The bulb is again carried through the severed parts, with a view of detecting any uncut bands, and a steel bougie, corres- ponding to the normal size of the urethra, as previously deter- mined by the urethrometer, at once passed, and afterwards used every forty-eight hours, until the wound has cicatrized. DRS. VAN BUREN AND KEYES. For the management of the nervous and mental forms of impo- tence, these authors observe that it is necessary to arouse the moral sentiment of carnal desire, as well as the power of the organs locally to respond. The first of these is attained by favorable relations to the other sex, and appropriate surroundings, the opera, ballet, the theatre, etc. The second may be obtained by general dry functions of the whole body, by massage and the flesh brush; cold bath, sea-bath- ine, senerous diet, and the internal use of tonic medication; the mineral acids, strychnine, ergot, and especially phosphorus and cantharides, or the two combined, commencing at a fair dose, say phosphorus gr.:^ to tinctura cantharidis gtt.x, three or four hours before the desired erection, and increasing the dose carefully. Cantharides produces erection without desire; phosphorus is apt to increase desire directly. Cold and heat by the douche, alternated, electricity, and the local application of mustard, are all sometimes serviceable in re- calling the power of erection. Occasionally decided advantage is