484 NEW GROWTHS, The application at times, according to the seat of the diseese, may be very painful, especially if the cancroid be somewhat ex- tensive. The eschar formed by the powder has the thickness of a two-franc piece ; it is not produced immediately, it is only after twenty-four hours that it appears ; it is semi-transparent if the wound does not bleed. It also seems that the wound upon which it rests is diminished in extent; one would say that it shriveled. This eschar is rapidly eliminated. {Progres Medi- cale, No. 36, 1876.) Silica. In the Edinburgh Medical Journal, Nov., 1875, F. Battve states that silica, powdered very fine, greatly relieves the pain in cancer. His prescription was : 703. '2/.. Pulv. silicse, gr.iij Morph. sulph., gr.j. M. For three powders. One three times a day. Possibly the anodyne action of the morphia was simply en- hanced by fine trituration; at any rate, the effect was much better than the morphia alone. Sodcz Bicarbonas. Professor Busch, of Bonn, has derived great benefit in epithelioma from frequent washings with soda. {London Medi- cal Record, May, 1877.) His conclusions are: i. Epithelial cancer commences in many cases as a simple proliferation of the superficial epithelium. 2. In this stage, the disease is cura- ble by persistent washing with solution of soda. 3. In certain favorable cases of superficial cancer of the face this method is successful, even when ulcers are present. 4. In many cases the recurrence of epithelial cancer after extirpation is prevented by alkaline washings of the cicatrix and adjacent parts. 5. It m.ay be useful, as a prophylactic measure, to remove the epithelial deposits which sometimes take place on the breasts of elderly women. Sidphuricum Acidiim, used by M. Michel. (P. 474.) Tannicum Acidum. According to Dr. Schwalbe, this acid posesses the property of destroying the cancer-cells and favoring absorption of the products. The author has attempted the use of this sub- stance in injections into various tumors, and he has seen a malig- nant lymphoma of the neck diminisla considerably under its influence. A tumor as large as a hen's egg, implanted upon the periosteum of the lower jaw, and the development of which had been very rapid, necrosed quickly under the influence of these injections, and soon fell off. Thuja Occidentalis has been used both internally and locally to cancer- ous aff"ections, with asserted advantage. Zinci Chloridum is the most widely used of all the escharotics in can- cerous affections. (Above.) It is highly recommended by European surgeons ; its power to arrest phagedenic action is remarkable; it not only has a cauterant property, but it is pecu- liarly alterative. It may be mixed with flour or other substances to form a paste. One part to three of flour is preferred by some.