THE COMPLICATIONS OF WOUNDS. Nitrite of Amyl, by inhalation, has been exhibited with success in trau- matic tetanus. Its action is similar, but less in degree, to that of Glonoin (q. v.) Ahix Vomica, see Strychnia. OleimiTerebinthincz, internally, or by enema, sometimes exerts a benefi- cial influence. It may be used as an adjunct to other remedies. Opium has been given in large doses, but is inferior, in this disease, to aconite, belladonna, chloroform, or physostigma. Dr. Rup- PANER recommends the hypodermic injection of gtt.xxv-lx, of liquor opii compositus, in the back, near the spinal column. "^Physostigma is a remedy of much value, and one of which there is great tolerance in this disease. Dr. Fraser, of Edinburgh, is in favor of subcutaneous injections, especially in severe cases {^Practi- tioner, August, 1868), but Dr. Eben. Watson, who has had great experience in its use, has failed to obtain, in this way, any very decided effect. He prefers to prescribe the alcoholic ex- tract in solution, as a weak tincture; but should the stomach reject this, he gives a double dose in a starch-water enema. {Practitioner, April, 1870.) He agrees with Dr. Fraser in" the necessity of giving it in large and repeated doses, the sole limit being the subsidence of the tetanic spasms, or the development of the poisonous effects of the drug to a dangerous degree. The strength of the patient must also be well supported by fluid nourishment and stimulants. Physostigma may fail, however, even when its full physiological effects have been pro- duced. (F. 148.) Potassii Bromiduni, in doses of gr. xx-xl, every two or three hours, has been given in a number of reported cases of idiomatic and trau- matic tetanus, with markedly favorable effects. QuinicE Sulphas has been used, but is of doubtful power. Strychnia, in doses of gr. y'2~rV' ^very two hours, has been employed with benefit. Tabacum. Enemata have been employed with success in the hands of some practitioners, but have failed entirely in others. Their strength should never exceed gr. xxx of the leaves in Oss of water, and ammonia, brandy and other stimulants must be given, to prevent too great depression. The topical application of tobacco has been recommended in traumatic tetanus, a strong infusion of Cavendish tobacco being applied to the wound and surrounding parts, previously blistered; in idiopathic tetanus, it being applied to a blistered surface over the spine. See, also, Nicotia. Woorara, in large doses hypodermically, gr-Vii^^V-TV' successful in the hands of Spencer Wells and others. It has not, however, justified the confident hopes that were at first entertained of its powers in tetanus. Cathartics are useful in most cases.