FELON (whitlow, PARONYCHIA). 217 Tannicum Acidum is a useful local astringent. Terebinthince Oleum. Painting a boil in its early stage with turpentine occasionally aborts it. Later in its development, turpentine liniment is an excellent stimulant application. Vesication. Applying a blister directly over a boil or carbuncle is a popular treatment with many. (Above.) FELON (WHITLOW, PARONYCHIA). THE ABORTIVE TREATMENT, According to Mr. Erichsen, occasionally succeeds, if employed early in the following manner: The patient is well purged and placed upon a strictly anti-phlogistic diet. The inflamed finger is freely leeched, and then alternately poulticed and soaked in very hot water, for twenty-four or forty-eight hours, being kept all this time in an elevated position. This sometimes cuts short the in- flammation at the outset. If it fails, a free incision must promptly be made. A writer in the Boston Journal of Chemistry, July, 1871, states that he has adopted with much success the plan of applying collo- dion over the finger, and the part where the pain is felt, as soon as it is noticed. The collodion in contracting exerts an even pres- sure, and if kept on for twenty-four hours, the pain, at first in- creased, will generally disappear. An excellent abortive treatment of felon is to bind the finger firmly next to the hand with rubber tape. Inflammation will often disappear in twenty-four hours. Even after pus has formed, this method is valuable. A correspondent of the Lancet, July, 1874, recommends the ap- plication of a small blister directly over the seat of pain, as early as possible. Dr. De Forges claims to have often aborted a felon by having the patient hold the finger for some time in pure alcohol or in camphorated spirits. When in paronychia osteosa the bone becomes necrosed, it should not be removed until loose, when it may be lifted out and the wound allowed to heal in the ordinary manner. The advice given by some eminent surgeons (James Svme) to amputate the finger after the destruction of the bone, should not