SMOCK. fourth, those which, by causing great vascular turgescence at some other part, and also irritation of nerves, tend to diminish the vascu- lar turgescence and nerve-irritation at the affected one; fifth, those which in a direct manner induce contraction of the arterial walls. First. In order to diminish the temperature of the head, and thus induce contraction of the blood-vessels of the brain, the simple measure of shaving the scalp is of great importance, and, if the weather be cool, will often be quite sufficient to prevent the scalp from ever attaining an undue temperature. In warm weather, how- ever, and whenever the heat of the scalp is well marked, either ice- bladders or evaporating lotions ought to be used. Secondly. The chief measure by which we diminish the quantities of the circulating fluid is by direct abstraction of it by venesection. Purgation and blistering are other less direct methods of attaining the same end. As regards the influence of venesection upon the passive congestion of the brain, there can be no doubt that it is often very beneficial. If, however, the brain substance have been contused, there is a risk that softening may follow, and this risk will probably be increased by any measure which diminishes the patient's strength. Thirdly. The semi-erect position, where not disagreeable to the patient, should be preferred. Fourthly. As to the good effects of counter-irritation there can be no doubt whatever. He has been accustomed to employ it more freely than is generally done—applying repeated blisters (and very large ones) to the nape of the neck, shoulders and upper parts of the arms, and often with veiy marked advantage. Blisters may be used at any time after reaction is established, and may often be continued throughout the whole of the case, until the patient is quite free from head symptoms. Patients who have recovered consciousness, but are still suffering from headache and confusion of thought, often speak in the most emphatic manner of the relief which they experience from the influence of a large blister. Purgation is, perhaps, of all remedies, the one most universally and conspicuously beneficial in the treatment of the effects of con- cussion. Constipation is a tolerably constant condition during the state of general nervous torpor induced by concussion. Several doses of some brisk purgative are often necessary before the bowels can be got to act, but when they do so a change for the better in the patient's symptoms is almost always remarked.