SPECIAL FORMS OF WOUNDS. 158 Dr. Benjamin Howard, U. S. A. It consists in paring the edges of the wound, if uneven, then drying it, and placing upon it a few shreds of charpie arranged crosswise ; a few drops of collodion are poured on these so as to saturate them and form a sort of collo- dion cloth; when dried, additional coats of collodion are painted on, until the wound is hermetically sealed. This mode, according to Dr. Cheever, " has now scarcely a single advocate." * Second, to pursue a strictly expectant course, and not tap or open more freely the pleura, until pneumo-thorax hemorrhage or effusion calls for interference. Third, to lay open the tract of the wound and make at once a free and permanent pleural opening. Dr. Cheever gives a case where a rib was broken by the entrance of a piece of iron, and the pleural cavity was penetrated. The wound was freely slit up, the pleural cavity more widely opened, and a small fragment of splin- ' tered rib extracted. The wound was left open. A large effusion of serum began to be discharged from the wound. A moderate pneumonia set in; and the discharge became puriform. The wound of the chest wall was kept sedulously open with tents, and the pleural cavity syringed out daily, with disinfectants, through a long elastic catheter. Adhesions of the lung to the thorax took place, the cavity lessened, and finally the wound closed and the patient convalesced. Pleurisy, pneumonia, empyema, and adhe- sion, went through their stages with an open wound, instead of in a closed cavity. One year later this patient again presented himself at the hospi- tal. Respiration was nearly perfect on the injured side. He was strong and active, and, what was most interesting, the side of the thorax had not collapsed and shrunk as it does in chronic pleurisy, after the effusion is absorbed. During the course of the diseased processes, atmospheric pressure had been equal both inside and outside the thorax. The lung did not collapse when the pleural cavity was freely opened. This opening was about opposite the lower third of the axilla. Dr. A. H. Smith's experiments prove that collapse of the lung does not take place if an opening is made in the side of the * It will be found very fully discussed in the Medical and Surgical History of the War of the Rebellion, Surgical Vol. I., p. 497 et seq.: the verdict is against it.