394 LESIONS OF THE ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE. ON NASAL BOUGIES. Hitherto the treatment of nasal disease has been confined to in- jections of tepid water and solutions of different drugs, and appli- cations of caustic to the nasal mucous membrane by means of porte-caustique, the latter of. which methods causes intense pain when the mucous membrane is swollen and the meatus is narrow. Moreover, cauterizations cannot be employed sufficiently often. For these reasons nasal bougies have been recently introduced. They are made of gelatine and medicated commonly with alum, sulphate of copper, rhatany, carbolic acid, etc. Their use has been attended with great success. They are a little over three inches in length, and from one-eighth to one-quarter of an inch in diame- ter, pointed at one end so as to be more easily introduced. Their introduction is not at all painful; the elastic body adapts itself to every irregularity in the nasal cavity, passes very easily through the narrowest parts of the meatus, and dilates them by gentle pressure. These bougies have been used in cases of cojyza and ozcena, and with great success in cases of extensive swelling of the nasal mucous membrane and of the turbinated bones. If there is total obstruction 6f the meatus, and air cannot be drawn through the nostril, the introduction of the first bougie often effects great improvement. In cases of ozaena, sulphate of copper and carbolic acid are the most useful agents; but where there is extensive swelling and relaxation of the mucous membrane, the tincture of rhatany is to be recommended. Sulphate of zinc is not much used, for, according to Stork's experiments, solutions of this drug, when they are only injected into the nose, destroy the power of smell. There is no difficulty in introducing the bougie; it is ad- visable to give it a rotatory as well as an onward motion during introduction. Even in the most obstructed meatus, it is possible to introduce the bougie completely and in any direction; after- ward the nostril is plugged with lint, to prevent the liquefied gela- tine escaping by any other orifice than the posterior nares. When there is much secretion present, the gelatine may liquefy in 'three quarters of an hour, but it usually takes three hours. It causes no unpleasant sensation while in the nose, and it is useful, not only in applying medicaments to the mucous membrane, but in keeping the meatus dilated.