232 LESIONS OF THE BONES AND JOINTS. Of course, whatever local treatment is adopted, it must be backed by tonics, rest, nutritious food, bathing, and hygienic sur- roundings. The internal administrations of the phosphates have been supposed, by some, to hasten the formation of healthy bone. As these affections are so frequently connected with serious general impairment, struma or syphilis, and sometimes with tox- ical agents, as phosphorus, it is indispensable that whatever local treatment be adopted, the previous and family history of the pa- tient be thoroughly investigated, and constitutional remedies be prescribed to correct any form of dyscrasia or chronic poisoning. PROFESSOR JAMES SYME, F. R. S. E.* Caries of the Shafts of Bones. It is noted by this distinguished surgeon that caries is generally seated in bones possessing a cell- ular or open texture, and when it occurs in those of the tabular or cylindrical kind, it is uniformly preceded by a morbid expansion of the compact structure, into a state resembling that which nat- urally belongs to those where the disease usually resides. ^ The shafts of bones, especially the tibia, in consequence of chronic in- flammation, are frequently enlarged, thickened and consequently loosened in their texture, which comes to have nearly the same appearance as that of the spongy articulating extremities. In bones so altered caries occasionally occurs, but with one import- ant difference from the disease a^ found in the spongy bones and this is, that it is easily curable. All incisions, rasping, trephining and cauterization are worse than needless. The disease will yield readily and certainly to the local application blisters and the internal administration oi corro- sive sublimate in usual doses. Caries of Spongy Bones. The treatment of true caries is pre- ventive and remedial. The constitutional defects which tend to the production of the disease must be carefully sought and com- bated Locally, the actual cautery has been recommended, but in most cases it can hardly be applied to the affected surface, and its action is too limited. The best method is to destroy the cari- ous bone by excision. * Surgical Works. Philadelphia, 1866.