THE COMPLICATIONS OF WOUNDS. 128 Dr. FoRDYCE Barker gives gr. x-xx twice daily, until consti- tutional effects are produced. He emphatically claims for it the power of preventing the formation of pyogenic deposits. TcrebinthincB Oleum. Dr. J. S. Holden reports the recovery of a severe case of pyaemia under the use of 3ss doses of this agent (^Lancet, Jan., 1874). It probably acts as a vaso-motor stimulant. Veratrim Viride. In the early stages of septicaemia, Dr. Fordyce Barker strongly commends this sedative. He usually commences by giving five drops of the tincture of veratrum viride every hour. If a decided impression be not made on the pulse after two or three doses, he increases each dose by one drop until a positive effect is gained, and thus brings down the pulse from 120, 130 - or 140 to below 80. The influence of the veratrum viride should be steadily kept up until two or three days after all constitutional disturbance has subsided. When the pulse is once reduced by the veratrum viride, usually two, three or four drops, every hour, will be sufficient. SHOCK. T. LAUDER BRUNTON, M. D., OF LONDON, This author observes that in shock we have two conditions to remove : the first, feebleness of the heart due to the action of the vagus; second, the dilatation of the great vessels, especially the veins in the abdominal and thoracic cavities. To counteract the cardiac debility, we apply stimulants, espe- cially that powerful heart stimulant, heat. A hot poultice, or a bottle of hot water, should be placed over the heart. Towels wrung out with hot water should be bound round the head. The patient should be in a warm atmosphere, or placed in a warm bath, or his feet in ^ hot foot bath, and brandy and ether given internally. To cause contraction of the blood vessels, acetic acid and ammo- nia should be placed to the nose, precautions being taken that the air-passages be not irritated too violently. Painful impressions may also be called to our aid. Mustard plasters to the extremities, pinching the fingers, twitching the calves and soles, give a stimulus to the vaso-motor nerves. A valuable remedy in shock is digitalis: half-drachm doses of the tincture may be given every hour. It has been used success- fully by various practitioners. {The Practitioner, October, 1873.)