562 VENEREAL DISEASES, Stored or greatly improved, and the local irritability has subsided, the recovery may be made complete by sending the patient a long sea voyage. By such means his body is invigorated, his mind fully occupied, and he is removed from temptation to sexual excite- ment. In a year or so, by the time he is fitted for sexual inter- course in marriage, he should seek that as the best safeguard against relapse into his old condition. GONORRHCEAL RHEUMATISM. ALFRED BARING GARROD, M. D., F. R. S. This author says that when gonorrhoeal rheumatism is treated vigorously in the commencement of an attack, the joints may be- come affected in a slight degree only. If there be much constitu- tional disturbance and inflammatory action, purgatives may be exhibited, and a small quantity of blood may be taken from the arm; while local fomentations may be employed, and a splint of gutta percha to keep the affected joint perfectly at rest. After venesection, a full dose of opium gives great relief; and if it is ad- ministered with ipecacuanha, as in Dover's powder, the secretion of the skin is increased. The sweating which is thus produced is beneficial; but increased action of the skin is best promoted by the Turkish bath. Sometimes the pains in the joints cease entirely in the bath. In an acute attack, abstinence from flesh meat, as well as from fermented and distilled liquors, is absolutely necessary. ^ When the inflammation tends to become chronic, iodide of potas- sium may be given with advantage, gr. xxx-xl daily. It is prefer- able to abstract a small quantity of blood from a vein, than to apply leeches to the inflamed joints, as these sometimes produce suppuration in the cellular tissue. After the first or second attack, or when the patient is debilitated, the treatment should be of a moderately stimulant or tonic char- acter ; depletion will aggravate all the symptoms and increase the effusion. Opium may be given freely, and iodide of potassium in small doses. Gutta percha splints should always be used during the period of effusion, to prevent motion. As soon as the pain and swelling cease, gentle frictions with shampooing should be employed to restore mobility. Much time will probably be required to effect this object, and it may be necessary, if adhesions have formed, to flex the limbs forcibly after