AN/ESTHETICS. 52 The respiration is usually quickened, the pulse lessened in fre- quency. In its administration, it is important to exclude rather than to admit air, and for this purpose a close-fitting inhaler should be chosen. The apparatus should be well applied to the face. {^Half-yearly Compendium of Medical Science, July, 1870.) On account of the immunity from sickness of the stomach it gives, this anaesthetic is much used in ovariotomy; and on account of the rapidity with which persons can be brought under its influ- ence, it is preferred in some English ophthalmic institutions where many operations are performed. Mr. J. T. Clever, of England, states that he has not found its effects so uniform as chloroform, and attributes this to the com- pound nature of the body, as indicated by its variable boiling point. The bichloride has been used both alone and in combination quite extensively by Dr. C. Bell Taylor, of London, who gives a generally favorable report upon it. [Medical Press and Circidar, Jan., 1874.) His opinion is that it is not .quite so convenient as chloroform on account of the inhaler employed, but it is far more rapid in its effect; and when there are a great number of patients to be operated upon, and time is of importance, this is the anaes- thetic which will always be preferred. The bichloride, he states, is best administered with an inhaler that almost excludes the air, though a little may be admitted at the commencement; two or three drachms should be poured on, and the agent be pushed when the patient shows signs of going off; when fully off, remove the inhaler, and do not give another inspiration unless the patient shows signs of returning sensibility. Patients succumb very quickly to the bichloride, and recover as quickly; hence, it is a most convenient anaesthetic, and, perhaps, safer than chloroform ; it is, however, like chloroform, a lethal agent, and requires careful watching. Attempts have been made to combine it with ether, and the result has been the discovery of a definite compound called ether meihylene, which is a very convenient and very safe anaesthetic administered in the same way as the bichloride. The strongest advocate of this anaesthetic has been Mr. T. Spencer Wells, F. R. C. S., whose o inion, as expressed before a late (1877) meeting of the British Medical Association, is so decided that it merits quotation in his own words: " In 1872, I made known my opinion that all the advantages of complete anaesthesia, with fewer drawbacks, could be obtained by