457 INTRA-LARYNGEAL GROWTHS. INTRA-LARYNGEAL GROWTfHS. MR. LENNOX BROWNE, F. R. C. S. E. From his position as Surgeon to the Central London Throat Hospital, this writer speaks from a wide experience in this class of new formations. Many of them, he believes, never require treat- ment, and if left to themselves, do not acquire a serious aspect. A large proportion will, if untreated, "frequently disappear sponta- neously, being subject, as they are, to slow atrophy and resorp- tion." (ViRCHOW.) Many of them will disappear or be reduced by appropriate local and constitutional medical treatment, especially when of recent occurrence. Except in the very rare and doubtful instances of a congenital growth, all these new formations originate as a direct consequence of hyperaemia, or, as Virchow puts it, "as the ex- pression of an inflammatory irritation, which affected the whole surface, though it does not give rise to the same results in all parts." When growths are present, there is not unfrequently con- siderable general congestion of laryngeal mucous membrane. It is, therefore, most important that every practitioner should, in every case of hoarseness, examine the larynx of his patient at the very earliest date. Let him treat the hyperaemia when it " first occurs, and he will also see a new formation, should one arise, at its very commencement, or at least on the first approach of symp- toms of its presence. It cannot be too strongly urged that the cause of a hoarseness is not to be discovered by pressing down the tongue with a paper-knife, and looking into the back of the mouth, and that a localized inflammation, ulceration, or irregular formation within the larynx, is not to be healed by swabbing the pharynx with a brush charged with solution of nitrate of silver, or by pushing a probang similarly loaded down behind the tongue unguided by the mirror, in the vain belief that it is going into the larynx, when, in the one case out of ten in which it certainly teaches no further than the superior surface of the epiglottis, it as certainly finds it way down the gullet. In addition to the use of general and topical remedial measures to reduce the hyperaemia, the practitioner should remove any cause likely to keep up irritation of the larynx, such as relaxed uvula, unsuitable occupation, or exposure to sudden changes of