353 HYDROCELE. treatment is urgently requested. In such cases, except in early- infancy, acupuncture or the use of a fine trocar often fails to cure. The walls of the cysts are usually thin, and collapse so much when their contents are withdrawn that the injection of a fluid is uncer- tain. The end of the canula may be outside the cyst, and the iodine solution be consequently injected into the connective tissue at its exterior. In such cases the following is a reliable method of treatment: The cyst being well isolated, made tense, and brought near the surface, the surgeon passes through its centre a stout needle, armed with silk, and leaves the threads hanging. The fluid quickly oozes away, especially if a little traction be made on the threads. He then, at one opening, wets the threads with iodine liniment (lin- iment because the quantity required is so limited) and draws the; threads so as to leave moistened portions within the cyst. A little: gentle friction will help to spread the iodine thoroughly over the- lining membrane of the cavity. An hour later freshly moistened' portions may again be drawn through if the cyst be large, or if other methods of treatment have failed. On the other hand, in a^ very small cyst a single thread, moistened and kept in one hour,, will suffice. In the Union Med. de Canada, Dr. Lubin states, that observing the frequent lumbar pain consequent upon the use of the ordinary- injections in this affection, he was led to use a formula similar to. the following: 490. IJ:. Tinct. iodinii comp., f.^iij Chloroformi, f.Sijss. M. In a number of cases in which this mixture has been used, no. pain whatever followed this injection. Dr. Francis Labat has lately described the good results ob- tained in the cure of congenital hydrocele by injections of alcohol according to Monad's method. The following plan is pursued {These de Paris, Nov. 19, 1877): With a subcutaneous injection- syringe, one gramme of the serous matter contained in the hydro- cele is evacuated, and one gramme of alcohol injected with the same .syringe. In the meantime, pressure is made on the inguinal canal, and prolonged some minutes after the alcoholic injection. Prof. HuTER and other German writers have recently highly ex- tolled carbolic acid in a one or two per cent, solution.. According; 23-s