GONORRHCEA. Glceiy Stage. The urine must be kept mildly alkaline ; the provocation of sexual excitement interdicted ; one of the balsams or cubebs administered; a stimulating or astringent injection em- ployed ; and careful search must be made for the presence of stricture, which is a frequent cause of the extreme obstinacy of gleets. Nearly all known drugs have been vaunted for injections in ure- thral discharges, but only a few hold their place. Of these may be mentioned permanganate of potash (gr.j-iij to f Sj) alone, or com- bined with a small amount of sulphate of zinc; sulphate of copper (gr.j to foj ;) persulphate of iron (5ss to f.Svj); and finally alcohol best employed in Ricord's formula : 885. Vini rubri, f.§ij Aquae rosae, f.§iv. The wine to be gradually increased until it is used pure. Glycerine or morphia may be combined with any of the above formulae with occasional advantage. * AUGUSTE CULLERIER, PARIS. 886. ^. Copaibse, f.3v Cubebas, 3iv Spiritds menthse piperitse, q. s. M. Electuary. From four to five drachms a day are given. This formula is one of the most frequently employed at the Hopital du Midi. For the abortive treatment of gonorrhoea, our author uses large doses of copaiba (f5iv-v a day) or cubebs (5v-viij a day). He considers them more valuable than any of the abortive injections. They are to be employed only, however, when the gonorrhoea is of recent date, when there is little or no pain, and where the dis- charge is not as yet muco-purulent. Under favorable circumstances, when the abortive treatment is thus employed, the discharge will diminish, or disappear in the course of four or five days. The treatment should not then be suspended, but, on the contrary, continue for several days after the cure is apparently complete. If this precaution be neglected, the inflammation may reappear. If, after from six to eight days, no improvement is manifest, it is useless to persist longer in this form of treatment. Astringent injections should not be combined with this use of the balsam. They have no advantage at this early