5/6 VENEREAL DISEASES, 962. T^. Tinclui'ac ferri chloridi, Spiritfls chloroforini, Glycerinae, Sa t.^j. M. A teaspoonful thrice daily, in water. LOCAL TREATMENT OF THE SORES. Most sores need only cleanliness to allay irritation and induce them to granulate. The sore should be washed three or four times a day while the discharge is abundant, and covered with pieces of lint dipped in cold water, over which oil silk should be wrapped, if the sore is situated in an outward part, like the dorsum penis or groin. If the patient is a man, he should be directed to support the penis in a suspensory bandage or handkerchief against the abdomen, never to let it hang down, and to be particular that the dress is loose enough not to chafe the parts in walking. If the sore is underneath the foreskin, the lint should be so interposed that the skin does not touch it, both to prevent the sore being chafed and to avoid the formation of fresh ulcers. As chancres may excite bubo at any period of their existence, destruction of their surface with caustic may prevent this conse- quence whenever it is employed. Still, this advantage is not suffi- cient in practice to require the invariable use of caustics, as the chance of a particular sore not being accompanied by a bubo is two to one, even when left to run its course. Besides this, it is often exceedingly difficult to destroy several sores thoroughly by one application of caustic; hence,the patient, after having under- gone all the suffering and inconvenience of cauterization, may be disappointed on finding, in a few days, his sore assume its original character. Among the most effectual caustics is one Ricord prefers, hie makes a paste of powdered charcoal and strong oil of vitriol, which he lays on and rubs into the chancre. In a few minutes the sur- face is destroyed, and forms an eschar or crust, which falls off in a week, leaving the sore a simple granulating surface. It is a very effective remedy, being not liable to overflow the sides of the ulcer and attack the healthy skin, as is the case with liquid caustics. But it is not always at hand, hence less convenient than another— the strongest nitric acid. The best way to use this is to daub it, with a glass brush, over the floor and edges of the ulcer, and allow it to soak well into the surface of the sore for a few minutes, before the excess of acid is