375 ORCHITIS (epididymitis). PROF. DIDAY, OF LYONS. eo2. R. Extract! belladonnae. S'ss TincturiE iocUnii, • Moisten the extract with fifteen to twenty drops of water, and add the dnctHre. Spread on the skin by a camel's hair pencil. In consequence of its adhesion to the skin, it acts more effect- ually than an ointment. It is particularly useful in the treatment of epididymitis when the acute inflammation has been appeased by bleeding and baths. DR. WILLIAM H. HIGGINS, OF ENGLAND. This gentleman states [Lancet, 1876,) that he has invariably found one of the following methods, combined with saline aper- ients, etc., bring about a rapid cure. Whenever the tenderness admits of it, whatever the extent ot inflammation and swelling, he immediately proceeds to strap the inflamed testicles; but to insure eff-ectual support to the distended vessels, deep and superficial, by the equable pressure and intimate adherence of the plaster, he first carefully isolates the swelled tes- ticle and renders the scrotum tense over the tumor by tying a strong strip of lint above it, leaving a rounded swelling, with a kind of pedicle. This strapping (not the lint) is replaced from time to time, as it becomes loose and wrinkled, from subsidence of the swelling. The whole scrotum is also well supported, ihis method generally permits return to work on the spot. When, from delay and neglect, the strapping cannot at first be borne (which rarely happens), he at once applies extract of bella- donna mixed with suflicient simple ointment to enable it to spread on lint (the extract is soft enough alone in warm climates) to the inflamed surface. Light pressure with a bandage, rest support to the scrotum, and constitutional measures, as aids to the anodyne, speedily remove the pain. ' The belladonna may be renewed as often as it becomes dry. When the first pain and tenderness are somewhat alleviated, he resorts to the strapping as described above, and conducts the case to a certain favorable termination. These methods, contrasted in practice with the use of the knite, or the slow and tedious remedies usually employed, have eveiy- thing in their favor-remove the pain at once, permit sp^^^dy or even instant return to work, and ensure rapid cure in a humane manner.