NEW GROWTHS. 482 be repeated every other day until there is produced redness and tumefaction. It should then be suspended for a week or two, and again resumed. The operation should bring about gradual absorption or atrophy of the mass. Citricuvi Acidiini, 3j-ij to aquae f.gviij, will frequently relieve the severe pain of cancer. Condiirango. The value of this substance in gastric cancer has recently been very carefully studied by Professor Ruhle, of Bonn. He used Friedreich's macerated decoction : 699. 'Bf.. Cortlcis condurango, ^ss Aquae, f.^xij. Macerate for twelve hours, and evaporate to one-half the amount. Dose, a tablespoonful three or four times a day. It should be a dark brown, somewhat turbid fluid, slightly bitter and aromatic. Professor Ruhle has seen no evidence that it produces actual retrograde metamorphosis of the cancer. He has, however, been repeatedly told by patients who have used condurango for cancer of the stomach, that the chief symptoms—vomiting, loss of appetite, and the pain itself—have abated ; that in one case a decided improvement of general health took place; and in others, out patients who had been on its use for some time, in consequence of this decided improvement, ceased attending, ap- parently believing themselves recovered. Creasotum. In epithelioma, Dr. Forne reports in the Montpelier Medical, Feb., 1872, good results from the topical application of creasote. The whole surface of the ulcer is lightly but firmly touched with a brush dipped in the pure article, after which a piece of lint wet with a gummy solution of creasote is applied. The treat- ment should be repeated every third day. Fifteen or twenty applications may be required, but he reports commencing cica- trization after the first half dozen. Dr. John Frissell, of West Virginia, has for a number of years used with great satisfaction the following antiseptic and detergent dressing to cancerous surfaces. It is diluted more or less with water and applied by strips of old muslin. 700. Tincturae gallas, f.^ij Tincturae myrrhse, f.§j Tincturae opii, f.3v Creasoti, f.3j Acidi acetici, f.3ij. M. For a lotion. ■ Cupri Niiras, in strong solution, is an efficient caustic. Ciipri Sulphas is employed as an escharotic. Dioscorea Villosa. In cancer of the stomach, Dr. C. T. Hart, of Wis- consin, says the wild yam is superior to any other agent he has tried in soothing the pain, distress and vomiting. {St. Louis Medical Journal, 1869.)