238 LESIONS OF THE BONES AND JOINTS. On the other hand, the eminent Velpeau, and, more recently, Mr. Sampson Gamgee, of Birmingham, England, have taught that not only can the patient bear well-applied pressure from the first, however great the swelling and the acute pain, but it may be laid down as a general proposition, to which there is no exception, that, in severe strains, effusion is most surely checked, and once it has'occurred, its absorption is most rapidly promoted, while pain is most effectually relieved, by pressure and immobilization. It is as true now as when Velpeau taught it. that " compression is the sovereign resolvent in contusions with infiltration and swelling." Whife cooling and discutient lotions have been generally used, Mr. Aston Key recommended hot applications, the directions for which are given as follows, by Mr. John Gorham {Lancet, July, 1876): For a sprained ankle, take a piece of lint of such size that when folded thrice it shall be four inches wide and twenty inches long—sufficiently wide and long, in other words, to completely envelop the joint; let this be soaked in boiling water, squeezed out gently, and applied to the limb. Next, take a piece of thin gutta- percha shaving or oiled silk, two inches wider than the folded lint, on which it is laid, with a margin an inch wide above and below, which lies in contact with the skin and prevents evaporation. Lastly, over the whole apply a bandage, and tie the limb on a pillow with two pieces of tape. PROF. JAMES SYME, F. R. S. E. The means that afford most relief from the pain directly caused by the injury, consist in the application of hot fomentations (see page 35), and the preservation of perfect rest. The ecchymosis is often considered a warrant for leeching or cupping; but the effused blood cannot be withdrawn in either of these ways, and must be removed by absorption. If symptoms of inflammation come on, blood must be extracted freely, and the other means against in- flammation of the joint be employed. After the injured part has ceased to be painful on pressure and motion, and remains merely swelled and stiff, it ought to be supported by a bandage, and have some stimulating ointment or lotion applied to promote absorp- tion. Blistering, warm pumping, the vapor bath, friction, and gentle but frequently-repeated exercise, are useful at the same time and with the same view.