36o LESIONS OF THE ORGANS OF REPRODUCTION. to consummate the venereal act; but the mind is rarely so seriously affected that he is not open to conviction on this point. Finally, there is a fourth class of cases, in which relative impo- tence apparently arises from diminished reflex excitability of the spnial cord. This condition, which is characterized by retarded emission, is probably very rare. The treatment of these various forms must look toward the local urethral constriction and toward the general condition of the system. When the subject is robust and plethoric, mild antiphlogistics are mdicated ; while in anaemic patients, tonics, of which a com- bination of quinine, tincture of the chloride of iron, and tincture of nux vomica, is one of the best, will be required. Bromide of potassium, ,in full doses, can never be dispensed with, since it ful- fills the triple object of correcting the acidity of the urine, over- coming the sensibility of the urethra, and blunting the venereal appetite. When the local lesions have been relieved, its use should be discontinued, and remedies given to strengthen the sexual functions. ■ The bowels should be kept in a soluble state; the diet should be simple and unstimulating, condiments, alcoholic and fermented drinks being avoided; heating exercises and clothing should be discarded; chastity in thought and action should be en- couraged ; and, finally, when the prostatic hyperaesthesia has dis- appeared, and the sexual vigor is returning, the patient should be advised to marry. When the infirmity has advanced to hypo- chondriasis, the case is almost hopeless. Of topical measures none has afforded such good results as the introduction of the conical steel bougie, at first every forty-eight hours, and afterwards every day. After the first few insertions it should be immediately withdrawn, but as the sensibility of the urethra diminishes, it should be retained for four or five minutes, and its size be gradually increased. As adjuvants, the local appli- cation of mild solutions of nitrate of silver, acetate of lead, or tannin, are useful, as are also cold hip-baths, enemata, and douches to the perineum. If the disease proves obstinate, as it is liable to do when the prostatic or ejaculatory ducts are involved in the morbid action, the application of the solid nitrate of silver may be de- manded. Under similar circumstances, flying blisters to the peri- neum are of service. The foregoing measures will usually suffice to overcome the i: