SHOCK. PROF. WILLIAM FULLER, OF MONTREAL. This surgeon states {^Canada Medical Re cord, Y.^xwzxy, 1877,) that to restore the circulation in shock a cardiac stimulant is not so much required as a means of restoring the tone to the vascular system. Alcohol he considers in such an emergency is far inferior to opium, whose special action is to dilate the vessels leading to the brain, so that the nerve centres at least receive their due amount of blood. Of course rest, heat, and external stimulants are to be used in addition, as occasion requires. Professor Albert Blum, in the Archives Gen. de Med., considers the fatal issue in shock due to failure of the heart's action, and re- commends laying the patient horizontally, applying heat, and giv- ing stimulants with opium. Electricity may be very useful. He says, " All active surgery should be forbidden under shock." prof. 'S. D. GROSS, OF PHILADELPHIA. The treatment of shock is naturally divided into two parts,—the- promotion of reaction, and the moderation of subsequent excess- ive action. The patient should be placed recumbently, constriction removed' from his person, free access of cold air provided, cold water dashed in his face, and mustard plasters be applied to the prsecordial re- gions and extremities. If the case is severe, the spine may be rubbed with turpentine and a stimulating enema given. As soon as he can swallow, brandy and water, in teaspoonful doses, may be administered. Should the accident have occurred after a full meal, an emetic of alum, ipecacuanha, sulphate of zinc, or what, per- haps, is still better under such circumstances, equal parts of com- mon salt and mustard, should be given. Even in shock from lesions of the brain this course is proper, when the stomach is op- pressed by a heavy meal. To moderate the resulting inflammation, the reaction should be held in abeyance by sponging the surface frequently with cool or tepid water, by administering a little morphia and antimony, by low diet and perfect tranquillity of mind and body. The diet for the first few days should consist mainly of animal broths, with, perhaps, milk punch or wine whey, cautiously followed by food or a more substantial character. Starvation is not to be thought of, and bleeding should very rarely be resorted to. Anodynes may 9-s