321 FISTULA OF THE ANUS. tension maintained until the ligature cuts through the parts and is discharged. Another method is by iodine itijections. This plan has been known for a number of years, but it is hardly mentioned by surg- ical authors. It has, however, been successful in a number of cases, when adopted with proper precautions. Dr. E. C. Huse, of Illinois, who reports very satisfactory results [Medical Record, March, 1871), recommends that the iodine should be employed in the form of a saturated ethereal tincture. Its advantages over the officinal or alcoholic tincture are not only that it is stronger, and thereby excites inflammatory adhesion in the walls of the tube, but the ether evaporates almost momentarily, and a pure coating of iodine is left along the fistulous track, which doubtless encour- ages absorption. The instrument used is an ordinary hypodermic syringe, with small silver canula, which may be readily bent to. correspond with the direction of the sinus. The mode of operation is as follows : After exploring the fistula with a very small probe (the ordinary probe of the pocket-case is^ far too large), after determining its course and extent, the patient is to be placed in a good light and a glass rectal speculum intro- duced, with its fenestrum opposite the internal orifice of the fistala.. The canula is now bent to the required curvature and introduced,, when the syringe, filled with tepid water, is screwed on, and the surface thoroughly cleansed of all extraneous matter. This step is not only essential, but serves to allay timidity, or dread of the subsequent operation. Next, by pressure, the fistula in its whole extent should be dried out, and the iodine will thus come in direct contact with its walls. Introduce now into the speculum a quantity of carded cotton. This will absorb any of the iodine which might otherwise be in- jected through and injure the mucous membrane, and by its char- acteristic stain will serve to show the completeness both of the: fistula and of the operation. The canula may now be reinserted, and the injection made. It should be done sloivly, and at the same time the canula graduall)r withdrawn. Every part of the surface will thereby be reached. The operation, which is not very painful, should be premised with a cathartic and followed with a full anodyne, as ordinarily- with the time-honored knife method. The patient need not be confined to his bed or room, even for an hour. 21-s