ULCERS, 219 9j, twice a day, and has seen ulcerations of the most obstinate character rapidly change for the better after these heroic doses were commenced. M. PAUL GUILLAUMET, OF PARIS. Recently this writer has extolled the svlpliide of carbori for the local treatment of ulcers. {Gazette Medicale de Paris, August, 1876.) Its disagreeable odor, which has been the main obstacle against its employment, can be almost covered by being dis- tilled with one-half per cent, of corrosive sublimate and twenty per cent, of an inodorous fatty body; or it can be diluted by the addition of substances which will render the odor more bearable, such as essence of bitter almonds, essence of mirbane, in the pro- portion of ten drops to ten grammes of sulphide of carbon; Peru- vian balsam in the proportion of one gramme to thirty; iodine, tincture of iodine, and essence of peppermint. The following preparation appears to give the best results : 252. Carbon, sulphidi, f.^ss Tinct. iodinii, f.3j Essent. menth. piper., "Uliv. M. For local use. The application should be made freely twice a day. It is espe- cially useful in indolent or chronic ulcers, and in those showing a tendency to spread, as syphilitic, etc. After the application the surface should be covered with a mild powder, as starch or sub- nitrate of bismuth. The pain caused is sharp, but lasts only a few seconds. Dr. E. Michel, of Paris, reports on this agent (in \ht Journal de Therapeiitique, January, 1875,) very favorably : In order to obtain the desired effect, it is sufficient to touch the ulcerated tissues with a pledget of lint saturated with the liquid in the same way as with most acids. The frequency of the dressings depends on the degree of chronicity of the ulceration; a very old and inactive ulcer will require moistening every day, whilst less frequent applications, every two or three days, will suffice for a more recent and excitable ulcer. Sulphuret of carbon is not a caustic; and its contact with the mucous membrane does not leave any scar. Neither does it produce any discoloration except the amount resulting from its constant use, which characterizes re- paration of the skin. It gives acute but only instantaneous pain;