THE COMPLICATIONS OF WOUNDS. io8 by severe constitutional symptoms, this author believes the expect- ant treatment may succeed in preserving a part or the whole of the limb. It has also been found that in the gangrene resulting from heat or cold—burns and frost bite—amputation rarely suc- ceeds. So in gangrene from embolism the associated heart disease renders an operation questionable. If the surgeon has decided to save the limb, the first indication is to wrap it up as completely as possible in some application \yhich will deodorize the dead parts, and stimulate the living ones to cast them off. For the latter purpose uniform gentle heat is very de- sirable, and the two indications may be combined by a charcoal poultice (p. 39); or a solution of carbolic acid or creasote may be applied to the sloughing part, and the whole wrapped up in a thick layer of cotton wool. The balsam of Peru or the tinct. benzoin comp. may be formed into a poultice. An old and very useful ap- plication at St. George's hospital is the following : 119. '^L. Ung. elemi, ib.j Melt together the ointments, and after they have been removed from the fire, and before they cool, add the copaiba. The general indications are to clear the alimentary canal so that the patient can be nourished by concentrated food and stimulants, and to give opium freely to induce sleep. When opiates disagree, they must not be continued, but chloral in full doses, 3j-3iss sub- stituted or cannabis indica, gr. i-ij of the extract, or nx-xx of the tincture. Equal caution must be exercised in the use of stimulants, that they be not carried to excess. This writer recommends that purging in hospital gangrene should on no account be neglected. A purge like the following will often be more beneficial in arresting the morbid action than anything else: 120. I^. Hydrargyri massse, Pulv. jalapae, Extract, colocynth. comp., aa q. s. Sufficient of this to induce several large evacuations. When the system begins to flag, quinine, iron, brandy and broths are called for. The best preparation of iron is the tincture of the chloride: gtt.xv-xxv. every three hours in some mucilag- Ung. sambuci, Bals. copaibse. PROF. S. D. GROSS, M. D.