21 THE IMMEDIATE TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION. THE IMMEDIATE TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION. PROF. S. D. GROSS, M. D., PHILADELPHIA. This author divides the treatment of inflammation into two heads, the constitutional and local treatment. Constitutional Treatment. At the head of the list of constitu- tional remedies for inflammation he places general bleeding. He believes that this is not often enough resorted to at the present day. The blood should be taken from a large orifice in a large vein, the fluid running to the amount of at least f.Siij a minute, the patient either sitting or standing. The operation is called for where there is a hard, strong, full and frequent pulse, a plethoric state of the system, and great intensity of morbid action. An average amount to take is sixteen to twenty ounces. If syncope supervenes, it should be relieved gradually by loosing the clothes, fanning or sprinkling with cold water; if it assumes an alarming character, ammonia to the nostrils, sinapisms over the heart and to the extremities, and a stimulating enema, may be called for. As calling for caution in the use of this measure, or for its prohi- bition, are the circumstances of extreme youth or age, corpulence, the nervous temperament, in exhausted states of the system, in exanthematous diseases, and after grave accidents. The use of cathartics is particularly valuable in inflammation of the brain and its membranes, the eye and ear, throat, respiratory organs, liver, skin and joints. They are generally contra-indicated in gastritis, enteritis, peritonitis, cystitis, wounds of the intestine, and strangulated hernia. In external inflammations, as well as in inflammations of the supra-diaphragmatic organs generally, one of the most useful cathartics is an infusion of senna, or of senna and Epsom salts, combined with a carminative. 1. I^. Infusi sennas, Magnesiae sulphatis, For one dose. Enemata are often more prompt and efficient than cathartics by the mouth. An excellent one is 2. I^. Soapsuds, one quart. Vinegar, two ounces. 3ij. M.