98 THE COMPLICATIONS OF WOUNDS. tissue, when the inflammation is high, the tension great, and gan- grene threatening. A good proof of their necessity, and a good augury for their beneficial influence, is the free gaping of each cut as it is made. Many surgeons speak favorably of multiple punc- tures with a lancet, as a substitute for incisions, but they often fail to furnish adequate relief. When as a result of the disease there remain stiffness and loss of motion of the muscles and joints, dili- gent passive motion must be employed, the parts must be well steamed, and the patient encouraged to use them. DR. J. E. GARRETSON, OF PHILADELPHIA. This mtQv {Medical a7td Surgical Reporter, ]u\y, 1870,) states that for a number of years he had met with no case of erysipelas which did not yield to the local application of a combination of iron and bark, which he regarded as a natural specific. The com- bination, as usually prescribed, was the following : 94. ^. Tinct. ferri chloridi, ^_ Tinct. cinchonae, aa i-5y. Ouinise sulphatis, gr.xxx AquEe, f-§iss. M. Apply by means of a camel's hair brush four times a day. This is equally available in both the cutaneous and phlegmon- ous varieties. MR. ERASMUS WILSON, OF LONDON. 95. Hydrargyri chloridi mitis, gr. ij Extracti colocynth. comp., gr.vj Extract! hyoscyam!, gr.ij- ^• For one dose. This is given at the outset of the disease, followed, after the lapse of twelve hours, with a senna or rhubarb draught. A mild aperient must be given daily. If the fever run high, eff-ervescent salines with ammonia. When the alimentary canal is pronounced to be free, sidphate of qinuine, with sulphate of magnesia, may be administered, to be followed by the tincture of the perchlonde of ]ron, which is declared to be specific. Sedatives are valuable when great irritability prevails ; an eighth of a grain of the extract of belladonna may be given every six or twelve hours. Milk diet, with farinaceous puddings, then eggs, then broths, next fish, and afterwards poultry. For drinks, toast water and barley-water, to