WOUNDS AND INJURIES. One often sees patients with dangerous wounds of the eye ex- perience such protracted suffering as to incapacitate them from all work for many months after the accident. In such cases, if the eyeball be extirpated, relief comes so promptly and decidedly that the patient is ready to resume his regular employment in a few days. RESUME OF REMEDIES. 4liwien is one of the most esteemed ingredients in ophthalmic pharmacy. \s an element in astringent coUyria, it is, ui many affections, unsurpassed. The usual formula at the Royal London Ophthal- mic Hospital is: 62S. Vf. Aluminis, gi"-vj Aquas destillatse, f-§j. M. For a collyrium. To be applied every quarter or half hour. Or the following: 629. Vf.. Aluminis, 9U Extract! belladonnse, 3ss Aqu2e destillatae, f.!viij. M, For a collyrium. <'Alum curd" may be made by adding 3ij of alum to a pint of milk and straining ; or, by mixing 5ss of alum with the white of one egg. It is a soothing popular application. Amy I Nitrite has been used successfully in cases of amblyopia, by Dr. H. R. SwANZY. The inhalations were ten drops at a time. {Med- ical Press and Circular, Jan., 1877.) Argenti Niiras. This powerful agent appears not to be so much used as formerly by ophthalmalogists, as its place can often be supplied by less dangerous remedies. Its incautious use, when there are corneal ulcers, will result in unsightly deposits and opacities. In ophthalmia its employment is very severely condemned as always needless, and often most hurtful, by various eminent sur- geons. In acute conjunctivitis a weak solution, gr j-iij to aqu£e f.§j, is used; in granular lids, a stronger solution, gr.xx to aquae f or, the eyelids may be everted and lightly touched with the'caustic stick, either of full strength or mitigated. In tinea tarsi the solid nitrate may be passed over the edges of the eye- lids, first removing the eye-lashes and the scabs. Arnica is recommended by Dr. Turnbull in styes (p. 427). Dr. Jacob employs it in conjunctival ecchymosis. (F. 626.) Arsenicum. In strumous ophthalmia Mr. T. A. Robert says he has never failed of success since he has adopted the treatment by hq. potassEE arsenitis, mij-viij, thrice daily in infusion of cinchona, and locally gtt.j of a solution of nitrate of silver, gr.ij to aqute f.§j, dropped into the eye every three or four days. {Lancet,