103 ERYSIPELAS. Potassii bitartratis, 5vj Antimonii et potassii tartratis, gr.iss. M. To be given in four or five doses, at intervals of an hour, in the commencement of erysipelas. If there be delirium, order an enema of musk and opium. 106 R. Antimonii et potassii tartratis, . gr.^ Sodii sulphatis, 3iv. M. Add to a pint of veal broth, and give a cupful every one or two hours, as a sedative in the beginning of acute erysipelas. IQ7. I^. Spiritds camphorag, f.?j Infusi sambuci florum, Oj. M. A useful fomentation in erysipelas. RESUME OF REMEDIES. Aconite was a favorite remedy, in sthenic cases with much febrile action, of the late Mr. Liston, of London, gtt. ^-i every fifteen minutes. ""Amvionii Carbonas is strongly recommended by Sir Thomas Watson, who precedes its use by a purgative. Mr. Campbell De Mor- gan remarks that it is most appropriate where nervous prostra- tion or excitement is prominent, where the skin is soft and cool, the tongue moist and flabby, the pulse quick, large and weak. It is then a valuable remedy. But when the tongue is hard, dry and fissured, the skin hot and dry, it does not agree. Belladonna, in repeated doses of gr. Jg, is often of benefit in reducing arterial excitement. Its effects are enhanced by the previous administration of aconite. Ferri Bromidum has been employed, with good results, by a number of American physicians. Ferrichloridi Liquor. A very popular remedy, both externally and inter- nally. (F. 94, 102). Potassii Chloras, in combination with the'tincture of cinchona, is recom- mended by Dr. Copland in erysipelas supervening upon ana- sarca, or if there be any tendency to gangrene, or if the tem- perature of the surface be low and the color deep or dark. *QuinicB Sulphas is indicated in all cases where the tongue becomes clean and the skin moist, and should at once be resorted to if the pulse be soft, tremulous, or very rapid, the heat moderate, and the delirium low and muttering, or if suppuration or sloughing has commenced. In such cases it may be combined with the tinct- ure of the chloride of iron, with great advantage. (F. 94.) Sodii Sulphis (as also the bisulphite, and the hyposulphite, and sulpho- carbolate of soda) is strongly recommended by Professor PoLLi, of Milan. Terebinthince Oleum has been given with great benefit when the coma has been intense, the pulse sinking, and the tongue dry and glazed. Dr. Copland counsels the local application of turpen- tine epithems.