8o THE DRESSING OF WOUNDS. fected particles of the tissues, to regard the wounds as aseptic. To this class belong superficial surfaces of ulcers, with sloughing of granulations and stinking discharges. 2. Also for recent wounds, before putting on the first dressing, when the wound contains some focus of putrefaction, such as sinuses communicating with a joint subjected to excision. In such a case, the sinuses are also injected with the solution, in the hope of correcting the putrefaction of their contents, though the attain- ment of this is always uncertain. 3. He employs the chloride of zinc for recent wounds in the neighborhood of the different cavities of the body, and where the continual bathing of the wound with the putrid secretion of the cavity would render infection of the former possible. Salicylic acid has also been employed by Professor Lister. He prefers it, however, only when the dressing is to remain on a long time. In this he is not followed by one of his German disciples. Professor Thiersch, who uses it exclusively. It has also been extensively tried by MR. CALLENDER, OF LONDON, Who reported his use of it in the Medical Press and Circular, November, 1875. The following were the formulas he employed: 61. Sodii phosphatis, Acidi salicylici, Aquae, 3"J 3j f.!vj. M. 62. ^• Acidi salicylici, AquEe, 3j f.!vj. . M. 63. ^• Acidi salicylici, Sodii bicarbonatis, Aquae, 3j 3ss f.gxii. The advantages of salicylic acid are that it is free from odor, and so far acceptable to the patients; that wounds heal under its influence, and, during the progress of the repair, are free from bad smells; that, unless strong with spirit, or but little diluted, it does not cause local pain. Its bad points seem to be these: that, above the strength of two per cent., it causes local irritation, with some constitutional disturbance; and, if the patient has a delicate skin, even the weak preparation is a source of trouble; that there is more discharge from a wound dressed with salicylic than where