THE IMMEDIATE TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION. 25 of the cautery to poisoned wounds; counter-irritants, especially blisters; and the local application of antiphlogistics. Of the last mentioned, ivater, cold or warm, simple or medicated, is of immemorial use. Dr. Gross generally prefers warm water to cold; a good rule, however, is to consult the feelings of the pa- tient,' and employ that which is more agreeable to him. The water may'be rendered anodyne, astringent, or antiseptic, by the addition of opium, acetate of lead, or some of the chlorides. When ice can- not be obtained, it may be rendered cold by the addition of one- sixth its bulk of alcohol, or by hydrochlorate of ammonia and nitrate of potassa. In employing cold water, the part is exposed to favor evaporation; in the use of warm, it is covered to maintain the heat. Fomentations are often very beneficial in inflammations of the joints and internal viscera, as cystitis, gastritis and enteritis. The most simple consists of a large and thick flannel cloth, well wrung out of hot water, and applied lightly to the part as hot as it can be borne. Two such cloths should be used, so that when one is taken, off the other may immediately be applied. Stuping is conducted with a piece of flannel rolled into a ball,, which the patient holds in a small pitcher, at such a distance from the affected part that the vapor may ascend to it, the cloth being wet as often as it becomes cool. It is particularly serviceable in affections of the eye, nose, mouth and throat. Poultices should be changed three or four times a day. They^ should be light, of medium consistence, and applied at about the- temperature of the body. Even when quite mild they sometimes- act as irritants. Water and poultices are generally much increased in efficacy by- adding hydrochlorate of ammonia, acetate of lead, or solution of the subacetate of lead. The first mentioned is especially called for where there is extensive effusion of fibrin, or fibrin and blood'.. Vinegar adds to its efficacy. 6. I^. Hydrochlorate of ammonia, one ounce Vinegar, one ounce Water, half gallon. M.. Goulard's extract (solution of the subacetate of lead) is valuable for its astringent and sedative properties.