THE COMPLICATIONS OF WOUNDS, 138 valescence commences. In the one case lost, the tetanic symp- toms abated, but the attending physician injudiciously suspended the remedy, and they recommenced, and the patient died of exhaustion. RESUME OF REMEDIES. ^Aconitum in large doses has been employed by a number of practitioners, and deserves further trials. There seems to be great tolerance of the drug in this disease. It acts by diminishing the irritabil- ity of that portion of the nervous centre which controls reflex muscular action. '^yEther has been found to be very useful in arresting tetanic symptoms in the wounded. Cases, both of idiopathic and traumatic tetanus, cured by the inhalation of ether, have been reported. Alcohol. Stimulants, first proposed by Dr. Rush, in this disease, are now rarely trusted to alone. Large doses of wine, brandy and porter, have been given with success, in a number of reported cases. Allium has been administered internally, in this disease, and by frictions along the spine and limbs, with alleged success. Antimonii et Potassii Tartras has, it is said, proved effectual in nauseant and emetic does. Atropia has been given hypodermically. Its effects are probably the same as belladonna (which see). Belladonna. The claims of this drug have recently been strongly urged by Dr. Henry Fitzgibbon, surgeon to the Dublin City Hos- pital. {Dublin Journal of Medical Science, March, 1877.) He gives gr. JE^ of the extract every two to four hours. The local application of aconite and belladonna to the wound he also con- siders important as diminishing the irritability of the wounded nerve Warm baths, and laxative medicines, also form part of his treatment. He also uses tobacco stupes and chloroform, and considers it would be perfectly rational to combine the in- ternal administration of belladonna with subcutaneous injections of curarine or nicotin; but, as the latter has at first a tendency to produce an excited and irritated condition of the cord before it causes any paralysis of the muscular system, he should be dis- posed to employ curarine in preference. Brominum, see Potassii Bromidum. * Cannabis Indica has been largely employed, but with very diverse re- sults. It has been given in the form of the extract (gr. nj) or of the tincture (ttixxx), repeated every half hour, hour, or two hours, the object being to produce and maintain narcotism. Chloral. This substance has been highly commended in tetanus. Ac- cording to Dr. CnoPARD {These de Paris, 1876,) it should be given in full doses rapidly increased. ,?ss to =j daily may be re- quired. Administration by the mouth is preferable. Five or ten drops of a solution of bicarbonate of soda i gr. 1 to aqune §j) will counteract the irritating effect of the chloral, and should