TONSILLAR HYPERTROPHY. with blood. The following day the tonsil is covered with a whitish- yellow eschar. The inconsiderable amount of suffering produced by this appli- cation is noticeable. Children hardly pay any attention to the pain, or make light of it. At the longest, the discomfort lasts only about two or three minutes. Subsequent applications are accom- panied with less, if any pain at all. The operation is again to be repeated in two or three days. The number of applications will depend upon the nature of the case. ARTHUR TREHERNE NORTON, F. R. C. S.* When the tonsils of children are enlarged, it is necessary to treat them constitutionally as well as locally. The parts should be painted with a solution of equal parts of tincture of iodine and water, or with the pure tincture, ceasing the application for a day or two at a time, rather than to allow the surface to become abraded by the irritant action of the drug. The child should be taught to gargle, and the application then exchanged for gargle of tannic acid (grs. viij. to Sj), or of tincture of iodine (5ss to oj). If the child is strumous, iodide of iron and cod-liver oil are called for; and if there are any signs of inherited syphilis, iodide of po- tassium gr. ij, three times a day, accompanied by small and re- peated doses of gray powder, will be called for. If after two months of this treatment there is no appreciable result, the condi- tion may be looked upon as incurable, and a resort to an operation is the only alternative. In people over twenty years of age, by far the majority of cases of hypertrophied tonsils are due to syphilis. The tonsils are pur- ple or dark blue, rather soft, not painful, very liable to ulcerate. The pillars of the fauces are thick and fleshy. Mr. Norton us- ually prescribes : 374. I^. Potassii iodidi, Liq. hydrarg. perchloridi, Decocti cinchonas, At a dose, thrice daily. After giving this for two or three weeks he changes it to tinctura ferri chloridi, or to the citrate of iron and quinine, alternating the * Affections of the Throat and Larynx. London, 1875. gr.v 3iss M.