I 2 76 LESIONS OF THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION. Geranium Maculatum. The virtues of this plant depend upon the quan- tity of tannic and gallic acid contained in it. In aphthous affections, ulcerations of the mouth and throat, and relaxed states of the mucous membranes, it is often used as a wash or gargle, and a decoction in milk is often relied upon against the attendant bowel complaints. But it is better and more conve- nient to use small doses of tannin, both locally and internally. Hydrargyrum Chloridum Corrosivum, gr. i-ij to aquse Oj, is recom- mended by NlEMEYER. Magnesia is used as an antacid and absorbent in aphthse and aphthous ulcerations, especially when acid diarrhcea is present. Mel or honey, was employed by Hippocrates to cleanse foul ulcers, and ' by DioscoRiDES in fistulous ulcers and wounds, which were slow to heal. The Arabian writers dwell particularly on its advant- ages in affections of the mouth and fauces, and especially of the gums, particularly when mixed with vinegar. Stille advises it in all cases in which a mild stimulant is required to change the character of ulcerated surfaces. In all ages it has been applied to the gums and buccal mucous membrane to remove aphthae and slight pseudo-membranous deposits; but it is now usual to associate it with the borate of soda, or chlorate of potash both of which materially increase its efficacy. The honey of roses and oxymel are said to be superior to honey alone. But in thrush or muguet, Niemeyer says the domestic remedies, such as sprinkling the mouth with sugar, or painting it with borax and mel rosK, are to be avoided, as they render the mouth sticky and furnish new materials for decomposition, and do not at all prevent the redevelopment of thrush. Von Maack advises it strongly in the aphthse of chlorotic females, as, according to him chlorosis depends upon an imperfect conversion of the pro- ducts of digestion into sugar in the liver. (Peters.) Potasscz Chloras is used in aphthous inflammation and ulceration of the tongue arising from anything which irritates the alimentary canal • also in diphtheria, cancrum oris, and gangrenous stoma- titis Hunt gives from 5 to 2a grains for children, and 30 to 60 grains for adults, daily, and uses a lotion of 5j to 3ij m aq. Oi as a wash; but these doses are too small in severe cases, it is the principal remedy in follicular stomatitis and aphtha. Dr. Hanner was successful in 70 cases, with doses of 30 to 60 grains in twenty-four hours, in expediting the cure. It is particu arly useful in ulcerative stomatitis, which commences by small ulcers on the inside of the cheeks or lips, or at the junction of the mucous membrane of the gums with the cheeks, or with the gums themselves, separating them from the teeth. These ulcers mav become large and covered with a pultaceous pseudo-mem- branous deposit, assuming an almost gangrenous appearance and exhaling a fetid smell. Drs. Hunt and Hawkins firs found it a prompt and certain remedy in doses of 20 to 60 grains a dav West regarded it as almost specific; Meigs seldom found'it necessary to resort to any other means, and authorities nnumerable may be cited to the same effect. Wood says it