252 LESIONS OF THE ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. Potassii lodidiim. The use of this dVug, together with complete rest and a restricted diet, was first suggested by Dr. Graves, of Dublin. Dr. Balfour gives it in large and repeated doses (see above). Lesser doses, combined with carbonate of ammonia, are said to produce equal effect. Dr. Fothergill says this plan of treat- ment for internal aneurism, with small doses of hydrate of chloral added, is "theoretically perfect." lanntcum Acidim, in doses of gr.v-xv, has been used. Veratrum Viride. This remedy, used to depress the circulation, is an im- portant adjuvant to the surgical measures in aneurism In large internal aneurisms it is a powerful adjunct to other remedies, in slowing the circulation. This effect should be accomplished, however, without producing vomiting. The patient should, therefore, remain absolutely in the recumbent position, and a little opium should be combined with the veratrum. (Bar- THOLOW.) EXTERNAL MEASURES. Cold. The application of ice to the surface of the tumor is said to have acted beneficially in some cases. But it is a painful remedy and there is risk of sloughing of the skin. Emplastra. When the pain attending the increase of the tumor is con- siderable, the application of belladonna or he7nlock plasters often gives relief. Or anodyne embrocations may be used, as 295. Tinct. aconit. radicis, Olei olivse, aa ^ij. M. Apply on cloth to the part. Poultices. Astringent poultices have been thought to be of service. The application of a tan poultice to the epigastric region is reported to have greatly relieved one case (Dr. W. Arding, in the Medical Times and Gazette, Nov. 4, 1876). Pressure is a successful method of treating aneurism. When it can be carried out, compression of the artery above with the finger is by far the best plan (Holmes); The pressure must be equable "and sufficient to stop the whole circulation (8 lbs. will stop that of the femoral artery). Instrumental compression by weight, with a point not larger than the finger end, may be instituted m place of digital compression. Numerous instruments are devised for the purpose. The Esmarch Bandas;e. Several cases cured with the application of this bandage have been reported. In all, the aneurism was of the popliteal artery. In all but one case the treatment was com- menced by completely arresting the circulation in the limb for one hour by means of Esmarch's bandage, pressure being kept up after this time by means of a tourniquet. In all the success- ful cases the bandage was so applied that the sac was filled with blood at the time the circulation in the limb was arrested. From the consideration of these cases, it seems that the conditions to