430 LESIONS OF THE ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE. one, not to do too much. With atropia, local blood-letting, and occasional resort to the influence of mercury, and enforced quiet in a moderately darkened room, we can do much to counteract the effects of such injuries. Moreover, we should not be in too much of a hurry to advise the enucleation of such an injured eye, simply because vision seems irretrievably lost, and the eye apparently destroyed. Experience teaches us all that by ckreful and long- continued treatment, some sight may, in many cases, be restored. If the patient can be kept under constant observation, and no signs of sympathetic trouble have as yet appeared, and the injured eye is not certainly destroyed, the best surgery is not to enucleate. But the moment sympathetic irritation appears, there is but one course to pursue. If the patient cannot be kept under observation, then the best plan is to enucleate at once, and thus avoid the possibility of any future trouble. Somewhat different advice is given by DR. JULIAN J. CHISHOLM, OF BALTIMORE. This surgeon states {Virginia Medical Monthly, August, 1875,) that the axiom "thai every lost eye from injury should be taken out," has no qualification, and is absolute. No surgeon will ever do wi'ong who removes an eye lost through injury, whether at the time of operation the eye gives trouble or not. Whenever it is taken out, a dangerous enemy is surely gotten rid of A lost eye from accident is a deformed one, marred in its pro- portions or made conspicuous by the whiteness of its opaque lens, or exhibits a scarred surface and discolored iris, indicating the character of the injury which had destroyed the sight. Such un- sightly eyes, from which the perception of light has forever departed, often flush up under the slightest exposure, and remain both a deformity and an ever-threatening source of trouble. It is always best to remove the lost eye before the good one has become in any way affected. Should an active, sympathetic irrita- tion be excited before this precaution has been taken, there is no surety that the good eye will not be more or less permanently injured by the inflammatory process. Sometimes the attack in the good eye does not yield at the moment the injured eye is removed, and in some cases the de-^tructive process, once commenced, will go on in the good eye, notwithstanding the extirpation of the lost one.