LESIONS OF THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 288 and agreeable remedy in relaxed uvula, irritable fauces and en- larged tonsils. Cimiciftim, gtt.v-x of the tincture, in the early stages of sore throat, is *said to act well. Also where the mucous membrane of the pharynx becomes dry and spotted over with inspissated mucus. (Ringer.) Cinchona. Peruvian bark and its alkaloids exert a specific effect when locally applied to inflamed mucous membranes. They are in- valuable additions to gargles. (F. 354.) An attack of acute tonsillitis may sometime be aborted by a full dose of qumme (gr. x-xv) gives at the outset. Dr. George Johnson, of Lon- don, recommends the following gargle : 366. 1^. Ouinise sulphatis, gr.xviij Acidi sulphuric! diluti, ""Ixlij Aquffi, f.^vj. For a gargle. Creasotum is an excellent ingredient in gargles for malignant sore throat. Cubeba This has received very high praise from MM. Trideau, Ber- GEROU, Trousseau, and other French surgeons, and by Dr. Beverly Robinson, of New York, as a remedy in simple mem- branous and in diphtheritic sore throat. The mixture employed by the latter most frequently is the folowing: 367. V,.. Pulv. cubeba; (freshly powdered), §j Syrupi aurantii, _ Aq. menth. pip., aa §iss. M. Sig.—To be taken in twenty-four hours, or a dessertspoonful every two hours. This is the usual adult dose. From a fourth to a half of the above quantity may be given with propriety in the same lapse of time, to a child three years of age. He lays great stress upon the importance of making use of the freshly ground powder No other preparation of cubeb is at all so efficacious. Ut its action he says: Cubeb tends to arrest mucous secretions, and, on this account, i-nembranous exudation does not re-form as rapidly or abundantlv. False membranes already formed lose their intimate adherence with the original site of growth, and are resorbed, or fall into the buccal cavity and are expectorated They also shrivel to a limited degree, and are less covered with hquid secretions. When the pseudo.deposit reappears in the spot from which it has once dropped, or been resorbed, it diHers considerably from the primitive one. It is changed in color, configuration, and other properties. It is white, or of a white slightly bluish tinge, less thick and prominent, less adherent, ana covers a more limited area. It has lost its disposition to extend to new surfaces, whether it be toward the larynx or toward the nasal cavities. The above effects manifest themselves usually in about forty-eight hours from the time the exhibition of cubeb is