434 LESIONS OF THE ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE. lieves that Calabar ought to be substituted for atropia in all those affections of the cornea which call for a diminution of the pressure upon the posterior surface of the cornea. These in- clude keratocele, conical cornea, old maculae cornese, and espe- cially in deep and progressive ulcerations, either in the centre or at the margin of the cornea, as they occur in old and debili- tated persons, or in children in connection with blennorrhoeal conjunctivitis. In these cases the Calabar achieved its most brilliant triumphs; it prevented the perforation of the ulcer; it guarded against hernia of the iris and the subsequent staphy- lomatous expansion of the cornea; it checked the destructive progress of the ulceration, and caused the ulcer to rapidly fill up and cicatrize; and it accomplished all this without the aid of bandages or any other means, except the cauterization of the blennorrhoeal conjunctiva. While highly lauding the Calabar for its excellent effect upon deep ulcers in the cornea, Weber states that he could not recommend its use in superficial and vascular ulcerations ©f the cornea. Here the good effect of at- ropia with a proper bandage remains unquestionable. Prof. Gub- LER states that the disturbances of vision which succeed acute and sometimes chronic diseases, and which are due to consecu- tive paralysis, characterized by asthenopia and debility of the muscles of the eye, may be treated successfully by Calabar bean. In asthenopia a few drops of solution of sulphate of eserine (^-g. to YFo) P^^ ^y^' ^'"^ render the vision quite dis- tinct in an hour or two. In presbyopia also, Prof. Gubler has applied eserine with advantage. He has found eserine to be of extreme value in retarding the advance of presbyopia. {^Gaz. Habd., 4th Feb., 1876.) Dr. Wecker has spoken of its value in suppuration of the cornea following the extraction of cataract. As soon as the edges of the wound grow hazy, the aqueous humor turbid, and the secretion of the conjunctiva is increased, the wound in its entire extent is re-opened with a fine spatula, in order to draw off all the aqueous humor. Eserine is instilled every hour or thirty minutes, and the eye washed frequently with a warm solution of carbolic acid (one part to thousand parts of water). Glycerina is used as an ingredient in ophthalmic plasmata, Grindelia Robusta. This plant has been lauded as a specific in iritis, no matter from what cause. It is given internally, f.5j of the fluid extract four times a day; and locally, cloths, wet with a solu- tion of one part of the fluid extract to four of water. (Henry M. FisKE, Pacific Medical and Surgical Journal, Aug., 1875.) Hydrargyrum. The various preparations of mercury are extensively em- ployed in ophthalmic therapeutics. The chloridum corrosivum is used in solution in purulent ophthalmia by Professor Bedford (F. 604I, and by Dr. Turnbull, in keratitis. (F. 623.) The chloridum mite may be insufflated as a dry powder in corneal ulcer (p. 421); internally it is constantly employed to produce the constitutional effect of the drug in syphilitic and general iritis. The oleate is highly extolled in blepharitis, tinea tarsi,