AN/ESTHETICS. 50 passages; {b) its comparative feebleness as an anaesthetic agent; (c) its long and vexatious stage of excitement—are owing entirely to a defective method of administering it. What ether requires is an opportunity to evaporate, and, under favorable circumstances, when there is a thin stratum of it, its disappearance is almost instan- taneous. Any apparatus or vehicle for the administration of ether, that holds it in any quantity and retains it in the fluid state, is not well adapted for its use; while any contrivance that will favor the rapid deliverance of the vapor of ether must, ccEteris paribus, be more effective. To reach this point, he has contrived a wire frame-work for keeping many folds of a bandage at a slight distance from each other, and yet having the whole in a compact form that will readily adjust itself to the face. The sides are inclosed, but the ends are left open—the one for the patient's face, the other for the entrance of air and the ready supply of ether. He has found it very effective. He usually produces complete anaesthesia in females in seven minutes, and with about two ounces of ether. Persons seldom object to taking it, and the .stage of excitement is no more excessive, prolonged, or frequent, than with chloroform. He adheres strictly to the following plan: The patient being freed from all restraint as to clothing, he places the apparatus over the face and adds a few drops of ether, hardly enough to give a strong odor of ether. In a few seconds hd adds a few more drops, taking care not to give it in too concentrated a form at first. In a few minutes the patient takes deep respirations, and then he adds it more constantly, not too much to be offensive or objectionable to the patient, and not too little to be efficacious. The sick stomach and headache which often follow the use of ether may generally be prevented by administering shortly before 'the inhalation a few drachms of brandy; or, what is said to be equally, if not more efficacious, a scruple or two of bromide of po- tassium half an hour before, as recommended by Dr. A. J. Stone, of Boston. On the relative value of chloroform and ether much difference of opinion prevails. Professor Schiff, of Geneva, has expressed himself to the effect that chloroform should be banished from practice as an anaesthetic agent, except in cases in which extraor- dinary resistance to the effect of ether shows itself, in which