192 LESIONS FROM HEAT AND COLD. of returning insensibility. If there is any evidence of failure of the pulse, this treatment must be discontinued, for application of cold to the head is then all that can be borne. The hair is to be cut short as soon as possible, and a blister applied to the nape of the neck. When the first violence of the attack is subdued, increasing confidence in the ultimate result may be indulged in so soon as vesication takes place; and in cases where insensibility recurs after an interval of ten or twelve hours, it may be removed by the appli- cation of a second blister to the vertex. A blister may also be applied along the spine in the worst cases. Stimulation by the electro-galvanic current, with the moist sponges applied along the sides of the neck, chest and epigastrium, ought also to be employed. Sinapisms ought generally to be applied" to the extremities, and to the chest or sides. In cases where the breathing is much oppressed, and the bron- chial tubes loaded with mucus, the patient should be turned occa- sionally over on his face and side. In the convulsive form of the disease, where the greatest irrita- bility of the nervous system prevails, the douche is found to be inadmissible, from the agony which it occasions. In such cases. Dr. Barclay has found great benefit from the inhalation of chloro- form. Great care is necessary in its employment, and the cases in which it is indicated are rare. » Dr. A. P. Merrill, of New York, and others, have recommended the use of chloroform internally. DR. WHITEHILL, of ST. LOUIS, This surgeon has had a large experience with sunstroke, having seen as many as fifty cases in a single day during a forced military march in 1863. {St. Louis Medical Archives, September, 1868,) The treatment found most successful was cold to the head and chest, friction of the extremities, and the internal administration of stimulants, such as brandy and ammonia. In his own case, the nausea and vomiting were relieved by full draughts of strong green tea and Rhenish wine. In all cases, a most important part of the treatment was to place the patient in the recumbent position in the shade, where there was a free circulation of air, and at the same time disencumber him of everything that could in any wise inter- fere with either circulation or respiration. Under this treatment every case had recovered.