IMPOTENCE. completely in ca number of cases, and seems to bave succeeded chiefly wlien combined with steel, strychnia, electricity, and other agents which, without it, would probably have led to the favorable result claimed. It is liable to produce digestive dis- orders, which can be partially obviated by combuimg it with cinchona and sherry wine. {New Preparations, Jan., 1877,) Dioscorein. This active principle of dioscorea villosa, the wild yam, is stated by Dr. Edward R. Mayer {Hints in Specific Medication, 1876, p. 18,) to give marked increase in tone and greater sexual vigor to the male genital organs. He employs one-tenth of a grain of dioscorein, rubbed up with sugar, and continues it in this dose, for a considerable time. He does not consider it an aphrodisiac, but a tonic. lodinimn. Gr. j, in syrup, thrice daily is stated by Dr. Scudder to be a stimulant and tonic to the genital organs. Matico. As an alterative stimulant to diseased mucous membranes, matico is much cmploped in Peru as an aphrodisiac. It is probably especially useful in cases connected with chronic pro- statitis and with abnormal urethral irritabihty. Nux Vomica, see Strychnia. Oleum MorthucB. 496. Vf. Olei morrhuse, Syrupi zingiberis, Mucilag. acaci£E, Sa f.^ij Olei caryophylli, gtt.vj. M. A tablespoonful three or four times daily. Recommended by Dr. H. Hartshorne in the wasting which accompanies impotence from spermatorrhea. Phosphorus. In many cases of impotence, no remedy is more efficient than phosphorus. It is of course adapted to those which are functional in origin, not the result of organic defect. Accord- ing to Mr. J. A. Thompson, it is important that it be given in small tonic doses, gr 3V to for a long time, and not in larger Quantities. Even this, for some constitutions, is a large dose. Its results are often flattering at first but not permanent, and the patient must be strongly admonished to use his regained power with the utmost moderation. {British Medical Journal, 1873.) Polygonum Punctatum. Smart weed or water pepper, f.5ss-f.5j of the tincture, is spoken of by Dr. J. W. Howe, of New York, as a stimulating aphrodisiac. Sinapis. The special stimulant action of mustard is of decided power in atonic impotence Mr. Gamgee applies it to the spine over the origin of the genito-crural nerves (page 364). Dr. Sau- VAGES recommends that the penis and testicles be immersed for twenty minutes daily in a hot and strong infusion of mustard seed. He reports restoration by this means of genital power, which had been forfeited for years by early excesses.-