HERNIA. again the parts must be rubbed until they are all aglow, so that active circulation and full secretion are maintained; 3. The truss must be taken off the last thing before the patient retires, and put on the first thing in the morning; 4. In the case of a child the truss should be worn all the time, day and night, after the first feelings of discomfort have passed away. At first it must be taken off three or four times a day, while the skin is thoroughly rubbed and anointed, and then put carefully on again. If these rules are conscientiously adhered to, a cure may be expected in the course of two or three years. The truss, at any rate, should not be taken off sooner than that. A permanent cure is much more likely to ensue if a hard pad has been employed. Venesection. As an efficient means of relaxing the system, gen- eral blood-letting was formerly in vogue. Chloroform, however^ has now superseded it. Sometimes leeching around the hernial tumor will be a valuable aid in effecting reduction, especially when the local inflammation is high. IRREDUCIBLE HERNIA. An irreducible rupture should be protected by a truss with a large concave pad, or by a suspensory bandage, the object being to obtain constant and well graduated pressure. Various appa- ratus for this purpose has been devised. Something may also be done by medical treatment in such' cases. Mr. Bransby Cooper has recommended that an attempt should be made to convert the irreducible into a reducible hernia,, by keeping the patient in bed several weeks on a low diet, with* the continued application of ice to the tumor; and, if it contain much omentum, giving small doses of blue pill and tartar emetic,. so as to promote the absorption of the fat. In the opinion df Mr. Erichsen, this plan deserves further trial, as he has witnessed successful results in some cases. Instead, however, of the medicines mentioned, he substitutes iodide of potassium, with advantage. This suggestion has been put in practice by Dr. R. O. Cowling,. of Kentucky {Archives of Clinical Surgery, July, 1877), in a case of irreducible femoral hernia of the right side. He ordered for the patient an abdominal supporter with a concave pad, and pre- scribed the iodide of potassium, gr. x. thrice daily, with directions