LESIONS OF THE ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE. 422 efficient trial of the liot-fomcntation plan. In a large majority of cases, corneal ulcers with hypopyon, if seen in an early stage, will do perfectly well if the patient be put to bed and the eye fomented constantly with a hot belladonna solution; but it must be almost literally constant, and as hot as the patient can possibly bear it. Anything short of this in these dangerous ca'^es is usually only waste of time. In regard to operating, he adds that in many cases, after an iridectomy, the patient's pain is at once permanently relieved ; the hypopyon never re-forms, and the ulcer steadily heals afterwards. As there is generally a central opacity resulting from the ulcer, the iridectomy method of treatment has the additional advantage of securing beforehand an artificial pupil. IRITIS. MR. ROBERT BKUDENELL CARTER, F. R. C. S., LONDON. On the treatment of iritis this author says the first principle to be borne in mind is to avoid all irritants, such as astringents, nitrate of silver lotions, etc. The eyes should be given complete functional rest, and, to prevent adhesions, the cardinal point is the use of atropine, which should never be omitted, save in exces- sively rare cases where it produces local inflammatory action. A four-grain solution should be applied at intervals of an hour till complete dilatation is obtained, and this should be kept up, by a single drop of the solution night and morning. When the atro- pine from any cause fails to dilate the pupil fully, tlie use of mercury is imperative, pushed as rapidly as possible to its constitu- tional, action, as shown by the slight mercurial line on the gums. This should be maintained until the resolution of the inflammation is accomplished. But the condition of " salivation " should never be brought about designedly. During the whole period of treatment, the eye should be closed and protected by a compressive bandage, applied with comfortable tightness over a pad of jeweler's cotton-wool. By this means the patient will be enabled to walk abroad without restraint, so long as he avoids injurious fatigue or hurry. Sometimes, especially when resting at home, a poultice will be a pleasant substitute for