210 LESIONS OF MUSCULAR TISSUE. MR. M. A. WARD, OF DUBLIN. This surgeon [Dublin Medical Jownial, No 69, 1877), makes one incision about an inch and a half or two inches long, as the case may be, over the centre of the carbuncle, when the slough has formed,'and from four to six counter openings round the central one, varying in size from a quarter to half an inch. He then plugs the'openings with strips of lint steeped in some stimulating ap- plication, and lays a poultice over all, dressing the carbuncle in the same' way every day until all the sloughs have separated. The advantages Mr. Ward claims for this method are: First and most important, all the integument is preserved. 2. It has all the advantages of the mode of treatment by crucial incision, without any of the disadvantages. 3. There is almost entire freedom from hemorrhage. 4. The occurrence of a large suppurating sore is avoided 5. Sufficient space is afforded for the escape and removal of dead cellular tissue. 6. Very slight cicatricial marking results. DR. E. SCHNEIDER, OF BELGIUM. This surgeon objects to the application of caustics, on account of the slowness of their action and the pain they cause. The eschar is often tedious in separating, and they implicate at times the healthy tissue. Their superficial application, he thinks, some- times imprisons matter, the escape of which should be favored. The method he prefers is to incise the anthrax freely in different directions slightly extending beyond the limits of the diseased action in both length and depth. He then promptly fills these in- cisions with lint dipped in a solution of perchloride of iron oi 30 . Dry lint a compress, and a bandage moderately firm, complete the dressing' After twenty-four or forty-eight hours, the lint loosens, and shows a wound of good appearance, which proceeds promptly to cicatrization. There is no risk from hemorrhage and no delay in checking the disease, {journal des Sciences Medicales de Lou- vain, Feb., 1877.) DR. O. FERRALL, OF DUDLIN. The treatment of carbuncles, which, in the opinion of this gen- tleman should supersede all others, is that by pressure. Adhes.ve trbs Jre applied concentrically, commencing at the margm of th t mor w t 'narrow strips overlapping each other slightly unt viXn lalf an inch of the centre, which space ,s left open for the