SPECIAL FORMS OF WOUNDS. I/O of bites by hydrophobic animals with the leaves of Xanthium spi- nosum. This drug possesses sudorific, sialogogue, and slight diu- retic properties. The dose for an adult is 60 c. g. of dry powder of the leaves, repeated three times a day; half the quantity is suf- ficient for children under twelve years. A fluid extract Xanthium spinosum is now manufactured, and can be had from leading druggists in the United States. DR. JOHN IMRAY, DOMINICA, WEST INDIES. 165. Y^. Chlorali hydrati, gr.xxx Liquoris opii sedativi (B. Ph.), gtt.x Amyli, q. s. M. For one injection. Repeat every hour until sleep is produced. This author says [Medical Times and Gazette, May, 1876,) the power of these combined drugs in controlling and repressing spasmodic action is very remarkable. It appears as if a power stronger than that of the disease forcibly represses the morbid ac- tion, hke a heavy weight placed on a sprmg, and if the pressure yields the spring begins to rise; but being constantly maintained, the morbid nervous phenomena gradually give way, and finally the disease is vanquished. Dr. Maxwkll [Indian journal of Medical and Physical Science) recommends the following plan when premonitory symptoms are first observed: i. That the original cicatrix be freely laid open, and suppuration from it speedily and freely produced and main- tained for several months. 2. The nerves, or nerve leading to the part, are to be divided without delay, the more remote from the wound the better. 3. Free perspiration by the hot-air bath. 4. Bleeding from the arm to syncope in robust* persons. RESUME OF REMEDIES. Amvl Nitrite. The inhalation of this powerful antispasmodic was used in a case reported by Dr. Cleeman, of Virguiia, with much benefit, but was not carried out, owing to the opposition of the patient. Cannabis Indica is asserted by Professor Polli, of Milan, to be the best palliative, though not curative. Chloroformum is considered by Dr. Henry Hartshqrne to be the most -^ satisfactory agent to promote the euthanasia, which he believes to be the extent of our ability in such cases. He administers it freely by inhalation all the time till death ensues. Curara, see Woorara.