240 LESIONS OF THE BONES AND JOINTS. tissue. Injection must not be employed when any active inflam- matory process is going on; the temperature of the joint must be not at all higher, or but a portion of a degree higher, than that of the other side. There must be either no pain, or only that dull aching which is rather a sign of fullness of veins than of arterial hypei^mia. Starting of the limb, the symptom above all others which shows that the cancellous stricture next the articular lamella is inflamed, shows also that the time for this treatment has passed by, unless such starting be only occasional, and not severe. When, in any case, all the favorable conditions are present, he puncture's the skin in the softest and most prominent parts of the tumefaction, making from two to four punctures, as the case may demand or permit; into each of these punctures he injects about five minims of the fluid, withdrawing the needle a little as the piston descends. An elastic bandage is applied after the operation. DR. C. FITZHENRY CAMPBELL, OF SACKVILLE, N. B. Our author, referring to the practice of Dr. Moritz, of Coblentz (Medicinische Zeitung, No. 26, 1872), of employing nitrate of silver, either in solution (ten grains to the fluid ounce) or in substance, as a local application in cases of articular efl'usions, whether resulting from gout, rheumatism, scrofula or wounds, says that for more than twenty years past he has been in the habit of applying a solu- tion of this salt (three to eight .grains to the fluid ounce) to almost all painful swellings of the joints, whether resulting from blood disease or mechanical injury, with the happiest results {The Lancet, July ist, 1871). DR. P. J. MANEC, PARIS. 281. I^. Ammonii chloridi, 5yss Aquae (or vim rubri), ^J- Compresses immersed in this solution are to be applied to the knee m recent cases. The articulation is to be moderately compressed, and the band- ages kept moist with the solution. Afterward, recourse is had to flying blisters, if necessary. DR. METZGER, OF BONN. The treatment of both acute and chronic synovitis, except Uiat at the hip-joint, is treated by this practitioner with massage. The