0Z.3£NA. 405 573. I^. Bismuthi subnitratis, 3j Potassii sulphured, gr.v Pulv. glycyrrhizse, 3iss. M. For a snuff. Useful as a disinfectant. t DR. PROSSER JAMES, OF LONDON. Of substances useful to wash out the nasal passages, the author had used with fair results chloride of alimiinum ; but on the whole preferred the permanganates. These promptly remove the fetor, which is the great distress of the patient. A weak solution should be freely employed at first, gradually increasing until there is a little smarting. ' Ulcerations and erosions should be touched with a strong solution or with a paste. Inhalation of iodifie vapor is often of great value. When syphilis is believed to be the cause, iodide of sodium in large doses is called for. This contains more iodine than the potassic salt, and is not so apt to disturb the stomach. The iodide of calcium is also an excellent preparation. RESUME OF REMEDIES. Alumen. The nostrils may be well irrigated with a solution of 3j to aquse Oj. Aluminum. The acetate of alumina is more efficient in correcting fetor than simple alum. Dr. Prosser James '^xtitx's, chloralum, the chloride of aluminum. Ainmonii Chloridi is used as a wash by Dr. Frankel. (F. 563.) Aqua Picis. The following is an injection extolled by M. Delioux de Savignac : 574. 15=. Aquae picis, f-oij Acid carbolici crystal., gr.j. M. For a lotion. Argenti Nitras. When ozsna depends upon ulcers in the posterior nares, these should be touched with nitrate of silver, or with a solution of the strength of a fifth or a tenth; or, the following ointment (Dr. Mauriac, Paris) : 575. B. Argenti nitratis, gr.x-xx Aquae destill., q- s. to dissolve Unguenti aquse rosae, Sj. M, For local use to ulcerations or fungosities. Bismuth. Trousseau employed equal parts of bismuth and powdered talc in chronic non-syphilitic ozaana, ordering the patient to clear well the nasal passages by blowing the nose, and then to snuff up some of the powder. It is advantageously combmed with astringents, as: