VENEREAL DISEASES. 578 Or the following, where the iron is applicable to anaemic condi tions: 966. I^. Hydrarg. bichloridi, Ferri redacti, Gum tragacanthae, \ Glycerinae, j Make fifty pills. Or the following fluid form : 967. IJ.. Hydrargyri bichloridi, gr.j Tmct. ferri chloridi, f.Siij Aquam, ad f.^vj. M. A teaspoonful. . Having decided which preparation to employ, the patient must be prepared for his mercurial course. His teeth must be repaired by a competent dentist, he must stop tobacco absolutely, and live a regular life. Thus prepared, let him commence with the dose given above, as follows : » One after each meal, thrice daily, for three days. On the fourth day, double his midday dose; on the seventh day, double one of the other doses; on the tenth day, double the remaining dose; on the thirteenth day, triple the midday dose ; and continue the increase in this manner, until there is very posi- tive evidence of irritation in the intestine, such as pains and diar- rhoea, or the gums are touched. This is the patient's " full dose," which should be continued by the aid of opiates, until the syphil- itic symptoms disappear. As soon as this dose is accomplished, the dose should be cut down one-half, which will act as a tonic and is called by Dr. K. the "tonic dose." This is to be continued unceasingly, day after day, month after month, waiting for new symptoms. Should they arise, the patient must at once be put upon the "full dose" until they disappear. Should the syphilitic symptoms be slow to yield to this method, ■ their disappearance may be hastened by a mercurial vapor bath or by mercurial inunction. This is the essence of the general treatment, though each case must of course be considered in its special features. The gen- eral treatment should last at least during two years, before which period the case cannot be supposed to be well. lodme, in its various preparations, ranks next to mercury. When the lesion is purely gummy, and as a general rule in gr.J q. s.