465 CANCER. but around its edges, thus obliterating the lymphatics. The injec- tions are repeated once every week or every other week. Dr. Wynn Williams of the Samaritan Hospital, London, em- ploys bromine, one part to three of pure alcohol, of which gtt. v-x are injected into the tissues by means of a long syringe with a platinum nozzle. The solution develops heat, and should be pre- pared some time before used. With it he claims striking success in 7iteri7ie epithelial cancer. Dr. Benjamin Rhett, of South Caro- lina, has also used with success {Charleston Medical jfoumal and Review, October, 1874,) the following: 671, Brominii, gtt.xij Alcoholis, f,5j. M. Inject from four to ten drops into the growth, and touch the surface lightly with it. DR. JOHN HUGHES BENNETT, LONDON.* This author, in speaking of the rational treatment of cancer, states that its object should be retardation, and, if possible, resolu- tion. To accomplish these, four means deserve consideration: 1. Cold. The external application of cold is one of the most powerful means we possess for retarding cancerous growth. In cancers of the breast it may be applied by a caoutchouc bag filled with ice and suspended round the neck. 2. Dryness. As moisture is essential to cell growth, if the part could be deprived of it, the proliferation must cease. This has been sought for by tying the arteries leading to the affected tissues. Magendie .and Jobert reported several successful cases, where disappearance of the tumor followed, even in cases diagnosed as true cancer. The supply of blood, however, furnished by the anastomotic arteries, has prevented the effective application of these measures. While external dryness can produce little effect, wet dressings and lotions should be avoided as hastening the development of the disease, 3. Pressure, applied externally to tumors believed to be cancer- ous, has certainly in a number of instances been successful in retarding, even in altogether removing them. Recamier and others claim quite a number of cures by this method. In order to secure its proper application an apparatus has been invented by Dr. Neil Arnott. It consists of a spring, an air cushion sup- * Cancer and Cancerotts Diseases. London, pp. 237 seq. 30-S