497 THE TREATMENT OF SCROFULA. by a suitable diet and regimen. He administers it Freely, and uses it internally as a lotion and dressing to ulcerated glands, etc. Arsenictnn deservedly occupies a high place among the internal remedies in scrofula. Donovan's solution is an appropriate form. Auri Piilvis. Powdered gold has been highly praised as an alterative in scrofulous affections and strumous glandular enlargements. The dose is -yi, gradually increased to gr.iij, thrice daily, in pill form. Barii Chloridum is especially valuable when languid circulation and irri- tability of the mucous surfaces are present. It is said to be par- ticularly adapted for females with menstrual irregularity. The following formula may be employed : 720. I^. Barii chloridi, gr.x Tincturee ferri chloridi, f.3ij-iv Syrupi aurantii, f.^x. M. One or two tablespoonfuls two or three times a day. Brotmne is a useful remedy. The following solution is a good one for internal administration : 721. 'Sf.. Brominii, ^x Aquae, f-Svij. M. To commence with, gtt.vj, three or four times daily. Calcii Chloridum. In scrofula with glandular enlargement of the neck, Dr. Warburton Begbie has extolled chloride of calcium, gr. x-xx, for one dose, given in milk after food, and continued for some time, its good effects in many cases not at once becoming, apparent. Dr. Copeland also recommends it strongly. Calcii lodidwn, gr.j4, thrice daily, used as the last-mentioned substance.. Calcii Sidphidum. Dr. Ringer has found the sulphides extremely valua-- ble in scrofulous glands and in chronic strumous sores and. abscesses. A favorite formula with him for children is : 722. '^f.. Calcii sulphidi, gr.j Aquae, Oss. Dose : A tablespoonful every hour. It is essential that the medicine be compounded daily, as the salt rapidly becomes oxydized or changed into a sulphate. Or:. 723. I^. Calcii sulphidi, gr.^-|^ Sacchari lactis, gr.x. M.. Four to six of these doses a day for an adult. The treatment must be continued several weeks in order to effect a cure. Calcis AqucB is sometimes productive of benefit in long-standing scrofula, 32-s