4/6 NEW GROWTHS. \n epithelioma of the lip also this preparation will be found to afford much relief from pain, and to be softening and soothing; it has even seemed to possess a marked influence in retarding the progress of the disease. It may also be administered internally in teaspoonful doses. The severe pain requires liberal administration of anodynes. Hypodermic injections of morphia may be used. For continuous stomachic administration, preference is to be given to the bi-meco- nate of morphia; the officinal strength of this medicine is that of laudanum, twenty-five drops representing one grain of opium. DR. MORRELL MACKENZIE, OF LONDON. Cancer of the (Esophagus, As an aliment in this disease milk is of the most value. The patient must, as far as possible, be kept free from pain, and rest at night insured. Subcutaneous injections of morphia offer the most suitable means of effecting this end. In cold weather the apartments should be kept warm, all the condi- tions of the patient tending to lower his bodily temperature. As the disease advances, absolute aphagia is established, and the patient must then be fed by nutritive and stimulating enemata. Instead of the large liquid enemata which are commonly em- ployed, it is better to use the semi-solid compounds of Leube, who has shown how greatly rectal digestion is assisted by the presence of pancreas. The former, recommended by Dr. M., is : 690. '2/.. Beef, mutton or chicken, 4 oz Pancreas, 2 oz Fat. I oz Brandy, 2 drachms Water, 3 oz. These ingredients mixed together will measure about six ounces. The meat, sweetbread, and fat, must be first passed through a mincing machine. It is often desirable to add five or ten drops of laudanum to the enema, which should not be administered more than once in the twenty-four hours. The rectum should be washed out twice a week with warm water, three or four hours before giving the nutritive injection. It is necessary to use an enema-pipe with a bore of half an inch, otherwise the nutritious mass will not pass.