3/6 LESIONS OF THE ORIGANS OF REPRODUCTION. DR. L. D, WATERMAN, INDIANA. This writer, in the American Practitioner, iSyy, claims excellent results with the following: 503. I^. Tincturre ioclinii, Aquaj ammonias, Tincturaa opii, Olei olivae, q_ s_ The iodine and ammonia are added in quantity just sufficient to be bearable, and only cause half-blistering of the skin, or exfolia- tion with a stinging sensation for a short time after application. Thus graduated to the supposed endurability, the free application of It is made to the entire surface of the scrotum, and the woolen cloth saturated with the liniment, with which it is hourly (if possi- ble) applied, is wrapped around the scrotum, and left there contin- ually. The pain ceases sometimes in three hours, always within twenty-four, and the effusion is correspondingly rapidly absorbed without tapping. MR. CURLING, OF ENGLAND.* The use of ice in orchitis, so highly esteemed by this eminent surgeon, seems to have fallen into unmerited neglect. His plan of proceeding is to keep the patient in bed, with the testicle well sup- ported by a handkerchief, or, what is better, by a crutch-pad ap- plied transversely beneath the testicles, the piece of bandage at- tached to each end of the pad being passed above the crest of the ilium and secured around the body. The ice is to be applied to the testicle by enclosing it in a small bladder or in an india-rubber bag with a somewhat narrow neck. This may be suspended from a cradle placed over the body, and the cold must be seduously maintained by frequent renewal of the ice. The patient should be provided with two bladders or bags, one to take the place of the other as the ice melts. The effects of the application are remark- able. The scrotum becomes blanched, shrunk, and corrugated; the pain and heat are entirely removed, and in a few hours the enlargement of the gland is found much diminished. DR. A. RICHARDSON, M. R. C. S., OF ENGLAND. 504. I^. Extract! belladonnee, 5ij Glycerinas, f.^ss Aquae, f.^j. m. ' For local use. * Diseases of the Testes. Fourth edition.