SHOCK. I nized. Dr. Ortille, of Lille, speaking of his success 'with this measure, strongly recommends friction over the spot of injection to promote absorption, and he calls attention to the contracted pupil as the sign of an anaemic brain, requiring the use of a rapid and diffusible stimulant, such as ether. Ether may also be given by enema. Galvanism, especially over the praecardial region, is a most effica- cious measure, BLEEDING IN SHOCK. All modern surgeons unite in condemning blood-letting in the early treatment of shock. But after the immediate effects -have passed away, and it becomes necessary to guard against the violence of the reaction, opinions differ widely as to this measure. Mr. Erichsen considers that then blood-letting is of essential ser- vice, and is "far too much neglected at the present day." Dr. Gross warns strongly against venesection, except in young and plethoric subjects, with a tendency to serious inflammation of some important internal organ. The opposite course, he teaches, often exerts a most pernicious influence on the patient's recovery. Mr. Holmes, Mr. Savory, and Mr. Travers, all lean decidedly against the abstraction of blood in any except unusual cases, as leading to that condition of "prostration with excitement" which is fraught with so much danger. Dr. B. W. Richardson, of London, on the other hand, advocates its frequent employment. He claims to have witnessed prompt and excellent effects from it, without any of the dangerous sequelae spoken of by other observers. His opinion, however, is not of sufficient weight to overbalance that of the sur- geons above quoted. ^ prof, henry H. smith, M. D., PHILADELPHIA. This author lays much stress on the distinction to be drawn be- tween immediate or primary, and insidious or secoitdary shock. The symptoms of the latter are often so masked that they escape the mexperienced observer until they are so far gone that the case IS hopeless. (For the Diagnosis, see Dr. Smith's Priiiciples and Practice of Surgery, p. 45.) The treatment required is to preserve the powers of the nervous system by food and stimulants, while all muscular action on the part of the patient should be prohibited. Heat to the feet, cold to the head, and stimulating frictions to the spine, are also required.