86 THE DRESSING OF WOUNDS. satisfactory, from the cooling land antiseptic properties of lead lotions: No blood should be left in the wound, nor should there be any danger of bleeding. To this end, use all the silk ligatures that are necessary, and leave the wound open an hour or two, rather than close it while there is still oozing. A drainage-tube left in the most dependent portion of the wound is a safe precaution. In the case of removal of the breast, make a counter opening at the most dependent part, and insert a drainage-tube, to be removed on the third day. Coapt the edges of the wound carefully with numerous fine stitches. Great care should be taken that none of the latter are tight, and they should all be taken out on the third or fourth day. After the sutures, narrow strips of plaster should be applied, and remain on for five or six days. The essential feature in the plan is to keep the parts cool by the systematic application of a lead-and-spirit lotion, as follows: 69. Liq. plumbi subac, ^ss Alcoholis, §iss Aquffi, Oj. M. After the wound has been sewed up, as above directed, apply over the plasters a lint compress wet with this lotion, and over this a mass of cotton-wool, which is kept in place pretty tightly by a flannel bandage. This is applied to prevent oozing, and should be taken quite away in from six to twelve hours, when an ample fold of lint, wet with the lotion, should be applied over the wound and surrounding skin, and the nurse should have emphatic directions to remoisten it every quarter or half hour, according to the rate at which it dries. The skin ought to become whitened by deposit of lead. No bandage or other dressing is necessary, and the lotion should be continued without intermission until the wound is per- fectly sound—a week, or two weeks, as the case may be. If one is obliged to leave a portion of the Avound open, the lotion may still be used, and is even more necessary. Another surgeon, Dr. James Lawrie, of Glasgow, commenting on this plan [Lancet, July 10, 1875), prefers the following solution : 70. ^. Plumbi acetatis, gr.x-xx Aquae calcis, __ Aqu£e, aa f.^ss. M. This he uses as a dressing to wounds, burns, ulcers, etc. There