302 LESIONS OF THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION. the external pillar, and entering the canal at once. Then remove the left forefinger and gently insinuate the beak further on, well into the canal, exercising the greatest care not to impinge upon the spermatic cord, which is sensitive to the slightest touch, or upon the fibrous walls of the canal. To wound any of these parts en- dangers the success of the operation, and to penetrate the trans- versalis fascia would be particularly unfortunate. If the operator in attempting to pass through the ring should impinge upon or transfix one of the pillars (an accident to which the tyro is very liable), the instrument will not be able to be freely and easily moved about, which it is to a remarkable extent when the canal is success- fully entered. But before proceeding any further the surgeon may do well to confirm his diagnosis of position by transferring the instrument to the left hand, while with the right forefinger invagin- ated in the scrotal tissues he explores the inguinal region, and ex- amines the exact situation of the beak. Beyond the prick of the puncture, the patient suffers but little pain if the introduction is skillfully performed. But any awkward movements of the beak about the spermatic cord will cause sharp pain, which is referred to the testicle or to the deeper parts of the abdomen. Having satisfied himself that the beak of his instrument is in the canal, the surgeon then deposits about ten minims of the liquid irritant, emitting drop, by drop and spreading it as much as possi- ble. The beak of the instrument should be well swept about while delivering its contents, passing around the exterior of the sac if un- reduced and wetting all the fibrous tissues. Particular care should be taken that the intercolumnar or arciform fibres and the inner edges of the external ring are wet with the irritant. The canal is usually found much more free than would be anticipated, and any adventitious adhesions can be either broken or avoided. A small though essential amount of the irritant should be placed in the ex- treme upper portion of the canal, so as to operate upon the fibres embracing the internal abdominal ring. Owing not only to its proximity to the abdomen, but also, and more especially, to the usual presence in the upper part of the canal of a few muscular fibres of the internal oblique, the sensitiveness to irritation here is extreme and the slightest amount of material produces all the effect that is usually desirable. Having wet the entire fibrous interior of the canal and of the inguinal rings, the beak is then withdrawn quickly, so that none of