BURNS AND SCALDS. I8l circumstances, as it is important to avoid tearing away the cuticle. In cold weather, and when the burn involves a large surface, so as to render wet applications objectionable, he is in the habit of mix- ing the chloride with linseed oil in the proportion of >^ oz. or i oz. to 8 oz. of oil, and using this in lieu of the aqueous mixture above described. As a guide in regulating the strength of either of these prescriptions, it is sufficient to say that whenever the application gives pain instead of relief, it is too strong, and should therefore be weakened. PROFESSOR THEODOR BILLROTH. The treatment of burns of the first and second degree looks more toward alleviating the pain than to any more particular end. If there are any vesicles, it is not advisable to remove the loosened epidermis, but to open the vesicle by a couple of needle punctures, and carefully press out the serum to remove the tense feeling. Numerous remedies are used whose only effect is to cover perfectly the inflamed skin. Mashed potatoes, starch and collo- dion are popular. The two former are soothing and agreeable, but Dr. Billroth has not been satisfied with collodion, as it cracks readily, and the skin in the cracks becomes sore and sensitive. When all three degrees of burns are combined, Professor B. par- ticularly recommends the nitrate of silver treatment. 102. R. Ar^enti nitratis, gr.x Aqu^, _ M. This to be painted over the burnt part, and compresses wet with it to be constantly applied. At first the pain from this cauterization of the parts, denuded of epidermis, is occasionally very great; but a thin, blackish-brown crust soon forms, and the pain then ceases entirely. The treat- ment should be continued until the eschar is completely detached. The healing of the wound is often very slow, requiring months. Of the remedies for promoting cicatrization, Dr. Billroth espe- cially recommends the compression of the wound by strips of ad- hesive plaster. In the treatment of cicatricial contractions, resulting from these burns, compression of the cicatricial bands by adhesive plaster is one of the most important remedies, and it should always be tried persistently before resorting to excision of the cicatrix or to plastic operations.