CYSTITIS. 4''9 I^. Liquoris potassze SiJ-^ss Extract! hydoscyami. 3j-iv | ^ist. acac. Syr. aurant. corticis, V or Aquae, ^ Aquae cinnamomi, aa f.^iij. ) A tablespoonful in some diluent every eight hours. t Of the acids, the only ones which act on the urine are benzoic and citric acid. AT,o. R. Acidi benzoici, g^'-iiJ ., ^ ^ Glycerince. gtt.J- M. For one pill. Ten or twelve of these must be given daily. Lemon juice, if it agrees with the stomach, and the urine is very alkaHne, may be taken in large quantity. To allay the pain, the following anodyne solution is recom- mended : 431. Extracti conii, _ __ . Extracti hyoscyami, aa 5j Extracti opii aquosi, 5ss Alcoholis, f-3ij. Aquse destilL, f-3xiv. M. Add a sixth or a fourth part of this to f.§iij of warm water for an injec- tion to remain in the bladder five minutes; two-thirds should be permitted to flow out, and the catheter withdrawn; the rest is re- tained in the bladder. On all occasions of washing out the bladder only two or three fluid ounces of liquor should be injected. PROFESSOR S. D. GROSS. M. D., D, C. L., OF PHILADELPHIA. In the early stages of the complaint the remedies are local and general bleeding, cathartics and diaphoretics, with low diet. When there is no marked biliary derangement, castor oil is the best purg- ative. When such is present, calomel, either alone or with jalap. After depletion and catharsis, the " antimonial and saline mixture" (F. 5) seldom fails to relieve the symptoms. The action of these drugs may be favored by tepid drinks, warm baths and fomentations. Diuretics should be avoided. If the urine is scanty, a small quantity of nitrate of potassa or spirit of nitrous ether may be given in a demulcent fluid. Fifteen to twenty leeches may be applied to the perineum and verge of the anus. Dry or wet cups to the sacro-lumbar region will relieve the pam m the back. Anodynes by the rectum are very valuable, as : 432, IJ;. Pulveris opii, S''-"J Biityri cocoae, 1- ^■ Mix thoroughly for a suppository. M.