2 The Two I^eadlnB C-'ompanlorv MoAloal Jonrnals of -ttk-c TJnltedL States. THE WEEKLY MEDICAL AND SURGICAL REPORTER. THE HALF-YEARLY COMPENDIUM OF MEDICAL SCIENCE. Those journals have now been established many years—the REPOHTEn since 1819, theCOMPEW- DiUM since 186a-and at no past time have they at all equaled their present circulation. At present con- siderably over four thousand copies of the Reportee are printed every week, and distributed throughout the United States. The Repobter appears every Saturday, and contains 24 large 8vo., double-columned pages of reading matter, thus giving 1250 pages of frosh and choice information every year. Its special aim is to supply the practical wants of the profession; hence, it gives peoallar prominence to Therapeutics, Diagnosis, new remedies, surgical Inventions, medical legislation, sanitary matters. Society Proceedings, new books, medical education, medical news of the day, etc., leaving discussions of theoretical views largely to other mediums. Clinical instruction, Hospital Reports, and articles on recent advances in special departments of practical medicine, receive constant attention. Translations and selections from the best med- ical periodicals of the world form a marked feature of the Reporter. Its original department is supported by many of the best writers in the United States. In the past year (1878) not less than 324 dllferent writers contributed to its columns, among whom were such able instructors as Dr8. D. Hayes Agnhw, W. L. Atlee, J. M. Da Costa, L. A. Duhrino, Wm Goodell, S. D. Gross, R. J. Levis, Wm. Pepper, L. Turnbull, H. C. Wood. J. Solis Cohen etc., of Philadelphia; Drs. Austin Flint, Prank H. Hamilton, Wm. A. Hammond, L A Sayrb, T.Gaillard Thomas, A. Jacobi, A. H. Loomis, C. C. Sequin, etc., of New York; Drs. E. Andrews, N. S. Davis, M. Gwnn, etc., of Chicago ; Drs. J. J. Larrabbb, D. S. Reynolds, etc., of Louisville ; and numerous others from all sections of the country. Price of the Reporter $5.00 per year, in advance. Specimen copy mailed free, on application. Three monthe," on trial," for $1.00. THE HALF-YEARLY COIWPENDIUIHI Appears on January Ist and July 1st of each year, forming two semi-annual volumes of 300 large octavo pages each, with complete Index. It has been established nine years, with a constantly grow- ing circulation. u j- i .i c ■ I 49-While complete in Itself, it is also intended asa Companion Journal to the Medical and burgicai Reporter; it is made up from articles which have not been included In the latter. The one journal 18 the complement of the other. The Compendium is Arranged Under the Following General Heads: L Anatomy, Physiology, and Pathology. II. Physics, Botany, Chemistry, and Toxicology. HI. Materia Medlca and Therapeutics. IV. General Medicine and Sanitary Science. V. Clinical Med - cine. VI. Obstetrics and Diseases of Women and Children. VII. Surgery, local and general, Diseases of the Skin, etc. Prom 600 to 700 separate articles appear each year In these various departments, carefully pre- pared, and giving the choicest selections from all sources, American and Foreign. It is the only work of the kind which does justice to American writers in medicine. I» R I C E © s ^™ Tlie Weekly Medical and Snrfflcal Reporter KO The Half-Yearly CompondlMm of Medical Science »•»" The Reporter and Compendium, taken togetlier Jisr- Payable In Advance.