292 LESIONS OF THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION. atrophy, and removal of the whole is liable to be followed by dangerous and very obstinate hemorrhage. The hemorrhage may be due to the existence of inflammation at the time of operating, which inflammation also has a tendency to make the substance of the organ friable, so that it vill have to be removed in small pieces; hence it is always advisable to defer the operation until the inflammatory stage has passed. All the usual methods of checking the bleeding are unreliable, with the exception of direct compression made by the finger of the surgeon. The finger should be introduced into the mouth and applied directly to the wound, while counter-pressure is made from in front. This position must be maintained for several min- utes, notwithstanding the attacks of suffocation, the efforts at vom- iting, and the cough which the method excites. The hemorrhage is generally arrested at the end of two minutes. ANTOINE RUPPANER, M. D., OF NEW YORK. This practitioner prefers in chronic tonsillar enlargement to use the London paste, recommended by Dr. Morrell Mackenzie. He states that it should be prepared in the following manner : A quantity of equal parts of nely pulverized and well mixed caustic soda and unslacked lime is kept on hand. When an appli- cation is to be made to the tonsils, a little of the powder is put into a small porcelain cup, and a few drops of absolute alcohol, which is kept near at hand, are added; the two are carefully mixed with a glass rod, when the paste is ready for use. Care must, however, be taken that it be of the proper consistency. If too thin, it is apt to find its way to parts which ought not to ^ be touched; if too thick or lumpy, the paste will not readily stick, ^nd little pieces might be swallowed. To apply the paste, a glass rod of sufficient length ought to be used. One end of it, which must be smooth and slightly funnel shaped, is dropped into the paste, and a greater or lesser portion of the surface touched, as occasion may require. To apply the paste the patient should be placed in the position for laryngoscopy. The tongue is then to be depressed with the spatula, and the paste applied to the enlarged surface for two or three seconds. The action of the escharotic upon the tonsil is rapid. The mucous membrane almost instantly assumes a deep flesh color, and presently a dark blackish spot is seen streaked