208 LESIONS OF MUSCULAR TISSUE. Dr. C. B. Hall, of Cincinnati, in the Cincinnati Lancet and Ob- sei-ver, December, 1873, gives the following prescription : 236, Tinct. arnicae florum, 2 parts Acid, tannic, i " Pulv. acaciae, i «< A fragment of lint wet with this mixture to be placed upon the boil and changed every fifteen minutes until a coating is formed. This causes the throbbing pain to disappear, diminishes the tension of the integuments, causes the abortion of the boil, or, if too late for that, hastens the separation of the core. Some surgeons report favorable results from the early applica- tion of pounded ice to an incipient furuncle; while others extol the value of early and liberal applications of mercurial ointmejit. general treatment. The general treatment of boils and carbuncles in their more severe forms, must in nearly all cases be supporting and hygienic. The surrounding should be salubrious, and a change'of air is very desirable. All irritants of the skin must be avoided, such as cold baths, flesh brushes, coarse towels, etc. At the outset, a moderate mercurial purge is often extremely beneficial. When marked gas- tric derangement exists, an emeto-cathartic is advisable, as, 237. '2f.. Hydrarg. chloridi mitis, gr.x Pulveris ipecac, gr.x-xx. M. For one dose. This should be followed by free drafts of chamomile tea, or in- fusion of valerian (Gross). This may be followed by bark, qui- nine and acids, with wine or porter. The urine should be exam- ined for sugar, as it is not unfrequently present in these eruptions, and requires appropriate treatment. Professor Harvey, of Paris, recommends the free use of tar water, about a quart a day, which may be drank mixed with a light wine, especially in furunculosis. The internal use of arsenic has many advocates (see below). The propriety of using the knife in carbuncles, either by crucial incision, by subcutaneous sweeps, or by the total excision of the diseased structure, all of which methods have their warm parti- sans, has been seriously questioned and wholly rejected by such eminent authorities as Dumreicher, Billroth, Dittel, Le Gros Clark, and