WARTS AND CORNS. 461 that formed by mixing together equal parts of alum and the white of eggs, which will often afford great relief. RESUME OF REMEDIES. FOR BENIGN NEW GROWTHS. Aceticum Acidtmi. Glacial acetic acid is very effectual in removing warty growths. Alcohol by hypodermic injection has been employed in fatty tumors. Amnioniacum. The eniplastriim ammoniaci and the emplastrutn animoni- aci cum hydrargyro are used as local stimulants and discutients to promote the resolution of enlarged glands and other indolent tumors. Ammonii Murias, moistened and rubbed over warts, will usually cause them to disappear. It has been given internally to hasten ab- sorption in other benign growths. Arsenicum. Warts painted with Fowler's solution will generally vanish in a short time. Argenti Niiras. In the Boston Medical and Surgical Journal, Jan. 6, 1876, Dr. BiGELow records two cases of formidable erectile tumors obliterated by the injection of a few drops of solution of nitrate of silver dissolved in water, the proportion being equal parts by weight. Parenchymatous injections of solution of ni- trate of silver Wilde fouLd to be especially serviceable in tumors of soft consistence, the strength of the solution being one grain to one ounce, and a considerable quantity being injected. Belladonna. The growth of new formations is sometimes checked by the application of belladonna plasters, or the hypodermic use of atropia. Brominium is a favorite escharotic agent in the treatment of a variety of new growths. (F. 656.) It is energetic and very painful; moreover its fumes, if inhaled, are apt to produce a disagreeable irritation of the Schneiderian membrane. Cadmii lodidtm is used as an inunction in goitre by Dr. Da Costa. (F. 654.) Calcii Chloridiim is valuable in strumous enlargements. Carbolicum Acidtim has been used as a parenchymatous injection in indo- lent tumors. A two per cent, solution is sufficiently strong. Undiluted it may be applied with success to warts and similar cutaneous growths. Chromicmn Acidum, a solution of gr.c to aquge f.^j, may be applied with a glass rod to cutaneous growths, such as small polypi, warts, etc., just enough to saturate the growth, any superfluous acid to be removed, and the part dressed with dry lint. Conium, both internally and externally, has been used with benefit in enlarged glands and indolent tumors. Ergota. Both in uterine fibrous and in vascular tumors, ergot has been largely and successfully employed; Dr. Wm. A. Hammond