TETANUS, 141 EXTERNAL REMEDIES, Actual Cautery, applied to the wound, in traumatic tetanus, was proposed by Larrey. Baths. Warm baths, 97°-roo° F., of three to four hours' duration, re- peated daily, have been advised. Blood-letting. When there exists a disposition to isochronic inflamma- tion, and the patient is plethoric, and the pulse full, venesection at the onset has been advised. Cautharis. Prof. Stille states that in tetanus, "even when of traumatic origin, blistering on either side of the spinous processes and throughout the entire length of the spine, is an important if not an essential element of treatment. It is possible, though not certain, that the endermic use of the salts of morphia on the parts thus denuded adds greatly to the efficacy of the vesication, it were, perhaps, better to introduce the narcotic by inocula- tion." Chloroformum. Chloroform frictions are said to afford relief. Electricity. Dr. Mendell, of Berlin, has successfully treated two cases by the local application of a gentle current of electricity to the affected muscles, with the apparent effect of subduing the ex- cessive irritability of the sentient nerves. When a strong cur- rent is directed to the cord, powerful contractions result. The positive pole should be directed to the antagonists of the af- fected muscles. Frigus. Cold Affusions have proved of little value in traumatic tetanus, but of great service in the idiopathic form, particularly in warm climates. Ice in bladders, steadily applied along the whole length of the spine, has proved efficient in both the traumatic and idiopathic varieties of the disease. Hypodermic Injections. The following remedies have been employed hypodermically in tetanus: Atropia, without much success; Liquor opii compositus, gtt. xxv-xl, by Dr. Ruppaner, with the effect of securing comparative calm and ease; Morphia, gr. j- ij during the day, of the muriate, by Demarquay, the needle being carried deeply into the contracted muscles, and, if possi- ble, to the point of entrance of the nerves; Nicotia, gr. about one half of the traumatic cases, according to Prof. Bar- THOLOW, treated with it getting well—a better result than from any other remedy excepting physostigma; ^Fhysostigma, gr. ^ to commence with, which may be considered as one of the most useful remedies yet employed (p. 140); Woorara, gr. -^-^-^^-^^^ with varying results, but short of the expectations based upon its peculiar physiological action. Fotassa. Counter-irritation, by caustic potassa, over the spinal column, has repeatedly proved of service in traumatic tetanus.