LESIONS OF THE BONES AND JOINTS. 236 quired. As soon as the tumor becomes flaccid, it should be covered with collodion or supported by pressure. The injection should be repeated as often as necessary, care being taken that pre- vious irritation has completely subsided. MR. EDWARD ATKINSON, M. R. C. P., OF LEEDS. This surgeon has recently reported a case of an unpromising character, cured by the elastic ligature {Bntish Medical Journal, May, 1875). The tumor was in the cervical region, and about the size of a tennis ball. The child was nine weeks old. Having passed a fine elastic ligature four times tightly round the pedicle, he enveloped the tumor in cotton-wool. All the first night, the child was restless, crying, and vomiting the breast-milk. Still it sucked, though the milk was rejected directly. A few drops of brandy in a spoonful of warm water given several times, checked the sickness, and thenceforth it began to thrive. The surface of the tumor soon became vesicated, and the fluid contents oozed away, reducing the bulk. On the fourth day, the sac was slough- ing. The ligature was partially unwound and tightened up. On the sixth day, the pedicle separated, when no hole was visible, nor any oozing of cerebro-spinal fluid from the stump. The sac was examined, and found to be a true meningocele. The wound rapidly healed, and the child gained in weight daily, and was dis- charged at the end of the fortnight. When last seen, there was scarcely any scar to be seen, and very slight deficiency in the bones could be felt. The child waS plump and healthy. PROFESSOR JAMES MORTON, M. D., of GLASGOW.* This writer, who is Professor of Clinical Surgery at Glasgow, holds with the majority of surgeons that injection is the most promising mode of arriving at the radical cure of spina bifida, and in accord with Velpeau and with Brainard, of Chicago, regards iodine as the most suitable active agent for the injected fluid. Novelty, however, is claimed for his method, as he uses as an in- jection, not a simple solution of iodine or a combination of iodine and iodide of potassium, but a fluid called io do-glycerine solution, as follows: 279. lodinii, Z^-^ Potassii iodidi, gr.xxx Glycerinae, f-3j- ^• * The'Treatment of Spina Bifida by a New Method. Glasgow, 1877.