LESIONS OF THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION. This treatment will be sure to relieve incipient cases; but, if not, apply the following unguent: 379- I^- Ung. cetacei, ^ss Pulv. galhu, Pulv. opii, aa 3ss. M, S.—Apply externally, and introduce within the sphincter, a small quantity twice a day. The following suppositories are very efficient: 380. I^. Butyr. cocoae, q, s. Tannici acidi, 5ss Opii pulveris, 9ss. M. Divide into ten suppositories. S.—Insert one, morning and night, completely within the sphintter. But in those cases in w^hich the disease has persisted for some time, the tumors large, inflamed, and irritable, disposed to protrude with spasmodic force, and are returned with difficulty, more active measures are required. If the bowels are costive, a saline aperient must be given, and an emollient enema, to secure its prompt action. If the tumors are protruded, and strangulated, causing great dis- tress, they must be at once returned, without v/aiting for the ac- tion of medicine. To effect this, apply, for a few moments, cold water or crushed ice, to repel the blood with which they are en- gorged. Then, compressing the whole mass with the fingers of both hands, if necessary, press them up within the sphincter. To resist the expulsive efforts which will be provoked, keep up pres- sure for a few minutes on the anus with the fingers, or better, with a small sponge dipped in ice water. This pressure our author has sometimes kept up for hours, with a perineal bandage attached before and behind to a split bandage passed over the shoulders. The use of chloroform will sometimes greatly facilitate the reduction. When the parts are highly inflamed and productive of symptom- atic fever, free venesection is demanded. Leeches may also be applied to the verge of the anus, in aid of the lancet. Freezing the part by the spraying apparatus is recommended by some, but is of questionable value. There are many astringent applications which are employed by surgeons in these cases, either in the form of lotion or unguent, such as the acetat. plumb., acid, gallic, the persulph. ferri, etc.