GANGRENE. 109 inous fluid. But the great constitutional remedy is opium, in large doses, grs. ij-iv every six or eight hours, in union with a diaphoretic, as in Dover's powder. The diet should be nutritious, abundant ventilation provided, and scrupulous cleanliness observed. His favorite local remedy has always been acid nitrate of mercury, freely diluted with water, and carefully applied with a soft mop. But if the wound is cleansed properly of slough and sanious mat- ter, he is of opinion that it differs little which of the numerous local applications recommended is used. PROF. KOENIG, OF PRUSSIA. According to Dr. Carl Proegler {American Practitioner, Jan., 1872), the experience of the Franco-Prussian war demonstrated the inefficiency of carbolic acid and permanganate of potassa in deep-seated hospital gangrene. Prof Koenig used with much better success chloride of zinc. It should be but little diluted, rather oily. Bits of cotton should be dipped in this solution, and afterwards pressed out. A sufficient number of these pieces are placed either flat on the surface of the wound, or partially pressed into the folds of the tissue, the wound having previously been freely opened with the scissors and knife. It is sufficient in most cases to let this caustic tampon remain eight or ten minutes. A whitish crust is found which requires five or six days to separate. Of course the patient should be chloroformed during the applica- tion. If untouched parts remain, the caustic should be again applied. PROF. VON NUSSBAUM, OF MUNICH. This surgeon, in a recent article {ArcJiiv fur Klinische Chirurgie, Jan., 1876), writes with regard to the preventive and curative treat- ment of this affection. In 1872, the first year of its appearance in the hospital, the gangrenous condition of the wounds in those at- tacked was always readily and successfully controlled by the local application of lotions, containing nitrate of silver, corrosive subli- mate, or carbolic acid; but as the distinctive changes became more and more acute, it was found necessary to have recourse to more active means, and to apply caustic pastes and the actual cauteiy. Energetic applications of the latter agent proved the most effica- cious, and a perfectly successful result of such treatment was usually indicated by a prompt fall of the patient's temperature. During the prevalence of the gangrene many different attempts