438 LESIONS OF THE ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE. and their employment. Cautions, i. The stronger collyria are often unnecessarily employed, and are capable of doing mischief. 2. Collyria so strong as to produce pain, tend, in in the opinion of oculists, to induce subsequent chronic inflam- mation. 3. Those containing/me/or «zVra/^ ^xz7z;<?r are never to be used when ulceration of the cornea exists, as they are apt to leave a permanent opaque cicatrix. 4. Those containing nitrate of silver sometimes give a blackish or bluish discolora- tion to the conjunctiva. Collyria are astringent (alum, borax, tannin, acetate of lead, etc.), emollient (sassafras pith, flaxseed, slippery elm), stimulant (weak solutions of sulphate of zinc or copper, nitrate of silver, vinum opii, etc.), sedative (weak solutions of atropia, extract of belladonna, hyuscyamus or stramonium, solution of subacetate of lead, etc.), or escharotic (saturated solutions of nitrate of silver, sulphate of copper, alum, etc.). The proper use of ordinary collyria, especially in children, is not sufficiently attended to. A simple and efficient way is to place the child with its arms straight by its sides upon a shawl or on a long towel, and then swathe it around a few times in this, leaving only its head out. So swathed it cannot move, and one person, unassisted, can do all that is required to the eyes. The eyelids being now gently separated without . pressing on the eyeball, the discharge should be wiped away, and the eyelashes cleansed with tepid water and small pieces of rag, which should be immediately burned. Next the conjunc tival pouch under the upper and lower eyelid should be care- fully syringed out with tepid water; for this a common pewter squirt will do. When the pus is thoroughly removed, some of ' the collyrium should be dropped into the eye, and diffused beneath the eyelids by moving these lightly over the cornea, or it may be injected under them with the squirt. After this the eyelids are dried, and a little simple ointment is smeared along their edges in order to prevent the eyelashes becoming glued together. Counter-irritation by rubbing aqua ammonise over the temples, by tinc- ture of capsicum, tincture of iodine, etc., is often available to relieve pain and the sense of tension. Electricity has been tried in a number of diseases of the eye. Its chief successes have been in paralysis of the muscles of the eye, in asthenopia with hypersesthesia of the retina (for which com- plaint Drs. Beard and Rockwell say electro-therapeutics promises more than for any other disease of the eye), ambly- opia, blepharospasm, and ptosis. Heat is often of service ; for this purpose small sponges may be employed, wrung out of hot water. Von Graefe was accustomed to use hot camomile fomentations,, and to apply them by means of httle muslin bags, in which a few camomile flowers were sewn up prior to being boiled. Each bag, as it was taken from the eye, was returned to the decoction to recover its temperature. Whether water or some medicated decoction is employed, it must be kept hot during the whole period of application, either by a spirit-