WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN, 159 * Medical and Surgical History of the War of the Rebellion, thorax opposite the middle of a lobe: but only when the opening is near the free edge of the lobe. In the living animal the lung never collapsed entirely when only one side was opened. It will be noted that in this case the lung tissue was not implicated. WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. UNITED STATES ARMY.* To restrain inflammation within salutary limits in abdominal wounds, absolute rest is the most important indication, the patient beino- suffered neither to be moved nor to move himself; there- fore he should be permanently treated as near as possible to the spot where he has received the injury. " Every rod such patients are transported adds to the formidable peril they have already to encounter." Food and drink, save a little ice or cold water,* are to be absolutely interdicted at first, and then the blandest nutri- ment, such as milk, may be sparingly allowed. The early em- ployment of purgatives must also be absolutely forbidden. The position of the patient is of importance. If there is a single wound the patient should lie in that posture that will place the orifice downward, and favor the approximation and adhesion of the vis- cera to its edges. If the abdomen is perforated, it will usually be best to make the orifice of exit dependent. When there is evi- dence that a viscus is wounded, the parietal wound must always be left open, except in cases in which enteroraphy is practiced. Local depletion and fomentations, often employed, are of no value ; but there is reason to believe that extended and protracted appli- cations of ice over the entire abdomen occasionally exert a decided influence in moderating the inflammation. The majority of sur- geons esteem moderate compression by a circular bandage useful. If the stomach and small intestines are divided, there is no reason- able presumption that faecal extravasation and consequent hyper- acute generalized peritonitis can be averted unless by operative interference. Under these circumstances, therefore, the surgeon