WOUNDS AND INJURIES. 435 and similar affections. The oxydum rub mm and sulphas flava are invaluable in numerous combinations for various forms of ophthalmia. (See Formulae above.) In fine, as has been lately- remarked by a specialist in this department, Mr. Talfourd Jones, "mercury, by many, is supposed to have gone out of fashion; but ophthalmologists know better than to discard so valuable a remedial agent, The late Dr. Anstik believed mer cury to have some special elective affinity or special action upon the parts which are supplied by the fifth nerve. It probably does exert a more marked action upon the ocular tissues than upon any others. It must ever be one of our most potent and useful remedies." IJyoscyamin has been used successfully as a mydriatic by Dr Pflueger, of Lucerne. lodinium, as a stimulant and counter-irritant, has frequent applications in the therapeutics of the eye. lodoformum is often useful in granular lids, phylyctenular and pustular ophthalmia, corneal ulcer, keratitis, blepharitis, etc. It should be reduced to very fine powder and dusted freely over the af- fected surface ; or mixed with three parts of unguenium petro- lei. It should not be used in acute inflammatory conditions. Morphia is indispensable, and may be used in any of the usual manners. Mr. R. Brudenell Carter very truly says : " That no eye will get better whilst it is acutely painful, so that acute pain must always be subdued as a condition antecedent to recovery," For the relief of acute pain, we have no remedy comparable to morphia, and it should be freely used. Oleum Ricini Dr. Ringer observes that a drop of castor oil introduced into the eye will often allay pain and intolerance of light, pro- duced by a fine irritant, such as sand. Opium. Tincture of opium and solutions of morphia dropped into the eye cause smarting, redness, and slight inflammation of the con- junctiva. Such stimulation sometimes improves the condition of the membrane. Their uses are, however, chiefly internal, to relieve pain, or by hypodermic medication. There are certain forms of iritis in which the acuteness of pain is a very promi- nent symptom ] and it was chiefly in cases of this class that the late Mr. Zachariah Laurence succeeded, some years ago, in bringing about a cure by the use of large doses of opium' or morphia alone. He kept his patients in a state of semi-narcot- ism for several days, or until all symptoms of acute inflamma- tion had subsided. Phosphorus has been suggested for the dispersion of corneal spots Tp 421.) Physostigma andPhysostigmine. The uses of the Calabar bean have been discussed under Eserine. Pdocarpin has been used as a myotic by various oculists. Its results dif- fer from^ those produced by eserine sulphate, in the facts that less conjunctival irritation, less supra orbital pain, and less spasm of the accommodative power seem to be induced, while