53 GENERAL ANESTHETICS, the use of bichloride of methylene or chloromethyl, than by any other known anaesthetic. That was the result of an experience of five years, and of three hundred and fifly serious operations. The experience of the five succeeding years up to the present time, with more than six hundred additional cases of ovariotomy, and many other cases of surgical operations, has fully confirmed me in this belief. Given properly diluted with air, the vapor of chloromethyl has, in my experience of ten years, with more than one thousand operations of a nature unusually severe as tests of an anaesthetic, proved to be, without a single exception, applicable to every pa- tient, perfectly certain to produce complete anaesthesia, relieving the surgeon from all alarm or even anxiety; and its use has never been followed by any dangerous symptom which could be fairly attributed to it. I wish I could speak as confidently of the chem- ical composition of the fluid sold as bichloride of methylene as I can of its anaesthetic properties. But whatever may be its chem- ical composition, whether it is or is not chloroform mixed with some spirit or ether, or whether it is really bichloride of methy- lene, I am still content with the effects of the liquid sold under that name, when properly administered. The only deaths ever at- tributed to it were, I believe, rather due to asphyxia. No air was given with the methylene. By Junker's apparatus, air charged with methylene vapor is given, not the vapor itself; and, so em- ployed, it has always been in my experience both efficient and safe." NITROUS OXIDE. This is a safe and valuable anaesthetic in many cases. When successfully given, the patient appears to f 11 asleep without any delirium or excitement; but, if the operation be one leaving much pain behind it, the patient sometimes will have a dream more or less connected with it, and then wake up rapidly and completely. It is by far the best anaesthetic for many short operations, such as the extraction of teeth, opening abscesses or boils. It answers very well in operating for strabismus. Removal of the eyeball has been performed for a lady, who said she had no consciousness of the operation. It is well suited for examin'ng hysterical cases, wrench- ing stiff joints, and reducing luxations of recent date. It is not suitable for cases where it is necessary to keep the patient quiet more than three or four minutes; but, if the patient be allowed to recover consciousness after one inhalation before another is com-