269 ODONTALGIA. spiration. Apply just in front of the ear, a fly blister of the size of a silver dime piece, and upon the nape of the neck a second, the size of a silver dollar. Internally, give : 317. I^. Potassii bromidi, gr.xxv ♦ Tinct. veratri viridis, gtt.v. M. For one dose every four hours. Lance the gums freely with a very sharp lancet, and afterwards keep cotton applied, saturated with the fluid extract of Haniamelis Virginica. In the plethoric, in addition to the above course, half an ounce of the sulphate of magnesia may be given in a tumbler half full of water. As adjuncts, leeches may be occasionally employed with advan- tage. They may be applied directly to the gum, or to the outside of the jaw. A very simple plan of treating incipient periodontitis, and which will frequently be followed by immediate relief, consists in making a minute blister upon the gum overlying the affected root, through an application of the saturated tincture of iodine. An acute periodontitis resisting the means here suggested, the attack increasing in severity, the surgeon finds himself compelled to abandon antiphlogistics, the indication being to advance the condition to the suppurative point as quickly as possible. To this end, heating and exciting medicaments are to be employed ; warm water is to be held in the mouth; or a weak dilution of the tinct- ure of capsicum, about twenty-five drops to a tumbler of warm water, may be used in the same way. The domestic application of a roasted split fig to the gum increases the heat of the parts, and • invites suppuration to the surface to which it is used. 4. Cojifinement of pits and gas in the pulp cavity. The common treatment in all these cases is to remove the tooth, or else to drill an opening into the pulp cavity. 5. Granules of osteo-dentine in the pulp. Drilling into the affected tooth and destruction of the pulp, or else extraction, are the only remedies. 6. Sympathy. Sympathetic toothache may be associated with decay in other teeth, or with lesions in other organs, most com- monly the ear, the uterus, or the stomach, in the order named. The erring organ once ascertained must receive the treatment. 7. Recession and absorption of the gum and alveolus. Toothache