347 PROSTATIC DISEASES. Bartholow remarks, " the iodoform diffuses into the neighboring organs, and acts directly upon them." PROF. S. D. GROSS, M. D. If the patient is plethoric, apply leeches to the perineum, and unload the bowels by saline purgatives (sulphate of magnesia or bitartrate of potassa). Condiments and alcoholic drinks must be renounced, also horseback exercise and venery. The patients must seek the horizontal position, wear flannel next the skin, and avoid exposure to cold. DR. WASHINGTON L. ATLEE, PHILADELPHIA. 475. I^!. Fluidi extract! ergotse, gtt.xx. This amount is to be given at first every four hours, its action being supplemented by the use of the catheter twice daily, until the pa- tient regains entire control of the bladder. As this is restored, the frequency of the dose is gradually reduced to a single administra- tion, at bedtime. This treatment has been very successful in the hands of this late eminent surgeon (see Med. and Surg. Reporter, May, 1878). PROF. HEINE, INNSPRUCK, GERMANY. 476. ^. Potassii iodidi, 5ij Tincturas iodinii, f.§ij Aquae destillatse, foij- M. Of this solution, twelve to twenty drops are to be thrown into the sub- stance of the gland, to a depth of two lines, the operation to be repeated every seven or fourteen days. Great care is required to avoid parenchymatous suppuration. The median line of the prostate is to be avoided. PROF. DITTEL, VIENNA. This surgeon, in advanced prostatic disease, has recourse to a form of suprapubic puncture. Having anaesthetized his patient, he forcibly distends the bladder with water, unless it should be capable of being filled by allowing the urine to accumulate. For this purpose he injects sometimes as much as forty ounces of water. He then punctures the bladder just above the pubes with an ordi- nary trocar, leaving the canula in the bladder during four, five, or six days. At the end of this lapse of time, the parts traversed by the canula having become consolidated, a tubular tract is formed, through which, on removal of the canula, a soft rubber catheter