CONJUNCTIVAL DISEASES (oPMTIIALMIA). 4I9 It may become necessary to touch the inflamed conjunctiva, by means of a camel's hair pencil, with the following solution once a day: 605. I^. Argenti nitratis, gr.ij Aquse destillatcC, i-3j- ^^1. Make a solution. When the child falls asleep, the outside borders of the lids, in order to prevent their agglutination, should be smeared with fresh, unsalted butter, fresh olive-oil, or, what perhaps is better, the red precipitate ointment. The bowels are to be kept regular with castor-oil, or flake manna in solution, and, above all, the eyes are to be kept clean and protected against light, MR. A. R. HALL, SURGEON, R. A. This surgeon treats cases of infants suffering from purulent ophthalmia by simply painting the lower eyelids, upper part of the cheeks and temples, with the pure balsam copaiva. They get well quickly, without damage to the eyes. {Practitioner, April, 1875.) DR. B. A. POPE, OF NEW ORLEANS. In reference to membranous and diphtheritic conjunctivitis, that is, when there is infiltration of the conjunctiva, with diminished vascularity and tendency to the formation of false membranes, cauterization and the use of astringents are contra-indicated. Frequent cleansing of the eye, the application of cold-zvater dressings, and the careful use of mercurials, are the principal means of treat- ment. In the early stages of the disease, the application of leeches to the temple is often of decided advantage. In a case of diphtheritic conjunctivitis, it is only when the second stage of the disease has arrived, naniely, that of restored vascularity and commencement of purulent secretion, that the use of nitrate of silver can be resorted to. The third stage, or that of cicatrization, can be but little benefited by treatment. The solution of nitrate of silver preferred by our author is of the .strength of gr.vj to fSj. In administering mercury to adults, he orders gnTJ^ of calomel every two hours, and mercurial inunc- tions upon the temple three times a day, or mercurial inunctions alone upon the temple and in the axilla, every two hours: