THE COMPLICATIONS OF WOUNDS. 104 LOCAL Applications. Adeps. Lard inunction is regarded by Erasmus Wilson as superior to all fluid applications. He first relaxes the skin with hot water or steam, then saturates the surface with hot lard, and afterward covers with wool. Ammonii Carbonas allays the irritation of the surface. The following lotion, recommended by Erasmus Wilson, may be employed : 108. Ammonii carbonatis, Plumbi acetatis, aa 5j Aquae rosse, f.^viij. M. Argenti Nitras. (See page loi.) Brominium. Dr. Goldsmith, U. S. A., recommends {^American Medical Times, 1863), the following solution : 109. ^. Brominii, §j Potassiibromidi, gr.clx Aquae destillatae, q. s. ad f.§iv. M. Calx Chlorinata. The following solution has been found of benefit: no. 'Sf. Calcis chlorinatae, 5j-ij Aquae, Oj. M. The parts should be kept constantly wet with this lotion. CampJwra. M. Delpech, of Paris, uses with good effect an application containing this drug. It consists in painting the affected surface with a solution of camphor in ether (equal weights); and when this is employed in erysipelas of the face, and the affection has not yet reached the hairy scalp, its progress is usually arrested. CarboUcuin Aciduin. It appears not improbable that erysipelas is the re- sult of the entrance of minute organisms into the subcutaneous connective tissue and of their multiphcation. Acting upon this idea, the experiment has been tried of injecting subcutaneously a one per cent, solution of carbolic acid into places around the disease. It was found that the erysipelas did not spread in the direction of the part where the injection was made, and the fever and frequency of the pulse were at the same time reduced. Collodion is often used to exclude the air. M. Brocare commends the application of a layer of collodion round the margin of the erysipelatous blush, for a distance of from six to eight centi- metres, and also over the affected part. The object of the former is to exercise a circular compression, so as to separate the affected part from the rest of the cutaneous surfa.ce. It is necessary to examine these layers once or twice daily, and to repair the fissures which occur. The collodion used must be free from oil. Creasote has been recommended by Dr. Fahnstock as a local applica- tion, {Am. Jovr. Med. Sciences, No. xiii.)