SYPHILIS, 575 RicoRD calls this preparation the "born enemy" of phage- dena. Rtcles for Giving Mercury.—Avoid mercury in all chancroids and all.doubtful cases ; even in well-marked cases of true chancre it is better to defer the administration of mercury until secondary symptoms appear. It should be used, however, if the chancre assumes a phagedenic form, or if circumstances demand that the sore be speedily healed. When giving mercury, do so actively, and for short periods, rather than in small and long-continued doses. The corrosive chloride is the least desirable of all the prepara- tions for internal administration. He prefers either the pilulae hydrargyri or the protiodide. The latter should be given half an hour or an hour after meals, as it is irritating to some stomachs. He most frequently employs : 960. '2f.. Mass. pilulas hydrargyri, gr.ij-iij Ferri sulphatis exsiccatse, gr.j. M. This amount, in a pill, three or four times a day, one hour after eating. BERKELEV HILL,^ M. B., LONDON, F. R. C. S., ETC. Our author states that in the treatment of soft chancres the first thing is to remove general causes of irritation, such as too stimu- lating diet, wine, and especially venery. All severe exercise must be relinquished ; in fact, confinement to the house for some days is often time gained by the progress the sore makes with rest. While the wound is healing the patient should always avoid standing long at a time, to lessen the risk of bubo; the horizontal position, more- over, greatly promotes healing the sore. If erections at night are troublesome, they may often be prevented by the patient's last meal being a light one, taken two or three hours before bedtime. For persons of ordinary health it is not necessary to do more than this, but if patients are exhausted, or in a debilitated condition, ordinary rules for improvement of the health are necessary; quiet rest, with good diet and stimulants, must be freely given. The digestion may be invigorated by tonics, such as: 961. I^. Acidi nitrici diluti, f.§j Extracti cinchonas fluidi, f.§ij. M. From thirty to forty-five drops, in water, thrice daily. Or: