GENERAL THERAPEUTICS OF SKIN DISEASES. unless the diet be so regulated as to keep the system always free from increased vascular action. In some cases, stimulants must be entirely abandoned; in others, a sparing allowance of animal food appears to be essential to the preservation of health, and in a few, vegetable diet for life. Cutaneous diseases are sometimes complicated with diarrhoea, dyspepsia, or general irritability of the stomach. Arsenic, in small doses, will be found to soothe the bowels (the pulse being quiet) in proportion as it allays the irrita- bility of the skin. This assertion of our author, when first made, was treated with ridicule; but after twenty years' further observa- tion, he repeats it. Arsenic, if rightly used, is adapted to the treatment of six out of every seven cases of chronic skin disease the physician is called upon to relieve. More than this, the diseases which are curable by arsenic are also absolutely incurable without it, try what you will. Our author gives the following specific directions for the use of Fowler's solution: First. It should be given in divided doses, three doses in twenty-four hours, simply to avoid an unnecessarily large dose. Second. It should be diluted with pure water, or if t'he case require the influence of antimony, the following should be ordered: 738. I^. Liquoris potassse arsenitis, f.3ij Vini antimonii, f.5xiv Aquas, f.§j. M. A teaspoonful, diluted, three times a day. Third. This dose should be taken with or immediately after a meal, in order that, being mixed with the patient's food, it may find a ready entrance into the blood, and that the bare possibility of its irritating the mucous membrane of the stomach or bowels may be avoided. Not that there is any danger of mischief; but the patient, aware that he is taking arsenic, may thus be disabused of all fanciful or imaginary sufferings of this kind. Fourth. It should be clearly understood that arsenic acts very slowly, and therefore it is best to begin with an average dose, say five minims of Fowler's solution, and this should be increased, not day by day, but after two, three, or four weeks. It should always be freshly prepared.