SYPHILIS. ABORTIVE TREATMENT OF CHANCRE. SILAS DURKEE, M. D., ETC., BOSTON. If, as the result of contagion, or of a suspicious connection, the virile organ has upon it a papule, pustule, abrasion, or sore, which may be the forerunner of constitutional syphilis, the best thing the surgeon can do, locally, is to make a caustic application to the spot, if this can be done seasonably, say within ten days from the appearance of the abnormal condition. The design of this operation is twofold: To destroy morbid sti'ucture, and to create a healthy recuperative action in the part. Our author employs for this pur- ■ pose potassa fusa, the acid nitrate of merciLry, or concentrated nitric acid. He never uses nitrate of silver or Vienna paste. In cases of abrasion, he generally applies nitric acid by means of a small bit of lint secured to a silver probe, or, if the surface be very small, by means of the end of a glass rod. The sore is to be freely covered with the acid, warm water being at hand to wash off any excess immediately. The acid nitrate of mercury, when used, is applied in the same manner. The slough will be detached in three or five days, and a healthy granulating surface appear. If a solitary vesicle, pimple or pustule is to be destroyed, he sometimes selects potassa fusa, which penetrates deeper than either of the liquids mentioned. The end of the stick is reduced to a point and brought in contact with the apex of the morbid growth, or, what is better, break the dome of the pimple with a probe, and empty it of its contents before applying the potassa. To ascertain precisely the work done by the alkali, remove the debris or portion destroyed, by means of the point of the probe. As the operation is painless, no haste is required, but caution and exactness are both necessary'. It is difficult to preserve the solid stick of po- tassa in a dry state, therefore it had better be applied placing it on the end of a pointed glass rod or pen. A drop of vinegar will neutralize any superabundance of caustic. The extent of the sur- face destroyed by this corrosive substance is about twice as great as it appears to be at the time of its application; the same is also true in regard to the depth to which it penetrates. As the risk of increasing the inflammatory tendency is small, a moderate degree of inflammation co-existing with the pustule or sore need not prevent cauterization. Cold-water dressing, or a soft cracker poultice, may follow the use of the caustic for two or three days. The first is to be pre-