79 ANTISEPTIC DRESSINGS. 59. I^. Acidi boracici, Certe albse, aa §j Paraffini, Olei amygdalae dulcis, aa Melt die wax and paraffin, stir in a warm mortar till the mass thickens, then cool, and reduce in a cold mortar to a soft ointment. Apply on fine rags to exposed ulcerous surfaces. 60. I^. Plumbi oxidi, • §iv Acidi carbolici, 3vj Olei olivie, f.^iv Cerse, §j. M. This plaster is to be prepared without water, and spread upon a thin cloth. To be applied as a dressing for wounds which need dis- infection. Professor Lister employs boracic acid in two forms; boracic lint, a dressing material, almost non-stimulating, for wounds, where the crystals of the antiseptic in the lint are only dissolved gradually by the discharges of the wound; and a lotion of boracic acid (three to five per cent), partly for washing, and partly as a spray. The antiseptic power is less than that of carbolic acid, and stimulates the tissues less, but, being non-volatile, it is not so evanescent. Lister, therefore, prefers this substance for superficial wounds, such as those of plastic operations, in the treatment of ulcers, and, lastly, for the purpose of the healing of loose portions of skin on granulating surfaces. Li the case last mentioned the method is the following : After the sore is brought into an aseptic condition, it is carefully washed with boracic acid solution, then the pieces of skin to be trans- planted are placed upon the surface of the granulations, under protection of the boracic spray. Without fixing specially the small portions of skin, a piece of protective is laid over the wound after it has been dipped into boracic acid solution; upon this a layer or two of boracic lint similarly treated; the whole fixed with a gauze bandage. As the discharge is scanty, the dressing may be left unchanged two, three, or four days. In regard to chloride of zinc, Prof Lister employs a solution, forty grains to the ounce of water, and with the following indi- cations : I. For wounds which have been for a longer or shorter time exposed to the influence of atmospheric air, and in which a super- ficial putrefaction of the tissues has occurred, in order to be able, after the destruction of the products of putrefaction and the in- i