APHTHAE AND STOMATITIS. 2/5 342. ^. Acicli hydrochlorici diluti, Mellis, For local use. M. Acidi/m Nitricum. In ulcerative stomatitis and aphthae this acid may be administered in small medicinal doses with conspicuous benefit. It is also used as a caustic in severe cases of cancrum oris. Alumen. Aphthous ulcers, showing but little disposition to heal, or a tendency to spread, may be touched with dried alum a few times a day with the best effect. In simple ulcerative stomatitis it should be applied with the finger a number of times a day. Argenti Nitras applied in substance to the ulcers is spoken of by Dr. Symonds as an efficient and most decisive remedy in the severe forms of aphthous ulcerations of the mouth; but since chlorate of potash, in four or six or more grain doses, has very properly attained the reputation of a specific in aphthse, the nitrate of silver and muriatic acid are only resorted to when this fails. NiEMEYER says the application of nitrate of silver is very pain- ful, but it acts surely and quickly. Calx. Dewees found great advantage from hme-water and milk, in doses of one-quarter or one-half a teaspoonful four or five times a day in infantile aphthae when there were green, but not liquid stools. When the diarrhoea is profuse, prepared chalk is pref- erable, or the chalk mixture may be used. Calx Chlorinata is recommended in scorbutic and other ulcerations of the mouth, as a gargle, made of chloride of lime, grains 120 to 240, water one pint, and honey one ounce. It corrects the fetor, and stimulates the parts to healthy action. It should be filtered before the honey is added. The liquor sodcB chlorinates is more convenient, and perhaps as useful. Cascarilla is recommended even in the gangrenous thrush of children, by Underwood, as an aromatic bitter and tonic, for the rehef of the atonic dyspepsia and debility from which the disorder often arises, and for the diarrhoea which often attends it. By its aromatic properties, it even renders Peruvian bark more agreeable to the stomach, and increases its powers. Chlorinii Liquor, or chlorine gas dissolved in half its volume of water, when largely diluted, is a tonic, stimulant and disinfectant; one part of the gas to eight parts of water is the average strength for a gargle or lotion, and lias been used successfully in aphthae, stomatitis and cancrum oris. Cupri Sulphas is an excellent old-fashioned application in the severer forms of cancrum oris, aphthous ulceration and gangrenous affections of the mouth. Symonds used five grains finely powdered and thoroughly incorporated in half an ounce of honey. It has also often been applied in substance. Dccoctio, or infusion of quince seeds (120 grains of the seed to one pint of boiling water), is a demulcent often used in aphthous affection and excoriations of the mouth. It is of but little value in itself, but is a good vehicle for other remedies.