LESIONS OF THE ORGANS OF REPRODUCTION. 374 pensory bandage and rest are enjoined. Pain disappears in from two to six hours, and in a few days the patient is well. Of course, such general treatment as is needed is ordered. {Practitioner, Feb- ruary, 1872.) MR. H. G. KNAGGS, ENGLAND. This gentleman, in the British Medical Journal, November, 1875, reports a method of treating orchitis which, he says, he has for many years found very effective. It consists in the more or less constant application, while the patient is resting, of a lotion of tinctura arnica and water (one part of the former to six of the latter) to the affected organ; secondly, in rubbing in an embroca- tion composed of one-third, or even one-half, tincture of arnica and soap-liniment, two or three times a day, along the course of the spermatic cord: and thirdly, m the internal administration of seven-drop doses of tincture of arnica, combined, when there is febrile disturbance, with two-and-a-half-drop doses of Fleming's tincture of aconite and acetate of ammonia. This simple treat- ment, he says, generally cures the patient in a fortnight or less. MR. C. H. MOORE, M. R. C. S., MIDDLESEX HOSPITAL, LONDON. The testicle is first immersed in water as hot as can be borne, and kept in it from ten to fifteen minutes, immediately to be fol- lowed by a stream of cold water poured over it from a height for five minutes. The latter causes a certain amount of itching pain, and, by contracting the dartos, corrugates the scrotum, speedily diminishing the size of the testicle, with subsidence of the inflam- mation and pain, the patient experiencing relief in a very short time. The hot and cold water may have to be repeated two or three times a day for a few days; but frequently the patient is so far recovered in the course of four-and-twenty hours as to be able to follow his usual avocation without any inconvenience, requiring no further treatment beyond the continuance of the suspensory, bag. PROF. RICORD, OF PARIS. 501. I^. Emplastri hydrargyri, Extracti conii, aa Sijss Extract! opii, gr.xv. M. Spread on a piece of leather of convenient size, and apply in cases of orchitis or subacute bubo.