LOCAL ANiESTHETICS. 57 Dr. J. H. Bell prefers to soak the part, when practicable, in a three per cent, solution of the acid for fifteen minutes, and then to draw a brush dipped in the pure acid along the line of the incision. {American Joitrnal of the Medical Sciences, Oct., 1870.) Dr. Andrew H. Smith, of New York, in illustration of this anesthetic property, relates that he painted on his forehead a spot an inch in diameter with an eighty-five per cent, solution of the acid. For a minute it caused slight burning, then the skin became quite numb, whitened and shriveled ; at this point he made an in- cision half an inch long without even feeling the knife, the wound from which afterwards healed as usual. Three hours afterwards he thru.st, without pain, a needle into the skin ; and next he ap- plied a blister to the carbolized skin, without causing pain or vesi- cation. He had used this application in opening whitlows, and found the pain of the operation greatly less than ordinary. Dr. L. H. A. NiCKERSON, of Quincy, Ills., has presented strong evidence that it is the cresol and not the phenol in carbolic acid which possesses the anaesthetic power. [American Medical Bi- weekly, March 16, 1878.) He has found the following an admira- ble mixture to allay the acute pain after the application of caus- tics, in burns and scalds, active gonorrhoea, etc.: 46. R. Acidi carbolici (Calvert's No. 4,) gtt-ij Aquae calcis, f.^j. M. For local use. The acid must be the impure form, containing cresol, as the prep- aration known as No. 4 of Calvert's. The crystallized acid or phenol does not produce the same results. CARBON bisulphide. This substance has been employed by Dr. S. R. Nissley, of Ohio. His mode of application is this: Place a pledget of cotton in a wide-mouthed vial, saturate it well with the bisulphide, and apply it to the painful part, and as soon as the patient complains of a smarting sensation, change the position of the bottle, carefully following the course of the principal nerve that seems to be dis- tributed on the part. In the Gas. Med. de V Algerie, Dr. Charles Bernard relates several cases in which sulphide of carbon was employed to produce local anaesthesia. In one case six grammes, poured drop by drop