29S LESIONS OF THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION. Heat. Hot fomentations and hot immersions are valuable relax- ants. There is no rule which can be laid down as to when heat or cold should be preferred. Injlation. Inflation of the lower bowel in hernia has for some time been popular with French surgeons to aid in reduction of hernia-\ A long elastic tube should be inserted into the rectum after the latter has been well washed out, and air slowly injected by a bellows, syringe or hand ball. The inflation produced exer- cises a traction on the implicated bowel much more accurately in the 1 ine of reduction than can pressure from without. It is well to aid the efforts of inflation by applying cold to the tumor, and properly relaxing the muscular system. Nauscants. In former times tobacco, tartar emetic, lobelia, etc., were used as depressants, and to relax the system. Their employ- ment is wholly superseded by anaesthetics and other means. Opmm. A large dose of opium, by hypodermic injection of morphia or otherwise, will induce relaxation and avoid the neces- sity of an operation. Position. To obtain the greatest aid from the force of gravity is of much importance in the taxis, and to do this, everything de- pends upon placing the patient in the most suitable position. The following rules have been laid down by good authorities: The e7'ectposition is that proper in the reduction of strangulated inguinal hernia, the thigh flexed and adducted, the head and shoulders bent forward, the spinal column inclined toward the groin in which the tumor exists. If this fails, the patient may be placed upon his back, the head and shoulders raised on pillows, inclined as before, the knees drawn up and adducted; or, in a semi-prone position upon his hands and knees, with head depressed and pelvis elevated; or, as has been highly recommended, in the semi-prone position, upon the side of the hernia, the thighs flexed upon the body. Complete i7ivenion—holding the patient up by the feet—has been much lauded by some surgeons, but according to others rarely proves successful, and is very exhausting to both patient and physician when it falls to the lot of the latter to per- form it. A somewhat modified form of inversion, which he calls the "tractile method" has been described by Dr. D. Leasure, of Pittsburgh {Amencan jfournal af Medical Science, April, 1874). It is as follows :