30 THE THERAPEUTICS OF INFLAMMATION. canal. When this is associated with a tongue coated with a yel- lowish fur, and with a foul taste in the mouth on awaking, a mer- curial laxative is called for. If the appetite is capricious, and assimilation imperfect, a mixture like the following will be found advantageous : 15. Tinct. ferri chloridi, ""Uv Acidi hydrochlor. diluti, n^x Infusi calumbcC, f.§j. M. For one dose, three times a day, half an hour before meals. Or citrate of iron and quinine may be given instead. The bitters act beneficially on the stomach in these conditions. If the bowels be merely inactive with a fairly clean tongue, a little pill, aloes et myrrhcB, at bedtime every night, or every other night, will be found sufficient to keep the patient on the right track. If, as often hap- pens, the combination of a vegetable tonic with iron produces a disagreeable sense of feverishness and heating, the addition of a little sulphate of magnesia will generally relieve the symptoms, as: 16. Magnesise sulphatis, 9ss Quiniee sulphatis, gi"-/^ Liq. ferri persulphatis, '"Iv Infusi quassise, f.§j' M. This amount three times a day. This is an excellent and useful combination where the ordinary quinine and iron mixtures do not agree. Great care should be taken to protect the patient from sudden changes of temperature, cold, damp, and draughts. Should the increasing appetite lead, as in children it is especially apt to, to excess in eating—to what used to be called " a surfeit"—an emetic followed by a purgative is the proper treatment. In regard to the diet of the early stage of convalescence, alcohol in the form of the brandy and egg mixture is often valuable. Al- cohol may also be given instead of opium at night to induce sleep. As convalescence becomes established, little allurement in the nature of the viands is required to tempt the appetite; plain food is taken with avidity, and one must guard against an excess of it. In the second or asthenic form of inflammation, important modifications of the above treatment are required. This form oc- curs in systems exhausted from any cause, in the aged and in the broken-down constitutions. Such cases are not to be treated by