S68 VENEREAL DISEASES. watery appearance. The smarting which is experienced at first in the discharge is removed, and a feeling of comfort supervenes; a cure is effectecl in from ten to twelve days. In addition to this the kava acts as a bitter tonic, is agreeable to take, pro- motes the appetite, does not incommode the digestive organs, and finally occasions neither diarrhoea nor costiveness. Kaolin or white clay suspended in water, was introduced as an injection by Dr. F. W. Godon, of New York. He mixes the earth with water to a thin paste, and throws from two to three drachms into the urethra once or twice a day. The disease yields in five or six days. Nitrictwi Aciduin makes an excellent injection in gleet. The strength of the solution should be gtt. ij to water f.^j, of which f.3i-ij should be thrown up frequently. Opium and its alkaloids render important service in the acute inflamma- tory stage of gonorrhoea. The following is a good formula : 931. Extract! opii aquosi, gr.vij Liquoris plumbi subacetatis, f.3j Glycerinae, f.5ij Aquee destillatas, ad f.^iv. M. Use as an injection, two or three times a day, to lessen the pain- ful smarting from micturition. Plumbi Acetas forms a cooling and astringent injection. The following combination has been found excellent, in spite of the chemical change which takes place in it: 932. I^. -Liquoris plumbi subacetatis diluti, f.§iv Zinci sulphatis, gr.viij As an injection in inflammatory gonorrhoea. Potassii Bromidum is a valuable injection in the acute stage: 933. B:. Potassii bromidi, 3iss Glycerinae, f.Sijss Aquas, f.§iv. M. Use lukewarm, twice daily, in acute gonorrhoea. It has also been given internally by Dr. J. W. Bligh, of Canada: 934. ^. Potassag bicarbonatis, 3j Potassii bromidi, 3ij TincturEe hyoscyami, f.^ss Aquae camphorEe, f.§vss. M. One ounce thrice daily on an empty stomach. Dr. B. adds, that when there is any disposition to painful erections of chordee, a draught containing about half a drachm of the bromide in an ounce of camphor mixture, administered at bedtime, will be found to allay this tendency almost to a cer-