THE COMPLICATIONS OF WOUNDS. In addition to the measures of active treatment which we have adverted to, there are certain other negative rules of scarcely less importance. Concussion patients ought to be kept perfectly quiet and free from all excitement. Their diet should be mild and un- stimulating. All forms of alcoholic beverages ought to be most carefully excluded. DR. HOOD, OF LONDON. Railway shock. This writer {Lancet, March, 1875,) urges the importance of blood-letting after a railway accident, in order to reduce the amount of fluid moved by the weakened heart. He considers there is not the smallest risk or danger in employing it, if the patient is bled in an iipright posture, and the operation is performed, not immediately after the accident, but when sufficient reaction has been established, either spontaneously or by the ad- ministration of stimulants. He adds that it is believed by many that vinegar is the best means of restoring consciousness after an accident due to concus- sion, and that it is a substitute both for alcoholic stimulants and for bleeding. It may be given in small quantities to the extent of a wineglassful. DR. J. MILNER FOTHERGILL Has found the following combination very frequently useful in cases of acute shock: 147. Ammonise carbonatis, gr.v Spiritds chloroformi, f.3ss Aquam, f-Sj* For one dose. To be repeated as required. A teaspoonful of sal volatile in water is a pleasant and efficient stimulant. When the shock is but partial, as is witnessed in the passage of gall stones or calculi, stimulants are not desirable. A full dose of opium is then sometimes of service. An efficient resource in collapse from shock is the hypodermic injection of ether, 5j-5iv. The points of election are the abdomi- nal walls and the thigh. The nozzle of the syringe should be introduced deeply, so as to avoid the formation of abscesses. Originally suggested by Dr. Hecker in the collapse following ex- cessive uterine hemorrhage, it may profitably be employed in any similar case. The effect on the pulse is prompt and easily recog-