PYiEMIA. 125 ceives milk, or punch, wine whey, or whatever we wish to give ; and then we begin with brandy again, and the next hour have such changes made as may be desirable, always having the remedies given at a fixed interval. In this way we are always sure that our patient receives enough, and we can, without skilled nurses, rely upon our treatment being carried out. If we want to add to the stimulating effects of alcohol the antipyretic, we simply increase the dose, and we, as a rule, need fear no bad results from the ad- ministration of this remedy, as septicsemic patients seem to be able to bear great quantities without bad effects. MR. JOHN ERICHSEN. The curative treatment of pyaemia is stated by this writer to be most unpromising. The only plan he relies upon is the stimu- lating and tonic one, by alcohol, ammonia, bark and beef tea. He has, however, seen recoveries effected by the administration of large doses of quinine, gr. v, every three hours. This very decid- edly checks the rigors, but does not seem to diminish the temper- ature or the sweats. In some cases he has administered chlorate of potash, in full doses, 3ij-iv, in the day, in addition to the quinine and wine, with benefit. If the depression is great, he ad- ministers carbonate of ammonia, gr. v-xv, well diluted, from time to time, with fluid nourishment, brandy, etc. The most complete hygienic measures must be observed. MR. JOHN WOOD, LONDON. This surgeon has successfully treated some cases of pyaemia by carbolizing the patient—first, by keeping the body in a carbolized atmosphere, employing small muslin bags filled with carbolized powders placed in the bed, and keeping the bed-clothes raised by means of a cradle; and secondly, by the internal administration of sulpho-carbolate of iron. {Medical and Surgical Reporter July 22 1871.) DR. THOMAS H. TANNER, Calomel and blood-letting, once frequently employed in this disease, are now regarded as of more than doubtful efficacy. The treatment should be supporting and stimulating from the outset. Great attention should be paid to the nursing and hygienic sur- roundings. The room should be large and well-ventilated, and the most scrupulous cleanliness enforced. The body of the patient