356 LESIONS OF THE ORGANS OF REPRODUCTION. twenty-four cells, whose negative pole—a needle of gold or plati- num—was thrust into the cyst, and whose positive pole—a sponge- holder—was placed on the skin. The sittings, of twenty to thirty minutes' duration, were had every second or third day. IMPOTENCE. DR. THOMAS HAWKES TANNER. The act of copulation may be rendered impracticable in man by a variety of causes, some of which can be readily removed, some removed after more or less treatment, while others again are wholly incurable. In examining any case, therefore, it is neces- sary to discriminate carefully their etiological moments. They may be summed up as follows: 1. Absence, or want of development, malformation, or mutilation of the penis or testes. These are usually hopeless cases, though sometimes malformation may be remedied by surgical procedures. 2. Mental influences. Violent emotion, excess of passion, over- excited and especially long-repressed desire, want of confidence, timidity, anxiety, hard study, grief, disgust, all may deprive the person temporarily of his powers. These causes can all be re- moved, and their treatment calls rather upon the tact and skill of the physician, than upon his knowledge of the materia medica. 3. Acute diseases. Not unfrequently after fevers and other severe diseases the sexual organs remain feeble long after the general health is restored. These are proper cases for the exhibition of those nerve tonics whose especial action is upon the generative organs. The prognosis in young and middle-aged men is gen- erally favorable. 4. Injuties to the Cerebellum. Falls, blows, and other injuries on the back part of the head are sometimes followed by loss of gener- ative power. Such cases are generally incurable, and are apt to be followed by atrophy of the testes and penis. 5. Injuries and diseases of the Spinal Cord. Certain injuries and diseases of the cord, such as hemiplegia, locomotor ataxia, pro- gressive muscular atrophy, etc., remove the power to copulate owing to deficient erections, although desire may remain and semen continue to be secreted.