N^VUS. This injection can be repeated at intervals of four or five days if necessary. If the tumor is very vascular, it may be prudent to transfix its base with hair-lip pins and strangle it with a ligature tightly fastened beneath them. PROFESSOR ZEISSL, OF GERMANY. This surgeon recommends the use of his "antimonial plaster." 300. I^. Ant. et potassas tartratis, 5j Emplastri adhassivi, 5v. y[ Apply on the nsevus and a little beyond its edges. This brings about pustulation in from five to seven days. If this is profuse, the wound can be dressed with rags wet with oil; if but little, the paste may remain on until it falls off. Usually the spot will be healed in two weeks, leaving a slight scar. The process is. said not to be very painful. RESUME OF REMEDIES. Caustics. These are especially applicable when the tumor is of compara- tively small size, and is upon the edge of the lip, the tip of the- nose, the brow, or the cheek. The application of strong nitric- acid on a needle or a piece of wood held against the spot for a. considerable time, has the effect of producing an eschar which separates with a certain amount of inflammation; that inflam- mation coagulates the blood, and gradually obliterates the tumor. Chloride of zinc is preferred by some surgeons; the acid nitrate- of mercury by others; or nitrate of silver, chromic acid, etc With any of them a depressed cicatrix will remain. Coagulants. Of these perchloride of iron is the best, but its use is never safe. An instance is on record where an injection of a single- drop brought about the death of the child in two minutes. Carbolic acid is less dangerous. Ferri persulphatis, ""lij, has- also been used. Care should be taken that the flbid injected be distributed over the growth in minute portions; and the sur- geon should be careful to do less at one sitting than is necessary- for obliteration, trusting rather to repetitions of the operation, which ought not to be made at too short an interval. A pre- liminary disruption of the texture of the naevus with a tenotomy knife is advantageous, by permitting greater diff"usion of the coagulating fluid, and therefore a greater effect with a, smaller quantity than otherwise would be the case. With these pre- cautions, that the circulation be controlled, and the amount injected kept within due proportions, this method of treatment seems to be the best we have for nsevi of moderate size situated on the face, if they be mainly subcutaneous. It is safe, very successful, and leaves no scar. Collodion. A nsevus of small size situated over a bone, will often disap- 17-S