300 LESIONS OF THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION. have formed) the patient is in a more favorable condition for the performance of the necessary operation than he would be after the employment of the other methods. Piirgaiives are sweepingly condemned by some authorities. Mr. Erichsen, however, points out that in the treatment of the incarcerated hernia of elderly people a good purgative injection, as the compound colocynth enema, should be thrown well up into the bowel; and that after the reduction an active purgative should be administered by the mouth. Relaxants. The most important of these are the anaesthetics (which see). Nauseating relaxants should be used continually or not at all. Coffee has proved in a number of instances very valu- able. A number of small cups of very strong hot coffee, admin- istered at short intervals, will often greatly facilitate the taxis. subcutaneous injections. The radical cure of hernia has been successfully practiced in a number of cases where the herniae are small, by the injection of stimulating liquids in the neighborhood of the neck of the sac, in the manner proposed by professor JOSEPH PANCOAST, OF PHILADELPHIA. The contents of the hernial sac being returned into the abdo- men, and the ring explored to ascertain that no portion of the intestine protrudes, the pad of a well-fitting truss is slipped down so as to make pressure on the inguinal canal, and prevent any escape of the hernia. With the fore-finger of the left hand the spermatic cord, as it passes out from the external inguinal opening, is pressed upwards on the pelvic bone, so as to prevent it from being injured. A delicate trocar and canula, the latter having fitted to it a small Anel's syringe, is now carefully but firmly forced through the integuments with a rotary motion to facilitate its progress, and pushed forwards till it enters the external inguinal ring, or neck, at the sac. The trocar being now with- drawn, the canula is kept firmly in place, and twenty or thirty drops of the tincture of iodine, tincture of cantharides, or sulphuric ether, thrown in, and lodged in the neck of the sac, when this is practicable, or else in the vicinity of the external abdominal ring. Subsequently a small compress is applied over the minute wound made by the trocar, the pad of the truss slipping down over it,