343 LITHIASIS. (stone, CALCULUS, GRAVEL.) C. W. FRISBIE, M. D., NEW YORK. 465. I^. Sodas biboratis, 3ij_ Extract! uvai ursi fluidi, f.3j Spiritus selheris nitrici, Tincturae opii deodoratse, aa f.^ss Aqua.. A teaspoonful from three to six times daily, in uric acid diathesis or brickdust deposit. The celebrated Harlem oil, used in Holland as a remedy against stone, is: 466. I^. Olei cadini, f-5}y Olei terebinthmae, ^onj ■ Sulphuris loti, 3j. M. Make one hundred and twenty capsules. One three times a day. RESUME OF REMEDIES. Acida. The mineral acids render important service in the oxalic and the phosphatic varieties of calculus. The nitric or nitro-mun- atic acids should be given for a length of time in small, repeated doses Citric, benzoic, and dilute phosphoric acids have also been prescribed with advantage. Alkalies. Dr. Roberts, of Manchester, has shown that uric or lithic acid calculi may probably be dissolved in the bladder, if the urine is maintained alkaline for some weeks. This treatment is especially useful in renal calculus (kidney or nephritic colic) which is generally composed of uric acid only. Large doses of citrate of potash will often cure patients complaining of much pain in the back, passing bloody urine containing a large quan- tity of uric acid crystals, and a little pus. One point regarding the medicine given to check the formation of a lithic stone is well worthy of being borne in mind. /. e., that the profuse ad- ministration of alkalies when the urine is acid tends to cause a rapid deposit of phosphates upon the surface of the stone, and thus to increase its size. The reaction of the urine should be kept at the neutral point, and not alkaline (Druitt). Aqua. An important agent in the prevention of the formation of calculi, , is water taken in pure and large quantities. Hard water should be avoided and filtered rain water preferred (Harley). Al- kaline mineral waters should not be taken very freely. AnimonicE Benzoas is of great value when the urine is. ammoniacal and loaded with phosphates. Phosphatic calculi may be dissolved by the long continued use of this remedy. Belladonna has been recommended to relieve the spasms during the pas- sage of renal calculi. Given by the mouth or by inhalation, it relieves pain without interfering with that muscular contraction which probably assists in the onward propulsion of the stone. The same remark applies to ether.