THE DRESSING OF WOUNDS. 68 THE ANHYDROUS DRESSING OF WOUNDS. MR. SAMPSON GAMGEE, SURGEON TO THE QUEEN's HOSPITAL, BIRMINGHAM. This ^urgQOw {The Lancet, Dec. 23, 1876,) advocates dry and rare dressings in the treatment of all wounds, whether the injured parts be soft or hard, skin, bones or muscles, or all combined. Drenching wounds with water during an operation, and washing them with it afterwards, are mistakes. Water favors decomposi- tion, which is the enemy of healing action. After an operation wound, the cut surface is first thoroughly dried with a soft sponge; the edges are then accurately approximated, and kept so with a few strips of lint soaked in Richardson's styptic colloid (see Index), or else with numerous points of silver suture; if the surface is large, it is dressed with a layer of fine cotton wool, such as is used by jewelers, and over this fine picked oakum; a well-adapted bandage exerts gentle and firm compression on the parts. This dressing should not be touched for several days, four to six; and then the use of water should be scrupulously avoided. To remove the styptic colloid a mixture of alcohol and ether may be employed, or equal parts of absolute alcohol and distilled water, warmed to a little above the heat of the body. Chassaignac's drainage tubes are invaluable to convey the products of suppuration from the wound. MR. ROBERT HAMILTON, M. R. C. S. The anhydrous dressing of wounds has also been recently strongly insisted upon by Mr. Robert Hamilton, M. R. C. S , of Liverpool. {Lancet, M^^y, 1^77) He regards the use of water, either in washing the wound or as a lotion, as a prolific source of germs, and therefore carefully to be avoided. Even when mixed with carbolic acid, as in Mr. Lister's applications, it may still act in this way. He prefers to cleanse the wound with alcohol, and to apply some such dressing as dry lint, or lint saturated with oil, or carbolated oil, or compound tincture of benzoin, placing upon this a little oakum and a light bandage. Instead of using as a spray a solution of carbolic acid, as does Mr. Lister, he prefers a mixture of one part of compound tincture of benzoin to four parts of methylated spirits. Or, he dusts the surface of a burn, for ex- ample with a dry powder, as equal parts of starch and oxide of