POLYPI. 459 The use of the saffronised imcUire of opium was introduced, by Dr. Primus, of Babenhausen, as a local application. It is officinal in the German Pharmacopoeia. TINCTURA OPII CROCATA. 667. R. Take of Opium, 16 parts " Saffron, ' 6 " " Cloves, I " " Cassia bark, i " " Sherry wine, 152 " Prepare by digestion. If the growth be painted several times a day with this liquid, in about a week or ten days the polypus, under favorable circum- stances, becomes shriveled up and falls from its attachments. Bichromate of potash and nitrate of silver have also been tried frequently with more or less success. Galvanic Cautery. Dr. Thudichum has removed polypi by this means, and although the proceeding is only practicable in a limited number of cases, and can never come into general use, the inven- tion possesses advantages, and must occasionally prove extremely valuable. The polypus is encircled by a wire loop, which is made ^d-hot by being connected with a galvanic battery, and the sub- stance of the growth can then be burnt straight through. The operation is attended with little pain, and there is no risk of hem- orrhage, but as the wire can rarely be adjusted to the pedicle of the tumor, and as no traction is made which would be likely to draw away the polypus by its roots, the growth has generally to be removed in slices. In the use of bichromate of potash, saturated aqueous solution of the salt is applied by means of a small brush to the parts of the polypus within reach, care being taken to avoid the neighboring tissues, and this is repeated several times. It does not generally produce pain. At the end of three or four days inflammation is excited, and a watery acrid fluid flows from the part. This'lasts about two days, when it will be found that the polypus has partly or wholly disappeared. The application should be suspended as soon as inflammation is excited, and renewed after it has disap- peared, should all the polypus not have been removed. Polypus of the Ear. Both nasal and aural polypi are said to be benefited by the administration of teiicnum maruvi, cat thyme.