LESIONS OF THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 290 371. I^. Piilv. rhus gilabri, §j Potassii chloratis, §ss Aquai buUientis, Oj. M. Simmer in an earthen vessel, occasionally stirring, to three- fourths of a pint; strain and use as a gargle. The sumach berries contain considerable biraalate of calcium, the malic acid in which seems to give them an especially bene- ficial influence on inflamed mucous membranes Tannicum Acidim, must be used for its astringent qualities. Terebinthince Oleum. In the Leavenworth Medical Herald, 1876, Dr. S H Roberts strongly recommends the use of turpentine ex- ternally in tonsillitis. He folds the flannel to four thicknesses, wrings it out in hot water, and pours oil of turpentme over a spot the size of a silver dollar The flannel is then applied over the sub-parotid region, and the fomentation continued as long as it can be borne. After removal, a dry flannel is appHed, and the same region rubbed with turpentine every two hours. This application is continued daily till resolution occurs. The doctor beUeves, from the evidence of his long experience, that thus applied 'early in the disease the oil of turpentine has almost a specific effect in tonsillitis. That its action is not simply that of an irritant he has proved by employing mustard, croton oil, tr iodine, etc., in the same class of cases. They always failed to diminish the inflammation of tonsils, while the turpentme succeeded. (See also F. 353.) Xanthoxvhm. A decoction of prickly ash bark is an efficient gargle in chronic pharyngitis with dryness of the mucous membrane, in similar cases also the fluid extract, rt^x-xxx, or the tincture f.3ss- j, is a successful remedy. TONSILLAR HYPERTROPHY. JAMES E. GARRETSON, M. D., D. D. S. Tonsillar hypertrophy is rather a systemic indication than a local disease. More attention will be found required to diet, cloth- ing exercise, and general mode of life, than to medication. Among medicines said to possess specific power on enlarged tonsils, Sulphate of potassium holds the most prominent position. It is to be given for four or six weeks, in doses of gr. v-xv. It is usual to combine it with rhubarbs and some of the aromatics to insure laxity of the bowels. It is, without doubt, efficient in many cases I Where the arthritic dyscrasia can be detected, colchtcum has