LESIONS OF THE ORGANS OF REPRODUCTION. 363 Strychnia. As a general nerve tonic, stryclmia or nux vomica is indis- pensable in the treatment of impotence from neurasthenia. It is probable that it is the most generally efficacious agent for that purpose known to the profession; it acts, however, more through a general impression on the system than as an aphrodisiac. Zinci Phosphidum. This preparation is highly lauded by Hammond and others. It may be given gr. - \ , combined with gr. ss of nux vomica. GENERAL EXTERNAL MEASURES. Ccunter-irritation is a means of old renown in the treatment of impotence, and has at times been used to the serious detriment of tlie patient! Flagellation and urtication are spoken of by classical writers,' and have always been known to the vulgar. Of the local stimu- lants which are most successful and free from danger, mustard, tincture of cantharides and turpentine are the most reliable.' Frictions with horse-radish are also spoken of. Dr. Gall claimed excellent results from applying counter-irritants to the cerebellum rather than the lower spine, believing that by so doing he stim- ulated the nerve centres which control the sexual faculties. The method deserves trial in appropriate cases. Douches. The alternate use of hot and cold douches to the organs, peri- neum and lower spine, each fifteen minutes at a time, has been praised as an effective revulsive in sexual debility. They may also be directed to the cerebellum. Electricity has been fully considered above. (Page 262.) Massage, especially the lighter forms, as described page 148, so as to excite a flow of blood to the pelvic muscles and organs, is es- teemed in the Orient as an efficient means of repairing powers exhausted by habitual excesses. MASTURBATION. (SELF-ABUSE, ONANISM). DR. A. JACOBI, M. D., OF NEW YORK. The commencement of the habit in young children and even in- fants must be carefully watched for. The treatment in these cases is indicated by the causes which lead to the habit. For excessive phimosis, circumcision; balanitis and balanoposthitis, cleanliness and astringents ; stones and gravel, mostly alkaline salts, the major- ity being uric in the beginning; vesical catarrh, alkalies, tannin, cubebs, hyoscyamus, injections, according to circumstances; con- stipation, its appropriate treatment, dietetic, anti-rachitical, ro- borant, laxative (injections); worms, anthelmintics; the acquired nervous derangement, bromide of ammonium or potassium. Dr. i