LESIONS OF THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 3o8 Stercoraceous accumulations must be mechanically removed. A lithotomy scoop or ordinary spoon may get at a good deal of the material; but a stream of warm water, made to play vigor- ously on the mass, or got more slowly to permeate and disintegrate it, by being allowed to come into contact with it through a long tube connected with a reservoir raised high above the bed, is a better plan. A calomel and jalap purge will complete the cure. M. ANTOINE TARIOTE, OF PARIS. In a thesis on the subject (1874), this writer concludes that intestinal occlusions may be divided into two very distinct cate- gories: I. Intestinal occlusions of slow origin, caused either by simple accumulation of faecal matters, or by paralysis of the in- testine or diminution of its size in consequence of the presence of foreign bodies, stricture and compression ; 2. Intestinal occlusions which make their appearance very abruptly and rapidly, arising from true internal strangulation, invagination, retroversion or twist- ing of tHe intestine. In gradual intestinal occlusion, opium can only be used to overcome the pain or sufferings of the moribund pa- tient. In sudden intestinal occlusion, if there be no well confirmed internal strangulation, opium employed from the commencement, concurrently with applications of ice to the abdomen or blood- lettings, calms the local irritation and the resultant spasm. It also quiets the accidents arising from the general irritation, anxiety, small pulse, chilliness, etc. This treatment may by itself re-establish the circulation of the gases. The re-establishment of the circulation may be advantageously hastened by the administra- tion of a purgative. DR. THOMAS HAWKINS, OF NEW YORK. The use of large fluid injections is strongly urged by this wrtier {Medical and Surgical Reporter, Dec, 1876). He reports a number of successful cases, and adds that there are three rules essential to success: 1. The use of the utmost force possible, but with great care and caution. 2. Persistent and continuous repetition of the injection until the passage is effected. 3. The adoption of a suitable position for the patient. Dr. Hawkins uses simple warm water. That containing ox-