LESIONS OF THE ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE. constitutional fault, which must be rectified. In the strumous type, iodide of iron, or iodoform and iron with cod-liver oil, are generally indicated. The treatment of the syphilitic type is ob- vious. If there is ulceration, potass-iodide with ammonia and some form of tonic, are called for; but, if no ulcers exist, the bichloride of mercury, in small doses, if persevered with, he thinks has no equal. These cases he regards as much more manageable than those of scrofulous origin. In the forms dependent upon the catarrhal diathesis, phosphorus is indicated. Secondly, the local cause of catarrh must be removed; polypi and glandular hypertrophies must receive appropriate treatment. The third important item is to keep the part thoroughly cleansed so as to remove all adherent mucus and incrustations. This he accomplishes by means of the nasal douche, under the immediate supervision of the physician, and with certain restrictions, viz. : the solution used should never exceed a drachm of salt to the pint of water, nor the pressure that of a column of water of twelve inches, and, to reach the upper parts of the nasal cavity, he attaches to the douche a tube with an aperture upon its side, through which, after the tube be introduced into the nostril, the stream is directed upward. The same effect is produced by attaching the tube to a nasal syringe, or the apparatus of Rumbold may be used. Potass, permang., or salicylic acid, may be used in spray^ after the cleansing. Fourth, local medication, which consists in touching ulcers with iodine in glycerine and water, with a little iodide of potassium, or with a weak solution of silver, the latter being recommended when there is thickening of the membrane; when the ulcerations are sluggish, he states that chloral hydrate (grs. v.-xv-gj) answers a good purpose; where the thickening is not marked, iodine-vapor does well; and, finally, in many cases the frequent use of a snuff composed of camphor, tannic and salicylic acid, is advantageous.