THE IMMEDIATE TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION. 27 As the symptoms merge into the typhoid type, the pulse grow- ing quicker and weaker, the tongue dry and dark, some stimulant in combination with the salines is demanded. The carbonate of ammonia in doses gr. v-xv may be given with bark, or in an effer- vescent form with grs. xv of bicarbonate of potash and a sufificient quantity of citric acid every third or fourth hour. The nourish- ment must be increased; and wine or alcoholic stimulants must be conjoined with it. Over-stimulation must be avoided, which may be done by observing the influence on the pulse and tongue of the treatment adopted. When from the first asthenic symptoms show themselves, tonics and stimulants should be freely administered, with bland and easily assimilable food, as beef-tea, eggs, and farinaceous food. Ammonia and bark, wine, brandy and porter, with meat extract and arrow- root, are often imperatively demanded in large quantities to save the patient's life. The brandy and egg mixture, if well made, combining nutriment and stimulus, is the best remedy that can be administered in many cases of low inflammation. As the asthenic passes into the irritative form, opiates should be combined with the general treatment. When congestive pneu- monia and asthenic bronchitis supervene, the following draught is advantageous: 8. j^;. Tinct. camphorse comp., Tr^xx-xxx Ammonise carbonatis, gr.v-x Decocti seneg£e, f.^iss. M. For one dose every three or four hours. Rubefacients, blisters or dry cups should be applied to the chest The diarrhoea that not unfrequently occurs, must be met with opi- ates and astringents; and if the urine cannot be passed, it must be drawn off with a catheter. THE TREATMENT OF CHRONIC INFLAMMATION. In treating chronic inflammations, hygienic measures are first in importance. Pure air, a light, digestible, nourishing diet, and clean- liness, are indispensable. In the more active forms mercitry is of great service, but should be avoided in cachectic and strumous patients. The most useful preparations are calomel, gr. \-\, or iodide of mercury in the same doses, or the bichloride, grs. |-yV- Iodide of patassium is extremely valuable in chronic inflammation