VENEREAL DISEASES. 574 FREEMAN J. BUMSTEAD, M. D., NEW YORK. 957. I^. Hydrargyri chloridi'mitis, gr.xxxvj Tinctune opii, f.5j Cerati simplicis, f.^j, M. For application to chancre when an unctuous dressing is re- quired. It is much used in French hospitals. Unguents are less desirable than lotions, and should only be employed when the evaporation of a water-dressing cannot be prevented even with the assistance of oiled silk and glycerine, as may happen from the position of the sore, and during a journey, etc. In most cases the lotion may consist of simple water or gly- cerine. When medicated, such ingredients should, as a general rule, be added as will not leave a deposit, or change the aspect of the sore, and thus render its condition obscure. The following may be used: 958. I^L. Acidi nitrici diluti, f.5j Aquae, f.^viij. M. The strength may be varied with the sensibility of the part. When the sore is situated upon the external integument, the dressing should be covered with oiled silk. Chancres located beneath the prepuce may be dressed with dry lint, which will be sufficiently moistened by the natural secretion of the part. Indurated chancres are not liable to give rise to suc- cessive sores in the neighborhood, and hence astringents and dis- infectants are rarely required. When the chancre assumes an excavated form, as is commonly seen in the furrow at the base of the glans, scraped lint is preferable to dry linen, since it is a bet- ter absorbent. The frequency with which local applications are to be changed must be determined by the amount of secretion. A second dress- ing should be substituted before the first is soaked with the dis- charge. The dressing of the most uncomplicated chancres need be renewed only two or three times a day; but phagedenic ulcers require a much greater frequency. 959. I^. Ferri et potassas tartratis, §ss Syrupi, Aqu£E, aa f.^iij- From two teaspoonfuls to a tablespoonful three times a day, within an hour after meals, in phagedenic chancres, and a lotion containing the same salt to be applied to the ulcer.