CARBUNCLES AND BOILS. 21 I discharge. Usually these strips will be found loosened in twenty- four or forty-eight hours. New ones should then be applied. This mode has been adopted by Prof John Ashhurst, Jr., of Philadelphia, and other American surgeons, and they report that it relieves the patient of pain promptly, and cures in less time than incisions, while it also avoids the risks which accompany the use of the knife. Mr. S. Messenger Bradley, of Manchester, also believes that the cure of boils and carbuncles is expedited, and the • pain is lessened, by such treatment. The simplest, and at the same time the most effectual, method of accomplishing the press- ure, is by placing a piece of sheet lead, with a hole cut out of the centre large enough to encompass the base of the carbuncle, and then, by means of elastic straps, and a lace, affixing it firmly to the part required. Any one can manufacture such an appliance in a few minutes; the size of the lead sheeting and the length of the straps, of course, being proportioned to the size of the tumor and the part of the body to which it is to be applied. DR. JAMES GREY GLOVER, OF LONDON. This writer, in the Practitioner, Jan., 18/0, disapproves both of incision and the administration of stimulants in carbuncle. The medical treatment he recommends, is : 238. Vf.. Quinias sulphatis, gr.ij Tinct. ferri chloridi, Tt^x-xv. M. This amount thrice daily. A grain or two of opium, if called for to give rest, should be exhibited every night. The diet should be good and nourishing. Beef tea, milk, and a glass or two of wine daily, are allowed. Locally he uses, 239. B. Unguent, terebinth., Adipis, equal parts. M. This is appUed over the surface of the carbuncle, and upon it a large piece of cotton wool. It should be changed twice or thrice a day. DR. J. H. DIBBRELL, JR., ARKANSAS. This practitioner observes, in the Medical and Surgical Reporter, March, 1877, that experience seems to have demonstrated that carbuncles do far better without any treatment whatever, than when subjected to deep and extensive incisions. A simple punc-