TINNITUS AURIUM. 447 oil, ten parts of the former to one hundred of the latter. He has found it much more effective than astringents or other methods which he has tried, and the combination of the acid with the oil was much better than the acid with water. His method of application is to cleanse the ear thoroughly by cot- ton or a probe, avoiding syringing unless it is absolutely neces- sary, and then, dipping a tampon of cotton in the solution, to apply it to the secreting surface and there leave it till the next day, when the same process should be repeated. In this way he has succeeded in relieving obstinate otorrheas, even when complicated by small granulations. Chloral Hydras. Dr. A. Lucae, in the Berliner Kli?jische Wochen- schrift, 1872, recommends that from ten to thirty drops of a mild solution of chloral be introduced into the middle ear by means of the Eustachian catheter and air-douche. A severe but short reaction generally follows. In the best cases, an im- provement of the hearing is noted after the second application. If no improvement is seen after the twelfth application, we may expect none from the use of this remedy. In ten per cent, of all cases the improvement was marked; in twenty-five per cent., slight; and in sixty-four per cent., no improvement occurred, Cupri Sulphas is a valued astringent. (F. 641.) Glycerina is an excellent emollient addition to aural injections. Hydrobromicum Acidum has been successfully employed in tinnitus au- rium. (P. 445.) lodinhem, and its preparations, have a wide field in aural diseases. In an article on the subject by Dr. De Lacharriere {Annales des Maladies de /' Oreille, July, 1876,) he states that in otorrhea, when the discharges have had a certain duration, when the se- cretion seems to have its origin from the surface of the perios- teum, or even in the bony tissue itself, that we should have recourse to iodine, or its compounds. The author employs a solution of iodine, of which the following is the formula, and which he uses night and morning as an injection : 646. Tincturas iodinii, gtt.xxxv Potassii iodidi, gr.iv. Aquas, f.gij. M. Following subacute inflammation of the middle ear, simple engorgement of the ossicles have been observed. Left to itself, the effusion is rarely absorbed ; the ossicles become less mobile, and this fixity shows itself outwardly by a great projection of the handles of the malleus. The hearing becomes more and more obtuse, and the patient suffers from musical buzzings of the most painful nature. This deafness is frequently observed in gouty people. Very often it is found useful to drop into the auditory meatus a few drops of the following solution : 647. T^. Potassii iodidi, Aquae rosas, gr.iv f.§j. M.