THE TREATMENT OF SCROFULA. 499 725. I^. Iodine, i part Alcohol, 10 parts Fresh, warm milk, 90 parts. M. Its external use as an absorbent is often disappointing unless backed by an appropriate internal and hygienic treatment. Mr. FuRNEAUX Jordan states that it should not be applied directly to the enlarged gland, but a short distance from it, as to the nape of the neck when the cervical glands are involved. Thus applied, in his hands, it never fails to bring about reduction. Juglans Regia. The common European walnut has a high reputation in France and Germany for its specific action in scrofula. Profes- sor Negrier, of Angers, recommends that children so affected take a teacupful of an infusion of the leaves, two, three or four times a day; or, as an equivalent, gr. vj of the aqueous extract. At the same time, a strong decoction is applied to the ulcers, and to the eyes as a collyrium. Lappa. The burdock has an extensive popular reputation in scrofulosis. The root is used as a decoction to 0j , a fluid ounce thrice daily, or the fluid extract, which may readily be made into a syrup. It is said to be particularly useful in scrofulous skin dis- eases. *MorrhucB Oleum is of the greatest benefit in the scrofulous or tuberculous diathesis, but scrofulous glandular enlargements are generally but slightly influenced by it. After, however, suppuration has taken place, the action of the oil is more manifest. Discharges from scrofulous abscesses often speedily disappear under its use. In scrofulous diseases of the skin, joints and bones, as well as in scrofulous ozaena, otorrhoea and ophthalmia, it is productive of excellent results, when persevered in and accompanied by good hygienic treatment. Phosphoricuin Acidiini Dilutum has been strongly recommended, in doses of '"I'^'j gradually increased to "nixx, or more, in infusion of calumba. Thus given it may be continued for a long time, without unpleasant effects. Pipsissiwa, or Chimaphila, has been much lauded by Professor George B. Wood in external forms of scrofula. He states that a long experience with it leads him to place it, in regard to its power over the disease, next to cod-liver oil, iron and iodine. Phytolacca Decandra. This is by many American practitioners esteemed a valuable remedy in general scrofulous cachexia. Dr. C. H. Fort, of Tennessee, has obtained excellent results in treating numerous scrofulous cases among the negroes and half-breeds with the following {Med. and Surg. Reporter, March, 1877); 726. Tinct. phytolaccze decandrse, f.§iij Tinct. iodinii, Acidi nitro-muriatici, aa f.3j Aquae, f.^ij- M. Shake, and take one te'aspoonful three times a day.