THE THERAPEUTICS OF INFLAMMATION. 24 This is far superior to three or four smaller doses, which only irritate the kidneys and bowels. Anodynes are particularly beneficial in inflammation attended with violent pain. In giving them, depletory measures and cathar- sis should precede them, if there is plethora or fecal distension. Full doses are required and they should preferably be given at bed time. The best anodyne is opium and its derivatives. Bromide of potassium is valuable in all low forms of inflammation attended with loss of sleep, nervous excitement, and gastric irritability. Full doses, gr. xx-xxx every two hours or oftener, are called for. Hydrate of chloral is a speedy, trustworthy soporific. The full dose is gr. XXX repeated every few hours. There are few cases of acute inflammation in which, sooner or later, tonics do not prove indispensable. Of them all, by far the most valuable are quinine, and the tincture of the chloride of iron with brandy, whisky or wine. Alcohol in some form is the most trustworthy tonic and stimulant. The choice of the form may be left to the patient. In most cases a combination of the remedies above described may be advantageously used. For this purpose Dr. Gross recom- mends the following: ANTIMONIAL AND SALINE MIXTURE. 5. Antimonii et potassse tart., gr.ijss Magnesias sulphatis, ^ij Morphias sulphatis, grj/'i Aqu^ destillatse, fox Syr. zingiberis vel simplicis, f.^ij Acid sulph. aromat., f-Sss Tinct. verat. viridis, f.Siss. M. Of this combination the proper average dose is half an ounce, repeated every two, three, four or six hours. Should it produce emesis or severe nausea, the dose must be diminished. Colchicum may be added when there is a rheumatic or gouty state of the sys- tem, quinine, when there is a tendency to periodicity, and copaiba when there is renal or cystic trouble. The quantity of morphia may be increased when there is much pain. Local Treatment.—The local remedies of inflammation consist of rest and elevation of the affected part; the local abstraction of blood by scarification, puncture, leeching or cupping; compres- sion by the bandage or adhesive plaster; destructives, as the use