LESIONS OF THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 314 398. ^. Antimonii et potassii tartratis, gr ?/-ij Butyri cocoit, t^iV, For one suppository, to recall the hemorrhoidal flux. Aromatic fumi- gations and warm hip-baths should assist the treatment. 399. 1^. Pulveris iodoformi, Butyri cocoas, Take six suppositories. Excellent in tenesmus from painful hemor- rhoids. R]i:SUME OF REMEDIES. Aloes, formerly thought irritating, are now highly recommended by Pro- fessors Barker and Oppolzer. Alumen. A piece of alum made into a smooth suppository will sometimes be efficient in bleeding piles. Solutions and ointments contain- ing it are also useful. Aqua. To relieve the heat and itching of blind piles, bathing with cold water, and enemata of it, are much esteemed. Argenti Nitras is used by Professor Dowell (F. 390). When the piles are f)rotruded, inflamed and tender, the gentle application of the solid nitrate often proves highly beneficial. Belladonna in ointment is a soothing application : Bismuth. The subnitrate in powder, or the liquor bismuthi (B. Ph.) for an injection has been very highly extolled. Carbolicum Acidum. This hypodermic injection of carbolic acid is the secret of a somewhat famous so-called "immediate" pile cure. The proportions are: 401. Vf.. Acidi carbolic! crystal., Oiei olivas, equal parts. For hypodermic use. When the piles are internal, and not readily brought down, a Sims' speculum is employed to uncover them. The operator generally takes only one pile at a time, always selecting the upper- most first, and injects into its interior from four to six drops of the carbolized oil, or rather the oleized carbolic acid. The injection turns the pile white, probably coagulates the blood in its vessels, and results in its shrinking away without the inflam- mation being severe enough at any one time, as a general thing, to prevent the patient from attending to his business. The well- known power of carbolic acid to act as a local anresthetic, antiphlogistic and anti-suppurative, favors the progress. When the irritation of the first injection has measurably subsided, another pile is attacked in the same way; and as the patient can- 400. 1^. Extract! belladonnae, Unguenti spermaceti, For local use. M.