LESIONS OF THE ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE. 432 Feb., 1877.) Mr. Cauter strongly advises it in the same dis- ease, especially where there is much irritability. Atropia. This indispensable agent is supplied in the British Pharma- copoeia in an officinal solution, gr.iv to f.§j. It" a minim of this be dropped into the eye, it will in most cases produce in half an hour complete dilatation of the pupil. It is then that the power of accommodation becomes impaired, and near objects cannot be distinctly seen. In about an hour later, /. e., an hour and a half from the instillation, there is more or less complete paralysis of accommodation, and no objects within twenty feet can be distinctly seen. When complete paralysis of accommodation is once produced, it often happens that normal accommodation does not return for a week or a fortnight. By using a weak solution of atropine, it is very easy to cause mydriasis without paralyzing the accommodation; hence, for purposes of ophthal- mic examinations, it is wise to use a minimum quantity of atro- pine; though, for therapeutic purposes, it is usually of extreme importance that the accommodation should be paralyzed. Ac- cording to Mr. R. B. Carter, the use oT atropia is best accom- plished by a solution in distilled water of the neutral sulphate, of the strength of two grains to the ounce. This solution, if the drug be pure and neutral, is absolutely unirritating to most eyes; and a drop may be placed in the lower conjunctival fold, near the outer canthus, two or three times a day. For the purpose of making the application, there is nothing better than a goose- quill, cut to a blunt scoop. Should it cause pain, the atropia is either adulterated or the individual suffers from an idiosyn- crasy. Atropine discs are also sold, which are convenient. Mr. Wm. Hardman {^Lancet. Nov., 1876,) gives the method he prefers as follows: " I wet the point of an ordinary mounted needle by touching the tongue with it; and then dip it into coarsely powdered atropia; a small quantity adheres, and this is gently put inside the lower lid; and left there. The quantity I used is a small portion, about the size of a small pin-hole in paper; a little more or less of no moment. No unpleasant effects have followed in any of the twenty-one cases in which I have used this method, although in several of them it was ap- plied to both eyes. The form of atropia 1 use is the sulphate." The value of atropia in almost all diseases of the eye is incal- culable. It diminishes photophobia and blepharospasm; it lessens inflammation by contracting the ciliary vessels; it weakens intraocular pressure; and it causes sufficient local auccsthesia. Belladonna in extract or tincture is still occasionally employed, although atropia has generally the preference. Bismuth is occasionally chosen as a local application in chronic conjunc- tivitis and granular lids. Carbolicwn Acidum. Dr. J. J. Chisholm, of Baltimore, ( Virgina Medical Monthly, Dec. 1877,) has used this agent extensively in eye surgery. It is his sovereign remedy for all warty formations about the eyelids. He also employs it in granular lids and in