VENEREAL DISEASES. 56o For local treatme7it, he states that when considerable pain is felt if the finger is introduced into 'the rectum, and the prostate feels large and soft, leeches are useful—that is, three or four applied by- means of a leech tube to the mucous membrane within the anus; or if the introduction of a foreign body causes pain, which is often the case, and the requisite skill be not at hand, twenty leeches applied to the perineum are very beneficial. When the prostatic tenderness has subsided, cool hip-baths for five minutes, morning and evening, beginning at 85° F., and gradually lowering the temperature to 50° F. by adding cold water, are useful. They may be continued several weeks with benefit. In continuous moderate counter-irritation, lauded by some surgeons in chronic prostatitis, he has no faith. He has used it over and over again, but could never satisfy himself that the repeated application of small blisters to the perineum lessened the prostatitis. If it benefited the patient at all, it did so only by engaging his attention and satisfying him that "something was being done." Counter-irritation by means of caustic solution of iodine is useful when applied the following way: Paint the perineum, the genito-crural folds, and neighboring parts of the thighs, so that the area is as large as half a square foot, and thus raise a considerable amount of irritation, too great to allow the patient to walk about for some days. Such irritation sometimes removes all the symptoms in a few hours, except the gleet, and that is then in a fair way to depart. But this favorable result is by no means constantly obtained; hence he avoids coun- ter-irritation till he has tried other means. In the " irritable" or " relaxed" prostate, which sometimes comes from this cause, sometimes from masturbation, unsatisfied desire, spermatorrhoea, etc., the treatment is first to allay the patient's fears, which are generally extravagant, inquire into his diet, and warn hirn to eat his meals slowly. If, as is often the case, an examination of his urine show that the phosphates are freely deposited, the following formula will be appropriate: 914, Acidi nitrici diluti, Tincturas nucis vomicae, aa gtt.x AquK. f.zj. This amount thrice daily. M. In regard to local treatment, examine the prostate with the finger; and if not specially tender, pass a flexible bullet-bougie