532 DISEASES OF THE SKIN. means of highly scented white precipitate or citrine ointment, diluted three times; and the nits may be separated by means of a wash of equal parts of acetic acid and cologne. DR. LOUIS A. DUHRING. The various remedies used to destroy lice comprise the mercurial preparations, staphisagria {setds of Delphinium staphisagria),/'j/r^- thnim (flowers of Pyrethrum carneum and roseum), sulphur, saba- dilla, coccidus indicus, tobacco, carbolic acid and petroleum. They are employed in the form of ointment, powder, or lotion, as may be deemed most convenient. For lice in the hair, powdered sabadilla or staphisagria may be sprinkled throughout the hair. Decoction of cocculus indicus is a reliable remedy. Where eczema or excoriations are present, white precipitate, gr. x-xv to cerati simplicis oj, will be found valuable. The nits are to be removed by repeated washings with alkaline or acid lotions, such as of soda, borax, soft soap, vinegar, or alcohol. In body lice, the clothes should be baked or boiled to kill the ova, or where this is impossible, an ointment of powdered staphi- sagria, 5ij to Sj, applied freely to the skin, will cause the parasites to disappear temporarily. Lotions of carbolic acid, £5j-ij to aquae Oj, with glycerina, Sj, will be found useful in allaying the irrita- bility of the skin. The undergarments should be changed fre- quently, and baths of hot water and soap be often taken. For crab lice, which infest the pubis, the following lotion is most effective: 821. ^. Hydrargyri chloridi corrosivi, gr.iv Alcoholis, AqujE, aa f.^i. M. For local use only. To be well rubbed in. The tincture of cocculus indicus is another, cleanly and effectual remedy. The parts should be well washed twice daily with soft soap and water, and the remedy applied for several days after the pediculi have been destroyed, so as to insure complete destruction of the ova. Infusion of tobacco, white precipitate ointment, and mercurial ointment, are also well-known remedies.