187 LIGHTNING STROKE. Plimbi Acctas. Solutions of acetate and subacetate of lead are valuable for their cooling and sedative properties. riumbi Carbonas is recommended beyond other things by Prof. Gross. ^' 95-) , ^ , ,. Sod(z Bicarbonas. There is hardly any better remedy for recen scalds and burns of the first and second degree than to dust the part thoroughly with finely powdered bicarbonate of soda, i he pain is promptly allayed and healing greatly hastened. Other neutral alkalies might answer as well. Sodc^ ChlorinatcB Liquor is highly praised by Drs. Morris and Dugas. (F. 190.) TerebinthincB Oleum. Kentish ointment, linimentiim ferebinthtnce, U. S. Ph., enjoys a just reputation in the treatment of burns. f/>?^«^«//m-P^//W(?/is a soothing application. Zinci Oxidum, in ointment, especially with carbolic acid added in small quantity, is a soothing and healing appHcation. LIGHTNING STROKE A stroke of lightning usually produces the effect of a shock and a burn. The indications for the treatment of the first of these are thus laid down by Sir Benjamin Brodie : " Expose the body to a moderate warmth, so as to prevent the loss of animal heat, to which it is always liable when the functions of the brain are suspended or impaired; and inflate the lungs, so as to imitate the natural respiration as nearly as possible." If, after recovery from the immediate effects, there remains a partial loss of cerebral power, Mr. T. Holmes recommends gal- vanism in a mild form, continued for a very long time, combined with small doses of strychnia and other tonics. The burns should be treated in the same manner as those from any other cause. B. W. RICHARDSON, M. D., LONDON. In severe cases of lightning stroke, Dr. Richardson urgently advocates immediate bleeding from the arm. He writes as follows {Medical Times and Gazette, Aug., 1874): " Our forefathers were satisfied as to the good effects of blood- letting in cases of lightning-shock. Dr. Macaulay, an able naval surgeon of last century education, has left on record the history of