GONORRIICEA. v-xx every two or three hours, has been found by Dr. G. A. Starke, of Milwaukee (^Canada Medical and Surgical Journal, May, 1876), to cure gonorrhoea in from two to six days. A good formula is : 928. 1^. 01. erigeron canadensis, 5iij 01. lig. santal., §iss Spt. vini rect., 3j Syr. simplicis, ad §iij. M. Flavor with the essence of wintergreen. Shake the bottle before using. Teaspoonful every two, three or four hours, as deemed neces- sary. Ferri Chloridi Tinctura has been found valuable as an internal remedy in the gleet of ansemic subjects. Ferri Subsiilphatis Liquor, in weak solution, gtt. v-x to aquae f.ij, has been used with advantage in some obstinate cases of gleet. Gurjun Balsam has been used recently in Paris. It is said to act more rapidly than Copaiba. The following is Vidal's formula, as used at the Hospital Saint-Louis : Gurjun balsam, 4 grammes (i drachm); gum, 4 grammes (i drachm); infusion of star anise, 40 grammes (10 drachms). To be divided into two doses, and taken immediately before meals. Hydrastin. The yellow root has been highly lauded in gonorrhoea. Professor R. Bartholow says he has seen no injection so fre- quently successful as: 929. R. Hydrastise, 3j Mucilaginis acaciae, f.^i^- M. * A half ounce as an injection. Dr J. N. Bredin {Medical Times, September, 1874,) com- mends : 930. I^. Hydrastin, 3j Morphise liquoris (Magendie), f.3ij- Mucilaginis acaciae, f.^iv. M. Employ three times a day. Iodoform. According to Dr. Alvares, Italy, iodoform ointment relieves the pain of blennorrhagic orchitis better than any other appli- cation ; this result is obtained at the end of one or two hours. Kava Kava, the root of the Piper tnethysticum, in form of infusion, has long been used in the Islands of the Pacific Ocean as an agree- able popular remedy for gonorrhoea. It has lately been intro- duced into this country and France. A drachm and a half is macerated for five minutes in a pint of water, with frequent agi- tation. The infusion is filtered and given in two doses daily, before and after meals, until a cure is effected. Twenty minutes after the first dose the patient experiences a pressing desire to urinate. The urine passed is large in quantity and of a clear