CONTUSIONS OR BRUISES. i6i secure alvine evacuations. Dr. .Hudson adds that general and especially local blood-letting may be demanded to combat in- flammation (a recommendation of doubtful utility, according to military experience). CONTUSIONS OR BRUISES. professor THEODOR BILLROTH.* The treatment of contusions without open wounds has for its object the conduction of the process to the reabsorption of the ex- travasation. If called to a contusion which has just occurred, the indication is to correct at once the subcutaneous hemorrhage. This is best done by compression. In North Germany, when a child falls on its head or knocks its forehead, the mother at once presses the handle- of a spoon on the injured part to prevent the formation of a blood- bruise or blood-blister, as it is called. This is a very suitable pop- ular remedy; by the instantaneous compression the further escape- of the blood is hindered, as also its collection at one point; the ecchymosis just forming is dispelled, and the blood dispersed into- the surrounding tissue, when it can readily be absorbed. This, object we can attain if the wound is seen early, by applying a compress to the part, secured by a firm bandage. But as we rarely are called so early, we more frequently have to- attack the blood extravasation after it has partly formed. The use of cold in the shape of rubber bags or bladders filled, with ice, or of cold lotions, is a frequent remedy and occasionally successful. But the means that most aids the reabsorption of blood extravasation is again compression and rest of the parts.. Hence it is best to envelope the extremities in moist bandages and over them apply wet cloths, which are to be renewed every three or four hours. If by their treatment a circumscribed extravasation does not. change considerably in the course of a fortnight, the swelling should be painted once or twice daily with dilute tincture of iodine:. 157. 1^. Tincturte iodinii comp., Alcoholis, • aa partes equales. Compression should be continued with a suitable bandage. *Surgical Pathology and Therapeutics,, 1871..