WATER DRESSING. 7^ be, the method has two evident advantages; equable temper- ature, and complete immobility of the limb. M. GuERiN rarely or never employs his dressing except where the limb can be covered for a considerable distance above the wound or operation. He covers to the middle of the thigh, for example, after Chopart's operation. The compression by the bandage, as above described, he lays much stress upon as an es- sential point in the treatment. Secondary hemorrhage can hardly, occur when the bandage is properly applied. In the rare cases of pyemia occuring under this dressing, the rigors take place at longer intervals and are less severe than in other cases. WATER DRESSINGS. The employment of simple water, without medication, as a means of cleansing and dressing wounds, may well have been of the earli- est date. Some years since it was brought into popular favor again by a systematic treatment of Dr. Adolphe Amussat, of Paris, who fully described its various uses and methods of applica- tion. The temperature pf the fluid was the principal point about which surgeons disagreed. That recommended by Amussat as the most preferable was about 60° Fah., and the method of irriga- tion was the method which most surgeons found most available. Later experiences have led several experienced observers, how- ever, to reject cold water in favor of warm, and the method of irri- gation in favor of immersion. Others have been guided by the general rule, which is that now laid down in various standard works of surgery, that the sensations of the patient are to be con- sulted, and that temperature chosen which feels most agreeable to him. (Gross, Erichsen.) Dr. J. E. Garretson, of Philadelphia, has formulated the rule that when the wound is followed by marked reaction with tendency to excessive vascular excitement, cold water is called for. It may be sufficient occasionally to wet the dressing, or it may require such refrigeration as is only to be secured by a constantly chang- ing current. The process of reaction is to be closely watched, and the water withheld, or elevated or depressed in temperature, to