278 LESIONS OF THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION. should follow to remove the acccimulations in the intestinal canal. The free use of demulcent drinks should be allowed, and bits of ice in the mouth when cold is agreeable, will soothe the pain in the throat. Sponging the entire surface of the body with acidulated or alcoholized^epid water will allay the heat of the skin, if excess- ive. In more severe inflammatory cases, tincture of aconite, gtt. i-iij, every one, two or three hours, will be advantageous. Locally, sprays of dilute solutions of alum, carbolic acid, tannin, sulphate of copper, relieve the uneasiness in a few hours. Com- presses wrung out in cold or tepid water may be bound round the neck. When the uvula is elongated or edematous it should be punctured; excision is never necessary. Phlegmonous sore throat, tonsillitis, or qimisy, requires to be treated on antiphlogistic principles. An emetic of mustard, a sa- line laxative, one or two drop doses of aconite, and the inhalation of steam from water impregnated with hops, chamomile flowers, the watery extract of opium, belladonna or conium, or with com- pound tincture of benzoin, will be the earlier measures. Warm and moist external applications generally give great relief Gargles are not often of value, because their proper use entails too great pain. Medicated sprays, however, are very efficient local applica- tions. Rather strong aqueous solutions are preferable, as : 343. ^.. Aluminis, Acidi tannici, Zinci sulphatis, Cupri sulphatis, of either of these, gr.xx-xxx Aquas, "SJ* For atomization. The sulphate of copper seems the most generally efficient. The topical application of the nitrate of silver can very rarely be done in a satisfactory manner. Powders of alum, tannin, krameria, etc., in various dilutions, may be blown upon the parts with a tube. If the tonsils are very much inflamed, great relief will follow scarification or incision, tlie bleeding being encouraged by mouth- fuls of warm water. The general strength must be conserved by concentrated food, easy of deglutition, by nutritive enemata, or by tonics and stim- ulants.