SPECIAL FORMS OF WOUNDS, l62 In spite of this, should the surface become hot, and the skin red and painful, we must expect suppuration. In order to hasten this change which cannot then be avoided, we may apply warm fomen- tations and quietly await the further course. Unless the symp- toms are threatening, such as high fever and chills, it is best calmly to await perforation by the natural process of the thinning of the wall of the abscess, and not to hasten it with the bistoury. RESUME OF REMEDIES. Acetiiin. A lotion of vinegar and common salt is a popular and useful application to bruises, With muriate of ammonia and alcohol, it forms one of the most esteemed discutient lotions. (F. 21.) Alcohol is one of the most useful of all lotions to prevent a blackening from following a blow. The part should be bathed with it, and • cloths freely wet with it constantly applied. With equal parts of white of eggs, it is a soothing application to bruised parts which are excoriated. Alumen in solution acts as an astringent discutient. Animonii Chloridum is one of the most energetic sorbefacients known It may advantageously be combined with camphor, soap or alcohol. (F. 28.) Aqua. Water dressings are often called for. Arnica. Much difference of opinion prevails in regard to the value of arnica. Dr. Loeffler and many other German writers esteem it highly. The hot infusion is said to act more surely than the tincture; and the flowers than the root. Its best use is after the first effects of the injury are over. A convenient formula is : 158. Tincturas florum arnicae, Aceti, aa f.§j Aquae camphorse, f-^vj. M. For a lotion. Bryonia is much used by pugilists, etc. (See page 91.) Camphora When parts are excessively contused they generally require stimulating applications, one of the best of which is spirits ot camphor. Capsicum A strong tincture of capsicum repeatedly painted on the part is said to dispel the discolorations from bruises, often quite rapidly. mtericim Perforatum. The medical properties of the St. John's wort deserve more attention than they have received from physicians. The oleum hyperici, once officinal, now better known as red oil, is still largely used and justly esteemed in country districts as a sovereign application for bruises, is a valuable discutient. (See above.) Flumbi Subacetas. Goulard's extract, properly diluted, is an exceedingly