CANCER. II. MALIGNANT GROWTHS. CANCER. In malignant growths the usual rule with most surgeons is to regard the knife as the only remedy worth serious attention; con- sequently, in systematic treatises, very little is said about local curative applications or internal remedies; and what is said is often in condemnation of them as useless, if not pernicious. But there are unquestionably several common forms of semi- malignant new formation, capable of destroying life if allowed to progress, but which are curable by proper remedial measures, other than the knife. It is upon these that the. quack " cancer doctor" builds his fame ; and it is owing to the indifference of sur- gical teachers to their medical treatment that he gets the chance to do so. Then there are cases of undoubtedly true malignant tumors which, under the use of caustics and internal medication, have dis- appeared, never to return. Indeed, it may be laid down as almost a positive result of surgical experience, that a cancer extirpated by the knife returns sooner than one removed by caustics. The sup- puration attendant upon the latter seems to remove the remaining cancer cells, while incision leaves them to set up anew their destructive proliferation. There are also cases where surgical interference is out of place. In some localities it is next to impossible; and when there are any distinct signs of a cancerous diathesis, it is certainly vain to resort to the knife. Then the pain of cancer is a most distressing and prominent symptom, demanding the most active measures to relieve it. All these considerations should give to the therapeusis of malig- nant growths a more prominent position than has yet been awarded it. The therapeutic treatment of cancer has been in three direc- tions; by internal medication, by local external applications, and by injections into the substance of the growth. Of internal remedies, conium, lauded by Storck, of Vienna, still retains the first rank, in spite of theoretical objections to its efficacy. The best preparation is thought by some to be the freshly-prepared succus co7iii. (For formulae see below.)