94 THE DRESSING OF WOUNDS, ^ plication to wounds. Its virtues are owing to the alcohol and the tannin of the plant. Hydrargyri Chloriduin Corrosivufn. Corrosive sublimate is a powerful antizymotic, ranking, according to the experiments of Dr. P. Grace Calvert, next in efficiency to carbolic and cresylic acids. In very dilute solution, is an excellent stimulating and antiseptic application to wounds: 89. I^. Hydrargyri chloridi corrosivi, gr-ss-j Aquae, Oj. For a lotion. lodinium. As an antiseptic and healing application to wounds, a weak solution of iodine has been used, gr.j-ij to the ounce of water; to this some tannic acid may be added, forming a weak iodo- tannin, which will be found very efficient. The objection to it is that the applications must be frequently renewed, and if too strong, are likely to cause acute inflammation. Oleum Olivce. Some surgeons use the best olive oil as an application to wounds in preference to water, as being more soothing, less heating, and less prone to promote decomposition. (Erichsen.) Petroleum, both crude and refined, has been used as a dressing. It is not irritating, or very slightly so, to cut surfaces, and is anti- septic and stimulating. It may be used pure, or diluted with equal parts of olive oil or glycerine. Unguentmn petrolei is highly esteemed. Picricim Acidum. M. Eugene Curie recommended picric acid in a watery solution, with which the dressings are saturated, or, bet- ter still, picrated wadding, that is to say, pieces of dry wadding in which picric acid has been incorporated; the last method is generally the most convenient in application. This method, according to the author, affords the advantage of completely suppressing suppuration. Pix Liqinda. Tar is an extremely useful and cheap dressing for wounds. Receiitly Dr. C. B. Leitner, of Georgia, has praised the use of tar bandages. {Trans. State Soc, Georgia, 1878.) He puts fresh pine tar in a glass vessel, and places the vessel in a pot containing water; after the water has boiled for a half hour, the vessel containing the tar is set,aside until all the foreign matter is precipitated; then decant, leaving the foreign matter at the bottom ; finally, add one part of sweet oil to twenty parts of the tar. After the roller bandage is adjusted, in amputations, this ointment should be thoroughly applied, once in four or five days being sufficient. In wounds, cloth strips can be used as one would use adhesive strips. Change of dressing is not neces- sary, and flies will not approach the wound. Plnmhi Acetas Solutions of the acetate and subacetate of lead (Goulard's extract^ are widely and justly popular as astrmgent and sedative dressings for wounds (see pages 85, 86). Although chemically incompatible, it is frequently combined advantageously with