344 LESIONS OF THE ORGANS OF URINATION. Gelsc7nmm has been employed in vesical calculus. Copious diluent drmks are given for twelve or fifteen hours, followed by celsem mm every two hours until general relaxation occurs The na tient is then placed in the knee-elbow position and directed to void his urine forcibly. Hydrangea Arborcscens is valuable to prevene sabulous deposits rSee page 342.) I ■ ■ K ^ Lacticum Acidum When the presence of an excess of the phosphates uric acid and the urates, and of oxalates of lime in the urine is due to imperfect digestion and assimilation, as is frequently the thrdi^^^stion''''^ ^'"'^'^ ^'^''"'^ °^ ^^^^'^""^ through improving Lithii Bromidwn. This substance, according to M. Rouband (Bulletin Generale de Therapeutique, 1876), possesses, in-a high degree those hthotriptic properties attributed to the salts of lithia and' m addition, hke other bromides, affects reflex sensibility most energetically. It has not, however, the inconvenient action on the heart displayed by bromide of potassium. Consequently Its place m therapeutics is in the first rank among lithiasics and among sedatives, and its action is particularly valuable in the uric acid diathesis, which is accompanied by painful symptoms and m neuroses, which are so often complicated by the pres- ence of uric acid. The alkaline salts of lithia have also been largely employed in the uric acid diathesis. Nitricum Aadum, in dilute solution, gtt.j to aquse f.§j has been employed with success by some eminent surgeons for the treatment of phosphatic calculi. * opium, in full doses, given by the mouth, or in the form of enema or suppository, is a remedy of great value. But morphia, hypo- dermically, is usually more effectual than any of these modes of administering opium. Potass a Ac etas is employed in uric acid calculus. Potassii Bicarbonas, employed as the last mentioned. Potassli Citras. A valuable alkaline remedy. (See Alkalies.) Potassii Permanganas. This salt favors the conversion of uric acid into urea, and thus prevents the formation of uric acid calculi. Pain m the lumbar region, frequent micturition, acid urine, brick- dust sediment, and intestinal indigestion, are associated symp- toms relieved by the permanganate (Bartholow). Triticum Repens,\n decoction '!ij to aquce Oj, boiled for fifteen minutes and strained), is said to have afforded great relief in renal cal- culus. Baths. The hot bath or hip bath is a useful, soothing remedy. Ice. Dr. W. Prout states that in protracted suffering in the passage of renal calcuU he has occasionally obtained relief from the appli- cation of pounded ice to the region of the kidney. It is chiefly applicable when the calculus is of oxalate of lime, or the phos- phate, but is not to be employed in plethoric, gouty patients suffering from lithic acid calculi.