LESIONS OF THE ORGANS OF REPRODUCTION. 362 derived from the Equalizer, a large cell in which the patient sits with his head out, and from which the air is exhausted. DRS. GEORGE M. BEARD AND A. D. ROCKWELL. In regard to the success which may be expected to result from the use of electricity in absent or diminished sexual power, these authors remark that not only in its incipient, but in its more advanced stages, impotence is not unfrequently the result of organic lesions of the nerve centres, and its treatment by electricity is then only of importance so far as it serves as an illustration of the stimulating or tonic influence of the remedy. Not unfrequently there is observed in connection with defective power, a partial ancBsthesia of one-half, usually the left half, of the penis. This may be detected by an electric examination, or by the use of the sesthesiometer. It is frequently associated with a cold- ness and blueness of the organ, indicating lowered circulation and nerve power. Occasionally, the anaesthesia is quite profound, and as a rule, the sexual weakness is in proportion to the anaesthesia. In these cases, this numbness appears to be the cause of the im- potence, partial or complete, which exists. By the application of the ordinary electric brush to the parts, in the same way that we treat any case of local anaesthesia, the numbness is often removed, and the integrity of the sexual functions is restored. In those milder forms of impotence, where there is simply a premature ejaculation of semen {einissio intempestivd) with some diminution of the power of erection; as well as in the more advanced stages, where the desire is capricious and the power of erection pretty well destroyed; it is evident that there must be a degree of paralysis at the root of the disorder, dependent on structural changes in the nerve centres; or else this impaired power or tone in the muscles and erectile tissue may be of a purely local character. In the latter case, the indications are clearly the same as in any other form of local paralysis, and much relief may be obtained by faradization of the ischio-cavernosus and bulbo- cavernosus muscles. But when due to structural change, little can be expected. When on inquiry it appears that the seminal secretion is mark- edly reduced, not only in quantity but in quality, we may consider that there are undoubted indications for the use of electricity. The galvanic current, especially, has the power of exciting to increased