SPERMATORRHEA. With this the perineum is thoroughly rubbed twice or three times a day (say on rising and retiring) for a month or six weeks. The beneficial effects in suitable cases should be visible in a week or two. As some persons are extremely susceptible to the effects of aconite applied to the skin, the weaker form of the ointment should be used in small quantities at first, and increased in strength as rapidly as the patient can bear it. DRS. GEORGE M. BEARD AND A. D. ROCKWELL. It is hardly necessary to say that no one method of electrization will answer in all cases of spermatorrhea and seminal emissions. A decidedly harmful method of procedure is that by strong gal- vanization of the ejaculatory ducts, or the parts in their immediate vicinity, by means of the insulated catheter electrode. It is true that if employed with great caution and with a current of very feeble power, no harm may result. Currents of considera- ble electrolytic power, even, may frequently be borne without an)r after ill effects; but it is equally true that these same applications,. Avhether weak or strong, have in numbers of instances been fol- lowed by profound and lasting irritation. In lieu of this procedure, and in addition to the external methods, of treatment, these authors are in favor of the direct application, of the faradic current to the urethra, and on the same principles and to meet the same indications, that the occasional introduction^ of the ordinary catheter is attempted. Mechanical pressure alone tends to unload the congested capillaries and very decidedly to lessen the sensibility of the urethral nerves, and when combined with the vibratory action of the faradic current, its good effects are markedly increased. Make twenty pills. One three times a day in impotence and sperm- atorrhea from deficient tone. Spermatorrhea and impotence dependent on a relaxed state of the seminal vesicles may be greatly improved by arseniate of iron:: DR. ROBERTS BARTHOLOW. 521. Oleoresinse capsiei, Extract! aquosae ergotas, 9j Bij. M. 522. I^. Ferri arseniatis, Ergotae extract! aquosae. Make thirty pills. One night and morning. gr.v 3ss..