443 OTORRHOSA. OTORRHCEA. DR. LAURENCE TURNBULL, OF PHILADELPHIA. The first indication is to remove the secretions. This is accom- ph'shed by the syringe and a warm solution of borate or bicarbo- nate of soda, one drachm to a pint of hot water. When the patient has to care for himself, it is safer to employ Clark's ear-douche, which acts by hydrostatic pressure, and is less apt to injure the delicate and sensitive organ. If the pus is in the middle ear, and the opening in the mem- brana tympani small, the patient being unable to force the matter out by the process Valsalva (namely, a prolonged inspiration, and then an expiration with the nostrils closed), even if the operation is frequently repeated, then the physician must employ Politzer's process, which consists in this: Take a straight or slightly curved tube, open at both ends, twelve or fifteen inches in length ; this is introduced about half an inch into either of the anterior nares. The nares are then closed air-tight over the tube by gentle pres- sure with the fingers on both alae nasi, prior to which the patient takes a small quantity of water in his mouth, which he swallows exactly at the same time that air is blown into the tube, which may be done by the operator having the other end of the tube in his mouth, or an india-rubber bag being attached to the tube, and compressed by the operator or assitant. If antiseptics are needed to remove the odor, carbolic-acid solu-' tion, gtt.v-x to f.5j, maybe employed. Almost all aural surgeons have agreed upon certain astringent substances which are safe and proper to use in this class of chronic cases; and among the num- ber the sulphate of zinc is one of the best, being employed in about the strength of from one to three grains to the ounce of water. Stronger solutions of this salt are resorted to, and are all right and proper if there is no perforation of the membrana tympani. But if there is an opening in this membrane, no matter how small, it is safer, and gives less pain to the sensitive middle ear, to resort to the milder solution, not exceeding three grains to the ounce ot water. The alum salts are apt to cause abscesses. Nitrate of silver, in this class of cases, is very objectionable, especially in very strong caustic solutions, unless immediately neutralized by a solu- tion of common salt.