66 THE DRESSING OF WOUNDS. Other words, the stump is left entirely alone, just as the surgeon made it in his amputation. The wound is thus allowed to drain freely, and the stump is gently washed at frequent intervals by means of an Esmarch's wound-douche. The water in this irrigator is impregnated with crystals of carbolic acid, and, after this ablu- tion, balsam of Peru (which makes a fine stimulating application) is poured over the granulating surface. The discharge which falls from the wound is removed every few hours in order to secure per- fect cleanliness ; and it is a fact worthy of observation that this dis- charge will not decompose when exposed to the open air, but that it requires a warm temperature, such as exists in the stump itself, in order to develop putrefaction. The pus, thus coming away from a nidus of putrefaction which would otherwise be formed, falls upon a piece of sheet-lint where the temperature is cooler, and thus does no harm. The stump is then washed at frequent intervals until suppuration has nearly subsided in the wound, and then the flaps are gradually approximated by means of strips of adhesive plaster. Too much importance cannot be attached to this method of oper- ating by the lateral skin-flaps. It affords the best facility for free drainage, and makes the most serviceable .stump. It is important to dissect the flaps very long, when they are subjected to the open treatment, as shrinking often follows exposure to atmospheric in- fluences. During the entire healing of the wound the greatest possible care is exercised in reference to the use of the instruments necessary to perform the dressing of the stump. No sponges are ever used in the wards. Each patient has his own bottle of balsam of Peru, and every instrument used in the dressing of one stump is thoroughly washed in carbolic-acid water before it is employed in the dressing of another. So far as has been practicable, a different set of scissors, dressing-forceps, and other instruments employed in the manipulation of a dressing, used, so that each patient has his own instruments, and in this way absolute cleanliness is secured. Each dresser invariably washes his hands in carbolic- acid water after dressing one case before undertaking another, and any one who is dressing unhealthy wounds in the pavilion, or making autopsies, is not allowed to even assist in the daily dress- ing of healthy wounds. To some this red tape may seem absurd ; and it is certainly true that one must be thoroughly convinced of the necessity of these measures before he can be induced conscien- tiously to observe them. The advantages claimed are :