THE OPEN TREATMENT OF WOUNDS. 65 the stump six or eight inches on each side, thus bringing the h'ps of the wound into close co-aptation.' The strips being wet, they adhere tightly to the skin and take the place of adhesive plaster, to which, in many respects, they are infinitely superior. To make sure that they will accomplish this purpose perfectly, and be retained in position, a few turns of a roller bandage, also wetted, may be passed around the stump, and over the free ends of the strips. Cold water is afterwards applied to this dressing, either intermittingly or constantly, by hand or by irriga- tion, that the strips may be kept wet and the rising temperature abated. A single narrow strip of diachylon plaster may take the place of one of the strips, to give greater security, if there is any apprehension on this score, or at a later period, when it becomes needless to continue the application of cold water. There are several great advantages ensuing from this proced- ure ; the wound is kept perfectly clean and cool, the inflammation is subdued by the cold water, the purulent discharges escape freely between the edges of the strips, they are easily removed, there is. absolutely no disturbance during warm weather from flies. An^ occasional application of a weak solution of spirit, carboHc acid, or Labarraque's fluid, may be made to the wounds at the daily dress- ing, to disinfect and stimulate when these objects are desirable • and finally we avoid all trouble which follows the removal of diachylon plaster. PROF. JAMES R. WOOD, NEW YORK. No one in this country has given closer attention to. the treat- ment of amputations by the open method, nor with better result, than this surgeon. to Bellevue Hospital. The details of his plan are as follows : After a limb has been amputated, the flaps are not even approximated, but left entirely open. A pillow of oakum is placed under the .stump, which is allowed to rest upon this support until the wound is nearly healed. A small piece of gauze is placed over the contour of the stump, and a cradle is placed over the limb, so that the clothes may not come in contact with, the painful ex- tremity. This is all the dressing that is employed ; no sutures are used except in the lateral skin-flap method, as will be described. No adhesive plaster is employed, no oil-silk is placed over the stump, no bandage is applied, no dry charpie is stuffed into the wound, no fenestrated compresses are placed between the flaps- in, 5-s I