PHARYNGITIS (SORE TIIROAT). 2/9 In ulcerous sore throat the topical treatment is very important. When the disease is superficial, bromine, muriatic or nitric acid, the acid nitrate of mercury, or caustic potassa, may be employed to destroy the diseased tissue promptly, in the hope of exposing a healthy surface beneath. When this fails, or is too dangerous to attempt, we can only palliate the symptoms by weak solutions of acids and astringents, and must depend on constitutional measures to arrest the progress. Sprays of chlorate of potassa, etc., are often agreeable, but have no direct influence on the disease. The most nutritious food, quinine and brandy, are imperatively de- manded to sustain the system. In common membranous sore throat, the treatment is usually the same as in the simple inflammatory form. In some individuals, however, there is a tendency to constant recurrence for weeks and months.' With these, dilute acid, applied every day or two, seems to afford more satisfactory results locally than the ordinary astrin- gent and caustic salts. The internal use of iron and cinchona as tonics, and sometimes of opium, not as a narcotic, but rather in small doses as a special stimulant, is also indicated. PROFESSOR OPPOLZER, OF VIENNA. Malignant sore throat. This dangerous form of cynanche is usually acute in its course, lasting from ten to twenty days. Death may result from gangrene, from acute oedema of the glot- tis, pyjemia, the sudden bursting of the abscess into the respira- tory passages, or its descent into the mediastinum. Prof. Oppol- ZER treated the disease as follows : As in all other inflammation, he was fond of beginning with cold moist applications to the part, substituting warm fomenta- tions for these when the patient complained. He believed that this treatment not only favored resolution, but relieved the pain, and he was careful to apply the water as cold as possible, and change the cloths as soon as they became warm. If the symp- toms did not abate, or, on the contrary, increased, he next applied leeches locally, and this, as a rule, with the happiest results ; the disease either disappearing or taking a mild form. Severe paui was relieved by morphia. When, in spite of these various means, the swelling continued to increase, and alarming dyspnoea supervened, he lost no time in scarifying the swelling freely, and should this not be successful,