ANTISEPTIC DRESSINGS, 93 exclude the air. It is unfortunately liable to crack, (For Richardson's styptic collodion see the Index.) Creasoie in solution is a powerful antiseptic stimulant. Dr. Squibb believes that both for disinfection and local application, no pre- paration is better than the ordinary creasote of the shops (a mix- ture of phenol, cresol, xylol, and perhaps one or two others of the series, the cresol predominating), which has also the advan- tage of being much cheaper. Simple watery solutions of crea- sote, sufficiently dilute, applied on old linen or muslin, he believes will serve every purpose of Mr. Lister's putties and plasters. For burns, both to allay the pain and to promote healing, noth- ing compares with such a solution, containing about one-half of one per cent, of creasote. If much stronger it not only fails to relieve, but intensifies the pain. Ferri Salicylas. This preparation is made by adding salicylate of soda to a saturated solution of sulphate of iron. It is of a bright claret color, with no smell, not irritant, and strongly antiseptic. It has been recommended by Dr. Robert Kirk, of Edinburgh, as an apphcation to foul ulcers, etc. He applies lint soaked in the solution, and covers with gutta-percha tissue. {Edinburgh Medical Journal, Feb., 1877.) Ferri Sulphas. For dressing wounds, when there is much discharge and fetor, a solution of this salt, 5j to aquae Oj-ij, will be found very effective. It is a very good disinfectant, and in these cases diminishes the odor better than carbolic acid, for it has no dis- agreeable smell of its own; it also dries up the excessive dis- charge in a prompt manner; it hastens the granulating and cicatrizing processes, which are apt to be retarded by the pro- fuse discharge. The lotion gives rise to some smarting Mdien first applied, but this soon passes away, and so much is the gen- eral comfort of the patient promoted, that this soon comes to be disregarded even by children; it should be applied on cloths well wetted, and renewed every two or three hours; it is well to protect the bed-clothes, for the stain is well nigh indelible, Glycerina is a useful and cleanly dressing. It should be diluted by one- half of oil, alcohol or water, as if applied pure it causes painful smarting. Gutta-percha dissolved in oil of turpentine or chloroform is an excellent apphcation for keeping the edges of wounds together. Haniatoxylon. Logwood is an excellent disinfectant and antiseptic when applied to suppurating and offensive wounds. The powdered extract may be used, or it may be dissolved in a lotion. The following is recommended by Dr. Tanner : 88. Extracti h£cmatoxyli, §j Olei theobromee, Adipis benzoati, aa §ss, M. To be spread on old linen for a dressing. J/amamelis. The tincture of witch-hazel has much reputation as an ap- I