13 Hints in the Obstetric Procedure. By WILLIAM B. ATKINSON, A.M., M.D., Lecturer on Diseases of Children, at the Jefferson Metlical Clollege. Physician to the Department of Obstetrics and Diseases of "Women, Howard Hospital, Philadelphia, ©econd. Edition. Entirely Re-written and Enlarged.. 12mo, CLOTH. PRICE, $1.00. The very gratifying reception given this handbook of the essentials of the obstetrical art has led the author to submit it to a careful revision, and increase Its size by adding a number of new topics. It may safely be characterized as the most convenient, compact, reliable and handy vade- mecum on obstetrics in the language; as the following personal and editorial statements sufficiently attest. Opinions of Physicians and the Press. " It Is really a ' multum in parvo,^ and will, I am sure, be of great service to multitudes in the profession who have hitherto followed the routine of old traditions."—Pj-o/. Fordyce Barker. " It Is as good for the old as for the young practitioner. "—Dr. J. Marion Sims. "It abounds in extremely valuable hints, and is calculated to do much good."—Pro/. Goodell. " Founded upon the personal experience of the author, It must prove of value to the very wide circle of the profession who will be led to purchase it by their acquaintance with the author and his reputation."—(Philadelphia) Medical Times. " It is'a most excellent statement of the main points to be observed In the treatment of a con- finement case, and contains many important facts for the young accoucheur which are not to be found In any of the standard text books."—(Boston) Medical and Surgical Journal. "It is just exactly the make-up to meet the wants of the busy country doctor, who is necessa- rily compelled to spend much of his time away from his office."—Pfesi Virginia Medical Student. "Not more than a few weeks ago, while watching the progress of a labor, we took this little book from our pocket and read It through and through, and, by the way, made an immediate application of some of its principles. It is a perfect little gem, a godsend to the student."—T/ie Nashville Medical Journal. " The author has succeeded in giving to the profession a most acceptable and valuable guide,"" —American Medical Weekly. BY THE SAME AUTHOR, THE Tlierapeuticsof Gynecology and Obstetrics This work, now in a forward state of preparation, will be published in the early autumn. It will present a condensed, carefully weighed, and accurately presented review and estimate of the therapeutical resources of the gynecologist and obstetrician. The remarkable activity which has characterized this specialty of late years, the numerous monographs and journals devoted to it, have vastly Increased its materia medica and forms of thera- peutics ; and a summary of these discoveries and Improvements cannot fail to be welcome. The general plan adopted will be similar to that so deservedly popular In Napheys' Modem Therapeutics. The most recent publications of the European press, and all the special journals of both conti- nents, win be laid under contribution.