297 HERNIA. The laceration, instead of being injurious, has so far proved an advantage, by inducing sufficient inflammation of the ring to produce adhesion if a firm truss is at once employed, and quiet enjoined. The operation, so far, has not only been easy and safe, but a life-saving treatment, relieving strangulated hernia of its ter- rors and fatal results." Further particulars respecting this method, together with a woodcut of the instrument he employs, will be found in the origi- nal paper by Dr. Allen, in the Medical and Surgical Reporter for July 10, 1875. Elastic pressure. Some European surgeons report reductions of scrotal herniae by winding layer after layer of elastic bandage upon the scrotum, until the tension of the rubber forces the gut back into the abdomen. Eneinata. When the hernia is not very acutely strangulated, it is good practice to commence the treatment by the administration of a large enema. This, by emptying the lower bowel, will alter the relation of the abdominal contents, and may materially aid re- duction. The best enema is one of gruel and castor oil, with some turpentine added. (Erichsen). A full-sized tube should be used, passing high up into the gut. Enemata of ice water sometimes are efficient relaxants to the ring. In very desperate cases of strangulated hernia with stercoraceous vomiting, where an opera- tion could not be performed, Mr. W. Adams, of London, reports some extraordinary cures with large enemata of mixed oil: 377. 'Sf. Olei olivas, Oiv Olei ricini, Olei terebinthinse, aa f.fiij. M. This whole amount (over two quarts), for one injection, to be repeated if required. The injection should be performed slowly, with an elastic tube nine or ten inches long. {British Medical jfouriial, Dec, 1874.) Err/lines. Dr. Charles Denison, of Colorado, has found the act of sneezing of decided assistance as an auxiliary to the taxis. Ordinary snuff may be used, fie explains the action of the sneez- ing by saying there seems to be a billowy movement of the an- terior wall of the abdominal cavity, from above downwards, which is suddenly reversed. This reversed action is accompanied by a sudden relaxation, as it were, at which instant a little of the con- tents of the hernial sac shoots back through the intestinal ring.