176 SPECIAL FORMS OF WOUNDS. snake bites, for example, two ounces of whisky should be given every ten minutes until signs of inebriation appear, A powerful diffusible stimulant is the spiritus ammonias aromaticus; it may advantageously be combined with the alcohol, the amount given being a full dose, f5j, every twenty minutes. Anodynes may be added, or given by the rectum, to allay pain and fear. 2. Antidotes are called for, when any such are known. The formulae of a number of compounds alleged to be of this character will be given below. 3. Enforced Exercise is of the utmost importance when there is threatening stupor -and numbness. It should be violent and pro- longed, as running, vigorous rowing, etc. 4.. Artificial Respiration by any of the approved mechanical methods, or by employing galvanism or electricity, should be re- sorted to when the lethargic action of the poison threatens the respiratory movements. The patient may thus be kept alive until stimulants and antidotes overcome the venom. Sinapisms to the epigastrium, and the cold douche, poured from a height of six or eight feet upon the head, are also efficient means to this end. Dr. Fayrer recommends artificial respiration to be kept up for hours and even days, believing that if-this is done the system may com- bat and throw off the poison by excretion. PROFESSOR HALFORD, M. D., OF AUSTRALIA. The treatment recommended by this surgeon in poisonous bites from venomous serpents, spiders, etc., is the injection of liquor ammonite fortior, diluted with two or three times its bulk of water. Of this mixture, 20 to 30 drops are to be injected into one of the large veins, as near to the bite as possible. If the symptoms are relieved, but the patient seems still in danger, the injection may be repeated as soon as the operator deems it prudent. Although this method of treatment seemed to fail in Professor Fayrer's hands, in India, there can be no doubt it has repeatedly succeeded in Australia and America. Mr. T. Holmes says on this subject: "I must say that to my mind it is quite dear that Profes- sor Halford's treatment, whether it is sufficiently energetic or not to combat the virus of the most deadly serpents, has acted benefi- cially and has saved life in many of the bites of Australian ser- pents' and deserves to be fully tested in those of other countries." ^System of Surgery, 1876.) The more recent reports from Austra-