172 SPECIAL FORMS OF WOUNDS. Xanthinm Spinosum is a recent aspirant for favor. (See page 70.) EXTERNAL REMEDIES. > The Vapor Bath. By various authors the use of the vapor bath has been recommended as an efficient preventive. Dr. BuissoN, of Paris, relates that in his own case he succeeded in aborting the symp- toms of an acute hyrophobic attack by a vapor or Russian bath. He recommends that it should be rapidly raised to a tempera- ture of 57° Cent., then gradually to 63° Cent. {Medical and Surgical Reporter, April, 1869.) A case has been reported by Dr. Horace Manley, of New York, which both the symptoms and history identify as one of undoubted hydrophobia, which was completely cured by bleeding to 30 ounces and placing for four hours in a vapor bath heated to 140° Fah. {Transactions of the American Medical Association, vol. ix., p. 335.) Tracheotomy has been very strongly urged in this malady by Dr. Wash- ington Atlee, of Philadelphia. {Trans Am. Med. Assoc, vol. ix., p, 280.) He believes the spasms of the glottis, the constriction of the chest, the difficulty of deglutition, the sense of suffocation, and the intense anxiety and distress, would van- ish, and the administration of remedies and the taking of drink be rendered comparatively easy. Professor Paccianti, of Pisa, performed this operation in a case, but the patient died with symptoms of paralysis of the muscles of respiration. INSECTS, STINGS OF. A careful examination of the wound should be made with a pocket lens, and any remnant of the sting be removed with a pair of fine-pointed forceps. An application of some soothing or neu- tralizing fluid should then be made by dipping in it cotton wool and applying to the part. Many substances are popular for local use. Spirits of ammonia, laudanwn, vinegar, tincture of camphor, eau de cologne, lime tvater, ether, have been employed. If there is prostration, stimulants should be exhibited. When the mouth or throat is the part stung, there is danger of spasms of the rima glottidis. Warm flannels should be applied to the neck, and in- halations of warm ether employed. The oil of lobelia is said to give prompt relief. A solution of acetate of lead is effectual; also dilute carbolic acid as, 167. R. Acidi carbolici, f-3j Oleiolivae, f-3J-