3S4 LESIONS OF THE ORGANS OF REPRODUCTION. Gaiffe's pile, with chloride of silver. After using this for eight or ten days, the direction of the current may with advantage be reversed. The application of cold-water douches to the belly should not be indiscriminately recommended, as they occasionally seem to excite rather than to repress the discharges. In order to subdue inflam- mation of the prostatic portion of the urethra, and to diminish its sensitiveness, the best means are, in the first place, the introduction of bougies, as in the preparatory treatment of lithotrity. but with this difference, that a longer interval must be allowed to elapse between each operation, lest the reverse result to that hoped for be obtained. The ointments containing belladonna, or morphia, or iodine, are utterly valueless. Dr. Mallez has, however, observed benefit result from the injection of carbonic acid. The mode in which this is effected is by the use of two flasks, one containing hydrochloric acid and the other fragments of marble, united by a piece of india-rubber tubing ; a second piece of tubing, having an elastic ball in which the carbonic acid is closed up, is connected with a catheter, a stop-cock regulates the supply, and the part to which the stream of gas is applied is determined by the depth to which the catheter is introduced into the urethra. M. Mallez-has a high opinion of suppositories, and recommends one composed as follows: 519. I^. Morphias muriatis, Pulv. stramonii, aa gr.viij Butyri cocoas, gij, M. Make into eight suppositories. Suppositories of iodoform are also useful. Purgatives must be given for constipation, and anthelmintics if required. DR.'J. J. KIMBERLIN, OF CINCINNATI. This physician, believing that in most cases spermatorrhea is due to an excessive sensibility of the urino-seminal vessels, espe- cially of the prostatic portion of the urethra, has succeeded by external treatment with anodyne ointments : 520. IJ;. Extract! aconiti solidi, 3ij Extract! conii, 3j Then add Adipis, §ss-i. M. For an unguent. i