582 VENEREAL DISEASES, tion for eight days. He modifies the decoction, however, quite materially. He omits the sarsaparilla, the antimony, and perhaps the mercury; so that the mixture becomes, in reahty, a decoction of senna highly diluted by liquorice and aromatics. In other words, Mr. Milton's treatment is one in which the system is brought very gradually under the influence of mercury and iodide of potash, and is from time to time very tlioroughly purged. If the purging leads to loss of appetite and debility, he administers dilute nitric, or muriatic, or phosphoric acid, to restore its tone. DR. ALEXANDER m'bRIDE, OF CINCINNATI. This practitioner [Lancet and Observer, December, 1873,) is one of several who, in the last few years, have urged the restoration of guaiacum to its old place as a very valuable remedy in syphilis. He has employed* it for ten years with excellent results. He gives the drug in pill form, but it must be made in a particular manner, or it will be nauseous, and the patient will tire of it. Alcohol, and nothing else, is the only proper excipient. The way to make the pill is as follows: Pulverize the guaiac and sift out ligneous and cortical impurities; then let the operator be in a warm room, have the mortar warm, and the pill machine warm; put the powdered gum into the mortar, add very sparingly of alcohol, beat thoroughly and add more if necessary, but be careful and not get in too much. The object aimed at is to form a mass as stiff as can be worked by means of warmth and a very little alcohol. When the mass is formed, work it rapidly into pills, and roll them into a cold tin pan, in a cool room. If one makes these pills any other way, they will prove more or less a failure. Use no pulverized licorice, or other powder. If one uses never so little too much alcohol, the pill will be soft and never harden. Of these pills, the patient can take from nine to eighteen per day, usually twelve, and will declare he feels better all the time; so much so, that if he runs out of pills he will soon call for more. This treatment applies to secondary and tertiary, is excellently adapted to external or cutaneous manifestations, and may be carried out without other medicines.