LESIONS OF MUSCULAR TISSUE, 202 which throws a continuous stream, or equally well by closing the wound with a finger whilst the syringe is being refilled by an as- sistant (very little fluid being lost by its reintroduction), the abscess- sac will presently distend quite to, and even beyond, its original size; and, under these circumstances, the carbolized water neces- sarily finds its way (as a rule, which has few exceptions) into all parts of the cavity, however irregular, and along any channels leading from it. When the abscess has been opened, the amount of injection may be roughly measured as being rather in excess of the quantity of pus let out. When distension has been ef- fected, the fluid is allowed to escape, and, if much pus be mingled with it, a second injection may be practiced. An elastic drainage- tube, its size varying with that of the abscess, is then inserted and secured, and over the end of this, and over the wound, a piece of lint, twice folded and soaked in carbolized oil, is laid. This is covered with a sheet of gutta-percha tissue and some tenax, and these dressings are secured with some ordinary plaster. Subsequent treatment consists in the renewal of the dressings, which it is desirable to see to daily. The drainage-tube is gradu- ally shortened as the abscess-wall contracts, and through its canal, if there be any signs of puriform discharge, a little carbolized water may be occasionally injected. DR. G. WERTHEIM, VIENNA, This surgeon claims good results from injecting abscesses with various solutions, especially of morphia. {Wiener Medicinische Wochemchrift, No. 83, 1868.) He punctures the abscess with a thick needle, or the canula of a Pravaz's syringe, and with gentle pressure empties the greater part of the pus. Then a Pravaz's syringe, with blunt canula, is applied, and the solution thrown in. The orifice is closed for a few minutes by pressure with charpie, and then iced cloths are applied over the abscess. The patient is instructed to remove, by gentle pressure, every three hours, the remaining fluid; if necessary, the orifice or puncture may be kept open by the use of a fine probe occasionally. At first the injections are made every day, subsequently at longer intervals. It is better that the patient should remain in bed during treatment. The cold applications are continued, with intermissions. Of morphia mur, he uses at first gr, \ in 8 drops of liquid; should two abscesses exist, the dose must, of course, be divided