GANGRENE. 107 GANGRENE. PROFESSOR THEODOR BILLROTH. The ^^«/treatment of gangrene has two chief objects: i. To promote detachment of the gangrenous parts by exciting active suppuration, which is accompanied by arrest of the gangrene ; 2. To prevent the gangrenous part decomposing, and thus actmg injuriously on the patient, and infecting the chamber. For the first indication, cataplasms were formerly employed, but their efficacy is questionable. Dr. Billroth prefers to cover the gangrenous parts and the borders of the healthy tissue with com- presses or charpie soaked in chlorine water, which also diminishes the bad smell. Other substances which may be used are creasote water, dilute carbolic acid, dilute purified pyroligneous acid, very strong alcohol, spirits of camphor, or oil of turpentine. Pulverized charcoal absorbs the gases from the decomposing substances, but as it soils the parts it is perhaps too little used. A very serviceable remedy is the acetate of alumina prepared as follows: 118. Aluminis, 5v Plumbi acetatis, ■ 5j Aquje, f.^xiij. M. For a lotion ; to be freely applied several times daily. Permanganate of potash has proved of little serviee in Dr. Bill- roth's experience. Solutions of carbolic acid in oil (say 5ij to fSxij), praised by some, cannot be used without incurring some danger of poisoning (manifested by an olive green color of the urine). A mixture of coal tar and plaster is serviceable, but must be applied several times daily. As soon as the gangrenous part is somewhat detached, the shreds should be removed with the scissors, without cutting in to the healthy parts. The internal treatment of gangrene should be strengthening and even stimulant nourishing food, quinine, acids, and occasionally a few doses of camphor are proper. Severe pain must be met with opiates. In the forms of gangrene known as raphania and ergotism, emetics, quinine and carbonate of ammonia, are chiefly recommended. MR. t. holmes. If the gangrene does not spread rapidly and is not accompanied