54 ANilJSTHETICS. menced, the anaesthesia may be kept up tolerably well for half an hour. In administering nitrous oxide, a plentiful supply of gas is essen- tial to success. There is no fear of patients inhaling too much at first. They should be told to breathe deeply and slowly. The administrator should always use a double valve inhaler, attached by a hose of large calibre directly to the reservoir of'gas, so that a quite large column may pass directly to the patient. In this way the respiration is free, whereas if the column of gas is small, the respiration is more or less labored. An inhaler, with a mouth- piece in the centre to pass between the teeth, leaves the mouth open for the operation when anaesthesia is complete. Anaesthesia is supposed to be produced with it, by supplying the system with carbon more readily than it can be eliminated. The patient passes quickly into a perfect state of anaesthesia, which is always plainly indicated. The condition is of shorter duration than that produced by chloroform or ether. The functions of the body are slightly exalted, and respiration fully supported. After the lapse of from two to five minutes, the patient is in as perfectly a normal condition as before inhaling it. Of the risks of its administration, Dr: George Johnson, of Lon- don, observes that it is evident, from the many thousands of cases in which the gas has been given and the extreme rarity of a fatal accident from its use, that, in the hands of a skilled and careful operator, no great risk attends the employment of this anaesthetic; but it is also obvious that, to a patient with a feeble fat heart, the distension of the right cavities which accompanies the disappear- ance of the radial pulse and the general lividity of the features must be attended with some degree of risk, and the danger must be increased when, the muscles of the trunk and limbs being con- vulsed, the pressure of the contracting muscles upon the veins drives the blood forcibly towards the right cavities of the heart, and so adds to their distension. ANESTHETIC COMBINATIONS. M. SAUER, OF BERLIN. This surgeon dentist recommends the following compound as free from the dangers attendant on the use of either chloroform or ether alone: