42 AN/ESTHETICS. breathe freely, quickly, and deeply, and after a few seconds or minutes, of such steady continuous breathing, the symptoms of partial anjesthesia supervene, as is evidenced by the absence of feeling on pinching or pricking with a pin. At this stage any operation should be made. The anaesthetic effect passes almost immediately away, and the patient feels no pain in the operation if done dexterously and without hesitation. This method is one of the simplest, and at the same time one of the most beneficial plans in small operations about the eye and the like, that has been presented to the profession ; its application being very easy, requiring no recumbent position on the part of the patient, calling for no apparatus for its administration, and being perfectly free from any of the disagreeable effects of ether and chloroform. CARBON TETRA-CHLORIDE. This substance has been employed as an anaesthetic by various European surgeons. Dr. Protheroe Smith {Lancet, 1867,) found it useful in remov- ing neuralgic pain; in mitigating the sufferings of labor, without hindering the parturient efforts ; and in inducing sleep in nervous exhaustion. He claims that it rarely produces nausea or sickness, is pleasanter to inhale than chloroform, and produces anaesthesia with a less amount of muscular spasm and rigidity. Mr. Arthur Ernest Sansom says that as far as its earlier stages are concerned, it is all we want; it is stimulant, anodyne, hypnotic; and it produces no adverse sign. But for the anaesthesia necessary for the performance of surgical operations, as well as for any pro- longed employment, it is altogether undesirable. The accidents of its physical condition, its ponderous vapor, its insufficient vola- tility for the system readily to disembarrass itself of it, are so man)' reasons for its non-employment in anything like large doses. CHLORAL. Professor Ore, of Bordeaux, has introduced the intra-venous injection of chloral as a means of producing general anaesthesia, and it has found some warm defenders in Belgium and Germany. The formula which Ore recommends is the following: 40. Hydrate of chloral, Distilled water, ID grammes 30 grammes.