1 18 THE THERAPEUTICS OF INFLAMMATION. The irritant removed, the next duty of the surgeon is to place the part in a state of complete repose. If the eye be hurt, let it be closed, and the light excluded. If a joint, a bone or a muscle has been irritated, let it rest in an easy posture. The local effects of narcotic applications are often exceedingly grateful. The tincture, or, better still, the aqueous solution of opium, will often strikingly soothe the irritated nerves of a part. In injuries of the eye a solution of atropia, gr.v to water fSj ap- plied with a wet rag, will subdue promptly intense neuralgia and other forms of pain. Bruised stramonium leaves are also a useful application. THE IMPORTANCE OF REST. Every surgeon should bear in mind the importance of rest—not merely local, but the quiet repose of the system generally—as a preventive measure against inflammation. To insure this, Mr. G. W. Callender, of London, recommends the free administration of opium. He does not wait until the patient is restless and fails to sleep, but by a full dose he anticipates such a condition and pre- vents its occurrence; he does not postpone the anodyne until evening, but exhibits it as soon as the dressing of a wound is com- pleted. After an anaesthetic, he recommends the prompt adminis- tration of morphia by subcutaneous injection, so as to avoid any disturbance of the stomach. Even where the patient avers that he cannot take opium, it is generally found that he progresses well under the influence of this sedative, especially if he does not know that he is taking it. Locally, all the arrangements for the dress- ing of a wound, for its position and protection, must be made with the object of strictly maintaining rest; the daily changes of dress- ing can and ought to be so arranged that they will not occasion the slightest disturbance of the parts. Especially is general rest essential when the lower extremity is the seat of disease; when the body has experienced a severe con- cussion; or when the brain, lungs, intestines or kidneys are threat- ened with severe inflammation. In such cases, remarks Dr. D. Hayes Agnew, " the value of absolute repose is incalculable, both as a prophylactic and a cure." limiting the supply of blood to the part. Although the abstraction of blood from an inflamed part is one of the oldest operations in surgery, the idea of forestalling exces-