62 ANAESTHETICS. sensory nerve filaments. Later ,experiments have shown it to be unmanageable and dang-erous. FARADIC ANESTHESIA, The benumbing effects of the faradic current on the nerves has been utilized for the production of local anaesthesia. For opening abscesses a strong faradic current should be directed through the parts as the incision is made. The relief thus afforded is slight, but is positive. (Beard.) Faradic anaesthesia has been chiefly used in the extraction of teeth, where it is certainly of some service; but on account of the popularization of nitrous oxide it has fallen into disuse. It may still be occasionally applied with advantage for the relief of the irritation caused by the application of caustics to the laiynx, eye, or uterus. In the extraction of foreign bodies under the skin or nails, it has also applications which should not be neglected. Of course, its employment is confined to short and slight operations. ANAESTHESIA OF THE LARYNX. Of the various methods of applying anaesthetics locally to the larynx, Professor Schotter's is most popular in Germany. His method is as follows : The evening before the operation the glottis is painted with pure chloroform about a dozen times, and an hour afterwards with this solution of morphia: 53. Morph. hydrochloratis, gr.xij Aquae destillatse, f-SU- During the use of the morphia the patient must not swallow his saliva; indeed, after each use of the brush it is prudent to let him gargle his throat with a solution of tannic acid. Early the next morning the operation can be undertaken. If the patient be still sensitive, the whole proceeding must be repeated. Prof Gerhardt recommends as an anaesthetic, painting the laryngeal mucous membrane with a solution of colchicimi. Dr. Fauvel, of Paris, objects to the German practice, though without apparent good grounds. He says the sucking of ice during the hour which precedes the operation, and the use of strongly astringent gargles, or of a gargle composed of a concen- trated solution oi bromide of potassiinn, are the best means of pro- ducing local anaesthesia. (Dobell's Reports, 1876.)