GENERAL THERAPEUTICS OF SKIN DISEASES. 513 UNGUENTUM HYDRARGYRI CUM SULPHURE. 743. ^. Hydrargyri oxidi rubri, gr-iij Hydrargyri ammoniati, gr.xl Sulphuris sublimati, gr.xx Unguenti simplicis, |j. M. Used in parasitic diseases, acne, etc. DR. L. CANE, OF LONDON. In some obstinate cases of ringworm of the scalp, this writer (Lancet, August, 1873,) commends as the best of the mercurials the o/eate of mercury. Other writers also emphasize its value in various skin affections. Dr. Cane states that the advantages which oleate of mercury seems to possess over other remedies are— 1. It is a certain remedy, if carefully applied. 2. It produces no staining or injury of the skin. In cases where the disease appears on the face, it is of great importance to avoid any disfigurement or staining. 3. It is painless in its application. This is not the case with the ordinary strong parasiticides, most of which produce vesica- tion, etc. 4. It readily penetrates into the sebaceous glands, hair follicles, and even into the hairs themselves, the mercury being in a state of solution in an oily medium, and it is therefore much more likely to destroy the fungus than the spirituous or aqueous solution of mer- cury, etc. This penetrating power of the oleate may be increased by .adding a small quantity of ether (one part to eight) to it. In very sensitive skins the irritation sometimes produced by it may be avoided by using a weaker solution (five per cent.), and by applying it with a camel's-hair brush. As the oleate of mercury is not officinal, the following formula, that used at the University College Hospital, London, is added: 744. 'S/.. Hydrargyri peroxidi prsecipitati, 5j Acidi oleici, f.5x. Agitate the acid in a mortar, add the peroxide gradually, triturating frequently during twenty-four hours, until it is dissolved, and a viscid solution is formed. ON PARASITICIDES. DR. H. S. PURDON, LONDON. Parasiticides may be divided into those derived from the vegeta- ble, animal and mineral kingdoms; but without going deeply into the subject, it may be briefly stated that the most valuable obtained 33-s