301 HERNIA. and the patient directed, for a week or two, to maintain the recum- bent position. In addition to the injection, in some of the operations, a tenot- omy knife is introduced, and the internal surface of the neck of the sac scarified. The operation is not followed by bad results, the pain and inconvenience hardly amounting to that presented by a case of hydrocele treated by injection; and it may be concluded that in ruptures where the neck of the sac is small, and the ab- dominal aperture not too much enlarged by repeated descents of the hernia, there is a prospect of a radical cure ; and that, in most cases the operation mitigates the infirmity, allowing the hernia to be more readily retained by the ordinary mechanical means. (Dr. J. Mason Warren, Surgical Observations. Boston, 1867.) DR. GEORGE HEATON, OF BOSTON.* The method for the radical cure of hernia proposed by this writer, and practiced by him successfully in a number of instances, he calls that by tendinous irritation. It is not unlike the preceding in its principle, but differs from it in several important details, and in the irritant employed. The patient is placed on a bed in a reumbent position, the con- tents of the hernia returned into the abdomen, and the hernial sac also, when possible. Taking an instrument resembling an ordin- ary subcutaneous syringe loaded with the necessary amount of the irritant fluid, the operator introduces its beak into the inguinal canal, but outside of the sac, if this has been suffered to remain, in the following manner: invaginate the right forefinger in the scro- tum and find the external abdominal ring, then with the left fore- finger press perpendicularly upon the integument directly over this ring, and use sufficient force to, if possible, press the integument together with the finger directly into the ring. The left forefinger being at or in the ring, the spermatic cord and the sac, if in the way, are to be pushed to one side so that nothing may remain between the external pillar of the ring and the finger except the integument and subjacent superficial fasciae. Keeping the left fore- finger thus, take the instrument in the right hand and introduce its freshly sharpened and polished beak quickly, penetrating the integument and superficial fasciae, ju.st passing but not grazing *77/t' Cure of Rupture. Boston, 1877.