291 TONSILLAR HYPERTROPHY, been highly commended for enlarged tonsils. It should be taken internally and applied externally as a liniment, in combination with linimentum saponis. Another frequently successful remedy, particularly applicable where the condition is coincident with scarlatina, is acetate of zinc. yji. I^. Zinc! acetatis, 9j-9j Glycerinae, f-.^ss Aquas, f-,5vij. M. A tablespoonful every four hours, or oftener. The local treatment is either by the use of alteratives, by cau- terization or by amputation. As an alterative, the iodide of zinc holds, perhaps, the most prominent position. It is used in solu- tion, gr.x-xxx, applied with a brush two or three times- in the twenty-four hours ; or, as the treatment advances, it may be applied pure, as it deliquesces when exposed to the air. The second mode of treatment is by cauterization, as recom- mended by Dr. Rufpaner (see below). Dr. Rumbold, of St. Louis, claims to have treated successfully a number of cases of enlarged tonsils by injecting the glands, by means of a hypodermic syringe, with this solution of iodine : 373. I^. lodinii, gr.ij Potassii iodidi, 9ij Aquse, f.^j- M. Generally a slight inflammation followed the injection, but it soon subsided. From twelve to seventeen injections—ordinarily two a week—were sufficient to reduce the gland to its normal condition. Finally, amputation may be resorted to. Professor James Svme recommends that in removing the tonsil, it should be seized with a hook, drawn forward, and excised with the scalpel. This method, recommended by Celsus, is, in Mr. Syme's opinion, less liable to be followed by hemorrhage than any of the plans later devised. In removing the tonsil with the guillotine, it is important to remember that the organs are situated obliquely, like the pillars of the soft palate; more pressure should be made upon the lower than on the upper border of the instrument, and the tonsil will then be readily seized. It is better not to attempt to remove the whole of the organ, for after removing a portion, the rest will