LESIONS OF THE ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE. 446 In pulsating tinnitus, the result of some alteratilfen in the blood vessels, ansEmia or excessive action of the heart, we must try com- pression of the temporal or carotid, or the exhibition of iron, aconite or digitalis, as indicated by the action of the circulatory system. For excitement of the brain causing subjective noises, bromide of potassium is usually efificient. Tinnitus from nerve exhaustion calls for phosphorus, strychnia, and the galvanic current. The presence of the aspergillus in the ear is another occasional cause. RESUME OF REMEDIES. Aconitum. Dr. Bayes recommends aconite in otitis, and states that it quickly relieves the pain. Alwnen, as an astringent local application, has a variety of uses in aural therapeutics. (F. 633, 643.) Dr. J. J. Chisholm considers it the best desiccating powder known. He finds very few aural dis- charges, however chronic, that withstand its proper application. The method employed in using it is first to thoroughly cleanse the ear, then wipe dry the passage by means of a loose cotton swab made at the end of a match or special applicator; after after which puff into the ear powdered alum, Jilling the dnim cavity with it. The very first application will often indicate a diminished discharge at the end of twenty-four hours. The ear is then washed out and the alum powder again applied. This treatment is renewed once a day until the discharge is so re- duced that the powder blown into the ear continues dry upon its exposed external surface. If it has crusted in the ear, it may be left for days as a hard, mass giving no pain and causing no annoyance. Aqua Calcis, on account of its astringent quality, is used as a wash in discharges from the ear. It is of most service when some active inflammation is still present. (Ringer.) Aqua Pura. In ear-ache, Dr. Budd, of New York, recommends that water, as hot as the tongue can bear it, be poured into the ear. Warm water is the best of all substances for cleansing the ear. Argenti Nitras in weak solution is used for injections. Atropice Sulphas, gr. iv to aquse f §j, is an excellent remedy in otitis. A few drops of the above solution instilled into the ear, and some leeches to the mastoid process and in front of the ear, will promptly break up an acute attack. The recumbent position and perfect rest should be enjoined. Carbolicim Acidmn. Dr. Paulsen, in the Monats-schrift flir Ohren- heilkunde, No. 2, 1876, claims to have met with excellent re- sults in the treatment of otorrhea, uncomplicated by caries or large polypi, by means of a mixture of carbolic acid or olive