ANAESTHETICS. 44 minor operations can be performed, and the child will awake in three or four hours, with no knowledge of the pain. CHLOROFORM, This is the most potent of all anaesthetics, and its use is still ad- vocated by many eminent surgeons. Only the alleged dangers at- tending it, prevent its exclusive employment. Many of these arise from its ignorant or heedless administration. The follov/ing rules should be observed :— Preliminaries. Unless very feeble, the patient should fast for three hours before the inhalation. Twenty minutes before the in- halation a dose of brandy should be given in water — teaspoonful to a child, one or two tablespoonfuls to an adult. The patient should, whenever convenient, be wholly undressed, and, invariably, everything tight about the chest or neck should be removed. If possible, let the patient be in the recumbent position, and on his back. Let the chest and neck be well exposed. Whatever form of apparatus be used (a piece of lint, a handkerchief, or an inhaler), there is little or no risk with the first inhalations; and the patient may be instructed to draw full breaths. So soon as any effort is manifest, more caution must be observed. The respiratory move- ments should be carefully watched, and also the color of the cheeks, lips and eyes. When convenient, the finger may be kept on the wrist-pulse; but this is not essential. If the patient struggle much, proceed with increased caution. (Waring.) The chloroform should not be allowed to touch the lips, or it may blister them. By not chloroforming the patient within two hours of a full meal, the annoyance of vomiting may be prevented. He should be narcotized before removal to the operating table or the sight of any prepara- tions. He should be taken to bed again in a state of unconscious- ness. There should be no hnrry, because complete insensibility to pain and absence of involuntary movement are more safely ob- tained after the vapor has had time to benumb all the peripheral nerves, Dr, Snow states that insensibility to pain cannot be obtained in a very rapid manner without a dangerous degree of narcotism of the nervous centres. The inhalation should occupy eight minutes altogether. The loud talking or violence of the intoxica- tion stage is no cause of alarm; it shows that the vapor has not produced a dangerous effect, and that a slight increase is necessary. At every operation, the management of the chloroform should be