12 Lessons in Gynecology. BY WM. COODELL, A.M., M.D., Professor of Clinical Gynecology in the University of Penna. With Numerous Illustrations. 1 Vol., 8vo. I»rioe, Clotlx, ^3.00. This entirely new and complete work by this distinguished author cannot fall to prove a Taluable addition to gynecological literature. The following table of contents will indicate its scope :— Lesson I. Gynecological Instruments. " II. Caruncle, and other Affections of the Female Urethra. " III. Vesical Diseases of "Women. " IV. Fistulae of the Female Genital Organs. " V. Closure of the Vulva for Incurable Vesioo-vaginal Fistulae—Tumors of the Vulva. " VI. On the Causes, Prevention, and the Cure of Lacerations of the Female Perineum; "the Primary Operation. " VII. Secondary Operation for Laceration of the Female Perineum. *' VIII. Local and Constitutional Treatment for Chronic Metritis and Endometritis. " IX. Ketroversions and Retroflexions of the "Womb. " X. Anteversions and Anteflexions of the Womb. XI. Dilatation of Cervical Canal; Rapid Dilatation; Tents. " XII. On the Use of the Closed Lever Pessary, and of the Intrauterine Stem Pessary. *' XIII. Different Kinds of Pessaries ; Abdominal Supporters. " XIV. Prolapse of the "Womb ; Prolapse from Simple Descent; Prolapse from Hypertrophic Elongation of the Infra-vaginal Portion of Cervix. XV. Prolapse of the "Womb from Hypertrophic Elongation of the Supra-vaginal Portion of the Cervix. " XVI. Laceration of the Cervix Uteri. XVII. Cancer of the "Womb. *' XVIII. Vegetations of the Endometrium. " XIX. Polypus of the "Womb. " XX. Fibroid Tumors of the "Womb. " XXI. Treatment of Fibroid Tumors of the "Womb. " XXII. Spaying for Fibroid Tumors, and for other Diseases of the "Womb. " XXIII. Ovarian Cyst; its Diagnosis, and its Treatment by Tapping, by Injections of Iodine, and by Drainage. XXIV. Ovariotomy by Abdominal Section XXV. Vaginal Ovariotomy. " XXVI. Nerve-tire and "Womb-ills, or the Relation which the Nerves Bear to the Diseases of "Women. " XXVII. The Prevention of Uterine Disorders. " XXVm. The Sexual Relations as Causes of Uterine Disorders. These subjects are presented in a novel and attractive literary form, from the riches of an uncommonly wide clinical experience. Dr. Goodell's operative procedures are generally marked by strong originality and much ingenuity; while his therapeutical plans are the result of very carefully studied observation. As a lecturer and teacher he is well known to all students of his specialty, and the present volume is the only one he has pub- lished on the subject, and therefore the only source from which to derive a knowledge of his methods.