SYPHILIS, 985. I^. Hydrargyri chloridi corrosivi, Ammoniae muriatis, aa gr.vj Tincturte cinchonse compositse, f.§ij Aquae, f.^iv. M. A teaspoonful morning and evening for one week; afterward thrice daily, directly after eating. When this medicine has been taken for twelve or fifteen days, it is good practice to omit it for four or five days, and then resume it. PROF. S. D. GROSS, PHILADELPHIA. 986. I^. Unguenti hydrargyri nitratis, 5j Cerati simplicis, 5vj-§j. M. In the treatment of chancre no remedy is so efficacious as this. The objection made to greasy apphcations can only be considered as having any force when there is want of cleanhness. The dress- ings should be changed every five or six hours, and care should be taken that the ointment shall always be very fresh. When the parts begin to granulate, apply : 987. Cerati zinci carbonatis, 5j Adipis, 3vj. M. Or, merely a bit of dry lint carefully interposed between the contiguous surfaces often promotes cicatrisation with remarkable rapidity. 988. Hydrargyri chloridi corrosivi, gr.j Potassii iodidi, 5ij Syrupi sarsaparillce compositi, f-.^iij- M. Dessertspoonful thrice daily, shortly after meals, in tertiary syphilis. Professor Gross almost invariably combines the bichloride of mercury with iodide of potassium in the treatment of tertiary syphilis, particularly when the affection is of long standing. An infirm, broken state of the system is no bar to the use of mercury in this mode of combination; on the contrary, it often affords the medicine an opportunity for- its best display. To counteract any disagreeable effects of the above recipe, such as gastric irritation, diarrhoea, etc. (which, however, rarely ensue), an anodyne, as a small quantity of morphia, or from five to ten drops of the ace- tated tincture of opium, may be combined with each dose. In regard to the dose of iodide of potassium in the treatment of tertiary syphilis. Professor Gross states that long experience has taught him that while less than ten grains thrice daily will rarely