I lO THE COMPLICATIONS OF WOUNDS. were made to protect healthy wounds and sores from contagion. The continuous water-bath and applications of ice, moist warmth, and lotions of carbolic acid, salicylic acid, chlorine water, etc., were tried, but without any good results. At last Lister's anti- septic plan of dressing was practiced most strictly, so that no open surface was dressed save under the carbolic acid spray, and no in- struments or dressings used save after careful disinfection. The hospital gangrene at once ceased, and not a single case. Prof Von NussBAUM states, has been observed in his ward since the adoption of this plan of dressing, although at the period of its first .use eighty per cent, of the surgical patients had been affected. Prof Von Nussbaum asserts that he feels it his duty to testify to the efficacy of Lister's method as a prophylactic against hospital o-ancrrene. He insists, however, upon the necessity of carrying out this plan of dressing in all its details. He holds that the secret of its great success in this instance lay in a pedantic exact- ness in its mode of application, and he expresses it as his opinion that the surgeon who allows a wound to remain for one second open to the air, and unprotected by the carbolic acid spray, cannot reasonably expect any good results from his practice of Lister's method. PROF. JOSEPH JONES, M. D., LOUISIANA. The following formula has proved useful in hospital gangrene, and other diseases of an asthenic typhoid character : 121. 1^. Tincturse ferri chloridi, f.§j Potassas chloratis, §iy Quinise sulphatis, 5ij, Acidi hydrochlorici, f.§J Aquae destillatse, Dissolve the chlorate in the water, add the hydrochloric acid, then dissolve in this mixture the quinine, and finally add the iron. Thirty to sixty drops, in water, three or four times a day. Such a mixture should not be continued for more than two weeks. In place of it the following is of great value in gangre- nous and ill-conditioned wounds: 122. I^. Ferri et potassse tartratis, 5j _ Acidi tartarici, 3iJ Quinice sulphatis, 5iJ Aquae destillatte, i-S^U- Dissolve the acid in the water, add the quinine, and last the iron. Shake well before using. A tablespoonful ui a wmeglassful of water, thrice daily.