40 THE THERAPEUTICS OF INFLAMMATION. nausea, fluttering pulse, and relief of the pain, indicate the approach of faintness; but full faintness should always be avoided. The class of Patients whom it is allowable to bleed, as a general rule, are the robust, with red lips, firm muscles, rustic open-air occupa- tions, firm pulse and rigid fibre. Pregnant women usually bear bleeding well. If the lips and conjunctiva are pale, showing deficiency of blood; if the patient is bulky, soft, flabby; if there is any weakness or degeneration of the heart; or if there is any continuous disease of assimilation—scrofula, Bnght's dis- ease, or the like—bleeding can scarcely be thought of. The class of Inflammations in which bleeding is permissible are those of sthenic inflammation of vital organs, especially the chest. It is not allowable, as a rule, in the asthenic class of maladies, nor in erysipelatous diseases; nor in the case of injuries requiring great constitutional efforts for their reparation, as compound fractures ; nor if the disease be advanced towards suppuration or gangrene ; and very seldom indeed in the case of a zymotic dis- ease, or inflammation having a natural tendency to recover, or traumatic inflammation of parts not essential to life. THE DIET IN INFLAMMATION. There is still some diff"erence of opinion in respect to the proper diet in inflammation. The view entitled to the greatest weight on this subject is expressed in the treatises on Surgery of Dr. D. Hayes Agnew and of Dr. John Ashhurst, jr., both published at the close of 1878. Dr. Ashhukst believes that from the outset the patient should take light and easily assimil- able food in small quantities and at frequent intervals. He pre- fers milk in teacupful doses every few hours; and later, beef es- sence and strong broths. Weakness of the pulse, and especially delirium, is an indication for alcohol, whisky or brandy !iv-vj., or wine Oss., in the twenty-four hours. Dr. Agnew is a more rigid dietician. He strongly condemns "the modern plan of stuffing patients from the very inception of the disease.'' He considers that cold water, barley water, or water diluted with milk, supplies all that is needful at first. When the febrile dis- turbance subsides, then beef-tea, animal broths, inilk, eggs, etc., may be given.