251 ANEURISM. appetites. In regard to fluids, water, tea, and milk alone were allowed, and in as small quantities as possible. RESUME OF REMEDIES. Acofiite is a valuable agent to lower the blood pressure. Its physiological effects must be produced and maintained. Ahme7i in doses 9ss-j, thrice daily, is said to have aided the coagulation of the contents of the sac. Chloral Hydrate is an important adjuvant for lowering the blood pressure in internal aneurism. Digitalis Dr. J. M. Fothergill asserts that this drug "spurs on the natural efforts to rupture the sac." Yet some have prescribed it for the palpitation, etc. Mr. T. Holmes recommends that it be combined with iodide of potassium in internal aneurism when the heart's action is excited ("rriv-viij at a dose). At the session of the British Medical Association in 1877, Dr. Clifford All- butt (Leeds) laid before the meeting the remarkable results to be derived from digitahs in the treatment of aneurism, which he considered the drug for this disease. It should be given in in- creasing doses until it brought down the pulse to 45, which should be kept at this rate so long as the patient tolerated it, even for months. Dr. Allbutt had watched two cases for three and nine years respectively, and these were at least in abeyance. Experience had proved to him that such modification of the heart's force was the reverse of injurious. Dr. Mackay (Bir- mingham) bore testimony to the value of iodide of potassium in the treatment of aneurism, and also to the beneficial effects of digitalis. Er^ota Highly commended by Dr. Da Costa and others. Ergotine has also been employed. Professor Von Langenbeck uses : 294. I^. Ergotinse, g^-J-''^ Aquae des., GlycerinEe, aa q. s. For one hypodermic injection, to be thrown into the neighbor- hood of the tumor every day or every few days. Ferri Perchloridi Tinctura. The injection of this, or some other ferru- ginous styptic, has proved useful in small aneurisms. Professor Billroth recommends it in those of spontaneous and traumatic origin. The danger is that fragments of the clot will float into the circulation and produce embolism. To prevent it, compres- sion above and below the sac is requisite Gallicum Acidum has been highly praised. Dr. S. F. Speh^, of Brook- lyn, combines it with subsulphate of iron. Plumbi Acetas has been given in doses of gr.ij-xx daily, with occasional success, even in undoubted aortic aneurism. It must be given for many weeks successively, the doses gradually increased, but lessened or suspended if symptoms of plumbism occur.