215 CARBUNCLES AND BOILS. DR. DELIOUX, FRANCE. 247. Ty. Sodii arseniatis, gr-iss Aqu£e destillatse, f-!viss. M. A teaspoonful in the morning before eating, and in the evening before the last meal, to persons affected with furuncles. The author administers this arsenical solution during three weeks; he then purges the patient with from five drachms to an ounce of sulphate of sodium. For drink, an infusion of sarsapa- rilla Oiv to the pint). Bie^, non-nitrogenous, in which the fresh fruits ought largely to enter; complete abstinence from acids and alcoholic stimulants. When the furuncles are hard and slow, the following ointment may be employed :— 248. I^. Sulphuris loti, _ gr.xv Camphoras pulveris, 5j Cerati, 5vij. M. The application of tincture of iodine at the debut of an inflammatory furuncle sometimes causes it to abort. Feeble sulphur baths, with the addition of gelatine, as well as bran and starch baths, are useful. RESUME OF REMEDIES. Agtia Fids has been recommended by Professor Hardy. Argenti Nitras is preferred as a caustic to abort boils by some surgeons. Arnica. This has been highly extolled in boils, both for external and internal use, by Dr. Planat {Jour, de Therapeutique, 1878). He prescribes gtt.xxv of the tincture every two hours, or externally as follows : 249. IJ:. Extracti florum arnicae, §j Mellis, f.§ij. M. This may be thickened with lycopodium or marsh-mallow and applied as a paste on linen. He claims that it cuts short all furuncular symptoms with remarkable promptness. Arsenicum. The internal use of arsenic is highly esteemed in some forms of furunculosis. Dr. Gross prefers arsenic in substance, gr. tV-t^ terdie. Belladonna, in extract, with glycerine, is a valued means to allay the pain of boils and carbuncles. Mr. Christopher Heath also recommends its external administration to correct the tendency to their formation. Calcii Sulphidmn is said by Ringer to be very efficient in preventing boils and carbuncles, gr. \ in a powder with sugar of milk thrice daily. In the boils attending diabetes, it is useless. Camphora. Boils in their early stages, if painted for half a minute with tincture of camphor, and then, when the skin is dry, smeared