543 SYCOSIS (mentagra; barber's itch). Perseverance in this plan of treatment invariably cures the dis- ease, whereas, if left to itself, it may last for many years, and lead, in the end, to the complete destruction of the hair, and the forma- tion of permanent cicatrices. The patient should shave for at least six months after the disease has disappeared. Sycosis sometimes produces small raspberry-like growths, which must be destroyed by the application of nitrate of silver. DR. A. C. SMITH, OF IOWA. This practitioner deems depilation needless. [New York Medical yo7crnal, Feb., 1876.) He prefers to all other applications djy sidphur. To avoid any irritation of the skin, we should not even syringe with hot water to remove the crusts, but lift them up with the point of a lancet; precipitated sulphur is then to be applied with a brush, three or four times a day. Later, one or two appli- cations a day will be sufficient. After this treatment is continued two or three weeks, the ulcers will present a clean, red base, and the final healing will go quickly on. It will certainly hasten the cure to remove the loose hairs; but, if the hairs be pulled out, they are not regenerated; if they be left untouched, a good many will remain, even on places where the ulceration is deep, and in the future help to cover the unsightly cicatrix. DR. HENRY S. PURDON. 858. Acidi chromici, 5j Aquas destillatse, f.^j. M. A useful application in sycosis menti, and other parasitical skin affec- tions. DR. VON VEIEL, OF CANSTADT. This practitioner usually cures barber's itch in four weeks. He cuts the hairs short, removes crusts, and rubs in, 859. I^. Saponis viridis, ^ss Picis, M. He then removes the hairs with the forceps, and applies acetic acid, finishing with sulphur ointment. DR. JEANNEL, PARIS. 860. ^.. Hydrargyri chloridi corrosivi, gr-vj Adipis, §j. Dissolve the corrosive sublimate in a little water, and incorporate with the lard. After having removed the crusts of the mentagra by the aid of poultices and warm fomentations, apply, morning and even- ing, a small quantity of this ointment.