FISSURE OF THE ANUS. 3^9 As the glyceritum acidi tannici of the United Slates Pharma- copceia is four times the strength of this solution, it may be ordered in its place, diluted with three parts of glycerine. 413. I^. Hydrargyri chloridi mitis, gr.iv Adipis, 3j. M. This is a useful pomade in fissures of the anus of but slight extent. The affected part is to be washed with warm water and the ointment lightly applied, without friction. Dr. Carrere of Ghent, applies carron oil, several times daily, and claims to cure in eight or ten days {An. de la Soc. de Med. de Gand., 1878). DR. HENRY HARTSHORNE, OF PHILADELPHIA. This writer believes that most cases, even of long standing, may be cured without an operation. He has especial confidence in collodion, to which one-fiftieth of glycerine has been added to lessen its constricting effect. This may be painted upon the part with a camel's hair pencil; it makes an excellent artificial cuticle. When the case is obstinate, the surface of the fissure should be touched lightly with nitrate of silver or sulphate of copper. Sup- positories of opium or belladonna may be introduced after defeca- tion to relieve pain. Forced dilatation of the sphincter by the two thumbs of the operator, as recommended by Dr. Van Buren, may be resorted to if these means fail. Various surgeons have highly recommended rhatany, krameria, in the form of tincture, or an ointment made of the extract with lard (.5j-ij to o]) as a very valuable application both in fissured and prolapsed anus. Dr. Crequy, of Paris, treats fissure of the anus by chloral. His procedure is as follows; Charpie, soaked in a two per cent, solu- tion of chloral, is inserted just within the anus, daily attention being of course duly paid to the regularity of the bowels. In the two cases recorded as having been so treated, a cure was effected within a fortnight. After the operation for anal fissure by dilatation, it is the custom with most surgeons to touch the sides of the fissure with a caustic in order to bring about healthy granulations. To effect this, prob- ably the most effective is strong nitric acid. As the application is necessarily very painful, the patient should be placed under ether.