GENERAL ANESTHETICS. 43 The apparatus required consists of a glass syringe, graduated down to centigrammes, and containing half the quantity above stated; and a very fine " three-quarter" gold trocar and canula. A band is placed round the arm, above the point selected for opera- tion, and when the vein has become sufficiently prominent it is pierced through the skin. The operator knows he is in the vein by withdrawing the trocar, when blood flows through the canula. The band is then removed, and the syringe is applied to the canula, but before doing this the blood should be seen escaping from it by a jet. The operation is to be conducted slowly. At first only 50 centigrammes are to be injected. If the patient bears this, we may go on to one gramme, and so on, pausing at each division to watch for symptoms. When the subject begins to complain of an inclination to sleep, we are to go slowly, as anaesthesia is not far off. The canula is withdrawn when insensibility is complete. Eight or ten grammes are usually necessary for an adult, but six or seven grammes are capable of producing the effects required- The duration of the operation ought not to exceed ten minutes. The injection should have the surrounding temperature. It is an indispensable precaution, however, to have an electrical apparatus at hand, in order to rouse the patient from his insensibility by passing a current along the course of the pneumogastric, should that be deemed necessary. The advocates of this method claim for it the following advan- tages: I. Absence of any preliminary stage of excitement. 2. Absence of nausea and vomiting. 3. Accurate graduation of the dose administered. 4. Absolute character of the anaesthesia and muscular relaxation produced. 5. Prolonged blunting of the patient's sensibility, which protects him from the influence of shock. Among the hypothetical disadvantages of the system may be enumerated—risk of thrombosis and embolism, difficulty of pro- ducing insensibility, danger of prolonged stupor, inflammation of the wounded vein. The obsei'ved disadvantages are—transient dyspnoea, occasional irregularity of the heart's action, presence of a small quantity of blood and albumen in the first urine passed after the injection, and risk of fatal syncope. According to M. Bouchut, children can be placed in a condition of absolute anaesthesia by means of chloral given by the mouth in poses of gr. xl-lx, without gastric disturbance. In this condition