124 THE COMPLICATIONS OF WOUNDS, Some authorities prefer the tartrate, or potassio-tartrate under these circumstances, but the iodide acts with more promptness and vigor. As an escharotic, probably none is more desirable than nitric acid. A glass rod or bit of pine is dipped into the acid and ap- plied, care being taken to penetrate to all the sinuosities of the sore. A water or spirit dressing, or dilute tincture of benzoin, may then be applied. For further regarding phagedasna see Phagedaenic Ulcers and Chancres. PYEMIA. DR. ALONZO CLARK, OF NEW YORK. In that form of septic blood poisoning which follows puerperal lesions, as well as in others, this author recommends opium in large doses, frequently repeated, and kept up for a long time. The bowels of a patient can be kept unmoved for two or three weeks, his respiration may be reduced to twelve or fourteen in a minute, and, in fact, he may be kept under the fullest influence of the drug for a long time. In order to carry out this treatment it is neces- sary that the physician remain with his patient, only being relieved by another physician, constantly. Besides being used in this way, opium is also used against the profuse diarrhoea in pyxmia, and as a narcotic against the restlessness of the patients. F. FORCHEIMER, M. D., OF CINCINNATI. The writer observes {The Clinic, Feb. 24, 1877,) that the method of treatment by stimulation is especially valuable in acute, foudroy- ante cases of septicaemia. Here it is our duty to keep the patient alive until the shock given to the system, by the introduction of so much virulent material into the blood, may have passed over. In these cases this method is the only one that promises any hope for success. In order to insure methodical application of the various remedies, it is well to give the patient something, say every quar- ter of an hour or ten minutes. Thus, we begin by giving a dose of brandy ; at the end of a quarter of an hour the patient receives a liberal quantity of beef tea; at the end of half an hour we give a few grains of quinine; a quarter of an hour from this time he re-