SYNOVITIS. 241 operator sits in front of his patient on a low stool, and the part to be operated on is first shaved and anointed with perfumed lard. The frictions used are divided into two classes; the first, passing from side to side (horizontal frictions); the second, passing from below upward in the Hne of the limb (vertical frictions). The ap- plications vary in force, according to the effect which he desires to produce, and are made, not only upon the joint itself, but also upon the adjacent unaffected tissues. By means of the horizontal fric- tions the skin is moved about over the fascize and ligaments, and the superficial vessels are acted upon, partly by the direct applica- tion of mechanical force, and partly by the indirect influence of the vaso-motor nerves. The circulation of the blood is thereby increased; and where there is a tendency to venous stagnation, the bluish color is removed, and the skin assumes its natural ap- pearance. The. vertical fnctions are made in the direction of the circulation of fluid in the venous and lymphatic vessels, and pro- mote the flow within them. By a combination of these two meth- ods of manipulation, the one stimulating the action, and the other- propelling the contents of the blood-vessels and lymphatics, ab- sorption is necessarily increased. The operator rubs strongly whenever indurations, infiltrations,, or effusions are to be dealt with, and follows from below upward, the course of the lymphatic vessels in the extremities. When, for instance, the knee-joint is the subject of treatment, he works across the joint with the fingers of one hand, on both sides, below the- patella, pressing inward with more or less force; while the fingers of the other hand work in the same manner, upward along botb sides of the patella, over the capsular ligament, or any ligament which is felt to be swollen. This process is continued from three to five minutes. He then grasps the joint with his right hand and, pressing firmly, rubs upward over the patella, as high as the superior insertion of the investing ligaments. This is repeated a number of times, varying, according to the circumstances of the case. The applications are repeated once or twice every day. PROFESSOR JAMES SYME, F. R. S. E.* This eminent author urges very forcibly the claims of the actual' cautery, in a condition of articular disease characterized by very distinct features dependent upon ulceration of the cartilages. *Surgical Works. Philadelphia, 1866. 16-S