LESIONS OF THE ORGANS OF REPRODUCTION. 354 to this surgeon there is no pain whatever, either during or after the injection; a patient took a walk immediately after, and would not stay at home on the second day. On the fifth day there was no swelling or tenderness, and the hydrocele could be considered cured. This plan of treatment, therefore, surpasses all the previous ones in painless and radical cure. Dr. Wagner, of Konigshiitte, recommends as preferable to the usual procedures the following plan: By means of a Pravaz veteri- nary syringe, which will hold about five grammes, the liquid of the hydrocele is to be completely aspired. When the syringe is filled, the needle having been removed, it is to be emptied and reapplied as often as necessary, until every drop of the liquid has been removed. As soon as this has been accomplished, from five centi- grammes to a gramme of a i per cent, solution of carbolic acid is to be placed in the syringe (previously disinfected), and slowly injected into the sac of the hydrocele, manipulating this a. little after the point of the needle has been withdrawn. One seance should suffice, as the mothers are unwilling to allow a repetition; and care should be taken to previously ascertain that the liquid of the hydrocele has ceased to have any communication with the abdomen. THE HYDROCELE OF INFANTS. Dr. Saint Germain, of Paris, believes that it is not advisable to subject an infant with hydrocele to even the simplest operation, until a trial has been made of a saturated solution of muriate of ammonia. Compresses dipped in such a solution should be ap- plied. Sometimes an erythema, even slight vesication may be caused, but the part may be covered with powder, and the cure is not retarded. Professor D. Hayes Agnew is accustomed in such cases to order frictions with an unguent: 491. 1^. Ammonii muriatis, gr.xx-xx.x Adipis, |j. For an unguent. To be thoroughly rubbed over the part twice each day for three weeks. Should this not succeed in producing absorption, he punctures the tumor, and drains off the liquid, and carrying through the sac one or two silk strands, allows them to remain in position about