390 ■ LESIONS OF THE ORGANS OF REPRODUCTION. PhospJioms is relied upon by Professor Agnew, especially as combined with cantharides. (F. 527.) Potassii Brornidimi is an invaluable sedative. Strychnia is much used to give tone to the nervous system. (F. 527.) Tannicum Aciduni is employed locally. Veratrum Viride is a potent agent for controlling the priapism associated with some cases of spermatorrhea. Zinciim. The acetate and sulphate are employed for injections. Dr. J. Waring Curran says the oxide is a drug of the greatest efficacy in seminal emissions. He combines it with camphor and conium. VARICOCELE. The numerous operations suggested for the radical cure of vari- cocele indicate that there is none wholly satisfactory to surgeons; and the occasional deaths from pyaemia recommend the employ- ment in preference of some less dangerous means of cure. The most promising of these is by compressio7i. In the majority of cases this is preferable to any more violent means of treatment, and in a large proportion favorable results may be expected. The pen- dant parts are to be supported, while moderate compression is made immediately over the external abdominal ring. To make the pres- sure, an ordinary hernia truss may be used, with a perineal band to keep it perfectly in position. The aim is to make such an amount of pressure as will moderately compress the.veins at this point, and maintain it night and day, the truss only being removed for purposes of cleanliness. Owing, however, to the annoyance of the truss, and the objec- tion to allowing the blood to continue its vertical direction, the following plan of suspension, suggested by Mr. Morgan, Professor of Surgical Anatomy in the University of Dublin, has many ad- vantages: The testis is enclosed in the " suspender," which con- sists of a piece of web about 3^ inches wide at one end, 4^ inches long, 4 inches wide at the other, and cut gradually taper- ing to the narrow end. A piece of thick lead wire is stitched in the rim of the smaller end, and the sides are furnished with neat hooks, a lace, and a good tongue of chamois leather, two tapes being sewn along the entire length of the web, which are after-