491 THE TREATMENT OF SCROFULA. the regular use of a mild aperient, is most commonly sufficient to effect this. A few grains of rhubarb and soda, for some nights in succession, occasionally combined with a little gray powder, and then followed by a dose of castor-oil the next morning, in order to clear out the canal, usually succeeded well. This premised, it is now proper to begin the systematic exhibi- tion of tonics. Of these, there is a great variety, appropriate to different conditions. Iodine. The preparations of iodine are most likely to prove ser- viceable in the absence of all fever and vascular excitement. If these are present, they often only increase the mischief. They may usually be prescribed with advantage in simple, but concen- trated decoction of sarsaparilla. Iron. The use of iron is especially indicated when the symp- toms of anaemia predominate ; when the blood seems poor in red cells; especially when this is combined with a feeble circulation and general want of tone. The potassio-tartrate is especially useful in children, and has the additional advantage of combining with alkalies. The viniim ferri is a mild and simple preparation, and often a most valuable one. But the sulphate, when it can be borne, is sometimes much more efficacious ; and the tincture of the perchloride is perhaps the most powerful of all. All cases of de- bility, are, however, not suited by iron. When the lips and con- junctivae are florid, it is least likely to agree. Iron and iodine may often profitably be prescribed in combina- tion. The syrup of the iodide of iron is a convenient officinal form. Quinine, or other form of bark, is especially called for when the flesh is flabby, when there is great debility, when the appe- tite is bad and the excretions tolerably healthy. It may often be advantageously combined with iron. The mineral acids are generally given in similar conditions. They are especially useful in checking the profuse perspiration of hectic fever. The alkalies and their carbonates are valuable to scrofulous dys- pepsia. They are more particularly indicated when the urine is highly acid, and contains an excess of the lithates, or still more, any free lithic acid. For children, lime water, either in milk or in sarsaparilla, is often serviceable. Emetics. When there is much local disturbance about a tuber-