SUNSTROKE. 189 SUNSTROKE. SURGEON MAJOR A. R. HALL, R. A., INDIA. Undoubtedly the most important remedial measure in sunstroke is that first suggested, we believe, by the above-named surgeon, to wit: the hypodennic injeciton of quinine. His formula is the fol- lowing : 211. I^. Quinice sulphatis, gr.x Acid, sulph. dilut., Aquam, ad 1^100. M. To be used in three injections, at short intervals, until reaction super- venes. The value of this application is fully borne out by the testimony of many British surgeons in India, among whom we may mention Dr. Waller {Lidia Medical Gazette, July, 1869), who has had a large experience in India, as a specific in this affection, whether the skin is hot and dry or cool and moist, and whether or not muscular spasm be present. It rapidly diminishes the stupor and spasm, restores consciousness, and cures the attack. He gives quinine at every stage of the attack, either by the mouth (gr. xx at first, and gr.x every successive hour), or if the patient be un- able to swallow, hypodermically (gr. iss injected in each arm). For the intense and persistent headaches which follow sun- strokes, blistering to the nape of the neck and full doses of bromide of potassium have proved most useful. Where the symp- toms point to slow inflammatory action at the roots of the pneu- mogastric, a gentle course of mercury is indicated. The confusion, dullness of mind, loss of memory and extreme nervousness, which are some of the distressing sequelae of sunstroke, are, according to Dr. J. C. Peters, most successfully combated by the free use of dilute phosphoric acid. DR. THOMAS G. HERRON, OF CINCINNATI. The treatment pursued by this physician is by hot water {Medi- cal and Surgical Reporter, October, 1868). He applies very warm water to the head, by large wet towels, frequently changed, and pours the water, hot as the hand can bear it, freely over the head and neck. The feet should also be placed in hot salt water, and moderate stimulation be practiced as soon as the patient can swallow.