THE IMMEDIATE TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION, 23 article is employed, it is well to withhold all drinks from fifteen minutes to half an hour after the dose is taken in order to avoid vomiting. At the end of this time diluents may be used with ben- efit. Aconite is particularly adapted to neuralgic, gouty and rheu- matic affections, and to the higher grades of traumatic fever. From gtt. j-v of Fleming's saturated alcoholic tincture of the root, re- peated every two, three or four hours, is the usual form. Vera- tnini viride is applicable to the same class of cases. From gtt. v-viij of the saturated tincture of the root every two, three or four hours is the usual dose. Great care is demanded in its use, as it easily causes dangerous symptoms. Digitalis, as a depressant sedative, is not of much or any value. An important class of remedies in inflammation are diaphoretics. Though many are known, but few are reliable. These are tartar emetic, ipecacuanha, Dover's powder, and spirit of mindererus. The best form to administer antimony is in a combination like the following: 3. Antimon. et potassae tart., g^'-i-iV Morpbiae sulphatis, g^-j-i Aquse, f.^ss, M. This amount every two, three, or four hours. Dover's powder is an excellent form for ipecacuanha, grs. xv- XX, eveiy eight, ten or twelve hours. The action of these reme- dies should always be aided by tepid drinks, and, if there be much dryness of the surface, by frequent sponging of the body with tepid water. When there is nausea, dry skin, excessive thirst and great restlessness, the very best diaphoretic is lemon juice, in tablespoon- ful doses, saturated with bicarbonate of potassa, the salt being added slowly and gradually till all effervescence ceases. A twelfth of a grain of tartar emetic, or a few drops of tincture of aconite may be added as an arterial sedative. Of the various diuretics employed in inflammation, the most im- portant are nitrate of potassa and colchicwn. The former may be employed in doses of gr. xv-xxx every three, four, five or six hours in a large quantity of water. Colchicum may be employed as follows : 4. Tinct. colchici seminum, Morphias sulphatis, This amount once daily, at bed-time. f.3j