SPRAINS. So named from its components, which are, as stated above, a com- bination of iodine with glycerine. It was thought that, as this fluid is less diffusible than either a spirituous or watery solution, it will be found less likely to permeate the cerebro-spinal fluid with rapidity, and so to cause shock or bring on convulsions. The in- jection of the iodo-glycerine solution, in order to be successful, must be practiced under certain precautions, the most important of which is the prevention of the continuous loss of the subarachnoid or cerebro-spinal fluid. The results of this method, as shown by the reports of fifteen cases treated by the author and by other surgeons, appear to be most satisfactory, and certainly far surpass those obtained by any previous plan of treatment. Of the seven cases treated by Brain- ARD, before the publication of his paper in 1861, in three only was there a permanent and complete recovery. Dr. Morton states that of the fifteen cases treated by his method, twelve were successful, and three fatal, and that all his own lumbar cases have hitherto been fortunate. In the operative treatment of spina bifida, some care must of course be taken in the selection of cases. Some cases, as the author points out, are so complicated by other defects, as paralysis, hydrocephalus, etc., as to be hopeless. In subjects who have no paralysis, and no deformity of importance, and who, apart from the presence of the tumor constituting a spina bifida, ought to be sound, this new method of treatment may be under- taken, in lumbar cases at least, with very little fear of an unfavor- able result. SPRAINS. In the treatment of sprains, surgeons differ somewhat. Accord- ing to Mr. T. Holmes, at first, while the active state of effusion is present, antiphlogistic measures are necessary. Where it is grate- ful to the patient, the sedulous application of ice-bags is, he thinks, the best; but if this is not tolerated, leeches, followed by warm fomentations or evaporating lotions, or irrigation with spirit and water, will best check the tendency to effusion. As soon as the patient can bear it, equable pressure, by strapping and bandage, or by splints, with perfect rest, should be adopted.