421 CORNEAL DISEASES. pox, the following ointment should be applied to the cloudy or opaque cornea once daily with a camel's hair pencil: 609. I^. Hydrargyri oxidi flavi, gr.xij ^ Olei olivre, T.31J Adipis prseparati, 3vj. For an ointment. This ointment is known to be of great use in severe conjunctiv- itis, and it was first used by Dr. Gayton for conjunctivitis in vari- ola, in cases in which opacity of the cornea coexisted; and he found that it had a most marked effect on the latter. The red oxide of mercury is also applied to opaque spots on the cornea. It is most important to examine the eyes of patients with small- pox daily; and, the moment the slightest nebula is discovered, to apply the ointment, when the increase of the opacity will not only be prevented, but a cure will probably be effected in a few days. The medicinal treatment of opaque lens, with the view of its re- • moval, or clearing up, has thus far given rather poor results. But in the early stages of inflammatory conditions, likely to lead to cataract by contiguity, much may undoubtedly be accomplished. A few years ago, M. Lavignot proposed the use of oleaginous solutions of phosphorus, applied to the conjunctiva, and rubbed into the forehead, and asserted that he had proved that this had pro- duced the removal of opacity of the lens in several cases; but this assertion has not been substantiated by others. DR. JOHN GREEN, ST. LOUIS. Dry calomel, in impalpable powder, dusted in very minute quan- tity into the eye once a day, is a highly valued remedy in the healing stage of corneal ulcers. Pagenstecher's ointment (see F. 582) answers well in cases which require stronger stimulation. MR. T. HOLMES, OF LONDON. The general directions of this surgeon for the management of corneal ulcer are to obtain repose of the sphincter of the pupil and the muscles of accommodation by means of atropine, to prevent friction of the lids by a well-applied compressive bandage, to em- ploy hot fomentations, tonics, and nutritious diet. Mr. Jonathan Hutchinson remarks in one of his lectures, that no operation in corneal ulcer ought to be resorted to until after an