THE MEDICAL REGISTER AND DIRECTORY OF THE UNITED STATES, SYSTEMATICALLY ARRANGED BY STATES. Comprising Names, Post-offleo Address, Edacatlonal and Professional SiatlS' tics, of more tlian 60,000 Physicians, with lists of Medical Societies, Colleges, Hospitals, and other Medl«al Institutions, with Abstracts or the Medical L,aws of each State, Notes of Mineral Springes, etc. By SAMUEL W. BUTLER, M.D. Second Edition, Jtevlsed and Corrected. 6ne Tolnme, large oetaTO, double columng, 874 pa^es. Price, Ooth, $6.60; Leather, $6,50. The SECOWD EDITION of this Important work has been prepared at great cost of time- *od money. The lists have been carefully revised by leading medical men in each Stale. Nearly ten THOTTBAJTD now names have been added, and numerous corrections made. Those who have pur- chased the first edition will find this one to possess all the value of a new work. This work has a national and historic value, as well as a present business one. Besides the names and addresses of all the physicians in the country, it contains the roster of che medical oflBcers In the Army and Navy, list of the ofiQcers of state and county medical societies, a sketch of the med- ical geography of each state and territory, analysis of the waters of all prominent mineral springs, and a mass of other information interesting to the profession. The collation of the laws regulating ih» practice of medicine in the various States is a feature of special interest, and one not to be found in any other publication. All who desire to reach medical men for business purposes, for Instance, Life Insurance Com- panies, Medical Colleges, Wholesale Druggists, Importers, and Manufacturers of Pharmaceutical Specialties, Dealers In Surgical Instruments, will find this book invaluable. OPINIONS OF THE PRESS. This Is the first work of the kind that has ever appeared on the other side of the Atlantic. The Editor and compiler. Dr. S. W. Butler, and the publishers, are to be congratulated upon an. nnaoubted succe.-s—(London) Lancet. . ^ Upon opening its well-filled and well-arranged pages, our only surprise is that such a go-ahead race as our cousins have the credit of being should have gone on so long without so valuable a book of lelerenoe.—{liondoii) Medical Press and Circular. To publishers, druggists, and those members of the profession whose sympathies and needs are wide enough to reach beyond their own immediate neighborhood, this book must be invaluable.— (Philadelphia) ATedicaZ Times. . . ,i ■ Of very great value, and will be to physicians what the city directory is to the man ol busmess, a book he cannot get along very well without.—(Cincinnati) Xttncet and OSserver. A volume of very considerable Importance, the appreciation of which must grow in time, ana it should find a place in "every medical library of any pretensions to completeness.—JtfedicoZ and iur- ffieal Reporter. Notice to Physicians.—As it is higiily desirable, for the benefit of the profession, to have such a general list as this complete and accurate, the publisher earnestly requests physicians in all parts of the country to notify him of their changes of location; and he also asks secretaries of all local societies to forward hira lists of their members, with their post-offioe ^iddresses. He will cheerfully return the expense incurred in so doing.