242 LESIONS OF THE BONES AND JOINTS. These features are—intense p'ain, aggravated by pressure or mo- tion and most severe during the night, not confined to the jomt affected, and being generally also referred to the one beyond it, or a more distant part of the limb, which is weakened m its mus- cular power, disposed to edematous effusion, and altered in its sensations, being usually hotter or colder than natural, and occa- sionally feeling as if benumbed. These symptoms may exist for weeks or months with little alteration except in regard to their de- o-ree of severity ; but if the derangement from which they proceed be allowed to pursue its course without interruption, are almost sure sooner or later, to terminate in anchylosis or suppuration with caries of the bone affected. It is in this case that the actual cautery if properly applied, before suppuration has taken place, may be' regarded very nearly, if not absolutely, a certain remedy. The cautery should be heated to the utmost degree producible by a common fire, and be in size not less than a pigeon's egg, in order to retain its temperature sufficiently. A common poker wUl answer in case of an emergency. The eschar may in general be about two inches in length, and should be made on each of the two sides where the articulation is nearest the surface. The pain is much less than might be anticipated, and may be readily pre- vented by chloroform, which for this purpose, need not be em- ployed to its full effect, since the. early stage of unconsciousness will protect the patient from any unpleasant recollections of the nrocedure A poultice should be applied until suppuration is established and then some unctuous application, unless it is de- sii^d to ch;ck or stop the discharge, when the water dressing may be substituted. DR. THEODOR BILLROTH. With re<.ard to the treatment of that form of chronic synovitis c2d tumor albus,or white swelling (fungous and suppurafve ar cular inflammation), our author states that the general treat- ment should be more prominent, the more chron.c and ms.d.ous Te disease. Of course, it should be directed agamst any dys- rrisia which can be detected. The local treatment is the more effective the more acute he stage Painting the part with tincture of iodine, flyn,g bhste. f^.mnresses -entle compression with adhesive plaster, are all Tatar Or Ure part may be rubbed with a strong salve of n,- trate of silver: