454 NEW GROWTHS. The successful exhibition of ammonice inurias in large doses, 9j-iij, in a case of large fibrous tumor in,the abdomen, is reported by Dr. F. W. Hatch, in the Pacific Medical and Surgical Joimial 1875. GLANDULAR HYPERTROPHIES. DR. MORELL MACKENZIE, LONDON. In glandular swellings, of indolent character, this surgeon has found the hypodermic treatment with acetic acid th'e most useful to bring about resolution. The dilute acid is used, gtt,v-xx for one injection, gtt. vij-viij being an average dose. The injection should not be made more than once a week. The fluid should be injected well into the middle of the gland. If suppuration take place, the fluid should be drawn off with a hypodermic syringe or aspirator. The average duration of treatment by resolution is three months. For treatment by destruction and suppuration, a solution of nitrate of silver answers the best. The solution should be of the strength of one drachm to the ounce, and not more than three to five drops to be used. Considerable interstitial destruction is gen- erally produced after three or four injections, sometimes after a single injection. When pus forms, it should be drawn off as already directed. Treatment by destruction, if successful, is rather more rapid than that by resolution, but induration of the outer portion of the gland sometimes follows the treatment, and interferes with its success. The treatment by pepsine and dilute hydrochloric acid he found to be rapid, but was twice followed by superficial sloughs of the skin, and for that reason he abandoned it. [Medical Times and Gazette, May, 1875.) MR. CAMERON, DEPUTY INSPECTOR GENERAL, INDIA. This surgeon urges the treatment of chronic glandular swellings by repeated and deep punctures with a common lancet or small steel stiletto. The instrument should be held at right angles to the swelling and pushed down to the bottom. He has never seen any inflammatory or other bad symptoms produced by this 9pera- tion, and he has often practiced it with brilliant success. He