572 VENEREAL DISEASES. mon with Colles, Brodie and Sigmund, prefers that this should be effected by inunction. The patient's diet and daily habits should in the first place be regulated ; the former should consist of meat once daily, without any stimulants beyond beer or porter, sometimes better without any at all. He should keep regular and early hours, going to his bed not later than ten o'clock, and not rising before eight in the morning; during the day he may be engaged in business, if it be not of a laborious or exciting description. 950. Unguenti hydrargyri, ^j. Of this half a drachm should be rubbed in each morning after breakfast for twenty minutes or half an hour. The morning is the best time, because then the patient is the most vigorous; and besides, if rubbed at night, the heat and perspiration produced by lying in bed will cause a considerable loss of the ointment, and the patient breathes an atmosphere loaded with mercury. Unless the full time mentioned be given to the rubbing, half the ointment will be inefficient. It is usually necessary to impress the import- ance of this upon the patient, who, however, in a very short time lends a willing aid to the surgeon, finding his symptoms disap- pearing gradually, and his general health and strength improving rather than decreasing. The inside of the thigh and popliteal space is the region where the inunction can be practiced. The patient should be told to rub in on each thigh upon alternate mornings, carefully washing off the old ointment with warm water and soap before commencing the new inunction; this prevents the skin from becoming irritated, and mercurial eczema appearing; if, however, a few scattered pustules do appear, the rubbing should be applied to the axillse for a time. He is in the habit of directing the patient to take a hot-air or Turkish bath once or twice a week during treatment, and finds it not only preserves the skin from irritation by thor- oughly cleansing it, but also facilitates the action of the mercury; patients, including those in hospital, always express a sense of comfort and relief from the use of the bath. Many cases, particularly those belonging to the first division of the tertiary stage, are most benefited by a combination of mercury and iodide of potassium. For this purpose add to the recipe gr. j-V of the corrosive chloride, or the biniodide of mercury, to each dose.