CYSTITIS. 333 of a suppository. Mr. I.iston's favorite combination was the following: 446. "Sf. Pulveris opii, gr.ij-iv Extract! hyoscyami, gr.x-xv. M. This should be preferably exhibited at the hour of sleep, and usually secures a state of enviable comfort for twelve or sixteen hours. Sir. Henry Thompson employs a suppository of mor phia (gr.ss-j). Pareira Brava is recommended by Sir Benjamin Brodie as useful in les- sening the secretion of ropy mucus, and diminishing the inflam- matory action. He gives the following formula : 447. Pareirse bravse radicis, iss Aquse, ad Oiij. Simmer over the fire until reduced to Oj. Dose—f §viij-xij daily. Tincture of hyoscyamus may be added, and where there is a deposit of the phosphates, hydrochloric or nitric acid. Quinice Sulphatis. A solution of sulphate of quinine, gr.j to aquse f.!j, constitutes one of the most useful injections for cleansing the bladder of viscid mucus. Mr. Erichsen says he has found none superior to it in those forms of subacute cystitis with muco- purulent seretions that occur from any source of vesical irrita- tion, and that are apt to supervene during lithotrity. Mr. T. W. NuNN, of London, says in the Lancet that the most striking result is obtained by injecting the solution of quinine into the bladder in those cases where the urine, is loaded with pus, and is intensely offensive; the bladder being irritable, the desire to urinate recurring every hour, or more often, for example, where the bladder only imperfectly empties itself, or when the con- tinual use of the catheter is called for in enlarged prostate, or in atony of the organ. The following is his method of using the quinine as a bladder injection : Dissolve twenty grains of disul- phate of quinine in twenty-five ounces of water by the aid of a few drops of dilute sulphuric acid or a teaspoonful of common brown vinegar. Of this solution inject into the bladder two or three ounces, and let it remain. * Tercbinthince Oleum, in the form of hot epithems over the hypogastric region, is highly serviceable. Tritictim Repens, in decoction, is highly spoken of by Sir Hery Thomp- son and Dr. Graily Hev^^itt. (F. 427.) Uvcc Ursi Folia, in decoction, Oss daily. (F. 434.)