227 ULCERS, RESUME OF REMEDIES. Alcohol. This is an excellent application to sores and ulcers. It covers them with a thin layer of coagulated albumen. (For Alcoholic Dressings, see page 73.) When the ulcer is obstinate, gr. j-v to alcoholis Oj, makes a most potent stimulating lotion. Aliimen, applied in dry powder or in solution to relaxed and abundantly secreting sores, is a fine astringent. Argenti Niiras is an almost indispensable stimulant in the management of old ulcers. Balsamiim Peruvianum is a favorite stimulant, combined with resin oint- ment, of Sir James Paget. (F. 270.) Bismuth makes a useful desiccant astringent application. Brominium is employed by Dr. John H. Brinton. (F. 253.) Cadini Oleum is an excellent form of tar for local use. See Pix. Carbo, applied locally to sloughing sores, is a useful disinfectant. Carbolicum Acidmn is highly recommended. (F. 261.) Carbonis Sulphidum is especially useful in indolent ulcers. (F. 252.) Chloralum Hydratum, in solution, will be found a very satisfactory lotion to foul and recent ulcers. (F. 236, 240.) Chlorinii Aqua. Sloughing and foul smelling sores may be advanta- geously washed with this preparation. Cinchona. Finely powdered Peruvian bark, dusted thickly over foul, indolent, sloughing and even dangerous ulcers, and left to form a kind of poultice, has apparently promoted the healing pro- cess. Conium is often an efficient anodyne addition to ointments. Creta Preparata is an ingredient in a number of soothing ointments. (F. 254, 258.) Cuprum. The sulphate of copper, in stick, solution or ointment, is an appropriate stimulant to indolent sores. Electricity has been employed with very satisfactory results by a number of surgeons, but is limited to ulcers which will yield by mod erate stimulation. (See above.) Farina is used as an application by Mr. Cowen. (F. 265.) Feculce lodidum. To clean sloughing sores Professor Marshall has em- ployed successfully an iodide of starch poultice, applied cold. (For recipe to make it, see page 39.) Glycerina, slightly diluted, or carbolated, makes a very good application. lodoformum, dusted in fine powder over spreading and painful sores, gives much relief. Dr. Mandelbaum, of Odessa, says {Berl. Klin. Wochenschrift, Nov. 10, 1878,) all ulcers of the leg and elsewhere, can be cured by the following method: If they are very deep, with much loss of tissue, and with undermined, un- even, callous edges, they are first to be scraped away until healthy tissue is reached, with the modification of Volkmann's spoon as suggested by Hebra ; they are then to be covered for