164 SPECIAL FORMS OF WOUNDS. 1. ^ In slight forms of malignant pustule when the surgeon has been called in at the beginning, a simple cauterization with Vienna paste is sufficient, and Dr. Bompaire believes that it stops the disease in the majority of cases. 2. When the tumor has acquired a certain development, when the general symptoms have shown themselves in the usual way towards the fourth or fifth day, cauterization should be preceded by a crucial incison through, as far as possible, the whole depth of the slough. 3. Finally, when medical assistance has been called in late, when the malignant pustule has reached the seventh or eighth day, and oedema has invaded a large surface, action must be taken even when the general symptoms are very serious, and life itself seems, in danger. Observation shows that, in these ;cases, the excision of the slough, combined with vigorous cauterization with sulphuric acid, may be of great service and save the patient. Antiseptics, such as carbolic and salicylic acid and tonics, should be adminis- tered internally. DISSECTING WOUNDS. Those who are called upon to perform post mortem examina- tions in cases of acute internal inflammations should have their hands well greased or oiled, as the poison may pass through the unbroken skin unless protected; and any scratches or abrasions should be covered with adhesive plaster. If they are unlucky enou-h to prick or cut the hand, the first thing is to tie a ligature tiehtly around above the wound, and then squeeze it so as to en- courage a copious flow of blood. Next it should be well washed and sucked for a long time. Should unpleasant symptoms supervene, rest, country air, purga- tion and generous living are essential. Stimulants are demanded early and constantly. Abscesses must be encouraged by fomenta- tions and opened by early incisions. In regard to cauterising dissection wounds, surgeons diHer. Mr T Holmes and Prof Gross are of opinion that undoubtedly this measure gives more security against absorption of the virus^ Mr Erichsen thinks it is better not to apply caustics; if any