250 LESIONS OF THE ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. the artery), maintained under chloroform or opium, if necessary, for a period varying from six to twelve hours, or even longer, and assisted by a tourniquet on the distal side of the sac, if the first attempt did not succeed. Should a few sittings fail to effect good progress in the cure, the ligature would be the next resort. He sums up the general principles of treating aneurisms as follows: 1. No aneurism is to be regarded as necessarily incurable. 2. Some cases in internal aneurism are apparently cured by ab- solute and prolonged rest, restricted diet, and other medical treat- ment. 3. When possible, compression, either proximal or distal, is to be employed in addition. 4. In all aneurisms in which treatment by ligature is known to be a fatal operation, the above rules are to be first applied. 5. The treatment of progressive aneurism at the root of the neck, by the distal operation, is justifiable after medical treatment has failed. 6. In rare instances only may an aneurism be treated by ligature before compression has been tried and has failed. 7. Digital is to be preferred to instrumental compression. 8. Anaesthetics and morphia are valuable aids to compression. 9. Chloroform will probably prove to be a more effectual agent than morphia in all cases but the more hazardous. 10. The value of morphia should be more thoroughly tested. DR. G. W. BALFOUR. The treatment recommended by this writer for internal aneur- ism comprises iodide of potassium and rest. The latter means the recmTibent position and a restricted diet. The former he gives in doses of 3j to Sss three times a day, with infusion of chiretta. To get the specific effect of the drug the blood must be rapidly satu- rated, and these large doses continued for many months. lodism is more apt to occur from small than from large doses. If the patient is very intolerant, this can be overcome by intermitting the remedy. By strict adherence to this plan. Dr. Balfour has invariably suc- ceeded in relieving the symptoms and retarding the progress of the case, and in some instances has effected a cure. [The Lancet, Feb 1876). In regard to diet, fish was given as the least nutri- tious' form of animal food, and the patients urged to restrain their