82 THE DRESSING OF WOUNDS. thus reactionary oozing and its effects are guarded against, and primary union generally obtained. In regard to the comparative advantages of the boracic lotion or of the carbolized oil dressmg he prefers the former in cases of excision of tumors and jomts, and in amputations when the soft tissues are healthy; but in cases of amputation or excisions of joints in which there are old smuses and a diseased state of the skin, the oil dressings seem to naeet the requirements of the case better, and are more easily applied and removed without causing pain. In using oil dressing, he applies a narrow strip of waxed paper over the line of incision as a protec- tion from the irritating quality of the carbolized oil. DR. SOULEZ, OF ROMORANTIN, FRANCE, Has advocated in La Tribune Medicale (Dec, 1876,) carbolated cam- phor as a dressing. 64 R. Acidi carbolici crystal., ' ^'^""^IlfJ ^' ^ Alcoholis, grammes I Mix, and add— ^ Pulv. camphors, grammes 25. The product is an oleaginous pale-yellow liquid, with a feeble odor of camphor, and no odor of carbolic acid at all. It does not mix with water or glycerine, but does mix with olive and almond oils The infusion of saponaria (iQQ grm. of the leaves of soap- wort to 1,000 grm. water) emulsifies it, as does also the alcoholic tincture of qidUaria saponaria (alcohol at 90°, i litre; Panama bark 250 o-rm). When mixed with an equal part of the carbolated camphor this tincture produces a mother emulsion, which, when weakened with water, is used to prepare the antiseptic wadding. In dressing a wound, Dr. Soulez covers it first with a square of wadding, which is impregnated with a mixture of carbolated cam- nhor and olive-oil. This must be large enough to extend 2% to \ inches beyond the wound. This is then covered by six other layers of wadding, impregnated with the emulsion above men- tioned Each layer should be one inch wider than the one below > A thin envelope of caoutchouc is then applied to prevent evap- oration and over this a layer of dry wadding, and the whole is then secured by a bandage. The author claims that this dressing is very easy of application; all the materials can be prepared before- rJd and kept in well-covered jars. Before applying it the wound should always be washed with the emulsion of carbolated camphor.