IRITIS. the pad and bandage; but neither the one.nor the other should be appHed until a quarter of an hour after the instillation of the atropia. lest the solution should be absorbed and removed from When the inflammatory symptoms are rapidly subsiding, the mercury, and probably the opium, may be entirely laid aside But the continued use of atropia is necessary in order to prevent relapse; and the pupil should be kept fully dilated until the eye is quite well. As long as the pupil is dilated the eye does not par- ticipate in the functional changes of its fellow, to which, therefore, moderate use may be permitted. An attack of any seventy usually leaves behind a temporary proneness to conjunctival irri- tation, which the atropia may often assist to keep up. For this the cautious use of a mild astringent, such as : 610. ^. Zinci sulphatis, SJ-^J- Aquae destillatas, ^•3'-'^* This collyrium will usually be found effectual. It will often be desirable to protect the eye from the glare, wind and dust after a severe attack, by the use of blue glasses. These are now made of a watch-glass form, for the purpose of excluding side light; MR. A. R. HALL, SURGEON, R. A. This surgeon {Practitioner, April, iS/S-) records the very excel- lent results he has had with da/sam of copaiva in iritis and sclero- titis He gives to adults f5ij, in mucilage, three times a day. The pain should be diminished in twenty-four or forty-eight hours, and the sight restored. GEORGE L..WSON, F. R. C. S., SURGEON TO THE ROYAL LONDON OPH- THALMIC HOSPITAL, MANSFIELD. In the treatment of sypliilitic iritis our author regards mercury as imperatively called for. It should be given in doses sufficiently large and frequent to bring the patient quickly under its influence, but as soon as the gums begin to grow tender and spongy the quantity should be diminished so as to avoid anything like pio- fuse salivation. A piece of the size of a hazel-nut, of the rmgucn. turn hydrargyria may be rubbed into the axilla night and morning, or a pill with calomel and opium may be administered: