SPECIAL FORMS OF WOUNDS. 152 from an antiseptic standpoint,,it must be insisted upon that noth- ing be brought in contact with the fresh wound that can make it worse. Do not examine the wound at all, rather than examine it with unclean fingers. Do not cleanse the wound at all, rather than use unclean water and sponges. Do not dress the wound at all, rather than use unclean material. But everything is unclean, in the strict sense, that is not antiseptic. Every dressing used should be impregnated with carbolic, salicylic or benzoic acid. These should be fastened upon the wound with carbolized adhesive strips. This first dressing, of course, remains until the patient arrives at the hospital, nor is it to b'e removed then, unless a bad odor, or other symptoms (fever or pain), demand a change of dressing. If these do not appear, we may expect an aseptic healing under the scab, and content ourselves with simply placing an aseptic cover- ing over the outer layer. A most important inquiry arises, therefore, in the following form : How is a wound to be treated on the field of battle, in order to guard against these pernicious putrefactive influences ? This question Prof. Esmarch has sought to answer by requiring that the wounds shall not be touched by the hands, but closed rapidly by antiseptic plugs, in order to preserve them from the contact of putrefactive agents until they can undergo the Lister treatment in the hospitals if necessary.' For this purpose he proposes that every soldier should carry in the lining of his uniform two balls of salicylated jute wrapped up in gauze. Of all antiseptics, salicylic acid seems best suited for the purpose, not being fluid, retaining its power longest, easy to procure and to stow away ; so that while packing these balls away in the soldier's uniform is a doubtful procedure, yet the bearers and the surgeons should be supplied with an ample stock. Perhaps room might be found for stowing away in the soldier's knapsack these salicylated plugs. If the balls are not filled too full, and are made with salicylated gauze and wadding or jute, they will be found of great practical use. By reason of the lasting action of the salicylic acid, a wbund may in this way be protected from septic influences for several days. Often a sort of healing process will have been already set up, so that the adherent plug will sometimes have to be left in, complete healing of superficial wounds taking place in this way when there