72 THE DRESSING OF WOUNDS. correspond with the demand for a greater or less antiphlogistic impression. In another class of cases, where reaction is incomplete or absent, and where there is a present and increasing asthenia, a water dressing is still to be employed. It should, however, be neither cold nor warm, but about four or six degrees higher than the sur- rounding atmosphere, and it should be medicated with tincture of myrrh, or, what is. better, the compound tincture of capsicum. Dr. Garretson is convinced that the experience of the most judicious surgeons demonstrates beyond a doubt th^ superiority of water as a surgical dressing above all other applications; but it is by no means an innocent or inert agent, and its employment demands as much judgment and care "as are necessary in the administration of opium." Owing to a neglect of such necessary precautions, water dressing has at times been most severely cen- sured and discountenanced, for its alleged tendency to prevent the healing process and lead to sloughing. In favor of warm water dressing as superior to cool or cold, the opinion of Dr. Frank H. Hamilton has already been quoted (page 20). On the same side, PROFESSOR N. B. CROSBY, Of the Bellevue Hospital, New York, sa,ys (New York Medical Journal, February, 1877), that its undoubted success is due, first, to the exclusion of air; second, to the soothing effect of warmth and moisture; third, to the fact that the heat favors cell-infiltra- tion; and finally, and perhaps most important of all, the changing of the water from time to time removes all septic matter, and thus prevents absorption of purulent and putrid elements. An elevated temperature in the water proves a marked advant- age when the vitality is low. The rule of lacerated and contused wounds is to slough to a greater or less extent. The separation of the slough is dependent on cell-infiltration or the formation of granulations, and this is retarded by cold and aided by heat, and the more rapidly this is brought about the more rapidly will adhe- sive inflammation be set up, and insure the immediate safety of the patient by plugging the capillary vessels and closing the lymphatics.