289 TONSILLITIS (quinsy, CYNANCHE). commenced. Sometimes they are evident before the expiration of this period; occasionally three or four days may elapse before apparent results are obtained. Glycerina, especially in combination with tannin, is frequently of much use in the later stages of sore throat, applied with a pencil, or with water as a gargle. Gitaiacum is one of the most specific and important remedies in inflamed sore throat. The following is a most satisfactory formula: 368. Tincturse guaiaci ammoniatae, f.5iij Liquoris potasste, f-Siij TincturEe opii, f.5ij Aquam cinnamomi, ad f.^viij. M. • For a gargle. A teaspoonful every hour. Mr. Joseph Bell strongly recommends the internal adminis- tration of powdered guaiacum—half a drachm suspended by means of mucilage, in a draught, every six hours, in large doses. —as being almost specific in the cure of cynanche tonsillaris. Dr. R. J. Fritzinger, of Pennsylvania, has found the following; an almost certain preventive of ulceration in tonsillitis: 369. '2/.. Potassii chloratis, 5j Spiritus setheris nitrosi, f.gss Tinaturae guaiaci, f.giss M. A teaspoonful every three hours in sweetened water. [Medical' and Surgical Reporter, November, 1874.) Hydrargyrian. Dr. Ringer says that in acute tonsillitis, when the tonsils- almost meet, gr. of hydrarg. powder, every hour, is benefi- cial, even if an abcess has formed. Ice, constantly sucked, a small piece being kept in the mouth, is a valued alleviant. lodinium. The tincture of iodine is occasionally applied to the sores left by faucial inflammation and as an absorbent. Potassii Chloras is a frequent ingredient in gargles for the throat, (F. 369.) It may be combined with carbolic acid : 370. I^. Potassii chloratis, 5ij Acidi carbolici, f.3ss Aqu£E cinnamomi, f-^viij. M. For a lotion or gai'gle. Potassii Nitras was formerly a common application to inflamed throat,. but is now largely supplanted by the chlorate. Quin'm Sulphatis, see Cinchona. Rhus Glabium. Dr. H. C. Wood, Jr., states that the most generally efficient gargle in ordinary sore throat he has ever met with is the following: 19-S