1 20 THE THERAPEUTICS OF INFLAMMATION. upon the part. Dry cold has the advantage of not soddening the part, and is less apt to be followed by gangrene. It is best applied by putting ice into a thin vulcanized India rubber bag. WARM IMMERSION. Professor Frank H. Hamilton, M. D., of New York, has of late years strongly urged as a preventive measure against trau- matic inflammation the use of warm luater instead of cold, and of immersion as superior to irrigation. [Richmond and Louisville Medi- cal Journal, January, 1874.) He places the injured part in a water bath constantly maintained at a temperature of 90°—95° Fah., and keeps it there from one to three weeks. When from the posi- tion of the injury this is not practicable, he covers with several thicknesses of sheet lint, previously saturated with tepid water, and encloses this with oiled silk. When the bath can thus be em- ployed, little or no inflammatory reaction takes place, and gan- grene is very successfully avoided, even in exceedingly severely lacerated and contused wounds of the extremities. Dr. Hamilton, from an extended experience, much prefers this to the cool or cold prophylaxis of inflammation. THE USE OF VERATRUM VIRIDE. The exhibition of veratrum viride has been advocated by Dr. C. Wood, jr.. as of great value in preventing inflammation after severe abnormal injuries, indeed, after any severe injury. The patient should be placed at rest, and restricted to a low diet, while the tincture of veratrum should be administered very carefully, so as to keep the pulse as depressed as possible, but at the same time to avoid vomiting. To secure this latter, opium should be com- bined with the veratrum. A similar use of the drug has been urged by others. Dr. D. W. Jones, of New York, correctly points out that "the peculiarly beneficial effects of veratrum are experienced at that point where, in the initial stages of inflammation, congestion in the part has taken place, but the period of eff"usion has not yet been reached" {Medical and Surgical Reporter, April, 1872). When there is pres- ent an inflammatory condition of the stomach and bowels, it must be used with great caution or not at all. 4