45 GENERAL ANAESTHETICS. committed to one competent person, whose duty it should be to attend to it, and to nothing else. The chloroform should be pure, that is, free from oily matter, muriatic acid, and uncombined chlorine. It may be administered in vapor, either by means of a folded handkerchief applied ever the face and nose, or by means of in- halers, which are sold for this purpose; and care should be taken that the patient breathes pure atmospheric air, at the same time with the chloroform vapor. There is reason to believe that cardiac syncope of a fatal character has been produced by inhaling air very strongly charged with chloroform. It is, therefore, important to administer it gradually; and if a handkerchief is used, to hold it at least an inch from the mouth, and not to put more than fifteen or twenty minims upon it at one time. i It has also been stated on excellent authority that air heavily charged with carbolic acid, as is so often the case in operations performed under the carbolic spray, decidedly increases the dan- gers of chloroform. The tendency to cmcsis, which is a fertile source of danger to the patient and annoyance to the surgeon, can almost certainly be prevented by forbidding any food for four hours before the inhala- tion, and by administering a few minutes before it a few teaspoon- fuls of brandy. The following special conditions should be considered: Age. Children and aged persons bear chloroform well. Mr. Jonathan Hutchinson teaches that the anaesthesia of chloroform is safer than that of ether in advanced life, as it is attended with less cerebral excitement. In giving it to infants, but a few drops should be administered at a time. Sex. Hysterical females are peculiarly susceptible to the action of chloroform. Heart Disease. Most surgeons believe that fatty degeneration, marked cardiac debility, and the presence of large aneurisms, contra-indicate the use of chloroform. This is denied by Prof. Gross, who has never witnessed evil effects from these causes. Prof. OccHiNi, of Italy, recommends that such patients should in- hale ammonia for five or ten minutes before commencing the chloroform. But a recent and able authority, Prof George H. B. Macleod, F. R. S. E., of the University of Glasgow, maintains that any such precaution is wholly needless. His words arc: