LESIONS FROM HEAT AND COLD. i8o ence to the immediate treatment of burns. {TJie Sanitarian, Dec, 1874.) The first step is to remove the clothing carefully by cutting it from the body, and then to wrap the patient in hot blankets or large masses of cotton. To allay the pain, chloroform or ether should be administered to partial or complete unconsciousness, and opium given in full doses. The dressing should be applied while the patient is under the influence of the ansesthetic. Dr. Morris condemns carron oil as useless. In bad scalds of children, he places the patient in a bed of loose bran, so that the child is entirely covered with it This has the advantage of not requiring change each day; as the moist particles fall off, they can be replaced with fresh bran without disturbing the patient. He severely condemns frequent changes of dressings. As a local anaesthetic and deodorant, he has found the following to give great relief to the patient:' 190. I^. Liquor, sodse chlorinatse, ^-^j... Morphiae sulphatis, gr-iij AquK, Oj. M. Apply locally on soft rags. Or the following: 191. Acidi carbolici, ^•^]t^^ Morphise sulphatis, gr-ij Olei olivae. f-Svj- M. Apply locally. • After the free application ot one of these, the parts may be wrapped in cotton batting. For superficial burns, simple cold or warm water dressing is often enough. For the treatment of the shock, alcoholic drinks are not advisa- ble. The best stimulant that can possibly be given is strong, hot coffee, to which a little brandy may be added if manifestly needed. Labarraque's solution has also been highly extolled by Prof. L. A. DuGAS, M. D., of Georgia. He states that it possesses the rare virtues in such cases of immediately arresting all pain, and also of preventing suppuration when the whole thickness of the skin has not been destroyed. From half an ounce to one ounce, to a quart of water, will be usually of the proper strength, and the affected surface should be covered with old linen, which is to be kept wet with it, and not to be removed for 24 or 48 hours, according to