358 LESIONS OF THE ORGANS OF REPRODUCTION. If a man has sexual organs, including the prostate, not mani- festly diseased or wasted, and has erections and occasional noctur- nal emissions, and any sexual desire, the surgeon may be very confident he is not impotent from any other cause than a mental or nervous one. A full and free statement that the presumed im- potence is merely a nervous phenomenon will often relieve anxiety, and with it the trouble itself • A sensible man, who has only been ignorant on sexual subjects, who can understand evidence, and who is ready to believe those who are most likely to tell him what is true, will be cured when the truth is told. At the opposite extreme, the worst class of sex- ual hypochondriacs are almost incapable of cure; they will believe nothing hopeful; and they will be dull to all common sense state- ments. DR. SAMUEL W. GROSS, OF PHILA. This surgeon has pointed out that sexual debility and impotence may result from stricture and inflammation of the curved portion of the urethra, brought about by the injurious habit of masturba- tion [Medical and Surgical Reporter, May 5th, 1877). He remarks that reduced sexual power, from whatever cause it may arise, is one of the most distressing of maladies, and is, therefore, entitled to the deepest sympathy and consideration on the part of the honest practitioner, by whom unfortunately, it is rarely discussed. From the intimate connection which exists between the urethra, the prostate, the seminal vesicles, the ejaculatory and the deferen- tial ducts, and the testes, it is not surprising that lesions of that passage should exert a powerful effect upon the functions of gen- eration, whether that effect be due to the extension of morbid action through continuity of structure, or to reflex action. Hence it is that many persons affected with urethral disorders suffer from more or less marked disturbance in their sexual powers, amounting, in some instances, to impotence, or inability to copu- late, either from incapability of intromission, or premature ejacula- tion, both states being associated with imperfect or transient erec- tions. The particular form of impotence resulting from sincfjire is associated with inflammation, and hyperzesthesia of the posterior portion of the urethra. In the majority of the cases that come under observation, the trouble is due to subacute or chronic inflammation, and morbid