LESIONS OF MUSCULAR TISSUE. with camphorated oil, arid thus repeated a few times, will gener- ally abort. Carboliciini Acidum. A drop of the pure acid applied to the apex of a coming boil will sometimes abort it. As a dressing to carbun- cles the dilute acid is very serviceable. Collodion. If collodion be applied at the papular or pustular stage of an ordinary boil, the swelling around the pustule subsides, and the boil is arrested. The collodion should be repeatedly painted upon the part. (See above.) Ferri Perchloridum. Highly commended by Dr. Schneider in car- buncle (above). lodinium. The tincture or liniment, if applied so as to produce vesica- tion around a boil or carbuncle, is an efficient means, according to Dr. J. K. Spender, to reduce the local inflammation. Hydrargyrum. A plaster of mercurial ointment applied early is an excel- lent treatment in carbuncle. The corrosive chloride has been used later in the disease. (See above.) When there is an obsti- nate recurrence of boils or carbuncles, slight ptyalism may be re- quired ; minute doses of the bichloride are preferable. (Gross.) Hydrastis Canadensis, internally, in full doses (f-Sij four times a day) is especially valuable in preventing recurrent crops of boils in scrofulous subjects. It should be assisted with saline laxatives. Phosphorus. In cases of obstinate furunculosis, Dr. Samuel R. Percy has used his preparation of "vitalized phosphorus" with much advantage. Potassii Chloras. When the tendency to a recurrence of carbuncle or boil is attended with digestive disturbance, acidity and flatu- lence, the chlorate of potash, gr.v-x, thrice daily, will often im- prove the health. Potassa Fidsa is preferred by Mr. T. Holmes as a caustic in carbuncle. Potassii Permanganas, in solution, applied on pieces of old muslin, after the carbuncle has been freely divided, has been highly extolled, as relieving pain and checking fetor. Prims verticillatiis is of value in carbuncle. (See above ) Rheum. Furuncles in children generally depend on some disorder of the alimentary canal, as entro-colitis and dyspepsia. In such cases the following prescription, from the Children's Hospital, Phila- delphia, will be found to act most efficiently in ridding the sys- tem of them: 250. R. Sodii bicarb, 3ss.-3iss Syr. rhei aromat., Tinct. colombae, aa fl.^j. M. S. Teaspoonful three times a day to a child of two years. Sodii Sulphis and Hyposulphis, in solution, as a dressing, are useful anti- septics. Sulphur internally is said to act efficiently to prevent recurrence. It has also formed an ingredient in local applications.