SUNSTROKE, C. G. HILL, M, D., MARYLAND. Our author recommends (Virginia Medical Monthly, November, 1874,) oxygen inhalations in heat-stroke. The oxygen should be applied loosely to the nostrils, so as to allow a free admixture of atmospheric air. W. C. MACLEAN, M. D., LONDON. When blood-letting was the rule for sunstroke, recovery was the rare exception. There is now great unanimity of opinion on the treatment, and the lancet has no place in it. At the earliest possi- ble moment, let the sufferer be carried to the nearest shade, stripped and assiduously dashed iviih cold ivater, over the head, neck and chest. If this be effectually and quickly done, the powerful impression on the cutaneous nerves will soon re-establish respiration, at first by gasps and catches, soon in a more regular and tranquil manner. It will also reduce the heat of skin. It may be required to be done again and again ; in hospital it may be necessary to envelop the patient in a wet sheet, and to ply the fan or punkah over him vigor- ously, until the skin is reduced to a more natural temperature.. The patient should be encouraged to drink freely; if vomiting fol- lows, it will often aid in relieving the congestion of the lungs. The douche, used as above described, is a powerful remedy, and as. Dr. Abercrombie long since pointed out, it may be abused, par- ticularly if it is applied too long to the shaven scalp. MoreheaD' also cautions us against its prolonged use in a routine way whem the skin is cold and clammy and the respiration sighing; under such circumstances we must restrict ourselves to dashing water over the face and chest. When the heat of the skin is excessive, we ma^ avail ourselves, if ice be at hand, of Dr. Parkes' suggestion, and!- give an enema of ice-cold water. We should apply avimonia, with, the usual caution, now and then, to the nostrils; the bowels being always constipated, the sooner they are relievecf the better, by the use of purgatives and enemata. The occurrence of moderate diar- rhoea seems to favor recovery. Support and a judicious use of stimulants must not be neglected. If sensibihty be not restored and maintained by the douche, a blister should be applied at once to the nape, and if needs be to the shaven head. There is much unanimity as to the good effects of this measure. Dr. Barclay has found chloroform inhalation useful in a convulsive form of the disease, attended with extreme nervous irritabihty,, a.class of cases 13-S