WOUNDS AND INJURIES. 433 episcleritis, or subconjunctival deposits. He uses the pure liquid acid; the pain of the application, though severe, lasts but for a few minutes. Carbonimm Acidum has been used as a local anaesthetic in painful dis- eases of the eye. Chloral Hydras, as a neurotic and a simple hypnotic, is invaluable. In many ocular affections, where we find wakefulness or restless- ness, unassociated with pain, and due perhaps to mental worry or anxiety, chloral hydrate acts like a charm ; and in such cases we should not fail to make use of this most valuable drug. Chloroformum. According to Sir J. Y. Simpson, a few drops of chloro- form evaporated on the palm of the hand close to a photopho- bic eye, will enable it to bear the light without pain. Copaiva. Mr. A. R. Hall has extolled the value of this substance in diseases of the conjunctiva and iris. (See p. 419 ) Cosmoline, a petroleum product, has been very successfully employed as. an excipient in ointment for the eye. It is perfectly homogen- eous, bland, and unalterable by heat and exposure. Croton Chloj-al has been highly praised for its power in relieving oph- thalmic neuralgia and irritability of the eyeball. Severe photo- phobia may be promptly relieved by the administration of gr. v-xv, thrice daily. Mr. Bader, of Guy's Hospital, thinks- these good effects, however, are limited to young people, and. particularly to cases of syphilitic corneo-iritis. The disagreea- ble taste of the medicine is a bar to its exhibition. Daturia. In 1861, Dr. Jobert (de Lamballe) proposed the substitutions of the alkaloid of the Datura Stramonium (daturia) as a mydri- atic instead of atropia. He concluded that daturia was three times as strong as atropia; that its instillation into the eye caused no pain or confusion to vision, and that its effects Avere more constant than those of atropia, and its action more per- sistent. Dr. Fano has published {Journal d' Oculistique et de Chir., Aug. and Sept., 1875,) numerous observations illustrat- ing the employment of daturia as a mydriatic. The instillation of a solution of daturia (i part in 600; causes, he says, dilata- tion of the pupil in twenty-five minutes, and this too in some cases of keratitis, in which atropia has failed ta produce any effect. ^ Duboisin, the alkaloid of the Australian plant, Duboisia myosporida, has been found to be a potent mydriatic, and has come into free use in Europe. It is as yet undetermined that it possesses qual- ities superior to atropia. Eserine. The attention of ophthalmologists has been called to the value of the extract of the Calabar bean, and its alkaloid eserine, by various writers. Dr. A. Weber {Graefe's Archiv., Bd. xxii.) states that the sulphate of eserine is ten to fifteen times more powerful than the extract; one drop of a one per cent, solution of eserine begins after five minutes to develop its effect upon* the ciliary nerves, and produces within twenty minutes an ex- treme contraction of the pupil, which lasts ten hours. He be>- 28-s