THE TREATMENT OF SCROFULA. 498 when gland after gland is attacked. A tablespoonful should be given in milk three or four times a day. Calcis Phosphas Pracipitata has been recommended as an excellent palli- ative. In scrofulous ulcers it is given with benefit, in doses of gr.viij-xx daily, taken with the meals, so as to be thoroughly mixed with the food. In scrofulous diarrhoea, good results are obtained from doses of gr.vj-x daily. Conium has been strongly advocated in scrofulous affections. Its effects are most marked in favoring the absorption and removal of en- larged glands, and in promoting the healing of scrofulous sores. Dr. Baudelocque, of Paris, obtained excellent results from its use in the treatment of children so affected; and more recently, " also, Dr. Alexander Fleming, Senior, Physician to the Queen's Hospital, Birmingham. (^British Medical Journal, Feb., 1871.) He says for twenty years he has adopted the following plan of administering it with good results : The fresh green fruit is mixed with its own weight of white sugar, and reduced to a pulp. Five grains or more of this conserve are given three times a day. It loses its activity in three or four weeks, and must be renewed. Conia has been recommended in strumous ophthal- mia. (P. 494.) Ferri Carbonas. Dr. Byford prefers this form of iron to all others in scrofulous affections. He gives it pure, gr.x-xij, thrice a day, suspended in thick mucilage. Ferri et Ammonice Citras is a useful remedy, particularly recommended by its mild taste, which adapts it for administration to children Ferri Bromidum has been recommended, in ointment, as an application to scrofulous swellings: 724. Ferri bromidi, Glycerinse, aa i part Adipis, 14 parts. M. * Ferri lodidum, in the form of the officinal syrup, is a powerful remedy in all forms of scrofula. .Hydrargyrum. In infantile scrofula, especially during the first three years of life, Dr. William H. Byford considers mercury the most efficacious of all remedies. He prefers to give calomel or the corrosive chloride in very small doses, combined with tar- axacum (which see). The undoubted value of mercurials in many cases is no doubt owing, as has been suggested by Dr. Jacob:, to the presence of a syphilitic taint in the child, fre- quently putting on scrofulous forms. As this taint is probablv present in half the children born in large cities, its early detec tion and treatment are of first importance. The best prepara- tion is probably the bichloride. (P. 488.) " *Iodinimn and its compounds are the most efficient remedies we possess in scrofulous affections. They are employed both externally and internally. It may be administered alone or in combination. An excellent method is as iodized milk: