HEMORRHAGE. 121 inferred that we possess, in over-flexion, a blood-controlling agent of considerable power, which can be applied on the short- est notice. Pressth-e is an effectual hemostatic when it can be applied evenly over the whole wounded surface. Compresses and bandages are the means usually employed. When the hemorrhage is from cav- ities, they may be plugged. The digital pressure applied by the fingers on the course of the artery above the wound, and instrumental pressure by tourniquets, the Esmarch bandage, (Stc, need not be considered here. Torsion. This method of arresting hemorrhage is valuable in arteries of small calibre, though it has also been successfully employed in , the main vessels of the extremities. It is applied by several methods: Free Torsion. In this method, Thierry recommends that the artery should be neither fixed nor drawn out, but simply grasped with a pair of broad forceps, and twisted without breaking off the end of the vessel; ten rounds in the case of large, six in medium sized, and four in small arteries, being usually suffi- cient. Fricke says the artery should, without violence, be drawn out about two-thirds of an inch, but not fixed, lest the twist may extend to the attached part of the vessel. The artery, thus held, should be detached from the surrounding tissues by a second pair of forceps. Twisting is then to be continued until the end of the artery is torn off, eight or nine revolutions being generally necessary. Limited Torsion. In this process, Amussat advises to draw out the artery five or six inches by means of a pair of forceps with a closing bolt. The vessel is then to be separated from its connections with a second pair of forceps, and held at its fixed point by the latter while the end is twisted off by the former. Combined Method. The artery is first seized with a pair of broad-pointed lock-forceps (one blade being placed within, and the other without the vessel), and gently held without tension ; with a second pair of forceps it is then separated from its con- nections, and fixed just below its point of attachment. The vessel is now twisted until it is felt to break, which generally occurs after the fourth, fifth, or sixth revolution. All these methods recommend twisting the artery until it breaks. On the contrary, Mr. Thomas Bryant, of London, advises that the end be rotated only till the sense of resistance has ceased, and that it should not be twisted off. This surgeon has probably had the most favorable experience of any. He says: "After seven years' experience of the practice, applied to vessels of all sizes, the femoral being the largest, I have had no mishaps I have had stumps heal in a week, and patients up in two weeks, without one single drawback. At Guy's Hospital, up to 1874, we have had two hundred consecutive cases of amputation of the thigh, leg, arm and/ forearm, in which all the arteries had been twisted (^one hundred and ten of