PHLEBITIS, THROMBOSIS AND EMBOLISM. that lie had found the solar cautery applicable to the treatment of lupus and chancroids, and believed that it might prove ser- viceable in n?evus. While applying this cautery the eyes should be protected from the brilliancy of the light by wearing colored glasses, else the operator will not be able to determine the ex- act outline of the cauterization. With a little practice, a line no more than a sixteenth of an inch in breadth can be obtained with considerable ease. Vaccination may be employed where the child has not yet undergone it. Pure bovine lymph should be preferred, the matter being in- troduced in a great many places very close together. The plan is, however, " very uncertain." (Holmes.) Zincinn. The chloride, the iodide and the nitrate of zinc have been em- ployed to destroy nsevi. The nitrate, according to Mr. Marshall, of London, penetrates deeper than the chloride, and possesses the further advantage of producing less pain. PHLEBITIS, THROMBOSIS AND EMBOLISM. Sir Thomas Watson recommends local depletion when the inflamed vein is accessible: regulation of the bowels; strong- ani- mal broths and wine to support the strength ; opiates to trancjuil- lize nervous irritabihty and restlessness. Our object is, in the first place, to subdue and resolve the inflammation ; or, at any rate, to prevent its passing beyond the adhesive stage. To this end, the vein being obvious and superficial, we apply leeches, cold lotions or fomentations. D uring the progress of the malady, especially when suppurative phlebitis is prevalent, it would be unsafe to cut into a large vein lest by that slight violence we establish a fresh local phlebitis. Indeed, after the suppurative form has once been set up, general blood-letting does no good; but, on the contrary, impairs the power of the system at large to struggle against the disease. In phlebitis of the superficial veins a bliste7' applied over the course of the inflamed vein reduces the inflammation, hastens the absorption or liquefaction of the coagulated blood, and assists the restoration of the circulation through the obstructed vessels. (Ringer.) The hardness which is often left after the removal of the inflam- mation may usually be removed by assiduously poulticing the part with cataplasms of common salt and nitrate of potash. (Basham.)