SPECIAL FORMS OF WOUNDS. i6o should enlarge the wound, carefully cleanse the cavity, and unite the solutions in continuity in the wounded viscus by sutures. Of all drugs, opium i.s the only one which need be mentioned. It is the main resource to secure the indispensable rest of the bowels and nervous system. Its alkaloids may be administered hypodermically, or, as an excellent means in this class of injuries, by suppositories. The diet must be liquid in character, concen- trated, and very sparing. The use of mercury in any form is needless and dangerous. Blood-letting is wholly unnecessary. DR. J. Q. A. HUDSON, OF CINCINNATI. This writer, in a careful study of the indications for treating incised zvoiinds of the stomach, such as not unfrequently occur from a stab (67z;«<?, Jan., 1872), states that the first step is to apply a suture to the gastric wound, if it is easily accessible through the parietes, and the cut is more than half an inch in length; if less than this, it is not necessary, and it is rarely or never necessary to enlarge the external wound in order to reach that in the gastric parietes. When the latter cannot be reached, and no effusion ex- ists, the external wound should be closed by suture, and adhesive strips, compresses and bandages applied, to aid in securing, as far as may be, an immobility of the parts. Where there is an effusion in the neighborhood of the wound, the external wound, if it has been closed, should be opened, and by position and mod- erate compression, an attempt be made to cause an escape exter- nally of the foreign matters. To effect this, it may be necessary to enlarge the external wound. In regard to position, the patient should be placed so that he can secure absolute rest, with the abdominal muscles fully relaxed; and if practicable, the stomach wound should be kept within the lips of the parietal wound or near to it, so that, if effusion occurs, there may be an opportunity for egress of the effused liquids. The diet is of the utmost importance. There should be absolute abstinence from all forms of food by the mouth for several days; nutritive injections may be given, and thirst be quenched by the very limited allowance of small pieces of ice. When the patient commences to take food, it should be in a concentrated liquid form. Very gradually, and in very small quantities, morphia hypodermically, or opium in suppositories, is demanded to allay pain and nervous agitation. Enemas may be used if necessary to