HEMORRHOIDS (PILES). gall in solution gr.x-xxx, is much more efficacious, especially in cases arising from partial paralysis of the bowels. Dr. William Brinton {Dublin Journal of the Medical Sciences, May, 1869,) gives a rule by which fluid enemata will enable us with more or less accuracy to decide the locality of an intestinal obstruction. If one pint of fluid only is retained, the difficulty is in the rectum. If two or three are retained, it is at or in the sigmoid flexure. A still larger quantity indicates the colon as the seat of the trouble. In one case in which the obstruction was at the upper part of the ascending colon, nine pints of fluid were introduced. The most favorable position of the body for the retention of large injections is upon the knees, with the head and shoulders depressed. 98° Fahrenheit is the most acceptable temperature for the fluid, which should be slowly introduced. HEMORRHOIDS (PILES). PROF. N, R. SMITH, M. D., BALTIMORE. According to this distinguished surgeon, if the disease is recent, and the causes manifest, there is but little difficulty. Commence with the administration of a saline aperient. Then, every other day, give sulphur, a heaping teaspoonful, in syrup or milk. Should this be inactive, give the following : 378. Sulphuris lot., 5j Fol. sennae pulv., 3j 01. foenic, gtt.xx.M.utf.pulv. S.—Give a heaping teaspoonful every other night. The parts must be bathed three or four times a day with cold water, and especially after stool. As the indulgence of the appetite in every variety of rich and unwholesome food will have been, in most cases, the principal cause, the patient must be restricted to a simple diet. Let him take animal food but once a day, in small quantity, and without condiments. Boiled onions as an article of food are productive of soft and easy passages. Stewed fruits may be used as dessert. The patient may exercise moderately on foot, but when at rest had better assume the recumbent, rather than the sitting, posture.