3,70 LESIONS OF THE OKGAnS OF REPRODUCTION. SIR JAMES PAGET. In the mental treatment of masturbation it is especially import- ant that the groundless fears of the patient as to the terrible results of the habit be dispelled. Our author says: "I believe you may teach positively that masturbation does neither more nor less harm than sexual intercourse practiced with the same frequency in the same conditions of general health and age and circumstances. Practiced frequently by the very young, that is, at any time before or at the beginning of puberty, mastur- bation is very likely to produce exhaustion, effeminacy and over- sensitiveness and nervousness ; just as equally frequent copulation at the same age would probably produce them. Or, practiced every day,, or many times in one day, at any age, either masturba- tion or copulation is likely to produce similar mischiefs or greater. And the mischiefs are especially likely or nearly sure to happen, and to be greatest, if the excesses are practiced by those who, by inheritance or circumstances, are liable to any nervous disease,— to spinal irritation, epilepsy, insanity, or any other. But the mis- chiefs are due to the quantity, not to the methods, of the excesses; and the quantity is to be estimated in relation to age and to the power of the nervous system. I have seen as numerous and as great evils consequent on excessive sexual intercourse as on ex- cessive masturbation; but I have not seen or heard anything to make me believe that occasional masturbation has any other effects on one who practiced itthan has occasional sexual inter- course, nor anything justifying the dread with which sexual hypo- chondriacs regard the having occasionally practiced it." (These views of this very emnient surgeon, as to the compara- tive harmlessness of masturbation, are not adopted by many other very experienced observers. See under Impotence.) DR. C. B. MILLER, OF INDIANA. This writer gives the following directions {American Practitioner, May, 1877): It is indispensable that the habit of solitude, and the inclination to indulge the imagination, be broken up, and some healthy, active employment substituted, and the victims compelled to min- gle with others and go into society. Plain substantial food must be insisted upon, and oysters, eggs, chestnuts, wines, spices, etc., avoided. The patient should sleep