HEMORRHOIDS (PILEs). 315 not see the syringe, he supposes that he has not been subjected to any "operation," which is a great satisfaction to him. Dr. J M. Matthews, of I.ouisville (Trans. Ky. State Med. Soc , 187S), gives the following rules: i. Use the acid only in the smallest tumors. 2. Should it be used in a large tumor, inject once only in one portion, and wait several days, and then inject another portion. 3. Use the smallest amount possible in inject- ing, say one to three drops of the mixture of sweet oil and carbolic acid equal parts, or a stronger solution. Copaiba. In doses of gtt. x-xv, in convulsions, thrice daily. Prof. Gross says no other internal remedy will prove so efficient as this, in the milder cases of the malady, and after the secretions are regu- lated. Its mode of action is unknown. Creasotim in ointment is a local application. Cnbeba. In chronic hemorrhoids, cubebs have been employed with asserted advantage. Ergota. Dr. G. W. Semple, of St. Louis, has cured some obstinate cases of piles by injecting into the rectum, after every discharge, the following enema: 402. ^, Extracti ergotse fluidi, f-Sss Aqu; For one enema Aqu^, f-!ss. M. The ergot has also been injected into the pile by means of a hypodermic syringe with alleged success. Ergotin in supposi- tories, gr. V, night and morning, is often of great service in bleeding piles. Ferri Perchloridi Tinctura has been injected by a hypodermic syringe into the pile, gtt. x-xx at a time. The operation is efficient, but painful. Ferri Persulphas is an admirable styptic applied in the form of an oint- ment. (F. 388, 399). Galla. Ointment of galls is an old and popular remedy : 403. Pulv, gallcC, 5ij Pulv. opii, gr.x Adipis, oj- For an ointment. Glycerina. Dr. David Young, of Florence, in the Practitioner, January, 1878, reports five cases in which permanent benefit followed the internal administration of glycerine in from two to three drachm doses, in water, night and morning. Hamamelis. The witch hazel is singularly useful in piles, both to check the bleeding and heal the diseased veins. It is employed both as lotion and injection, and also should be taken internally (i^ij of the tincture three or four times a day, larger closes producing severe headache). Dr. Edward R. Maykr states that the con- tinued use of this substance in small doses (gtt.ij-iiij of the con-