212 LESIONS OF MUSCULAR TISSUE. ture, when the tumor is hard, brawny, and painful, will sometimes greatly mitigate the pain, but will not in any degree limit the ex- tent or duration of the disease, or tend to arrest the sloughing process. The use of collodion, in conjunction with carbolic acid, has yielded, in his practice, such satisfactory results as to induce the belief in its superiority over other modes of treatment. He com- bines it with carbolic acid as follows : When the carbuncle is seen early, he punctures it, and with a camel's hair pencil, or small pointed stick, introduces into the opening thus made pure carbolic acid. If the disease has made greater progress, and one or more small acne-like pustules have made their appearance on the tumor, these are carefully opened, which can be done without causing pain, and the acid introduced at each opening, as before indicated. The'effect of the acid when first applied, especially if it touch a denuded surface, is to produce a sharp stinging pain, which is, however, of but momentary duration. The next effect is local anesthesia, and the patient is, for a time, perhaps hours, free from pain. Carbolic acid, possessing in a notable degree anaesthetic, anti- septic and caustic properties, seems to be peculiarly adapted to the treatment of the disease under consideration, which is usually attended with great pain, sloughing, and an intolerable odor. Its use certainly diminishes the pain, corrects the odor, and arrests the sloughing process with much promptitude. After the acid has been applied, collodion should be several times painted over the carbuncle, and beyond it, a few lines, on the uninflamed skin. All the openings are to be left free, in order to give egress to discharges. Each layer or film of the collodion should be allowed to dry before another is put on. This dressing may be renewed once daily, and the collodion previously applied, if partially detached, should be peeled off before a new application is made If the part on which the carbuncle makes its appearance be covered with hair, this should be cleanly shaved off, otherwise the collodion will be difficult to remove, and at the same time cause considerable pain. 2AO R. Aquse chlorinii, f^ss. ^niis amount eiven three times a day, has been highly commended n furunculouf disease by Dr. T. N. Wylie. of Texas. {Medical ana Surgical Reporter, May, 1873.)