ORCHITIS (epididymitis). 377 This mixture is about the consistence of cream, and should be laid on thickly over the whole scrotum, a piece of lint, moistened in the same, applied, and the testicle supported in a handkerchief, slingwise, which may be fastened to a second tied round the loins. It gtves rapid and complete relief, the pain in the loin disappearing in about six hours, while it does not prevent the patient from going about his business. {Lancet, 1876.) DR. JOHN KENT SPENDER, OF LONDON. This author (in the Medical Examiner, August, 1876,) calls at- tention to the possibility of curing orchitis without surgical inter- ference. The plan he adopts is to administer antimony in small and repeated doses for at least twelve to fourteen hours. He nar- rates a case of a young man who had received a blow on the left testicle and who was seen a few days afterwards. Recourse was had to hot local applications, and a draught containing : 505. I^. Vini antimonialis, ""Ixx Tincturae opii, Aquse menthse, This amount every hour for twelve hours, and then at longer intervals. Pain was relieved simultaneously with the establishment of a profuse diaphoresis. Within three days the man was virtually well. The same mode of administering other drugs may be adopted with benefit, as in many cases success depends upon keeping the medicine constantly in the system. DR. EDWARD WARREN, OF BALTIMORE AND PARIS. This surgeon, late chief of the surgical staff of the Egyptian army, states in the Lancet, April, 1876, that after an extensive ex- perience both in hospital and private practice, he has abandoned the employment of ice. poultices, punctures, leeches, etc., in the treatment of acute orchitis, in favor of the following simple plan, which has proved preeminently successful: By means of an ordinary hypodermic syringe, inject beneath the tunica vaginalis from one-sixth to one-quarter of a grain of morphia with one-hundreth of a grain of atropia in solution ; and then strap the organ firmly with adhesive plaster. Place the pa- tient upon his back; elevate the pelvis; support the testicle; and administer: