TONSILLITIS (quinsy, CYNANCHE.) 28/ 363. I^. Tinct. ioclinii Tinct. ferri chloridi, aa f.3ij Glycerinse, f-3ss. M. Even in persons subject to periodical attacks, it has been eminently successful. RESUME OF REMEDIES. Aconitiitn. Dr. Sydney Ringer says the visible effects of aconite on in- flamed tonsils, etc., are conspicuous. It should be given at the very beginning of the disease. Half a drop or a drop of the tincture in a teaspoonful of water, every ten minutes or a quarter of an hour for two hours, and afterwards hourly. Alumen is a popular ingredient in gargles. (F. 356.) Am77ioni(z Hypophosphis. 364. ^. Ammonise hypophosphitis, §j Syrupi tolutani, f-§viij Glyceringe, Aquas, aa f.^iv. To the water and glycerine add the hypophosphite of am- monia, and agitate until dissolved. Then add the syrup tolu and one ounce of freshly-powdered cubebs, and agitate well before each dose. Ordinary dose, one teaspoonful every one to two hours. A writer in the Pacific Med. and Surg. Jour, says: "We have found this preparation to be a very sup^-ior remedy for coughs, colds and hoarseness. Its use in small oft-repeated doses is very beneficial for preachers, singers, and other public speakers, to clear the voice, taken for several hours before they appear in pubhc." Antimonii et Potassce Tartras, in doses of gr. yi-]^ hourly, is valuable to combat the inflammatory stage of acute tonsillitis. Arsenicum has been recommended in the sloughing of sore throat. Bdladonna. Tincture of belladonna gtt. ij-xv, every two hours until the patient is relieved, or until its constitutional signs are pro- duced, has been highly commended. It may also be used ex- ternally to the throat as a lotion, (p. 83.) Capsicum is an excellent gargle in the very early stages of inflamed sore throat, and also in relaxed throat. 365. Tincturae capsici, f.3j Aquce, Oss. M. For a gargle. The officinal infusion (5ss of the powder to a pint of water) is also used as a gargle. Catechu. A small piece of gum catechu placed in the mouth and allowed slowly to dissolve, the saliva being swallowed, is a convenient