ENURESIS. INCONTINENCE OF URINE. 335 A teaspoonful of the syrup, made according to the above form- ula, contains about ten grains of the bromide of iron. The dose, therefore, to start with is a half a teaspoonful three times a day, increased gradually, until at the end of three or four months the patient is taking a teaspoonful and a-half or two teaspoonfuls of the medicine. With each dose of the bromide of iron the fluid extract of ergot should be given separately, and, like it, should be gradually increased from ten drops three times a day to a drachm as often. The two medicines cannot be kept mixed together for any length of time without the bromide of iron being decomposed and the ergot also injured. Dr. N. Brenchley recommends the following : 450. Tinct. ergotae, tt^x Tinct. ferri perchloridi, ff\y Spts. chloroformi, Infus. quassise, ad §j. This amount thrice daily. RESUME OF REMEDIES. Belladonna, and its alkaloid, atropia, are the remedies most generally re- lied upon. Either must be given in sufficient quantities to produce the physiological effects of the drug. Benzoicum Acidum has frequently been found of value : 451. ]^. Acidi benzoici, 3ij Aqu^ cinnamomi, f-§vj. M. A tablespoonful thrice daily. Chloral, grs. v-xv, on retiring at night, is often a complete preventive. Ergota undoubtedly is often an excellent adjuvant to belladonna. ^i?rr/^w;«/rt?2^w is used by Dr. Hammond. (F. 449.) Ferri Chloridi Tinctura is largely employed by some practitioners. Ferri lodidum is an excellent preparation in some cases, especially in strumous children. Gelsemium. Dr. Edward R. Mayer states that cases of enuresis, both infantile and senile, have under his care been cured by gelse- mium when belladonna had entirely failed. {Hints on Specific Medication, 1876.) Strychnia. Hypodermic injections of strychnine have recently been used by Kelp (Z>. Arch. filr. Klin. Med.) in the treatment of enuresis, with good results He reports the case of a girl, six- teen years of age, in which the affection had continued from infancy. He commenced by injecting one-sixteenth of a grain, afterwards one-eighth to one-sixth of a grain, into the sacral