ANTISEPTIC DRESSINGS. 85 in their most useful form in the alkahne and earthy sulphites, which are well borne by the system. 4th. To render the presence of the sulphites still more durable in the system, and to retard their conversion into sulphates, it is necessary to substitute for the sulphites the hyposulphites of the same base. 5th. The diseases in which the beneficial effects of the sulphites have been determined are, affections that are characterized by a pathological ferment of some kind, malarial fevers, puerperal fevers, affections arising from the absorption of purulent matter, diphtheria, phthisis pulmonalis, during the period of softening, and during the breaking down of the tubercles, solution of continuity accompanied with acrid secretions, and severe wounds and varicose ulcers. DR. JOHN BALFOUR, L. R. C. S., EDINBURGH. Through the Edinburgh Medical yournal, 1874-6, this surgeon has several times stated his preference for the simple sulphurous acid, according to the following, as a most excellent antiseptic lotion :— 67. Acidi sulphurosi, fg; Aquae destillatae, f'^xij. M. It at once alleviates pain, minimizes suppuration, is easily applied, and facilitates dressing the wound, while it costs almost nothing.' When the fingers are the parts injured, a large teacup is filled with the wash and put by the patient's side, and into this the injured part, covered with the thinnest rag to be had, is dipped as often as desired. Should the injured part be the hand or any other part of the body, it is supported on a pillow covered with gutta-percha tissue or oil-skin, and the wash is applied by means of a little tow. which is allowed to remain in the cup. In the Throat Hospital, London, as a stimulant and antiseptic gargle and local application, they use the following aqua acidi siuphurosi: 68. Acidi sulphurosi, -ml AquK destillate, f_^x. M MR. JONATHAN HUTCHINSON, OF LONDON. This able surgeon recommends {The Lancet, May, 1875,) the following plan of treating operation wounds as one eminently