CANCER. Ferrum. Various preparations of iron have been used in cancer. Dr. Carmichael, of Dublin, claimed to have derived much benefit in epithehoma from washing the ulcerations with a solution of the sulphate. Professor H. H. Smith,K)f Philadelphia, reported a case too far gone for operation, for which he prescribed Val- let's mass, gr. v-x, daily, and the powdered carbonate to be applied to the sore, and the patient lived eight years, the disease meanwhile making almost no progress. Dr. Justamond, of London, used to give gr.lx-c of the ammonio-chloride daily. Gastric Juice. Professor Schiff, of Geneva, and others, have advocated the treatment of malignant ulceration by gastric and pancreatic juice. Dr. C. H. F. Routh, of London, who has tried the remedy, has reported favorably upon it. Hydrastis Canadensis. Dr. Edwin Payne, of London, has highly com- mended the yellow root, used in lotion, especially in epithe- lioma of the lips. It renders the parts much less painful, keeps the surface in a more healthy condition, and neutralizes the fetor. His formula is: lodinitm, in various preparations, is widely employed. Iodoform, applied locally, relieves the pain. Pepsina. (See Gastric Juice.) Phytolacca Decandra has a wide-spread reputation in cancer. (See above.) Plu7nbi Nitras. Nitrate of lead is a valuable application in epithelioma, warts, excrescences, etc. Potassa Fusa. In rodent, epithelial, or other cancerous formations that are superficial and of limited extent, the potassa fusa has advan- tages over any other caustic resorted to. Its effect is prompt, its action readily guided and controlled, and the destruction of the parts to which it is applied is complete. Its beneficial ef- fects are not limited to the line of complete destruction; the cancerous proliferations which extend beyond the margins of a perceptible diseased condition, possessing a lower vital power than healthy tissue, are necessarily disturbed by the chemical action, while the pain produced by its use is often less than re- sults from the use of the knife. Potassa. Liquor, recommended by Sir Benjamin Brodie. (P. 464.) Potassii Bromidutn has been used as a caustic in cancerous affections. M. Peyraud, of France, employs the powder, and with it states that he cures cancroids, provided they be not too extensive. 701. 'Sf.. Tincturae hydrastis, Aquae, For a lotion. f.3j f.^vnj. M. 702. Plumbi nitratis, Aquae rosae, Apply three times a day. 3ij f.§iv.