THE TREATMENT OF SCROFULA, 496 action of the first had disappeared. By observing this precaution, he had never seen bad consequences from this treatment. When the struma is cystic, the contents of the cyst should first be removed. SCROFULOUS ULCERS. The propriety of attempting to heal and close up scrofulous ulcers is not yet decided upon among surgeons. Some believe that they act as natural outlets for an exudation which might otherwise be deposited in more important parts, the lungs for ex- ample ; and that, therefore, they should not be interfered with. This opinion is maintained by Dr. George B. Wood, and others, while the contrary is asserted by Sir James Paget, etc. In regard to the plan of cure, Professor Gross remarks they should be treated rudely at first and gently afterwards. The un- dermined edges are cut away with the knife or scissors, and the surface is thoroughly touched with the dilute acid nitrate of mer- cury, the solid nitrate of silver, or sulphate of copper, the application being repeated every other day until there is an appearance of healthy granulations, when milder means, such as opium cerate or the dilute ointment of nitrate of mercury, takes its place. If dis- integrated glands are present, they are removed with the knife or destroyed with Vienna paste; for so long as they remam, no sub- stantial progress can be made toward a cure. Sinuses are traced out with a bistoury, unless they involve important structures, when stimulating injections or the seton must be used. The application of dilute tincture of iodine on the surface around the ulcer will often expedite the cure. RESUME OF REMEDIES. Alcohol, in the form of wine, beer or distilled spirits, has often an excel- lent effect. Prof. Gross says, that many emaciated scrofulous patients rapidly become fat under the use of small quantities of whisky taken frequently through the day. Dr. Alexander Steel, of New York, recommends gentle moderate stimulation by means of malt beverages as corrective of the scrofulous con- dition of the blood. (^Medical Gazette, Jan., 1871.) Alkalies. In scrofulosis, when oxaluria is present, soda or potassa alka- lies should be administered, and saccharine food avoided. Amnionii lodiduni is useful in scrofula attended with glandular enlarge- ment. The dose is gr. iij. Aqua Ficis is pronounced by Dr. Copeland to be one of the most effica- cious means we possess against t,crofulous affections, Avhen aided