LESIONS OF THE ORGANS OF URINATION. 338 been found of great value, although many of these cases are connected, with serious organic disease of the kidneys, and pal- liation is all that can be looked for. The formula is one by the late Dr. Pkout : 457. I^. Ammonii sesquicarbonatis, 3j Acidi citrici, gr.lxxv Aquae, f.z'vj. M. One ounce of this to be taken three or four times daily. Belladonna. In almost all varieties of morbid nervous irritability of the bladder, after removal of the exciting cause, this drug is found most soothing and efficacious. Dr. Gross prefers it in the form of the juice, in doses of about five drops^ repeated three or four times in the twenty-four hours. In the neuralgic form of the disease, he combines it with quinine, strychnia and arsenic. Dr. Tanner administers the extract internally or with oxide of zinc as a pessary. (F. 452, 454.) A solution of atropia is a con- venient mode of administering it (atropiae, gr.j, aquae f.^j \ three to five drops for a dose). The physiological effects of the drug must be obtained to insure its medicinal influence. Camphora is extremely useful in strangury. It may be given as aqua camphorce in ounce doses, combined with -^-^ of a grain of mor- phia every quarter of an hour, until four or six doses be taken. When it is feared that strangury will result from the application of a cantharidal blister, this complication can be prevented by wetting the surface of the blister with tincture of camphor before applying it. Cannabis Indica is much used by some surgeons. Cantharis is especially valuable in vesical irritability as it occurs in women, without the existence of acute inflammation, and not produced by uterine displacements; also in the vesical tenesmus which sometimes accompanies chronic prostatic disease. Carbonicum Acidum. As a local, sedative, carbonic acid gas has been employed with considerable success in relieving pain and check- ing the constant desire to void the urine. (See under Sperma- torrhea for the method of applying the gas.) Chloral, in occasional small doses, is frequently efficacious in relieving the symptoms, especially when dependent on lesions of the brain or spinal cord. Colchicum often succeeds admirably when the patient is of the rheumatic or gouty dyscrasia. The following is a good combination ; 458. I^. Vini colchici, Spiritfls ietheris nitrosi, aa f.3j Morphia; sulphatis, gr-X Aquee, f.fj. M. This amount every night at bed time (Gross). Copaiba. The internal use of the balsam of copaiba is particularly called