379 SPERMATORRHEA. The bladder should be frequently emptied, especially on going to bed at night, and again at four or five o'clock in the morning. With many patients it is during the morning nap that the emission occurs, owing to the pressure of the urine accumulated during the night. ' The urine should always be tested, and if found acid, alka- lie*s should be administered to counteract its irritating qualities. The bowels should be maintained in a laxative condition by moderate doses of salines. Not unfrequently the pressure of re- tained feces in the rectum is an exciting cause of emission. Irrita- tation in the rectal canal from any other source, as hemorrhoids, ascarides, etc., will have the same effect and must be treated as oc- casion demands. Moderate daily exercise in the open air, or in a cool, well venti- lated room, is essential. Both walking and riding, especially the latter, are, however, contra-indicated. Cases of spermatorrhea brought on by the friction of the saddle are not infrequent. Those varieties of exercise which bring into play the muscles of the upper extremity and erector-spinse mass are particularly desirable (rowing, the pulley, quoits, bowling, etc.) NOCTURNAL EMISSIONS: MECHANICAL PREVENTIVES. In most cases nocturnal pollutions are accompanied by erec- tions, complete or partial. When this is the case, mechanical pre- ventives are often useful. Dr. MoNiERE, of Paris, has invented a very ingenious apparatus to which he has given the name oi electro-medical alarm. A small, very light ring is attached in front of the pubis by cords; two cords make this ring communicate with the poles of a pile ; the penis is introduced into the ring so that contact takes place, but no kind of pressure ; on the contrary, as soon as the penis becomes erect the smallest pressure makes the battery to work. In order not to disturb neighbors, the bell is made very feeble, but then it is necessary that an india-rubber tube should make the bell com- municate with the ear. When the patient commences to use this instrument the spermatorrhea almost altogether disappears grad- ually, and his general condition greatly improves. {The Doctor, June I, 1877.) • The use of spermatorrheal rings is occasionally valuable. 1 hey are armed on the inner side with a projecting point, leaving suffi- cient .space for the penis when flaccid, but as soon as it enlarges