469 CANCER, removed. Granulation proceeds rapidly, and the case is then treated as a simple ulcer. The slough separates at periods varying from six to thirty days, according to its size. The disease usually comes away entire with the slough; but where this is not the case the paste is to be applied to the remaining portion, as in the first instance, every second or third day, till the desired effect is produced. Dr. M. KuHN, who has also used the arsenical pastes with ad- vantage, directs attention to the importance of applying them, not directly to the surface, but to the substance of the growth. He advises the previous application of caustic potash, so as to produce an abraded or raw surface, which can then be directly acted on by the arsenical agents. It is to the want of adopting this prelimi- nary step that Dr. K. attributes the failure of arsenic in many cases. {Medical and Surgical Reporter, Jan., 1870.) MR. C. H. MOORE, MIDDLESEX HOSPITAL, LONDON. In the article on "Cancer" by this gentleman, in Holmes' larger work on Surgery, he commends the tinctura ferri chloridi inter- nally. " Iodine, opium, and especially lead," he adds, " appear the most effective in retarding the growth of the tumor." 673. 'Sf.. Plumbi iodidi, Pulveris opii, aa oU Ferri sulphatis exsiccati, 3ss Glycerinae, q. s. To make a convenient paste. Apply daily to the swelling, so that it will thoroughly moisten the surface. For tender and painful ulcers he advises the following : 674. Fresh stramonium leaves, ^ lb Lard, 4 ft. Mix with gentle heat for some time and strain. Spread on cotton wool and apply to the part. DR. LANDOLFI, OF NAPLES. This practitioner obtained a wide celebrity through the use of a preparation which he claimed to be a specific cure in cancer, pro- viding that the growth is accessible, and that the system is not already too deeply implicated in the cancerous cachexia. The formula he usually employed, although it differed somewhat in the relative proportion of the ingredients, was the following: