IMPOTENCE. 359 sensibility of the membranous and prostatic portions of the urethra but particularly the latter locality, and is always associated with deep-seated stricture, which is generally of large calibre. These lesions are traceable, in the larger proportion of instances, to mas- turbation. Thus, in fifteen of nineteen cases he records, the sexual difficulty arose from the effects of urethritis produced by onanism, while in only four was it dependent upon the localization of gonor- rhceal inflammation. These data are not only of the utmost practical value, but they are interesting, as they show that masturbation affects the sexual powers by inducing a state of constant congestion and undue ex- citability of the urethra, which terminates in inflammation and the formation of a coarcation in its curved or fixed portion. All au- thors upon self-pollution recognize the fact that the mucous mem- brane of the prostatic urethra is in an irritable or morbidly sensi- tive condition; but they overlook the coexistense of a stricture, and ascribe to this habit but little influence in its causation. This most important factor in the origin and maintenance of impotence, has not been sufficiently appreciated; an oversight for which one can only account by the defective means of exploring the urethra which have been, and are still, usually employed. Instead of re- sorting to the soft exploration bulbous bougie, which is the only instrument with which dilatable strictures above the medium size can be accurately determined, the majority of general practitioners still adhere to the use of the ordinary flexible bougie, or metallic catheter, which in many instances fails to detect a coarctation, which is the sole cause of many functional disturbances of the genito-urinary tract. These cases of sexual debility may be divided into four classes: First. Those in which the erections are imperfect or feeble, and ejaculation too precipitate, but in which sexual desire remains, and intercourse is possible, although incomplete. Second Those in which desire is not abolished, but the power of erection is lost, and coitus impossible. Third. In these there is neither desire nor ability to copulate, but hypochondriasis is superadded; and this mental impotence is often beyond remedy, after the lesions upon which the sexual trouble depended have been removed. In the milder forms of the aflection, indeed, the physician is most frequently consulted on ac- count of the fear on the part of the patient lest he may not be able