3o6 LESIONS OF THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION. to keep it up as long as it seemed to agree with her. The benefit of the treatment was early and marked. She continued it for sev- eral months, the hernia decreasing in size, and finally becoming reducible. INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION, OCCLUSION AND INTUS- SUSCEPTION. PROFESSOR GEORGE H. B. MACLEOD, F. R. S. E., OF THE UNIVERSITY OF GLASGOW. This author says that in any case of intestinal obstruction, opium is our sheet anchor to combat inflammation ; it must be used freely. Belladonna and atropia are now little used. Leeches are rarely employed. Ice, by its power of calming irritation and spasm, is of much use. In most C2.ses, purgation must be wholly avoided and only enemata used. When given early, in most instances, purgatives only augment the already exaggerated peristalsis; and, if administered late, they have an exhausted and paralyzed bowel to deal with. When, however, a careful examination fails to show that any organic obstruction exists, and there is otherwise no ob- jection to the practice, the exhibition of from ten to twenty grains of calomel in one dose—repeated, if necessitated by its rejection —often works miracles. Galvanism has been tried in cases of ob- struction, occasionally with good effects. It is when stercoraceous masses occasion it, that this mode of treatment is of most service. In 1825, Leroy d'Etiolles recommended the current to be passed from the mouth to the anus; but Duchenne proposed that one pole be inserted into the rectum and the other be moved over the surface of the abdomen, according to the place ^of suspected stop- page in each case. Even in cases of obstruction by foreign bodies, the use of purgatives is reprehensible. It is now well known by utterers of false coins, who swallow their base counterfeits when detected, that a system the very reverse of purgation best rids them of their burden. They keep their bowels confined and dis- tended by bulky and costive food, so as to envelop the coins and allow them to be slowly carried downwards. If the bowels be much distended with air, they may be punc- tured with advantage. By percussion, one can easily make out the