148 THE COMPLICATIONS OF WOUNDS. 155. I^. Olei olivse, ^Bijss Olei terebinthinjE, i-5iss Acidi sulphurici fort., f.3j. M. For a liniment. This was employed repeatedly, so as to cause the most intense inflammation of the skin of the whole arm. Where it failed to irritate sufficiently, he added a large amount of the acid. In regard to electricity in traumatic palsy, there is but one prac- tical rule in respect to the form of current to be chosen, and that is, whichever will best act on the muscles is the one to be made use of. Muscles which seem only capable of response to galvanism, will more slowly, but surely, amend under the use of a good primary current. Whatever form is employed, it is advisable to lessen the power as the muscles regain their excitability. It is often advisable to interrupt the electric treatment for a month, after it has been continued for two or three months. So also, if neural- gia comes on during the treatment, it is best to pause for a while. The value of massage in the treatment of all forms of traumatic palsy, is very great. If only the skin is to be acted on and excited, the operator should pinch lightly every part of the surface, and move it to and fro over the adjacent parts. The most intense red- ness may be brought about in this manner. When the limb is wasted, and there is general sluggishness and loss of motion, the skin m'ay first be treated by gently pinching and tapping it; then the joints are to be moved in turn; and lastly, the muscles to be acted upon by firmly but gently kneading, rolling and working them, gradually increasing the power employed. A sitting by masslge should last about an hour, and should be preceded by a local hot bath. For traumatic neuralgia, counter-irritation is but rarely of value, though the formula given above has occasionally given relief. Veratria and chloroform are of no service. Aconite is occasionally useful but must be employed with extreme caution. Acupunc- ture is of no avail. Hypodermic injections of narcotics are some- times demanded by the severity of the suffering. They may prove more or less curative in their action; and at any rate give the relief needed to try other and more permanent methods of medi- cation. J Morpllia is the only narcotic which can be depended on, and its hypodermic use is superior to any other; gr. % is the usual dose