HYDROPHOBIA. ^^9 face than when nitrate of silver or the red-hot iron is usedand he is of opinion that " in all cases anaesthesia should first be pro- duced by chloroform, as the action of the caustic on the recent and often extensive cut surface often produces a prolonged and even danc^erous agony." He states that if a person has been bitten by a do- in whom there are good reasons for expecting madness to exrst excision or even amputation of the part should be performed, if this can be done "without endangering life or deprivmg the in- dividual of a member essential to the attainment of his livelihood. Difference of opinion appears to exist as to the utility of excis- ing the cicatrix. Some consider that the poison of hydrophobia circulates in the blood, and that it would be as reasonable to sup- pose we could prevent the effects of syphilis-another form of chronic blood-poisoning-by excising, the cicatrix of a Hunterian chancre as destroy the poison of hydrophobia by excising the cicatrix left by the wound. "When the disease has been developed," says Dr. Shinkwin, "the treatment by transfusion of blood appears to be most rational and the most likely to succeed." He mentions that this operation was practised by Dr. Eye, of Suffolk, in 1792, who bled a man aged seventeen, until blood no longer flowed, and then transfused into him blood from two lambs, and the patient completely recovered. MR. G. D. m'REDDIE, OF WANSTEAD, ENGLAND. This surgeon reports {Indian Medical Gazette, 1876,) the cure of a case of hydrophobia by rapid salivation induced by the fumes of calomel. The fumigation should be conducted as follows: The patient is to be undressed, seated on a cane-chair, and the whole body up to the neck enveloped in blankets. Under the chair a Langston Parker's lamp (Savigny) is placed. In this a spirit-lamp, holding the required amount of spirit, is protected in a cage, on the top of which is a receptacle for the calomel (twenty or thirty grains), and a saucer for water. The flame beneath boils the water and volatilizes the calomel. Moderate salivation, which is all that is required, may be induced in a quarter of an hour, and judi- ciously repeated if the symptoms seem benefited by the treatment. DR. GRYMZALA, OF RUSSIA. Dr. GRYMZALA, of Krivoc Ozero, Podolie, {fournal de Thcrapeu- tique, 1876,) claims to have successfully treated ninety-nine cases