THE DRESSING OF WOUNDS. 92 (St. George's Hospital Reports, 1875.) applies it in the following proportion to foul ulcers, cancers, purulent abscesses, etc. : 86. I^. Calcii iodatis, 3ss Farlnae pulveris, §j. M. For external use. He also derived much benefit from its internal administration, gr. j-ij, thrice daily. Calendula Officinalis. A tincture of this indigenous plant, diluted two parts with water, has been recently extolled by Dr. G. H. Chap- man, of Illinois (^Michigan Med. News, Nov., 1878), as pos- cessing antiseptic and curative properties of a remarkable kind. Camphora has been employed, both powdered over the wound and mixed with carbolic acid, etc., (F. 64). It is only slightly soluble in water, and is not a deodorizer. Carbo Vegetalis. Wood charcoal is a convenient and powerful antiseptic apphcation. It may be used as poultice (p. 38), or mixed with other substances (p. 89), or applied as powder. Carbolicum Acidum is the leading antiseptic with most surgeons. (See above.) In the opinion of many, however, it is in no way superior to many others. Its odor is offensive to most patients, and when dissolved in oil it ruins the dressing and bedding. It is also poisonous, and in operations under chloroform is said to increase the dangers of the latter by rendering the air less respi- rable. Much of the success which has followed its use in the hands of Lister and his disciples is said by others to be attribu- table to the unusual cleanliness and care he enjoins. Chloral has been used extensively as an outward application for the relief of pain, and as an antiseptic for the dressing of wounds. (See page 83. ) Chlor- Alcohol. Under this name Dr. E. Hermant, of Brussels, has in- troduced a mixture of equal parts of chloride of lime and tmc- ture of camphor, which he recommends as an antiseptic, deter- sive and cicatrizant. Chlorinium. As a powerful oxydizing disinfectant and local stimulant, the use of dilute aqua chlorinii has some advantages. 87. Aquae chlorinii, f-^ss-j Aquae, Oj. M. Use as a lotion. It must be remembered that chlorine water is a powerful irri- tant, capable of producing severe inflammation of the skin. The' liquor sodce chlorinatce is a more appropriate preparation for dressings, and has been employed with great satisfaction in unhealthy wounds. Collodion is used to bind together the edges of clean cut wounds to