TETANUS. be added to each dose. Often, however, administration by enema is necessary. These are best prepared by emulsifying the chloral solution with yolk of egg and adding a wine glass of milk : gr. xl-lx may be given at once in this maimer. It is ab- solutely necessary to diminish the use of chloral gradually, or the convulsions will return. Dr. Imray combines it with opium, (p. 136.) * Chloroformum. The inhalation of chloroform m small and frequently repeated doses, with a large admixture of air, relieves the mus- cular spasms when it fails to produce a lasting benefit. By some recent writers it is claimed to be the agent which has cured the most cases. Chloroform frictions are also recommended. Colchicum has been used, but not with very satisfactory results. * Conium is regarded by Dr. Harley as the natural antagonist of this dis- ease, but to be effectual, large doses of the succus must be given. If the patient cannot swallow, from f.5vj-xij of the succus, warmed to the temperature of the body, should be injected into the bowels, and repeated every two,- three or four hours, accord- ing to the condition of the muscles. Glonoin. Nitro-glycerine has been employed, but must be given cau- tiously. It is an exceedingly powerful stimulant of the vascular system. The proper method of prescribing it is to dissolve one drop in one hundred drops of alcohol. Ten drops of this drop of the nitro-glycerine) is a dose. The mixture is non- explosive. The dose has an immediate effect on being placed on the tongue. Its actual value in this, as in other diseases, is not yet ascertained. Lobelia Inflata is largely used by veterinary surgeons in tetanus of the lower animals. Several successful cases have also been reported in the human subject. Three of these may be found in the Medical and Surgical Reporter, Dec. 3, 1870, by Dr. George O. Butler, of Ohio. His formula was: 150. I^. Fol. lobehEe inflatae, §ij Aquae bullientis, §xij. M. Make an infusion. A teaspoonful to be given every half hour, or sufficiently often to maintain a constant diaphoresis. When the jaws are set, enemata of this infusion may be given every fiften minutes until emesis is produced, after which it may be administered as above by the mouth. Morphia has been frequently used hypodermically in this disease; see Hypodermic Injections below. Nicotia has been given hypodermically. Internally nicotine, in doses of gtt.ss-ijss in sherry and water several times a day, has been employed with success. The alkaloid has the effect of relaxing the muscles, stopping the delirium, and producing profuse sweat- ing, which exhales a strong odor of snuff. So powerful a poison must be given with caution.