CONJUNCTIVAL DISEASES (oPHTHALMIA). In phlyctenular or pustular ophthalmia, with photophobia and lachrymation, the best local treatment, in the case of young chil- dren, is to keep the eye constantly under the influence of atropine. The four-grain solution is applied twice a day, the excessive watery secretion being first removed, to prevent the dilution of the atropine solution. Any accompanying eczema or ulceration of the nasal mucous membrane may be treated with the local application of the nitrate of mercury ointment, or the plasma of the red oxide. Children under five years of age should be put on a milk diet, combined either with stale bread or well-cooked oatmeal porridge. The less the deviation from this wholesome diet the better. If the milk is rich in cream, the administration of cod-liver oil is rendered less necessary. A tonic course of treatment is invariably indicated, and there is probably no preparation better adapted to these cases than that of the syrup of the iodide of iron. In the local treatment of phlyctenular inflammation, either of the conjunctiva or cornea, in adults, the plasma of the red oxide of mercury may truly be said to be a specific. The plasma is applied twice a day, as follows : Instead of applying it simply behind the lower eyelid, as is done by some practitioners, the eyelashes of the upper eye-lid are held by the thumb and finger of the left hand, and the lid drawn forward: a small quantity of the plasma is now pushed up under the lid with a camel's hair brush. Before the brush is withdrawn, the lid is pressed down, so as to retain the plasma; and on the removal of the brush, the oxide is well dif- fused over the eye by rubbing the eyelid over the eye. The treat- ment, in any case, should be commenced with the least quantity that will adhere to the end of the brush, and the quantity increased as it is tolerated. In cases of ulceration, where the patient can keep the eye steady, the plasma should be applied directly to the affected part, and allowed to remain a few seconds, or so long as the eye can be kept open. Where the case is complicated with "granular lids," the oxide is applied to the everted palpebral con- junctiva and allowed to remain about half a minute before the lid is closed. The strength generally used is one grain to the drachm; but in some cases where the patient has been under treatment for several weeks, a preparation of double that strength (two grains to the drachm) is frequently well borne, and the case improves more rapidly.