GENERAL ANAESTHETICS, 47 paralysis of the vascular and respiratory systems; but whereas in the employment of ether the paralysis of the respiratory acts always comes first, and hence presents in the cessation of the breathing a timely warning; in chloroform, on the other hand, the far more dangerous paralysis of the vascular system [i. e., of the heart) may be the first to appear, and thus present no warning, and leave no time for precautionary measures. In administering this anaesthetic, especial attention should be given to the pulse, the respiration, and the eye (conjunctiva and pupil). The pulse, at first quick, and it may be weak, should, as soon as unconsciousness sets in, fall somewhat in frequency and gain in force. It should continue regular and strong throughout. Should it become quick and weak, or irregular, then the inhalation must be withheld, unless the irregularity is obviously due to the patient's struggles. The breathing often affords an earlier sign of danger than the pulse. If the respiration becomes shallow, and gradually less frequent, the chloroform should be suspended for a time; should it cease, active measures must be resorted to, as will be described hereafter. What is called " stertorous" breathing, a noisy, catchy respiration, is nearly always a sign of deficient innervation of the respiratory apparatus, and hence the danger. A very similar kind of breathing, however, takes place in operations on the rectum and vagina, which is without danger. The true character of this form may generally be discriminated by noting that it does not occur until the rectum or vagina is manipulated, and is especially loud and noisy when the finger or an instrument is passed into either orifice with any force. The surest signs of safety and the earliest of danger are afforded by the eye of the patient, as exhibited in the condition of the pupil and the conjunctiva. So long as irritation of the conjunctiva causes reflex action, and is followed by winking, there is usually no danger. (Ringer.) The pupil is much contracted in the stage of insensibility, when no danger is to be apprehended; but on the approach of peril from dangerous narcosis, the pupil dilates. When on touching the conjunctiva reflex action is annulled, and the limbs when raised fall heavily, consciousness of pain is entirely absent. Death from chloroform occurs usually by asphyxia, owing to closure of the glottis by the tongue falling back, or due to paraly-