THE IMMEDIATE TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION. 35 tvith hot water. Dr. Da Costa frequently recommends the use of hot salt in a bag applied to the back of the neck in congest- ive headache, etc. Fojncntation is the application of warmth and moisture to the surface of the body by means of a flannel or soft cloth. Steaming cox\%\%X.'a in exposing a part to the vapors arising from a piece of flannel wrung out in boiling water; it is often employed in affections of the eyes. An ordinary Fomentation. Immerse a piece of flannel in boiling water, remove it and put it in a wringer made by attaching stout towel- ing to two rollers. The wringer is twisted around the flannel very strongly, till as much as possible of the water is pressed away. The wringer is useful, as the flannel is too hot when first removed from the boiling water to be grasped by the hand. When wrung as dry as possible, fomentations prepared in this way may be applied very hot without fear of scalding or blister- ing the skin. The flannel when applied to a part should be covered with a piece of oiled silk or rubber cloth, and changed before it becomes cold. On the removal of the fomentation the skin should be at once gently dried and covered with a piece of dry flannel. If the precaution of covering the fomentation with oiled silk, muslin, or paper, or a rubber cloth, be neglected, the warm, comforting flannels will be converted in a few minutes into cold, clammy, wet ones, disagreeable and hurtful to the patient. Turpentine Fomentation. Steep a piece of lint or linen in oil of turpen- tine, place it over the part and immediately apply over it flannel heated as hot as it can be borne. This is frequently more efl"ect- ual than a mustard plaster. Ttirpentine Fomentation. Sprinkle the flannel wrung out of hot water in the manner just described, with a tablespoonful of turpentine. This will act as a counter-irritant, rapidly reddening the skin and relieving pain in many cases. Opium Fomentation. Instead of turpentine employ laudanum as directed in the preceding receipt. Used to relieve pain. Mustard Fomentation. Add a quarter of a pound of mustard to a pint of boiling water. Wring the flannel cloths out in this solution in the manner above directed. This fomentation quickly red- dens the skin, and is frequently useful in allaying pain. LOTIONS, These are especially called for after sprains, bruises, and blotvs which do not break the skin, but are followed by ecchymosis, suggillation, swelling and pain. For this purpose, those which are cooling and discutient are the most useful. 22. I^. Acidi tannic!, Tincturai opii, Aquas, Astringent and sedative, 3j f.3ij f.§vj. M.