♦ 3<^4 LESIONS OF THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION. the tumor is not tender, and when no crepitation can be felt, we can always conclude, according to this author, that the walls of the gut still have sufficient resistance to permit energetic taxis without danger. It is impossible to lay down general rules as to the period when attempts at reposition are still admissible ; neither the number of days since the incarceration nor the presence or absence of stercoraceous vomiting can furnish these. In each case a thorough local examination, combined with a consideration of the general condition of the patient, is called for. In order that taxis may succeed—firstly, profound narcosis is necessary; secondly, the position of the outlet must be determined exactly. The author generally employs both thumbs, with which he exerts alternate strong pressure in the direction of the outlet on a portion of the tumor which is near it; when the hernia is very small, he exerts his pressure directly on the summit of the hernia. In the cases successfully reduced by taxis, the author has seldom exerted pressure less than five minutes, and never more than a quarter of an hour, but during this time he has employed a degree of force which would generally be regarded as inadmissible. He believes that the danger of causing reduction en masse, and of failing to recognize it when it has been produced, is not great; for, though the persistence of symptoms of incarceration may sometimes be confounded with the effects of the anaesthetic, the tendency of hernia to reproduce itself will always be an indication that the reduction has not been performed in a proper manner. Taxis th'origh the colon by introducing the hand into the rectum is of equivocal value. Trusses. The following explicit directions are given by Dr. D. Hayes Agnew: "When you advise a patient to use a truss you should always make it a rule to superintend its first application. If you cannot be present, give your patient the following directions: I. Never accept a truss until you get one which fits. 2. Try it by putting it on and [a] stooping down and rising up suddenly; (b) by coughing violently and persistently; {c) by separating the limbs and stooping; {d) by crossing the limbs and sitting down; {e) by going through all kinds of motions. Of course, the truss is not a proper one if the hernia slips away from it in the course of any of these movements. In wearing a truss the following precautions must always be taken: i. The patient must never take off the truss till he is in the recumbent position; 2. Before putting it on