THE TREATMENT OF SCROFULA, 500 Of course, proper hygienic regulations must be insisted upon. Dr. Wm. H. Barry, Ex-President of the Arkansas State Medical Association, has also reported extraordinarily good results from this agent. {S/. Lotiis Clinical Record, June, 1877.) He gen- erally uses the following formula: 727. Fl. ext. phytolaccse decandrse, ^ij Syrupi sarsaparillse, §v. M, S.—Tablespoonful three times daily, Tincture of the fresh root, he thinks, is better than the fluid extract. 728. Radicis phytolaccse, §ij Spiritds frumenti, Oij. M. Digest eight days. Take a tablespoonful thrice daily. Potassii Chloras, in doses of gr.v-xx, four times daily, in pure water, is highly spoken of as a remedy in scrofulous enlargements and ulcerations. As a local application to swellings and enlarged scrofulous joints, the following ointment may be used : 729. 'Sf. Potassii chloratis, 3ij Adipis, ^J. M. Potassii lodidmn. For removing strumous enlargements and deposits of aplastic and tuberculous matter, Mr. Erichsen has found the following formula extremely useful for adults, the dose being proportionally diminished in the case of children: 730. R. Potassii iodidi, . Potassse chloratis, aa 3j Potassge bicarbonatis, 3iij. M. Divide into twelve powders, of which one is to be taken night and morning in a half-pint of warm milk. Drs. Meigs and Pepper recommend the following combina- tion in children; 731. Potassii iodidi, gr.xlviij Syrupi ferri iodidi, f.3ij Syrupi zingiberis, f.3x AqUcB, f.giss. M. A teaspoonful, thrice daily, in-water, at five years of age. PotasscR Liquor, in doses of "rTi.xxx-lx, three times a day, is said to fre- quently diminish scrofulous tumors, without, however, exerting any influence on the diathesis. Sarsaparilla for generations has had a high reputation in scrofulous dis- eases. There is nevertheless wide diversity of opinion about it, many careful observers rejecting it as of no value whatever. Siillingia has long been a popular remedy in the various forms of scrofula.