THE COMPLICATIONS OF WOUNDS. 144 TRAUMATIC NEURALGIA AND PARALYSIS. DR. J. MASON WARREN, OF BOSTON.* Severe traumatic neuralgia is not an infrequent sequela both of gun-shot wounds, amputations and other injuries. Frequently, its severity and persistence is out of all proportion to the extent of the lession itself: a slight wound, where the injury seems to have been to the tissues surrounding a nervous trunk rather than to the nerve itself, being followed by intense and protracted pain. It is important to inquire into the alleged efficacy of dividing the nerve as a remedy in such cases. In answer to this, it may be stated that if the nerve is simply divided, sensation will probably return before the tissues implicated in the original injury have had time to recover their normal condition; and that, therefore, the operation will afford only very transient relief, and may have to be repeated several times. If, on the other hand, a portion of the nerve is excised, the restoration of the nervous function will be very much longer in taking place; but there will also be great dan- ger that the repair will be incomplete or that it will fail altogether, and thus entail permanent loss both of sensation and motion. The deliberate removal of a long section of the nerve can be but very rarely indicated, and then only as a last resort, as the possi- ble alternative of amputation. The rational treatment of these affections should be based on the fact that their natural tendency is to recovery, if only we can keep the patient comfortable. This can only be effected by divi- sion of the nerve, or by the use, either local or general, of narcotics. Gratifying success in some instances has been obtained by the repeated hypodermic use of morphia. In a case of severe neural- gic affection of the median nerve, Dr. Warren injected half a grain of the sulphate of morphia in solution deep under the skm of the forearm twice a day for six months; at the expn-ation of that time he laid bare and dissected out the nerve, but did not d' ide it ' The edges of the wound were loosely approxmiated, and water-dressings applied. The pain disappeared, and under the use of continued injections the patient recovered. ■ In a number of cases. Dr. Warren succeeded without resortmg to any operation whatever. His plan was to keep the whole limb * Surgical Observations. Boston, 1867.