TRAUMATIC NEURALGIA AND PARALYSIS. 149 to begin with. When its sleep-compelling power is too prominent, we may combine it with atropia. 156. Morphife sulphatis, g^'}i Atropite sulphatis, S^--sxs- For one injection. In this combination the anaesthetic force of the morphia remains unaltered, but the tendency to sleep is greatly diminished. Electricity and massage may both be employed, with some pros- pects of success, to give relief to the neuralgia. The form of pain known as caiisalgia, or "burning pain," is best relieved by water dressings constantly applied. It will get well in time. In extreme cases of traumatic neuralgia, the general result of experience is favorable to resection of the nerve. It should be done rather early than late in the case, and the resection should include a portion of the healthy nerve, but should of course be done at the lowest point possible. Measures should be taken to prevent or delay the union of the nerve as much as possible. With these precautions, the operation will often prove successful. •FREDERICK JAMES GANT, F. R. C. S., LONDON.* This surgeon directs attention to the fact that in some instances an hysterical constitutional condition, not unfrequently causes neuralgic and spasmodic twitchings of the stump, especially, but by no means exclusively, in females. In such cases no operative interference will be of the slighte'st use. The constitutional treat- ment is alone of promise. This is often advantageously prefaced by a change of residence. Depressing circumstances must be removed. The quinine treatment continued for a long time, with moderate doses, sometimes proves curative. If a malarial poison is suspected to be present, preparations of iron, the sulphates in particular, are more effectual. The urine should be tested for albumen, which, if present, will counteract the restorative effects of the iron. When traumatic neuralgia occurs in females, the men- strual functions should be inquired into, and measures be taken to promote their regularity if they are disordered. * Science and Practice of Surgery, i8y8.