91 ANTISEPTIC DRESSINGS. Aluminii Chloridiim, or chloraliim, is a powerful antiseptic deodorizer; not poisonous, and particularly serviceable in wounds with foul discharges. Aqua. The oldest, simplest, and, in some cases, the best of dressings, is pure water, of proper temperature (see page 71). Aqua Chlorinii in its concentrated form (one part to ten). It is rather painful, and when diluted its application must be frequently re- newed. Balsamum Feruviafium is a most excellent application to wounds. Dr. Martin Burke, of New York, finds the following combination unsurpassed for foul sinuses, old ulcers, badly lacerated tissues, etc.: 85. I^. Acidi carbolici, 5j Aquas, f.fj Balsami Peruvian!, f.^iv. To be well beaten up. Apply on picked oakum after carefully cleaning the wound. [Medical and Surgical Reporter, Feb., 1877). Balsamum Tolutanum. A German surgeon, Dr. E. Wiss, of Berlin, has recently expressed himself in almost unbounded praise of balsam of tolu as an application to wounds of all kinds. When the bal- sam was put upon wounds, it produced an immediate sensation of burning, which, however, very soon ceased, as did all pain, even in most severe wounds. Fresh wounds under this treat- ment showed no inflammation, and in those already inflamed it soon ceased. No suppuration took place, and where it was already present it soon disappeared. No wound treated by him by this method took on a septic character, even under the most unfavorable local and climacteric surroundings. In all cases, even in lacerated wounds, there was union by first intention, a thing which had not been his experience in any other method of treatment. {Berliner Klin. Wochenschrift,'^ov&mhex, 1876.) Benzoin. Recerit observation has shown that benzoic acid has decidedly antiseptic properties. The compound tincture of benzoin has been employed very successfully as a dressing to recent wounds. It is similar to the once celebrated "Friar's Balsam." Pure tincture of benzoin, applied on lint, is an admirable primary dressing. Boracicum Acidum has been recently introduced and very favorably re- ported upon (see pages 79, 81). Bryonia. Tincture of bryony is a favorite application among pugilists for the bruises, cuts and contusions they receive in their encoun- ters. It seems little known as a local application to the profes- sion, while its acknowledged powerfully stimulating properties, both to the skin and mucous membrane, recommend it as prob- ably very efficacious in such wounds. Calcii lodas. The iodate of calcium has been employed with very excel- lent results as an antiseptic by Mr. S. W. Moore, of London.