295 HERNIA. ference of this simple nature, while we might shrink from the responsibility of using means of a far more risky character. The advocates of aspiration in hernia do not pretend that it is of universal applicability. Its use will not tend to the reduction of a strangulated epiplocele, but can we always be certain with what we are dealing in such circumstances? Better give the patient the benefit of the doubt, and then operate in the usual manner if there is no reduction. Neither will it suffice per se to reduce hernise complicated by bands of adhesion; but its use will, by reducing the size of the gut protruded, make the ulterior cut- ting operation easier. In a very small hernial knuckle, such as is not unfrequently found in the femoral region, little will be achieved by aspiration. With these exceptions, there is abundant proof that the process is of wide applicability, and eminently useful for the reduction of herniae resisting all efforts at replacement by taxis, even when aided by chloroform freely administered. There can be little doubt that the general use of the aspirator would in such circumstances save many a useful life, which is sacrificed by the continued employment of a very dangerous operation for one incomparably safer and easier of performance. Baths. The warm bath is used to depress the system and pro- duce relaxation of the abdominal muscles. Commencing with a temperature of 95°, it should be raised to 110° Fah. Owing to its inconvenience, however, and the greater facility of chloroform, the bath is but little used at present. Cold, applied to the tumor and around it, is valuable in effecting relaxation and preventing inflammation. It may be done by lay- ing a bladder of pounded ice on the tumor, or by cloths wrung out in ice water, or by a refrigerant lotion (as p. 52), or by a thin sponge saturated with ether, by enemata of ice water, or by the ether spray. Cupping. Dr. B. H. Washington, of Tennessee {Nashville Journal of Medicine and Surgery, Sept., 1876), states that the Rus- sian peasantry reduce hernia by dry-cupping on a grand scale ; they take a small cooking-pot, and make the bottom as hot as they can without making the rim too hot, and then applying it over the abdomen, cool the abdomen with cold wet cloths, and thus suck up such a large portion of the intestines, that they are able to make sufficient traction to draw it back. He has modified this plan very successfully, and considers it far