DISEASES OF THE SKIN. 5o8 Arsenic is certainly also valuable in psoriasis, eczema, pemphi- gus, acne and lichen, in proper cases, and when due regard is paid to the secretory organs, and to diet and other elements of general health; of less certain value in lupus, ichthyosis, sycosis, verruca and epitheliomatous and cancerous diseases; it is absolutely use- less or harmful in the syphilodermata, the animal and vegetable parasitic diseases (except- in rare cases), in elephantiasis graecorum and arabum, in pupura, true prurigo, herpes zoster, scleroderma, moUuscum contagiosum and fibrosum, keloid, vitiligo, na;vus, etc. In reference to its administration, it is quite sure that it is elim- inated very rapidly, chiefly by the bowels and kidneys, so that the urine shows evidence of it in a few hours; no trace of it can be found on careful analysis of the body after death, two weeks after the last dose of arsenic. The drug, therefore, does not accumulate in the system, and no fear of this need be entertained; but when it is administered in increasing doses, absorption may be hindered, and when the dose becomes very large, active absorption of the large dose may give rise to a suspicion of cumulative action. The first symptom of a full dose of arsenic, in a very large share of cases, is a fullness about the face and eyes, and conjunctival irrij tation and tenderness. This need not be exceeded, but may often be kept up with advantage to a slight degree till the disease yields. Before any harm is done by the arsenic, either this or a slight nau- sea or diarrhoea manifests itself It should always be given with or just after meals; it is often best to give it alone, or with a small amount of bitter infusion. The bowels should be first well purged, and an occasional laxative will both assist the action of the drug and prevent or modify some of its unpleasant effects. If the urine becomes loaded and the tongue coated, it is best to stop the medi- cine for a short time and give diuretics; some of these disturb- ances can be prevented by combining an alkali, as acetate of po- tassa, carbonate of soda, or aromatic spirits of ammonia, with the arsenic. In recjard to the most serviceable forms in which to use arsenic, they are named in the order of their value: Solution of the chloride of arsenic, solution of the arseniate of potassa, that of the arseniate of soda, and the arseniates of ammonia, arsenious acid, iodide of arsenic, and the arseniates of iron and quinia; of as yet untried efficacy, solution of the chloro-phosphide of arsenic and arseniate of antimony.