NEW GROWTHS. 468 by means of arsenic, is efficacious, since it induces a resorption of the hyperplastic glandular tissue. II. Arsenic owes its favorable influence to its inherent power of inducing a process of decomposition in albuminous tissues, and especially glandular tumors, which makes resorption possible. III. Moreover, the local effect of injection and the arsenical fever contribute to the diminution of the size of the tumors. Cures accomplished by arsenic may last for a year; and the recurring tumors are as susceptible to treatment as the primary. In malig- nant lymphomata the treatment by means of arsenic is unquestion- ably more efficacious than operation. Operative measures are to be accompanied by internal treatment in every case. DR. MARSDEN, LONDON CANCER HOSPITAL. This gentleman, after an experience of over six thousand cases of this disease, considers arsenic as superior to any other agent in cancer. He believes that with early treatment nine out of ten cases may be cured. He recommends it in every form of cancer, except the cystic or colloid varieties—provided that the disease does not exceed four inches square in size—when removal by the knife appears to be the only remedy. Arsenic may be used in this way for cancers in every situation, except the interior of the mouth or nose, localities where the nature of the remedy makes it dangerous. The formula used at the cancer hospital is the following: 672. 'Sf.. Arsenious acid, 5ij Mucilage of gum acacia, 5j, Mix into a paste to thick to run. This is to be spread over the entire surface of the cancer, provided this does not exceed one square inch in size ; a bit of dry lint is then placed over the sore, in order to ab- sorb any excess of paste. In the course of an hour the lint becomes dry and hard, and adheres firmly to the parts. In the course of twenty-four hours some inflammatory action is visible in the tissues immediately adjacent to the cancer. There is often also some pain, but this is not usually severe, and lasts but for a day or two. After the lapse of two or three days, according to circumstances, bread-and-water poultices, changed every few hours, are to be constantly applied over the sore. A distinct line of demarkation is usually to be seen by this time, and the slough gradually separates and comes away, leaving a healthy cup-like depression, varying in depth and size according to the mass