1^5 LESIONS FROM HEAT AND COLD. purplish, mottled or greenish-black hue, vesicles filled with dark fluid rise upon the surface, and the swelling, at first hard and tense, put on a doughy character; then we have gangrene to deal with, and should treat it accordingly, by mild local antiphlogistic treat- ment; and if there is much local tension, by free incisions. When foetor'appears, it should be diminished by antiseptic applications, such as carbolic acid, the chlorides, and charcoal. If the gangren- ous parts are large, these substances may be applied in the form of solution, or the charcoal may be dusted upon the part; if small, they may be used in poultices. The sloughs should not be pulled away, nor should stimulants be applied to the living tissues, unless the sloughs do not readily separate; but diluted balsam of Peru, very dilute nitric acid or opiate lotions, may be applied. Parts quite dead, but that do not separate readily, such as tendons, ligaments, and bone, may be cut off. But nature should be allowed to eliminate all small parts, such as fingers and toes. Amputation may be performed where the part involved is large, as an arm or a leg. Of the numerous applications \.o frost-bite, chilblain or fermo,Dr. S D Gross prefers the dilute tincture of iodine. In obstinate cases he has found great advantage from blistering with canthar- idal collodion. . „ . r Mr. Fergus, of Scotland, recommends the followmg, one appli- cation having usually proved sufficient in his hands : 212 ^. Acidi sulphurosi, ^-^^J- For a lotion. It should be applied thoroughly with a camel's hair brush, and is especially indicated in the itching, burning stage of the com- plaint. PROFESSOR THEODOR BILLROTH. In the treatment of chilblains, regard must be had to constitu- tion and occupation. Chlorosis and menstrual disturbance m women predispose to them. Employments requirmg fi-equen lange of temperature have the same effect. It is usually difficult to combat these causes, hence we are chiefly limited to loca rem - dies Of the many recommended. Dr. Billroth has Inmsel t ted satisfactorily the effect of the following, one or the other of