Il8 THE COMPLICATIONS OF WOUNDS. preparations of ammonia are exceedingly valuable heart stimu- lants. Argenti Nitras. Bleeding leech bites, etc , may be touched with a stick of caustic. Cibotiiim Cufninghii. The light brown, soft filaments of this East Indian tree fern f known as Pengawhar Djambi) have been imported for use as a local hemostatic. They are used like styptic cotton, and are reported very efficient. Collodion, useful in the form of Richardson's "styptic collodion." (See above p. 114-) Creasohm. In hemorrhages from the nasal, pharyngeal and oral cavities, this is an excellent local application. In the case of dental hem- orrhage, a small tampon, impregnated with a thick mixture of creasote in substance and alumen, is to be pressed into the bleed- ing alveolar cavity. If the hemorrhage does not stop at once, another similar compress should be superimposed, and the press- ure increased with the finger. In obstinate nasal hemorrhages, plugging the nose with charpie tampons, impregnated with the same mixture, is uniformly successful. Cupri Sulphas, used in the preparation of blue lint (see above), and in stick to leech bites, etc. * Digitalis has an undoubted power to arrest hemorrhage. It is appropri- ate in internal hemorrhages, when large doses must be given, preferably of the infusion. *Er<rota, internally, or in hypodermic injection, contracts the arterioles, * and is invaluable in the hemorrhagic diathesis. Erigeron Canadense is highly esteemed by Dr. Garretson (see above). *Ferrum The preparations of iron stand at the head of the list of styp- tics The solution of the persulphate (Monsell's salt) is perhaps the most popular. The tincture of the chloride or perchlonde is much used. Mr. Erichsen considers it " the readiest and most efficient hemostatic." Others assert, however, that it is more apt to irritate the surface of wounds and prevent union by the first intention than the persulphate, which is quite free from causticity. (Ringer, Gross.) The liquor ferri permtratis is preferred by some Enghsh surgeons. The following is an efficient mixture in the hemorrhagic diathesis: 135. 1^. Acidi gallici, _ 3ss Acidi sulphurici diluti, f.3j Tinct. opii deodorati, f.3j Infusi rosae comp., f.^iv. M. A tablespoonful every four hours or oftener. (Bartholow.) Galla. Gallic acid is a moderately energetic local styptic. Hamamelis. In the hemorrhagic diathesis, and in persistent oozing of blood, one or two drops of the tincture of witch-hazel every two hours is often efficient.