382 LESIONS OF THE OI^GANS OF REPRODUCTION, This is to be inserted into a " cupped sound " (an ordinary steel bougie with several depression s about as large as a pea along its sides), and the sound, previously well oiled, rapidly carried down the urethra until the cups rest in the prostatic sinus. Here it is retained from one to five minutes, thus melting off more or less of the tanno-glyceral paste. This should be repeated twice weekly. Should this fail, prostatic injections with the deep urethral syringe may be used of a solution of nitrate of silver, not stronger than gr.v-x to the ounce. The use of the fused nitrate of silver is not justifiable. Nocturnal Emissions. When such emissions do not exceed three a week, they should be disregarded, as they are probably physio- logical; when more frequent, the usual hygienic and general means must be adopted, and also certain special measures. The patient should develop his muscular system, and fatigue himself with phys- ical labor. Dry frictions, and the cold douche in the morning, are beneficial. He should sleep on a hard bed lightly covered. The stomach should not be full on retiring, and the bladder should be thoroughly emptied the last thing at night. To prevent lying on the back, in which position pollutions are particularly apt to occur, a towel with a hard knot over the spine, should be fastened around the waist. Bromide of potassium, camphor and lupulin, may be given internally with strychnine and a mineral acid. Locally decided advantage may be derived from the gentle use of the steel sound; or of the "cupped sound" with tannin (as above described). If the pollutions are traceable to a sensitive glans penis, circum- cision should be performed. PROF. H. H. TOLAND, M. D., SAN FRANCISCO.* Spermatorrhea is very generally the result of masturbation, and to its cure the cessation of this habit is absolutely necessary. The nitrate of silver treatment, so highly commended by Lallemand, has proved an utter failure in the hands of Dr. Toland. He has never seen the slightest benefit from the porte-caustique. As a tonic to act specifically upon the genital organs, in cases of local atony, he prefers this combination ; 515. R. Quiniee sulphatis, 3j Pulveris rhei, Extracti nucis vomicae, aii 3ss Extracti belladonnje, gr.xij. M. For thirty pills. One four times a day. '''Lectures on Practical Surgery, 1877.