CANCER. 467 action of arsenic in other maladies, encourages a trial of its action in cancer. The reputation of arsenic in this disease is of old date; but Dr. EsMARCH has been led to employ it energetically in hopeless cases, and with surprising results. He showed the photograph of a woman, who as a child was scrofulous. She had scrofulous glands in the neck, which during her pregnancy developed into a lupous sarcoma. Extirpation of .the whole disease by the knife was impossible; Dr. Esmarch, therefore, cut away the tissue of the face, and laid charpie soaked in chloride of iron on the remain- ing diseased portions; he then applied a powder of morphia and arsenic with some calomel and sugar. A thick leathery eschar was formed, after the falling off of which cicatrization soon took place. Another woman came into his clinic with cancer of the breast, in which adhesion to the ribs had taken place. Dr. Es- march prescribed arsenic internally, and for external application the powder above-mentioned, to be applied daily; this she must at last have done by teaspoonfuls. In the next session, she re- turned ; all traces of the cancer had apparently disappeared, and she said that she had but slight pain. Besides its destructive action on growths, arsenic is also an antiseptic. Dr. Esmarch has also obtained some remarkable re- sults in his practic from Canquoin's chloride of zinc paste (Index) and from electrolysis. In a case of small-celled sarcoma of the thigh, as large as a man's fist, electrolysis by a weak current applied six hours daily almost completely removed it; but the man would not wait. A year later he returned, without a trace of the tumor. There was one class of malignant diseases in which Dr. Esmarch had obtained some remarkable results from the use of iodide of potassium. These are sarcomatous tumors. Many of these may be the product of old and concealed forms of syphilis. Proriasis of the tongue and rodent ulcer are also at times syphilitic pro- ducts, and are greatly benefited by iodide of potash internally, and iodine ointment. BR. A. WINEWARTER, OF GERMANY. Certain malignant glandular degenerations have been success- fully treated by this surgeon with arsenic. He states in the Mcdi- cinishe Jahrbuchcr, 1877, the following conclusions: I. The treatment of both malignant lymphomata and leukaemia,