156 SPECIAL FORMS OF WOUNDS. excessive reaction. The diet at first should be restricted. He adds: " The importance of the use of mercury as an antiphlogis- tic cannot be overrated, and it should be given in all cases where, from the severity of the injury, there is reason to fear inflammatory sequences." WOUNDS OF THE CHEST. UNITED STATES ARMY.* Local Treatment. To secure rest, position and the broad chest bandage are the most generally applicable measures in injuries of the thorax. In profuse primary hemorrhages, cold applications to the chest, as ice, ice water, etc., are useful. If the bleeding point can be discovered it is better to arrest it by uncovering the artery and ligaturing it. When it is impossible to reach the source of the bleeding it is better to close the wound, and promote the oc- clusion of the bleeding vessel by compression and general means. All superficial wounds should be closed with a view of promoting early adhesions. In extensive incisions and lacerations it will be well to use sutures ox seires-fines; but, in coughing and inadvertent motions of the patients they often tear out; and, usually, a simple dressing, with adhesive strips, covered with lint or oakum, and a light bandage, will suffice. In many cases of penetrating wound, surgeons have used with advantage to support the injured side broad strips of adhesive plaster made to encompass two-thirds of the chest and fenestrated at the wound. General Treatment. The use of venesection in these wounds, though traditional and still recommended by various authorities, must be abandoned. Recent and extensive experience condemns it as always unnecessary, and occasionally very harmful. On the other hand, opmm is a most important pharmaceutic means. Dr. Neudorfer justly remarks : " In cases of injuries of the chest, as well as of the abdomen, opium is to be considered as possessing specific powers, not to be replaced by any narcotic whatever." The practitioner should not forget that its effect upon the system are augmented after profuse loss of blood, and therefore he must Medical and Surgical History of the War of the Rebellion.