7 Vivian Pooro's rules for tlio uao of olootriolty In paralysis, Vance, etc., on writer's cramp. Wolr Mitchell on vertigo. Grlndella, lobelia, caffea, etc., In asthma. Formula for modlcatod oigfircttcs. Thirty pages are devoted to the treatment of acute and chronic broncnitis, coryxa and oatarrh. Hay asthma froso cold) is thoroughly dlsoussod. Oa Phthisis tliere are 25 pages, giving, besides the ordinary treatment from Da Costa, WHllams, Flint, Walshe, etc., the hygienic rules of Altken; Both's plan of calcincatlon of the lungs; Churohfll on hypophosphites : Doboll's pancreatic emulsion ; Jaocoud's arsenical treatment; Maclaren's rules for sea voyaging ; Yeo on antiseptic inhalations, etc. Pneumonia, pleurisy, emphysema, laryngitis, aphonia, haomoptygis, etc., are discussed in full. Under heart diseases are given Habershon's seven rules of treatment; Durrant's rules in Incur- able cases ; Chambers on dietetics and climates in ; Da Costa, Balfour, Li00»l8, and others, on angina, hypertrophy, palpitation, irritable heart, valvular disease, etc. Biliary calculus (gall stones), as treated by Prof. Schiflf, Dr. Octerlony, Durand's "solvent," Jackson's formula, mineral waters, etc. The Medical Scaff, u. B. A., on cholera. The East Indian treatment. Squlbb's, Hamlin's, Euschenberger's etc., cholera mixtures; chlorodyne formulae. Da Costa and Wm. Thompson on constipation. Drs. Poroher, Mettauer, Meigs and Van Buren's treatment. Saccharate of lime in, etc. Acute and chronic diarrhoea; treatment by castor oil emulsion (Dr. Young); carbolic acid (Dr. Kempster); bismuth (Dr. Da Costa); coto bark (Dr. Burkart); diet (Sir J. Fayrer); oxide of zinc, (Prof. Qubler); salicin (Altken). Dysentery as treated by enemata, position. Ipecac, saline purgatives, creasote, turpentine, mercury, opium, etc. Maury's cauterization plan in chronic dysentery. The best combinations for expelling tapeworms, seat and round worms, etc. Lioomis', Da Costa's, Niemeyer's, Sibson's, and the Bellevue Hospital plans of diet treatment in Bright's disease. The milk treatment, with precise directions. The most recent suggestions in malarial diseases ; as Sir J. Fayrer and Dr. Porcher on dengae ; Bemiss, Dowell and Fothergill on ague; Warburg's tincture; the nitric acid bath; carbazot^te of ammonium; chloral; eucalyptus; grindelia squarrosa; bromohydrate of quinla; salicylate of quinia; formulae for disguising quinia. Rheumatism; the salicylic acid and salicin treatment; the alkaline treatment; Chambers' bedding and diet treatment; Da Costa's plan; propylamin ; baths, blisters, hot and cold packbig; liniments, etc. Salicylic acid In smallpox; rules and formulae for the prevention of pitting, by Barlow, Vel- peau, Yates, Bennett, and others. The antiseptic, cold bath, and dietetic treatments of typhoid, typhus and yellow fevers. Cholera infantum, as treated by N. S. Davis, J. Lewis Smith, Clymer, Hay, Rosse and Trous- seau. Barker, Beigel, Clymer, Geiger. Niemeyer, Smith, Meigs, Da Costa, etc., on Croup, Diphtheria, as treated by potash and iron; carboljc and sulphurous acids ; the bisulphites; chloral and salloylio acid ; calomel; rapid cinchonism; oxalic acid ; guaiacum ; stimulants; inhalations; gargles for, Porcher's preventive mixture etc, etc. The last chapter is devoted to the medical and hygienic treatment of alcoholism and the opiuna habit, giving numerous valuable suggestions on these subjects, almost wholly neglected in works on practice. In the SURGICAL THERAPEUTICS The number of authors quoted is 418; the number of their prescriptions given 1008. Of the many special points given we note— The prevention of inflammation by cold ; by warm immersion ; by veratrum viride ; by limiting the supply of blood ; by position. Murchison, Fothergill, Gross and Erichsen on the sthenic, asthenic and irritative types of in- flammation. General and local anaesthetics; anaesthetic mixtures; anaesthesia of the larynx. Burow, Porcher and Wood's open treatment of wounds; Gamgee's anhydrous dressings; Guerin's raw cotton dressings; water dressings ; Dolbeau's alcohol dressings ; Heweon's earth dress- ings; Lister's carbolated dressings ; Spence's boraoic acid dressings; Polli's sulphite dressings, etc. Bartholow's, Hyatt's and Holmes' methods with erysipelas. Dr. Garretson's specific com- bination. Hemorrhage: Richardson's styptic colloid, styptic lint, wool, cotton and collodion. Styptic mixtures of Pancoast, Pagliari, Martin, etc. Methods of torsion, and pressure, and cold. The Immediate and later treatment of primary and secondary shock, by Brunton, Hood, Fother- gill, Smith, Gross, Fuller, Holmes, etc. The use of physostlgma, aconite, atropia, strychnia, etc.. In tetanus. Wier Mitchell on trau- matic paralysis and" neuralgia. The latest views of the German surgeons, Esmarch, Stromeyer and Billroth, on gunshot wounds. The best remedies in hydrophobia. Halford'S ammonia treatment of snake bites. Numerous applications for burns, scalds, frostbites, bed sores, carbuncles and boils. Syme's treatment of indolent ulcers. Villate's solution for carles. Morton's Improved treat- ment of spina bifida. Massage In paralysis, sprains, etc. Squire's method with naevus. Miner, Vallette, CoUes and others, on varicose veins. Various authors on carles of the teeth, pharyngitis and tonsillitis. Ruppaner's London Paste, for enlarged tonsils. , • Pancoast's and Heaton's now method for the radical cure of hernia by subcutaneous injections. The carbolic acid treatment of hemorrhoids. ir r n Impotence, masturbation and spermatorrhoea occupy thirty pages, a monograph in itseii, mil of suggestions. The chapter on lesions of the organs of special sense includes the noso, eye, and ear, as ozeena, eplsta^ls, rhinitis, conjunctival diseases, iritis, styes, wounds of the eye, otorrhoea, tinnitus, etc.