225 a ULCERS. DR. J.A.MES B. MOBLEY, OF ALA. 272. I^. Passiflorse incarnatse succi, Oss 01. jecoris aselli, f.3iv. M. Apply to the surface of chronid ulcers thrice daily. The soothing and healing action of the juice of the passion flower has been employed in a number of cases by this practitioner {^Medicaland Surgical Reporter, Aug., 1869). The following applications are from various sources: 273. IJ:. Olei cadini, f.§j Pulv. calcis sulphatis, §vj. To be thinly spread on dressings for ulcers when the suppuration is pro- fuse. 274. 1^^. Hydrarg. chloridi corrosivi, gr.iij Spts. frumenti, Oj. M. To be applied to indolent and scrofulous ulcers two or three times a day, on wet rags or lint. This is very highly commended by Mr. John McLennan in the Edinburgh Medical Journal, March 1876. PROFESSOR JAMES SYME, F. R. S. E. The Indolent and Callous Ulcer. This ulcer is confined almost exclusively .to the legs of people advanced beyond middle age, and constitutes a very troublesome subject of surgical practice, as they are very apt to recur after being healed. It is distinguished by a smooth surface, generally depressed, of various colors, having no appearance of granulations. The dis- charge is viscid, tenacious and fetid, the edges thick and white. There is always diffused swelling of the limb, firm and incompres- sible in character, though there is no circumscribed hardness in the- immediate neighborhood of the ulcer. The treatment generally thought most useful is rest in the hori- zontal position, and pressure by means of strapping the limb with' adhesive plaster. A much more speedy treatment, one more lasting in its effects, more economical, easy of application, and convenient, is that by blisters. The blister applied should be large, covering not only the sore, but a considerable part of the limb. No other treatment is necessary; there is no danger of erysipelas, and the favorable result is almost certain. It is of essential importance that the. blister takes in the whole thickened part of the limb. 15-S