SPECIAL FORMS OF WOUNDS. 1/8 The Spiritiis Ammonice Aromaticus should be given in f.5j doses frequently repeated ; or the Liquor Ammonice in 5ss, well diluted, every ten or fifteen minutes. Antimonii et Potasses Tartras. The cobra bite has been successfully treated in India by ligation and scarification, followed by 186, I^. Antimonii et potassae tartratis, gr.ij AquK, f.^viij. M. A wineglassful every fifteen mintues till free vomiting is in- duced. The convalescence is aided by quinine. Arsenicum. In various forms, arsenic has enjoyed a high repute in ser- pent bites in India. It is given as Fowler's solution, or as the Tanjore pill: 187. Acidi arseniosi, gr.iv Piperis nigri, 9ij Acacias, Q- s. M. Make sixty pills. These are given up to the limit of tolerance. Baptisia Tindoria. The wild indigo plant is a popular remedy for rattle- snake bite among the mountains of the Middle Atlantic States. The leaves are applied as a poultice to the part. ipecacuanha. The following is a favorite treatment for rattlesnake bite in Guiana: 188. ^. Pulveris ipecac, gr,xx-xxx Pulveris capsici, gr.v. M. Make one dose. Aid the vomiting and diaphoresis by abundance of warm water. After the emesis ceases, alcohol should be given to the extent of slight inebriation. Local means are not employed. Pareira In Brazil, the root of Pareira Brava is used in the bites of poisonous serpents. A vinous infusion is taken mternally, while the bruised leaves of the plant are applied to the wound. Simaba Cedron. This plant, indigenous to Central America, has a con- siderable reputation as a specific antidote for venomous bites. The fruit, a sort of bean, is the part used. Sufficient has been said of it to justify further and more ample trials than have yet been made of its merits Tabacum is an antidote to many poisonous bites, and is popularly used in the south and west for this purpose. A poultice of tobacco is applied to the bitten part and sufficient is swallowed to nause- ate the patient. It is considered that the sufferer is safe, so long as he can be kept nauseated.