THE COMPLICATIONS OF WOUNDS. 130 be given early and freely, especially the ammoniated tincture of opium with valerian. MR. T. HOLMES. This writer lays particular stress on the condition of " prostration with excitement" which is apt to follow severe shock. It is marked by a rapid and weak pulse, the temperature not rising in proportion to the pulse, the stomach irritable and rejecting all or most that is put into it, the patient sleepless, restless, and more or less delirious. This condition must be combated by morphia injected subcu- taneously, or by chloral or opium in full doses, if the stomach will bear it. Hyoscyamus combined with opium often acts well. The warmth of the body and extremities must be sedulously maintained, and the irritability of the stomach lessened, by the application of mustard poultices, by constantly sucking small morsels of ice, by the administration of dilute hydrocyanic acid HXiij-iv in a small quantity of some vehicle, or creasote Tl^ij in pil. eveiy three hours. At the same time food must be supplied in the most grateful and most nourishing form, in small quantities very often repeated, and a stimulant (which ought not to be more than is absolutely neces- sary) in varied kinds, according to the patient's tastes and habits, and with similar precautions as to quantity and repetition. MR. JONATHAN HUTCHINSON, F. R. C. S. In that common form of shock from injuries to the head known as concussion of the brain, this able surgeon holds that the symp- toms are due solely to arterial paralysis, and that there is no tend- ency to any process allied to inflammation. All there is to do, therefore, is to restore the tone to the vaso-motor nerves, and pre- vent cerebral softening. During the first stage, that of collapse, the patient should be let alone, and allowed to rally. If the collapse is extreme, or unusu- ally prolonged, a diffusible stimulant may be given by enema. Generally it is sufficient to place the patient in a recumbent posi- tion, with the head low, and apply warmth to the extremities. The remedies from which we may select are chiefly—first, those which diminish the temperature of the head; second, those which diminish the quantity of the blood ; third, those which place the heart at a disadvantage as regards sending blood into the head;