234 LESIONS OF THE BONES AND JOINTS. tion to the intestinal canal by saline purgatives aids the treatment. Should suppuration occur and fluctuation be distinctly felt, open- ings should be made in such a way that the pus shall escape with- out being pressed out. If the fever continues, the suppuration remaining profuse, and the pain persistent, we may try the con- tinued application of bladders of ice. Great advantage may also be obtained by the application of a fenestrated plaster splint. Much may be accomplished by great care and close attention to the patient. • The use of cups, leeches, mercurial ointment, and other anti- phlogistic means, recommended by many at the outset of the dis- ease, are, in Dr. Billroth's opinion, inferior to the application of iodine. Chronic periosteitis must be treated constitutionally with regard to the dyscrasia which induces it (as syphilis, scrofula, etc.) Lo- cally, rest of the diseased part is the first and most general rule of treatment. Elevation of the part is also a valuable adjuvant, as it avoids congestion by furnishing a mechanical aid to the escape of the blood. When the symptoms are seen at their commencement, resolution should be aimed for. To effect this, powerful antiphlogistic reme- dies are of little use. Leeches, cups, purgatives, and ice, are only beneficial in acute exacerbations; their action is temporary, and may prove hurtful, by exhausting the strength. The bladders of ice, extolled so highly by Esmarch, are indicated in cases accom- panied by great pain, but otherwise are not called for. The resorbent and milder derivative remedies are those which act the best. Tincture of iodine, ointment of iodide of potash, mercurial ointment diluted with lard, mercurial plaster, ointment made with strong solution of nitrate of silver, hydropathic dress- ings, and mild compression bandages, are the most appropriate measures. With these we can attack the disease when commenc- ing, and may succeed in arresting it in its first stage. If the process progresses, and the caries runs its course without suppuration, we may continue with the above remedies, and in suitable cases, in vigorous persons, may combine with the above derivatives to the skin, such as fontanelles, the hot iron, etc. If the signs of suppuration begin and abscesses form, there is still a chance that by continuing these absorbent remedies, reabsorption may be induced.