BED-SORES. 205 feces so that the bed should not be wet. A lemon should be cut and the reddened spot rubbed daily with the fresh juice from the cut surface. If there be excretion over the sacrum, the patient should be placed on a ring cushion, or else on a caoutchouc air or water cushion. The excoriation may be painted with nitrate of silver, or covered with leather spread with lead plaster. If the sore be gangrenous from the first, and this begins to extend, we should resort to the ordinary treatment for grangrene. (See p. 107.) RESUME OF REMEDIES. applied pure, or as whisky or eau de cologne, if used before red- ness occurs, will aid in hardening the cuticle. Ahmen A saturated solution of alum, with as much tannic acid added as it will take up, is one of the best preventives of chafing. Ars-enti Nitras. A solution of gr. xx to the ounce may be painted on the threatened but unbroken skin as soon as it becomes red. Balsamum Peruvianum. After the sore has formed this is an excellent dressing. Camphora. Tincture of camphor painted on the part is a good prevent- ive. Carbo. Dry charcoal sprinkled thickly over the black slough which forms in a bed-sore hastens its separation and corrects the fetor. Emplastra. Lead plaster and soap plaster are used as protectives. They should be spread on very soft kid, and be not so thick or hard as to lose their pliability. Tliey must not be allowed to crease or rumple. Professor Gross uses them rarely, as it is so diffi- cult to keep them smooth. Glycerina, pure, or glycerine cream rubbed over parts exposed to pres- sure after washing morning and evening, is one of the best pre- ventives. Hydrargyrum. Mr. Holmes recommends the bichloride of mercury, gr. ij to alcohol f ^j, for painting the part exposed, before redness or chafing appears. lodinium. If the part is brushed once or twice a day with tincture of iodine, at first diluted and then pure, abrasion is often pre- vented. Iodoform. A healing application. The open sore should be dusted with finely powdered iodoform, and then covered with oiled lint, or other bland application. Myrrha and similar vegetable aromatics and astringents are used as pre- ventives. Ricini Oleum. Equal parts of castor oil and balsam of copaiba make an excellent application to the sore. Tannicum Acidum. See Alumen.