THE COMPLICATIONS OF WOUNDS. 146 PROFESSOR'tHEODOR BILLROTH. This distinguished surgeon, in treating the pain and stiffness following old injuries, especially of the joints and the parts adja- cent, has great faith in massage. Looking upon the pain as excited by infiltrations around the nerve-sheaths, he teaches that the re- sorption of such infiltrations can only take place by permeable lymphatics, assisted by an energetic circulation in the blood-ves- sels, especially the small veins; and fluxion excited in the parts by the systematic employment of massage, and active and passive movements, favors the resorption of the infiltrations that have been thus dispersed. Those cases must be exempted from this mode of treatment in which the pathological process has led to softening of tissues. In these, as a general rule, the walls of the vessels are also softened, and massage might give rise to extravasation, inflam- mation, and the formation of abscess. The procedure, therefore, requires to be employed with great prudence in white swelling; but in pains and stiffness following old injuries, and chronic rheu- matic inflammation of joints, we are able to act more boldly, and surprising results may be obtained by perseverance. The least trust is to be placed in this kneading treatment in those articular neuroses in which there is absolutely no objective abnormality to be found, neither swelling nor infiltration being present. DR. W. H. WATKINS, OF NEW ORLEANS. Loss of the power of motion in the Avounded limb to a greater or less extent, in other words traumatic paralysis, is not rare after gunshot wounds ; and the treatment is usually quite unsatisfactory. Dr. Watkins, however, reports a case of paralysis of the deltoid, both of sensation and motion, in which the local application of strychnia brought great amendment. {New Orleans Journal of Medicine, January, 1868.) The formula used was as follows: ICA R. Strychnice sulpliatis, gr.ij ^ Chloroformi, f.!j. For a liniment. Apply night and morning. This solution was thoroughly rubbed into the skin of the aflected muscles twice daily, about one-half of it being used at a time. After continuing these frictions for twelve days, the patient com- plained of an uneasy sensation in the arm, and on pricking the skin with a pin, it was found that some pain was experienced