WOUNDS AND INJURIES. 429 ino- or retching, especially those who are in the anaemic condition, which encourages small hemorrhages under the skin, and in such cases there need be no injury at all. In this way ecchymoses are frequently observed in cases of purpura, and occasionally in Asiatic cholera. The effusion of blood beneath the conjunctiva may be distinguished from any other form of vascularity— a. By its brilliant uniform scarlet velvety surface, when recent, which completely hides the sclerotic. b. By the absence of any visible blood-vessels. c. By the irregular ragged edge. It may be so large as to occupy the whole sub-conjuntival cel- lular tissue, and to raise up the conjunctiva into folds, or it may amount to no more than a small scarlet spot on the sclerotic. It never invades the corneal conjunctiva, because the attachments of the conjunctiva to the anterior elastic cornea are much closer than those which connect it with the sclerotic. Surgical interference for sub-conjunctival haemorrhage is neither necessary nor effective. If the patient will wait, the ecchymoses are best let alone, and they will go through the sequences of color usual in the case of a black eye, until they finally disappear in eight or ten days. If the effusion be excessive in any one spot, the con- junctiva may, without fear of mischief, be divided and the blood squeezed out; and if a patient be impatient for restoration of good looks, a lotion may be prescribed to aid absorption. The following is the formula which Dr. Jacob has used : 626. Potass, iodid., 5ij Tr. arnic. montan., 3iss Aq. rosmarini, ad §vj. M. For a lotion. The following collyrium, though inelegant, is more effective: 627. ^. 01. jecor. ascl., oj Pot. iodid., gr.v. lodinii, grj For a collyrium. DR. CHARLES S. BULL, OPHTHALMIC SURGEON TO CHARITY HOSPITAL, NEW YORK. In blows and other contused wounds of the eye, this surgeon observes {American Journal of the Medical Sciences, October, 1876,) that the great desideratum seems at first to be rather a negative