THE IMMEDIATE TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION, 33 Hydrargyrum. Numerous preparations of mercury are used in inflamma- tion. Although doubt has been thrown on its antiphlogistic properties, clinical experience seems to demonstrate them. For the rules of its use see above (page 22). Ipecacuanha in small doses is valuable as a depressant. Ophnn as an anodyne is indispensable in the treatment of the pain and restlessness of inflammation. The alkaloid Codeia is that pre- ferred by Professor S. D. Gross. Potassii Bromidum is a most valuable remedy in all low forms of inflam- mation, attended with loss of sleep, unusual nervous excite- ment, and irritable stomach. Potassii Nitras has been largely given in acute inflammation under the belief that it defibrinizes the blood, but this action is doubtful. It is, however, a diuretic and diaphoretic of value, Veratrum Viride is an important depressant, see above (page 20). As a preventive of inflammation after any severe injury, it is invalu- able. EXTERNAL APPLICATIONS. COLD. Cold has been employed in inflammation from the earliest times. It is; applied in various ways, by cold baths, by streams of cold water, by cold moist sponges and cloths, by bladders filled with, ice, and by the evaporation of ether. Cold Application. 21, Nitre, half an ounce,. Sal ammoniac, two drachms, Vinegar, 3 tablespoonfuls,. Water, a pint. M. This solution applied by means of sponges or cloths to the head and elsewhere where intense cold is desired, produces a more powerful effect than cold water or pounded ice. Cold tvithout Moisture. When it is desired to apply a freezing mixture to the skin, it may be readily done by applying a mixture of ice and salt in a tumbler or a lamp glass covered with a piece of bladder. Hydropathic Belts. A hydropathic belt consists of a bandage five or six inches wide, and long enough to pass two or three times around the body. It is dipped into cold water, carefully wrung out,, wound around the trunk, and covered by a wider and larger dry band. About every hour, or as often as it becomes dry, it is to be changed. A bandage may be applied in the same manner upon various parts of the body, and particularly over the joints- attacked by rheimiatism. An eruption of the skin is usually produced by this application, which is frequently of service. Manner of applying Cold Affusion. The patient, stripped naked, is to- have from three to five gallons of water, at 50째 F. or 60째 F., in the winter, and 60째 or 70째 in the summer, thrown over him. 3-s