LESIONS FROM HEAT AND COLD, Dr. Herron claims that' one noticeable feature attends these cases, to wit: that with returning strength, the vigor and activity of the mind and memory are preserved, and those mental impair- ments, which so frequently attend recovery under the cold-water treatment, are not noticed. A writer in the Canada Lancet, Aug., 1878, says: "As the three most urgent wants in sunstroke are the cooling of the body, increase of perspiration, and removal of listlessness and oppres- sion, it will at once be evident that upon no hypothesis are alco- holic stimulants admissible, but hot applications to the head, hydrobromic acid, bromide of ammonia and copious draughts of hot infusion of tea." DR. henry HARTSHORNE, OF PHILADELPHIA, This writer considers it important to distinguish between heat apoplexy and heat exhaustion. For the former, cupping or leeching the back of the neck or behind the ears should generally be the first remedy, after the application of ice or iced water freely to the head. The head and shoulders should be kept raised. A purga- tive enema should be administered, and sinapisms applied to the lower limbs. Heat exhaustion requires different treatment. Local depletion should be avoided. Cold to the head and body should be alter- nated with revulsives (as sinapisms) to the epigastrium, spine, and limbs. Syncope must be combated with ammonia. Where rest- lessness is a prominent symptom, the hypodermic use of morphia is called for, SIR JOSEPH FAYRER, K. C. S. I. The rules laid down by Sir Joseph Fayrer, K. C. S. I., and quoted in the British Medical yoiirnal, August, 1876, maybe briefly summarized thus: First, removal to cooler locality, the cold douche (but not too much prolonged), or the administration of stimulants, and in general, as for syncope from other sources. Second, where the person is struck down suddenly by a hot sun the patient should be removed into the shade, and a cold douche of water allowed to fall in a stream on the head or body, for the object of reducing the temperature of the overheated centres, and to rouse them into action. Third, mustard plasters and purgative enemata may be useful. Fourth, should the recovery be imperfect other treatment may be necessary, according to indications. In