4/8 NEW GROWTHS. the use of the stomach-pump has in some cases afforded remark- able relief by unburdening the organ of the mass of stagnant and fermenting food which it contained. While, however, some patients are able to tolerate the instrument day after day, on ac- count of the after-comfort which they derive from it, others are so much exhausted by the operation, or so little relieved by it, that it is impossible to continue it. In this latter class of cases, the patients do best under the use of remedies which arrest fermenta- tion in the contents of the stomach. One may give: 692. I^. Benzine, gtt.x-xv Mucilage, f.3j. M. This amount four or five times a day. Or, what suits many cases better, a few drops of carbolic acid, well diluted, five or six times a day. Both of these will diminish the frightful eructations of sour-smelling gas which rob the patients of their night's rest, and which narcotics do not in the least allevi- ate; and for the time they may completely arrest them. In stenosis of the cardia, as soon as the diagnosis is tolerably clear, all attempts at passing a sound into the stomach must of course be abandoned, otherwise the consequences may be most serious. All we can do here is to nourish the patient by enemata. Where the orifices of the stomach are not involved, although the peristaltic movements must necessarily be considerably impaired, yet so long as the growth remains localized, and the patient is not exhausted by hemorrhages or other accidents, the general symp- toms may be less urgent. Sometimes it may even appear as if the patients only malady were a severe chronic catarrh of the stomach. The treatmeoit of this catarrh, and especially of such symptoms as the extreme anorexia, the nausea, and the vomiting which charac- terize it, must then be our chief object. The best practice seems to consist in giving small quantities of food at frequent intervals, followed by two or three tablespoonfuls of very dilute hydrochloric acid (0.4 per cent). In such cases transient benefit arises from small doses of iodide of iron in combination with bitters, the iodine apparently acting through its antiseptic and anti-putrescent quali- ties. In this way the harassing pain and discomfort caused by the perversion of the digestive functions may be much relieved. Nar- cotics should not be given too early, and the quantity of them should be as small as the severity of the symptoms will allow.