234 LESIONS OF THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION. the tonsils. In the latter case he thinks that either iodide of potas- sium or the solution of sesqui-chloride of iron, according to the quality and stage of the inflammation, is preferable; and though he often combines with the belladonna a little quinine or sulphate of magnesia, or an emetic, according to the indications of the case, and sometimes the use of steam, or a blister applied externally to the neck, he feels justified in maintaining that the success which he has obtained in the treatment of these cases is not to be attributed so much to these auxiliary measures as to. the belladonna. He always gives directions that the administration of the remedy shall be slackened as soon as the throat symptoms are materially re- lieved, or on the production of any toxic effect. Dr. Jones does not pretend to decide whether the remedy oper- ates by producing constriction of the arteries, or by a direct seda- tive effect on the elements of the affected tissue; but he proposes that, if further observation should confirm its value in acute tonsil- litis, the patient should be saved the regularly recurring pain of swallowing doses of medicine, by reducing the preparation of the drug to the smallest possible bulk, or by '"njecting it subcutaneously in the form of atropine. MR. LESLIE THAIN, ENGLAND. In inflammation of the fauces (tonsils and pharynx), this writer s^ys {Lancet, Sept., 1876,) he has found the usual gargles of little value, and depends upon carbolic acid. His plan is to apply hot fomentations, with a few drops of turpentine, externally to the throat, and then to wrap up the whole neck in flannel. Constant heat, moisture and mild counter-irritation, are to be kept up by frequent changing of these applications. The feet must be at once put into a hot mustard-bath, and if the patient will then get mto bed between the blankets, so much the better. Gargles as hot as can be borne must be begun as soon as possible, and the most useful is a watery solution of carbolic acid (i : 40)- This has a soothing effect on the inflamed mucous membrane, besides sweet- ening the foul breath. If gargling cannot be performed, carbolic acid in glycerine (i : 20, or i : 30) should be frequently applied by means of a feather to the parts. A brisk saline aperient may be advisable. By following this plan of treatment, Mr. Thain declares that the inflammation subsides in a few hours, never running on to suppu-