256 LESIONS OF THE ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. In this form of nsevi, howeve^ the treatment advocated by Mr. Balmano Squire, of London, is preferable. He scarifies the af- fected skin with a series of short incisions, about one-s.xteenth of an inch apart, to the depth of nearly dividing the cutis vera. In- terposing a piece of white blotting paper, he exercises gentle pres- sure wit\ the finger fpr about ten minutes. This checks the bleeding. In a fortnight the surface is healed. If necessary, the operation may then be repeated. DR. DAWSON, OF NEW YORK CITY. This surgeon prefers to all other means in the treatment of naevi the zalvamc needle. In its use, however, certain important precau- tions are required. For superficial n^vi all that is required is a dec^ree of heat that will radiate into the deeper tissues from the surface If too intense heat be used, it will be removed with the needle knife, or platinum strip, whichever may be employed, and the appearance of the n^vus will subsequently be the same as it was before the application; whereas if the platinum be only heated to a dark-red color, destruction of tissue will not be produced, and the vessels will be made to shrink by the radiated heat For all superficial n^vi of moderate size, a single thorough application is all that is required to effect a cure. In treating a subcutaneous n.vus a white heat becomes necessary, in order that the knife or needle shall retain sufficient heat to be of service when it has reached the deeper tissues. N^vi having large surfaces may be destroyed at different times, and considerable poitions will also be destroyed by the moderate inflarnmatoiy action which follows each operatL. A point especially insisted upon by Dr. Dawson is that the galvanic cautery does not in any true sense produce a coagula- tion or thrombosis in the vessels like that produced by astringen niections but rather a clot that becomes rapidly organized, and a shriXg in the calibre of the vessels which remains permanent, H tSiis can be effected without destruction of ti.ssue. If too ro nee e from the galvano-cautery be introduced into tiles there will be as much hemorrhage as after the use of a cold sharp knife. PROF. JOSEPH lister, OF LONDON. 2QQ R. Acicli carbolici puris, ^'"'"''l' .1,^ whole To be injected as evenly as possible in mmim doses over the whole tumor.