THE THERAPEUTICS OF INFLAMMATION. 34 Simple water, or vinegar and water, or salt and water, may be used. The safest time for the application during fever is when the exacerbation is at its height, or immediately after its decli- nation has begun. From six to nine o'clock in the evening is the hour usually chosen. Cautions in the tise of Cold Affusion, i. It should never be employed when there is any sense of chilliness, although the thermometer indicates a morbid degree of heat. 2. It should never be em- ployed in the cold stage of fever, nor when the heat measured by the thermometer is less than, or equal to, the natural heat (981^° F.), even though the patient is not chilly. 3. It should never be employed when the body is in a profuse perspiration; nor in fever complicated with any visceral inflammation. The patient should always immerse his hands for a few moments in the water before it is applied to any other part of the body; this prevents the shock from being too violent. The earlier in the disease it is resorted to, the better the effects of cold affu- sion ; but in the more advanced stages it will be found to moderate the symptoms. ELECTRICITY. Dr. G. E. Weisflog has recently recommended the use of faradaic cur- rents of electricity in the treatment of traumatic inflammation. He maintains that it possesses well-marked antiphlogistic powers, that it alleviates pain, and that it eff'ects the absorption of in- flammatory products, whether these are of a serous, purulent, or sanguinolent nature. The aff'ected limb is most advantageously immersed in a water-bath, the temperature of which may vary considerably, in some instances rising as high as 100° F., into which one electrode of the apparatus is immersed; the other electrode must be applied to some healthy part of the body. He speaks of having obtained successful results in various cases of phagedcenic ulcers, burns, acute and chronic joint affections, and pleurisy; whilst faradaic currents will also cure iritis, kera- titis, &c. {The Lancet, June 9, 1877.) HEAT. Modes of Application. Flannel highly heated in an oven or before the fire, may be employed to apply dry heat; but it cools quickly. Hot sand, though heavy and therefore for many purposes contra- indicated, retains its heat for a long time. It should be heated over the fire in an iron pan, and put in a warm linen bag of the proper shape for the object in view. Chamomile flowers are lighter than sand, but more quickly lose their warmth. They are to be heated and placed in a linen bag in the same manner as the sand. A thin piece of flat tile, when it can be procured, can often be used with advantage. It is lighter than sand, and when heated in an oven and wrapped in a flannel retains its warmth for a considcral)le time. A heated brick wrapped in flannel may sometimes be employed; so also may bottles filled