HERNIA. 299 After having given the patient a full dose of morphia, or mor- phia and atropia, hypodermically, to allay pain and vomiting, hot fomentations are applied to the hernial tumor for the space of an hour or two, so as to insure as favorable a condition as possible of the contents of the sac, before attempting to return them into the abdominal cavity; he administers an anjEsthetic, and when it has well overcome muscular resistance the patient is raised by the feet or hams till only the head and shoulders rest upon the bed. The muscles of the abdomen, diaphragm, and the muscles of the chest which control the bony framework of the thorax, are thus relaxed by the anaesthetic. The abdominal viscera gravitate against the diaphragm, which offering feeble resistance, retreats before them into the cavity of the chest, while the diaphragmatic breathing is diminished, the respiration becomes almost entirely thoracic, and the contents of the abdominal cone, now resting on its base instead of its apex, fall by their own gravitation still further away from the brim of the pelvis, and the mesentery, borne down along with its attached bowel, pulls every portion of its intestinal border after it, and if any portion of that intestinal border be entrapped within a hernial sac it pulls it out, and if there be any portion of omentum in the sac, the weight of the intestines, now resting in the reversed lap of the omental apron, drags it down towards the diaphragm and pulls it also out of the hernial sac, and the hernia is reduced. Another still further modified form of inversion has been used by Dr. J. H. Thornton, of the Indian Medical Service {Lancet, Aug., 1875). It consists in placing the. patient in such a position as to bring the force of gravity into play to reduce the rupture. This may easily be effected by raising the foot of the patient's bed, and keeping it supported at an angle of 45°. In this posture the intestines naturally gravitate towards the upper part of the abdom- inal cavity, and gradually draw in the ruptured portion. It is evident, from the nature of the case, that a force acting gradually and equally from within the abdomen must be far safer and more effectual than any pressure applied externally. He believes that the advantages of inversion over all other modes of treatment are, that it is generally effectual, absolutely safe, and universally applicable. It can be used by any person, at any time, and in any place; and should it prove unsuccessful in effecting reduction (which will rarely be the case unless adhesions