HEMORRHAGE. II3 found by Dr. John S. Packard, of Philadelphia, to be ex- tremely useful. Salicyliciim Acidttm has been employed, but it is inferior to carbolic'acid. *Terebinthince Oleum. Dr. R. Bartholow has pointed out that turpen- tine is one of the most efficacious agents in hospital gangrene. The mortified parts are first removed with the scissors, and the remedy is then applied directly to the affected surface, by means of a piece of cotton cloth saturated with it. Fetor is removed, and sloughing arrested, and but little pain attends the ^application. He also recommends its internal use, gtt. x. every three hours. HEMORRHAGE. The therapeutical means for the control of surgical hemorrhage include (i) arterial sedatives, (2) astringents, and (3) styptics. The arterial sedative of first importance is repose of the part and of the system. The bleeding part should be elevated, and motion avoided. Arterial action may also be much diminished by- position, and forced flexion, as previously directed in the treatment of inflammation (see page 18). A full dose of opiinn after serious loss of blood will greatly aid in maintaining a tranquil circulation, and prevent the recurrence of hemorrhage. Dr. Gross states that "it is surprising that this, remedy is not more generally employed than it seems to be." Of nearly equal value, especially when considerable arterial ex- citement is present, is veratriim viride. One of the surgeons in the late war writes : " An extended experience with veratrum du- ring eighteen years assures me of its great value in abating and even warding off" inflammation, and in controlling hemorrhage. Hsemoptysis, haematuria, metrorrhagia, gastric hemorrhage, all yield with a facility which it has not been my fortune to experience with my other medical agents whatsoever. During the late war I was in the habit of thus controlling the pulse for the purpose of preventmg secondary hemorrhage. In one such case, the exhibi- tion of veratrum, during ten days, at my suggestion, rendered an. amputation below the knee unnecessary, which was barely escaped by the patient, and had been decided upon by the attendant sur- geon." The internal use of astringents is called for in cases of passive 8—s