230 LESIONS OF THE BONES AND JOINTS. danger of inflammation of the joints ; and, by care and persever- ance, the antagonistic power of the internal lateral ligament and abductor pollicis pedis is regained, and the distortion disappears (Boston Medical and Surgical Journal, June, 1873). GANGLION. In this variety of cysts of the tendons, the custom and experi- ence of the surgeon, as well as the age, sex, occupation and position of the patient, usually determine one of the following methods of treatment: Applications, g., iodine liniment, or tincture, or blis- tering solution; pad and strapping; bursting, either by digital pressure, or by striking with the back of a book; incisions, either direct or subcutaneous ; drainage, with internal irritation, by pass- ing a stem of thread or silk directly through it. These separately or conjointly, usually produce a temporary, if not always a per- manent cure. The pneumatic aspirator^ may often be conveniently used to draw off the contents of the sac ; after which, if compression be used for a few days, the trouble is not liable to return. Dr J Pauly, of Berlin, constricts the limb by the Esmarch band- age anesthetizes locally with the ether spray (which acts far more efficiently when the circulation is thus impeded), and opens the ganglion under a carbolic spray, empties it and dresses it with a Lister dressing. , . . . r v Dr Bidder, of Berlin, recommends the injection of carbolic acid. An ordinary hypodermic syringe, having a sharp needle with a cutting edge near the point, is filled with a two or three percent, solution of carbolic acid. A fold of the skin being pinched up the needle of the syringe is thrust under it until the point reaches the capsule of the ganglion. A little slit is made through this with the sharp-edged point of the needle, and then, the latter being slightly withdrawn, the contents of the ganglion are ex- pressed into the surrounding tissues. The point of the needle is then once more inserted into the now emptied ganglion, and a few drops of the carbolic acid solution are injected, and a simple water dressing is afterwards applied.