479 CANCER. PROFESSOR KUSSMAUL, OF FREIBURG. In 1867 this writer first advocated the use of the stomach-pump in gastric cancer. He stated that rehef only, but no cure, can be expected—i, in cases of cancerous stricture of the pylorus; 2, if the pylorus be very considerably contracted by a cicatrix; 3, if with even a moderate stricture the walls of the stomach have, in consequence of the chronic gastritis, undergone a permanent degeneration. That substantial relief may be afforded by the use of the stomach-pump is proved by the history of two cases of dilatation of the stomach thus treated by Dr. Affleck in Scot- land, as both patients provided themselves with stomach-pumps on their dismissal from hospital, to carry on the treatment for themselves. {British Medical jfournal, May, 1872.) DR. JAMES M. HUTCHINSON, OF PHILADELPHIA. This physician reports {Philadelphia Medical Times, May 27, 1876,) a case of cancer of the pylorus, in which great relief fol- lowed the washing out of the stomach on alternate days with dilute alkaline solution (a drachm of bicarbonate of soda to a quart of water) as.recommended by Kussmaul. The following conclusions seem to be deducible from Dr. Hutchinson's case: 1. That washing out the stomach will be useful in dilatation of that organ dependent upon stricture of the pylorus, even if this be due to malignant disease, by lessening the frequency of the vomiting. 2. That it diminishes the intensity of the pain, by preventing extreme distension of the stomach, and by the removal of its irritating contents. 3. That it renders possible the introduction of food into the stomach, and its digestion. DR. MILNE, OF LONDON. Speaking particularly with reference to titerine cancer, this prac- tioner says in the Obstetrical yournal for Great Britain and Ireland, May, 1873, that the most reliable caustics are the chloride of zinc, the dried sulphate of zinc, and the nitrate of copper, and the cases suitable for their application are all those of encephaloid carcinoma, and epithelioma, where the cervix alone is involved. As regards their mode of application, the dried sulphate of zinc should be first