69 RAW COTTON DRESSING. zinc. He has found either of these methods lead to better results than when water, either by washing the surface or applying it as a dressing, has been used. It must not, however, be understood that he advocates the leaving of wounds uncleansed from dried loose scabs or decomposing pus. On the contrary, the skin round a wound should be kept scrupulously clean. There are other methods of carrying out the anhydrous dressing of wounds, such as the use in the first instance of collodion to close the wound, or of clotted blood, with dry lint superimposed, or of picked oakum or tenax. Under any of these a wound of moderate size often heals by first intention. RAW COTTON DRESSING. DR. ALPHONSE GUERIN, OF PARIS. The adoption by this surgeon of raw cotton as a dressing for wounds, was a result of the demonstrations of Pasteur, that pu- trefactive fermentation is due to the presence and growth of vege- table organisms, which float in the air and thus gain admittance to fresh wounds; and as the experiments of Professor Tyndall show that these minute bodies become entangled in the meshes of cotton wool, it occurred to M. Guerin, who was at that time attached to the Hopital St. Louis, as a possible source of advan- tage. It was during the siege of Paris, when nearly every ampu- tation was followed by fatal pyemia. He forthwith tried the cot- ton as a dressing on several patients, binding it upon their wounds in liberal quantity, and keeping it accurately applied by firm com- pression with bandages. To his surprise and delight, he found that the chill, by which- the advent of the fatal complication is always heralded, did not occur, and his patients went on to get well. Encouraged by this experiment, he repeated it with equal success; those dressed with raw cotton were found to do well, while others in the same ward died of the prevailing endemic. The result was so remarkable, that surgeons from other hospitals came to St. Louis to witness the rare sight of patients recovering after amputation, and themselves adopted this mode of dressing wounds. Shortly, the use of raw cotton was systematized as a surgical dressing, and it has since been very generally employed.