TETANUS. grains and the latter by two grains until the desired effect is pro- duced, when the spasms will be few and far between, the abdomi- nal muscles almost normally flaccid, and the mouth opened to at least an inch; the patient is then in a state of stupor from which he can be roused to take nourishment. He finds that sixty grains of chloral and four grains of the extract is a full dose in fairly severe cases. PROF. E. DI RENZI, M. D. This Italian surgeon has found no benefit from amputation of the wounded part in acute tetanus, nor from the use of internal remedies.. He found, however, by experiment, that light renders the tetanic contractions of animals and man more frequent and in- tense, while absolute repose, during the absence of all stimulus, retards the tetanus and renders it less fatal. Of three cases of severe tetanus he treated almost exclusively by absolute repose, two cases were cured. The patients were kept isolated in a dark room; all noise or other stimulus or irritation was avoided, except such as was caused by the administration of food and beverage at long intervals. In one case death resulted, notwithstanding the administration of large doses of hydrate of chloral, and several hypodermic injections of woorara. It would appear that the chloral increases the difficulty of respiration, which is already affected by the disease. In the actual condition of science, he believes absolute repose shows itself to be the principal remedy in the treatment of tetanus. The removal of stimulus should, however, be as complete as pos- sible, and be recognized as an important accessory. DR. EDWARD VANDEPOEL, NEW YORK. This physician records {Med. and Surg. Reporter, May 7, 1870,) twelve cases of tetanus, eleven of which recovered, under the use o{ strychnia, as originally suggested by Professor Valentine Mott, of New York city. The dose in all cases should be from one-sixteenth to one- twelfth of a grain of strychnia every two hours, until involuntary twitching of the muscles of the extremities takes place, when the masseters will relax. The same dose should then be continued, but given only once in six hours, to maintain the advantage until by the frequent administration of concentrated nourishment con-