LESIONS OF THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION, centrated tincture) will frequently cause the largest hemorrhoids to contract and disappear. When there is much infiltration of the parts, the local use of the decoction or of an ointment pre- pared from the extract of the plant will add much to the treat- ment. {Hints on Specific Medication, 1876.) Hydrargyrum. Calomel ointment is a soothing application. Jodqformum, in ointment, is efficient to relieve the local distress Krameria^%^^^tA by Prof. Agnew (F. 381), and others. It has a speci- fically excellent effect in rectal diseases. Magnesia is an irritant to piles, and should not be used as a laxative when they are present. Manna. Dr. A. E. Hull, of New York, has derived great advantage in internal piles from the following : 404. Mannae, ^iij Aquae bullientis, q. s. To dissolve to the consistency of cream. Then add : Hydrargyri sulphureti nigri, 5ij Rhei pulveris, q_ s. Make a mass ; divide into small suppositories: one anointed with olive oil every night. Nitricum Acidum as a topical application has been often used, but is ex- cruciatingly painful. Opium in some form is added to many pile ointments as an anodyne. In the severe spasm and tenesmus which occasionally occur after operation, its free administration is imperative. Piper Nigrum in considerable quantities will relieve piles. "Ward's paste," confectiopiperis nigri, is popular in England. Fix Nigra. Dr. R. A. Vance, of Ohio, recommends: 405. Picis nigrs, 5j Magnesias. q. g. m. !• or 30 pills. Two after each meal. In quite a number of cases these pills, in connection with other measures of a hygienic character, produced marked relief where the suffering had previously been almost unendurable. Phimbi Acetas is a valuable astringent. (F. 390). In solution, or as Goulard's extract, diluted, it soothes the irritation. When there is pain in the back, due to piles, the application of lead plaster will often relieve it. Fodophyllin. Small doses of podophyllin, gr. J^, twice daily, have been recommended by Dr. A. Hazlewood, of Michigan {Michigan Medical News, June, 1878). Potassii Bromidum, one part to five of glycerine, has proved useful as a local application to ease the pain and spasms of hemorrhoids. Rhamnus Frangula. Dr. J. S. Unzicker, of Cincinnati, says this rem- edy in the cure of hemorrhoids certainly stands unrivaled, and holds the same rank in chronic piles, as potassii tartras does in