ANiESTHESICS. 6o By rubbing this mixture on the skin for about a minute, a tran- sient, superficial loss of sensibility is obtained, which renders slight operations almost painless. Mr. Donald Napier, of London, has lately devised an ingenious apparatus for applying ether spray. It consists in a silver tube, furnished with a pad at one extremity and with an egg-shaped reservoir near the other extremity. The reservoir is shut off from the tube, but is connected with the pad by means of a smaller second tube contained within the first. When in use, the reservoir is filled with ether, and the warmth of the hand suffices to allow of its evaporation, so that the pad is kept perfectly moist with the fluid. A continuous current of air is then blown through the main . tube by means of a foot-bellows, resembling that worked by the hand in the ordinary " spray-producer." THE ESMARCH BANDAGE. The use of the Esmarch Bandage has been found by M. Chauvel, surgeon, to bring about a numbing of sensation, and has been ap- plied by him as a local anaesthetic. Diminution of sensibility was observed in each individual, not appearing immediately, but in five to twenty minutes. Insensibility appeared more quickly in the upper than in the lower extremities, its intensity depending on the tightness of the application: it first appeared in the peripheral portion of the trunk, and gradually spread to the upper regions. Insensibility to painful impression was first noticed, but whether this extended beneath the surface was not ascertained. In two operations for ingrowing toe nail with the use of elastic compression, very little complaint was made by the patient. In a case of ischiatic trouble the actual cautery was used after com- pression; anaesthesia however was incomplete. It is evident that elastic compression would fail in bringing about complete anaes- thesia unless the ligature was placed so near the central portion of the limb as to cause other and inconvenient results. The conclusion is that, as an anaesthetic, compression cannot exclude chloroform or ether. ICE. The application of ice to a part lessens its sensibility. A still greater degree of cold is obtained by Arnott's freezing mixture. 51. R. Pulverized ice, 4°^ Pulverized (.ommon salt, 20Z. Mix quickly and thoroughly with a knife.