8 Under new ffrowtks are given Maokonzlo and others on goitre, and the medical and local treat- ment of fatty tumors, polypi, warts, corns, etc.; and twenty-four pages are devoted to cancer, giving Williams' bromine treatment, the arsenical cure of Mnrsden and Esmarch, Maissoneuve's caustic arrows, Michel's sulphuric acid pusie, etc., and tlie famous "cancer salves" of LandolA, Fell Payne, Bright, etc. ' A okapter is given to the treatment of scrofula as recommended by G-ross, Toland, Savory, J. L. Smith, Porcher, etc., Including scrofulous ophthalmia, ulcers, glandular enlargements, etc. The volume closes with chapters on the therapeutics of skin dIseasoR, gonorrhaja and eyphllts, in the last of which Keyes' tonic treatment is described. The formultu for gonorrhoea are especially numerous. Especial pains have been taken to give carefully the uses and indications of recently introduced remedies, such as chrysophanlc acid, terebeno, the salicylates, hamamelis, dioscorein, daturia, esor. In, griudella, hydrobromic acid, etc. OPINIONS OF THE PRESS. From a very large number of lengthy and favorable reviews of this work we quote the following brief expressions:— Boston Journal of Chemistry. "Contains the latest improvements In treatment." New York Medical Journal. " Of much value to the surgeon .and general practitioner." New York Medical Record. " Invaluable to every practicing physician." Buffalo Medical and Surgical Journal. " Wisely made up from the best and most recent au- thorities." Philadelphia Medical and Surgical Reporter. "A pre-eminently useful work." Philadelphia Medical Times. "All that Is in the book is good." Maryland Medical Journal. " Most valuable additions to medical and surgical literature." Cincinnati Medical News. " It affords the reader an intelligent idea of the combining of reme- dies for the fulfilling of definite indications." Cincinnati Lancet and Observer. "Twe volumes, equally valuable to the general practi- tioner." Cincinnati Clinic. " The thoroughness of this collection seems quite surprising." Toledo Medical and Surgical Journal. "A work of untold value to the men of our profession." Ohio Medical Recorder. "A great demand exists throughout the profession for just such matter." Detroit Lancet. " The author has attained his aim with more than usual success." Michigan Medical News. "An admirable compendium » * * an eminently practical work." St. Louis Clinical Record. "A unique book : it shows vast labor on the part of the author." St. Louis Medical and Surgical Journal. "A very valuable aid to practice, indeed, almost in- dispensable." Louisville American Practitioner. "Cannot fail to help almost any practitioner." Louisville Medical News. " It is eminently a practical work." Louisville American Medical Biweekly. " In no other work can the practitioner learn so easily the favorite medicines in treating disease, and the best methods in compounding them." Richmond, Virginia, Medical Monthly. "Of the utmost practical utility to every physician and surgeon. They are all, and more, than the editor claims for them." Richmond arid Louisville Medical Journal. "A volume very useful and acceptable." New Orleans Medical Journal. •'The work is cordially recommended. It supplies a want long felt." Pacijic Medical and Surgical Journal. " Compiled with great industry, from all sources of in- formation." The Dental Cosmos. "A valuable addition to any medical library." OPINIONS OF READERS. Frem many private letters, testifying to the merit of this work, we quote, with permission, the following:— Dr. J. G. Bacon, Saratoga, N. Y. " ';Napheys' Therapeutics' is ahead of anything in the market, for the working physician." Dr. R. L. Moore, Spring Valley, Minn, "The 'Therapeutics' has proved of great practical value to me." Dr. Eli Fox, Mohawk, N. Y. " Cannot fail to prove most acceptable to the entire prefession." Dr. R. M. Foster, Gallatin, Tenn. " Of unlimited value to the practitioner." Dr. V. H. Harrison, Clarkton, Mo. "The best work of the class I have ever seen." Dr. I. F. Scott Schoharie, N. Y. "The books are all that could be desired." Dr. 0. F. Remick, Butler, Mo. " I cannot too highly commend these works." Dr. T. H. Buecking, Quincy, III. " It is invaluable." Dr. A. Van Dcrver, Albany. "I have found Napheys' 'Therapeutics' safe, reliable, and thoroughly up in modern medicine." ... .a. , Dr. I. M. Bigelow, Albany. " The work Is most dispreetly compiled, and without a peer; it is an invaluable therapeutic counsellor." ,., „ Dr. J. C. Manson, Pittsjield, Me. " I use them more than any other books in my library. Dr. H. A Spencer, Erie, Pa. " They are the most practical and useful books 1 ever met With. OFFER.—The publisher effers to send either volume of the above work on receipt of the price, on examination ; if not satisfied, the purchaser has the privitego of mailing It back within twenty- four hours from receiving It, and the price will be refunded him. He will tuus risk only the postage, which is 24 aents.