400 LESIONS OF THE ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE. Or the permanganate of potash, as suggested above, Phenate of soda is also one of the very best injections in these cases. When the constitutional taint is syphih'tic, the patient must be placed upon anti-syphilitic remedies. Mercurial ulcers of the antrum are much more common than syphilitic ones. They de- mand chlorate of potash internally, gr.x, four or five times a day. Scrofulous ulcers are also frequent. These ulcers are also often located in the nares, especially syph- ilitic ones. They are often accompanied by nasal osteitis, fre- quently ending in necrosis, especially of the vomer. When the nasal bones are thus affected, the overlying skin is congested; pressure on the bridge produces much pain; and the lachrymal secretions often run over the cheek. The treatment required is to limit and circumscribe the local inflammation as much as possible by the usual means,, and to build up the system. An excellent application is the following: 551. Tincturas ferri chloridi, f,5j Quinias sulphatis, gr.xxv Tincturas iodinii, Glycerinas, aa f.^j Aquae, fjiv. M. Inject, or brush over and about the parts three times'a day. Iron or quinine will be needed internally. Iodide of potassium must be freely given. But a good diet, moderate exercise, judi- cious amounts of malt liquor, and systematic bathing, are the reliable means to enable the system to throw off the disease. When the bone is necrosed, no attempts should be made to remove the sequestrum until the probe reveals it to be quite loose, when it may be lifted out. 4. Foreign Bodies. Some of the most offensive and obstinate cases of ozaena arise from the lodgment and retention of foreign bodies. Pieces of sponge or cotton left behind in swabbing the nares, rhinolites in the canals, peas, rags, buttons, etc., become sources of offense, resisting all medication and foiling the best attempts at cure, until they are removed. The patient should be placed in a strong light, and the parts searched with a delicate forceps; or, he should be given a pinch of snuff, while his unobstructed nostril is compressed, so that the effort of sneezing may eject the obstruction; the employment of the rhinoscope is to be highly commended.