SYNOVITIS. 282. I^. Argenti nitratis, 5j Adipis, 5j. M. For an unguent. These measures should be accompanied by absolute rest of the joint. If the course of the disease is entirely chronic, and does not yield to these remedies, then we must have recourse to the main- tenan e of continued moderate pressure on the swollen limb by means of a firm bandage, such as a plaster splint, which at the same time keeps the joint perfectly quiet in a suitable position. Before applying the plaster dressing, we may rub the limb with mercurial ointment, or apply mercurial plaster, or even rub in the above mentioned nitrate of silver ointment. When fistulas have formed we may still use the plaster splint, simply slitting it up and putting in new wadding; or one can use splints with openings made opposite the fistulae. The old methods by the antiphlogistic treatment and cata- plasms, still employed by some, shouldbe discarded. Amputation of the thigh for white swelling of the knee should now hardly ever be required ; this is is to be attributed more than anything else to the treatment of the disease by the plaster' bandage, as above described, a plan chiefly introduced and persistently carried out by Professor Von Langenbeck. In some subacute cases cold is an excellent application. EsMARCH claims very favorable results for persevering treatment with ice, applied by a bladder on the knee, continued for a long time. The persistent application of Jieat, accompanied by the careful application of cataplasms, compresses wet with warm water, or warm baths, is indicated when the course of the disease is exceed- ingly torpid, when bad-looking fistulous ulcers, deficient vascu- larity of the granulation, or bad, thin secretion, seem to indicate a moderate irritation of some kind. However, when high tempera- tures are applied, they should not act too long, or their effect will be lost, and there will be complete relaxation of the parts, instead of the fluxion it was proposed to excite. JAMES E. GARRETSON, M. D., D. D. S. Acute synovitis, if disassociated with cachexia, may commonly be quickly resolved into a subacute condition. If purely local, the