LYMPHANGITIS. be observed as most favorable to success are the following— namely, that the circulation in the limb should be for a time completely arrested, that the aneurismal sac should be full of blood, and that the circulation in the aneurism should be stopped for a sufficient time to allow the blood to coagulate. For how long a time it may be prudent to exclude the blood from the entire limb by the Esmarch bandage, and when the more local effect of the tourniquet should be substituted for the Esmarch bandage, is a matter for further investigation. It is, however, probable, from the experience of long operations for necrosis performed under the Esmarch bandage, that surgeons have not yet reached the Umits of safety as regards the time during which the bandage may remain on the limb. The advantages of this method are that it is rapid in its action, easy of application, re- quires neither complicated apparatus nor a large staff of assist- ants, and may therefore be employed in private practice as easily as in hospitals. The period of its application being compara- tively short, the administration of ether would be justifiable if the pain which is generally complained of after a short time prove unduly severe. Compression for an hour seems to be quite adequate to insure complete stasis in the aneurism, and it is well known that the lower limb may be kept bloodless for much longer periods than that without any bad results following. LYMPHANGITIS. PROFESSOR THEODOR BILLROTH. Inflammation of the lymphatic vessels is a not infrequent result of simple and poisoned wounds of the extremities. The object in the treatment is to obtain resolution, and prevent suppuration if possible. The patient should keep the affected limb in absolute quiet; if an arm, it should be placed in a splint; if a leg, he should remain in bed. When there is gastric derangement present, as is often the case, an emetic, or emeto-cathartic, is indicated.* Not unfrequently the disease promptly subsides after the purgation and sweating induced by such a remedy. Among local remedies, rubbing the whole limb with mercurial ointment is particularly efficacious. The limb should be covered warmly, so as to maintain an elevated tempera- ture. For this purpose, wrapping it in cotton wadding is very suitable. Should the inflammation increase in .spite of this treatment, and diffuse redness and swelling occur, suppuration will take place at