HYDROCELE. 355 thirty-six to forty-eight hours, that is, until they have produced considerable inflammation, but not enough to endanger the peri- toneum. Electrolysis has been used with decided success in hydroceles. Drs. Beard and Rockwell remark that the great end to be ac- complished is not the withdrawing of the fluid, which can be done with the ordinary trocar, but the stimulation of the membrane of the sac so that absorption shall take place, and that the fluid shall not again collect. Many of the failures that have occurred in the treatment of hydrocele have been owing to a misapprehension of this fact. The method is to introduce the needles into the tumor at oppo- site sides, and so deep that the points nearly approach each other. The needles are then attached to from three to six elements of a galvanic battery. The application should be made for five or ten minutes. One, two or three applications usually suffice to com- plete a cure. Dr. Ultzmann, of Vienna, in an article in the Wiener Medicin- ische Presse, 1876, concludes, from a series of experiments on cysts of the tunica vaginalis and ovaries, that the electrical current has no power of causing absorption, and that the results obtained with it are due to other reasons. Hydroceles of the size of the fist may be often made to disappear after one application. The process he adopts is as follows : The insertion of the needle causes a slight mortification along the line of puncture, which pre- vents healing per primani. By this channel the fluid of the cyst escapes drop by drop, infiltrating the scrotum, and being absorbed by the clothing. This purely mechanical process is favored by the development at the negative pole of the oxygen gas, which drives out the fluid; but it takes place only in cysts which contain serous or sero-albuminous fluid. If the cyst-fluid be thick, it will not flow out through the puncture. As a matter of course, moreover, the needle must pass through the cyst-wall ; and, in case the cyst contains blood or decomposing pus, like many ovarian cysts, the procedure is dangerous, because the fluid, in oozing out, may cause acute peritonitis. This occurred in one case, and necessi- tated immediate tapping. Ultzmann asserts that the chemical composition of a fluid is absolutely unaltered by the electrical cur- rent. His applications were conducted with a Leclanchc battery of