- SYCOSIS (mentagra; barber's itch). 541 ment to the whole of the body, except the head, and direct the patient to sleep in the drawers, jersey, and socks that he has used the day before; this will secure the death of any stray acari about the body or in his underclothes; in the morning, he should use a warm bath. The after-treatment should consist of the local inunc- tion of the ointment, into those parts only which are especially affected, for two or three nights. In all mild cases, the cure by this plan is quite certain, and is attended with very little inconvenience. The objections to sulphur ointment are its irritating qualities and its smell. The first is avoided by using an ointment made with half a drachm to two scruples of the precipitated sulphur to one ounce of lard. The precipitated is in finer powder, and less gritty than the sublimed sulphur, and more efficacious. A great part of the inconvenience arising from the smell of the sulphur may be avoided by using it only during the night. A drop or two of sandal-wood oil will quite disguise the smell. In cases of long standing, it is neces'^ary to have the clothes baked; but a tempera- ture of 190° to 200° Fahr. is quite sufficient, and the bed may be easily fumigated by using a little sulphur sprinkled on the cinders not too hot) of a warming-pan. It often happens that the irritation of skin remains after the scabies is cured, and this induces people to go on with the sulphur treatment too long. Instead of doing so, a mild stavesacre oint- ment should be used, made with the oil of stavesacre and lard; this relieves the itching, and at the same time will kill any stray acari that may have escaped death from the sulphur. . SYCOSIS (MENTAGRA; BARBER'S ITCH). DR. LOUIS DUHRING, In treating this disease, depilation and the use of parasiticides are both demanded. The crusts must be loosened with olive oil, and removed with soap and hot water. The face should be shaved every other day, allowing time between the shaving for the hairs to grow sufficiently to depilate. These measures, shaving and depilation, upon alternate days, should be perseveringly practiced, until the new hairs show themselves to be healthy.