4t6 LESIONS OF THE ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE. It is not easy to have the plasma properly prepared. The proper formula is to make simple plasma or Glyceriiium Amyli, B. P., take i oz. starch and 8 fluid oz. pure glycerine, rub the starch with an ounce of distilled water till quite blended, then add the glycerine and apply heat, gradually increased, till a thick jelly is produced. The preparation must be constantly and thoroughly stirred while making, and if an appearance of granular lumps is shown, squeeze the product before it is cold through cheese-cloth, or doubled muslin, previously well washed to remove any loose fibres. To make the mercurial plasma, it is necessary to have a per- fectly smooth and even-surfaced mortar and pestle, in order to obtain the oxide in an impalpable powder. While triturating, keep it moist by the addition of rectified spirit from time to time. Care is also required to keep the powder, which may adhere to the pestle, scraped off very frequently. When thoroughly tritur- ated, the simple plasma is added in the desired proportion, and mixed thoroughly. The efficiency of the trituration may be best tested by rubbing a few grains of the plasma on a piece of fine white paper. On holding this up to the light, there should be no appearance what- ever of any specks. PROFESSOR DAVID W. YANDELL, M. D., LOUISVILLE. This surgeon insists on the importance of constitutional treat- ment in trachoma, iron and quinine with fresh air, bathing and good diet. Locally he makes free scarifications of the granu- lations, promotes the bleeding by hot water, and applies the smooth crystal of sulphate of copper. The pain is best relieved by hot water. The patient is directed to bathe the eyes several times daily in salt water. To prevent the gluing of the lids, he directs the use of: 594. I^. Unguenti hydrargyri oxidi rubri, 3j Olei morrhuse, f.§j. M. Rub at night on the margin of the lids. DR. MARTIN F. COOMES, LOUISVILLE. This ophthalmologist severely condemns {Medical and Surgical Reporter, August, 1875,) the use of nitrate of silver in acute con- junctivitis (catarrhal ophthalmia). Out of over ninety cases he