HERNIA. 303 the injection may be left in the cellular tissue and fasciae lying be- neath the integument and just exterior to the external abdominal ring. At the instant of withdrawing the beak press the finger over the puncture, thus preventing any oozing of blood which might occur if the skin is delicate, and also in the case of a hernia with a free opening hindering any of the injection which has not been absorbed from oozing outward. The application of the irritant may cause some slight immediate pain, which is soon allayed by the morphine which is contained in the injection. The previous protrusion should not be allowed to descend after the application of the irritant, nor the patient be permitted to assume even the sit- ting position, until a suitable bandage or means of support has been properly applied. The Irritant. Take of Thayer's Fluid Extract of Quercus Alba, prepared in vacuo, one-half an ounce; of the solid alcoholic Ex- tract of Quercus Alba, about fourteen grains. Triturate with the aid of gentle heat for a long time in a mortar until the solution is as perfect as possible. It is well not to exceed this amount of the solid extract, else the mixture will be too irritating. Dr. Heaton usually prepares a quantity of this mixture sufficient for six months or a year's supply, and is very cautious in first using it, adding a little more of the solid or the fluid extract, accordingly as he observes it produces too little or too great an effect. Having once adjusted the proportions in this manner, and satisfactorily tested the mixture, he uses it and no other until the supply is exhausted. The proportions never need vary much from what is stated above. Of late years it has been his habit to add to this mixture the sulphate of morphine in the proportion of about one grain to the ounce. This has the effect of diminishing the dull aching that fol- lows the operation, which is caused by the irritation of tendinous tissue. It also serves the further purpose of constipating the bowels, which is also induced by the tannin in the mixture. The amount of this mixture used at any one operation is, as said be- fore, about ten minims. Taxis. The rules for taxis properly belong to operative surgery. The following brief suggestions, as to when it may be employed, from an'article by Dr. Max Schede {Centralblatt fi'ir Chirurgie Nov. 25, 1874), will, however, be in place : When the integuments still retain their normal condition, when