AMAUROSIS. • THE EYE. AMAUROSIS. In certain cases of failure of vision, apparently owing to defect- ive action of the optic nerve, the injection of strychnia into the temple has resulted advantageously. The following rules in these cases are laid down by PROF. FRANCIS L. PARKER, M. D., In the Transactions of the South Carolina Medical Society, 1875: 1. The local injection of strychnia in amaurosis and amblyopic affections is not applicable to cases arising from existing or recent inflammation of the optic nerve and retina; the ophthalmoscope is essential in determining the nature of the affection whether arising from functional derangement or from a mild or severe form of organic disease. 2. In case of defective vision arising from functional derange- ment, sight is generally promptly restored by the local injection of strychnia; in the milder forms of organic disease, vision is gener- ally promptly restored, or it may be- simply benefited, but the result cannot be predicted by the ophthalmoscope; the treatment is entirely experimental; in the advanced cases of organic disease the remedy is useless. 3. If any practical benefit is to be derived from the local injec- tion of strychnia in fimctional or mild organic cases, the injections, being given daily, it will be evinced between the first and ninth injections, most frequently between the first and fourth, or between the second and ninth day; if manifest improvement does not take place in this time, it is useless to continue the remedy. 4. The quantity of strychnia used in the successful cases varies from to i of a grain; the injection should be continued daily so long as sight continues to improve; when the maximum amount of sight is attained (if only after several injections) it is unneces- sary to continue the remedy. 5. The tonic influence of strychnia in the successful cases con- tinues for many months; in numerous cases it has lasted for one and two years; it has been known to last five years, and by some observers the cures are regarded as permanent. 6. The cases which are practically benefited by this remedy are