THE TREATMENT OF SCROFULA. 495 till other means fail; extract of belladonna rubbed up with glycerine should be applied over the eyelids, eyebrows and temples (atropine is liable to produce irritation). Hardly a case but improves rapidly under this treatment. Mr. J. Warrington Howard strongly recommends in obstinate cases of this complaint to apply a blister, the size of a sixpence, behind the ears. Locally he washes the eyes with a weak solu- tion of alum, and at night smears the edges with olive oil. This is aided by the administration internally of cod-liver oil and iron. (St. George's Hospital Reports, 1871.) When the cornea is involved through chronic scrofulous ulcera- tion, especially when the disease has progressed into its later stages in strumous children, Mr. Jonathan Hutchinson has de- rived great advantage from the insertion of a seton. He takes two threads of thick silk and places them in the integument over the temple, among the hair, so that they will cause no deformity. Dr. H. H. ToLAND has found the best collyrium to remove the excessive photophobia that always exists in strumous ophthalmia, to be a solution of 7iitrate of silver, gr.ij to fSj of distilled water. Its use should be abandoned as soon as possible, and a solution of alum, gr.v to aquae foj, be substituted, for fear of staining the conjunctiva. Constitutional treatment is always demanded in addition. scrofulous enlargements. Dr. Karl Stoerk, of Vienna, has recently tried intercellular in- jections in some two hundred cases of vascular, fibrous and cystic struma.* In some instances he employed the following: 718. R. Alcoholis, f.^j Tinct. iodinii, gtt.xx. M. Adding the iodine in order to prevent the acetous fermentation in the alcohol in consequence of its mingling with the degener- ating tissue of the tumor. He believes, however, that a more efficient preparation is: 719. R. Alcoholis, f.Sijss Iodinii, gr.xxx. M. Of either of these sufficient should be used for the parenchy- matous injection, and a second not be given until all signs of the *Beiirdjre zttr Heilung des Parenchym. und Cysten Kropfcs. Erlangen, 1874.