158 SPECIAL FORkS OF WOUNDS. possible after the bite is inflicted; no sucking of the parts, as is advised by many for the purpose of extracting the poison, as the presence of a small abrasion on the lips or the interior of the mouth would, most assuredly, subject the parts t6 inoculation. If the wound is ragged, the edges maybe taken off with a pair of sharp scissors. The wound must then be thoroughly cauterized with nUrate of silver, being sure to introduce the caustic into the very depth of the wound, so that it will reach every particle of poison that may have insinuated itself into the flesh. If the wound is too small to admit of the stick of caustic, it may be enlarged by the knife • taking care, however, not to carry the poison mto the flesh cut which can be avoided by wiping the knife at each incision. Should the wound be made on any of the hmbs, a bandage may be placed around it during the appHcation of these remedies, the more effectually to prevent absorption by the vems. Nitrate of silver is a powerful neutralizer of specific poison, and the parts will soon come away with the slough ; no dressings being necessary except perhaps olive oil, if there should be much inflammation of the parts. If the above plan be pursued, the patient need be under no apprehension of the result, but make his mind perfectly easy on the subject." DR. SHINKWIN, M. R. C. S. E., SURGEON TO THE CORK INFIRMARY. IRELAND. This writer, in a recent treatise on the disease (DiMin Med. ymrnal, Feb., .876), reviewing the remedial agents employed m the treatment of hydrophobia, enumerates no less than 228 vege- table substances; and under the heading of "acds, alkahes, salts, bases" etc., 46; besides a host of such nauseous doses as " pounded ants, badger soup, the excrement of a calf, the brams and comb of a cock, the eyes of a crab, coral ta.l of a shrew shells of the male oyster," etc., etc. The prehm.nary treatment of the wound should be that hereafter given for the b.tes of venomous "'?;:':n':f:es"of bites caused by dogs, wolves, cats or foxes " observes Dr. Sh.nkwin, "the parts should, if poss.ble, be. deep y and completely excised, and the cut surfaces freely even brutally cauterized " With regard to the cauterizing agent he thmks that a or erence should te given to those that are flu.d or de .que ce pidly s their action is more evenly diffused over the ent.re sur- "a