262 LESIONS OF THE ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. DR. LINON, VERVIERS, FRANCE. This writer claims much success in the treatment of varicose veins by swathing the leg in a flannel compress wet with a solution of chloride of iron in water, forty-five grains to the ounce, and then applying a roller flannel bandage over it firmly for twenty- four hours. This is to be repeated daily for a week or two weeks. DR. EDWARD R. MAYER, OF PENNA. This writer states that he has employed, " with brilliant results," lotions of witch-hazel to varicocele and other varicose enlarge- ments. His formula is: ■loi.. B. Concentrated tincture of hamamelis, ^ ^ ^ Water, Oj- M. He believes that it exerts a specific effect on the venous system. {Hm/s on Specific Medication, 1876.) The hypodermic injection of chloral into the vein has been recom- mended by Prof. Porta, of Italy. He throws in gr. xv at an injec- tion, and repeats it several times at five or six days' interval if required. The operation is rather painful, but is rarely followed by phlebitis. Coagula are formed and the veins thus become blocked up and atrophied. Mr. CoLLES, of Dublin, recommended central compression of the dilated veins,'by means of a soft truss (as a ball of feathers). At first sight this would seem more likely to increase the varicose condition; but in fact it has the reverse effect, probably through causing gradual dilation of the collateral venous circulation. In all cases of varicose veins, the causes, which are often mech- anical, as prolonged standing or sitting in one position, the pres- ence of a tumor, tight garters, obstinate constipation, etc., must be inquired into. DR. J. F*MINER, OF BUFFALO, NEW YORK. This surgeon has reported very favorably in regard to the treat- ment of varicose veins by injections of the persulphate of iron. He uses the officinal solution in the proportion of one drop to about ten drops of water. Injections may be made at different po.nts. Immediate coagulation of the blood is produced the vessel con- tracts, soon becomes a mere cord, while the blood cnxulates through the smaller and deeper vessels.