MODERN MEDICAL THERAPEUTICS. 1 -vol., large 8vo. i>i>. 60S. MODERN SURGICAL THERAPEUTICS 1 vol., lai'ge 8vo. pi>. GOS. By H. NA.I»H:EYS, ^.M., M:.r>., etc. Sixth Edition, 1879. Revised, Enlarged, and Carefully Edited. The two boobs are sold separately, at $4.00 in clotb, or $5.00 In foil leather, each, sent by mail, post-paid by the publisher. In these t-wo books the author and editors have gathered the essence of the medical literature of the world during the last ten years, so far as it relates to the treatment of disease by all approved and scientific methods. Ma.ny of the directions and formulae have never been published elsewhere, or are buried in periodicals. Hardly any disease of Importance is omitted, and the writers have aimed to give fully the exact treatment and the specific therapeutical methods of the most eminent living physicians. The following brief analysis of the two boolis will prove conclusively, to every intelligent physician, how real and great is the value of these works. In both volumes the diseases are arranged alphabetically, under the proper nosological classes. Under each ;its treatment is given, first, by several leading authorities of this country and Europe, and their differences carefully set forth; next, the treatment in several prominent hospitals is re- corded, and any especial formuliB claimed, on good authority, to be of peculiar efficacy; finally, an abstract or r^sum6 is added, setting forth, alphabetically, the more important drugs and remedial measures used in the disease, their doses, Indications, and most successful combinations. Both external and internal remedies are included, and all such measures as baths, electricity, massage, movement cure, mineral waters, counter-irritants, diet, inhalations, hypodermic injections, cupping, hydrotherapy, fumigations, heat and cold, posture, irrigation, enemata, poultices, liniments, gaigles, lotions, etc., etc., are described, with their appropriate indications. Each book has a complete Table of Contents, and three elaborate indexes, one of Authors, a second of Remedies and Remedial Measures, and a third of Diseases. It has been a specM aim of the author and editors to include all the latest approved new remedies, the most famous combina- tions, and, in fact, all the "points" or "wrinkles" of modern therapeutics, so that with these volumes on his table, the practitioner in the most remote settlement, or he whose time is most over-occupied, can at once familiarize himself with the latest acquisitions of the therapeutical art. Of the very many such " points" we mention a number in each book. In the MEDICAL THERAPEUTICS The total number of authors quoted Is 723, and the precise formulae given 1124. Without pretend- ing to give an exhaustive list, we mention— Hammond's and Hughlings Jackson's treatment of apoplexy. „t,„,.:„ Local anajsthesia, and brSmide of iron in chorea. Stevens on chorea from I'ypermetropia Brown-Sequanl's formulae and rules In epilepsy. Drs. Hamilton's and Seguin s combmations In epilepsy, arifflth on the seton In epilepsy and paralysis. „i.„,i„„, „„j r>»,.inrtJn h«ofi ^The management of bilious, nervous, rheumatic, congestive, hysterical and periodic head- '"'^^'cerebro-splnal meningitis : Altken, N. S. Davis, Niemeyer, Eamskill and others on; Read's apeciflc treatment with ergot and belladonna. .„;„„fiftTiq nf ohiornform Neuralgia : Anstle's treatment; rules for Bartholow's deep injections ot chlorolorm.