462 NEW GROWTHS. relates (^Archives of Clin, Surg., October, 1876,) three cases of the latter. He injected from half a drachm to two drachms fid. extract, ergot at a time at intervals of ten days. In none of these cases was there at any time, the least evidence of inflam- matory action from the injections; he therefore attributes the successful results entirely to the action of the ergot on the organic fibres of the vessels. Ferrum. The tincture of the chloride is used by Dr. Mackenzie in goitre (F. 648}; also in polypi, (F. 664.) A drop of the liquor ferri persulphatis on a wart will often disperse it. lodinium is exceedingly valuable in goitre, etc. (see F. 650). Applied as tincture or ointment, it is one of the best resolvents known. Nitricum Acidicm. A drachm or two of nitric acid to a pint of water may be used as a wash to small venereal warts. Plumbi lodidi. Dr. Schonfeldt prefers iodide of lead to other metallic iodides, on the ground that in small doses its action is not irri- tant. It does not disturb the organism, or produce salivation like mercurial preparations. It may be given internally in doses of from two to three grains. From half a drachm to a drachm rubbed up with an ounce of lard forms a good ointment, and the addition of glycerine facilitates its absorption. In cases of lupus, syphilitic growths, nasal polypus, and in cases of indura- tions, exudations, and tumors, he has employed the iodide of lead with success. Plumbi Nitras is an extremely valuable and too little used agent in dis- persing new formations. (F. 664.) Potassii Brotnidum. An efficient cauterant in polypoid growths is the following: The effect is prompt, but painful. Potassii lodidum, internally, excites the secretory functions and aids in the resolution of various forms of growths. Electrolysis. The employment of electricity in the removal of new form- ations is one of the most important achievements of modern surgery. It has been used with brilliant success in erectile and fatty tumors, polypi and fibroids, and with assertead dvant- age in goitres and ovarian tumors. For the particular methods and apparatus, special works on the subject must be consulted. Galvanism. The use of galvanism as a surgical adjuvant has recently furnished important results, in the treatment of vascular and erectile tumors, and some recent experiments encourage the hope that the necessity for that formidable operation, ovariotomy, may in some instances be superseded by this important agent." Pressure. In many cases of benign tumors, judiciously applied, firm pressure is a most valuable auxiliary. Puncture is highly commended by Mr. Cameron. (See above.) 669. Potassii bromidi, Acidi tannici, Reduce to a mass by careful levigation. aa gr.x.