VENEREAL DISEASES. 564 PROF. RICORD, PARIS. 916, I^. Tincturae scilla;, Spirilfls camphoras, Vini opii, aa f.3v. M. A resolvent liniment, to be applied, in fomentations, to joints affected with gonorrhoeal arthritis, when the pains have nearly disappeared. Acetmn. Cider vinegar, more or less diluted, has been found of good service in chronic gleet. Alumen. A saturated solution of burnt alum, used as an injection three times a day is commended by Dr. A. de Vos, of Belgium, as the best of all injections in gonorrhoea when the acute symp- toms are subsiding. Argenti Nitras. The employment of this agent in gonorrhoea has been much discussed. The abortive method by strong injections {gr. xxx-3j, to water f.§j) has deservedly fallen into disrepute. This strength may, however, be safely applied to the vagina in spe- cific vaginitis. It should be painted on the part with a brush through a speculum. In the male, the strength in the first stage should not be beyond gr.J^^ to the ounce of water. This may be used every three hours until the substitutive inflammation has been established. In gonorrheal balattitis, Dr. Darvosky re- commends drawing back the prepuce in order to thoroughly cleanse the parts and to apply the medicine directly upon the in- flamed surface. After all the secretion is washed off", the whole everted surface of the prepuce is penciled over with a solution of nitras argenti (thirty grains to the ounce) ; a small piece of linen saturated with the same lotion is then laid over the glans penis, and the prepuce drawn over it. During the first days the gray eschar produced by this cauterization is very quickly thrown off", wherefore the application of the nitras argenti should be repeated several times daily. Afterward, when the oedema of the prepuce has subsided and the discharge is greatly diminished, the eschar adheres for one day or longer, and the remedy must not be reapplied till the eschar is thrown off". Belladonna is of service in chordee and the genesic erethism which pre- cedes the disease. Dr. Van den Corput prescribes: Acacia. RESUME OF REMEDIES. Thin mucilage makes an excellent injection, as: 917. I^. Mucilaginis acacise, Carbolic, acid., Aquam, For urethral injection—f.^ss as needed. f.Biij f.3ij ad f.^xij. M. 918, Vf.. Extract! belladonnse, gr.ij Camphorse, Lupulinae, aa gr.xij. For eight pills. From two to four at a night. M. Dr. BuMSTEAD uses the ointmet in epidydimilis.