CANCER. PROFESSOR ARMAND TROUSSEAU, PARIS. 696. I^. Belladonnse, Stramonii folias, aa §ss Aqute, Oiss Boil down to a pint, strain, and add, 697. I^. Tincturae opii, f.5ss-j. This liquid is administered in the form of vaginal injections, to relieve the pains of uterine cancer. It is poisonous if given as enema. RESUME OF REMEDIES. Acetiaim Acidum has been used as a parenchymatous injection in malig- nant growths, and also as a local external dressing, with occa- sional good results. The acetates of lime and soda have been prescribed by Dr. E. Currie, of Paris, with asserted good effect (dose, 5ss daily). Alcohol. In the hypodermic use of this substance in cancer. Dr. Hasse {Medicin. Centralzeiting, Yth., 1874,) recommends that it be thrown, not into the new growth, but around its edges, thus ob- literating the lymphatics which convey the infection, and pro ducing atrophy of the growth itself. He repeats the injections every eight to fourteen days, allaying pain with ice-bags. His mixture is 100 parts of alcohol to one of ether, Ainnionii Carbonas and Chloridtm were often given internally by Sir AsTLEY Cooper. Arsenicum, both internally, as Fowler's solution, and externally, as a caustic, has been largely employed (see above). Bromidiim in uterine cancer, has been extensively used by Dr. Wynn Williams. (Above.) The chloride of bromine is deemed of the highest value by Dr. Landolfi. (P. 469.) Carbolicum Acidum is used pure, as an anaesthetic, before applying- caustics. Carbonicum Acidum, injected up the vagina, in uterine cancer, is a valu- able means of relieving pain. (See Chap. II.) Chloral. Dr. Fleischer uses chloral locally in carcinoma uteri. He first washes out the vagina thoroughly, and then passes up to the cancerous surface some cotton-wool wetted with a solution of chloral (two drachms to three ounces of water); this appli- cation is repeated every two hours. After a few applications, the pain is moderated, and the discharge becomes less offensive. {Med. Chir. Centralblatt, ix., 1875.) Chloroform may be atomized as vapor on raw, painful surfaces. Chromicum Acidum. 698. Vf^. Acidi chromici, gr.ioo Aquas destillatte, f.^j. M. For hypodermic injection. Sixty drops of this may be thrown into neoplastic growths, at several points. The operation may 31-S