366 LESIONS OF THE ORGANS OF REPRODUCTION. As they are actively poisonous substances, they must be used with caution. The dose of the aicri chloridum is gr-yV^fV j auri et sodii chloridum, gx.^-^-^, in pill form thrice 'daily. Auripiilvis is ofificinal in Great Britain, gr.i^-iij, thrice daily. In plethora of the sexual organs they increase the frequency of nocturnal seminal losses. Belladonna. This drug is recommended by Dr. H. TL Toland for in- vigorating the reproductive organs, especially in persons ad- vanced in years, and those debilitated or partly impotent from excessive masturbation. He combines it with nux vomica or with quinine. Cannabis Indica. The extract of Indian hemp (hasheesh) is said to exert a strongly aphrodisiac power. It is probable that this, like many manifestations of this drug, is confined to certain temperaments in certain surroundings. Those who have experi- mented with it have rarely recorded any perceptible exaltation of the venereal sense. Cantharides. Regulated doses of cantharides are often of great service in impotence. As an aphrodisiac, it is of little value, as the erections it causes are devoid of pleasurable sensation; but cautiously used as a stimulant, it has important applications. Cimicifuga. It is asserted by Bartholow that this drug stimulates the venereal appetite in man and promotes the menstrual flow in ■woman. On account of these aphrodisiac effects, he recom- mends it in those cases in which the organs are relaxed, the erections weak, and the seminal discharges feeble, premature, and liable to occur on slight excitement. It is important that preparations from the fresh root be employed. Conium. The hemlock has an ancient reputation as a sexual tonic. Combined with iron, in the formula suggested by the late Pro- fessor William Tully, M. D., of Yale College, Dr. C. Baker has lately employed it in various cases of genital exhaustion with good results. {Cinn. Medical News, July, 1875.) SYRUPUS CONII ET FERRI SESQUIOXIDI. 495. R. Ext. conii maculati, 5y Extracti ferri sesquioxidi, 5v ad x Syrupi tolutani, f.gij ad iv Olei cinnamomi, Olei gaultherise procumbentis, aa Ttl.x Sacchari officinalis, §ij ad iv Spts. vini gallici, §ij ad viij Aquae fortunae, q. s. ut fiat mist. Oij. M. A tablespoonful for a dose. This much contains not quite gr.v of the extract of conium. The dose may be doubled if required. The taste is rather pleasant, and the appetite is increased by it. Damiana. This product of a Mexican species of Turnera has recently been much lauded as a tonic of debilitated sexual organs. The dose is f.3j of the fluid extract three times daily. The testimony regarding its value is conflicting, and it has certainly failed a