TRAUMATIC NEURALGIA AND PARALYSIS. Passive motion was then ordered, and the application continued. The power of motion gradually returned, and at the end of the fourth week he was discharged, using his arm nearly as well as ever. DR. JOHN VAN BIBBER, OF BALTIMORE. This author has urged the treatment of paralysis, especially that from traumatic and toxic causes, by means of the elastic relaxation of the paralyzed muscles. {Transactions of the Medical and Chi- riirgical Factdty of Maryland, 1875.) He employs an artificial muscle, made of an India-rubber ribbon, so disposed that the affected hmb can be moved by the motion of the nearest portion of the body not involved in the paralysis. He maintains that, in all forms of peripheral paralysis, from injury, cold, toxic influence, and the like, where, not being able to restore the nerve to its normal condition, if we can, by mechanical means, give the affected muscles, as nearly as possible, their natural motions, we prevent any further degeneration in the muscles, and actually im- prove the condition of the nerve or nerves. There are two results, he claims, to be derived from this course of treatment: first, the muscular fibre is improved, and its condi- tion rendered more natural; second, through the improvement of the muscles, the distal extremities of the nerves are affected favor- ably ; and finally, the whole part is placed in the best hygienic condition to receive the influence of the will, as soon as the lesion should commence to disappear, DR. S. WEIR MITCHELL, OF PHILADELPHIA.* Punctured wounds of superficial branches of nerves rarely de- mand special treatment. Occasionally they are caused by the lancet in bleeding, and give rise to troublesome consequences. The older surgeons were accustomed to treat them by cautery at the point wounded; this was effected by placing a morsel of potassafiisa in the lips of the cut; while others made an incision above the wound, or isolated it by carrying the knife around it. Mr. Pearson has reported cases of extreme pain from lancet wounds, in which, after every means had been exhausted, the most remarkable ease was afforded by the use of the following liniment: Injuries of Nerves and their Consequences. Phila., 1872.