CHARBON (malignant PUSTULe). 163 useful cooling lotion. It may be united with conium (F. 27), with alcohol {F. 23), or with ammonia, as for example : 159. ^. Liquoris ammonige acetatis, f.^j Liquoris plumbi subacetatis, f.Siss Aquae, Oj. M. For a lotion. SodcB Boras is a useful refrigerant addition. (F. 25.) Sulpkurostnn Acidum is esteemed by some. (F. 32.) . CHARBON (MALIGNANT PUSTULE). The latest treatment of this infection in France, where it is not uncommon, may be illustrated by the following case reported to the Parisian Academy of Medicine by M. Davaine, in October, 1873. A young man, a tanner, having become infected from some skins prepared in his shop, noticed an anthracose oedema of the palpebrae. This affection is usually considered fatal in that coun- try, hence a consultation was called. M. Cezard, at the sugges- tion of M. Davaine, treated the case by hypodermic injections of iodine solution of The patient soon recovered. The same treatment was also adopted with success in subsequent cases. The germs of this disease (which have been shown to be the species of bacillus, the bacillus anthracis), when it is epidemic among animals, may be destroyed by sprinkling the forage or the pastures with g-oiinr solutions of sulphuric acid. In using the anti- virulent treatment, the system must also be well supported by stimulants, among which the carbonate of ammonia in large doses is the best. In using iodine, twice its weight of iodide of potas- sium is to be added, to increase the solubility and diminish its irritating properties. In extreme cases, the intravenous injection of iodine may be resorted to without hesitation. The treatment of these diseases by the actual cautery, or by cauterization with con- centrated solutions of sublimate, is not in accordance with the progress of science, and is very inefficacious. Dr. EsTRADERE treats malignant pustule very successfully by the administration of carbolic acid internally and externally. Dr. BoMPAiRE recommends, in the Montpellier Medical for Jan., 1877, the following treatment: