SNAKE BITES. 177 lia do not fully bear out those previously sent, but there is no reasonable doubt that ammonia in this form would act as a powerful revulsive, and no hesitation should be had in resorting to this measure when called for. As used by Dr. A. S. Todd, of Virginia [Trmis. Va. State Med. Soc, 1872), the liquor ammonia is mixed with flaxseed meal or slippery elm bark, to make a cataplasm, and applied to the part; while internally the patient was given liquor ammoniae aromaticus f.5j, in a wineglass of water, every three hours. Prof Brainard, of Chicago, made a series of experiments with the following 183. R. lodinii, S^-^ Potassii iodidi, gr.xv Aquae destillatse, f-§j- M. Use as hypodermic injection. His directions are to place a cupping glass over the wound and pass the nozzle of the syringe beneath the skin under the edges of the cup, throwing in sufficient of the above to "infiltrate the tis- sues." BIBRON S ANTIDOTE. 184. Brominii, f.Sjjss Potassii iodidi, _ gr.ij Hydrargyri chloridi corrosivi, gr.j Alcoholis diluti, f.Sxxx. A teaspoonful m wine or brandy, repeated p. r. n. after the bite of a rattlesnake. This had at one time considerable fame, but has of late years fallen out of confidence. Various observers on the- western plains have testified to its value. • RESUME OF REMEDIES. /^/^f?^^'/in some form ranks among the most important antidotes in the bites of venomous serpents (p. 76). It should be given freely until the patient shows decided symptoms of intoxication. Dis- tilled spirits, whisky, gin or brandy, is the best form. Ammonia. Both as a local and internal remedy the spirits of ammonia are constantly used in poisonous bites and stings (see above, p. 76). The celebrated Eau de Luce, named from, the island. Santa Lucia, is the spiritus anunonicB succinatus. 185. Vf. Mastich, f.Siij Alcoholis, f.§j 01. lavand., gtt.xlv 01. succin., gtt.iv SpiritQs ammoniae, f.^xx.. M". Macerate the mastich in the alcohol, pour off the clear tincture, and add the rest. The dose is from gtt. x to f.5j.