PYEMIA. 127 more frequent in the trunks and limbs than in internal organs; and when seated in the veins, are mostly found toward the close of the disease. The prognosis is usually favorable. The slower the pulse and breathing, and the less the sweating, the greater the probabilities of recovery. The usual treatment should be with good, patient nursing, a moderate us© of stimulants, and an abundance of fresh air. Internally one may prescribe: 145. I^. Liquoris potassse, f.5j- This amount in water thrice daily. The curative influence of liquor potasses in some cases seems clearly proved. It appears to exert a positive and almost specific influence on certain morbid deposits, as deep-seated inflammatory infiltrations. RESUME OF REMEDIES. * Alcohol. The demand for alcohol as food and as an aid to assimilation is very great in this disease. Recently Dr. Theodor Clemens, of Frankfort on-the Main, has reported eight cases of severe type which recovered under the administration of good red wine in as large amounts as they would drink. Aquce Calcis, with milk, is a valuable dietetic auxiliary. Dr. Joseph Bell, of Edinburgh, has reported three recoveries in which, with hardly any medicine, he gave milk with hme water, eggs and beef tea at short intervals. Carboliciim Acidum has been experimented with in pyaemia, but the re- sults are unsatisfactory. Ferri Chloridi Tinctura has been administered in large doses, with little benefit. Hypophospliites of sodium, potassium and ammonium. These have yielded good results in some cases, and deserve trial. > Hyposulphites. The sulphites and bisulphites of the alkaline metals were largely used during our war, but the general experience was that they are of little use. *QuinicB Sulphas. M. Verneuil, of Paris, as well as many other sur- geons, speak emphatically of the value of quinine, given in large doses. To prevent the rigors. Dr. Gross prescribes : 146. ^.. Quinias sulphatis, gr.x Morphiae sulphatis, gr.^' This amount every four or six hours. No benefit, he says, can accrue from smaller closes.