LESIONS OF THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION, 268 cathartic medicines; diaphoretics, or diuretics. An inflammation of the dental pulp, if not too far advanced, will almost invariably be broken up by the administration of bromide of potassium, gr. v-xl, the application of a mustard poultice to the back of the neck, and a hot foot bath continued from twenty minutes to half an hour. The atropice sidplias is an invaluable agent in soothing the pain of an irritable pulp. If severe inflammation has not supervened, few instances will not be entirely relieved by the following: 314. IJ;. Atropiae sulphatis, gr.vj Aquae destillatge, ' f-^J- M. Saturate a small piece of cotton, and lay in the cavity, which should be previously well cleaned. In the odontalgia of gout, vinmn colchici radicis, gtt.xx, three or four times a day, may be depended on. In rheumatism no combi- nation seems better than the following. Its administration in the plethoric should be preceded by a free purging with a saline ca- thartic : 315. R. Potassii iodidi, §ss Tincturag colchici radicis, f-3ss Extracti belladonnae, g^^-vj Tincturje guaiaci compos., __ , . -^j. Aquae cinnamomi, M. A tablespoonful three times a day in a little water to an adult; if it act too freely on the bowels, add opium, q. s. Radical Treatment. This is accomplished by destroying the pulp by means of escharotics. No better formula for a destructive ■ nerve-paste can be given than this : 316. I^. Acidi arseniosi, Morphiae acetatis, gr.x Creasoti. q. s., to make a [thick paste. In very irritable conditions, it might be advisable to substitute sulphate of atrophia for the sulphate of morphia. The effect of this application must be carefully watched. As a rule, the arsenic is not to be left in the adult tooth longer than fifteen hours, when it is to be carefully removed. 3. Disease of the Periodontewn. This is generally periodontitis. In all ordinary cases, when seen in its early stages, the following routine treatment will seldom fail: Place the feet of the patient in very hot water until the patient grows faint or breaks out in a per-