INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. best spot for the insertion of the small trocar and canula; and then, if gentle pressure be made on the abdomen, both air and fluid may be made to escape. As the distension goes down, the tube must be gently pushed on to prevent it escaping from the portion of gut it has entered. There is no fear of undue inflam- mation or extravasation, as adhesions soon form, even when it is thought desirable to leave the canula in place. Doubtless, in many casesj the aspirator would be found very useful in unburdening the bowel, and so diminishing congestion and tension, and improving the chance of its resuming its function. In cases fitted for it, the small aperture made by the canula might be enlarged by means of a tangle-tent, so as to serve the purpose of an artificial anus. It has been frequently found, after death, that a vast amount of the accumulation about the place of obstruction was sufficiently fluid to be removed in some such way "as has been above hinted at. In all cases of obstruction, a most restricted dietary must be ob- served ; in fact, only enough given to support life. No ^solid or bulky food should be allowed; but small quantities of the most soluble and sustaining meat essences, milk, egg and brandy flip, ice, etc. The stomach must not be loaded even with water. Nu- tritive enemata will help much. No reference need be made to exploded methods of administer- ing mercury, shot, etc., to act mechanically in cases of obstruction ; and such medicaments as tobacco-injections, strong coffee, ergot, nux vomica, etc., are now very seldom employed. In volvulus and stricture, the chance of successful treatment is very small. By operation, the bowel may occasionally be reached above the place of closure. Internal hernias, even if recognized, are almost hopeless. For invagination low down, large enemata, or the old Hippocratic plan of distending the bowel (now easily accomplished under chloroform) with air introduced by bellows or special instrument, from below, should be employed, if they can be carried out before the portions of bowel involved have become hopelessly fused together. The inversion of the patient cannot do good ; but the careful insertion of a bougie (possibly armed with a sponge) might prove advantageous in certain cases of intussuscep- tion pressing down near the anus. The strength of the patient should be well supported, and time gained for the occurrence of those changes in the bowel by which a spontaneous cure may be secured.