3 numher of Visiting Xdsts* off&>' tJietnselves «w candidates for doctors' favor. We <ire decided in our .opinion that 'Sutler's I'hyaician's Pochet Iteeord,' issued by JO. Q-. Srinton, is unrivaled in its excellence."—LouUville Medical News. THE PHYSIOIM'S DAILY POCKET RECORD, COMPRISING A Visiting List, Many Useful Memoranda, Tables, etc. By S. W. BUTL-ER, M.B. EDITED ANNUALLY. AND ADAPTED FOR 35 OR 70 PATIENTS DAILY. STRONGLY BOUND IN MOROCCO, WITH STEEL SPRING CLASP. (EDITION FOR 35 PATIENTS DAILY, .... |l,50 PRICK: \ a « 70 " " .... 2.00 Tbe name of tlie purchaser will be stamped, in grllt letters, on tbe tuck, lor 10 cents extra. Physicians who have tried this List have, as a rule, given It the preference above all others in the market. Contents.—The first 52 pages are printed matter, made up as follows : 1. A " perpetual almanac." 2. A list of New Remedies, revised each year. 3. Doses for hypodermic injections. 4. Doses for inhalation, 5. Doses for suppositories and pessaries. 6. Glassified list of the Materia Medica. 7. Poisons and antidotes. 8. Treatment of asphyxia. 9. Disinfectants, etc., etc. 104 pages are given to the " Visiting List and Record of Accounts," allowing one line to each patient, with a blank page opposite, for" memoranda." The Visiting List closes with an "Index of Patients." An " Obstetric Record," a " Vaccination Record," " Record of Deaths," " Cash Record," and pages for "Addresses and Memoranda," follow. One valuable peculiarity of the "Pocket Record" is that it is good/or one year from any date in the year. The Visiting List portion bears no dates, and by simply writing the month at the top of the page the date will always be correct. The binding of the Pocket Record is in strong morocco; and instead of a tuck (which often tears), it has a steel spring clasp, exceedingly convenient in use. A.pocket is provided in the cover, for carrying prescription blanks, etc. Special Terms.—The Physician's Pocket Record, 35 patients, will be supplied to »X\.paid up subscribers to the Medical and Surgical Reporter, for one dollar ($1.00). Metric System.—The edition of the Pocket Record issued this year contains a Table of Doses and Formulse, giving in a compact and easily understood form the method of prescribing by the metric system. iMisoN's mmm mmm imm. Per book, 50 Cents. 3 for $1.00. 0 By these convenient Records the physician makes a copy of his prescription at the same time that he writes it for the patient. The duplication is by means of carbon paper. All who have tried the plan have been highly pleased with It. The prescription is written with the ordinary lead pencil, and the writing is clear and black. The Prescription Blanks are prepared in neat packages, of 60 blanks each, and when one such package Is exhausted it is removed from the case and another one substituted, one case thus serving for any number of prescriptions.