328 LESIONS OF THE ORGANS OF URINATION. the nozzle gently to the catheter and then throw in slowly a fourth of the contents; let that run out; it will be thick and dirty, no doubt; then inject another fourth, which will be less so; again another, which will return clearer than the preceding; and the fourth portion will probably come away nearly clear. Now these four separate washings of an ounce each will have been really more efficient than two washings of four ounces each, and you will have reduced the amount of instrumental irritation to a minimum Never, under any circumstance, throw in more than two ounces at a time, and even this quantity, for efficient washing, is better avoided." Dr. Braxton Hicks advises that the point of the cath- eter, in giving an injection, should not pass far beyond the neck of the bladder, otherwise, if it touches the sides or back, it occasions great distress. For spasm and pain a suppository of morphiae gr.%~], is often of the greatest service. Counter-irritants are not of much service. Perhaps the best is a hot linseed poultice, well sprinkled with strong flour of mustard, above the pubes. Hot fomentations and hip baths alleviate pain materially. Of the various infusions and decoctions said to exercise a bene- ficial influence in cystitis, Sir Henry names the followine: in the order of their value for the cases one commonly meets with: Buchu, Triticum repens, Alchimella arvensis, Pareira brava, Uva ursi. Of the first, fourth and fifth, give Oss daily; of the second and third, Oj ; that is, of their infusions or decoctions. The Triti- cum repens was introdced by Sir Henry himself, and should be prepared as follows : 427. Triticum repens (the underground stem), 2 oz Water, one pint. Boil for a quarter of an hour. Take in four doses in the twenty-four hours. The resins have also a certain amount of value. 428. ^. Copaibse, ttI^v Mucilag. acacias, 3j. M. This amount thrice daily. In regard to alkalies, the following old combination, said to be of incompatibles, nevertheless seems about the most valuable form in practice: