GONORRI-ICEA. 561 along the urethra, and don't be alarmed by the amount of outcry- it causes, or even should a drop of blood be found adhering to the end of the instrument when it is withdrawn. Of course the great- est gentleness must be used in passing the instrument. The pain, which is of a burning kind, disappears very quickly, and the patient, even if he have fainted from the nervous shock, in a few moments gets up and acknowledges that he feels no particular in- convenience from the operation. In the next three or four days he experiences great improvement; the amount of discharge is less; there is less aching' in the sacrum and thighs after walking; and consequently his spirits are better and his several nervous disorders trouble him far less; so that on his next visit he will usually allow the bougie to be passed again, and may even beg for it spontane- ously. After the first introduction, the spasm is commonly much less, and when it has been passed a few times the amount of suffer- ing is very bearable. In order to reduce the pain to a minimum, Mr. Hill uses at first flexible black French bougies with tapering ends, till the irritation has considerably lessened, when a steel No. 10 sound, with short curve, is generally the most effective instru- ment. So long as any tenderness or spasm remains, the sound should be passed once a week, if the good effect last so long, twice a week if the dull pain and sense of weight begin to revive after three or four days have elapsed. It now and then happens that the passing of a sound becomes real agony. In such cases he is accustomed to pass the catheter, and throw in from ten to fifteen, drops of solution of nitrate of silver (twenty grains to the ounce); first rendering the patient insensible by chloroform, or, better still,, by gas and ether, and emptying the bladder, if the patient has not already done so in the natural way, before the injection is thrown in. While he is still unconscious, it is well to inject one-third of a grain of morphia under the skin, to maintain insensibility for the three or four hours that elapse before the pain of the injection subsides. This injection is also useful in chronic prostatitis, and must be carried out in the same way. For this it may need repetition more than once, or even twice; but repetition is rarely if ever needed for simple irritable prostate, as after one injection the slight tenderness remaining is easily controlled by the regular in- troduction of a bougie about once a fortnight, which the patient may learn to do for himself. When the digestion has been re- 36-s