ALCOHOLIC DRESSINGS. 73 ALCOHOLIC DRESSINGS. The employment of vinous or alcoholic liquids as surgical dressings dates back to remotest antiquity. Recently one of the warmest advocates of it is DR. BORLEE, PROFESSOR OF CLINICAL SURGERY, UNIVERSITY OF LIEGE. This surgeon prefers alcohol, simple or camphorated^ to car- bolic or salicylic acid, or any other of the vaunted antiseptics. {yournal des Sciences Medicales de Louvain, 1876.) The following is his customary method of employing it : The liquid preferred is simple or camphorated alcohol of the temperature of 68° Fah. Having washed the wound carefully with this, he applies on the edges of the solution of continuity, if they are approximated, or between them, if they are not, tufts of charpie wet with the alcohol. Above these he places a compress and bandage, and then a piece of oiled silk, so as to prevent the evaporation of the alcohol and the desiccation of the dressing. If the wound is large, the dressing should be renewed several times a day, the alcohol being somewhat diluted. He considers that the alcohol favors immediate union, prevents excessive inflammatory action, aids in sustaining the vital powers, promotes healthy granulations, and moderates the suppuration. PROFESSOR H. F. DOLBEAU, OF l'hoPITAL BEAUJON, PARIS. The bleeding having been staunched, the raw surface is washed with the strongest commercial alcohol, and then dried with some fine soft linen. The cavity caused by the loss of substance is filled up, and in the case of an amputation, the flaps are covered with feathery tufts of fine charpie saturated with alcohol. The entire dressings are then enclosed in an envelope of impermeable gutta- percha tissue, and retained in position by a few rounds of a band- age. During the day the gutta-percha is temporarily removed, and the underneath dressing moistened with alcohol. Next day, and on each following five or ten days, the entire dressings are re- newed. The charpie adherent to the raw surface is carefully moistened with alcohol before removal, to prevent any oozing of blood. At the end of eight or ten days, raw surfaces treated in this way are quite dry, and present a slate-gray color. This dried- up state may be indefinitely prolonged. To accomplish permanent