NEW GROWTHS. 452 Should the case cease to improve, or be obstinate from the com- mencement, the patient should be dissuaded from subjecting him- self to more severe expedients, unless his existence should be threatened by the swelling. The plan of passing a scton through the tumor in order to excite suppuration and consequent diminution of bulk, is easily executed, and seldom leads to any serious consequences. Nevertheless some fatal results have been reported, and the good effects of the prac- tice have been b.ut of partial extent. In simple hypertrophy of the thyroid, injections of ergotin are generally successful. The procedure is by hypodermic injections of from six to ten minims of a solution containing ninety-six grains of ergotina to the ounce of distilled water. The injection is repeated two or three times a week, for the space of from four to six months, when the gland becomes thoroughly hardened. The gland begins to shrivel with the stoppage of the injections and very soon returns to its normal size. Ergotina is of no value in bronchocele, but only in cases of simple enlargement of the thy- roid gland. The injection is attended with very little pain. FATTY TUMORS. As a local injection into the substance of adipose tumors, alco- hol has been used by some surgeons. A certain amount of the latter should be made to enter the fatty growth through several apertures, allowing some days to intervene between each injection. The tumor then softens and fluctuates; and the operator should at that period incise the growth and empty it, by means of gentle pressure, of the oily liquid which has been formed. Febrile reac- tion is generally very slight. It is hardly worth while in some fatty tumors to subject the patient to numerous punctures and in- jections, which may be more or less painful, and crown all by an incision and kneading of the tumor. The French surgeons MM. Debreuil, Chassagnac, and others, prefer caustics to the knife in fatty tumors. The reasons they give are that the suppuration insures complete obliteration of the cyst; that it does not confine the patient to the bed ; and that he is less exposed to erysipelas, purulent infection and the like, than when