ANTISEPTIC DRESSINGS, 83 The dressing possesses all the advantages and none of the incon- veniences of Lister's method. When applied to a stump, for in- stance, it keeps it enveloped in a warm atmosphere saturated with vapor of water, which lessens the exciting effects of the oxygen of the air, and is protected by the numerous layers of soft wadding which keep out all infecting germs. Dr. Soulez renews the dress- mg usually every six days, but sometimes leaves it on for ten days. DR. P. H. WATSON, OF EDINBURGH. This gentleman, who is senior surgeon to the Royal Infirmary Edmburgh, has systematized the use of chloral hydrate as a dress- mg to wounds. He finds it quite as active as carbolic or boracic acid. At Its first application it causes some smarting which is soon succeeded by an agreeable, soothing sensation ' It has a marked advantage over carbolic acid, on account of its pleasant odor. Dr, Watson employs chloral in four forms: I A lotion of 5 to 40 per cent, in water, for cleansing away discharges around a wound, cleansing sponges used in operations and analogous purposes. ' 2. An ointment composed of concrete paraffin, white wax (Scotch), and almond oil, to which to \ of chloral is added while the other ingredients are liquefied by heat. The compo- nents of the ointment should at once be rubbed together covered to prevent the evaporation of the chloral, and cooled to a concrete form as rapidly as may be. It is afterward rubbed up with a few drops of the solution of chloral, to disintegrate it. and prevent its crystalline form from being reassumed. This ointment takes great pains to make efficiently. The ointment is applied spread into the substance of hnen cloth, so as to be incorporated with the material This dressing forms the immediate application to the surface around the wound, and covers in the wound itself. It does not adhere, but peels off like a thin layer of wax. 4. An external excipient dressing is made by soaking lint in a solution of chloral (5j ad. Sj). It is then wrung out of this and carefully dned. Care is necessary to avoid long exposure or a high temperature, as this volatilizes the chloral 4. Lint 3oaked in a solution of chloral in olive oil (>^), employed to fill cavities, such as those left in some excisions, and to employ as compresses when it is desired to prevent bleeding from the cut surfaces m operations for the removal of dead bone.