226 LESIONS OF MUSCULAR TISSUE. GEO. L. BEARDSLEY, M. D. In the treatment of indolent ulcers one of the most important agents is cod-lwcr oil. Sometimes an ulcer of several years' stand- ing will heal in a few weeks when the patient is put upon regular doses of the oil. Much attention must be paid to the diet. Fermented liquors are especially injurious, and must be forbidden. Alcoholic stimulants are better avoided. A change from animal to fish and vegetable food is often productive of excellent results. When, however, the patient is feeble and aneemic, tonics, fre-sh meat and fruits are required. ^ , , Locally when the border of the ulcer is thickened and tense, numerous'incisions should be made, and the part thoroughly washed with hot water, holding in solution liquor sodae chlor. (Suj to Oi) As a stimulant application, balsam of Peru may be used, or tincture of capsicum, f.5j to aqu^ f.§j, which is a convenient and excellent agent. Clean wood ashes medicated with carbolic acid is also an excellent stimulant deodorant application. In case the 'knife cannot be used, the edges of the ulcer may be painted, with tincture of iodine several times a week. Crystals of lodme dissolved in glycerine make a stronger application than the tinc- ture. The iodide of lead may also be used advantageously for this purpose. , , , . Finally, electricity may be employed. This does little good in the advanced stages, when the borders are tough and puckered. But in the first stages- of induration, it proves at times surprisingly valuable, healing in a few applications ulcers which for months had resisted the usual resources of the surgeon. Either current may be applied daily, and should indicate its good influence after a few sittings by rendering the infiltrated tissue soft to the touch and presenting signs of contraction. As a gentle, stimulating applica- tion, a weak continuous current has been tried by Mr. Golding Bird of Guy's Hospital, London, who has reported that it yields quite as good results as any other gently stimulating measure at the command of the surgeon, and sometimes succeeds when other measures for obtaining cicatrization fail.