SYPHILIS. 581 not more than two or three grains of the potassium, and from the thirtieth up to the twentieth of a grain of the perchloride. Noth- ing can mihtate more effectually against the success of the treat- ment than to risk setting up irritation by giving the remedies too freely at first, or even by raising the strength of them too rapidly at any time. The object in view is effectually defeated so soon as ever symptoms of iodic poisoning begin. There is no choice but to entirely abandon the medicine for some days, perhaps weeks, but certainly until the symptoms have quite abated. But all precautions, for the purpose of enabling the stomach to bear the potassium and mercury, fail more or less freqently unless aperients are combined with them, and the patient is restricted to a proper diet. As to the aperient, it is essential that it should consist of two chief ingredients—a pill to be taken over night, and a draught for morning use. He has repeatedly tried both sepa- rately, and has failed quite often enough with both to deter him from any repetition of the experiment. The pill may consist of colocynth, blue pill, and hyoscyamus, or a mixture of rhubarb, soap, and jalap; a sedative or aromatic, sufficiently potent to obvi- ate griping, is an essential feature in its composition. For the purgative draught nothing equals a freshly prepared salts and senna mixture. There may be at the outset some depression after a brisk aperient, but the reaction which follows is generally attended by a feeling of relief, of greater fitness for work, mental or bodily, and better spirits ; signs not at all likely to attend a prejudicial action of the medicine. So soon as ever these symptoms are observed, the dose of the iodide and perchloride may be raised at the discretion of the practitioner. He seldom, in his own practice, goes beyond five grains of the former, and an eighth of a grain of the latter, two or three times a day, and always stops short of setting up much irritation. The combined treatment is continued for four or five weeks prior to the beginning with a mercurial bath, and, if possible, during the whole time it is employed. Directly the dose of the iodide is increased, the patient may begin to take a simple vapor-bath once or tvvice a week, and under any circumstances a course of these should precede the use of the medicated bath. After a few weeks of simple vapor-bath, a mer- curial vapor-bath may be taken twice or three times a week. After a few weeks of this, he places the patient on the Zittmann decoc- 4