MASTURBATION. (SELF-ABUSE, ONANISM.) 371 on a hard mattress, lightly covered as the state of the atmosphere will admit, retire early, and rise immediately on awakening in the morning. The bowels must be carefully regulated, as the pres- ence of scybala in the rectum frequently excites the propensity. Tonics should be given when indicated, astringent injections used to relieve leucorrhoea, or applications to the prostatic portions of the urethra, and any eruptions about the genitals appropriately treated, and the utmost cleanliness enforced. Running sewing- machines, dancing and horse-back riding should be interdicted. Aside from these general directions, moral treatment is about the only kind that promises success, though it may be aided by the administration of camphor, chloral, the bromides, belladonna and digitalis. From a pretty extensive experience with the rem- edy, he is inclined to attach more importance to digitalis as an anaphrodisiac than to any other medicine. DR. HENRY P. WENZEL, OF LOUISVILLE. 4Q7. R. Tincture pulsatillae (German), f.5ij Aqu^e, f-§iv. M. A teaspoonful four times daily. This herb in the dose above given, is said by this writer to be superior to bromide of potassium. The pulsatilla lessens sexual excitement, but does not diminish sexual power. He claims that after using it a week, the onanist loses the desire of practicing the hurtful habit. {Louisville Medical News, March, 1877.) OPERATIVE PROCEDURES. Castration. In certain very obstinate cases, castration, at the request of the patient, has been resorted to. It is a last resort which, however, is probably never necessary. Clitoridectoniy. In the female, the removal of the clitoris, strongly advocated and practiced some years ago by Mr. I. Baker Brown, of London, is, undoubtedly, occasionally a simple and efficient means to check the habit. When the practice threatens injury to the intellect, and has not yielded to ordinary medication and remonstrance, the organ should, according to this authority, be removed, the excision including the corpus cavernosum clitor- idis, and the major portion of the erectores clitoridis. The pro- fession, however, has not, as a body, accepted the propriety of this operation, partly because in some instances it has signally