203 ABSCESSES. beUveen them, with a shght increase. He has also used a filtered emulsion of camphor, solutions of cupri sulphas (1-2 gr. ad f.oj), chloride of lime (1-5 gr. ad f.!j) and aqua creasoti; of these twenty drops were injected two to three times daily. The results of this treatment were as follows : 1. An immediate cessation of pain. 2. A decrease of the other symptoms of inflammation. Never were local or general reactions observed. 3. Dilution of the thick exudation, reduction of its quantity, and in three to four weeks entire disappearance of the same. Cure without a scar. 1 • u • 4. The suppuration is also restricted to those parts m which it is found when there is general fluctuation of the abscess; for any surrounding hardness delays the cure, as the discussion of this requires considerable time. RESUME OF REMEDIES. Belladonna, both externally and internally, is often effectual in dissipating threatened abscess. Mr. Christopher Heath has given cases in which it obviously prevented the formation of abcesses in the neck and elsewhere. Carbolicum Acidum is used in solution of gr.x-xx to aqua f §j, as an injection after evacuation. Also used by Mr. Callender for hyper-distension (see above). Hydrargyrum. Various preparations of mercury are used by plaster and inunction to dispel and prevent abscess. Of these the oleate is efficient and neat. lodinium in solution injected into the cavities of large abscesses after evacuation often proves very serviceable. Phosphates. The phosphates of lime and soda are said to be useful inter- nally to prevent the tendency to abscess ; the dose is gr.j-ij twice or thrice daily. Potassce Permanganas, §j to aquae Oj, is a valuable injection to correct fetor. Potassa Fusa. In using caustic potash or other alkali to open an abscess, pieces of plaster with a hole in them of the requisite size, should be placed one over the other, and the caustic applied to the skin exposed through the hole. The caustic, slightly moist- ened, should be rubbed on the surface till it assumes a dull bluish look and the cuticle easily rubs off The plaster may then be resumed, and the surface washed with vinegar and water to neutralize any remaining alkali. A poultice will help the separa- tion of the dead parts and ease the pain. Mr. Ekichsen pre- fers to open those abscesses with caustic where the skin is much undermined, congested and discolored 3 Professor Gross dis-