414 LESIONS OF THE ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE. during three weeks of treatment. It should be dropped into the eye three or four times a day, and the eyes bathed afterwards in warm water. After the first week of treatment, when a stronger solution is teing used, the eyelids should be everted, and the remedy applied to the palpebral conjunctiva with a camel's hair brush, and in a few seconds any excess of the solution washed off with warm water, before the lid is replaced The stronger solutions are applied in this manner once a day, and in addition, the three-grain solution may be still used two or three times a day, while the ocular con- junctiva remains congested and oedematous. The treatment is continued until both the ocular and palpebral conjunctiva have resumed the healthy condition. When the plasma of the red oxide of mercury is used, it is applied to the everted palpebral conjunc- tiva twice a day (and not washed off), and no other local applica- tion used, with the exception of the occasional use of atropia solu- tion, and fresh lard applied to the edge of the eyelids at bedtime. In "granular lids" a stimulating plan should be adopted. In chronic cases where the patient is in robust health, with no phlyc- tenular or ulcerative inflammation of the cornea, either a solution of nitrate of silver (thirty grains to the ounce) maybe applied, the solid sulphate of copper, or the mitigated stick of nitrate of silver and nitrate of potash. In cases, however, either recent or chronic, where there is present or where there is a tendency to phlyctenular or ulcerative inflammation of the cornea, the nitrate of silver or sulphate of copper is inadmissible. Again and again one sees cases put back for weeks by an attack of phlyctenular keratitis, evidently caused by the use of the " blue stone" or nitrate of silver. In these cases, the plasma of the red oxide of mercury, of the strength of gr.j-5j, may be applied morning and evening, without, however, brushing or syringing with water, the everted lid returned with the oxide adhering to the palpebral conjunctiva. The eyelids are bathed occasionally, during the interval, with very warm water. The application of the red oxide is not so stimulating as the sul- phate of copper or nitrate of silver, and consequently the treatment extends over a longer period ; but there is no local application that is so well adapted to the corneal complications, and none that will more certainly prevent their recurrence. Of course the general condition of the patient must not be neglected. A generous diet should be allowed, and when necessary, tonics prescribed.