THE TREATMENT OF SCROFULA. 502 land, Cheltenham; in Germany, Kreuznach, Kissingen, Hom- bourg and Wiesbaden; in France, Balaruc, Bourbonne and Lamotte, are especially celebrated in strumous'complaints. In America the St. Catherine's Wells, Canada; Spring Lake Well, Michigan; the Saratoga waters, and the Ballston Spa waters,' are similar in composition and use. Sea Water, which is closely akin to the saline mineral waters, will be spoken of separately. The Sulphur Waters have by some physicians been heartily recom- mended, by others as much condemned, in strumous affections. According to the authors of the Dictionnaire des Eaux Min- erales (Paris, i860), their employment will generally give very satisfactory results if confined to those cases where the disease manifests itself by superficial lesions of the skin, and by obsti- nate catarrhal affections, strumous ozsena, and the like. They are distinctly contra-indicated where inflammatory excitement or congestion is present. For particular cases, where ansemia and impoverishment of the blood are marked symptoms, the chalybeate waters are useful. In all cases the use of these agents must be long continued; and it is better to take them at the springs, as patients more willingly submit themselves to proper regimen there than at home. Sea Air and Water. Few agents exert a more happy influence on the strumous diathesis than sea water. In France a large institu- tion has been established at Berck, where annually several hun- dred scrofulous children are sent for treatment. In its earlier years from 60 to 70 per cent, were cured, but since experience has taught a more just discrimination of cases, yet more favor- able reports have been made. According to Dr. Bergeron {Annales d' Hygiene Publiqtie, 1868), the marine treatment is especially indicated where there are ganglionic enlargements not yet passed to the state of suppu- ration, cold abscesses, gummata, or white swellings of the joints. Hardened cervical glands not unfrequently are completely resolved. On the other hand, where the prominent symptoms are chronic strumous blepharitis and ophthalmia, scrofulides of the skin, otorrheas, deep-seated caries of the bone, and open, ob- stinate sores, this method of treatment produces little benefit. The plan adopted is to have the patients bathe twice daily in sea water, and to drink a small quantity daily, moderate exer- cise in the open air, substantial food, and warm clothing. No drugs whatever are given, and in favorable weather patients are advised to spend most of the time out of doors. The treat- ment should be continued from three to fifteen months.