114 THE COMPLICATIONS OF WOUNDS. hemorrhage, when without arterial excitement there is strong tendency to oozing of blood, consequent on the hemorrhagic diathesis, on relaxation of the vaso-motor system, or else on some disease of the circulatory vessels. Of these the most efficient are ergot and acetate of lead. They should be given in large doses, frequently repeated. The iirtica urens has long enjoyed a reputa- tion as controlling passive hemorrhage. Dr. J. E. Garretson, of Philadelphia, recommends the tincture of Engeron Canadense in single drop doses each minute. He has found it very useful in epistaxis, internal hemorrhage, etc. The rule in the use of styptics is, that where we can arrest the hemorrhage by compression, position or ligation, they should not be employed (Billroth). In parenchymatous bleeding from the face, neck or perineum, we may resort to styptics with advantage, if it' makes no difference whether the wound suppurates subse- quently ; but if the hemorrhage be considerable, and the styptics fail, subsequent ligation is much more difficult, as the wound is often so much smeared by the previous applications. As contra-indications to the local use of styptics, Dr. Waring enumerates the following: Inflamation; active hemorrhage; in- flammatory diarrhoea; an excessive mucous discharge, attended by inflammation; rigidity of parts; extensive external injuries. In these cases, the local application of astrmgents will not only fail to arrest the hemorrhage, but may excite excessive irritabihty or inflammation of the surrounding tissues. DR. B. W. RICHARDSON, OF LONDON. In the Medical Times and Gazette, 1867, this physician suggested a hemostatic preparation, which under the name of " Richard- son's styptic colloid:' has achieved considerable popularity. The directions he gave for preparing it are as follows: The object to be arrived at is to saturate ether entirely with tannin and colloid substance, xyloidine or gun-cotton. In the first step of the process, the tannin, rendered as pure as can be, is treated with stronger alcohol, and is made to digest in the alcohol for several days. Then stronger ether is added, until the whole of the thick alcoholic mixture is rendered quite fluid. Next, the gun - cotton is put in until it ceases readily to dissolve. The solution is then ready for use. It can be applied directly with a brush, or mixed with an equal quantity of ether; or in the form of a spray.