FROST-BITE AND FROZEN LIMBS. Enemeta of ice-cold water have been advised, Frigus. The application of cold to the general surface of the body, by stripping the patient and steadily rubbing the entire skin with large pieces, of ice, keeping at the same time pieces in each axilla, is a method of treatment employed at the Pennsylvania Hospital with success. (^Pennsylvania Hospital Reports, 1868, p. 380.) Iced wine and water are given internally. Dashing cold water over the head, neck and chest, is excellent practice. FROST-BITE AND FROZEN LIMBS. The successful treatment of these effects of cold demands the ut- most judgment and skill on the part of the surgeon. It is sharply- divided into : I. The immediate treatment; and 2. The treatment of the reaction. A person frozen or frost-bitten should be placed in a cold room and the part immersed in ice-cold w^ater, or gently and carefully rubbed with snow or pieces of ice. The skin should on no account be chafed or broken by these frictions. The great point is to re- store the circulation gradually, and from half an hour to four hours must be expended in doing this, according to the severity of the effects of the exposure. No matter how carefully it is done, there is apt, in severe cases, to remain a capillary stasis, manifested by a bluish color of the surface. This should be met by vertical suspension of the limb, and gentle friction from the extremities toward the heart, so as to diminish the venous stagnation. After reaction has commenced, the treatment consists in en- deavoring to prevent the inflammation from running to such an extent as to induce sloughing of the structure. The necessity no longer exists for keeping the patient in a cool room. The part should be placed in an easy and elevated position, lightly covered, and slightly stimulating lotions applied. If local reaction .threatens to be severe, painting the part with the compound tincture of iodine has been found most serviceable. If vesicles appear they should be opened by small punctures, and lint applied, spread with a mix- ture of equal parts of lime water and cod-liver oil, which has the effect of relieving the burning and smarting sensation, probably by protecting the ulcerated surface from the action of the atmosphere. Should the part lose its sensibility, become colder, assume a