THE COMPLICATIONS OF WOUNDS. 142 TRAUMATIC OR SURGICAL FEVER. MR. T. HOLMES. Traumatic fever is one of the occasional phenomena of inflam- mation, but is so important that it demands a careful study. Pro- fessor Billroth's experiments seem to prove that the absorption of decomposing matter by healthy cellular tissue will produce fever, and doubtless a similar absorption, by inflamed cellular tissue will have a like effect. Some amount of traumatic fever generally, but by no means always, occurs after grave operations and severe injuries, and its persistence beyond the usual period is an evil omen. Beyond sedulous attention to the general state of the patient, cautious inspection of the part to see that no discharges are con- fined in the wound, and cleanly and skillful dressing, there is no particular treatment for traumatic fever. Attention must rather be directed to the care of the injury from which the fever springs. Everything which makes the wound do well, that is, which favors unioH with the least possible amount of suppuration, and as per- fect an immunity from putrefaction as possible, will diminish to that extent the liability to traumatic fever, and its severity when it arises. PROFESSOR THEODOR BILLROTH. In simple traumatic and suppurative fever, which does not pass the usual limits, we need generally use nothing but cooling drinks, fever diet, and a little morphine at night, to secure good rest. If the fever lasts longer and assumes a peculiar character, we may resort to febrifuges. Digitalis is of little use on account of its uncertain action. Veratrum reduces the temperature, but ap- pears to do little good in toxic traumatic fevers. Aconite was for- merly highly recommended, but Dr. Billroth has seen no good from it. Quinine he has found the most efficacious, especially in intermittent suppurative (hectic) fever, particularly in combination with opium. He gives grs. vj-xvj in the course of the afternoon, followed at night by gr. j of opium. Of remedies which directly oppose the toxic condition of the blood he has seen no effect from the mineral acids, the sulphites, and chlorine water. Nor has the administration of purgatives or