14 ON COUGHS, CONSUMPTION, AND DIET IINT r)ISEA.SE. BY HORACE DOEELL, M.D., F.R.M.G.S., Consulting Physician to the Royal Hospital for Diseases of the Chest, London, etc., etc. 8yo, Cloth. Illustrated. Tinted paper. Pages 222. Price $2.00. SYJVOPSIS OF COJVTJEJVTS. This work oonsists of three parts. Part I treats of the DIasmosis of Bronchial and Pul- monary Diseases. It is divided into nine chapters, on the following subjects : I. The Systematic Examination of the Chest. II. The Diagnosis of Early Phthisis. III. The Value of Cavernous Sounds. IV. The Importance of Haemoptysis as a Symptom. V. Winter Coughs. The Relation of Bronchitis and Emphysema. VI. The Diagnosis of Narrowed Air Passages. VII. Post-nasal Catarrh. VIII. Ear Cough. IX. The Natural Course of Neglected Cough. Part II, which makes the bulk of the book, is taken up with the all-important subject of the freaimenr of pulmonary affections. It is divided into the following six chapters : I. Pathological Conditions In Winter Cough. II. The Early Treatment of Catarrh. III. The Avoidance of Colds. TV. Therapeutic Resources in Coughs. (1. Medicine Introduced by the Stomach. 2. Medicine Introduced by Inhalation. 3. Counter-irritants, i. Changes of Climate.) V. The Treatment of Post-nasal Catarrh. VI. The Management of Consumption. Part III, which is the shortest, is a succinct, condensed exposition of the principles and rules of dietetics in disease. Its divisions are as fbllows : I. General Rulea for Diet In Sickness. II. Dleta for Consumptives. III. Diet for Diabetics. IV. The Use of Nutritive Enemata in Disease. V. Special Recipes for Medical Food. As an authority on the above subjects, Db. Dobeli, ranks second to none in Great Britain. His experience has been immense, and the peculiarly practical tone of his mind renders his writings un- usually instructive to the practicing physician. OPINIONS OP THE AMERIOAIT MEDICAIi PBESS. From the (New York) Medical Record: The book Is well printed, and contains many valuable suggestions. From the (Virginia) Medical Monthly : We And in this work o great deal to approve, and but little to criticise. ¥lova tiie Pacific Medical and SurgicalJoumal: j . u i. Dr. Dohell brings much new light to this important subject His work will be perused with great satis- faction. It is a very handsomely printed volume. From the Sanitarium : tit.viiu-. A good book on these subjects has a wide application, and such is the one now before us. Dr. Dobell has long been known as one of the most accomplished physicians of London. From the (Boston) Journal o/C?iemM(r^; It would be hard to find a medical book containing so much valuable matter in the same compass. From the (Charleston) MedicalJoumal and Review. The book is excellently gotten up, and of a convenient size. From the (St. Louis) CSimcafiJecord; i ti,' The section upon diet in disease contains many excellent suggestions, and deserves careful perusal. Ami is especially applicable to the diet tables contained in the section. We consider it a very good handbook, well worthy of perusal and study. From the (New Orleans) Medical and Surgical Journal: j . i k... This volume wUl be found by the reader a very fair return for the money and time spent in its purcnaae and perusal. "From the (Toledo) Medical and Surgical Journal; It is seldom wo have the good fortune to get so valuable a work in such a small compass.