320 LESIONS OF THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION, Chloroform should not be used, as it is said there is a peculiar in- tolerance of it in this complaint. Dr. Erskine Mason, of New York, believes {Medical Record, Nov., 1877,) that in young subjects, and where the fissure is of recent origin, we can in many cases succeed in curing them with- out an operation. The treatment is to keep the bowels in a soluble condition, and make use of some astringent and sedative applica- tion. A very common prescription for this purpose contains zinc or stramonium ointment in combination with belladonna or opium. This plan of treatment is often followed by complete relief There are many persons who are remarkably timid when any- thing like operative interference is suggested, and we can relieve a goodly number of such cases by penciling the fissure to its bot- tom with a fine point of nitrate of silver, or with nitric acid. These applications relieve the pain, because they destroy the little fila- ment of nerve which is exposed in the fissure. In those cases in which the fissure has attained some size, we can always with the probe find one spot which is excessively ten- der, and when the nerve exposed at that point is destroyed by the use of any cautery, or by stretching the sphincter, the patient will be reheved. FISTULA OF THE ANUS. The most successful treatment of anal fistula without operation is by means of the elastic ligature. Its advantages are: i. There is little or no pain in connection with the operation. 2. There is no hemorrhage. 3. Recovery is rapid. 4. The patient is not confined to bed, but may go out at once if he like. 5. The most delicate person may be operated upon. 6. Anaesthetics are not required. 7. There is very little suppuration. 8. And lastly, even when the operation has been begun with the bistoury, it may be bound up with the elastic ligature. Once the ligature is in place, the two ends, first passed through a little ring of lead, are put on the stretch. At the maximum of tension, the ring is crushed with a stout pair of pincers, in such wise that the fistula is included, strangulated in fact, within an elastic noose, and the