CYSTITIS. 327 'alternated with bicarbonate of soda, acetate of potash, or liquor potassse. The alkali may be given in carbonated water or flaxseed tea. Buchu may be combined in infusion with the latter. The rectum should be kept empty by the daily use of a hot enema. DR. A. W. ROGERS, OF NEW JERSEY. 425. T^L. Spiritus setheris nitrici dulcis, Tinct. opii camphoratse, aa f.§j M. Take half a teaspoonful every hour; said by this writer {Medical and Surgical Reporter, Jan., 1873,) to relieve most cases of dysuria and mild cystitis. SIR HENRY THOMPSON, OF LONDON.* Chronic Cystitis is usually owing to an inability of the bladder to empty its contents. The first step, therefore, is to take care that the bladder is emptied by a catheter once, twice or thrice a day. Whenever this cannot be done completely, the bladder must be washed out. When all acute symptoms have subsided, tepid water (not more than £§iss-ij at once) may be employed, retained for thirty or forty seconds, and repeated once or twice a day; or the following medicated injections may be resorted to : Argenti nitras, gr.j to f oiv of warm water, to commence with, and going up to gr.ss or gr.j, at the outside, to the ounce. Car- bolic acid, llij-ij to fgiv of warm water, when the urine is offen- sive. Nitricum acidum dilutum, tllj-ij to f.Sj of warm water. Plumbi acetas, gr.j to f.Siv of warm water once a day, when the urine is alkaline and depositing phosphates. Potassae chloras, gr.iv-v to f.Sj of warm water, when the urine is putrid. Sods biboras is recommended by Sir Henry Thompson in the following formula: 426. ^. Sodas biboratis, §j Glycerinse, Aqu£e, aa f.^ij. M. Add two or three teaspoonfuls to f.^iv of warm water. In administering injections into the bladder the following rule given by Sir Henry Thompson should be carefully observed: A flexible catheter being first introduced into the bladder, "have ready a five-ounce india-rubber bottle with a brass nozzle and stop-cock, the nozzle long and tapering, so as to fit a catheter of any size be- tween Nos. 5 and 10, filled with warm water, say at 100° F.; attach * Diseases of the Urhiary Organs.