15 ~ The Diseases of Live Stock — AND THEIR MOST EFFICIENT REMEDIES, INOLTJDINQ HOUSES, CATTLE, SHEEP AND SWINE, Containing a description of all the usual diseases to which these animals are liable, and the most successful treatment of American, English and European Veterinarians. By LLOYD V. TELLOR, M.D. 1 Tol., 8to. pp. 474. Price, Clotb, $3.50. This work is divided into four parts, as follows:— PAE.T I.—General Principles of Veterinary Medicine. II.—Diseases of the Horse. III. —Diseases of Cattle, Sheep and Swine. IV. —Hygiene and Medicines. Part I (80 pages) is concerned with the physiology of the domestic animals; the care and ■diet they require when sick; the forms and methods of administering veterinary medicines; the most necessary veterinary surgical instruments and operations; and the diagnosis of diseases In the lower animals. Part II (178 pages) is devoted to the diseases of the horse, including accidents and lamenesses, various forms of unsoundness, etc. Part III (150 pages) Is occupied with diseases of cattle, cows, calves, sheep, lambs and swine. The Important subjects of pleuro-pneumonia, hog cholera, sheep distemper, etc., are fully explained. Part IV Is divided into three chapters; one on the hygiene of the horse and of fattening; the second describing the principal poisons and antidotes; the third embracing lists of the drugs, and their doses, used in veterinary materia medlca. The author of this work is a regular physician, whose practice in the country has led him to study the diseases of domestic animals, and we can point to it as the first and only book, by an Ameri- can physician, which describes, with scientific accuracy, and yet in plain language, these common and Important maladies. The striking evidence which has accumulated of late years, showing that many diseases of the human species are contracted from lower animals, renders it the duty of every intelligent physician to acquaint himself, to some extent, with these. As every physician Is or expects soon to become an owner of horses, and as all who practice in Tural districts are occasionally consulted about the diseases of domestic animals, it is most necessary for them to have such a boo.^ . their library; and the present is the only one ever written by a reg- lUar American physician. N. B.—This book is not sold through the book trade, but, except to physicians, exclusively by subscription. By special arrangement, physi- cians can obtain it by mail from the present publisher, and the purchaser is at liberty to return it and have his money refunded, if the work disappoints him ; p-ovided, that the book is returned th« day it is received.