GONORRHCEA. 557 is asserted, the bladder is protected on the one hand, and on the other there is a certainty of the fluid being appHed to the whole of the affected surface. Glycerimini acidi tannici, used in the above recipe, is officinal in the British Pharmacopoeia. It is made by rubbing together in a mortar one ounce of tannic acid and four ounces of glycerine, then transferring the mixture to a porcelain dish, and applying a gentle heat until complete solution is effected. M. Luc, a French military surgeon, uses in gonorrhoea, when the discharge is without pain, an injection of a thin paste of finely powdered starch and hot water, ^ DR. FRANK F. MAURY, OF PHILADELPHIA. The above abortive treatment is objectionable on account of its tendency to leave strictures. The patient should avoid all sexual excitement; all alcoholic beverages (the least harmful is claret); highly seasoned meats; asparagus ; violent exertion. Locally a routine practice must be avoided. One thing, however, should never be neglected; that is, to teach the patient— How to make a urethral injection. Let him first empty his bladder, then stand over a chamber, retract his foreskin, and hold his penis, with his thumb on one side and his finger on the other, so as to close the meatus against the nozzle of the syringe, never holding above and below, for that spreads the meatus. Then let him inject about a fluid drachm, slowly and deliberately. There is no danger of forcing the injection into the bladder, and no pains need be taken tO' prevent it. After the injection is in, let it be gently worked backward and forward along the urethra, to dis- tribute it nicely, and retain for a few minutes. Then let it come away, as much as will flow off readily. The nozzle of the syringe should not be longer than about three-eighths of an inch, because often the trouble is close to the orifice of the urethra, and a longer nozzle would prevent the injec- tions coming well in contact with it. This application is best made in the morning, after the daily stool, again about noon, and again about five or six o'clock; not just before bedtime, as is sometimes recommended. The manipu- tion tends to increase the disposition to chordee, and should not be made just before going to bed.