LITHIASIS. (stone, CALCULUS, GRAVEL.) As regards the benefits of the natural mineral waters, he believed they are chiefly due to the alkalies they contain. Of these, the carbonates, citrates and acetates of soda, potash and lithia, are those in most general use. Ammonia is not suitable, as the salt it forms in the uric acid diathesis is less soluble than any of the others. More depends on the dose than the kind of alkaU given. As a general rulf, it is unnecessary to render the urine more than neutral, except in cases where we are attempting to dissolve a stone already formed. DR. DEBOUT d'eSTREES, OF FRANCE. In reference to the prevention of gravel, this writer observes [Practitmier, June, 1877,) that he has learned from experience with regard to the effect of some vegetables, viz., asparagus, sorrel, tomatoes, green beans, in the production of uric acid in all those who are effected with gravel. The absorption of asparagus in a rather considerable number of cases, about 20 per cent, is followed by more or less violent pains in the loins, and sometimes shortly afterwards by nephritic colic. He never noticed that it was fol- lowed by a more considerable expulsion of uric acid. He is of opinion that asparagus does not produce uric acid, but that as it determines temporary congestion in a kidney which already con- tains some red sand, it facilitates the agglomeration of it, and may produce the formation of gravel. With reference to sorrel, green beans, and tomatoes, they less frequently produce pains in the loins, but their absorption is fol- lowed by the emission of uric acid ; nevertheless a small number of patients complain of pain in their loins after having eaten those vegetables; and with some, this is so evident that they sponta- neously cease eating them. In the treatment of the different forms of gravel, he strongly recommends the mineral waters of Contrexeville. It expels the gravel without pain, and is both tonic and restorative. SIR HENRY THOMPSON, F. R. C. S., ETC., LONDON. This distinguished surgeon delivered'some lectures in 1873 on the preventive treatment of calculous disease, and as nineteen out of twenty stones are urates, his especial question was, " How to prevent uric-acid culculus?" He condemns reliance on diuretics and strongly alkaline waters, such as Vichy. At the bottom of