TRAUMATIC NEURALGIA AND PARALYSIS. 145 in a state of perfect rest by suitable appliances; to maintain its capillary circulation stimulated by wearir.g a sleeve of oiled silk, closed at the end so as entirely to exclude the external air; by an invigorating course for the general health; and by the internal use of iodide of potassiuni. Warmth and moisture constantly main- tained, locally passive motion, with otherwise entire rest of the part, proved most effective in his hands. No doubt in many.cases of traumatic neuralgia the pain is kept up by infiltrations and indurations in and around the neuri- lemma; and in case that the suffering does not yield to the usual external and internal remedies, the operation of cutting down upon the nerve is demanded. Several successful cases have recently been reported by Dr. H. C. Wyman, of Michigan. {^Peninsular Joilt- nal of Medicine, Oct., 1874.) He dissects down to the nerve, splits open the neurilemma with a sharp bistoury, closes the wound with, sutures, and lets it heal by the suppurative process. He claims, that the successful issue of his cases demonstrates the feasibility of operative procedures in a class of patients who have hitherto- received no benefit from the treatment laid down by medical, writers. In regard to complete division of the nerve, this operation has lost much of its serious character, since the dread of consequent par- alysis has been dissipated. It has been demonstrated by experi- ment, that if a nerve be cut some distance from its termination in a muscle, and its irritability exhausted, it will first show signs of returning irritability nearest its distal extremity. Herrman exper- imented upon the sciatic nerve of a dog, which he exposed high, and cut, and exhausted its irritability. The distal portion of the sciatic being separated from the remainder of the nerve, and en- tirely cut off from the spinal system, could receive no recuperative power from that source. Yet it was found after a time to have re- gained its irritability, and perceptibly in a greater degree nearest its distal extremity. The interesting question as to how this nerve was able to resume for a time its normal condition, and to give rise to natural phenomena, can only be answered by admitting that, after being exhausted and rendered completely incapable of react- ing to the usual stimuli, it had recovered and been nourished from its distal extremity, whether through its ultimate connection with muscular fibre, or through a grosser circulation, which exists be- tween the muscular and nerve tissues. lO-S