154 SPECIAL FORMS OF WOUNDS. membranes of the brain, and deep-seated suppuration in it, is very much increased. On the other hand, when the spHnters come away by a hmited suppuration at a later period, the arachnoid cavity is closed by adhesions of the dura mater to the brain. Although these doctrines of the eminent German surgeon have not been received in full by other teachers, a very marked modifi- cation in the treatment of skull wounds is noticeable in the recent writings of British surgeons. Mr. Jonathan Hutchinson has stated his belief that "depression of the bone is rarely the cause of symptoms of compression ;" and in enumerating the injuries of the skull and their treatment by trephining. Dr. A. H. Corley, of Dublin, makes the following dis- tinction (Dublin Joiinial of Medicine, 1874): 1. Simple fissure.—For this fracture the operation should never, be performed. True, that accompanying the injury there might be localized extravasation of blood; or subsequent to and consequent on it, there might be formation of matter, which may require the application of the trephine; but the operation then has no refer- ence to the fracture. 2. Simple comminiLted fracture.—A fracture may be simple ex- ternally, but the inner table may be more extensively fractured, and fragments may wound the dura mater or brain. This condi- tion cannot be guessed at until symptoms of intra-cranial mischief arise : for them, and not for the fracture, we may trephine, 3. Depressed fracture.—He makes no distinction between simple, depressed and compound fracture as to operative treatment. The latter is more liable to be followed by intra-cranial mischief As long as no symptoms are present, or if present, until we have tried all other means of removing them, we should not operate. If obliged to interfere, we do so with little hope, as the symp- toms are most likely to own an origin other than the depressed bone. 4. Depressed fracture, comminuted—including that which is known as "punctured" fracture, such as may be produced by the stab of a pointed weapon, kick of a horse, or blow of a sharp stone. In many cases of this description it may be necessary to operate at once, whether symptoms be present or not. If the sur-^ geon has reason to believe that in a punctured fracture spiculae of bone are impinging on the surface of the brain and lacerating it, he is bound to interfere at once.