MASTURBATION. (SELF-ABUSE, ONANISM.) Anstie administers the bromide of potassium rather in "fierce activity of mind and body" than in the effects of masturbation, Lvpulln and camphor have proved very serviceable. Regulations as to feeding include the avoidance of all substances irritating to the bladder. Regular bathing and constant occupation under careful supervision are urgent requisites. The children must not be permitted to sit on the floor too long. When the symptoms of an attack exhibit themselves, take them up, and occupy their body and mind. Force is often required. They must not remain in bed after waking up. Infibulation, as advised by Celsus, might be replaced by an artificial sore on the surface of the penis. At all events, there are many cases which exert to the utmost both the watchfulness of the attendants and the ingenuity of the medical adviser. Important amongst the therapeutical indications are those refer- ring to the general influences produced upon the whole nervous, system by the constant irritation of a large number of peripheric nerves. The symptoms of irritation are soothed and relieved by the above mentioned sedatives ; those of masturbation, and exhaus- tion resulting therefrom, by a general roborant treatment and nerve- tonics, amongst which Dr. Jacobi places strychnia foremost, iron' and arsenic next. The affections in which they are principally in- dicated, are neuroses, either of the nerve centres, such as epilepsy and chorea magna, or of a peripheric nerve, or a number of nerves,, or nerve complexes. The form in which peripheric nerves are generally affected, is that of hyperaesthesia or neuralgia, terms- which are not used as identical, because medical men have agreed: to employ the latter, where the sensations are changed for a longer- term, or where a positive lesion can be detected in the nerve' itself Strychnia is remarkable for speedily restoring the impaired nerve power, provided the doses are not too small, and the mode of administration the appropriate one, A child of five years ought not to take less than part of a grain in the course of a day, of either the sulphate or nitrate. Larger doses are frequently not only tolerated, but required. The best mode of its administration,, however, is not by the mouth, but subcutaneous. A single daily dose of a twentieth part of a grain of the sulphate of strychnia in. water will fully suffice. {American Journal of Obstetrics, June, 1876.) 24-s •