GENERAL THERAPEUTICS OF SKIN DISEASES. from, those preceding. This short sketch or chart, inasmuch as it applies to the bulk of skin diseases, should be used regularly in determining the treatment, which must necessarily vary with the different combinations of the influencing agencies referred to. These conditions are: A Syphilitic Taint, which tends to induce induration, from the presence of syphilitic tissue; or ulceration, cachexia, and general debility in eczema, psoriasis, pemphigus, ecthyma, acne and inter- trigo (infants). Constipation, which causes dyspepsia, liver torpor and retention of excreta, and occurs in all forms of skin diseases. Debility, including anaemia, which retards recovery from want of recuperative power in the system, all functions sharing in the debility. It is especially operative in furunculus, eczema, pity- riasis rubra, pemphigus, and ecthyma. Diabetes, which increases any inflammatory condition, favors phlegmonous inflammation, and leads to freer development of dis- ease, and to chronicity. Its influence is often seen in eczema, psoriasis, intertrigo in adults, furunculus, and anthrax. Dyspepsia, which induces debility, leads to liver disturbance, im- purifies the blood, and increases hypersemia by reflex action, as in acne, eczema, urticaria and sycosis. Errors of Diet, which introduce special irritative substances into the blood, cause dyspepsia, lead to accumulation of nitrogenous matters in the system, to liver disorder, etc., and complicate all forms of inflammatory eruptions without exception. Gouty and Rheumatic Diseases, which cause accumulation of uric and lactic acids and allied compounds in the blood, and give an inflammatory character to disease, as seen in eczema, psoriasis, lichen, ecthyma, sycosis and urticaria. Lack of Hygiene, which disposes to torpor of the skin, and favors the occurrence of morbid action and disease, as seen in acne and sycosis, eczema, intertrigo, and erythema especially. Repression of the special normal eliminatory functions (skin and menstrual), which throws the necessity of compensatory elimina- tion on the skin, which may fail to respond, and so become dis- eased. In dependent parts this leads to increase of fluid tissues. It occurs in furunculus, ecthyma, and eczema. Retention of Excreta, from kidney, liver and bowel inactivity, which gives the blood an irritative quality and aggravates hyper-