247 ANEURISM. formation of a clot. The strength of the solution used in this case was but 15 per cent. Givaldis thinks it better to use one having a strength of 25 to 30 per cent., as a tougher and more solid clot is formed, and-the danger of embolism is less. DR. T. W. GRIMSHAW, OF DUBLIN. In several cases of abdominal and thoracic aneurism, this phy- sician has found beneficial and even successful results from aconite, united with as complete rest as possible. He uses : 287. ^. Tincturae aconiti radicis, iilv. This dose every three hours. When the symptoms of poisoning from the drug become un- pleasantly marked, the dose should be reduced one-half The diet should be low, consisting of bread and tea, beef tea and soup, but no stimulants. From two to three months must be employed to effect the best results. {TJte Medical Pi-ess and Circular, May 17. 1876.) A combination of iodide of potassium with carbonate of am- monia is found to increase largely the efficiency of the former, in internal aneurism as well as syphilis, etc., a fact first noticed by Sir James Paget. The following has been found by Dr. Joseph P. McSweeny, " of the greatest service in internal aneurism" {British Medical Journal, January, 1874): 288. Potassii iodidi, gr.v. Ammonia carbonatis, gr-iij- ^* For one dose. JOLIFFE TUFNELL, F. R. C. S. I.* The object of Mr. Tufnell's treatment is to obtain consolidation of the contents of the sac. It is especially adapted to the earlier stages of internal aneurisms. He records ten cases of cure, and others have been reported. The objects in view are to diminish the heart's action and increase the proportion of solid constituents in the blood. Continued rest in the horizontal position is the factor of most importance. It should be maintained for eight or ten weeks without the patient once sitting erect. The bed, there- fore, should be comfortably arranged in every respect. The diet is to consist of three regular meals, as follows: break- * The Successful Treatment of Internal Aneurism. London, 1876.