1 22 THE THERAPEUTICS OF INFLAMMATION. Whatever material may be used, the important rule is to mix it with a sufficient quantity of fluid, warm or cold, to distend the lower bowel. The patient should be placed upon his side or belly during the introduction of the nozzle of the syringe. The value of mercurials in inflammation, both during its height to arrest its progress, and later to promote absorption, is very great. It is particularly conspicuous in phlegmasias of the fibrous and fibro-serous tissues, synovitis, carditis, arteritis, hepatitis, splenitis, osteitis, laryngitis, orchitis, iritis and syphilis. There is, however, a point in inflammatory affections prior to which mercury should not be given. This point is characterized by softness of the pulse, a relaxed condition of the skin, moistening of the skin, and a gen- eral tendency to restoration of the secretions. As a sorbefacient in chronic cases, it should be administered in a gentle and persistent manner, the gums being merely touched. For this purpose the bichloride may be given, or blue mass in small doses. Where a prompt and powerful impression is desired, the best article is calo- mel, in doses of gr. iij-v, every three, six or eight hours, until we have attained the object of its exhibition. Gray powder, a favorite with many, is unworthy of reliance. To prevent the mercurial passing off by the bowels, it may be combined with opium, gr. i/^-j ; and when the skin is hot or dry, it may be added to tartar emetic, ipecacuanha, or Dover's powders. As counter indications of mercurials may be mentioned age, anaemia, and the strumous habit of body. The use of emetics in inflammation is at the preset day limited almost exclusively to cases in which there is marked gastric and bilious derangement, as is noted by nausea and vomiting, headache, lassitude and pain in the back and limbs. They must be carefully avoided in inflammations of the sub-diaphragmatic organs, in cephalic and cardiac diseases, in herniae, fractures and dislocations. In acute inflammation, especially of the respiratory organs, joints and fibrous structures in young and robust subjects, fl'r/'/r^j-- ants are entitled to a high position. The most trustworthy are tartar emetic and ipecacuanha. Tartar emetic maj^ be administered gr. yi-yi every two, three or four hours. If it produces vomiting, a small quantity of the salts of morphia should be added to it. In children, this should be an invariable rule. The dose of ipecacu- anha as a depressant varies from gr. i< to gr. iss. It is peculiarly adapted to the inflammatory affections of children. Whichever