FROST-BITE AND FROZEN LIMBS. 199 228. ^. Glycerince bullientis, gr:lv Acidi salicylici, 3"J- ^^ AddIv a thin coating of this solution to the sore with a small brush then cover with a pledget of cotton, which is to be kept m place with adhesive plaster. If the suppuration is profuse, change the dress- ing every day; in the contrary case, every three or four days. PROF. JAMES SYME, F. R. S. E. 229. I^. Tincturse saponis cum opio, f.Syj TincturEe cantharidis, i.oj- -l^- For an embrocation. This should be appHed to the chilblain, and the part well pro- tected from cold. The ulcer of chilblain presents the appearance of a smooth, superficial excavation, with thick white edges and a peculiar viscid, slimy discharge. It heals most readily under the application of the ungnentiim oxydi hydrargyri riibri. RESUME OF REMEDIES. Ahmien, in solution or ointment, is useful. Balsamum Pertcvianuin is a useful adjunct to ointments for broken chil- blains. Benzoin. Compound tincture of benzoin often relieves the irritation of frost bites. Brassica. Cabbage leaves are a popular domestic remedy for chilblains. Camphora, mixed with simple cerate, is a soothing application. Capsicum. The tincture may be advantageously painted over unbroken chilblains. The celebrated " De Rheims' plaster" for chilblains, is prepared as follows : 230. Take capsicum pods, §j Strong alcohol, f.^ij. Macerate several days. Tlien add, Mucilage of acacia, f.^ij. Stir well, and brush over sheets of silk or tissue paper. Apply like court-plaster to unbroken chilblain. It speedily reheves itching and pain. Carbolicum Acidum, as ointment, is often efficacious. Creasotum. Creasote ointment is valuable to allay the obstinate itching and heat. Ferri Chloridi Tinctura is an admirable astringent for pernio. Hydrargyrum Ammoniatuin has been employed. (F. 213, 219 ) lodinium. Tincture or compound tincture of iodine is the most popular and perhaps the most generally efficient local application to the unbroken skin in frost-bite. The ointment is also employed.