THE TREATMENT OF SCROFULA. 488 When scrofula is associated with constitutional syphiHs, rheu- matism or mercurial disease, iodide of potassium is best given alone, in some aromatic syrup, or, if there is much nervous irrita- tion, in hop tea. The iodide of iron is one of the most valuable scrofulous reme- dies we possess. It is particularly beneficial in disease of the cer- vical glands, upper lip, eyes and joints. It may be given in pill, in union with quinine and opium. If undue vascular action is present, gr.-l-Jg of tartrate of antimony and potassa may be added to each dose. In whatever form iodine is used, during its exhibition the sys- tem should be free from vascular excitement; and after it has been given for a fortnight, it should be omitted for several days, when it may be resumed and given as before. The initial doses should be small and gradually increased. If it acts as an irritant, the doses must be reduced, or else combined with opium or hyoscya- mus. If these rules are observed, it exerts a much happier influ- ence on the disease ; while their neglect often results in great mischief. Bariitm is a remedy of great value in scrofula, often succeeding where iodine fails. It is particularly serviceable in chronic en- largement of the cervical glands, both before and after the es- t tablishment of suppuration. It is chiefly adapted to patients with a languid circulation, a pale, tallow-like complexion, a flabby tongue, indigestion and cold extremities. Its use is contra-indi- cated when there is inflammatory excitement, or congestion of any important organ. 705. Liquoris barii chloridi, q, s. Six to eight drops at a dose, cautiously increased to ten or fifteen drops, three times daily, in a wineglassful of hop tea or a half ounce of syrup of orange peel. Exhibited in large quantities, it produces symptoms of mineral poisoning. Of the preparations of mercury, the bichloride is the best, gr. iir-sV thrice daily, in pill or solution. Thus administered, it yields hardly in efficacy to iodine, and is probably superior to barium.) The system should be properly prepared for its recep- tion and if it act as an irritant to the intestinal canal, its use must be suspended, or it must be guarded with opium. Need- less to add that salivation should never be induced.