PHARYNGITIS (SORE THROAT). 277 almost always operates like a charm in the follicular and aphthous stomatitis of children. It acts both locally and constitutionally, for it can be detected in ten minutes after its administration in the urine, in which fluid it continues to be present for 15 to 48 hours after each dose. Ringer says it is of signal service in various affections of the mouth, but particularly so in ulceration of the edges of the gums, which is generally limited to one side of the mouth, but then affects both the upper and lower jaws, and also that part of the tongue and cheeks coming in contact with the ulcerated gums. The influence of the chlorate is al- most magical. In one or two days it cleans the dirty-looking ulceration, and heals it in a few days more. The chlorate of soda is more soluble than the chlorate of potash, and is at least equally serviceable. Quinia proves highly serviceable in aphthous ulcerations when the patient is much debilitated ; but the muriate tincture of iron may sur- pass it. Pulv. rhei and magnes. carb., aa gr. x to xv; spts. ammon. aromat., minim xx, and aq. cinnamomi, §ss, is useful in the aphthae of children, when given in small doses. Smice Bicarbonas proves effectual when given with a few grains of rhubarb or chalk. SodcB Biboras, or borax, is a popular and efficient remedy. Watson gave mel boracis (5j to 5j of honey) with syrup of poppies equal parts, in the aphthous ulceration which attends the advanced stages of phthisis, and in cracked tongue. Stille says that one of the most ordinary uses of borax is to remove the aphthae which affects the mouth, fauces and anus of nursing children, apparently dependent upon an undue generation of acid in the primse viae. It should be given internally, in doses of 3 to 10 grains a day, and associated with magnesia in some aromatic water ; while a weak solution, or the glycerole of borax, is applied frequently to the mouth. Ringer advises the glycerine of borax, 1 to 8, in aphthee and the curdy exudation of thrush, or muguet. PHARYNGITIS (SORE THROAT). J. SOLIS-COHEN, M. D., OF PHILADELPHIA. The treatment of the more usual varieties of sore throat is given as follows by this writer. {Medical and Surgical Reporter, October, 1874.) For simple inflammatory sore throat, he would confine the patient to the bed or lounge, lightly covered so as to equalize the heat of the body. At the outset, an emetic is often of great service, espe- cially if a meal has been recently taken. Mustard in water usually serves the purpose better than any thing else. A gentle laxative