448 LESIONS OF THE ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE. These applications have sometimes caused a sHght irritation of the auditory meatus, but tliey have also sufficed to bring about absorption of, the morbid deposit and a return to the normal condition. Dr. L. Turnbull states that the best treatment of incomplete deafness after cerebro spinal meningitis is by the in- ternal use of the iodide with the bromide of potassium, and the application of mercurial ointment behind the ear. Plumbi Acetas is a favorite astringent. Potassii Pernianganas in weak solution forms an excellent antiseptic and slightly stimulating wash. Salicin. Dr. E. H. Jackson has found this a valuable agent in otorrhea. {Medical and Surgical Reporter, April, 1876.) After the ear is thoroughly cleansed and a speculum adjusted, blow into it through a quill, 648. Salicine, gr.ij Cal. magnesias, gr.iv. and insert a small piece of cotton. Should the discharge be ex- cessively offensive, the cotton can be wet with chlorinated soda, which will tend to allay the fetor. This process should be re- newed every two or three days, observing well the effect, and varying the proportions of the medicine as demanded. In gen- eral, constitutional treatment is unnecessary, unless the otor- rhea depends on some dyscrasia. SodcB Boras is occasionally used in injection. Strychnia. A one per cent, solution of nitrate of strychnia has been suc- cessfully used in nervous deafness by subcutaneous injection by Dr. R. Hygen, of Leipzig. He injects it twice weekly into the integument over the mastoid process, using no other remedy. Tannictim Acidujn, in solution or combined with glycerine, is an effica- cious agent in otorrhea. Tiglii Oleujn is used as a counter-irritant in otorrhea. Zinci Sulphas\s a valuable astringent. Medicated Co/ton Wool. This is of great service in chronic purulent inflammation of the middle ear. The cotton is thoroughly washed, dried, and saturated with one of the following solu- tions : Borax, 20 per cent.; sulph. zinc, 2 per cent. ; sulph. zinc, 5 per cent.; tannin, 5 per cent. ; salicylic acid, 5 per cent.; alum, 3 per cent.; alum, 5 per cent. ] ferri subsul., 3 per cent. The salicylic acid preparation has been found beneficial in purulent cases where there was an offensive odor. In cases where poly- poid granulations are a feature, one may use the ferri subsul- phas. The meatus is syringed and dried, and the medicated wool is rolled loosely upon the end of the carrier, the diameter of the roll being usually a little smaller than that of the meatus, and about two to three centimetres long for adults. It is then gently inserted into the meatus down to the diseased parts.