TETANUS. For an adult, gr. j of the extract, by the mouth, or gr. ^ by subcu- taneous injection, will generally suffice to begin with. This should be repeated in two hours, when its effects will usually have passed off, and the succeeding doses modified according to the experience thus gained. The doses are to be continued in increasing quanti- ties until the physiological effect, in diminishing reflex excitability, is produced, or until the sedative action of the drug on the circu- lation is carried to a dangerous extreme, or until constant nausea and vomiting compel a discontinuance. MR. T. HOLMES, M. A. Beyond the surgical measures of removing the source of irrita- tion, excision or stretching of the nerve, or amputation of the limb, this writer considers the treatment of acute tetanus completely em- pirical. He is inclined to except from this sweeping condemna- tion the application of ice to the spine, but this he has not found successful. Our great object should be to keep the patient alive till the time when, as experience teaches, the irritation wears out, and the natural powers carry the patient through. Food may be given in a fluid form through the nostrils, or anaesthetics adminis- tered to relax the spasm. Internally, he believes tincture of aconite the most promising drug, gtt. v in water, every two hours. Medi- cines like opium, tending to constipation, are injurious. In sub- acute tetanus, the tendency of which is to recovery under any or no treatment, chloral, camphor and turpentine are doubtless useful. WILLIAM FENWICK, M. D., GLASGOW. 148, ]^. Pulveris physostigmatis, Pulveris rhei, aa 5j. M. Divide into twenty powders. One to be taken every four hours during the day, also an occasional dose at night, making the average cj^uan- tity of fifteen grains of each in twenty-four hours. Under the influence of this combination, Dr. F. has seen none of the depressing effects which the bean produces by itself. He reports (Glasgow Medical Journal, May, 1869,) the improvement under this treatment as marked. G. OLLIVER, M. D., LONDON. 149- Atropise, gr.^V- In the form of a granule, one every three hours; and linimcntum