CANCER. 473 The third preparation is like the first, with the substitution of carboh'c acid for water. The fourth is an arrow of chloride of zinc. Take enough starch to absorb the moisture of the chloride, make a stiff paste, roll into sheets, cut the aiTows to a point, and dry at a heat of 212°. Keep in a glass stoppered bottle. In using the paste it is spread on a piece of cotton or linen cloth, large enough fully to cover the sore and its margin. It may then be confined with adhesive strips, and renewed once in twenty-four hours. After three or four applications in this manner the surface of the sore is white and hard. A light poultice should then be applied, and in about a week the slough loosens, and should be followed by healthy granulations. If small lumps remain, or sub- sequently appear on the edges of the scar, they will usually disappear by the application of the following ointment: 684. ^. lodinii, 9j Brominii, • 9iss Adipis, ' §j. M. When, after removal by the paste, there seem to remain points of cancerous tissue at the bottom of the sore, they should be brushed with the saturated solution of zinc. In employing the arrows, they are inserted around the tumor to the proper depth, punctures being previously made with a bistoury. In connection with this local treatment, tonic, aperient and alter- ative remedies must be prescribed as needed, and the hygienic and mental condition of the patient put upon the best possible basis. DR. O. CROOK, OF OHIO. In the Med. and Surg. Reporter, August, 1869, this writer urges upon the profession the internal use of poke root in cancer. He prepares it as follows: 685. PhytolaccjE radicis, fij Alcoholis, Oj. Macerate fourteen days and filter. Dose, fifteen drops to a table- spoonful after eating, the dose to be increased as fast as can be done not to excite decided nausea. The effects of the medicine should be apparent in two or three weeks, lessening the pain of the cancer, and arresting the growth of the tumor. Locally, he applies the poke root grated, in the form of a poul-