HEMORRHOIDS (PILEs). those of a more acute or inflammatory form. Both, when given in their proper place, quickly remove all portal congestion, con- stipation, and all that disagreeable feeling connected with this complaint. The frangula ought to be given at bedtime, either as an infusion or decoction—5j to 5ij to four ounces of water— or from one to two teaspoonfuls of Squibb's fluid extract. Thus given, it acts more mildly and with less annoyance to the patient than when given in the morning. If, however, the above dose should produce more than one or two soft passages, the dose must be reduced, and purging avoided, as the latter would only aggravate the trouble and do no good. Rheum is one of the most appropriate laxatives in this complaint. About gr.x may be chewed nightly. Ricini Oleum is an irritant to the rectal vessels, and should not be used. Senna is an appropriate laxative. Stramonium, in the form of a cataplasm, is often employed with advan- tage in inflamed hemorrhoids. Sulphur is a popular remedy: 406. I^. Sulphuris, Mellis, equal parts. For an ointment in internal hemorrhoids. It is also an excellent laxative for habitual use. 407. Sulphuris loti, gr.v-x Confectionis sennse, 5j- M. This amount every morning. Tabacum is often added with great advantage to ointments for painful hemorrhoids. Ordinary snuff may be used, j-ij to §j of oint- ment. Tannicum Acidum is a more powerful astringent than gallic acid. 408. I^. Acidi tannici, gr.xx-xxx Aqute frigidse, ffvj. M. To be injected into the rectum for bleeding piles. Teticrium Scordium. The powdered leaf of the wild germander is as- serted by Dr. Lebel, of Paris, to exercise a specific influence on hemorrhoids, relieving the pain, irritation, and especially the pruritus. Dr. John H. Brinton, of Philadelphia, has found it to soothe the latter in a marked degree. The dose is gr. xv-xx of the powder thrice daily in water. Verbascum Thapsus. The mullein, as a remedy for painful hemorrhoids, is well spoken of by Dr. Edward R. Mayer, and others. It is administered both by enema and the mouth. The patient drinks thrice daily a wineglassful of the infusion, and takes an injection of the same on rising in the morning. The infusion is demulcent, and is a mild and agreeable laxative. The fluid ex- tract, in drachm doses, has the same properties.