1 28 THE THERAPEUTICS OF INFLAMMATION. of the fibrous or osseous tissues, or of the glands in strumous patients. The fluid extract of the red Jamaica sarsaparilla is also a very valuable remedy, especially in inflammation associated with want of power. In strumous forms of chronic inflammation, cod- liver oil is of very great efficiency, especially in children and young people. Purgatives are often required in this form of inflammation. Warm aperients, as compound decoction of aloes with Rochelle salts, answer best. For children the following: 9. Hydrarg. cum creta, Bj Pulveris rhei, 9'7 Sodze bicarbonatis, M. For one dose, grs. x-xxx. The local treatment includes local bleeding, warmth and moist- ure, cold, and counter irritation. Friction is often of great service in this form. In the latter stages the pyogenic counter-irritants- issues, setons and the cautery—may be very advantageously em- ployed. Astringents directly applied to the inflamed parts are of extreme utility in those forms of passive inflammation where the circulation is sluggish and the capillaries loaded. The nitrate of silver, either solid or in solution (gr.j-3j to aquse fSj) is com- monly preferred. Pressure is also of essential service in support- ing the feeble vessels in congestive inflammations. J. MILNER FOTHERGILL, M. D., OF LONDON. General Medical Treatment of Inflammation.—The two varieties of inflammation, sthenic and asthenic, must be broadly distin- guished. In the treatment of the sthenic or active form, the first indica- tions are to lower the temperature and reduce the vascular excite- ment. To this end either acetate of ammonia, nitrate or citrate of potash, or the purgative effects of citrate of magnesia, may be used. For the pain a full dose of opium given at bed time is most efficient. 10. R. Pulveris opii, S'"-V.. Hydrargyri chloridi mius, gr-"J Pulveris Jacobi veri, g^'-v- For one dose at night. This may be followed in the morning by a Siedlitz powder, or a glass of some purgative natural water. During the day the follow- ing may be prescribed: