49 GENERAL ANyESTIIETICS. Prompted by this antagonism of the two agents, Dr. W. N. Smart, of Michigan, combined chloroform with nitrite of amyl, using two per cent, of the latter to ninety-eight per cent, of the former. Under the name " chloramyl," a somewhat similar mix- ture is recommended by Dr. George E. Sanford [Medical Record, October 5, 1878). What is called Nelaton's method of restoration has frequently proved all-sufficient in desperate cases. The patient is seized by the feet and suspended, head downwards; or the body is brought to the side of the table and the trunk and head allowed to hang down. Artificial respiration is made by pressing alternately the sides and front of the chest, and by bringing the elbows to the sides, and from there below the head. Several minutes may elapse before the respiration is restored, and it is well to hold the patient in this position from five to ten minutes, until all danger has passed. Galvanizatioji is also an efficient restorative. The current should be passed along the pneumogastric nerve or through the diaphragm. ETHER. This anaesthetic is usually preferred on account of its safety.. The rules for administering it, and for treating its poisonous effects, are the same as those given under chloroform. As when' mixed with air its vapor is inflammable, care should be exercised in using it at night, or when employing the actual cauteiy. In giving ether, a newspaper cone, lined with a towel, is a conve- nient apparatus. The cone should be short, so as not to be in the way, and thick, so as not easily to be saturated with the fluid, and thus lose its shape. The cone should be held a little distance from the patient's nostrils when he takes the first two or three inspira- tions, so that the ether may be freely diluted with air. As soon-as , he commences to struggle, the cone should be closely applied. His countenance should be watched and his breathing attended to. The moment his face becomes injected or dusky, the ether should be removed, and the tongue drawn well forward. If the symptoms do not readily disappear, the measure recommended under as- phyxia from chloroform must be resorted to (p. 48). Dr. O. H. Allis, of Philadelphia, maintains that the most strik- ing defects of ether, to wit—[a) its proneness to irritate the air- 4-s