LESIONS OF THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 296 superior to the ordinary tedious, painful, and sometimes dangerous taxis. His plan consists in applying a dry cup to the abdominal wall, say over the umbilicus; then let an assistant stand between the legs of the patient and lift the hips as high as he can ; then the operator, drawing on the dry cup, produces a vacuum, and, at- mospheric pressure being superadded to the weight of the intes- tines gravitating towards the chest, a reduction is easily effected in less than a minute. ^ The operation is almost painless, and really seems so to the pa- tient, for the relief from the preceding pain is so great that he never says a word about any suffering from the operation. This method was also suggested by Dr. Lipscomb, in the Amer- ican Practitioner, Oct., 1875. Dilatation. Dr. H. R. Allen, of California, advocates the use of the dilator for the relief of the strangulation, without having re- course to herniotomy. Dr. Allen says that some years ago he succeeded in reducing a few cases of severe strangulation which seemed urgently to demand herniotomy as the only hope of relief, by introducing the index finger forcibly into the ring and distend- ing it by lifting or pulling up on the stricture. He says : " I found it easily lacerated in some cases, and the tension was at once relieved ; but other cases proved more firm and unyielding, and I feared that the necessary pressure to insert the finger might be in- jurious ; although the tissues of the hernia rested upon a smooth posterior wall, and the finger substituted a distributed pressure instead of the sharp cutting edge of the stricture, I felt that some instrument might be devised which would enable me to accom- plish the same results without any of the apprehended dangers." The instrument which Dr. Allen has devised he terms a dila- tor. "To use the instrument the patient is placed upon his back, the scrotum invaginated with the finger, which is carried up to the ring. The finger guides the blunt probe into the stricture as it would a uterine sound into the uterus." The advantages claimed for this method are that it is " perfectly safe, as the skin is not punctured and the laceration is subcutaneous. * * -t -pj-jg amount of laceration is perfectly at the option of the operator; and if the first attempt proves insufficient, it may be repeated. * * * One great advantage is, it is admissible at any stage, when the parts are not fatally injured, and if employed immediately when taxis fails, all the danger of inflammation or gangrene is avoided.