I I 1 2 THE COMPLICATIONS OF WOUNDS. of the solution are constantly applied after the bath. {^Medical and Surgical Reporter, October, 1867.) '^Aqiia Picis was extensively used by the Confederate surgeons during the war, with very excellent results. They claim that by its free use as a local disinfectant, the powerful caustics often recommended were not needed. Prof. L. A. Dugas, of Georgia, introduced it. Bapiisia Tinctoria. A decoction of the wild indigo, §j to aquae Oj, in dose of f, 3ss every four or eight hours, has been asserted to be extremely useful in threatened or existing mortification. It is also used externally as a cataplasm. *Brominium is one of the most efficient agents in hospital gangrene. (F. 125.) Car bo. Charcoal poultices have been recommended, but are of doubtful efficacy. Carbolicmn Acidiim, applied pure to the gangrenous surface, is a very effectual caustic. Chroniicum Acidum-, in the strength of one hundred grains to the ounce of water, has been recommended as a local escharotic in hospital gangrene. Ferri Persiilphas is an excellent remedy for local use. Hydrargyri Nitratis Liquor. The favorite remedy for hospital gangrene with Prof. S. D. Gkoss has always been the acid nitrate of mer- cury, freely diluted with water, and applied with a soft mop. lodinium. In chronic gangrene, the best local remedies are the dilute tincture of iodine, brushed very thoroughly, twice a day, over the whole of the affected surface, and the use of the bandage applied with moderate force, and kept constandy wet with a solution of opium and acetate of lead, or of muriate of ammonia. (Gross.) Lacticum Acidum has been recommended by Professor Saimuel Jackson, of Philadelphia. Buttermilk has been found very useful as a wash. Nitricum Acidim has been employed as a cauterant. It is needlessly severe. Opium. As remarked by Professor Gross, the great constitutional remedy in hospital gangrene is opium in some form. It should be given in large doses in union with a diaphoretic (ipecac- uanha). Oxygen. In the Parisian hospitals benefit has been reported by maintain- ing the limb in an atmosphere of oxygen. A caoutchouc bag is fastened around the limb, and then, through a stop-cock, filled with the gas. Potasses Pernianganas. This substance was employed in hospital gangrene both internally and externally by Dr. Hinkle, of Tenna., with excellent effect. He gave by the mouth gr. i-ij in solution, and externally used a concentrated solution as an escharotic, apply- ing it thoroughly after the part had been well cleansed, and using as a dressing lint soaked in a weaker solution. Saccharum. Powdered white sugar dusted upon the raw surface was