DISEASES OF THE SKIN, 542 In the choice of a parasiticide, one should be guided by the stage of the disease, its extent, and the general condition of the skin. For the first few days it is well not to employ too stimulating remedies. Corrosive sublimate, with water or alcohol, gr. i-ij to the Sj, constitutes an excellent lotion, suitable to any stage of the dis- ease: it may also be employed as an ointment of the same strength. The yellow sulphate of mercury, as an ointment, gr. xv- XXX to §j, may often be used with the best results. Of the milder yet effective remedies, sulphate of sodium as an ointment, or as a lotion, 5j to Sj ; sulphurous acid, one part to two or four of water, must be considered as among the most valuable. Whatever application is selected, it should be applied once or twice daily in such a manner that it penetrates the hair follicles, A lotion should be sopped upon the part for ten or fifteen minutes at each sitting; and an ointment should be slowly and thoroughly rubbed in for the same length of time. Two or more months will, in the majority of cases, be necessary to effect a cure, DR. ROBERT LIVEING, M, D., LONDON, This author states that there is but one way of curing sycosis with any certainty, and that is epilation. The best plan for doing this is as follows:—All crusts must first be removed in the usual way by oil and poultices; the beard must be cut short with a pair of scissors, and wherever a yellow point is seen the hair should be pulled out with a pair of depilatory forceps. This is quite unat- tended with pain, for the hair comes out very easily with its sheath attached to it. When this has been done, the compound sulphur ointment of Mr. Startin (see under Tinea) must be applied. For the first day or two, the epilation may be confined to the parts most affected, and only those hairs extracted which run through pustules ; afterwards, however, the diseased surface should be divided into a certain number of patches, one of which should every day be thoroughly epilated. The healthier the part, the more pain there is in removing the hair, and as the disease lessens, the patience and perseverance of the patient will be taxed to the utmost. The young hairs which appear after epilation should be removed until the skin is quite healthy, and after each removal the sulphur or nitrate of mercury ointment should be well rubbed into the surface, and at night it should be applied on pieces of rag, kept in close contact with the skin.