GENERAL AN/ESTHETICS. 5 I instances it might be allowed to mix a little chloroform with it in order to produce the commencement of anaesthesia, which should afterwards be continued with pure ether. An excellent authority, Professor Frank H. Hamilton, of New York, says: " In nearly all my surgical operations I prefer ether to chloroform, as being equally efficient and more safe; but in the reduction of dislocations we need complete muscular paralysis, and this is much more quickly and certainly attained by chloroform than by ether, and I am, therefore, in the habit of using chloroform in the reduction of dislocations." In cases where an immediate effect is required, as in puerperal eclampsia, chloroform is to be preferred. It is generally believed that if chloroform is sufficiently diluted with air, as can be done by letting it fall drop by drop on a handkerchief spread over the mouth, as recommended by Sir James Y. Simpson, it is quite as safe as ether. Dr. Tripier insists {Revue Scientifiqiie, Nov. 9, 1876,) that chlo- roform is, for children, a much safer anaesthetic than ether. Chil- dren, he says, under ether seem to " forget to breathe," and die in a manner not explained by asphyxia or cardiac paralysis ; these symptoms he has never seen when chloroform is used in them. ETHYLIC bromide OR HYDROBROMIC ETHER. The ethylic bromide has been tried by M. Rabuteau on the lower animals, and by Dr. Laurence Turnbull, of Philadelphia, as a local and general anaesthetic {Artificial AncBSthesia, 1878). The latter holds that it occupies an intermediate position between chloroform and ether, and that it is free from irritating effects upon the lungs and heart. It is a colorless liquid of an agreeable odor and flavor, not caustic, and may be taken internally in doses of half a drachm, soothing pain and not disturbing the appetite. It is sparingly soluble in water, but completely so in alcohol and ether. methylene bichloride, Mr. Philip Miall, surgeon to the Bradford Infirmary, England, who has employed this anaesthetic in a large number of cases, states that insensibility in adults is usually produced in about two minutes. One dose of a drachm is usually sufficient to produce anaesthesia. Vomiting occurs in but a small number of cases.