LESIONS OF THE ORGANS OF URINATION. 332 444- Tincturae iodinii, Potassii iodidi, Extract! belladonnaj, Aquse destillatai, One-third to be injected as above. 445- Potassii iodidi, Extract! hyoscyami, Extracti conii, Butyri cocoee, For one suppository. To be introduced ments and hypertrophy of the prostate. RESUME OF REMEDIES. Alkalies, especially the citrates and bicarbonates, must be freely era- ployed when the urine is acid and the organs irritated and inflamed. (F. 424, 429.) AmmontcB Benzoas is recommended by Dr. Garrod, where a tendency to phosphatic deposit exists. Benzoicum Acidum is advised by Sir Henry Thompson in chronic cysti- tis. It should be administered in the form of a pill (gr. iij-iv, with glycerine), and not less than gr.xxiv taken daily. Buchu, in the form of infusion, given to the extent of half a pint daily, has proved of service in the hands of Sir Henry Thompson. Cantharides may be cautiously employed in very chronic cases. The dose is gtt.x of the tincture thrice daily. Colchtcum is of value in the cystitis of rheumatic and gouty subjects. It may be either given alone or in connection with pareira brava or buchu. It is indicated, according to Sir Benjamin Brodie, when the urine is alkaline. Copaiba, alone or combined with cubebs, is useful in relieving intense irritation, particularly in persons of a strumous diathesis or de- bilitated constitution. Sir Henry Thompson states that the dose in these cases should not exceed tt^v, in mucilage, three or four times a day. (F. 428, 435.) Oibeba, given cautiously, in small doses (gr.x-xv, thrice daily"), is recom- mended by Sir Benjamin Brodie as often useful in relieving the symptoms, both in primary inflammation and in that resulting from the presence of a calculus in the bladder. Eucalyptus. Dr. Bartholow states that this is the most eff"ective remedy he has ever used in chronic catarrh of the bladder. It is a pow- erful diuretic, and exerts a strong local action on the vesical mucous membrane. It may be given in tincture (f.3j) or ex- tract (gr.j-9j). Ferri Cloridi Tinctura has been employed, when persevered in, with advantage, by Sir Benjamin Brodie, in doses of in^viij-xv twice a day, in water or an infusion of buchu. Opium is a most useful remedy. Its action is aided by the hot hip-bath, fomentations and linseed-meal poultices, sprinkled with mustard, over the hypogastric region. It may be employed in the form TH.XV aa gr.xv f.5x. M. Biv iia gr.v 9iv. M. into the rectum in engorge-