492 THE TREATMENT OF SCROFULA. culous deposit; when the inflammation appears to be independent of any change in the mass itself; and more especially if this be combined with any gastric disturbance, the operation of an emetic will often be followed by signal improvement. Aper'mits are generally required from time to time during the course of tonics, and always when the state of the tongue and the excretions indicate a loaded condition of the intestinal canal, or the presence of morbid matter. Cod-liver oil. No other remedy in scrofula enjoys so high a reputation as this. That the best effects may be obtained from its use, it must be taken for a long time, for months, or even years. A teaspoonful to begin with twice or thrice daily, gradually in- creased for adults to a tablespoonful, may be considered a proper dose. When the stomach is weak and there is a tendency to nausea, a solution containing to grain of strychnia acidulated with nitric acid often proves a most useful vehicle. The oil can be taken in larger quantities and for a longer period in cold than in warm weather. In cold weather the oil should be slightly warmed before it is taken. Hygiene. All medicines should be only accessory to hygienics. The food should be nutritious and abundant. Stimulants in mod- eration are allowable. A scrofulous mother should not suckle her children. The child should not be weaned until after " teething." Flannel should always be worn next the skin. PROFESSOR J. LEWIS SMITH, M. D., NEW YORK. As scrofula is an essentially hereditary disease, its treatment must commence in infancy. The most enlightened rules of diet and hygiene must be observed. Of the strictly medicinal agents, cod-liver oil is the most useful. It possesses real value in the ere- thitic form of the diathesis, but none in the torpid form. Iodine, internally, is especially serviceable in glandular hyperplasia. The iodides of iron and starch are the best forms. The latter may be given by dropping one to five drops of the officinal tincture of iodide on a little powdered starch, and giving it in syrup. For the swollen glands the officinal preparations of iodine are too stimulating. The following is better: 711. '2f. Potassii iodidi, 5j Extract! stramonii, ^j. M. To be rubbed over the gland several times daily.