70 THE DRESSING OF WOUNDS. The details of the dressing are as follows: After the operation has been completed, bleeding arrested, and the surface of the wound washed with water, or some weak disinfecting solution, a large bunch of cotton-wool is placed between the lips of the wound, and the whole limb is then enveloped in a layer of cotton eight or ten inches thick, which is then bound down very firmly with roller-bandages, which are tightened on the following day, and then the dressing remains untouched for about three weeks. If the pus makes its way between the limb and the dressing, and appears after a few days at its free margin, additional bunches of cotton are placed over the edge and bound down. Clinical experi- ence shows that patients whose wounds are dressed in this way generally remain free from fever and pain, eat and sleep well, and make good recoveries. After a circular amputation of the thigh, an assistant steadies the stump while another pulls apart the edges of the divided m- tegument, and the surgeon proceeds to fill the cavity thus pre- sented to him with small masses of cotton torn from the sheet of wadding, small at first, and applied accurately to every part of the cut surface, then larger masses as it becomes filled, and then layers of the wadding are applied over and around the stump and upon ,the hip and pelvis, and over all a spica-bandage put on with grea care, and as much compressing force as possible. No air must •come in contact with the wound that has not filtered through the thick mass of cotton. Moreover, this cotton must be of good quality fresh from the manufactory, and it must not have been ex- posed to the air of the hospital. Under favorable circumstance he has found it the best plan to leave this dressing in place about two weeks, when the granulating surfaces are usually found ready for approximation for final union; but he never renews a dressing in the foul air of a ward. Tarlatan and collodion straps are pre- ferred to strips of plaster, as more transparant. M. Guerin claims that this method differs from that of " occlusion," because air can ■oass freely through the cotton, which acts only as a filter, freeing ft from all spores and ferments. Pasteur says that ferments are undoubt dly present in the cotton and in the wound, but that the phlr^^^^^^ of the pus is rendered unfavorable for their mu'l iplication by the absorption of its liquid P;>;--.;;t ^ vises exposure of the cotton to a temperature of about 400 Tahi., before application, as an additional precaution. However that may