514 DISEASES OF THE SKIN. from the first are iodine, creasote, carbolic acid and acetic acid. The last three check the development of spores ; creasote, according to Mr. Beauchamp, although it allows the mycelium to form, pre- vents the spores from germinating. From the second, the only remedy in use is cantharides, which, when used in the form of the liniment of the British Pharmacopceia (about the strength of the cantharidal collodion, U. S. P.), quickly cuts short the disease, especially tinea tonsurans, circinnata, and alopecia acuta; it like- wise stimulates the affected skin to take on a more healthy action From the mineral kingdom we have mercury, especially the bichlo- ride chromate, nitrate, and white precipitate; stdphiir, borax, etc. The first has a well-earned reputation, and the chromate of mercury our author has carefully tried in tinea versicolor, and some other forms of vegetable parasitic diseases. An objection to its use is that it does not mix with water; indeed, it is insoluble in any fluid, but may be used as an ointment. He has added glycerine and rectified spirits, so as to endeavor to suspend it in solution, but without success. The only way to manage, is to shake the bottle before.applying it. A useful auxiliary to the above reme- dies is epilation, which should be performed in inveterate cases. Of course, constitutional treatment is of the utmost importance, quinine being our chief remedy, which substance, it is asserted, has the property of destroying vegetable growth. The tincture is the best preparation for children. No doubt the growth and development of a fungus is favored by some peculiar condition of the system ; for example, tinea versi- color flourishes and is common on the bodies of consumptive patients. In all cases of vegetable parasitic diseases, our author prescribes constitutional as well as local treatment. Cod-liver oil, pancrea- tine, the syrup of the iodide of iron, quinine, and in hospital practice salicine, are the remedies relied on. The therapeutical fact should ■ be remembered that parasitical affections are rarely, if ever, "cured" by destroying the parasite; but they can be eradicated -by administering appropriate tonics and alteratives, which are • capable of correcting the blood dyscrasia, which tends to keep up the disease. The following formulae for parasiticides are recommended: