WOUNDS OF THE CHEST. be o-uarded in its administration under such circumstances. A frequent practice was to dust the salts of morphia on the surface of wounds, and it is reported that this method has the additional ad- vantage of allaying promptly the local pains, as well as the general nervousness and trepidation, which are so marked features of chest wounds. Calomel, which has often been employed for its supposed control over the inflammatory process, especially in traumatic pleuritis and pneumonia, has steadily declined in favor of late years in these injuries, and probably should be discarded altogether. At most, • the mercurial preparations may be called for to combat the ten- dency to exudations in carditis, and to promote the absorption of serous effusions in the pleural cavity. It is of importance to main- tain the blood in such a condition as to favor its coagulability, on which the natural reparative process depends. As depressants of the circulation, and to control traumatic pneumonia, use has been made of antimoiuals, veratnun viride, aconite and digitalis; but the general result credits none of these drugs with special importance in the treatment of these injuries. The cautious use of ammonia and brandy are requisite in cases attended with great prostration from the outset. In the latter stages, alcoholic stimulants and car- bonate of ammonia, in conjunction with concentrated nutriment, are important adjuncts to the restorative treatment. In cases of traumatic pneumonia large blisters are often employed, even in the early stages. It must not be forgotten, however, that they often produce much suffering, interfere with auscultation and percussion, and sometimes are followed by gangrene. All these means are subsidiary to opium, the operative treat- ment, the rigid enforcement of rest, the regulation of the air and of the diet. The latter should be severely restricted at first, and though later nutritious food should be allowed, it should long be of liquid form and easy of assimilation. The error is often made of allowing solid animal food at too early a period. DR. DAVID W. CHEEVER, BOSTON.* This surgeon writes that in penetrating gunshot wounds of the chest three methods of treatment are open to us : First, to seal up the wound, a mode recommended in 1863 by * Medical and Surgical Reports of the Boston City Hospital, 1877.