586 VENEREAL DISEASES, do much good, there are few cases in which more than this quan- tity is really ever needed. With reference to the employment of iodide of sodium and iodide of ammonium as substitutes for iodide of potassium, Pro- fessor Gross sometimes recommends their use in five-grain doses. CuLLERiER says that the iodide of ammonium gives no better re- sults than the iodide of potassium, and he has abandoned its use. It has been asserted, however, on good authority, that the iodides of sodium and ammonium will sometimes succeed in doses in which the iodide of potassium has failed. (Tanner, and others.) They are more nauseous than the iodide of potassium. Bromide of potassium has been employed in tertiary syphilis recently. Cullerier says no reliance can be placed on this rem- edy; Berkeley Hill asserts that in small doses, in conjunction with the iodide, it increases the energy of the latter very mate rially. It should be borne in mind in administering the bromide of potassium that it is decomposed by a syrup. To overcome the disagreeable taste of the iodide of potassium, so often complained of by patients, Paget says that a mixture of whiskey,and the compound syrup of sarsaparilla makes the best vehicle. M. LIEGEOIS. Our author employs the following formula for the hypodermic injection of corrosive sublimate in secondary syphilis : 989. Hydrargyri chloridi corrosivi, gr.iij Morphias muriatis, gr.iss Aquse destillataa, f.Sxxiijss. M. TTlxvss. (= about gr. of the sublimate). Ordinarily no inflamma- tion follows this injection, DR. FRANK F. MAURY, PHILADELPHIA. This surgeon prefers, as a cauterant to the primary sores, either the fuming nitric acid or the acid nitrate of mercury. His abort- ive treatment of bubo is to paint it with six coats of tincture of iodine morning and evening, and in the intervals a half-brick, heated as hot as it can be borne, is wrapped in flannel and placed over the swelling. This leads to resolution of the tumor. For constitutional treatment he has found much advantage from Gibert's syrup, as follows :