120 THE COMPLICATIONS OF WOUNDS. are used singly or tied together, or the stick made of larger di- ameter. Coid. The exposure of the cut surface to the cold air is often sufficient. Lint soaked in ice water, or a small stream of cold water allowed to drip on the wound, or, when it is to be had, coating the sur- face with clean moiv or the spray of ether, are more positive means. If cold does not check the bleeding immediately, it is useless to continue it. The following " freezing mixtures" are sometimes useful. They reduce the temperature from 50° to about 8°-io° Fah. 136. J^. Ammonii chloridi, Potassas nitratis, aa §j Aquse, f.^ij. M. 137. I^. Ammoniae nitratis, Sodii chloridi, aa Aquae frigidae (ice), f.^ijss. Position. A valuable aid in checking hemorrhage in one of the extremi- ties is by placing it in such a position that the flow of blood to the part is checked or suspended. The simplest position is that of elevation, the arm or the leg being raised above the level of the trunk. Still more efficient is forced flexion. The following experimental results, reported by Mr. George T. Heath to the British Medical Association, indicate both the manner and rela- tive effects of this method: A. Upper Extremity, i. Forearm bent on arm by muscular action of the individual experimented on. In persons with con- siderable muscular development, pulse at the wrist entirely stopped. 2. Forearm bent on arm simply, with the hand flat on the shoulder. Pulse weak and indistinct; sometimes, but rarely, quite stopped. 3. Forearm bent on arm, with hand pronated. Pulse more weakened, sometimes stopped. 4. Forearm bent on arm, hand pronated and extended. Pulse usually quite stopped. 5. Forearm bent on arm, hand pronated and bent at wrist. Pulse either almost imperceptible or quite stopped. 6. Fore- arm bent on arm, with a roll of lint or cambric handkerchief rolled up and laid in bend of elbow. Pulse always entirely stopped. B. Lower extremity, i. Leg flexed on thigh. Pulse in pos- terior tibial artery much weakened. 2. Leg flexed on thigh and thigh on abdomen. Pulse in posterior tibial stopped altogether almost invariably. 3. Leg flexed on thigh, with a roll of lint or cambric pocket-handkerchief laid in the bend of the knee. Pulse stopped in some cases, not always ; but with flexion of thigh on abdomen also, pulse invariably stopped. 4. Thigh flexed on abdomen, the trunk bent forward. Pulse materially weakened. From these experiments, as well as from those cases of actual bleeding in which this method has been used, it may be fairly