464 NEW GROWTHS. Condjimngo, which has fallen wholly into disfavor in this coun- try, has recently received strong testimony in its support, in can- cer of the stomach, from various German physicians. The Phytolacca decandra has been praised by some American physicians for its alleged power to prevent the development of cancer. Not only is the fluid extract given internally, but the in- spissated juice of the leaves is applied in the form of a plaster at the same time, either alone or combined with chloride of zinc and opium. Sir Benjamin Brodie used to give his cancerous patients liq. potasses, f 5j, thrice daily. Sir James Paget, in his " Clinical Lec- tures," says that he also has followed this treatment often without effect, "but frequently it has given relief from the burning, aching and bursting pains which have been connected with the cancer." Sir James considers it indicated in the gouty diathesis, and believes that Missisquoi water sometimes does good in a similar manner. Sir AsTLEY Cooper was wont to attach importance to the ex- hibition of ammonia, especially in uterine cancer. His favorite prescription was: 670. Sodse carbonatis, gr.xxx Ammoniae carbonatis, gr.v Tincturas calumbse f.3j Infusi gentianse compositse, f.§iss. M. This amount to be taken thrice daily. Dr. Washington L. Atlee, of Philadelphia, attaches value to the prolonged and eveg constant use of arsenic. After excision of the cancerous growth, this drug would seem to have a retarding influence on its reappearance. In cancer of the stomach, Dr. James T. Whittaker, of Cincin- nati, has reported apparently successful cases from the administra- tion of bisidphide of carbon, gtt.ij-iv, in oil of sweet almonds, three times daily; but the improvement he noted may have been owing to the anaesthetic effect of the remedy. For injections into the substance of the growth, dilnte acetic acid has been used with unquestioned success in epithelial cancer. Pure carbolic acid, injected underneath the cancerous sore, is said by Dr. Bartholow to limit the extension and retard the growth of the disease. Dr. Hasse, of Berlin, injects pure alcohol, to which one per cent of ether has been added; this he throws, not into the growth itself,