436 LESIONS OF THE ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE. the contraction of the pupil and the temporary myopia corres- pond in degree with those following the use of eserine. In these respects pilocarpine offers advantages over eserine. Plumbum. Various preparations of lead are valued in affections of the eye. Of the carbonate, 3ij to §j of simple cerate is an excellent unguent in persistent swelling and redness of the lids (blepha- ritis). In weakness and irritability of the eyes, painting the ex- terior of the lids many times daily with a weak solution of the subacetate, gtt.j to aquse f.§j, followed by anointing with cold cream at night, is often successful. (Hartshorne.) As a col- lyrium, the acetate, gr.ij-iv to aqua^ f.Bj, is very extensively em- ployed. Quinia, in weak solution, gr.ij to aquae f.^j, is an excellent wash for slight conjunctivitis. When required internally, Mr. R. B. Carter recommends : 630. Ouinige sulphatis, gr.j Ferri potassio tartratis, gr.ij Morphiae sulphatis, gr.^. For one pill. Of this combination he says: "I have also found this formula to be of the greatest possible value in many cases'of eye-disease, in which local changes were progressing too rapidly to be over- taken by the use of a grain or two of quinine twice or thrice a day as a 'tonic,' but in which they were promptly arrested when the patient was brought under the influence of the speci- fied combination." Salicylicum Acidmn. Dr. Leonard Wheeler has urged the value of this remedy in iritis. (^Boston Medical and Surgical Journal, Feb., 1877.) He uses it internally in the following formula : 631, Acidi salicylici, 5v Sodii biboratis, 3iv Aquae, fovj. M. One to two teaspoonfuls hourly for several hours at the onset of the attack. Sassafras Medulla, steeped in water, gives a soothing glutinous liquid much employed as a local emollient in inflammation of the eyes. Sodii Biboi-as. Borax is esteemed a useful addition to moderating as- tringent coUyria ; gr. x to aquae camphorae, f.§j. Sodii Chloridum. Washing the eyes daily with a solution of common salt, §j to Oij, is of service when weak and irritable. Stramonium is principally employed through its alkaloid daturia, which see. Strychnia, by hypodermic injection, has been used very succcessfully in amaurosis and amblyopia Cabove); also in ptosis and blepharo- spasm, and entropion. Tannicum Acidum is one of the most valuable astringent, non-irritating topical applications.