ANAESTHETICS. 46 " We recognize almost no disease as renderinpf a patient an unfit subject for chloroform; and to examine him beforehand would only augment his anxiety, and possibly discover conditions which the administrator would better be in ignorance of, as it might ren- der him less decided in his actions, and so the patient might not be as completely under the influence of the anaesthetic as was requisite for his safety. No examination should be capable of aug- menting the care and caution always to be employed. Heart-dis- ease, in place of being a'counter-indication to the use of chloro- form, is often greatly alleviated by its employment; and that fatty change of the organ which is supposed to render it peculiarly liable to'paralysis,'is the very form of disease in which chloro- form, if properly administered, interposes the most effectual barrier between it and the fatal shock which an operation is apt to occa- sion. To obtain this good, however, the patient must be com- pletely anaesthetized. If the action be incomplete, the danger, is, if anything, augmented. I have frequently had to perform operations of severity, when undoubted heart-disease was present, and no cases seemed to me to do better with it. A good many of the deaths under chloroform have apparently been due to patients suf- fering from heart-disease not being completely insensible when the operation was performed, and the shock killing them. The chloroform is blamed; whereas, what was really wrong was that it was not sufficiently pushed. There are positively no cases which can be submitted to operation in which chloroform is inadmissi- ble" {British Medical JoiLrnal, Jan., 1876.) Habitual Drinkers. A number of deaths have occurred among habitual drunkards under chloroform. Dr. Uterhart, of Berlin, recommends that in such cases half a grain of morphia be injected subcutaneously, ten or twenty minutes before the chloroform is administered. This materially shortens the period of delirium. NervoiLS shock is said by Professor Gosselin to be a contra- indication. Of sixteen deaths from chloroform, he found twelve of them occurred in persons who had just received severe injuries, and had not yet completely recovered from the shock. On account of its tendency to produce einesis, chloroform is contra-indicated in ovariotomy (Peaslee) and similar operations on the abdomen. Dangerfrom Chloroform. It has been shown by Professor Schiff, of Geneva, that both ether and chloroform may be followed by