64 THE DRESSING OF WOUNDS. IMF. OPEN TREATMENT OF WOUNDS. This simplest of all methods of treating amputations and other wounds has been reported very favorably upon from the hospitals of Berne, Konigsberg, New York City, and elsewhere, and by such surgeons as Dr. F. Peyre Porcher, of Charleston, S. C, Vincenz VON Kern, Edward Schwarz, Professor Billroth, etc. DR. BUROW, of konigsberg. This writer gives in brief the following as the essentials of the system he follows: In a case of amputation of the breast, he care- fully checks the bleeding by the use of silk ligatures, which he cuts off short. The wound is then left absolutely open, being pro- tected from dust and flies by simple oiled cloth. No sutures or plasters are used. When the first oiled cloth is loosened by sup- puration, a second is applied, dressed with a simple ointment. When granulations spring up luxuriantly, the cloth is wet with a solution of acetate of alumina. This is the whole treatment. After amputation of the limbs, he first ligates the larger vessels before loosening the Esmarch's tube, completing the ligations after re- moving it. The wound is then left open for half an hour, with the double object of guarding against secondary hemorrhage and of allowing the surface of the wound to ooze with a serous fluid. Then he puts in three sutures, securing them with a loop and not a knot, so as to allow for swelling of the tissues. Two or three strips of plaster are placed between the sutures, and the lower angle of the wound is left wide open for the free escape of dis- charges. Then, by position of the limb and careful watching, it is made sure that the secretions can escape freely. He insists on the greatest cleanliness on all hands, and never uses sponges a second time. PROFESSOR F. peyre PORCHER, M. D., OF SOUTH CAROLINA. In a case of circular amputation of the upper third of the thigh. Dr. Porcher describes the dressing he employed as follows: A bit of soft linen cloth, fifteen to twenty inches in length, was torn into strips, an inch wide; these were dipped into a basin of cold water, and being applied one after the other to the under surface of the limb, they were brought over and down tightly, so as to overlap