Morphict sulphatis, WOUNDS AND INJURIES. Atropiae sulphatis, 437 Terebinthince Oleum is used as a rubefacient. Zincum in various forms is in frequent use. The oxide is an ingredient in numerous soothing unguents. A solution of the sulphate, gr.ij-iv to aquae f.§j, is the usual strength. It may be advan- tageously combined, as: 632. 1^. Zinci sulphatis, Aquae rosse. For a collyrium. Bandaging. In many diseased conditions of the eye, it becomes neces- sary that the movement of the lids be restrained. For this purpose, oculists employ the "compressive bandage." This is composed of a small piece of fine linen to cover the lids, some carded cotton-wool for padding, and a roller, about an inch and a half wide and nearly two yards long, formed of any fine elastic material, but preferably either of what is called " water- dressing bandage" or of flannel gauze. The free end of the roller should be placed on the forehead, over the affected eye, and the first turn should be made across the forehead and round the head horizontally, so as to secure the end. When the roller reaches the forehead, over the sound eye, for the second time, it should be inclined downwards, carried under the lobe of the ear, round the occiput, under the lobe of the second ear, and then upwards across the face, over the affected eye, to the forehead. Before the roller is brought over the affected eye, the small piece of hnen should be placed upon the closed lids, and all the hollows of the orbit should be filled and padded with the cotton-wool, in sufficient quantity to allow the roller to exert distinct but gentle and uniform pressure on the parts beneath. When the roller reaches the forehead it should be secured to the horizontal turn with a pin, and then a second horizontal turn all over will complete the application. By varying the quantity of wool and the degree of tightness of the roller, any desired amount of pressure may be exerted by this bandage, which, if carefully applied, is very little liable to be displaced. Too much care cannot be taking in filling the orbital hollows, and in so distributing the wool that its pressure may be uniform; because if a bunch of wool were simply applied to the lids over the convexity of the globe, and then bound tightly on, the effects of such a proceeding might often be disastrous. (Carter.) Blisters applied to the temple, behind the ear, or to the nape of the neck, are useful derivatives in inflammatory and painful affec- tions of the eye. Cold, in the form of ice and iced water, is much used in Europe for inflammations of the eye. Pounded ice may be suspended from a frontal band in a rubber bag over the organ. Collyria. The following general remarks may be made on eye washes gr.iv