DISEASES OF THE SKIN. 5o6 semia in all inflammatory skin diseases. It also leads, in the case of kidney torpor, to increase of watery fluid in the tissues, as in eczema of the legs. Simmous Diathesis, which imparts an unusual purulent character to eruptions, and favors the application of the connective tissues, as in eczema, psoriasis, acne and sycosis. DIET IN SKIN DISEASES. There are one or two observations to be made on this subject that may be of use in the management of these diseases : First. A distinction must be made between the diet of the private and hospital patient. The latter often only requires to be well fed up, and his disease then speedily goes; the former, on the other hand, often needs to have a check put on the quantity and quality of his food. Second. In children, skin diseases may arise directly from defective alimentation, as in the case of eczema; and it is fre- quently the case that the child, the subject of eczema, intertrigo, or psoriasis, has not a sufficient supply of milk, either from ex- cessive dilution or otherwise. Third. The regulation of the diet, setting aside the question of quantity or quality, is, as a rule, needed not so much to directly influence the skin disease as certain states of the general health, which modify the particular disease present; for instance, to meet especially dyspeptic, gouty, and rheumatic conditions, but particu- larly the former. In dyspepsia in connection with eczema, acne, psoriasis, or con- gestion of the face, it is advisable, especially if the urine be very acid, to avoid sugar, tea, coffee, alcoholics, beer, raw vegetable matter, with unripe or uncooked fruit, veal, pork, seasoned dishes, pastry, and the coarser kinds of vegetables, but especially all arti- cles whose use is followed by heat or flushing of the face, and by flatulence and the like. Milk, the common meats, a light kind of bread, and some very light wine, should be the diet of dyspeptic patients, whose skins are at all in a state of irritation. In very many cases the stomach is at fault at the outset, and a careful regulation of the diet is of the utmost importance as an aid to the other means adopted to correct faults in other parts of the system. In gouty subjects, much the same line is to be pursued. As regards stimulants, hock, a good light claret. Moselle even, but not the sparkling, or whisky in Vals water, are the best beverages.