ANTISEPTIC DRESSINGS. 81 carbolic acid is used; that its influence upon a recent wound, as after an operation, is not so efficacious against the occurrence of decomposition as that of carboHc acid, chloride of zinc, or of boracic acid; that the repair of a wound is less active, and the granulations, if any, are more flabby, than when other simple or antiseptic dressings are employed. PROF. SPENCE, OF EDINBURGH. This surgeon reports in the Medical Times aiid Gazette, April, 1876, very remarkable success with the boracic acid dressing, sup- ported no doubt by careful constitutional treatment. ' He discards as unnecessary the numerous and fastidious details of Lister's method. The boracic solution is prepared by pouring boiling water upon the pure crystals of boracic acid, allowing it to stand in a covered vessel till it cools, and decanting the clear, adding more boihng water to dissolve any portion that remains. The acid is so spar- ingly soluble that there is not much fear of it being too strong. For use in dressings, say in an excision of the breast, the method is, after the wound has been thoroughly cleansed by pouring a stream of tepid carbolic lotion over the surface, and closed by sutures, two separate layers of hnt which, have been soaked in the solution, and wrung nearly dry, are laid over the h"ne of incision and contiguous surface. At first the upper layer is occasionally removed, wetted, and reapplied, without moving the under layer next the wound, merely to keep that layer moist. Drainage-tub- ing is used to favor the escape of any blood or serous discharge, and to give an easy means of occasionally washing the wound gently out by means of a syringe. Unless there be bleeding, there is no need to disturb the deep dressing for twenty-four or even thirty-six hours. After the second day only a single bit of lint is used, covered with wax-paper. The sutures are generally removed about the fourth day, but, before doing so, strips of strong, adhe- sive plaster are applied between the stitches so as to maintain the edges of the wound in apposition, and these straps should not be removed unless they become loosened or dirty. In most cases he leaves the sutures long, merely twisting them so as, if bleeding occur, to allow the wound to be re-opened and all clots washed out iie surface is then cleansed, the edges of the incision closed by the sutures, which are then cut short, and the dressing applied •