504 DISEASES OF THE SKIN, 734. J^. Acidi arseniosi, gr.ij Piperis nigri, Pulveris glycyrrhizae, aa gr.xxxij Mucilagins, q. s. M. Make thirty-two pills. One to be taken three times a. day dirRctly after meals. The liquor potassii arsenitis is best given combined with a bitter tincture, or with the wine of iron, as there is less likelihood of gastric or intestinal derangement. Phosphorus has been used with success in psoriasis. It is best administered in the form of phosphorated oil, enclosed in capsules, the dose being about of a grain of the phosphorus. Tar and carbolic acid are at times employed internally in psoriasis with good results. The tar should always be ordered in capsules. The internal use of mercurials is invaluable in skin diseases of a syph- ilitic nature. Iodide of potassium finds its chief use in scrofulo- derma, lupus and the late syphilodermata. DR. TILBURY FOX, OF LONDON. This writer, speaking of skin diseases of general character, remarks, as regards local remedies, there are three main rules to be observed, viz.: 1. Whenever active hyperaemia is present, be the disease what it may, applications of a stimulating nature should not be used, but the treatment should be essentially soothing, otherwise the inflam matory symptoms will be increased, and the disease spread. 2. The action upon the skin of an external irritant—as scratch- ing—should be prevented, and the air excluded from inflamed or excoriated surfaces, especially by oil-packing and otherwise. 3. Not until the stage of active hyperaemia has passed should astringents, stimulating applications, or revulsives be employed. These, and absorbents, are to be reserved for the stages of vascular sluggishness and inflammatory induration and thickening. As regards internal or general remedies, it is proposed to indi- cate below, in as practical and concise a form as possible, the conditions which should be taken into consideration in framing the treatment of such diseases as erythema, intertrigo, urticaria, eczema, lichen, prurigo, pemphigus, hydroa, ecthyma, furunculus, pityriasis rubra and psoriasis; and inflammatory conditions of the glands and hair follicles, as acne, dysidrosis, and sycosis, which are analogous to, and only differ in regard to their anatomical seat