TONSILLITIS (quinsy, CYNANCHE). 283 line of the body. It is well to have some styptic at hand, in the event of free hemorrhage, which occasionally occurs. DR. JAMES H. PEABODY, OF NEBRASKA. This writer states that in tonsillitis of all grades, he has had unvarying success from the use of oleiim terebinthince. {Medical and Surgical Reporter, September 9, 1876.) He commences the treatment of all cases, whether of diphtheritic or ordinary tonsil- litis, by seeing that the alimentary canal is properly cleaned by the administration of Epsom or Rochelle salts, where they can be taken; if not, the granulated citrate of magnesia is palatable, and seldom objected to. He also immediately puts the patient on the following perscription: 353. J^. 01. terebinthinas, 3ij Pulveris potassse chlo., 3ij Pulveris sach. alb., oSs Pulveris acaciae, iss Aqu£e, §v. M. Shake up well, and take a large teaspoonful every hour or two, until the inflammatory symptoms begin to subside, then less often. Always directing it to be rinsed well around in the mouth before swallowing, so that every possible portion of the inflamed mucous membrane, from the lips to the stomach, may be touched with the turpentine and chlorate of potash. The inhalation of steam from hops and vinegar is allowed, if the patient desires, as it is soothing to the inflamed mucous mem- brane. If this alone does not relieve the patient in twenty-four hours, or less in severe cases, he adds to the emulsion forty-eight grains of sulphate of quinine, so that we get the local effect, as well as the constitutional, of this potent drug. This is taken in the same way every two or three hours, alternating it with twenty drops of tinctura ferri mur., if desired. He has yet to see the first fatal case where this treatment was carried out from the onset of the disease. DR. HANDFIELD JONES, OF LONDON. In a review of the therapeutics of this disease [Lancet, January, 1871,) this writer states that belladonna is more appropriate where the tonsils are acutely inflamed than in those cases where there is general inflammation of the fauces, without special affection of