THE COMPLICATIONS OF WOUNDS. 136 belladonnae to be rubbed over ^the spine and rigid muscles every six hours. A successful case of treatment by this method is reported in the British Medical Journal for August 22, 1868. The patient was kept under the influence of atropia for three weeks. He then quickly and completely recovered his usual health under iron and quinine. DR. JOHN IMRAY, DOMINICA, W. I. This writer states in the Medical Tiines aud Gazelle, May, 1876, that in his experience neither opium nor chloral, administered alone, seemed to check the onward course of the disease; but given together the effect was markedly good. The doses were from ten to forty drops of tincture opium with from fifteen to forty grains of chloral, a new dose to be given whenever the effect of the previous one is manifestly wearing off If there is any difficulty about the administration by the mouth, rectal injections were found to answer equally well. DR. A. p. BOON, OF ST. KITTS, W. I. After an unusually successful experience, this writer {Lancet, February, 1878,) lays down these rules of treatment: First. The room must be dark and quiet; draughts are to be carefully excluded. Too much stress cannot be placed on this; the least rush of cold air, flash of light, or even sudden noise, may bring on a spasm. Second. Nourishment should be given freely, in a liquid form, and at frequent intervals; it should be always warm, cold drink being avoided for the same reason that cold air is excluded. Stimulants should be administered from the first in small quanti- ties, say four or six ounces of brandy in the twenty-four hours, and increased if the pulse indicate it. Third. Never give purgatives. It is obvious that when our ob- ject is to keep the nervous system quiet we should avoid purga- tives of all kinds. > Fourth. Hydrate of chloral, together with extract of cannabis indica, is to be given in rapidly increasing doses, until the fre- quency and severity of the spasms are controlled. He generally commences with thirty grains of chloral in an ounce of water, and two grains of the extract of Indian hemp, in the form of pill, every three^'or four hours for an adult, and increases the former by fifteen