io5 THE COMPLICATIONS OF WOUNDS. Potass a Permanganas is recommended by Dr. LEA^^TT {Braithwaite s Retrospect, vol. vi., 1867), in the following solution: 116. Potassii permanganas, gr.xxx Aqucx% 5j. M. Potassii Silicas has been found by Prof. Alvarenga, of Lisbon, to be an admirable application. It is the result of physiological ex- periment, and not of mere empiricism, the Professor having tried the drug first on himself. When applied to the skin, im- mediately a sensation of coolness and retraction is felt, the skm becomes pale, most markedly so if it has previously been red and congested, and thermometric observations before and after the application prove that there occurs a real diminution of temper- ature. These phenomena last from five to sixty minutes, and then disappear. They are marked in proportion to the concen- tration of the solution employed. Purgatives. Free purgation and the use of turpentine enemata will be in most cases useful. When coma has come on after marked in- flammatory symptoms with a rapid pulse, and thickly coated black dry tongue, Dr. Copland says he has seen the most marked benefit from the use of calomel in a full dose, with camphor, followed by turpentine and castor oil in the form of an electuary to be placed on the back of the tongue, and repeated until the bowels begin to act, when its operation may be promoted by enemata. Copious offensive black motions are generally brought away, with marked amelioration of the symptoms. Mr. Camp- bell De Morgan has added his testimony to the value of this treatment in apparently hopeless cases. (Holmes' System of Surgery, I., p. 245.) Sulphurosum Acidum, with equal parts of glycerine, has been found to arrest the spread of the inflammation and relieve the burning. Terebinthince Oleum has been used with success by Dr. Von Kaczorowski. His recipe is : 117. ^. Terebinthinae olei, 5x Acidi carbolici, 5j. ^■ Paint on the affected part and rub well into the surrounding parts. Then lay on linen compresses wet with solution of acetate of lead (i to 100 parts) ; and over these iced cloths. Chlorate of potash and opium internally.