31 THE IMMEDIATE TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION. depressants. They require alcohol, ammonia, quinine, beef-tea, musk, etc., in Hberal quantities and at brief intervals. The utmost possible union of stimulants and tonics with nutritious food is in- dicated to get the organism safely through this period of peril. 17. ^. Ammoniae carbonatis, gr.v SpiritCls chloroformi, ""l.xx Infusi cinchonEe, f.§j. M. In one dose every four or six hours. Wine, milk, beef-tea, or egg-and-brandy should be supplied at frequent intervals. The ethers of wine make it especially suitable for this organic condition. Needless to add that blood-letting, purgation or other such measures are wholly out of place in such a case. In regard to the "calomel and opium" treatment of active in- flammation, especially of fibrous and serous tissues, Dr. Fother- gill's own experience is chiefly confined to having seen harm done by it, and he believes that it cannot be recommended except in the treatment of inflammatory conditions of syphilitic origin, or occurring in a system saturated with syphilis. PROF. D. HAYES AGNEW, M. D.* Some special features of this surgeon's treatment of inflamma- tion will be mentioned. He condemns setons, issues, maxos and the hot iron. As coun- ter irritants, he has witnessed striking advantages from mustard plasters in light cases; for more chronic ones, iodine is invaluable both as a counter-irritant and alterative. The peculiar action of the drug may be secured without any of its unpleasant effects, by using it in the following formula: 18. Liquoris iodinii compositi, f.5vj Pulveris sacchari albi, Pulveris acaciae, aa gr.xl Aquae destillatas, f.Sij. M. For local applications. Dr. Agnew speaks strongly in favor of mercmials, saying: *' I should regard their proscription as a public calamity." The prep- arations he prefers are calomel, corrosive sublimate and blue mass. Salivation is rarely, if ever, necessary. Blood-letting he also con- siders as of great curative power in frequent cases. After blood- '''The Principles and Practice of Surgery, 1878.