LESIONS OF THE ORGANS OF URINATION. 340 the urine is clear and passed at normal intervals, and tell them besides that to neglect this is to render themselves liable to the recurrence of stone. In some cases, it is necessary to irrigate the bladder with nitrate of silver solution (weak), but in the majority tepid water or a borax solution will suffice. One of the main points in after-treatment is to guard against the recurrence of stone. Whatever may have been the original cause should, if possible, be removed. If, for instance, the stone has been of diathetic origin, such hygienic rules and medical treatment should be prescribed as the case requires. The existing dyspepsia should be relieved, and the chylo-poietic viscera put as soon as possible, into their normal condition. In addition to attention to diet, to the functions of the skin, to exercise, etc.. Dr. Gouley is in the habit of giving a few brisk cathartics, then to prescribe a laxative and alterative pill, after the following formula: 460. Resinse podophylli, gr.v Ext. fl. ipecacuan., gr.v Ext. nucis vomic. alch., gr.v Hydrastinse, gr.xxx Leptandrinse, gr.xx Ext. colchici acetici, gr.xx M. Make twenty pills. One pill every night. After the patient has taken forty or more of these pills, he should take a small dose of Friederichshall bitter water, or the Hunyadi Janos, every morning half an hour before breakfast, or the follow- ing: 461. ^. Sodte sulphatis, §j Ammonii chloridi, §ss. M. S.—To be dissolved in a pint of water; dose, one tablespoonful iii half a glass of water every morning, half an hour before breakfast. This may be continued for several months. ^ grain of sulphate of iron may be added to each dose. DR. GEORGE HARLEY, F. R. S., ENGLAND. This author has given a series of directions for arresting the formation of uric acid calculi, and facilitating their discharge. Tea, coffee, wines and beers are to be prohibited, or at least used in great moderation. He attaches great importance to the quan- tity and quality of the drinking water. Hard water should be carefully avoided. Distilled water is preferable both for drinking and cooking purposes. A patient should take it freely, say from two to three pints of filtered rain water in the twenty-four hours.