CANCER. ' 477 DR. NATHAN S, DAVIS, OF CHICAGO.* Cancer of the StomacJi. This author is of opinion that in gastric cancer at any stage there is no reason in experience to believe the disease will yield to any kind of treatment. The principal thing to be done is to confine the diet to bland, simple substances, which can be absorbed by the coats of the stomach; and these should be given in small quantities, so that what is taken at one time may be absorbed, without leaving any accumulation to be carried through the pylorus. When the cases are somewhat advanced, the bowels are fre- quently not moved for many days, and the patient importunes for a cathartic medicine; but physic will only increase the distress, and should be withheld. For the amelioration of the pain and to assist nutrition, Dr. Davis has employed with much success a solution of carbolic acid, rendered anodyne by paregoric, as: 691. J^. Acidi carbolici crystal., gr-vj Glycerinae, f.^ss Tinct. opii camphoratse, f.§iss Aquae, f.fij. M. One teaspoonful every three or four hours. Lime water and thin porridge may be given occasionally. PROF. WILLIAM EBSTEIN, M. D., OF GOTTINGEN. Cancer of the Stomach. This writer observes that in spite of our ill-success with remedies so far, we ought not to give up all hope that a specific for cancer may be some day discovered. It is impossible to say whether the fact that cancer of the stomach is extremely rare in certain countries (Egypt, Vera C{uz,) may not be made of some therapeutic use; at any rate the subject is worthy of continued attention. VoN Beneke has recommended the treatment of cancer with non-nitrogenous food, and with such stimulants as wine and tea, and although he starts from purely hypothetical premises, his method may be worth a trial in dealing with a malady for which there is as yet no cure. At the present time, our treatment must be purely symptomatic. The dietetic management of the patient is all-important. In stenosis of the pylorus with considerable dilatation of the stomach, *Clmical Lectures on the More Important Diseases. Philadelphia, 1875.