WOUNDS OF THE HEAD. is no foreign body present. In other cases, when the periphery of the wound has been carefully cleansed, the plug is removed under the action of the spray; and after foreign bodies have been sought for, and a drainage-tube introduced, the wound is treated by Lister's dressing. The course and final results of cases so treated far surpass anything that has yet been met with in military surgery. It may be added that the search for the ball, needless at all times, is now generally recognized to be especially fraught with danger in wounds of the thoracic or abdominal cavities. The best and most trustworthy doctrine on this subject has been well expressed in these words by Dr. William S. Forbes, of Philadelphia: " The practice of probing gunshot wounds of the great cavities of the body for missiles, or, indeed, for any purpose whatsoever, is en- tirely at variance with the principle of rest, and is as pernicious as possible." The above observations are especially important, as leading American treatises on surgery still continue to recommend the early extraction of balls, probing of the wound with the finger, etc. WOUNDS OF THE HEAD. DR. STROMEYER. This eminent military surgeon has endeavored to exclude en- tirely from military surgeiy the use of the trephine in injuries of the skull. He considers a state of coma from depressed skull "no mofe an indication for applying the trephine, than a comatose state in typhus fever is an indication to rouse the patient by any other means but those which are in accordance with his general state." All active local interference of every kind should be excluded. As soon as the fragments of the bone become loosened by suppura- tion, the comatose condition ceases of itself Nothing more is needed than to keep the patient quiet, and a general antiphlogistic treatment, by ice, bleeding, purgative medicine and low diet. An open scalp wound over a broken skull does not produce a great change in the danger of the case. But should the arachnoid cavity be opened by attempts to remove the splinters and frag- ments of bones, the danger of spreading inflammation of the