48 AN/ESTHETICS. sis of the laryngeal muscles ; or else by vomited matters passing into the larynx. In all cases the treatment must be prompt: 1. Stop the administration of the anaesthetic. 2. Lower the head below the level of the body. 3. Seize the tongue with the catch-forceps, and pull it forward so that its tip appears well between the teeth. 4. Admit fresh air freely to the patient by open windows, fan- ning, etc. 5. Commence at once artificial respiration. 6. Apply electricity freely to the heart and through the dia- phragm. 7. Let an assistant rub each extremity briskly with a hot towel; dash cold water in the face; insert a lump of ice in the rectum. 8. As soon as the patient can swallow, stimulate with ammonia and brandy. An expedient suggested by Dr. Heiberg, of Norway, in chloro- form narcosis, is to bring forward the under jaw in toto. When the rattling, incomplete respiration begins—that is to say, in all those cases in which the teeth are otherwise forced apart, and the tongue drawn out—he draws the under jaw forwards by the fol- lowing means: Standing preferably behind the reclining patient, the operator places both thumbs on the symphysis of the lower jaw presses the second joint of the bent forefingers behind the posterior margin of the rami ascendentes of the under jaw, and thus holding the whole bone fast between the two hands, draws it forcibly forward (anatomically speaking). The most successful impulse is that which would be given if the intention were to lift the whole head and body by this grasp. By this proceeding, and as long as it is continued, the jaw is kept luxated forward. The obstacle to the respiration is removed, and, in short, exactly the same result is obtained as if the tongue had been drawn forwards and the mouth kept open by a gag. As an antidote, nitrite of amyt has received considerable atten- tion. The amyl should always be in the armamentarium of the medical man. It can be administered from a bottle, or five or six drops may be placed on a handkerchief, and held to the nose and mouth of the patient. An exceedingly convenient method of car- ryincr the drug is by means of the nitrite of amyl-bulbs made of glass. When required, one of the bulbs can be broken m a hand- kerchief or towel, and its contents immediately inhaled.