228 LESIONS OF MUSCULAR TISSUE. several days with a thick lixyer of iodoform until fresh granula- tions spring up (as they are certain to do), and until the base of the ulcer has reached the level of the surrounding skin. When this point in the healing process is reached, the ulcer is to be strapped daily with equal parts of mercurial and soap plaster of rather soft consistence, and carefully and evenly applied. Shal- low ulcers, covered only with pus, require no scraping, but can be at once treated with iodoform. Nitricum Acidum, diluted, is employed as a stimulating wash to the sur- face of unhealthy ulcers. In specific infection, it is used in its concentrated form, and is the best of escharotics. opium, or some of its alkaloids, is much valued as a soothing ingredient in lotions and ointments to irritable ulcers. Pepsina has been advocated. (F. 260.) Fix Liqidda. Tar has been used with advantage in the form of oint- ment, in foul and indolent ulcers. It is a popular remedy for this purpose in veterinary surgery. Plumbum. The soluble salts of lead form common ingredients in lotions for ulcers. Lead plaster is in familiar use. Potassii Permangana, is well spoken of as a deodorant. In dilute solu- tion it is a mild stimulant. Employed m the form of powder it acts as a gentle caustic, and may often be applied with advan- tage in sloughing ulcers. SulMdes Dr. Ringer says that a sore discharging a thin, watery, un- •^""^ healthy ichor will, under the administration of the sulphides of calcium, speedily undergo a healthy change, the discharge be- coming at first more abundant, afterwards diminishing, and throughout continuing thicker and healthier. Sulphurosum Acidum may be used diluted as a wash. Tannicum Acidum. Tannin, having the property of coagulating albumen, Janmcum largely to sores with profuse discharge and luxu- riant granulations. Added to glycerine, it is a very effective dressing. 77n,2im The sulphate of zinc, as a stimulant and astringent lessens the secretion and promotes healthier growth in ill-conditioned, free secreting sores. The chloride, in dilute solution, is a still more energetic article. Th. TJJn^tic Bandase As an important advance m the treatment ot The ^^^^^\^J;^7^^^^ Lst be mentioned the elastic bandage as employed by Dr. Henry A. Martin, of Boston. He ap- . plies it firmly above the ulcerated part, and is so fully convinced of its value that he says that such a bandage, tvithout any other means or appliance whatever, is all that is necessary for the per- fect and permanent cure of all curable non-specific ulcers of the leg.