LESIONS OF THE ORQANS OF SPECIAL SENSE. 39^ hypodermically, gr. ij-v. Otherwise, the fluid extract by the mouth is sufficient. (F. 537.) Ferrum. Various preparations of iron are useful. Iron spray, of a weak solution of the liquor ferrl subsulphatis, f.3j to aquae f.^viij, is a very serviceable astringent in obstinate cases. The nozzle of the tube should be inserted just within the nares, and the spray be driven with considerable force. Or it may be introduced on a feather. The tannate of iron may be given internally ; and to correct the condition of anaemia which follows, nothing is better than the tincture of the chloride with quinine. Galla. Powdered galls taken freely, gr.x-xx, is an excellent astringent in cachectic subjects. Hamamelis has been found very serviceable in epistaxis ('"Ij-ij of the tincture every half hour). Opium. Professor Gross recommends that Dover's powder in large doses should be prescribed when there is dryness of the skin. Quinine. A writer in the London Lancet, 1878, says quinine is the remedy in epistaxis. He says that he has tried it more than twenty times, often in aged people, and has never found it to fail. Sod(z Sulphas. A teaspoonful of Glauber salts every half hour is recom- mended by German writers. Tannicum Acidum. A solution of tannic acid 3j, aquae f.^vj, makes a good astringent injection or spray. Terebinthince Oleum. A valuable remedy, not so well known as it should be (see above). EXTERNAL MEASURES. Blisters. In obstinate cases blisters applied to the nape of the neck are serviceable. Cold. Pounded ice to the nape of the neck or pieces of ice inserted into the nostrils, or held against the roof of the mouth, often pro- duce a happy effect. Fernel recommends ice to the testicles or mammae. Cupping. Dry-cupping between the shoulders is useful in plethoric young people. Heat. The spinal hot water bag applied to the cervical and upper.dorsal vertebrae is an excellent means. When the extremities are cold, hot mustard foot-baths should be resorted to. Insufflation of astringent powders (alum, matico, tannin, etc.) is fre- quently useful. Plugging. A piece of dry cotton may be introduced and left in the bleeding nostril; or the cotton may be wet in an astringent so- lution previous to introduction. For plugging the posterior nares, the directions in surgical treatises should be consulted. Position. In all cases the head and shoulders should be elevated. Rais- ing the arms high above the head is a popular mode to stop nose, bleed. Pressure on the facial artery, where it passes over the lower jaw, will