95 ANTISEPTIC DRESSINGS. opium. For use on the skin, the strength should not be greater than gr. x to aquae f.§j. Even in weak sohition the subacetate destroys bacteria, but it is not a good deodorizer. Plinnbi Nitras, as an application to foul wounds and excoriated surfaces, is highly esteemed. A solution of it f.5j to §j is known as Ledoycn's Disinfectant Solution. A convenient strength is gr. X to aqu£e f^j; or it may be prepared extemporaneously by dissolving a scruple of carbonate of lead in sufficient diluted nitric acid for solution, and adding a pint of distilled water. Potasses Permanganas. This salt, in solutions of gr.j-xx to the ounce, has been very highly praised as a dressing by some surgeons, but is very lightly esteemed by others. It is at least an effective deodorant, and except that it stains the bedding, etc., an ele- gant application. The solution should be made only of such strength that it can be borne without any pain or uneasiness. The discoloration it causes may be removed by sulphate of iron. Salicylimm Aciduin has recently been prominently urged by Mr. Callen- DER (F. 6i). It is probably less active than carbolic acid. Sulphites and Hyposulphites. These have been urgently advocated for the medication of dressings by Drs. Polli and Pietrasanta. (F-C5.) _ Stclphocarbolates. These salts of zinc and copper have been employed in solution (gr. iij - v to aquse 5j) by Professor John Wood and others. Sulphicrosum Acidum has claims upon the surgeon which should not be overlooked (see page 85). A strong aqueous solution may be made and mixed with water (5ss to Oj), or, what is better, with alcohol, as required. Tannicum Acidum. Tannin and substances containing it precipitate albu- men, and thus coat wounds, thus protecting them from the irri- tating action of the air and the " germs" it may contain. It is conveniently employed in the form of a glycerite of tannin. Most of the herbs and plants with popular reputations as vul- neraries owe their claims to the tannin they contain. Terebene. See page 87. Terebinthina Canadensis. Balsam of fir has long been a popular domestic application to wounds The following compound is highly praised as an application by Dr. A. C. Mackenzie {American Journal of the Medical Sciences, 1875.) 90. 'Sf.. Terebinthinae canadensis, Terebinthinse veneti, Olei amygdalje dulcis, aa f.gij. To this add: Acidi carbolici, f.§ss Glycerinas, f.gij. m. Apply with a flat camel's hair brush, and inject into the inter- stices of the wound with a glass syringe, having previously cleansed the wound with very warm water. The injured part should then be swathed in flannel, wrung out in water as hot as can be comfortably borne.