ECZEMA. The instructions for the use of this lotion are that it should be dabbed upon the skin of the head after thorough friction with the hair-brush. No doubt there are cases in which this lotion must be used with caution. It may be diluted, if necessary; it may be applied sparingly or abundantly; and it may be used daily or otherwise. There are cases in which a less stimulating and even a refriger- ating, lotion may be required, and where an objection may be raised to the quantity of oil contained in the former lotion; in which cases a lotion of borax and glycerine, two drachms of each to eieht ounces of distilled water, is cooling and refreshing. This lotion allays dryness of the skin, removes scurf, and subdues irri- tability. In cases of complete baldness and in alopecia areata, he pre- scribes : 775. Linimenti camphorae, Linimenti ammonise, Linimenti chloroformi, Linimenti aconiti, aa partes equales. This is to be well rubbed into the bare places daily, or even twice a day, so as to produce a moderate amount of stimulation. In cases of ophiasis, due to neuralgia of the cutaneous nerves of the scalp, this liniment is very valuable. In other cases the lini- ment of iodide may be painted on the bare patches daily, or they may be stimulated by friction with the ointment of cantharides or any other powerful stimulant. Painting the discs of area with the epispastic fluid of the pharmacopoeia may also occasionally be resorted to, or the epispastic fluid may be diluted with spirits of camphor. The intention of all these local remedies is to stimu- late without setting up irritation, to increase the energy of circu- lation and innervation of the part, and in some instances to abstract the excess of fluids from the tissues of the skin by induc- ing exudation; but these results must be accomplished as far as possible without pain and without severity. The constitutional treatment of alopecia should consist in the adjustment and regulation of the functions of digestion and assim- ilation, and where no other special conditions are to be fulfilled, the adoption of a tonic regimen and the administration of tonic remedies. Of these last, arsenic bears the palm, and may be