260 LESIONS OF THE ORGANS OF CIRCULATION. The edema which is apt to remain must be met with the apphca- tion of bhsters and the pressure of an elastic roller. When coagula have floated into the vessels, producmg venous or arterial embolism or thrombosis, the treatment is mainly expect- ant Perfect rest is essential. Stimulants, tonics and nutritious food are called for to sustain strength, opiates to subdue restless- ness. The limb must be kept warm and slightly raised. Surgical interference of any kind is dangerous. As to whether any substance can be administered by the mouth or injected into the vessels to dissolve the clot, observations are not conclusive. The liquor potasscE and liquor ammonia in dilute solution have been suggested for j^i-^-^ Richardson, in a communication to the Medical Society of London in 1876 related four cases in which he had administered ammonia in large doses, for the purpose of causing resolution of fibnne in the right side of the heart or in the great vessels. I- ^hree of the cases the treatment was successful, but the fourth had a fatal ter- mination, the patient dying from cerebral effusion. Dr Hilton Fagge, of London, for the results of simple embo- lism 'recommends, though hypothetically, the admimstration of ten-minim doses of liquor ammonia in iced water every hour, with three to five grain doses of iodide of potassium every alternate ^°d; Bartholow considers that not only when thrombosis is actually existent, but even when it is threatened as in the puer- peral state after free hemorrhage, when the circulation is languid from weak heart, a state of hyperinosis being present, it is per- fectly safe and legitimate to practice the intra-venous injection of aqua ammonia, f 5j-ij, diluted with an equal measure of water. , THOMAS HAWKES TANNER, M. D. As thrombi are mostly met with in conditions of great exhaus- tion as after extensive hemorrhage, in endocarditis, purpura and he puerperal state, the indications generally are to support the vital'powers and allay irritability. For this purpose, the usual forms of concentrated nourishment and stimulants must be hber ilWbut iudiciously given. Pure air, perfect rest, and opiates as „ Led e e senlaf features of the treatment. The following rmbination is valuable where it is feared the deposit of fibrin has taken place in one of the large vessels of the heart: