LESIONS OF THE ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE. 412 DR. J. R. WOLFE, F. R. S. E., SURGEON TO THE GLASGOW OPHTHALMIC INSTITUTE. This writer gives his treatment of granular conjunctivitis trachoma, or Egyptian ophthalmia {Medical Times and Gazette April, 1876). He remarks that the vesicular or granular stage is the chronic indolent condition of the disease, the acute being the purulent stage. Between these conditions there is the subacute or mixed stage. This form is highly contagious, and when it heals always leaves behind conjunctival cicatrices. The division of writers into true and vesicidar granulations is unintelligible. Neither is there any reason for regarding the suppurating granula- tions as Egyptian ophthalmia, and the indolent form as mere gran- ulations. It is the same disease in different degrees of activity. The indolent form may at any time rise to the suppuration stage, the same as the suppurative granulations may retrogress into the vesicular form. The disease is apt to involve not only the con- junctiva, but the tarsal cartilages, producing entropion, and by its friction upon the cornea gives rise to pannus (trachomatous), de- generation, and rupture of the cornea. With regard to the treatment, it is easily explainable why, in the first stage of the attack, warm poultices, as recommended by Von Graefe, are of great use, because they promote suppuration and the discharge of the foreign bodies or impurities which cause and propagate the disease. But when the disease has been of some standing, and therefore confirmed, when the granulations are firmly imbedded in the conjunctiva of the eyelids, and friction has produced corneal vascularity, softening, and pannus, then there is the beginning of an interminable course of treatment and per- plexity. He has never seen any satisfactory result accruing from the use of astringents, of which blue-stone enjoys the greatest favor. Inoculation with blenorrhagic pus is highly spoken of as a cur- ative agent by competent authorities, but he has never availed himself of this remedy, because in all his visits to those hospitals where this treatment is resorted to, he has never seen a cure. For a number of years he has adopted a uniform method of treating this disease, and found the result so satisfactory that he has seen no reason ever to depart from it- The remedies on which he relies are—i, scarification; 2, syrup of tannin; 3, fric- tion; 4, solution of atropine; 5, astringent collyria.