32 THE THERAPEUTICS OF INFLAMMATION. letting the vegetable depressants aconite and veratrum come in most happily, holding the circulation down after it has been re- duced by the loss of blood; or, in cases not urgent, they may serve as substitutes for the lancet. Antimony is no favorite with him, and he rarely exhibits it. RESUMli: OF REMEDIES. INTERNAL REMEDIES. Aconituin. This a powerful depressant and antiphlogistic. Its effects are especially beneficial in gouty and rheumatic inflammations, in high traumatic fever, in erysipelas and the inflammation which sometimes follows vaccination (Ringer). Where the intestinal mucous membrane is inflamed, aconite is contra-indicated (Bar- THOLOw). In gonorrhoea and orchitis it is very useful, and in the reflex fever which sometimes follows the passage of a cathe- ter or bougie (the so-called -urethral fever'). Dr. K. C. Wood, Jr., states that the following affords an excellent combination : 19. '2f.. Tinct. aconiti radicis, gtt.j Spiritus setheris nitrici, f.Sjj Misturse potassas citratis, q. s. ad f.^j. This much every two hours for an adult. Antimonii ctpotasses tartras. As an antiphlogistic, tartar emetic should be given in doses of gr. Jg-^. Its effects are greatly enhanced by the addition of a small" quantity of morphia. Chloralum hydratum. As this drug diminishes the coagulability of the fibrin in the blood, and acts as an anodyne, its use is indicated where the temperature is high, and restlessness or delirium pre- sent. Belladonna is a most valuable preventive of inflammation, and after its onset will greatly relieve the pain. It may be used both inter- nally and externally. Dintalis, in large doses, used at the commencement of acute inflamma- * 'tions, is said often to cut them short. From f.^ss-j of the tinc- ture is recommended for a dose. Used as a depressant. Professor S D. Gross says he has lost confidence in it. In erysipelas, and acute inflammations of the joints and breast, the following fomentation is said to be valuable: 20. I^. Digitalis foliorum, 5j Aquae buUientis, ^j- ^• Apply locally. Gelsemium produces in animals a marked fall of temperature, and has been widely used in sthenic inflammation. Its precise value is not yet ascertained. Dr. E. P. Hukd, of Massachusetts, has found it unequaled as a cardiac sedative. (^Boston Medical and Surgical Journal, Dec., 1870.)