ANEURISM. 249 for two months, with the following internal remedies {Medical and Surgical Reporter, March, 1874): 292. I^. Liquor, ferri subsulphatis, '"liv. This amount three times a day, alternated with ' 293. ^ Acidi gallici, 3ss. PROF. T. M'cALL ANDERSON, M. D., OF GLASGOW. In 1875 this physician described before the British Medical As- sociation several cases of aneurism of the arch of the aorta success- fully treated by galvano-piincture. The rules he lays down for its use are as follows : 1. It is safer to attempt a cure by means of chemical than by means of inflammatory action, and therefore in every case the con- tinuous current battery should be employed. 2. He always employs one of Stohrer's large-celled batteries, but the kind of instrument is not of great consequence, provided the cells are large. 3. The needles should not be very thick, and should be insu- lated to within half an inch of the point, for we must aim at acting upon the blood in the aneurism only. 4. Should the needles be connected with the positive or negative, or both poles ? The balance of opinion seems to be in favor of connecting them with both, although Dr. Anderson prefers con- necting the needles with the positive pole only. 5. He uses a weak current, as it gives little or no pain, and does not excite serious inflammation. Dr. Anderson considers the operation comparatively safe, but thinks there is a question whether the consolidation of the portion of the tumor which approaches the surface may not in some cases favor the extension of the disease in other directions. MR. C. F. MAUNDER, SURGEON TO THE LONDON HOSPITAL.* The mode of treatment which this author advocates for the cure of popliteal aneurism and all other suitable cases, is moderate com- pression, alternating with relaxation, say for a fortnight, with a view, partly, if thought desirable, of promoting a more free collateral cir- culation in the limb; and at the expiration of this time continuous compression, either digital or instrumental (completely obstructing * Surgery of the Arteries. London, 1875.