380 LESIONS OF THE ORfSANS OF REPRODUCTION. the point presses painfully and the patient awakes. A simple ar- rangement keeps them in place at night. A spennatorrheal truss has been lately devised which in certain cases may prove of advantage. GENERAL TREATMENT OF SPERMATORRHEA. PROF. S. D. GROSS, M. D., OF PHILADELPHIA. Spermatorrhea may and may not be associated with impotence; but it is always connected with genital weakness. The first indication for treatment is to ascertain the probable cause. It may, like impotence, be induced by the irritation of an elon- gated or constricted prepuce; by an accumulation of smegma under the prepuce; by narrowed meatus urinarius; by stricture of the urethra; by stone in the bladder; by hemorrhoids; fissure of the anus; ascarides in the rectum; obstinate constipation; ex- cessive venery; but the great cause is masturbation. In mild cases, a proper regulation of the diet and bowels, cold bathing, sleeping on a hard mattress, and the removal of the ex- citing cause, usually suffice. When the parts are morbidly sensi- tive, leeches may be applied to the perineum, and the following urethral injection used: 507. Plumbi acetatis, Pulv. opii, aa gr.iij Aquae, f.gj. m. Use for an injection twice daily. When the disease is fully established, more energetic measures are required. In many cases, cauterization is the best means, with solid nitrate of silver, conveyed to the spot of greatest sensitive- ness in the urethra by means of a porte-caustique. An application of five or ten seconds once a week until the morbid sensibility is destroyed is sufficient. Occasionally marked relief arises from cold enemas, repeated twice in the twenty-four hours. Leeches or a blister to the perineum may be called for if the local excitement is unusually great. When the morbid sensibility of the urethra is very extensive and persistent, the following may be employed: 508. I^. Argenti nitratis, gr.ij Pulveris opii, gr.v Aquas. f.^j, M. Use twice daily for a urethral injection, to be forced back as far as possible, and remain two ortlirec minutes in the canal.