26 THE THERAPEUTICS OF INFLAMMATION. 7. J^. Liq. plumbi subacetatis, Aquse, f.3ij Oj. M. When pain is present, laudanum or morphia may be added to this ; but these articles must be cautiously applied to open wounds or sores. The best medium for applying these solutions is a double layer of old, soft flannel, kept constantly wet by pressing the fluid upon it with a sponge. In very many inflammations of the cutaneous and mucous sur- faces, nitrate of silver is an indispensable agent in treatment. It may be used as a vesicant or as an alterant; but much judgment is re- quired in its employment, as it is capable of immense harm. The tincture of iodine is also exceedingly valuable as an antiphlogistic. For external use it should be diluted with an equal quantity of alcohol, the mixture being brushed on with a camel-hair pencil until the skin is of a deep yellowish color. This may be repeated every eight, twelve or twenty-four hours, according to the exigen- cies of the case. When for the tonsils, uvula, or other delicate parts, the dilution should be still greater. The treatment of the Asthenic and Irritative types of Acute Inflam- mation. This surgeon draws forcible attention to the importance of distinguishing between the sthenic and asthenic types of surg- ical inflammation. The more he has seen of this form of disease, the more convinced has he become that the stimulating plan of treatment is the only method of carrying patients through those low forms of visceral inflammation that are so frequent in hospital practice. If the tongue, the pulse, and the general character of the symptoms partake of the asthenic or irritative type, we cannot at any period have recourse to the depletory and depressant treat- ment recommended in sthenic inflammation; even if the inflamma- tory fever ass-umes this latter form, and yet the broken constitution, the advanced years., the exhausted constitution, or the cachexia of the patient, or the congestive and passive character of the local in- flammation, gives reason to believe that the constitutional symp- toras will not long continue of this type, we should proceed with great >caution. Bleeding should be avoided, the bowels should be cleared out, the patient kept quiet^ .ojn a moderately low diet, and diaphoretic salines administered. MR. JOHN ERIC ERICHSEN, OF LONDON.