REGENERATIVE FOOD AND COOKERY. PRICE l/(S NET. W. A. & E. WILLIAMSLEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Special Collections Cookery Camden 30106023323925LA 105 Loriuv... >rough of Camden Swiss Cottage Library Tel: 01 278 4444 88 Avenue Road Extensions; LONDON - •- ^Book Renewals 3021 NWS 3HA • - ‘ r-V'Lending Library 3012 This book i^ due toTreturn on or before the date stamped below. The period of loan can be extended if the book is not reserved (please ask for details of renewal facilities) Fines are charged on overdue books Lending Library hours Mon-Fri 9.30-8 Sat 9.30-5Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https://archive.org/details/b2153813xSECOND EDITION. REGENERATIVE FOOD AND COOKERY BY W. A. & E. WILLIAMS. ‘ ‘ Man will b? happy when he confines himself to understand the laws of his Creator, and to find out the means of putting them into execution.”— J. Caspar Spurzheim, M.D Conbcn: L. N. FOWLER & Co., 4, Imperial Buildings, Ludgate Circus. Hew \ork: FOWLER & WELLS Co., 24, East Twenty-second StWITH' mcm cmQ: ' . . **€af‘ye that which is good!'—Jsa- CH- S'63 wiu TSg5^3g ,4 (rn 5>cJ J)(jy\3 PREFATORY NOTES. (SECOND EDITION). It is not the lack of heart so much as the lack of hand, that has prolonged the delay in meeting the constant demand for a new edition of this little book. In its production, the same principles have been our guides, and the same order maintained in its arrangement, as in the first edition. Some slight alterations have been made in the text, several new facts, and many fresh recipes have been inserted, which, with the much improved style and quality of its new dress, will, we hope, enhance its usefulness, and be a little compensation to those who have long and patiently awaited its appearance. There is no section of the book to which special refer- ence need here be made ; it should be read from the be- ginning to the end, for, unlike most cookery books, it is one of principles as well as of practice, and is again offered suggestively to an age much permeated with the thought, that present knowledge and practice in matters pertaining to Food and Cookery are not a finality. Bronallt, Sketty, Glam. Easter, 1908.4 PREFATORY NOTES. (FIRST EDITION). For the guidance and home-reference of patients and friends, we have frequently to write recipes of pure and nutritious food and drink, and the mode of its preparation, The time and energy thus used, we think could be devoted to other uses, if some of the recipes and our teachings in Food, Cookery, and Nutrition, were put into book form, and herein lies the reason why this little book is published. Our authority is to be found in the many of observation, wide-reading, study and experiment in the science and art of Cookery and Nutrition in relation to health and disease ; and in the measure of success attending the efforts made to improve our own health, and that of many who have consulted ui in health matters. The system is based upon the idea of maintaining HEALTH BY LIVING HEALTHILY. “ Cease to do evil, and learn to do well ” is as much science as it is Scripture, and is equally applicable to the regeneration of oufibodies, as it is to the regeneration of our souls. Observation and experience have taught us that by living upon pure food, hygienically prepared, the disease- resisting and disease-eliminating capacity of the human organism is largely increased, and this being so with individuals, we think it can be so with communities.5 Such facts that one of every seven children born to this nation never sees its first birthday; that one half of the children born never see their fifth birthday ; that we have double the number of children at five years of age that we have of men and women at thirty-five years old ; that the average longevity of the nation is not above forty years; that sixty thousand consumptives die annually; and that one of every four hundred and fourteen of our people is confined to a lunatic asylum, are shameful testimony to the degeneracy induced by lowering the disease-resisting, and disease-eliminating, capacity of the nation through indiscriminately eating and drinking any- thing provided as “Food.’’ That there are many other contributive causes of physical and mental degeneracy we know, and that these, like the feeding problem, arise from ignorance, and the lack of leisure and energy consequent upon having substituted the degenerative principles of production for profit, for that of production for use, we have in several ways tried to teach; but, in the existing condition of things, we think the easiest, and consequently the first step towards our physical regen- eration as a people lies in solving the feeding problem. In a busy practice, we meet with scores, aye hundreds, of defectively nourished people, and especially children. “ Food” they have in abundance, but of nutriment very little—in proportion to the “food,” a condition of things arising from ignorance of the nutritive principles and laws of the human organism, and an appalling lack of observ- ation ; discretion and practical judgment; in the selectionG and the preparation of food. If the breeder of animals, and birds, so indiscriminately reared his stock, as he does his children, he would be bankrupt in a very short time. People never seem to consider, presumably from lack of knowledge, that nutrition ; good health and longevity; is a process of growth and development from within, dependent upon a right adjustment of the body’s needs. Food may be eaten in abundance, but if the food is not so prepared that it can be adjusted to the body’s needs^ it becomes a 'poison devouring the vitality essential to good health and longevity; and as it is with food ; so is it with air; sunlight; bathing; clothing; uses; rest; etc; if these cannot be adjusted to the human organism, they do violence to its vitalising and nutritive principle—but none so much as does improper feeding. After reading the recently issued final report of the Eoyal Commission appointed to inquire into the beer poisoning epidemic of 1900; and the Annual Heports of the Local Government Board, etc., there can be little doubt that living (?) upon commercial food and drink is largely a process of slow poisoning. The Royal Com. missioners give us a list of food ingredients which includes such health destroying “ preservatives ” as sulphuric acid; commercial hydrochloric acid; boric acid (used largely for preserving milk; butter; meats; fish; etc.) phosphoric acid (employed largely in sugar refining; mineral waters; etc.) mineral and coal tar colouring matters; phosphates (used in baking powders, etc.); caramel, in samples of which “considerable quantites’*7 of arsenic were reported (used for colouring and flayouring a large number of foods; together with many other more, or less, detected health and life destroyer. What a commentary upon our much vaunted commercialism and patriotism is this Report! Who can estimate the loss of vitality, with its consequent loss of energy and useful- ness, to the individual; the community; and our progeny; in the effort to resist the health and life destroying effect of living (?) upon commercial food and drink ? We hear a great deal of the “free breakfast table ” in these days— it were wiser and far more profitable to the Nation, if our legislators talked, and worked, more for the healthy break- fast table. A Nation’s wealth and security depends far more upon the people’s health, usefulness and longevity, than upon political wranglings over a free, or, a taxed breakfast table. Commercial foods are not the only vehicles of poison to our bodies. The use of yeast, chemical risings, and white flour in the making of bread and bread stuffs; the use of salt and other artificial flavourings; together with the unscientific cookery of these days are almost, if not equally, as bad, and until the perverted and ignorant use now made of the beautifully helpful science of chemistry in relation to food and drink production is checked, and her God-given uses are rightly developed, and harmoniously worked with a correct knowledge of physiological law ; our only hope of stemming the tide of physical degeneracy by provisioning our tables with that which shall be “meat and drink to you ” lies in interesting, and training, the8 husbandmen, mothers, and daughters of the nation in the question of nutrition, and food production along the simple lines of nature; the Hebrew did this thousands of years ago, and its good effects are not yet eradicated. It is use- less looking to any branch of the medical profession for guidance in these matters ; its training gives it no know- ledge of the science and art "of dietetics and cookery, for no medical college includes such teaching in its curricu- lum, though man, who is the objective of its uses, depends so largely upon food for his existence. All hygienic processes of health-culture along natural, and therefore scientific and enduring lines, are the discoveries and teachings of the sanitarian layman—notwithstanding the persecutions of so conservative vested interests as the medical profession and its adjuncts. By this system of food and cookery, combined with other rational and hygienic means of maintaining health, WE HOPE TO ENCOURAGE THE IDEA OF HEALTH BY LIVING HEALTHILY. It is for this idea, and the health engendered by its development, that we reject so much which is now considered to be indispensable to the healing of diseases by the majority of the people. The recipes are formulated with the object of developing healthy life, and not the illusive pleasure of gratifying artificial palates. They give the largest measure of nutriment consistent with bulk, and the least expenditure of vitality in their digestion, to the people in average health—the really sick may need special treatment. The methods of preparation and cooking employed are such as9 will develop the natural and health-giving qualities of the food, and increase its digestibility. All animal foods, with the exception of milk; butter; and eggs, are wholly dis- carded, as are also salt, and all chemical and like indigest- ible flavourings. The menus are arranged to the several seasons, and the needs of a small family. Neither the recipes, nor the menus, have been haphazardly put together; both are the result of wide reading and observation; patient study and experiment, and are selected from those in daily use in our own household— as will be recognised by friends and patients who have sat at table with us. The unregenerated palate will probably fancy some, and reject others, until it is sufficiently clean to know, and enjoy natural food. Those who must have something “ meatty ” will find much to their tastes in the soup recipes, and the directions for meat and fish substitutes as well as in the variety of other combinations thsjt an original and inventive housewife, or cook, can easily develop, or put together. If the housewife will but exercise a little thought and practical judgment, she will perceive that a far greater variety of inviting, digestible and nutritious dishes can be produced by this system, than by the old methods of “have a bit of meat and something,” and if she reflects upon the conservative yrinciyle within the system, as a v>dfe and mother she will aflectionately and dutifully exert her- self towards the proper nourishment of her household, whatever riducule, etc , her leaving the thoughtless ruts of10 other generations, and the conventional crowd, may bring her. It may be argued that to produce variety by this system means a large expenditure of energy, time, and money; without the experience which has produced this booklet that possibly would be so ; however, if the housewife reads the whole, and adopts the helpful hints our experience provides, she will find that the system, whilst demanding a little more thought, taste, and inventiveness, than the old methods of food preparation, it really does not involve much more energy and time, and that from a monetary standpoint it must be judged by the family tastes and appetites together with the health results produced. Like other systems, it can be lived cheaply, and expensively To those who hesitate we say read carefully through the talks and recipes ; experiment patiently with them ; then let your health, energy, time and income combine with your tastes and intelligence in developing from your own experience a system suitable to your several needs. Id nothing are we, as a people, more conservative and extravagantly wasteful than in the science and art of cooking and feeding. The idea of a dietary without flesh- meat ; salt, and like indigestible flavourings, seems impossible to most of us.- People ask in astonishment what there is to take the place of these things ; and whether it is possible to live and be healthy without them ; even medicad men with whom we have discussed dietetics and cookery, asked such superficial questions.11 Had they the courage to break with tradition and prejudice, and allow their perceptive and reflective facultiies freedom in the pursuit of knowledge, they would be amazed at the wealth of novel and varied food combinations, enormously higher in nutriment than flesh-meat, that can be palatably produced free of all which is injurious. It may encourage some if a few comparisons of the food and monetary value of this, and the flesh-meat eating systems were here set forth. The housewife knows that one and a half pounds of lean beef can be bought for a shilling, also that four pounds of peas can be bought at the same price but, she probably does not know that the food value is immensely unequal; in her shilling’s worth of beef she has only seven ounces of nourishment, whereas her shilling’s worth of peas will yield her three and a half pounds of nutritment. She knows that six pounds of lentils can be bought for a shilling, and that for the same sum she can buy one and a half pounds of mutton but, it will probably surprise her to learn that her shilling’s worth of lentils would yield her five pounds of nourish- ment, whilst her shilling’s worth of mutton would yield her only seven ounces. If she has a liking for poultry 1 it can be bought at tenpence per pound and will yield her five ounces of nourishment, whilst one pound of shelled walnuts at tenpence would yield her thirteen ounces, and so we might go on with our comparisons were it necessary and we had not confidence that the average intelligence of the community, freed from prejudice, will perceive the advantages accruing from the exercise of a little more12 thought, and practical judgment, being brought to bear upon the feeding problem. Another important point for consideration in relation to this system of feeding, is the liberal use we make of un- cooked fruits and vegetables in the dietary by way of salads, etc. To those of clean palate and simple tastes, a dietary of ripe, seasonable and clean fruits, with nuts and unfermented breads and biscuits, or cakes prepared as per recipes, is nutriment of a higher organic quality than a cooked dietary. Its demand upon the vitality of • the salivary, peptic and other glands of the digestive system is not so great, and its purifying and cleansing effect upon the life stream, in ourselves, and its descent to our progeny, is such as makes for grateful hearts as well as healthy bodies. Besides its purifying and health-giving virtues, it is the least complex and laborious of dietaries to the housewife, allowing her greater freedom and leisure for the culture of other arts and ideals. To the crowd it is the sensational and amusing that is always attractive. The artificial forms and expressions of life (?) are constantly mistaken for the real. It prefers the momentary and illusive enjoyment arising from the gratification of false appetites and sentiments, and which ultimate in diseases of mind and body, to the remoter, but purer joy of carefully and discreetfully thinkmg out its life^ The wrong conceptions it has of spiritual principles and laws, induce and sustain wrong ideas of natural principles and laws, and until it has right and orderly conceptions13 of its psychology, it will not have correct and orderly perceptions of its much abused physiology. Life is a growth from within outward, from the internal to the external; and the growth should be intelligent, not auto- matic, and only to the extent that we make it intelligent and orderly, are we men and women. In concluding these prefatory notes let us say that we make no pretension to have solved the feeding problem ourselves but, we claim that observation and experience, in a close study, and application, of the operative principles of nature, in their relation to the vital principle of the human organism have convinced us of the absolute worth of pure foods in regaining and maintaining good health. It oannot be denied that the natural condition of man must b® one of healthfulness ; longevity; and much enjoyment; yet v/e are so confirmed in the falsities of life generally, that we daily mistake the present unnatural condition of things for the natural; the artificial for the real; the false for the true; and arguing therefrom, pervert nature at every opportunity; and, when brought to the light, and the sight of things in their right perspective, we are so weak-willed and enslaved by our own and other people’s prejudices, that we have not the wise courage to put forth the effort to subdue and eradicate the fakes of our nature by the introduction of those principles born of the light, however, it must be admitted that with saner methods of feeding ; clothing ; housing ; educating ; marrying and breeding, man would14 be nearer his natural condition ; and the Nation in three generations would treble its use and worth to time, and to eternity. Why should “God be mocked ” by the perverted appetites of our heredity and early training if, by exercising a little more thought and discretion; and a little more effort; we can so live as to make our bodies a fitting receptacle for the indwelling of His Spirit. The Word says :—“ Whether ye eat or whether ye drink ; or what- soever ye do, do all to the glory of God,'’ and in doing “ all to the glory of God ” lies the secret of physical as well as spiritual regeneration. Bbonallt, SkETTY, GliAM. Jan.^ 1904.15 This Picture—and That! A basket of beautiful and luscious fruits how it makes the mouth to water; how pleasant to the sight; how delightful to the touch and delicious to the taste! These inviting states arise from the operation of a physiological law which is set in motion by the harmony of the conditions, and is the natural expression of the much perverted principle of aiimentiveness ; a principle prolific of good health, or of disease; as we use, or abuse it, in the human economy. Human nature has travelled so far from the edenic state; that we do not, or cannot, readily perceive the operation of this alimentive principle, and other principles of our organism, the sublimity of whose use would be entrancing, were we able to perceive and appreciate it. We need to live closer to nature— hence our pleas for a natural diet in particular, and a natural life in general. Does the sight and the handling of flesh-meat give the same pleasure as the sight and handling of fruit ? Does it set in motion the same natural principles as expressed in “ Making the mouth to water ” ? The appetite that can find uncooked, and even cooked flesh undisguised by the usual accompaniment of salt, and other condiments, palatable must not only be perverted in itself, but will eventually bring into a state of perversion many of its relative principles and appetites. The fact that the sight and handling of beautiful fruits so stimulates the salivary16 glands, and so freely promotes the secretion of the several digestive fluids, as greatly to aid the digestive and assimila- tive processes of our organism, is evidence of a long-lost condition of life, which we should spare no effort to regain for our own, and our children’s sake. The beauties of nature are always inviting and welcome to us. A harvest scene—how picturesquely beautiful! A well-filled orchard—how pleasing and satisfying, as well as inspiring of hope and gratitude! Such scenes always appeal to the highest and truest there is within us; they never are repulsive to the most delicately sensitive, but they elevate our thoughts and sentiments to the adoration point and worship of Him who said—“Feed my Lambs,” On the other hand, do the shambles of the abattoirs appeal to our truest instincts—apart from the demand the timid creatures make upon our sympathy ? Do its sights tend to elevate our thoughts ? Is there pleasure in watching the preparation of flesh-meat for the market, and table ? On the contrary, to a sensitive and clean mind, or to a child, there is little which is more repulsive and degenerating than this labourious and brutalising process; there is little so diametrically opposed, not only to our highest instinct, but also to the laws of life, and consequently to the laws of health, and economics. The innocence of childhood finds pleasure in the harvest fields and orchards ; in the abattoirs, what does it find ? Most people relish fresh fruit; even he who satiates himself on “the roast beef of old England” has left a17 little appetite for the fruits in his dessert. We know too, that many people relish flesh-meat when disguised in the cooking and spicing processes. Also that this is so from the same reason that most people profess certain religious creeds—simply because their parents did, or, do so. That multitudes eat flesh-meat is no proof that Nature intended the carcases of animals for human sustenance, rather, is it one of the most artificial, and pernicious, of many degenerative habits acquired by about one-fifth of the human race. Unnatural appetites demand unnatural food. Eighty per cent, of the human race eat no flesh-meat and the remaining twenty per cent, do so from ignorance of what is natural and best, and a constant craving for stimulating food to appease artificial appetites. Artificial food makes for artificial teeth ; eyes and hair, not to mention scores of other “aids to nature,”—as if nature needs such “aids”! The only “aid” that nature needs, and demands of us, is that we live in harmony with her laws. She has provided the food best adapted to our nourish- ment as human animals, and we are at our best when we naturally live upon it. To live in harmony with nature’s laws is not so difficult as sometimes is imagined ; for just as it is easier to spiritually live a good life than an evil life, so is it naturally easier to live a healthy than an unhealthy life; failure comes largely, if not wholly, where the falsities of our physiological life descend into our physiological life to the extent of trying to improve upon nature’s methods, and what a colossal failure trying18 to improve upon nature’s methods has proved to he, is seen in the fact that there is not an absolutely healthy civilized man in the world of to-day. Nature is just, and when we observe her laws, her justice pervades our whole life, and through the life stream it descends in its fulness as an heritage transcending in its loveliness the tawdry heirlooms, and interests, of a so-called noble lineage as does the morning beauty of the King of Day transcend in its brilliancy the latest discovery in light—Eadium. On the other hand, if we disobey her laws, and thereby disorganise our life, her “ retribution ” though apparently slow is certainly sure, and equally just and natural as are the beautiful and joyous results of obedience to her laws.REGENERATIVE FOOD AND COOKERY.21 To the Housewife. To many housewives cookery is a task, and looked upon as so much drudgery, when really, it is as much a sphere of uses to the human organism in the present state of its development as a natural body, as is that of the priest to the human organism in its present state of development as a spiritual body, it is only a difference of degree, and each in its degree is as much a religious duty as is the other. Without a thorough knowledge of how to feed her household, no housewife can efficiently fill her sphere of uses. Can you calculate the difference of degree in the nature of the delights arising within you, and those you love, when partaking of that which has been worked from your own mind and hands as compared with that produced through the mind and hands of the hired servants of com- mercialism ? The deeper measures of delight springing from that which is worked from the housewife and mother, has its origin in her love of use, or service (the heavenly grace of charity) to her household—an infinitely sublimer principle of action and service than the selfish love of producing for gain or reward ; when this homely love of service flows from the home into the community, its delights will quickly submerge the selfish perversions of rapacious commercialism with its health-destroying adulterations.22 It should be borne in mind that the object of cooking food should be to render it more palatable, digestible and nutritious; in fact, cooking when properly done is a pre- digestive process, and being such, the housewife and cook should make a thorough study of the quality, combination and preparation of the foods which are to be converted into healthy or unhealthy—according to her knowledge of the process— blood and tissue. Cookery is an art, and the cook should be an artist by genius, and by training. Some day her training will in- clude a knowledge of the chemistry and physiology of food production and human nutrition. Her workroom (the kitchen) should be a sphere wherein the delights of her uses arise from the happy combination of her genius with the most useful appliances, and cleanest of health- sustaining foods. We have long been convinced from our knowledge of the average kitchen, that much energy, time and material, is daily wasted, which, with a little thought, and a small monetary expenditure upon useful appliances, could be saved ; for cookery, like other arts, requires tools as well as brains. APPLIANCES. The architect and builder have much to learn in the design and construction of a really useful kitchen. Large, airy, well-lighted, and well-ventilated rooms, with beautifully-tiled walls, an easily-cleaned hard wood floor, an orderly arrangement of cupboards and tables so con-23 structed with movable shelves and troughs, hanging hooks, etc., as to bring the appliances and materials within easy reach, and to be easily cleansed ; there should be a capacious and easily-controlled cooking range ; gas, or electric stove ; a small table motor to drive the mincers, nutmills and mixers ; and above all, an abundant and easiiy-accessible hot and cold water supply would save much soul weariness, and bodily fatigue; however, now that national attention is given to physical deterioration, there is to be seen some hope of this pleasure, in the art of cookery being realised, and until then, you will find cooking with gas a cleaner, healthier, cheaper and less laborious cookery than that of the open grates and ranges with their waste of heat and energy; those who have not tried it would do well to move dn this direction, also, get a steamer, with sections to be extended to your requirements ; several of these very useful cookers are now on the market, either of which can easily be used upon a range, gas or oil stove. The steamer is really the most useful of modern inventions in the way of cooking appliances ; the time and labour it saves is great, and yet small when compared with the valuable salts and other health-giving elements, easily soluble and lost in the boiling process, which it saves, and thereby enhancing the value and greatly improving the flavour of the food it cooks. Take the cooking of a potato as an illustration of this truth ; a steamed potato contains nearly double the quantity of potash salts contained in a boiled potato of equal size. Nature provides these salts as a means24 of Dourishment and purification to a healthy life, and were it every housewife’s aim to preserve nature’s balances, she would thereby become scientific in her methods, the fruits of which would be manifest in the improved health of her household. In the steamer are other points of much importance to the busy housewife. When filled with the foods to be cooked the steamer calls for little attention; it takes much less room than the boiling process with its many pots and pans; and cooks the whole meal in the one process, using only the heat, time and energy used in the cooking of one section of the meal by the old process. In addition to the gas, or oil appliances, steamer, and the usual kitchen utensils, you should have at your service such simple and useful time and labouring saving appliances as a mincer, food-chopper, frying-basket, potato-flaker, nutmill, raisin seeder, lemon drills, peelers and corers, egg whisk or whipper, a duplex boiler, chop- ping board and bowls, sieves and strainers, balances and measures, and such other little appliances as your own necessities and inventiveness will bring into use ; and let us here remark that one of the greatest pleasures this hygienic system of cooking and living brings one, is that of using ones own inventiveness, and quickening the interest of the whole household in its own nourishment, and health. Need we add that there should be a place for these appliances; that each should be carefully clean- sed before being put into its place ; that much sickness is caused by the use of dirty utensils in the preparation of25 food and drink; and above all, that carelessness, dirtiness, slovenliness, disorder and laziness, are fateful disqualifi- cations to good cookery. A successful cook will be healthy, cheerful and active, intensely earnest and atfect- ionate, discrete and orderly, of a susceptible and compre- hensive intellect, artistic and practical, with genius enough to get more than the letter of these general principles and methods into her mind and hands, THE QUALITY OF FOOD. Allow no unsound or adulterated food to enter your kitchen if you possibly can detect it. Living on the lines herein advocated, will soon give you the fine senses of touch, taste, and smell for detection. It is far cheaper, and certainly is healthier, that you live upon the little which is food, than much which is not; and it is surprising what little one can live on and be healthy. Over-eating is an expensive and dangerous practice, a very prolific cause of ill-health and laziness. Human nature is de- signed for the highest type of life and uses, and should consequently be so nourished as to be able to express that life and use with the greatest ease and pleasure ; it is only by so doing, that we can justify, and serve the purpose of our life, and glorify its Infinite Designer. The Fundamental Principle of this system is to jiro- vide all food in as nearly the balanced condition as nature supplies it. The flour, whether of wheat, oat or barley, should be entire wholemeal; rice should be un- *1 "d26 polished; all fruits and vegetables should be cooked and served in their own juices, and the menu of each meal should consist of a proportionate blending of the several elements of food essential to the maintenance of a healthy life ; to separate the bran with its valuable salts, from the gluten of wheat; to polish rice, etc.; or, to pour into the sink the nourishing and purifying juices of vegetables, fruits or grains, is unscientific, extremely wasteful, and a perversion of natural chemistry; nature knows no unbal- anced food, nor does she waste; her balances are just and perfect; it is our lack of understanding which disturbs them. Every Article of Food should be so cooked as to retain fully its salts and consequently its flavours ; when this is done, and the several foods of which a meal consists, are judiciously combined, you have the secret of the natural art of flavouring, and can well afford to discard the use of mineral salt with its inorganic and health- destroying properties, together with most, if not all, artificial flavourings. Take the use of lemon juice as an illustration of added flavouring. A little fresh lemon juice carefully blended with many foods adds considerably to its palatableness, and by its purifying properties tends greatly to the improvement of health. In the preparation of salads and sauces, where stands vinegar with its poisonous acids in comparison with fresh lemon juice ? The cook who best knows the natural art of blending, and flavouring in this system of cookery and food preparation, is likely to be the best propagandist, and27 be the most praised. When boiling is practised, the aim should be to use as little water as is possible, and if this little is not absorbed, and cannot be served with the food, it can, and should be used in the gravies, sauces, or soups, that the natural balance be not disturbed. The same applies to the steam condensed in the several chambers of the steamer during the cooking. Let us again say that wherever possible the steaming process certainly should supercede the boiling process; you may just as well throw away the juices of your oranges, pine- apples, lemons, etc., and serve the pulp only, as throw away the waters in which your vegetables, grains, or fruits have been cooked, one is equally as unscientific as the others. The Fats should be butter (and unsalted butter to be preferred), and such nut fats as are now very generally used as butter substitutes; we prefer the latter, or pure olive oil for frying purposes (see chapter on Meat Substitutes, etc.). Use no butter, oils, or fats having the least suspicion of being tainted in any way. “Cook- ing fats” like “cooking eggs” should find their way to the waste bucket; it will be a far cheaper and healthier use of it. Think of the corruption disguised in sausages, brawn, confectionery, etc. Would the meat-eater eat these undisguised ? Then why expect to be free of the disease and suffering which eating of any doubtful article of food entails simply because it has been, or can be, disguised in the flavouring and cooking process. Better miss a meal; abstinence will not injure you; on28 the contrary, an occasional fast will much benefit you. Let the rule of cooking only what you can eat without cooking, prevail in your kitchen. Milk just a little sour ; butter “just a little gone” in flavour; vegetables and fruits just a little bruised, unripe, etc., must be kept out of your kitchen, if you and your family are to be well. Watek—The need of a pure supply of water is of the greatest importance if your cookery is to be perfect, and especially is this to be so in the making of bread, cakes or pastries. To those who have not a filter or distiller ; boiling the water and storing it in pottery pans, or jars, is an excellent substitute; fill one pan, or jar, whilst using the contents of the other, and it will have time to deposit the impurities, and by ladling out what you need, you do not disturb the sediment; the reduction of disease risks, and the improved health arising from it, is sufficient consolation for the extra labour it entails. A very good, and ['easy method of distillation is a contrivance like a steamer, having a cold upper chamber into which the steam rises and is condensed, then allowed to run into a pottery jar. The value of water as a cleansing agent we all know, but its value as a means of aiding digestion and nutrition ; its contribution to the susten- ance of our bodies by dissolving and circulating the nutritive elements of our food, and its aid in cleansing the tissues of their waste products, wa do not so well know. No element has a greater influence upon the preservation, or the restoration of health, than water, hence we cannot be too careful of its purity.29 Condiments.—The perverted appetites of our heredity, and mistaken dietary of our childhood, and youth, have developed in most of us the mistaken notion, that no dish can be palatable without some kind of artificial flavouring or condiment, and in this, as in most other things pertaining to food and cookery, we are mistaken. Arti- ficial appetites crave for artificial food and drink. The natural palate finds in the natural flavourings of clean, and properly cooked food, all it needs to excite, and satisfy the senses of alimentation. The unsuspected cause of much of the drunkenness and crime of the age, is the artificial and perverted state of the average appetite for food and drink. Condiments—salt; pepper; mustard ; vinegar; sauces; etc.—are not food; they are in- nutritions irritants; wholly unnecessary; with a palat- ableness to be measured only by the depth of degeneracy to which the eaters’ appetites have sunken. They are mistakenly designed to improve the palatability of our food, but their action is such as to cause the salivary ; peptic ; and other glands of the digestive tract to secrete too freely their juices in the effort to resist the injurious, or poisonous, nature of the condiment, and thereby impairing the tone, and deranging the function of the organs of digestion, and ultimately debilitating the whole organism. If we treated our eyes, as we do our digestive organs in this matter of stinging and poisonous flavourings, we should be very quickly blind. Salt.—Of all condiments, salt is the most generally used. Some people imagine, and indeed some “great30 authorities ” whom we could quote, have written, that mankind could not live ivithout saU; when really, it is only a small percentage of the human race who eat it; thousands in this country live without it; we have, for many years, lived without salt. Sodium Chloride (common salt) is a mineral, and therefore an inorganic substance which the human organism can by no means digest or assimilate, on the contrary, it does all it can to eliminate salt when introduced to the body by any means other than the organic form in which it is found in all natural, and conservatively coohed food. One need not be a president of the British Medical Association to know that human, or a.nimal life, can not be sustained by the use of inorganic, or mineral substances as food. The law of life demands that all inorganic, or mineral matter, must pass into vegetable forms, there to be organised into food for the sustenance of human, and animal life. An instance of the superficial manner in which this, and other aspects of the food question, is treated by medical, and surgical “specialists” is evidenced by the following fact —A patient in the course of a consultation with a surgical specialist asked him the following question : “ What about salt doctor, may I eat it ? ” “ certainly! ” came the reply, you could not live without salt; the horses in Mexico go hundreds of miles to lick the rock salt; ” had this popular specialist gone to his own stables, and inquired of his groom, he would have dis- covered that his own horses lived well without salt. It has been discovered that a liberal use of salt raises31 the blood-pressure, and that when the habit is discon- tinued ; or, the quantity of salt reduced; or, when profuse perspiration is induced, and the salt thereby partly eliminated, the blood-pressure falls. Many kidney troubles, and especially dropsy, are diseases produced by the use of table-salt and its accumulation in the tissues of the body ; and when not a direct cause of disease, the retention of salt in the body, is certain to be a source of aggravation when a diseased condition is set up by other causes; fortunately, merciful nature through our vital processes makes every effort to rid our bodies of common salt; she throws it out by tears ; perspiration ; expectoration and all catarrhal effluvia as well as by t he faeces. Gan you imagine, or calculate, the waste of vital power its elimination entails ? How much of ease; energy; health; and longevity, could be saved to us, if the mistaken habit of salt-eating were discontinued, and the conservative process of cookery, and dieting, herein advocated, whereby the natural salts of the food are saved, were universally adopted ? Anyone unused to salt-eating, taking salt with his food, soon finds himself suffering from hot acid risings ; a raw, and inflammatory state of the mucous membranes of the throat ; gullet, and stomach. There is room to think, that if a thorough investigation were made, it would be found that the general use of spectacles is largely attributable to the general use of salt, poisonous condiments, and food preservatives. Many suggestions;32 and evidences of this fact, have been observed by us since an acquaintance, who is very fond of condiments, and an extravagant eater of salt, and sugar, suffered badly from abdominal hernia, and cataract of both eyes ; one of which has already been operated upon, and the other is likely soon to call for the same treatment, if he is not quickly “born again” into the consciousness of sinning against his body. It is a generally accepted fact that scurvy is invariably the result of living upon unnatural food; condiments; and especially salted; pickled ; and preserved foods. Would the addition of condiments to the diet of one so unclean, tend to alleviate his suffering ? Such treatment could only aggravate such sickly states, and without a whole- some diet of fresh juicy fruits, particularly oranges, and lemons, the unhappy sufferer has little hope of cleansing his body. Where stands your materia medica in com- parison to such a natural process as a fruit diet in the treatment of diseases ? ViNEGAE.—There can be no excuse for using this health-destroying product of putrefaction and decay, or mixture of mineral acids, etc.; when the pure and cleansing juice of the lemon can so easily and healthily take its place. Note its use in flavourings; sauces; salads, etc. Food Preseevation.—The popular methods of food preservation by salt; pickle of sugar; and vinegar, are equally as health-destroying as the universal habit of add-33 ing the fiery contents of the cruet to the food at table. Such food has little life-giving properties in it; the preserving process largely destroys its use as a tissue builder in the human organism; to and put such food into the human stomach, is to give that much-abused organ the wasteful and exhausting work of reducing it to iis level, and eliminating the useless stuff. SuGAu,—The excessive use of sugar as a necessary and luxurious article of food should give us pause. Sugar enters so largely into ail dietaries, and we are so accus- tomed to its use, that an investigation of the effects of its abuse would more than surprise us. Simple and easily planned lines of experiment, observation, smd thought, should convince every earnest food-reformer thed the excessive use of sugar in present day dietaries is a prolific cause of ill-health; and that to the fruitarian, sugar is quite an unnecessary article of diet. The appetite for sweats is natural, and should be gratified in a more natural way than by the excessive and pernicious use of artificial and adulterated sugars Sugar as found in its natural form in fruits, nuts, cereals and honey, where we find it naturally and proportionately organised v/ith other nour- ishing elements of food, is fajr better adapted to human digestion and nutrition, than are the manufactured, refined and concentrated sugars of commerce ; commercial sugars are a common cause of fermentation and acidity, and many dyspeptics have been well-rid of their discomforts by abstaining from the sugar habit. The habit of eating large quantities of sugar with porridge and other milk food,34 pastries and fruits, etc., is to be deplored, since it is a waste of vitality, energy and material to do so. The tons of cheap and dirty sugars, together with the barrels of mianufactured glucose, not to mention the filthy fats, etc. which enter our sweet-making and cake-faking establish- ments, are largel)^ the secret of the enormous profits made through these establishments, and partly the reason why, as a people, we are becoming a nation of dyspeptics and pill-consumers. Wholesome sweetening should be got from the clean and pure cane sugar, and honey—if the pro- portional quantity in fruits, nuts and cereals, are found to be insufficient. Honey as a sweetening far excels all sugars; and as a therapeutic agent, and sweetening, in the cure of disease, no home should be without it. If clean, it is an anti-ferment, and if taken with milk (a food with which it is so frequently bracketed in The V/ord) in which it has stood an hour or two, it is ver}^ comforting and sustaining to the dyspeptic. Were its value as a food and therapeutic agent fully appreciated, most farmers, and gardeners would add an apiary to his industry, and honey could be then produced, and distributed, as cheaply as jam now is, thus enormously adding to the health, and beauty of life, THE COMBINATION OF FOODS. The housewife should have some knowledge of the composition, value, and proportional arrangement of foods. She should understand that to prepare the household diet- ary on these conservative and regenerative lines, is to make35 it more nutritious than it is, or can be, on the old lines ; and that therefore the exercise of perception, discretion and a practical judgment, is necessary to success. She should carry in her mind the principal elements of each class of food, and the approximate measure of each, which is necessary to the maintenance of good health. An unbal- anced dietary induces unbalanced states of healith, ment- ally and physically. The several foods constituting a meal should bo combined in approximate proportion to the principal elements thereof; this rule has been obser- ved in the preparation of the recipes, and menus, in this book; it is a simple rule, and one that enters easily into the mind and methods of the average intelligence. The principal elements cf nutrition in the several classe.s of food will presently be described, but here let us remark that those of our readers who decide upon a simple dietary, consisting only of fruits, nuts, and cereals, or fruit, cereals and good milk, will have little, or no difficulty, in the matter of combination and healthy nutrition—especially is this so if, they cultivate this simple and health-giving taste to the extent of confining their choice at one meal, to no more than one kind of food from each of the three classes; these clean, simple and unlaboured foods agree well together; it is the too liberal use of eggs, cream, butter and coarse vegetables, under- cocked, or fat-sodden foods, and too liberal use of peas, beans, and nuts at one meal, or too much sugar with fruit, which disagree in the stomach by setting up a fer- mentation which is as bad as that of the old dietary, and equally as health-destroying.36 A Veet Common Mistake, demanding a constant waste of vitality and energy, and most debilitating in its effect upon mind and body, is that of eating too much and too often, Who that has studied the food of nations, and has not marvelled at the little food upon which some nations live healthily, and perform uses demanding a measure of patient physical endurance, and mental alertness, greatly beyond that of the heartiest beef-eater. It was the Japanese’s clean and simple dietary of grain and pulse which lost Russia her fleet and territory, Some people imagine that when they give up eating flesh-meats they must eat largely of other more or less concentrated foods; such a painful mistake will be obviated, if the reader and housewife have brought an unbiassed judgment to the study and application of this system. In our youth we had many and varied opportunities for the study of animal life, and a fact learnt in those happy days of country life, will here perhaps, more fully elucidate our ideas on this matter of a balanced diet and over-eating. A horse fed only upon grain will soon lose health and strength, and die; but if, when he shows signs of declining health and strength, he is given a few “feeds” of hay and straw’' chaff, and vegetable food, or is allowed to graze, he quickly begins to “ pick up,” and recover his strength and vigour; a fact which also goes far in support of our claims for the use of entire and natural foods, such as wholemeal bread, etc. The Numbee op Meals to be eaten in a day depends largely upon the individual temperament, degree of37 alimentiveness, work and circumstances. The world- custom, if it is to be judged by the majority, is two meals a day. We think the laws of nature support this custom, however, if the individual has not an abnormal and irreg- ular appetite, he, or she, will do no very great violence to nature if five hours elapse between the ending of one meal, and the beginning of next meal, and four hours between the last meal and going to bed. As A Guide to Food Selection and Combination we will here briefly describe the classes of foods, the elements they contain, and the use they serve in the maintenance of health. Water, to cleanse the tissue as well as to dissolve, and circulate the nutritive properties of our food, also to con- tribute to the nourishment of our bodies. A large per- centage of water, in its purest distilled condition, is contained in fresh fruit, the finer vegetables, milk and eggs. Proteid, the glutinous and albuminous elements, is the strength producer, tissue and muscle builder; it is found largely in the legumes, such as peas, beaus, lentils also in eggs and nuts, with this difference, that in the cocoanut the percentage of proteid is rather lower, and that of fat and water higher; and in the chestnut the per- centage of carbo-hydrates is very high, and proteid, etc., only moderately so. Caebo-hvdrates, the starch and sugar elements of food which contribute chiefly to the supply of energy, and38 partly to the supply of heat; these are found very largely in cereals—wheatmeal; oatmeal; barley; rice ; sago ; etc,, also preparations from such grains; dried fruits ; and the chestnut, potato, etc, Hvdko-Carbons, the fat elements of food, supply heat chiefly, and help towards the nourishment of nerve ; the highest percentage of these elements will be found in their natural and emulsified form in nuts, and the nut butter preparations which are now largely substituting animal and dairy fats in the food-reformers’ dietary. All Natural Foods contain a natural proportion of each of the above elements and of organic salts ; in these paragraphs we have only set forth the principal element in the several classes of foods ; it is by a discreet blending of the several foods that a correct dietary is to be arranged ; and in this direction the reader can easily educate the alimentive principle of his nature, and the housewife as easily obviate mistakes, if it is borne in mind that the average human organism requires less than twenty ounces of solid nutriment (water free food) daily ; less than fourteen per cent, of which should be Proteid; eighty per cent. Carbo-hydrates, and six per cent, of Hydro-carbons.39 The Art of Bread Making. How far the physical degeneracy of the race can be attributed to commercial bread stuffs is a question demanding a Government inquiry as searching in its investigations, as it would be revolutionary in its proposals—if it honestly and thoroughly got at the facts. Because of the commercialism of the age, the art of making wholesome bread has passed from the housewife’s hands and is almost forgotten by her, and to-day bread is made for profit and not for nourishment. YHiat a contrast is the present day art of bread-making to that simplest, and oldest, affectionate service mentioned in the sixth verse of the eighteenth chapter of the book of Genesis, wherein it is written, that Abraham directed his wife Sarah to “ knead fine meal and make cakes upon the hearth.” This was probably an unleavened bread, and possibly like unto that eaten at the Passover. The Heb- rew gave much thought and attention to food pro- duction, and what we in these days term hygiene and sanitation—even now these things receive more his attention than is given to them by the average Christian^ and this probably explains the Jews greater average vitality and longevity. He tilled the ground ; grew and milled his own corn; and made it into wholesome bread. Food production was his first, and by him con- sidered to be the finest, of the arts, until he sunk into a state of degeneracy through the falsities of his religiou,40 and the brutality of a commercialism which blinded his perception and appreciation of the beautiful and useful. In that sweetest and most beautiful of pastoral idylls it is written, that the lovely Ruth was gleaning in the fields when Boaz saw and loved her; and it was when threshing corn, that the revelation came to Gideon that he should be the Deliverer of Israel. The nearer an age lives to heavenly uses, the simpler and more beautiful are its science and art of food production, and the less it knows artificial means of food production with its false principles of adulteration, fermentation, and health destruction. Wherever the art of making bread is known to primitive people—and bread-making in some form is as universal as the divine providence—it is unfermented bread that is made. Those who know the land and the people, say that there is no better bread than that which to-day is made in Syria just as it was made three thousand years ago. There the women grind their own corn into wholemeal^ and wet it with pure water only, then knead it into cakes and bake it before a fire. Will it be said by our descendants three thousand years hence, that the bread-making of those days resembles the bread-making of these days when as a people we employ about forty thousand medical practitioners, and nearly ten thousand registered dentists ?—we think not, for at the rate we now are travelling doctor, and dentist—ward we shall soon be substituting “Dame Nature ” with the knights of the forceps, and that as early as infantile dentition ; we already have school children with artificial teeth.41 In our cabinet of crania we have the skulls of an Indian Brave and his Squaw with teeth so well preserved in old age as to be the admiration of all who see them > and we have read, and heard it related by travellers, that most, if not all, “ savages die with their mouth full of teeth.” Modern civilization rarely knows such a healthy condition as a well-preserved mouthful of teeth in old age ; and almost as rarely knows a young man of twenty- one summers with thirty-two perfect teeth in his jaws; artificial, rather than natural, teeth are becoming the rule to most people over twenty-one years old. We think that bread whether made of wheat; oat; barley; maise or other grain; to be nutritious and health-giving to the human organism must be so produced that the cereals lose none of their attributes in the process. The husks of moat cereals, and especially that of wheat, contain large quantities of material suitable to our body and its functions—a truth demonstrated by the fact that a pound of white bread contains less than one- forth the potash salts and alkaline phosphates which wholemeal unleavened bread contains. It is the loss of these salts and phosphates by the ordinary processes of bread-making and general cookery that is the cause of one of the most prevalent diseases of these days— Saline Starvation. The exclusive use of white bread from which the bran has been removed is especially noticeable in its effects upon the bony structure of the body, and as a disease it largely expresses itself in the form of bad teeth ;42 rickets and other deformities. To live exclusively iijjon fer- mented bread made from white flour would be to de'^eiop a state of disease so serious as to speedily prove fatal were we not allowed other foods, but living exclusively upon wholemeal unfermented bread would not, by a long way, be so speedily disastrous. In our prisons, and our workhouses; the inmates are chiefly fed with coarse wholemeal bread; potatoes steamed in their jackets; pea-soup ; gruel &c. ; and the average health, and death rate, of these people is greatly superior to that of every other class of the community, and this from no more likely cause than that the conservative principle, as advo- cated in this little book, is embodied in their food and cookery—a fact which should be noted by the present sitting Commission of inquiry into the physical degeneracy of the race. The present day method of excladiog the bran when making bread, is not the only way in which its nutritive and health-giving quality is lessened, The putrefactive process of making it lessens it stiii more. Yea-st as a ferment is as much, possibly more, a con- tributory cause of disease as is the exclusion of the bran. The reader needs no very extensive knowledge of Chemistry and Biology to prove this. Let him take a little moistened flour and add a little yeast in the usua-1 way of doing so ; then watch the putrefactive process develop itself; if this process is allowed to go on un- checked by the action of heat, it destroys itself by becoming a sour mass of “ living rottennessf which,43 if seen under the microscope, would be far more agreeable and interesting to the eye than palatable to the taste, or agreeable and comforting to the stomach. Yeast whether as yeast, or in the form of barms; leaven ; &c. is corruption, and corrupts every food and drink into which it is introduced; the ordinances of the Hebrew Church proscribed leaven from all her sacrifices; and so significant of evil was leaven considered to be, Israel could only be purified by its exclusion from every house and its environment. We used the words “unchecked by heat ” advisedly, as it is erroneously supposed that the action of heat destroys the putrefactive process set up by the yeast and other ferments, when really, this is not so, as can be attested to by the fact that a few days after the baking process, the putrefactive element again makes its presence known and felt to those senses of smell, taste, and digestion clean enough to discern it. The reader will find on experiment that bread made on the cleao and conservative lines of the following recipes will keep “ sweet ” very much longer than the fermented breads, and when a little “stale, or dry” can, differently to fermented bread, be dipped into hot water and be rebaked, after which they are even more toothsome and digestible than after the first baking. It should be understood that patent flours, and chemical substitutes for yeast and barm risings, are as great an evil atid equally injurious to health as is yeast itself, and should be eschewed as poisons, such things are as so44 much dirt, or grit, and when lodged in the delicate mechanism of the human body must more or less impede its action and uses. (Read paragraph on Salt). No man would be so indifferent to the care even of his watch as he is careless of his body—until nature calls a halt. The use of baking powders and salt retards the free flow of the digestive fluids, and must be a very common cause of ulcerated stomachs, and other digestive troubles. Now, considering the important value of bread to human life and its use, should not the production of health-giving bread be an imperative to individuals, and the community ? Our Municipal bodies have made the provision of a plentiful supply of pure water an imperative duty; and owing to the awfully high rate of infantile mortality, are now making strenuous efforts towards the cleansing and municipalisation of our milk supply; and why should any effort and expense b© spared in the direction of a municipal and health-giving bread supply ? The necessaries of life should be produced for health, and not for profit. A movement in this direction has taken firm hold of the administrative bodies of several Contin- ental cities. Municipalise the means of bread production and you can not only greatly raise the standard of its purity and economise in the work of its production and distribution but, you will enormously add to the health- fulness, usefulness, and longevity of the community— if the bread, cakes and biscuits, are produced on the conservative lines herein advocated.45 RECIPES FOR BREADS, AND PLAIN BISCUITS, Etc. The exercise of good judgment; alertness; patience and perseverance is very necessary to the succes-ful production of healthy foods on the lines of these recipes. Patience and perseverance are essential, for haste, or dilatoriness spoil the process, and cause waste. Do not allow your initial failures in the least discourage you, with constant care and practice, success in the preparation ; palatability and pleasure in the mastication ; and health from the digestion, and assimilation of these pure foods, will ultimately crown your efforts. The cakes and biscuits may ‘‘look nicer’’ when made of white flour, but they cannot be so wholly nutritious, which makes a vast difference in the health of your household. A very common remark made by people w^ho consult us is—“I suppose that we must now give up eating cakes, pastries, &c. ? ” not at all; if your cakes and biscuits are made on these hygienic lines, they will nourish rather than injure you; we eat freely of these, and so do patients and friends who come to us for treatment and guidance in dietetics and cookery. Unfermented Bread (1.)—The easiest and healthiest method of making unfermented bread is to have four breakfast-cups full of cold boiled water in an enamel, or strong china bowl; stir into this sufficient wholemeal flour to make a moderately stiff dough, then turn it out on to a well floured paste board. If it is46 well-stirred to the right “temper,” you will find it turn out cleanly, and you can then divide the dough into small loaves, knead them well, and put them into a quick oven, and if your oven is of the right temperature, the bread will be thoroughly baked in forty minutes. Unfermented Bread (2)*—Beat with an egg-beater, one half-pint of cold boiled, or distilled water until it bubbles, then quickly fold into it, with a wooden spoon, sixteen ounces of whole- meal flour, divide^and form the dough into small rolls and brush these with beaten egg; and bake them, in a quick oven for thirty minutes. Milk Rolls.—Have one half-pint of clean milk at the boiling point and stir into it ten ounces of wholemeal flour then turn it out upon a floured paste-board and divide it into small rolls, twist these, and brush over with beaten egg, then bake them in a moderate oven for fifty minutes. Short Bread.—Have one pound of wholemeal flour, rub into it six ounces of pure butter, then wet it with sufficient cold boiled water to make a moderately stiff dough; knead it well, then cut and shape it into small rolls, or buns, about an inch in thickness and bake them in a moderate oven for one hour. Egg Raised Loaves (1).—Put a fresh egg, a teaspoonful of nut-butter, and a large breakfastcupful of cold boiled water into a strong china bowl, thoroughly beat the mixture into a nice cream and then add only sufficient wholemeal flour to make a batter, mix the batter well with a wooden spoon and put it into a well-buttered tin, bake it in a hot oven for an hour, then turn it out of the tin and put it into cooler part of the oven. You need not touch it with your hands.47 Egg Raised Bread (2).—Beat together in a strong china bowl one fresh egg and half a pint of cold boiled water until the mixture bubbles, then quickly and carefully fold into this, ten ounces of wholemeal hour and put it into a buttered tin, and bake it in a moderate oven for two hours. Raised White Rolls—Those who suffer from a tender, or “sore” stomach, or who have a difficulty in procuring finely- ground wholemeal hour, will find the following recipe make health- ier, and more palatable, white-bread than the ordinary kind. Thor- oughly beat a new-laid egg with half-a-pint of boiled water, or milk, then fold into this, thirteen ounces of good white flour and well mix it, then divide it into four small rolls and bake these in a quick oven for twenty minutes, and move them to a cooler part of the oven for another twenty minutes. Note,—Egg raised breads do not require z, fierce oven ; this also applies to cakes. Egg Gems —Beat thoroughly one fresh egg into a gilt of cold boiled water, and into this slowly sift sufficient wholemeal flour to make a stiff batter, then, with a wooden spoon, briskly beat it for five minutes, or until the batter is light and foaming with bubbles when you will pour it into hot gem pans, and bake for twenty minutes (more or less) in a hot oven. Ginger Bread.—Put one heaped teaspoonful of ground ginger into four ounces of pure butter, slowly melt this in an oven, then thoroughly beat and mix a fresh egg w'ith a tablespoonful of sugar and add this to the now melted butter, add to this, two tablespoons- ful of treacle (‘‘old fashioned” treacle, or molasses, to be preferred to the tin syrups), mix it all well together, then heat thoroughly and slowly into the mixture six tablespoonsful of wholemeal flour one tahlespoonful at a time, make the mixture into small loaves; patty biscuits ; or “snaps,” and bake them in a hot48 oven. You will find this to be in every way much superior to the trade ginger bread. Butter Crisps.—Have one pound of wholemeal flour, thor- oughly rub into it six ounces of pure butter; wet it with sufficient cold boiled water to make a very stiff dough, then divide the dough into five small pieces, roll these very thin, and cut them into squares, etc., and well bake them on a bread-griddle or “bakestone.” When you remove them from the griddle, pass them into a moder- ately warm oven and they will crisp a little harder. Sweet Crisps.—Prepare as butter crisps, with this difference, that you sweeten the water before stirring it into the flour. Plain Butter Biscuits-—Have one pound of vvholemeal flour and into this rub six ounces of pure butter, mix it well vhth a little cold boiled water until it becomes very stiff, knead it, and roll it to a quarter of an inch thickness, then cut it into small round, or square cakes, or biscuits, bake these in a moderate oven for fifteen minutes and remove them to a cooler shelf, to dry and harden. You can sweeten these in the same way as you do the crisps. Crackers.—Beat five ounces of pure butter to a cream., or whip five ounces of fresh cream, and into this, mix fourteen ounces of sifted flour ; add sufficient distilled water to mix it into a dough ; let it stand for two hours, then roll it out almost as thin as paper ; cut it with a biscuit cutter and bake these until nicely cracked. RECIPES FOR CAKES, AND FRUIT BISCUITS, Etc. Currant Cakes.—Thoroughly beat twelve ounces of butter and ten ounces of sugar into a cream, to this add one pound of care- fully picked and washed currants, and eight ounces of very finely chopped mixed candied peel; then add seven well-beaten fresh49 eggs, and lastly add one pound of wholemeal flour. Having done this, then mix the whole, thoroughly beating it around the bowl one way with a wooden spoon; divide it into quarter, half, or pound tins lined with buttered paper and bake it in a moderate oven. If you put the mixture into small patty and mince moulds of different forms and sizes ; or if you make it into small “ Queen Cakes ’ ’ you have a toothsome and pleasing supply of “ smalls ” for afternoon teas, and your powder-raised, baker-made ‘‘ Queen Cakes ” will suffer badly in the comparison—if your cakes are carefully made as per recipe. Sultana Cake.—Put twelve ounces of pure butter into a warm oven, then thoroughly beat and mix seven fresh eggs with twelve ounces of sugar; slowly pour the egg and sugar mixture into the melted butter and keep stirring the butter whilst doing so, then add eight ounces of well-washed and carefully-picked sultanas, and one pound of wholemeal flour. Beat the whole mixture thoroughly, then divide it into half-pound, pound, or two-pound tnis and bake it in a moderate oven for two hours and fifteen minutes, more or less according to size of loaves. Seed Cake.—Beat ten ounces of pure butter to a cream, add to this six ounces of sugar and again beat the butter cream. Then separate from the whites, the yolks of four fresh eggs, and thoroughly beat each mass separately ; now put the beaten yolks into the butter cream firstly, and the beaten whites lastly, and again mix the mass, then add one tea-spoonful of carraway seeds, and ten ounces of wholemeal flour ; drive the mixture well one way around the bowl with a wooden spoon, divide it into butter-papered tins and bake it in a quick oven. Small Rice Cake.—Put four ounces of pure butter into a a warm oven. Take a fresh egg, three table-spoonsful of castor sugar and the grated peel of a clean fresh lemon and thoroughly beat them, now pour the melted butter in and beat until the whole50 is a cream, then add six teaspoonsful of clean ground rice and again mix the whole ; put it into a butter-papered tin and bake it in a moderate oven for one hour. Note.—Another nice way of using this mixture is to divide it into small buttered patty or mince tins, and put a walnut half on the face of each and bake them for fifteen minutes. Fairy Cakes-—Beat together for twenty minutes, two new-laid eggs with four ounces of fine castor sugar; add a few drops of lemon juice flavouring, then carefully beat into it four ounces of sifted wholemeal flour, then pour it into a buttered cake tin and sift a little fine sugar over it before you put it into the oven ; bake it in a moderate heat for twenty minutes. Sultana Cake (2).—Beat into a foaming mass eight ounces of fresh eggs and four ounces of clean castor sugar; add to this, three ounce of clean sultanas, one ounce of citron peel, and three ounces of melted butter, then fold into the mixture six ounces of sifted wholemeal flour and pour into a well-buttered cake tin, and bake it for one and a half hours in a moderate oven. Sponge-Cakes-—Put four ounces of pure butter into a hot oven, then beat together three tablespoonsful of fine sugar and a fresh egg, pour this into the now melted butter whilst driving it (the butter) around the bowl; now slowly beat into it five tablespoons- ful of wholemeal flour, in teaspoonsful ; again mix and drive it around the bowl. Have a dozen buttered sponge cake moulds ready, divide the whole into these, and you will find it make a dozen nice cakes, if baked in a moderate oven for fifteen minutes. Pan-Cakes.—Put five ounces of white, or wholemeal flour, into a china bowl, stir into this sufficient clean scalded milk to make a moderately stiff batter, then stir into this four ounces of sugar and a little fresh grated lemon peel flavouring, or a little grated nut- meg, pour into it four well-beaten fresh eggs, and mix it well, then51 fry in butter, using a thickly enamelled pan to do so ; or butter a well-heated bread griddle or “bakestone,” and drop on to this, small quantities of the mixture to the size of an ordinary muffin, and you will have what are called “ pikelets.” Be sure the batter is of the right consistency if you use the griddle. Note.—The same ingredients mixed with fresh butter-milk make delicious pan cakes, and “pikelets.” Fresh Lemon Cakes.—Soften twelve ounces of pure butter, and with a wooden spoon beat it into a cream, then add seven fresh beaten eggs and twelve ounces of sugar that have been well beaten together, add two ounces of blanched and grated almonds, six ounces of grated fresh lemon peel, and one pound of wholemeal flour, now thoroughly and quickly mix the whole by driving it around the bowl fully five minutes ; then divide it into butter-paper lined tins and bake it in a moderate oven for one hour. Lemon Drops-—Mix two ounces of fresh grated lemon peel; three table-spoonsful of wholemeal flour ; two dessert-spoonsful of castor sugar, and two ounces of pure butter ; add to this a beaten fresh egg, and knead the mixture thoroughly; then roll it to the thickness of a crown piece, cut it with a biscuit cutter, place these on buttered paper and bake them for fifteen minutes in a hot oven, then move them to a cooler oven to harden, Fruit Crisps—Take six ounces of wholemeal flour, rub well into this, four ounces of pure butter ; add four ounces of carefully picked and washed currants; then add two oundes of very finely chopped candied peel, and four ounces of sugar. Having thoroughly mixed them, you will now add a little cold boiled water, and thoroughly knead the mixture ; roll it to the requisite thick- ness, and cut it into small cakes, or biscuits, place these on buttered paper and bake them in a hot oven for fifteen, or twenty minutes.52 Sultana Scones.—Into sixteen ounces of wholemeal flour mix two ounces of pure butter, one ounce of sugar, two ounces of sultanas, and a little grated nutmeg ; then beat into a foam two fresh eggs and half-a-pint of water, very quickly fold the mixture into the foaming liquid and divide it into scones, or buns, brush these over with the white of egg and bake them in a moderate oven for thirty minutes.63 Nuts, and Nut Cakes, Etc. As a people we have grown to the mistaken idea, that nuts are a very indigestible, and consequently a very innutritions food ; and this mistaken idea has its origins in the mistaken way that nuts are usually eaten. Like most other foods when unripe ; improperly prepared, or hastily eaten, they must be a cause of indigestion, and probably are discharged from the system in quite an unchanged condition ; but when well-ripened ; milled or pulverised (and in the case of chestnuts, and pea-nu:s well-cooked), and thoroughly masticated there can be no more nutritious food than nuts. To eat nuts between meals; or at meals with other highly concentrated foodj is bad ; and to eat nuts after a substantial meal, such as a dinner, is infinitely worse. Nuts, as has already been stated, contain a very high percentage of the proteid and fat elements of food and this being so, there should be discretion used in the selection and com- bination of other foods or the eater will be sure in some form, to suffer the ill-effects of an excess of nourish- ment. Nuts, when well-ripened, milled, or made into butter, and eaten with unfermented bread or biscuits, and ripe juicy, or stewed fruits, are most nutritious and easily digested—even by many stomachs that reject all other foods—in fact such a combination of foods is an ideal diet, and if the proportions are accurate, no other food can be so conducive to good health, energy, and executiveness.54: To guard against an excessive use of this highly nutritious food, and the ill-effects its imperfect mastication may produce, and thereby make the way easier and healthier to the ideal diet, you should have your nuts worked into cakes and biscuits according to the following recipes, in this way you will have the proteid, fats, and carbo- hydrates combined, and it will be quite an easy matter to add your fresh or stewed fruits. Again where one is in a transitory stage from the old to the new diet, and is greatly troubled by his unregenerated appetites calling for flesh-meats, a comforter will be found in the use of nuts, etc., as directed in the chapter on “ Meat and Fish Substitutes,’’ but again let us say that to those who have clean palates, that nuts eaten on the simple lines of a Nut, Fruit, and Bread Combination, is far the healthiest and most natural way of diet. To Blanche your nuts, cover them with boiling water until the skin is softened and readily slips off between your fingers, and dry the nuts in a moderate oven after you have removed the skins. Use a small nut mill, or grater, to flake them, and a larger and stronger nut mill to crush and pulverise them into cream and butter. Almond Madeira Cake.—Beat together for ten minutes six ounces of fresh eggs and three ounces of sugar, then add three ounces of blanched and ground almonds, and slowly beat into it three ounces of melted butter, and carefully fold into it four ounces of sifted wholemeal flour; turn it into a buttered-paper lined tin and bake it in a moderate oven for one hour. Cocoanut Cake (1.)—Beat together for ten minutes four55 ounces of castor sugar and four fresh eggs and add it to three ounces of butter which has been beaten to a cream; and to this add eight ouuces of clean and fresh grated cocoanut, then mix it thoroughly, and fold into it six ounces of wholemeal flour, bake it in a moderate oven for one hour. Cocoanut Cake (2).—Beat for twenty minutes the yolks of four fresh eggs, six tablespoonsful of the “ milk ” of cocoanut, and four ounces of castor sugar, then add two ounces of melted butter, and eight ounces of clean and fresh grated cocoanut, and again mix, and fold into it eight ounces of white, or of sifted wholemeal flour : divide it into butter-paper lined tins, and bake for fifty minutes. Plain Nut Buns.—Put four ounces of almond butter, or nut butter, into a china bowl, then add slowly, so that you may thoroughly beat it into a cream, three gills of boiled water, after which fold in sufficient wholemeal flour to make a dough, this you will roll out, and divide it into buns of about one inch in thickness and bake in a quick oven for thirty minutes. Filbert and Brazil Nut Sticks.—Put three ounces of shelled and blanched filbert and Brazil nuts through a nut-butter mill, add to this a well-beaten fresh egg ; a desert-spoonful of castor sugar; and a desert-spoonful of cold boiled water, and beat the whole around, then beat into it two tablespoonsful of wholemeal flour, knead the mixture thoroughly and shape it into small sticks of about half-an-inch in thickness, put these upon buttered papers and bake for forty minutes in a moderate oven. With ripe, fresh fruits these are delicious, and very sustaining. Sweet Almond Rolls.—Put four ounces of blanched almonds through a nut-mill, or pulverise them ; then add two tablespoonsful of wholemeal flour, one small tablespoonful of castor sugar, and thoroughly mix them ; then beat to a foam a fresh egg and a desert-spoonful of cold boiled water and again beat it into the mixture until the whole is a stiff dough ; shaped in finger-rolls and baked in a moderate oven for thirty minutes these are dainty, and delicious with fresh fruits. Walnut Crisps Beat to a foam the yolks of two fresh eggs and two tablespoonsful of fine castor sugar ; add to this, six ounces of clean shelled walnuts which have been passed through a nut- mill ; three tablespoonsful of wholemeal flour ; then well mix it, and beat to a foam the whites of two fresh eggs and add this to the mix- ture whilst you drive it for five minutes one way around the bowl; divide it into tablespoonsful on to buttered papers, and bake in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. Hazel Buns.—Put four ounces of shelled and blanched hazel, or Barcelona nuts through a nut-mill, or pulverise them ; then add a well-beaten fresh egg and a heaped teaspoonful of wholemeal flour; thoroughly mix the whole, divide it into quantities for rolls, buns, or twists, and bake in a slow oven for an hour. Cocoanut Drops.—Put eight ounces of clean cocoanul through the mill, and add to this, four ounces of castor sugar, the finely grated rind of a fresh lemon, and two ounces of sifted whole- meal flour; thoroughly mix them, then beat to a foam the whites of five fresh eggs and add it to the mixture beating the whole with a wooden spoon for at least seven minutes, until it has a stiff foaming appearance, then drop a table-spoonful of the mixture on to rice-paper, and bake on a clean iron, enamelled sheet or tray, in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. Pea-nut Scones.—Put six ounces of blanched and steamed, or roasted, pea-nuts through the nut-mill, and add to this two table-57 spoonsful of wholemeal flour, two table-spoonsful of castor sugar, a little fresh grated lemon flavouring, and a few clean sultanas, then mix the whole before you pour into it two well-beaten fresh eggs ; if the eggs provide not enough liquid to make a stift paste, then add a little boiled or sterilized new milk. Divide and shape it into small scones of about half-an-inch thickness, and bake in a hot oven for thirty minutes. Cocoanut Rusks.—Flake six ounces of cocoanut, and add to it four ounces of wholemeal flour, thoroughly mix into this a beaten fresh egg, and add sufficient of the cocoanut “ milk,” drawn from the nut before it was broken, to make a moderately stiff batter which should also be light and foamy ; divide it into buttered iron shallow patty pans and bake for thirty minutes in a moderate oven. Cocoanut Gems.—Take four fresh eggs and four ouhces of fine castor sugar and beat them to a foam ; add to this seven ounces of finely-grated cocoanut, and carefully fold in five ounces of whole- meal flour ; divide into buttered gem pans, and bake in a moderate oven for thirty minutes, more or less, according to size. Cocoanut Wafers.—Rub eight ounces of very finely grated cocoanut through a meal sifter ; add eight ounces of white, or of wholemeal flour, and two ounces of butter, then mix the whole and moisten with cold water ; roll the paste as thin as paper, and cut it into ‘ ‘ fancy ’ ’ forms and sift them over with castor sugar, then bake very slowly to a nice brown colour. Sultana and Cocoanut.—Mix two ounces of pure butter into eight ounces of wholemeal flour ; then add eight ounces of finely grated cocoanut; four ounces of minced sultanas ; one ounce of fine sugar ; and add sufficient cocoanut “ milk ” to make a well-mixed dough ; then divide it into biscuits, or ‘' flats, ’ ’ and bake in a slow oven until lightly browned.68 Plain Cocoanut Biscuits.—Put eight ounces of finely grated cocoanut; six ounces of wholemeal flour ; one ounce of sugar into a china bowl and mix them thoroughly ; then add sufficient water to make a stiff dough, and roll this to the required thickness, about a quarter of an inch, and cut them to size with a biscuit cutter, lay them on a buttered baking tray, and bake in a moder- ately heated oven to a golden brown.59 Meat and Fish Substitutes, Etc. In the days when flesh-meats entered largely into the dietary of the household we were no friends to the frying-pan. Observation and experience had convinced us that food cooked in the ordinary way with a frying-pan very frequently deranged the digestion ; the amount of fat, not to mention salt, etc., used in the process, is most objectionable to a clean palate, and must be injurious to most people—especially those who are “bilious ; ” yet some house-wives know no other way of cooking, with the unhappy result, that the whole household becomes more or less, sickly and dyspeptic. Even when flesh- meats and fish are eschewed, good health, with its accompaniment of happy uses, cannok be so easily derived from the following mixed, and compounded recipes, as it can be from the clean and simple diet made up of the good breads, cakes and biscuits made from the recipes of the preceding chapters, when these are combined with ripe juicy fruits and salads, nut or dairy butters, and fresh eggs, however, since the science and art of feeding and cooking are at present in an evolutionary state, and the majority of the people will have “ something meatty, ” and will not go without its mixed and “hot dinners,” the housewife will in the following recipes, especially the nut-roasts, find much which is a palatable and health-giving substitute for flesh-meat and fish. In their preparation she will find the60 fryiDg-pan, if carefully used, a helpful utensil. Hasty frying and boiling in thin pans, and with a scorching fire, is bad cookery and quite unlike that which is necessary to bring forth the best flavour of the food. The frying-pan should be very thickly enamelled, or a double sheet pan, and if the latter, see that you have a layer of asbestos between the sheets; with such pans you can bring the fat to the highest temperature with the least risk of firing it. Have a deep pan, and have it so constructed with a rest that you can easily raise and lower your frying basket to the required depth; also have near it, when at work, a dra iner on to which you can put the cooked food to drain, that you may be able to serve it clean and nutty. Use only pure, and if obtainable, unsalted butter ; olive oil; or such nut and vegetable fats as are now provided at all Food Eeform Stores. Pure olive oil; nut, or vegetable fats are to be preferred to butter, as we shall presently explain. Butter seethes, boils and quickly exhausts itself—though possibly more palatable in flavour, whereas these oils, nut and vegetable fats, simmer nicely; and fry crisply and entirely free of the fatty, greasy taste of food fried in animal fats and even some butters. It is not enough to have even the proper pan, and fat, if the fat is not brought to the sight TEMPERATURE—in this Hes much of the secret of good frying. If you have not a suitable thermometer to ascertain the right temperature of the fat—and here let us say that it should reach 300 degrees, and that at 400 degrees it fires—the easiest way to ascertain it, is to dip61 a small piece of bread into the fat; and if the fat is at the right temperature the bread turns brown in fifteen seconds. Frying should be a slow and steady process. Haste and indiscretion can only yield bad results. Just as a careful gardener can judiciously produce the best results from the patient culture of his soil, and the still more patient tending of his plants, so can the patient cook by discretely tending the temperature of her ovens and pans, bring forth the finest flavours of the food, and reduce to a minimum the need of artificial flavourings, however, where the palate is so unregenerate as to demand an artificial flavour, the judicious use of lemon juice ; a “ flick ’’ of pepper, nutmeg, or cinnamon will help you in your art; and where sterilized cheese cannot be got, a little good cheddar cheese may be substituted though we cannot recommend it as a clean food. The superiority of these nut and vegetable fats over animal fats can be explained thus. Animal fats and water do not mix well, if at all, and all frying fats should readily dilute wdth water. Nut, and vegetable oils being in a state of natural emulsion can easily be diluted with water. They have not the oleaginous element characteristic of animal fats, and which is so slow of digestion, and in most cases, is not digested until the mass of food taken into the stomach has passed out of it, to be acted upon by the biliary and pancreatic juices. Nut and vegetable oils readily yield to stomach digestion, and are great conservators of time, energy and vitality62 in the process of digestion as well as being greatly superior to animal fats, and flesh, in nutriment value. Those who must have meatty dishes will find in the following nut meats, savouries, and soups, what they need to help them to the cleaner and healthier diet of Breads, Nuts, and Fruits already indicated. RECIPES FOR NUT MEATS. Nut Meat (1).—Have four breakfast-cupsful of tomato pulp free from pips and rind ; into the pulp beat eight ounces of almond butter, and eight ounces of finely-ground Brazil Nuts ; add two ounces of wheat gluten and two ounces of bread crumbs with seven fresh beaten eggs ; then thoroughly mix and beat the whole, and divide it into moulds and steam it, or into sealed basins, as the *' Queens ’ ’ Pudding Boiler, ’ ’ and boil it; it should be cooked for five hours. Nut Meat (2).—Put two pounds of nice tomatoes and a head of clean celery into two quarts of water, and stew them down to two pints; then strain this through a fine sieve, and to it add, firstly, a teacupful of ground walnuts, then eight ounces of wheat gluten, and lastly, five well-beaten fresh eggs ; mix the whole and divide it into moulds, or sealed basins, and steam it for three hours. Nut Meat (3).—Take four ounces of pea-nuts ; four ounces of pine kernels ; two ounces of walnuts, and put these through nut- mill or pulveriser ; then add four ounces of wheat gluten ; one pint of onion stock ; the whites of four eggs and yolks of two ; thor- oughly beat and mix the whole, and divide it into moulds or basins and steam it for three hours. Nut Meat (4).—Remove the skins from twelve average-size tomatoes ; add to the pulp two ounces of crushed pine kernels; eight63 ounces of almond, or nut butter ; six ounces of wheat gluten : half- a-pint of boiled water, and six well-beaten fresh eggs ; thoroughly mix the whole, and steam it for six hours. Nut Meat (5).—Boil, or steam together, four ounces of macaroni and four large onions, and when cooked drain them through a colander, then put them through a mincer; after which add two ounces of ground walnuts ; four beaten fresh eggs; and well mix the whole and steam it for two hours. Nut Meat without Eggs.—Have four ounces of walnuts ; four ounces of almonds ; four ounces of pine kernels; put these through a nut-mill, then add two ounces of cornstarch : six ounces of wheat gluten, and four ounces of seed tapioca which has been soaked in cold boiled water for one hour ; then mix the whole into three half-pints of tomato stock or the same quantity of Regenerative Coffee, and divide it into jars and steam it for six hours. Note.—These meats, if carefully prepared and put into sealed jars or basins, will keep for many days, and they can then be used as required, either cold with salads or sandwiches ; warm with suitable gravies and sauces; or you can roast them with a basting of white of egg and tomato pulp ; or roast with a filling of thyme, egg and grated bread crumbs; or cut into slices and dipped in bread crumbs and eggs. These are a few palatable ways out of many which an original mind can devise. MACARONI, PULSE, AND SAVOURY ROASTS, Etc. Macaroni Mould.—Break four ounces of macaroni into a little boiling water, and whilst this is cooking, mince four table-64 spoonsful of cooked carrot, and beat into it a fresh egg; then line a buttered basin with it; now take your macaroni and drain it through a colander ; mix into it two fresh eggs, and pour it into the lined basin and steam it for two hours. When served use hot beet, root and lemon sauce ; for the sauce use the water drained from the macaroni. Macaroni Roast.—Stew eight ounces of onions in just sufficient water to cover them, and when almost cooked add two ounces of finely-broken macaroni and stew it another hour, or until the water is quite absorbed ; then turn it into a colander, and add a dessertspoonful of powdered sage; a teaspoonful of ground walnuts and three well-beaten eggs ; mix the whole, and put it into a well- buttered dish and roast it until nicely browned. Pyramids of Macaroni.—Steam two pounds of young green peas, then crush them into a pulp and beat into them three fresh eggs and a little seasoning ; form this into a cone, then mince four ounces of cooked macaroni and form it into long rolls: then dip these into flour, and stick them around and upon the cone, and roast it in a moderate oven for one hour ; use butter for basting, and brush the whole with the white of an egg about ten minutes before you remove it from the oven. Lentil Roast.—To ten ounces of cooked lentils add one large minced onion ; two ounces of ground walnuts ; one ounce of bread crumbs ; and four ounces of tomato pulp ; well mix it all and add two beaten eggs ; then neatly form it into a roll and roast it in a moderate oven with a butter basting. Haricot Roast.—Mix into twelve ounces of cooked haricot beans ; four ounces of minced onion ; two beaten eggs; and a pinch of grated nutmeg ; then form it into a neat roll, and place it on a buttered dish; cook it for two hours to a golden brown; serve it with tomato gravy.65 Savoury Roast (1).—Put two large cooked onions through a mincer, and mix with this one dessertspoonful of powdered sage ; two granose biscuits, or flakes ; one dessertspoonful of flour, and a beaten egg ; form the whole into a roll and place it on a buttered dish. Now mix five tablespoonsful of sterilized cheese ; two minced hard-boiled eggs ; three tablespoonsful of wheat gluten, and two fresh beaten eggs, when well mixed, neatly spread it over the onion roll, and roast it for two hours in a moderate oven ; baste over with beaten egg, and seedless tomato pulp. Savoury Roast (2).—Put twelve tablespoonsful of cooked haricot beans through a mincer, and add to this two dessertspoonsful of almond, or nut butter ; three tablespoonsful of soaked seed tapioca ; two tablespoonsful of wheat gluten ; then mix it with three fresh eggs. Make a stuffing of two peeled tomatoes ; two minced boiled eggs; one dessertspoonful of minced thyme; two granose biscuits, or their equivalent in bread crumbs ; and one fresh egg to set it. Make this into a neat roll, and spread over it the first mixture, and roast the whole in a moderate oven for two hours ; brush it over with a beaten egg about ten minutes before you serve it. Savoury Roll.—Mix three tablespoonsful of cooked rice ; one dessertspoonful of minced thyme ; six tablespoonsful of sterilized cheese ; four tablespoonsful of wheat gluten, and one tablespoonful of soaked tapioca and four beaten eggs, then form it into a neat roll and roast it until nicely browned ; butter to baste it; and before serving brush it over with white of egg and brown it. Rice and Onion Roast.—Put eight tablespoonsful of cooked rice through a fine mincer, add to this three tablespoonsful of ground walnuts ; three finely minced onions ; two tablespoonful of corn-starch, mix the whole and add three fresh beaten eggs, then put it into a buttered dish and roast it brown.66 Tomato Crest—Mince two boiled eggs and mix with four peeled tomatoes ; two tablespoonful of soaked seed tapioca; one tablespoonful of minced carrot, and two raw eggs to set it, and put this into a buttered basin ; then mix four tablespoonful of cooked and minced macaroni; three tablespoonsful of minced onion and two beaten eggs and put this over the tomato mixture in the basin ; steam it for two hours, and put aside until cold, then turn it out and garnish it with a lettuce salad. Savoury Rolls—Have four firm, peeled, and finely chopped tomatoes ; two finely chopped boiled eggs ; two whipped fresh fresh eggs; six tablespoonsful of cooked oatmeal; two tablespoonful of flour and one tablespoonful of finely chopped parsley. Beat the tomatoes into the whipped eggs, beat into this the cooked oatmeal and wholemeal flour a spoonful at a time, then add the chopped egg and parsley, when thoroughly mixed, make it into small rolls and brush these over with the whisked white of egg and bake them in a moderate oven for one hour, and baste with butter. Savoury Broad Beans and Mushrooms.—Have two pounds of broad beans, one pound of mushrooms, and two fresh eggs. Cook the beans until tender and let them cool. Clean the mushrooms and fry them in diluted milk, when cooked, mix these with the cold beans, add the eggs, and sprinkle into them a little granose flakes or bread crumbs, then carefully and cleanly fry ihem in butter. Savoury Gower Cakes.—Take one fresh egg, five table- spoonsful of wholemeal flour, two tablespoonsful of milk, a large finely chopped tomato, mix them well, then divide, and drop them into butter of the right temperature and fry until brown. Egg Rissoles.—Take four finely chopped boiled eggs, add to these a tablespoonful of finely chopped parsley flavoured with a little lemon juice, then add four tablespoonful of boiled milk mixthese, and form into small balls, or rolls, then roll them in fresh egg and bread-crumbs and fry in butter until brown. Rice Savoury.—Two tablespoonsful of ground rice ; one finely chopped onion ; half-pint of milk ; three small cooked potatoes, and two beaten eggs. Add the rice and onion to the milk and steam for one hour, then mash into it the potatoes and set aside to cool, when cold add the beaten eggs and shape into small cakes and fry these in pure butter or olive oil. Chestnut Fritters.—Six ounces of chestnuts ; two firm to- matoes ; two fresh eggs ; four tablespoonsful of cooked pearl barley; and three tablespoonsful of wholemeal flour. Steam or roast the nuts for twenty minutes, and finely chop them, or put through the mincer; then peel and chop the tomatoes, and beat the eggs ; then thoroughly mix the whole, land divide it into small cakes, and fry these in olive oil for ten minutes. Tomato Fritters.—Have two firm tomatoes peeled and finely chopped ; one finely chopped boiled egg ; two tablespoonsful of wholemeal flour ; a grated shredded wheat or granose biscuit; and and two whipped eggs, with a teaspoonful of thyme. Beat the tomatoes into the whipped eggs ; add the chopped egg and thyme^ then beat into it the flour and biscuit. Divide it into small cakes, and fry these in butter, or olive oil, to a rich brown. Savoury Rice Fritters (1;.—Four tablespoonsful of cooked rice; one tablespoonful of parsley ; one finely chopped, firm and peeled tomato (medium size), land a whipped egg. Thoroughly beat and mix the whole, then divide it into small cakes, and fry in olive oil until light brown. Rice and Parsley Crisps.—Three tablespoonsful of cooked rice ; two tablespoonsful of finely chopped parsley; two firm, peeled and finely chopped tomatoes, and a finely chopped boiled egg ; mix the whole and divide it into small cakes ; then roll these in bread crumbs and egg, and fry them in olive oil for twenty minutes.68 Onion and Sage Fritters.—Two large and finely chopped or minced onions ; a dessertspoonful of dry sage ; three table- spoonsful of cooked pearl barley ; a ground shredded wheat or granose biscuit, and two whipped eggs. Fry the onions in butter until brown ; then add the sage, pearl barley and ground biscuit; and when cold, add the whipped egg, and mix the whole ; then divide it into cakes, and fry in butter for ten minutes. Rice Fritters (2).—Boil six ounces of ground rice in three half-pints of milk, stirring it until it thickens; then stir into it a little seasoning, and set aside to cool for three hours ; then divide it into cakes, over which brush a mixture of beaten egg and bread crumbs; fry these in olive oil until brown, and serve with parsley sauce. Green Pea Rusks.—One pound of new green peas ; two fresh eggs ; a finel5^ ground shredded wheat or granose biscuit and a tablespoonful of finely chopped mint. Steam the peas until tender and when cooled, add the mint and ground biscuit, pour into these the whipped eggs and beat the whole until well mixed then divide it into cakes and fry these in olive oil until brown. Carrot Rolls.—Three medium size carrots; one tablespoons- ful of dry thyme, four ounces of finely ground granose or dry toast; three whipped fresh eggs ; half-an-eggspoonful of grated nutmeg and a teaspoonful of lemon juice. Clean the carrots and steam them until tender and when cold put them through the mincer, add the thyme ; ground biscuit ; nutmeg and lemon juice mix these and then add the beaten eggs and again mix the whole ; divide it into small rolls and roll these in a mixture of egg and bread-crumbs then fry them in olive oil for fifteen minutes. Oatmeal Fritters.—Steep in a little boiled water for one hour, four tablespoonsful of cooked oatmeal and a grated patriarch biscuit or shredded wheat, beat a fresh egg and a tablespoonful of finely chopped thyme and add these to the now well-steeped meal and biscuit; mix the whole, and divide it into small cakes and these fry in olive oil for fifteen minutes.69 Marrow Fritters.—Steep a few slices of clean young marrow in boiling water for five minutes and when cool dip them into a little seasoning made with a tablespoonful of milk ; one tablespoon- ful of grated bread-crumbs ; one teaspoonful of chopped thyme and a “ touch ” of pepper, and an egg beaten together ; then put thses into a frying basket and cook them in olive oil until tender. Lunch, or Salad Meat (1.)—Mix well one half-pint of strained tomato juice, six tablespoonsful of ground rice; two teaspoonful of nut butter and one small glass of water and steam it for one hour. Make a stuffing from grated patriarch biscuit, or bread- crust ; one teaspoonful of white flour ; a boiled egg ; one dessert- spoonful of grated onion and one-fourth of a teaspoonful of sage. Have a buttered baking tin on which spread part of the steamed mixture and form a “well,” or “trough” in it and put into this the yolks of two eggs finely chopped, cover these with the stuffing, and over it lay the remainder of the steamed mixture, brush the whole with beaten white of egg, and bake it in a moderate oven for forty minutes. Garnish it with tomatoes, and serve, warm or cold, with white sauce and steamed potatoes. Lunch or Salad Meat (2.)—Have one gill of water, a dessertspoonful of macaroni; a gill of strained tomato juice ; three cloves ; one boiled egg and a dessertspoonful of ground rice ; beat and mix them well then pour the mixture into a clean muslin bag and steam it for two hours then remove it whole from the bag to a buttered baking dish, and brush it over with the beaten white of egg and bake it for one hour. Garnish it with fried potato balls and serve it with parsley sauce. Savoury Omelet.—Put one ounce of butter into a frying-pan and let it slowly come to the right cooking temperature ; prepare the omelet by adding one teaspoonful of grated onion and one teaspoonful of minced parsley to one gill of milk and mixing it then pour this into three beaten eggs, and well mix the whole before you pour it into the frying butter ; when nicely set, fold it and serve v.dth grilled tomatoes.70 Asparagus Souffle.—Have eight tablespoonsful of cooked asparagus (only the green ‘‘heads’’) ; then mix into this three beaten eggs; one gill of milk ; and a fev^ drops of lemon juice; and put the mixture into a buttered dish, and over it spread a paste made of two tablespoonsful of sterilized cheese, and two table- spoonsful of cooked rice; then bake for one hour in a moderate oven. Spinach Souffle-—Cleanse one ponnd of spinach and steam it until it is tender ; then add four tablespoonsful of cooked rice; one beaten egg; and a little grated nutmeg, mix the whole and put it into a buttered dish, and bake it for thirty minutes. Spinach with Eggs-—Cleanse one and a half pounds of spinach and cook it for fifteen minutes, with a lump of sugar, in rather less than half-a-pint of water ; drain it a few minutes over a colander, then lay it evenly over a buttered dish, and form four nests in it, and into each of these break a fresh egg, and arrange thin fingers of paste between them, and bake it for five minutes ; serve on the same dish. A nicely peeled tomato can be used in place of eggs if preferred, or a change is required. Spinach with Cheese.—Cleanse two pounds of spinach and cook it for ten minutes in half-a-pint of water; then drain very dry, put it neatly into a buttered dish, and over it grate eight ounces of sterilized cheese, and bake it in a moderate oven until the cheese is a golden brown, and serve it with clean baked potatoes arranged around it, Spinach with Cheese and Egg-Stars —Have some well- buttered dariel moulds, and into the bottom of each make a star with sterilized cheese ; in the centre of each star put half the yolk of a boiled egg ; then firmly fill the moulds with cooked spinach, and steam them for ten minutes ; turn them out and serve with macaroni mould.71 Vegetable, Pulse, and Nut Pies, and Puddings. Mixed Pie.—Stew for two hours four medium size onions, one small head of celery, two teacupsful of flaked walnuts, and half-a-teaspoonful of mace in just enough water to cover them, then remove the celery and let the stew cool, then mix it into two tablespoonsful of soaked tapioca ; have a well-buttered pie dish, put into it the mixture, and over it pour a fresh whisked egg with a little of the stew ; make a crust of creamed potatoes, and bake in a hot oven until nicely browned. Mushroom Pie.—Clean two pounds of fresh mushrooms and fry in a little butter; add to these one pound of fresh steamed young broad beans, and two finely chopped boiled eggs ; beat these together until well mixed ; then put the mixture into a buttered pie dish, and over it slowly pour two whipped eggs, and a pint of rich brown gravy. Make a thick crust by rubbing five ounces of fresh butter into half-a-pound of wholemeal flour, and lay it over the mixture and bake it in a brisk oven until brown. Chestnut Pie.—Take a pound of chestnuts and blanch them, fry them in butter to a golden brown ; two large onions ; boil two eggs, and clean a tablespoonful of parsley ; run the whole through a mincer, and lay it in a buttered pie dish ; have two firm tomatoes and slice these neatly over the mixture ; then make a thick crust by mixing four ounces of fresh, or nut butter, into half-a-pound of wholemeal flour, and put this over the mixture and tomatoes and bake the pie in a hot oven until brown. Macaroni and Tomato Pie.—Wash two ounces of mac- aroni, and boil it in half-a-pint of water until it is soft and not pulpy ;72 then lay it in a pie dish ; add to it a layer of finely shredded onion, and over this a layer of fresh sliced tomatoes ; and over the whole pour a pint of rich brown gravy and a little clove flavouring ; then cover it with a crust made from eight ounces of wholemeal flour and four ounces of fresh butter, and bake it for one hour. Haricot Pie. — Wash and pick over one half-pound of haricot beans, and soak these over-night in a small quantity of cold boiled water. Have two large onions, clean and shred these and lay them in a dish, and over them sprinkle a dessertspoonful of sage; and over this lay the soaked beans, and pour in just enough boiled water to cover them, and cook them for two hours; then butter a pie dish and lay the mixture in it with a few sliced apples; make a crust by beating a fresh egg into mashed potatoes, and lay it over the pie and bake it for one hour. Serve it with tomato sauce. Potato Pie.—Make a paste of mashed potatoes and a fresh egg, and line it into a buttered pie dish. Have four ounces of minced or finely-chopped carrots, one teaspoonful of thyme, or mixed sweet herbs, and two fresh sliced tomatoes; pour over these one beaten egg, and put the mixture into the potato-lined dish ; cover the whole with chipped potatoes and bake it for thirty minutes. Bean and Walnut Pie-—Beat two cupsful of haricot beans to a pulp, and whilst you are doing so, add the juice of a fresh lemon; then stir into it one cupful of milled walnuts ; have a buttered pie dish, and put into this alternate layers of the mixture and fried onions (shred and slowly fry two average onions), and pour over the mixture half-a-pint of brown gravy ; cover it with a light wholemeal crust and bake it for thirty minutes. Chestnut Pie (Steamed).—Mill eight ounces of chestnuts and mix into this six ounces of browned bread crumbs; then add one glass of boiled milk and a beaten egg, and season it with four73 ounces of chopped onion and one tablespoonful of minced parsley, and mix it. Line a basin with a light paste, and pour into it the mixture ; then seal it with paste and steam it for two hours. Stuffed Marrow,—Have one pound of finely-chopped onions and fry these in butter until tender ; add to them four ounces of milled bread crumbs, one tablespoonful of sage, and mix them with two beaten eggs for binding. Soak a nice marrow in boiling v/ater until the skin is sufficiently tender to be removed ; cut away one end and take out the pulp and seeds, then put the stuffing into the marrow and replace the sliced end ; then dredge the marrow with grated bread and flour, and as a basting, put a few pieces of butter over it; roast it in a hot oven, and when cooked garnish it with cooked slices of tomato, and serve with a rich brown gravy. Vegetable Roast Make a jelly by boiling two ounces of sago ; beat into this a large cooked cauliflower, and add eight ounces of cooked potato ; two ounces of wholemeal flour, and well beat the whole whilst adding three whipped eggs ; you then have a stiff paste which you will roll, and form into a size to hold a filling of the following stuffing made from four ounces of grated bread crumbs, two peeled and sliced tomatoes ; one chopped boiled egg one tablespoonful of finely minced clean thyme, and a whipped egg well mixed. Bake it in a hot oven for one hour, or until nicely browned. Batter Pudding (1).—Beat together two eggs; half-a-pint of milk ; one tablespoonful of minced parsley ; then slowly beat into this three tablespoonsful of wholemeal flour, and pour the whole into a buttered hot dish, and bake it for twenty minutes ; the pudding should not be more than an inch in depth, and should be baked to a nice brown. Savoury Batter Pudding (2).—Beat three fresh eggs into one pint of milk ; then add two tablespoonsful of minced onion.7i and a little minced fresh sage ^ and into this slowly beat six table- spoonsful of wholemeal flour; then pour it into a buttered hot dish and bake it for one hour or until quite brown. Savoury Batter Pudding (3).—Take the pulp, without pips, of three medium-size tomatoes ; add two tablespoonsful of minced cooked carrot; one dessertspoonful of minced thyme, and half-a-pint of milk, with three beaten eggs; into this, slowly beat three tablespoonsful of flour ; pour the mixture into a buttered hot dish, and bake it until quite brown. SAVOURY BREAKFAST DISHES. Savoury ^ Cakes.—Have three tablespoonsful of ground rice and a small minced onion; boil these in a pint of milk until the onion is thoroughly cooked ; then add three tablespoonsful of mashed potatoes, and two whipped eggs ; beat the mixture well, and divide it into cakes, and fry these in fresh butter until nicely browned. Bread Steaks.—Make a beaten mixture from two fresh eggs and one dessertspoonful of minced parsley, sage or thyme ; the grated peel of half a fresh lemon and two tablespoonsful of new milk. Cut slices, nearly half-an-inch in thickness, of wholemeal bread, dip these into the mixture, and fry them in fresh butter for five minutes. Scrambled Eggs.—Melt two ounces of butter in an enamel or aluminium saucepan; then beat together four fresh eggs, stir the egg into the melted butter, and keep stirring it until the mixture thickens, and is quite cooked ; then divide and serve it on dry, or buttered toast. Egg Rissoles Slice or chop two boiled eggs, and add to these three tablespoonsful of finely-minced mustard and pepper cress ;75 one tablespoonful of milk ; two tablespoonsful of bread crumbs, and two beaten eggs ; stir the whole until well mixed, then divide and shape it into small rolls, and fry these in butter. Grilled Tomatoes-—Have six firm and peeled tomatoes, put these into an enamelled frying pan with three tablespoonsful of cold boiled water, and three ounces of nut butter; cook the tomatoes until tender, and serve them on dry or buttered toast. Poached eggs make a very palatable addition to this dish. Potato Balls-—Put six large and cooked potatoes through a masher; mix into these two eggs and one dessertspoonful of minced parsley ; divide and shape it into small balls, and roll these in fine bread crumbs, and fry them in olive oil for fifteen minutes. Cream Toast.—Sterilize half-a-pint of fresh cream in a duplex boiler; prepare six rounds of wholemeal bread toast; pour the hot cream over the toast and quickly serve it. Rare Bits.—Make a paste from three ounces of sterilized cheese ; one ounce of butter ; two ounces of wholemeal flour ; and half a teaspoonful of seasoning ; then roll it to one-eighth of an inch thickness, divide it into pieces five inches long by one inch wide ; twist these and lay them on a piece of buttered paper, and bake them for ten minutes. Cheese Toast—Mix into two tablespoonsful of sterilized milk one ounce of bread crumbs, and four ounces of sterilized cheese ; boil in an enamelled saucepan until it is quite cooked; then have several pieces of toast, and serve on each piece a dessertspoonful of the cheese. Apple Toast.—Peel and core one pound of fine apples ; stew these to a pulp, and sweeten them with four ounces (or less) of sugar ; then pour this over rounds of nicely-browned toast. The76 addition of nut butter, or shelled nuts, makes a good combination. Other fruits can be used in much the same way. Potted Tomatoes.—Peel four large firm tomatoes, and cook these slowly with one large minced onion until tender ; then add tv/o beaten fresh eggs and three ounces of sterilized cheese ; stir the whole quickly until it thickens and is nicely browned ; then turn it into a glass jar, and put a face, or cap, of melted butter on it. Several pots can be prepared at the same time. Note :—If you have the time, etc., these Fritters and Fried Dishes can be made more palatable and digestible by baking; being a slower process it can more fully bring out the flavour of the food. VEGETABLE, PULSE, NUT, AND FRUIT SOUPS. Celery and Onion Soup.—Have a fresh clean white head of young celery ; one pound of clean Spanish onions ; slowly boil these in three pints of water for two hours, then remove the celery and add one glass of milk and three ounces of pea-flour, and again bring to the boil and serve. Tomato Soup.—Stand one pound of firm tomatoes in boiling water for a few minutes, then peel and slice them, Chop very finely two small clean carrots; clean and shred one average onion, add half-a-pint of water, and boil until tender, then add the tomatoes. Mix a tablespoonful of flour into a pint of milk and add this with tw?o ounces of fresh butter to the boiling soup ; stir the w’hole whilst it boils for ten minutes. Thick Bean Soup.—Have two pounds of fresh shelled broad beans ; one pound of clean young onions ; three firm tomatoes (peeled and sliced) ; boil these slowly in two quarts of water until quite tender, then add four ounces of butter and a little seasoning to taste ; again boil for five minutes and serve. White Haricot Soup.—Pick and wash half-a-pound of white77 haricot beans and boil these in two quarts of water until tender ; add three whole peeled tomatoes and a bunch of parsley ; boil this until pulped, then rub them through a sieve and retnrn them to the pan at the same time adding a piece of butter of the size of a walnut, and a teaspoonful of fresh lemon juice ; boil the whole for five minutes then serve. Brown haricots can be prepared in the same way. Pea Soup.—Carefully pick and wash one pound of split peas and soak them for twelve hours, then cook them for three hours (some kinds cook quicker than others) in two quarts of water including that in which the peas soaked ; add three large clean onions and a very finely minced carrot, or a little celery, or both ; boil until the vegetables are tender {adding a little more boiling water if necessary), then add a little seasoning and a little butter of the size of a walnut just before serving. White Soup.—Boil together for one hour in two quarts of water eight ounces of clean potatoes, eight ounces of whole shallots, and one clove ; then pass the soup through a sieve and return it to the saucepan ; add one pint of milk and again bring this to the boil and sift into it two tablespoonsful of arrowroot and simmer it for twenty minutes ; add a small piece of butter of the size of a walnut and serve. Chestnut Soup.—Boil one pound of chestnuts for one hour ; then remove the shells; put two ounces of butter into an enamel saucepan and fry the chestnuts for ten minutes ; stir into this two dessertspoonsful of flour, adding one pint of milk, and one pint of water, let it cook for twenty minutes, and then add one table- spoonful of finely-chopped parsley, and bring the whole to a boil, then serve. This is a very rich and delicate soup. Pearl Barley Soup.—Take one measure of pearled barley carefully picked and washed, and boil it in twelve measures of water for four hours ; add four firm peeled tomatoes, one clean78 large onion, a little seasoning and a teaspoonful of fresh lemon juice ; boil the whole for one hour, then force it through a sieve and again bring the soup to a boil and serve it. Clear Tomato Soup.—Soak a tablespoonful of pearled sago for one hour and drain it; then add one pint of stewed tomatoes ; a pint of water; a pint of nut cream ; one dessertspoonful of grated onion, and a teaspoonful of finely chopped parsley ; boil it for fifty minutes and serve it with cocoanut crisps. Spring Soup.—x\dd a tablespoonful of rice to two quarts of water and boil until it is tender ; then add a dozen young carrots, two young turnips, half-a-pint of young green peas, two tomatoes, six young spring onions (whole) ; boil these until tender and season the soup with a tablespoonful of almond, or nut butter. All vege- tables, but the onions, should be sliced to uniform sizes. Sweet Apple Soup.—Have one pound of sweet apples, wash these and pick off any unsound spots, but do not peel and core them ; cook them slowly in two pints of water for two hours ; then strain them through a jelly bag, return the soup to the boiler and add a tablespoonful of washed and soaked sago; boil this for one hour and serve it. Apple and Raisin Soup—Cleanse and chop eight ounces of raisins, add to these a pound of clean and quartered apples and the grated peel of a fresh lemon with two ounces of sugar; boil this in six pints of water for two hours ; then strain it through a jelly bag ; return the soup to the boiler and thicken it with two tablespoonsful of arrowroot, re-boil it for ten minutes and serve it. Fresh Plum Soup.—Have eight ounces of Golden Drop Plums, wash these and slowly boil them in two pints of water for twenty minutes, or to a pulp; remove the skins and stones when draining it; and return the soup to the boiler and add half-a-pint79 of water, six ounces of sugar and a tablespoonful of washed sago : then boil it until the sago is clear and serve it with almond cakes. Other kinds of plums can be prepared in the same way but are not so sweet. Prune Puree.—Wash six ounces of prunes and soak these over-night in just enough water to cover them ; steam them in one pint of water for three hours ; then beat them through a colander to remove the skins and stones ; put the soup into a small stewpan and add three ounces of sugar, the white of an egg and a little more water, bring it to the boil and serve. Clear Pear Soup.—Wash a pound of sweet flavoured pears and steam these with six cloves in two pints of water for four hours; then strain them and let the soup cool; boil two table- spoonsful of pearled sago to a jelly ; force it through a hair sieve ; then add this and four ounces of sugar to the pear soup; reboil the whole for ten minutes and serve it with nut sticks. Orange and Banana Soup.—Peel and quarter four ripe bananas; add to these the grated peel of two ripe oranges and boil this in two pints of water until tender ; then strain it and add one tablespoonful of sugar and a tablespoonful of fresh orange juice with the white of an egg; return it to the boiler and bring it to the boil. Serve it with walnut wafers. Grape Soup.—In two pints of water slowly stew for one hour two pounds of white grapes, the juice of a lemon and a thin scraping of the yellow peel; then force it through a strainer and return the soup to the stew-pan with eight ounces of pure cane sugar and an ounce of soaked tapioca ; simmer this until the tapioca is clear ; and serve it warm. Tomato Soup.—To one pint of water add ten ounces of tomatoes, two tablespoonsful of minced parsley and stew this down80 to half; then strain it through a muslin and serve it. If a thick, ening is required add one teaspoonful of gluten, or cornstarch. Walnut Soup.—Stew for one hour in two quarts of water; six large tomatoes, two onions, six walnuts and eight cloves, then strain these through a colander and return the soup to the stewpan and add one pound of very small onions ; the heart of a small cauliflower (minced), and one tablespoonful of seed tapioca; stew this slowly until the onions are cooked, then serve. Almond Soup (1).—Roast two ounces of blanched almonds until brown then put these through the nut-mill and stew them for two hours in three half-pints of water with four ounces of tomatoes, four ounces of onions, and one clove, strain this through a fine sieve and serve hot. Almond Soup (2) — Stew for two hours in three pints of water, one ounce of ground roast almonds and a large bunch of asparagus cut into small pieces, then force it through a strainer and return it to the stew-pan and add the beaten yolks of two eggs, bring it to the boil and serve. Soup Balls (1)-—Rub two hard boiled eggs through a grater and add the yolk of a raw egg; then mix into these one teaspoonful of flour and a little minced parsley to taste ; form it into balls and boil these for three minutes in the soup. Soup Balls (2).—Mix one ounce of bread crumbs, one ounce of flour ; the yolks of two boiled eggs and two ounces of ground blanched almonds, then bind these with the white of an egg and a little water and cook for twenty minutes in the soup. Soup Balls (3.)—Rub into four ounces of flour one ounce of fresh butter, and suflicient water to make a stiff dough ; then form it into small balls, cook and serve them in the soup.8i A Few Lunch, Supper or Pic-Nic Dishes. V/alnut Cutlets.— Mill two shredded wheat, or granose bis- cuits and two ounces of shelled walnuts, and mix these with a tablespoonful of onion juice. Mix an ounce of nut-butter and half-an-ounce of flour into half-a-pint of milk, bring this to a boil and add two whipped eggs, then remove it from the fire and add a teaspoonful of lemon juice and mix the whole. When cooled form it into cutlets, dip these into beaten egg and bread crumbs, and fry them in olive oil or butter. If eaten at home they can be served with egg sauce. Hut Sandwiches.—To make nut sandwiches you have only to mill any kind of nuts (but peanut), then mix a little honey, or minced raisins, into them and spread layers of it between slices of unfermented bread or egg-raised bread. With ripe juicy fruits these make a balanced meal and are very sustaining. Tomato and Egg Sandwiches.—Remove the skins from two firm tomatoes ; slice and fry them in olive oil or diluted nut butter, and when nearly cooked, add tv/o beaten eggs and a little seasoning. Keep stirring and chopping the whole whilst it is cooking to a nice brown colour ; set it aside to cool; and spread it between slices of egg-raised, or unfermented bread and butter. Potted Beans for Sandwiches—Wash one pound of brown beans and soak them for twelve hours, then stew these for four hours in a little water and rub them to a pulp by pressing them through a sieve ; add two ounces of milled walnuts, two table- spoonsful of grated onions and two ounces of fresh butter, or nut butter. Mix the whole thoroughly and bake it for one hour in a82 hot oven ; then pot it, and when cold, seal it by pouring a layer of slightly melted butter over the face of it Besides being very palatable for sandwiches, it makes very nice savoury rolls. Cucumber and Lettuce Sandwiche.—Over a few buttered slices of egg-raised bread spread a little sterilized cheese, a crisp lettuce leaf and a few slices of fresh cucumber which have been dipped in lemon juice, and fold into sandwiches. Tomato and Cheese Sandwiche.—Have the pulp, with- out seeds, of four ounces of tomatoes and mix it with sterilized cheese into a stiff paste; add a “ touch ” of grated nutmeg and spread the mixture over unleavened bread and butter and fold into sandwiches. Nutmeat and Egg Sandwiche —Take equal parts of nut- meat and boiled yolk of eggs and mix this thoroughly, add a little lemon mint if desired ; spread this over unleavened bread and butter. Any of the nut-meats may be thus used and will be delicious. Grape Sandwiches.—Peel and stone eight ounces of white grapes, then crush these to a pulp and mix them into two ounces of almond butter, a few drops of lemon juice ; one dessertspoonful of pure cane sugar or honey ; stand it for two hours and it will be ready to spread on thin slices of unleavened or egg-raised bread. Raspberry Sandwiches.—Spread thin slices of unfermented or egg-raised bread with a thin layer of sterilized cheese and over this spread raspberry jelly and fold it, Red or Black Currant Sandwiches.—Pick over and wash some ripe fruit and crush it with a silver fork, spread this with a little cane sugar over unfermented bread and butter and fold it.83 Butter Bean Crisps.—Wash one half-pint of butter beans and soak these over-night in just enough water to cover them; when about to cook them add a little more water; a tablespoonful of chopped parsley and one large chopped onion; boil them for three hours; then force them through a colander and add two well-beaten eggs. Form this into balls, or cakes, and fry them for fifteen minutes in olive oil. Gem Pies —Make a light paste of wholemeal flour and butter ; line a few patty tins, or irons, with the paste and fill these with a savoury made as force-meat-pie ; or, a savoury made from cooked lentils: or nuts, etc., according to taste, cover these with paste and bake them for twenty minutes. Mushroom Gems-—Fry eight ounces of clean mushrooms in two ounces of butter and four tablespoonsful of water with a little seasoning until they are well-cooked ; line some gem pans with a short paste, fill into these the mushroom mixture and bake them for ten minutes in a moderate oven. Banana Rolls.—Make a nice puff-paste of wholemeal flour and nut butter; have some clean and small ripe bananas ; fold each into sufficient paste to cover it ; sift a little castor sugar over them ; place them on buttered paper and bake for thirty minutes. Force-Meat Pie,—Have four ounces of fried onions; four ounces of bread-crumbs; the grated rind of one lem.on; four sliced tomatoes; two ounces of cooked tapioca; two boiled eggs (chopped); one dessert-spoonful of mixed sage, or herbs. Butter a baking dish, and lay into it alternate layers of the ingredients ; pour over it two beaten eggs and seal the pie with buttered paper, and bake it for one hour. When cold turn it out and serve it garnished with parsley, or a fresh salad to taste.84 Vegetable Stocks, Gravies, Sauces, Etc. Vegetable Stock fl).—Stew for four hours in two quarts of water, one head of celery with leaves, two walnuts, eight ounces of tomatoes ; then force them through a sieve, return the stock to the stewpan, bring it to the boil and it is ready for use. Vegetable Stock (2).—Stew for three hours in one quart of water two pounds of clean onions, two cloves, and two ounces of brown haricots; strain this through a fine strainer, then re-boil it and pour it into a jar, or bottle for use. Vegetable Stock (3).—Stew for two hours in three pints of water, two ounces of split haricots, two sliced large leeks, one bunch of parsley and a bunch of thyme ; strain it through a fine sieve and bottle it ready for use. Note.—These stocks help in the making of gravies and soups, but they do not keep many days. Other helpful recipes for making soups and gravies are Browmed Flour which is prepared by spreading a small quantity of white flour over an iron plate in a moderately hot oven, and stirring it frequently until it is nicely browned ; and Browning, which is made as follows ;—Put eight ounces of sugar with two tablespoonsful of water into an enam.elled pan ; boil it slowly until it looks almost black, hut not burnt, then into it slowly stir one pint of water and let it boil for a few minutes and it is ready for use. Nut Butters can be made by crushing or milling the nuts ; and likewise the pea, or lentil flour mentioned in recipes. Walnut Gravy.—Put one tablespoonful of ground walnuts and a sliced tomato into an enamelled pan made hot with one ounce85 of butter in it; cook until the walnuts are of a dark brown colour and keep stirring to prevent it burning ; then pour it into one pint of water, or vegetable stock, simmer slowly for fifteen minutes and stir into it a dessertspoonful of flour; strain the whole through a fine strainer and it is ready for use. Onion Gravy (l).—Fry two large onions in one ounce of butter until they are nicely browned, sift into this one dessert- spoonful of flour, and slowly add two half pints of water, slowly stew the whole, then add a few drops of lemon juice and pass the gravy through a fine strainer and it is ready to serve. Tomato Gravy.—Put two ounces of butter into an enamel pan, slice into this three tomatoes, and slowly cook until the tomatoes are almost absorbed and not burnt; then add one pint of vegetable stock thickened with one small teaspoonful of flour, strain the gravy through a very fine strainer and it is ready to serve. Shalot Gravy. — Stew in three half pints of water eight ounces of shalots, one teaspoonful of lemon juice, two cloves, four cayenne peppers, and three ounces of butter ; stew until the shalots are pulped, thicken with one tablespoonful of browned flour, and again stew a few minutes, then force it through a fine strainer and the gravy is ready to serve. Celery Gravy-—Cleanse a white head of celery and cut it into strips three inches long, cook these in three half pints of water until tender ; then strain it through a colander and to one pint of the celery water add a dessertspoonful of almond or nut butter, and a teaspoonful of flour; boil for ten minutes and serve. Onion Gravy (2) —Boil to a pulp in one pint of water, two large onions ; then force them through a sieve and add a pint of pea-nut cream made by dissolving two tablespoonsful of pea-nut butter in a pint of water ; boil it for five minutes and]serve. Fresh86 milk may be used in place of the pea-nut cream if a dessertspoonful of nut butter is added to it. Lentil Gravy with Eggs.—Mix two tablespoonsful of lentil flour with the yolk of an egg and one teaspoonful of nut butter in four tablespoonsful of water unt 1 smooth, then add a pint of cold boiled water and a teaspoonful of grated onion ; boil for five minutes and serve, Tomato Gravy (2).—Boil to a pulp in one pint of water four average tomatoes, strain this through a fine sieve and add a dessertspoonful of walnut butter, two tablespoonsful of milk, a tea- spoonful of grated onion and a teaspoonful of flour,^with one glass of water ; return it to the boiler and boil for ten minutes. Almond Gravy.—Blanch and roast eight ounces of almonds and when cool put them through the nut-mill, add two table- spoonsful of the almond butter to one pint of water and one dessert- spoonful of wholemeal flour; boil for ten minutes and put it through a hair sieve and serve. Brown Gravy.—To one pint of water add a dessertspoonful of flour, a sliced tomato, a dessertspoonful of grated onion, and a teaspoonful of browning; boil for ten minutes, then force throi>gh a sieve and return the gravy to the pan and add a teaspoonful of almond butter ; bring this to a boil and serve. Parsley Sauce.—Cleanse and mince, two tablespoonsful of fresh parsley, mix this with one dessertspoonful of flour, two ounces of butter, and two tablespoonsful of water ; then add to iit a pint of water and boil for fifteen minutes and serve. Bread Sauce. — Mix two tablespoonsful of grated bread crumbs, one teaspoonful of flour, one tablespoonful of tomato juice and one ounce of butter, add this to one pint of milk and boil for ten minutes and serve.87 Apple Sauce (1).—Peel and core four large apples and put them into half a pint of water with three dessertspoonsful of castor sugar and the grated peel of half a fresh lemon or a teaspoonfui of nut butter. Cook to a pulp and serve. Apple Sauce (2)'—Peel, core and grate or shave, two large apples, add the white of two eggs, two tablespoonsful of castor sugar, half a teaspoonful of grated lemon peel. Beat the whole and cook for forty minutes and serve with cold pudding. Almond Sauce.—Mill four ounces of blanched almonds and half an ounce of apricot kernels ; beat into this two ounces of sugar and a dessertspoonful of arrowroot, add this to three small glasses of milk and the beaten white of an egg; bring it to a boil and serve. Cheese Sauce.—Put four dessertspoonsful of sterilized cheese into a basin, add the yolks of two eggs, a little grated nutmeg, one teaspoonful of flour ; beat the whole and add this to two gills of milk, and cook until thick, in a double boiler. This sauce is delicious with the following :— Sea-Kale (1).—Wash a few head of tender sea-kale and stand in cold water for one hour, then rinse these in clean v.'ater, steam for one hour in a muslin cloth, serve with cheese sauce, and lentil roast. Sea-Kale (2\—Clean one pound of tender kale and stand it in cold water for one hour, rinse it in clean water and iput it with a lump of sugar and a teaspoonful of lemon juice into one pint of boiling water; boil slowly until tender ; drain it, and serve it in a dish with cheese sauce or white sauce.88 Puddings. Date Pudding.—Beat together two fresh eggs, four ounces of sugar, and four tablespoonsful of boiled milk ; add to this eight ounces of cleansed, stoned and finelj^ chopped Persian or Egyptian dates; then mix into it (in tablespoonsful) five ounces of whole- flour ; butter a Queen’s Pudding Basin put the mixture into it and steam it for four hours. Serve with lemon sauce. Plain Rice Pudding.—Wash and drain one measure of unpolished rice, and put it into a clean pudding dish with two measures of milk ; bake it until it absorbs the milk and does not boil; then take it out ; add a teaspoonful of fresh butter and three measures of milk, with a little grated lemon peel; sweeten it to taste with sugar ; return it to the oven and slowly bake it for three hours, and you have a very nourishing pudding—each grain of rice whole, and the pudding not the least bit dry. Apple Pudding.—Mix into eight ounces of wholemeal flour six ounces of finely chopped pine kernels, and wet it with sufficient cold water to make a stiff paste ; roll the paste thinly on a paste- board and line it into a buttered pudding basin ; then fill into it the clean chopped apples and seal it with paste, adjust the basin cover, and steam the pudding for two hours. Serve it with sugar and cream. Fig Pudding Butter a pudding basin and sift a light sprink- ling of fine sugar into it, then line the basin with twelve large clean and opened healthy figs. Beat together two fresh eggs, two dessert- spoonsful of well-soaked tapioca ; six tablespoonsful of wholemeal flour : a glass of sterilized milk, and three dessertspoonsful of castor sugar, pour this batter into the fig-lined basin, adjust the cover, and stea,m it for two hours. Serve it with sweet sauce.89 Raisin Pudding.—Wash and stone eight ounces of fine raisins and let these soak overnight in just sufficient cold boiled water to cover them. Butter a pudding basin and put the raisins into it; beat together two fresh eggs, four ounces of sugar, half-a-gill of cream and a teaspoonful of grated fresh lemon peel. Then mix six ounces of wholemeal flour with a gill of boiled milk, add this to the egg mixture, and mix the whole, and pour it over the raisins until the basin is nearly full, adjust the cover and boil or steam the pudding for three hours. If you have not the adjustable-lid pudding basins, use buttered paper neatly pasted over and down the sides of the basin. Serve this pudding with home-made or Devon- shire cream. Prunes or Damsons can be used in place of raisins and the pudding made precisely the same way. These puddings are very nutritious and sustaining in the winter season. Rhubarb Pudding.—Wash, but do not peel, one and a half pounds of fresh young garden rhubarb ; cut it into a china basin ; cover it with just enough cold boiled water, and add eight ounces of sugar and a dessertspoonful of grated fresh lemon peel; steam it until cooked. Butter a pudding basin and sift into it a light sprinkling of sugar ; line it with granose biscuits or wholemeal toast, and pour into this the cooked rhubarb ; put a layer of biscuit, or toast over it, adjust the cover and steam it one hour ; let it cool, then turn it out and serve it with home-made cream. Tapioca Pudding.—Have one measure of carefully washed tapioca in a baking dish ; add just enough cold boiled water to cover it and soak it for forty minutes ; then grate the third of a small nutmeg into half-a-measure of sugar and stir this into the tapioca ; then add three measures of clean milk and stir into the whole two teaspoonsful of almond or nut butter. Bake it in a m^oderate oven for one hour. Serve it with seasonable fresh, or stewed fruits. This pudding can be improved by adding two beaten eggs and a pint of clean milk, with a little more sugar, and a lemon or orange flavouring; and by exercising a little thought it can be90 modified in several ways, The same methods can be applied to the making of sago, or rice puddings. Sultana Pudding.—Make a batter from six ounces of flour ; six ounces of sugar ; three whipped fresh eggs, and a gill of steril- ized milk. Add to this two ounces of grated pine kernels, half a grated nutmeg, and eight ounces of clean washed sultanas ; mix the whole; then pour the batter into a pudding basin which has been buttered and has a sifting of sugar over it. Steam the pudding for three hours and serve it with lemon sauce and fresh fruits. Plain Plum Pudding—V/ash and stone six ounces of raisins ; pick over and wash three ounces of currants; let both soak overnight in a little water. Peel, core and mince two large and perfect apples ; mince four ounces of fresh lemon and orange pee! ; mill, or chop finely, four ounces of almonds; and grate one third of an average nutmeg. Add four ounces of sugar, the grated nut- meg, and what little water which may not have been absorbed by the currants and raisins, to a fresh egg and beat the whole ; then add the currants, raisins, apples, peel and nuts, and mix these well, and lastly, beat into this four tablespoonsful of wholemeal flour in small quantities. Pour the mixture into a pudding boiler and adjust the cover, and steam it for three hours. Christmas Pudding.—Wash and stone ten ounces of fine raisins, carefully pick over and wash eight ounces of large currants ; put both into a clean bowl and soak them for twenty-four hours in sufficient water to cover them, then drain them. Beat together four fresh eggs, six ounces of sugar and a little water which may have been drained from the fruit. Have six ounces of white or wholemeal flour in a fresh bowl ; mix into this eight ounces of finely shredded apples ; mill, or grate six ounces of blanched sweet almonds ; two ounces of blanched bitter almonds, or apricot kernels, and add these to the flour and apples ; then add four ounces of pine kernels, eight ounces of finely minced candied peel (mixed), a little citron and half a grated nutmeg ; now pour into this the91 raisins and currants, and thoroughly mix the whole ; then slowly stir this mixture into the beaten egg mixture and you will find it make a moderately thick batter ; now well beat the whole one way around the bowl with a wooden spoon; divide it into pudding boilers already buttered and slightly sifted over with castor sugar ; adjust the lids and steam at least eight hours. Serve with lemon sauce, or sauce to taste. Tapioca Jelly with Figs.—Wash and pick over three ounces of tapioca, put it into a bowl and soak it for two hours in sufficient cold boiled water to cover it. Pour boiling water over eight ounces of figs and cleanse them ; then finely chop these and add them to the tapioca with the juice of two ripe oranges. Butter a pudding boiler and sift over it a light layer of fine sugar, fill in the pudding, and steam it for four hours. Serve it with lemon cream ; or put it into a jelly mould and let it cool ; or turn it into a glass dish and daintily arrange over a beaten mixture made from the whites of three fresh eggs and two ounces of castor sugar. Black Crown Pudding-—Butter a pudding boiler and give it a light sifting of sugar ; line it with four ounces of washed currants ; then beat together two eggs, one ounce of cane sugar, three gills of milk and four ounces of wholemeal flour and pour this into the currant lined boiler ; steam it for two and a half hours and serve with lemon cream. Semolina Pudding (1)—Grate the peel of three lemons into half-a-pint of water and boil it a few minutes, strain it and return to the boiler, then stir in two ounces of semolina, and when it is nearly cold beat into it one gill of water with the yolks of two eggs, one ounce of castor sugar and a little grated nutmeg ; pour it into a china dish and bake in a moderate oven for half an hour, then add the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff paste as a face to the pudding, with a little red currant jelly edging. Again bake it a few minutes and serve hot.92 Semolina Pudding (2).—Put three tablespoonsful of sem- olina into a china bowl, stir into it three teacupsful of boiling milk the grated peel of two lemons, one ounce of sugar and two beaten eggs ; then pour this into a buttered basin liberally lined with seed- less raisins and steam it for two hours and serve with boiled custard. Cocoanut Pudding (1) Mix into three tablespoonsful of sifted flour six tablespoonsful of ground cocoanut, and six table- spoonsful of clean sultanas. Beat together three eggs, three table- spoonsful of cocoanut milk, and one teaspoonful of grated orange peel ; then carefully fold in the fruit and nut, steam it three hours in a pudding boiler and serve with stewed apples. Cocoanut Pudding (2)—Into eight ounces of ground cocoa- nut mix two ounces of sifted flour and one ounce of sugar; beat three eggs with half-a-pint of milk and neatly fold the tv/o into a pudding boiler and steam for two hours ; serve with quartered seedless oranges. Cocoanut Pudding (3).—Butter a pudding boiler and give it a light sifting of castor sugar ; line it with slices of cocoanut cake and pour into this one pound of washed currants with four ounces of cane sugar ; steam it one hour and serve with Eversley cream. Cherie’s Apple Dumpling.—Peel and scoop out the core of fine apples and into the hollow of each apple stuff a few clean sultanas ; cover the apples with thin puff paste and bake these on an iron plate until nicely browned. A little cane sugar can be added if desired, A filling of other dry fruits, or jam, jelly or marmalade can be used for a change. Bramble Berry Pudding.—Beat four ounces of sugar into three eggs; then add four ounces of flour and one gill of water; beat the whole, then carefully fold in eight ounces of clean black- berries and pour the mixture into a pudding boiler, buttered, and sifted over with a light sifting of suga.r. Serve with sweet sauce.93 Bread Pudding.—Slowly toast, or re-bake a few thin slices of wholemeal bread and line some of these into a pudding dish, then add a thick sprinkling of fine raisins, or sultanas, and over this put a layer of thin toast and another sprinkling of the fruit, cover this with the remainder of the toast and now add sufficient creamy milk, or almond cream to fill the dish, and slowly bake the pudding adding more milk if necessary. This pudding is very digestible and nutritious and it can be modified by adding other fruits, also by whipping a fresh egg, or two, into the milk, and by using bread and butter, however, the recipe as given, is the healthiest and best our experience has produced. Plain Macaroni or Vermicelli Pudding.—Boil in little water until quite tender two ounces of macaroni or vermicelli and add to this a pint of creamy milk, or almond cream into which there has been whipped three fresh eggs and sugar to taste, pour the whole into a pudding boiler and bake or steam it for one hour. Eversley Cream.—Have one dessertspoonful of white flour and three dessertspoonsful of sugar, beat into this a tablespoonful of milk and a fresh egg; bring a pint of fresh milk to the boil in a jug, or a duplex boiler ; then stir the mixture into the milk and let the whole simmer (not boil) for ten minutes. Served over stewed fruit, pies and puddings, it is delicious. Lemon Cream.—Grate finely four ounces of fresh lemon peel and put this into a small cheese cloth or muslin bag, boil it in one glass of water in a jug, or an enamelled pan for one hour; then remove the lemon and add a pint of milk to which has been added a well-beaten fresh egg and two ounces of castor sugar beaten together. Bring this to the boil and it is ready to serve. Creams,94 Cocoanut Cream.—Boil gently in one glass of water for one hour four ounces of grated cocoanut, then add to this one pint of milk which has been thickened with a dessertspoonful of arrow- root and two dessertspoonsful of sugar; boil the whole for ten minutes ; strain it through a fine muslin and it is ready to serve. Apple Cream —Peel, core and slice one pound of fine cook- ing apples ; cook these for two hours in three half-pints of water in a basin, or double boiler; then add to this one dessertspoonful of flour ; four ounces of sugar and one teaspoonful of finely grated lemon peel ; again boil for five minutes ; strain and serve it. Almond Cream.—Mill two ounces of sweet almonds and one ounce of apricot kernels, boil these in one pint of water in a double boiler for forty minutes ; then strain it through a muslin and let it cool; add to it a small glass of sterilized cream, or nut cream, one dessertspoonful of arrowroot, two dessertspoonsful of fine sugar and again boil it for ten minutes and serve. Cinnamon Cream.—Boil for three hours in two pints of water, two ounces of stick cinnamon and two ounces of minced stoned raisins, then strain this through a muslin, and to the liquid add two tablespoonsful of sterilized cream; nut cream; or one dessert- spoonful of flour, and two dessertspoonsful of sugar and again boil for ten minutes and serve with cooked, or fresh fruit. By using different spices and dry fruits other flavoured creams can be made through the same methods. Y/hite Sauce.—Add to one pint of sterilized, or boiled milk, two dessertspoonsful of flour, two ounces of butter, and a glass of water in which four cloves have been boiled for one hour ; boil the whole for fifteen minutes and serve. Lemon Sauce.—Mix a tablespoonful of flour into half-a-pint of water, then add half-a-pint of milk, two tablespoonsful of grated95 fresh lemon peel, two tablespoonsful of sugar and an ounce of fresh butter; boil the whole for ten minutes and serve. Fig Sauce.—^^Wash eight ounces of pressed figs and add just enough water to soak them for twelve hours ; then add three half- pints of water, the grated peel of a fresh lemon, a teaspoonful of cornflour, and boil for three hours. Put it through a fine strainer and serve. Egg Sauce.—Beat into one glass of milk and one glass of water a dessertspoonful of flour and an ounce of butter ; then boil for ten minutes, pour it over two finely chopped eggs and return it to the saucepan, add two ounces of butter and again boil it for three minutes and serve. Note.—To preserve the natural colour of eggs after boiling, plunge them into cold water immediately they are removed from the stove. Plain Syrup.—A good syrup for sweetening; or preserving purposes can be made by boiling for thirty minutes in an aluminium or enamelled pan, one quart of water, and one pound of pure cane sugar : stir it, and when clearly dissolved and cooked, bottle it for use. In the stewing of fruits this is superior to adding the raw sugar. Orange Syrup.—Have two pints of sweet orange juice crushed from ripe oranges ; add to this one pint of water and one pound of pure cane sugar ; let it boil in an enamel pan for forty-five minutes and store in sealed jars. It is delicious for adding flavour etc. when stewing fruits. Note.—A variety of flavours can be got by making syrups from different fruits on somewhat the same lines as the foregoing,96 Vegetable Salads, and Salad Dressings. Lettuce Salad—Wash and prepare three young crisp lettuces and stand them in fresh water for a little time; then drain and place them in a salad bowl. Make a few small balls from steril- ized cheese, roll these in grated Brazil nuts, and arrange them neatly over and among the lettuces. Celery Salad.—Cut the tender parts of one head of fresh celery; mince finely a small onion; put alternate layers of celery and onion into a salad dish, and garnish with two neatly chopped boiled eggs; over this sprinkle a teaspoonful of fine sugar and a teaspoonful of lemon juice. Celery and Watercress Salad —Cleanse a nice white- head of celery, shave it lengthwise and lay these in a salad dish ; arrange some carefully picked and washed watercress between the celery, and serve with, or without dressing. Beetroot Salad. — Steam until tender, two medium size beet- roots and when cold slice these into a salad dish, give these a sifting of castor sugar, and add two tablespoonsful of lemon juice and serve; or use the same dressing as for the lettuce salad and serve. Cucumber and Onion Salad.—Put alternate layers of sliced cucumber and shredded, or sliced onion into a salad dish, let this stand for one hour ; then over it arrange a few tender lettuce leaves ; serve with lemon juice and sugar, or the simple salad dressing given below. Tomato Salad.—Have eight ounces of yellow and eight ounces of red tomatoes ; slice these neatly and arrange them in97 alternate layers. Serve with simple salad dressing, or with two ounces of grated almonds. Note.—The average housewife finds it more difficult to move out of the old ruts of dressing with vinegar, salt, peppers and hot pungent sauces, than to secure a variety of vegetables and herbs to serve as a body to her salads; we therefore have given more attention to the dressing than the body of salads in this section of the book. A Simple Salad Dressing.—Have four tablespoonsful of fresh lemon juice, three tablespoonsful of sugar and half-a-pint of whipped milk cream, or nut cream, beat these thoroughly and pour over the salad. Salad Dressing (2).—Take the yolks of three hard boiled eggs and grate these into one teaspoonful of pure olive oil, one tablespoonful of castor sugar, and slowly beat into it two table- spoonsful of lemon juice and one tablespoonful of water until it creams, then pour it over the salad and let it stand thirty minutes before serving. Salad Dressing (3).—Whip a tablespoonful of castor sugar and a fresh egg, beat into this three tablespoonsful of thick almond cream and slowly beat in two tablespoonsful of lemon juice ; pour it over the salad and serve at once. Salad Dressing (4).—Mix two boiled eggs with two ounces of sterilized cheese, one dessertspoonful of pure olive oil, and one teaspoonful of castor sugar; beat the mixture and add one table- spoonful of lemon juice ; spread it evenly over the salad and finish with small cubes of sterilized cheese. Salad Dressing (5).—Mix three tablespoonsful of lemon juice with one tablespoonful of fine castor sugar; pour this over the salad and stand it for thirty minutes ; slice two boiled eggs and arrange neatly over the salad and sprinkle with sweetened lemon jnice and serve at once.98 Salad Dressing (6).—Have three tablespoonsful of steril- ized cream and into it beat the yolks of two eggs, two dessert- spoonsful of castor sugar, two tablespoonsful of lemon juice, and one dessertspoonful of pure olive oil; mix it with the salad and arrange a few cubes of sterilized cheese over it. FRUIT SALAD, SOUFFLE, Etc. Orange, Grape and Banana Salad.—Take firm clean white grapes, slice, peel and pip them; put a layer into a salad bowl and over this put clean quartered oranges; then around this neatly arrange some sliced sweet bananas: and arrange alternate layers of the fruit until you nearly fill the bowl; pour over it an almond dressing and stand it for thirty minutes ; then arrange neatly, on the face of it, a few thin slices of orange and serve. Pine-^pple Salad.—Peel a ripe pine-apple and cut it into dainty chunks and with it have some stoned cherries, ground almonds and sliced grape fruit. Arrange alternate layers of these in a deep salad dish or bowl and sift a little castor sugar over it and stand it for thirty minutes before you serve it. Raspberry and Orange Salad —Finely slice into a salad bowl one fleshy sweet orange, over this sift a little fine sugar; then arrange a layer of eight ounces of cleanly picked raspberries, and over this sprinkle the grated peel of half a fresh lemon and a dessertspoonful of fine sugar ; then thinly slice another nice orange and arrange these over the raspberries and give them a light sifting of sugar. Serve with nut rolls or ginger bread. Orange Salad.—Peel six nice oranges, slice these and arrange them in a salad dish, give them a sifting of sugar, and sprinkle two ounces of grated almonds and one ounce of dessicated cocoanut over them. Banana Salad.— Peel six ripe firm bananas and halve them lengthwise, give these a sifting of sugar, sprnkle four ounces of Brazil nuts and a teaspoonful of lemon juice.9!} Apple Salad.—Peel, core and thinly slice two large apples ; arrange these neatly in a salad dish ; then thinly slice half a fresh pine-apple and lay it over the apples and give them a light sifting of sugar. Mix two ounces of grated almonds, half an ounce of grated apricot kernels, and two ounces of dessicated cocoanut, and arrange this over the face of the apples and serve with sultana or currant cakes. Strawberry Salad.—Have eight ounces of fresh large straw- berries, put half of these into a salad dish and give them a sifting of sugar ; then divide and cut lengthwise two firm ripe bananas and lay these over the layer of strawberries and over all put the remainder of the strawberries and a light sifting of sugar. Serve with cream and lemon cakes. Peach and Banana Salad.—Peel six ripe peaches ; halve these and remove the stones ; fill each halve with a little sifted sugar and ground almonds ; place six halves in a glass salad dish with four ripe bananas, cut into small rounds, over them ; give these a sifting of sugar, and neatly arrange the remainder of filled peaches and a few clean sprays of red currants over the whole. Sweet Dressing for Fruit Salads,—Stir one dessert- spoonful of castor sugar and a teaspoonful of lemon juice into a teacupful of almond cream and pour it over the salads. Peach Salad.—Select a few ripe peaches and put these into a china bowl and pour boiling water over them and stand a few minutes, then put them into cold water and they are easily peeled. Halve them and remove the stones and into the cavities fill lemon jelly; now put the halves together and arrange these neatly in a salad dish and over them sift a little castor sugar, with sweet steril- ized cream, and serve at once. Orange Souffle.—Peel six ripe oranges, cut these into round slices and remove the pips ; place a layer in the bottom of a glass100 dish and give it a slight sifting of castor sugar, repeat this until the orange slices are used. Make a custard of the yolks of three eggs beaten into a pint of hot milk to which is added an ounce of sugar I gently stir it in a double boiler until it thickens and does not quite boil; let this stand until it cools, then pour it over the fruit. Beat to a stiff froth the white of the eggs with three ounces of icing sugar, and arrange this neatly over the dish. Plum Souffle.—Take ten ounces of stewed plums without juice. Beat together the juice of one lemon ; four ounces of castor sugar and add to the stiff beaten whites of four eggs and fold care- fully into the stewed fruit; give it a sifting of sugar and bake it in a moderate oven for fifteen minutes till nicely browned. Baked Peaches.—Have a few nice peaches and put the whole fruit into a baking dish or basin with close fitting cover, add to the fruit enough plain syrup nearly to cover them, then cook them. Beat together the whites of three eggs, one ounce of icing sugar and one ounce of ground almonds ; spread this neatly over the fruit and re-bake for five minutes, and serve hot. Note.—Plums and other fruit can be prepared on the lines of these salads. Stewed Raisins.—Add the juice of a fresh lemon, and an ounce of the rasped yellow outside peel of fresh lemons, to one quart of water and slowly boil or simmer for fifteen minutes, then strain it through a muslin; pour this over twelve ounces of fine washed raisins in a stone jar, or stewpan, and let this slowly stew for three hours. Sultanas, prunes and other dried fruit can be stewed in the same way. Stewed or Baked Apples (1).—Peel and core a few nice apples, put these into a double pan and nearly cover them with plain syrup. Into the cavity of each apple drop a small snip of101 cinnamon. 'Bake very slowly and the juice slightly jellies, Serve. Note.—The cavities can be stuffed with ground almonds; dates, etc., according to taste, and are thus palatable and nourishing. Stewed or Baked Apples (2).—Peel, core, and quarter a few firm apples ; place these in a china dish and nearly cover them with orange syrup. Slowly bake for three hours and serve covered with ground almonds. Apple Pie (Frosted).—Peel, core and quarter six large apples and lay these in a pie-dish with just enough water to cover them ; stew them to a pulp, then let them cool, and add two ounces of castor sugar and the white of an egg, beat the whole until it foams then pour it into a pie-dish lined with short-paste ; bake it for ten minutes and lightly spread over it a frosting made as follows :— Beat the white of two eggs with three ounces of icing sugar and half-a-teaspoonful of lemon juice; spread this over the pie and return it to the oven ; lightly brown it and serve at once. Custard Pie with Pine-nut Crust.—Beat together two fresh eggs ; half-a-pint of cold boiled water and two tablespoonsful of fine sugar. Line a pie-dish with pine-nut paste and pour into this the mixture. Bake it in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. Cherry Pie.—Pick over and wash two pounds of ripe cherries, cut these into halves and remove the wormy ones ; put the sound fruit into a pie-dish with four ounces of sugar ; cover with a puff paste and bake it to a light brown. Note.—All fresh and ripe seasonable fruits can be made into pies on the same lines as this. Pies, etc.102 Short Pastry.—Sift into a china bowl one pound of flour, and into this rub ten ounces of pure unsalted butter, or nut-butter. Mix it with a strong silver, or wooden fork whilst pouring into it sufficient cold boiled water to make a light paste, when rolled it is ready for use, Pu3, or Flaked Pastry—Allow twelve ounces of pure unsalted butter, or nut-butter, to one pound of flour. Sift into a china bowl one pound of flour, rub into this six ounces of the butter, mix it with sufficient cold boiled water to make a stiff paste, then roll it out and divide the remaining six ounces of butter into three parts and spread these over the paste; again roll it three times when it will be ready for use. Pine-Nut Pastry.—Mill eight ounces of pine-kernels, add to these eight ounces of flour and four ounces of cold boiled water. Mix this as lightly as you can with a strong fork ; roll it out and it is ready for use. Plain Icing for Cakes.—Powder eight ounces of loaf sugar and sift it clean. Beat the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth and beat the sifted sugar into this until it becomes a smooth paste, and it is ready for use. Lemon and Walnut Icing.—Make as above with the addition of a teaspoonful of lemon juice and the arranging of halves around the edge of the icing when spread over the cake. Other nuts can be used in the same way. Icings can be flavoured with the juice of pine-apple and other fruits. Chocolate Icing.—Dissolve two ounces of chocolate in three tablespoonsful of nut-milk, beat into this four ounces of powdered and sifted sugar, while it is hot pour into it the white of an egg103 well beating the mixture whilst pouring. Spread it over the cake when warm and set by to harden. A Christmas Cake.—The currant cake given in another chapter, with the proportion of fruits slightly modified, makes a very nice Christmas, or Birthday Cake if iced; and studded with almond, or walnut if a Christmas Cake. Lemon Cheese for Tartlets-—Add three ounces of castor sugar and one of butter to two tablespoonsful of lemon juice and heat this to the boiling point; then add one ounce of butter and add the whole to the beaten yolks of three eggs, slowly stir this for five minutes over a slow fire, or until it thickens. Raspberry Pie.—Line a baking dish with a thin layer of puff- paste and slowly bake this till brown; pour into this two beaten eggs with the grated peel of one lemon and half-a-pint of plain syrup then fill in three half-pints of clean fresh raspberries and cover the whole with strips of pastry; bake until nicely browned. Apple Pie (2).—Peel, core and slice some good apples into a china baking dish and almost cover them with plain syrup ; neatly line the edge of your dish with a good paste and cover the fruit with strips of paste and bake in a moderate oven until nicely browned and serve with plain cream. Christmas Mince (1.)—Carefully pick over and wash one pound of fine currants ; then dky them for a few minutes in a hot oven. Mix equal quantities of citron, lemon and orange peel to make eight ounces and pass these through the mincer. Peel, core and very finely mince ten ounces of perfect apples ; add the juice of two lemons and grate the rinds into it then add six ounces of sugar. Put three ounces of clean pine-kernels ; two ounces of blanched sweet almonds, two ounces of blanched bitter almonds, or apricot kernels through the nut-mill and add these to the mixure ; then thoroughly beat the whole and pour it into a stone jar and in twelve hours it is ready for use.104 Mince 2.—Pick over and wash one pound of currants ; wash and stone one pound of tender muscatels and put them through a mincer with eight ounces of citron peel; ten ounces of blanched almonds and half a grated nutmeg; mix the whole, pour it into a jar, or a Gourmet Boiler and cook it eight hours. Lemon Mince.—Put eight ounces of clean sultanas, eight ounces of washed currants, four ounces of citron peel, and six ounces of peeled and cored apples through the mincer then mix in the juice of four lemons and three ounces of granulated sugar; pour it into a jar or Gourmet Boiler and steam it for five hours. Jellies, Jams, Marmalade and Toffee. These articles of food, as commercially produced, are so generally adulterated, and bad in quality, and the average palate has such a craving for sweet, that we decided to include these clean and simple recipes for the guidance of the sweet eater, and those who know no other method of fruit preservation ; however, where the house- hold exchequer, time and conveniences permit, the bottling, and drying 'process of preservation is certainly the best, and where pure honey is procurable it is a better preservative than sugar and equally as cheap, its sweetening properties are so much higher that less quantHy need be used. With honey, the jams and jellies105 are not so clear and bright as when refined sugar is used. Where there are children home-made tofiee should be made, and sparingly eaten of. Raspberry Jelly.—To each pound of raspberries allow half- a-pint of water and simmer this slowly for three hours in a stew- pan then strain and press it through a very fine hair sieve and return it to the stew-pan with a pound of cane sugar to each pint of juice ; boil this for twenty minutes, bottle it and seal it at once. Note.—Red, white, or black currant jelly can be made in the same way. Lemon Jelly.—Into a china bowl slice very thinly a few peeled and fleshy lemons, and to each pound of fruit add two quarts of water ; cook this slowly until it is reduced to one half, then press it through a jelly bag; return it to the stew-pan and when it has boiled a little, add eighteen ounces of cane sugar to each pint of juice ; bottle it and seal it at once. Blackberry Jelly.—To eight pounds of blackberries add two pints of water, the juicie, and sliced peel of three lemons, two pounds of cane sugar ; mash these in a strong china bowl ; stew it for fifty minutes in two pints of water and strain it through a jelly bag, return it to the stew-pan and add eight ounces of sugar to each pint of juice ; boil until the syrup jellies ; jar and seal it when hot. Gooseberry Jelly.—Use the green berry fully grown but not fully ripened, remove the stems and wash the berries. To each pound of fruit add half-a-pint of water and slowly stew and stir frequently until the fruit is pulped, then strain it through a fine hair sieve, return it to the stewpan, and add twelve ounces of loaf sugar to each pint of juice ; boil until the jelly becomes a bright red colour ; put this into jars and seal when cold.106 Apple Jelly.—Have a few sharp apples ; wash these, remove the blemishes, core and finely mince them ; add sufficient cold boiled water to cover them, and stand it in a china bowl for two hours, then slowly stew it until pulped ; drain it through a fine hair sieve; add ten ounces of sugar and a small stick of cinnamon to each pint of juice and boil it for twenty minutes ; when cold, it should be bright and clear. Blackberry Jam.—Pick over and wash six pounds of black- berries : add to these three pounds of peeled and cored sweet cooking apples, and three half pints erf water ; slowly stew this until the apples are soft, then add ten ounces of cane sugar to each pound of the fruit, and boil for thirty minutes and pot it. Red Gooseberry Jam.—The best berry for this is the large smooth skin green berry ; remove stalks, etc., and wash them, add to each pound of fruit twelve ounces of lump sugar and a gill of water ; put this into the stew-pan and slowly simmer until it boils for fifty minutes ; pot and seal it, and it will set into a red colour. Apple Marmalade.—Peel and core a few nice pippins, add to each pound of fruit one gill of water, and stew this in an aluminium pan ; when the apples are almost pulped add eight ounces of cane sugar to each pound of fruit, and slowly boil to a golden colour; jar and seal it. A little grated lemon peel may be used if palatable. Sweet Plum Marmalade.—Have,some large well ripened fruit, and with a silver knife remove the skins ; put the fruit into an aluminium stew-pan and add eight ounces of sugar and one gill of water to each pound of fruit, slowly boil for fifty minutes, jar and seal it. Damson Plum Marmalade—To six pounds of plums add two pints of water, and slowly stew these for one hour; then strain t107 through a colander and remove the stones ; return the syrup to the pan, and to each pint add one pound of loaf sugar and slowly boil for fifty minutes. When jam is made, do not remove the skins and stones, and allow only ten ounces of sugar to each pound of fruit. Orange Marmalade.— Have a dozen fleshy Seville oranges, thinly slice these and remove the pips and white peel or rag. In a china bowl add two pints of cold boiled water to each pound of fruit, and stand it for twenty-four hours ; then boil it until the rind is quite tender ; add one pound of cane sugar to each pound of boiled fruit, and cook until the rind is clear and the syrup jellies ; jar and seal it. Lemon Marmalade.—Have six smooth thin skinned lemons, remove the pips and white peel or rag, add one pint of cold boiled water to each pound of fruit and stand it in a china bowl for twenty-four hours ; slowly boil for one hour and add one pound of cane sugar to each pound of fruit, and boil for half-an-hour, or until the syrup jellies. Toffee.—It is difl&cult to keep children from sweets, and where this childish appetite must be gratified, it is well this should be done cleanly therefore, make your children’s toffee at home by putting one ounce or two tablespoonsful of water into an enamel boiler ; add to this four ounces of cane sugar, and slowly boil to a golden brown ; then pour it on to a buttered slab or dish, and as i^ cools, cut and form it into small and varied sizes, and give these a sifting of cornstarch and store them in an air-tight canister. Larger quantities can be made, and the flavour varied, by the addition of a little butter when boiling, or by putting blanched almond halves, or walnut halves, or a little minced cinnamon on the slab and pouring the syrup over either.108 Beverages. Science tells us that our bodies are three-fourths water; that we daily use more than four pints of water and that this should be re-placed, water must enter largely into our dietary. If we are to judge by average standards, most people know little of the taste of water ; tea and beer are the national beverages and where tea and beer are not used, the people will have their water flavoured. Water to be quite healthy should be soft and boiled, distilled free of impurities and minerals; and when flavoured, fruit juices, pure honey, or cane sugar should be used. In addition to its palatabiiity, the juice of fruits is a natural purifier or antiseptic to the water, and to the digestive system; to sickly people, there are no therapeutic agents to equal water, fruit juice, and pure honey—if rightly administered, or applied. The universal custom is to drink at meals, and drinking at meals is an injurious habit—if too largely indulged; the salivary and peptic glands secrete less of their fluids when the food is largely diluted with meal drinks, and digestion consequently is imperfect. The liberal use of fruits and vegetables greatly lessens the craving for meal drinks, and add considerably to the pleasure of eating, and the easy, free secretion of digestive fluids ; where fruits and fruit juices are not palatable, and the un- regenerate appetite calls for the usual drinks, it is well to substitute for these a good quality of coffee, clean, not too highly roasted, and absolutely free from gas and coke109 fumes. We are well aware from observation and experience that most of what is said against tea and coffee is truth, but this truth has been got from the use of adulterated and badly prepared articles. Tea if seasonably and cleanly picked ; cleanly dried free of fermentation ; properly prepared and used in moderation is not the poisonous drink so generally denounced ; and so with coffee, where this is properly picked and dried ; cleanly and scientifically roasted, it is more than absolutely non- poisonous, it really is an aid to digestion, and possesses many curative properties, but let it be distinctly under- stood this cannot be said of tea and coffee as generally prepared and used; and where an appetite for pure water and fruit juices can be cultivated, the risks arising from the use of commercial teas and coffees are much reduced and we can eventually be freed of their evils. Pearled Barley and Lemon.—Boil a teacupful of pearled barley in three pints of water for three hours, then strain it; add the juice of a fleshy lemon and three tablespoonsful of pure cane sugar ; stand it for twenty minutes, and again strain it through muslin. Black Currant Wine.—Boil half-a-pint of ripe black currants in one quart of water for thirty minutes ; add three table- spoonsful of pure cane sugar and stand it for fifteen minutes ; then strain it and serve it. Plain Lemonade.—Rasp the yellow portion of the lemon peel into a jug, half two fine lemons, and drill the juice from these ^nto the jug ; add three tablespoonsful of pure cane sugar and three half pints of boiling water ; stir it well then strain it through a muslin and serve.110 Raspberry-ade.—Carefully pick over a few pounds of ripe raspberries; put these into a china bowl and mash them, allow half-a-pint of distilled or boiled water to each pound of fruit; let it stand for two hours ; then pour this into a jelly bag and squeeze out the juice ; allow four ounces of pure cane sugar to each pint of juice ; boil for ten minutes, let it cool and it is ready to serve. Black Cherry-ade-—Pick over and “wash six pounds of sweet black cherries and crush these to a pulp, put the pulp into an enamelled pan, adding enough water to cover it; cook for two hours and let it cool ; then pour it through a fine strainer and add a dessertspoonful of fresh lemon juice, and [a little sugar if necessary, to each pint of the juice ; reboil it a few minutes, and it is ready for use. Orange Wine Put the juice of three ripe fleshy oranges and three tablespoonsful of pure cane sugar into one quart of boiling water. Let this stand twenty minutes, strain it and serve. Strawberry and Black Currant Wine.—Stew one half pound of ripe black currants in three half pints of water for twenty minutes ; remove this from the fire and add two tablespoonsful of preserved strawberries, two tablespoonsful of cane sugar, and the juice of half a lemon. Let this stand for one hour, strain it through a muslin and it is ready for use. Fresh Apple and Lemon Wine.—Clean and slice two large apples and one small lemon ; add to this two tablespoonsful of cane sugar and a quart of water. Boil for one hour, strain it and serve. Fresh Pear Wine.—Clean and quarter four large pears; add four cloves and five pints of water; steam it for four hours, then add sugar to taste, and bring it to a boil and serve. , Clove and Apple Wine.—Clean and slice six large apples.Ill add to these three cloves, four ounces of sugar, and a quart of water. Stew it for one hour in a stew jar, then strain it and serve. Fresh Orange and Nutmeg Wine.—Wash two nice oranges ; rasp the outer rind of these into a jug, then crush the juice into it; grate into this the quarter of a small nutmeg, add two tablespoonsful of sugar and three half pints of boiling water. Let it stand for one hour, and strain it through a muslin. Pine-apple-ade.—Make a thin syrup by slowly stewing in one pint of water eight ounces of cane sugar. Peel a ripe pine-apple and slice or mash it into a china bowl; then add this with two pints of water, to the syrup and let it all slowly boil for one hour ; strain it through muslin and^ return it to the boiler a few minutes ; jug it and let it cool. Black Currant-ade.—Pick over and wash two pounds of black currants, put these into a muslin bag in an enamelled stev/- pan and mash them with a wooden spoon until all are broken ; then add three pints of water and let this stew for three hours, and finely strain the whole ; add cane sugar to taste and bottle it for use. Apple-ade or Tea.—Take eight ounces of firm cooking apples quarter and clean these but do not core them; and with one ounce of sugar and one clove stew them for two hours in three half pints of water, then press them through a jelly bag, return the liquid to the stew-pan and bring it to the boil, add a little lemon if palatable. Toast Water.—Toast, without scorching, a few slices of stale wholemeal bread, pour over these sufficient boiling water and let it stand one hour, then drain it into a jug and add honey to taste. Note.—All fruit drinks, syrups, and sauces should be prepared in, and used from, china or porcelain lined utensils.112 Porridges and Cheese. All your porridges should be cooked in double boilers or by standing a covered basin of the porridge in a saucepan with boiling water; and, as in the case of soups ; a little well browned toast, croutons, nut-rolls, or other dry food should be eaten with the porridge that it may be thoroughly salivated. There can be little doubt that insufficiently cooked, and quickly swallowed porridges are a prolific cause of digestive troubles, and unless the eater has sufficient time and patience to cheerfully salivate porridge, and soup, he had better leave it alone. Oatmeal Porridge-—Use only the pure scotch or home- grown oatmeal, it is superior to any other. Wash and pick over one measure of oatmeal and add four measures of water, this boil and simmer for three or four hours until it becomes jelly-like Serve it with nut cream and stewed fruit; or serve it with fresh cream, milk and cane sugar. Oatmeal Cream can be made by adding six measures of water to one measure of oatmeal cooked for six hours and strained through a muslin. Rice Porridge.—Pick over and wash one measure of un- polished rice, add to this six measures of water and boil for three hours. A measure of raisins can be added if desirable, and if so. two extra measures of water should be added. It can be served with pure honey ; stewed or ripe fresh fruits. Pearled Barley and Raisins Porridge.—Pick over and wash one measure of pearled barley and one measure of fine raisins, add to these six measures of water and cook for four hours. Serve with pure honey and milk.113 Croutons.—A very simple and digestible crouton for porridges and soups can be made by cutting dry bread crusts into cubes and toasting these on a hot iron plate, or in an oven, until browned. These can be sweetened by a little sprinkling of fine sugar. Croutons (Savoury).—Make a stiff dough, as you do for crisps, with eight ounces of wholemeal flour, four ounces of butter, one ounce of grated onion and half a teaspoonful of powdered sage rubbed into it. Form the dough into small rolls about four inches long, and bake these until quite brown. Sterilized Cheese.—Into one quart of boiling milk stir the juice of two or three lemons, according to size and taste ; strain the whole through a very fine hair sieve and put the curds into a very finely perforated enamelled mould, or a cheese cloth ; press it well for twelve hours, or longer, that it may be well drained ; it is then ready to serve, or be worked into other dishes.114 Menus. The following menus, like the recipes, are given as types suggestive of the varied combinations possible to the housewife who has carefully read the whole book. They consist of foods easily procurable and inexpensive, and with experience the housewife will find they make no greater demand upon her exchequer and service than do menus which include animal food. Quantities and variety must be determined by the number of your family. Too great variety of foods is unnecessary; simplicity is the natural and health-giving rule. Meals should be prepared with a view to palatability, digest- ibility, sufficiency and nutrition and not for display and gluttony. Where the palate is clean and natural, the many breads, cakes, fruits and nuts eaten fresh, and in varied combinations, will please and satisfy nature's demand for sustenance, besides greatly reducing the labour of the kitchen. The simple appetite for nutritiously dressed salads, ripe fruits, and clean breads and cakes should be encouraged, it slowly and naturally will eradicate the craving for hot and savoury dishes; but, whether your menu is to be simple, or compound, you should remember116 that the perfection of cookery, digestion and nutrition lies in combining the food elements in their right pro- portion to the body’s needs. Every effort should be made to cook and serve all foods in their own juices and with as much artistic taste and skill as you can command. A section of the book dealing with the varied cookery of vegetables may have pleased, and helped a few, but the rule of steaming and baking, etc., all foods in their own juices together with your experiences in the old cookery makes this unnecessary ; you will find that it is not a feature of the change so important and delicate as the art of flavouring, dressing, and serving in a way that appeases the craving for the old diet. The sight, smell and palate should be pleased in the effort to satisfy nature’s needs. The meals provided should suit the season, or climate. Fruits and vegetables tastefully arranged in their several dishes, with a few simple seasonable floral arrangements, add much to the enjoyment of the meal and the general happiness of the family. How instinctively scientific we are as human animals when our appetites are not too perverted and artificial. During the summer and warmer season we naturally show a decided prefer- ence for the luscious and cooling fruits which nature— ever wise and generous—abundantly provides for us ; and with the approach of winter and the colder season the demands for the heartier fare which supplies heat and energy increase, and we eat more abundantly of it—thus have iwe tried to follow nature in the arrangement of these menus ;—116 SUMMER SEASON. BREAKFAST. Rice Porridge. Fresh Plum or Cherry Soup. Plain Buns. Nut Rolls, Lightly Boiled Eggs. Unfermented Bread and Butter. Tomatoes. Fresh Fruits. The addition or otherwise of Tea or Coffee according to taste. LUNCHEON. Fruit Soup. Toast or Rolls. Cold Nut Meat. Vegetable or Fruit Salad, Breads. Cakes. Coffee. DINNER. Tomato Soup. Croutons. Nut Meat Roast French Beans Mashed Turnip. Potatoes. Gravies. Custard, Fruit Pies Tartlets. Sterilized Cheese. Breads. Fresh Fruits. Fruit Wines. Coffee. WINTER SEASON. BREAKFAST. Stewed Figs, Dates or Prunes. Almond Rolls. Pea Nut Scones. Boiled or Baked Apple. Oatmeal Porridge. Almond Cream. Poached or Scrambled Eggs, or a Savoury. Breads, Rolls. Butters. Grapes. Apples. Pears. Coffee. LUNCHEON. Chestnut Soup. Creamed Toast. Apple Salad, Nut Cakes. Breads, Fresh or Nut Butters. Raisins. Muscatels. Oranges, Coffee. DINNER Haricot Soup. Nut Roast. Sprouts. Creamed Potatoes. Sauces and Gravies. Sultana, Date, or Plum Pudding. Cream or Sauce. Biscuits. Nuts. Fruit. Fruit Wines. Coffee.117 INDEX. Page. This Picture—and That ! . . ... ... 15 To THE Housewife ... ... ... ... 21 (Appliances, etc.) The Quality of Food ... ... ... 25 The Fundamental Principle, The Fats, Water, Con- diments, Salt, Vinegar, Food Preservation, Sugar. The Combination of Foods ... ... ... 34 A very common Mistake. The Number of Meals. As a guide to Food Selection and Combination. Water, Proteid. Carbo-Hydrates. Hydro-Carbons. All Natural Foods, etc. The Art of Bread-making ... ... ... 39 Recipes for breads and plain biscuits, etc. ... 45 Recipes for cakes and fruit biscuits, etc. ... ... 48 Nuts, and Nut Cakes. Etc. ... ... ... 53 Meat and Fish Substitutes, Etc. ... ... 59 Recipes for Nutmeats ... ... ... 62 Recipes for Macaroni, Pulse, and Savoury Roasts, etc. 63 Vegetable, Pulse and Nut Pies and Puddings ... 71 Savoury Breakfast Dishes ... ... ... 74 Vegetable, Pulse, Nut and Fruit Soups ... .. 76 A Few Lunch, Supper or Pic-Nic Dishes. ... 81 Vegetable Stocks, Gravies, Sauces, Etc. ... 84 Puddings ... ... ... ... ... 88 Creams, Sauces and Syrups ... ... ... 93 Vegetable Salads, and Salad Dressings ... 96 Fruit Salads, Souffle, Etc.... ... ... 98 Fruit Pies, Pastry, Icings, Etc. ... ... 101 Jellies, Jams, Marmalade and Toffee ... 104 Beverages ... ... ... ... 108 Porridges and Cheese ... ... ... 112 Menus ... ... ... ... ... 114118 HEALTH FOODS for the Million. . . No thoughtful person can fail to realise the enormous import- ance of pure and natural food. The question naturally arises— where can such food be obtained ? This advertisement is meant to answer that question. GRANOSE is simply the entire wheat kernel in the form of light, crisp, delicate flakes. Price 7jd. per packet. GLUTEN MEAL (Wheat Extract)- Gluten is the life element of wheat, consequently Gluten Meal, in which so large a porportion of Gluten is present, is an excellent flesh-forming food, and, being perfectly cooked, it is quickly prepared for use. 1-lb. packet 30% strength lOd, ; 60% strength 1/8. NUT BUTTERS- Thel.H.A. Nut Butters are made entirely from the Nuts after which they are called. They are not a combination of these nuts with neutral fat:—which latter is the only method of pro- ducing a fioUd Nut Butter. Consequently the I.H.A. Nut Butters are superior to the more popular Nut Butters, since they contain all the proteid of the nut. They possess this additional advantage, that the fat is in an emulsified state. Free fats often give rise to indigestion and biliousness. ALMOND BUTTER- Made from Sweet Almonds only, A perfect substitute for all Dairy products, and preferable to them. Can be diluted to use as Almond Butter, Cream or Milk. Is very nourishing, delicate, and easy of digestion. In 1-lb. tins 2/-; ^-Ib. tins 1/1 PEA-NUT BUTTER- Made from cooked nuts only. Excellent for enriching soups, stews, gravies, &c. A fattening food and a wholesome one. Should always be diluted as required, owing to its strength. In 1-lb. tins 1/-; ^-Ib. tins 7d. A package of assorted samples sent post free on reeeipt of 11- Price List and address of nearest Agent sent post free on application. ADDRESS:— The International Health Association, Ltd., Stanbopoug'h Park, Watfopd, Hepts.