oc. *i*&itM*. .»0»V^ ‘a1' ia>— ill., I tom*** & xviEAV-. And How To IISGUISE ITOur Food and Drinks By Dr. ANDREW WILSON. Price lsM post free Is. 2d. Dr. Wilson is recognised as the standard authority on what may be termed Domestic Chemistry, and the subject with which he deals in this little volume is one the importance of which cannot be over- estimated. The subjects dealt with in this book are :— The rudiments of health—About our food—Diet rules and diet adjuncts—Our drinks—About water—Impurities in foods —How our food is digested—Digestion in the stomach—Digestion in the intestine— How food is absorbed. Infectious Diseases And how to Prevent Them. By Dr. ANDREW WILSON. Price Is., post free 1b. 2d. This little work is intended as a guide to the householder (and especially to mothers) in the all important matter of the prevention of infectious diseases. The subjects dealt with in this book are :— CHAP. I.—WHAT INFECTIOUS DIS- EASES ARE. II.—WHAT INFECTION MEANS. „ III.—WHAT FEVERS ARE. 22101454001 Household Hints Edited by “ ISOBEL,” of Home Notes. Price Is., post free Is. 2d. This volume deals with every kind cl advice and recipe for keeping a house in perfect condition. The aim in all the recipes is to make them exceedingly simple and practical, and of use to the veriest amateur. Some of the numerous recipes are :— Advantage of air beds—To make alum water—A safe antidote—To destroy ants— To keep bacon—Cold bandages—Damp beds—To clean brass—To make blacking —Blankets—Blinds—To preserve boots— Hints about unbleached calico — To lay carpets — Hints on carving — To make cement—To clean leather chairs—Cure for chilblains—To destroy cockroaches—To make cold cream — Cooking terms— To make court plaster—To kill cricke’s— To colour lace curtains—To clean curtams —Hints on washing dishes—To preserve eggs — To clean engravings — To curl ostrich feathers—To polish steel—To clean filters—To smoke fish —To remove ink- stains—To clean fur—To keep cut flowers —Hints on food—To clean gilt frames— To wash leather gloves—To clean gloves— To remove grease—To make gum—To make hair wash, hair lotion, etc.—Remedy for chapped hands, etc., etc., with many household remedies. Plain Needlework Edited by “ ISOBEL,” of Home Notes. Price 1 s., post free la. 2d. The object of this book is to show, by examples and simple directions, the best way of executing all the most necessary details of what is usually termed plain work. It is a fact that many a one is heavily handicapped in her work because she does not know the ordinary method * of hemming, sewing on braid, etc., all very simple when learnt, but without which she can' make no progress, and the time to be spent in class learning, cutting out or fitting, etc., has often to be devoted to teaching her to sew. To those, too, ..rh/-. ,«,;«!>. tn instruct their children or lis book may prove of of :t, London, W.C. :tion OKS F.L S.Med K10316 oman mow ;ction on RVIRTTES. ome Notes. Cloth, Price as., post free Is. 2d. Some of the numerous subjects dwelt upon in tliis interesting handbook are :— To remove acid stains—Uses of alum— To whiten arms and neck—First food for babies—How to feed babies—The tem- perature of baths etc.—Boiled beef—Bees’ and wasps’ stings—To destroy beetles— How to keep birds in cages—To restore black dresses—Blistered feet—To remove flat taste from boiled water—To soften and waterproof boots and shoes—To make brilliantine—Tips about butter—Adminis- tering castor oil — To clean smoked ceilings—Easily-made cement—Chapped hands and lips—Chilblains—Tips concern- ing children’s health, etc.—To extinguish chimneys on fire, etc.—To economise coal —Remedy for cold feet—Constipation—To cool a room—Coughs—Cream—To test damp beds—Diarrhoea—Colours and the dyes they will take—Earache—Hints about eggs—The eyes—To wash fine lace—Hints about fish — To keep flowers fresh — Garnishes—To remove grease, etc. Pearson’s Dream Book Giving the Interpretation of Dreams by Magic Ciphers, by the Square of Fate, by a Table of Dreams, according to Days, etc., etc. By Professor P. R. S. FOLI. Author of " Handwriting as an Index to Character,” “ The Fortune Teller,” etc. Crown 8vo, Cloth, Price Is., post free Is. 2d. Some of the subjects dwelt upon in this interesting book are :— Dreams and their Mystic Reality—They are our Sleeping Thoughts—Distinction Between Real and Idle Dreams—Wonders of Dreamland—Historic Evidence of the Uses and Interpretations of Dreams— Greek, Roman, Gallic, Indian, and Medieval, and Modern Views—Rapidity of Dreams—Doubtful Theories—Inspiring Power of Dreams — Some Dreams are Valuable, some Vain—Predisposing Causes —Dreams within Dreams—Somnambulists — Divisions of Dreams—The Dream Proper — The Oracle—The Warning—Instances of these—The Interpretation of Dreams by Magic Ciphers—The Magic Square of Fate —A Table of Dreams according to their Days—A List of Dreams, Subjects, and what they indicate alphabetically arranged —Omens, etc. The Fortune Teller By Professor P. R. S. FOLI. CrownSvo, Cloili, Price la., post free Is. 2d. Some of the subjects in this interesting book are:— Augury by Birds—What Birds Foretell —Astrology—Gipsy Fortune-tellers—Anti- quity of Card Reading—Charms—Christ- mas Customs—Facts about and Instances of Clairvovance —Crystal Gazing — The Crystal Globe—Three Kinds of Vision- Magnetic Precious Stones—Divination by a Wedding Ring, by Dominoes, by Palmis- try, by Rods, Teacups, and by the Wheel of Fortune—The Divining Rod—Odds and Ends of Omens—Advice and Hints for Beginners in Fortune-telling—Gipsies — Hallowe’en Charms—Lucky Stars — Mesmerism Supersedes Witchcraft—Lines on the Hand in Palmistry — Precious Stones and their Meanings—The Koh-i- noor—Psychometry—Rings and Bridecake —The Voice of Rings—Wedding Rings— Teacup Fortune-telling—When to Expect a Visitor—Picking up Horseshoes—Good and Bad Luck—Quaint Ceremonie*—Snap- dragon, etc,, etc. & & Consult the Oracle 0rXJ:ai Third Impression. Crown 8vo, Cloth, Price Is., post free Is. 2d. Some of the subjects dwelt upon in this excellent book are :— Omens, charms, and spells for lovers— Mystery about plants—The fortunes of little people—Certain sure for adder’s bite — Something important about dogs— Character judged by the hands and fingers— How to cure anaemia—Lucky and unlucky numbers—Omens connected with apple trees—Fortunes told by cards —Baptism as it should be—Cupid at work all the year round—Beckoning to ships, unlucky—Getting out of bed backwards, unlucky—What we may learn from bees —Lucky days of birth—Married life began as it should be—Bleeding at the nose — Unlucky breakages—How to obtain a good breeze—How to have money plentiful in every one's pocket—Hints to bridegrooms and bridesmaids—The sneeze of a black cat—Feathered prophets of good and evil —Children on board ship—Proper days for putting on new clothes—Lucky coins —Rocking the cradle—Howto cure cramp —Fortunes read in the palm of the hand— Sign of the cross—Witchcraft in the dairy —Deaths of great men—Notes on dogs— Singing in the ears—The influence of the evil eye—What to do with egg-shells, etc.,etc. To be had of all Booksellers, or of C Arthur Pearson, Ltd., 17, Henrietta Street, London, W.C.SAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAaaaaaaaa. Better Food.” Dr. ANDREW WILSON, F.R.S.E., &c PURE CONCENTRATED “ It is a pleasant and pure Food Confection, and can be consumed with advantage and safety by young or old.”—SCIENCE SIFTINGS. “ I have never tasted Cocoa that I like so well.”—Sir CHAS. CAMERON, C.B., M.D., Ex- President of the Royal College of Surgeons, Ireland. • - - ASK FOR - - THE “FIYE BOYS” MILK CHOCOLATE.Cold Meat and How to Disguise ItBOOKS THAT EVERY ONE WANTS Cloth, price is. each, or is. 2d. post free To be obtained at all Booksellers, or from the Book Publisher, 17 Henrietta Street, W.C. After Dinner Sleights. By C. Lang Neil. Speeches for All Occasions. By an Oxford M.A. Swimming. By Montague A. Holbein, the famous Cross- Channel Swimmer. With numer- ous Illustrations. Cricket. With Contributions by K. S. Ranjitsinhji, C. B. Fry, G. L. Jessop, C. L. Townsend, G. Brann, &c. Edited by G. L. Jessop. Training for Athletics and General Health. By Harry Andrews (Crystal Palace Trainer). The author has trained such well-known athletes as M. A. Holbein, F. Shorland, A. E. Walters, J. Butler, A. Shrubb, A. A. Chase, &c. &c. Walking. A Practical Guide to Pedestrianism. By C. Lang Neil. With Contributions by W. J. STURGESSand W. Griffin. With Illustrations. How to Take and Fake Photo= graphs. By Clive Holland, the eminent Amateur Expert in Photography. With numerous Illustrations. Practice Strokes at Billiards. Giving examples from the actual match play of Roberts, Dawson, Peall, Mitchell, Stevenson, Spiller, &c. &c., with their method of scoring therefrom. By F. M. Hotine, Editor of Modern Billiards, &c. With over 100 Diagrams. Etiquette for Men. By F. V. Howard. This volume gives in a simple style full and accurate directions for the due observance of Modern Etiquette for Men. LONDON: C. ART A Thousand Curious Things worth Knowing. Selected from the “ Questions worth Answer- ing ” page of Pearson's Weekly. Handwriting as an Index to Character. A Popular Guide to Graphology. By Prof. P. R. S. Foli, Graphologist. With many Illustrations. Heads and How to Read Them. A Popular Guide to Phrenology. By Stackpoole E. O’Dell, the eminent Phrenologist. With 20 Illustrations. How Shall I Word It? A Complete Letter-writer for Men and Women on all subjects. By One of the Aristocracy. How and What to Dance. By W. Lamb, President of the British Association of Teachers of Danc- ing. Little Economies and How to Practise Them. By Mrs Waldemar Leverton. Small Gardens and How to Make the Most of Them. By Violet Biddle. This handbook teems with hints and wrinkles of the utmost importance to Amateur Gardeners. Roses and How to Grow Them. By Violet Biddle, Author of “ Small Gardens and How to Make the Most of Them.” Poultry Keeping, and How to Make it Pay. By F. E. Wilson, contributor to Poultry, &c. Drawing-Room Entertainer. By Cecil H. Bullivant. This is a Practical Guide to the Art of Amateur and Semi-Professional Entertaining. Modern Card Manipulation. By C. Lang Neil. UR FEARSON, Ltd.COLD MEAT AND HOW TO DISGUISE IT By M. E. Rattray First Class Diplomee National Training School of Cookery, London Author of “Sweetmeat Making at Home,” etc. London C. Arthur Pearson, Ltd. Henrietta Street I9°47! 8^3 2 S '■ WELLCOME INSTITUTE LIBRARY Coll. welMOmec Call No. ,ix Contents CHAPTER I HOW TO UTILISE A COLD JOINT PAGE First Principles—General Hints—The Use of Scraps—Croquettes and Rissoles —Toasts—Scallops of Cold Meat—Re-serving Mixed Meats—Flavouring and Seasoning—Garnishing—Various Adjuncts—Store Sauces, Pickles, and Chutnee—Freshly-made Sauces—Crofttons and Crohstades—Bread Crumbs—Vermicelli—Egg-wash—Sippets—Panada—Patty-cases , . 13 CHAPTER II HOME-MADE STORE SAUCES AND PICKLES x. Apple Chutnee—2. English Chutnee (Tomato)—3. Indian Chutnee— 4. Mushroom Ketchup—5. Tomato Ketchup—6. Walnut Ketchup —7. Baroda Pickle—8. Gunner’s Delight—9. Lemon Pickle—10. Picca- lilli (Vegetable Marrow), &c.—11. Red Cabbage Pickle—12. Yellow Pickle (White Cabbage, &c.)—13. Tomato Sauce—14. Worcestershire Sauce . 21 CHAPTER III QUICKLY-MADE SAUCES, HOT AND COLD 1. About Sauce—2. Aspic Cream—3. Brown Sauce—4. Brown Chaudfroid —5. Curry—6. Hollandaise—7. Horse-radish—8. Indienne—9. Maltre d’Hotel—10. Mayonnaise Aspic Cream—11. Mint—12, Mushroom— 13. Mustard —14. Onion —15. Oyster—16. Piquante—17. Plain Be- chamel Sauce (white)—18. Plain Melted Butter—19. Portugaise— 20. Robert Bourgeoise—21. Stock for Sauces (quickly made)—22. Tar- tare—23. Tomato—24. Tomato Aspic—25. White Chaudfroid CHAPTER IV USEFUL ADJUNCTS 1. Aspic Jelly—2. To cook Bottled or Tinned Peas—3. Cabbage Mould— 4. Carrots (mashed)—5. Frying Batter (quickly prepared)—6. Glaze—7 Green Peas with Butter (French style)—8. Macaroni k la Neapolitaine 9. Mushrooms (devilled)—10. Panada or Binding Mixture for Cro- quettes ix. Potato Balls—12. Potato Balls with Anchovy Butter—13,Contents X Potato Casserole —14. Potatoes (mashed) —15. Potato Mould— 16. Puffed Potatoes—17. Potatoes, Slices and Ribbons (fried)—18. Pur£e of Artichokes—19. Risotto (Border for Meat)—20. Risotto with Green Peas—21. Rice for Curry, &c.—22. Tomatoes (baked) . . 35 CHAPTER V SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 1. Beef Vinaigrette—2. Beetroot—3. Carrot, Cream Dressing—4. Cauli- flower—5. Chicken and Egg—6. Chicken Mayonnaise—7. Cold Meat with Tomato—8. Cold Meat with Roman—9. Cucumber—10. Duck Mayonnaise — 11. English Dressing—12. Vinaigrette Dressing—13. French Dressing—14. Game Mayonnaise—15. Lentil—16. Lettuce— 17. Mayonnaise Sauce—18. Ox Cheek with Hungarian Salad—19. Ox Cheek with Remoulade Sauce—20. Picnic Salad Rolls—21. Potato (Red) —22. Russian—23. Salad Dressing without Oil—24. Savoury Calf s Head —25. Spanish (Potato)—26. Tomato—27. Veal and Bacon—28. Vege- table (mixed)—29. French & la Vinaigrette ..... 42 CHAPTER VI HORS D’CEUVRES 1. Anchovies—2. Anchovy Bonnes-Bouches—3. Anchovy Canapes—4. Anchovy Salad—5. Beetroot a la Turque—6. Bonnes-Bouches of Prawns —7. Croutes for Hors d'ffiuvres—8. Foie-gras in Aspic—9. Hamburg Beef—10. Marinated or Pickled Fish—11. Olives—12. Orange Salad —13. Spanish Olives a la Tartare—14. Tomatoes in Aspic ... 51 CHAPTER VII JOINTS OF COLD MEAT SERVED COLD 1. Boiled Beef—2. To serve Cold Boiled Beef—3. Pressed Brisket of Beef— 4. Ribs of Beef—5. Ribs of Beef (garnished)—6. Roast Fillet of Beef— 7. Savoury Beef with Horse-radish Sauce—8. Cold Sirloin of Beef—9. Cold Boiled Calf’s Head—10. Slices of Cold Meat with Tartar Sauce— 11. Leg of Mutton—12. Leg of Mutton with Cold Tomato Sauce—13. Mutton with Potato Salad—14. Shoulder of Mutton . . . • 55 CHAPTER VIII POULTRY AND GAME 1. Chicken (minced) and Baked Eggs—2. Chicken Capilotade—3. Chaud- froid of Chicken—4. Croustades of Fowl—5. Curried Chicken (brown) —6. Curried Chicken (white)—7. Chicken Cutlets—8. Cutlets of Chicken k l’ltalienne—9. Fricassee of Chicken (1)—10. Fricassee of Chicken (2)—11. Chicken (fried)—12. Chicken Livers (devilled)—13. Chicken and Macaroni—14. Chicken Mar^chale—15. Chicken Mould (cold)—16. Chicken and Mushroom Cutlets—17. Chicken Paprika k la Viennoise—18. ^Paprika a la Portugaise—19. Chicken Patties—20,Contents xi PAGE Potted Chicken—21. Chicken Rdchauffe—22. Chicken or Veal (minced) and Sausages—23. Savoury Chicken—24. Salmi of Duck—-25. Game or Poultry k l’Indienne—26. Kromeskies of Game or Chicken 27. Savoury Risotto & la Milanaise—28. Game (minced) with Kidneys— 29. Game Patties—30. Hashed Goose—31. Goose Legs (devilled)—32. Croustades of Partridge or Pheasant—33. Scallops of Partridge or Pheasant—34. Rice Croquettes of Chicken or Game—35. Rabbit (tinned) Patties—36. Turkey & la Bretonne—37. Blanquette of Turkey—38. Boudins of Turkey—39. Hashed Turkey (brown)—40. Hashed Turkey (white)—41. Turkey Legs (devilled)—42. Turkey & la Milanaise—43. Turkey Souffle—44. Venison Croquettes—45. Venison Rissoles—46. Venison or Game (hashed) 59 CHAPTER IX BEEF RECIPES 1. Broiled Beef—2. Broiled Beef and Oysters—3. Corned Beef Pie—4. Beef Cutlets—5. Beef Darioles—6. Fillets of Beef k la Maitre d’Hotel— 7. Fricassee of Beef—8. Grilled Beef or Mutton & l’lndienne—9. Beef Hash—10. Beef Hash (French Bourgeoise style)—11. Minced Beef— 12. Miroton of Beef (1)—13. Miroton of Beef (2)—14. Miroton of Beef k la Guerrier—15. Beef Olives (1)—16. Beef Olives (2)—17. Beef Patties—18. Ragout of Beef—19. Ragout of Corned Beef—20. Rolled Beef in Jelly—21. Roulade of Beef a la Neapolitaine—22. Rechauffe of Salt Beef— 23. Sirloin of Beef, to rewarm—24. Slices of Beef, to rewarm —25. Bubble and Squeak—26. Curry Puff—27. Jelly for Mould of Rolled Beef—28. Macaroni Timbales of Ox Tongue—29. Russian Brawn — 30. Savoury Rolls—31. Tongue in Aspic—32. Tongue Toast 75 CHAPTER X MUTTON RECIPES 1. Baked Mutton Pudding—2. Mutton Brawn—3. Broiled Mutton and Tomatoes—4. Broiled Mutton and Fried Cabbage—5. Casserole with Cream Hash—6. Brown Chaudfroid of Mutton—7. Chaudfroid Mutton Cutlets—8. Mutton Collops and Tomato Sauce—9. Curried Mutton (1)—10. Curried Mutton or Lamb (2)—n. Mutton Cutlets k la Pompa- dour—12. Spanish Mutton Cutlets —13. Dry Curry of Mutton— 14. French Mince Mutton—15. Mutton Fritters a l’Anglaise—16. Mutton Fritters 4 la Diable—17. Mutton Fritters au Gratin—18. Mutton Fritters ft la Palestine—19. Mutton (grilled)—20. Hash Pie—21. Hashed Mutton—22. Hashed Mutton a la Franpaise—23. Hashed Mutton with Walnut Pickle—24. Mutton Hashed k l’lndienne—25. Mutton Hashed like Venison—26. Mutton k l’lndienne—27. Indian Stewed Mutton —28. Curried Kidneys—29. Stewed Knuckle of Mutton—30. Mutton with Macaroni Border—31. Minced Mutton and Mjacaroni Pie— 32. Mutton Mould—33. Mutton Olives—34. Piquante Mutton Collops with Potato Balls—35. Ragofit of Mutton—36. Ragofit of Mutton k la Provenfal — 37. Roulades of Mutton — 38. Mutton Rechauffe (American)—39. Saddle or Leg of Mutton, to rewarm—40. Slices of Mutton, to rewarm—41. Mutton Surprises—42. Timbales of Mutton— 43. Muttonettes 85Contents CHAPTER XI VEAL RECIPES PAGE i. Calf s Feet—2. Calf’s Feet Fritters in Sauce—3. Hashed Calfs Head— 4. Calfs Head Pie—5. Calfs Head k la Poulette—6. Rechauffe of Sweetbreads—7. Sweetbreads (tinned) in Brown Sauce—8. Casserole of Minced Veal—9. Veal Cannelon 4 la Royale—10. Chaudfroid of Veal —11. Cold Curry of Veal, &c.—12. Fillet of Veal stewed with Peas— 13. Fricandelle of Veal—14. Veal Fritters—15. Veal Picnic Pie—16. Slices of Veal, to rewarm—17. Veal au Gratin k l’ltalienne—18. Mould of Veal and Ham—19. Veal and Ham Cake—20. Veal and Ham (minced) with Savoury Custard—21. Minced Veal—22. Minced Veal with Tomatoes—23. Noisettes de Galantine k la Portugaise—24. Savoury Veal Cutlets en Papillottes—25. Timbale of Veal—26. Wadham College Patties 99 CHAPTER XII RECIPES FOR HAM AND PORK 1. Cold Ham—2. Minced Ham—3. Ham Omelet—4. Potted Ham—5. Ham Toasts (1)—6. Ham Toasts (2)—7. Ham and Whisked Eggs—8. Khuskies—9. Pork Cheese—10. Pork Cutlets with Tomato Sauce—n. Pork Grilled a la Ghoorka—12. Pork Sausages au Gratin—13. To rewarm Slices of Pork—14. Pork Curry—15. Pork Curry en Mascarade —16. Rice Timbales (Savoy style)—17. Scotch Eggs .... 108 CHAPTER XIII MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES 1. Rice Casserole—2. Cold Curry—3. Cornish Pasties—4. Cornish Cutlets —5. Croquettes and Rissoles with Vermicelli—6. Croquettes and Rissoles au Villeroi—7. Crotistades a la Parisienne—8. Curried Mince —9. Curry G&teau—10. Dresden Cassolettes—11. Gateau of Meat—12. Honeycomb Timbale—13. Irish Potato Pie—14. To rewarm a Joint of Meat—15. Macaroni Timbale—16. Meat Shape—17. Minced Meat —18. Potato Pie—19. Rice Cutlets—20. Russian Kromeskies—21. Savoury Meat and Macaroni—22. Tomato Pilaff 114 XUCOLD MEAT CHAPTER I How to Utilise a Cold Joint First Principles. General Hints. The Use of Scraps. Croquettes and Rissoles. Toasts. Scallops of Cold Meat. Re-serving Mixed Meats. Flavouring and Seasoning. Garnishing. Various Adjuncts. Store Sauces, Pickles, and Chutnee. Freshly-made Sauces. Crodtons and Crodstades. Bread Crumbs. Vermicelli. Egg-wash. Sippets. Panada. Patty-cases. First Principles. Having considered its future use, cut the meat carefully and neatly from the bones. For some dishes thick slices are required, thin for stews, dice for curry, and the smallest scraps can be minced for scallops, rissoles, potted meats, and other made- dishes. The style of cooking must depend on the kind and quantity of meat to be used. All firm, white fat, that is not otherwise required, may be finely chopped, and used as suet in plain puddings, forcemeats, and rissoles. The coarser parts of fat and dripping should be cut small, nearly covered with cold water, and boiled till the fat is extracted from the skin which surrounds each globule; the clear liquid must then be pressed out, and strained into a vessel, and kept for frying purposes. This is called clarified or frying fat. The bones, skin, gristle, and coarse trimmings of the meat should be chopped and cut small, covered with cold water, flavoured with onion, carrot, celery, &c., with spice and salt, and gently simmered for some hours; game and chicken bones re- quire less time than the heavier bones of beef and mutton. If14 General Hints well skimmed when the liquor first boils up, and strained when completed, a valuable stock or foundation will thus be made, which will prove useful in recooking meat at little trouble or cost. General Hints. A person of average intelligence can easily learn how to make a great variety of dishes from the remains of cooked joints, pro- vided she understands the arts of broiling, frying, and making simple savoury sauces, and, above all, is careful never to allow previously cooked meat to reach the heat of boiling water (212° F.), for this will immediately render it hard, unpalatable, and indigestible. If prepared with care and well seasoned, recooked meat can be made almost equal to fresh; so that instead of considering it an economy to serve joints cold day after day, the thrifty house- wife can see that a portion of the cold meat is recooked in a savoury sauce or thickened gravy. This will be advantageous, as more vegetables and bread, or other farinaceous food, will be eaten with less of the meat, which is generally the costly part of a dinner. A border of boiled rice, macaroni, mashed potatoes, fried croutons, toasted sippets, &c., is an improvement to many made- dishes ; and attention should always be given to neat serving and garnishing, without which no dish should ever be sent to table. The Use of Scraps. Though large joints which cannot be consumed in less than several meals are not desirable, it is almost necessary that more food should be provided for a meal than is likely to be abso- lutely required, otherwise there may not be sufficient if chance guests arrive, which would be embarrassing. These remnants from dishes of variously cooked meats may be turned into very nice additions to the breakfast or high tea table, or for simple entrees. The addition of remnants of ham, tongue, or boiled bacon will be found an immense help in making nice little dishes from scraps of cooked food, and by blending them with thickened sauce or panada we can produce something dainty and tasty which is worth concocting, and altogether different from the ill- served meals of those who will not take the trouble to turn every- thing to the best advantage.15 Croquettes and Rissoles The remains of cold chicken, veal, or pork can be almost equally well used, the one for the other, or mixed, if finely minced and flavoured with cold ham, tongue, herbs, and seasoning. Remember that a few grains of pounded mace or grated nut- meg give a resemblance of chicken flavour to all white meats and sauces. Such minced meats, when blended with panada, bread crumbs, or mashed potato, are easily made into rissoles, meat balls, timbales, scallops, &c., or, when enriched with thick sauce, may be served in patties or on toasts. Croquettes and Rissoles. Having prepared the mixture, slightly flour the hands, divide into equal portions, and roll it lightly into balls, then form into cones, rolls, cutlets, or any shape desired, being careful not to let the flour get pressed into them beyond the outside, or they will crack in frying. According to the shape, the same style of mixture is called by various names, such as cutlets, cannelons, cakes, &c., and by a little practice a dishful of uniform shape and size can soon be made; this is necessary to secure them a good appearance when served up. Having moulded all, wipe off all flour from hands, board, and knife, break the eggs on a plate, adding a tablespoonful of cold water to each egg, and beating them only enough to mix yolks and whites evenly. For economy, the whites only, mixed with two tablespoonfuls of cold water to each, may be used, but the colour and general appearance of this is not so good. The croquette should now be lifted with a broad-bladed knife on to the plate, and when the egg-wash has been brushed gently over it, moved off the plate with the knife to a pile of fine bread crumbs laid on a piece of kitchen paper. Take the corners of this and shake the crumbs over, see that every part is coated with egg and crumbs, then lift the croquette off the paper, replace it on the board, pressing the crumbs on with the knife, and forming it into neat shape. If possible, let the articles thus covered with egg and crumbs remain for half-an-hour to harden, then have ready a pan of deep, hot frying-fat, and fry to a golden brown, drain on paper, dish, and garnish. Toasts. Toasts of various kinds are suitable for additions to breakfasts and high teas or simple suppers. For these the bread is either16 Scallops of Cold Meat toasted and buttered on both sides, or soaked in a mixture of milk, stock, and eggs, and then fried in butter or clarified fat. Any moist savoury mince is served on toasts thus prepared. Scallops of Cold Meat. The name “ scallop ” is used to describe the serving of a dainty savoury mixture in scallop-shells, or in earthenware or metal dishes made in the same form ; failing these, the mixture may be placed in a shallow pie dish or open tart dishes, but in such it would be more correct to call it au gratin. The dishes, whether real shells or imitations, should be nicely prepared. Real shells should be chosen only from those which are well curved, and which will hold sufficient for one person ; they should be absolutely clean and dry; if of metal, brightly polished; if of earthenware, no burnt particles must mar their appearance—these must be banished by rubbing with salt or Monkey Brand soap. The inside of them must be buttered to prevent the mixture burning on them during the heating in the oven, but the edges must be free from grease, which is unsightly. The filling mixture requires careful preparation, as follows :— Having cut the meat in dice or chopped it finely, if there be no cold sauce at hand which will be suitable, make some thick white or brown sauce, take it off the fire, stir the meat into it, flavour to taste, and bearing in mind that according to the meat, chicken, or game, so must the condiments agree, and that as this mixture will be eaten with bread crumbs or rice, &c., it should be more highly seasoned than if to be eaten alone. The buttered shells should next be sprinkled thickly with bread crumbs or boiled rice fried in butter till golden brown, or if wished white, only till it has absorbed the butter, to prevent it becoming hard and shrunk in the oven. A good spoonful of the mixture should then be placed in each shell and covered with bread crumbs and tiny shreds of butter, or with rice. Toma- toes skinned and sliced, the seeds being removed, may also be used; these should be sprinkled with seasoned brown bread crumbs, so that the juice may be absorbed and prevented from making the mixture sodden. Having wiped the crumbs off the edges, the shells must be placed in a Dutch oven, or quick ordinary oven, till the contents are thoroughly warmed through, and then arranged on a folded serviette, with a few sprigs of parsley laid between them as a garnish. Serve hot.17 b Flavouring and Seasoning Re-serving* Mixed Meats. In re-serving cold meat an intelligent cook will alter its appearance by a complete change, and by cutting slices into “cutlet shapes” and “fingers” will not betray that it is from a cooked joint. The mixture of remains of game and poultry with flavourless meats such as mutton and veal is an advantage, and the bones and trimmings may be added to the stock-pot, thereby giving it a very superior flavour. A few coarsely-chopped oysters (tinned will answer the pur- pose) are a great improvement to beef when served as patties, scallops, &c.; the liquor should be used in the moistening mixture (panada). Cold rashers of bacon can be chopped and used with bread crumbs and seasoning as a stuffing for tomatoes or mushrooms, or in the place of ham in rissoles. Flavouring* and Seasoning*. The principal flavouring herbs are parsley, chives, chervil, tarragon, thyme, marjoram, and lamb-mint. These are all nicest when fresh, and should be cultivated in the garden of every house in which good cooking is expected. Onions, shallots, and the leaves (green or dried) of the sweet bay tree, freshly ground pepper, fine salt, freshly grated nutmeg, pounded mace, grated lemon peel, and strained lemon-juice are indispensable adjuncts as flavourings. There are many others which are in daily use amongst those who study the art of good cooking, and a cultivated taste will appreciate their value. Garlic is looked upon with horror by many English people, but if a pan or salad bowl is rubbed with a cut bulb, or the juice dropped on a piece of bread and placed in the salad, the flavour of “rank garlic” will not be detected, but the juice will accentuate and pleasantly mingle other seasonings. Garnishing*. The ornamental bordering or centres and garnishing of salads and made-dishes must be a decided feature, and should offer a pleasing contrast to the interior of the dish ; a plain, unpretending, and perhaps uninviting dish may thus be easily made ornamental. Should the border or garnish be intended for a hot dish, it is18 Various Adjuncts best while arranging it to stand the dish over a saucepan of hot water, so that its contents do not get chilled and unpalatable. Among plain borders and moulds for centres are rice boiled as for curry, risotto, macaroni, spaghetti, French beans, haricot beans, lentils, mashed potatoes, fried potato balls and chips, spinach, tomatoes, mushrooms, Brussel sprouts, &c. These may be relieved with a suitable garnish of chopped green parsley, capers, pickled walnuts, piccalilli, red cabbage, sliced beetroot, and tomatoes, yolk of egg passed through a wire sieve, slices and quarters of hard-boiled eggs. Poached eggs on a mound or border of spinach or potato may be garnished with minute portions of tarragon leaves, parsley, or pickles. Folded serviettes and dish-papers are an additional garnish to cold meats, patties, brawns, and other moulded and pressed i meats. Salads lend themselves to a great variety of garnish, and for | these aspic jelly is highly decorative; capers, stoned olives, f lettuce hearts, hard-boiled eggs, radishes, cucumber, paprika, and lobster coral are also suitable. Especially in summer, when salads are so welcome, cold meat is nice if cut into suitable I pieces and laid in a tasty preparation for half-an-hour or so i before serving, then garnished with a green salad. Cold meat masked with Chaudfroid sauce (white or brown) is also served with a bed of dressed salad. Various Adjuncts. The addition of macaroni is appreciated when used with cooked meats, especially with white meats, such as chicken or I veal, with which its delicate nutty flavour assimilates well; it j must be previously cooked rapidly in boiling salted water until J tender. Store Sauces, Pickles, and Chutnee. Variety of flavouring is necessary in cooking, and a supply ;| of good store sauces and pickles will be found useful. Some of 1 these are best eaten fresh, others improve by keeping. Many persons err in using a mixture of store sauces for the flavouring (a of hashed meat. Only one or two which will amalgamate and improve each other should be used for the same dish, or the j j effect will be spoilt. Sauces, such as Tomato or Worcestershire, are useful for JCroutons and Croustades flavourings, and if home-made one is sure of the quality of the ingredients; chutnee is also required to serve with certain dishes, such as cold roast beef, mutton, and curry, and it will be found useful for “ devils.” Home-tnade pickles are also to be much recommended. Glaze can be bought ready-made, but in large households it is generally made by reducing jellied stock, boiling it down to a very small quantity, which can be stored for use. Freshly-made Sauces. These are of two varieties—(a) hot sauces for meats and fish; (b) cold sauces for salads and cold meats. The former have a foundation of roux (butter and flour), stock, or milk; the latter of eggs, oil, cream, vinegar, or lemon juice. Croutons and Croustades. These are garnishes cut from bread into desired shapes, and fried in butter or deep fat; they may also be dipped in butter and browned in the oven; when done they should be crisp, dry, and the colour of amber. Croutons are cut in various shapes to suit the dish they are served with; generally in diamonds, squares, triangles, circles, and strips. For croustades cut slices 2\ inches thick into circles with a pastry cutter z\ inches in diameter, using a smaller size to cut partially through the bread; remove the crumb carefully, leaving a case with sides and bottom half an inch thick; fry as directed, and use for game or chicken patties, or any savoury mixture made of scraps of meat moistened with rich thick sauce. The lids can be made of quarter-inch slices of bread stamped in circles and fried. Bread Crumbs. White bread crumbs are made by grating and sifting crumbs of bread, but better still by rubbing it through a wire sieve. Brown bread crumbs can be made by making stale bread crisp in the oven, crushing it to powder, and then sifting it through a wire sieve. These can be used for dishes au gratin, and for covering rissoles and other fried entrees. A supply should be kept in a canister ready for use. Bread crumbs fried in butter or clarified fat are used as a garnish. I920 Egg-wash Vermicelli. This is sometimes used instead of bread crumbs for covering croquettes, which are brushed over with beaten egg, then tossed on a piece of paper thickly strewn with crushed vermicelli. Egg-wash. This is merely beaten raw egg, to which a tablespoonful of cold water may be added. Its use is to glaze previous to baking, and with bread crumbs affixed it makes a coating to meat, rissoles, &c., which excludes the fat used in frying. Sippets. These are made from slices of toasted bread, and are cut in triangles, diamonds, or heart shapes. Panada. This is a binding mixture of a farinaceous nature, which, when recooked as in croquettes, again becomes semi-liquid. It is suitable for any minced meat, game, or flaked fish. (See recipe for Panada.) Patty-Cases. These are made of pastry, batter, or fried bread.CHAPTER II 21 Home-made Store Sauces and Pickles 1. Apple Chutnee. 2. English Chutnee (Tomato). 3. Indian Chutnee (Original Recipe). 4. Mushroom Ketchup. 5. Tomato Ketchup. 6. Walnut Ketchup. 7. Baroda Pickle. 8. Gunner’s Delight. 9. Lemon Pickle. 10. Piccalilli (Vegetable Marrow), &c. Pickle. 11. Red Cabbage Pickle. 12. Yellow Pickle (White Cabbage). 13. Tomato Sauce (Original Recipe). 14. Worcestershire Sauce. The following sauces, pickles, and chutnees are such as are generally popular as flavourings and garnish to cold meat cookery. When home-made they will be found very inexpensive, and if the quality of the materials is good, they will probably be much better liked than if bought ready-made. 1. Apple Chutnee. Ingredients.—2\ lb. green tomatoes, | lb. Demerara sugar, | oz. ground ginger, 1 quart vinegar, \ lb. sultanas, i| oz. onions, 1 oz. mustard, 8 apples, an eggspoonful of cayenne, and a tea- spoonful of salt. Method.—Cut the tomatoes and apples in halves, core and peel the apples; boil them with sultanas to a pulp in a pint of vinegar. Pass through a sieve. Chop with a knife the pieces that will not go through, and mix all together. Leave this in a basin while you boil the sugar in the other pint of vinegar to a syrup. Chop up the onions, then mix the mustard with a little vinegar, add to it the ginger and other ingredients, the small pieces of raw onion last of all. Stir well, and bottle next day after again stirring. 2. English Chutnee (Tomato). Ingredients.—4 lb. tomatoes, 2 lb. apples, 2 oz. crushed mus- tard seeds, ^ lb. salt, J oz. chillies, 2 oz. garlic, 3 oz. root ginger, 2 lb. Demerara sugar, 1 lb. sultanas, 2 quarts vinegar. The in- gredients should be weighed after they are prepared for cooking. Method.—Peel and slice the tomatoes, peel and core the apples, crush the mustard seed, peel and mince the garlic, shred22 Indian Chutnee the chillies with scissors, scrape the ginger root, pick over and clean the sultanas. Put all the ingredients into a preserving pan and boil till tender, and of good consistency for chutnee. Put into hot jars or bottles, cover as for jam, and store for use. 3. Indian Chutnee (Original Recipe). Ingredients.—8 lb. large green juicy apples (unripe), 4 lb. lump sugar, | lb. green ginger, 1 lb. salt, £ lb. pudding raisins, 2 oz. garlic, 1 quart vinegar, 3 pints cold water. These ingredients are to be weighed after being prepared for cooking. Method.—Prepare the chillies by shredding them finely with a pair of scissors ; peel the green ginger, and slice it very thin and small; stone and chop the raisins ; peel and slice the garlic as finely as possible, pound it in a mortar, reserve half of it on a plate with half the garlic, and keep covered till required. Pound the remainder of the ginger and garlic until finely bruised, then pour the vinegar over it and let it soak, stirring occasionally; boil the sugar and water, and while it is cooking to a syrup peel and quarter the apples, throwing them in as they are ready; let them boil until soft enough to mash against the pan with a spoon. Finally add all the other ingredients, and boil till the chutnee is well pulped and jellied. It should be a rich red-brown colour. Put it into warm jars; next day cover down as for jam, and store in a cool, dry place. 4. Mushroom Ketchup. Ingredients.—Mushrooms, salt, shallots, garlic, bay leaves, ginger, mace, cloves, horse-radish. Method.—Break up some freshly-gathered mushrooms and put them in an earthenware pan, strew over freely with salt, stir occasionally, and keep thus for three days. Put them on a slow fire and boil up ; skim and strain. To each quart of liquor thus obtained add two shallots peeled, two cloves of garlic, a blade of mace, two bay leaves, a tablespoonful of peppercorns, four cloves, one ounce of whole ginger; boil again very slowly, and skim well. When cold, bottle and cork. Some grated horse-radish is sometimes added, and is found to improve the pungency of the ketchup. Mushroom ketchup should not be kept longer than one year. If any is left over at the end of the year, it is best to boil it up with a fresh lot of23 Tomato Ketchup spice; it will then keep good for a further period. The mush- rooms should be well picked over and the stalks trimmed free of earth before using them for ketchup. 5. Tomato Ketchup. Ingredients.—4 lb. ripe tomatoes, \ pint white wine, i| oz. allspice, i tablespoonful peppercorns, i pint tarragon or chilli vinegar, 4 oz. salt, 1 oz. whole ginger, 3 shallots. Method.—Halve the tomatoes (after wiping them), put them in a pan or basin, sprinkle over with salt, and let them remain for a day or two; then boil up and cook till tender. Pour them into a colander or coarse sieve, and press through gently, leaving the skins behind. Peel the shallots, cut up the ginger and put with the liquor, add the remainder of ingredients, and boil for about an hour. Strain, bottle, and cork securely. 6. Walnut Ketchup. Ingredients.—Green walnuts, salt, vinegar, spices, shallots, garlic. Method.—Prick the walnuts with a coarse needle, put them in an earthenware pan, sprinkle with plenty of fine salt. Keep them covered for about a week or ten days, stirring them with a wooden spoon two or three times daily. Pound the walnuts in a mortar, and put in an enamelled saucepan, with the liquor, one pint of water, a pint and a half of vinegar, half a grated nutmeg, two crushed cloves, two blades of mace, one clove garlic, three shallots, and a tablespoonful of crushed peppercorns. Boil up, simmer for a short time, skim and put away in a jar, well covered. Strain the ketchup after two or three weeks, boil up, bottle, and cork well. 7. Baroda Pickle. Ingredients.—\ lb. green ginger, 2 quarts vinegar, | oz. tur- meric, 2 oz. salt, 1 oz. mustard seeds, \ oz. long pepper, \ oz. garlic, oz. cayenne. Cucumber, tomatoes, kidney beans. Method.—Slice the green ginger into two quarts of vinegar, add turmeric, salt, mustard seeds, long pepper, half an ounce of garlic peeled, a quarter of an ounce of cayenne, and boil the whole together for five minutes. Put into a jar some peeled and sliced cucumber, sliced tomatoes, and kidney beans in equal propor-Lemon Pickle 24 tions, pour the vinegar, &c., on to these whilst hot, but not absolutely boiling. Cover securely and keep for three or four weeks. The beans may be parboiled if liked. 8. Gunner’s Delight. Ingredients.—| lb. chopped sharp apples, | lb. chopped onions, 2 oz. chopped chillies, 2 teaspoonfuls salt, 1 pint best vinegar. Method.—Put the onions, apples, and chillies in a stone jar, boil the vinegar and salt; let the first heat of the vinegar subside, then pour it on the ingredients; mix and cover. When cold the pickle is ready to serve with cold meats, &c. 9. Lemon Pickle. Ingredients.—9 lemons, salt, 3 pints white wine vinegar, ^ lb. whole ginger, 2 oz. black peppercorns, £ lb. mustard seed, 12 cloves, 12 small onions, 1 teaspoonful chillies. Method.—Take nine fine lemons, wipe them clean, then with a sharp knife make four deep incisions downwards, cutting nearly to the middle of the lemons; into each incision put as much salt as possible, and place the lemons in a dish in a sunny window; let them remain a week, turn them often, then put into a stone- ware jar with their juice, adding the onions and chillies. Boil the vinegar with the ginger, peppercorns, cloves, and mustard seed; when boiling pour it over the lemons, and cover with a plate; next day tie down and store for use. 10. Piccalilli ('Vegetable Marrow), &e. Take some vegetable marrows, scrape out all the seeds, cut the pulp into strips, sprinkle salt upon them, let remain twenty- four hours, then drain and wipe with a cloth. Any other vegetable, or a mixture, may be prepared in the same way. To each 2 lb. of prepared marrow allow 1 clove garlic cut fine, 6 chillies shredded, \ lb. loaf sugar, | oz. turmeric, i| oz. pounded white ginger, i j oz. mustard flour, 1 quart vinegar. These ingredients are smoothly mixed and placed in a preserving pan; when boiling the vegetables are well stirred into it, and boiled twenty minutes. When cool put it into pickle bottles, and tie over or cork down tightly.Yellow Pickle 25 11. Red Cabbage Pickle. Ingredients.—Red cabbage, salt; to each quart of best vinegar allow i oz. black peppercorns, £ oz. ginger well bruised, a little cayenne, cochineal, or beetroot. Method.—Take off all the outside leaves of a good red cab- bage which has been slightly touched by frost, cut into six or eight pieces, remove the stalks and shred the leaves as finely as possible, spread on a dish, sprinkle with salt, cover, let remain twenty-four hours, then drain and wipe gently with a cloth. Boil the spices in the vinegar; when cold pour it over the cabbage, and press into jars. A little cochineal or beetroot boiled with the vinegar improves the colour. Tie over, and keep in a cool dry place. This pickle is ready in a week, and does not keep for any length of time. 12. Yellow Pickle (White Cabbage, &c.). Ingredients.—\ lb. pounded sugar, | lb. salt, ^ lb. mustard flour, 2 oz. mustard seeds, 2d. worth turmeric, 1 oz. curry powder, 3 pints best vinegar, cayenne to taste. Method.—Mix all the dry ingredients in a bowl, then gradu- ally add the cold vinegar. Cut a large white cabbage into six or eight portions, remove all outer leaves, stalks, and midribs of leaves, slice the leaves into fine shreds, then coarsely chop them, stir into the liquid, and place all in a covered jar. The pickle will be ready in three days, and will keep good for months if occasionally pressed under the liquor. Other fresh vegetables can be added at any time. 13. Tomato Sauce (Original Recipe). Take 9 lb. sound red tomatoes, cut them in pieces, rejecting all discoloured parts and stalks, put them in an enamelled pre- serving pan, sprinkle with 4 teaspoonfuls of ground ginger, stew till soft, pass them through a sieve, then measure. To 5 pints of this tomato puree add 1^ oz. fine salt, 3 oz. granulated sugar, 1 quart vinegar, 3 shallots, | oz. garlic, and 3 bay leaves; the sliced shallots, garlic, and bay leaves to be tied in muslin; boil about i| hour till of sufficient thickness, stirring frequently. Bottle and store for use. This sauce may be used hot or cold with meat, fish, or26 Worcestershire Sauce vegetables, or as a flavouring to gravy. If required as a hot sauce, warm a portion in an enamelled saucepan or in a sauce tureen in the oven. 14. Worcestershire Sauce. Ingredients.—J oz. cayenne pepper, \ oz. peeled shallots, § oz. garlic, ^ pint Indian soy, i quart best vinegar, or the vinegar left from good mixed pickles may be used. Method.—(a) Pound the shallots, garlic, and cayenne well in a mortar, adding the vinegar gradually, then pass it all through a hair sieve; add the soy, pour into bottles, cork well, and store. Method.—(b) Pound the shallots, garlic, and cayenne pepper; put them in a stone jar, pour the boiling vinegar over, cover close, let stand in a warm place by the side of the fire until the vinegar has well extracted the flavour of the ingredients; before bottling add the soy. Both of these recipes are excellent, and the sauce thus prepared will keep for years, and improve by keeping if well corked.CHAPTER III 27 Quickly-made Sauces, Hot and Cold 1. About Sauce. 2. Aspic Cream. 3. Brown Sauce. 4. Brown Chaudfroid Sauce. 5. Curry Sauce. 6. Hollandaise Sauce. 7. Horse-radish Sauce. 8. Sauce Indienne. 9. Maitre d’Hotel Sauce. 10. Mayonnaise Aspic Cream. 11. Mint Sauce. 12. Mushroom Sauce. 13. Mustard Sauce. 14. Onion Sauce. 15. Oyster Sauce. 16. Piquante Sauce. 17. Plain Bdchamel Sauce (White Sauce). 18. Plain Melted Butter. 19. Portugaise Sauce. 20. Sauce Robert Bourgeoise. 21. Stock for Sauces (quickly made). 22. Tartare Sauce. 23. Tomato Sauce. 24. Tomato Aspic. 25. White Chaudfroid Sauce. 1. About Sauce. By a knowledge of the preparation of various simple sauces, many additions to the delicacies of the table can easily be produced. The following recipes will be useful for serving with hot or cold meat, poultry, game, vegetables, or grills. For hashes, the sauce should be well boiled, and allowed to get almost cold, before the meat is put into it. After this it must slowly be made very hot, but must not boil’ or the meat will be hardened beyond repair. Ordinary sauces, prepared on the quick system, should be allowed to boil ten minutes from the time the liquid is added. When a sauce is cooked less than ten minutes the flour will not have had time to develop its flavour properly. It sometimes happens that by some error a sauce is cooked so long that it becomes oily. In this case a little cold stock, cold milk, or water should be added; and if the sauce is stirred until it begins to boil, it will again become perfectly smooth. It must not on any account be allowed to cook any longer, but should be removed from the fire the moment it boils. Chaudfroid sauces are used for coating cooked cold meat, fish, game, and poultry. Several excellent recipes for these are given hereafter, which cannot fail to be useful for pretty luncheon, summer entrees, or supper parties.28 Brown Sauce 2. Aspic Cream. Ingredients.—1| gill firm aspic jelly, \ gill double cream, i teaspoonful lemon-juice, a pinch each of pepper and castor sugar. Method.—Make the aspic jelly liquid but not warm, gradually add it to the cream, whisking it in a basin; add the seasonings, and pass through a piece of muslin strained over a basin. Suitable as a Chaudfroid sauce, or for decorative purposes in serving meat and salads. 3. Brown Sauce. Brown sauce is made on the same principle as melted butter, except that a brown roux takes the place of white roux—i.e., the flour and butter are gently fried together with a quantity of chopped ham over the fire for some time longer, and are allowed to take colour, avoiding burning. When cooked sufficiently some dark brown stock is added, also colouring if necessary, but this must on no account supersede the frying of the flour. When no stock is available, fry a small chopped onion in the butter to a golden brown before adding the flour, then add water, and flavour with ketchup. Strain before serving. On this basis all brown sauces are made. 4. Brown Chaudfroid Sauce. Ingredients.—i pint dark brown sauce, \ oz. gelatine. Method.—Prepare as per white Chaudfroid sauce, suitable for making entrees of cold dark meats and game, &c. 5. Curry Sauce. Ingredients.—f oz. butter, | oz. curry powder, i clove of garlic, 4 large green gooseberries or a couple of slices of green, sour apple, brown stock, 2 shallots, i dessertspoonful of chutnee, i dessertspoonful of flour, lemon-juice, and a pinch of castor sugar. Method.—Peel the shallots and mince finely; cut the garlic in two, and rub the bottom of a small stewpan with the cut side; then put in the butter and let it melt. When hot, fry the shallots a pale yellow, stir in the curry powder and the flour, and fry a light brown, stirring continuously. Now add the gooseberries or apple previously chopped, and29 Hollandaise Sauce moisten with about half a pint of good stock ; stir till it boils, skim off the fat, add the remainder of the ingredients, and let simmer for twenty to twenty-five minutes. Rub the sauce through a sieve, season to taste, and use as required. A little sweet or sour cream may be added. 6. Hollandaise Sauce. Ingredients.—| pint white sauce, the yolks of i or 2 eggs, lemon-juice or tarragon vinegar. Method.—Remove the white sauce from the fire, add the yolks of one or two eggs with a little lemon-juice or tarragon vinegar; heat, but avoid boiling. Suitable to serve with white meats and dressed vegetables. 7. Horse-radish Sauce (Cold). Ingredients.—A root of horse-radish, a gill of cream, a table- spoonful of vinegar, seasonings. Method.—Grate finely a small root of horse-radish, and mix with it well in a basin a gill of cream slightly whisked, a pinch of sugar, a little salt, and the vinegar. Stir till the sauce is quite smooth, and keep in a cold place till wanted. Suitable to serve with cold roast beef. 8. Sauce Indienne. Prepare as piquante sauce, substituting chopped Indian pickle for the piccalilli. 9. Maitre d’Hotel Sauce (Parsley and Butter Sauce). Ingredients.—\ pint melted-butter sauce, parsley, lemon- juice. Method.—Just before serving add to the above sauce the juice of half a lemon and a tablespoonful of finely - chopped parsley. Suitable for white meats and vegetables. 10. Mayonnaise Aspic Cream. Ingredients.—\ gill Bechamel or other white sauce, \ pint liquid aspic jelly, a teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar, | gill double cream, cayenne, mignonette pepper. Method.—Warm half a gill of Bechamel or other good white sauce, add the tarragon vinegar, stir this into the aspic jelly, set to cool a little, then mix with the double cream, season with30 Mushroom Sauce a pinch of cayenne and mignonette pepper, pass through a sieve or tammy cloth, and use as directed. Suitable as a Chaudfroid sauce for coating veal, poultry, &c. 11. Mint Sauce (Cold). Ingredient^.—Mint, brown sugar, vinegar, pepper. Method.—Wash a large handful of mint, pick off the leaves and tender shoots, shake them dry in a cloth, then chop on a board till very fine. Dissolve a tablespoonful of brown sugar in a little boiling water ; when cold add two tablespoonfuls of vine- gar, the mint, and a little pepper. Suitable to serve with cold lamb. 12. Mushroom Sauce. Ingredients.—\ lb. mushrooms, i oz. butter, 2 tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs, 2 tablespoonfuls good brown gravy, chopped parsley, pepper, salt. Method.—Take half a pound of mushrooms, remove the skins, wash and dry them well, and chop finely, then put them with the butter in a frying-pan ; cook for about ten minutes, and then add the bread crumbs, gravy, a little chopped parsley, and pepper and salt to taste. Cook all together for three or four minutes and serve. Suitable to serve with grilled meats, beef, mutton, and game. 13. Mustard Sauce. Ingredients.—| pint good brown sauce, a teaspoonful of French vinegar, teaspoonful each of English and French mustard, and a pinch of cayenne. Method.—To the brown sauce add, when boiling, the French vinegar, English and French mustard, and a pinch of cayenne. Suitable for use in reheating roast beef, and to serve with grilled meat and fritters. 14. Onion Sauce. Ingredients.—4 large onions, 2 oz. butter, 2 oz. flour, 1 pint milk, seasoning. Method.—Peel and cut the onions into slices, boil them till tender, drain them, chop them finely, and then put them into a pan with two ounces of flour, and the same quantity of butter; add a pint of milk, and mix well. Season with pepper and salt,Oyster Sauce and stir over the fire till cooked; this will probably be in about ten minutes. Serve very hot. Suitable to serve with boiled rabbits and slices of roast mutton reheated. 15. Oyster Sauce. Ingredients.—12 or 14 oysters, white sauce, lemon-juice. Method.—Cook some oysters gently (avoid boiling) for a few minutes, then use the strained liquor with some milk to make the white sauce. Beard the oysters, and add them to the white sauce, season with pepper, salt, and a little lemon-juice. Suitable to serve with beef, boiled poultry, and grilled steak. 16. Piquante Sauce. Ingredients.—1a oz. butter or dripping, a slice of ham, 1 oz. flour, a small onion, carrot, bunch of herbs, a pint of gravy or stock, seasonings, piccalilli pickle. Method.—Cut a small onion, carrot, and a slice of ham into small squares, and fry in the dripping or butter until a nice colour, then add the flour, and stir until the whole has assumed a brownish appearance; now add the gravy or stock, and stir until it boils; season with salt, pepper, three cloves, three peppercorns, and a small bouquet of herbs. Allow this sauce to simmer slowly for twenty minutes, skim well, and then strain, and add a little chopped piccalilli pickle. Suitable to serve with cutlets, boiled veal, calf's head, or dressed vegetables. 17. Plain Bdchamel Sauce (White Sauce). Ingredients.—2 oz. butter, 1^ oz. flour, a small onion and carrot, 1 pint cold milk, salt, pepper, nutmeg, lemon-juice. Method.—Put nearly two ounces of butter into a stewpan with a small onion and carrot, and fry for a few minutes, but do not let it take colour; add the flour, and stir well together; now pour on the milk, and stir until it boils. Season with salt, pepper, a small grating of nutmeg, and add the remainder of the butter and a few drops of lemon-juice at the moment of serving. Suitable to serve with cooked fish, poultry, and vegetables. 18. Plain Melted Butter. Ingredients.—oz. butter, 1 oz. flour, | pint liquid, either water, milk, or stock, pepper, salt, lemon-juice. 3i32 Portugaise Sauce Method.—Melt in a saucepan over a moderate fire one ounce of butter, add the flour, stir the two together for about five minutes till the roux> as it is called, is cooked, but is in no way coloured. Then add the cold water or other liquid by degrees, stirring all the time, and bring gradually to the boil, adding salt and white pepper to taste. It is very necessary that the liquid should be added a little at a time, for if it is mixed too quickly the sauce will not be smooth. Let it boil well for a few minutes, then just as it is ready to go to table add the remainder of the butter, previously cut into very small pieces, and a small squeeze of lemon-juice, which gives a brilliant appearance as well as a good flavour to the sauce. The proportions above given make a good sauce; a simpler one may be made in the same way, using less butter, but the effect is not so rich. Thorough cooking of the roux, boiling of the sauce, and the addition of a small pat of fresh butter before serving, are the essential points to be remembered. Instead of water, milk may be used, or stock made from chicken bones or scraps of veal or mutton; and whenever this sauce is used for fish or vegetables, the liquid in which these were boiled should always be used. On this basis all white sauces can be made. 19. Portugaise Sauce. Ingredients.—i lb. ripe tomatoes, i teaspoonful castor sugar, 2 teaspoonfuls vinegar, i teaspoonful onion juice, a wineglass cooking port, oz. butter. Method.—Rub the tomatoes through a hair sieve, add the seasonings, using a morsel of chopped garlic in preference to onion juice if liked; let it boil quickly to reduce, stirring in the butter just before using. 20, Sauce Robert Bourgeoise, Ingredients.—i oz. butter, i oz. flour, 3 large onions, 1 pint stock, a teaspoonful each of vinegar and mustard. Method.—Put in a saucepan a piece of butter as large as a walnut; stir in a spoonful of flour and brown it gently. Then add the onions, chopped fine, and enough butter to cook them. To this enough stock should be added to make the desired quantity, and the whole should be brought to boiling point. Just before serving add salt, pepper, vinegar, and mustard. Suitable for pork, goose, or duck.Tartare Sauce 21. Stock for Sauces (quickly made). • Ingredients.—A small onion, a slice of carrot and piece of celery, a few sprigs of parsley and herbs, i bay leaf, cayenne, salt and nutmeg, i to 2 teaspoonfuls of meat .extract, ^ oz* butter. Method.—Cut up the vegetables and put them into a sauce- pan with the butter, and fry them brown; then add three-quarters of a pint of water in which the meat extract is dissolved ; simmer for half an hour, skim, strain, and flavour. Half a pound of shin of beef cut small may be used instead of meat extract if preferred. 22. Tartare Sauce. Ingredients.—2 yolks of eggs, 4 tablespoonfuls of salad oil, 1 tablespoonful of vinegar, seasonings. Method.—Put the yolks of eggs in a basin, stir them with a wooden spoon, and add the oil drop by drop, stirring rapidly whilst doing so; then gradually add the vinegar, flavour with salt, pepper, and cayenne, and some very finely chopped shallots, and sharp pickles such as gherkins; if liked a little tarragon vinegar or chilli vinegar may be mixed with the malt vinegar. Suitable accompaniment to cold meat, fish, or game. 23. Tomato Sauce. Ingredients.—1 oz. bacon, 1^ oz. butter, 1 chopped onion, 1 lb. ripe tomatoes, 1 oz. flour, i| pint stock, herbs, seasoning. Method.—Fry the sliced bacon, 1 oz. butter and onion, add the sliced tomatoes; stir over fire; add the flour mixed with a little cold stock or gravy, then stir in the remainder of the stock, add a few peppercorns, sprigs of savoury herbs, and parsley, and let all simmer for half an hour. Remove herbs, rub through sieve, return sauce to saucepan, season with salt, castor sugar; boil, and then finish with \ oz. butter or a tablespoonful of double cream. The sauce must not boil again after the finish is added. 24. Tomato Aspic. Ingredients.—\ pint tomato pure'e, | oz. gelatine, | gill aspic jelly, 1 tablespoonful meat glaze, seasonings. Method.—Dissolve the gelatine, add it to the warmed tomato34 White Chaudfroid Sauce pulp or puree, with the aspic jelly and glaze; when boiling, season to taste, rub through a hair sieve, and use as directed. Suitable as a Chaudfroid sauce for cold meat and game. 25. White Chaudfroid Sauce. Ingredients.—i pint Bechamel sauce, \ oz. gelatine. Method.—To the Bechamel sauce add the gelatine, which has been soaked in water for a short time; stir till dissolved, but do not boil the sauce again. Suitable as a sauce for making entrees of cold game, poultry, &c.35 CHAPTER IV Useful Adjuncts 1. Aspic Jelly (for garnishing). 2. To Cook Bottled or Tinned Peas. 3. Cabbage Mould. 4. Carrots, Mashed. 5. Quickly-prepared Frying Batter. 6. Glaze. 7. Green Peas with Butter (French Style). 8. Macaroni k la Napolitaine. 9. Mushrooms, Devilled. 10. Panada or Binding Mixture for Croquettes, &c. 11. Potato Balls. 12. Potato Balls with Anchovy Butter. 13. Potato Casserole. 14. Potatoes, Mashed. 15. Potato Mould. 16. Puffed Potatoes (Pommes de Terre Souffldes). 17. Potatoes, Slices and Ribbons, Fried. 18. Purde of Artichokes. 19. Rissotto (for a Border to Meat). 20. Border of Risotto with Green Peas. 21. Plain Boiled Rice for Curry. 22. Tomatoes, Baked. 1. Aspic Jelly (for garnishing’). Ingredients.—1 oz. Nelson’s gelatine, J pint tarragon vinegar, \ pint malt vinegar, f pint water, 1 onion, 1 small carrot, rind and juice of 1 lemon, 12 peppercorns, 1 teaspoonful salt, whites and shells of 2 eggs. Method.—Soak the gelatine in the water for two hours, put all ingredients into a stewpan, whisk until just boiling, draw aside for ten minutes, strain through a clean cloth until clear. 2. To Cook Bottled or Tinned Peas. Ingredients.— 1 pint peas, | oz. butter, a saltspoonful of pepper, sugar, sprig of mint. Method.—Open the bottle or tin, strain the water into a sauce- pan, adding half a teaspoonful of salt to a pint of peas, and half that quantity of sugar; when the water boils throw in the peas and a sprig of fresh mint, and cook them for fifteen minutes; drain off the water, remove the mint, add the butter and pepper; put the saucepan again on the stove, and shake it every two or three minutes until the butter is dissolved, when the peas will be ready for serving. 3. Cabbage Mould. Ingredients.—A white cabbage, butter, pepper, salt. Method.—Boil a cabbage in the ordinary way, squeeze it in36 Quickly-prepared Frying Batter a colander till perfectly dry, then chop it small, add a little butter, pepper, and salt. Press the whole very tightly into a well-buttered china mould, and bake for an hour. When cooked turn out and serve. 4. Carrots, Mashed. Ingredients.—6 large carrots, i| oz. butter, a dessertspoonful of flour, seasonings. Method.—Boil old carrots in salted water till tender, then rub them through a wire sieve; melt the butter in a saucepan, stir the flour into it until cooked; add the mashed carrot, and stir over the fire till quite hot, adding pepper and salt, and a little more butter or cream if desired. 5. Quickly-prepared Frying Batter. Ingredients.—i cupful self-raising flour, tepid water, i egg, salt. Method,—Make a batter of the consistency of double cream with the self-raising flour and tepid water, then add the well- beaten yolk, and lastly the white of egg whipped to a stiff froth. Use immediately for fritters of cooked meat, fish, &c. 6. Glaze. Take any quantity (say two quarts), of jellied stock, let it boil uncovered until only a small quantity is left; it will burn if not stirred ; when it is brown and the consistency of liquid glue, pour it into a jar. When cold it will set hard. To use, melt a little in a cup placed in a saucepan of boiling water, and apply with a brush to cold joints, poultry, or ham; a small lump is an improvement to gravies, sauces, &c. 7. Green Peas with Butter (French Style). Ingredients.—i pint shelled peas, mint, sugar, \ oz. fresh butter, salt, pepper. Method.—Shell peas till you have about a pint, and throw into a quart of boiling water, add a sprig of mint, and a dessert- spoonful of white sugar. Boil fast till cooked, then strain off the water. Put the peas into a clean stewpan, and add the fresh butter and a pinch of pepper and salt. Toss over the fire for a few minutes, remove the mint, and serve.37 Devilled Mushrooms 8. Macaroni a la Napolitaine. Ingredients.—£ lb. macaroni, i oz. butter, salt. Method.—Break and throw the macaroni into a saucepan of fast-boiling salted water, boil quickly until tender, then drain; melt the butter in a saucepan. Add the macaroni and toss till the butter is quite absorbed, then dish and serve immediately. Good salad oil with salt added may be used instead of butter if desired. 9. Mushrooms, Devilled. Ingredients.—From io to 20 mushrooms, dissolved butter, pepper, nutmeg, croutons. Method.—Take ten to twenty mushrooms of large size, peel off the outer skin carefully, and cut off half the stalk. Then dip the mushrooms into melted butter, sprinkle pepper and a sus- picion of nutmeg over them, and broil them on a gridiron over a clear, red fire. Have ready some small rounds of hot buttered toast, put one or two mushrooms on each, garnish with a tiny piece of parsley, and serve immediately. Mushrooms, perhaps, more than any other vegetable, are spoiled if not served very hot. 10. Panada or Binding1 Mixture for Croquettes, &e. Ingredients.—1 oz. butter, 1 oz. flour, ^ pint liquid, seasoning. Method.—Dissolve the butter and flour in a small saucepan, stir it until well cooked without colouring, add the liquid till well boiled, and the mixture will leave the sides of the saucepan whilst being quickly stirred; season to taste. To use, remove the panada from the fire, and stir in any minced meat, poultry, game, or fish; turn out on a plate till cold, then divide and make into cutlets, croquettes, cannelons, &c. When re-cooked in either of these forms, the panada again becomes semi-liquid. 11. Potato Balls. Ingredients.—1 lb. boiled potatoes, 1 oz. butter, a little milk, 1 egg, pepper and salt, egg and bread crumbs, frying-fat. Method.—Put some boiled potatoes whilst hot through a wire sieve or masher, boil a tablespoonful of milk and the butter together, add these to the potato, and a well-beaten egg, pepper38 Potato Casserole and salt; roll the mixture into balls, cover with egg and bread crumbs, and fry in boiling deep fat; drain well and serve very hot, piled on a dish and decorated with parsley. 12. Potato Balls with Anchovy Butter. Ingredients.—Potato balls mixture (see recipe), anchovy paste, butter, cayenne, egg, bread crumbs, and frying-fat. Method.—Prepare the potatoes as if for rissoles; mix some anchovy paste, butter, and cayenne on a plate with a knife, make a hole in each ball, put some anchovy butter into it, close the opening with potato mixture, cover with egg and bread crumbs, and fry in boiling fat. 13. Potato Casserole. Ingredients.—2 lb. freshly boiled or baked floury potatoes, 2 yolks of eggs, 1 oz. butter, 1 tablespoonful cream, seasonings. Method.—Rub the potatoes whilst hot through a wire sieve, season them with oiled butter, cream, white pepper, salt, and a very little grated nutmeg. When cooled fill a well-buttered border mould, bake till well heated, then reverse over a dish and let the casserole drop out, or force the potato into a border 3 inches deep; brush over with clarified butter, then with yolk of egg, and let it brown in the oven. Fill the centre with any meat or poultry warmed in thick sauce. 14. Potatoes, Mashed. For mashed potatoes cook as for boiled potatoes ; when strained dry, they should be immediately mashed, and during this process should be left on the stove. Beat and mash them light with a wire whisk, or press them through a potato masher or wire sieve ; in a small saucepan melt a lump of butter, then put to it a little milk, boil up, and beat it lightly into the potato over the stove, and serve at once. If they have been kept hot they will be light and fluffy. 15. Potato Mould. Prepare some mashed potato, add to it a well-beaten egg, and flavour to taste with pepper, salt, a little grated nutmeg, or chopped parsley. Place the mixture in a vegetable dish, form it39 Puffed Potatoes into shape with a broad-bladed knife, make a pattern on it with the back of the knife, or score it with a fork; put the dish into a hot oven till the surface is brown. 16. Puffed Potatoes (Pommes de Terre Soufflees). The so-called Dutch or Holland potatoes are best for this dish, but any large sound kidney potatoes should, when correctly treated, produce satisfactory results. Method.—Peel rather thickly, trim into oval shapes, and cut lengthways into slices T3F inch thick. Soak in cold water for about half-an-hour. Heat a pan half full of clarified beef suet to about 260°, have the potato slices well drained on a cloth, plunge them into the fat, shake the pan gently while they cook, until soft, but not coloured; drain them on a sieve, heat the fat until almost smoking hot, plunge in the slices, toss them to and fro, remove any that do not puff up. Again drain the potatoes and reheat the fat a third time; when very puffed finish frying the potatoes. Drain, sprinkle with fine salt, and dish up. 17. Potatoes, Slices and Ribbons, Fried. For these the secret is to pare and slice them thinly, rinse them in cold water, and dry them in the folds of a cloth; put them into boiling fat when they are put on to cook. Cover the pan for a minute or two to prevent the escape of steam; this will lower the heat of the fat, and let them get light and mealy inside; then uncover the pan, heat the fat quickly, turn the slices to prevent them being scorched, and when crisp turn them on to kitchen paper, sprinkle them with pepper and salt, and serve very hot. 18. Purde of Artichokes. Ingredients.—2 to 3 lb. Jerusalem artichokes, milk, 1 onion, 1 oz. butter, pepper, salt, grated nutmeg. Method.—Peel, wash and slice the artichokes in the usual manner; place in a saucepan with a peeled onion; just cover with milk% Then cook slowly till quite tender, by which time the milk should be absorbed. Put through a fine wire sieve, return to a clean saucepan, add the butter and seasonings to taste; make very hot, pile in the centre of a hot dish, and use as directed, or garnish with fried croutons and serve as a vegetable entree. Puree of Parsnips or Turnips.—Prepare as for Puree of Arti- chokes, and serve in a similar style.40 Border of Risotto 19. Risotto (for a Border to Meat). Ingredients.—2 oz. Patna rice, 2 oz. butter, 1 onion, pint stock, £ gill tomato pur£e, \ oz. grated Parmesan cheese, saffron, seasonings. Method.—Wash and dry the rice; melt 1 oz. butter; when hot add half a small onion finely chopped, let cook a little, add the rice, and fry for a few minutes without browning; moisten with rich stock, cook gently till almost dry, add the tomato puree, saffron, and a seasoning of nutmeg, pepper, and salt; simmer for about a quarter of an hour longer, lastly add the remainder of the butter and the cheese; in a few minutes the rice will be ready for moulding. 20. Border of Risotto with Green Peas. Ingredients.—\ lb. Patna rice, 4 oz. butter, § pint white stock, pint fresh green peas, 1 teaspoonful minced parsley, salt and pepper. Method.—Pick and wash the rice, drain and dry it. Melt the butter; when hot put the rice in it, and fry over the fire for a few minutes, to allow the rice to acquire a golden colour. Moisten with the stock, and cook gently for about fifteen minutes. Blanch the peas in slightly salted water, drain and put with the rice, mingle very gently, and cook together long enough to ensure the peas being tender. In stirring be careful not to mash the peas or the rice. Add pepper and salt just before sending to table. Dish up in a hot shallow dish, pile up high, sprinkle with finely chopped parsley, and serve as a border to any rechauffe of meat. 21. Plain Boiled Rice for Curry. Ingredients.—\ lb. Patna rice, 1 tablespoonful vinegar or lemon-juice, salted water. Method.—Have ready a large pan of fast-boiling water, add salt and vinegar; throw in the rice, which immediately before has been washed in cold water, stir, boil quickly for exactly fifteen minutes, by which time Patna rice will be tender but not pulped; strain through a wire sieve, and keep the rice warm till required for serving.Baked Tomatoes 22. Tomatoes, Baked. Ingredients.—Tomatoes, bread crumbs, butter, seasonings. Method.—Halve six or eight ripe tomatoes, season with pepper and salt, sprinkle bread crumbs lightly over them, and add a few drops of tarragon vinegar, if you have it. Divide about an ounce of butter into little pieces, and place these here and there upon the tomatoes. Bake in a moderate oven till browned, and serve very hot. 4i42 CHAPTER V Salads and Salad Dressings x. Beef Vinaigrette. 2. Beetroot Salad. 3. Carrot Salad (with Cream Dress- ing). 4. Cauliflower Salad. 5. Chicken and Egg Salad. 6. Chicken Mayonnaise. 7. Cold Meat with Tomato Salad. 8. Cold Meat with Roman Salad. 9. Cucumber Salad. 10. Duck Mayonnaise. 11. English Salad Dressing. 12. French Salad k la Vinaigrette. 13. A French Salad Dressing. 14. Game Mayonnaise. 15. Lentil Salad. 16. Lettuce Salad. 17. Mayonnaise Sauce. 18. Ox Cheek with Hungarian Salad. 19. Ox Cheek with Remoulade Sauce. 20. Picnic Salad Rolls. 21. Potato Salad (Red). 22. Russian Salad. 23. Salad Dressing without Oil. 24. Savoury Calf's Head Salad. 25. Spanish Potato Salad. 26. Tomato Salad. 27. Veal and Bacon Salad. 28. Vegetable Salad. 29. Vinaigrette Dressing. 1. Beef Vinaigrette. Ingredients.—Cold boiled beef, herbs, oil, vinegar, seasoning. Method.—Take some thin slices of cold boiled beef and let them marinate (or steep) in sufficient oil and vinegar, with mus- tard, salt, pepper, to impregnate the whole ; according to taste the salad bowl may be rubbed with garlic or chopped chives; and gherkins, chervil, parsley, and tarragon may be freely sprinkled over the meat. Those who do not like fresh salad flavouring herbs may prefer some chutnee in place of them. Dress the meat in a well-garnished lettuce salad, or any other that is seasonable. 2. Beetroot Salad. Ingredients.—Beetroot, salt, pepper, vinegar, oil. Method.—Beetroots must be carefully cleansed, so that the roots and fibres are not broken ; and care must be taken in the cooking to keep the skin whole, or the fine red juice and colour will be lost. They may be boiled, baked in the oven, or roasted in the ashes. To use, peel and cut in fine slices, season with vinegar, pepper, and salt, and set aside for at least an hour; if liked,43 Cauliflower Salad sprinkle lightly with oil before serving. When used as an accompaniment to green salads, beetroot thus prepared is added at the last moment, or it would spoil the effect. 3. Carrot Salad, with Cream Dressing*. Slice some cold boiled carrots; make a dressing of cream flavoured to taste with pepper and lemon-juice, or with oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt; arrange the slices on a dish, pour the dressing over, and garnish with minced capers, parsley, or salad herbs. Suitable to serve with cold boiled beef. 4. Cauliflower Salad. Ingredients.—Cauliflower, salad dressing, mayonnaise sauce, garnish. Method.—Cut a cauliflower into small sprigs, wash well, and boil in salted water until just tender. Drain, place in a dish with seasoning of pepper, salt, vinegar, oil, and chopped chervil; arrange the sprigs symmetrically with a fork in a bowl \ when full, reverse it on a dish, to make it appear whole. Add some chopped salad herbs to some mayonnaise sauce, and cover the salad with it just before serving. Tarragon vinegar may be used in preference to salad herbs if approved; the flavouring is merely a matter of personal taste. 5. Chicken and Eg’g* Salad. Ingredients.—Hard-boiled eggs, remains of cold chicken, mayonnaise sauce, aspic jelly, seasonings, salad. Method.—Boil some eggs hard, mince some white meat of chicken, and prepare some good thick mayonnaise sauce, into which stir some liquefied aspic jelly. Cut the eggs in two, making the cut one-third from the pointed end, cut both ends flat, remove the yolks, mash them, mix with the chicken, flavour well with white pepper, salt, grated nutmeg, and paprika, and stir in enough mayonnaise to bind them; fill the larger half of the egg with the mixture, rounding it on the top; invert the smaller piece of white, and stick both flat ends with white of egg so as to make a vase shape, place them on a flat dish, fill the spaces with shred lettuce, and garnish with chopped aspic jelly in little heaps. Hand mayonnaise sauce (without aspic in it) with this dish, as that mixed with the eggs will not be sufficient.44 Cold Meat with Tomato Salad 6. Chicken Mayonnaise. Ingredients.—Cold boiled or roast fowl, hard-boiled eggs, lettuces, mayonnaise sauce, seasonings. Method.—Cut the fowl into convenient pieces, and remove the skin ; place it in a dish with a seasoning of oil, vinegar, pepper, salt, and finely cut tarragon and chervil or other salad flavouring herbs. Cut the eggs in quarters and arrange them round a dish; shred the lettuce leaves into coarse julienne strips, but keep the hearts whole ; place a layer of lettuce inside the border of eggs, on this place slices of chicken, using the coarser pieces first, and cover with highly seasoned thick mayon- naise sauce; repeat the layers until all is used up, and place a nice fillet from the breast on the top of the pyramid. Mask the whole with mayonnaise, garnish the border with the lettuce hearts cut in two. If more convenient, the eggs may be replaced by a border of aspic jelly. 7. Cold Meat with Tomato Salad. Ingredients.—6 ripe firm tomatoes, salad dressing, seasonings, cold meat. Method.—Scald even-sized tomatoes in boiling water for one minute, drain, remove the peel and stems, let cool, cut into thin slices, and place in a salad bowl. Put in a bowl two teaspoonfuls of salt, one of pepper, one teaspoonful mixed mustard ; gradually beat in two tablespoonfuls of salad oil and one of best vinegar, mixing all with a wooden spoon. Just before serving add a tea- spoonful chopped chives or parsley, then pour it over the tomatoes. Serve with a dish of sliced cold meat nicely garnished. 8. Cold Meat with Roman Salad. f Ingredients.—Tender cold meat, boiled by preference, cold tongue, 4 yolks of eggs, 3 large truffles, 1 lettuce, herbs, salad dressing. Method.—Poach the egg yolks in a buttered mould set in a saucepan of water; cut these when cold into coarse julienne strips; cut up in similar way the truffles and an equal amount of tongue, with some tender boiled meat, pressed while hot; season all with oil, vinegar, pepper, salt, tarragon, chives, and chervil; shred a lettuce and add it just before serving.Duck Mayonnaise 45 9. Cucumber Salad. Ingredients.—i or 2 medium-sized cucumbers, salt, oil, vinegar, pepper. Method.—Take one or two freshly-cut green cucumbers, peel them, cut into finest possible slices, spread on a dish, sprinkle with salt; let remain an hour; place in a colander and rinse with cold water, drain, season with oil, vinegar, pepper, and a little salt, and, if liked, sprinkle with a small pinch of finely-chopped chives and some chervil. Some persons like the addition of a small spoonful of French mustard to the salad dressing, but neither this nor the herbs are generally used in England. 10. Duck Mayonnaise. Ingredients.—Remains of cold roast duck, 2 Seville oranges, 1 onion, parsley, oil, vinegar, pepper, salt, lettuce. Method.—Cut up the duck into small pieces, and do not remove the skin; marinate in oil and vinegar seasoned with pepper, salt, chopped onion, and parsley for half-an-hour, then drain on a cloth. Cut the yellow rind only of the oranges into thin strips and boil for quarter of an hour in salted water; drain, mix part of this with mayonnaise sauce; arrange some shred lettuce on a dish, dress the duck on it, and mask with the sauce. A border of quarters of hard-boiled eggs and stoned olives, garnished respectively with thin slices of radish and small lettuce- heart leaves, form a suitable finish to this dish. The remainder of the orange may be used to ornament the mayonnaise. 11. English Salad Dressing. Ingredients.—2 hard-boiled eggs, oil, vinegar, mustard, pepper, salt. Method.—Take the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs and mash them with a wooden spoon. Add a teaspoonful of made mustard, a pinch of salt, some pepper, four tablespoonfuls of oil and two of vinegar. Stir all well together and the dressing is made. Some people like the addition of a teaspoonful of finely-chopped capers just before serving. 12, French Salad h la Vinaigrette. Divide some French cos lettuces down to the stalk, break the leaves into three or four pieces, cleanse and rinse in cold water, and either shake in a wire salad-basket, or place in a dry cloth;Game Mayonnaise 46 hold the corners, and swing the cloth round till the salad is well drained. Place the salad in a bowl and sprinkle with coarsely-chopped salad herbs,—/.<?., chives, tarragon, iparsley, and chervil. Mix the dressing in a separate bowl or large ladle, and stir it well in at the moment of serving. The dressing is a matter of taste, generally two or three parts of purest salad oil to one of French wine vinegar, or tarragon vinegar, with a seasoning of pepper, salt, sugar, and, if liked, a little French mustard. Cabbage lettuces, endive, chickory, dandelion, and other salad plants may be similarly dressed. 13. A French Salad Dressing1, Ingredients.—2 raw yolks eggs, 1 gill olive oil, 1 tablespoon- ful lemon-juice, pepper, salt. Method.—Put the yolks into a basin, beat them in a cool place with a wooden spoon, add the oil drop by drop till one- third is used, then add more rapidly; add lemon-juice, pepper, and salt to taste; add, if liked, a few drops of tarragon or chilli vinegar. 14. Game Mayonnaise. Ingredients.—Remains of cold game birds or wild fowl, mould of rice, hard-boiled eggs, salad dressing, garnish. Method.—Use the best pieces of the cold remains of game or wild fowl; remove the skin, and sprinkle pieces with oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt; then arrange them on a border mould of boiled rice, place a dressed salad in the centre, mask the game with thick mayonnaise sauce seasoned with cayenne, paprika, and lemon-juice; garnish with an outer border of hard-boiled eggs cut in quarters, and decorate the whole with capers, chervil, or small red radishes. Truffles are always a delightful adjunct to game mayonnaise. 15, Lentil Salad. Ingredients.—1 lb. lentils, 2 large onions, parsley, salad dressing. Method.—Wash and soak the lentils overnight or for at least six hours, boil in slightly salted water, with the onions and a sprig of parsley tied in a muslin bag, until tender. Dress as a salad with oil, vinegar, salt, pepper, a pinch of sugar, and a liberal sprinkling of chopped parsley, and serve with cold meat.47 Mayonnaise Sauce 16. Lettuce Salad. This is the most popular salad in this country, and it is neces- sary to prepare it carefully, so that every leaf may be washed and thoroughly drained. Place the leaves, after they have been washed and torn into convenient pieces, in a clean dry cloth, holding it by the four corners and gently swinging it round; the water will fly off, leaving the salad crisp, fresh, and dry. It should then be mixed with small cress and arranged in a bowl, the top being tastefully and suitably garnished. The dressing, or salad sauce, should not be added until the moment of serving, otherwise the crispness of the salad will be destroyed. It should then be poured down the inside of the bowl, and well stirred in. The salad sauce may vary according to taste. 17. Mayonnaise Sauce. Ingredients.—2 yolks eggs, \ pint salad oil, ^ teaspoonful salt, \ teaspoonful pepper, vinegar (1 tablespoonful to every 8 table- spoonfuls of oil). Method.—Break the yolks into a round-bottomed basin, season with pepper and salt, stir quickly with a wooden spoon, adding the salad oil at first drop by drop, afterwards a few drops at a time, then add vinegar in a similar way. The sauce should be creamy and smooth • if too consistent it may be diluted with a little cream or water. For a salad dressing, thickly-made mustard may be added to the seasonings, and tarragon or French wine vinegar used in place of malt vinegar. Mayonnaise sauce is frequently flavoured with lemon-juice, or various flavoured vinegars and herbs, to suit the palate. 18. Ox Cheek with Hungarian Salad. Ingredients.—Boiled salted ox cheek, kidney or new potatoes, beetroot, celery or celeriac, capers, salad dressing. Method.—Ox cheek is excellent if the meat is removed from the bones, rubbed with salt, and laid in a deep dish with salt for a few days, then rinsed and simmered with plenty of water, soup vegetables, herbs, and spices for five hours. Reserve the broth for soup; drain and press the meat; when quite cold cut into dice and place in a salad bowl with equal quantities of boiled48 Picnic Salad Rolls new potatoes, beetroot, and celery or blanched celeriac. Mix the whole, season with a vinaigrette salad dressing, and a table- spoonful of whole capers. 19. Ox Cheek with Remoulade Sauce. Ingredients.—Boiled ox cheek unsalted, seasonings, remou- lade sauce. Method.—Boil a fresh ox cheek with vegetables, pepper, and salt; drain and press the meat; when quite cold, cut into thin slices of uniform size, marinade then with oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt for an hour. Mask with remoulade sauce, on a bed of salad. Garnish suitably, and serve at once. 20. Picnic Salad Rolls. Ingredients.—Cold chicken, tongue, rolls, salad, mayonnaise sauce, seasonings. Method.—Cut a piece the size of a florin out of the top of some halfpenny rolls, and scoop out the crumb from the inside. Cut an equal quantity of cold chicken and lettuce, and a smaller proportion of cold tongue, into small dice or julienne shreds, moisten them with mayonnaise, and season with a little mustard and cayenne. Fill the rolls with the mixture, and replace the piece of crust. 21. Potato Salad (Red). Ingredients.—Steamed potatoes, boiled beetroot, salad herbs, and dressing. Method.—Slice a boiled beetroot, season with salt and vinegar, and let it remain six hours in a bowl. Steam in their skins six large new or kidney potatoes. While warm peel and slice them, and pour the beetroot juice over till it completely stains them with its colour; season with oil, pepper, salt, chopped chervil, and chives; omit vinegar, as the beetroot liquor will be flavoured with it. Let it steep for a night; before serving pour off some of the liquor, and keep it for a similar purpose. The beetroot may be used with other salad or served separately. 22. Russian Salad. Ingredients.—A tin of macedoines, mayonnaise sauce. Method.—Turn out the vegetables, rinse in cold water, and let drain on a clean cloth ; take two tablespoonfuls of mayonnaise49 * D Salad Dressing without Oil sauce, put the vegetables into a little basin, lightly mix them with the sauce, then serve as a salad or as a garnish to a cold entree. 23. Salad Dressing* without Oil. Ingredients.—2 eggs, 5 tablespoonfuls cream, tarragon vinegar, mustard, shallot, pepper, salt. Method.—Take the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs, and rub them quite smooth in a basin rubbed with a shallot. Add half a teaspoonful of mustard, some cayenne, black pepper, and salt to taste, and then by degrees four or five tablespoonfuls of cream. Lastly, mix in tarragon vinegar according to taste ; about a table- spoonful will be sufficient. 24. Savoury Calf’s Head Salad. Ingredients.—Cooked calf’s head, parsley, capers, seasonings. Method.—Arrange slices of calf’s head on a dish, and garnish it with parsley. Hand with it, in a sauce boat, a sauce made of two tablespoonfuls salad oil, one tablespoonful vinegar, with chopped parsley, capers, and shallot or onion blanched, and mustard to taste. Serve with a well-garnished salad. 25. Spanish Potato Salad. Ingredients.—Cold potatoes, pickled beetroot, anchovies, tomato, cabbage, capers, dressing. Method.—Slice eight or ten large cold potatoes, and over them sprinkle two tablespoonfuls of chopped pickled beetroot. Mix in a basin a tablespoonful of pounded anchovies and the same quantity of tomato and young cabbage, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, half that quantity of capers and Worcester sauce, four tablespoonfuls of olive oil, one of vinegar, and a seasoning of salt and pepper. Mix all together, and pour over the salad. 26. Tomato Salad. Ingredients.—Tomatoes, onions, chives, parsley, salad dressing. Method.—Plunge some very firm ripe tomatoes in boiling water for one minute, take off the skin, let them get quite cold, then slice and remove the seeds; place them on a dish, sprinkle with salt, pepper, and thin slices of onion, and leave for about an hour. Remove the onion, drain away the liquor, and arrangeVeal and Bacon Salad the tomatoes in a bowl or glass dish; season with a little oil and vinegar, and sprinkle with a garnish of chopped chives and parsley; or some green salad, such as tufts of cress, water- cress, or lettuce hearts, may be used in their stead. 27. Veal and Bacon Salad. Ingredients.—Cold roast veal, fat smoked bacon (boiled), cress, celery, herbs, dressing. Method.—Take equal quantities of lean roast veal and fat smoked bacon (boiled); cut both into large dice and mix; add white celery cut into small pieces, and a bundle of mustard and cress or watercress. Season with chopped chives or parsley, or other salad herbs, adding a dressing of oil, vinegar, pepper, salt, and a pinch of sugar. Stir well and serve cold. 28. Vegetable Salad. The greater varieties of cooked vegetables used for this salad the better. Take peas, beans, carrots, tomatoes, asparagus, and anything which is in season. Arrange prettily on a dish. Pour over a good dressing and serve, being careful to garnish very nicely. 29. Vinaigrette Dressing. Ingredients.—4 tablespoonfuls salad oil, 2 tablespoonfuls tarragon vinegar, \ teaspoonful each of finely-minced parsley, shallots, and gherkin, with pepper and salt to taste. Method.—Mix the above ingredients in a small bowl until thoroughly blended. Use as required. 5°CHAPTER VI Hors d’CEuvres 1. Anchovies. 2. Anchovy Bonnes-Bouches. 3. Anchovy Canapes. 4. Anchovy Salad. 5. Beetroot k la Turque. 6. Bonnes-Bouches of Prawns. 7. Crohtes for Hors d'CEuvres. 8. Foie-Gras in Aspic. 9. Hamburg Beef. 10. Marinated or Pickled Fish. 11. Olives. 12. Orange Salad. 13. Spanish Olives k la Tartare. 14. Tomatoes in Aspic. Hors d’CEuvres are considered agreeable appetisers, and may be with advantage added to the ordinary luncheon or early dinner of those who appreciate the pleasures of the table. They are with many persons spurs to digestion, as well as stimulants to appetite. Among those for ordinary use are anchovies in various preparations, caviare, olives, sardines, smoked salmon and other fish, oysters, crab, lobster, cray-fish tails, pickles, salads, &c. They are served in very small glass dishes, on croutes, toasts, or on folded serviettes, or dish-papers. Many hors d’ceuvres are particularly suitable for a luncheon, when of necessity cold meat or cold meat rechauffe forms the principal part, and a few minutes spent in the arrangement of one or more of these delicacies will give an appearance of refine- ment to an otherwise plain meal. The following recipes are given as suggestions more than as absolutely correct in quantities, these dainty trifles being generally made from materials conveniently at hand, or left over from other dishes. The sharpening of the appetite and gratification of the eye are the chief points to be considered in their preparation and serving. 1. Anchovies. These small fish are mostly preserved in brine ; their delicate flavour makes them a relish of great repute. To use soak in cold water, wash and wipe gently with a cloth, then with the fore- fingers and thumbs of both hands split them down the back to 5i52 Anchovy Salad remove the fillets. The fillets are frequently arranged as a lattice- work over the top of a hors d’oeuvre. Anchovies prepared in oil, filleted anchovy paste, and anchovy essence are also useful in the preparation of dainty morsels. 2. Anchovy Bonnes-Bouehes. Ingredients.—Anchovies, lettuce hearts, radishes, capers, lemon, hard-boiled egg, olives, salad oil. Method.—Fillet some anchovies, cut them in thin strips, put on a dish with some shred lettuce, small radishes, capers, thin slices of lemon, and chopped parsley. Arrange them tastefully, season with lemon-juice mixed with salad oil, garnish with stoned olives filled with anchovy butter, and the yolks and whites of hard-boiled eggs. 3. Anchovy Canapes. Ingredients.—Fried bread, anchovy fillets, anchovy butter, parsley, hard-boiled egg. Method.—Fry some fingers of bread, or toast them; spread with anchovy paste mixed with butter, cayenne, and lemon-juice; lay a fillet or two of Gorgona anchovy on each; place on a small glass dish, and garnish with yolk and white of egg and finely- chopped parsley. 4. Anchovy Salad. Ingredients.—3 hard-boiled eggs, anchovies, tarragon, chervil, oil, vinegar. Method.—Prepare some fillets of anchovies, cut one hard- boiled egg into quarters, and the remaining two chop up coarsely, keeping the yolk and white separate; arrange on little glass dishes; season with red pepper, chopped tarragon, and chervil, sprinkle with oil and vinegar, arrange the strips of fillets of ancho- vies in a lattice-work over the top, and garnish with fancifully cut slices of lemon and the quarters of hard-boiled eggs. 5. Beetroot a la Turque. Ingredients.—1 small boiled beetroot, anchovy fillets, capers, chilli vinegar, croutes. Method.—Stamp slices of beetroot with a fancy cutter, sprinkle with finely-chopped capers and gherkin, and a few drops53 Hamburg Beef of chilli vinegar; place a thin slice of a small hard-boiled egg on each, garnish with a lattice-work of anchovy fillets ; place the whole carefully on croutes, and serve garnished with small cress. 6. Bonnes-Bouches of Prawns. Ingredients.—Prawns, round croutes, paprika, stoned olives, anchovy butter, capers, cress. Method.—Spread each round fried croute with anchovy or shrimp paste, place on each a large prawn, sprinkle with paprika, in the centre place a stoned olive filled with anchovy butter, and place on the top a whole caper. Serve cold on a dish-paper, garnished with cress. 7. Crontes for Hors d’CEuvres. Take some slices of white bread half an inch thick, cut them in fingers, rounds, or squares, fry in clarified butter until golden brown, then drain on paper or a cloth. Use as directed. 8. Foie-Gras in Aspic. Ingredients.—Potted foie-gras, aspic jelly, garnish. Method.—Coat the bottom and sides of some small dariole moulds with aspic jelly, place some small dice of foie-gras in each, fill up with aspic jelly, and leave on ice till firmly set; dish, and garnish tastefully. 9. Hamburg1 Beef. Ingredients.—Cooked lean Hamburg beef (hung beef), lemon pickle, cress. Method.—Grate some of the beef, pile it on a glass dish, garnish with cress and sliced pickled lemons, and serve with bread and butter. 10. Marinated or Pickled Fish. Ingredients.—Cold boiled fish, fish stock, vinegar, flavourings. Method.—Place some neat pieces of fish in a pie dish; take an equal quantity of vinegar and of the water the fish was boiled in, with a few peppercorns, cloves, two bay leaves, and a slice of lemon; boil up, pour over the fish, and leave it to soak in until it is quite cold. Serve with a little of the strained liquor, and garnish with sliced cucumber. If mackerel is thus treated, a few leaves of green fennel may be added to the marinade.54 Tomatoes in Aspic 11. Olives. Sweet or Spanish olives are served either in a small glass dish with a little of their own liquor, or stoned and filled with a savoury cream or butter. 12. Orange Salad. Ingredients.—2 sweet oranges, 1 Seville orange, 1 lemon, white wine vinegar, pepper, salt, cayenne. Method.—Peel and slice the oranges in thin discs, remove the pips; arrange the discs alternately in rows, making them over- lap ; sprinkle them with the juice of a small lemon, a little white wine vinegar, pepper, salt, and cayenne. 13. Spanish Olives a la Tartare. Ingredients.—Small round croutes, Spanish olives, anchovy fillets, tartare sauce, hard-boiled eggs. Method.—Stone as many olives as there are croutes ; fill them with stiff tartare sauce, curl an anchovy fillet round each, set them upright on the croutes, garnish to taste with chopped hard-boiled egg, parsley, lobster coral, &c., and place one caper on each olive. 14. Tomatoes in Aspic. Ingredients.—Ripe tomatoes, anchovies, mayonnaise sauce, aspic jelly, garnish. Method.—Select very small round tomatoes, skin them, and carefully take out the centres. Wash, skin, fillet, and chop two or three anchovies finely, and mix with a gill of thick mayonnaise sauce. Fill the cavities in each tomato with this, lay on it a sprig of chervil, and cover each tomato two or three times with aspic jelly so as to be quite coated. Pour the jelly over with a spoon, and let it be quite cool. Arrange a very fine wreath of cress or parsley round the edge of a dish, place the tomatoes in the centre, and serve.CHAPTER VII 55 Joints of Cold Meat Served Cold 1. Boiled Beef. 2. To serve Cold Boiled Beef. 3. Pressed Brisket of Beef. 4. Ribs of Beef. 5. Ribs of Beef, Garnished. 6. Roast Fillet of Beef. 7. Savoury Beef with Horse-radish Sauce. 8. Cold Sirloin of Beef. 9. Cold Boiled Calf’s Plead. 10. Slices of Cold Meat with Tartar Sauce. 11. Leg of Mutton. 12. Leg of Mutton with Cold Tomato Sauce. 13. Mutton with Potato Salad. 14. Shoulder of Mutton. 1. Boiled Beef. The silver side of the round of beef is generally selected as the primest cut for salting and boiling. After serving hot, place the remains of the joint in an earthenware pan, and strain the liquor in which it was cooked over it; this will prevent it getting dry and hard; any carrots, parsnips, and turnips left over should be drained in a colander and used next day. 2. To serve Cold Boiled Beef. Wipe the liquor off the joint, cut a thin slice off the cut surface to give it a fresh appearance, pass a silver skewer through the fat and lean, so that they may be easily carved without destroying the compact appearance of the joint; place on a dish, garnish with parsley and slices of beetroot. Suitable accompaniments are mashed potatoes, chutnee, piccalilli, carrot salad. 3. Pressed Brisket of Beef. Well-flavoured brisket of beef, having been braised and served hot, should afterwards have all bones and gristle removed, the gravy and vegetables scraped off, and be pressed between two flat dishes with moderate weight. When quite cold, it should be brushed with melted glaze and trimmed nicely. To serve, place on a dish-paper, and garnish with white endive and beetroot slices. 4. Ribs of Beef. If the joint has been cut while hot, remove a thin slice from the surface before sending it to table, as this gives the meat a56 Roast Fillet of Beef fresher appearance. Put a silver skewer through it, and garnish with parsley, endive, or watercress, and tufts of freshly-scraped horse-radish. Suitable accompaniments are horse-radish sauce, tomato chut- nee, mashed potatoes, lettuce or celery salad. 5. Ribs of Beef, Garnished- Prepare the joint as above; put chopped clear meat jelly, or aspic jelly, slices of lemon, or hard-boiled egg, and tufts of mustard and cress as garnish. Suitable accompaniments are slices of cold boiled ham or tongue, potato balls, Brussels sprouts (sautes), mustard sauce. 6. Roast Fillet of Beef. Cut the fillet across in slices ; trim them neatly; cut also some slices of beef fat. Take several kinds of plain boiled vegetables, such as peas, young carrots, new potatoes, &c., cut them nearly to a size, mix them with a mayonnaise or other salad sauce or dressing; place the mixture in the centre of the dish, arranging the slices of fat and lean alternately in a wreath round it. Garnish the edge of the meat with scraped horse-radish and sprigs of parsley. Suitable accompaniments are fried potato chips, cauliflower au gratin. 7. Savoury Beef with Horse-radish Sauce. Ingredients.—Slices of braised beef, seasonings, horse-radish sauce. Method.—Cut the remains of braised beef into thin slices and place them on a dish, sprinkle with pepper, salt, and vinegar; lay over the meat slices of onions, a few bay leaves, and sprigs of thyme; let remain one hour, then drain, arrange on a dish, and garnish suitably. Serve with horse-radish sauce. 8. Cold Sirloin of Beef. Place the joint on the dish, secure the flank to the under part with a silver skewer ; garnish the meat with little heaps of freshly-scraped horse-radish and sprigs of parsley and slices of seasoned beetroot which have been drained in a cloth. Suitable accompaniments are horse-radish sauce, potatoes baked in their skins, salad, Indian chutnee.57 Leg of Mutton 9. Cold Boiled Calf’s Head. Cut the remains of the head and tongue into thin slices, place a dish-paper or folded serviette on a dish, arrange the slices of head and tongue alternately on it, and garnish with slices of hard-boiled eggs and sprigs of parsley or lettuce hearts. Suitable accompaniments are new potatoes, green peas, salad, mayonnaise sauce. 10. Slices of Cold Meat with Tartar Sauce. Cut the veal, or other cold meat, into slices, trim them care- fully, cutting off all skin and gristle; brush them over with salad oil, season with pepper, salt, and a little lemon-juice and vinegar; arrange them on a bed of salad, and garnish with slices of hard- boiled eggs, beetroot, or tomatoes. Serve with tartar sauce. 11. Leg1 of Mutton. If only a small portion has been cut when hot, the leg should be turned over, any cold dripping, gravy, or ragged pieces of skin removed, and the uncut side of the meat placed uppermost. A frill of cut white paper should then be attached to the knuckle bone and the meat, and dish garnished with a few sprigs of fresh parsley. In winter slices of boiled beetroot should be arranged on the edge of the dish ; in summer sliced cucumber or tomatoes may be used. Suitable accompaniments are fried or mashed potatoes, and either a dressed salad or second vegetable, with sauce, chutnee, or pickles. 12. Leg of Mutton with Cold Tomato Sauce. Prepare the meat as in the preceding recipe; cover the dish with a plain dish-paper or folded serviette, garnish with parsley and small tomatoes, and serve cold tomato sauce in a boat. Suitable accompaniments are baked potato mould, curried onions, dressed salad. 13. Mutton with Potato Salad. Cut the mutton into slices of as nearly one size as possible, and trim them neatly; make a salad of cold boiled potatoes cut into slices, season it with salad dressing; arrange it in the centre of a dish, sprinkle with finely-chopped salad herbs, parsley, orShoulder of Mutton 58 capers, arrange the slices of meat around it, and garnish the dish with sprigs of parsley or watercress. Suitable accompaniments are potatoes baked in their jackets, boiled cauliflower or marrow with white sauce, pickled vegetable marrow. 14. Shoulder of Mutton. This very unsightly joint must be arranged to the best advan- tage. Reverse the joint, so that the under-cut is uppermost; place a freshly-cut paper frill round the knuckle bone, garnish the meat with fresh watercress or parsley, and place small heaps of meat jelly round the dish to form a garnish. Suitable accompaniments are potato chips, haricot beans k la maitre d’hotel, pickled walnuts.CHAPTER VIII 59 Poultry and Game 1. Chicken (Minced) and Baked Eggs. 2. Chicken Capilotade. 3. Chaudfroid of Chicken. 4. Croustades of Fowl. 5. Curried Chicken (Brown). 6. Curried Chicken (White). 7. Chicken Cutlets. 8. Cutlets of Chicken k l’ltalienne. 9. Fricassee of Chicken (1). 10. Fricassde of Chicken (2). 11. Chicken, Fried. 12. Chicken Livers, Devilled. 13. Chicken and Macaroni. 14. Chicken Mar^chale. 15. Chicken Mould (Cold). 16. Chicken and Mushroom Cutlets. 17. Chicken and Paprika k la Vien- noise. 18. Paprika k la Portugaise. 19. Chicken Patties. 20. Potted Chicken. 21. Chicken R£chauffd. 22. Chicken or Veal (Minced) and Sausages. 23. Savoury Chicken. 24. Salmi of Duck. 25. Game or Poultry a la Indienne. 26. Kromeskies of Game or Chicken. 27. Savoury Risotto 4 la Milanaise. 28. Game (Minced) with Kidneys. 29. Game Patties. 30. Hashed Goose. 31. Goose Legs, Devilled. 32. Crodstades of Partridge or Pheasant. 33. Scallops of Partridge or Pheasant. 34. Rice Croquettes of Chicken or Game. 35. Rabbit (Tinned) Patties. 36. Turkey k la Bretonne. 37. Blanquette of Turkey. 38. Boudins of Turkey. 39. Turkey, Hashed (Brown). 40. Turkey, Hashed (White). 41. Turkey Legs, Devilled. 42. Turkey k la Milanaise. 43. Turkey Souffld. 44. Venison Ci'oquettes. 45. Venison Rissoles. 46. Venison or Game, Hashed. 1. Chicken (Minced) and Baked Egg’s. Ingredients.—Remains of roast or boiled fowls with their stuffing, sausage meat or a little lean ham, 1 onion (chopped), 1 gill milk, bread crumbs, fresh eggs, seasoning. Method.—Stew the bones in a little water for an hour to make stock; strain, add the milk, and thicken with butter and flour in the usual way; boil up and season. Butter a pie dish, sprinkle with bread crumbs and the crumbled stuffing, moisten the minced chicken with the sauce, strew very fine bread crumbs over, and place the eggs, broken as for poaching, carefully over the surface. Sprinkle with pepper, salt, bread crumbs, and dis- solved butter, and bake at once in a quick oven till the eggs begin to bubble and smoke; the whites should be set and the yolks soft.60 Chaudfroid of Chicken 2. Chicken Capilotade. Ingredients.—Remains of cold fowl, 2± oz. butter, i oz. flour, pint stock, capers or gherkins, parsley, shallot, mushrooms. Method.—Skin the pieces of fowl, and dredge with a large tea- spoonful of flour; heat i oz. butter, and fry them for about seven minutes. Remove from the pan, add \ oz. butter, and fry i small clove, garlic, i shallot, 2 teaspoonfuls parsley, and 3 mush- rooms, all very finely chopped. Add the bones, trimmings, stock, pepper, and salt, and boil gently one hour. Fry 1 oz. butter and 1 tablespoonful of flour until browned, strain the stock into the pan, and stir till thickened, add the chicken and a teaspoonful of chopped capers or gherkins, let it all simmer a short time; place the meat on a dish; pour the sauce over, and garnish with fried sippets or broiled mushrooms. 3. Chaudfroid of Chicken. Ingredients.—Remains of cold chicken, white sauce, gelatine, seasonings. Method.—Cut the fowl into small joints, remove the skin, take half a pint of white sauce in which stir two or three sheets of soaked gelatine, boil, whiten with a little cream, and flavour with lemon-juice. Mask each joint with the sauce; when cool- ing, decorate with yolk of egg, parsley, or truffle; when quite set, serve on a bed of lettuce dressed with mayonnaise or ordinary salad sauce, and garnish with cucumber slices, radishes, or any suitable and convenient garnish. 4. Croustades of Fowl. Ingredients.—Half a cold chicken, 2 oz. cooked ham, 1 oz. butter, 1 oz. flour, ^ pint white stock, 2 tablespoonfuls cream, 6 button mushrooms, seasoning of salt, lemon-juice, and cayenne croustades. Method.—Cut some slices of bread two inches thick into rounds, cut each half way through with a plain cutter two sizes smaller, and remove the centre. Fry a nice golden brown in deep fat, drain, and fill with chicken mixture, prepared as follows : Mince the chicken, ham, and mushrooms into small dice; mix the butter and flour in a saucepan over the fire, add the stock, stir till it boils and thickens, let boil for five minutes, then add the cream and the rest of the ingredients; season nicely and heat thoroughly.61 Curried Chicken 5. Curried Chicken (Brown). Ingredients.—Cold fowl, 2 or 3 onions, 2 oz. butter, 1 apple, 1 tablespoonful each curry powder and flour, f pint chicken or veal broth, | gill hot cream, lemon-juice. Method/—Cut the fowl into small joints, and remove the skin; fry light brown in butter, remove from the pan, fry the sliced onions, then add the curry powder and flour and the minced apple; when fried, add the stock, stir till boiling, then let the fowl simmer for at least one hour in the sauce. Before serving, add the cream and a tablespoonful of lemon-juice. Serve boiled rice as a border to the curry, or in a dish separately. 6. Curried Chicken (White). Ingredients.—Remains cold boiled fowl, pint white sauce, curry powder, lemon-juice, boiled rice, parsley. Method.—First make a white sauce as follows : Melt one tablespoonful of butter without browning, add a tablespoonful of flour, and stir until quite smooth ; add half a pint of milk, and stir the sauce till it thickens. Squeeze into it the juice of half a lemon, and add curry powder, pepper, and salt gradually to taste. Stir into this sauce the remains of the chicken, and simmer for fifteen minutes on the side of the stove. Have ready some well-boiled rice, scatter a little chopped parsley over, and form a ring of it on a hot dish, and pour the curry into the centre. Two hard-boiled eggs, divided into quarters, form a pretty garnish. 7, Chicken Cutlets. Ingredients.—Cold fowl (underdone preferred), egg and bread crumbs, clarified butter, grated Parmesan cheese, frying-fat, bread. Method.—Cut off the meat and shape it neatly into small cutlets, dip them into clarified butter, cover with bread crumbs, dip in beaten egg, and again cover with crumbs, pressing them on with a knife. Prepare some croutons of slices of stale bread in cutlet shapes or fingers, dip them in egg, then in grated cheese; fry them in boiling deep fat; drain; fry the chicken cutlets, place each on a crouton, sprinkle with paprika, and serve hot; garnish with lemon slices and parsley, or with green peas tossed in a small quantity of butter.62 Fricassee of Chicken 8. Cutlets of Chicken h l’ltalienne. Ingredients.—\ lb. cold fowl or rabbit, i oz. butter, i oz. flour, ^ pint milk, i yolk of egg, 3 oz. macaroni, egg and bread crumbs, frying-fat. Method.—Boil the macaroni in salted water till quite tender, drain, cut in half-inch lengths; finely chop the meat, melt the butter in a saucepan, add the flour, then the milk, and stir till boiled; flavour with pepper, salt, mace, and grated cheese; add the macaroni, meat, and yolk of egg, and simmer for a few minutes, then spread on a plate and leave till cold. Form into neat cutlets, cover with beaten egg and bread crumbs, and fry in deep fat until a golden colour. Drain dry and serve with baked whole tomatoes. 9. Fricassee of Chicken (1). Ingredients.—Cold chicken, 1 onion, 1 carrot, £ blade of mace, 5 peppercorns, small bunch of herbs, \ pint chicken broth or water, \ pint milk, 1 oz. butter, 1 oz. flour, 1 yolk of egg. Method.—Cut each leg, the wings, and breast into two pieces ; put them in a saucepan with the broth or water, milk, and flavourings; simmer gently for twenty minutes; remove the skin and keep the pieces warm ; strain the broth and thicken sufficiently with the butter and flour kneaded together, stirring till well boiled; add the yolk of egg. Replace the pieces, and when well heated without boiling, serve garnished with slices of lemon. 10. Fricassde of Chicken (2). Ingredients.—Any nice pieces of cold chicken, white sauce, a few tinned mushrooms, chopped ham and parsley. Method.—Remove the skin and trim the pieces; make them hot in the white sauce with the mushrooms ; season with lemon- juice, grated nutmeg, white pepper, and salt. Serve in an entree dish, put fried croutons round, and sprinkle these with finely- chopped parsley and ham. 11. Chicken, Fried. Ingredients.—Cold chicken, seasonings, butter, sauce. Method.—Take the remains of a cold fowl, cut it into neat joints, and let them soak for an hour in salad oil mixed with a tablespoonful of lemon-juice, salt, and pepper, and finely-chopped63 Chicken and Macaroni shallot, or onion and parsley, after which flour them well, and fry in hot butter or bacon dripping. When cooked, arrange them with the following sauce poured round: Put a chopped small onion, two cloves, half a bay leaf, the strained juice of a lemon, a little minced parsley and tarragon, with pepper and salt to taste, into half a pint of good thickened gravy. Let it boil well and quickly, and then strain it. Serve the chicken with lemon slices round. 12. Chicken Livers, Devilled. Ingredients.—3 cooked livers, 1 teaspoonful anchovy essence, oz. of butter, seasoning of mustard, salt, cayenne, and nutmeg. Method.—Pound the above ingredients, work them into a smooth paste, spread on hot buttered toast, put into a hot oven for a few minutes, cut into fancy shapes, dish up, and garnish with chopped devilled almonds and parsley. Serve hot. 13. Chicken and Macaroni. Ingredients.—Cold boiled chicken, | lb. macaroni, oz. butter, 4 oz. grated Parmesan cheese, 1 onion, 4 cloves, 1 pint milk, pepper, salt. Method.—Cut the chicken into neat pieces; boil the macaroni in salted water for a quarter of an hour; drain; substitute the milk and butter for the water, adding the onion stuck with the cloves, salt, and pepper; when tender, drain and keep hot, put the chicken into the liquor to warm, then arrange it on a hot dish; place the macaroni over it, sprinkle with grated cheese, and brown in the oven; serve as hot as possible. If preferred, the grated cheese may be stirred into the macaroni and not made brown. 14. Chicken Marechale. Ingredients.—White meat of cold fowls, \ pint cream, | tea- spoonful each of onion juice and chopped parsley, grated lemon rind, white pepper, few drops vinegar, salad. Method.—Free the meat from skin and bones, cut into nice pieces, and season with white pepper. Whip the cream to a stiff froth, season it with the onion juice, lemon rind, parsley, and a very few drops of vinegar, and beware of making the cream too liquid. Keep in a cool place, and, if possible, on ice. Pile the chicken on a cold dish, mixing with it slices of raw tomato or pickled beetroot, sprinkling them with a very little64 Chicken and Mushroom Cutlets chopped shallot or chives; cover with shred lettuce leaves, and mask the cream roughly over the whole. Serve at once, or leave on ice till required. 15. Chicken Mould (Cold). Ingredients.—i lb. cold chicken, i gill jellied stock or gravy, i small onion or shallot, 2 eggs, parsley. Method.—Mince the cold chicken, and mix with one tea- spoonful of minced onion or shallot, two teaspoonfuls of parsley, salt, cayenne, and pepper to taste, also a few grains of grated nut- meg. Moisten with the stock, and, if possible, add two beaten eggs ; press into a plain mould, and steam one hour. The mould must be covered with buttered paper. When cold, turn out, dish, and garnish with salad. 16. Chicken and Mushroom Cutlets. Ingredients.—f lb. mushrooms, cold chicken, seasonings, 2 oz. butter, 2 oz. flour, \ pint white stock or milk, 1 yolk of egg, 1 whole egg, bread crumbs, frying-fat. Method.—Clean and chop the mushrooms; cut the meat from a cold chicken into small cutlets, cover with egg and bread crumbs, and put aside. Season the mushrooms with salt, chopped shallots, parsley, lemon rind, nutmeg, and white pepper. Dissolve the butter and flour in a saucepan, let cook gently, add the stock or milk, and stir till boiling; add the mushrooms, &c., and cook slowly for twenty minutes, and season to taste; then remove from the fire and stir in the well-beaten yolk of one or two eggs, heat without actually boiling, spread on a plate, and let get cold. Divide and mould into cutlets, cover with egg and crumbs, fry in boiling deep fat, drain; fry the chicken cutlets in the same way, serve each on a mushroom cutlet, garnish, and serve immediately. 17. Chicken Paprika a la Viennoise. Ingredients.—Remains of cold chicken or veal, 3 large onions, paprika, 2 oz. butter, i| gill new milk, boiled rice. Method.—Cut the remains of cold chicken into neat pieces, after freeing it from bones and skin; reserve them. Dissolve the butter in a stewpan; as soon as it oils add the peeled and sliced onions seasoned with paprika (or Hungarian red pepper); cook slowly, and as soon as tender, but not brown, rub them through a65 E Chicken Patties wire sieve; return this to the stewpan, add the milk and chicken, and stew gently for about three-quarters of an hour, by which time the greater part of the milk should be absorbed. Have ready a border of boiled rice or lentils previously tossed in a little butter, arrange the meat in the centre, and serve hot, the whole sprinkled lightly with paprika. Garnish with water- cress or fried parsley. 18. Paprika a la Portugaise. Ingredients.—Remains of cold chicken, 3 onions, paprika, 2 oz. butter, i| gill Portugaise sauce. Method.—Prepare this dish the same as chicken paprika h la Viennoise, using Portugaise sauce instead of new milk. 19. Chicken Patties. Ingredients.—Remains of cold chicken, 1 oz. butter, 1 oz. flour, ij gill milk or stock, 1 tablespoonful of cream, seasoning, pastry. Method.—Mince the cold chicken, cover the bones with half a pint of cold water, stew this down till much reduced. Melt the butter and flour in a saucepan, stir in one and a half gill of stock or milk till boiling, add the cream, season with salt, cayenne, ground mace, lemon-juice, or a few drops of tarragon vinegar, take off the fire, stir in the minced chicken; have ready some patty-cases made of pastry and baked, whilst hot fill them with the mixture and serve at once. 20. Potted Chicken. Ingredients.—\ lb. cold chicken, 2 oz. fat and lean ham, one sausage, 2 oz. butter, £ teaspoonful pounded mace, \ of a small nutmeg, cayenne, and salt to taste. Method.—Let the meat be free of skin and sinew, cut into small pieces, pound, adding the butter and spices gradually, until all reduced to a smooth paste. Press into shallow pots, cover with clarified butter or lard, and, if to be kept some time, tie down with white paper. 21. Chicken R6ehauffd. Ingredients.—Cold chicken, Bechamel sauce, seasoning. Method.—Finely chop some cold chicken and leave the legs whole. Stir the mince in some Bechamel sauce, nicely seasoned.66 Savoury Chicken Trim the legs, removing as much bone as possible, brush over with butter, season with cayenne and salt, and broil them till well browned on each side; the mince being made very hot, pour it into the dish, lay the legs on the top, garnish with fried croutons, and serve. 22. Chicken or Veal (Minced) and Sausages. Ingredients.—Remains of chicken or veal, ham or tongue, lb. sausages, i egg, bread crumbs, i oz. butter, i oz. flour, 2 oz. dripping. Method.—Pick all the meat off the bones and chop it coarsely; cover the bones, trimmings, and a shallot with cold water, simmer for two hours, strain, boil till reduced to about half a pint. Boil the sausages for ten minutes, skin, cut them in half, coat with egg and bread crumbs, and fry in dripping until nicely browned; meanwhile blend the butter and flour in a saucepan, add the stock, and stir until boiling and smooth. Season to taste with pepper, salt, mace, and lemon-juice, put in the pieces of chicken or veal, cover the pan, and let the contents remain for twenty minutes without boiling; a few button mushrooms are an improvement. Serve, garnished with toast sippets, and arrange the sausages pointing to the centre of the dish. 23. Savoury Chicken. Ingredients.—Cold chicken, 2 oz. butter, 1 onion, curry powder, salt. Method.—Put some pieces of cold chicken into a saucepan with the butter and a finely-chopped onion, and fry till the onion is cooked; scatter curry powder and salt over the chicken, and fry till quite cooked. Arrange the meat on a dish with the onion on the top. Serve hot. 24. Salmi of Duck. Ingredients.—Cold roast duck, 1 onion, herbs, 1 oz. butter, | pint beef stock, \ gill cooking port, 8 to 12 French olives, crofltons. Method.—Carve the duck into neat joints; break up the carcase, slice the giblets and put them into a saucepan with the stock, a small bunch of thyme, marjoram, a bay leaf and two sage leaves, an onion, in which stick one or two cloves. Let it boil67 Game or Poultry d l’lndienne up, skim, then simmer gently for an hour or longer; strain into a clean saucepan, remove the fat from the surface, and reduce to about one gill by boiling; add the stoned and chopped olives, the port, salt, and pepper to taste. Melt the butter in a frying- pan and lightly fry the pieces of duck in it; drain on kitchen paper, add them to the gravy, make very hot, and serve in a hot salmi dish garnished with fried croutons. Any wild fowl may be thus prepared and served. 25. Game or Poultry a l’lndienne. Ingredients.—Cold roast game or poultry, 2 teaspoonfuls French mustard, 1 teaspoonful English mustard, 2 tablespoon- fuls chutnee, 6 drops tabasco, lemon rind, pepper, salt, 1 oz. butter, fried bread crumbs. Method.—Cut the remains of any kind of game or poultry into joints, and score each piece neatly with a sharp knife and dredge them lightly with spiced pepper. Mix the French mus- tard, English mustard, chopped chutnee, and tabasco on a plate, adding salt, pepper, and grated lemon rind to taste. Heat the butter till oiled, dip each piece of fowl into it, spread thickly with the paste, and cover, with fried bread crumbs; place in a well-buttered fireproof china dish and bake in a quick oven for a quarter of an hour, and serve in the same dish, garnished with fried parsley. Any underdone “ fingers ” of cold meat may be cooked in the same way. 26. Kromeskies of Game op Chicken. Ingredients.—Bacon, cold game or chicken, seasoning, frying-butter, frying-fat. Method.—Cut some very thin slices of bacon, lay them flat, on each place a little highly-seasoned minced game or chicken, moistened with panada or any thick sauce; roll, taking care the mince does not escape, set aside till cold; dip each into frying- butter, fry a golden brown ; serve hot, garnished with fried parsley. 27. Savoury Risotto a la Milanaise. Ingredients.—4 oz. Patna rice, 1 oz. butter, 1 onion, 2 large shallots, gravy or sauce, grated cheese, stock, cold chicken or game. Method.—Wash the rice, boil it with the onion in stock until68 Game (Minced) with Kidneys just tender; then remove the onion and drain the rice in a sieve. Put the butter in a stevvpan • when dissolved, fry the minced shallots in it, add the rice, shake continuously, and stir the rice lightly with a fork, to prevent burning, until it is a light golden brown; add some nice fillets of chicken, tongue, ham, or pheasant previously made hot on a buttered dish in the oven, also a good spoonful of gravy or tomato sauce. Toss well together, place on a hot entree dish, sprinkle thickly with grated cheese, and place in a hot oven till brown, then serve very hot. 28. Game (Minced) with Kidneys. Ingredients.—Remains of cold roast game (minced), \ oz. butter, seasonings, thickened gravy, kidneys, buttered toast. Method.—Season with cayenne, salt, grated nutmeg, and lemon peel, chopped shallot or chives, and parsley. Melt a small piece of butter in a saucepan, add then mince and enough thickened gravy to moisten it, let it cook very gently. Meanwhile cut each in two, skin, and broil sufficient sheep’s kidneys, pro- bably three or four; dish on buttered toast, placing the hot mince in the centre, serve at once, garnished with sprigs of watercress. 29. Game Patties. Ingredients.—\ lb. cooked game, 4 oz. lean ham, 2 oz. butter, 2 shallots, 1 oz. flour, 1 gill good stock, pastry. Method.—Stamp out some rounds of puff paste or short crust, and line some small moulds, fill with dried rice and bake in a hot oven; take out the rice and put the cases on a sieve. Meanwhile fry the finely-chopped shallots in butter, stir in the flour, let cook a few minutes, then add the stock and stir till boiled, add the chopped game and ham, season to taste; then fill the cases and bake for five minutes. Little rounds of pastry (baked) may be used as lids, or the tops may be decorated in any way preferred. Serve on a dish- paper, nicely garnished with parsley. 30. Hashed Goose. Ingredients.—Remains of cold goose, 2 onions, 1^ oz. butter, 1 oz. flour, 1 pint stock, 2 tablespoonfuls of ketchup, 1 wine- glassful of cooking port, salt, and pepper. Method.—Cut off about the best slices and pieces, break up the bones and carcase, cover with cold water or stock, and69 Goose Legs, Devilled simmer for an hour. Fry the sliced onions in dripping, remove them when golden, add flour and stir till light brown, add strained stock and stir till boiling, add onions and flavourings to taste, also the pieces of goose, and let simmer very gently for half-an-hour; arrange on hot dish, and garnish with fried crofltons. 31. Goose Leg’s, Devilled. Ingredients.—Goose legs, i oz. butter, 2 teaspoonfuls chut- nee, 1 teaspoonful each of English and French mustard, cayenne, black pepper, and salt. Method.—Chop the bones off short to the meat, score the legs deeply with a sharp knife, mix the butter, chopped chutnee, mustards, peppers, and salt; rub the mixture well into the gashes, sprinkle with browned bread crumbs, let stand if possible for an hour, grill till well browned and crisp; serve on a very hot dish, with bits of butter on the top, and a garnish of fried potato chips or sprigs of watercress. It is essential that this dish be served “piping hot.” 32. Croustades of Partridge or Pheasant. Ingredients.—Remains of cold partridges or pheasant, brown sauce, olives, sherry, croustades. Method.—Free the meat from skin and bone, and cut in very small dice; have ready some brown sauce, add a little sherry or Madeira to it, boil it till thick, season highly, then add the meat, and as soon as it is quite hot fill the croustade cases with it. Garnish with olives which have been stoned and warmed in sherry, or with whole capers warmed in their own liquor, and serve at once. The croftstade cases should be hot and freshly fried. 33. Scallops of Partridg-e op Pheasant. Ingredients.—Remains of cold partridges, butter, browned bread crumbs, seasonings. Method.—Remove and chop all the meat, reserve it; break up the bones and carcases, put in a saucepan with cold water, a shallot, and a little salt; let simmer for an hour, strain, flavour the stock with grated nutmeg, red currant jelly, and cayenne; butter some scallop shells, fill with the meat moistened with the stock, put a layer of bread crumbs on each, place some scraps of butter on them, and put in the oven to get hot through.70 Rabbit (Tinned) Patties 34. Rice Croquettes of Chicken or Game. Ingredients.—Remains of cold fowl or game, 4 oz. rice, 1 pint stock, 11 oz. butter, | oz. flour, seasonings, egg and bread crumbs, frying-fat. Method.—Pass the meat twice through the mincing machine, or chop it very finely, then reserve it. Melt \ oz. of butter in a saucepan, add to it a teaspoonful each of finely-chopped parsley and shallot, with a little grated lemon peel and nutmeg. Let it cook gently for seven minutes, then stir in the flour, add the mince, and let it fry for about two minutes, then add one gill of flavoured stock or milk, and let it simmer gently till the stock is absorbed. In the meantime cook the rice in the stock till tender, add the remainder of the butter, and simmer till the moisture is evaporated and the rice dry. Spread on a plate. When cold divide equally, form into balls, hollow out the centre of these with the handle of a teaspoon, and fill with the mince, cover the aperture with rice, brush over with beaten egg, well sprinkle with bread crumbs, and fry in boiling deep fat to a golden brown. Remove from the fat, drain on paper, and serve at once. If many croquettes are fried at the same time, the fat will be chilled, and the croquettes will become sodden. A blue steam should rise over the pan before you attempt to fry them. 35. Rabbit (Tinned) Patties. Ingredients.—Tinned rabbit, ham, savoury herbs, 4 oz. calfs liver, seasonings, pastry. Method.—Cut up the meat, free it from jelly and fat, and mix with about a fifth of its weight in moderately fat ham or bacon. In this way savour is added, and the dryness generally noticed in rabbit obviated. Season generously with minced parsley, thyme, marjoram, lemon rind, pepper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg, ground cloves, and allspice. The addition of | lb. of calfs liver, sliced, fried, and chopped, is a great improvement; the mixture must be made moist with a little stock or beaten egg if necessary, but must not be sloppy. Use for filling patties covered with paste. 36. Turkey a la Bretonne. Ingredients.—Cold turkey, £lb. haricot beans, 3 large onions, 1 egg, 1 oz. butter, | pint stock, 1 tablespoonful flour, seasonings.Blanquette of Turkey Method.—Soak the beans in cold water overnight; drain, put into a saucepan with a whole onion, and boil for two hours or till tender; cut the turkey meat into neat cutlets, cover them with egg and bread crumbs, and fry them nicely; chop two onions, fry them in the butter with a little sugar and salt till a rich brown, but not burnt; add two tabiespoonfuls of stock, and let them stew till tender; then stir in a tablespoonful of flour and the remainder of the stock, stir till boiling, then season to taste; add the drained beans, arrange on a dish, and place the cutlets round it. 37. Blanquette of Turkey. Ingredients.—Remains of cold turkey, i slice lean bacon, i onion, i sprig parsley, i gill cream, the yolk of an egg, seasonings. Method.—Cut the flesh off the carcase of a roast turkey, break up the bones, put them in a stewpan with a little lean bacon, an onion, and a sprig of parsley. Cover with water and boil for an hour. Strain, and make some white sauce with the liquor. Now put the flesh of the bird into a stewpan, season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Just cover it with the sauce and warm it gradually, but not let it boil. When hot, stir in a gill of cream which has been beaten up with the yolk of an egg, and as soon as it begins to thicken turn it on to a hot dish. Decorate with fried bread cut in kite shapes, a few gherkins cut in strips, some button mushrooms, and small rounds of ham and tongue. 38. Boudins of Turkey. Ingredients.—i lb. cold turkey, \ lb. cooked tongue or ham, i onion or shallot, i oz. butter, i oz. flour, i pint stock, 3 eggs, bread crumbs, seasonings. Method.—Mince the cold turkey and ham or tongue. Break up the bones and make some stock with them; strain. Put a minced onion or shallot in a small pan with a pat of butter, and stir till of a light brown. Add a tablespoonful of flour, one pint of the stock, and the minced meat. Boil for a few minutes. Season with salt, pepper, and a pinch of sugar. Beat up the yolks ol two eggs, stir them quickly, then turn the mixture on to a dish, and leave till cold. Shape the mixture like corks. Egg and bread-crumb them twice, and fry a nice colour. Drain, and serve very hot. 7i72 Turkey Hashed 39. Turkey Hashed (Brown). Ingredients.—Cold turkey, i onion, small carrot, i stick celery, i bunch herbs, i blade mace, cloves, peppercorns, salt, flour, stock, sauce or wine. Method.—Take all the skin off the roast turkey, cut the wings and legs into joints, and carefully remove all the meat from the frame in as large pieces as possible; break up the bones small, put them into a saucepan with any other poultry bones and skin, cover with cold water, and let simmer gently for two hours, flavouring the stock with an onion stuck with five cloves, a small carrot, stick of celery, bunch of herbs, a few peppercorns, and a small blade of mace. Strain off the stock, and remove all fat from it; thicken it with flour, and after being well boiled let it get quite cool before putting the pieces of turkey into it. Let it warm very slowly by the side of the fire, and make it quite hot without allowing it to quite come to the boil. Colour the sauce if necessary, and add a little wine or appetising sauce. 40. Turkey Hashed (White). Ingredients.—White meat from cold turkey, i\ oz. butter, i oz. flour, | pint white stock or milk, seasonings. Method.—Cut the meat into thin slices or dice, season with salt, grated nutmeg, lemon rind, white pepper, and salt. Melt the butter, cook in it a little minced shallot, but do not let it take colour; stir in the flour, add the stock or milk, and stir till well boiled; if possible add a tablespoonful or so of cream. Add the meat and seasonings, and let all heat gently. Serve garnished with fried croutons or sippets of dry toast. 41. Turkey Leg’s, Devilled. Ingredients.—oz. butter, mustard, black pepper, salt, cayenne, i teaspoonful chutnee. Method.—Score the legs deeply; mix the chutnee with a saltspoonful of made mustard, salt, pepper, and cayenne to taste, and an ounce of melted butter; rub this mixture into the legs and let them marinade in it for a little while; then broil over a good fire for about ten minutes, turning them frequently to avoid burning. Place on a hot dish, and pour the remainder of the butter over them.73 Turkey Souffle 42. Turkey a la Milanaise. Ingredients.—i lb. cold turkey, 4 oz. macaroni, 3 or 4 oz. cooked ham or tongue, 1 heaped tablespoonful grated Parmesan cheese, J pint milk, \ oz. butter, 1 dessertspoonful flour, season- ings. Method.—Break the macaroni and throw it into a saucepan of boiling salted water, and boil till tender, about half-an-hour; meanwhile cut the meat into small dice; melt the butter in a stewpan, stir in the flour, add the milk, and stir till boiled and thickened; season the meat, add it to the sauce with the cheese, and toss all together till warmed through, then serve. 43. Turkey Souffle. Ingredients.—3 oz. white meat of boiled turkey, 4 eggs, 1 tablespoonful cream, seasonings. Method.—Pound the meat as finely as possible, mix with the well-beaten eggs, cream, a little pounded onion, pepper, salt, grated nutmeg, and cayenne; butter a mould, fill with the mix- ture, cover with a greased paper, and let steam for one hour. Serve with good Bechamel sauce, and garnish with peeled roasted chestnuts. 44. Venison Croquettes. Ingredients.—| lb. minced cold venison, ^ lb. mashed pota- toes, 2 oz. fine bread crumbs, 1 tablespoonful finely-chopped parsley, 1 shallot (minced), some savoury herbs (minced), salt, pepper, 3 yolks of eggs, i| oz. butter, egg and bread crumbs, frying-fat. Method.—Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the potatoes, crumbs, meat, and seasonings; then add the yolks of eggs, and make a nice croquette mixture. Let it get cold, then form into croquette shapes. Cover with egg and bread crumbs, fry in boiling fat, dish on a folded serviette. Garnish with fried parsley, and serve with poivrade sauce. 45. Venison Rissoles. Ingredients.—Prepared croquette mixture of venison, pastry, egg, crumbs or crushed vermicelli, frying-fat, parsley. Method.—Roll out thin some light pastry, stamp into circles, lay a spoonful of prepared savoury mince in the centre, moisten74 Venison or Game Hashed the edges, fold over to form half-circle, press the edges together, cover with egg and crumbs or vermicelli, fry in fat till golden colour, drain, dish up, garnish with fried parsely, and serve hot. 46. Venison or Game Hashed. Ingredients.—Cold roast venison, well-hung mutton, or any dark meat or game, ^ gill port, ^ pint richly-flavoured brown sauce, i teaspoonful red currant jelly, seasonings. Method. 1 rim the meat free of fat, and cut in thin slices, add the wine and jelly to the brown sauce, make very hot, season to taste, adding a teaspoonful of French mustard and some mush- room ketchup. When seasoned completely to taste, let it cool a little, add the meat, let it remain covered by the side of the fire for twenty minutes, then gradually make hot, and serve with mashed potatoes and red currant jelly, or chutnee handed separately.75 CHAPTER IX Beef Recipes 1. Broiled Beef. 2. Broiled Beef and Oysters. 3. Corned Beef Pie. 4. Beef Cutlets. 5. Beef Darioles. 6. Fillets of Beef k la Maitre d’Hotel. 7. Fricassee of Beef. 8. Grilled Beef or Mutton a l’lndi- enne. 9. Beef Hash. 10. Beef Hash (French Bourgeoise Style). 11. Minced Beef. 12. Miroton of Beef (1). 13. Miroton of Beef (2). 14. Miroton of Beef a la Guerrier. 15. Beef Olives (1). 16. Beef Olives (2). 17. Beef Patties. 18. Ragoht of Beef. 19. Ragout of Corned Beef. 20. Rolled Beef in Jelly. 21. Roulade of Beef & la Napolitaine. 22. Rechauffe of Salt Beef. 23. Sirloin of Beef, to rewarm. 24. Slices of Beef, to rewarm. 25. Bubble and Squeak. 26. Curry Puff. 27. Jelly for Mould of Rolled Beef. 28. Macaroni Timbales of Ox Tongue. 29. Russian Brawn. 30. Savoury Rolls. 31. Tongue in Aspic. 32. Tongue Toast. 1. Broiled Beef, Ingredients.—i lb. cold beef, i lb. mushrooms or tomatoes, 1 lb. mashed potatoes, 2 oz. butter. Method.—Boil, mash, and form the potatoes into a ring on a hot dish; meanwhile fry the mushrooms or tomatoes in a stew- pan with one ounce of butter; brush over some slices of cold beef with butter, and broil them over a clear fire. Place the vegetables inside the potato wall, and arrange the meat round. If liked, a little chopped parsley, mixed with a bit of fresh butter, pepper, and salt, may be put on the broiled meat. 2. Broiled Beef and Oysters. Ingredients.—1 lb. cold beef, 18 oysters, 2 oz. butter, ^ oz. flour, spice, 1 lb. potatoes. Method. — Boil, mash, and make a hollow circle of the potatoes on a dish ; dissolve the butter in a small saucepan, add a teaspoonful of flour, the liqour from the oysters, and a little milk, three cloves, a small blade of mace. Stir for a minute, then add the oysters, and let them cook gently for five76 Corned Beef Pie minutes without actually boiling; place the mixture inside the circle of potatoes, and place slices of lightly-broiled beef round. Serve very hot. 3. Corned Beef Pie. Ingredients.—Cold corned beef, tomatoes, tomato sauce, bread crumbs, gravy, pickled onions. Method.—Remove the skin and fat, and chop the meat finely; moisten it with gravy and tomato sauce, and season with pepper and salt. Place a layer of tomatoes in a pie dish, fill in the crevices with browned bread crumbs and thickened gravy, put the meat over them, cover with thin slices of pickled onions, and lastly with mashed potato, one inch deep, score this across the top. Bake and brown in a steady oven half-an-hour. 4. Beef Cutlets. Ingredients.—| lb. cold roast beef, 4 oz. cooked tongue, 1 oz. butter, 1 oz. flour, 1\ gill stock, 1 egg, egg and bread crumbs, herbs, frying-fat. Method.—Pass the meat through a mincing machine; make a “ panada ” of the butter, flour, and stock. Add the meat, and flavour with parsley, shallot, pepper, salt, &c., to taste; stir in the beaten egg, and spread on a plate to cool; then make into cutlets, cover with egg, then dip into bread crumbs mixed with chopped onion and herbs; fry in deep boiling fat, drain, and serve on a mould of mashed potatoes with a suitable garnish. Serve very hot. 5. Beef Darioles. Ingredients.—1 lb. underdone cold roast beef, 1 oz. butter, 1 teaspoonful each of finely-minced shallot and parsley, 2 table- spoonfuls of finely-grated horse-radish, 4 tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs, pepper, salt, grated lemon, and nutmeg 19 taste, 2 yolks of eggs, a little good stock. Method.—Pass the beef (allowing only very little fat) twice through a mincing machine, mix with it the above ingredients, and moisten slightly with the beaten yolks of eggs and stock. Press into buttered dariole moulds, bake in a moderately hot oven for twenty minutes, turn out on a dish-paper, garnish and serve immediately. Hand good brown sauce and stuffed tomatoes with this dish.77 Fricassee of Beef 6. Fillets of Beef a la Maitre d’Hotel. Ingredients. — Cold roast beef, butter, parsley, tomatoes, seasonings. Method.—Cut the beef into nice fillets, place them on a very hot plate before the fire, season them with chopped parsley, butter, pepper, and lemon-juice mixed; cut some tomatoes in two, bake them in the oven; arrange the fillets on a dish, garnish with the tomatoes, and pour hot gravy round. 7. Fricassee of Beef. Ingredients.—Cold roast beef, i onion, parsley, ^ oz. butter, ! oz. flour, i glass port wine, i teaspoonful vinegar, i or 2 yolks of eggs, § pint stock. Method.—Season very thin slices of beef with pepper and salt, dredge with the flour, put them into a saucepan with the stock, chopped onion, butter, and small bunch of parsley (chopped). Let all simmer very gently for ten minutes; then stir in the beaten yolk of egg, the vinegar, and wine, stir briskly over the fire until mixed, and let simmer for ten minutes. Serve very hot, the gravy being strained'over the meat. Garnish the dish with scraped horse-radish. 8. Grilled Beef or Mutton a l’lndienne. Ingredients.—Underdone cold roast beef or leg of mutton, 1 teaspoonful each of Reading sauce and French mustard, 1 oz. butter or 2 tablespoonfuls of oil, pepper and salt to taste. Method.—Cut the slices into similar-sized rounds or squares, mix the seasonings with oiled butter or oil, let the meat lie in the mixture for an hour; then grill over a clear, hot fire. Serve at once on fried crofitons of bread cut to the same size as the meat. With beef hand horse-radish sauce and mashed potatoes; with mutton hand tomato, Portugaise, or mushroom sauce, and potato chips. 9. Beef Hash. Ingredients.—1 lb. sliced cold beef, 1 oz. dripping, 1 oz. butter, 1 oz. flour, 1 onion, 1 carrot, f pint stock, ketchup, and seasonings. k Method.—Fry the sliced vegetables brown in the dripping, remove and pour away the fat, melt the butter in the pan, add flour, stir till browned, add the stock and stir till thickened,Minced Beef season with the fried vegetables, tomato or walnut ketchup, &c., and let all stew for half-an-hour. Let it cool, add the beef, let all warm through very slowly, colour the gravy a rich brown ; arrange nicely in a dish with a border of mashed potatoes, and garnish with toast sippets. 10. Beef Hash (French Bourgeoise Style). Ingredients.—i lb. cold roast beef, 2 oz. cooked ham, 4 potatoes, seasonings, gravy, £ lb. mushrooms, 1 oz. butter. Method.—Cut the meat into inch-square dice, slice the ham and mushrooms, fry two finely-chopped shallots in the butter, add the ham and mushrooms, lastly the meat, and stir for a few seconds. Moisten with brown sauce and tomato sauce, season with pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Simmer gently for half-an-hour. Have ready four potatoes, scooped in marble shapes, parboiled and fried. Arrange the hash on the dish, and garnish with the potatoes. 11. Minced Beef. Ingredients.—1 lb. remains cold roast beef, 1 onion, 2 oz. butter, £ oz. flour, i|- gill gravy or stock, 4 tomatoes. Method.—Fry the minced onion in the butter, stir in the flour, let it get brown without burning, add the liquid, stir till boiled, let it cool, then add the meat and tomatoes, the latter skinned and cut in cubes. Season to taste, and let gently heat for half-an-hour; add more liquid if necessary. A bay leaf is an improvement whilst cooking; remove it before serving. Serve in a border of mashed potatoes, rice, or haricot beans; garnish with fried sippets. 12. Miroton of Beef (1). Ingredients.—| lb. onions, 1 pint good stock, 1 lb. cold beef, 1 oz. butter, £ oz. flour, seasonings. Method.—Boil the peeled onions in the stock till pulped, about three-quarters of an hour; cut the meat into neat slices. When the onions are ready, make the flour into a paste with the butter, adding pepper, salt, a teaspoonful of made mustard, browning; mix all with the onions, and stir while it cooks for a few minutes. Put a layer of sauce into a fireproof dish suitable for sending to table, then meat and sauce again till all is used, sauce being the last layer; sprinkle a few bread crumbs over, and put in the oven for about ten minutes. Serve with a pie collar round the dish. 7379 Beef Olives 13. Miroton of Beef (2). Ingredients.—Cold beef, 2 Spanish onions, f pint brown sauce, dripping, bread crumbs, seasonings. Method.—Slice the onions thinly, fry them till yellow in good dripping, add the brown sauce, a bunch of herbs, a little Orleans vinegar, pepper and salt, stir, simmer till the onions are quite tender; skim off the fat, pass the sauce through a hair sieve, and place a little of it in a china pie dish; on this lay some thin slices of cold beef, then repeat sauce and meat until the dish is full, the last layer to be sauce. Sprinkle with a few bread crumbs, stand the dish on a tin containing hot water, and bake in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. 14. Miroton of Beef a la Guerrier. Ingredients.—Cold beef, 1 onion, 1 oz. butter or dripping, 1 oz. flour, pint stock, seasonings, mashed potatoes. Method.—Cut the beef in small square pieces; fry a minced onion in the dripping or butter, add the flour, then the stock, and stir till boiling; season with a spoonful of sharp sauce, a pinch of powdered sage, pepper, and salt. Stir in the beef, let simmer in a gourmet boiler in the oven for an hour or more, add a few drops of brown colouring, pour into the potato fortress, and serve very hot. Potato Fortress.—On a round dish make a high wall or border of smoothly-mashed potatoes; ornament the outside with a fork, and cut the top into battlements with a floured knife; sprinkle here and there with dried parsley, then set in the oven just to colour slightly. 15. Beef Olives (1). Ingredients.—1^ lb. cold beef, 4 oz. bread crumbs, 2 oz. suet or 3 oz. cooked beef fat, 1 dessertspoonful parsley and mixed herbs, grated lemon rind, grated nutmeg, 1 egg, pepper and salt, 1 pint brown sauce. Method.—Cut the meat into strips about ± inch thick, 2\ inches wide, and 4 inches long; mince the trimmings and mix them with the bread crumbs, fat, seasonings, and beaten egg; place a dessertspoonful on each slice, roll, tie with string, and simmer for three-quarters of an hour in thick brown sauce. Dish in a pile, and garnish with any vegetable in season.80 Beef Patties 16. Beef Olives (2). Ingredients.—Slices of cold beef, 2 slices of lean ham or bacon, 1 gill of bread crumbs, ^ gill of suet, seasonings, 2 eggs, 1 pint of good gravy. Method.—Cut cold beef into slices inch thick and about 4 inches square; make a forcemeat of the finely-chopped ham, suet, bread crumbs, sweet herbs, pepper, salt, and a very little grated nutmeg and lemon rind; bind it with yolk of egg, and pound all well together in a mortar. Lay the forcemeat on the slices, roll them round, and secure them with cotton or a small skewer; brush them over with egg, roll in fine bread crumbs, and slightly brown them in a Dutch oven, then stew them in good gravy until tender. Thicken and colour the gravy, serve the olives in it, and garnish with croutons of toasted bread. 17. Beef Patties. Ingredients.—4 oz. lean beef, thickened gravy, seasoning of allspice, pepper, and salt, pastry. Method.—Mix the chopped beef with a seasoning of powdered allspice, pepper, and salt, and moisten it with a little good gravy or water; line some greased patty pans with paste, put a portion of the paste in each, stamp out some rounds of paste, moisten the edges with water, and lightly press them on the patty. Make a small slit in the centre of each patty cover, glaze with beaten egg, decorate with two small diamonds of pastry, and bake in a moderate oven about twenty minutes, or until the paste is cooked. 18. Ragout of Beef. Ingredients.—1 oz. butter, 1 oz. flour, 1 teacupful stock or gravy, 1 teacupful boiled and chopped Spanish onion, cold roast beef, grated horse-radish, pickled gherkins. Method.—Dissolve the butter in a stewpan, stir in flour till smooth and brown, add the stock and onions, stir till thickened; add the beef cut in slices £ inch thick; cook very slowly till the meat is heated through and tender. Arrange the slices to over- lap each other, pour the sauce round; decorate with a row of horse-radish, with slices of gherkin on either side of it. Serve very hot.81 * Rolled Beef in Jelly 19. Ragout of Corned Beef. Ingredients.—Remains of cold boiled beef, 2 onions, table- spoonful of vinegar, 1 oz. dripping, 1 oz. flour, pint gravy, ketchup, and mustard to taste. Method.—This is a very good way of using up the end of a joint of boiled beef. Slice the onions fine, and fry in a little dripping, adding enough flour to thicken the gravy. When all is a nice brown, mix in the vinegar and gravy, and boil up. Stir while the sauce boils, add a little made mustard and ketchup, colouring all a good brown. Place the slices of meat in this, stand the saucepan at the side of the fire so that the meat can cook very gently for quarter of an hour. Serve with a border of boiled haricot beans. 20: Rolled Beef in Jelly. Ingredients.—Cold roast beef, cooked ham or bacon, vege- tables, jelly. Method.—Cover thin slices of beef with pounded ham or bacon, roll and tie with cotton. Fry a sliced onion, carrot, and turnip, add the rolls, then add a little stock, cover with greased paper, and close the pan; let cook very gently for an hour. Drain the rolls on soft paper; when cold remove the cotton. Make some jelly, put a little into a plain mould, garnish it with pickles dipped in jelly; when set, arrange the rolls in the mould, and when the jelly begins to set, pour it over the meat. Next day turn out the jelly on a dish covered with a dish-paper, and garnish with parsley. 21. Roulade of Beef a la Napolitaine. Ingredients.—1 lb. cold roast beef (lean only), 6 oz. cooked ham (lean and fat), 1 teaspoonful minced chives or shallots, 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, seasonings, 4 oz. cooked macaroni, 2 eggs, 1 oz. butter. Portugaise sauce. Method.—Mix the minced meat and ham, season highly with chives or shallot, parsley, pepper, and salt, adding a little lemon rind and grated nutmeg; mix well, add the macaroni cut in half-inch lengths and tossed in butter, the beaten yolks and the white whisked to a stiff froth; when thoroughly blended, form into a roll, wrap in well-greased white paper. Bake in a moderate oven for half-an-hour, remove the paper, dish, and serve with Portugaise sauce. F82 Sirloin of Beef, to rewarm 22. Rechauffe of Salt Beef. Ingredients.—Slices of cold boiled beef, mashed potatoes, a little cream or butter, piccalilli pickle. Method.—Cut large and very thin slices of cold silver side of beef; pour out on a dish some of the sauce or vinegar of the piccalilli, adding a little plain vinegar to make it thinner. Dip the slices of beef into it, flour them and lay them on a dish; pour a gill of water over, and warm them in the oven or before the fire; mash some potatoes with a little cream or butter, spread them smoothly on a dish, place the slices when hot on it, and serve. 23. Sirloin of Beef, to rewarm. Ingredients.—Underdone sirloin of beef, dripping, gravy. Method.—Dredge the cut surface with flour, wrap the joint in paper well spread with beef-dripping, let it cook in a very moderate oven till hot through, then remove the paper, dish, pour gravy round, and garnish with horse-radish and squares of Yorkshire pudding. 24. Slices of Beef, to rewarm. Place the slices on a very hot dish, heat some well-flavoured gravy almost to boiling, pour it over the meat, cover and place in the oven for a few minutes, then serve; garnish with tufts of horse-radish sauce and squares of Yorkshire pudding. 25. Bubble and Squeak. Ingredients.—Cold boiled beef, boiled cabbage, beef-dripping. Method.—Cut thick slices of fat and lean corned beef, fry them in dripping, set aside to keep warm; have ready a boiled white cabbage, drained and chopped; fry it in the dripping, season plentifully, place on a hot dish, arrange alternate slices of fat and lean beef round; serve very hot. Hand brown or mustard sauce in a tureen. 26. Curry Puff. Ingredients.—\ lb. underdone fillet of beef, curry powder, i onion, seasoning, puff paste, frying-fat. Method.—Pass the beef through the mincing machine; make a seasoning of the onion chopped very finely, fry it in butter, add a tablespoonful curry powder, four ground cloves, three pounded cardamom seeds, one small clove garlic chopped very83 Macaroni Timbales of Ox Tongue fine, salt to taste, lastly add the meat. Roll out thin some puff paste as if for turnovers, fill them with the above forcemeat, fry them till golden brown, drain on paper, and serve garnished with fried parsley. 27. Jelly for Mould of Rolled Beef. Ingredients.—7 sheets French gelatine, 1 pint cold water, 2 cloves, 2 strips lemon peel, 1 teaspoonful each of extract of beef, white wine vinegar, and tarragon vinegar, seasoning. Method.—Put the onion, water, cloves, and lemon peel into a saucepan with a pinch of celery seed, salt, and cayenne; let simmer for half-an-hour, add extract of beef, vinegars, and gelatine; when dissolved, strain through muslin, and use as directed. 28. Macaroni Timbales of Ox Tongue. Ingredients.—6 oz. cooked ox tongue, 10 oz. straight macaroni, 3 oz. Parmesan cheese (grated), 4 oz. butter, 6 mush- rooms, 1 truffle or 1 tablespoonful preserved truffle peelings, \ lb. short paste, seasoning. Method.—Put the macaroni in sufficient boiling water to cover it, add about \ oz. butter and a little salt. Boil for twenty minutes, strain off the water, drain, and put in a stewpan with the remainder of the butter and the grated cheese. Cut the mushrooms, tongue, and truffle into small dice or short shreds. Moisten the macaroni with the sauce, mix in carefully the mush- rooms, tongue, &c. ; take care so as not to break the macaroni. Line a mould (plain timbale or charlotte) or several small ones with thinly rolled out paste, fill up with the prepared macaroni, cover with a buttered paper, stand on a baking-sheet, and cook in a moderately heated oven for about forty minutes. Turn out carefully on to a hot, round entree dish, pour round some white or tomato sauce, and serve hot. Note.—In place of short crust paste, Nouille paste is often used. The inside of the mould or moulds should be well greased before commencing to line with paste. 29. Russian Brawn. Ingredients.—lb. semolina, 1 pint brown gravy, \ lb. cold roast beef or game, seasonings. Method.—Put good brown gravy into a saucepan; when boiling, sprinkle in the semolina and let it boil for some minutes,84 Savoury Rolls add the finely-chopped meat, and seasonings to taste, then pour into a wet basin or plain mould. Set aside till next day, then turn it out, and serve nicely garnished with shred salad, chopped egg, &c. 30. Savoury Rolls. Ingredients.—i lb. cold roast beef, 6 oz. ham or bacon, a teacupful bread crumbs, i or 2 eggs, 1 tablespoonful chopped parsley and sweet herbs, 1 minced shallot, salt, pepper, few drops of vinegar, short crust. Method.—Mince the beef and ham, mix with the other ingredients, form into a roll, roll in well-buttered paper, and bake for half-an-hour. Make some nice short crust, roll out, cut into oblong pieces, on each place a long, thick strip of the above roll, wrap the pastry over as for a sausage roll, brush with beaten egg, trim neatly, and bake till the pastry is cooked. 31. Tongue in Aspic. Ingredients.—Aspic jelly, hard-boiled eggs, slices of tongue, tomatoes. Method.—Take some clear stock flavoured delicately with vegetables, season with pepper and salt, and add sufficient gela- tine to it to make it set. Boil together, then set aside to cool. Grease a plain “ Charlotte ” mould with oil, pour some jelly into it, and add to this a layer of thin slices of tongue cut in pieces of even size, then a little more jelly, and slices of hard-boiled eggs. Scatter chopped tomato and chopped parsley round the sides of the mould. Leave for twelve hours, then turn out and serve. 32. Tongue Toast. Ingredients.—£ lb. boiled ox tongue, 1 oz. butter, 1 oz. flour, i| gill milk, buttered toast. Method.—Chop the tongue finely; melt the butter in a small saucepan, stir in the flour, let cook for a few minutes, add the milk, and stir till well boiled; season to taste with cayenne and lemon juice, let cool, add the tongue, and let gradually get quite hot without boiling; pile it on squares of buttered toast, which should be placed on a very hot dish.CHAPTER X Mutton Recipes 1. Baked Mutton Pudding. 2. Mutton Brawn. 3. Broiled Mutton and Tomatoes. 4. Broiled Mutton and Fried Cab- bage. 5. Casserole with Cream Hash. 6. Brown Chaudfroid of Mutton. 7. Chaudfroid Mutton Cutlets. 8. Mutton Collops and Tomato Sauce. 9. Curried Mutton (1). 10. Curried Mutton or Lamb (2). 11. Mutton Cutlets & la Pompadour. 12. Spanish Mutton Cutlets. 13. Dry Curry of Mutton. 14. French Mince Mutton. 15. Mutton Fritters a l’Anglaise. 16. Mutton Fritters h la Diable. 17. Mutton Fritters au Gratin. 18. Mutton Fritters h la Palestine. 19. Mutton, Grilled. 20. Hash Pie. 21. Hashed Mutton. 22. Hashed Mutton & la Franpaise. 23. Hashed Mutton with Walnut Pickle. 24. Mutton Hashed k. l’lndienne. 25. Mutton Hashed like Venison. 26. Mutton k l’lndienne. 27. Indian Stewed Mutton. 28. Curried Kidneys. 29. Stewed Knuckle of Mutton. 30. Mutton with Macaroni Border. 31. Minced Mutton and Macaroni Pie. 32. Mutton Mould. 33. Mutton Olives. 34. Piquante Mutton Collops with Potato Balls. 35. Ragout of Mutton. 36. Ragoht of Mutton k. la Pro- venpal. 37. Roulades of Mutton. 38. Mutton R^chauffd (an American recipe). 39. Saddle or Leg of Mutton to Rewarm. 40. Slices of Mutton, to rewarm. 41. Mutton Surprises. 42. Timbales of Mutton. 43. Muttonettes. 1. Baked Mutton Pudding*. Ingredients.—Underdone remains of cold mutton, \ lb. bread crumbs, seasonings, 2 eggs, browned bread crumbs. Method.—Mince or chop about one pound meat with a little fat or cold bacon, soak the bread crumbs in stock and press dry, blend these, season with lemon peel, two teaspoonfuls curry paste worked with a little tomato pulp or sauce, salt and pepper, and a fried chopped onion, beat in two yolks and lastly the stiffly beaten white of one egg. Place in a greased deep baking dish in a steady oven until the pudding is set, but no longer, turn out, and dredge the outside with fried bread crumbs or raspings, unless it is sufficiently brown on the outside.86 Broiled Mutton and Tomatoes 2. Mutton Brawn. Ingredients.—Cold lean mutton, 2 calfs feet, seasonings, eggs. Method.—Wash, chop, and simmer the feet, with a sage leaf, some peppercorns, mace, and salt, in only enough water to cover until the meat drops from the bones; add an equal quantity of mutton, and let it heat through without boiling; take up, mix the meats well, and if liked add strips of boiled tongue, ham, and fowl. Boil down the liquor to reduce it, strain, and use enough to moisten the meat; place some sliced hard-boiled eggs round a brawn mould, pack the well-seasoned meat into it, and set aside till cold. Then turn out and serve with a well-dressed salad. 3. Broiled Mutton and Tomatoes. Ingredients.—Thick steak from boiled leg of mutton, 2 oz. butter, 4 tomatoes, bread crumbs. Method.—Brush over the mutton with oiled butter, season with salt and pepper, broil; cut some tomatoes in half, scatter them with seasoned bread crumbs and butter, and bake till the crumbs are browned. Serve the mutton on a very hot dish, with the tomatoes round it. 4. Broiled Mutton and Fried Cabbage. Ingredients.—Cold leg of mutton, salad oil, pepper, salt, boiled cabbage, dripping, gravy. Method.—Cut the mutton into rather thin slices, rub over with salad oil, season with pepper and salt, and let it stand aside while the cabbage is boiling. Drain the cabbage thoroughly, fry it with a little dripping, season highly with pepper and salt. Meanwhile broil the slices of mutton before the fire. Arrange the cabbage in a flat mould in the centre, on it set the broiled mutton, and round pour some thick gravy. 5. Casserole with Cream Hash. Ingredients.—Slices of cold roast mutton, 1 gill cream, 1 gill good stock, few threads of saffron, anchovies, garnish, casserole of rice. Method.—Prepare a casserole of rice (see Chap. XIII.); meanwhile cut some cold mutton into rounds, put it into a saucepan with the cream, stock, saffron, and flavourings to taste, let it warm through very slowly. When the casserole is ready,87 Brown Chaudfroid of Mutton garnish it with fillets of anchovies, chopped pickled chilli, minced parsley, and scalded sultana raisins; pour the hash in the centre, and serve at once. NB.—The dish should be kept hot over a saucepan of water whilst being garnished. 6. Brown Chaudfroid of Mutton. Ingredients.—Remains of a cold neck or loin of mutton, or thick slices from a leg of mutton, f pint of brown sauce, f oz. of gelatine, salad or macedoine of cold vegetables, seasonings. Method.—Cut the mutton into cutlets, and either trim them to resemble mutton cutlets with the bone attached, or into round cutlets; make some brown sauce, flavour it well with chutnee or tarragon vinegar, dissolve the gelatine in it, pass through a pointed strainer or fine sieve, dip each cutlet into it, and place on a drainer. When the sauce is cold and firm, if liked, decorate each cutlet with tongue or white of egg cut into fancy shapes, pour a little melted aspic jelly over; this is not a necessity. Arrange the cutlets either in a pyramid or wreath on a dish, and garnish with shredded salad dressed, or a mace- doine of vegetables. 7. Chaudfroid Mutton Cutlets. Ingredients.—Cold boiled best end neck of mutton, 4 hard- boiled eggs, 1 gill mayonnaise (stiff), 4 sheets gelatine, 1 tea- spoonful anchovy essence, 1 oz. butter, salad, aspic jelly. Method.—Trim away the skin and fat, and cut the meat into neat cutlets; rub the yolks of eggs through a wire sieve, and with a wooden spoon work in the anchovy essence, butter, and seasonings to taste; stir the dissolved gelatine into the mayon- naise sauce, spread one side of each cutlet with the farce, and mask it with the sauce. Serve on a nice dish of cress or lettuce, and fill the half whites of the eggs with the remainder of the farce, using them as a garnish. 8. Mutton Collops and Tomato Sauce. Ingredients.—Cold mutton, olive oil, tomato sauce. Method. — Flavour some rather thick slices from a cold leg of mutton with pepper and salt, and let them lie in a small quantity of good olive oil; broil them nicely, and serve on mashed potato, with tomato sauce poured round.88 Curried Mutton or Lamb 9. Curried Mutton (1). Ingredients.—2 lb. cold mutton, 4 oz. butter or dripping, 2 onions (sliced), 1 pint broth or water, curry powder, curry paste. Method.—Cut the meat into large dice, heat the fat in the frying-pan, then put in the meat and onions, stir over quick fire for about five minutes to colour the meat; place all in a saucepan, stir in the powder, paste, and a pinch of salt, add the broth or water. Let it simmer for an hour. A squeeze of lemon is an improvement. Serve with boiled rice. 10. Curried Mutton or Lamb (2). Ingredients. — 1 lb. cooked meat, 1 large onion, i| oz. butter, 1 teaspoonful each of grated cocoanut, flour, curry powder, and lemon-juice, 1 dessertspoonful chutnee, 1^ gill stock or milk, salt, boiled rice for border. Method.—Cut the meat, not too thin, into suitable pieces to eat with a fork, trim off all superfluous fat; heat the butter, fry the finely-minced onion a light colour, stir in the flour and curry powder over the fire long enough to blend well with the onion and butter; add the cocoanut. Moisten with stock, boil, skim, and let simmer for a few minutes, add the meat and chopped chutnee, season to taste with salt, lemon-juice, and paprika; cover, shake over fire until simmering, and let simmer about half-an-hour. Serve very hot with carefully boiled and dried Patna rice as a border, with curry in the centre. 11. Mutton Cutlets a la Pompadour. Ingredients.—8 cutlets from a cold boiled, braised, or roast neck or loin of mutton, 3 sheets of gelatine, ^ pint each of white sauce, brown sauce, and tomato sauce, pint puree of spinach or peas, aspic jelly. Method.—Cut and trim the cutlets neatly, have ready the three kinds of sauce, and dissolve a sheet of gelatine in each, let them be nicely seasoned ; pass the spinach or green peas through a sieve, and stir into the puree a tablespoonful of aspic jelly. When boiling, thicken it with a little corn-flour; dip two cutlets into each sauce and two into the puree; let them get cold and firm, then pour some aspic jelly over them; when the jelly is set, arrange them in a circle on the remainder of the jelly, which should be chopped, fill the centre with a nice salad, dressed with mayonnaise sauce.89 Dry Curry of Mutton 12. Spanish Mutton Cutlets. Ingredients.—i lb. mutton, i small clove garlic, 2 anchovies, I pint good mutton gravy, | gill port, black pepper, 1 clove. Method.—Scale and chop the anchovies, and stew them in the gravy with the garlic and clove for one hour, remove the garlic, add the wine, and flavour with pepper and salt; let cool, then lay in slices of mutton, and let them gently warm in the sauce for half-an-hour. Arrange on a hot dish, and strain the gravy over. 13. Dry Curry of Mutton. Ingredients.—1 onion, 1 tablespoonful pea flour, i| oz. butter, 1 teaspoonful curry powder, 2 tablespoonfuls gravy. Method.—Fry the chopped onion in butter, stir in the curry powder and pea flour, let cook, add tender cooked mutton cut in dice; cook gently without much stirring, add the gravy, let simmer, season with pepper, salt, and lemon-juice; serve with a border of boiled rice. 14. French Mince Mutton. Ingredients.—lb. cold mutton, 1 oz. dripping, 1 oz. flour, ? pint stock, 8 olives, 1 tablespoonful capers, teaspoonful chopped lemon rind, 1 dessertspoonful of any piquante sauce, seasoning. Method.—Remove all skin and gristle, and have ready some stock made from the bones ; chop the meat finely; melt the dripping, stir in the flour and fry it pale brown, add the stock, and stir till well boiled. Take the pan off the fire, add the meat, stoned olives and capers coarsely chopped with the other season- ings, allow all to get thoroughly hot without boiling, or the meat will be made tough. Serve with a border of boiled rice. 15. Mutton Fritters a l’Anglaise. Ingredients.—Cold mutton, £ lb. flour, 1 white of egg, 1 table- spoonful salad oil, 1 gill tepid milk or water, salt. Method.—Cut the mutton in finger lengths, and lay the slices on a plate, season them with pepper, salt, and, if liked, a little Worcestershire sauce. Put the flour and a pinch of salt in a basin, mix in the oil and milk, and beat to a stiff batter, set aside for a time, and just before using lightly stir in the beaten white of egg 5 dip each piece of mutton into it, then drop it into boiling fat, drain on paper, and serve very hot.90 Mutton Fritters au Gratin 16. Mutton Fritters a la Diable. Ingredients.—~ lb. thinly-sliced cold mutton, 2 tablespoon- fuls Indian chutnee, frying-batter. Method.—Trim the mutton neatly 2~ in. by i| in., spread with chutnee, roll, dip into frying-batter with a skewer, slip them off gently into deep frying fat heated till a blue smoke rises from it. Fry only three at a time ; when light brown remove, drain, and, if liked, sprinkle with cayenne and curry powder; pile on dish- paper, and garnish. Hand brown or tomato sauce. 17. Mutton Fritters au Gratin. Ingredients.—Cold mutton, egg, crumbs, frying-fat. Method.—Divide slices of cold mutton into fingers, let soak in a little salad oil flavoured with onion juice, lemon juice, and pepper; dip into beaten egg mixed with a pinch of mixed spice, then into plain, fine biscuit crumbs seasoned also with spice and pepper; quickly fry crisp, drain, and serve piping hot. 18. Mutton Fritters a la Palestine. Ingredients.—Underdone cold roast or boiled mutton, 2 tablespoonfuls salad oil, 1 of vinegar, 1 teaspoonful each of minced parsley and shallot, 1 strip of lemon peel, pepper, salt, 1 blade mace, 1 bay leaf, batter, frying-fat. Method.—Cut the meat into slices and trim these into circles ; mix the oil, vinegar, and seasonings in a soup plate, add the mutton, and let it marinade for an hour, turning frequently; then drain, dip in a light frying-batter, and drop a few at a time only into boiling fat, and fry to a light golden brown. Take out, drain, and serve with a puree of antichokes, parsnips, or turnips. If the marinade be bottled it may be reserved for future use. 19. Mutton, Grilled. Ingredients.—Slices of leg of mutton, 2 oz. butter, pepper, salt, | pint bread crumbs, fried potatoes, sauce. Method.—Cut thick slices from a leg of mutton; cooked meat, if underdone, will serve nearly as well as fresh. Season with pepper and salt, dip into liquid butter, sprinkle with fine crumbs, and grill for eight minutes. Arrange in a neat pile in the centre of a hot dish, make a border of fried potatoes, and91 Hashed Mutton serve with the following sauce: Dissolve one dessertspoonful of meat extract in three-quarters of a pint of boiling water; fry one ounce of butter with one tablespoonful of fine flour for six minutes, add the hot liquid, season with salt, and the last instant before serving add one teaspoonful of capers, finely chopped, and one teaspoonful of minced parsley. 20. Hash Pie. Ingredients.—i lb. cold mashed potato, ^ oz. butter, i tea- spoonful of milk, i egg, chopped cold mutton, 2 oz. bread crumbs, seasonings. Method.—Warm a pound of cold mashed potato with a little milk and butter, add a few tablespoonfuls of chopped meat, a beaten egg, pepper and salt to taste. Mould this on a buttered plate to any shape desired, sprinkle with a handful of dry bread crumbs, and bake for a quarter of an hour, or until hot throughout. 21. Hashed Mutton. Ingredients.—Cold mutton, 1 oz. butter or mutton dripping, 1 oz. flour, | pint stock or mutton gravy, seasonings, sauce, colourings. Method.—Fry a finely-chopped shallot or onion in butter till a golden colour, without burning it, add the flour, and let gently cook for five minutes; then add the stock, which should be well flavoured with vegetables ; if it is not, add some minced carrot, celery, and onion, and stir till boiling. Add two cloves, four tablespoonfuls of tomato puree, some Worcestershire sauce, mushroom or walnut ketchup, according to taste and conveni- ence; let the sauce boil fast to reduce it, then strain into a shallow stewpan and put aside to get cold. In the meantime cut from the leg of mutton some neat slices not too small, letting them be all as much as possible of the same size, and remove every particle of skin, fat, gristle, or burned portion. When the sauce is cold, lay in it the pieces of mutton, cover up the saucepan, and in about an hour’s time put it at the corner of the stove, warming the meat very, very gradually. If the sauce boils, the meat will be tough. Directly it has got thoroughly hot it is ready to be dished up, with the sauce poured over it; and it should be surrounded with sippets of bread, not toasted, but fried a golden colour.92 Hashed Mutton a la Franchise The addition of a little finely-chopped parsley is a great improvement. If there is no stock for the sauce, water can be used with a teaspoonful of meat extract, but some vegetables must be boiled in it to give it the necessary flavour. A nice accompaniment to hashed mutton is a border of mashed potatoes, boiled macaroni, or rice; but when this dish is really well made, it is best to serve it as simply as possible, so as to appreciate its good sauce and the tenderness of the meat. 22. Hashed Mutton a la Franqaise. Ingredients.—2 lb. cold mutton, f pint rich brown sauce, \ lb. prunes, 2 oz. preserved cherries, \ lb. Patna rice, seasoning. Method.—Cut the meat into nice pieces; boil the rice in plenty of water; when cooked, drain and let dry ; heat the sauce, put in the meat, and let simmer very gently; add the prunes, previously stewed and stoned, the cherries, and rice, season with pepper, salt, and paprika, and when quite hot, serve. 23. Hashed Mutton with Walnut Pickle. Ingredients.—Underdone boiled leg of mutton, 1 onion, 1 oz. butter, 1 oz. flour, f pint brown stock, walnut pickle. Method.—Remove all fat and gristle from nice slices of the mutton. Fry a chopped large onion, stir in the flour, add stock, pepper, and salt, stir till boiling, put into a gourmet boiler, and let stew one hour. Then add the meat, some walnut pickle chopped small, and let it simmer another hour. Serve with sippets of toasted or fried bread round. 24. Mutton Hashed a l’lndienne. Ingredients.—Slices of cold mutton, 1 large onion, 2 oz. butter, 1 dessertspoonful curry paste or curry powder, 1 dessert- spoonful of chutnee, 1 dessertspoonful of flour, \ pint stock, parsley, boiled rice or mashed potato. Method.—Cut some slices from a cold roast leg or shoulder of mutton, free them from skin, and reserve on a plate; chop a large onion finely, and fry it in clarified butter with a teaspoonful of minced parsley. When of a light brown hue, add a large dessertspoonful of curry paste or curry powder, half a pint of either stock or gravy, and a dessertspoonful of mild chutnee ; make all very hot, then thicken with a little flour and butter93 Mutton Hashed like Venison kneaded together, add the sliced mutton, slowly make hot again, and serve with a border of either well-boiled rice or mashed potato. 25. Mutton Hashed like Venison. Ingredients.—i lb. mutton, ^ gill port wine, 2 teaspoonfuls Worcester sauce, 1 tablespoonful red currant or rowan jelly, 1 gill of mutton gravy or 1 teaspoonful meat extract dissolved in 1 gill of hot water, 1 shallot. Method.—Cut the mutton in thick slices, put it into a sauce- pan with the other ingredients, and let all simmer very gently for three-quarters of an hour without boiling for a moment. 26. Mutton a l’lndienne. Ingredients.—1 onion, \ lh. cold mutton, ^ pint brown sauce, 1 dessertspoonful of curry paste, 3 gherkins (chopped). Method.—Put the finely-chopped onion into the sauce, add the curry paste and the mutton cut into dice, let all simmer gently for half-an hour, add the gherkins, season to taste, and serve hot with boiled rice. 27. Indian Stewed Mutton. Ingredients.—1 lb. cold mutton, 1 oz. dripping, 1 dessert- spoonful of Indian pickle, 1 oz. flour, f pint stock. Method.—Take about a pound of cold cooked mutton, free from skin and fat, and cut it into dice of an inch square. Melt the dripping in a frying-pan. Place the meat in it, stir it for two or three minutes, but do not let it brown. Then add some good hot brown stock. Season with pepper and salt and chopped Indian pickle. Cover with a plate, and stew very slowly until tender. Thicken the gravy so that it clings to the meat and there is no liquid in the dish. Garnish with chutnee, and serve. 28. Curried Kidneys. Ingredients.—Tin of kidneys, 1 onion, 1 apple, 1 carrot, a bunch of herbs, curry powder, browned flour, parsley, chutnee, ^ lb. Patna rice. Method.—Take a small tin of kidneys, remove all fat, and put the jelly or gravy aside. Fry an onion, a sliced apple, a carrot, and some herbs in butter, dredge in curry powder to taste, and slowly add the gravy. Strain the sauce after it has cooked for twenty minutes, set in a clean saucepan, and thicken94 Stewed Knuckle of Mutton with browned flour. Place the kidneys in the sauce, and let all stand at the side of the fire for twenty minutes. Serve with a border of boiled rice, and scatter chopped parsley thickly over. A little chutnee added to the curry sauce will be found an improvement. 29. Stewed Knuckle of Mutton. Ingredients.—Cooked knuckle of mutton, stock or water, 2 or 3 fine onions, 2 carrots, 1 blade celery, turnip, 10 pepper- corns, 2 cloves, 2 tablespoonfuls flour, 1 oz. mutton dripping. Method.—Heat the dripping in a saucepan, fry the sliced vegetables, add the cold stock or water, and place the knuckle also in the pan, with a little salt and the spices. Let simmer very gently for two hours; before serving, remove the meat, thicken and colour the stock, boil up and pour over the meat, arranging the vegetables round it. 30. Mutton with Macaroni Border. Ingredients.—1| lb. mutton, £ lb. macaroni, 1 carrot, 1 onion, 1 turnip, \ pint stock. Method.—Slice the vegetables, cook them in stock, season to taste, and thicken with a little flour; let cool, add the meat, and colour a nice brown; let it gradually warm through without boil- ing. Have ready the boiled macaroni, arrange it on a dish, and put the meat in the centre. 31. Minced Mutton and Macaroni Pie. Ingredients.—§ lb. cold lean mutton, 4 oz. macaroni, 1 egg, 1 gill cream, pint stock, 1 oz. butter, curry powder, pepper, salt, bread crumbs, parsley. Method.—Boil the macaroni in salted water until tender, then drain and set aside; mince the mutton, cut the macaroni into half-inch pieces, and mix them together; season with pepper, salt, and curry powder to taste, add half the butter, dis- solved. Beat the egg, add it to the stock and cream; moisten the mixture, arrange it in oval form on a fireproof china dish. Shred the remainder of the butter over, set in the oven till it is melted, then scatter with bread crumbs mixed with chopped parsley, pepper, and salt, and set in a moderate oven till browned and heated throughout. Serve in the same dish, and garnish with watercress or parsley.95 Mutton Olives 32. Mutton Mould. Ingredients.—i lb. mutton, 2 tablespoonfuls bread crumbs, 1 teaspoonful chutnee, 2 eggs, gravy, seasonings. Method.—Mince the meat and mix with the bread crumbs and chutnee, add the beaten eggs and a little good gravy, season to taste; press into a buttered plain mould, cover with greased paper, and steam for an hour. Serve with tomato, piquante, or brown sauce. 33. Mutton Olives. Ingredients.—Slices of cold mutton, veal forcemeat, salt, allspice, pepper, gravy, mashed potatoes, red currant jelly. Method.—Take as many slices of cold mutton as you re- quire, of equal size, and scatter over one side of each salt, allspice, and pepper to taste. Have ready some good veal force- meat, put a piece on one end of a slice of mutton, roll it up securely, and tie with cotton. Place the rolls in a baking dish, pour good gravy round, cover the tin with greased paper, and cook for half-an-hour. Serve with mashed potatoes and red currant jelly. 34. Piquante Mutton Collops with Potato Balls. Ingredients.—\ lb. slices cold mutton, \ oz. butter, 2 table- spoonfuls each of gravy and chopped pickles (piccalilli or mixed pickle), mashed potatoes, bread crumbs, and 1 egg. Method.—Brush the slices with oiled butter or salad oil, sprinkle with salt, pepper, and a few browned bread crumbs, and arrange them on the dish on which they are to be served; cover them with chopped pickles, the gravy, and a little pickle vinegar. Cover with a paper or dish and warm through in the oven; mix the egg with the mashed potatoes, form into balls on a floured board, fry them, and dress round the collops. Serve at once. 35. Ragout of Mutton. Ingredients.—\ lb. cold mutton, 3 onions, 2 carrots, 1 table- spoonful flour, 1 turnip, 1 slice of parsnip, 1 pint of broth, 2 oz. dripping or butter. Method.—Slice the vegetables, fry them brown, stir in the flour, and let it cook for a few minutes, then add the broth or water, and stir till boiling. Let the vegetables simmer for an hour; cut the mutton into nice slices or convenient-shaped96 Roulades of Mutton pieces, let the sauce cool, then lay the meat in it and gently warm it for fifteen minutes. Serve hot and dress in a circle, with the vegetables in the centre. 36. Ragout of Mutton a la Provencal. Ingredients.—Cold roast mutton, pint cooking claret, 2 oz. butter, 2 handfuls button onions, 2 handfuls button mushrooms, stock, seasonings, croutons. Method. — Cut the slices of cold mutton into rounds or squares, season with a small pinch of pepper and spice, place them in an earthenware or enamelled saucepan, and allow them to warm gradually on the stove. Then dissolve the butter in a small saucepan, and fry the button onions and an equal quantity of button mushrooms till yellow. Do not let them get at all burnt. Add enough gravy or stock to merely cover them, and let cook gently till tender, then add them to the wine. Place the meat on a very hot dish, keep the sauce uncovered while it simmers, and reduce a little; pour it over the meat, garnish with fried croutons, spread with anchovy paste mixed with butter and lemon-juice, and serve at once. 37. Roulades of Mutton. Ingredients.—Slices of underdone cold mutton, capers, stock, seasoning. Method. — Cut some underdone mutton into pieces about 3 inches long by ii wide; season with pepper and salt, put a few capers on each bit, then roll them all up and put on a skewer. Place them in the oven on a baking dish with just enough stock or water to cover them, and bake for about half- an-hour. Slip the roulades off the skewer, and serve on mashed potato with thick caper sauce poured over. Garnish with boiled carrots and turnips cut in small cubes, or with green peas. 38. Mutton Rechauffe (an American recipe). Ingredients.—Cold mutton, sauce, toast. Method.—Make a sauce of half a pint of gravy or stock, a little pepper, a small eggspoonful each of dry mustard and curry powder, three large teaspoonfuls of red currant jelly; when scalding hot add a glass of sherry. Cut the meat in neat slices, put it into the sauce just long enough to be heated through, place each slice on a piece of toast, pour the sauce over, and serve at once.97 G Mutton Surprises 39. Saddle or Leg1 of Mutton, to rewarm. Prepare some well-mashed potatoes, enrich them with dissolved butter, pepper, and salt, and part of a beaten egg; press the potato into the gap caused by carving, moulding it into the former shape of the joint; brush over with the remainder of the egg, wrap the joint in greased paper, and bake in a moderate oven until thoroughly hot without drying. Serve with gravy and red currant jelly. 40. Slices of Mutton, to rewarm. Ingredients.—Cold mutton, gravy, broiled mushrooms or baked tomatoes. Method.—Season the slices, warm them in thickened well- flavoured gravy, garnish with cooked mushrooms or tomatoes, and send red currant jelly or onion sauce to table as accom- paniment. 41. Mutton Surprises. Ingredients.—Underdone cold mutton, mushrooms, batter, frying-fat. Method.—Any rather underdone mutton can be used for these, and to each medium slice of mutton allow a medium- sized mushroom, or, if fresh are not handy, two button mush- rooms (champignons). Simmer the mushrooms till; quite tender in some stock (as little as possible) and cook in an enamelled saucepan. Add at the last enough mushroom ketchup to well- flavour the “ buttons ” (this will not be required should fresh mushrooms be used); dust the mutton with salt and pepper; place a mushroom in every slice of mutton, roll it firmly round, securing each roll with a small skewer. Coat each roll with thick batter, and fry for about five minutes in a deep pan of boiling fat. Dish on neatly shaped diamonds of toast, which may be buttered and put in readiness in the oven. 42. Timbales of Mutton. Ingredients.—\ lb. minced cold mutton, 4 oz. mushrooms, 2 oz. bread crumbs, 2 eggs, seasonings. Method.—Mix the minced mutton, bread crumbs, chopped mushrooms with a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, pepper and grated nutmeg to taste; moisten with two beaten eggs mixed with98 Muttonettes one teacupful of good gravy and one teaspoonful anchovy essence. Press the mixture into greased dariole or small pudding moulds, cover with greased paper, steam for about half-an-hour until firm. Turn out, and serve with piquante sauce. 43. Muttonettes. Ingredients.—Slices of cold mutton, i slice cooked fat ham or bacon, 4 mushrooms, 3 tablespoonfuls bread crumbs, 1 oz. butter, 4 oz. macaroni, i| gill stock, 1 cup tomato puree, 1 egg, pepper, salt, lemon juice. Method.—Take thin slices of cold leg of mutton, and spread with the following mixture : Mix together the bread crumbs, the ham or bacon finely chopped, and the mushrooms that have been simmered tender in a little stock and chopped fine. Season with salt, pepper, and lemon-juice; bind with an egg. Roll up the slices of mutton, and fasten with a small skewer. Put into a dish that will stand heat and yet be presentable at table. Pour a little stock in the dish, sprinkle with browned bread crumbs and tiny bits of butter, cover with another dish, and set in a hot oven for half-an-hour. Have ready four ounces of macaroni which has been boiled, drained, seasoned to taste, and mixed with some tomato pur£e, arrange the rolls round the side, making a pile of the macaroni in the centre; a little grated cheese added to the macaroni is sometimes liked.99 CHAPTER XI Veal Recipes 1. Calfs Feet. 2. Calfs Feet Fritters in Sauce. 3. Hashed Calfs Head. 4. Calfs Head Pie. 5. Calfs Head k la Poulette. 6. Rechauffe of Sweetbreads. 7. Sweetbreads (Tinned) in Brown Sauce. 8. Casserole of Minced Veal. 9. Veal Cannelon. 10. Chaudiroid of Veal. 11. Cold Curry of Veal, &c. 12. Fillet of Veal stewed with Peas. 13. Fricandelle of Veal. 14. Veal Fritters. 15. Veal Picnic Pie. 16. Slices of Veal, to rewarm. 17. Veal au Gratin k l’ltalienne. 18. Mould of Veal and Ham. 19. Veal and Ham Cake. 20. Veal and Ham (Minced) with Savoury Custard. 21. Minced Veal. 22. Minced Veal with Tomatoes. 23. Noisettes de Galantine k la Por- tugaise. 24. Savoury Veal Cutlets en Papi- lottes. 25. Timbale of Veal. 26. Wadham College Patties. 1. Calf’s Feet. Calf’s feet, which have been used for making calf’s foot jelly, can be served in several ways. The bones should be removed while hot, and the meat put on a dish so that it may be properly dressed when cold. It may be served cold with a sharp, savoury sauce, or with ravigote sauce. To Warm.—Immediately before serving warm the meat in a little hot stock, and serve the sauce separately. Parsley and butter, oyster, piquante, tomato, or Dutch sauce are excellent with calf’s feet. 2. Calf’s Feet Fritters in Sauce. Ingredients.—Calf’s feet (from making jelly), batter, frying-fat, tomato sauce. Method.—When making calf’s foot jelly, while the calf’s feet are still firm drain them from the stock, split open, remove the bones, and press the meat between two plates. When cold, cut into neat pieces, dip in batter, fry a pale brown; drain them well, and arrange them on a hot dish with tomato sauce or puree poured round. Serve hot.Calf’s Head Pie 3. Hashed Calf’s Head. Ingredients.—Slices of boiled calf’s head, f pint liquor the head was boiled in, flavourings. Method.—Heat and well flavour the stock with mace, lemon peel, herbs, and vegetables; strain and thicken it, adding a flavouring of sherry, mushroom ketchup, salt, and cayenne. Let it cool, then put in some slices of the head, and let it gradually warm through, allowing it to come to the boil for a minute before serving. Garnish with fried forcemeat balls and rolled bacon. 4. Calf’s Head Pie. Ingredients.—Remains of cooked calf’s head, cooked ham or tongue, eggs, seasoning, pastry. Method.—Hard boil four eggs and cut into slices. Grease a pie dish, ornament the bottom of it with the eggs, then put in slices of the calf’s head, next a layer of chopped ham or tongue, well seasoned with chopped parsley, shallot or chives, herbs, pepper, salt, and lemon-juice. When the dish is full, pour in a cupful of the broth freed from fat, in which the head was cooked, mixed with gelatine powder. Cover with a good pie-crust and ornament it. Bake in a steady oven, and serve when cold. 5. Calf’s Head a la Poulette. Ingredients.—Slices of calf’s head, i oz. butter, i oz. flour, \ pint stock, milk, or water, seasonings, parsley. Method.—Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the flour, and stir over the fire for a short time without letting it take colour, add half a pint of the liquor the head was boiled in, stir till boiling, whiten with a spoonful of cream. Place the meat in the sauce, and let it gradually warm through, add a spoonful of cream and a tablespoonful of finely-chopped parsley, with seasoning of salt and white pepper. Serve garnished with slices of lemon and fried rolls of bacon. 6. Rdchauffd of Sweetbreads. Ingredients.—Remains of a dish of cooked sweetbreads, mushrooms, sauce, rice casserole or croflstades. Method.—Cut the sweetbreads into slices, then into ^-inch dice, warm them into any sauce suitable to that in which they were previously served, adding the chopped mushrooms, and iooCasserole of Minced Veal season to taste. A little chopped lean ham will be an improve- ment. Have ready a casserole of rice or some hot fried crou- stades, and fill them with the mixture; garnish nicely, and serve at once. 7. Sweetbreads (Tinned) in Brown Sauce. Ingredients.—i lb. tin of sweetbreads, i pint good brown sauce. Method.—Put the sliced sweetbreads in a stewpan with the brown sauce, let them stew gently for half-an-hour at the side of the stove; arrange the slices neatly on a hot dish, thicken the sauce if necessary, season to taste, and pour it over them. Serve garnished with croutons. 8. Casserole of Minced Veal. Ingredients.—Remains of a joint of roast veal, cooked ham, i pint veal stock or milk and water, i oz. butter, i oz. flour, seasonings. Method.—Remove all skin, fat, and dark part from the veal, chop it finely with a knife, and, if convenient, add ^ lb. chopped lean ham to i lb. minced veal; blend the butter and flour in a saucepan, add the liquid, and stir till boiling; season with white pepper, salt, cayenne, lemon-juice, and grated peel. Stir in the meat, add a few drops of tarragon vinegar or a little grated nutmeg, and let all warm through very gently for half-an-hour (do not allow it to boil); have a ring of mashed potato on a hot dish, brown it in the oven, put the veal in the centre, and garnish with forcemeat balls or fried rolled rashers of bacon and fried sippets of bread. 9. Veal Cannelon a la Royale. Ingredients.—i lb. cold roast veal, 6 oz. cooked fat and lean ham, i teaspoonful chopped parsley, \ teaspoonful chopped shallot, 2 eggs, pepper, salt, lemon rind, sauce. Method.—Remove all skin and fat from the veal, pass it and the ham through the mincing machine, and mix; season with the parsley, shallot, pepper, salt, grated lemon rind and nutmeg, and stir in two well-beaten eggs. Shape into a roll, wrap in a piece of well-greased white paper, and bake or steam for half-an-hour; carefully remove the paper, place on a hot dish, and serve with Portugaise sauce. ioi102 Cold Curry of Veal 10. Chaudfroid of Veal. Ingredients.—7 slices of cold veal, ^ pint white sauce, \ gill cream, | oz. gelatine, salad. Method.—Cut thick slices of cold veal, and trim them all to the same size and shape; make half a pint of well-flavoured white sauce, add the cream, dissolve the gelatine in the sauce, then strain through a pointed strainer into a basin. With a skewer dip each slice in the sauce, and place on a drainer; keep the remainder of the sauce warm until the cutlets are cold and the sauce firm, so that if not quite covered they can be redipped. Arrange a shredded salad on a dish, place the cutlets around, and garnish with sliced tomatoes or chopped aspic jelly. 11. Cold Curry of Veal, &e. Ingredients.—1 lb. lean veal, rabbit, pork, or chicken free from bone and gristle, 2 oz. butter, 2 tablespoonfuls of curry powder, 1 of desiccated cocoanut, 1 of chopped apple, 1 onion, 1 tablespoon- ful of flour, \ pint white stock, \ pint milk, \ gill cream, seasoning. Method.—Cut the meat into large dice, fry the chopped onion in the butter, add the meat, and cook briskly till golden brown; stir in the curry powder, flour, and cocoanut, then the apple. Gradually add the stock and milk, and stir till boiling; season to taste with lemon-juice, salt, pepper, and caster sugar; simmer till tender. When cold, add the cream. Arrange a border of boiled rice on a dish, place the curry in the centre, and garnish with slices of cooked vegetables or sprigs of cauliflower. 12. Fillet of Veal Stewed with Peas. Ingredients.—Remains of cold fillet of veal, 1 pint shelled green peas, 2 or 3 onions, 6 young carrots or 1 winter carrot, 2 oz. dripping or butter, bunch of herbs, 2 oz. flour, stock or water, seasonings. Method.—Place some skewers in the fillet to keep it in good shape; melt the butter or dripping, fry the sliced onions and carrots in it, stir in the flour, and add a full pint of stock or water, with any gravy left over from the roast joint, and the herbs. Boil the sauce for ten minutes, season it to taste, let it cool, then add the joint, and let it slowly warm through by the side of the fire; colour the sauce with caramel colouring. Have ready the boiled peas, dish the meat, put the peas into the sauce, then put all the103 Fricandelle of Veal vegetables round the meat, with sufficient gravy to look well; strain and serve the remainder in a tureen. Garnish with force- meat balls, lemon slices, and fried bacon. 13. Fricandelle of Veal. Ingredients.—i lb. cold roast veal (lean), 4 oz. cooked fat ham, bread crumbs, 2 oz. mushrooms, seasoning, butter. Method.—Cut the meat into strips, season with pepper, salt, grated lemon rind, and nutmeg, and pass it through a mincing machine; add a large heaped tablespoonful of bread crumbs soaked in milk, and the chopped mushrooms, previously fried in butter. Mix well, place in a well-buttered mould sprinkled with crumbs, cover thickly with crumbs and a few pieces of butter, bake for thirty-five minutes, or steam for three-quarters of an hour, turn out carefully, and if baked, serve with tomato or mushroom sauce; if steamed, with nicely seasoned white sauce. 14. Veal Fritters. Ingredients.—\ lb. lean cooked veal, \ lb. lean ham, 3 oz. flour, 2 yolks and 1 white of egg, 1 oz. butter, ^ gill milk, season- ings, frying-fat. Method.—Chop the veal and ham, and free them from skin and gristle; make a batter by beating the oiled butter into the flour and adding the yolks of eggs and milk, add the meat, season to taste with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg; whisk the white of an egg and add it last. Have ready a deep pan of hot frying-fat (a blue steam rising from it), drop in the mixture from a dessertspoon, and fry light brown; drain on a cloth or paper; serve on a hot dish garnished with fried parsley. Serve very hot. Fried curled rashers may be added to this dish if desired. 15. Veal Picnic Pie. Ingredients.—1 lb. cooked veal, % lb. cooked ham, herbs, seasonings, 4 eggs, pie-crust. Method.—Line a greased open tart dish with short crust, mix the chopped veal and ham with one tablespoonful of chopped parsley, one teaspoonful pepper, grated nutmeg, cayenne, lemon rind, and salt to taste, moisten with two beaten eggs and a little veal gravy; pile in the centre of the dish, pour over two beaten eggs, also flavoured; wet the edges of the paste. Cover the pie in the usual manner, decorate and glaze104 Mould of Veal and Ham the crust, and bake in a moderate oven until the paste below and above the meat is well cooked. Turn out on a sieve to cool. Serve cold on a dish-paper, garnished with parsley. 16. Slices of Veal, to rewarm. Ingredients.—Cold veal, forcemeat balls, rashers, gravy. Method.—Place the slices of veal on a hot dish, pour over them some hot, rich, thickened gravy or brown sauce, cover and place in the oven for a few minutes; serve with fried forcemeat balls and curled rashers of bacon. 17. Veal au Gratin a ITtalienne. Ingredients.—i lb. cold roast veal, 4 oz. macaroni, 2 shallots, bread crumbs, butter, tomato sauce. Method.—Boil the macaroni in salted water, drain, and cut into i-inch pieces; remove the skin, fat, and all dark parts from the veal, and mince it finely. Fry some bread crumbs lightly, and the minced shallots. Butter a fireproof china dish, sprinkle it with bread crumbs, then add a layer of mince, season with a little fried shallot, add a layer of macaroni and some tomato sauce, repeat the layers until the dish is full. Sprinkle thickly with bread crumbs and bits of butter, and bake in a moderate oven about half-an-hour. 18. Mould of Veal and Ham. Ingredients.—1 lb. cooked veal, ^ lb. cooked lean ham, 3 hard-boiled eggs, clear white stock, gelatine, garnish seasoning. Method.—Cut the veal and ham into nicely shaped thin pieces, boil the eggs for twelve minutes, put them in cold water, take off the shells, cut the whites into rings and the yolks into quarters, or press them through a wire sieve to crumble them finely; have ready some slices of boiled beetroot cut into fancy shapes, some sprigs of parsley, pieces of mixed pickles, &c. Pour a little of the stock into the bottom of a plain tin mould; when set, arrange whites and yolks of eggs, beetroot, &c., in a fixed design, cover with more stock, then fill the mould with the meat, ham, and remains of garnish; well season the stock, and pour it when nearly cold into the mould till quite full. Turn out and serve with salad. Should the stock not be sufficiently strong to jelly easily, dissolve some gelatine in it before using it in the mould.Minced Veal 19. Veal and Ham Cake. Ingredients.—Cooked veal, ham, jellied stock, seasonings. Method.—Take any remains of cold underdone veal, with an equal proportion of fat and lean ham, also any remains of tongue or sweetbreads, chop coarsely, season with pepper, salt, and powdered mace. Press into a clean round cake tin, fill up with good strong stock, and bake about three-quarters of an hour in a moderate oven. When cold, turn out and serve garnished with parsley and sliced beetroot. 20. Veal and Ham (Minced) with Savoury Custard. Ingredients.—i lb. minced veal and ham, ^ pint brown sauce, i egg, i teaspoonful meat essence, i gill water, seasoning. Method.—Mix the meat with well-flavoured brown sauce and place in a buttered pie dish; mix the beaten egg with the meat essence dissolved in water, flavour with salt and pepper, and bake in a moderate oven till set. A larger amount of savoury custard is an improvement. 21. Minced Veal. Ingredients.—Cooked veal, i oz. butter, \ oz. flour, \ pint veal broth. Method.—Mince the veal, but not too finely; put the bones and trimmings into a saucepan, cover with water, add some bacon rinds or a slice of ham, an onion, parsley and thyme, lemon rind, and blade of mace. Let simmer for an hour at least; strain, thicken half a pint of this with butter and flour, season to taste, boil it well; let cool a little, add the minced veal and a little cream, and gradually bring almost to boiling point. Place in an entree or oval vegetable dish, garnish with sippets, slices of lemon, and rolls of bacon; and, if liked, place poached eggs on the mince. 22. Minced Veal with Tomatoes. Ingredients.—i lb. cold roast veal, bread crumbs, tomatoes, shallot, seasonings, i wineglass sherry, mushrooms, parsley. Method.—Remove all skin and fat, and mince the veal, season highly with pepper and salt, grated lemon rind, nutmeg, and a little chopped parsley, mix well. Sprinkle the bottom of a well- buttered fireproof china dish with bread crumbs, put a layer of io5106 Timbale of Veal sliced tomatoes seasoned with minced shallot; then repeat the layers till the dish is full, pour over it a glass of sherry, or sherry and gravy mixed, cover the top with a mixture of bread crumbs, minced shallot, mushrooms, and parsley, then more bread crumbs and bits of butter. Bake in a quick oven for half-an-hour. Serve very hot. 23. Noisettes de Galantine a la Portugfaise. Ingredients.—i lb. cold galantine of meat (truffle and pistachd if possible), \ pint Portugaise sauce, pepper, garnish of French beans, green peas, or macedoine. Method.—Slice the galantine rather thickly, heat the Portu- gaise sauce in a stewpan; when very hot dust the slices with pepper, and add them to the sauce; make very hot without quite boiling, arrange on a hot dish, make a border of the vege- tables, pour the sauce over the meat, and serve at once. 24. Savoury Veal Cutlets en Papillottes. Ingredients.—Square slices of cold roast veal, equal-sized slices of fat bacon, shallot, parsley, pepper, spice. Method.—Season the slices of veal with spice, pepper, chopped shallot, and parsley, adding if possible some chopped mushrooms ; lay on each slice a piece of bacon. Fold them in well-oiled papers, lay them on a gridiron, and broil for quarter of an hour. Dish and send to table with a tureen of tomato sauce. Mutton may be warmed in this way. 25. Timbale of Veal. Ingredients.—6 oz. straight macaroni, i lb. cooked veal, 4 oz. cooked lean ham, 2 oz. bread crumbs, 3 eggs, seasonings. Method.—Boil the macaroni for ten minutes in water, drain and boil it till tender in milk or white stock; cut it into pieces three-quarters of an inch in length, well butter a plain mould, and line it with these pieces set on end and closely packed together. Take the veal, lean ham, and six small mushrooms, mince them finely, put into a basin with the bread crumbs, pepper, salt, and sweet herbs to taste, and mix all with three raw eggs. Stir all well together; fill the centre of the mould with the mixture and press it smoothly over with a knife. Cover the top of the mould with a piece of greased paper, and steam for an hour until the centre of the mould is firm; turn out, and serve very hot with white sauce poured round.107 Wadham College Patties 26. Wadham College Patties. Ingredients.—Boiled sweetbread, cooked lean ham, i oz. butter, i oz. flour, \ pint cream, seasoning, patty-cases. Method.—Have ready some patty-cases made of puff paste; these can be prepared at home or bought from a confectioner. Fill them, after being reheated, with the following mixture : Mince a boiled sweetbread, add to it a little chopped ham, half a pint of hot cream, and flavour the mixture with cayenne, salt, grated nutmeg, and lemon rind. Dissolve an ounce of butter in a sauce- pan, blend with it an ounce of flour, but do not let it brown, then stir in the mixture, and when it is thoroughly hot and cooked through, fill the patties.CHAPTER XII 108 Recipes for Ham and Pork 1. Cold Ham. 2. Minced Ham. 3. Ham Omelet. 4. Potted Ham. 5. Ham Toasts 6. Ham Toasts 7. Ham and Whisked Eggs. 8. Khuskies. 9. Pork Cheese. 10. Pork Cutlets with Tomato Sauce. 11. Pork Grilled k la Ghoorka. 12. Pork Sausages au Gratin. 13. To re warm Slices of Pork. 14. Pork Curry. 15. Pork Curry en Mascarade. 16. Rice Timbales (Savoy style) 17. Scotch Eggs. 1. Cold Ham. When a ham is getting low in cut, with a little management not a bit need be wasted; not even the bone, which will be a valuable addition to the stock-pot, or which will make an ex- cellent foundation of stock for vegetable soups, such as pea soup, haricot bean, or mixed vegetable purees. If the ham is fat, some slices of it may be lightly fried as rashers, and will be quite as good as those made of uncooked bacon to use with boiled fowls, poached eggs, liver and bacon, or with mushrooms or tomatoes. The next part that cannot be cut into slices may be used for the seasoning of galantines of veal or chicken, for mixing with minced beef for sausages, or if cut in thin shreds, for veal and ham pie, veal mould, or for the foundation of mulligatawny soup. The dry ham, when grated and served for breakfast, will be found a most appetising relish to bread or toast and butter, and the moister parts of the lean are perfect treasures to a cook in pro- ducing savoury dishes. The ham for these is generally required to be finely chopped, and to prevent shreds it should be cut across the grain in slices. All skin and dark parts should be removed previous to chopping. For this reason a knife chops ham better than a mincing machine, which is apt to tear and mash it instead of chopping it finely. 2. Minced Ham. Ingredients.—\ lb. lean cold ham, 1 gill stock, £ gill cream, powdered mace, cayenne, fried bread.109 Ham Omelet Method.—Take half a pound of the lean of cold ham, mince it finely, put it into a small saucepan with a teacupful of veal stock, two or three tablespoonfuls of cream, half a saltspoonful of powdered mace, and a good dusting of cayenne; let these ingredients gradually warm through while you fry a slice of bread in butter, then lay it on a dish and pour the mince over it. Serve very hot. 3. Ham Omelet. Ingredients.—i oz. cooked lean ham, 4 eggs, i£ oz. butter, pepper, parsley. Method.—Mince the ham very fine, then mix with the eggs and pepper; put an ounce and a half of butter in the omelet pan; when quite hot, stir in the mixture quickly till it nearly sets; fry light brown, and serve hot. A little minced parsley may also be used as a seasoning to this dish. 4. Potted Ham. Ingredients.—Remains of cold ham, butter, seasonings. Method.—Remove all outside parts, gristle, and skin from the ham; mince, then pound, allowing six ounces butter, two teaspoonfuls mustard, one small saltspoonful cayenne to one pound meat; press it into moulds, and cover with dissolved butter or lard. 5. Ham Toasts (1). Ingredients.—Cold lean ham, cream, milk or stock, sea- sonings, buttered toast. Method.—Put the minced ham in a saucepan with a little good veal stock or milk, a few spoonfuls of cream, cayenne and mace to taste; let it warm through whilst making a thick slice of buttered toast, pile the mince thickly on it, cut in squares, and serve very hot. 6. Ham Toasts (2). Ingredients.—3 oz. lean ham, \ gill cream or milk, 1 yolk of egg, mace and cayenne, buttered toast. Method.—Mince the ham finely, put it in a saucepan; moisten with the egg beaten with the cream, season to taste, stir well whilst warming gently through, pile on squares of buttered toast. Serve very hot.110 Pork Cutlets with Tomato Sauce 7. Ham and Whisked Egg's. Ingredients.—2 fresh eggs, | gill milk, 1 oz. butter, 1 table- spoonful minced ham, buttered toast, seasoning. Method.—Chop the ham fine; have ready some small rounds of toast buttered on both sides; whisk the eggs, milk, and butter in a small saucepan. When beginning to thicken, add the ham seasoned with pepper and dry mustard, stir till thick, then pile the mixture on the toast. 8. Khuskies. Ingredients.—1 lb. cooked lean pork, ^ gill of claret or Marsala, 1 lemon, bread crumbs, 1 egg, frying-fat. Method.—Mix the finely-chopped pork with the grated rind of half a lemon and ^ lb. bread crumbs previously soaked in a wineglassful of wine and then drained; season with salt and pepper, form into flat cakes or rolls, dip in egg and bread crumbs, and fry brown in boiling deep fat; drain. Serve hot. 9. Pork Cheese. Ingredients.—Remnants of collared head, seasoning, gravy. Method.—Pork cheese can be made if any small pieces of collared head remain. To do this, cut up fat and lean together finely, sprinkle with a little fine sage in powder, season highly, press into moulds, fill up with good gravy, and bake for one hour. Serve cold with salad. 10. Pork Cutlets with Tomato Sauce. Ingredients.—2 lb. cold roast pork, | pint tomato sauce, \ oz. butter, \ oz. flour, mashed potato. Method.—Cut the pork into cutlets, brush over with salad oil, and broil them; meanwhile dissolve the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour, add the tomato sauce, stir till it boils; or thicken some tinned tomato purde in the same way; season to taste. Arrange the cutlets on a flat mound of mashed potato on a hot dish, strain the sauce round. Serve very hot. 11. Pork Grilled a la Ghoorka. Ingredients.—Boiled leg of pork, oil, 1 oz. butter, 1 oz. flour, i pint brown stock, Ghoorka sauce or chutnee. Method.—Trim some slices of pork to shape of cutlets,Pork Curry brush over with oil, and broil them till light brown; thicken the stock with butter and flour, add some hot sauce or chutnee, boil well; dish the cutlets en couronne, pour the sauce over, and serve tomatoes in the centre. 12. Pork Sausages au Gratin. Ingredients. — Cold sausages, seasonings, egg and bread crumbs, frying-fat. Method.—Cut the cold sausages in two lengthways, remove the skins, spread lightly with made mustard and salt, cover entirely with mashed" potato, dip in egg and bread crumbs, and fry brown in deep fat, heated till a blue steam rises from it. Drain, and serve very hot. 13. To rewarm Slices of Pork. Ingredients.—Slices of roast pork, gravy, sage, and onion stuffing, apple sauce. Method.—Cut some slices of roast pork, place them on a hot dish, pour some hot gravy over the meat, place in a Dutch oven till hot, then serve with sage and onion stufffng balls, and a sauce boat of apple sauce. 14. Pork Curry. Ingredients. — Remains of roast or boiled leg of pork, 2 onions, i apple, 2 oz. butter or good dripping, 1 dessert- spoonful curry powder, 1 of curry paste, 1 tablespoonful flour, | pint stock. Method. — Cut the pork into -|-inch dice, lightly fry it in the butter with the minced onions, taking care neither is at all burnt; add the curry powder and flour. Stir till well blended and slightly cook, then put in the chopped apple, curry paste, and stock, and stir till simmering. Put the pot to the side of the stove, and let its contents stew gently for an hour or longer. Season with salt and a squeeze of lemon-juice. Serve with a separate dish of boiled rice. 15. Pork Curry en Masearade. Ingredients.—Cold roast pork, 3 large onions, 1 dessert- spoonful each of curry powder, curry paste, and chutnee, 1 apple, 1 tablespoonful flour, 3 oz. butter, 1 tablespoonful cocoanut, 2 pint stock, 3 oz. Patna rice. hiRice Timbales Method.—Cut some roast pork into small dice, and fry in butter till brown; remove the meat, and in the same butter fry the sliced onions and apples, add the curry powder, paste, flour, cocoanut, and chutnee; let it cook for a few minutes, add the stock or water, and stir till boiling. Rub all through a wire sieve, return the sauce to the saucepan, add the pork, and let it simmer until tender. Have ready some boiled Patna rice, line a greased mould with this, fill with the curry mixture, cover with greased paper, and steam for three-quarters of an hour. Turn out, send to table very hot, sprinkled with coraline pepper. This dish may also be served cold. 16. Rice Timbales (Savoy style). Ingredients.—6 oz. cooked smoked sausage, 2 oz. cooked ham, 6 oz. rice, 1 small onion, § pint stock, 1 egg, 2 oz. grated cheese, 4 oz. butter, pepper, salt, fried bread crumbs or bread raspings, Italian Portugaise or tomato sauce. Method.—Wash and pick over the rice, drain; see that it is perfectly dry. Peel and chop finely the onion, put it in a stew- pan with two ounces of butter, fry a little, then add the rice, and fry a few minutes longer; moisten with the stock, and cook for twenty-five minutes, together with the sausage cut into slices. Take out the slices of sausage, add the grated cheese and finely- chopped ham to the rice, stir in the remainder of butter, season to taste; cover and keep them on the side of the fire or in a slow oven for another ten or fifteen minutes. Grease well one large or several small timbale moulds, sprinkle the inside with fried bread crumbs or bread raspings, beat up lightly the white of an egg, pour the liquid white of egg in the mould or moulds, and coat the sides and bottoms with this. If small moulds are used it will probably require the whites of two eggs. Mix the yolk of egg with the rice, fill the moulds with the prepared rice, place the sliced sausage between the rice, cover with a buttered paper, and bake in a brisk oven for about ten minutes. When required for table, loosen the sides of the mould with the blade of a knife, turn out, and dish up. Pour Italian sauce or tomato sauce round the dish, and serve. 17. Scotch Egg's. Ingredients.—Minced ham, sausage meat, hard-boiled eggs, seasoning, egg and bread crumbs, frying-fat. Method.—Take equal parts of minced ham and sausage meat, I 13Scotch Eggs with quarter its quantity of fresh bread crumbs, sufficient minced parsley and sweet herbs to give a green appearance, pepper, salt, and spice to taste; moisten with beaten raw egg, and make a stiff paste. Remove the egg shells, roll the eggs in flour, press the mixture evenly over them; cover with egg and bread crumbs, fry in deep fat till well browned, drain, cut in two. Serve on a bed of spinach, the cut side uppermost; or, if cold, on a bed of salad or watercress. * ”3 HCHAPTER XIII 114 Miscellaneous Recipes 1. Rice Casserole. 2. Cold Curry. 3. Cornish Pasties. 4. Cornish Cutlets. 5. Croquettes and Rissoles with 11. Gateau of Meat. 12. Honeycomb Timbale. 13. Irish Potato Pie. 14. To rewarm a Joint of Meat. 15. Macaroni Timbale. 16. Meat Shape. 17. Minced Meat. 18. Potato Pie. 19. Rice Cutlets. 20. Russian Kromeskies. 21. Savoury Meat and Macaroni. 22. Tomato Pilaff. Vermicelli. 6. Croquettes and Rissoles au Villeroi. 7. Crohstades k la Parisienne. 8. Curried Mince. 9. Curry Gateau. 10. Dresden Cassolettes. 1. Rice Casserole Ingredients.—| lb. Carolina rice, 4 oz. butter, stock, minced meat. Method.—Melt the butter in a stewpan, then add the well- washed rice, a little salt, and enough well-flavoured jellied stock to cover the rice; cook slow, and stir frequently till tender, adding more stock if required. Then whisk till smooth and creamy, and spread on a clean dish. When cool, butter a plain mould and line it with the rice to one-inch depth; leave till firm, fill up with a highly-flavoured mince moistened with stock or milk, cover with buttered paper, steam for one hour. Reverse the mould on a hot dish, and after a few minutes the casserole will slip on to it; remove the mould, brush over with clarified butter, then with beaten yolk of egg; let brown in the oven, then serve at once. Ingredients.—1 lb. chicken, veal, pork, or rabbit, 2 oz. butter, 1 onion peeled and finely chopped, 2 tablespoonfuls curry powder, 1 heaped dessertspoonful flour, 1 tablespoonful chopped apple, 1 tablespoonful desiccated or grated cocoanut, | pint white stock, £ pint milk, \ gill cream, the juice of half a lemon, salt, pepper, and caster sugar to taste. Method.—Cut the meat into rather large dice; heat the butter, and fry the onion ; then add the meat and cook it over 2. Cold Curry.115 Cornish Pasties a brisk fire until a yellow brown, add the curry powder, flour, and cocoanut, and stir constantly; add the chopped apple; gradually add the milk and stock, and stir till boiling; season to taste with pepper, salt, a pinch of sugar, and the lemon-juice; cover the pan and let simmer until the meat is quite tender; then let it get cold, and before serving add the cream. Have ready a border of boiled rice arranged neatly on a dish; dress the curry in this, and garnish with sprigs of cooked cauliflower, slices of beetroot, &c. 3. Cornish Pasties. Ingredients.—4 oz. cooked meat, 1 potato parboiled, 1 slice of onion, seasoning, short crust. Method.—Chop the meat and potato into small dice, add the minced onion, and season with salt and pepper; moisten with a tablespoonful of water. Make the crust, roll out, cut into rounds, place a spoonful of the mixture on each, wet the edges and pinch firmly together, so that the join comes on the top; place on a greased baking-tin, brush over with beaten egg, and bake in a hot oven. 4. Cornish Cutlets. Ingredients.—Slices of cold beef, mutton, or lamb, seasoning, mashed potato, egg, bread crumbs, frying-fat. Method.—Cut fairly thick slices of meat into cutlet shapes, sprinkle with oil and vinegar, chopped parsley, pepper and salt, and then allow to soak quite half-an-hour. Roll out on a board some finely-mashed potato seasoned with pepper, salt, and nut- meg; wrap each seasoned cutlet in it, shape smoothly, cover with egg and bread crumbs, and fry in hot fat; drain, and serve on a dish-paper with fried parsley. 5. Croquettes and Rissoles with Vermicelli. Ingredients.—Panada, minced meat, seasoning, egg, vermi- celli. Method.—Form the mixture of panada and well-seasoned minced meat into cones or balls, cover them with beaten raw egg, roll them in rather finely crushed vermicelli, then fry in boiling fat deep enough to cover them completely. 6. Croquettes and Rissoles au Villeroi. Ingredients.—Rissole mixture, tomato sauce, egg, bread crumbs.116 Curried Mince Method.—Having moulded the rissoles or croquettes, mask them with well-reduced and almost cold tomato sauce; allow this to set, then cover with egg and bread crumbs. Fry in boil- ing fat. The outside should be quite crisp when fried. 7. Croustades a la Parisienne. Ingredients.—\ lb. cold meat, chicken, or game, \ oz. butter, i gill gravy or well-flavoured stock, i teaspoonful each of chopped parsley and shallot or chives, lemon peel, pepper, salt, nutmeg, croustade cases. Method.—Free the meat from skin and fat, and pass it through a mincing machine, season highly with salt, pepper, lemon peel, and a little grated nutmeg. Fry the parsley and shallot or chives in the butter, then add the seasoned meat and gravy, and gradually make very hot without actually boiling ; fry the croustades, drain carefully; fill them with the mince, cover with circles of fried bread, garnish with fried parsley, and serve immediately. 8. Curried Mince. Ingredients. — i lb. cold meat (minced), 2 oz. butter or dripping, 1 onion, 1 oz. flour, ^ oz. curry powder, salt, lemon peel. Method.—Fry the minced onion, stir in the minced meat, curry powder, and flour, add some stock, stirring until sufficiently moistened, season with salt and a strip of lemon peel; let it simmer for about one hour. Serve with boiled rice. 9. Curry Gateau. Ingredients.—f lb. cold lean meat, 6 oz. bread crumbs, 3 eggs, 4 oz. suet, 1 teaspoonful curry powder, 1 gill cream, seasonings. Method.—First chop the meat very fine, mix; shred the suet, roll it well into the bread crumbs. Stir all the dry ingredients well together with a fork, and stir the beaten eggs and cream into the meat, &c. Grease a ring mould, ornament it with slices of pickled gherkin. Press the mixture into the mould, and steam for an hour and a half, when the gateau should be firm to the touch. Let it stand a few moments before turning out. Fill the centre with well-boiled rice, and serve. If this dish is served cold, it should be brushed over with glaze, and have cold boiled vegetables dressed with salad sauce in the centre.117 Honeycomb Timbale 10. Dresden Cassolettes. Ingredients.—Bread patty-cases, remains of cold meat, poultry, fish, or game, sauce, garnish. Method.—Cut thick slices of stale bread with a round cutter, scoop out the interior and leave the cases hollow; fry in deep boiling fat till golden brown, drain, and whilst hot fill with a patty mixture; the lids are made from small rounds of fried bread seasoned. Dish on a paper or serviette, and serve hot. The patty mixture may be made of i oz. butter, i oz. flour, i gill stock or milk, highly seasoned, boiled till smooth and thick ; then remove from the fire and stir in minced meat, poultry, game, or flaked fish or scalded oysters. Any rich savoury sauce left over from previous cooking may thus be utilised. 11. Gateau of Meat. Ingredients.—\ lb. cold meat, 2 oz. bread crumbs, 2 yolks and 1 white of egg, 2 tablespoonfuls of gravy, seasonings. Method.—Remove all gristle and skin from the meat, put it into a bowl with the seasonings of chopped parsley, shallot, pepper, and salt; add the bread crumbs, mix well, then add the well-beaten eggs and gravy. Well grease a cake tin, sprinkle it thickly with browned bread crumbs, press the mixture into it; place in a moderate oven, and bake for about three-quarters of an hour, until quite firm, then turn out on a dish and serve with thickened brown gravy or a savoury sauce. 12. Honeycomb Timbale. Ingredients.—3 oz. large straight macaroni, lb. remains of cold meat or chicken, 2 oz. lean ham, £ pint thick white sauce, 2 eggs. Method.—Boil the macaroni in salted water until tender; when cold cut it into -|-inch lengths, making rings; butter a dome-shaped mould or plain basin, and cover it with rings, fill with the minced chicken and ham previously mixed with hot white sauce, seasonings, and two or three eggs. Unless eggs are used the mixture will not hold in shape when cooked. Cover with greased paper, place the mould in a pan of hot water, and poach in a moderate oven for about three-quarters of an hour. Turn out, and serve with gravy.118 Macaroni Timbale 13. Irish Potato Pie. Ingredients.—Cold meat, mashed potatoes, seasonings. Method.—Season mashed potato with boiled onion, salt, and pepper. Put a layer of this potato in a pie dish, then a layer of thin slices of underdone cold meat seasoned with pepper and salt. Then put another layer of potato, &c., and so on till the dish is full. Cover with potato. Brush over with hot butter, and bake until all is hot through and a nice brown on the top. If the meat is dry, dip each piece into thick gravy before putting it in the pie. 14. To rewarm a Joint of Meat. Sprinkle the cut surface with seasoned flour, wrap the joint in a sheet of buttered paper, let it warm through in a slow oven until thoroughly hot, place on a dish, pour good gravy round, and garnish suitably with roast potatoes, baked onions, baked tomatoes, &c. 15. Macaroni Timbale. Ingredients.—Cold meat, lb. long pieces of fine macaroni or spaghetti, 2 tablespoonfuls each of flour and butter, | pint each of milk and stock, flavourings, forcemeat, 2 eggs. Method.—Cook long pieces of macaroni or spaghetti in salted water, putting them slowly into the water so that they can be turned without breaking; when tender lay them straight on a cloth to cool; butter a plain dome-shaped mould or quart basin, arrange the macaroni round it, holding it in place by a thin layer of savoury forcemeat. Melt the butter and flour together in a saucepan and let them cook a little, add the milk and stock, stir till boiling, adding a little minced onion and mushrooms ; put aside half of this sauce ; with the remainder add sufficient finely-chopped meat, and stir over the fire till the meat is heated. Flavour to taste, take it off the fire and stir in the beaten eggs; fill the basin; cover with greased paper; place the basin in a pan of hot wrater, and poach in the oven for half-an-hour. Turn out and serve the remainder of the sauce with the timbale. 16. Meat Shape. Ingredients.—| lb. minced cold meat, | lb. browned bread crumbs, 1 egg, seasonings, stock or milk, 2 oz. beef suet. Method.—Well rub a plain mould or basin with clarified fat or butter, sprinkle it thickly with the bread crumbs, season the119 Minced Meat meat and suet with half a teaspoonful curry powder, quarter a tea- spoonful minced mixed herbs, pepper and salt to taste; moisten with a beaten egg and a little stock or milk. Put the mixture into the mould, cover with a buttered paper, stand it in a pan of boiling water, and steam for about one hour. Serve with rich brown sauce. 17. Minced Meat. Ingredients.—\ lb. cold meat, i shallot, i oz. dripping or butter, i oz. flour, \ pint stock, i carrot, i oz. fried bread crumbs. Method.—Heat the dripping in a saucepan, fry the chopped shallot a good brown, add the flour and fry it also, then moisten with the stock and stir till it boils. Add the minced meat, grated carrot, and browned bread crumbs to the liquid; season with salt, pepper, and Worcestershire sauce, and let it simmer for half- an-hour. Serve within a border of cooked vegetables. 18. Potato Pie. Ingredients.—i lb. cold mutton, lamb, or beef, i onion, i oz. butter or dripping, i oz. flour, i| gill stock, seasonings, mashed potato. Method.—Remove all dark parts, skin, and fat, and pass the meat through a mincing machine; fry the very finely chopped onion ; when a nice brown, not burnt, moisten with the stock, stir till boiling; let simmer until the onion is quite tender, mix with the meat, season with pepper, salt, Worcestershire sauce, or any seasoning, such as chopped parsley and herbs. Place in a deep pie dish; have ready some mashed potato, make a border of it round the edge of the dish, place the remainder in the centre of the meat, and form it with a knife or spoon to resemble a pie. Dissolve some butter in a spoon and lightly oil the potato. Bake until brown in the oven. Serve in the same dish on a dish-paper. 19. Rice Cutlets. Ingredients.—£ lb. cold meat, lb. rice, f pint good stock or gravy, \ oz. butter, seasonings, egg, and bread crumbs. Method.—Wash the rice, pick out all discoloured grains, put it in a stewpan with the stock and butter, and let it boil gently for about three-quarters of an hour; then season to taste with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, adding also the finely-chopped cold meat, and, if liked, a little finely-chopped onion or shallot, thyme, and parsley. Spread the mixture on a plate, and when120 Russian Kromeskies cold form it into cutlet shapes. Dip these in beaten raw egg, cover them with bread crumbs, press them on lightly with a broad-bladed knife ; have ready some boiling fat heated till a blue steam rises from its surface, fry the cutlets in this; drain them on paper, and serve them in a circle on a little mashed potato or spinach. Put fried parsley in the centre, and pour some good sauce or gravy round. 20. Russian Kromeskies. Ingredients.—Streaky bacon, minced cold meat, batter, frying- fat, parsley. Method.—Cut some very thin slices of streaky bacon about one inch and a half broad by two inches long. Lay the slices flat, and place a little seasoned minced meat moistened with thickened rich white or brown sauce on each. Roll up the bacon tightly, taking care that the mince does not escape, and put aside in a cool place. To cook, flour each roll, dip into batter, and fry a golden brown. Drain very dry. Pile fried parsley in the centre of the dish, put the kromeskies round it, and serve. 21. Savoury Meat and Macaroni. Ingredients.—About i| lb. cold meat, f pint piquante sauce, ^ lb. macaroni. Method.—Make the piquante sauce as directed, let it get cool, then put in the thin slices of meat and let it very gradually warm through; bring it almost to boiling point before serving. Arrange a border of boiled macaroni round the dish, place the meat in the centre with the sauce, and garnish with pickled walnuts. 22. Tomato Pilaff. Ingredients.—Cold meat, 3 oz. Patna rice, 2 tablespoonfuls tomato puree or sauce, oz. butter, seasonings. Method.—Wash the rice, boil with rather more than half a pint of water, one tablespoonful tomato puree or sauce, salt and pepper to taste, until the rice is tender and the grains are separate; drain if necessary, but there should not be any superfluous liquid. Boil up the butter, stir in the rice, and let it simmer by side of stove for fifteen minutes. Any scraps of poultry or meat lightly fried in butter, just covered with stock and a spoonful of tomato puree or sauce, pepper and salt, and previously simmered for three hours in a gourmet boiler, may now be placed in the centre of the dish, and the rice served round it.Index Adjuncts to cold meat, 18 Anchovies, 51; bonnes-bouches, 52 ; canapes, 52; salad, 52 Anchovy butter, potato balls with, 38 Apple chutnee, 21 Artichokes, pur£e of, 39 Aspic cream, 27 ; mayonnaise, 29 Aspic jelly, for garnishing, 35 ; foie- gras in, S3 ; tomatoes in, 54 Aspic, tomato, 33 Baked mutton pudding, 85 Baroda pickle, 23 Bechamel sauce, plain, 31 Beef recipes, 75-84 Beef, ribs of, 55; roast fillet of, 56 ; cold sirloin of, 56 Beef vinaigrette, 42 Beetroot a la Turque, 52 Beetroot salad, 42 Blanquette of turkey, 71 Boiled beef, 55 Bonnes-bouches, anchovy, 52; of prawns, 53 Boudins of turkey, 71 Brawn, Russian, 83; mutton, 86 Bread crumbs, 19 Brisket of beef, pressed, 55 Broiled beef, 75 ; and oysters, 75 Broiled mutton, and tomatoes, 86; and fried cabbage, 86 Brown sauce, 28 ; chaudfroid sauce, 28 Bubble and squeak, 82 Cabbage mould, 35 Calf’s head, cold boiled, 57 Calf’s head salad, savoury, 49 Calf’s feet, 99; fritters in sauce, 99; hashed calf’s head, 190; calf's head pie, 100; a la poulette, 100 Canapes, anchovy, 52 Capilosade, chicken, 60 Carrot salad, 43 Carrots, mashed, 36 Casserole, potato, 38; with cream hash, 86 ; of minced veal, 101; rice, Ir4 Cassolettes, Dresden, 117 Cauliflower salad, 43 Chaudfroid of chicken, 60 ; of mutton, 87 ; mutton cutlets, 87 ; of veal, iox Chaudfroid sauce, white, 34 Chicken or game, rice croquettes of, 70 Chicken and egg salad, 43 Chicken, and baked eggs, 59 ; capilo- sade, 60 ; chaudfroid of, 60 ; curried, 61; cutlets, 61 ; cutlets a l’ltalienne, 62; fricassee of, 62; fried, 62; devilled livers, 63 ; and macaroni, 63 ; mardchale, 63; mould, 64; and mushroom cutlets, 64 ; paprika k la Viennoise, 64; paprika 4 la Portu- gaise, 65; patties, 65; potted, 65 ; rechauffe, 65; and sausages, 66; savoury, 66 Chicken mayonnaise, 44 Chutnee, apple, 21 ; tomato, 21 ; Indian, 22 Cold boiled calf's head, 57 Cold curry of veal, 102, 114 Cold joint, how to utilise, 13-20 Cold meat with tomato salad, 44 ; with Roman salad, 44 Cold sirloin of beef, 56 Cold meat, scallops of, 16; slices of, with tartare sauce, 57 Collops and tomato sauce, mutton, 87 ; piquante, with potato balls, 95 Corned beef, pie, 76 ; ragout of, 81 Cornish pasties, 115; cutlets, 1x5 Croquettes of chicken or game, rice, 70; of venison, 73; with vermicelli, 115 ; au Villeroi, 115 Croquettes and rissoles, 15 Croustades & la Parisienne, 116 Croftstades of partridge or pheasant, 69 Crofites for hors d’oeuvres, 53Index 12 2 Crofttons and croftstades, 19 Cucumber salad, 45 Curried chicken, 61; mutton, 88; kidneys, 93; mince, 116 Curry, cold, 114 Curry of mutton, dry, 89 ; cold curry of veal, 102 ; of pork, in; pork curry en mascarade, in Curry puff, 82 ; curry gateau, 116 ' Curry sauce, 28 Cutlets, chicken, 61 ; 4 l’ltalienne, 62 ; chicken and mushroom, 64; beef, 76 ; chaudfroid mutton, 87; mutton cutlets k la Pompadour, 88 ; Spanish mutton, 89; savoury veal en Papil- lottes, 106; pork, no; rice, 119 Darioles, beef, 76 Devilled chicken livers, 63 ; goose legs, 69 ; turkey legs, 72 Dresden cassolettes, 1x7 Dry curry of mutton, 89 Duck mayonnaise, 45 Duck, salmi of, 66 Egg-wash, 20 English salad dressing, 45 Fillet, of beef, roast, 56 ; a la maitre d'hotel, 77; of veal with peas, 102 Flavouring and seasoning, 17 Foie-gras in aspic, 53 Fowl, croustades of, 60 French salad, k la vinaigrette, 45; dressing, 46 French mince mutton, 89 Fricassde of chicken, 62 ; of beef, 77 Fricandelle of veal, 103 Fried chicken, 62 Fritters, k l’Anglaise, mutton, 89; a la Diable, 90; au gratin, 90; a la Palestine, 90; calfs feet fritters in sauce, 99; veal, 103 Frying batter, quickly prepared, 36 Game, 59-74 Game mayonnaise, 46 Game & l’lndienne, 67; kromeskies of, 67 ; with kidneys, 68 ; patties, 68 Garnishing, 17 Gateau of meat, 1x7 Glaze, 36 Goose, hashed, 68 ; legs devilled, 69 Green peas with butter, 36; risotto with, 40 Grilled beef £1 l’lndienne, 77 ; mutton, 90 Gunner’s delight, 24 Ham and pork recipes, 108-113 Ham, cold, 108 ; minced, 108 ; omelet, 109 ; potted, 109 ; toasts, 109 ; and whisked eggs, no Hamburg beef, 53 Hash pie, 91 Hashed goose, 68 ; turkey, 72 ; veni- son, 74 ; beef, 77, 78 ; mutton and casserole with cream, 86; mutton, 91 ; mutton k la Franfaise, 92 ; mutton with walnut pickle, 92 ; mut- ton a l’lndienne, 92; mutton like venison, 93 ; calfs head, 100 Hollandaise sauce, 29 Honeycomb timbale, 117 Horse-radish sauce, 29 Hors d’oeuvres, 51-54 ; croutes for, 53 Hungarian salad, 47 Indian chutnee, 22 Indian stewed mutton, 93 Indienne sauce, 29 Irish potato pie, 118 Jelly for mould of rolled beef, 83 Joint of meat, to rewarm, 118 Joints served cold, 55-58 Ketchup, mushroom, 22 ; tomato, 23 ; walnut, 23 Khuskies, no Kidneys, game with, 68 ; curried, 93 Knuckle of mutton, stewed, 94 Kromeskies of game or chicken, 67; Russian, 120 Leg of mutton, 57 Lemon pickle, 24 Lentil salad, 46 Lettuce salad, 47 Livers, devilled chicken, 63 Macaroni border, mutton with, 94 Macaroni a la Napolitaine, 37 Macaroni, chicken and, 63 Macaroni timbales of ox tongue, 83 ; timbale, 118 Macaroni pie, minced mutton and, 94 Maitre d’h6tel sauce, 29 Mar6chale, chicken, 63 Marinated fish, 53 Mashed carrots, 36; potatoes, 38 Mayonnaise aspic cream, 29 ; sauce, 47 Meat shape, 118 Melted butter, plain, 31 Mince mutton, French, 89 Mince, curried, 116 Minced beef, 78 ; veal, 105 ; meat, 119Index Minced mutton and macaroni pie, 94; veal, casserole of, xoi; ham, 108 Mint sauce, 30 Miroton of beef, 78, 79 ; a la Guerrier, 79 Miscellaneous recipes, 114-120 Mixed meats, re-serving, 17 Mould of rolled beef, jelly for, 83 Mould, chicken, 64; mutton, 95; of veal and ham, 104 Mushroom ketchup, 22 ; sauce, 30 Mushrooms, devilled, 37 Mustard sauce, 30 Mutton recipes, 85-98 Mutton, leg of, 57; with cold tomato sauce, 57 ; with potato salad, 57 ; shoulder of, 58 Mutton pudding, baked, 85 ; brawn, 86 ; k l’lndienne, 93 Muttonettes, 98 Noisettes de galantine k la Portu- gaise, 106 Olives, 44 ; Spanish olives k la Tar- tare, 54 ; beef, 79, 80 ; mutton, 95 Omelet, ham, 109 Onion sauce, 30 Orange salad, 54 Ox tongue, macaroni timbales of, 83 Ox cheek with Hungarian salad, 47; with remoulade sauce, 48 Oyster sauce, 31 Panada, 20; for croquettes, 37 Paprika k la Viennoise, chicken, 64; k la Portugaise, 65 Partridge or pheasant, croustades of, 69 ; scallops of, 69 Patties, chicken, 65 ; game, 89 ; rabbit, 70; beef, 80; Wadharn College, 107 Patty-cases, 20 Peas, to cook bottled or tinned, 35 Piccalilli, 24 Pickles, home-made, 21-26 Picnic salad rolls, 48 ; veal picnic pie, 103 Pilaff, tomato, 120 Piquante mutton collops with potato balls, 95 Piquante sauce, 31 Pork, cheese, 1x0 ; cutlets, no; grilled k la Ghoorka, no; sausages au gratin, in ; curry, in ; curry en mascarade, in Portugaise sauce, 32 Potato balls, 37 ; with anchovy butter, 38 I Potato casserole, 38 ; mould, 38 ; salad, 48 ; Spanish potato salad, 49; pie, 118, 119 Potato salad, mutton and, 57 Potatoes, mashed, 38; puffed, 39 ; slices and ribbons, 39 Potted chicken, 65 ; ham, 109 Poultry k l’lndienne, 67 Poultry and game, 59-74 Prawns, bonnes-bouches of, 53 Pressed brisket of beef, 55 Puffed potatoes, 39 Pur6e of artichokes, 39 Rabbit patties, 70 Ragout of beef, 80 ; of corned beef, 81 ; of mutton, 95 ; of mutton a la Pro- venpal, 96 R6chauff6 of salt beef, 82 ; of mutton, 96 ; of sweetbreads, 100 Red cabbage pickle, 25 Remoulade sauce, 48 Ribs of beef, 55 ; garnished, 56 Rice, plain boiled for curry, 40 Rice croquettes of chicken or game, 70 Rice timbales, 112; casserole, 114; cutlets, 119 Risotto (for a border to meat), 40; with green peas, 40 Risotto k la Milanaise, savoury, 67 Rissoles and croquettes, 15 ; with ver- micelli, 115 ; au Villeroi, 115 Rissoles, venison, 73 Robert Bourgeoise sauce, 32 Rolled beef, in jelly, 81 ; jelly for, 83 Roman salad, 44 Roulade of beef a la Napolitaine, 81; of mutton, 96 Russian brawn, 83 ; kromeskies, 120 Russian salad, 48 Saddle of mutton, to rewarm, 97 Salad rolls, 48 Salad dressing without oil, 49 Salads and dressings, 42-50 Salmi of duck, 66 Salt beef, r6chauff6 of, 82 Sauce, Robert Bourgeoise, 32 Sauce Indienne, 29 Sauces, quickly made, hot and cold, 27-34 Sauces and pickles, store, 18 ; freshly- made, 19 ; home-made, 21-26 Sausages au gratin, pork, 111 Sausages, chicken and, 66 Savoury beef with horse-radish sauce, 56 Savoury chicken, 66 Savoury risotto a la Milanaise, 67 23Index Savoury calf’s head salad, 49 Savoury meat and macaroni, 120 Savoury rolls, 84 Scallops of cold meat, 16 ; of partridge or pheasant, 69 Scotch eggs, 112 Scraps, the use of, 14 Seasoning and flavouring, 17 Sippets, 20 Sirloin of beef, cold, 56 ; to rewarm, 82 Slices of cold meat with tartare sauce, 57 Slices of beef, to rewarm, 82; of mut- ton, 97; of veal, 104; of pork, in Spanish potato salad, 47 ; olives a la Tartare, 54 ; mutton cutlets, 89 Stewed knuckle of mutton, 94 Stewed mutton, Indian, 93 Stock for sauces, 33 Store sauces and pickles, 18 ; home- made, 21-26 Surprises, mutton, 97 Sweetbreads, rdchauffd of, 102; in brown sauce, 101 Tartare sauce, 33 Timbales, of ox tongue, macaroni, 83 ; of mutton, 97 ; of veal, 106 ; rice, 112 Toasts, 15; ham, 109 Tomato chutnee, 21; ketchup, 23 ; sauce, 25, 33 ; aspic, 33 Tomato salad, 44, 49 ; pilaff, 120 Tomatoes, baked, 41; in aspic, 54 Tongue in aspic, 84 Tongue toast, 84 Turkey a la Bretonne, 70; blanquette of, 71 ; boudins of, 71 ; hashed, 72 ; legs devilled, 72 ; a la Milanaise, 73 ; souffle, 73 Veal, casserole of minced, 101; can- nelon a la Royale, 101 ; chaudfroid of, 102 ; cold curry of, 102 ; fillet of, with peas, 102 ; fricandelle of, 103 ; fritters, 103; picnic pie, 103; slices, to re warm, 104 ; au gratin a l’ltal- ienne, 104 ; moulds of veal and ham, 104; and ham cake, 105 ; and ham with savoury custard, 105; minced, 105; savoury cutlets en papillottes, 106; timbale, 106 Veal and bacon salad, 50 Vegetable salad, 50 Venison croquettes, 73; rissoles, 73 ; hashed, 74 Vermicelli, 20 Vinaigrette dressing, 50 Wadham College patties, 107 Walnut ketchup, 23 White chaudfroid sauce, 33 Worcestershire sauce, 26 Yellow pickle, 25 THE END Printed by Ballantyne, Hanson <5r> Co.Breakfast and Supper Dishes By C. H. SENN. Cloth, Price Is., post free Is. 2d. Some of the Numerous Recipes are :— FISH—Bloater Fritters ; Sardine Tit- bits ; lobster Croquettes ; Devilled Crab ; Fish Cutlets ; Fish Omelets ; Fish Pie ; Haddock Creams ; Oyster Fritters; Sal- mon Pie ; Salmon Devilled ; Oyster Salad, etc. MEAT, Etc.—Pancakes with Savoury Mince ; Minced Beef and Poached Eggs ; Mutton Pie; Parmentier Turnovers; Savoury Tartlets ; Chicken Legs Stuffed ; Sandwiches a la Bemhadt; Savoury Ris- soles ; Sausage Croquettes ; Ham and Egg Tartlets, etc. ; Breakfast Bacon with Potatoes, Sheeps’ Brains with Mushrooms, etc. VEGETABLES, SALADS, ETC.—Stewed Chestnuts; Potato Croquettes ; Potato Fritters ; Asparagus Sandwiches ; Stuffed Tomatoes ; Stuffed Cabbage ; Mushroom Scallops; Oyster and Celery Salad ; Tomato Salad ; Egg Salad, etc. EGGS, OMELETS, Etc.—Breakfast Eggs ; Eggs on Toast; Poached Eggs ; Scrambled Eggs; Savoury Omelet; Ham Omelet; Leek Omelet, etc. FARINACEOUS AND CHEESE DISHES—40 Recipes. MISCELLANEOUS—26 Recipes. * J* Home Nursing By SISTER GRACE. Edited by “ ISOBEL,” of Home Notes. Cloth, Price Is., post free Is. 2d. Some of the subjects dwelt upon in this useful Handbook are ;— Antidotes to poisons—Apoplexy—Frac- ture of the arm—Arranging the sick-room —Arrowroot—Arterial bleeding — Barley water — Baths — Chloral — Bed-making— Prevention and treatment of bed-sores— Beef tea — Beverages—Blisters—How to treat bronchitis — Burns — Carelessness about poisons — Chicken broth — Giving medicines to children—Choice of the sick- room—Cold as a remedial agent—Invalid cookery — Cream—Custards —Difficulties to be encountered in the sick - room — Disease of the heart — Disinfecting the sick room, etc., etc. Twenty-Second Thousand. Dainty Dishes for Slender Incomes Edited by “ ISOBEL,” of Home Notes. Cloth, Price la., post free Is. 2d. Some of the Numerous Recipes are :— SOUPS—Clear ; Thick Mock Turtle; Tomato ; Green Pea ; Carrot; Turnip ; Potato; Game; Mutton Broth; Ox Tail, etc. GARNISHES—Julienne;Spring; Maca- roni ; Rice, etc.; Croute au Pot; Royal; Victoria, etc. FISH—Boiled Salmon; Fried Sole ; Sole a la Normande; Sole au Gratin; Boiled Mackerel; Trout; Eels ; Kedgeree ; White- bait, etc. SAUCES — Brown ; White ; Shrimp ; Oyster; Dutch; Italian; Piquante; Indian; Devil; Mayonnaise; Curry; Foam ; Chocolate ; Lemon, etc. ENTREES—Croquettes of Chicken; Lobster, Chicken, and Game Patties; Curried Lobsters; Curried Chicken; Mutton Cutlets; Haricot Mutton; Fillet of Beef ; Stewed Rabbit; Jugged Hare ; Sweetbreads, etc. REMOVES—Veal and Ham Pie; Pigeon Pie ; Hot Pot; Pheasant Pudding ; Rabbit Pudding, etc. VEGETABLES—Potatoes Sautees, au Gratin, Chipped ; Spinach a la Creme ; Cabbage ; Peas; Asparagus ; Marrows; Cauliflowers; Tomatoes; Mushrooms, etc. SWEETS—Pastes ; English Brioche ; Almond Cheesecakes; Puddings ; Souffles; Tarts; Cakes; Compotes ; Trifle; Jellies; Ices dC SAVOURIES—25 Recipes. ARTIZAN COOKERY—36 Recipes. CAKES—46 Recipes. FOOD CALENDAR, etc. Little French Dinners By EVELEEN DE RIVAZ. (■• Eve.’’) Price Is., post free Is. 2d. This excellent book contains Thirty Choice Menus, besides chapters on Savoury Toasts, the Use of Stale Bread, Season- able Salads, Fancy Salads, Cooking Maca- roni, Gravy, etc., etc. To be bad of all Booksellers, or of the Book Publisher, 17, Henrietta Street, London, W.C.Etiquette for A Book of Modern W omen Modes & Manners By One of the Aristocracy. Crown 8vo, Cloth, Price Is., post tree is. 2d. Some of the Subjects dwelt upon in this excellent handbook are :— THE OCCASION AND THE COSTUME When to Change—Evening Dress— Country Dress, etc. IN THE STREET Bows and Bowing—When a Lady should not Bow, etc. INTRODUCTIONS A Necessary Precaution — The Diffi- culties, etc. CALLS AND CARDS “At Home" Days—Calling—Depar- ture, etc. AFTERNOON “AT HOMES” & TEAS Invitations and Answers—The Duties of Guests, etc. EVENING “AT HOMES” Invitations—How to Reply—What to Wear, etc. AT A DINNER PARTY How to Accept an Invitation — When to Arrive—Dress, etc. AT A PUBLIC DINNER The Cloak Room — Showing your Ticket—Introduction, etc. ON DRIVING AND RIDING Where to Sit—Escort—Dress—In a Dogcart, etc. BALLS AND DANCES Public Balls, and Private—Dress — Supper—The Hostess, etc. BROKEN ENGAGEMENTS Writing — Returning Presents — An- nouncing the Fact, etc. A WEDDING The Trousseau — Bridesmaids—Cos- tumes—Presents, etc. What to Do in Emergencies By Dr. Andrew Wilson, F.R.S.E. Cloth, Price Is., post free Is. 2d. Some of the Nine Chapters are :— CHAP. I.—ABOUT POISONING. „ III.—TREATMENT OF THE AP- PARENTLY DROWNED. „ IV.—ABOUT UNCONSCIOUS- NESS AND FITS. „ V.—BROKEN BONES AND DISLOCATIONS. „ VI.—THINGS IN THE EYE, EAR, AND THROAT. „ VII.—BURNS. SCALDS, AND FROSTBITE. „ VIII.—ABOUT WOUNDS. „ IX.—BLEEDING, AND HOW TO STOP IT. The Art of Beauty By A TOILET SPECIALIST. Crown 8vo, Cloth, Price Is., post free Is. 2d. Some of the Seventeen Chapters are :— Chap. I.—THE CURE OF STOUT- NESS. „ II.—THE CURE OF LEANNESS. „ IV.—THE FIGURE. * V.—BADCOMPLEXIONS.HOW TO CURE THEM. „ VIII.—THE HAIR IN ILL H EALTH „ XIII.—MOLES, WARTS, AND SUPERFLUOUS HAIR. .j* S The Lover’s CktitAc* t0 Courtsh|p UUIUw and Marriage. By G. R. M. DEVEREUX. A Volume containing sensible advice to all lovers, from the first dawn of love, leading through the various stages, up to marriage. Price 1b., post free Is. 2d. Some of the Twenty Chapters are :— Chap. I.—Child Courtship — The Boy Lover—Courtship in the Teens, etc. n II.—The General Lover—Safety in Numbers — Difficulty oi Selection, etc. „ III.—Different Types of Lovers, etc. a V.—The Lover Feeling his Way— Breaking the Ice — First Realisation of Love — The Danger of Overpraise, etc. „ VII.—The Lover on his Trial—Some Things to avoid, etc. . VIII.—Letters between Unengaged Lovers—The Man who is afraid to Speak — A Pia tonic Friend, etc. „ X.—Acceptance and Rejection— The Obligations of an En- gaged Man, etc. „ XII.—His Gifts—Visits and other Attentions — Courting or Shunning Publicity, etc. „ XIII.—Lovers' Quarrels—The First Tiff—Taking Offence, etc. . XIV.—The Lover who is Eager to Marry — The Lover who Works to Make a Home— The Man who Seeks one Ready-made, etc. „ XVI.—How to Treat Former Love Affairs — Confidences—M u- tual Trust—Curiosity, etc. To be had of all Booksellers, or of C. Arthur Pearson, Ltd., 17, Henrietta Street, London, W.C.C. Arthur Pearson, Ltd., 17, Henrietta Street, London, W.C. J Etiquette for Men A Book of Modern Manners & Customs. By F. V. HOWARD. Price Is., post fret Is. 2d. This volume gives in a simple style full and accurate directions for the due obser- vance of modern etiquette for men. Some of the Twenty one Chapters are :— CHAP. II.—A DISSERTATION ON DRESS. „ III.—ETIQUETTE FOR THE STREET. . VI.—EVENING "AT HOMES” AND RECEPTIONS. „ VIII.—THE ART OF DINING. „ IX.—PUBLIC DINNERS. „ XI.—AT A THEATRE. „ XII.—ON RIDING & DRIVING. „ XIII.—BICYCLING. „ XIV.—BALLS AND DANCES. „ XV.—ON BECOMING EN- GAGED. „ XVI.—HOW TO GET MARRIED „ XIX.—YACHTING „ XXI.—MOURNING. & Jt A Healthy I—I rvAnd How to HOme Obtain It. By Dr. ANDREW WILSON. Price Is., post free Is. 2d. The aim of this little book is to show in plain language the chief dangers which await us in our domiciles, and to explain the manner in which these dangers to health may be avoided and the general and common defects of our homes remedied. Some of the subjects dealt with are :— CHAP. I.—SOILS AND SURROUND- INGS. . II.—THE ARRANGEMENT OF THE HOUSE. III.—THE HOUSE DRAINS. , IV.—SANITARY APPLIANCES OF OUR HOUSES. » V.—WASHING & CLEANSING. » VI.—THE AIR WE BREATHE. n VII.—VENTILATION. . VIII.—LIGHTING & WARMING. The Etiquette of Engagement and Marriage By G. R. M. DEVEREUX. Price Is., post free Is. 2d. A Volume of Sensible Advice to all Some of the subjects dealt with are :— The Beginnings of Courtship—Favour- able Opportunities—Social Intercourse— Different Ideas of Etiquette—Introduc- tions—Recognition of Affinity, or Love at First Sight— How to follow up an Acquaintance—Intercourse between Un- confessed Lovers—The Question of Pre- sents—The Man who Lives at Home—The Man in Rooms—The Home Girl — The Bachelor Girl—The Business Girl—The Student or Professional Girl—Friends who become Lovers—Flirts—Male and Female —He Changes his Mind on the Verge of a Proposal—How she accepts the Situation —How she may give Encouragement or Ward off an Unwelcome Offer — The Question of Age—Young Lovers — Pro- posals—Premeditated—Spontaneous, etc. —Some Things to Avoid—Vaguely Worded Offers — Engagements — The Attitude of Parents and Guardians—Making it Known —Congratulations — The choice and giv- ing of the Ring—His Visits to her Home — The Engaged Couple in Public—In Society — Going about together — The Question of Expenses—Love Letters— Long or Short Engagements—Marriage— Fixing the Day—Preparations—Trousseau —Invitations—Wedding Presents, etc_ etc Small Homes and How to Furnish Them By Mrs. WALDEMAR LEVERTON. With ifi Illustrations. Price Is., post free Is. 2d. A comprehensive volume of valuable information in Artistic yet Inexpensive Furnishing. To be had of all Booksellers, or of