ARTICULATIONS. 202 for the anterior calcaneo-astragaloid and astragalo-scaphoid articulations ; a third for the calcaneo-cuboid articulation ; and a fourth for the articulations of the scaphoid with the three cuneiform, the three cuneiform with each other, the external cuneiform with the cuboid, and the middle and external cuneiform with the bases of the second and third metatarsal bones. The prolongation which lines the metatarsal bones passes forwards between the external and middle cuneiform bones. A small synovial membrane is sometimes found between the contiguous surfaces of the scaphoid and cuboid bones. ■ Actions The movements permitted between the bones of the first row, the astrao-alus 'and os calcis, are limited to a gliding upon each other from before backwards and from side to side. The gliding movement which takes place between the bones of the second row is very slight, the articulation between the scaphoid and cuneiform bones being more moveable than those of the cuneiform with each other and with the cuboid. The movement which takes place between the two rows is more extensive, and consists in a sort of rotation, by means of which the sole of the foot may be slightly flexed, and extended, or carried inwards and outwards. i.' VI. Tarso-Metataksal Articulations. ' These are arthrodial joints. The bones entering into their formation are four tarsal bones, viz., the internal, middle and external cuneiform, and the cuboid, which articulate with the metatarsal bones of the five toes. The metatarsal bone of the great toe articulates with the internal cuneiform; that of the second is deeply wedged in between the internal and external cuneiform resting agamst the middle cuneiform, and being the most strongly articulated of all the metatarsal bones ; the third metatarsal articulates with the extremity of the external cunei- form • the fourth with the cuboid and external cuneiform; and the fitth witli the cuboid. The articular surfaces are covered with cartilage, Imed by synovial membrane, and connected together by the following ligaments :— Dorsal. Plantar. Interosseous. The Dorsal Ligaments consist of strong, flat, fibrous bands, which connect the tarsal with the metatarsal bones. The first metatarsal is connected to the mtei-nal cuneiform by a single broad, thin, fibrous band; the second has three dor.sa ligaments, one from each cuneiform bone; the third has one from the external cuneiform: and the fourth and fifth have one each from the cuboid. The Plantar Ligaments consist of longitudinal and oblique fibrous bands con- necting the tarsal and metatarsal bones, but disposed with less regularity than on the dorsal surface. Those for the first and second metatarsal are the most strongly marked : the second and third metatarsal receive strong fibrous bands, which pass obliquely across from the internal cuneiform ; the plantar ligaments of the fourth and fifth metatarsal consist of a few scanty fibres derived from tlie cuboid. The Interosseous Ligaments are three in number : internal, middle, and external. The internal one passes from the outer extremity of the internal cuneiform to the adiacent angle of the second metatarsal. The middle one, less strong than the prfceding, connects the external cuneiform with the adjacent angle of the second metatarsal. The external interosseous ligament connects the outer angle ot the external cuneiform with the adjacent side of the third metatarsal. The Synovial Membranes of these articulations are three m number: one tor tue metatarsal bone of the great toe, with the internal cuneiform; one for the second and third metatarsal bones, with the middle and external cuneiform ; this is a par o?the great tarsal synovial membrane; and one for the fourth and fifth metatai al bones with the cuboid. The synovial membranes of th. tarsus and metatarsus aio thus seen to be six in number (fig. 146).