136 ■ THE SKELETON. articular facets, separated by a broad shallow groove, which is directed obliquely forwards and outwards, and is rough for the attachment of the interosseous liga- ment connecting the astragalus and os calcis. Of the two articular surfaces, the external is the larger, and situated on the body of the bone : it is of an oblong form, wider behind than in front, and convex from before backwards The " intm-^ial articular sur/aco is supported on a projecting process of bone, called the lesser process of the calcaneum (sustentaculum tali) ; it is a so oblong, concave longitudinally, and sometimes subdivided into two parts, which differ m si.e and shape. Mdre anteriorly is seen the upper surface of the greater process marked by a rough depression for the attachment of numerous ligaments, and the origin ot the Extensor brevis digitorum muscle. , , . , ,i ■ f The inferior surface is narrow, I^OHqIIj "HUGVC ) and convex from side to side; it is bounded posteriorly by two tubercles, separated by a rough depression; the external, small, prominent, and rounded eives attachment to part of the Abductor minimi digiti ; the internal, broader and laro-er for the support of the heel, gives attachment, by its prominent^ inner maro-in to tbe Abductor pollicis, and in front to the Flexor brevis digitorum muscles • the depression between tbe tubercles attaches the Abductor minimi digiti and plautai' fascia. The rough surface in front of the tubercles gives attach- ment to the long plantar ligament, and to the outer head of the Elexor accessonus muscle • and to a prominent tubercle nearer the anterior part of the bone, as well as to a transverse groove in front of it, is attached the short plantar hgament. The external surface is broad, flat, and almost subcutaneous; it presents near its centre a tubercle, for the attachment of the middle fasciculus of the external lateral ligament. Above the tubercle is abroad smooth surface, giving attach- ment, at its upper and anterior part, to the external calcaneo-astraga oid hgament; and in front of the tubercle a narrow surface marked by two obhque grooves, separated by an elevated ridge: the s^^perior groove transmits the tendon ot the Peioneus brevis ; the inferior, the tendon of the Peroneus longus ; the mtervemng ridge gives attachment to a prolongation from the external annular ligament. The internal surface presents a deep concavity, chrected obliquely ^ownwaris and forwards, for the transmission of the plantar vessels and nerves and Flexor tendons Lo the sole of the foot; it affords attachment to part of the Flexor accessorius muscle. This surface presents an eminence of bone, the lesser process, wS projects horizontally inwards from its upper and fore part, and to which a X of tL' tendon of the Tibialis posticus is attached This process xs concave above and supports the interior articular surface of the astragalus ; below, it is convex^and grooved for the tendon of the Flexor longus pollicis. Its free margin is roueh for the attachment of ligaments. _ The anterior surf<.ce, of a somewhat triangular form, is smooth, concavo- convex and articulates with the cuboid. It is surmounted on its outer side, by a rough prominence, which forms an important guide to the surgeon m the per- ihe ^ J^^^ .g 1, for the attachment of the tendo Achillis, and TZ ptntaTmltle; its Spper part is smooth, coated with cartilage, and corresponds to a bursa which separates that tendon from the bone. Articulations. With two bones : the astragalus and cuboid. Attacnn^ent of Muscles. Part of the Tibiahs posticus, the ^e^^o Achim^ taris, Abductor pollicis, Abductor minimi digiti. Flexor brevis digitorum, accessorius, and Extensor brevis digitorum. The Cuboid. The CuMd bone is placed on the outer side of the foot in front of the os calcis, and behind the fourth and fifth metatarsal ^^l^J-J^:^^^^^ shape, its base being directed upwards and inwards, its -^P^^ a° p^istence of waids. It may be distinguished from the other tarsal bones by the existence