474 NERVOUS SYSTEM. 258.—Posterior Surface of the Medulla Oblongata. posterior pyramids and restiform bodies, opens to view the grey matter of the medulla, which is continuous, below, with the grey commissure of the cord. In the middle line is seen a longitudinal farrow, continuous with the posterior median fissure of the cord, tomiinating, below, at the point of the ventricle, in a cul-de-sac, the ventricle of Arantius, which descends into the medulla for a slight extent. It is the remains of a ca- nal, which, in the foetus, extends through- out the entire length of the cord. Structure. The columns of the cord are directly continuous with those of the medulla oblongata, below; but, higher up, both the white and grey constituents are rearranged before they are con- tinued upwards to the cerebrum and cerebellum. The anterior pyramid is composed of fibres derived from the anterior column of the cord of its own side, and from the lateral column of the opposite half of the cord, and is continued upwards into the cerebrum and cerebellum. The cere- bellar fibres form a superficial and deep layer, which pass beneath the olivary body to the restiform body, and spread out into the structure of the cerebellum. A deeper fasciculus encloses the olivary body, and, receiving fibres from it, enters the pons as the olivary fasciculus or fillet; but the chief mass of fibres from the pyramid, the cerebral fibres, enter the pons in their passage upwards to the cerebrum. The anterior pyramids contain no grey matter. The lateral tract is continuous, below, with the lateral column of the cord. Its fibres pass in three difi-erent directions. The most external join the restiform body, and pass to the cerebellum. The internal, more numerous, pass forwards, pushing aside the fibres of the anterior column, and form part of the opposite anterior pyramid. The middle fibres ascend, beneath the olivary body, to the cerebrum, passing along the back of the pons, and form, together with fibres from the restiform body, the fasciculi teretes, in the floor of the fourth ventricle. i j > Olivary body. If a transverse section is made through either olivary body it will be found to consist of a small, ganglionic mass, deeply imbedded m the medulla partly appearing on the surface as a smooth, olive-shaped eminence (fag. 259;. it consists externally, of white substance; and, internally, of a grey nucleus, the r;uslntarm. ''The grey matter is arranged in the form of a holW capsule, open at its upper and inner part, and presenting a zigzag, or dentated outline White fibres pass into, or from the interior of this body, by he aperture xn the ^Istriorpartofthe capsule. They join with those ^bres of the anterio^^^ which ascend on the outer side, and beneath the ohvary body, to foim the ohvaiy fnqciculus which asccnds to the cerebrum. . . ^ r +1,^ The m^^7or»^ lod,j is formed chiefly of fibres from the posterior co umn of cord but it receives some from the lateral column, and a fasciculus from the anterior, and is continued, upwards, to the cerebrum and cerebellum. 259.—Transverse Section of Medulla Oblongata. TBSterior FuteiaiU Terttt* Anitrtor TUsiir< On entering