OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. 261 MUSCLES AND FASCIA OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. The Muscles of the Upper Extremity are divisible into groups, corresponding with the different regions of the limb. Of the Shoulder. Anterior Thoracic Region. Pectoralis major. Pectoi'alis minor. Subclavius. Lateral Thoracic Begion. Serratus magnus. Acromial Begion. Deltoid. Anterior Scapular Begion. Subscapularis. Posterior Scapular Begion. Supraspinatus. Infraspinatus. Teres minor. Teres major. Of the Akm. Anterior Humeral Begion. Coraco-brachialis. Biceps. Brachialis anticus. Posterior Htomeral Begion. Triceps. Subanconeus. Or THE FOEEABM. Anterior Brachial Begion. Pronator radii teres. Flexor cai-pi radialis. Palmaris longus. Flexor carpi ulnaris. . Flexor sublimis digitorum. ^c3 'S U Flexor profundus digitorum. Flexor longus pollicis. Pronator quadratus. Badial Begion. Supinator longus. Extensor carpi radialis longior. Extensor carpi radialis brevioi'. Posterior Brachial Begion. is . r Extensor communis digitorum. eg fe^ ] Extensor minimi digiti. j Extensor carpi ulnaris. L Anconeus. {Supinator brevis. Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis. Extensor primi internodii pollicis. Extensor secnndiinternodii pollicis. Extensor indicis. Of the Hand. Badial Begion. Abductor pollicis. Flexor ossis metacarpi pollicis (opponens). Flexor brevis pollicis. Adductor pollicis. Ulnar Begion. Palmaris brevis. Abductor minimi digiti. Flexor brevis minimi digiti. Flexor ossis metacarpi minimi (opponens). Palmar Begion. Lumbricales. Interossei palmares. Interossei dorsales. digiti Dissection of Pectoral Ref/ion and Axilla (fig. 168). The arm heins; drawn away from tlie side nearly at right angles with the trunk, and rotated outwards, make a vertical incision through the integument in the median line of the chest, from the upper to the lower part of the sternum; a second incision along the lower border of the Pectoral muscle, from the ensiform cartilage to the inner side of the axilla ; a third, from the sternum along the clavicle, as far as its centre; and a fourth, from the middle of the clavicle ohliquely downwards, along the interspace between the Pectoral and Deltoid muscles, as low as the fold of the arm-pit. Ihe flap ot integument is then to be dissected oif in the direction indicated in the figure, but not entirely removed, as it should he replaced on completing the dissection. If a transverse incision IS now made from the lower end of the sternum to the side of the chest, as far as the posterior fold of the arm-pit, and the integument reilected outwards, the axillary space wiU be more completely exposed. j j i Fascm of the Thokax. The 8u;perficial fascia of the thoracic region is a loose ccllulo-fibrous layer, continuous with the superficial fascia of the neck and upper extremity above, and