4o8 ARTERIES. ligament. It at first descends to reach this ligament, and then ascends obliquely inwards between the peritonenm and ti-ansvorsalis fascia, to the margin of the sheath of the Rectus muscle. Having perforated tbo sheath near its lower third, it runs vertically upwards behind the Rectus, to which it is distributed, dividing into numerous branches, which anastomose above the umbilicus with the terminal branches of the internal mammary and inferior intercostal arteries. It is accom. panied by two veins, which usually unite into a single trunk before their termina- tion in the external iliac vein. As this artery ascends from Poupart's ligament to the Rectus, it lies behind the inguinal canal, to the inner side of the internal abdominal ring, and immediately above the femoral ring. The vas deferens in the male, and the roand ligament in the female, cross behind the artery in descending into the pelvis. Branches. The branches of this vessel are the following: the cremasteric, which accompanies the spermatic cord, and supplies the Cremaster muscle, anasto- niosing with the spermatic artery; a piohic branch, which runs across Poupart's ligament, and then descends behind the pubes to the inner side of the femoral ring, and anastomoses with oflFsets from the obturator artery; muscular branches, some of which are distributed to the abdominal muscles and peritoneum, anastomosing with the lumbar and circumflex iliac arteries; others perforate the tendon of the External oblique and supply the integument, anastomosing with branches of the external epigastric. FecuUarities. The origin of the epigastric may take place from any part of the external iliac between Poupart's ligament and two inches and a half above it; or it may arise below this ligament, from the femoral, or from the deep femoral. Union with Branches. It frequently arises from the external iliac, by a common trunk with the obturator. Sometimes the epigastric arises from the obturator, the latter vessel being furnished by the internal iliac, or the epigastric may be formed of two branches, one derived from the external iliac, the others from the internal iliac. The circumflex iliac artery arises from the outer side of the external iliac, nearly opposite the epigastric artery. It ascends obliquely outwards behind Poupart's ligament, and runs along the inner surface of the crest of the ilium to about its middle, where it pierces the Transversalis, and runs backwards between that muscle and the Internal oblique, to anastomose with the ilio-lumbar and gluteal arteries. Opposite the anterior superior spine of the ihum, it gives olF a large branch, which ascends between the Internal obHque and Transversahs muscles, supplying them and anastomosing with the lumbar and epigastric arteries. The circumflex ihac artery is accompanied by two veins. These unite into a single trunk which crosses the external iliac artery just above Poupart's ligament, and enters the external iliac vein. Eemokal Artery. (Fig. 231.) The femoral artery is the continuation of the external iliac. It commences immediately behind Poupart's ligament, midway between the anterior superior spine of the ilium and the symphysis pubis, and passing down the fore part and inner side of the thigh, terminates at the opening in the Adductor magnns, at the junction of the middle with the lower third of the thigh, where it becomes the popHteal artery. A line drawn from a point midway between the anterior supenor spine of the ilium and the symphysis pubis to the inner side of the inner condyle of the femur, will be nearly parallel with the course of the artery. This vessel, at the upper part of the thigh, lies a little internal to the head of the femur ; in the lower part of its course, on the inner side of the shaft of the bone, and between these two parts, the vessel is separated from the bone by a considerable extent. In the upper third of the thigh the femoral artery is very superficial, being covered by the integument, inguinal glands, and the superficial and deep fasciffi, and is contained in a triangular space, called ' Scarpa's triangle.' Scarpa's Triangle. Scarpa's triangle corresponds to the depression seen imme- diately below the fold of the groin. It is a triangular space, the apex of which is directed downwards, and the sides of which are foi-med externally by the