467 SPINAL CORD. opposite tl-.elast dovsal vertebra, its greatest diameter being from before backwards, jrcon-esponds with the origin of the nerves which supply the lower extre-^^^^^^ T r , -1 1 • n^A{nt\pr lb presents, on its anterior In form Uie SDinal cord is a flattened cylinaer. ^ , ill luii.i, luo yiiu, u,„i;,.n1 fiq=?nre the anterior median fissure; surface, a ong the middle Ime, a longitudinal tissure, uio ^„4.: ' and. on its posterior surface, another fissure, which ^ length of the cord, the posterior median fissure. ,^ ^.^^^ ^.^^^ These fissures serve to divide which are united the cord into two symmetrical halves, which are united in tne miaai« uu. throughout their entire length, by a transverse band of nervous substance, the commissure. 255 _ Plan of Columns. the Fissures and MfdiaH Timu re L atcra-l fitsurt The AnUrior media/ii fissure is wider, but of less Spinal Cord. Side View, depth than the posterior, extending into the cord for " " ■ about one-third of its thickness, and is deepest at the lower part of the cord. It contains a prolonga- tion from the pia mater ; and its floor is formed by the anterior white commissure, which is perforated by numerous blood-vessels, passing to the centre of the cord. The Posterior median fissure is much more deli- cate than the anterior, and most distract at the upper and lower parts of the cord. It extends into the cord to about one-half of its depth. It contains a very slender process of the pia mater, and numerous blood-vessels, and its floor is formed by a thin layer of white substance, the posterior white commissure. Some anatomists state that the bottom of this fissure corresponds to the grey matter, except in the cervical region, and at a point corresponding to the enlargement in the lumbar region. Lateral Fissu/res. On either side of the anterior median fissure, a linear series of foramina may be observed, indicating the points where the anterior roots of the spinal nerves emerge from the cord. This is called, by some anatomists, the antero-lateral fissure of the cord, although no actual fissure exists in this situation. And on either side of the posterior median fissure, along the line of attachment of the posterior roots of the nerves, a delicate fissure may be seen, leading down to the grey matter which approaches the surface in this situation : this is called the postero-lateral fissure of the spinal cord. On the posterior surface of the spinal cord, on either side of the posterior median fissure, is a slight longitudinal furrow, marking ofi" two slender tracts, the posterior median columns. These are mos distinct in the cervical region, but are stated by FovUle to exist throughont the whole length of the cord. Columns of the Cord. The fissures divide each half of the spinal cord into four columns, an anterior column, a lateral column, a posterior column, and a posterior median column. The anterior column includes all the portion of the cord between the anterior median fissure and the antero-lateral fissure, from which the anterior roots of the nerves arise. It is continuous with the anterior pyramid of the medulla oblongata. The lateral column, the largest segment of the cord, includes all the portion between the antero- and postero-lateral fissures. It is continuous with the lateral column of the medulla. By some anatomists, the anterior and lateral columns are included together, under the name of the antero-lateral column, which forms rather more than two-thirds of the entire circumference of the cord. The posterior column is situated between the posterior median and postero- lateral fissures. It is continuous with the restiform body of the medulla. The posterior median column is that narrow segment of the cord which is seen on each side of the posterior median fissure, usually included with the preceding, as the posterior column. Structure of the Cord. If a transverse section of the spinal cord be made, it 11 II 2