FIFTH. 507 Branclies of this nerve communicato with the „ . • ■pirst and second cervical nerves. Pnenmogastric. jmi a u .i^v-i Sympathetic. Gustatory. The communication with the pnoumogastric takes place close to the exit of the nerve from the skull, numerous filaments passing between the hypoglossal and second ganglion of the pneumogastric, or both bemg united so as to foim one mass. The communication with the sympathetic takes place opposite the atlas by branches derived from the superior cervical ganglion, and in the same situation the ninth is joined by a fUament derived from the loop connecting the first two cervical nerves. . • t, ;j p The communication with the gustatory takes place near the anterior border 01 the Hyo-glossus muscle by numerous filaments which ascend upon it. The branches of the distribution are the Descendens noni. Thyro-hyoid. Muscular. The descendens noni is a long slender branch, which quits the hypoglossal where it turns round the occipital artery. It descends obliquely across the sheath of the carotid vessels, and joins just below the middle of the neck, to form a loop with the communicating branches from the second and third cervical nerves. From the convexity of this loop branches pass forwards to supply the Sterno-hyoid, Sterno-thyroid, and both bellies of the Omo-hyoid. According to Arnold, another filament descends in front of the vessels into the chest, which joins the cardiac and phrenic nerves. The descendens noni is occasionally contained in the sheath of the carotid vessels, being- sometimes placed over and sometimes beneath the internal jugular vein. The ilmjro-liyoid is a small branch, arising from the hypoglossal near the pos- terior border of the Hyo-glossus ; it passes obliquely across the great cornu of the hyoid bone, and supplies the Thyro-hyoid muscle. The muscidar branches are distributed to the Stylo-glossus, Hyo-glossus, Genio-hyoid, and Genio-hyo-glossus muscles. At the under sui-face of the tongue, numerous slender branches, pass upwards into the substance of the organ. Fifth Nervs. The Fifth Nerve {trifacial, tri'gemim^) is the largest cranial nerve, and resembles a spinal nerve, in its origin by two roots, and in the existence of a ganghou on its posterior root. The functions of this- nei've are various. It is a nerve of special sense, of common sensation, and of motion. It is the great sen- sitive nerve of the head and face, the motor nerve of the muscles of mastication, and its lingual branch is one of the nerves of the special sense of taste. It arises by two roots, a posterior larger or sensory, and an anterior smaller or motor root. Its superficial origin is from the side of the pons Yarolii, a little nearer to the upper than the lower border. The smaller root consists of three or four bundles ; in the larger, the bundles are more numerous, varying in number from seventy to a hundred : the two roots are separated from one another by a few of the trans- verse fibres of the pons. The f^eep origin of the larger or sensory root may bo traced between the transverse fibres of the pons Varolii to the lateral tract of the medulla oblongata, immediately behind the olivary body. According to some anatomists, it is connected with the grey nucleus at the back part of the medulla, between the fasciculi teretes and restiform columns. By others, it is said to be continuous with the fasciculi teretes and lateral column of the nord ; and, according to Foville, some of its fibres are connected with the transverse fibres of the pons ; whilst others enter the cerebellum, spreading out on the surface of its middle peduncle. The motor root has been traced by Bell and Rctziiis to be connected witb the pyramidal body. The two roots of the nerve pass- forwards throiagh an