GLOSSO-PHARYNGBAL. 517 , , , •■, ■ +I1A Eustachian tube, and the origin of mtmially, with the oartilagmous part of ^^'^^^^^^"""^ J.^ t,.e T.„sS;.pa.a«.u.c,o. tJl^^: 0" SLf ITtl, t„e inferior mMdlo meningeal artery. TMs ganglion al.o "^^"'"t'' " * *°ftf^7e ptaryngeal and taoial norves, through the small petrosal nerve contmued from '^TtZlr:Vare a ,i,a.ent to the Tensor tympan,^ Tensor palati. The former passes backwards, on the onter s.de »f * « f "f'^'"^^ tube; the latter arises from the ganglion, near the ongm of the mtornal pteiygo.d nerve, and passes forwards. Submaxillary Ganglion. The suhnaxillary ganglion (Bg. 277) is of small size, circular in form and situated above the deep portion of the submaxillary gland, near the posterior border of the Mylo-hyoid muscle, being connected by filaments with the lower border of the gustatory nerve. _ , 4. ^ Branches of comvmnication. This ganglion is connected with the gustatory nerve by a few filaments which join it separately, at its fore and back part. It also receives a branch from the chorda tympani, by which it communicates with the facial; and communicates with the sympathetic by filaments from the nervi jnolles—the sympathetic plexus around the facial artery. Branches of distribution. These are five or six in number ; they arise from the lower part of the ganglion, and supply the mucous membrane of the mouth and Wharton's duct, some being lost in the submaxillary gland. According to Meckel, a branch from this ganglion occasionally descends in front of the Hyo-glossus muscle, and, after joining with one from the hypoglossal, passes to the Genio-hyo- glossus muscle. Eighth Pair. The eighth pair consists of three nerves, tbe glosso-pharyngeal, pneumogastric, and spinal accessory. The Glosso-Phartngeal Nerve is distributed, as its name implies, to the tongue and pharynx, being the nerve of sensation to the mucous membrane of the pharynx, fauces, and tonsil; of motion to the Pharyngeal muscles; and a special nerve of taste in all the parts of the tongue to which it is distributed. It is the smallest of the three divisions of the eighth pair, and arises by three or four filaments, closely connected together, from the upper part of the medulla oblongata, immediately behind the olivary body. Its cZeep origin may be traced through the fasciculi of the lateral tract, to a lower part of the floor of the fourth ventricle — Prom its superficial origin, it passes outwards across the flocculus, and leaves the skull at the central part of thejugular foramen, in a separate sheath of the dura mater and arachnoid, in front of the pneumogastric and spinal accessory nerves. In its passage through the jugular foramen, it grooves the lower border of the petrous portion of the temporal hone ; and, at its exit from the skull, passes forwards between the jugular vein and internal carotid artery, and descends in front of the latter vessel, and beneath the styloid process and tbe 280.—Nerves of the Eighth Pair, their Origin, Ganglia, and Communications. J'uifuittr Qan^t. Pnfumc~ffasti-i» nucleus of grey matter at the external to the fasciculi teretes