514 CRANIAL NKRVES. colour and soft in texture. It crosses tlio foramen lacorum surrounded by the cartilaginous Kubstanco which fills in that aperture, and enters the carotid canal on the outer side of the carotid artery, to join the carotid plexus. This description of the Vidian nerve as a branch from, the ganglion, is the more convenient anatomically, inasmuch as the nerve is generally dissected from the ganglion, as a single trunk dividing into two branches; But it is moi'c correct, physiologically, to describe the Vidian as being formed by the union of the two branches (great petrosal and carotid) from the facial and the sympathetic, and as runnino- into the ganglion. The filaments, which are described above as given off fi'om the Vidian nerve, would then be regarded as branches from the ganglion which arc merely enclosed in the same sheath, as the Vidian. The pharyngeal nerve (pterygo-jjalatine) is a small branch arising from the back part of the ganglion, occasionally together with tbe Vidian nerve. It passes through the pterygo-palatine canal with the pterygo-palatine artery, and is dis- tributed to tlie lining membrane of the pharynx, behind the Eustachian tube. Inferior Maxillary Nerve. (Fig. 277.) The Inferior Maxillary Nerve distributes branches to the teeth and gums of the lower jaw, the integument of the temple and external ear, the lower part of the face and lower lip, and the muscles of mastication: it also supplies the tongue with one of its special nerves of the sense of taste. It is the largest of the three divisions of the fifth,, and consists of two portions, the large or sensory root proceeding from the inferior angle of the Casserian ganglion ; and the small or motor root, which passes beneath the ganglion, and unites with the inferior maxillary nerve, just after its exit through the foramen ovale. Immediately beneath the base of the skull, this nerve divides into two trunks, anterior and posterior. The anterior, and smaller division, which receives nearly the whole of the motor root, divides into branches, which supply the muscles of mastication. They are the masseteric, deep temporal, buccal,* and two pterygoid. The masseteric Iranch passes outwards, above the External pterygoid muscle, in front of the temporo-maxillary articulation, and crosses the sigmoid notch, with the masseteric artery, to the Masseter muscle, in which it ramifies neaidy as far as its anterior border. It occasionally gives a branch to the Temporal muscle, and a filament to the articulation of the jaw. The deep temporal hranches, two in number, anterior and posterior, supply the deep surface of the Temporal mubcle. The 'posterior branch, of small size, is placed at the back of the lemporal fossa. It is sometimes joined with the masseteric branch. The anterior hranch is reflected upwards, at the pterygoid ridge of the sphenoid, to the front of the temporal fossa. It is occasionally joined with the buccal nerve. The hucca\branch pierces the External pterygoid, and passes downwards beneath the inner surfe,ce of the coronoid process of the lower jaw, or through the fibres of the Temporal muscle to reach the surface of the Buccinator, upon which it divides into a superior and an inferior branch. It gives a branch to the External ptery- goid during its passage through that muscle, and a few ascending filaments to the Temporal muscle, one of which occasionally joins with the anterior branch of the deep temporal nerve. The upper hranch supphes the integument and upper part of the Buccina,tor muscle, joining with the facial nerve round the facial vein. The lotver hranch passes forwards to the angle of the mouth ; it supplies the integument and Buccinator muscle, as well as the mucous membrane lining the inner surface of that muscle, and joins the facial nerve. The pterygoid branches are two in number, one for each pterygoid muscle. The Iranch to the Internal pterygoid is long and slender, and passes inwards to enter * It is doubtful whether the buccal branch conveys only sensory power to the buccinator, or motor influence likewise.