438 VEINS. The deep veins have numerous anastomoses, not only with pach other, but also with the superficial veins. The AxiLLAUY Vbin is of large size and formed by the continuation upwards . of the basilic vein. It commences at the lower part of the axillary space, increases i in size as it ascends, by receiving branches corresponding with those of the i axillary artery, and terminates immediately beneath the clavicle at the outer mar- gin of the first rib, where it becomes the subclavian vein. This vessel is covered . in front by the Pectoral muscles and costo-coracoid membrane, and lies on the thoracic side of the axillary artery. Opposite the Subscapularis, it is joined by a . large vein, formed by the junction of the venas comites of the brachial; and near • its termination it receives the cephalic vein. This vein is provided with a pair of' valves, opposite the lower border of the Subscapularis muscle; valves are also • found at the termination of the cephalic and subscapular veins. The Subclavian Vein, the continuation of the axillary, extends from the outer • margin of the first rib to the inner end of the sterno-clavicular articulation, where i it unites with the internal jugular, to form the vena innominata. It is in relation, in front, with the clavicle and Subclavius muscle ; behind, with the subclavian artery, from which it is separated internally by the Scalenus anticus and phrenic: nerve. Below, it rests in a depression on the first rib and upon the pleura. Above, it is covered by the cervical fascia and integument. The subclavian vein occasionally rises in the neck to a level with the third part of the subclavian artery, and in two instances has been seen passing with this vessel behind the Scalenus anticus. This vessel is provided with valves about an inch from its termination in the innominate, just external to the entrance of the external jugular vein. Branches. It receives the external and anterior jugular veins and a small branch from the cephalic, outside the Scalenus; and on the inner side of that muscle, the internal jugular vein. The VENiE iNNOMiNATiE (fig. 241) are two large trunks, placed one on each side of the root of the neck, and formed by the union of the internal jugular and subclavian veins of the corresponding side. The Bight Vena Innominata is a short vessel, about an inch and a half in length, which commences at the inner end of the clavicle, and, passing almost vertically downwards, joins with the left vena innominata just below the cartilage of the first rib, to form the superior vena cava. It Ues superficial and external to the artena innominata ; on its right side the pleura is interposed between it and the apex of the lung. This vein, at its angle of junction with the subclavian, receives the right vertebral vein, and right lymphatic duct; and, lower down, the right internal mammary, right inferior thyroid, and right superior intercostal veins. The Left Vena Innominata, about three inches in length, and larger than the right, passes obUquely from left to right across the upper and front part of the chest, to unite with its fellow of the opposite side, forming the superior vena cava. It is in relation, in front, with the sternal end of the clavicle, the sterno- clavicular articulation, and the first piece of the sternum, from which it jb separated by the Sterno-hyoid and Stemo-thyroid muscles, the thymus gland or its remains, and some loose areolar tissue. Behind, it lies across the roots of the three large arteries arising from the arch of the aorta. This vessel is jomed by the left vertebral, left inferior thyroid, left internal mammary, and the left superior intercostal veins, and occasionally some thymic and pericardiac veins. There are no valves in the vense' innominatse. Peculiarities, Sometimes the innominate veins open separately into the right auricle; i» such cases the right vein takes the ordinary course of the superior "^^na ca%a, ou the left vein, after communicating by a small branch with the right one, P«f ^J/" thr root of the left lung, and turnmg to the back of the heart receives the P^f 7^ "?;, terminates in the back of the right auricle. This occasional condition of fl^^ ^^"'^Ji"^;^;; adult, is a regular one in the fcBtus at an early period, and the two j^^^^^^ in birds and some mammalia. The subsequent changes which take place m these ves^eis,