URINARY ORGANS. The liimfhaties accompany tlio blood-vessels, passing through the glands surrounding them. The nerves are derived from the hypogastric and sacral plexuses ; the former supplying the upper part of the organ, the latter its base and neck. Male Uiiethua. The urethra extends from the neck of the bladder to the meatus urinarius. It presents a double curve in the flaccid state of the penis, but in the erect state it forms only a single curve, the concavity of which is directed upwards (fig. 387). Its length varies from eight to nine inches ; and it is divided into three portions, the prostatic, membranous, and spongy, the structure and relations of which are essentially different. The Prostatic, portion is the widest and most dilatable part of the canal. It passes through the prostate gland, from its base to the apex, lying nearer its upper than its lower surface. It is about an inch and a quarter in length; the form of the canal is spindle-shaped, being wider in the middle than at either extremity and nan'owest in front, where it joins the membranous portion. A transver.se section of the canal in this situation is triangular, the apex directed downwards. Upon the floor of the canal is a narrow longitudinal ridge, the verumontanum, or caput gallinaginis, formed by an elevation of the mucous membrane and its subjacent tissue. It is eight or nine lines in length, and a line and a half in height; and contains, according to Kobelt, muscular and erectile tissues. When distended, it may serve to prevent the passage of the semen backw^ards into the bladder. On each side of the verumontanum is a slightly depressed fossa, the prostatic sinus, the floor of ■which is perforated by numerous apertures, the orifices of the prostatic ducts, the ducts of the middle lobe opening behind the crest. At the fore part of the verumontanum, in the middle line, is a depression, the sinus ^ocularis (yesictda prostatica) ; and upon or within its margins are the slit-like openings of the ejaculatory ducts. The sinus pocularis forms a cul-de-sac about a quarter of an inch in length, which runs upwai-ds and backwards in the substance of the prostate beneath the middle lobe; its prominent upper wall partly forms the verumontanum. Its walls are composed of fibrous tissue, muscular fibres, and mucous membrane ; and numerous small glands open on its inner surface. It has been called by Weber, who discovered it, the titerus mascuUnus, from its supposed homology with the female organ. The Meinhranous portion of the urethra extends between the apex of the prostate, and the bulb of the corpus spongiosum. It is the narro\yest part of the canal (excepting the orifice), and measures three-quarters of an inch along its upper and half an inch along its lower surface, in consequence of the bulb projecting back- wards beneath it below. Its upper concave surface is placed about an inch beneath the pubic arch, from which it is separated by the dorsal vessels and nerves of the penis, and some muscular fibres. Its lower convex surface is separated from the rectum by a triangular space, which constitutes the perinfBum. The membranous portion of the urethra perforates the deep perineal fascia; and two layers from this membrane are prolonged round it, the one forwards, the other backwards; it is also surrounded by the Compressor urethra muscle. Its coverings are mucous membrane, elastic fibrous tissue, a thin layer of erectile tissue, muscular fibres, and a prolongation from the deep perinasal fascia. The Spongy portion is the longest part of the urethra, and is contained in the corpus spongiosum. It is about six inches in length, and extends from the ter- mination of the membranous portion to tho meatus urinarius. Commencing below the symphysis pubis, it ascends for a short distance, and then curves downward.-^. It is narrow, and of uniform size in the body of the penis, measuring about a quarter of an inch in diameter; being dilated behind, within the bulb; and again anteriorly within the glans penis, forming the fossa naviculars. A cross section of this canal in tho body of the penis has its long diameter transvei-se ; but in the glans, t hat diameter is directed vertically.