693 THE KIDNEYS. 378._l)iagrammatlc Repveseutntion of the Blood-vessels in the Siibstimce of the Cortex of the Kidney. a notwovk of eapilladcB f.o.n wbicU the efferent arises (^/J, fig 378)._ Tins latter ves makes its egress from the capsule near to the point whei-e the aiierent enters ; xesseimaktb i ^^^^^^ anastomosing with other effer- ents from other tufts, contributes to form a dense venous fhxus around the urinary tubes adjacent (shown below m in Og. 378). The Malpifjldau cajjsiile, which sur- rounds the glomerulus, is formed of homogeneous membrane, thicker here than at any other part of the tube. It is pierced at a point usually opposite the centre of the tubule, with which it is continuous, by the afferent and efferent renals, and is hned upon its inner sur- face by a delicate layer of either cubical or squamous epithelium ; but as regards this layer, whether it is prolonged over the tuft either in whole or in part, there is a diversity of opinion among many of the most eminent observers. According to Henle, Ecker, and Bow- man, it is not reflected upon the tuft at all, so that the latter hangs free and imcovered in the interior of the capsule (fig- 379-^) ; °^ other hand, Gerlach, Isaachs, Moleschott, and Chrzonszezewsky assert that it can be traced upon the whole of the tuft, and that the cells are even larger and better marked than those upon 711. Region of the medullary rny. 6. Region of the tortuous portion of the tubules, at. Arteria interlobularis. vi. Vena interlobularis. va. Vas ivfferens. G-Iomeniln?. ve. Vas efferens. i j. Venous twig of the interlobalarium.—(From Ludwig, in ' Strieker's Handbook.') 379- FIC.C the internal surface of the capsule (fig. 379 b) ; whilst yet a third arrangement has been described by KoUiker, who says that the tuft has no epithelial lining on the greater 2^art its extent, but upon that portion which looks towards the com- mencing tubule a special layer of cubical cells can always be seen (fig. 379 c). In the frog, the cells lining the interior of the capsule, near its junction with the tube, are provided with cilia, but in the human subject their presence has not been satisfactorily demonstrated. The Tuhuli Uriniferi: their course. The tubuli uriniferi commence as Mal- phighian capsules, and soon after their origin have an average diameter of ^i^yth of an inch. Thus arising, they pass in so convoluted a manner throughout the cortical substance as to merit the name of tithuU coiitorti. Many of them, according to Henle, soon after their commencement, suddenly become smaller and straighter, and, dipping down to a variable depth in the medullary structure, and returning from thence somewhat larger, re-enter the cortical. The portion of the tube between