714 MALE GENERATIVE ORGANS. ment of the vas deferens. It extends up into the cord for about two or three inches, where it terminates by a blind extremity, which is occasionally bifurcated. Its length varies from an inch and a half to fourteen inches, and sometimes it be- comes dilated towards its extremity : more commonly, it retains the same diameter throughout. Its structure is similar to that of the vas deferens. Occasionally, it is found unconnected with the epididymis. The Vas Deferens, the excretory duct of the testis, is the continuation of the epididymis. Commencing at the lower pai-t of the globus minor, it ascends along the posterior and inner side of the testis and epididymis, and along the back part of the spermatic cord, through the spermatic canal to the intei'nal abdominal rino-. From the ring it descends into the pelvis, crossing the external iliac vessels, and curves round the outer side of the epigastric artery : at the side of the bladder, it arches backwards and downwards to its base, crossing outside the ol^literated hypogastric artery, and to the inner side of the ureter. At the base of the bladder, it lies between that viscus and the rectum, running along the inner . border of the vesicula seminalis. In this situation it becomes enlarged and sac- culated ; and, becoming narrowed, at the base of the prostate, unites with the duct of the vesicula seminalis to form the ejaculatory duct. The vas deferens presents a hard and cord-like sensation to the fingers ; it is about two feet in length, of cylin- drical form, and about a line and a quarter in diameter. Its walls are of extreme density and thickness, measuring one-third of a line ; and its canal is extremely small, measuring about half a line. In structure, the vas deferens consists of three coats : i. An external, or cellular coat; 2. A muscular coat, which is thick, dense, elastic, and consists of two longi- tudinal, and an intermediate circular layer of muscular fibres; 3. An internal, or mucous coat, which is pale, and arranged in longitudinal folds; its epithelial covering is of the columnar variety. Vesicula Seminales. The Semmal Vesicles are two lobulated membranous pouches, placed between the base of the bladder and the rectum, serving as reservoirs for the semen, and secreting some fluid to be added to that of the testicles. Each sac is somewhat pvramidalin form, the broad end being directed backwards, and the narrow end forward towards the prostate. They measure about two and a half inches m lenffth about five lines in breadth, and from two or three lines m thickness. Th^Y vary however, in size, not only in diflFerent individuals, but also m the same individual'on the two sides. Their upper surface is m contact with the base of the bladder, extending from near the termination of the ureters to the base of the Drostate gland Their under surface rests upon the rectum, fi-om which they ai-e separated by the recto-vesical fascia. Their posterior extremities diverge from each other Their anterior extremities are pointed, and converge towards the base of the prostate gland, where each joins with the corresponding vas deferens to form the eiaculatory duct. Along the inner margm of each vesicula runs the enlarged and convoluted vas deferens. The inner border of the vesiculae, and the corresponding vas deferens, form the lateral boundary of a triangular space, limited behTnd by the recto-vesical peritoneal fold; the portion of the bladder mcluded in this space rests on the rectum, and corresponds with thetrigonum vesicfe m its '''^^'structure. Each vesicula consists of a single tube, coiled upon itself, and giving off several irregular csEcal diverticula; the separate coils, as well as the diverticula, being connected together by fibrous tissue. When uncoiled, this tube is about the diameter of a qSill, and varies in length from four to six inches ; it terminates tosterrly in a culde-sac; its anterior extremity becomes constricted into a narrow straight duct, which joins on its inner side with the correspondmg vas one on each side^ are ^rmed by the junltnTthe duct of- the vesicula seminalis with the vas deferens. Each duct