FEMUR. 'I. lilt i: ior Surface. opposite the trochanter minor, to the anterior extremity of the internal con- dyle. The internal border marks the limit of attachment of the Crureus muscle internally". The anterior surface includes that por- tion of the shaft which is situated between the two lateral borders. It is smooth convex, broader above and below than in the centre, slightly twisted, so that its upper part is directed forwards and a little outwards, its lower part forwards and a little inwards. To the upper three- fourths of this surface the Crureus is attached ; the lower fourth is separated from the muscle by the intervention of the synovial membrane of the knee-joint, and affords attachment to' the Subcrureus to a small extent. The external surface includes the portion of bone between the external border and the outer lip of the linea aspera ; it is continuous above, with the outer surface o£ the great trochanter ; below with the outer surface of the ex- ternal condyle : to its upper three-fourths is attached the outer portion of the Crureus muscle. The internal swface includes the portion of bone between the internal border and the inner lip of the linea aspera; it is continuous, above, with the lower border of the neck ; below, with the inner side of the internal con- dyle : it is covered by the Vastus intemus muscle. The Lower Extremity, larger than the upper, is of a cuboid form, flattened from before backwards, and divided into two large eminences, the condyles (kovSvXoc, (t hnucJcle), by an interval which presents a smooth depression in front called the trochlea, and a notch of considerable size behind —the intercondyloid notch. The external condyle is the more pro- minent anteriorly, and is the broader both in the antero-posterior and trans- verse diameters. The internal condyle is the narrower, longer, and more pro- minent internally. This difference in i1- O^ovtfor Itnion POPLlTEUa the length of the two con- dyles is only observed when the bone is perpendicular, and depends upon the obli- quity of the t^igh-bones, in consequence of their^separa- tion above at the articulation with the pelvis. If the femur is held bliquely, the surfaces