36 THE SKETiETON. irregular OBseoua laminro. Occasionally, tliey extend into the basilar process of the occipital nearly as far as the foramen magnum. The septum is seldom quite vertical, being conunonly bent to one or the other side. These smuses do nob exist in children, but they increase in size as age advances. They are partially closed, in front and below, by two thin curved plates of bone; the sphenoidal turbinated bones, leaving a round opening at their upper parts, by which they communicate with the upper and back part of the nose, and occasionally with the posterior ethmoidal cells or sinuses. The lateral margins of this surface present a serrated edge, which articulates with the os planum of the ethmoid, completing the posterior ethmoidal cells; the lower margin, also rough and serrated, articu- lates with the orbital process of the palate bone ; and the upper margin with the orbital plate of the frontal bone. The inferior surface presents, in the middle hne, a triangular spine, the rostrum, which is continuous with the vertical plate on the anterior surface, and is received into a deep fissure between the ala; of the vomer. On each side may be seen a projecting lamina of bone, which runs horizontally inwards from near the base of the pterygoid process: these plates, termed the vao-inal processes, articulate with the edges of the vomer. Close to the root ot the pterygoid process is a groove, formed into a complete canal when articulated with the sphenoidal process of the palate bone ; it is called the pterygo-palatme canal, and transmits the pterygo-palatine vessels and pharyngeal nerve. The Greater Wings are two strong processes of bone, which arise from the sides ot the body, and arc curved in a direction upwards, outwards, and backwards; being proloncre'd behind into a sharp-pointed extremity, the spi«07*s process of the sphenoid Each wine presents three surfaces and a circumference. The sui^erun-ov ccreOrai surface (fig 34) forms part of the middle fossa of the skull; it is /^^P^' cavc, and presents eminences and depressions for the convolutions ot the Drain. At its anterior and internal part is seen a circular aperture, the foramen rotundum, for the transmission of the second division of the fifth nerve. Behind and ex- ternal to this is a largo oval foramen, the foramen ovale, for the tmnsmission o the third division of tlic fifth nerve, the small meningeal artery and the sman petrosal nerve. At the inner side of the foramen ovale, a small aperture may occasionally be seen opposite the root of the pterygoid process; it is the foramen • In this figure, both tlm anterior and inforior .snrfaoos of the body of the sphenoid bone are^liown, the bone being held with llie pterygoid processes nlmost horizontal.