293 OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. Posterior Tihio-fibular Begit Supeificial Layer. Gastrocnemius. Plantaris. Soleus. Deep Laijer. Popliteus. Flexor longus pollicis. Flexor longus digitorum. Tibialis posticus. Fibular Region. Peroneus longus. Peroneus brevis. Foot. Dorsal Begion, Extensor brevis digitorum. Plantar Begion. First Layer. Abductor pollicis. Flexor brevis digitorum. Abductor minimi digiti. Second Layer. Flexor accessorius. Lumbricales. Third Layer. Flexor brevis pollicis. Adductor pollicis. Flexor brevis minimi digiti. Transversus pedis. Fourth Layer. . The Interrossei. Iliac Region. Psoas Magnus. Psoas Parvus. Iliacus. Dissection. No detailed description is required for the dissection of these muscles. On the removal of the viscera from the abdomen, they are exposed, covered by the peritoneum and a thin layer of fascia, the fascia iliaoa. The iliac fascia is the aponeurotic layer which lines, the back part of the abdominal cavity, and covers the Psoas and Iliacus mxiscles throughout their whole extent. It is thin above; and becomes gradually thicker below, as it approaches the femoral arch. The pm-tion investing the Psoas, is attached, above, to the ligamentum arcuatum internum; internally, to the sacrum ; and by a series of arched processes to the intervertebral substances, and prominent margins of the bodies of the vertebrte; the intervals so left, opposite the constricted portions of the bodies, transmitting the lumbar arteries and filaments of the sympathetic nerve. Externally, this portion of the iliac fascia is continuous with the fascia lumborum. The portion investing the Iliacus is connected, externally, to the vyhole length of the inner border of the crest of the ilium; and internally to tlT,e brim of the true pelvis, where it is continuous with the periosteum, and repeives the tendon of insertion of the Psoas parvus, when that muscle exists. External to the femoral vessels, this fascia is intimately connected with Poupart's ligament, and is con- tinuous with the fascia transversalis ; but, as the femoral vessels, pass down into the thigh, it is prolonged down behind them, forming the posterior wall of the femoral sheath. Outside the femoral sheath, the ihac fa,scia surrounds the Psoas and Iliacus muscles to their termination, and becomes continuous with the Iliac portion of the fascia lata. Internal to the femoral vessels, the iliac fascia is connected to the ilio-pectineal line, and is continuous with the pubic portion of the fascia lata. The external ihac vessels He in front of the ili^o fascia, but all the branches of the lumbar plexus behind it; it is separated from the peritoneum by a quantity of loose areolar tissue. In a,bscess accompanying caries of the lower part of the spine, the matter makes its way to the femoral arch, distending the sheath of the Psoas ; and when it accumulates in. considerable quantity, this muscle becomes absorbed, and the nervous cords contained in it are dissected out, and are exposed in the cavity of the abscess ; the femoral vessels, however, remain intact, and the peri- toneum seldom becomes implicated. Remove this fascia, and the muscles of the iliac region will be exposed. The Psoas Magnus (fig. 187) is a long fusiform muscle, placed on the side of