38o ARTERIES. ning forwards, it passes between the muscles of tlio thumb, which it supplies, and sometimes anastomoses with the termination of the ulnar artery, completing the superficial palmar arch. This vessel varies considerably in size ; usually it is very small, and terminates in the muscles of the thumb; sometimes it is as large as the continuation of the radial. 220.—Ulnar and Radial Arteries, Uoep View. AiUistomtttirr* Muyitu Radial Jleeurrfut F<uitr_ ZiUcroMfoul/ Anin^'or VInaT Jtteurrtut Scrli rrent Tho carfal Iranchos supply the joints of tho wrist. Tho anterior carpal is a small vessel which arises from the radial artery near tho lower border of the Pronator quad- ratus, and running inwards in front of the radius, anastomoses with the anterior carpal branch of the ulnar artery. From the arch thus formed, branches descend to supply the ar- ticulations of the wrist. The posterior carpal is a small vessel which arises from the radial artery beneath the extensor tendons of the thumb ; crossing the carpus transversely to the inner border of the hand, it anastomoses with the posterior carpal branch of the tilnar. It sends branches upwards, which anastomose with the termination of the anterior interosseous artery; other branches descend to the meta- carpal spaces ; they are the dorsal interosseous arteries for the third and fourth interosseous spaces; they anastomose with the posterior per- forating branches from the deep palmar arch. The metacarpal (first dorsal in- terosseous branch) arises beneath the extensor tendons of the thumb, sometimes with the posterior carpal artery; running forwards on the second dorsal interosseous muscle, it communicates, behind, with the corresponding perforating branch of the deep palmar arch; and,^ in front, inosculates with the digital branch of the superficial palmar arch, and supplies the adjoining sides of the index and middle fingers. The dorsalespolUcisarG two small vessels whicb run along the sides of the dorsal aspect of the thumb. Thev arise separately, or occasion- allv by a common trunk near the base of the first metacarpal bone. The dorsalis inulids, also a small branch, runs along the radial side of the back e H-rirlnT finfrer sending a few branches to the Abductor mdicis. »rf nf tbo hand ■ it dcsconds tctweon tho Abductor Indies and Abdnctor poU.c.^ £g tho ninTr Jdo ot tho motaca>-pal bono of tho thumb, to tho baso of the first AnicYlov Carpal SupeifCcLcUis Va/i uterior Ca^yMiI 6rtutei of T/ljuxr