URINARY ORGANS. 694 the loop and tlie straight tube is sometimes called the intercalated convoluted tube ■ i^'y fio- 380.) The tubes taking the course above described form a kiud of loop, 380. A, Malpighlan body. B. OonToluted uriniferous tube. B'. Portion intervening between the straight tube and the loop ot Henle (Intercalated conYOlut'ed tube of Schaltstttck). CC. Looped tube of Henle. D. Straight tube. and are known as the looped or recurrent tubes of Henle,, the descending and ascending limbs of which, have the diameter of ^^^yth and -roViyth of an inch respectively. The ascending limbs having arrived at the cortical structure, become again convoluted, and, together with those of the tubuli contorti which have not entered into the loops, end in the straight tubes, or tubuli recti, next to be described. Each straight, otherwise called a collecting or receiving tube, commences at about one line from the surface of the kidney by the coalescence of two or more of the convoluted tubes above men- tioned. Passing towards the rueduUary substance, it continues to receive on either side more con- voluted tubes, until at length it enters a pyramid of Malpighi, where it joins at very acute angles with receiving tubes similarly formed, and finally terminates by an opening at the mamillary apex, emptying its contents into the calyx adjacent. According to Huschke there are about a thousand straight tubes opening upon the apex of each pyramid, but their number is estimated by Kolliker at about five hundred. It will be seen from the above description, that eacli of the straight tubes whilst in the cortical structure is surrounded by numerous tubuli con- torti; and hence,, that a kind of pyramid is formed ; the apex of which consists of the tubulus rectus as it enters the Malpigliian pyramid, wliilst the base, composed of the commencing straight tube with the tubuli contorti from which 38r. X A Diagrammatical sketch of a pyramid of Ferrein. B B. Margin of medullary structure. C C 0. Loops of HeiUe. D D D. straight tubes cut off. E. Com- mencing straight tubes. l\ Termina- tion of straight tube. it originates, looks towards the