HIP-JOINT. 189 The Gapmlar Ligament is a strong, dense, ligamentous capsule, embracing the margin of the acetabulum above, and surrounding the neck of the femur below. Its topper circumference is attached to the acetabulum two or three lines external to the cotyloid ligament; but opposite the notch where the margin of this cavity is deficient, it is connected with the transverse ligament, and by a few fibres to the edge of the obturator foramen. Its loioer circmnference surrounds the neck of the femur, being attached, in front, to the spiral or anterior intertrochanteric line ; above, to the base of the neck ; behind, to the middle of the neck of the bone, about half an inch above the posterior intertrochanteric line. It is much thicker at the upper and fore part of the joint where the greatest amount of resistance is required, than below, where it is thin, loose, and longer than in any other part. Its external surface (fig. 127) is rough, covered by numerous muscles, and sepa- rated in front from the Psoas and Iliacus by a synovial bursa, which not unfre- quently communicates by a circular aperture with the cavity of the joint. It differs from the capsular ligament of the shoulder, in being much less loose and lax, and in not being perforated for the passage of a tendon. The Hio-femoral Ligament (fig. J27) is an accessory band of fibres, extending obliquely across the front of the joint; it is intimately connected with the capsular ligament, and serves to strengthen it in this situation. It is attached, above, to the anterior inferior spine of the ilium; below, to the anterior intertrochanteric line. Its lower part is sometimes bifurcated, an arrangement which Bigelow seems to re-' gard as the usual one, so that be describes it under the name of ' the T-ligament' * The Ligamentum Teres is a triangular band of fibres, implanted, by its apex, into the depression a Little behind and below the centre of the head of the femur, and by its broad base, which consists of two bundles of fibres, into the margins of the notch at the bottom of the acetabulum, becoming blended witb the transverse ligament. It is formed of a bundle of fibres, the thickness and strength of which are very vainable, surrounded by a tubular sheath of synovial membrane. Some- times, only the synovial fold exists, or the ligament may be altogether absent. Th e use of the round ligament is to check rotation outwards, as well as adduction in the flexed position : it thus assists in preventing dislocation of the head of the femur forwards and outwards, an accident likely to occur from the necessary mechanism of the joint, if not provided against by this ligament and the thick anterior part of the capsule, f The Cotyloid Ligament is a fibre-cartilaginous rim attached to the margin of the acetabulum, the cavity of which it deepens ; at the same time-it protects the edges of the bone, and fills up the inequalities on its surface. It is prismoid in form, its base being attached to the margin of the acetabulum, and its opposite edge being free and sharp ; whilst its two surfaces are invested by synovial mem- brane, the external one being in contact with the capsular ligament, the internal one being inclined inwards so as to narrow the acetabulum and embrace the cartilaginous surface of the head of the femur. It is much thicker above and behind than below and in front, and consists of close compact fibres, which arise from different points of the circumference of the acetabulum, and interlace with each other at very acute angles. The Transverse Ligament is a strong flattened band of fibres, which crosses the notch at the lower part of the acetabulum, and converts it into a foramen. It is * Bigelow on the Hip-Joint. 7)r \^Qf TJ^^^TrT P'l^^^r' °f Eound Ligament of the Hip-Joint,' by assii.i f ^'^'''^fy^ .^^t" T^' ^^58. This ligament is best studied with ihl tSfnP «nH P^^'^'^f ^^'^ th« of the acetabulum has been removed with a the o h!; ni Tff \ ^T^^f "^"''"'"8^ '^^'^y Savory, without denying DoLion nn^l ^ to tins ligament, says that it is always made tense in the up4ht Ct its'ZlV • standing on one leg; and therefore he maintains flm,oii„ „ , support the weight of the body, and distribute its pressure equally over the whole surface 0/ the acetabuhun and head of the femur. Lancet, ky 23,