ETHMOID BONE. 39 place in those pieces in the following order : tho greater wing and external pterygoid plate az-e Hrsl formed, ossiEc granules being deported c ose o ^J^^ ^ -. 1- -J J. „i,«,-,f seeond month oi foetal luo irom Uience rotundura on each side, at about tne seouuu muuu i • 4. 08 ifiTation spreads out;ards into the great wing and downwards xnto the ex terna pLyg^ plate. Each internal pterygoid p ate is then formed, and becomes uit^d to the external about the middle of fc«fca life The two centres for the posterior part of the body appear as separate nuclei, side by side, beneath ^e seuf Ttrartbey join, about'the middle of fcBtal life, into a single piece, which lemains uk-uniid to the rest of the bone until after birth. Each lesser wine is formed by a separate centre, which appears on the outer side of the ^ptic foramen, at^about'the third -o-^h ; they become united and join w h the body at ab^ut the eighth month of fcatal life. At about tlie end of the third year, ossification has made its appearance in the sphenoidal spongy bones. At birth the sphenoid consists of three pieces : viz. the greater wmg and ptery- goid processes on each side ; the lesser wings and body united. At the first year after bii-th, the greater wings and body are united. From the tenth to the twelfth year the spongy bones are partially united to the sphenoid, their junction being complete by the twentieth year. Lastly, the sphenoid joins the occipital. Articidations. The sphenoid articulates with all the bones of the cranium, and five of the face; the two malar, two palate, and vomer : the exact extent of arti- culation with each bone is shown in the accompanying figures. Attachment of Muscles. The Temporal, External pterygoid. Internal pterygoid, Superior constrictor. Tensor palati, Laxator tympani, Levator palpebrse, Obliquus superior, Superior rectus. Internal rectus. Inferior rectus, External rectus. The Ethmoid Bone. The Ethmoid {fiUfxk, a sieve), is an exceedingly light spongy bone, of a cubical form, situated at the anterior part of the base of the cranium, between the two orbits, at the root of the nose, and contributing to form each 38.—Ethmoid Bone. Outer Surface of Right Lateral Mass (enlarged). of these cavities. It consists of three parts: a horizontal plate, which forms part of the base of the cranium ; a per- pendicular plate, which forms part of the septum nasi; and two lateral masses of cells. The Horizontal or Grihri' form Plate (fig. 38) forms part of the anterior fossa of the base of the skull, and is re- ceived into the ethmoid notch of the frontal bone between the two orbital plates. Pro- jecting upwards from the middle line of this plate, is a thick, smooth, triangular pro- cess of bone, the cristi galli, so called from its resemblance to a cock's comb. Its base joins the cribriform plate. Its posterior border, long, thin, and slightly curved, serves for the attachment of the falx cerebri. Its anterior border, short and thick, articulates with the frontal bone, and presents two small projecting alse, which swo received into corresponding depressions in tho frontal, completing the foramen coecum behind. Its sides are smooth, and sometimes bulging; in which case it is found to enclose a small sinus. On each side of tho crista galli, the cribriform plate is narrow, and deeply grooved, to support the bulb of the ufifA inf.^iur'binuted