METACARPO-PHALANGEAL. 187 LATERAL LIGAMENT- The Synovial Membrane lining the lateral facets is a reflection from tliat between the two rows of carpal bones. The digital extremities of the metacarpal bones are connected together by a narrow fibrous band, the transverse ligament (fig. 137) which passes transversely across their anterior surfaces, and is blended with the ligaments of the metacarpo- phalangeal articulations. Its anterior surface presents four grooves for the passage of the flexor tendons. Its posterior surface blends with the ligaments of the metacarpo-phalangeal articulations. X. Metacarpo-phalangeal Articulations. (Fg. 137.) These articulations are of the ginglymus kind, formed by the reception of the rounded head of the metacarpal bone, into a superficial cavity in the extremity of the first phalanx. They are connected by the following ligaments :— Anterior. Two Lateral. The Anterior Ligaments (Glenoid Ligaments of Oruveilhier) are thick, dense, and fibre-cartilaginous in tex- 137.—Articulations of the Phalanges. ture. Each is placed on the palmar surface of the joint, in the interval between the late- ral ligaments, to which they are connected ; they are loose- ly united to the metacarpal bone, but very firmly to the Met<icaT^ff-jaJialaTtciud base of the first phalanges. Their palmar surface is in- timately blended with the transverse Kgament, forming a groove for the passage of the flexor tendons, the sheath, surrounding which is con- nected to each side of the groove. By their deep sur- face, they form part of the articular surface for the head of the metacarpal bone, and are lined by a synovial mem- brane. The Lateral Ligaments are strong rounded cords, placed one on eacli side of the joint, each, being attached by one extremity to the tubercle on the side of the head of the metacarpal bone, and 'by the other to the contiguous ex- tremity of the phalanx. The posterior ligament ia supplied by the extensor ten- don placed over the back of each joint. Adiom. The movements which occur in these joints are flexion, extension, adduction, abduction, and circumduction; the lateral movements are very limited. XI. Aetictoations of the Phalanges. These are ginglymus joints, connected by the following ligaments Two Lateral. Artie rf Anterior.