OF THE SOLE OP THE FOOT. THIRD LAYER. 321 196.- -Muscles of the Sole of the Foot. Third Layer. Third Layer. Floxor Biievia Pollicis. Elexoi- BroviH Minimi Digiti. Adductor Pollicis. Transversua Pedis. The Flexor Brevis Pollicis arises, by a pointed tendinous process, from the inner border of the cuboid bone, from the contiguous portion of the external cuneiform, and from the prolongation of the tendon of the Tibialis posticus, which is attached to that bone. The muscle divides, in front, into two portions, which are inserted into the inner and outer sides of the base of the first phalanx of the great toe, a sesamoid bone being developed in each tendon at its insertion. The inner portion of this muscle is blended with the Abductor pollicis previous to its insertion, the outer with the Adductor pollicis, and the tendon of the Flexor longus pollicis lies in a groove between them. Relations. By its stiperficial surface, with the Abductor pollicis, the ten- don of the Flexor longus pollicis and plantar fascia. By its deej) surface, with the tendon of the Peroneus longus, and metatarsal bone of the great toe. By its inner harder, with the Abductor pollicis. By its aider border, with the Adductor Pollicis. The Adductor Pollicis is a large, thick, fleshy mass, passing obliquely across the foot, and occupying the hol- low space between the four outer meta- tarsal bones. It arises from the tarsal extremities of the second, third, and fourth metatarsal bones, and from the sheath of the tendon of the Peroneus longus, and is inserted, together with the outer portion of the Flexor brevis pollicis, into the outer side of the base of the first phalanx of the great toe. The Flexor Brevis Minimi Digiti lies on the metatarsal bone of the little toe, and much resembles one of the Interossei. It arises from the base of the metatarsal bone of the little toe, and from the sheath of the Peroneus longus ; its tendon is inserted into the base of the first phalanx of the little . toe on its outer side. Melahons. _ By its superficial surface, with the plantar fascia, and tendon of the Abductor mmimi diojiti. By its deejp surface, with the fifth metatarsal bone. The Transversus Pedis is a narrow, flat, muscular fasciculus, stretched trans- versely across the heads of the metatarsal bones, between them and the flexor tendons. It arises from the under surface of the head of the fifth metatarsal bone, and from the transverse hgament of the metatarsus ; and is inserted into the outer side ot the farst phalanx of the great toe; its fibres being blended with the tendon of insertion of the Adductor pollicis. Y '