MUSCLES AND FASCIiE. Xoo ■,. , 1 lipnfl of the tibia, and thus maintaiiiin'r the support rig it perpendicularly upon the head o uio uu o I.- • 1 i f n 1 1 , MM.n Rectus muscle assists the i'soas and lliacus, m entire weight of the body iho ^^^^ '^ ■ forwards, supporting the pelvis and trunk upon tlio iemui, or m u y Internal Femoral Region. Gracilis. Pectineus. Adductor Longus. Adductor Brcvis. Adductor Magnus. Dissection. These muscles are at once ex- ^ hTvemovrn'T the fascia from the fore K and'^ii ue s7J| of the thigh. The limh Tould he abducted, so as to render the muscles tense, and easier of dissection. The Gracilis (figs. 187, 190) is the most superficial muscle on the inner side ot the thigh. It is thin and flattened, broad above, "narrow and tapering below. It arises by a thin aponeurosis between two and three inches in breadth, from the inner margin of the ramus of the pubes and ischium. The fibres pass vertically downwards, and terminate in a rounded tendon wHcb passes behind tbe internal condyle of the femur, and curving round the inner tuberosity of the tibia, becomes flattened, and is inserted into the upper part of the inner surface of the shaft of the tibia, below the tuberosity. The ten- don of this muscle is situated immediately above that of the Semitendinosus and beneatb the aponeurosis of the Sartorms witb which it is in part blended. As it passes across the internal lateral ligamen of the knee-joint, it is separated from it by a synovial bursa common to it and tJie ' Semitendinosus muscle. _ Belcdions. By its superficial surface, y,ith the fascia lata and the Sartorms be- low ; the internal saphenous vein crosses it obliquely near its lower part, lying superficial to tbe fascia lata. By its chep surface, with the three Adductors and the internal lateral ligament of the knoe- ''''"'The Pectineus (fig. 187) is a flat quad- rangular muscle, situated at the antenor part of the upper and inner aspect ot the thigh. It arises from the linea iho-pceti- nea, from the surface of bone in front of it, between the pectineal eminence and spme of the pnbcs, and from a tendinous pro- longation of Gimbernat's ligament, which is attached to the crest of the pubes, and is continuous with the fascia covering the -Beep Muscles of the Internal Femoral ^legion.