GENERAL AITATOMY. delicate membranous wall, enclosing a finely granular material, part ol" whicL. is occasionally of a coarser kind, and of a reddish or yellowish- brown colour. The nucleus is vesicular, much smaller than the vesicle, and adherent to some part of its interior. The nucleolus, which is enclosed within the nucleus, is vesicular in form, of minute size, and peculiarly clear and brilliant. The nerve-corpuscles vary in shape and size; some are small, spherical, or ovoidal, with an uninterrupted outline. These forms are most numerous in the ganglia of the sympathetic. Others, called caudate or stellate nerve-corpuscles, are characterised by their larger size, and from having one or more tail-like processes issuing from them, which occasionally divide and subdivide into numerous branches. These pro- cesses are very delicate, apparently tubular, and contain a similar granular material to that found within the corpuscle. Some of the processes terminate in fine transparent fibres, which become lost among the other Fig. XXVI.—Human nerve-tubes, magnified 350 times. Three of them are fine, one of -which is varicose, one of middling thickness, and with a simple contour; and three thick, two of which are double con- toured, and one with grumous contents. Fig. XXVn.—a, Nerve-tube of the com- mon eel in water. The delicate line on its exterior indicates the tubular membrane. The dark double-edged inner one is the white substance of Schwann, slightly wrinkled, b, the same in ether. Several oil-globules have coalesced in the interior, and others have accumulated around the exterior of the tube. The white substance has in part disappeared. Magnified 300 diameters. 0 n 0 c c 0I O D p elements of the nervous tissue; others may be traced until, after losing their granular appearance, they become continuous with an ordixiary nerve-fibre. The white, otherwise caUed tubular or fibrous nervous substance, is found constituting a great part of the brain and spinal cord, almost the whole of the cerebro-spinal nerves, and a great pai-t of the sympathetic The tubes, when perfectly fresh, appear to be homogeneous, but they soon separate into two parts, the white substance of Schwann and the a^is-aylLder of Purkinje, the whole being enclosed m a structui-eless membrane-the tubular membrane* The white substance is regaided as being a fatty matter in a fluid state, which isolates and protects the essential part of the nerve-the axis-cylinder. The partial coagulation of this white substance which foUows on cooling gives the nerve-tube, when examined after death, a double contour-the daa-ker pai't seen on the ; . Dr. Benle describes and figures cases in which several fibres some ''^Zs"^ls^ the white substance, are enclosed in a common tubular membrane. See IM. Hans.,