Ixxiii THE NERVES. posterior roots .ultimately enter the grey substance of the cord, after a very oblique course, or whether they proceed upwards to the brain, is uncertain. The Central Canal of the Spinal Cord.—In the .foetus until after the sixth mouth, a canal, continuous with the general ventricular cavity of the brain, extends throughout the entire length of the spinal cord, formed by the closing-in of a previously open groove. In the adult, this canal can only be seen at the upper part of the cord, extending from the point of the calamus scriptorius, in the floor of th^e fourth ventricle, for about half an inch down the centre of the cord, where it terminates in a ml de sac; the remnant of the canal being just visible in a section of the cord, as a small, pale spot, corresponding to the centre of the grey commissure: its cavity is lined with a layer of cylia- drical ciliated epithelium. In some cases, this canal remains pervious throughout the whole length of the cord. The Ganglia may be regarded as separate and independent nervous centres, of smaller size and less complex structure than the bi-ain, con- nected with each other, with the cerebro-spinal axis, and with the nerves in various situations. They are found on the posterior root of each of the spinal nerves; on the posterior or sensory root of the fifth cranial nerve; on the facial nerve; on the glosso-pharyngeal and pneumogastric nerves; in a connected series along each side of the vertebral column, forming the trunk of the sympathetic; on the branches of that nerve, and at the point of junction of those branches with the cerebro-spinal nerves. On section, they are seen to consist of a reddish grey substance, traversed by numerous white nerve-fibres: they vary considerably in form and size; the largest are found in the cavity of the abdomen; the smallest,, not visible with the naked eye, exist in considerable numbers upon the nerves distributed < to the difieerent viscera. The ganglia are invested by a smooth and firm \- closely-adhering membranous envelope, consisting of dense areolar tissue; [i this sheath is continuous with the neurilemma of the nerves, and sends ! numerous processes into the interior of the ganglion, Avhich support the blood-vessels supplying its substance. In structure, all ganglia are essentially similar, consisting of the same structural elements as the other nervous centres, viz., a coUection of vesiculoA-^ nervous matter, traversed by tubular and gelatinous nerv^-fihres. The vesicular nervous matter consists of nerve-ceUs or ganglion-glokles, most of which appear free, and of a round or oval form: these are more especially seated near the surface of the ganglion; others have caudate [ processes and give origin to nerve-fibres. In the ganglion, the nerve-cells . are usually enclosed in a capsule of granular corpuscles and fibres. The tubular nerve-fibres run through the ganglion, some being collected into i bundles, while others, separating from each other, take a circuitous course among the nerve-cells before leaving the ganglion. The Nerves are round or flattened cords, which are connected at one end with the cerebro-spinal centre or with the ganglia, and are distributed at tlie other to the various textures of the body: they are subdivided into two great classes, the cerebro-spinal, which proceed from the cerebro-