GLUTEAL REGION. 305 at the back of the hip-joint. It arises from the fr-ont of the sacram by three fleshy dicritatioiis, attached to the portions of bone between the first, second, third, and fourth anterior sacral foramina, and also from the grooves leading from the foramina: a few fibres also arise from the margin of the great sacro-sciatic foramen, and from the anterior surface of the great sacro-sciatic ligament. The muscle passes out of the pelvis through the great sacro-sciatic foramen, the upper part of which it fills, and is inserted by a rounded tendon into the upper border of the great trochanter, being generally blended with the tendon of the Obturator internus. Belations. By its antenor surf ace, within the pelvis, with the Rectum (especially on the left side), the sacral plexus of nerves, and the internal iliac vessels ; external to the pelvis, with the os innominatum and capsular ligament of the hip-joint. By its posterior surface, within the pelvis, with the sacrum ; and external to it, with the Gluteus maximus. By its ripper harder, with the Gluteus medius, from which it is separated by the gluteal vessels and superior gluteal nerve. By its lower border, with the Gemellus superior and Coccygeus ; the sciatic vessels and nerves, the internal pudic vessels and nerve, and the nerve to the Obturator internus, passing from the pelvis in the interval between the two muscles. Dissection. The next muscle, as well as the origin of the Pyriformis, can only be seen when the pelvis is divided, and the viscera removed. The Obturator menibrane is a dense layer of interlacing fibres, which completely closes the obturator foramen, except at its upper and outer part, where a small oval canal is left for the obturator vessels and nerve.. Each obturator muscle is connected with this membrane. The Obturator Internus, like the preceding muscle, is situated partly within the cavity of the pelvis, partly at the back of the hip-joint. It arises from the inner surface of the anterior and external wall of the. pelvis, around the inner side of the obturator foramen, being attached to the descending ramus of the pubes, and the ascending ramus of the ischium, and at the side to. the inner surface of the body of the ischium, between the margin of the obturator foramen in front, the great sacro-sciatic notch behind^, and the brim of the true pelvis above. It also arises from the inner surface of the obturator membrane and from the ten- dinous arch which completes the canal for the passage of the obturator vessels and nerve. The fibres are directed backwards and downwards, and terminate in four or five tendinous bands, which are found on its deep sarface; these bands are reflected at a right angle over the inner surface of the tuberosity of the isehium, which is grooved for their reception : the groove is covered with cartilage, and lined with a synovial bursa. The-muscle leaves the pelvis by the lesser sacro-sciatic notch ; and the tendinous bands unite into a single flattened tendon, which passes horizontally outwards, and, after receiving the attachment of the Gemelli,, is. in- serted into the upper border of the great trochanter in front of the Pyriformis. A synovial bursa, narrow and elongated in form, is usually found between the tendon of this muscle and thfe capsular ligament of the hip : it occasionally communicates with that between the tendon and the tuberosity of the ischium, the two. forming; a single sac. ™„Jf\°j5-'-5°f'^'^-.*''-^ P"^"^^' appearances presented by the tendon of this muscle, ife must be divided near its insertion and reflected outwards. Eefofaons. Within the pelvis, this muscle is in relation, by its anterior swface, with the obturator membrane and inner surface of the anterior wall of the pelvis, by Its pose>■^or surf ace, v^^th the pelvic and obturator lascite, which separate it from the Levator am ; and it is crossed by the internal pudic vessels and nerve. This, it f .0 V ^""'^'^"'^ ischio-rectal fossa. External to the peMs, IZ nP f h 1 g""^* '^'^^''^ and Gluteus maximus, and rests on the back part ot the hip-joint. The Gemelli are two small muscular fasciculi, accessories to the tendon of the X