267 ANTERIOR SCAPULAR REGION. margin and upper surface of the acromion process ; and from the whole length of the lower border of the spine of the scapula. From this extensive origin, the fibres converge towards their insertion, the middle passing vertically, the anterior obliquely backwards, the posterior obliquely forwards ; they unite to form a thick tendon, which is inserted into a rough prominence on the middle of the outer side of the shaft of the humerus. This muscle is remarkably coarse in texture, and intersected by three or four tendinous laminoe ; these are attached, at intervals, to the clavicle and acromion, extend into the substance of the muscle, and give origin to a number of fleshy fibres. The largest of these laminte extends from the summit of the acromion. Belations. By its sitimrficial surface, with the integument, the superficial fascia, Platysma, and supra-acromial nerves. Its deef surface is separated from the head of the humerus by a large sacculated synovial bursa, and covers the coracoid process, coraco-acromial ligament, Pectoralis minor, Coraco-brachialis, both heads of the Biceps, tendon of the Pectoralis major, Infra-spinatus, Teres minor, Triceps (its scapular and external heads), the circumflex vessels and nerve, and the humerus. Its anterior hol der is separated from the Pectoralis major by a cellular interspace, which lodges the cephalic vein and descending branch of the thoracico-acromialis artery. Its posterior border rests on the Infraspinatus and Triceps muscles. Nerves. The Deltoid is supplied by the circumflex nerve. Actions. The Deltoid raises the arm directly from the side, so as to bring it at right angles with the frunk. Its anterior fibres, assisted by the Pectoralis major, draw the arm forwards; and its posterior fibres, aided by the Teres major and Latissimus dorsi, draw it backwards. Dissection. Divide the Deltoid across, netir its upper part, by an incision carried along the margin of the clavicle, the acromion process, and spine of the scapula, and reflect it downwards; the bursa will be seen on its under surface, as well as the circumflex vessels and nerve. The insertion of the muscle should be carefully examined. Anteeior Scapular Region. Subscapularis. The suhscapular aponeurosis is a thin membrane, attached to the entire cir- cumference of the subscapular fossa, and afi'ording attachment by its inner surface to some of the fibres of the Subscapularis muscle : when this is removed, the Sub- scapularis muscle is exposed. The Sulscapidaris (fig. 170) is a large triangular muscle, which fills up the sub- scapular fossa, arising from its internal two-thirds, with the exception of a narrow margin along the posterior border, and the inner side of the superior a,nd inferior angles, which afibrd attachment to the Serratus magnus. Some fibres arise from tendinous laminas, which intersect the muscle, and are attached to ridges on the bone ; and others from an aponeurosis, which separates the muscle from the Teres major and the long head of the Triceps. The fibres pass outwards, and, gradually converging, terminate in a tendon, which is inserted into the lesser tuberosity of the humerus. Those fibres which arise from the axillary border of the scapula are inserted mto the neck of the humerus to the extent of an inch below the tube- rosity. The tendon of the muscle is in close contact with the capsular ligament ofthe shoulder-jomt and glides over a large bursa, which separates it from the base of the coracoid process. This bursa communicates with the cavity of the joint by an aperture m the capsular ligament. Belatiorts. By its anterior surface, with the Serratus magnus, Coraco-brachialis, and Biceps, and the axillary vessels and nerves. By its posterior surface, with the scapula, the subscapular vessels and nerves, and the capsular ligament ^f the shoulder-jomt. Its lower border is contiguous with the Teres major and Latissimus dorsi. Nerves. It is supplied by the upper and lower subscapular nerves. Actions. Lhe Subscapularis rotates the head of the humerus inwards; when