66o THE THORAX. Tlie Left Ventricle is longer and more conical in sliape than the right ven- tricle. It forms a small part of the left side of the anterior surface of the heart, and a considerable part of its posterior surface. It also forms the apex of the heai't by its projection beyond the right ventricle. Its walls are much thicker than those of the right ventricle, the proportion being as 2 to i (Bizot). They are also thickest in the broadest pai-t of the ventricle, becoming gradually thinner towards the base, and also towards the apex, which is the tliinnest part. Its cavity should be opened, by ■malcing nn incision throufrh its anterior wall along the left side of the ventriculav septum, and carrying it round the apex and along its posterior surface to the auriculo-ventricular opening. The following parts present themselves for examination:— ^ . f Auricnlo-ventrlcnlar. , f Miti-al. Openmgs. | ^^^^.^ Valves. | g^i^^^^^^. Chordaa tendinesE. ■Columnse carneaa. The aimculo-ventricular opening is placed to the left ©f the aortic orifice, beneath the right aui'iculo-ventrieular opening, opposite the centre of the sternum. It is a little smaller than the corresponding aperture of the opposite side; and, like'it, is broader in the transverse than in the antero-posterior diameter. It is surrounded by a dense fibrous ring, covered bj the lining membrane of the heart, and guarded by the mitral valve. The aortic opening is a small circular aperture, in front and to the right side of the auriculo-ventricular, from which it is separated by one of the segments of the mitral valve. Its orifice is guarded by the semilunar valves. Its position corresponds to the sternum, on a line with the lower border of the third left costal cartilage. The mitral .valve is attached to the circumference of the auriculo-ventricular orifice in the same way that tire tricuspid valve as on the opposite side. It is formed by a dnplicature of the lining membrane, strengthened by fibrous tissue, and contains a few muscular fibres. It is larger in size, thicker, and altogether stronger than the tricuspid, and considis of tw© segments of unequal size. The larger segment is placed in front, between the auriculo-ventricular and aortic orifices, and is said to prevent the filling of the aorta during the distension of the ventricle. Two smaller segments are usually found at the angle-of junction of the larger. 'The mitral valve-flaps are furnished with chordae tendineae : the mode of attachment of which is precisely similar to those on the right side ; bnt^ they are thicker, stronger, and less numerous. The mitral valve lies in the third mter- costal space about an inch from the left border of the sternum. The semUunar valves surround the orifioe of the aorta; they are similar in structure, and in their mode of attachment, to those of the pulmonary artery. They are, however, larger, thicker, and stronger than those of the right side; the lunulas are more distinct, and the corpora Arantii larger and more prominent. Between each valve and the cylinder of the aorta is a deep depression, the sim(,s aorlici (sinuses of Valsalva) ; they are larger than those at the root of the pulmo- nary artery. The aortic valves lie close bekind the left border of the sternum, in the third intercostal space. The cohimno} carnem admit of a subdivision Into three sets, like those upon the rio-ht side ; but they are smaller, more numerous, and present a dense iaterlace- ment, especially at the apex, and upon the posterior wall. Those attached by one extremity only, the muscuU papillares, are two in numbei-, being connected one to the anterior, the other to the posterior wall ; they are of large size, and terminate by free rounded extremities, from which the chorda3 tendineaa arise. The Endocardium is the serous membrane which lines the internal surface of the heart; it assists in forming the valves by its reduplications, and is continuous with the lining membrane of the great blood-vessels. It is a thin, smooth, trans- parent membrane, giving to the inner surface of the heart its glistening appear- ance It is more opaque on the left than on the right side of the heart, thicker in