IXll GENERAL ANATOMY. right the limits of the separate cells with their nuclei are exhibited somewhat dingram- matically. however, considers ' the sarcous elements as artificial products, occasioned by the breaking up of the fibril at the parts where they are thinner.' This form of muscular fibre composes the whole of the voluntary muscles, all tlie muscles of the ear, those of the larynx, pharynx, tongue, the upper half of the oesophagus, the heart, and the walls of the large < veins at the point where they open into it. The fibres of the heart, however, differ in Fif?- XXI.—Anastomosing muscu- , ,. , „ ,, « , 1 1-1 nbres of the heart seen in a several particulars from those 01 other Striped longitudinal section. On the muscles. They are smaller by about one- thii'd, and their transverse striae are by no means so distinct. Fat-cells are also often found in them to a certain extent, even apart from any obvious disease of the organ. They break up much more readily into their smallest elements. There is also much less (if any) connective tissue separating the bundles of fibres; and Kolliker has described and figured the ultimate fibres as anasto- mosing with each other, a fact previously noticed by Leeuwenhoeck. Schweigger- Seidel also describes and figures transverse septa, which divide the fibres into separate nucleated portions (fig. XXI.). The unstriped muscle, or muscle of in- . - organic life, is found in the walls of the hollow viscera, viz. the lower half of the cesophagus and the whole of the remainder of the gastro-intestinal tube; in the trachea and bronchi; in the gall-bladder and ductus communis choledochus; in the pelvis and calices of the kidney, the ureters, bladder, and urethra; in the female sexual organs, viz. the Fallopian tubes, the uterus (enormously developed in pregnancy), the vagina, the broad ligaments, and the erectile tissue of the clitoris; in the male sexual organs, viz. the dartos scroti, the vas deferens, and epididymis, the vesiculse seminales, the prostate gland and the corpora cavernosa;* in the ducts of certain glands, as in Wharton's duct; in the capsule and trabeculse of the spleen; in the arteries, veins, and lymphatics; in the iris; and in the skin. The fibres of inorganic muscle form flattened bands, interlacing in various directions, and which when viewed without reagents appear nearly homogeneous, though if the organ from which the fibres are taken has been macerated previously for some time in dilute acid, the nuclei can be perceived. Even in fresh fibres the nuclei are occasionally visible. In many situations these fibres, by prolonged immersion in chromic or nitric acid, can be resolved into the elementary contractile fibre-cells of which KoUiker has shown that they really consist; and in some parts, as in the arteries and in the skin, such fibre-cells are found single. They are elongated, their length about ten to fifteen times their breadth (-02 to 0-4'" in length, -002'" to -003'" in breadth, according to Kolliker), con- sistino- of a spindle-shaped, homogeneous-looking, fibre-ceU, m which a • Kolliker describes muscular fibres also in the tunica vaginalis