44 THE SKELETON. branch of the nasal nerve. The superior border is nari-ow, thick, and serrated for articulation with the nasal notch of tlio frontal bone. The inferior border is broad, thin, sharp, directed oblitiuely downwards, outwards, and backwards, and serves for the attachment of the lateral cartihif^e of the nose. This border presents about its middle a notch, through which passes the branch of the nasal nerve alwve referred to ; and is prolonged at its inner extremity mto a sharp spnie, whieli when articulated with the opposite bone, forms the nasal angle. Tbe external border is serrated, bevelled at the expense of the internal surface above, and ot the external below, to articulate with the nasal process of the superior maxillary. 1 he internal border thicker above than below, articulates with its fellow of the opposite side and is prolonged behind into a vertical crest, which forms part of the septum of the nose : this crest articulates with the nasal spine of the frontal above, and the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid below. Development. By one centre for each bone, which appears about the same period as in the vertebrjB. . p ,^ , j -j Articulations. With four bones : two of the cranium, the frontal and ethmoid, and two of the face, the opposite nasal and the superior maxillary. No muscles are directly attached to this bone. SuPEKiOB Maxillaey Bones, The Superior Maxillary is one of the most iaiportant bones of the face in a surgical point of view, on account of the number of diseases to which some of its parts are liable. Its minute examination becomes, therefore, a matter of considerable interest It is the largest bone of the face, excepting the lower'jaw ; and forms, by its union with its fellow of the opposite side, the whole of the upper jaw. Each bone assists in the formation of three cayities, the roof of the mouth, the floor and outer wall of the nose, and the floor of the orbit; and also enters mto the formation of two fossie, the zygomatic and spheno-maxiUary; and two hssures, the spheno-maxiUary and pterygo-maxillary. The bone presents for examination a body and four processes, malar, nasal, alveolar, and palatine. . . . . ■ ^ n i The body is somewhat cuboid, and is hollowed out m its interior to form alaige cavity, the antrum of Highmore. Its surfaces are foui-an external or facial, a posterior or zygomatic, a superior or orbital, and an internal ^ ^ , ^ The external or facial surface (fig. 45) i« directed forwards and outwards. In the median line of the bone, just above the incisor teeth, is a depression, the in cisive or myrtiform fossa, which gives origin to the Depressor ate nasi. Above and a little'Ixternal to it, the Compressor nasi arises. More external is another depression, the canine fossa, larger and deeper than the mciswe f--'-^"'f it is separated by a vertical ridge, the canine eminence, corresponding to the socket of theTanine tooth. The canine fossa gives origin to the Levator anguli on . Above the canine fossa is the infra-orbital foramen, the termmation of he inf a- wJ l n7r.VI . it transmits the infra-orbital nerve and artery. Above the infra- :;:bS f^ienlsr rSin of the orbit, which afibrds partial attachment to the directed backwards and outwards, and fLTpirof thf zygomatic fo» presents about its ^^^^^fjj- tures leaxling to canals in the subst^^the bone ; they are ^-^^^^^ deni.1 mnuU, and transmit the posterior dental vessels and - js. At he low^^ s:nt^ts::XftheH^^^^^^^ :^:?t fo„« fL irroove which running obliquely down on the inner suuace oi lue ro^rconvaTd i^^ a lal by frticuWioi ,vi* the palate bone. lor„.ag tbe