Ixxvi GENERAI^ ANATOMY. cesses springing out of the cell; one of these (and according to Deiters one only) is recognised as an axis-cylinder; the others are fibrillse, which are continuous -with similar fibrilla) of which under high powers the apparently granular contents of the cell are found to be composed, and which appear therefore simply to run through the cell. The fibrillar may be, and probably are, primitive nervous fibrils, but they are so delicate that it has not as yet been found possible to ascertain their destination. With regard also to th£ axis-cylinder which is seen pro- ceeding out of the ganglionic corpuscle, although it is highly probable that it originates in that corpuscle, the fact has not been proved—nor has its relation to the nucleus of the corpuscle been demonstrated. In fine, all that is known on the subject is that many of the fibrillai and axis- cylinders can be shown either to originate in or to pass through ganglionic corpuscles (or nerve-cells), and other nerves can be shown to contain such nerve-cells in their interior at certain parts of their course. But whether in the case of such connection in one of the central organs the cell is to be reo-arded as the origin of the nervous fibril, or whether the fibril merely pa'sses through the cell (as some observers believe), just in the same manner as nerves pass through ganglia, has not been determined. If the latter view be correct, it may be that nerves have really no central termination, but thatiheir fibrils start from their peripheral distribution, travel to the nervous centre, are there brought into connection with the nerve-ceUs, and thence return to their distribution. However, in the present state^ of anatomical knowledge, the more probable opinion seems to be that which is usually entertained; viz., that each nerve-fibre is connected somewhere with a ganglionic corpuscle which is to be regarded as its central termi- nation or origin. Dr. Beale asserts that even in those ganglion-ceUs, which appear either altogether destitute of processes, or unipolar, numerous fibres can be seen proceeding out of them if the proper reagents be used and very high powers employed. The peripheral connections, or terminations of the nerve-fibres, are somewhat more easy to ascertain, though even as to these a great difference exists with respect to minute details... They are usuaUy and naturaUy studied in the sensory and motor nerves separately. Sensory nerves sometimes terminate in minute plexuses m the subcuta- neous or submucous areolar tissue. Dr. Sharpey says that he has seen the ultimate fibres of these minute plexuses come into close contact with the connective-tissue corpuscles, but has not been able to trace any distinct connection between them. The white substance of Schwann and the tubular sheath usually dis- appear as the nerve approaches its termination, leaving only the axis- cylinder invested by its proper basement-membrane, on which nuclei can be seen at intervals, and in many cases the axis-cylinder itself breaks up into the primitive fibrils. In some parts, however, the fibres appear to be Bnclosed up to their termination in a sheath which is either a prolongation of the neurilemma, or a continuation of the tubular membrane. The differences of opinion prevaUing on the question of the ultimate distribu- tion of the nerve-fibres depend on their extreme delicacy aawl the conse- nuent great difficulty of following individual fibres in continuity. Hence St some obsei-vers describe as a free end in which the nerve t..'minates,