422 divided, a strong and dense fascia, the internal annular ligament, is exposed. This ligament is continuous ahove with the deep fascia of the leg, covers the vessels and nerves, and is intimately adherent to tlie sheaths of the tendons. This having been cautiously divided upon a director, tlie slieath of the vessels is exposed, and being opened, the artery is seen with one of the vena? comites on eacli side. The aneurism needle should be passed round the vessel from the heel towards the ankle, in order to avoid the posterior tibial nerve, care being at the same time talcen not to include the vence comites. The vessel may also be tied in the lower tiiird of the leg by making an incision about thi-ee inches in length, parallel with the inner margin of the tendo Achillis. The internal saphenous vein being carefully avoided, the two layers of fascia must be divided upon a director, when the artery is exposed along the outer margin of the Flexor longus digitorum, with one of its venio comites on either side, and the nerve lying external to it. To tie tiie posterior tibial in the middle of the log is a very difficult operation, on account of tlie great depth of tlie vessel from the surface, and its being covered by the Gastrocnemius and Soleus muscles. The patient being placed in the recumbent position, the injured limb should rest on its outer side, the knee being partially bent, and the foot extended, so as to relax the muscles of the calf. An incision about four inches in length should then bo made through the integument, along the inner margin of the tibia, taking care to avoid the internal saphenous vein. The deep fascia having been divided, the margin of the G.as- trocnemius is exposed, and must be drawn aside, and the tibial attachment of the Soleus divided, a director being previously passed beneath it. The artery may now be felt pul- sating beneath the deep I'ascia, about a'n inch from the margin of the tibia. The fa.scia having been divided, and the limb placed in such a position as to relax the muscles of the calf as much as possible, the veins should be separated from the artery, and the aneurism needle passed round the vessel from without inwards, so as to avoid wounding the posterior tibial nerve. The branches of the posterior tibial artery are, the Peroneal. Nutrient. Anterior peroneal. Communicating. Muscular. Internal calcanean. The Peroneal Arteri/ lies, deeply seated, along the back part of the fibular side of the leg. It arises from the posterior tibial, about an inch below the lower border of the Popliteus muscle, passes obliquely outwards to the fibula, and then desoends along the inner border of that bone to the lower third of the leg, where it gives off the anterior peroneal. It then passes across the articulation between the tibia and fibula, to the outer side of the os calcis, supplying the neighbouring muscles and back of the ankle, and anastomosing with the external malleolar, tarsal, and external plantar arteries. B<datn)n.t. This vessel rests at first upon the Tibialis posticus, and, in the greater part of its course, in the fibres of the Plexor longus polUcis, in a groove between the interosseous membrane and the bone. It is covered in the upper part of its course by the Soleus and deep fascia; helow, by the Flexor longus polUcis. Plan of the Relations of the Peroneal Aetery. In front. Tibialis posticus. Flexor longus pollicis. Outer side. Fibuli),. Behind. Soleus. Deep fascia. Flexor longus pollicis. Ikculiarities in Orif/i?i, The peroneal artery may arise three inches below the Popliteus, or from the posterior tibial high up, or even from the popliteal. If^ Size is more frequently increased than diminished; and then it either reinforces the posterior tibial by its junction with it, or altogether takes the place of the posterior tihinl in the lower part of the leg and foot, the latter vessel only existing as a short muscular branch. In those rare cases where the peroneal artery is smaller than usual, a branch Ironi