63 BASE OF THE SKULL. openiBg, for the nasal branch of the ophthalmic nerve. On the outer Bide of each olfacto?; groove are the internal openings of the anterior and posterior ethmoidal foramina f the former, situated about the middle of the outer margin of the olfac- tory grooU, transmits the anterior ethmoidal artery and the nasal nerve, which ru/s fn a depression along the surface of the ethmoid, to the s it-like opening above mentioned; whilst the posterior ethmoidal foramen opens at the back part of l^iis margin under cover of the projecting lamina of the sphenoid, and transmits the posterior ethmoidal artery and v.ein to the posterior ethmoidal cells. Further back in the middle Une is the ethmoidal spine, bounded behind by an elevated ridge, sepai-ating a longitudinal groove on each side which supports the olfactory nerve. The anterior fossa presents laterally eminences and depressions for the convo- lutions of the brain, and gi-ooves for the lodgment of the anterior meningeal arteries. The Middle Fossa, somewhat deeper than the preceding, is narrow m the middle, and becomes wider as it expands laterally. It is bounded in front by the posterior margin of the lesser wing of the sphenoid, the anterior clinoid process, and the anterior margin of the optic groove; behind, by the upper border of the petrous portion of the temporal, and basilai- suture ; externally, by the squamous portion of the temporal, and anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone, and is separated from its fellow by the sella Turcica. It is traversed by four sutures, the squamous, spheno-parietal, spheno-temporal, and petro-sphenoidal. In the middle line, from before backwards, is the optic groove, which supports the optic commissure, and terminates on each side in the optic foramen, for the passage of the optic nerve and ophthalmic artery ; behind the optic groove is the olivary process, and laterally the anterior clinoid processes, to which are attached the folds of the dura mater, which form the cavernous sinuses. Separating the middle fossae is the sella Turcica, a deep depression, which lodges the pituitary gland, bounded in front by a small eminence on either side, the middle clinoid process, and behind by a broad square plate of bone, surmounted at each superior angle by a tubercle, the posterior chnoid process ; beneath the latter process is a groove, for the sixth nerve. On each side of the sella Turcica is the cavernous groove; it is broad, shallow, and curved somewhat like the italic letter /: it commences behind at the foramen lacerum medium, and terminates on the inner side of the anterior clinoid process. This groove lodges the cavernous sinus, the internal carotid artery, and the nerves of the orbit. The sides of the middle fossa are of considerable depth ; they present eminences and depressions for the middle lobes of the brain, and grooves for the branches of the middle meningeal artery; the latter commence on the outer side of the foramen spinosum, and consist of two large branches, an anterior and a posterior; the former passing upwards and forwards to the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone, the latter passing upwards and backwards. The following foramina may also be seen from before backwards. Most anteriorly is "the foramen lacerum anterius, or sphenoidal fissure, formed above by the lesser wing of the sphenoid: below, by the greater wing ; internally, by the body of the sphenoid ; and completed exter- nally by the orbital plate of the frontal bone. It transmits the third, fourth, the three branches of the ophthalmic division of the fifth, the sixth nerve, and the ophthalmic vein. Behind the inner extremity of the sphenoidal fissure is the foramen rotundum, for the passage of the second division of the fifth or superior maxillary nerve; still more posteriorly is seen a small orifice, the foramen Vesalii, an opening, situated between the foramen rotundum and ovale, a little internal to both; it varies in size in different individuals, and is often absent; when present, it transmits a small vein. It opens below in the pterygoid fossa, just at the outer side of the scaphoid depression. Behind and external to the latter opening is the foramen ovale, which transmits the third division of the fifth or inferior maxillary nerve, the small meningeal artery, and the small petrosal nerve. On the outer side of the foramen ovale is the foramen spinosum, for the passage of the middle meningeal artery; and on the inner side of the foramen ovale, the foramen lacerum medium. The lower part of this aperture is filled up