VEINS. 436 VEINS OP THE UPPER EXTEEMITY. The veins of the upper extremity are divided into two sets, superficial and deep. ^ The Superficial Veins are placed immediately beneath the integument between the two layers of superficial fascia; they commence in the hand chiefly on its dorsal aspect, where they form a more or less complete arch. The Deej} Veins accompany the arteries, and constitute the vena3 comites of those vessels. Both sets of vessels are provided with valves, -which are more numerous in the deep than in the superficial. The superficial veins of the upper extremity are the 240.—Tho Suporficial Vehis of the LIppor Extreiuity. Anterior ulnar. Posterior ulnar. Basilic. Radial. Cephalic. Median. Median basilic. Median cephalic. The Anterior Ulnar Vein commences on the anterior surface of the ulnar side of the hand and wrist, and ascends along the inner side of the fore-arm to the bend of the elbow, where it ioins with, the posterior ulnar vein to form 'I ^ ^ . , •■11 1 HeltattCrjihalic, the basilic. It communicates with branches of the median vein in front, and with the posterior ulnar behind. The Posterior Ulnar Vein commences on the posterior surface of the ulnar side of the hand, and from the vein of the little finger (vena salvatella), situated over the fourth metacarpal space. It ascends on the posterior surface of the ulnar side of the fore-arm, and just below the elbow unites witli the anterior ulnar vein to form the basilic. The Basilic is a vein of considerable size, formed by the coalescence of the anterior and posterior ulnar veins ; ascending along the inner side of the elbow, it receives the median basilic vein, and passing upwards along the inner side of the arm, pierces tbe deep fascia, and ascends in the course of the brachial artery, terminating either in one of the vense comites of that vessel, or in the axillary vein. The Badial Vein commences from the dorsal surface of the thumb, index finger, and radial side of the hand, by branches communicating with, tbe vena salvatella, and forming by their union a large vessel, which ascends along the radial side of the fore-arm, and receives numerous branches from both its surfaces. At