SUPERFICIAL CERVICAL REGION. 221 6. Muscles of the Soft Palate. f «tus lateralis. •' Longus colli. Levator palati. , -rr j 7 7 Tensor palati. 8. Muscles of the Lateral Vertebral Azygos uvulce. Begion.^ Palato-glossus. Scalenus anticus. Palato-pharyngeus. Scalenus medius. Scalenus posticus. 7. MmscUs of the Anterior Vertebral Region. 9- ""f ^^"^ ^'^'•2/"^- ■r, ^ • Included in the description Rectus capitis anticus major. f fT T Rectus capitis anticus minor. I. Superficial Cervical Region. Platysma Myoides. Sterno-Cleido-Mastoid. Uisseciion. A block having been placed at the back of the neck, and the face turned to the side opposite to that to be dissected, so as to place the parts upon the stretch, make two transverse mcisions: one from the chin, along the margin of the lower jaw, to the ma^toia process • and the other along the upper border of the clavicle. Connect these by an oblique incision made in the course of the Sterno-mastoid muscle, from the mastoid process to the sternum; the two tiaps of integument having been removed in the direction shown inhg. I47> the superficial fascia will be exposed. The superficial cervical fascia is exposed on the removal of the integument from the side of the neck ; it is an extremely thin aponeurotic lamina, wHch is hardly demonstrable as a separate membrane. Beneath it is found the Platysma myoides muscle, the external jugular vein, and some superficial branches of tbe cervical plexus of nerves. The Platysma Myoides (fig. 148) is a broad thin plane of muscular fibres, placed immediately beneath the skin on each side of the neck. It arises from the clavicle and acromion, and from the fascia covering the upper part of the Pectoral, Deltoid, and Trapezius muscles ; its fibres proceed obliquely upwards and inwards along the side of the neck, to be inserted into the lower jaw beneath the external obliqne line, some passing forwards to the angle of the mouth, and others becoming lost in the cellular tissue of the face. The most anterior fibres interlace, in front of the jaw, with the fibres of the muscle of the opposite side; those next in order become blended with the Depressor labii inferioris and the Depressor anguli oris ; others are prolonged upon the side of the cheek, and interlace, near the angle of the mouth, with the muscles in this situation, and may occasionally be traced to the Zygomatic muscles, or to the margin of the Orbicularis palpebrarum. Beneath the Platysma, the external jugular vein may be seen descending from the angle of the jaw to the clavicle. It is essential to remember the direction of the fibres of the Platysma, in connection with the operation of bleeding from this vessel; for if the point of the lancet is introduced in the direction of the muscular fibres, the orifice made will be filled up by the contraction of the muscle, and blood will not flow; but if the incision is made across the course of the fibres, they will retract, and expose the orifice in the vein, and so facilitate the flow of blood. Relations. By its external surface, with the integument, to whicb it is united closely below, but more loosely above. By its internal surface, with the Pectoralis major. Deltoid, and Trapezius, and with the clavicle. In tlie neck, with the external and anterior jugular veins, the deep cervical fascia, the super- ficial branches of the cervical plexus, the Sterno-mastoid, Sterno-hyoid,Omo-hyoid, and Digastric muscles. In front of the Sterno-mastoid, it covers the sheath of the carotid vessels; and behind it, the Scaleni muscles and the nerves of the brachial plexus. On the face, it is in relation with the parotid gland, the facial artery and vein, and the Masseter and Buccinator muscles. The deep cervical fascia is exposed on the removal of the Platysma myoides.