634 ORGANS OF DIGESTION. The sigmoid jlexwe is the narrowest part of the colon ; it is situated in the left iliac fossa, commoncing from the termination of the descending colon, at the margin of the crest of the ilium, and ending in the rectum, opposite the left sacro-iliac symphysis. It curves in the lii'st place upwards, and then descends vertically, and to one or the other side, like the letter S—hence its name. It is retained in its place by a loose fold of peritoneum, the sigmoid meso-colon. It is in relation, in front, with the small intestines and abdominal parietes; behind, with the iliac fossa. 342.—The relations of the Viscera and Large Vessels of the Abdomen. (Seen from behind.) RECEPTACUUUM .CHYLI The Bedimo is the terminal part of the large intestine, and extends from the sio-moid flexure to the anus ; it varies in length from six to eiglit inches, and has received its name from being less flexuous than any other part of the intestinal canal It commences opposite the left sacro-iliac symphysis, passes obliquely downwards from left to right to the middle of the sacrum, formmg a gentle curve to the right side ; then, regaining the middle line, it descends in front of the lower part of the sacrum and coccyx, and, near the extremity of the latter bone inclines backwards to terminate at the anus, being curved both m the lateral and intero-posterior directions. The rectum is, therefore, not straight, the upper part being directed obliquely from the left side to the median Ime, the middle portion being curved in the direction of the hollow of the sacrum and coccyx, and the lower portion presenting a short curve in the opposite direction. The rectum is cylindrical, not sacculated like the rest of the large intestine ; it is narrower at its upper part than the sigmoid flexure, gradually increases in size as it descends and immediately above the anus presents a considerable dilatation, capable ot acquiring an enormous size. The rectum is divided into three portions : upper, middle, and lower.