ELBOW-JOINT. 177 and Internal Ligaments. once of the head of the radius with the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna, allowing of the movement of i-otation of the radius on the ulna, the chief action of the superior radio-ulnar articulation. The articular surfaces are covered with a thin layer of cartilage, and connected together with the following ligaments: — Anterior. Internal Lateral. Posterior. External Lateral. The Anterior Ligament (fig. 132) is a broad and thin fibrous layer, which covers the anterior surface of the joint. It is attached to the front of the humerus immediately above the coronoid fossa; below, to the anterior surface of the corouoid process of the ulna and orbicular ligament, being continuous on each side with the lateral ligaments. Its superficial or oblique fibres pass from the mner condyle of the humerus outwards to the orbicular ligament. The middle fibres, vertical in dii*ection, pass from the upper part of the coronoid depression, and become blended with the preceding. A third, or transverse set, intersect these at right angles. This ligament is 132.—Left Elbow-Joint, showing Anterior in relation, in front, with the Brachialis anticus ; behind, with the synovial mem- brane. The Posterior Ligament (fig. 133) is a thin and loose membranous fold, attached, above, to the lower end of the humerus, immediately above the olecranon fossa; below, to the margin of the olecranon. The superficial or transverse fibres pass between the adjacent margins of the olecranon fossa. The deeper portion con- sists of vertical fibres, which pass from the upper part of the olecranon fossa to the margin of the olecranon. This liga- ment is in relation, behind, with the ten- don of the Triceps and the Anconeus ; in front, with the synovial membrane. The Internal Lateral Ligament (fig. 132) is a thick triangular band, consist- ing of two distinct portions, an anterior and posterior. The anterior portion, di- rected obliquely forwards, is attached, above, by its apex, to the front part of the internal condyle of the humerus; and, below, by its broad base, to the inner margin of the coronoid process. The posterior p>ortion, also of triangular form, is attached, above, by its apex, to the lower and back part of the internal condyle ; below, to the inner margin of the olecranon. This ligament is in re- lation, internally, with the Triceps and Flexor carpi ulnaris muscles, and the mi -n , _ ulnar nerve. ^ne Jhxternal Lateral Ligament ('fie i'?^^ is n «Tin,.f n^ n . brevis muscle. tendon of origm of the Supinator The Synovial Memlrane is very extensive N It covers the margin of the arti-