172 ARTICULATIONS. the first rib, at its junction witli the sternum: and by its circumference to the anterior and posterior sterno-clavicular ligaments. It as thicker at the circum- ference, especially its upper and back part, than at its centre, or below. It divides the joint into two cavities, each of which is ^furnished with a separate synovial membrane ; when the fibro-cartilage is perforated, which not unfrequently occurs, the synovial membranes communicate _ a , . . Of the two Synovial Memhranes found in this articulation, one is reflected from the sternal end of the clavicle, over the adjacent surface of the fibro-cartilage and cartilao-e of the first rib ; the other is placed between the articular surface of the sternum and adjacent surface rtf the fibro-cartilage ; the latter is the more loose of the two They seldom contain much synovia. Actions This articulation is' the centre of the movements of the shoulder, and admits of motion in nearly every direction—upwards, downwards, backwards, forwards as well as circumduction. ' The movements attendant on elevation and depression of the shoulder take place between the clavicle and the interarticular lia-ament the bone rotating upon the ligament on an axis drawn from before back- wards through its own articular facet. When the shoulder is moved forwards and backwards, the clavicle, with the interarticular ligament, rolls to and fro on the articular sui-face of the sternum, revolving, with a slightly sliding movement, round an axis drawn nearly vertically through the sternum.. In the circumduction of the shoulder which is compounded of these two movements, the clavicle revolves upon the interarticular cartilage, and the latter, with the clavicle, rolls upon the sternum.' * II. ScAPTJLO-Clavicular Aeticulation. (Pig. 131-) The 8capulo.Glavicular is an arthrodial joint, formed between the outer extre- mity of the clavicle, and the upper edge of the acromion process of the scapula. Its ligaments are the Superior Acromio-Clavicular. Inferior Acroniio-Clavicular. C Trapezoid Coraco-Clavicular < and L Conoid. Interarticular Fibre-Cartilage. ■ The Suverior Acromio-Glavicular Ligament is a broad band, of a quadrilateral form which covers the superior part of the articulation,_ extendmg between the upTer part of the outer end of the clavicle, and the adjommg part of the acromion. It is composed of parallel fibres, which interlace with the aponeurosis of the Trapezius and Deltoid muscles ; below, it is in contact with the interarticular fibro-cartilage and synovial membranes. ^1 ■,• The Inferior Acromio.Glavicular Ligament, somewhat thinner than the precedmg, nn.Ll the under part of the articulation, and is attached to the adjoining surfaces r+he two bones ^ It is in relation, above, with the interarticular fibro-carbilage f l ^n rex^s ■ and the synovial membranes ; below, with the tendon of the status ^hese two (igaments a.e continuous with each other in front and behind, and form a complete capsale around the joint _ Thl Om-aco Glaviculm Ligament serves to connect the clavicle with the coracoid process o^Z^:^^^. It Consists of two fascicuH, called the trapezoid and conoid ''^"^CL,e.oi<l ligament, the anterior and external fasciculus, is ' ^^^j^;^ quadrilateril: it is placed obliquely between the ^bracoid process and Ule cla^ lc^^ Tt t attached, below, to the upper surface of the coracoid process; above, to the r !Tine on the under surface of the clavicle. Its anterior border is free; its JoSor W^^^ the conoid ligament, the two forming by their junction a projecting angle. ♦ HuMJ'HBY, On the Jlximan Skeleton, p. 402.