7i8 FEMALE ORGANS OF GENERATION. the darfcos of the sci-otum, besides vesselB, nerves, and glands. The labia are thicker in front than behind, and joined together at each extremity, forming the anterior and posterior oomniissures. The interval left between the posterior com- missure and the margin of the anus is about an inch in length, and constitutes the perinteum. Just within the posterior comtnissure is a small transverse fold, the frcemthim pudendi or fourcliette, which is commonly ruptured in the first partu- rition, and the space between it and the commissui'e is called the fossa navicularie. • The labia are analogous to the scrotum in the male. The labia minora or nymphai are two small folds of mucous membrane, situated within the labia majora, extending from the clitoris obliquely downwards and . outwards for about an inch and a half on each side of the orifice of the vagina, on the sides of which they are lost. They are contimious externally with the labia majora, internally with the inner surface of the vagina. As they converge towards the clitoris in front, each labium divides into two folds, which surround the glans clitoridis, the superior folds uniting to form the pro3putium clitoridis, the inferior folds being attached to the glans, and forming the frasnum. The nymphas are composed of mucous membrane, covered by a thin epithelial layer. They contain a plexus of vessels in their interior, and are provided with numerous large mucous crypts which secrete abundance of sebaceous matter. The clitoris is an erectile structure, analogous to the corpora cavernosa of the penis. It is situated beneath the anterior commissure, partially hidden between the anterior extremities of the labia minora. It is an elongated organ, connected to the rami of the pubes and ischia on each side by two crura; the body is short, and concealed beneath the labia ; the free extremity, or glans clitoridis, is a small rounded tubercle, consisting of spongy erectile tissue, and highly sensitive. The clitoris consists of two corpora cavernosa, composed of erectile tissue enclosed in a dense layer of fibrous membrane, united together along their inner sui-faces by an incomplete fibrous pectiniform septum. It is provided, like the penis, vdth a suspensory ligament, and with two small muscles, the Erectores chtoridis, which are inserted into the crura of the corpora cavernosa. Between the clitoris, and the entrance of the vagina, is a triangular smooth surface, bounded on each side by the nymphae: this is the vestibule. The orifice of the urethra {meatus urinarius), is situated at the back part of the vestibule, about an inch below the clitoris, and near the margin of the vagina, surrounded by a prominent elevation of the mucous membrane. Below the meatus urinarius, is the orifice of the va,gina, an elliptical aperture, more or less closed in the virgin, by a membranous fold, the hymen. The lymen is a thin semilunar fold of mucous membrane, stretched across the lower part of the orifice of the vagina ; its concave margin being turned upwards towards the pubes. Sometimes this membrane forms a complete septum across the orifice of the vagina : a condition known as imperforate hymen. Occasionally, it forms a circular septum, perforated in the centre by a round opening • sometimes it is cribriform, or its free margin forms a membranous frino-e or it may be entirely absent. It may also persist after copulation. Tlic hym°en cannot, consequently, be considered as a test of virgimty. Its_ rupture, or the rudimentary condition of the membrane above referred to, gives rise to those small rounded elevations which surround the opening of the vagina, the carumida^ mvrtiformes. , ^ ,i Glands of Bartholine. On each side of the commencement of the vagina is a round or oblong body, of a reddish-yellow colour, and of the size of a horse- bean analogous to Cowper's gland in the male. It is Called the gland oj Bartholine. Each gland opens by means of a loijg single duct upon the inner 5de of the nymphs, external to the hymen. Extendmg from the clitoris, along e ther side of the vestibule, and lying a little behind the nymph^, are two argc oblong masses, about an inch in length, consisting of a plexus of veins enclosed r^l-^laver of fibrous membrane. These bodies are narrow m front, rounded lelo^ rndTre — with the crura of the clitoris and rami of the pubes;