593 OSSICLES OP THE TYMPANUM. The Mallexis, so named from its fancied resemblance to a hammer, consists of a head, neck, and three processes: the handle or manubrium, the processus gracilis, and the processus brevis. The head is the large upper extremity of the bone; it is oval in shape, and articulates posteriorly with the incus,' being free in the rest of its extent. The necic is the narrow contracted part just beneath the head; and below this is a prominence, to which the various processes are attached. The marmbri'iim is a vertical process of bone, which is connected by its outer margin with the membrana tympani. It decreases in size towards its extremity, where it is curved slightly forwards, and flattened from within outwards. The p-ocessiis gracilis is a long and very delicate process, which passes from the eminen'cG below the neck forwards and outwards to the Glaserian fissure, to which it is connected by bone and ligamentous fibres. It gives attachment to the Laxator tympani. The procesms brevis is a slight conical projection, which springs from, the root of the manubrium, and lies in contact with the membrana tympani. Its summit • .gives attachment to the Tensor tympani. The Incus has received its name from its supposed resemblance to an anvil, but it is more like a bicuspid tooth-, with two 313.—The Small Bones of the Ear, seen which differ in length,, and are widely from the Outside. (Enlarged.) separated from each other. It consists of a body and two processes. The body is somewhat quadrilateral, but compressed laterally. Its summit is deeply Concave, and articulates with th.e malleus ; in the fresh state, it is covered with cartilage and lined with synovial membrane. The two processes diverge from one an- other nearly at right angles. The short process, somewhat conical in shape, projects nearly horizontally back- wards, and is attached to the margin of the opening leading into the mastoid cells, by ligamentous fibres. The long process, longer and more slender than the preceding, descends nearly vertically behind the handle of the malleus, and bending inwards, tetminates in a rounded globular projection, the os orbiculare, or lenticular process, which is tipped with cartilage, and articulates with the head of the stapes. In the foetus the os orbiculare exists as a separate bone, but becomes united to the long process of the incus in the adult. The Stapes, so called from its close resemblance to a stirrup, consists of a head neck, two branches, and a base. ' The head presents a depression, tipped with cartUage, which articulates with the OS orbiculare. The nec7. the constricted part of the bone below the head, receives the insertion 01 the stapedius muscle. The two branches {crura) diverge from the neck, and are connected at their extremities by a flattened, oval-shaped plate (the base), which forms the foot of the^stirrup, and is fixed to the margin of the fenestra ovalis by ligamentous ../jr^T'' "-^if"' ?:f"?- ^^''^ oor^neM with each other and with the wal s of the tympanum, by ligaments, and moved by small muscles Id head '""^ "'"^"^ '""^ the'orbicular process of the S us and head of the tapes are covered with cartilage, connected together by delicate 1, ;?r' ^^^^^^^ Hgamits connfcting the ossicu]a with the walls of the tympanum are three in numbeT-, one for each bone. The suspensory hgament of the malleus is a delicate, roJnd bundle of fibres QQ