421 POSTERIOR TIBIAL. digital branches; one rnns along the inner side of the groat toe, on its plan ar surface ; the other passes forwards along the first metatarsal space, and bifm-cates for the supply of the adjacent sides of the groat and second toes. Posterior Tibial Artery. (Fig. 232.) The posterior tibial is an artery of large size, which extends obliquely down- wards from the lower border of the Popliteus muscle, along the tibial side of the leg, to the fossa between the inner ankle and the heel, where it divides beneath the origin of the Abductor pollicis, into the internal and external plantar arteries. At its origin it lies opposite the interval between the tibia and fibula; as it descends, it approaches the inner side of the leg, lying behind the tibia, and, m the lower part of its course, is situated midway between the inner malleolus and the tuberosity of the os calcis. Relations. It lies successively upon the Tibialis posticus, the Flexor longus digitorum, the tibia and the back part of the ankle-joint. It is covered by the intermuscular fascia, which separates it above from the Gastrocnemius and Soleus muscles. In the lower third, where it is more superficial, ii is covered only by the integument and fascia, and runs parallel with the inner border of the tendo AchiUis. It is accompanied by two veins, and by the posterior tibial nerve, which, lies at first to the inner side of the artery, but soon crosses it, and is, in the greater part of its course, on its outer side. Plan of the Relations op the Posterior Tibial Artery. In front. Tibialis posticus. Flexor longus digitorum. Tibia. Ankle-joint. Inner side. / . \ Outer side. Posterior tibial nerve, Tibial. Posterior tibial nerve, upper third. \ / lower two-thirds. Behind, Gastrocnemias. Soleus. Deep fascia and integuments Behind the Inner Anlcle, the tendons and blood-vessels are arranged in the following order, from within outwards:—First, the tendons of the Tibialis posticus and Flexor longus digitorum, lying in the same groove, behind the inner mal- leolus, the former being the most internal. Exterior to these is the posterior tibial artery, having a vein on either side ; and, still more externally, the posterior tibial nerve. About half an inch nearer the heel is the tendon of the Flexor longus pollicis. Peculiarities in Size. The posterior tibial is not unfrequently smaller than usual or absent, its place being supplied by a large peroneal artery, which passes inwards at 'the lower end of the tibia, and either joins the smaU tibial artery, or continues alone to the sole of the foot. ^ Surgical Anatomy. The application of a ligature to the posterior tibial may be required in cases of wound ot the sole of the foot, attended with great htemorrhage, when the vessel should be tied at the inner ankle. In cases of wound of the posterior tibial, it will be necessary to enlarge the wound so as to expose the vessel at the wounded point, excepting where the vessel is injured by a punctured wound from the front of the leg In cases of f"" ^?^-''^''''^the ai-tery low down, the vessel should be tied in the middle femoral artei-^ m aneunsm of the posterior tibial high up, it would be better to tie the fl, Jrtil'./lT'*t"°f ^/'^''"^I'^t'-y^t the ankle, a semilunar incision should be made through tl. TT mil inches and a half in length, midway between tbo heel and inner ankle, or a little nearer the latter. The subcutaneous cellular membrane having been