288 SURGICAL ANATOMY. inserted into the side of the base of the 179—f"^ Pahnar Inioiossoi of Left Hand, first phalanx and aponeurotic expansion of the common Extensor tendon of the same finger. The first arises from the ulnar side of the second metacarpal bone, and is in- serted into the same side of tlio index finger. The second arises from the radial side of the fourth metacarpal bone, and is inserted into the same side of the ring- finger. Tho third arises from the radial side of the fifth metacarpal bone, and is inserted into the same side of tho little finger, i'rom this account it may be seen, that each finger is provided with two Interossei muscles, with the excep- tion of the little finger, in which the Abductor muscle takes the place of oneof the pair. Nerves. The two outer Lumbricales are supplied by the median nerve; the rest of the muscles of this group, by the ulnar. Actions. The Dorsal interossei muscles abduct the fingers from an imaginary line drawn longitudinally through the centre of the middle finger ; and the Palmar interossei adduct the fingers towards that line. They usually assist the Extensor muscles; but when the fingers are slightly bent, they assist in flexing them. The action of the Lumbricales and Internal or Dorsal interossei is said by Hunter to be to flex the first phalanges, and extend the last two (works by Palmer, iv. 237) ; and Cleland supports this (' Journ. of Anat. and Phys.' Old series, i. 85). In the last edition of Quain's ' Anatomy,' p. 229, it is said that the Lumbricales, assisted by the Interossei, flex the first phalanges, and at the same time by their connection with the Extensor tendon, extend the other phalanges.* SURGICAL ANATOMY. The Student, having completed the dissection of the muscles of the upper extremity, .should consider the eifects likely to be produced by the action of the various muscles m fracture of the bones. In considering the actions of the various muscles upon fractures of the upper extremity, i have selected the most common forms of injury, both for illustration and description. Fracture of the clavicle is an exceedingly common accident, and is usually caused by indi- rect violence, as a fall upon the shoulder; it occasionally, however, occurs from direct force. Its more usual situation is just external to the centre of the bone, but it may occur at the sternal or acromial end. , , ., 1.1 j- Fracture of the middle of the clavicle (fig. 180) is always attended with considerable dis- • M. Duchenne gives a different account of the mechanism of the extension of the fingers and of the action of the Interossei muscles from that usually accepted. According to him, the Extensor communis digitorum acts almost entirely on the first phalanges, extension of the second and third phalanges being effected bv the Interossei muscles, which also act to a certain extent as flexors of the first phalanges. 'This action of the Interossei is additional to their action in abduction and adduction ('Thysiologie des Mouvements,' pp. 261-298). M. Duchenne's view of the action of these muscles certainly derives support from the phenomena observed in lead-palsy and from the results of galvanising the common Extensor and the Interossei, as Dr. W. Ogle has been kind enough to point out to me. Thus also in a case related by Mr. Hutchinson, in which the ulnar nerve had been divided below the part 'rom which the Extensor communis was supplied, (and therefore the Interossei were parwysea while the Extensor acted),' the first phalanges were bent backwards on tho metacarpal bones (extended) ' while the fingers were curved into tho palm' (second and third phalanges nexea;. London Hospital Reports, vol. iii. p. 307.