io6 THE SKETilOTON. with the pisiform ; and is rough extornally, for ligamontons attachment. The external surface, tlio base of tlie pyramid, in marked by a flat, quadrilateral, smooth facet, for articulation with the semilunar. The iutenud surfaa',, the summit of the pyramid, is pointed and roughened, for tho attachment of the internal lateral ligament of tho wrist. Lay it with the surface on which the pisiform facet is upwards, and the con- cavo-convex surface for tho unciform in front. The base of the wedge (i.e., the broad end of the bone) will be on the side to which it belongs. Articulations. With three bones : tho semilunar externally, the pisiform in front, tho unciform below, and with the triangular interarticular fibro-cartilage which separates it from the lower end of the ulna. , , . The Pisiform bone may be known by its small size, and by its presenting a sin^^le articular facet. It is situated at the anterior and inner side of the carpus, is nearly circular in form, and presents on its posterior surface a smooth oval facet, for articulation with the cuneiform bone. This facet approaches the superior, but not the inferior, border of the bone. The anterior or palmar surface is rounded and rouo-h and gives attachment to the anterior annular ligament. The outer and inner surfaces are also rough, the former being convex, the latter usually concave. Lay it with the articular facet on the table, and the nonarticular part ot the same surface in front. The concave (inner) surface is then on the side to which the bone does not belong, i.e., on the ulnar side. Articulations. With one bone, the cuneiform. . ^ ■ ■ ■ Attachment of Muscles. To two : the Flexor carpi ulnaris, and Abductor mmimi digiti; and to the anterior annular ligament. Bones of the Lower Row. (Figs. 94, 95.) The Trapezium is of very irregular form. It may be distinguished by a deep eroove, for the tendon of the Flexor carpi radiaHs muscle. It is situated at the external and inferior part of the carpus, between the scaphoid and first meta- carpal bone. The superior surface, concave and smooth, is directed upwards and inwards, and articulates with the scaphoid. The inferior surface, directed down- wards and outwards, is oval, concave from side to side convex from before back- wards so as to form a saddle-shaped surface, for articulation with the base of the first metacarpal bone. The anterior or palmar surface is nai-row and rough. At its upper part is a deep groove, running from above obhquely downwards and Awards it transmits the tendon of the Flexor carpi radialis, and is _ bounded exlemally by a prominent ridge, the obUque ridge of the trapezmm. This surface SverattLhLnt to the Abductor poUicis, Flexor ossis metacarpi, and Flexor brevis follicis muscles; and the anterior annular hgament. The poste^nor or dorsal surface is rouo-h, and the external surface also broad and rough, for the attachment of iraments The internal surface presents two articular facets : the upper one We^ and concave, articulates with the trapezoid; the lower one, narrow and flattened with the base of the second metacarpal bone. Tay it with its prominent ridge* upwards and towards yourself. The saddle- Flexor brevis poUicis. T4- mav he known bv The TrwpLid is the smallest bone m the second row. It 'J^JJ J^^^^^^ its wedge-shaped form, the broad-end of the wedge forming end the palmar surface; and by its having four articular i and separated by sharp edges The ...crior surface ^-^^^'^^^ ^^J^^^^ smooth and slightly concave, articulates with the scaphoid. The inf.nor surjace . This prominent rid,o is between the deep groove for the tendon of the Rexor cai^i radialis and the nojiarticular surface.