475 MEDULLA OBLONGATA. the pons, it divides into two fascicuU, above the point of the fourtb ventricle. The external fasciculus enters the cerebellum ; the inner fasciculus joins the posterior pyramid, is continued up along the fourth ventricle, and is traced up to the cere- brum with the fasciculi teretes. 26o.-The Columns of the Medulla Oblongata, and their connection with the Cerebrum and Cerebellum. b T It Medulla Ohlonff ata Septvm of the medulla oblongata. Above the decussation of the anterior pyramids, numerous white fibres extend, from behind forwards, in the median line, forming a septum, which subdivides the medulla into two lateral halves. Some of these fibres emerge at the anterior median fissure, and form a band whicb curves round the lower border of the olivary body, or passes transversely across it, and round the sides of the medulla, forming the arciform fibres of Eolando. Others appear in the floor of the fourth ventricle, issuing from the-posterior median fissure, and form the white striae in that situation. Grey matter of the medulla oblongata. The grey matter of the medulla is a con- tinuation of that contained in the interior of the spinal cord, besides a series of special deposits or nuclei. In the lower part of the medulla, the grey matter is arranged as in tbe cord, but at the npper part it becomes more abundant, and is disposed with less apparent regularity, becoming blended with all the white fibres, except the anterior pyramids. The part corresponding to the transverse grey commissure of the cord IS exposed to view in the floor of the fourth ventricle, by the divergence of the restiform bodies, and posterior pyramids, becoming blended with the ascending fibres of the lateral column, and thus forming the fasciculi teretes. The lateral crescentic portions, but especially the posterior horns, become enlarged, blend witii the tibres ot the restiform bodies, and form the tuberculo cinereo of iioianao. Special deposits of grey matter are found both in the anterior and posterior parts of the medulla; forming m the former situation, the corpus dentatum within the olivary body, and, m the latter, a series of special masses, or nuclei, connected with the roots of origin of the spinal accessoiy, vagus, glosso-pharyngeal, and hypoglossal nerves. It thus appears that the closest analogy ii structurJ, and