626 ORGANS OF DIGESTION. they are disposed as a thick uniform layer, covering both surfaces, some passing obliquely from left to right, others from right to left, round the cai'diac orifice. - The cellular coat consists of a loose, fihuDcntous, areolar tissue, connecting the mucous and muscular layers. Ifc is sometimes called the suhniucous coat. It supports the blood-vessels previous to their distribution to the mucous membrane ; hence it is sometimes called the vascular- coat. Tke mucous menihrano of the stomach is thick; its surface smooth, soft, and velvety. During infancy, and immediately after death, it is of a pinkish tinge ; but in adult life, and in old age, it becomes of a pale straw or ash-grey colour. It is thin at the cardiac extremity, hut thicker towards the pylorus. During the contracted state of the organ, it is thrown into numerous plaits or rugsB, which, for the most part, have a longitudinal direction, and are most mai-ked towards the lesser end of the stomach, and along the greater curvature (fig. 333)- These folds are entirely obliterated when tlie organ becomes distended. Structure of the mitco'us memhmie (fig. 335). When examined with a lens, the inner surlace of the mucous membrane presents a peculiar honeycomb appearance, 335.—Minute Anatomy of Mucous Membrane of Stomach. from being covered with small shallow depressions or alveoli, of a polygonal or hexao-onaUorm, which vary from i-iooth to i-35oth of an inch in diameter, and are separated by sHghtly elevated ridges. In the bottom of the alveoh are seen the orifices of minute tubes, the gastric follicles, which are situated perpendicularly side by side in the entire substance of the mucous membrane. They are short, and sinply'tubular in character towards the cardia; but at the pyloric end, they are longer more thickly set, convoluted, and terminate in dilated saccular ex- tremitiel or are subdivided into from two to six tubular branches. The gastric follicles 'are composed of a homogenous basement membrane, hned upon its free surface by a layer of cells, which difier in theii- character in different parts of the stomach Towards the pylorus, these tubes are lined throughout with columnar epithelium • they are termed the rmocoue glands, and are supposed to secrete the gastric mucus. In other parts of the organ, the deep part of each tube is fil ed .with nuclei, and a mass of granules; above these are a mass of nucleated cells, the upper fourth of the tube being lined by columnar epithehum. These are called the pei^c rjUuds, and are the supposed agents in the secretion of the ^^^^sl^vle%Tiides are found .in greater or less number over the entire surface of the mucous membrane; they are most numerous near the py one end of the stomach, and are especially distinct in early life. ,The epithelium Immgthe mucous ^War,P of the stomach and its alveoli is of the columnar variety. W » i Tho supplying the »toM,.»h arc, the ooronana .n„fr ruli Z pyloi lc aud right gaatro-epiploio h-anchos of the hepatic tLe le t Jlr^tfc and vasa brev^ from the spLic. They supply the u^uscular eeat,