NERVOUS SYSTEM. 49° The ^posterior commissure, smaller than the anterior, is a flattened white band of fibres, connecting together the two thalami optici posteriorly. It bounds the third ventricle posteriorly, and is placed in front of and beneath the pineal gland, above the opening leading to the fourth ventricle. The third veukriolo has four openings connected with it. In front are the two I oval apertures of the foramen of Monro, one on either side, through which the third communicates with the lateral ventricles. Behind is a third opening leading into the fourth ventricle by a canal, the aqueduct of Sylvius, or iter a tertio ad quarlwm ventriculum. The fourth, situated in the anterior part of the floor of the ventricle, is a deep pit, which loads downwards to the funnel-shaped cavity of the infundibulum (iter ad infundihulum'). The lining membrane of the lateral ventricles is continued through the foramen of Monro into the third ventricle, and extends along the iter a tertio into the fourth ventricle ; at the bottom of the iter ad infundibulum, it ends in a cul- . de-sac. Grey matter of the third ventricle. A layer of grey matter covers the greater part of the surface of the third ventricle. In the floor of this cavity it exists in great abundance, and is prolonged upwards on the sides of the thalami, extending across the cavity as the soft commissure ; below, it enters into the corpora albicantia, and surrounds in part the anterior pillars of the fornix. Behind the third ventricle, and in front of the cerebellum, are the corpora quadrigemina ; and resting upon these, the pineal gland. The pineal gland (conarium), so named from its peculiar shape (pinus, a fir- cone), is a small reddish-grey body, conical in form, placed immediately behind the posterior commissure, and between the nates, upon which it rests. It is retained in its position by a duphcature of pia mater, derived from the under surface of the velum interpositum, which almost completely invests it. The pineal gland is about four lines in length, and from two to three in width, at its base, and is said to be larger in the child than in the adult, and in the female than in the male. Its base is connected with the cerebrum by some transverse commissural fibres, derived from the posterior commissure ; and by four slender peduncles, formed of medullary fibres. Of these, the two superior pass forwards upon the upper and inner margin of the optic thalami to the anterior crura of the fornix, with which they become blended. The inferior peduncles pass vertically downwards from the base of the pineal gland, along the back part of the inner surface of the thalami, and are only seen on a vertical section through the gland. The pineal gland is very vascular, and consists chiefly of grey matter, with a few medullary fibres. In its base is a small cavity, said by some to communicate with that of the third ventricle. It contains a transparent viscid fluid, and occasionally a quantity of sabulous matter, named acervulus cerebri, composed of phosphate and carbonate of lime, phosphate of magnesia and ammonia, with a little animal matter. ^ These concretions are almost constant in their existence, and are found at all periods of life. When this hodif is solid, the sabulous matter is found upon its surface, and occasionally upon its peduncles. On the removal of the pineal gland and adjacent portion of pia mater, the corpora quadrigemina are exposed. The corpora or tubercula quadrigemina {optic loles) are four rounded emi- nences placed in pairs, two in front, and two behind, and separated from one another by a crucial depression. They are situated immediately behind the third ventricle and posterior commissure, beneath the posterior border of the corpus callosum, and above the iter a tertio ad quartum ventriculum. The anterior pair, the nates', are the larger, oblong from before backwards, and of a grey colour. The posterior pair, the testes, are hemispherical in form, and lighter m colour than the preceding. They are connected on each side with the thalamus opticus, and commencement of the optic tracts, by means of two white prominent bands termed hrachia. Those connecting the nates with the thalamus {hrachia anieriom),