The Urinary Organs. The Kidneys.* 375.—Vertical Section of Kidney. Definition and GuNEEAii Drscription. Tlic kidneys are tlic two largest tubular glands of the body, and are intended for the secretion of urine. They are found at the back part of the abdomen, behind the peritoneum, situated in the lumbar reo-ions ; each kidney extending from the eleventh rib nearly to the crest of the ilium, but the right a little lower than the left, in consequence of the large space occupied by the liver. They are usually imbedded in a considerable quantity of fat, which "principally holds them in position, though they are also to some extent sustained by the large blood-vessels witb which they are connected. Each kidney is about four inches in length, two in breadth, and one in thick- ness, the left being somewhat larger, though thinner, than the right. The weight of the kidney in the adult male varies from 4^ oz. to 6 oz., in the adult female from 4 oz. to 5^ oz., the left being nearly always heavier than the right by about two drachms. "The combined weight of the two kidneys in proportion to the body is about i to 240. The renal substance is of a dark red colour, and dense in texture; but it is easily lacerable under mechanical force. Belations. Each kidney presents for ex- amination two surfaces, two borders, an upper and a lower extremity. The anterior surface is convex and en- tirely covered by peritoneum. It is in relation, on the right side of the body, with the back part of the right lobe of the liver, the descending portion of the duodenum, and the ascending colon; and on the left, with the great end of the stomach, the lower end of the spleen, the tail of the pancreas, and the descending colon. The posterior surface, flatter than the anterior, rests upon the corresponding crus of the diaphragm in front of the eleventh and twelfth ribs, the anterior lamella of the aponeurosis of the transversalis abdominis which separates it from the quadratus lum- borum, and on the psoas magnus. The external harder is convex, and directed outwards and slightly forwards towards the parietes of the abdomen. The internal larder, concave, is inter- rupted at its central portion by a notch or 0 .^ ^-a fissure of about an inch in length, called the liilum of the kidney, orens into a hollow cavity called the sim., and through ^V^^IJ^^^;^^ (uvetev) nerves, and lymphatics of the kidney enveloped m fat and cellular tissue Let the Vessels, nerves, diet, and fat be removed so as to leave only the k.dney • This description is from, the pen of my friend Mr. E. J. Spitta, late Demonstrator of Anatomy at St. George's Hospital. This fissure