595 INTERNAL EAR. smaller branches are, the petrosal branch of the middle meningeal, and branches from the ascending pharyngeal and internal carotid. The veins of the tympanum terminate in the middle meningeal and pharyngeal veins and, thi-ough these, in the internal jugular. The 7ie)-ves of the tympmvum may be divided into : i. Those supplying the muscles; 2. Those distributed to the Hning membrane; 3. Branches com- municating with other nerves. Nerves to mtiscles. The Tensor tympani is supplied by a branch from the otic ganglion; the Laxator tympaui, and the Stapedius, by a filament from the facial ( Sommerring). The oierves distriluted to the lining memhrane are derived from the tympanic plexus. Cmmmmications between the following nerves take place in the tympanum: the tympanic branch from the petrous ganglion of the glosso-pharyngeal; a filament from the carotid plexus; a branch which joins the great suj^erficial petrosal nerve from the Vidian; and a branch to the otic ganglion (small superficial petrosal nerve). The tympanic branch of the glosso-pharyngeal (Jacobson's nerve), enters the tympanum by an aperture in its floor, close to the inner wall, and ascends on to the promontoiy. It distributes filaments to the lining membrane of the tympanum, and divides into three bi'anches, which are contained in grooves on the promontory, and serve to connect this with other nerves. One branch runs in a groove, for- wards and downwards, to an aperture situated at the junction of the anterior and inner walls, just above the floor, and enters the carotid canal, to communicate with the carotid plexns of the sympathetic. The second branch is contained in a groove which runs vertically upwards to an aperture on the inner wall of the tympanum, just beneath the anterior pyramid, and in front of the fenestra ovalis. The canal leading from this opens into the hiatus Pallopii, where the nerve contained in it joins the gi-eat petrosal nerve. The third branch (small superficial petrosal) ascends towards the anterior surface of the petrous bone ; it then passes through a small aperture in the sphenoid and temporal bones to the exterior of the skull and joins the otic ganglion. As this nerve passes by the gangliform enlargement of the facial, it has a connecting filament with it. The chorda tympani quits the facial near the stylo-mastoid foramen, enters the tympanimi at the base of the pyramid, and arches forwards across its cavity between the handle of the malleus and long process of the incus, to an opening mternal to the fissura Glaseri. It is invested by a reflection of the Hnino- mem- brane of the tympanum. . ° Internal Ear, or Labyrinth. The internal ear is the essential part of the organ, receiving the ultimate dis- tribution of the auditory nerve. It is called the labyrin th, from the complexity of Its shape, and consists of three parts: the vestibule, semicircular canals, and cochlea It IS formed by a series of cavities, channelled out of the substance of the petrous bone, communicating externally with the cavity of the tympanum through the fenestra ovalis and rotunda; and internally, with the meatus audito- rius mternus, which contains the auditory nerve. Within the osseous labyrinth is contained the membranous labyrinth, npon which the ramiBcations of the auditorv nerve are distributed. u-uuiLuiy The Vestibule (fig. 314) is the common central cavity of communication between the parts of the mterna ear. It is situated on the inner side of the tymparm behind the cochlea, and in front of the semicircular canals. It is somewhat ovoS one fifth STn YT'^' f^^' '^'^ ^'^^ -™ ^^^-^ one-littJi ot an inch irom before backwards no n.-aii 00 f 1 a 1 •u • r ""^^ji-v\tirus, as well as irom above downwards being narrower from without inwards On 4 . ■ n . " , ' f °, .„ T 1 1 • ,, ^"^^'^'^s- Its outer, or ti/mpanic loall, is the fenestra ovalis, closed in the recent sfnln 4.1 p .1 i. ^ IT . ^^^^""^ state, by the base of the stapes, and its annular ligament. On its inner wall if tii« p l ■ n • , T b ^ ito lanu wau, at tlie tore part, is a small circular depres- «<i 2 ^