NINTH, OR HYPOGLOSSAL. 505 , . 1 • „ :j. jpanpnds between the meatus and mastoid branch of the auneularis magnus ; as ^e^^tlzar hrwnoh supplies the Retraheus proeess it divides mto two bi-anches ^^^"^ the superior aurem. The occipital Imnch, the larger, passes oa^^w. „ curved line of the'^ccipital bone, and supplies the occipital portion of the Occipito- '"""Se'stylo-nyoid is a loug slender branch, which passes inwards e-terin^^^^^^^^ Stylo-hyoid muscle about its middle ; it communicates with the sympathetic filaments on the external carotid artery. ^^a^Cno.. The Digastric 6, usually arises by a common trunk with the precedmg it divides into several filaments, which supply the posterior belly of the Uigastiic , one of these perforates that muscle to join the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. The Temporo-facial, the larger of the two terminal branches, passes iip™s and forwards through the parotid gland, crosses the neck of the condyle ot tne jaw, being connected in this situation with the auriculo-temporal branch ot tlie inferior maxillary nerve, and divides into branches, which are distributed over the temple and upper part of the face ; these are divided into three sets, temporal, malar, and infraorbital. The temporal Iranches cross the zygoma to the temporal region, supplying the Attrahens aurem muscle, and join with the temporal branch of the superior maxillary, and with the auriculo-temporal branch of the mferior maxillary. The more anterior branches snpply the frontal portion of the Occipito-frontalis, and the Orbicularis palpebrarum muscle, joining with the supraorbital branch of the ophthalmic. The malar brandies pass across the malar bone to the outer angle of the orbit, where they supply the Orbicularis and Corrugator superciHi muscles, joining with filaments from the lachrymal and supraorbital nerves: others supply the lower eyelid, joining with filaments of the malar branches of the superior maxillary nerve. The infraorhital, of larger size than the rest, pass horizontally forwards to be distributed between the lower margin of the orbit and the mouth. The superficial brandies run beneath the skin and above the superficial muscles of the face, which they supply; some supply the lower eyelid and Pyramidalis nasi, joining at the inner angle of the orbit, with the infratrochlear and nasal branches of the ophthal- mic. The deep branches pass beneath the Levator labii superioris^ supply it and the Levator anguli oris, and form a plexus (infraorbital) by joining with the infraorbital branch of the superior maxillary nerve. The Gervico-facial division of the facial nerve passes obliquely downwards and forwards through the parotid gland, where it is joined by branches from the great auricular nerve; opposite the angle of the lower jaw it divides into branches which are distributed on the lower half of the face and upper part of the neck. These may be divided intO' three sets: buccal, supramaxillary,. and infra- maxillary. The buccal branches cross the Masscter muscle, join the infraorbital branches of the temporo-facial division of the nerve, and with filaments of the buccal branch of the inferior maxillary nerve. They supply the Buccinator and' Orbi- cularis oris. The supramaxillanj branches pass forwards beneath the Platysma and Depressor anguli oris, supplying the muscles of the lip and chin, and anastomosing with the mental branch of the inferior dental nerve. The inframaxillary branches run forward beneath the Platysma, and form a series of arches, across the side of the neck over the supra-hyoid region. One of these branches descends vertically to join with the superficial cervical nerve from the cervical plexus ; others supply the Platysma. Ninth, or Hypoglossal Nervu. The Ninth Nerve {hypoglossal) is the motor nerve of tlve tongue. It arises by several filaments, from ten to fifteen in number, from the groove between the