ARTEllIES. 382 the ball of the thumb and tlio index finger, where it occasionally anastomoses with tho supcrficialis volro, and a branch from the radialis iudicis, thus completing the arch. Tho convexity of this ai-ch is directed towards the fingers, its concavity towards the muscles of tho thumb. If the thumb be put at right angles to the hand, the position of the superficial palmar arch will bo roughly indicated by a hue drawn along tho lower margin of tho tlaumb across the palm of the hand : the deep palmar arch is situated about a finger's breadth nearer to tho carpus. The superficial palmar arch is covered by the Pahnaris brevis, the palmar fascia, and integument; and lies upon the annular ligament, the muscles of the little finger, the tendons of the superficial flexor, and the divisions of the median and ulnar nerves, the latter accompanying the artery a short part of its course. Relations of the Sdpeepicial Palmar Arch. In front. f \ BeUnd. Integument. / t^y^""^- \ Annular ligament. Palmaiis brevis. Haud!^ Origin of muscles of little finger. Palmar fascia, \ / Superficial flexor tendons. Divisions of median and ulnar nerves. Peculiarities. The ulnar artery has been found to vary in its origin nearly in the propor- tion of one in thirteen cases, in one case arising lower than usual, about two or three inches below the elbow, and in all the other cases much higher, the brachial being a more frequent source of origin than the axillary. Variations in the position of this vessel are more frequent than in the radial. "When its origin is normal, the course of the vessel is rarely changed. When it arises high up, it is almost invariably superficial to the Flexor muscles in the forearm, lying commonly beneath the fascia, more rarely between the fascia and integument. In a few cases, its position was subcutaneous in the upper part of the forearm, subaponeurotic in the lower part. Surgical Anatomy. The application of a figature to this vessel is required in cases of wound of the artery, or of its branches, or in consequence of aneurism. In the upper half of the forearm, the artery is deeply seated beneath the superficial Flexor muscles, and their division would be requisite in a case of recent wound of the artery in this situation, in order to secure it, but under no other circumstances. In the middle and lower thhd of the fore- arm, this vessel may be easily secured by making an incision on the radial side of the tendon of the Flexor carpi ulnaris : the deep fascia being divided, and the Flexor cai-pi ulnaris and its companion muscle, the Flexor subhmis, being separated from each other, the vessel wiU be exposed, accompanied by its venae eomites, the ulnar nerve lying on its inner side. The veins being separated from the artery, the ligatm-e should be passed from the ulnar to the radial side, taking care to avoid the ulnar nerve. The branches of the ulnar artery may be arranged in the following groups :— f Anterior ulnar recurrent. I Posterior ulnar recurrent. Forearm.-i , f Anterior interosseous. I Interosseous | ^^^^^^-^^ interosseous. LMuscular. . f Anterior carpal. ■ 1 Posterior carpal. „ , f Deep or communicating branch. ^^'^^^ 1 Digitah The anterior %dnar recurrent (fig. 220) arises immediately below the elbow- ioint, passes upwards and inwards between the Brachialis anticus and Pronator radii'teres, suppUes those muscles, and, in front of the inner condyle, anastomoses with tho anastomotica magna and inferior profunda. The posterior ulnar recurrent is much larger, and arises somewhat lower than the preceding. It passes backwards and inwards, beneath the Flexor sublimis, and ascends behind the inner condyle of tho humerus. lu the interval between