PNEUMOGASTEIC. 521 motic twig with the petrous ganglion of the glosBO-phaiyi.gml, with the facial nerve by means of the auricular l^ranch, and with the sympathetic by means of an ascend- in^ filament from the superior cervical ganglion. . „ The gcnciUon of the tranlc (inferior) is a plexiforn. cord, cylindrical m form of a reddish colom-, and about an inch in length ; it involves he who e of the fibres of the nerve, except the portion of the nerve derived from the spinal accessory, which blends w^ith the nerve beyond the ganglion. i 1 wi Caimecting hranches. This ganglion is connected with the hypoglossal the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic, and the loop between the farst and second cervical nerves. The hranches of the pneumogastric are— In the jugular fossa . . . Auricular In the neck (-Pharyngeal. I Superior laryngeal. ] Recurrent laryngeal. L Cervical cardiac. r Thoracic cardiac. T ,1 ,1 Anterior pulmonary. In the thorax . . . • < -r^ , . ^ , ] Posterior ptilmonary. ^CBsophageal. In the abdomen . . . Gastric. The auricular IranrJi (Arnold's) arises from the ganglion of the root, and is joined soon after its origin by a filament from the glosso-pharyngeal; it crosses the jugular fossa to an opening near the root of the styloid process. Traversing the substance of the temporal bone, it crosses the aquaeductus Pallopii about two lines above its termination at the stylo-mastoid foramen ; it here gives off an ascending branch, which joins the facial, and a descending branch, which anasto- moses with the posterior auricular branch of the same nerve : the continuation of the nerve reaches the surface between the mastoid process and the external audi- tory meatus, supplies the integument at the back part of the pinna, and communi- cates with the branches of the auriculai-is magnus. The pharyngeal branch, the principal motor nerve of the pharynx and soft palate, arises from the upper part of the inferior ganglion of the pneumogastric, receiving a filament from the accessory portion of the spinal accessory ; ib passes across the internal carotid artery (in front or behind), to the upper border of the Middle constrictor, where it divides into numerous filaments, which anastomose with those from the glosso-pharyngeal, superior laryngeal, and sympathetic, to form the pharyngeal plexus, from which branches are distributed to the muscles and mucous membrane of the pharynx. As this nerve crosses the internal carotid, some filaments are distributed, together with those from the glosso-pharyngeal, upon the wall of this vessel. The superior laryngeal is the nerve of sensation to the larynx. It is larger than the preceding, and arises from the middle of the inferior ganglion of the pneumo- gastric. It descends, by the side of the pharynx, behind the internal carotid, where it divides into two branches, the external and internal laryngeal. The external laryngeal branch, the smaller, descends by the side of the larynx, beneath the Sterno-thyroid, to supply the Crico-tliyroid muscle and the thyroid gland. It gives branches to the pharyngeal plexus, and the Inferior constrictor, and communicates with the superior cardiac nerve, behind the common carotid. The internal laryngeal branch descends to the opening in the thyi-o-hyoid mem* brane, through which it passes with the superior laryngeal artery, and is dis- tributed to the mucous membrane of the larynx, and the Arytenoid muscle, anastomosing with the recurrent laryno-eal. The branches to the mucous membrane are distributed, some in front, to the epiglottis, the base of the tongue and the epiglottidean glands ; while others pa.ss