400 ■ ARTERIES. Plan op the Relations of the Internal Iliac Artekt. In front. Peritoneum. Ureter. Outer side. Psoas maftiius. Sehind. Internal iliac vein. '. Lumbo-sacral nerve. Pyriformis muscle. In the foetus, the internal iliac artery (hypogastric) is twice as large as the external iliac, and appears to be the continnation of the common iliac. Passing forwards to the bladder, it ascends along the sides of that viscns to its summit, to which it gives branches ; it then passes upwards along the back part of the anterior wall of the abdomen to the umbilicns, converging towards its fellow of the opposite side. Having passed through the nmbiUcal opening, the two arteries twine round the umbilical vein, forming with it the umbilical cord ; and, ultimately, ramify in the placenta. The portion of the vessel within the abdomen is called the hypo- gastric artery ; and that external to that cavity, the umbilical artery. At Urth, when the placental circulation ceases, the upper portion of the hypo- gastric artery, extending from the summit of the bladder upwards to the umbiUcus, contracts, and ultimately dwindles to a solid fibrous cord; but the lower portion, extending from its origin (in what is now the internal ihac artery) for about an inch and a half to the wall of the bladder, and thence to the summit of that organ, is not totally impervious, though it becomes considerably reduced in size; and serves to convey blood to the bladder, under the name of the superior vesical ai'tery.. Fecidiarities as regards length. In two-thirds of a large number of cases, the length of the internal iliac varied between an inch and an inch and a half; m the remaunng third, it was more frequently longer than shorter, the maximum length being three mches, the minimum half an inch. . . , • i.- ^ i. The leno-ths of the common and internal iliac arteries bear an inverse proportion to each other, the internal iliac artery being long when the common ihac is short, and vice versa. As regards its place of division. The place of division of the internal iliac varies between the upper margin of the sacrum, and the upper border of the sacro-sciatic foramen. The arteries of the two sides in a series of cases often differed in length, but neither seemed constantly to exceed the other. Surgical Anatomy. The application of a ligature to the internal iliac artery may be a-eauired in cases of aneurism or haemorrhage affecting one of its branches. The vessel mav be secured by making an incision through the abdominal parietes in the ihac region, in a direction and to an extent similar to that for securing the common iliac; the trans- versalis fascia having been cautiously divided, and the peritoneum pushed mwards froni the iliac fossa towards the pelvis, the finger may feel the pulsation of the external ihac at the bottom of the wound; and, by tracmg this vessel upwards, the internal iliac is arnved at, opposite the sacro-iUac articulation. It should be remembered that the vein hes behind, and on the right side, a little external to the artery, and m close contact with it; the ureter and peritoneum, which lie in front, must also be avoided. The degi-ee of facihty in apply- ing a ligature to this vessel will mainly depend upon its length. It has been seen that, in the great majority of the cases examined, the artery was short varying from au inch to au inch and a hllf; in these cases, the artery is deeply seated m the pelvis; when, on the con- Imry, the vessel is longer, it is found partly above that cavity. If the artery is very short occasionaUy happens, it v^ould be preferable to apply a ligatiure to the common iliac, or upon the external and internal iliacs at their origin. , i • wi „ ;„+„^<.i \\\an Collateral Ciratdation. In Mr. Owen's dissection of a case in which the internal d ac artery had been tied by Stevens ten years before death, for f"//Kf^/^^^/^f^^ fnternal iUac was found impervbus for about an inch above the point where tue £tirS had been allied but tTio obliteration did not extend to the origin of the external £ the ill "uX a;teiy ai-ose just above this point. Below the point oi o^.^^n the artwy resumed its natural diameter, and continued so for half an inch j the obturator,