SPLEEN. ^47 between it „a the first luuibar verteta . he ™P='^°;"»^^^ j^y^ey, the commencement of the vena ports, the vena oav.., the suprarenal capsule, and the correspondmg renal vessels ThLj,j.e,lor<i., is thick, a.d l-Vl'^KTdeep g o vV^^a^^^^ in this su"ant:s.tert;:;it^^^^^^^^^^^ -p- are in relation "vvith it. . 4. i p„„m fhp +,ran8verse The lower harder, thinner than the upper, is separated from the ^-^^^verse portion of the duodenum by the superior mesenteric artery and yein to the le t of t^se the inferior mesenteric vein ascends behind the pancreas to jom the ThelaLeaiic duct, called the canal of Wirsung from its discoverer, extends transversely from left to right through the substance of the pancreas, nearer to itB lower than its upper border, and lying nearer its anterior than its posterior sur- face. In order to expose it, the superficial portion of the gland mast be removed. Traced backwards, it is found to commence by an orifice common to it and the ductus communis choledochus, upon the summit of an elevated papi la, situated at the inner side of the descending portion of the duodenum, a little below its middle: from this papilla it passes very obliquely through the mucous and muscular coats, separates itself from the ductus communis choledochus, and, ascending shghtly, runs from right to left through the middle of the gland, giving off numerous branches, which commence in its lobules. Sometimes the pancreatic duct and ductus communis choledochus open separately into the duodenum. The excretory duct of the lesser pancreas is caUed the ductus pancreatieus minor; it opens into the main duct near the duodenum, and sometimes separately into that intestine, at a distance of an inch or more from the termination of the principal duct. The pancreatic duct, near the duodenum, is about the size of an ordinary quill; its walls are thin, consisting of two coats, an external fibrous and an internal mucous ; the latter is thin, smooth, and furnished, near its termination, with a few scattered follicles. Sometimes the pancreatic duct is double, up to its point of entrance into the duodenum. In structure, the pancreas closely resembles the salivary glands ; but it is looser and softer in its texture. The fluid secreted by it is almost identical with saliva. Vessds and Nerves. The arteries of the pancreas are derived from the splenic, the pancreatico-duodenal branch of the hepatic, and the superior mesenteric. Its veins open into the splenic and superior mesenteric veins. Its lymphatics terminate in the lumbar glands. Its nerves are filaments from the splenic plexus. The Spleek. The Spleen is usually classified, together with the thyroid, thymus, and suprarenal capsules, as one of the ductless, or blood-glands. It possesses no excre- tory duct. It is of an oblong flattened form, soft, of very brittle consistence, highly vascular, of a dark bluish-red colour, and situated in the left hj^pochondriac region, embracing the cardiac end of the stomach. It is invested by peritoneum, and connected with the stomach by the gastro-splenic omentum. Relation. The external sv/rface is convex, smooth, and in relation with the under surface of the Diaphragm, which separates it from the ninth, tenth, and eleventh ribs of the left side. The internal surface is slightly concave, and divided by a vertical flssure, the hilum, into an anterior or larger, and a posterior or smaller portion. The hilum is pierced by several irregular apertures, for the entrance and exit of vessels and nerves. At the margins of the hilum, the two layers of peritoneum are reflected from the surface of the spleen on to the