641 STRUCTURE OF LIVER. are veins, to which 346. For- They are small granular bodies, about the size of a nu lefc-seed measuring from one-twentieth to one-tenth of an inch in diametei-^ If divided longitudma ly, they have a foliated, and, if transversely, a polygonal outhne The bases of the lobules are clustered round the smallest branches (sublobular) of the hepatic each is connected by means of a small branch whicli issues from the centre of the lobule (intra- lobular). The remaining part of the sur- face of each lobule is imperfectly isolated from the surrounding lobules, by a thin stratum of areolar tissue, and by the smaller vessels and ducts. If one of the hepatic veins be laid open, the bases of the lobules may be seen through the thin wall of the vein, on which they rest, arranged in the form of a tesselated pavement, the centre of each polygonal space presenting a mi- nute aperture, the mouth of a sublobular vein. Each lobule is composed of a mass of cells; of a plexus of biliary ducts ; of a venous plexus, formed by branches of the portal vein ; of a radicle of an he- patic vein (intralobular) ; of minute arteries; and, probably, of nerves and lymphatics. The hepatic cells form the chief mass of the substance of a lobule, and lie in the interspaces of the capillary plexus, being probably contained in a tubular net- work, which according to some authors forms the origin of the biliary ducts. The portal vein carries the blood to the liver, from which the bile is secreted ; the hepatic vein carries the superfluous blood from the liver, and the bile-duct carries the bile secreted by the hepatic cells. The course of the circulation in the liver is best traced in the natural direc- tion, viz. from the vena portse to the hepatic vein, which is a branch of the vena cava. The portal vein (fig. 347) gives off small branches, which, as they ramify between the lobules of the liver, are called the mierlobular veins, and form a plexus surrounding the lobules. Branches from this plexus enter the substance of the lobule, forming a capillary network inside it, the intralohrd&v capillary plexus. These veins unite into one which issues from the lobule, the Miiralobular vein, forming as it were the stalk or axis of the lobule. The intralobular veins run into small branches—s«51obular—around which therefore the lobules are clustered, and which are the radicles of the hepatic veins. These veins (as mentioned at p. 447) finally convei'ge to form three large T T H. Longitudinal section of an hepatic vein. tion of the canal, from which the Tciu has been removed ; 6. orifices of ultimate twigs of the vein (sublobular), situated in the centre of the lobules. After Kiernaa. 347. Longitudinal section of a .small portal vein and canal, after Kiei'nan. a. Portions of the canal from which the vein has been removed ; b. side of the portal vein in contact with the caiiai ; c. the side of the vein which is separated from the canal by the hepatic artery and duct, with areolar tissue (Glisson's capsule) ; d. internal surface of tlic por- tal vein, through which .are seen tiie outlines of the lobulea and the openings (s) of the intorlnlnilar veins ; /. vaginal veins of Kieruan; g. hepatic artery ; h. hepatic duct.