536 SPINAL NERVES. supply the Abductor, Opponens, and outer bead of the Flexor brevis pollicis muscles ; the remaining muscles of this group being supplied by the ulnar nerve. The digital branches are five in number. The fird and second pass along the borders of the thumb, the external branch communicating with branches of the radial nerve. The third passes along the radial side of the index finger, and supplies the first Lumbricalis muscle. Tho fomth subdivides to supply the adjacent sides of the index and middle fingers, and sends a branch to the second Lumbricahs muscle. The fifth supplies the adjacent sides of the middle and ring fingers, and communicates with a branch from the ulnar nerve. Each dio-ital nerve, opposite the base of the first phalanx, gives off" a dorsal branch, which joins the dorsal digital nerve, and runs along the side of the dorsum of the finger, ending in the integument over the last phalanx. At the end of the finger, the digital nerve divides into a palmar and a dorsal branch; the former of which supplies the extremity of the finger, and the latter ramifies round and beneath the nail. The digital nerves, as they run along the fingers, are placed superficial to the digital arteries. The Ulnar Nerve (fig. 285) is placed along the inner or ulnar side of the upper limb, and is distributed to the muscles and integument of the fore-arm and hand. It is smaller than the median, behind which it is placed, diverging from it in its coui-se down the arm. It arises from the inner cord of the brachial plexus, in common with the inner head of the median and the internal cutaneous nerve. At its commencement, it lies at the inner side of the axiUary artery, and holds the same relation with the brachial artery to the middle of the arm. From this point, it runs obliquely across the internal head of the Triceps, pierces the internal intermuscular septum, and descends to the groove between the internal condyle and olecranon, accompanied by the inferior profunda artery. At the elbow, it rests upon the back of the inner condyle, and passes into the fore-arm between the two heads of the Plexor carpi ulnaris. In the fore-arm, it descends m a perfectly straight course along its ulnar side, lying upon the Flexor profundus dio-itorum, its upper half being covered by the Flexor carpi uhians its lower half lyTng on the outer side of the muscle, covered by the integument and fascia, ihe ulnar artery, in the upper third of its course, is separated from the uhiar nerve by a considerable interval; but in the rest of its extent, the nerve hes to its mner side At the wrist, the ulnar nerve crosses the annular ligament on the outer side of the pisiform bone, a little behind the ulnar artery, and immediately beyond this bone divides into two branches, superficial and deep palmar. The branches of the ulnar nerve are :— In fore-arm Articular (elbow). Muscular. r ^ a ! Superficial palmar. Cutaneous. In hand p^gp palmar. Dorsal cutaneous. -Articular (wrist). The arthtiar hrmcUs distributed to the elbow-joint consist of severs,! small fiWnts arise W thenerve a. it Uas in the groove between the anner are two in nn^ber. one YvV^J^^^J''Z,:Z nlnaris ; the other, tho inner half of the Flexor profnndus d.gitorum. They anse nS^-^it^trnr^rr-ulnar nerve abont the middle of the (Sttr^cS^ X>he deep f~- tho wriJt and fs distributed to the integnment, commnn,cat,ng with a branch of the "'''icCb™-"'™^ it .accompanies t» the tod^ soJe fi. men^ ontwiniug round the vessel, which end .n tho mtogument of the pX communicating with branches of tho median nerve.