4i6 ARTERIES. tbe pulsation of the vessel -will be detected with the finger; the nerve lies on the outer or fibular side of the artery, the vein, superiiciul and also to its outer side; the vein having been cautiously separated from the nrtery, the aneurism needle should be passed around the latter vessel from without inwards. To expose the vessel in the lower part of its course, where the artery lies between the two heads of the Gastrocnemius, the patient should be placed in the same position as in the pre- cedin"- operation. An incision should then be made through the integument in the middle line commencin"- opposite the bond of the knee-joint, care being taken to avoid the external saphenous vein and nerve. After dividing the deep fascia, and separating some dense cellular membrane, the artery, vein, and nerve will bo exposed, descending between the two heads of the Gastrocnemius. Some muscular branches of the popliteal should be avoided if possible or if divided, tied immediately. The leg being now liexed, in order the more effectually to"'sepnrate the two heads of the Gastrocnemius, the nerve should be drawn inwards and the vein outwards, and the aneurism needle passed between the artery and vein from without inwards. Plan of Relations of Popliteal Aeteuy. In front. Femur, Ligamentum posticum. Popliteus, ■ Inner side. / Popliteal \ Outer side. Semimembranosus. \ l^iceps. Hehind. Popliteal vein. Internal popliteal nerve. Fascia, The brandies of tlie popliteal artery are, the /Superior. Muscular | i^gj-ior or Sural. Cutaneous. Superior external articular. Superior internal articular. Azygos articular. Inferior external articular. Inferior internal articular. The swperior muscular hranches, two or three in number, arise from the upper part of the popliteal artery, and are distributed to the Vastus externus and flexor muscles of the thigh; anastomosing witb the inferior perforatmg, and termmal branches of the profunda. a- t-^A The inferior muscular (Sural) are two large branches, which are (^stnbuted to tbe two heads of the Gastrocnemius and to the Plantaris muscle. They ansa from the popHteal artery opposite the knee-joint. n^. v ^ f^^o« Cutaneous hranches descend on each side and m the middle of the bmb, between the Gastrocnemius and integument; they arise separately from the popliteal artery, or from some of its branches, and supply the integument of the calt. The superior articular arteries, two in number, arise one on either side ot tne popliteal, and wind round the femur immediately above its condyles to the front of the knee-joint. The internal branch passes beneath the tendon of the Adductor magnus, and divides into two, one of which supplies the Vastus -^ernus moscu- latkig with the anastomotica magna and inferior internal articu ar; the other ramifies close to the surface of the femur, supplying it and the knee-joint, and InTstomosing with the superior external ax-ticular ai-tery^_ The exte,.ral branch passes above the outer condyle, beneath the tendon of the Biceps, and dmdes mto a suporficill and deep branch : the superficial branch supplies the Vastus externus Ld anastomoses with the descending branch of the external circumflex artery ; the