7IO MALE GENERATIVE ORGANS. pass with the spermatic cord, and, omorging at the external abdominal ring, they descend into tlie scrotum, becoming invested in their course by numerous coverings derived from the serous, muscular, and fibrous layers of the abdominal parietes, as well as by the scrotum. The coverings of the testis are, the Sl^i" \ Scrotum. Dartos J Intcrcolumnar, or External speruaatic fascia. 0remaster muscle. Infundibuliform, or Fascia propria (Internal spermatic fascia). Tunica vaginalis. The SCKOTUM is a cutaneous pouch, which contains the testes and part of the spermatic cords. It is divided into two lateral halves, by a median line, or raphe, which is continued forwards to the under surface of the penis, and backwards along the middle line of the perinroum to the anus. Of these two lateral portions, the left is longer than the right, and corresponds with the greater length of the spermatic cord on the left side. Its external aspect varies under diflferent cir- cumstances : thus, under the influence of warmth, and in old and debilitated persons, it becomes elongated and flaccid; but, under the influence of cold, and in the young and robust, it is short, corrugated, and closely applied to the testes. The scrotum consists of two layers, the integument and the dartos. The integument is very thin, of a brownish colour, and generally thrown mto folds or rugse. It is provided with sebaceous folHcles, the secretion of which has a peculiar odour, and is beset with thinly scattered, crisp hairs, the roots of which are seen through the skin. • The darlos is a thin layer of loose reddish tissue, endowed with contractility; it forms the proper tunic of the scrotum, is continuous, around the base of the scrotum with the superficial fascia of the groin, perina!um, and inner side _ of the thio-hs and sends inwards a distinct septum, septum scroti, which divides it into two cavities for the two testes, the septum extending between the raphe and the under surface of the penis, as far as its root. The dartos is closely united to the skin externally, but connected with the sub- iacent parts by dehcate areolar tissue, upon which it glides with the greatest facihty The dartos is very vascular, and consists of a loose areolar tissue, con- taining unstriped muscular fibre. Its contractHity is slow, and excited by cold and mechanical stimuli, but not by electricity. • n ., The intercolumnar fascia is a thin membrane, derived from the margm ot tlie pillars of the external abdominal ring, during the descent of the testis in the Ltus beino- prolonged downwards around the surface of the cord and testis, it is sepkrated from the dartos by loose areolar tissue, which allows of considerable movement, of the latter upon it, but is intimately connected with the succeeding ^""^The cremasteric fascia consists of scattered bundles of muscular fibres (Cre- master muscle), derived from the lower border of the internal oblique muscle, during the descent of the testis (p. 732). The fctscia propria is a thin membranous layer, which loosely invests the surface of the cord. It is a continuation downwards of the infundibuliform pro- cess of the fascia transversalis, and is also derived during the descent of the testis in the foetus. . „ +_„f:c, a The tunica vaginalis is described with the proper covering of the testis, a more detailed account of the other coverings of the testis will be found m the description of the surgical anatomy of inguinal hernia. n , . i- +1 Vessels and Nerves. The arienes supplying the coverings of the testis are : the superficial and deep external pudic, from the femoral; ^ ^ ^P^.^^ branch of the internal pudic ; and the cremasteric branch from the p^b^c^ The veins follow the course of the correspondmg arteries. The hjinphatrcs terminate in the inguinal glands. The ne^-ves are: the ilio-inguinal and iho-