DORSAL vertebra;. 7 of the dorsal region their form is very characteristic, being heart-shaped, and broader in the antero-posterior than in the lateral dn-ectu,n. They are thicker behLd than in front, flat above and below, convex and prominent m front deeX concave behind, slightly constricted in front and at the sxdes, and mailed .onlach sxde, near the ;oofc°of the pedicle, by two denn-facets one above, the other below These are covered with cartilage in the recent state; and, when ar icilated with the adjoining vertebra, form oval anrfaces for the reception of he heads of the corresponding ribs. The pedicles are du-ected ^-^^--^^J infeHor intervertebral notehes are of large size, and deeper han in ^-7 othe- region of the spine. The lamina, are broad and thick, and the ^V-^^l^ov.^^ small, and of a circular form. The articular processes are flat nearly vertical in di;ection, and project from the upper and lower part of the V^^f^^^^^ superior being directed backwards and a little outwards and upwards, the inferior forwards and a little inwards and downwards. The transverse processes anse from the same parts of the arch as the posterior roots of the transverse processes in the neck; they are thick, strong and of great length, directed obliquely backwards and outwards, presenting a clubbed extremity, which is tipped on its anterior part by a small concave surface, for articulation with the tubercle ot a rib. Besides the articular facet for the rib, two indistinct tubercles may be seen risino- from the extremity of the transverse processes, one near the upper, the other uearlihe lower border. In man, they are comparatively of small size, and serve only for the attachment of muscles. But, in some animals, they attain considerable magnitude either for the purpose of more closely connecting the segments of this portion of the spine, or for muscular and ligamentous attachment. The spinous processes are long, triangular in form, directed obliquely downwards, and termi- nating by a tubercular margin. They overlap one another from the fifth to the eighth, but are less oblique in direction above and below. JSuperioT Artie. 'Process 5.—A Dorsal Vertehra, I Demi.facet {or JieacL oJ-Rll Facet for Tulercle oflRxb DemifacetforlbraA ofRt ^ W Infer. A i-tic.Froc The peculiar dorsal vertebra3 are the ^rst, ninth, tenth, eleventh, and twelfth (%6). Tiie First Dorsal Vertehra presents, on each side of the body, a single entire articular facet for the head of the firsb rib, and a half facet for the upper half of the second. The upper surface of the body is like that of a cervical vertebra, being broad transversely, concave, and lipped on each side. The articular surfaces are oblique, and the spinous process tbick, long, and almost horizontal.