INTERNAL FEMORAL REGION. 301 anterior surface of the muscle ; the fibres pass downwards, backwards, and outwards, to be inserted into a rough line leading from the trochanter mmor to th-o linea ""'^'Seia^i-ons. By its anterior surface, with the piibic portion of the fascia lata, which separates it from the femoral vessels and internal saphenous vem. By its posterior sicrface, with the hip-joint, the Adductor brevis and Obturator externus muscles, the obturator vessels and nerve being interposed. By its outer honler, j^ith the Psoas, a cellular interval separating them, upon which lies the femofal artery. By its inner border, with the margin of the Adductor longus. The Adductor Longus, the most superficial of the three Adductofs, is a flat triangular muscle, lying on the same plane as the Pectineus, with which it is often blended above. It arises, by a flat narrow tendon, from the front of the pubes, at the angle of junction of the crest with the symphisis ; and soon expands into a broad fleshy belly, which, passing downwards, backwards, and outwards, is inserted, by an aponeurosis, into the middle third of the linea aspera, between the Vastus internus and the Adductor magnus. Eelations. By its anterior surface, with the fascia lata, and, near its insertion, with the femoral artery and vein. By its posterior surface, with the Adductor brevis and magnus, the anterior branches of the obturator vessels and nerve^ and with the profanda artery and vein near its insertion. By its outer border, with the Pectineus. By its mner border, with the Gracilis. The Pectineus and Adductor longus should now be divided near their origin, and turned downwards, when the Adductor brevis and Obturator externus will be exposed. The Adductor Brevis is situated immediately behind the two preceding muscles. It is somewhat triangular in form, and arises by a narrow origin from the outer surface of the descending ramus of the pubes, between the Gracilis and Obturator externus. Its fibres, passing backwards, outwards, and downwards, are inserted, by an aponeurosis, into the upper part of the linea aspera, immediately behind the Pectineus and upper part of the Adductor longus. Relations. By its anterior surface, with the Pectineus, Adductor longus-, and anterior branches of the obturator vessels and nerve. By its posterior surface, with the Adductor magnus, and posterior branches of the obturator vessels and nerve. By its o^der border, with the Obturator externus, and conjoined tendon of the Psoas and Iliacus. By its inner border, with the Gracilis and Adductor magnus. This muscle is pierced, near its insertion, by the middle perforating branch of the profunda ai-tery. The Adductor brevis should now he cut away near its origin, and turned outwards when the entire extent of the Adductor magnus will he exposed. ' The Adductor Magmis is a large triangular muscle, forming Ji septum between the muscles on the inner and those on tke back of t!be thigh. It arises from a small part of the descending ramus of the pubes, from the ascending ramus of the ischium, and from the outer margin and under surface of the tuberosity of the ischium. Those fibres which arise from the ramus of the pubes are very short horizontal m direction, and are inserted into the rough line leading from the great trochanter to the Imea aspera, internal to the Gluteus maximus; those from the ramus of the ischium are directed downwards and outwards with different degrees of obhquity, to be mserted, by means of a broad aponeurosis, inte the whole length of the Imea aspera and the upper part of its internal bifurcation below. The. internal portion of the muscle, consisting principally of those fibres which arise from the tuberosity of the ischium forms a thick fleshy mass consisting of coarse bundles which descend almost vertically, and terminate about the lower third of the thigh m a rounded tendon, which is inserted into the tubercle above the inner condyle, of tbe femur, bemg connected by a fibrous expansion to the line leading upwards from the tubercle to the linea aspera. Between the two portions of tlie muscle an angular interval is left, tendinous in front, fleshy behind, for the passage of