?83 OF THE HAND. tensor carpi radialis longior and brevior, and Extensor carpi u nans niuscles are the Extensors of the wrist; continmng their action, they serve to extend the forearni upon the arm; they ai-e the direct antagonists of the Flexor carpi radiahs and nlnaris. The Common Extensor of the fingers, tho Extensors of the thumb, and the Extensors of the index and httle fingers, serve to extend the pha anges mto which they are inserted; and are the direct antagonists of the Flexors. By ,• . ,n • i- J.I, .,„c;o+ ,"ti nvfrmdiiiLT the forearm, iho llixtensors contmuint? their action, they assist in extonamj, tuu of the thumb, in consequence of the obhque direction of their tendons, assist lu supinating the forearm, when the thumb has been drawn inwards towards the palm. ^^^^^ ^^HkrjjS^AND FASCIiE OF THE HAND. Dissection (fig. i68)^HBiausverso incision across the front of tlie wrist, and a second across the heads of/he metacarpal bones: connect the two by a vertical incision^ in the middle line, and continue it through the centre of the midd e finger. Ihe anterior and posterior angular ligaments, and the palmar fascia, should then bo dissected. The Anterior Annular Ligament is a strong fibrous band, which arches over the carpus, converting the deep groove on the front of the carpal bones into a canal, beneath which pass the flexor tendons of the fingers. It is attached, internally, to the pisiform bone, and unciform process of the unciform ; and externally, to the tuberosity of the scaphoid, and ridge on the trapezium. It is continuous, above, with the deep fascia of the forearm, and below, with the palmar fascia. It is crossed by the ulnar vessels and nerve, and the cutaneous branches of the median and ulnar nerves. It has inserted into its upper and inner part the tendon of the Palmaris longus and part of the tendon of the Flexor carpi ulnaris ; and has, arising from it below, the small muscles of the thumb and little finger. It is pierced by the tendon of the Flexor carpi radialis ; and, beneath it, pass the tendons of the Flexor sublimis and profundus digitorum, the Flexor longus pollicis,and the median nerve. There are two synovial membranes beneath this ligament; one of large size, enclosing the tendons of the Flexor sublimis and profundus ; and a sepa- rate one for the tendon of the Flexor longus pollicis, which is also very extensive, reaching from above the wrist to the extremity of the last phalanx of the thumb. The Posterior Annular Li- 176. — Transverse Section through the Wrist, showing the Annular Ligaments and the Canals for the Passage of the Tendons. gament is a strong fibrous band, extending transversely across the back of the wrist, and continuous with the fascia of the forearm. It forms a sheath for the extensor ten- dons in their passage to the fingers, being attached, inter- nally, to the ulna, the cunei- form and pisiform bones, and palmar fascia; externally, to the margin of the radius : and in its passage across the wrist, to the elevated ridges on the posterior surface of the radius. It presents six compartments for the passage of tendons, each of which is lined by a separate synovial membrane. These are, from without inwards-i. On the outer side of the styloid process for the tendons of the Extensor ossis metacarpi, and Ex- tensor primi intemodu pollicis. 2. Behind the styloid process, for the tendons of the Extensor carpi radiahs longior and brevoir. 3. Opposite the outer side of the posterior surface of the radius, for the tendon of the Extensor secundi internodii pollicis. 4 To the mner side of tho latter, for the tendons of the Extensor commums d.g.torum, and Extensor indicis. 5. For the Extensor minimi digiti, 1N0JC1S.I