Ixxvii THE NERVES. others regard as merely a bending of the fibre wliere it becomes lost to sight, or a spot where it is lost sight of in consequence of the power used being too low, or from difficulty in focussing. These ultimate fibres, it should be remembered, are structureless, and can therefore only be recognised positively as nervous by their continuity with a nerve of more complex structure. In the papillae of the skin, or mucous membrane, and on the surface of various membranes (conjunctiva, mesentery, &c.), three different kinds of terminal organs have been found connected with the nerves, viz., the end- bulbs of Krause, the tactile corpuscles of Eudolph Wagner, and the Pacinian corpuscles. The end-bulbs of Krause are small capsules of connective tissue, in which nuclei can be detected by reagents, and in which one or moi-e nerve-fibrils terminate either in a coiled plexiform mass or in a bulbous extremity. They have been described as occurring in the conjunctiva, the mucous membrane of the mouth, and the surface of the glans penis and glans clitoridis.* The tactile corpuscles of Wagner (Fig. XXXI.) are described by him as oval-shaped bodies, made up of superimposed saccular laminae, presenting some resemblance to a miniature fir-cone, and he regarded them as directly concerned in the sense of touch. Kolliker considers that the central part of the papillse generally consists of a connective tissue more homogeneous than that of the outer part, surrounded by a sort of sheath of elastic fibres, and he believes that these corpuscles are merely a variety of this structure. The nerve-fibres, according to this observer, run up in a waving course to the corpuscle, not penetrating it, but forming two or three coils round it, and finally join together in loops. These bodies are not found in all the papillse; but, from their existence in those parts in which tKe skin is highly sensitive, it is probable that they are specially concerned in the sense of touch, though their absence from the papillte of other tactile parts shows that they are not essential to this sense. The Pacinian corpuscles f (Fig. XXXII.) are found in the human subject chiefly on the nerves of the fingers and toes, lying in the subcutaneous cellular tissue: but they have also been described by Eauber as connected with the nerves of the joints, and with the nerves lying between many of the muscles of the trunk and limbs. Each of these corpuscles is attached to and encloses the termination of a single nerve. The corpuscle, which IS perfectly visible to the naked eye (and which can be most easily demon- strated m the mesentery of a cat), consists of a number of concentric iayei-s of cellular tissue, between which Todd and Bowman have fic^iired capillary vessels as running. The nerve, at its entrance into this body, parts with Its white substance, and the axis-cylinder runs forwards in a kmd of cavity m the centre of the corpuscle to terminate in a rounded end or knob, sometimes bifurcating previously, in which case each branch has a similar termination. Grandry, who has examined these corpuscles with very high magnifying powers, describes the axis-cylinder as exhibiting a very weU marked fibrillar structure, and the bulbous end as consisting of a mass of granules mto which the fibrils run, diverging as they a,pproach it. T Ulten called in German anatonucal works ' corpuscles of Vater.'