582 ORGANS OF SENSE. covers its surface, and they are continuous round the margin of the capsule with the vessels of the ijupillary membrane, and with those of the iris. In the adult no vessels enter its substance. The le^is is si transparent, double-convex body, the convexity being greater on the posterior than on the anterior surface. It measures about a third of an inch in the transverse diameter, and about one-fourth in the antero-posterior. It con- sists of concentric layers, of which the external, in the fresh state, are soft and easily detached ; 306.—The Crystalline Lens, those beneath are firmer, the central ones forming hardened^and^divided. a hardened nucleus. These lamina) are best de- ••' monstrated by boiling, or immersion in alcohol. The same re-agents demonstrate that the lens consists of three triangular segments, the sharp edges of which ai'e directed towai-ds the centre, the bases towards the circumference. The laminse consist of minute parallel fibres, which are hexagonal prisms, the edges being dentated, and the dentations fitting accurately into each other; their breadth is about -^s^-sth. of an inch. They run from the pole on one side of the lens to the- equator on the other, so that the fibres which are longest in fi'ont are shortest behind and vice versa. There are also other fibres, which are found chiefly in the equatorial region and at the surface of the lens, which present nuclei, and are of a flattened form. Their nuclei form a layer (nuclear layer) on the surface of the lens, most distinct towards its circumference. The meridians, or lines of junction of the three segments, are formed of an amor- phous granular substance, which sometimes becomes opaque, when the lines are seen forming a distinct star on the lens. The changes produced in the lens by age, are the following:— + In the foetus, its form is nearly spherical, its colour of a slightly reddish tint, it is not perfectly transparent, and is so soft as to break down readily on the slightest pressure. . .. • • In the adult, the posterior surface is more convex than the anterior; it is colourless, transparent, and firm in texture. In old age, it becomes flattened on both surfaces, slightly opaque, of an amber tint, and increases in density. The suspensory ligament of the lens is a thin, transparent, membranous struc- ture placed between the vitreous body and the ciliary processes of the choroid; it connects the anterior margin of the retina with the anterior surface of the lens near its circumference. It assists in retaining the lens in its position. Its outer surface presents a number of folds or plaitings, in which the corresponding folds of the ciHary processes are received. These plaitings are arranged round the lens in a radiating form, and are stained by the pigment of the ciliary processes. The suspensory ligament consists of two layers, which commence behind at tlie ora serrata. The external, a tough, milky, granular membrane, covers^ the inner surface of the ciliary processes, and extends as far forwards as their anterior free extremities. The inner layer, an elastic, transparent fibro-membrauous structure, extends as far forwards as the anterior surface of the capsule of the lens nea^ its circumference. That portion of this membrane which interTenes between the ciliary processes and the capsule of the lens, forms part of the boun- darv of the posterior chamber of the eye. The posterior surface of this layer is torned towards the hyaloid membrane, being separated fi'om it at the cu-cumfcrencc r^f thp lens bv a space called the canal of Petit. , • r * Tlie cani of Petit is above one-tenth of an inch wide. It is bounded m front bv the suspensory ligament; behind, by the hyaloid membrane, its ba.e being firmed byC capsufe of the lens. When inflated with air, it is sacculated at intervals, owing to the foldings on its anterior surface.