440 VKINS, costal spaces, and terminates in the right vena innominata. Sometimes it passes down, and opens into the vena azygos major. The Icfl superior intercostal is always larger than the right, but varies in size in different subjects, being small when the left upper azygos vein is lai-ge, and vice versa. It is usually formed by branches from the two or three upper intercostal spaces, and, passing across the arch of the aorta, terminates in the left vena innominata. The left bronchial vein opens into it. The Superior Vena Cava receives the blood which is conveyed to the heart from the whole of the upper half of the body. It is a shoi-t trunk, varying from two inches and a half to three inches in length, formed by the junction of the two vente innominatas. It commences immediately below the cartilage of the first rib on the right side, and, descending vertically, enters the pericardium about an inch and a half above the heart, and terminates in the upper part of the right auricle. In its course, it describes a slight curve, the convexity of which is turned to the right side. Belations. In front, with the thoracic fascia, which separates it from the thymus gland, and from the sternum ; behind, with the root of the right lung. On its rigid side, with the phrenic nerve and right pleura ; on its lefi side, with the ascending part of the aorta. The portion contained within the pericardium is covered by the serous layer of that membrane, and its anterior three-fourths. It receives the vena azygos major, just before it enters the pericardium, and several small veins from the pericardium and parts in the mediastinum. The superior vena cava has no valves. The Azygos Veins connect together the superior and inferior venae cavae, supplying the place of those vessels in the part of the chest which is occupied by the heart. The larger, or right azygos vein, commences opposite the first or second lumbar vertebra, by a branch from the right lumbar veins ; sometimes by a branch from the renal vein, or from the inferior vena cava. It enters the thorax through the aortic opening in the Diaphragm, and passes along the right side of the vertebral column to the third dorsal vertebra, where it arches forward, over the root of the right lung, and terminates in the superior vena cava, just before that vessel enters the pericardium. Whilst passing through the aortic opening of the Diaphragm it lies with the thoracic duct on the right side of the aorta; and m the thorax, it lies upon the intercostal arteries, on the right side of the aorta and thoracic duct, covered by the pleura, . • i . -j xi Branches. It receives nine or ten lower intercostal vems of the right side, the vena azygos minor, several cBsophageal, mediastinal, and vertebral veins; near its termination, the right bronchial vein; and is occasionally connected with the right superior intercostal vein. A few imperfect valves are found in tHs vem; but its branches are provided with complete valves. The intercostal veins on the left side, below the two or three upper intercostal spaces, usually form two trunks, named the left lower, and the left upper, azygos ""^'"rhe left lower, or smaller azygos vevn, commences in the lunibar region by a branch from one of the lumbar veins, or from the left renal. It passes into the thorax, through the left cms of the Diaphragm, and, ascendmg on the left side ol the spine, as high as the sixth or seventh dorsal vertebra, passes across the column behind the aorta and thoracic duct, to terminate in the right azygos vem. i receives the four or five lower intercostal veins of the left side, and some oesophageal and mediastinal veins. . n ,1 i p, „„„„,,;r,v The lefi upper azygos «em varies according to the size of the left supei 101 intercostal. It receives veins from the intercostal spaces between the left supei or intercostal vein, and highest branch of the left lower azygos, _ They are us a^^^^ two or three in number, and join to.form a trunk which ends ^^^^^^^ vein, or in the left lower azygos. When this vein is small or ^^^^y'^"^, " ^^^^^^^^^^^^ [eft superior intercostal vein will extend as low as the fifth or sixth intercostal space.