appHndages of the uterus. 723 The form, size, and situation of the uterus vary at diderent periods of Ufe and under different circumstances. , , • ,• v j i • In thefatus, the uterus is contained in the abdommal cavity, projecting beyond the hrim of the pelvis. The cervix is considerably larger than the body. . , ^ ^ . , , At pubertiLtYie uterus is pyriform in shape, aud weighs from eight to ten drachms. It has descended into the pelvis, the fundus being just below the level of the brim of this cavity. The arbor vitro is distinct, and extends to the upper part ot the cavity ot the ° ^^Buring and after menstruation, the organ is enlarged, and more vascular, its surfaces rounder; the os externum is rounded, its labia swollen, and the lining membrane of the body thickened, softer, and of a darker colour. During Pi-egnancy, the uterus increases so as to weigh from one pound and a half to three pounds. It becomes enormously enlarged, and projocts into the hypogastric and lower part of the umbilical regions. This enlargement, which continues up to the sixth month of gestation, is partially due to increased development of pre-existing and new-formed muscular tissue. The round ligaments are enlarged, and the broad ligaments become encroached upon bv the uterus making its way between their laminae. The mucous membrane becomes more '^-ascular, its mucous follicles and glands enlarged; the rugae and folds in the canal of the cervix become obliterated ; the blood and lymphatic vessels as well as the nerves, according to the researches of Dr. Lee, greatly enlarged. After Parturition, the uterus nearly regains its usual size, weighing from two to three ounces; but its cavity is larger than in the virgin state ; the external orifice is more marked, and assumes a transverse direction; its edges present a fissured surface; its vessels are tortuous; and its muscular layers are more defined. In old age, the uterus becomes atrophied, and paler and denser in texture; a more distinct constriction separates the body and cervix. The ostium internum, and, occasionally, the vaginal orifice, often become obliterated, and its labia almost entirely disappear. Appendages of the Uteeus. The appendages of the uterus are, the Eallopian tubes, tlie ovaries and tHeir ligaments, and the round ligaments. These structures, together with their nutrient vessels and nerves, and some scattered muscular fibres, are enclosed between the two folds of peritoneum, which constitute the broad ligaments ; they are placed in the following order: in front is the round ligament; the Eallopian tube occupies the free margin of the broad ligament: the ovary and its ligament are behind and below the latter. The Fallopian Tithes, or oviducts, convey the ova from the ovaries to the cavity of the uterus. They are two in number, one on each side, situated in the free margin of the broad ligament, extending from each superior angle of the uterus to the sides of the pelvis. Each tube is about four inches in length ; its canal is exceedingly minute, and commences at the superior angle of the uterus by a minute orifice, the ostium internum, which will hardly admit a fine bristle; it continues narrow along the inner half of the tube, and then gradually widens into a trumpet-shaped extremity, which becomes contracted at its termination. This orifice is called the ostium abdominale, and communicates with the peritoneal cavity. Its margins are surrounded by a series of fringe-like processes, termed fimhnce, and one of these processes is connected with the outer end of the ovary. To this part of the tube the n».mefimbriated extremity is applied; it is also called morsus diaboli, from the peculiar manner in which it embraces the surface of the ovary during sexual excitement. Structure. The Fallopian tube consists of three coats : serous, muscular, and mucous. The external or serous coat is derived from the peritoneum. The middle or muscular coat consists of an external longitudinal and an internal or circular layer of muscular fibres continuous with those of the uterus. The internal or mucous coat is continuous with the mucous lining of the uteras, and at the free extremity of the tube with the peritoneum. It is thrown into longitudinal folds in the outer part of the tube, which indicate its adaptation for di atation, and is covered by columnar ciliated epithehum. This form of epithelium is also found on the inner and outer surfaces of the fimbriro. The Ovaries (testes muliebres, Galen) are analogous to the testes in the male 3 A 2