ORGANS OP SENSE. 5/6 The Choroid is a thin, liighly vascular membrane, of a dark brown or choco- late colour, which invests the posterior five-sixths of the central jjart of the globe. It is pierced behind by the optic nerve, and terminates ni fi-ont at the ciliary lio-ament whore it bends inwards, and forms on its inner surface a series of folds or plaitino-s, the ciliary processes. It is thicker behind than in front. Externally, it is connected by a lino cellular web (memhrana fmca) with the inner surface of the sclerotic. Its inner surface is smooth, and lies in contact with tlie retina. The choroid is composed of three layers, external, middle, and internal. The external layer consists, in part, of the larger branches of the short ciliary arteries which run forwards between the veins before they bend downwards to terminate on the inner surface. This coat is formed, however, principally of veins which are named, from their distribution, vencB vorticosce. They converge to foilr or five equidistant trunks, which pierce the sclerotic midway between the marein of the cornea and the entrance of the optic nerve. Interspersed between the vessels are lodged dark star-shaped pigment-cells, the fibrous offsets from which communicating with similar branchmgs from neighbourmg cells, fonn a delicate network, which, towards the inner surface of the choroid, loses its pig- mentary character. The middle layer consists of an exceedingly fine capillary plexus, formed by the short cHiary vessels, and is known as the tumca liuychiana. The network is close and finer at the hinder part of the choroid than m front. About half an inch behind the cornea, its meshes become larger, and are continuous with those of the ciliary process. • j- p The inter^ial, or pigmentary layer, is a delicate membrane, consisting ot a ^5no-le layer of hexagonal nucleated cells, loaded with pigment-granules, and alued to each other, so as to resemble a tesselated pavement. Each eel contains n nucleus and is filled with grains of pigment, which are in greater abundance at the circumference of the cell. In perfect albino^ this epithehum contains no pigment, nor is any present in the star-shaped cells found m the other layers of the choroid. rru ;i;nvv tirocesscs should now bo examined: they may be exposed, either by detaching jHs%?om fts^SonSon with the ciliary ligament/or by making a transverse section of the globe, and examining them from behind. The OiUary processes are formed by the plaiting and folding inwards of the ^iddt and inLr'Lal layers of the choroid, at its anterior margin, and ai. received