692 UlllNAliY ORGANS. as to lino the siiles of the sinus ; and at tlie floor of that cavity becomes ccntinu- ous with the fibrous sheaths of tlie vessels and nerves, and with the cup-like commencements of the ureter above mentioned, called the calices. The cortical structure is of a reddish-brown colour, soft, granular, and easily lacerable. It is found everywhere immediately beneath the capsule, and is seen to extend itself in an arched form over each medullary pyramid. The pai-t sepa- rating the sides of any two pyramids, through which the arteries and nerves enter and the veins and lymphatics emerge from the kidney, is called a cortical column, ov coluvm of Berthii, (a, a', fig. 375); whilst tliat portion which stretches from one cortical column to the next, and intervenes between the base of the pyramid and the capsule, which is marked by the dotted line, extending from A to A' (fig. 375), is called a cor- t,77-—I^Iinute Structure of ticul arch, the depth of which varies from a third Kidney, to half an inch. The cortical structure is composed of convoluted and straight tubes called tubuli uri- niferi; of blood-vessels, uerves, and lymphatics; and also of numerous little red masses disseminated throughout its substance known as the Malpighian bodies. These bodies, with the interstitial tissue connecting them, will be described under the head of the ' Minute Structure of the Kidney.' The medullarij sirticture, as before said, is seen to consist of palish-red coloured striated conical masses, the pyramids of Malpighi; the number of ■which, varying from eight to eighteen, corresponds to the number of lohes of which the organ in the fcetal state is composed. The hase of each pyramid is surrounded by a cortical arch and directed towards the circumference of the kidney ; the sides are contiguous with the cortical columns ; whilst the apex, known both as the papilla or mamilla of the kidney, is covered by mucous membrane and is seen projecting into one of the calices of the ureter. , 1 e In addition to the arteries and veins and the ' looped tubes of Henle, hereafter to be described, each pyramid is composed of a large number of straight uriniferous tubes passing from base to apex, and which, by repeated inosculations at very acute angles, are reduced to a comparatively small number, and terminate m open mouths on the mucous surface of the mamilla. Minute structure of the Kidney. Under this head the Malpighian bodies will be first described ; then the course and structure of the tubuli uriniferi; and lastly, the blood-vessels, nerves, lymphptics, and connective tissue or intertubular stroma. The Malpiqhian bodies are small rounded masses averaging ^th of an inch m diameter, of a deep red colour, found only in the cortical structure of the kidney ; being scattered throughout the columns of Bertini, but regularly disposed ui double rows in the cortical arches. Each of these httle bodies is composed of two parts • a central glomerulus of vessels called a Malpighian tuft, and a membranous envelope, the Malpighimi capsule, which latter is a smaU pouch-like commence- ment of a uriniferous tubule.* The Malpighian tuft, or vascular glomerulus, consists of the ramifications ot certain small "vessels termed afferent and efferent renals, the latter being usually smaller than the former. Each renal <f ferent in the cortical arches is derived from an interlobular artery (fig. 378), but in the cortical colnmvs it springs from one of the arterial proprias renales (fig. 385). Having pierced the capsule, usual y at a point opposite to the commencing tubule (figs. 377, 378), it divides m a radiatmg or tult- like manner into several terminal branches, which ultimately inosculate so as to form » In former editions of this work, the Malpighian cnpsulc was said to be found a/ Mc side aBweU rthe of a'tubulc ((/erlacb) ; only the latter position, lunvc^c., is now recognised in the human subject.