SriNAL NERVES. S40 TJprER Inteucostal Nerves. The upper intercostal nerves pass forwards in the intercostal spaces with the intercostal vessels, being situated below them. At the back of the chest they lie between the pleura and the External intercostal muscle, but are soon placed between the two planes of Intercostal muscles as far as the costal cartilages, where they lie between the pleura and the Internal intercostal muscles. Near the sterniim, they cross the internal mammary artery, and Triangularis sterni, pierce the Internal intercostal and Pectoralis major muscles, and supply the integument of the mamma and front of the chest, fonning the anterior cutaneous nerves of the thorax ; the branch £i-om the second nerve becoming joined with the clavicular nerve. Branches. Numerous slender muscular filaments supply the Intercostal and Triangularis sterni muscles. Some of these branches, at the front of the chest, cross the costal cartilages from one to another intercostal space. Lateral cutaneous nerves. These are derived from the intercostal nerves, mid- way between the vertebrte and sternum ; they pierce the External intercostal and Serratus magnus muscles, and divide into two branches, anterior and posterior. The anterior Iranches are reflected forwards to the side and the fore part of the chest, supplying the integument of the chest and mamma, and the upper digita- tions of the External oblique. The posterior Iranches are reflected backwards, to supply the integument over the scapula and over the Latissimus dorsi. The first intercostal nerve has no lateral cutaneous branch. The lateral cuta- neous branch of the second intercostal nerve is of large size, and named, from its origin-and distribution, the intercosto-hvmeral nerve (fig. 285). It pierces the External intercostal muscle, crosses the axilla to the inner side of the arm, and ioins with a filament from the nerve of Wrisberg. It then pierces the fascia, and supplies the skin of the upper half of the inner and back part of the arm, com- municating with the internal cutaneous branch of the mnsculo-spiral nerve. The size of this nerve is in inverse proportion to the size of the other cutaneous nerves, especially the nerve of Wrisberg. A second i^itercosto-humeral nei-ve is frequently given off from the third intercostal. It supplies filaments to the arm-pit and inner side of the arm. Lower Intercostal Nerves. The loiver intercostal nerves (excepting the last) have the same Mgement as the upper ones as far as the anterior extremities of the intercostal spaces, where they pass behind the costal cartdages, and between the Internal oblique and Trans- versalis muscles, to the sheath of the Rectus, which they perforate. They supply the Rectus muscle, and terminate in branches which become subcutaneous near the linea alba. These branches, wHch are named the anterior cutaneous nerves of the abdomen, supply the integument of the frout of the belly; they are du-ected outwards as far as the lateral cutaneous nerves. The lower intercostal nerves supply the Intercostal and Abdominal muscles, and, about the middle of their course, give off lateral cutaneous branches, which pierce the Extei-nal intercostal and External oblique muscles, and are distributed to the integument of the abdo- men, the anterior branches passing nearly as far forwards as the margin of the Rectus ; the posterior branches passing to supply the skm over the Latissimus dorsi, where they join the dorsal cutaneous nerves. Peculiar Dorsal Nerves. First dorsal nerve. Its roots of oricjin are similar to those of a cervical nerve Its posterior or dorsal Iranch resembles, in its mode of distribution, the dorsal br Jches of the cervical nerves. Its anteri,yr branch enters almost wholly into L formaLn of the brachial plexus, giving off, before it leaves t^e ^^^^^^^^^^^^ intercostal branch, which runs along the first intercostal space, and termmatcs