THE SKELETON. 54 53.—Right Inferior Turbinated Bone. Inferior Surface. 54.—Right Inferior Turbinated Bone. Outer Surface. the anterior inferior angle of the lachrymal bone, and by its margins with the groove on the back of the nasal process of the superior maxillary and thus a.s8ists in forming the lachrymal canal. At the junction of the two middle fourths of the bone, but encroaching on its posterior fourth, a broad thin plate, the ethnwidal process, ascends to join the unciform process of the ethmoid: from the lower border of this process a thin lamina of bone curves downwards and outwards, hooking over the lower edge of the orifice of the antrum, which it narrows below: it is called the maxillary process, and fixes the bone firmly on to . the outer wall of the nasal fossa. The inferior border is free, thick and cellular in structure, more especially in the middle of the , • , j jc ^-u v.«„« bone Both extremities are more or less narrow and pointed If the bone is held so that its outer concave surface is directed backwards (i.e. towards the holder), and its superior border, from which the lachrymal and ethmoidal processes project, upwards, the lachrymal process will be directed to the side to which the bone belongs. Development. By a single centre, which makes its appearance about the middle of foetal life. Articulations. With four bones : one of the cranium, the ethmoid, and three of the face, the superior maxillary, lachrymal and palate. No muscles are attached to tbis bone. The Vomer. The Vomer is a single bone, situated vertically at the back part of the nasal foss^, forming part of the septum of the nose It is thin, somewhat like a ploughshare in form ; but it varies in different individuals, being frequently bent to one or the other side; it 55.—Vomer, presents for examination two surfaces and four borders. The lateral surfaces are smooth, marked by small furrows for the lodgment of blood-vessels, and by a groove on each side, sometimes a canal, the naso-palatine, whicb runs obliquely downwards and forwards to the intermaxillary suture between the two ante- rior palatine canals; it trans- mits the naso-palatine nerve. The superior border, the . . . thickest, presents a deep groove, bounded on each side by a horizontal projectmg ala of bone : the groove receives the rostrum of the sphenoid, whilst the al83 are overlapped and retained by laminro (the vaginal processes) which project from the under surface of the body of the sphenoid at the base of the pterygoid processes. At the front of the groove a fissure is left for the transmission of blood-vessels to the substance of the bone. The inferior border, the longest, is broad and uneven