TRIANGLES OF THE NECK. 349. , T J /• o v^noa,:^^ rlriwn nlonET the posterior palatine canal witli the The descendmq palatine passes down aioug uuo i r ,. , iueaej.(.Di« i-"A/T .„i,„Ta o-incrlion and cmero'ini? from tho posterior nosterior nalatine branches of Meckel s g.i-ngiioii,'i"^ ^ .f i , i , puhLBiiui piuutii c . • „ n,.nrwp on the nucr side of the alveolar border palatine foramen, runs forwards m a groove on xr, i, of he hai^ palate to be distributed to the gums, the mucous membrane of the hard .aL; and palatino glands. Whilst it is contained m the ^atuie canal i^^^^^^^^^ iff branches which descend in the accessory palatine canals "Pf/^^^ palate, anastmnosing with the ascending palatine artery; and anterio ly ^'J^ZZ^ In a small vessel, which ascends in the anterior palatine canal, and anastomoses with the artery of the septum, a branch of the spheno-palatme. The Vidlal branch passes backwards along the Vidian canal with the Vid an nerve. It is distributed to the upper part of the pharynx and Eustachian tube, sending a small branch into the tympanum. The ptery>jo-paMine is also a very small branch, which passes backwards through the pterygo-palatine canal with the pharyngeal nerve, and is distributed to the upper part of the pharynx and Eustachian tube. The nasal or splieno-palatine passes through the spheno-palatine foramen into the cavity of the nose, at the back part of the superior meatus, and divides into two branches ; one internal, the artery of the septum, passes obliquely downwards and forwards along the septum nasi, suppHes the mucous membrane, and anasto- moses in front with the ascending branch of the descending palatine. The external branches, two or three in number, supply the mucous membrane covering the lateral wall of the nose, the antrum, and the ethmoid and sphenoid cells. SuKGicAL Anatomy of the Triangles of the Neck. The student having considered the relative anatomy of the large arteries of the neck and their branches, and the relations they bear to the veins and nerves, should now examine these structures collectively, as they present themselves in certain regions of the neck, in each of which important operations are being constantly performed. For this purpose, the Sterno-mastoid, or any other muscles that have been divided in the dissection of the vessels, should be replaced in their normal position ; the head should be supported by placing a block at the back of the neck, and the face turned to the side opposite to that which is being examined. The side of the neck presents a somewhat quadrilateral outline, limited, above, by the lower border of the body of the jaw, and an imaginary line extending from the angle of the jaw to the mastoid process ; below, by the prominent upper border of the clavicle ; in front, by the median line of the neck ; behind, by the anterior margin of the Trapezius muscle. This space is subdivided into two large triangles by the Sterno-mastoid muscle, which passes obliquely across the neck, from the sternum and clavicle, below, to the mastoid process, above. The triangular space in front of this muscle, is called the anterior triangle ; and that behind it, the posterior triangle. Anterior Triangular Space. The anterior triangle is limited, in front, by a line extending fi-om the chin to the sternum ; behind, by the anterior margin of the Sterno-mastoid ; its base, directed upwards, is formed by the lower border of the body of the jaw, and a line extendmg from the angle of the jaw to the mastoid process; its apex is below, at the sternum. The space is covered by the integument, superficial fascia, Platysma, and deep fascia; it is crossed by branches of the facial and superficial cervical nerves, and is subdivided into three smaller triangles by the Digastric muscle, above, and the anterior belly of the Omo-hyoid, below. These smaller triangles are named from below upwards, the inferior carotid, the superior carotid, and the submaxillary triangle. The Inferior Carotid Triangle is limited, in front, by the median line of the