DORSALIS PEDIS. 419 CowKc The ftvtoi-Y occasionally deviates in its course towards the fibular side of the le<r, reauiuiu- its usual position beneath tiie annidnr ligament at the front ol tlie ankle. In two instances, the vessel luis been found to approach tlie surface in the nuddlo ot tlie leg, being covered merely by the integuineut and fascia below tliat. point. Swffical Anaffomij. The anterior tibial artery may be tied in the upper or lower par of the leg. In the upmsr part, the operation is attended with great dillicuUy on account ot the deptb of the vessel from tlie surface. An incision, about four inches in length, should be- made through the integument, midway between tlie .spine of the tibia and the outer margin of the fibula, the fascia and intermuscular si'plum between the Tibialis anticus and Extensor longus digitorum being divided to the same extent. The foot must be Hexed to relax these muscles, and they must be separated from each other by the finger. The artery is then exposed, deeply seated, lying upon the interosseous membrane, the nerve lying externally, and one of the vena) coiuites on either side; these must be separated from the artery before the aneurism needle is passed round it. ' To tie the vessel in the lower third of the leg above the ankle-joint, an incision about three inches in length should be made through the integument between the tendons of tlie Tibialis anticus and Extensor proprius pollicis muscles, the deep i'ascia being divided to tiie same extent; the tendon on either side shoidd be held aside, when the vessel will be seen lying upon the tibia, with the nerve superficial to it, and one of the vena) comites on either side. In order to secure the artery over the instep, an incision should be made on the fibular side of the tendon of the Extensor proprius pollicis, hetween it and the innermost tendon of the long Extensor; the deep fascia having been divided, the artery will be exposed, the nerve lying either superficial to it, or to its outer side. The branches of the anterior tibial artery are, the Recurrent tibial. Internal malleolar. Muscular. External malleolar. The recurrent hrancJi arises from the anterior tibial, as soon as that vessel has passed through the interosseous space ; it ascends in the Tibialis anticus muscle, and ramifies on the front and sides of the knee-joint, anastomosing with the articu- lar branches of the popliteal. The muscular branches are numerous ; they are distributed to the muscles which lie on either side of the vessel, some piercing the deep fascia to supply the in- tegument, others passing through the interosseous membrane, and anastomosing with branches of the posterior tibial and peroneal arteries. The malleolar arteries supply the ankle-joint. The internal arises about two inches above the articulation, and passes beneath the tendon of the Tibialis anticus to the inner ankle, upon which it ramifies, anastomosing with branches of the posterior tibial and internal plantar arteries. The external passes beneath the tendons of the Extensor longus digitorum and Extensor proprius pollicis, and sup- plies the outer ankle, anastomosing with the anterior peroneal artery, and with ascending branches from the tarsal branch of the dorsalis pedis. DoESALis Pedis Aktert. (Pig. 233.) The dorsahs pedis, the continuation of the anterior tibial, passes forwards from the bend of the ankle along the tibial side of the foot to the back part of the first interosseous space, where it divides into two branches, the dorsalis hallucis and communicating. Relations. This vessel, in its course forwards, rests upon the astragalus, sca- phoid, and internal cuneiform bones and the ligaments connecting them, being covered by the integument and fascia, and crossed near its termination by the innei° most tendon of the Extensor brevis digitorum. On its tibial side is the tendon of the Extensor proprius pollicis ; on its fibular side, the innermost tendon of the Ex- tensor longus digitorum, and the termination of the anterior tibial nerve. It is accompanied by two veins.