492 NERVOUS SYSTEM. j bemisphere, the fibres being disposed in a longitudinal direction. They form the . fornix, the tcenia semicirculai-is, and peduncles of the pineal gland, the strise m longitudinales, the fibres of the gyrus fornicatus, and the fasciculus unciformis, ■ The Cerebellum. ^ The Cerebellum, or little brain, is that portion of the encophalon which is con- ■I tained in the inferior occipital fossoB. It is situated beneath the posterior lobes of -1 the cerebrum, from which it is separated by the tentorium. Its average weight in 'i the male is 5 oz. 4 drs. It attains its maximum weight between the twenty-fifth and fortieth year ; its increase in weight after the fourteenth year being relatively o-reater in the female than in the male. The proportion between the cerebellum | and cerebrum is, in the male, as i to 8f; and in the female, as i to 8;^:. In the infant, the cerebellum is proportionally much smaller than in thd adult, the relation between it and the cerebrum being, according to Chaussier, between i to 13, and [ 1 to 26 ; by Cruveilhier the proportion was found to be i to 20. In form, the ' cerebellum is oblong, and flattened from above downwards, its greater diameter being from side to side. It measures from three and a half to four inches trans- versely, and from two to two and a half inches from before backwards, being about two inches thick in the centre, and about six lines at the circumference, which is the thinnest part. It consists of grey and white matter : the former, darker than that of the cerebrum, occupies the surface; the latter the interior. The surface of the cerebellum is not convoluted like the cerebrum, but traversed by numerous curved furrows or sulci, which vary in depth at difierent parts, and separate the lamina of which its exterior is composed. Its upper surface (fig. 267) is somewhat elevated in the median line, and depressed towards its circumference; it consists of two lateral hemispheres, connected together by an elevated median portion or lobe, the superior vermiform process. 267.—Upper Surface of the Cerebellum. The median lobe is the fundamental part, and in some animals, as fishes and reptiles the only part which exists ; the hemispheres being additions, and attaming their maximum size in man. The hemispheres are separated, m front, by a deep notch the mdstira cerehdU anterior, which encircles the corpora quadrigemina behind • they are also separated by a similar notch behind, the incisum cerehdh posterior, in which is received the upper part of the falx cerebelli. The superior vermifo m process (upper part of the median lobe of the cerebellum) extends from Ihe notch on the anterior to that on the posterior border. It is divided into three lobes • the lohulus centralis, a small lobe, situated in the incisura anterior ; themo«- Zalus cerebeUi, the central projecting part of the process; and the covunmura s^m. plex, a small lobe near the incisura posterior.