STBRNO-OLAVICULAR JOINT. 171 of the clavicle is mxich larger than tbat of the sternum, and invested with a layer of cartilage,* which is considerably thicker than that on the latter boue. The ligaments of this joint are the Anterior Sterno-Clavicular. Inter-Clavicular. Posterior Sterno-Clavicular. Costo-Clavicular (rhomboid). Intorarticular Fibre-Cartilage. The Anterior Stemo-Olavicular Ligament is a broad band of fibres, which covers the anterior surface of the articulation,'being attached, above, to the upper and front part of the inner extremity of the clavicle ; ancl, passing obliquely downwards and inwards, is attached, below, to the front and upper part of the first piece of the sternum. This ligament is covered in front by the sternal portion of the Sterno-cleido-mastoid and the integument; behind, it is in relation with the inter- articular fibro-cartilage and the two synovial membranes. The Postenor Stemo-Glavicular Ligament is a similar band of fibres, which covers the posterior surface of the articulation, being attached, above, to the pos- terior part of the inner extremity of the clavicle ; and which, passing obliquely downwards and inwai-ds, is connected, below, to the posterior and upper part of 130.—Sterno-Clavicular Articulation. Anterior View. the sternum. It is in relation, in front, with the interarticular fibro-cartilage and synovial membranes ; behind, with the Stemo-hyoid and Sterno-thyroid muscles The Interclavicular Ligament is a flattened band, which varies considerably in form and size m difi-erent individuals ; it passes from the upper part of the inner extremity of one clavicle to the other, and is closely attached to the upper margin ,of the sternum. It is m relation, in front, with the integument; behind, with the oterno-thyroid muscles. The Gosto-Glavicular Ligament (rhomhoid) is short, flat, and strong : it is of lh^r^"'l T' ^^'.^^17. t° tJ^e upper and inner part of the cttilage of the first rib : it ascends obliquely backwards and outwards, and is attached, above, to the rhomboid depression on the under surface of the clavicle. It is in rela! ^ZZlr.l^r''' ''^''^ the ahovp A I ■ sternum and clavicle. It is attached, above, to the upper and posterior border of the clavicle; below, to the cartilage of