OCCIPITAL BONE. 21 a. onrl Vipvpllfifl internally to support the medulla ppciq and its margins are smooth ancL Devoueci muumii, j ^ 1 l- ^ t-- cess, and ma g ^ loagnum are the condyles, for articulation oblongata. On each bide "'Oio ^ .^ape, and directed down- ;:::7r;: i:r Z^o:t::^e.^ Jenu. %he under surface of I s process ilFords attachment to the Rectus capitis lateralis ; its ^-o-erebra surfL presents a deep groove which lodges pa.-t oi the prominent extremity is marked by a quadrilateral rough surface, «°J-f ^^^^^^^^^^ lage in the fresh state, and articulating with a similar surface on the Petrous Por ion of the temporal bone. On the outer side of each condyle, near its fore part, is a foramen, the anterior condyloid ; it is directed downwards, outwards and forwai-ds, and transmits the hypoglossal nerve, and occasionally a meniugeal branch ot the ascendincr pharyngeal artery. This foramen is sometimes double. Behind eacH condyle is a fossa,* sometimes perforated at the bottom by a foramen, the posterior condyloid, for the transmission of a vein to the lateral sinus. In front of the foramen magnum is a strong quadrilateral plate of bone, the basilar process, wider behind than in front; its under surface, which is rough, presentmg in the median Hne a tubercular ridge, the pharyngeal spine, for the attachment of the tendinous raphe and Superior constrictor of the pharynx ; and, on each side of it, rough depressions for the attachment of the Recti capitis antici, major and minor. The Internal or Cerebral Surface (fig. 23) is deeply concave. The posterior or occipital pai-t is divided by a crucial ridge into four fosste. The two superior fossa? receive the posterior lobes of the cerebrum, and present shght eminences and depressions corresponding to their convolutions. The two inferior, which receive the hemispheres of the cerebellum, are larger than the former, and comparatively smooth ; both are marked by slight grooves for the lodgment of arteries. At the point of meeting of the four divisions of the crucial ridge is an eminence, the internal occipital protuberance. It nearly corresponds to that on the outer surface, and is perforated by one or more large vascular foramina. From this eminence, the superior division of the crucial ridge run,s upward to the superior angle of the bone; it presents a deep groove for the superior longitudinal sinus, the margins of which give attachndent to the falx cerebri. The in- ferior division, the internal occipital crest, runs to the posterior margin of the foramen magnum, on the edge of which it becomes gradually lost; this ridge, which is bifurcated below, serves for the attachment of the falx cerebelli. It is usually marked by two small grooves, which commence on either side of the • posterior margin of the foramen magnum, join together above, and run into the depression for the Torcular Herophili. They lodge the occipital sinuses. The transverse grooves pass outwards to the lateral angles ; they are deeply channelled, for the lodgment of the lateral sinuses, their prominent margins affording attach- ment to the tentorium cerebelli.f At the point of meeting of these grooves is a , depression, the ' Torcular Herophili,' J placed a little to one or the other side of the internal occipital protuberance. More anteriorly is the foramen magnum, and * This fossa presents many variations iu size. It is usually shallow; and the foramen small; occasionally wantinij, on one, or both sides. Sometimes both fossa and foramen are large, but confined to one side only ; more rarely, the fossa and foramen are very large on both sides. t Usually one of the transverse grooves is deeper and broader than the other; occasionally, both grooves are of equal depth and breadth, or both equally iudistiuct. The 'broader of the two transverse grooves is nearly always continuous with the vertical groove for the superior longitudinal sinus, and occupies tlio correspon'ding side of the median line. T The columns of blood coming in dillerent directions wore supposed to be pressed together at this point.