CARPUS. tendon of tho Extensor carpi radialis longior, the inner the tendon of the Extensor carpi radialis brevior. The second, which is near the centre of the bone, is a deep but narrow groove, directed obHquely from above, downwards and outwards ; it transmits the tendon of the Extensor secundi internodii poUicis. The third, lying most internally, is a broad groove, for the passage of the tendons of the Extensor communis digitorum, Extensor indicis and Extensor minimi digiti; the tendon of the last-named muscle passing through the groove at the point of articulation of the radius with the ulna, and lying in a separate sheath of the annular ligament. Structure. Similar to that of tho other long bones. Bevelojjmmt (tig. 93). By three centres: one for the shaft, and one for each extremity. That for the shaft makes 93.—Plan of the Development of the Radius. By Three Centres. M 1 ApjtfarK lit Z'!^y.'- "VnitfS Willi SAaft its appearance near the centre of the bone, soon after the development of the humerus commences. At birth the shaft is ossified, but the ends of the bone are cartilaginous. About the end of the second year, ossification commences in the lower epiphysis; and about the fifth year, in the upper one. At the age of puberty, the up- per epiphysis becomes joined to the shaft; the lower epiphysis becoming united about the twentieth year. Articulations. With four bones : the humerus, ulna, scaphoid, and semi- lunar. Attachment of Muscles. To the tu- berosity, the Biceps; to the oblique ridge, the Supinator brevis, Flexor digitorum sublimis, and Flexor longus pollicis; to the shaft (its anterior sur- face), the Flexor longus pollicis and Pronator quadratus ; (its posterior sur- face), the Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis and Extensor primi internodii pollicis; (its outer surface), the Pro- nator radii teres; and to the styloid process, the Supinator longus. THE HAND. The skeleton of the Hand is subdivided into three segments—the Carpus or wrist bones, the Metacarpus or bones of the palm, and the Phalanges or bones of the fingers. The Caepus. The bones of the Carpus, eight in number, are arranged in two rows. Those ot the upper row, enumerated from the radial to the nbiar side, are the scaphoid, semiluna,r, cuneiform, and pisiform; those of the lower row, enumerated in the same order, are the trapezium, trapezoid, os magnum, and uncifoi-m. Common Characters op the Carpal Bores. _ Each bone (excepting the pisiform) presents six surfaces. Of these, the ante- 71 the posterior or dor.ml, are rough, for ligamentous attachment, the dorsal surface bemg generally the broader of the two. The superior and !wr°7'°f*^'? '\ «"P«rior generally convex, the inferior concave ; and the mternal and exte,-nal are also articular when in contact with contiguous bones, otherwise rough and tubercular. Their structure in all is similar, consisting