cxviii QENEIlAfi ANATOMY. The sclerotic and cornea, except the epithelial layer of the latter, are formed from the outer layer of the reversed primitive ocular vesicle, the retina from the inner layer; the pigment of the choroid is also derived from the inner layer, its proper tissue from one of these layers, but which has not yet been determined. The cavity of the primitive ocular vesicle disappears as that of the optic nerve does. The eyelids are formed at the end of the third month, as small cutaneous folds, which come together in front of the globe and cohere. This union is broken up, and the eyelids separate before the end of fcetal life. The lachrymal canal appears to result from the non-closure of a fissure which exists between the external nasal process and the maxillary process (p. cxiii.). Development of the ear.—The first rudiment of the ear appears about the same time as that of the eye, in the form of a vesicle (primitive auditory vesicle, Figs. LV., LVI., ii) situated close on the outside of the third cerebral vesicle, though not communicating with it. It is formed by a depression of the epithelium over the second pharyngeal arch, which becomes converted into a closed sac. From this vesicle the internal ear is developed. The auditory nerve is described either as a projection from the third cerebral vesicle, or as an independent formation which unites with both, and thus establishes a communication between the cerebral and the auditory vesicles. The middle ear and Eustachian tube constitute the remains of the first pharyngeal or branchial cleft. The formation of the ossicles of the tympanum has been already pointed out, viz., the mens and malleus from Meckel's cartilage, and the stapes, with its muscle, from the second pharyngeal arch. These parts project into the first pharyngeal cleft, which remains occupied by connective -tissue during the whole of foital Hfe, according to KoUiker. The membrana tympani forms across the cleft, dividing it into an inner and outer portion. The pinna, or external ear, is developed from the soft parts covering the first pharyngeal arch. Development of the 9iose.—Two fossse (olfactory fosste) have been already spoken of, which are found below and in front of the ocular vesicles and the upper maxillary projection (Fig. LV., 2, 3). They appear about the fourth week. Their borders become prominent, and the fossae deepen, ex- cept at the lower part, where they lead by a groove (olfactory groove) into the buccal cavity. This groove is bounded by the internal and external nasal process. As the superior maxilla,ry projection increases, the olfactory groove is transformed into a deep canal, the rudiment of the two superior meatus of the nose. As the palatine septum is formed, the buccal cavity is divided into two parts, the upper of which represents the inferior meatus of the nose, while the lower forms the mouth. The soft parts of the nose are formed from the coverings of the frontal projection, and of the olfactory fossa. The nose is perceptible about the end of the second month. The nostrils are at first closed by epithelium, but this disappears about the fifth month. The olfactory nerve, as above pointed out, is a prolongation, at first m the form of a hollow stalk, from the anterior cerebral vesicle.