554 SPINAL NKRVES. The hyanch'8 of tbc anterior tibial nerve, in its course through the leg are the musculai- nerves to the Tibialis anticus, Extensor longus digitorum, Peroneus tertius, and Extensor proprius pollicis muscles. The exiernal or tarsal hranoh of tho anterior tibial passes outwards acioss the tarsus beneath the Extensor brovis digitorum, and, having become ganglionic, HkTthe rsterior interosseous nerve at the wrist, supplies the Extensor brevis ditritorum and the articulations of the tarsus and metatarsus. ... .. The internal branch, the continuation of the nerve, accompanies the dorsalis pedis artery along the inner side of the dorsum of the foot and at the first int«r- n^soous space divides into two branches, which supply the adjacent sides of the great and second toes, communicating with the internal division of the musculo- fccX'OntoneoMS Nerve (fig. 289) supplies the muscles on the fibular side of the leg, and the integument of the dorsum of the foot. It passes forwards between the Peronei muscles and the Extensor longus digitorum pierces the deep fascia at the lower third of the leg, on its front and outer side, and divides into two branches. This nerve, in its course between the muscles, grves off muscu a, branches to the Peroneus longus and brevis, and cutaneous filaments to the m- tegument of the lower part of the leg. fT,^ The internal hranoh of the musculo-cutaneous nerve passes m front of the ankle-ioint and along the dorsum of the foot, supplymg the inner side ot the treet C and the adjoining sides of the second and third toes. It also supplies lie in eeument of the inne? ankle and imier side of the foot, communicating with the inteLaTsaphenous nerve, and joins with the anterior tibial nerve, between the ^^thT"w^^ larger, P-- along the outer side of th^^^^^^^ the foot, to be distributed to the adjoining sides of the third, fourth and fifth to^s It also supplies the integument of the outer ankle and outer side of the foot, com TniiTi^pnHnB- with the short saphenous nerve. e^„^A T^ZtMion of these branches of the musculo-cutaneous nerve be found to vary • together, they supply all the toes excepting the outer side of the little toe, and the adjoining sides of the great and second toes.