STERNUM. 75 The Lesser Gornna are two small conical-shaped eminences, attached by then- bases to the angles of junction between the body and greater cornua, and giving attachment by their apices to the stylo-hyoid ligaments. In youth, the cornua are connected to the body by cartilaginous surfaces, and held together by ligaments; in middle life, the body and greater cornua usually become joined; and m old age, all the segments are united together, forming a single bone. Developmmt. By five centres: one for tie body, and one for each cornu Ossification commences in the body and greater cornua towards the end ot tcetal life, those of the cornua first appearing. Ossification of the lesser cornua com- mences some months after birth. Attachment of Muscles. Sterno-hyoid, Thyro-hyoid, Omo-hyoid, aponeurosis of the Digastricus, Stylo-hyoid, Mylo-hyoid, Genio-hyoid, Genio-hyo-glossus Hyo-glossus, Middle Constrictor of the pharynx, and occasionally a few fibres of the Liugualis. It also gives attachment to the thyro-hyoidean membrane, and the stylo-hyoid, thyro-hyoid, and hyo-epiglottic ligaments. THE THORAX. The Thorax, or chest, is an osseo-cartilaginous cage, intended to contain and protect the principal organs of respiration and circulation. It is the largest of the three cavities connected with the spine, and is formed by the sternum and costal cartilages in front, the twelve ribs on each side, and the bodies of the dorsal vertebra behind. The Steenum. The Sternum (figs. 69, 70) is a flat narrow bone, situated in the median line of the front of the chest, and consisting, in the adult, of three portions. It has been likened to an ancient sword : the upper piece, representing the handle, is termed the mamibrimn; the middle and largest piece, which represents the chief part of the blade, is termed the gladiolus; and the inferior piece, which is likened to the point of the sword, is termed the ensiform or xiphoid appendix. In its natural position, its inclination is oblique from above, downwards, and forwards. It is flattened in front, concave behind, broad above, becoming narrowed at the point where the first and second pieces are connected ; after which it again widens a little, and is pointed at its extremity. Its average length in the adult is six inches, being rather longer in the male than in the female. The First Piece of the sternum, or manuhrkim, is of a somewhat triangular form, broad and thick above, naiTOw below at its junction with the middle piece. Its anterior surface^ convex from side to side, concave from above downwards, is smooth, and affords attachment on each side to the Pectoralis major and sternal origin of the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle. In well-marked bones, the ridges limiting the a,ttachm€nt of these muscles are very distinct. Its posterior sxirface, concave and smooth, affords attachment on each side to the Sterno-hyoid and Sterno-thyroid muscles. The superior border, the thickest, presents at its centre the interclavicular notch; and on each side, an oval articular surface, dii-ected upwards, backwards, and outwards, for articulation with the sternal end of the clavicle. The inferior harder presents an oval rough surface, covered in the recent state with a thin layer of cai-tilage, for articulation with the second portion of the bone.* The Uteral borders are marked above by an articular depression _ _ • The second piece of the sternum is united to the first either by an nmpbinrthrodial .lomt-n single piece of true hbro-cartilnp:e uniting the segments—or by a diavthrodial joint, in which each bone is clothed with a distinct lamina of cartilage, adherent on one side free and lined with synovial membrnne on tbe other. In the lattei" case, the cartilage covering the gladiolus 18 con inued without interruption on to the cartilages of the second ribs. Mr. r T M ° ^^'^^■^^'■"'^"^l form of joint in about one-third of the specimens ex- rrrln^- ^'^ M Maisonneuve more frequently. It appears to be rare in cliildhood, and Hi/X^ai' '".Mr. liivington s opinion, from the amphiarthrodial form, by absorption. The it W ^ r, ^""^ "° l'"'^™^y o^^ify -^"y af?e, while the amphiarthrodial Rivinll? n M thi'rty-four years of age. (See itivington in ' Med. Chir. Trans.,' vol. Ivii.) j j