ARTERIES. 36o Plan of Relations ov First Portion ot- Left Subclavun Arteky. In front. rieura and lel't lung. Piioumogastric, cardiac, aud phrenic nerves. J>ol't carotid artery. - Tioft internal jugular and innominate veins. . Storuo-thyroid, Stcruo-hyoid, and Sterno-mastoid muscles. Inner side. [ l^oft \ Outer aide. Oesophagus. y ^ Artery. | Pleura. Trachea. ' Thoracic duct. Sehind. Oesophagus and thoracic duct. Interior cervical ganglion of sympathetic. Longus colli and vertebral column. Second and Third Parts of the Subclavian Artery. (Pig. 207.) Tte Second Portion of the Subclavian Artery lies beHnd tlie Scalenus anticus muscle; it is very short, and forms the highest part of the arch described by that vessel. Belations. It is covered, in front, by the integument, Platysma, Sterno-mastoid, cervical fascia,, and by the phrenic nerve, which is separated from^ the artery by the Scalenus anticus muscle. Behind, it is in relation with the Middle Scalenus. Above, with the brachial plexus of nerves. Below, with the pleura. The subcla- vian vein lies below and in front of the artery, separated from it by the Scalenus anticus. Plan of Relations of Second Portion op Sobclavian Artery. In front. Scalenus anticus. Phrenic nerve. Subclavian vein. Above. Brachial plexus. Below. Pleura. Behind. Pleura and Middle Scalenus. The Thvrd Po^iion of the Subclavian Artery passes downwards and outwards from the outer margin of the Scalenus anticus to the lower border of the first rib where it becomes the axillary artery. This portion of the vessel xs the mos superficial, and is contained in a triangular space the b^e of which is formed m front by the Sterno-mastoid, and the two sides by the Omo-hyoid above and the ''^^TetSir' It is covered, in front, by the integument, the superficial fascia, the Platysma, deep fascia ; and by the clavicle, the Subclavius muscle, and the supm- scapular artery and vein; the clavicular descending branches of the cerncal nlexus and the nerve to the subclavius pass vertically downwards in front of he ^^vf^rv The external jugular vein crosses it at its inner side, and receives the ocr.nr,nKr and transverse cervical veins, which occasionaUy form a plexus m ToTofTt Thfsurclavian vein is below the artery, lying close behind the clavicle. bIm, it'lies on the Middle Scalenus muscle. Above it, and to its outer side, i3