Ixx GENERAL ANATOMY. of radiations. On its under side it gradually blends with the central white axis of the convolution, into Avhich its cells are scattered for some distance. ' The seventh layer is this central white stein or axis of the convolution. On every side it gives off bundles of fibres, which diverge in all directions, and in a fanlike manner towards the surface, through the several grey layers. As they pass between the elongated and radiating groups of cells in the inner grey layers, some of them become continuous with the pro- cesses of the cells in the same section or plane, but others bend round and run horizontally, both in a transverse and longitudinal direction (in re- ference to the course of the entire convolution), and with various degrees of obliquity. While the bundles themselves are by this means reduced in size, their component fibres become finer in proportion as they traverse the layers towards the surface, in consequence, apparently, of branches which they give off to be coniiected with cells in their course. Those which reach the outer grey layer are reduced to the finest dimensions, and form a close network, with which the nuclei and cells are in connection. ' Besides these fibres which diverge from the central white axis of the convolution, another set, springing from the same source, converge or rather curve inwards from opposite sides, to form arches along some of the grey layers. These arciform fibres run in different planes—^trans- versely, obliquely, and longitudinally—and appear to be partly continuous with those of the diverging set which bend round, as already stated, to follow a similar course. All these fibres establish an infinite number of communications in every direction, between different parts of each con- volution, between different convolutions, and between these and the central white substance.' Dr. Clarke then goes on to describe in detail the minuter differences which exist between the structure of the convolutions in different parts of the brain.* Spinal cord.—In the spinal cord, on the other hand, the grey matter i? entirely in the interior of the organ, and is collected together into one central mass, while the whole of the white matter is external, and is arranged into the various columns and commissures described at p. 464 et sqq. We shall here merely give an account of the intimate structure of the cord, which is condensed from the researches of Dr. Lockhart Clarke.t The white substance of the cord consists of transverse, oblique, and lon- gitudinal fibres, with blood-vessels and connective tissue. The transverse fihres proceed from the grey substance, and form withi: each other a kind of plexus between the bundles of longitudinal fibres,,! with which many are continuous ; while others reach the surface of the?! cord through fissures containing connective tissue. Within, the greyr substance they are continuous with the roots of the nerves, with the;: processes of the nerve-cells, and with the anterior and posterior com- missures. Ther oblique fibres proceed from the grey substance botl upwards and downwards : they form the deep strata of the white columu^^ and, after running a variable length, become superficial. The longitudinal • See Dr. Clarke's summary of liis researches on tliis subject iu Maudsley on the lony and Phymloijy of Mind, p. 60-63. „ „ ^ . . *f; . ,Sfi-> nnrf ii t PM. r/-flws., 1851-1853, part iii.; 1858, parti.; 1859, paft 1.; 1862, part u.