TEMPORAL FOSSA. 67 and a little more internally, the occipital groove, for the occipital artery. At the base of the internal pterygoid plate is a large and somewhat triangular aperture, the foramen lacerum medium, bounded in front by the great wmg of the sphenoid, behind by the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, and internally by the body of the sphenoid and basilar process of the occipital bone; it presents m front the posterior orifice of the Vidian canal, behind, the aperture of the carotid canal. The basilar surface.of this opening is filled up in the recent state by a fibro-cartilaginous substance; across its upper or cerebral aspect passes the internal cai-otid artery and Vidian nerve. . External to this aperture, the petro- sphenoidal suture is observed, at the outer termination of which is seen the onfice of the canal for the Eustachian tube, and that for the Tensor tympani muscle. Behind this suture is seen the under surface of the petrous portion of the tem- poral bone, presenting, from within outwards, the quadrilateral rough surface, part of which affords attachment to the Levator palati and Tensor tympani muscles; external to this surface the orifices of the carotid canal and the aquseductus cochleae, the former transmitting the internal carotid artery and the ascending branches of the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic, the latter serving for the passage of a small artery and vein to the cochlea. Behind the carotid canal is a large aperture, the jugular fossa, formed in front by the petrous portion of the temporal, and behind'by the occipital; it is generally larger on the right than on the left side ; and towards its cerebral aspect is divided into two parts by a ridge of bone, which projects usually from the temporal; the anterior, or smaller portion, transmitting the three divisions of the eighth pair of nerves, the posterior transmitting the internal jugular vein and the ascending meningeal vessels, from the occipital and ascending pharyngeal arteries. On the ridge of bone dividing the carotid canal from the jugular fossa, is the small foramen for the transmission of the tympanic nerve ; and on the outer wall of the jugular foramen, near the root of the styloid process, is the small aperture for the transmission of Arnold's nerve. Behind the basilar surface of the occipital bone is the foramen magnum, bounded on each side by the condyles, rough internally for the attach- ment of the alar ligaments, and presenting externally a rough surface, the jugular process, which serves for the attachment of the B,ectus lateralis. On either' side of each condyle anteriorly is the anterior condyloid fossa, perforated by the anterior condyloid foramen, for the passage of the hypoglossal nerve. Behind each condyle are the posterior condyloid fossEe, perforated on one or both sides by the posterior condyloid foramina, for the transmission of a vein to the lateral sinus. Behind the foramen magnum is the external occipital crest, terminating above at the external occipital protuberance, whilst on each side are seen the superior and inferior curved lines; these, as well as the surfaces of the bone between them, being rough for the attachment of the muscles, which are enumerated on page 20. Lateral Region of the Skull. The Lateral Region of the Skull is of a somewhat triangular form, the base of the triangle being formed by a line extendmg from the external angular process of tbe frontal bone along the temporal ridge backwards to the outer extremity of the superior curved line of the occiput: and the sides by two lines, the one drawn downwards and backwards from the external angular process of the frontal bone to the angle of the lower jaw, the other from the angle of the jaw upwards and backwards to the extremity of the superior curved line. This region is divisible into three portions, temporal, mastoid, and zygomatic. The Temporal Fossa. The Temporal fossa is bounded above and behind by the temporal ridge, which extends from the external angular process of the frontal upwards and backwards across the frontal and parietal bones, curving downwards behind to terminate at the postenor root of the zygomatic process. In front, it is bounded by the frontal, w 1