AUDITORY CANAL. 589 The Odhquus aims (Todd) consists of a few fibres extending from the upper and back part of tlie concha to the convexity immediately above it The arteries of the pinna are, the posterior auricular, from the external carotid ; the anterior auricular, from the temporal; and an au^cular branch from the occi- pital artery. The veins accompany the corresponding arteries. The nerues are, the auricularis magnus, from the cervical plexus ; the posterior auricular, from the facial; the auricular branch of the pneumogastnc ; and the auriculo-temporal branch of the inferior maxillary nerve. The Auditory Canal (fig. 311), (meatus auditorium externus), extends irom the bottom of the concha to the membrana tympani. It is about an inch and a quarter in length, its direction is obliquely forwards and inwards, and it is slightly curved upon itself, so as to be higher in the middle than at either extremity. It forms an oval cylindrical canal, narrowest at the middle, somewhat flattened from before backwards, the greatest diameter being in the vertical direction at the external orifice ; but, in the transverse direction, at the tympanic end. The mem- brana tympani, which occupies the termination of the meatus, is obliquely directed, in consequence of the floor of the canal being longer than the roof, and the anterior wall longer than the posterior. The auditory canal is formed partially by cartilage and membrane, and partly by bone. 311.—A Front View of the Organ of Hearing. Right Side. 'Yrvtihu.lA ■CocJl/e*r. The cartilagmous portion is about half an inch in length, being rather less than half the canal ; it is formed by the cartilage of the concha and tragus, prolono-ed inwards, and firmly attached to the circumference of the auditory process The cartilage is deficient at its upper and back part, its place being supplied by fibrous membrane. This part of the canal is rendered extremely moveable by two or three deep fissures (mcisww Santorini), which extend through the cartilage in a vertical direction. ° The osseous portion is about three-quarters of an inch in length, and narrower than the cartilagmous portion. It is directed inwards and a little forwards forming a slight curve m its course, the convexity of which is upwards and backward.^ Its inner end, which commumcates with the cavity of the tympanum, is smaller tDan me outer, ana sloped, the anterior wall projecting beyond the poster ior about two lines: it is marked, except at it<4 Tir>i-,r.r. ^„ 4- i /• r. . ^ Tipper part, by a narrow groove for the insertion of the membrana tympani. Its outer end is dilated, and rough, in the greater part of its circumference, for the attachment of the cartilage of th; pinna. Its vertical transverse section is oval j. i. j- i. u • e ■, J T m r ^ T , ' ^ greatest diameter being from above downwards. The front and lower narts nf i l^io ^ e ji 1 , ' ptuos ot this canal are formed by a curved plate