342 ARTEillES. tlie face, is remarkably tortuous; in the former situation, to acconmiodate itself to tbo movements of tlio i)barynx in deglutition ; and in the latter, to the move- ments of the jaw, and the lips and checks. lielations. In tho nech, its origin is superEcial, being covered by the integument, . Platysma, and fascia ; it then passes beneath the Digastric and Stylo-hyoid muscles, and tlio submaxillary gland. 0/i tho face, where it passes over the body of tho lower jaw, it is comparatively superficial, lying immediately beneath the Platygma, In this situation, its pulsation may be distinctly felt and compression of the vessel effectually made against the bone. In its course over the face, it is covered by the into'i-umont, tho fat of tho cheek, and, near the angle of the mouth, by the Platysma and°Zygomatic muscles. It rests on the Buccinator, the Levator anguli oris, and the Levator labii superiorls. It is accompanied by the facial vein throughout its entire course ; tho vein is not tortuous like the artery, and, on the face, is separated from that vessel by a considerable interval, lying to its outer side. The branches of tho facial nerve cross the artery, and the infra-orbital nerve lies beneath it. The branches of this vessel may be divided into two sets, those given off below the jaw (cervical), and those on the face (facial) : Cervical Branches. Facial Branches. | Inferior or Ascending Palatine. Muscular. <. Tonsillar. Inferior Labial. I Submaxillary. Inferior Coronary. Submental. Superior Coronary. Lateralis Nasi. Angular. The inferior ov ascending palatine (fig. 212) passes up between the Stylo-glossus and Stylo-pharyngeus to the outer side of the pharynx. After supplying these muscles the tonsil, and Eustachian tube, it divides, near the Levator palati, into two branches; one follows the course of the Tensor palati, and supplies the soft palate and the palatine glands ; the other passes to the tonsil, which it supplies, anastomosing with the tonsillar artery. These vessels inosculate with the posterior palatine branch of the internal maxillary artery. The tonsillar branch (fig. 212) passes up along the side of the pharynx and, perforating the Superior constrictor, ramifies in the substance of the tonsil and root of the tongue. The submaxillary consist of three or four large branches, which supply the submaxillary gland, some being prolonged to the neighbouring muscles, lymphatic glands, and integument. _ _ ^.i f •„! The suUiental, the largest of the cervical branches, is given off from the fac al arterv i^st as that vessel quits the submaxillary gland ; it runs forwards upon the Mvlo-byoid muscle, just below the body of the jaw, and beneath the Digastric; after sunplyiD"- the muscles attached to the jaw, and anastomosing with the sub- lino-ual artery?it arrives at the symphysis of the chin, where it divides into a superficial and deep branch; the former turns round the chm, and passing between the integument and Depressor labii inferioris, supphes both, and anasto- moses with the inferior labial. The deep branch passes beneath the latter muscle and the bone, supplies the lip, and anastomoses with the inferior labial and mental The TO«sc«Zar branches are distributed to the internal Pterygoid, Masseter, and Buccinator. t • a 1 fUo The inferior labial passes beneath the Depressor anguli oris, to supp.y tno muscles and integninent of the lower lip, anastomosing with the inferior coronary, Tnd submental branches of the facial, and with the mental branch of the inferior '^^''rt.TiZ^or coronary is derived from tho facial artery, near the angle of the mouth - it passes upwards and inwards beneath the Depressor anguli oris, and penetrating the Orbicularis muscle, runs in a tortuous coui-se along the edge of