2 20 MUSCLES AND YASCIM. and outwards, to be inserted into a depression in front of the neck of tlie condyle of the lower iaw, and into the corresponding part of the interarticular fibro- cartilase. Tliis muscle, at its origin, appears to consist of two portions separated by a slight interval; hence the terms upper and lower head, sometimes used in the description of the muscle. i • 4.1, • i. i BelatiL By its external surface, with the ramus of the lower jaw, the internal maxUlary artery, which crosses it,* the tendon of the Tempera muscle, and the Masseter By its internal surface, it rests against the upper part of the Internal Titervo-oid the internal lateral ligament, the middle meningeal artery, and inferior maxiltary' nerve; by its upper harder, it is in relation with the temporal and masseteric branches of the inferior maxillary nerve _ Nerves These muscles are supplied by the inferior maxillary nerve. Action 's The Temporal, Masseter, and Internal pterygoid raise the lower jaw aeainst the upper with great force. The superficial portion of the Masseter, and the Internal pterygoid, assist the External pterygoid in drawing the lower jaw forwards upon the upper, the jaw being drawn back again by the deep fibres ot the Masseter, and posterior fibres of the Temporal. The External pterygoid muscles are the direct agents in the trituration of the food, drawing the lower jaw directly forwards, so as to make the lower teeth project beyond the upper, it the muscle of one side acts, the corresponding side of the jaw is drawn forwards, and the other condyle remaining fixed, the symphysis deviates to the opposite side. The alternation of these movements on the two sides produces trituration. MUSCLES AND FASCIA OF The muscles of the Neck may be arranged into region in whicb they are situated. These groups are nine in number :— 1. Superficial Kegion. 6 2. Depressors of the Os Hyoides 7 and Larynx. 3. Elevators of tbe Os Hyoides 8 and Larynx. 4. Muscles of the Tongue. S 5. Mascles of the Pharynx. I. Siiperficial Begion. Platysma myoides. Sterno-cleido-mastoid. Infroj-hjoid Begion. 2. Depressors of the Os Hyoides and Larynx. Sterno-hyoid. Sterno-thyroid. Thyro-hyoid. Omo-hyoid. Siipra-liyoid Begion. 3. Mevators of the Os Hyoides and Larynx. Digastric. Stylo-hyoid. • Thia is the usual relation; but iu mauy ca^es Biuscle. THE NECK. groups, corresponding with the . Muscles of the Soft Palate. . Muscles of tbe Anterior Ver- tebral Region. . Muscles of tbe Lateral Ver- tebral Region. I. Muscles of tbe Larynx. Mylo-hyoid. Genio-hyoid. Lingual Begion. 4. Muscles of the Tongw. Genio-hyo-glossus. Hyo-glossus. Lingualis. Stylo-glossus. Palato-glossus. 5. Muscles of the Tharym. Constrictor inferior. Constrictor medius. Constrictor superior. Stylo-pharyngeus. Palato-pharyngeus. the artery ^ill fo^^d below the