GENERAL ANATOMY. liv flexible—so that a long bone (one of the ribs is the usual example) can easily be tied in a knot. If now a transverse section be made, the same general arrangement of the Haversian canals, lamella, lacunae, and canali- culi is seen, though not so plainly as in the macerated specimen. If the individual lamellae are examined, they n 1 4. 1, T /• r-i Fit?. XVr.—Section of bone after the removal are found to be composed of fibres, the earthy matter by the action of acids. most of which are nearly parallel; l)ut which interlace together, and anastomose or communicate with the fibres of the neighbouring lamellae. The organic or animal constituent of a bone is only incompletely removed by maceration, leaving the bone for an indefinite period perfectly tough and coherent; but after being long kept in a warm dry atmosphere, or by incineration in a furnace, the animal part may be entu'ely removed, and then the earthy constituent will retain the form of the original bone, but on the slightest force it will crumble down. The animal base is often called cartilage, but differs from it in the following respects : viz., that it is softer and more flexible, and when boiled with a high pressure is almost entirely resolved into gelatine. Cartilage does, however, form the animal basis of bone in certain parts of the skeleton. Thus, according to Tomes and De Morgan, it occurs in the petrous part of the temporal bone, and, according to Dr. Sharpey, on the articular ends of adult bones, lying underneath the natural cartilage of the joint. Chemical analysis.—The organic constituent of bone forms about one- third, or 33*3 per cent.; the inorganic matter, two-thirds, or 667 per cent.; as is seen in the subjoined analysis by Berzelius:— Organic Matter, Inorganic, or Earthy Blatter, Gelatine and Blood-vessels . . 33-30 Phosphate of Lime . 51-04 Carbonate of Lime . 11-30 Fluoride of Calcium 2"00 Phosphate of Magnesia. . 116 . Soda and Chloride of Sodium I "20 lOOOO Some chemists add to this about one per cent, of fat. The relative proportions of the two constituents of bone are found to differ in different hones of the skeleton, as shown by Dr. Owen Eees. Thus, the bones of the head, and the long bones of the exti-emities, contain more earthy matter than those of the trunk; and those of the upper extremity somewhat more than the corresponding bones of the lower extremity. The humerus contains more earthy matter than the bones of the fore-arm; and the femur more than the tibia and fibula. The vertebm% ribs and clavicle, contain nearly the same proportion of earthy matter. The metacarpal and metatarsal bones contain about the same proportion as those of the trunk. Much difi"erence exists in the analyses given by chemists to the proportion between the two constituents of bone at different j^eriods of life According to Schreger, and others, there is a considerable increase in the