FASCIA OF THE THIGH. 29s capsule of the hip-joint, a synovial bursa common to it and the Psoas magnus being interposed. « ,i 1 , Nerves. The Psoas is supplied by the anterior branches of the lumbar nerves, the Iliacus by the anterior crural. xi • i Adiom. The Psoas and Iliacus muscles, acting from above, flex the thigh upon the pelvis, and, at the same time, rotate the femur outwards, from the obliquity of their insertion into the inner and back part of that bone. Actmg from below, the femur being fixed, the muscles of both sides bend the lumbar^portion of the spme and pelvis forwards. They also serve to maintain the erect position, by support- ing the spine and pelvis upon the femur, and assist in raising the trunk when the body is in the recumbent posture. The Tsoas parviis is a tensor of the iliac fascia, Anterior Femobai. Region. Tensor Vaginre Femoris. Vastus Externus. Sai"torius. Rectus. Subcrureus. Vastus Internus. Crureus. -Dissection of Lower Extremity. Front View. Dissection. To expose the muscles and fasciae in this region, make an incision along Pou- part's ligament, fi'om the spine of the ilium to the pubes, a vertical incision from the centre of this, along the middle of the thigh to below the knee-joint, and a transverse incision from the inner to the outer side of the leg, at the lower end of the vertical incision. The flaps of integument having been removed, the superficial and deep fasciee should be examined. The more advanced student should commence the study of this region by an examination of the anatomy of femoral her- flia, and Scarpa's triangle, the incisions for the dissection of which are marked out in the accompanying figure. Dissection of FEMORAL HERNIA, &. SCARPAS TRIANQVE 2.. FRONT jfTHICH S . FRONT^ LEG ^ . DORSUMof rOOT Fascia, of the Thigh. The superficial fascia forms a con- tinuous layer over the whole of the lower extremity, consisting of areolar tis- sue, containing in its meshes much adipose matter, and capable of being separated into two or more layers, between which are found the superficial vessels and nerves. It varies in thickness, in difier- ent parts of the limb ; in the sole of the foot it is so thin as to be scarcely demon- strable, the integument being closely ad- herent to the deep fascia beneath, but in the groin it is thicker, and the two layers are separated from one another by the superficial inguinal glands, the internal saphenous vein, and several smaller ves- sels. One of these two layers, the super- ficial, is continuous above with the super- ficial fascia of the abdomen, the deep layer becoming blended with the fascia lata, a little below Poupart's ligament. The deep layer of superficial fascia is in- timately adherent to the margins of the saphenous opening in the fascia lata, and pierced in. this situation by numerous