365 THYROID AXIS. „ Superior cerebellar. Transverse. -r^ K • 1 i . , . 1 „n„„ Posterior cerebral. Anterior cerebellar. 1. ,,ivT nnns Varolii and adjacent parts of the The transverse branches supply Pp^; J/^^^itory nerve into the internal brain; one (internal auditory) ^^^P^^^^^f^f' iTalong the crus cerebelli, to auditory meatus ; and another, of 'j^r'^^^l^Zl^^^^^^ cerebellum. It is be distributed to the anterior border of the under surtace oi called the ant&rior inferior cerebellar artery. . |,„„nar Thev The superior cerebellar arteries arise near the termination of *e bas. ar^ i hey wind round the crus cerebri, close to the fourth nerve, and -nv ng at the up^^ei surface of the cerebellum, divide into branches which ramify in the p a --^^^^^^^ anastomose with the inferior cerebellar. Several branches are given to the pineal eland, and also to the velum interpositum. « ^i, •!„ The vostenor cerebral arteries, the two terminal branches of the basilar, are larger than the preceding, from which they are separated near their ongin by tlie third nerves. Winding round the crus cerebri, they pass to the under s^irface ot the posterior lobes of the cerebrum, which they supply, anastomosing with the anterior and middle cerebral arteries. Near their origin, they receive the posterior communicating arteries from the internal carotid, and give off numerous branches, which enter the posterior perforated space : they also give off a branch, the posterior choroid, which supplies the velum interpositum and choroid plexus, entering the interior of the brain beneath the posterior border of the corpus callosum. Circle of Willis. The remarkable anastomosis which exists between the branches of the internal carotid and vertebral arteries at the base of the brain, constitutes the circle of WilKs. It is formed, in front, by the anterior cerebral and anterior ' communicating arteries ; on each side, by the trunk of the internal carotid, and the posterior communicating; behind, by the posterior cerebral, and point of the basilar. It is by this anastomosis that the cerebral circulation is equalised, and provision made for effectually carrying it on if one or more of the branches are obliterated. The parts of the brain included within this arterial circle are, the lamina cinerea, the commissure of the optic nerves, the infundibulum, the tuber cinereum, the corpora albicantia, and the posterior perforated space. The Thyroid Axis (fig. 207) is a short thick trunk, which arises from the fore ■part of the first portion of the subclavian artery, close to the inner border of the Scalenus anticus muscle, and divides, almost immediately after its origin, into three branches, the inferior thyroid, suprascapular, and transversalis colli. The Inferioe Thyroid Artery passes upwards, in a serpentine course, behind the sheath of the common carotid vessel and sympathetic nerve (the middle cervical ganglion resting upon it), and is distributed to the under surface of the tbyroid gland, anastomosing with the superior thyroid, and with the correspond- ing artery of the opposite side. Its branches are the Laryngeal, CBsophageal. Tracheal. Ascending cervical. The laryngeal branch ascends upon the trachea to the back part of the larynx, and supplies the muscles and mucous membrane of this part. The tracheal branches are distributed upon the trachea, anastomosing below with the bronchial arteries. The oesophageal branches are distributed to the oesophagus. The ascending cervical is a small branch which arises from the inferior thyroid, just where that vessel is passing behind the common carotid artery, and runs up the neck in the interval between the Scalenus anticus and Eectus anticus major. It gives branches to the muscles of the neck, which communicate with those sent out from the vertebral, and sends one or two through the intervertebral foramina, along the cervical nerves, to supply the bodies of the vertebra), the spinal cord, and its membranes. The Suprascapular Artery, smaller than the transversalis colli, passes ob- liquely from within outwards, across the root of the neck. It at first lies on