RADIAL. 377 I) aok part of the elbow-joint, whore it anastomoses with the interosseous recurrent ranch, and, on the inner side of the arm, with tho posterior ulnar recurrent, and iLh the anastomotica magna or inferior profunda (fig. 221}. t i i . The .udrierd artery of the shaft of tlie humerus anses from the brachial, about t he middle of the arm. Passing downwards, it enters the nutrient canal of that bone, near tho insertion of the Coraco-brachialis muscle. r<.i 1 1 fi. The inferior profunda, of small size, arises from the brachial, a little below the nuddle of the arm; piercing the internal intermuscular soptum it descends on the surface of the inner head of the Triceps muscle, to the space between the inner condyle and olecranon, accompanied by the ulnar nerve, and terminates by ana- stomosing with the posterior ulnar recurrent, and anastomotica magna, it a so supplies a branch to the front of the internal condyle, which anastomoses with the anterior upper recurrent. i, i +1, The anastomotica viagna arises from the brachial, about two inches above the elbow-joint. It passes transversely inwards upon the Brachialis anticus, and piercing the internal intermuscular septum, winds round tho back part of the humerus between the Triceps and the bone, forming an arch above the olecranon fossa, by its junction with the posterior articular branch of the superior profunda. As this vessel lies on the Brachialis anticus, an offset passes between the internal condyle and olecranon, which anastomoses with the inferior profunda and posterior ulnar recurrent, arteries. Other branches ascend to join the inferior profunda ; and some descend in front of the inner condyle, to anastomose with the anterior ulnar recurrent. The muscular are three or four large branches, which are distributed to the muscles in the course of the artery. They supply the Coraco-brachialis, Biceps and Brachialis anticus muscles. The Anastomosis around tJie Elhoio-Joint (fig. 221). The vessels engaged in this • anastomosis may be conveniently divided into those situated in front and beJiind the Internal and External Condyles. The branches anastomosing m/roni of the In- ternal Condyle are :—The anastomotica magna, the anterior ulnar recurrent and the anterior terminal branch of the inferior profunda. Those behind the Internal Condyle are :—The anastomotica magna, the posterior ulnar recuiTent and the pos- terior terminal branch of the inferior profunda. The branches anastomosing in front of the External Condyle are :—The radial recurrent and the termination of the superior profunda. Those behind the External Condyle (perhaps more pr®- perly described as being situated between the external condyle and the olecranon) are:—The anastomotica magna, the interosseous recurrent and the posterior articular branch of the superior profunda. There is also a large arch of ana- stomosis above the olecranon formed by the interosseous recurrent, joining with the anastomotica magna and posterior nlnar recurrent (fig. 221). From this description it will be observed that the anastomotica magna is the vessel most engaged, the only part of the anastomosis in which it is not employed being that in front of the external condyle. Eadial Aetert. The Eadial Artery appears, from its direction, to be the continuation of the brachial, but, in size, it is smaller than the ulnar. It commences at the bifurca- tion of the brachial, just below the bend of the elbow, and passes along the radial Bide of the forearm to the wrist; it then winds backwards, round the outer side of the carpus, beneath the extensor tendons of the thumb, and, finally, passes for- wards between the two heads of the first Dorsal interosseous muscle, into the palm of the hand, where it crosses the metacarpal bones to the ulnar border of the hand, to form the deep palmar arch. At its termination, it inosculates ■with the deep branch of the ulnar artery. The relations of this vessel may thus be conve- niently divided into three parts, viz., in the forearm, at the back of the wrist, and m the hand. ' lielations. In the forearm, this vessel extends from opposite the nock of the