SURGICAL ANATOMY OF INGUINAL HEENIA. 732 Poupart's ligament at the inner side of the Internal oblique, being connected with that muscle, and also occasionally with the Transversalis. It passes along the outer side of the spermatic cord, descends with it through the external ring upon the front and sides of the cord, and forms a series of loops, which differ in thick- ness and length in different subjects. Those at the upper part of the cord are exceedingly short, but they become in succession longer and longer, the longest reaching down as low as the testicle, whei'o a few are inserted into the tunica vaginalis. Theso loops are united together by areolar tissue, and form a thin covering over the cord, the fascia cremastertca. The fibres ascend along the inner side of the cord, and are inserted by a small pointed tendon, into the crest of the OS pubis and front of the sheath of the Rectus muscle. It will be observed, that the origin and insertion of the Gremaster is precisely similar to that of the lower fi.bre8 of the Internal oblique. This fact affords an easy explanation of the manner in which the testicle and cord are invested by this muscle. At an early period of foetal life, the testis is placed at the lower and back part of the abdominal cavity, but, during its descent towards the scrotum which takes place before birth, in passes beneath the arched border of the Internal oblique. In its passage beneath this muscle some fibres are derived from its lower part, which accompany the testicle and cord into the scrotum. It occasionally happens that the loops of the Gremaster surround the cord, some lying behind as well as in front. It is probable that, under these circum- stances, the testis, in its descent, passed through instead of beneath the fibres of the Internal oblique. In the descent of an oblique inguinal hernia, which takes the same course as the spermatic cord, the Gremaster muscle forms one of its coverings. This muscle becomes largely developed in cases of hydrocele and large old scrotal hernias. No such muscle exists in the female, but an analogous structure is developed m those cases where an oblique inguinal hernia descends beneath the margm of the Internal oblique. The Internal Oblique should be detached from Poupart's ligament, separated from the Transversalis to the same extent as in the previous incisions, and reflected inwards on to the sheath of the Rectus (fig. 39^). The circumflex iliac vessels, which lie between these two muscles, form a valuable guide to their separation. The TransveraUs muscle has been previously described (p. 253). Its lower part is partly fleshy and partly tendinous in structure; this portion arises from the outer third of Poupart's ligament, and, arching downwards and inwards over the cord, terminates in an aponeurosis, which is inserted into the linea alba, the crest of the pubes, and the pectineal liiie to the extent of an inch, formmg, together with the Internal obhque, the conjoined tendon. Between the lower border of this muscle and Poupart's ligament, a space is left m which is seen the fascia transveralis. _ j • xi i q The inguinal, or spermatic canal, contains the spermatic cord in the male, ana the round ligament iii the female. It is an oblique canal, about an inch and a half in length, directed downwards and inwards, and placed paraHel with and a little above, Poupart's ligament. It communicates, above, with the cavity ot the abdomen, by means of the internal abdominal ring, which is the point wlierc the cord enters the spermatic canal; and terminates, below, at the external ring. It is bounded, in front, by the integument and superficial fascia, by the apo- neurosis of the External oblique throughout its whole length, and by the interna oblique for its outer third; behind, by the conjoined tendon of the internal oblique and Transversalis, the triangular ligament, transvex-salis fascia, and tlio subperitoneal fat and peritoneum; above, by the arched fibres of tlie interna obHaue and Transversalis; below, by the union of the fascia transversahs with Poupa t's ligament. That form of protrusion in which the intestine follows the ToTrse of tl'e spermatic cord along the spermatic canal, is called oU,,^.^ngun^al henda.