607 TEMPORARY TEETH. internal. The latter is the largest and the longest, slightly grooved, and some- times bifid. In the lower jaw, the root consists of two fangs one being placed in front, the other behind: they are both compressed from before backwards, and grooved on their contiguous faces, indicating a tendency to division. The second vwlar is a little smaller than the first. The crown has four cusps in the upper, and five in the lower jaw The root has three fangs in the upper jaw, and two in the lower, the characters of which are similar to the preceding tooth. . ^ n -i. 1 x The third molar tooth is called the ivkdom tooth (dens saptentiCB), trom its late appeai-ance through the gum. It is smaUer than the others, and its axis is du-ected inwards. The crown is small and rounded, and furnished with three tubercles. The root is generally single, short, conical, slightly curved, and grooved so as to present traces of a subdivision into three fangs in the upper, and two in the lower jaw. Tempoeaet Teeth. The temporary, or milk teeth, are smaller, but resemble in form those of the permanent set. The hinder of the two temporary molars is the largest of all the 321.—The Temporary, or Milk Teeth. External View. Molnrt Canine Tnrisorn Lotvr.-r Jci w Crown Molars milk teeth, and is succeeded by the second permanent biscuspid. The first upper ■fiiolar has only three cusps, two external, one internal : the second upper molar has four cusps. The first lower molar has four cusps : the second lower molar has five. The fangs of the temporary molar teeth are smaller, and more diverging tban those of the permanent set; but, in other respects, bear a strong resemblance to them. _ Structure. On making a vertical section of a tooth (fig. 322), a hollow cavity will he found in the interior. This cavity is situated at the base of the crown, and IS continuous with a canal which traverses the centre of each fang, and opens by a mimite orifice at its extremity. The shape of the cavity corresponds some- what with that of the tooth : it forms what is called the 2^1^ caiitij, and contains a soft,- highly vascalar, and sensitive substance, the dental pulp. The pulp is