•<8S THE SKELETON. foramen varies in size in diffcvent subjects, is usually partially or completely impervious, lodges a process of the falx cerebri, and, when open, transmits a vein from the lining-membrane of the nose to the superior longitudinal sinus. On either side of the groove, the bone is deeply concave, presenting eminences and depressions for the convolutions of the brain, and numerous small furrows for lodging the ramifications of tho anterior meningeal arteries. Several small, irregular fossiB are also seen on either side of the groove, for the reception of the *PacchIonian bodies. Horizontal Portion. External Surface. This portion of the bone consists of two thin plates, which form the vault 6f the orbits, separated from one another by the ethmoidal notch. Each orbital vault consists of a smooth, concave, triangular plate of bone, marked at its anterior and external part (immediately beneath the external angular process) by a shallow depression, the lachrymal fossa, for lodgmg the lachrymal gland ; and at its anterior and internal part, by a depression (some- times a small tubercle) for the attachment of the fibrous pulley of the Superior oblique muscle. The ethmoidal notch separates the two orbital plates; it is quadrilateral; and filled up, when the bones are united, by the cribriform plate of the ethmoid. The margins of this notch present several half-cells, whicb, when united with corresponding half-cells on the upper surface of the ethmoid, complete the ethmoidal cells ; two grooves are also seen crossing these edges transversely ; they are converted into canals by articulation with the ethmoid, and are" called the anterior and posterior ethmoidal canals ; they open on the inner walls of the orbit. The anterior one transmits the nasal nerve and anterior ethmoidal vessels, the pos- terior one the posterior ethmoidal vessels. In front of the ethmoidal notch is the nasal spine, a sharp-pointed eminence, which projects downwards and forwards, and articulates in front with the crest of the nasal bones; behind, it is marked by two grooves, separated by a vertical ridge; the ridge articulates with the perpendicular lamellse of the ethmoid, the grooves form part of the roof of the nasal foss^. On either side of the base of the nasal spine are the openings of the frontal sinuses. These are two irregular cavities, which extend upwards and outwards, a variable distance, between the two tables of the skull, and are separated fi-om one another by a thin bony septum. They give rise to the prominences above the root ot the nose called the nasal emmences and suferciliary ridges. In the child they are gene- rally absent, and they become gradually developed as age advances. These cavities ;ary in size in difiFerent persons, are larger in men than in women, and are frequently of unequal size on the two sides, the left being commonly the larger. Occasionally, they are subdivided by incomplete bony laming. They are hned by mucous membrane, and communicate with the nose by the mfundibulum, and occa- sionally with each other by apertures in their septum. The Internal Surface of the Horizontal Portwn presents the convex upper surface of the orbital plates, separated from each other in the middle hue by the ethmoidal notch, and marked by eminences and depressions for the convolutions of the anterior ^""^^ord^l ^Treborder of the vertical portion is thick, strongly serrated bevelled at the expense of the internal table above, where it rests upon the panetal bones and at the expense of the external table at each side, where it receives th latera pressure of those bones : this border is continued below into a ^^"^"f ^^^^ surface, which articulates with the great wmg of the sphenoid- The ^ovdev the hodzontal portion is thin, serrated, and articulates with the lesser wmg of the '^^Itei^r.. The vertical portion and external angular processes are very thick consisting of diploic tissue contained between two compact lamm«e Tlig horizontal port on if thinf translucent, and composed entirely of compact t.ssue; hence the facility with which instruments can penetrate the cranium through this part of ^^'^tcXpment (fig. 29). The frontal bone is formed in membrane, being deve- loped by L centres, one for each lateral half, which make their appearance,