598 ORGANS OF SENSE. aqnccductnif coclileai leading to a minute funnel-shaped canal, which opens on the basilar surface of the petrous bone, and transmits a small vein. The interior- of the spiral canal (fig. 316) is divided into three principal canals or scaler,—viz. the Scala Tympani, Scala Vcstibuh", and Scala Media, interposed between the other two. Projecting from the modiolus is a thin bony process, the lamina spiralis ossea, which consists of two thin lamellse of bone, between which 316,—Jjongitudinal Section of the Cochlea, showing the relations of the Scalas, the Ganglion Spirale, &c. S,V, Scala vestiboli. S.T. Seal* tympaui. S.M, Scala media. L,S. Liganjentum spirale. U.ti. Uanglion spirale. are numerous canals for the passage of nervous filaments. Near the point where the osseous lamina is attached to the modiolus is a small canal, denominated by Rosenthal the canalis'siiiralis modioli, and occupied by a swelling of the cochlear nerve, in which ganglion-cells are found, the ganglion spirale, from which the nerves pass to the osseous laminia and organ of Corti. The osseous kmina extends only part of the distance between the modiolus and the outer bony wall of the cochlea. Near its outer end the periosteum swells up into an elevation which is called the limhus laminm spiralis (' denticulate lamina ' of Todd and Bowman), and this terminates in a grooved border, the salcus spiralis, (fio- 317), the edges of the groove being called the lahitmi tympanicum and labium vesiihulare respectively. From the labium tympanicum a thin membrane extends over to the bony wall of the cochlea, completing the scala tympam. This mem- brane is called the memlrana basilaris. At its outer atta<;hment it swells out so as to form a thick triangular structure which was regarded as a muscle by Todd and Bowman (cochlearis), but is now recognized as Ugamentous—the ligamenUim spirale. Between the labium vestibulare and the attachment of the membrane of Reissner, presently to be described, a very deHcate membrane extends over to the outer wall of the cochlea, running nearly parallel to the membrana basilans. It w.as described by Corti, and covers over the organ which is called after his name, and is therefore called the memlrana tedoria or memhrane of Corti. Further in- wards near the commencement of the limbus laminro spiralis, another delicate membrane, the m,emhranc of Reissner, is attached to tlifi vestibular surface of the periosteum of the osseous lamina, and stretches across to the outer wall of the cochlea Tbe canal which lies below the osseous lamina and membrana ba- silaris is the scala tympani; that which is bounded by the osseous lamina and membrane of Reissner the scala yestibuli; while the space between the mem- brane of Reissner and membrana basilaris is generally described as the bcaM