THE SUTURES. 59 The S,V,«o« Nolck, separatrag the two processes, is a deep semitanar depression, "Tell-'Trwrirted"::rnch »„ early peri^J of iife before, indeed, a„/XX;e.ceptthecWc,ethat.^^^^^^^^^ lX:::::.:^o:::l^ZJS,Zll,o segments meeting at the s,.pV strhrtWbeco.e..ited Additiona.^^^^^^^^^ coronoid process, the condyle, the angle, and tne tmn pm the inner side of the alveolus. Changes produced in thb Lower Jaw by Age. The changes which the Lower Jaw undergoes -fter hirth relate-1. To the aU^-atu,ns effected in tiTe body of the bone by " -^^^ hTkz'e' M^iSon^f the the aged, and the subsequent absorption of the alveoli. _ 2. J-o lue tis.ife in wh ch one or two osseous nuclei are generally found. The body is a ^^ere shell of bone contdninc. the sockets of the two incisor, the canine, and the two temporary molar teetrimpStiy Partitioned fmm one another. The dental canal is of large size, and runs neaAhe low border of the bone, the mental foramen opening t^^'^^'^th the socket of the first molar. The angle is obtuse, from the jaws not being as yet separated by the pruntion of the teeth. . . i. • „ After birth (fiff. 59), the two segments of the bone become joined at the symphysis, from below upwards, in the first year; but a trace of separation may be visible in the beginning of the second year, near the alveolar margin. The body becomes elongated m its whole len<^th but more especially behind the mental foramen, to provide space for the three addkio'nal teeth developed in this part. The depth of the body becomes greater owing to increased growth of the alveolar part, to afford room for the fangs of the teeth, and by thickenin<? of the subdental portion which enables the jaw to withstand the powerful action of the masticatory muscles; but the alveolar portion is the deeper of the two, and conse- auently the chief part of the body lies above the oblique line. The dental canal, after the second dentition, is situated just above the level of the mylo-hyoid ndge ; and the mental foramen occupies the position usual to it in the adult. The angle becomes less obtuse, owing to the separation of the jaws by the teeth. _ „ , , , 1, r i In the adult (fig. 60), the alveolar and basilar portions of the body are usually of equal depth The mental foramen opens midway between the upper and lower border of the bone, and the dental canal runs nearly parallel with the mylo-hyoid line. The ramus is almost vertical in direction, and joins the body nearly at right angles. . , , , „ , In old age (fig. 61), the bone becomes greatly reduced in size; for, with the loss ot the teeth, the alveolar process is absorbed, and the basilar part of the bone alone re mains; consequently, the chief part of the bone is heloio the oblique line. The dental canal, with the mental foramen opening from it, is close to the alveolar border. The rami are oblique in direction, and the angle obtuse. Articulations. With the glenoid fossfe of the two temporal bones. Attachment of Muscles. To its external surface, commencing at the symphysis, and proceeding backwards: Levator menti. Depressor labii inferioris, Depressor anguli oris, Platysma myoides. Buccinator, Masseter: a portion of the Orbicu- laris oris (Accessorii Orbicularis inferiores) is also attached to this surface. To its internal surface, commencing at the same point: Genio-hyo-glossns, Genio- hyoideus, Mylo-hyoideua, Digastric, Superior constrictor, Temporal, Internal ptery- goid, External pterygoid. THE SUTURES, The bones of the cranium and face ai-e connected to each other by means of Sutures. The sutures are rows of dentated processes of bone, projecting from the edge of either bone, and locking into each other: the dentations, however, are confined to the external table, the edges of the internal table lying merely in ap- position. The Cranial Sutures may he divided into three sets: i. Those at the vertex of the skull. 2. Those at the side of the skull. 3. Those at the base. The sutures at the vertex of the skull are three: the sagittal, coronal, and lambdoid. The Sagittal Stdu/re (interparietal) is formed by the junction of the two parietal bones, and extends from the middle of the frontal bone, backwards to the superior