PTERYGO.MAXILLARY REGION. 219 Bdations. By its superficial surface, with lie mtegument, the temporal fascia, the aponeurosis of the Occipito-frontalis, the Attollens and Attrahens anrem muscles, the temporal vessels and nerve., the zygoma and Masseter By its deep surface,\yith the temporal fossa, the External pterygoid and part of the Buccinator muscles, the internal maxillary artery, its deep temporal branches, and the tem- poral nerves. . .„ Nerves. Both muscles are supphed by the inferior maxillary nerve. 10. PTEKTGO-MAXtLLARY REGION. (Pig. 152.) Internal Pterygoid. External Pterygoid. Dissection. The Temporal muscle having been examined, saw through the base of the coronoid process, and draw it upwards, together with the Temporal muscle, which sliouia be detached from the surface of the temporal fossa. Divide the ramus ot tJie jaw just below the condyle, and also, by a transverse incision extending across the commencement of its lower third, just above the dental foramen j remove the fragment, and the i terygoia muscles will be exposed. 152.—The Pterygoid Muscles ; the Zygomatic Arch and a portion of the Kauuis of the Jaw having been removed. The Internal Pterygoid is a thick quadrilateral muscle, and resembles the Masseter, in form, structure, and the direction of its fibres. It arises from the pterygoid fossa, being attached to the inner surface of the external pterygoid plate, and to the grooved surface of the tuberosity of the palate bone ; its fibres pass downwards, outwards, and backwards, to be inserted, by strong tendinous laminse, into the lower and back part of the inner side of the ramus and angle of the lower jaw, as high as the dental foramen. Relations. By its external surface, with the ramus of the lower jaw, from which it is separated, at its upper part, by the External pterygoid, the internal lateral ligament, the internal maxillary artery, and the dental vessels and nerves. By its internal surface, with the Tensor palati, being separated from the Superior constrictor of the pharynx by a cellular interviEil. The External Pterygoid is a short thick muscle, somewhat conical in form, which extends almost horizontally between the zygomatic fossa and the condyle of the jaw. It arises from the pterygoid ridge on the great wing of the sphenoid, and the portion of bone included between it and the base of the pterygoid process ; from the outer surface of the external pterygoid plate; and from the tuberosity of the palate and superior maxillary bones. Its fibres pass horizontally backwards