CRANIAL NERVES. maxillary nerve. It passes downwards with tlio inferior dental artery* at first boneatli the External pterygoid ninscle, and then between the internal lateral ligament and the ramus of the jaw to the dental foramen. It then passes forwards in the dental caual in the inferior maxillary bone, lying beneath the teeth, as far as the mental foramen, whore it divides into two terminal branches, incisor and mental. The incisor hranch is continued onwards within the bone to the middle line, and supplies the canino and incisor teeth. The mental hranch emerges from the bono at the mental foramen, and divides beneath the Depressor anguli oris into an external branch, which su{)pHes that muscle, the Orbicularis oris, and the integument, communicating with tho facial nerve ; and an inner branch, which ascends to the lower lip beneath the Quadratus menti; it supplies that muscle and the mucous membrane and integument of the lip, communicating with the facial nerve. Tho bi-anches of the inferior dental are, the mylo-hyoid, and dental. The mylo-hyoid is derived from the inferior dental just as that nerve is about to enter the dental foramen. It descends in a groove on the inner surface of the ramus of the jaw, in which it is retained by a process of fibrous membrane. It supplies the cutaneous surface of the Mylo-hyoid muscle, and the anterior belly of the Digastric, occasionally sending one or two filaments to the submaxillary gland. The dental branches supply the molar and bicuspid teeth. They correspond in number to the fangs of those teeth : each nerve entering the orifice at the point of the fang, and supplying the pulp of the tooth. Two small ganglia ai-e connected with the inferior maxillary nerve : the otic, with the trunk of the nerve; and the sub-maxillary with its lingaal branch, the gustatory. Oxic Ganglion. The otic ganglion (Arnold's) (fig. 279) is a small, oval-shaped, flattened ganglion of a reddish-grey colour, situated immediately below the foramen ovale, on the 279.—The Otic Ganglion and its Branches. inner surface of the inferior maxillary nerve, and round the origin of the interna) ^"t rvffoid nerve. It is in relation, externally, with the trunk of tho inferior Laxillary nerve, at tho point where the motor root joins tho sensory portion;