SURGICAL ANATOMY OP THE PERINEUM. 748 Ill rupt,ure of the anterior portion of the nretlira, accompanied by extravasation of urine, tbo fluid makes its way forwards, beneath this fascia, into the areolar tissue of the scrotum, penis, and anterior and lateral portions of the abdomen; it rarely extends into the areolar tissue on tlie inner side of the thighs, or backwards around the anus. This limitation of the extravaaatod fluid to the parts above- named is easy of explanation, when the attachments of the deep layer of the ^05.—The PeviniEiiiii. Tlie Intogiimcnt and Siiperlicial Layer o£ Siiperlicial Fii.scia rellected. superficial fascia are considered. When this fascia is removed the muscles con- nected with the penis and urethra will be exposed ; these are, in the middle line, the Accelerator urinse ; on each side, the Erector penis, and behind the Trans- versus perinasi. The Accelerator urince is placed in the middle line of the perninjeum, immedi- ately in front of the anus. It consists of two symmetrical halves, united along the median line by a tendinous raphe. It arises from the central tendon of the perlnseum, and from the median raphe in front. From this point its fibres diverge like the plumes of a pen ; the most posterior form a thin layer, which are lost on the anterior surface of the triangular ligament; the middle fibres encircle the bulb and adjacent part of the corpus spongiosum, and join with the fibres of the op])o- site side, on the upper part of the corpus spongiosum, in a strong aponeurosis ; the anterior'fibres, the longest and most distinct, spread out over the sides of the cor- pus cavemosum, to be inserted partly into that body, anterior to the Erector penis; partly terminating in a tendinous expansion, which covers the dorsal vessels of the penis. The latter fibres are best seen by dividing the muscle longitudinally, and dissecting it outwards from the surface of the urethra. Action This muscle may serve to accelerate the-flow of the urine or semen alontr the' canal of the urethra. The middle fibres are supposed, by Kninse, to assist in the erection of the corpus spongiosum, by compres.sing the erectile tissue of the bulb. The anterior fibres, according to Tyrrel, also contribute to the