233 PALATAL REGION, inwards, and expands into a broad aponeurosis on tlie anterior surface of the soft palate, which unites in the median line with the aponeurosis of the opposite muscle, the fibres being attached in front to the transverse ridge on the horizontal portion of the palate bone. ., -r , n -n J.^ t ± Eelations. Externally, with the Internal pterygoid. Internally, with the Levator palati, from which it is separated by the Superior constrictor, and the intcrpa pterygoid plate. In the soffpalate, its aponeurotic expansion is anterior to that of the Levator palati, being covered by mucous membrane. _ The Azygos Uvtdce is not a single muscle, as implied by its name, but a pair of narrow cylindi'ical fleshy fasciculi, placed side by side in the median hne of the soft palate. Each muscle ai-ises from the posterior nasal spine of the palate bone, and from the contiguous tendinous aponeurosis of the soft palate, and descends to be inserted into the uvula. Relations. Antenorly, with the tendinojis expansion of the Levatores palati; dehind, with the mucous membrane. The two next muscles are exposed by removing the mucous membranes from the pillars of the soft palate throughout nearly their whole extent. The Palato-Olossus (Gonstrictor Isthmi Faucmm) is a small, fleshy fasciculus, Narrower in the middle than at either extremity, forming, with th.e mucous mem- brane covering its surface, the anterior pillar of the soft palate. It arises from the anterior surface of the soft palate on each side of the uvula, and passing downwards, forwards, and outwards in front of the tonsil, is inserted into the side and dorsum of the tongue, where it blends with the fibres of the Sfcylo-glossus muscle. In the soft palate, the fibres of this muscle are continuous with those of the muscle of the opposite side. The Palato-Pharyngeus is a long, fleshy fasciculus, narrower in the middle than at either extremity, forming, with the mucous membrane covering its surface, the posterior pillar of the soft palate. It is separated from the preceding by an angular interval, in which the tonsil is lodged. It arises from the soft palate by an expanded fasciculus, which is divided into two parts by the Levator palati. The anterior fasciculus, the thicker, lies in the soft palate between the Levator and Tensor, and joins in the middle line the corresponding part of the oiDposite muscle; ihe posterior fasciculus lies in contact with the mucous membrane, and also joins with the corresponding muscle in the middle line. Passing outwards and downwards behind the tonsil, the Palato-pharyngeus joins the Stylo-pharyn- geus, and is inserted with that muscle into the posterior border of the thyroid cartilage, some of its fibres being lost on the side of the pharynx, and others passing across the middle line posteriorly, to decussate with the muscle of the opposite side. Relations. In the soft palate, its anterior and posterior surfaces are covered by mucous membrane, from which it is separated by a layer of palatine glands. By its superior harder, it is in relation with the Levator palati. Where it forms the posterior pillar of the fauces, it is covered by mucous membrane, excepting on its outer surface. In the pharynx it lies between the mucous membrane and the Constrictor muscles. Nerves. The Tensor palati is supplied by a branch from the otic gajigliou.; the Levator palati, and Azygos uvulre, by the facial, through the connection of its trunk with the Vidian, by the petrosal nerves; the other muscles, by the palatine branches of Meckel's ganglion. Actions. During the first act of deglutition, the morsel of food is driven back, into the fauces by the pressure of the tongue against the hard palate; the base of the tongue being, at the same time, retracted, and the larynx raised with the pharynx, and carried forwards under it. During the second stage, the epiglottis is pressed over the superior aperture of the larynx, and the morsel glides past it ; then the Palato-glossi muscles, the constrictors of the fauces, contract behind tho food ; the soft palate is slightly raised by the Levator palati, and made tense by