S86 ORGANS OF SENSE. reflection on to the globe. These orifices are ai'ranged in a row, so as to disperse the secretion over the surface of tho membrane. The lachri/mal canals commence at the minute orifices, puncta lachnjmalia, seen on the margin of the lids, at the outer extremity of the lacus lachrymalis. They commence on the summit of a slightly elevated papilla, the papilla lachrymalis, and lead into minute canals, tho canalicuU, which proceed inwards to terminate in the lachrymal sac. The superior canal, the smaller and longer of the two, at first ascends, and then bonds at an acute angle, and passes inwards and downwards to the lachrymal sac. Tho inferior canal at first descends, and then abruptly changing its course, passes almost horizontally inwards. They are dense and elastic in structure, and somewhat dilated at their angle. 308.—The Lachrymal Apparatus. Right Side. The lachrymal sac is the upper dilated extremity of the nasal duct, and is lodged in a deep groove formed by the lachrymal bone and nasal process of the superior maxillary. It is oval in form, its upper extremity being closed in and rounded, whilst below it is continued into the nasal duct. It is covered by the Tensor tarsi muscle and by a fibrous expansion derived from thetendo ocuh, which is attached to the ridge on the lachrymal bone. In stracture it consists of a fibrous elastic coat, lined internally by mucous membrane: the latter being continuous, through the canaliculi, with the mucous lining of the conjunctiva, and through the nasal duct with the pituitary membrane of the nose. _ _ The nasal dud is a membranous canal, about three quarters of an inch m length which extends from the lower part of the lachrymal sac to the inferior meatus of the nose, where it terminates by a somewhat expanded orifice, provided with an imperfect valve formed by the mucous membrane. It is contained m an osseous canal, formed by the superior maxillary, the lachrymal, and the inferior turbinated bones, is nan^ower in the middle than at each extremity, and takes a direction downwards, backwards, and a little outwards. It is lined by mucous membrane, which is continuous below with the pituitary lining of the nose. In the canaliculi, this membrane is provided with scaly epithelium ; but m the lach- rymal sac and nasal duct, the epithelium is ciliated as in the nose. The Ear. The organ of hearing has three parts: the external ear, the middle ear or tym- nnnum and the internal ear or labyrinth. . • 1 j S Zemal mr consist, of an c^tpanded portion mmcA p.nna or „,„-,clc »„d the aulitorro-M or meatus. The former serves to eolleet the vbrafons of the