ARTERIES. 366 the lower part of tlio Scalenus anticus, being covered by the Sterno-mastoid ; it then crosses the subclavian artery, and runs outwards behind and jmrallel with the clavicle and Subclavius muscle, and beneath the posterior belly of the Omo- hyoid, to the superior border of the scapula, where it passes over the transverse ligament of the scapula, to the supraspinous fossa. In this situation it lies close to the bono, and ramifies between it and the Supraspinatus muscle, to which it is mainly distributed, giving olF a communicating branch, which crosses the neck of the scapula, to roach the infraspinons fossa, where it anastomoses with the dorsal branch of the subscapular artery. Besides distributing branches to the Storno- mastoid, and neighbouring muscles, it gives olf a supra-acromial branch, which, piercing the Trapezius muscle, supplies the cutaneous surface of the acromion, anastomosing with the acromial thoracic artery. As the artery passes over the' transverse ligament of the scapula, a branch descends into the subscapular fossa, 216.—The Scapular and Circumflex Arteries. JfmUrier SrafitUat ^erominl Jiranch vf TheTaeif-c ■ At i-omi'iltM ' I Cl/cu^Jt" ramifies beneath that muscle, and anastomoses with the posterior and subscapular arteries. It also supplies the shoulder-joint. The Transveesalis Colli passes transversely outwards, across the upper part of the subclavian triangle, to the anterior margin of the Trapezius muscle, beneath which it divides into two branches, the superficial cervical, and the posterior scapular. In its passage across the neck, it crosses in front of the Scaleni muscles and the brachial plexus, between the divisions of which it sometimes passes, and is covered by the Platysma, Sterno-mastoid, Omo-hyoid, and Trapezius muscles. The superficial cervical ascends beneath the anterior margin of the Trapezius, distributing branches to it, and to the neighbouring muscles and glands in the '^^'^The posterior scwpular, the continuation of the transversalis colli, passes beneath the Levator anguli'scaputo to the posterior angle of the scapula, and descends along the posterior border of that bone as far as the inferior angle, where it anastomoses with the subscapular branch of the axillary. In its course^ it is covered by the Rhomboid muscles, supplying these, the Latissimus dorsi and Trapezius, and anastomosing with the suprascapular and subscapular ai-teries, and with the posterior branches of some of the intercostal arteries. Peculiarities The superfidd cervical frequently arises as a separate branch from the tbySxL • and the posirior scapular, from the t^ird, more rarely from the second, part of the subclavian.