SYMPHYSIS PUBIS. 169 (oiuts between the bodies of the vertebriB, and is connected by similar ligaments. They are the— Anterior Sacro-Coccygeal. Posterior Sacro-Coccygeal. Interposed Fibro-Cartilage. The - Anterior Sacro-Goccijgeal Ligament consists of a few irregular fibres, • which descend fi'om the anterior surface of the sacrum to the front of the coccyx, becoming blended with the periosteum. The Posterior Sacro-Ooccygeal Ligament is a flat band of ligamentous fibres, of a pearly tint, "which arises from the margin of the lower orifice of the sacral canal, and descends to be inserted into the posterior surface of the coccyx. This ligament completes the lower and back part of the sacral canal. Its superficial fibres are much longer than the deep-seated ; the latter extend from the apex of the sacrum to the upper cornua of the coccyx. This ligament is in relation on front -with the arachnoid membrane of the sacral canal, a portion of the sacrum and almost the whole of the posterior surface of the coccyx; behind, with the Gluteus maximus. A Fibro-Gartilage is interposed between the contiguous surfaces of the sacrum and coccyx; it differs from that interposed between the bodies of the Tertebrce in being thinner, and its central pai-t more firm in textm-e. It is somewhat thicker in ft-ont and behind than at the sides. Occasionally, a synovial membrane is found where the coccyx is freely moveable, which is more especially the case pregnancy. The different segments of the coccyx are connected together by an extension downwards of the anterior and posterior sacro-coccygeal ligaments, a thin annular disc of fibro-cartilage being interposed between each of the bones. In the adult male, aU the pieces become ossified; but in the female, this does not commonly occur until a later period of life. The separate segments of the coccyx are first united, and at a more advanced age the joint between the sacrum and coccyx is obliterated. Actions. The movements which take place between the sacrum and coccyx, and between the different pieces of the latter bone, are slightly forwards and back-' wards ; they are very limited. Their extent increases during pregnancy. 4. Aeticulatiok of the Pttbes. (Fig. 129.) The articulation between the pubic bones is an amphiarthrodial joint, formed by the junction of the two oval articular surfaces of the ossa pubis. The articular surface has been described above under the name of symphysis, and the same name is given to the joint. The ligaments of this articulation are the Anterior Pubic. Posterior Pubic. Superior Pubic. Sub-Pubic. Interposed Fibro-OartUage. The Anterior PuUc Ligament consists of several superimposed layers, which pass across the front of the articulation. The superficial fibres pass obliquely from one bone to the other, decussating and forming an interlacement with the fibres of the aponeurosis of the External obhque muscle. The deep fibres pass transversely across the symphysis, and are blended with the fibro-cartilage. The Posterior PuUc Ligament consists of a few thin, scattered fibres, which unite the two pubic bones posteriorly. The Suferior PuUc Ligament is a band of fibres, which connects together the two pubic bones superiorly. The 8uh.Piohic Ligament is a thick, triangular arch of ligamentous fibres, connectmg together the two pubic bones below, and forming the upper boundary ot the pubic arch. Above, it is blended with the interarticular fibro-cartila-e ;