445 INFERIOR CAVA. internal ilkc vein lies at first on the inner side and then beli.nd the interna ihac artery, and terminates opposite the sacro-iliac articulation, by nmting with the external iliac, to form the common iliac vein. This vessel has no valves. The hcemorrhoiclal jplexus surrounds the lower end of the rectum, being formed by the superior htemorrhoidal veins (branches of the inferior mesenteric), and the middle and inferior htemorrhoidal, which terminate m the internal ihac. ihe portal and general venous systems have a free communication by means of the branches composing this plexus. The vedco-prostatic plexus suiTOunds the neck and base of the bladder and prostate gland. It communicates with the hcemorrhoidal plexus behind, and receives the dorsal vein of the penis, which enters the pelvis beneath the sub- pubic ligament. This plexus is supported upon the sides of the bladder by a reflection of the pelvic fascia. The veins composing it are very' liable to become varicose, and often contain hard earthy concretions, called plileholithes. The dorsal vein of the penis is a vessel of large size, which returns the blood fi-om the body of that organ. At first it consists of two branches, which are con- tained in the groove on the dorsum of the penis, and it receives veins from the glans, the corpus spongiosum, and numerous superficial veins ; these unite near the root of the penis into a single trunk, which pierces the triangular ligament beneath the pubic arch, and divides into two branches, which enter the prostatic plexus. The vaginal plexus surrounds the mucous membrane, being especially developed at the orifice of the vagina; it communicates with the vesical plexus in front, and with the haamorrhoidal plexus behind. The utei-ine plexus is situated along the sides and superior angles of the uterus, receiving large venous canals (the uterine sinuses) from its substance. The veins composing this plexus anastomose frequently with each other and with the ovarian veins. They are not tortuous like the arteries. The Common Iliac Veins are formed by the union of the external and internal iliac veins in front of the sacro-vertebral articulation ; passing obliquely upwards towards the right side, they terminate upon the intervertebral substance between the fourth and fifth lumbar vertebra, where the veins of the two sides unite at an acute angle to form the inferior vena cava. The right common iliac is shorter than the left, nearly vertical in its direction, and ascends behind and then to the outer side of its corresponding artery. The left common iliac, longer and more oblique in its course, is at first situated on the inner side of the corresponding artery, and then behind the right common iliac. Each common iliac receives the ilio-lumbar and sometimes the lateral sacral veins. The left receives, in addition, the middle sacral vein. No valves are found in these veins. The middle sacral vein accompanies its corresponding artery along the front of the sacrum, and terminates in the left common ihac vein ; occasionally in the com- mencement of the inferior vena cava. Peculiarities. The left common iliac vein, instead of joining with the right in its usual position, occasionally ascends on the left side of the aorta as high as the kidney, where, after receiving the left renal vein, it crosses over the aorta, and then joins with the right vein to form the vena cava. In these cases, the two common iliaos are connected by a small com- municating branch at the spot where they are usually united. The Inferior Vena Cava returns to the heart the blood from all the parts below the Diaphragm. It is formed by the junction of the two common iliac veins on the right side of the intervertebral substance between the fourth and fifth lumbar vertebrse. It passes upwards along the front of the spine, on the right side of the aorta, and having reached the under surface of the liver, is contained in a groove in its posterior border. It then perforates the tendinous centre of the Diaphragm, enters the pericardmm, where it is covered by its serous layer, and terminates in the lower and back part of the right auricle. At its termination in the auricle. It IS provided with a valve, the Eustachian, which is of large size during fo3tal life. Belakons In front, from below upwards, with the mesentery, transverse por- tion of the duodenum, the pancreas, portal vein, and the posterior border of the