Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 477 Relations.—The first part is surrountlud by i)critoueuni, -whicli. also binds it to the I'ront of the sacrum as far down as the second or third sacral vertebra—this fold being known as the meso-redum; in front of this part is the recto-vesical pouch of peritoneum and a part of the bladder in the male, but in the female the pouch of DouGLAa, the uterus, and the upper part of the posterior wall of the vagina. The second part is only partially surrounded by the peritoneum, the front and upper part of its sides alone being in relation to it; at its lower part the peritoneum is reflected, in the male, on to the back of the bladder, but in the female on to the posterior wall of the vagina. On the anterior surface of the rectum the peritoneum is about three and a half or four inches from the anus; on the poderior surface it is fully an inch higher ujj. In the male, the base of the bladder (trigone) lies immediately over this part, and between the two are the vesiculaj seminales and the vasa deferentia; but in the female the jjosterior vaginal wall is in relation to it. This part is attached by loose areolar tissue to the front of the sacrum and coccyx, and is also in relation to the visceral layer of the pelvic fascia. The third part has no relation to the peritoneum, but is in close relation to the pelvic fascia and the levatores ani muscles, which support this part of the rectum; the rectal layer of the pelvic fascia joins the rectum about four inches from its lower end, and at the same time ensheaths the levatores ani; further, the I'ecto-vesical layer of the pelvic fascia (or the recto-vaginal layer m the female), is also in relation to the rectum. The prostate gland in the male is close to the com- mencement of this part, Avhile in the female the perineal body is in relation to its anterior surface throughout its whole extent, because at this point the rectum and the vagina diverge. The anal part of the rectum, or the part in the region of the sphincters, may be said to begin at the back of the prostate and pass downwards and slightly backwards to the external orifice; this part is invested by the internal sphincter, the levatores ani, and the external sphincter. This last part of the rectum is of great Surgical import- ance (see vol. ii., page 482). The Arteries of the Rectum arc Ave in number—(1) The superior htemorrhoidal, the continuation of the inferior mesenteric into the pelvis; it soon divides into two branches, which pass down.