116 Applied Anatomy: acquired; (3) it may also exist as a congenital nialformatiou; and (4) is often found in tliose exposed to the vapour of chromic acid, in the manufacture of bichromate of potash—the " bichromate disease." In ordinary cases it begins as a simple pimple or pustule, which is picked and irritated so that an idcer is formed that gradually cats through the septum. Tumours and Swellings of the Septum.—(1) Ha-matomata are occasionally found, after an injury; (2) abscesses also occur, though rarely; (3) gummata are sometimes found beneath the perichondrium; (4) an osteoma may be met with; (5) adenomata are sometimes seen; and (6) also a curious tumour, composed of cartilage—ecchondrosis of the septal cartilage. The cartilages and septum are also aifected in Acromegaly and Leontiasis ossea. A Dermoid Cyst is sometimes met with at the side of the ]iose, in the position of the naso-maxillary iissure of the embryo. Chronic nasal catarrh, with hypertrophy of the mucous membrane, and polypi, are said to give rise to many reJlex nervous phenomena ■—as asthma, .spasmodic fits of sneezing and coughing, megrim, supra-orbital neuralgia, vaso-motor disturbances causing redness of the ti]) of the nose and cheeks, herpes labialis, vertigo, and epilepsy. On the anterior end of the inferior tm'binate bone, there is a layer of erectile tissue, and it has been supposed that turgescence of this tissue is sutlicient to account for many of tlie above phenomena. If this be so, then the cure is to be found in painting the part with a solution of cocaine, or else destroying the hypertrophicd, congested, and sensitive mucous membrane witli the galvano-cautery. Cases have also been observed in which intra- nasal operations, undertaken for the relief of uasal obstruction, have led, very rmexpectedly, to the diminution, or even disappearance, of the symptoms of Graves's disease. THE ANTRUM. The antrum of IIighmoke, or the maxillary sinus, is a large triangular-shaped cavity, hollowed out in the body of the superior maxilla. Its apex is directed outwards, aud its base is formed by the outer wall of the nose. Its roof is very thin, and is formed by the orbital plate of the maxilla; its floor is formed by the alveolar process, its ;intcrior wall by the facial, and its posterior