Applied Anntomy. 446 bladder. When a catheter is passed after the patient has just made water, very likely twelve or fourteen ounces, or more, Avill be drawn off. In passing the catheter, it will be obstructed at a point more than six inches from the meatus, which wiU probably be overcome by depressing the shaft of the catheter. In stricture the usual seat of obstruction is about six inches from the meatus, or in the bulbous portion. When the lateral lobes of the prostate are enlarged, the pro- static urethra becomes dilated and elongated, and its axis altered to one or other side, according to the lobe specially affected; the bladder is also raised out of the pelvis, to a certain extent, into the abdomen. In Structure, the gland consists of glandular, fibrous, and muscular elements, in variable proportion; the "hypertrophy" is probably in many cases due to an increase in the muscular tissue (non-striped)—hence, perhaps, the value of ergot in this condition. Near the opening of the bladder there is a dense fibro-elastic ring, about three lines in breadth, which it is impossible to dilate beyond a certain limited extent. When this ring is cut, as in the operation of lateral lithotomy, however, the gland texture splits up easily in the direction of the cut. It is enclosed in a dense fibrous cai^svle, derived from the pelvic fascia—from the vesical, recto-vesical parts, and from the parietal layer as well. Beneath the capsule, chiefly on the lateral aspects, lies a dense network of veins—the prostatic plexus—into which the dorsal vein of the penis empties itself It is important to note that septic thrombosis sometimes follows operations in this region. The Lymphatics of the Prostate pass to the internal iliac group of pelvic glands, and thence to the lumbar group. These glands therefore enlarge in cancerous affections of this structure. The Nerves of the Prostate are derived from the prostatic plexus of the sympathetic, and this in turn is derived from the hypogastric plexus, which has communications with the epigastric or solar plexus, through the aortic plexus. The prostatic plexus also supplies the erectile tissue of the penis, and ends about the corona glandis; it also supplies the vesiculte seminales and neck of the bladder, and in this region communicates with the fourth sacral—which, it will be remembered, supplies the levator and