95 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 3. Acromegaly (acromegalin) seems to have some obscure relation to tiftcctions of this gland. At first sight this aflection seems to resemble myxoodema, but is widely different. 1'he lower jaw becomes very much enlarged, so that the face becomes egg- shaped, with the large end doAvn'wards; the cartilages and bones of the nose, the cartilages of the eyelids and ears, are much enlarged, the lower lip thick and everted, but the long bones are rarely affected. Tlie disease has received its name from the char- acteristic and gigantic enlargement of the head, hands, and feet, but there is no swelling or cedema of the soft parts. In women, menstruation usuafl}'' ceases early in the course of the disease. The cause of the enlargement is found in an overgrowth of the hones themselves, and thus differs from myxcfidema, where the soft parts alone are affected; the lower jaw and cheek bones are specially affected. In acromegaly we may, however, find other curious changes besides alterations in the thyroid—viz., enlarge- ment of the hypophysis cerebri (pituitary body), and persistence and hyperplasia of the thymus. The eidargement of the pituitary body may cause pressure upon, or even destruction of the optic commissure. It will also be remembered that this little body has a very curious developmental history, and that it is constant and luiiform through all the vertel^rata; it is formed by two outgrowths, one from the brain, the other from the epiblast of the back and upper part of the future mouth. 4. It has been noticed that in many cases of Malignant Disease of the Thyroid, secondary growtlis are specially apt to occur in the bones, these growths having the same general style of structure as the thyroid gland itself; indeed, it would seem that a simple en- largement of the thyroid, when associated with other growths of a malignant nature, in the bones and viscera, is able to stamp them with its own peculiarity of structure (IIutchinson). THE PAROTID GLAND. This gland fills up the hollow between the mastoid process and the sterno-mastoid muscle behind, and the ascending ramus of the lower jaw in front. Boundaries.—Above, it extends as high us the zygomatic process; below, it is bounded by a line passing from the angle of the lower jaw to the anterior border of the stcrno-nuistoid