Snrgiarl, Medical, and Operative. 533 52. Brachial is Anticus.—Arises, lower lialf of the inner and outer surfaces of the shaft of the humerus and septa; inserted, "base of coronoid process of the ulna. Nerves,—The museulo-cutaneous and museulo-spiral. 53. Triceps. — Arises, below the glenoid fossa of the scapula, posterior surface of the shaft of the humerus, above and below the musculo-s2)iral groove. Nerve.—The musculo-spiral. 54. The following five muscles all arise from the inner condyle of tlie humerus, inter-muscular septa, and fascia of fore- arm, with special origins as follows :— {a) Pronator Radii Teres.—Inner surface of coronoid process; inserted into the middle of tlie outer surface of the shaft of the radius. Nerve.—The median. This muscle, when suddenly brouglit into very active use, as in lawn tennis, is apt to be sprained—" lawn tennis sprain," or " lawn tennis arm." {h) Flexor Carpi Radialis.—No special origin; inserted, front of base of the second and partly of tlie third metacarpal bones. Nerve.—The median. (c) Pal maris Longus.—No special origin; inserted, apex of the palmar fascia. This muscle is often wanting. Nerve.— The median. {d) Flexor Sublimis Digitorum.—Arises, inner edge of coronoid process of the ulna, above the pronator radii teres, and the oblique line in front of the radius; inserted, sides of the second phalanges. Nerve.—The median. (e) Flexor Carpi Ulnaris.—Arises, aponeurosis attached to the posterior edge of the ulna; inserted, pisiform bone, fifth metacarpal bone, and annular ligament. Nerve.— Tlie ulnar. 55. Flexor Profundus Digitorum. — Arises, upper two thirds of the anterior and inner surfaces of the shaft of the ulna, aponeurosis attached to the posterior edge of the ulna, and half tlie interosseous membi'ane; inserted, bases of the third phalanges. Nerves.—The ulnar and anterior interosseous branch of median. 5G. Flexor Longus ?o\\'\0'\?,.—Arises, upper 2)art of the anterior surface of the shaft of the radius, the interosseous membrane, and sometimes from the inner edge of the coronoid process of the