Applied A natomy: 118 3. Dropsy. — The cavity eitliRv becomes slowly filled with a glairy fliiiil like that found in rannla, or it may he thin-and serous. It is not duo to the blocking up of the orifice into the nose, but from a cystic degeneration of the mucous membrane, resembling somewhat the ordinary mucous polyijus of the nose, the cavity being filled by several small cysts, or by one large growth. When it was believed to be an accumulation of fl.uid resulting from a closed orifice, then the operation of " catheterisation " of the antrum "was advised; this, as might be expected, from the erroneous pathology, was not followed by any benefit to the patient. A not unfrequent sign of this condition is a constant or intermittent trickling of watery fluid from one nostril, increased when the head lies on the opposite side; on examination it is found that the nasal fossa itself is quite clear. 4. " Dentigerous " Cysts. — These arise in connection with a misplaced, a too-deeply placed, or an inverted permanent tooth, usually an upper permanent canine. They may be recognised by the absence of a tooth from its proper place in the jaw, the globular or ovoid outline of the tumour and the gradual, painless growth; the cyst contains a thick, mucilaginous, or serous fluid containing cholesterine plates. In some cases, however, the corresponding milk tooth may not be shed, so that the Surgeon must be on liis guard not to be misled by the mere number of teeth. The fang of the tooth is usually in its socket, but the crown lies in a cavity filled with the enamel pulp and covered by a layer of epithelium which secretes the fluid. This arrest of development will, so far, be understood by a reference to the development of the enamel from the enamel organ and dental sac. This organ consists of— (1) A layer of epithelium next'the wall of the sac; (2) the enamal pulp, consisting of jelly-like mucous tissue; (3) a layer of undif- ferentiated cells; and (4) the internal epithelium, Avhich ultimately develops into the enamel prisms. The proper Treatment for these cysts is to remove a part of the wall, turn out the contents, and stufl" the cavity, in order to make it heal from the bottom upwards. In tapping fluid collections in the antrum—(1) The upper lip may be everted and an opening made through the thin canine fossa just above the second bicuspid tootli. (2) By extracting the first molar, as this tooth is very often carious; but the bicupsids,