Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 99 duct of the yolk sac, should all have direct relation with the alimentary canal, and each be directly associated with dermoids often of considerable complexity, and with a peculiar form of tumour identical in structure with the thyroid body " (Sutton). Tor this reason such tumours are sometimes known as " congenital adenomata," or "thyroid dermoids"—e.g., congenital sacro-coccygeal tumours. EXCISION OF THE TONGUE. This operation may be performed in several ways— (1) From the inside of the mouth, without any external incisions. (2) By incisions below the jaw (submental, or Eegnoli's method). (3) By section of the lower lip and jaw (Sedillot's method). Instruments required.—Scalpel, a broad-pointed pair of dis- secting forceps, an extensive stock of Wells's or Pean's forceps, a gag, a bone drill, copper retractors, blunt hooks for ligature of the lingual; tooth forceps for incisor teeth, in cases where the jaw is to be divided; a narrow-bladed, movable-backed saw; stout silk thread to pass through tip of tongue; copper or silver wire to suture the jaw, "key" to tighten the same ; wire-cutting pliers, scissors of various kinds (one pair curved and blunt-pointed); ligatures of catgut and silk; solution of chloride of zinc, collodion to close incision after ligature of lingual; small sponges on sticks, special sponge holders, or on Pean's forceps; Trendelenburg's trachea " tampoon," or some other means to prevent blood passing down to the lungs; instruments for tracheotomy; IIigginson's syringe, lint, bandages, needles, chloroform; two strips of bandage to fasten round and separate the divided jaw. Haiin's trachea tube may be used instead of Trendelenburg's. It resembles an ordinary tracheotomy tube, but round the outer tube is a sheatli of compressed sponge. When it is introduced the natural moisture in the trachea causes the sponge to swell, which thus completely blocks up that tube. The sponge requires ten or fifteen minutes to swell sufficiently. It is better, at the same time, to plug the pharynx with a sponge, lest blood should soak past the tube. The inner part of Haiin's tube is prolonged and bent downwards, in order that the chloroformist may be out of the operator's way.