Applied Anatomy. 80 the centres for the two sides of the body reversed, those for the loft half of the body being on the right side of the brain, but they arc turned upside down as well. In cases demanding the trephine it is, of course, to be done on the side opposite to that on whicli the greatest paralysis exists. Dp Reid's Method forfinding the Fissure of Rolando (Fig. 14G). —First draw a "base line" from the lower border of the orbit, through the external auditory meatus, to the occiput. ]Srext draw a line from the depression in front of the ear, or the tubercle of the zygoma, to the toj) of the head, and at right angles to the "base line," and another similar line through the posterior border of the mastoid process; this second line rouglily indicates the posterior part of the hrst temporo-sphenoidal convolution, the others pass still further back. A line is now drawn from the ui)per end of the posterior line downwards and forwards to the point Avhere the anterior line cuts the Sylvian fissure. As nearly as I can make out, the posterior of the two vertical lines—corresponding to the " posterior border of the mastoid process "—is about an inch and a quarter behind the external auditory meatus. Lucas-Championniere's Plan.—Find the bregma by carrying a line from one external auditory meatus to the other straight across the vertex: the wpper and of the fissure of Eolando is 55 mm. behind this; its loioer end is 7 cm. behind the external angular process, and 3 cm. above it. JSToTE.—25 mm. = one inch, and 5 cm. = two inches, or 50 mm. The Fissure of Sylvius.—^As far as surface-marking is concerned this fissure begins at the jpterion—a jDoint about an inch and a (]^uarter behind the external angular process, and the same distance above the zygoma—runs obliquely backwards and upwards through the parietal bone to a little beyond, and three-quarters of an inch below, the parietal eminence, ending in the immediate neighbour hood of the supra-marginal and angular gyri. Tliis is the so-called horizontal limb of the fissure, and it separates the frontal and parietal lobes from the temporo-sphenoidal. The ascending limb of the same fissure begins two inches behind the external angular process, runs upwards obliquely towards the vertex, separating the superior, middle, and the inferior frontal convolutions from the