Applied Anatomy: 22 4. An accurately fitting vulcanite syphon tuLe is noM^ to be inserted into the uj^per end of the divided trachea, through -which the patient may breathe, and -which will at the same time exclude all blood from the trachea. 5. Lastly, se^Darate tlie larj'nx from its posterior and upj^er attachments, and in dissecting out the cricoid keep the edge of the knife against it so as to avoid injuring the gullet. When the surfaces have healed and the gap in the throat partly contracted, Gussenhauer's artificial larynx, or the modification of it introduced by the late Dr FouLis, of Glasgo-n'-, may be used. Chief Structures divided — (1) The skin, superficial fascia, platysma, and deep fascia. (2) The sterno-thyroid, thyro-hyoid, inferior constrictor, stylo-pharyngeus, and palato-pharyngeus; the stcrno-hyoid and the omo-hyoid may be pushed aside. (3) The anterior jugular vein, superior thyroid vessels and their branches, probably facial and lingual plexus of veins in this region, and middle and thyroid vein. (4) Nerves—T-wigs of facial and super- ficial cervical, and superior and inferior laryngeals. (5) Trachea. (G) The thyro-hyoid ligaments, the hyo-epiglottic hgament, and the glosso-epiglottidean folds of mucous membrane. CUT THROAT. This may be—(1) Above tlie liyoid bone, -when probably the folio-wing structures -will be divided:—Skin and superficial fascia, radicles of anterior jugular veins, deep fascia, anterior belUes of the digastric muscles, mylo-hyoids, genio-hyoids, genio-hyoglossi, and probably right through into the floor of the mouth, implicating the tongue. Lingual artery, branches of the facial vessels, hypoglossal nerve, lingual nerve, and submaxillary gland. In this case the patient is unable to swallow at all. (2) Below the hyoid bone— The integumentary structures, anterior jugular veins, facial and superior thyroid veins, sterno-thyroid, thyro-hyoid, and omo-hyoid muscles, thryo-hyoid membrane, inferior constrictor, internal branch of superior laryngeal nerve, superior laryngeal artcrj^ and probably also the superior thyroid and lingual arteries too.' This cut may divide the epiglottis and open into the pharynx; there is con- siderable difficulty in swallowing, and great risk of mJema (jlotfidi.-^. (3) Below the box of the larynx, a rare form—The integuments.