Applied Anatomy: 292 is normal. In this case the distended rectum may cause it to bulge, and the dark colour of the contained meconium can be seen through the thin septum. (3) The anus may be normal, but be separated from the hind-gut by an inch or more of intervening cellular tissue, or merely by a membranous septum, due to the imperfect coalescence of the hind-gut and proctodseum. (4) The anus may be absent and also a considerable part of the rectum, the lower part being merely represented by a fibrous cord. The rectum may even end in the iliac fossa. (5) It may open into the urethra, or more rarely the bladder, of the male. (6) It may open into the vagina of the female—(a) the gut opening directly into the vagina, while the lower part and anus are wanting; or (5) in the form of a recto-vaginal fistula, while the lower part of the gut is present, the anus being closed merely by a thin septum. In order to explain the occurrence of these malformations, one has to bear in mind how the lower part of the gut is developed. Up to the seventh or eightli week of foetal life, in both sexes, the genital, urinary, and intestinal tubes open into a common cavity or cloaca, a condition which is permanent in reptiles and birds. About this time a transverse partition forms, dividing this cloacal aperture into an anal or posterior division, and an anterior division, called the uro-genital sinus. In this Avay the rectal and urinary parts become permanently separated from each other. In cases, however, where the rectum opens into the urethra in the male, or the vagina in the female, this separation has not taken place, but the original communication between the Wolffian duct in the male, and the Mlillerian duct in the female, is maintained. In other cases, where the rectal is completely shut off from the urinary j^art of the sinus, the malformations are explained by the absence of the proctodasum, or, if it be present, by the fact that it does not join the hind-gut. The kidneys are often imperfectly developed, or even absent, in cases of congenital rectal malformations. Treatment.—Where the anus is too narrow it must be dilated by tents. Where the anus is closed by a thin sej^tum, open by crucial incision, and dilate with the tip of the little finger; some stitch the four corners of the divided septum to the edge of the anus. "Wliere the rectum is closed by a thin septum, the anus being normal, pass an ear speculum up to the septum, and tlien