Suf'£'2ca/, Medical, and Opej-ative. 423 of tho table, as this would make the recti tense. The preliminaiy preparations are the same as in the lateral operation, hut a dis- tensible basr should be introduced into the rectum to push the bladder forwards and upwards, and also to steady it. The Surgeon stands on the side he deems most convenient, and makes an incision two and a half or three inches long in the median line, immediately above, and partly over the pubes, so as to reach that part of the bladder which is uncovered by peritoneum. Tn cutting down to the bladder at this point, the Stcucturea divided are—(1) Tlie skin; (2) the superficial fascia; (3) the sheath of the recti. Next, the adjoining edges of the recti and pyra- midales are separated; and then, with the finger or the handle of the knife, separate the loose cellular and fatty tissue, and divide (4) the transversalis fascia, and the anterior surface of the bladder is exposed. Make out, if possible, the reflection of the peritoneum, and then depress the handle of the staff which is in the bladder so as to project its point above the pubes, and open the bladder by cutting down upon this as guide. The opening is then enlarged downwards, the forceps introduced, and the stone extracted. The wound may then be closed, both in the abdomen and in the bladder, provided the urine be healthy, and the urine drained oft' by a siphon, per urethram ; but both must be left open if the urine be septic, and a drainage tube passed into the fundus of the bladder, and left there for a week or ten days; the patient mean- while resting as much as possible on his side, to favour drainage, and he should change from side to side every six hours. When the bladder wound is stitched up, the Lembert suture should be employed, taking care to go beyond the angles of the incision at each eiid, in order to prevent leakage. In the case of male children, Professor Annandale introduces a lithotrite to grasp the stone and project it against the anterior abdomiual wall. A small incision is then made over it, and the blades forced through the wound, and the stone removed. A Xo. 7 india-rubber catheter is next seized by the lithotrite and drawn into the bladder, along the urethra, and left there. The abdominal wound is then stitched up, and a drainage tube intro- duced. In forty-eight hours botli drainage tube and catheter are removed. Before beginning the operation, four ounces of a warm