i Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 327 Rupture of the Kidney is not necessarily so serious as rupture of the liver and spleen, and is often recovered from; the bleeding need not be great; and, further, it lies behind the peritoneum. Hydronephrosis is apt to follow should the pelvis be involved, as blood clots plug the ureter, and may subsequently undergo organisation and block up the orifice. The kidney is apt to be displaced in the game of lawn tennis during the period of menstruation, especially if, at the same time, tight-lacing be indulged in; during menstruation the kidney is enlarged and heavier than at other times. Primary Malignant Disease (sarcoma) of the kidney is very apt to occur in children. It may reach an enormous size, filling up the entire abdomen, and obliterating the inferior vena cava; hence, the whole of the blood from the lower extremities and abdomen must be conveyed through the superficial veins of the abdominal wall, and reach the superior vena cava through the internal mammary and intercostal veins. Fortunately, the pain caused by these growths is often very slight; there may be blood in the urine. The relation between the right kidney and the duodenum should be specially noted, as many diseased conditions of this part of the gut may simulate kidney disease, as calculous pyelitis and the paui accompanying that condition, or attacks of renal colic. But in duodenal disease the pain, vomiting, etc., has a close relation to food, being most severe about three hours after food, as about that time the contents of the stomach pass into the duodenum; in ulcer and inflammation of the duodenum there is usually also a rapid loss of flesh. Further, note the relation of the kidney to the colon: in tubercular disease of tlie kidney the abscesses may open into the colon, or point in the loin. The left kidney may be reached by the finger, when the hand is introduced into the rectum; this fact has also been taken advantage of for the purpose of securing the kidneys after death without any visible mutilation. Another point of importance is that the transverse processes of tlie lumbar vertebrae jut out some little distance over the posterior surface of the kidney—probably about half-an-inch.—and hence in puncturing the kidney with a needle from the surface to ascertain the presence of a calculus, without making a diagnostic incision