Applied Anatomy: 296 The aponeurosis of the transversalis muscle splits into three layers, one is attached to the roots of the transverse processes of the lumhar vertehrte, a second is attached to the tips of the transverse processes (between these two layers the quadratus lumhorum is situated), a third passes to the tips of the spinous processes of the vertebrte, and between this and the second layer, the erector spinPB is placed. These three layers are likewise known as the anterior, middle, and posterior layers of the lumbar aponeurosis; in addition, however, to these structures, tliere is attached to the posterior layer of this aponeurosis the tendons of origin of other three muscles, and through it these muscles may be said to arise from the tips of the transverse processes. The muscles are— (1) The latissimus dorsi; (2) the serratus posticus inferior; and (3) the internal oblique. By this means the strong fascia lumborum is formed, which protects the part below the ribs, a part which, in the skeleton, seems very weak. In this region we find the "triangle of Petit" (Fig. 179, 10). It is bounded in front by the posterior edge of the external oblique; heliind, by the anterior edge of the latissimus dorsi. The hase is formed by the crest of the ilium (about its middle third), while the apex is formed by the crossing of the above two muscles. In Lumbar Colotomy, or Amussat's operation, the descend- ing colon is opened in the left lumbar region. This operation was first suggested by Callisen in 1796, for rectal obstruction. Amussat opened the colon in the right loin, revived Callisen's plan, and gave the operation a wider application, in 1839. Calli- sen used the vertical incision, while Amussat used the transverse. The colon lies, according to Allingham, half-an-inch behind a point midway between the anterior and the posterior superior iliac spines. Mr Heath takes the midpoint between the two spines, while Professor Chiene uses the outer edge of the erector spinas as the guide. At the seat of the operation the gut lies in the angle between the psoas and the quadratus lumborum (see Fig. 178). The descending colon (left) is chosen because— (1) It is nearer the anus, and the gut will therefore be emptied more perfectly after the new anus is formed, and there is less risk of irritation of the cancerous mass in the rectum. (2) It is more fixed than the right colon, (3) It has a larger non-peritoneal