Applied Anatomy: 50 parts of the upper lip and jaw, it is easy to see that tlie gap must necessarily be at one or other side, or on both sides, as tlie case may be. There is a fissure between the fronto-nasal process and the parts that form the vipper jaw and cheek, passing from the inner canthus to the ala of the nose; occasionally there is complete non-closure of this fissure coupled with hare lip on the same side. In this rare condition the lachrymal sac with the canaliculi and the nasal duct are absent, or form an open gutter. In regard to the palate, at the sixth week of faital life the mouth, nose, and pharynx form one large undivided space. Soon, after this, how- ever, a process begins to groAV inwards from the alveolar ridge on each side, which ultimately form the hard and soft palates, except the part in front of the oblique sutures formed by the jDre-maxillary, and sometimes in addition by the inter-maxillary bones, which are developed from the frontal protuberance (Fig. 125). The palate should be comijleted about the ninth week. In the lips and palate, therefore, the line of union is Y-shaped, the upper diverging arms representing the pre-maxillary sutures, while the straight part represents the line of union between the two sides of the palate. Non-union may occur along the whole of this line, giving the most extreme degree of combined hare lip and cleft palate, in which case the part of the frontal process which should have formed the central j^art of the upper lip and alveolus is attached to, or rather has not separated from, the tip of the nose (Fig. 126). It may vary from this, the most extreme form, to a mere slit or dent in one lip, usually the left. The sides of the cleft are usually of unequal depth, a point that must be kej^t in mind in operating. Varieties of Hare Lip— 1. Single Hare-lip : from a mere nick in the free edge of the lip, to a complete cleft into the nostril. The bone may or may not project unduly at one or other side. 2. Double Hare-lip: (a) Without bony deformity (of pre-maxillary bone). {h) AVith marked bony deformity. Either form may be accompanied or not with a greater or less degree of cleft palate. In cases of single hare-lip with marked flattening of one nostril, Mr Anxandale separates the cleft half