253 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. cerebi'O-spiual groove, luivc not united at tlic point in question. In the case of lueningo-niyeloccle (the common form) it is often possible to trace a median furroAV on the sac wall, or detect an "umbilicus"; this indicates the point at -wliich the cord joins the wall of the sac. (5) Spina bifida occulta is merely a deficiency in the lamin;e, but without any visible external tumour; it is common to lind a hairy mole over the part, and, as in the other forms, it is often accompanied by talipes equino-varus, and sometimes by " perforating ulcer" of the foot. The skin over the ordinary forms is often thin and translucent and bluish, from dilated capillaries, closely resembling a nan-us. The same principles of diagnosis must be adopted as in the corresponding conditions of the cranial vault. We have—(1) A tumour iu the middle line; (2) on deej) pressure, the spinous pro- cesses are found to be absent and the laminae defective, and hence a hole is made out, with a bony rim round it; (-3) it is reducible, wholly or in part, with the production of nervous symptoms and increased fullness in the anterior foutanello; and (4) it becomes fuller and tenser when the child cries, or durhig strong expiratory efforts, and is probably associated- with hydrocephalus, club foot, or paralysis of the lower extremities. From fatty tumours, dermoid and other cysts, and a spina bifida whose communication with the spinal canal has been cut off (false i^pina bifida), the diagnosis is made as in the corresponding affections of the head. The greatest difficulty, in some cases, is to distinguish it from a na.ivus, and in very doubtful cases a hypodermic syringe must be used; sometimes, too, there is a large mass of fat coveriug a small spina bifida, and hi I'i'moving the supposed fatty tumoui' the cyst has been opened and death residted from septic meningitis. In such cases the mass of fat is deeply placed, often extending into the canal, and fixed to the spine. It may be associated with paralysis of the lower extremities. ()cca.':'ionally, too, a sebaceous or dermoid cyst may be found under the hairy patch in cases of ftpina bifida ocmlfa. Again, a small meningocele may be found in the centre of congenital sacral tumours; this, however, is very rare. A s])ina bifida must not be confounded with a congenital sacro-cnccygeal tumour, nor with an attached fwtus, or with a tumour containing the remains of a ujjpresscd fcctus, or, as it is callcil, a Teratoma. A congenital