Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 525 8. Temporal.—Arises from tlie temporal fossa, and is inserted into the apex and inner surface of the coronoid process. 9. Internal Pterygoid. — Arises from the pterygoid fossa, especially the inner surface of the external pterygoid plate, and is inserted into the an"le and inner surface of ramus. 10. External Pterygoid.—Arises from the under surface of the great wing of the sphenoid and the outer surface of the external pterygoid plate; inserted in front of the neck of the condyle of the lower jaw, and into the inter-articular fibro-cartilage. Nerves.— The above four muscles are supplied by the third division of the fifth cranial nerve. 11. Digastric.—^n'se*'from the groove in the mastoid process, perforates the stylo-hyoid, and is attached to the body of the hyoid bone by a central tendon; inserted, into the under surface of the lower jaw close to the symphysis. Nerves.—Posterior belly, by the facial; the anterior, by the mylo-hyoid branch of the inferior dental (fifth). 12. Scalenus Anticus.—Arises from the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebrte; inserted into the tubercle on the inner margin of the first rib, between the grooves for the subclavian artery and vein. 13. Scalenus Medius. — Arises from the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of all the cervical vertebra except the first; inserted into the upper surface of the first rib behind the groove for the subclavian artery. It. Scalenus Posticus. — Arises from the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the lower cervical vertebrte; inserted into the outer surface of the second rib. Nerves.—The scalcni are supplied by supra-clavicular twigs of the brachial plexus. 15. Trapezius.—Arises from the external occipital protuberance, inner third of superior curved line, ligamentum nucha?, the spinous I)rocesses of the last cervical and all the dorsal vertebrae, and the supra-spinous ligament; inserted into the posterior border of the outer third of the clavicle, inner border of acromion, and upi)cr lip of tlic spine of the scapula. Nerves.—The spinal accessory and deep branches of the cervical plexus. 16. Latissimus Dorsi. — Arises from the spinous processes of llic loAvcr six dorsal vcrlcbric, tlic i)o.stcrior layer of the lumbar