300 ylpplied A natomy: then to be partially closed, and every means taken, by additional stitches, to prevent the escape of ftecal matters into the cellular tissue. The opening thus made in the colon is close to its junction with the splenic flexure. It is recommended that the gut be brought well out into the wound, so as to form a good large "spur," Avhich will prevent the faeces, as far as possible, from passing down into the rectum to irritate the cancerous surface. On the right side, the steps of the operation are exactly alike. To avoid the inconvenience experienced by the accumula- tion of fajcal matters between the opening in the colon and the seat of the obstruction, Madelung cuts the bowel entirely across and stitches the upper end of the divided gut to the edges of the abdominal wound. He then empties the lower segment, washes it out, invaginates, and stitches up its divided end, and drops it into the wound and closes the skin incision over it. This lessens the irritation of the cancerous surface by the presence of fiecal matters, and probably also will lessen the tendency to prolapse of the mucous membrane of the gut. He originally proposed this method for cancer of the rectum and sigmoid flexure. In the transverse form, the incision (Fig. 179, 3) is made two finger's-breadth above and parallel with the middle third of the crest of the left ilium, making the middle of the incision over the colon. By this incision the structures divided are practically the same as those cut in the oblique form, and the gut is reached through the triangle of Petit. The vertical Incision (Fig. 179, 7) is the one used by Pro- fessor Chiene, and is made along the outer edge of the erector spina'., between the last rib and the iliac crest, and in this case the structures divided are —(1) The integumentary coverings; (2) the posterior layer of tlie fascia lumborum—and in doing so the compartment containing the erector spina3 is opened into, and this muscle is then drawn inwards; (3) the middle layer is next divided, and with its division the compartment containing the quadratus lumborum is opened, and this muscle in turn is drawn well inwards; (4) the anterior layer of the fascia lumborum; (5) the fascia transversalis; and (G) the loose areolar tissue and fat in which the gut is embedded. The gut may be recognised at the bottom of the wound by its greenish and distended appearance.