391 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. tho abdomen for a few months by a broad flat pad; in the child, tliis form of hernia never strangulates, and never canses death. Should it become strangulated in the adult, it is always at the lower part of the hernia, Avhere it is sharply bent over the fascial apertm-e from its own weight; as the contents are usually omentum and jejunum, the effects of strangulation are very serious, as it is so high up and so near the great solar plexus. Operations are not very successful or safe in this form of hernia, probably from the proximity to the great nervous plexuses, and the peritoneal sac, the adhesion of the bowel to the sac; and the fact that the bowels are apt to protrude during the operation, from the great intra- abdominal pressure, considerably embarrass the operator. It is only to be imdertaken when no other means can give relief. Formerly the patients often succumbed to septic peritonitis; now-a-days this risk is gi-eatly diminished. Hence, if reducible and a pad can keep it in, do not operate; and, even though irreducible, do not operate iinless there is pain and well-marked signs of strangulation. For the radical cure, the " neck " of the sac is tied, and the projecting part cut off; after this, the stump may be left to plug up the opening, as Mr Banks does; or the most resisting tendinous structures at the sides of the opening, as the fascia transversalis, may be freshened and stitched closely together, as after an ordinary laparotomy. When a hernia in this region consists of omentum, it may be necessary, just as in the femoral region, to distinguish it from a fatty tumour, and an outgrowth of the extra-peritoneal fat. In Lipoma, the mass is perfectly movable in the belly-wall; is not, and never has been reducible, and has no impulse on coughing. The extra-peritoneal fat is fixed on its deep aspect to the belly- wall, is not reducible, and has no impulse on coughing. Epiplocele is also fixed to the belly-wall, but is or has once been reducible, and has an expansile impulse on coughing. One must, in all cases of hernia, distinguish between a true impulse, which fills out and expands the tumour on all sides and indicates its communication with the abdominal cavity, and a mere thrust forwards—^just as in the case of a true aneurism and a tumour over an artery. In hernia of the csecum and bladder (Cystnceln), the sac is absent or only partial, as the normal peritoneal covering is only partial; for this reason these hernije are practically alM'ays irreducible.