441 Surgical, Alcdical, and Operative. relax. The first two operations may be used in cases of stricture, complicated Avitli uriuary abscess and extravasation, etc.—Syme'.s, wlien a staff can be introduced; and "Wiieelhouse's when no staff can be passed through the stricture. In both be careful to keep exactly in the middle line. Observe that neither Spence's nor Cock's operation can be used in cases of extravasation of urine, since in performing these operations it is imperative that the membranous urethra should be fully distended with urine. To Tie in a Catlieter.—1. A Silver Catheter.—The catheter must be tied to the pelvis. (1) Tie a single turn of broad bandage round the pelvis. (2) Then take two pieces of narrower bandage and pass them round the thigh at the groin, under the perineum, loop them round the waist band, and fasten them before and behind. (3) Through each eye of the catheter pass a jjiece of tape, and fasten them in the middle, so as to have two equal tails on each side. (4) Fasten these, one in front and one behind, to the jierineal loops, taking great care that they are all equally tigbt. (5) Plug the opening of the catheter. Take care that the catheter does not project into the bladder, lest, as the bladder is empty, the mucous coat be pressed against the instrument and ulcerate; the catheter should have a very short point, and the eye should just enter the bladder. There are many modifications of the above plan : thus, by splitting a bandage properly, the Avaist band and the perineal bands may be made of one piece; or the perineal bands may be passed through the rings of the catheter and then fastened to the waist band, the anterior end being tied to the waist band by a single knot leaving a free tail, while the other end is brought round the thigh and tied to this tail. 2. A Soft Catheter.—The soft catheter is to be fastened to the pcnix, and should be used in preference to the silver instrument. (1) ]^ncircle the point of the penis with a strip of boracic lint. (2) Tie a cord round the catheter a little beyond the end of the penis, and carry the two ends backwards, one on each side of the glans penis. (3) Cut a strip of adhesive plaster, about an inch and a half broad, and long enough to encircle the penis two or three times, and apply it lightly, but firmly, over the ends of the cords behind the glans, carrying the cords forwards after the first