Surgical, Medical, at id Operative. 107 licncc also the gravity of the syniptoiii wheii present. Another symptom present is profuse salivation, ■which exhausts the patient; this is reflex, the afferent nerves being the lingual or the glosso- pharyngeal, and the efferent the chorda tympaui and Jacobson's nerve, or the small superficial petrosal. The growth of the cancer irritates the lingual or the glosso-pharyngeal, and hence the profuse flow of saliva. Tlie cancer thus kills—(1) By the pain, that wears the patient out; and further, he is afraid to eat, and is thus starved; (2) the profuse salivation ; and (3) hemorrhage. The Arteries of the Tongue are on each side the ranine and the dorsalis lingute from the lingual, branches from the ascending pharyngeal, and tonsillar branch of the facial, towards the root of the orran. The Nerves consist of three sets in each half—(1) Motor, the Hijpo-glossal; (2) Common Sensation, the Lhujual for the anterior two thirds, the GJosso-pliaryngeal for the posterior third, and towards the root, the lingual filament of the Siiperior Lartjngeal; (3) Special Sense of Taste, the Chorda Tympani, for the anterior two thirds; and the Glosso-pliarij7igeal, for the posterior third. THE NOSE. Boundaries of tlie Fossas.—The roof is formed by («) the nasal bones, (h) the nasal spine of the frontal, (c) the cribriform plate of the ethmoid, and {d) the body of the sphenoid. The floor is formed by (a) the palate process of the superior maxillarj'^, and {h) the palate process of the palate bone. It is concave from before backwards, and the posterior part is on a slightly lower level than the anterior. The outer wall is formed by (a) the nasal process of the superior maxillary, (h) the lachrymal bone, (c) the ethmoid, with its two turbinate bones, {d) the vertical plate of the palate bone, (e) the internal pterygoid plate of the sphenoid, and (/) the inferior turbinate bone. This wall presents three passages or meatuses formed between the turbinate bones. The inner wall or septum is formed by («) the rostrum of the sphenoid, {h) the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid, {<•) the vomer, {d) the crest formed by the meeting of the two palate bones, (e) the crest formed by the meeting of the two superior maxilla), (/) the nasal spine of the frontal, (cf) the crest of the nasal bones, and {h) the triangular