84 Applied Anatomy: fourth ventrical, and is lined by a tliiu membrane covered by nucleated epithelium, partly ciliated—the ventricular ependyma. The cerebellum in such cases is either rudimentary or absent; when any part is present it is the fluccidm or mhpediincidar lohc, also called the j^n-cuiiiogastric lobule, from being situated behind the pneumogastric nerve. It is also sometimes found at the inner angle of the eye, a little to one or other side, and not exactly central; in this position it is very much more likely to be mistaken for a nsevus. It has also been seen in the nose and mistaken for polypus. It may even project through the basi-sphenoid into the pharynx. The diagnosis depends iipon the follovriug points:—(1) That they are congenital and at the seat of some membranous part of the foetal skull; (2) that they fluctuate, as they are liquid in nature; (.3) that they increase in volume when the child cries; (4) that they are partly or wholly reducible; and (5) that they partake of llic movements of the brain, pulsate, etc. Such swellings must be distinguished from— 1. Wens, Avhich are usually multiple and arc fixed to the .skin, but may be freely moved over the deeper structure.s, arc not re- ducible, may not fluctuate, and the bone is unaltered below. 2. Dermoid Cysts, which difl"er from wcn.s, in that they arc under the occipito-frontalis, and fixed to the deeper structures (per/cranium), and there is usually a depression in the bone around its base ; the skin can be freely moved over the dermoid cyst. It would be impossible to distinguish between a dermoid cyst and a meningocele, the pedicle of which had become occluded, without using a hypodermic syringe. 3. A Fatty Tumour lies in the subcutaneous tissue, is freely movable over the deeper structures, and is not fixed to the skin, except by fragile tags of fibrous tissue; there is also the possible lobulation, and the Avay in whicli the rounded edge slips from under the finger, whicli is quite characteristic. 4. A Subcutaneous Nsevus is reducible on gentle in-essure, without cerebral symptoms, and A\'hen reduced the bone can be felt entire beneath it. In cases where it is situated in the tissues over a fontanclle, it is much more difficult to be quite sure of one's diagnosis. In cases of grave doubt one must use a hyimdcrmic syringe, when, if