Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 357 In the single-headed Salmon & Ody ("opposite-sided truss"), in addition to the total circumference of the body, send also the distance between the spines of the vertebraj and the hernial orifice, tlie tape being carried round the o^jposite side of the pelvis. The patient should be told (1) that the truss must be ■worn constantly; (2) that it must always be adjusted while he is in the recumbent position; (3) that he should have a duplicate truss, in case of accident, or for repairs; and (4) that he should have a special bathing truss. In infants, one of the best and most effective of trusses for inguinal hernia is an ordinary skein of worsted, twenty-two inches long, and consisting of twenty threads. The end passing round the side opposite from the hernia is held at the seat of the hernia, while the other end is passed through the loop at this point, is then made to encircle the thigh, from before backwards, upwards, and outwards, and is then fastened to the Avaist part. To Test the Truss.—The patient should sit on the edge of a chair, with his legs widely apart, his body bent forwards, and then cough forcibly. 2. Wood's Operation for Inguinal Hernia (188.5).—Mr Wood thus describes the operation:—The instruments required are— (1) A tenotomy knife; (2) a semi-circular needle, mounted on a stout handle, flattened at the eye, with a sharp point and blunt shoulders, formed so as to slip along the front of the curved forefinger; with (.3) about a foot of tendon, or wire, as thick as stout twine. The patient is laid on his back Avitli his shoulders raised. The scrotum and pubes are shaved and cleaned with carbolic lotion, and all other ordinary antiseptic precautions are taken. The hernia being reduced, a small incision, about three- quarters of an inch long, is made with the tenotomy knife over the cord, and parallel with it, just below the pubic crest. This is carried down to tlie sac, any bleeding vessel being secured as it is cut. Tlie finger is then passed into the canal, as far as the internal ring, carrying the sac invaginated before it. At the inner side the conjoined tendon can be felt and the finger passed behind it. The needle is then carried along the finger until its point can be felt behind the conjoined tendon, through whicli it is pushed so as to project beneath the skin. The integuments are then drawn well