Applied Anatomy: 92 and inferior cervical ganglia of the sympathetic. Tlie various forms of enlargements to which this gland is subject, commonly go hy the name of— Bronchocele or Goitre. — Varieties — All forms begin as a simple hypertrophy of the gland substance, but during its progress one or other constituent increases out of proportion to the others. (1) Simple Broncliocelc, where all the j^ai'ts of the gland remain equally affected ; (2) Oijsfk Broncliocele, where the vesicles are principally affected; (3) Fibrous Bronchocele, the interlobular fibrous tissue undergoes great increase; (4) Pulsating Bronchocele, where the arteries are very much enlarged and pulsate; this variety, when associated with protrusion of the eyeballs (proptosis oeuli), is known as Exoyhtlialmic Goitre (Graves's or Basedow's disease). The above forms are associated with the usual signs of anosmia, as pallor, palpitation, bruits of debilitj^, both cardiac and vascular, dyspepsia, and menstrual troubles. There are, however, other two forms of enlargement—(«) From malignant disease or Alalignant Bronchocele, which always folloM's one or other of the chronic forms of bronchocele already mentioned; carcinoma occurs more frequently than sarcoma. (Z;) There is an AcMte Bronchocele which may cause death from asphyxia in a few days or weeks; it is usually found in adolescents. In this country goitre is most common in Derbyshire, and has, therefore, been called the " Derhijsh.ire nech." When goitre is associated with idiocy it constitutes the condition known as " Cretinism." Diagnosis.—The cystic and pidsating varieties mirst be diagnosed from carotid aneurism or other swellings of the neck ; the position, shape, and attachments will help, but the most characteristic diagnostic point is to ask the patient to swallow when the thjToid body will move with the larynx and trachea during that act. In pulsating bronchocele too, the isthmus is always affected more or less, and the swelling is, furtlier, more fixed towards the trachea or middle line, whereas a carotid aneurism is most firmly fixed under the sterno-mastoid. For the different varieties, diagnose on general principles : the fibrous form is most likely to give rise to pressure eU'ects—e.g., on the trachea and botli superior laryngeal nerves : if the bronchocele be one-sided, it is practically always the cystii' variety; the vascular form affects both sides more or less.