Applied Anatomy: 348 and the bowel afterwards reduced. This form, as a rule, is to be aovided, for the usual constricting cause is the thickened and contracted neck of the sac itself; and besides, the contents might be ravelled amongst each other, or the bowel gangrenous. It may be used in cases where the symptoms of strangulation are not very marked, and where the hernia has only been doAvn for say less than thirty hours. "Where the state of the bowel is doubtful, where there has been much vomiting, and where the parts are tender on pressure, the sac should be opened. {IS) The peritoneal method, where the sac is opened. This is the best method, and no bad results are likely to follow the opening of the sac, with the present improved methods of ojDcrating and treating wounds; and, further, the true condition of the hernia can be thus readily seen, and the contents examined. In the former method, a feeling of doubt and insecurity must always exist as to the condition of the hernia. The instruments required are—A sharp scalpel, a probe-pointed bistoury, dissecting forceps, directors straight and curved, Spence's hernia director (Fig. 188), a hernia knife (Fig. 189), catch forceps, retractors, scissors, ligatures and needles, silver wire, razor, sponges, chloroform, a half grain morphia suppository, antisej)tic dressings, etc. The patient's bladder is to be emptied, and the parts must be previously shaved and soaked with some antiseptic solution. He is laid on his back, with his shoulders somewhat raised, and the knee of the affected side slightly bent over a pillow; no more of his body should be uncovered than is absolutely necessary. The spray being turned on, an incision of suflicient length is made over the neck of the sac, obliquely downwards and inwards, the centre of the incision corresponding to the external abdominal ring. To make the incision, the skin is pinched up at right angles to the line of incision, at each side of the proposed site, between the fingers and thumbs of an assistant, or the Surgeon may take one side, and the assistant the other; the Surgeon then transfixes this fold, the back of tlie knife being towards the hernia, the knife being then made to cut its way out. When the parts recover their normal position, a linear incision is left, and the divided superficial external pudic seen and secured at once by a pair of forceps. The dissection is then carried carefully down through tlic various layers of tissue, all