243 Surgical, Illedical, and Operative. changes, -witli acute bed-sores, and trouble with the bowel and bladder—iiicoutinence of fjeces and retention of urine. The corresponding affections of the brain very closely resemble those of the cord: note the intense headache, the excited faculties, and the motor spasm in meningitis; the comparative absence of pain sluggish pupils, and soporose condition of the patient in cerebritis, analogous to myelitis of the cord. Tumours within the Vertebral Canal.—The general symptoms are due to slow compression, and its results. There is at first l>aresis, passing into complete paralysis of motion and sensation, below the seat of the lesion; the deep reflexes are exaggerated, and there may be some alteration in the functions of micturition and defecation. There is usually well-marked " girdle pain," cor- responding to the nerves given off at the upper limit of the lesion ; there is also localised pain in the back. If aneurism, spinal caries, sypliilis, and malignant disease can be excluded, the indication for treatment is to trephine the spine and remove the tumour; tlie lioint for trephining is the upper limit of the lesion as indicated })y the "girdle pain." The sensory phenomena are not, as a rule, so marked as the motor, except in cases of malignant disease, when the pain is very intense—"paraplegia dolorom." The symptoms are at first limited to one side of the body, but go on slowly increasing till both sides are involved; at first there is mere weakness of one side, but this advances to complete paraplegia. It maybe mistaken for neuralgia, or even hypochondriacal insanity, as the patient's mind almost gives way under the continued suffering. Tumours and Swellings of Spinal Canal.—(1) Inflammatory, as gummata, tubercular deposits, abscess from spinal caries, and fungous granulations from the same cause, becoming transformed into fibrous tissue afterwards, and gi-adually compressing the cord. (2) Simple Tumours, as psanunoma, myxoma, fibroma, exostosis, i-habdo-myoma, dermoid and hydatid cysts. The cord may also be compressed from lu'emorrhage. (.3) Malignant Tumours, usually sarcomata, beginning on or in the bones surroujiding the canal. ^V'■(; may also find secondary cancerous deposits. In tumours beginning in the cord itself, as glionui, the paralytic symptoms wuuld be better marked, and developed at an earlier date in the cuursc of the disease than in tumours outside the cord.