411 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. The stone liaviug been felt by tbe staff, the patient most then lie tirmly tied np in the usnal Hthotomy position, and during the manipulations necessary for this purpose, the staff must not be allowed to slip out of the bladder. He is tied up by making a clove hitch in the tape and passing it round the wrist with the knot in front, so that the arteries of the fore-arm are not pressed upon, after which the palm of the hand is laid against the under and outer surface of the patient's foot, and fastened there by the ends of the tape being passed in a figure-of-eight round the ankle, instep, and hand, and firmly tied. The patient is then moved downwards to the end of the table, so that his buttocks project slightly over its edge, and a sheet of Mackintosh placed under his buttocks, and at the upper end pushed between Ms skin and shirt. Each leg is firmly held by an assistant, who faces the operator, placing one hand on the inner side of the patient's knee, which is placed under his arm, while -ndth the other the foot is grasped and drawn backwards and outwards, the sole of the foot resting on the palm, and the fingers passing round its inner side. The staff assistant stands on the left side, behind the other assistant; the staff must be held very steadily, exactly in the middle line, and at right angles to the long axis of the patient's trunk, and hooked vertically upwards against the under surface of the pnbes, for reasons already stated. This steadies the staff; the surface of the staff nearest the operator rests against the palmar surface of the assistant's fingers, while the palmar surface of his thumb presses against the broad roughened part of the handle. It will further contribute to greater steadiness if the elboAv of that arm be allowed to rest lightly on the patient's thorax; this must not be done to such an extent as to impede the respiratory movements of the patient. The staff' must on no account be allowed to tilt either towards or from the abdomen. If it is tilted towards the abdomen, then its point leaves the bladder, and, of course, the knife cannot enter it; especially is this the case in children, and in old men with enlarged prostates. It should always be kept in contact with the stone, if possible. If it be tilted towards tlie perineum, it enters the bladder too far, and there is a risk of the knife entering the posterior wall, and dividing the prostate too extensively.