Applied Anatomy: 270 and behind the " apex beat," and it is easily understood, therefore, how an over-full stomach may interfere with the motions of the heart, and also cause dyspnoea, by forcing up the diaphragm and impeding the respiratory movements. The fundus is absent in newly-born children. Relations.—In front, we find the anterior abdominal wall, the diaphragm, and the under surface of the liver; behind, the crura of the diaphragm, the aorta, the pancreas, the splenic artery and vein, the superior mesenteric artery, the third part of the duodenum, the left kidney, the left supra-renal capsule, and the spleen, with the gastro-splenic omentum. JSTote the relation between the thii-d part of the duodenum and the posterior surface of the stomach. In Wolfler's operation, in cases of cancer of the pylorus too bad for excision, a fistulous communication is formed between the two viscera at this point. The operation is termed Gastro-Enterostomy. The upper end of the jejunum may also be attached to the stomach in preference to the third part of the duodenum. Above, we find the lesser omentum, with its contents, and the coeliac axis; below, the great omentum and the transverse colon. Peritoneal Connections. — («) The gastro - phrenic ligament, passing from the diaphragm to the angle between the oesophagus and the cardiac end; (h) the gastro-hepatic, or lesser omentum; (c) the gastro-colic or great omentum; and ((^) the gastro-splenic omentum. The Arteries of the stomach are—(1) The gastric or coronary, from the cceliac axis; (2) the f)yloric, from the hepatic; (3) the gastro-epiploica dextra, a division of the gastro-duodenalis; (4) the gastric (vasa hreviaJ, from the splenic; and (5) the gastro-epiploica sinistra, from the same source. The gastro-duodenal branch of the hejDatic divides into the gastro-epiploica dextra and the superior pancreatico-duodenal artery; the latter vessel, as the name imjjlies, supplies both the duodenum and the pancreas. In ulceration of the duodenum, occurring in connection Avith severe Burns, this artery may be perforated by the ulcer, resultmg in death from haemorrhage; the jperforation is most common from, the tenth to the fourteenth day of the burn, and is usually situated a little way from the pylorus. A Gastric Ulcer n\ay perforate one of the vessels of the stomach, and lead to sudden death from haemorrhage; it