14 Applied Anatomy: to tlic sixth clay, in order to avoid the risks of undue pressure. In extracting the tuhe, the child is placed in the same position as for its introduction; try, first gently without an anaesthetic, but should you fail, then an anassthetic should be given. The advantages of the operation are, its ease of performance (to the expert), the absence of shock and htemorrhage, and tlie fact that one can more readily gain the consent of the parents for the operation. The greatest difficulty, as well as danger, i.s tlie administration of food: the head of the tube interferes Avith the movement of the epiglottis, and the child is unable to swallow fluids without coughing, and, in consequence, suffers very much from thirst. The danger from pneumonia is very great, a.s solid and fluid food finds its M'ay into the trachea. This objection has, however, to a certain extent been overcome by the use of an artificial epiglottis, Avhereby it is possible for patients, if held in the supine position, with the head completely thi'own back over the nurse's knee, to take an abundance of food, both liquid and solid. The dangers of the operation are :—(1) The tube may be coughed up, and before skilled assistance arrives the child may die. (2) The tube may slip into the trachea. (3) The tube may be plugged with membrane, and asphyxiate the child. (4) The membrane may be pushed do\vn before the tube, and give rise to intense dyspnoea, or even asphyxia. (5) The great risk of the entry of food into the trachea, and subsequent pneumonia. The operation is recommended for—(1) Diphtheria; (2) croup; (3) oedema glottidis; and (4) in chronic stenosis of the larj-nx. THE LARYNX. The cartilages of the larynx are nine in number—three single and three paired. The single cartilages are—(1) The shield-like iltyroid, consisting of two lateral wings, and an angle in front, Avhich is very prominent at the upper part, this part being known as Adam's apple, or the ponmm Adami. (2) The signet-rhig-like cricoid, below the thyroid, the deepest part being behind; it is thicker and stronger than either the thyroid cartilage or the rings of the trachea, and for this reason it forms a very useful landmark in the neck. It is about on a level with the carotid tubercle of