511 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. and far from the meuopause, or when htemorrhage is great and frequent, or the patient actually crippled by the weight and pain of the tumour, and other operations, as Battet's operation or Lawson Tait's operation, are out of the question. For the proper performance of this operation, the cervix should not be the seat of fibroid growth, for then it will be very difficult to clamp the pedicle properly. The Chief Steps of the operation are:— 1. Make a sufficiently large abdominal incision, as in ovariotomy; the bladder must be watched for, as it is often raised up with the tumour. In order to assist the definition and separation of the bladder, it is advised that it should not be emptied before the operation, as it is in ovariotomy. 2. Draw out the uterus, and take care that no sessile growths are wrenched off while so doing, as the raw surface bleeds freely. Should such an accident happen, the assistant must keep a sponge pressed against the raw surface till the uterus is removed. Separate all adhesions very carefully, and then— 3. Attend to the pedicle. On account of the dangers from hasmorrhage and peritonitis, it is usually treated by the extra-peritoneal method, in all cases where a part of the uterus is cut away; for then, not only is the pedicle large, but there is great risk of septic infection from the vagina through the uterine canal. It may be secured either by using Ivoeberle's serre-noeud, or Keith's or Tait's clamp. In the former case, the stout wire is passed round the neck of the tumour, about the level of the os internum, and drawn tight. The pedicle is then transfixed by two stout pins, which lie outside the abdominal wound, one on each side, the points of the pins being specially guarded; the pins prevent the pedicle from slipping back into the abdomen. 4. The mass is next cut away above the wire, the intestines being protected by sponges, and blood prevented from passing into the abdomen as far as possible by the