Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 231 tlio atlas, and is inserted into tlic occii^ital bone. (3) Tlie rectus capitis lateralis; it arucs from the ujjper surface of the transverse process of the atlas, and is inserted into the jugular process of the occipital bone. (4) The rectus capitis anticus minor; it arises from the front of the lateral mass of tlie atlas, and is inserted into the occipital bone. 2. Between the Axis and the Occipital Bone.—The rectus capitis posticus major; this muscle arises from the spinous process of the axis, and is inserted into the occipital bone. 3. Between the Atlas and the Axis.—The inferior oblictue; this muscle arises from the spinous process of the axis, and is inserted into the transverse process of the atlas. It is this muscle that is cliiefly concerned in the rotatory movements of the head on the top of the spinal column. The nodding movements of the head take place at the joint between the atlas and occipital bone; the rotatory at the joint between the atlas and the axis. In a patient, therefore, with sujiposed disease of the cervical vertebrae, if he can nod and rotate his head freely, this at least excludes disease of the ujij^er two or three vertebrae,; and if flexion of the cervical portion of the spine be quite free it shows that the lower part of that region is not affected. THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN. The Natural Curves of the vertebral column arc four—two forwards and two backAvards, and are dependent on the shape of the inter-vertebral discs, and not on the bones themselves; the for- ward ones are in the neck and lumbar regions, the backward in the dorsal and sacral. Tliere is often also a slight lateral curve towards the right side, as the right hand is used more than the left. The length of the movable part of the spine is about twenty-eight inches, and of this seven inches, or one quarter, is taken up by the discs between the bodies; a person is taller in the morning, because the discs, being relieved from pressure, expand during the night from their elasticity. The size of the bodies, as a Avhole, increase down to the fifth lumbar; looking at it in segments, however, it is seen to consist of four pyramids; the bases of the upper two meet between the first dorsal and last cervical vertebra, Avhile the bases of the lower two meet between the fifth lumbar