277 Sicrgical, Medical, and Operative, the enlarged stomach, with succussion splashing, and the peculiar vomit—the contents being expelled in lanje quantity every two or three days, -with a barmy or frothy appearance, and yellowish matter floating on the top (= sarcina3 ventriculi). The cancerous mass is very apt to form adhesions to neighbouring organs— as the colon, liver, vena portse, and vena cava. The operative procedures adopted for this condition are three in number— (1) Pylorectomy (excision of the pylorus), (2) Gastro-Enterostomy, and (3) Jejunostomy, or Duodenostomy. (1) Pylorectomy (Billroth's operation).—Preliminary—All the usual precautions adopted when about to open into the peritoneum elsewhere. The patient must be carefully fed for some time before the operation, and the stomach washed out daily with some weak tepid antiseptic, such as Condy's fluid, to get rid of the torulai and sarcinffi ventriculi; it should be also well washed out about two hours before the operation. The patient is then chloroformed and some one of the following incisions adopted, according to the taste of the operator—(a) Parallel with the right costal margin, and two finger's-breadth from it; (h) a vertical incision, a little to the right of the linea alba; but the usual one is (c) transverse in direction, across the middle line, four or five inches in length, over the tumour or a little above the umbilicus. The structures composing the abdominal wall are then divided as far as the peritoneum, and all bleeding points carefully secured ; after this, open the peritoneum and expose the tumour, and define its extent and adhesions. Divide the adhesions between double ligatures, or two pairs of Wells's forceps; make sure of its relations to the portal vein and inferior vena cava. After this, separate the great omentum from the greater curvature of the stomach, securing tlie rirjld gasfro-ejnjyloic vessels, and at the same time remove all enlarged glands. In tlie same way, tear through tlie attachment of the lesser omentum to the pylorus and duodenum, securing the pi/loric arterij and removing eidarged glands; the heimtic artery, the portal vein, the gastro-duodenal, and tiie superior pancreatico-duodenal arteries, must be carefully pushed aside, as well as the bile duct. The anterior and posterior walls of the stomach, beyond the disease, are then divided with scissors for two-thirds of tlicir vertical extent, leaving the lower tliird in the