138 Applied Anatomy: inflamed, can readily abduct his arm, but in the latter he is unable either to abduct it actively or allow it to be abducted by the Surgeon. According to Dr Creighton there is a special series of sweat glands, more or less developed below the skin of the axilla, which corresponds to a conglobate form of gland found in one of the lowest mammalians; the glands have a basement membrane of non-striped muscular tissue, upon which the cells are seated. They lie between the skin and the axillary fascia, sometimes extending to the lateral and anterior part of the chest wall; they may be regarded as belated survivals, and are subject to all the risks, as regards malignant disease, of such survivals or rudiments. Somewhat similar glands are also found in the areola round the nipple. ]\Ialignant disease ma}'^ arise in these glands and have no connection, in the first instance, either with the breast or the axillary lymphatic glands; it is possible that the cases known as " alveolar sarcoma, or " duct cancer of the breast," may be malig- nant disease of these glands. So also the eczema of the nipple that often precedes malignant disease of the breast. When such growths ulcerate they resemble rodent ulcer (Sir Spencer Wells). 2. Abscess in the Axilla.—If pus forms in the axilla, it will be unable to make its way to the surface through the base of the space on account of the strong axillary fascia which is found in this region; it cannot pass back because of the serratus magnus and the fascia covering it, nor forwards because of the strong clavi- pectoral fascia and pectoral muscles, nor inwards because of the chest wall; it will therefore rather burrow up towards its apex, as there is least resistance in this direction, and point in the neck, or may sometimes open into the pleura and apex of lung or pass into the medastina. The necessity, therefore, of making an early and free incision for its evacuation is evident. Abscess between the pectoral muscles is shut out from the axilla by the costo- coracoid membrane and fascia enclosing the lesser pectoral, and wUl, therefore, tend to point at the anterior edge of the axilhi, where it should be opened by " Hilton's method." 3. The Relation of the Contents of the Axilla to its Walls.— In the outer wall are the large axillary vessels and nerves; in the anterior wall there is a large vessel—the long thoracic artery;