Applied Anntoiny: 308 the operation, lest it be cut into. When the outer surface of the peritoneum is exposed all bleeding vessels must be secured before it is opened; it should be opened like the sheath of an artery, and the opening enlarged with a probe-pointed bistoury, guided by the forefinger of the left hand; and after it is opened, care must be taken to prevent protrusion of the intestines. If the operation be performed for obstruction, the hand should first be swept under the umbilicus, to make sure of the absence, or otherwise, of Meckel's diverticulum, and then passed on at once to the crecum; for if this be foimd distended, the obstruction is in some part of the colon; while, if empty, it is in some part of the smaU intestine. At the completion of the operation the " peritoneal toilet" must be jjerformed with the greatest care and completeness. In closing the wound the deep sutures of carbolised silk must include the peritoneum, so that the divided sides of that membrane shall be brought into close contact and unite by the first intention, and so lessen the tendency to hernia afterwards. ENTEROTOMY. Nelaton's Operation for Intestinal Obstruction—Enterotomy. —The abdomen is opened in the iliac region, preference being given to the right side, by an incision the same as that used in Littre's operation — parallel with and a little above Poitpart's ligament, and external to the deep epigastric artery. The first distended coil of bowel that presents itself is then drawn into the wound; on the right side it is almost always the lower end of the ileum that presents. The operation is comjileted in one or two stages, according to the nature of the case; if possible it should be done in two stages, in the manner ah'eady explained under " gastrostomy." Mr Treves objects to 2'>i'i')nary enterotomy on the following grounds—(a) It is only a palliative measure at the best; (h) it is not foimded upon sound surgical principles; (c) it is carried out more or less independently of diagnosis; and {d) it is done in the dark, and leaves the cause of the disorder untouched. It may often, however, be performed with adA'autage as a secondary operation—e.g., after lumbar colotomy, where the colon is exposed below the obstruction; sometimes, after an exploratory laparotomy, it may be found that nothing else can be done. In favour of the