Applied Anatomy: 222 blocked point. AVlien these veins are examined, tliey are seen to be varicose, enlarged, and zig-zagged, and Avhen emptied by pressnre are seen to fill more rapidly from above downwards. AVhen the inferior vena cava is blocked, the reverse obtains: the superficial veins at the lower part of the belly wall are enlarged, varicose, and zig-zagged, and fill most rapidly from below upwards. Besides pressure on the veins, we also have pressure on the lungs or air- passages, pressure on the 03sophagus, or it may extend back to the spinal canal, causing compression paraplegia; the sympathetic may also be pressed upon. There will be dullness on percussion over the sternum, extending to each side; it is very often accompanied by pleurisy, and in such cases the fluid is usually bloody. Aneurism is the most common mediastinal swelling in the adult worlung'-'man; in women and children some of the other tumours are more common. EMPYEMA. An empyema is a collection of pus in one or other pleural cavity; in fact, it is an abscess, and must be treated like any other suppurating cavity. The diagnosis of such a condition is said to belong rather to Medicine than Surgery; but it is probably better in every case to place the diagnosis beyond doubt hu using a hypodermic syringe. Whenever the presence of pus is established it ought to be evacuated Avithout delay, for it is very dangerous to allow such an abscess to burst of its own accord; and even though it may not burst, the chances of its absorjDtion are so small, and the certainty of more pus being jn'oduced by the tension so caused, so very great, that the Surgeon ought to interfere. Further, by leaving it for a lengthened period in the cavity, the lung is pushed aside and hopelessly bound down, and the pus may burst into the air-passages or through the chest wall, or even escape through the diaphragm, and produce fatal peritonitis. It has been pointed out that an cmpyeuia usually tends to " point" towards the anterior aspect of the chest, under the cartilage of the fifth rib, or even as high as the second or third intercostal space. Just outside and below the junction of the fifth rib with its cartilage, is a part of the chest wall where the pleura is but slightly supported by superjacent muscles, and through this