484 Applied Anatomy: polypi are more common in childhood. In the child, too, a narrow meatus, phimosis, adhesions between the prepuce and the glans, and stone in the bladder, are also common causes of prolapse; as a rule the mucous membrane alone is prolapsed, forming a red limpet- shell-shaped mass with an opening at the apex. Sometimes, in the child, the whole thickness of the gut may be prolapsed, when a cylindrical, sausage-shaped florid mass is formed; the part prolapsed is the part just above the region of the sphincters, the very lower end being too firmly fixed to allow of prolapse. It is more apt to happen in the child, because the gut is straighter and its attach- ments looser than in the adult. The projecting mass may be stragulated by the sphincter, and become gangrenous. Stricture of the Rectum.—This may be (1) Simple, or it may be (2) Malignant. Simple. — May be caused by syphilitic, dysenteric, or other ulceration of the rectum, or after operations on the lower end of the gut. Simple fibrous is usually about the junction of the rectum with the sigmoid flexure. In syphilitic cases, the finger usually easily reaches the stricture. In tubercular ulceration, distinct induration is rare. Malignant. — Usually squamous - celled epithelioma, when it occurs at the verge of the anus, but columnar-celled when higher up. Observe, that if there be a healthy piece of bowel between the stricture and the anus, the stricture or ulceration is probably cancerous; but if the bowel between the anus and the stricture is not healthy, but scarred or seamed, the stricture or ulceration is probably syphilitic. Mr Bryant has pointed out, that when the stricture is quite low down, and easily within reach of the finger, the anus is often patulous; but when the stricture is high up, beyond the reach of the finger, the rectal wall is expanded or " ballooned." This, he states, is present in aU cases of chronic stricture. It is probably due to atrophy of the walls of the gut from disuse, and the retention of flatus. Symptoms of Stricture.—(1) Constipation, alternating with diarrhoea, persisting over a long period, in an elderly person, is always ominous. (2) Burning pain aud tenesmus, due to attempts to get rid of the foreign mass in the rectum. There arc also