488 Applied Anatomy t iliac artery, the gluteal, sciatic, and pudic branches of which have to pierce it, in order to escape from the pelvis; but the obturator arteiy does not pierce it, as it passes over the upper border of the parietal layer. The visceral part is given off from the parietal layer, on a line with the spine of the ischium and the back of the pubes, the point where the two diverge being known as the " white line." The most anterior part passes backwards to the itpper surface of the prostate gland, forming the " pubo-prostatic ligament," and then passes on to the bladder, as the anterior true ligament of that viscus. The latter part divides into three layers; the most superior forms the lateral true ligaments of the bladder, the middle passes between the base of the bladder and the rectum (the recto-vesical layer), while the most inferior—the rectal layer —passes under the second and third i)arts of the rectum, and ensheatlis the levator ani. The relation of that part of the parietal layer of pelvic fascia above the "white line" (the "undivided" pelvic fascia of some) to the visceral layer, has been compared to that of the wall-paper and carpet of a room; and it is this carpet Avhich must on no account be cut in the operation of lithotomy. (Fig. 228). Pelvic Peritoneum,—In the Male, it completely invests the first i^art of the rectum, also forming the meso-rectum to this part, or the mesentery by which it is connected to the upper part of the sacrum; it next invests the sides and anterior aspect of the second part of the rectum, leaving it about three inches above the anus, and passing on to the lower and posterior surface of the bladder. It then passes forwards upon the posterior surface of the bladder, until it reaches its summit; it now leaves the bladder altogether, enveloping the urachus and lining tlie anterior abdominal wall. At the sides it covers the bladder as far as the level of the obliterated hypogastric arteries. In the Female, between the rectum and the uterus, the peri- toneum forms a pouch called the "Pouch of Douglas." It also covers a small part of the upper end of the vagina, and the cervix, body, and fundus of the uterus, on their posterior aspect; at the sides it forms the broad ligaments of the uterus. In front it passes down to the level of the internal os of the uterus, and from that point is reiiected on to the posterior surface of the bladder; the