263 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. t. Left Lumbar. — Descending colon, part of omentum, part of left kiilney, and some convolutions of the small intestines. 5. Eight Inguinal (Iliac).—The csecum with its appendix. 6. Left Inguinal (Iliac).—Sigmoid flexure of colon. 7. Epigastric.—The pyloric end of the stomach, left lobe of the liver and lobulus SiDigelii, and body of pancreas C?) 8. Umbilical.—Transverse colon, part of the great omentum and mesentery, transverse part of duodenum, body of pancreas, and some convolutions of the small intestine (jejunum and ileum). 9. Hypogastric.—Convolutions of the small intestines, bladder in the child, and in adults if distended, the pregnant uterus after the fourth month. It sliould be noted that the kidneys are much nearer the middle line than generally supposed and extend weU into the umbilical region. Rectus Muscle.—This is a broad, flat muscle which stretches between the chest and the piibes on each side of the linea alba. It arises by two heads, the larger from the crest of the pubes, the other from the ligaments in front of the symphysis pubis. It is inserted into the anterior surface of the fifth, sixth, and seventh ribs. Lineae Transversse.—These are irregular tendinous intersec- tions which divide up the rectus into several segments. They are usually three in number, and are situated—one at the level of the umbilicus, a second opposite the ensiform cartilage, and a third midway between these two; a fourth is sometimes found midway between the umbilicus and the symphysis pubis (Fig. 176, a). These intersections are closely adherent to and blend with the anterior part of the sheath, but have no attachment behind. Many cases of so-called Phantom Tumours are due to partial contraction of the recti, a particular segment of the muscle being in a state of long-continued tonic spasm, and forming a rounded mass under the hand. To diagnose, divert the i)atient's attention during examination, or change her position, but the crucial test is chloro- form ; when the patient is under chloroform the tumour completely disappears.