122 Applied Anatomy: division of the fifth in iho, inflamed area, or of the optic nerve, bj' the light. Paralysis of this nerve may he caused by parotitis, rapidly growing tumours and abscesses of the parotid, or of the cervical glands, herpes zoster, wounds of the cheek, operative or otherwise, forceps in child birth; it may also be caused quite suddenly by exposure to cold ("Bell's paralysis") rheumatic inflammation of the nerve or its sheath, disease of the middle ear, and periostitis from various causes. It may be paralysed at its root by a blood clot in the pons; it is also usually affected in hemiplegia. Syphilitic and other tumours may also affect its origin, and it is one of the nerves involved in " Bulbar paralysis." Occasionally it may be the earliest symptom of tubercular meningitis (Eagge). It may be paralysed— 1. At OP after its Exit from the Stylo-Mastoid Foramen.— This is, properly speaking, " Bell's paralysis." The signs are— («) The wrinkles disappear from the brow, giving it a smoother appearance than the other side. (Z^) The eyelids cannot be closed (larjojplitliahnos or Hare's eye). {c) The lower lid falls down, and the punctum is drawn away from the globe; hence, the tears run over the cheek, {d) The nostrils cannot be dilated, (e) The mouth and face are drawn, towards the sound side. (/) The buccinator is paralysed, and the food passes between the teeth and the cheek; further, the cheek is flabby and falls in and may be caught by the teeth, (r/) The patient cannot Avhistle or laugh properly, and the angle of the mouth is depressed and drawn to the sound side, {h) The posterior belly of the digastric and stylo- hyoid muscles are paralysed. 2. It may be paralysed in the Petrous Bone, as in disease of the middle ear, fracture of the base, etc. A case is mentioned by Mr Hutchinson, where paralysis of this nerve was caused by a blow from a cricket ball on the chin, probably from fracture of the petrous bone. In this case the signs will vary with the height at which the nerve is affected; they will be given here, from below upwards. In addition to the previous symptoms, Ave will there- fore have—(a) Loss of taste in the anterior two thirds of the tongue, because the chorda tympani is paralysed. Tlie food tastes salt, or a sour or metallic taste may be felt, and the person is