Surg^ical, Medical, and Operative. 147 Synovial Membranes of the Wrist.—These avefwe in number —(1) The niembvaua aacciformis, which lines the lower end of the uhia, the sigmoid cavity of tlic radius, and the upper surface of tlio triangular fibro-cartilage. (2) The second lines the wrist joint proper—i.e., the end of the radius and the triangular fibro-cartilage above, and the scaphoid, semi-lunar, and cuneiform bones below. (.3) The third is the most extensive; it covers the contiguous surfaces of the two rows of carpal bones, and, passing between the bones of the second row, lines the carpal ends of the four inner metacarpal bones. (4) The fourth lies between the trapezium and metacarpal bone of the thumb. (5) Tlie fifth is between the pisiform and the cuneiform bones. We see, tlierefore, that one synovial membrane (the third) does for all the carpal bones except tlie pisiform, and also for all the metacarpal bones except the first (tliat of the thumb). The Muscuio-Spiral Nerve.—This nerve arises from tlie posterior cord of the brachial plexus, lying at first behind the third part of tlie axillary and upper part of tlie brachial artery, passing in front of the tendons of the latissimus dorsi and teres major; it then winds round the humerus in the musculo-spiral groove with the superior profunda artery, passing from the inner to the outer side of the bone, between the internal and external heads of the triceps. It pierces the external inter-muscular septum, and descends betAveen the brachialis anticus and the supinator longus to the front of the external condyle, where it divides into posterior interosseous and radial nerves. The Muscles supplied by this nerve are—(1) TJie triceps—the twig to the inner head is a long, slender filament, which lies close to the ulnar nerve as far as the lower third of the arm; (2) the anconeus—a long, slender filament wliicli tunnels the substance of the triceps to reach the anconeus; (3) a brancli to tlie brachialis anticus; (4) the supinator longus; and (5) the extensor carpi radialis longior. To Expose this Nerve, for tlie purposes of stretching, the edge of the supinator longus is used as the guide, and the nerve reached as it lies between that muscle and the bracliialis anticus. We simply cut through the skin, superficial fascia, and fatty tissue; define the edge of the supinator longus, cut through the deep fascia, and find the nerve lying on the brachialis anticus.