Surgical, Medical, and Operative. In'acliitilis, short licad of l)iceps, aud head and uuck ol' liuincius. ((/) The Contents:— 1. The axiUary artery and its branches. 2. The axillary vein and its tributaries. 3. The brachial plexus of nerves and its infra-clavicular branches. 4. Lymphatic glands, fat, and areolar tissue. 5. Lateral cutaneous branches of the upper three or four intercostal nerves. G. x^erve of Bell. 1. Glands of the Axilla.—The lympliatic glands of the axilla are arranged in three sets—(1) One group lies along the sub- scapular artery in the jjosterior fold of the axilla. (2) Another group accompanies the long thoracic artery in the anterior fold of the axilla. One or more of the glands of this set ■vvill often be found, and should always be looked for, between the two pectorals. (3) A third set is jilaced along the axillary artery, extending up into the neck beneath the clavicle to join the cervical glands. The posterior group receives lymphatics from the side of the chest and back; the anterior group, from the front of the chest and mamma; while those placed along the axillary vessels receive the lymphatics from the fore-arm and hand, and upper limb generally. A knoAvledge of these facts is of practical value, because disease in the parts from Avhich the lymphatic vessels come wiU point to the group of glands likely to be affected; thus, in disease of the mamma {cjj., cancer) the anterior group will be enlarged, and in a poisoned wound of the hand the group along the axillary artery -will be affected, and so on. The rest of the lymphatic glands of the upper extremity are few and small, but there are usually one or two a little above the internal condyle, near the basilic vein, which are enlarged in syphilis and septic wounds of the fingers and hand. A few glands are also placed immediately beneath the clavicle, forming a connecting link between the cervical and the axillary glands. Mr Bell used to teach us that, clinically, the glands about the axilla should be classified into those (a) above the deep fascia, and (l>) those below it. In tlie former case the patient, ■when the glands are