Applied Anatomy: 402 Do not cathetei'ise, but tap the bladder above the pubes with the fine needle of the aspirator, and repeat the procedure every eight or twelve hours for at least ten days. The Anterior Space in the Female.—In the female there is situated in this space the orifice of the vagina, and the parts connected with it—the true perineum in the female being that part between the posterior commissure of the labia and the orifice of the anus, and is from an inch to an inch and a half in length. A work of this kind is not quite the place to take up the subject of development; still, a few words on it will not be amiss, in order to trace out the homologous parts in the two sexes. Up to the seventh or eighth week of foetal life, in both sexes, the genital, urinary, and intestinal tubes open into a common opening, or cloaca, a condition Avhich is permanent in reptiles and birds. About this time a transverse partition forms, dividing this cloacal aperture into an anal or posterior division, and an anterior division, called the uro-genital sinus. From the part of this sinus lying above the opening of the Wolffian duct in the male, and the MUllerian duct in the female, the prostatic portion of the male urethra, and the ivlwh of the female urethra, is developed; the part below this, forms the vestibule in the female, and the mem- branous part of the urethra in the male. The uro-genital sinus is, however, further sub-divided by a fold forming in the antero- posterior direction, called the genital eminence, and which ultimately forms the penis in the male and the clitoris in the female. The under surface of this body is cleft, and is further bounded by tM'o folds, which in the male grow down and close in the furrow, forming the corjius spongiosum of the penis; but in the female they remain open, and, diverging from each other, form the ]iympha3 or labia minora. At the sides of the sinus other integu- mentary folds arise, which in the male join to form the scrotum ; but in the female they remain open, and form the labia niajora. In the male, the small prostatic pouch or sinus pomlaris, seen in the prostatic portion of the urethra, is the homologue of the vagina and uterus in the female. This space further differs from the corresponding space in the male—(1) Because the superficial fascia, owing to the position of tlie vulva, is divided in the middle line, and becomes continuoiis with the sheath of the vagina;