212 Applied Anatomy: bronchus is nearly plugged; {d) it may be entirely absent wliere the air cannot reach the vesicles, as in pneumonia; and (e) it iiTay be combined with prolonged expiration, in cases where the lung tissue has lost its elasticity—e.,7., commencing phthsis. 2. The Bronchial Type.—This is a soft, blowing, to-and-fro sound, and can be heard in perfection on listening over the trachea; it can also be heard behind in the inter-scapular region, and at the bifurcation of the trachea, opposite the fourth dorsal vertebra. It cannot be lieard in health over the chest generally, as the vesicular murmur entirely overpowers it, and thus prevents it reaching the ear. Like the other, it consists of two parts, an inspiratory and ari exjnratory, hut tuitli a distinct pause bettoeen, and the expiratory part is as long as, or even longer than, the inspiratory. In Disease, when the vesicles are consolidated, and therefore the vesicular murmur absent, as in phthisis, or more characteris- tically in croupous or lobar pneumonia, bronchial breathing is heard, where, in health, only the vesicular could be distinguished, e.g., at the apex in phthisis, and over the base posteriorly in lobar pneumonia; and, just as in organ pipes, the sound will be high pitched (tuhidar), medium, or low pitched (cavernous), according as we listen over a small, medium-sized, or large bronchus. As the sur- face of the lung is more especially affected in pneumonia, the tubes we listen over are chiefly small in size, and therefore we usually hear the high-pitched or tuhidar variety. Not only may the normal lung sounds be altered in character or heard where they should not be heard, but we may also hear superadded or adventitious sounds, and these may be outside or inside the lung; the extra- pulmonary sounds are friction sounds, the result of pleurisy, and are distinguished from endo-pulmonary sounds in the same way that exo-cardial are distinguished from endo-cardial sounds (see vol. ii., page 205); further, friction is usually best heard in the a.xiUary Tegion. The intra-pulmonary sounds are either moist or dry: the moist rales are caused by undue moisture of the walls of the vesicles, or by fluid in their interior. Those from moisture are exceedingly fine, and are known as fine crepitations; the Avails of the vesicles come together and then stick to each other, from the capillary attraction of the fine layer of fluid on their surfaces, as the vesicle is being emptied of air, and they are forcibly separated