Surgical, Medical, and Operative. ^r.^ femoral vein, ubuut an iiiuh aud a lialf below PourAirr's ligament. TJelow the knee it is accomiiauiod by the internal saphenous nerve, and a good deal of the pain and discomfort felt in varix of this vein is believed to be due to pressure on this nerve. Varix is due to a want of balance between the internal and external pressure, aud takes place more especially in cases Avhere tlie backward pressure is increased, and the power of resistance lessened from any cause. Treatment.—Always treat them, in the first instance, as a Physician, not as a Surgeon, by removing all causes of backward pressure, as loaded bowels; and give external support by elastic Avebbing, put on hefovc the iMticnt (jets out of lied in the morning—i.e., Avhile his legs are still in the horizontal position. Operative Measures.—(1) By Open Incisions, and through this cut out a part of the vein; this may be done in cases Avhere a single vein only is involved, but Avith strict antiseptic precautions. (2) By Subcutaneous Methods—{a) Multiple Suh- i-utaneous Ligature (Duncan), Avith prepared catgut or carbolised silk ; this can only be done in cases Avhere the vein is mobile and the tissues soft; {b) Injection of Coagulants, Avhere the tissues are hard and brawny, and the vein fixed and sunk as in a mould uf plaster of Paris. Many inject ferric chloride or carbolic acid, or use electrolysis; in the treatment by injection or electrolysis, nlwaij!^ cat off the vein, by a bandage, from the general circulation for at least half-an-iiour. Varicose veins occasionally " burst." 'When this happens, the patient Avill soon bleed to death unless prompt measures are adopted. In tliis case the blood iloM's chiefly from the cardiac side, not from the arterial side ; this is because the valves above the rupture arc all incompetent, so that the blood gushes doAvn directly from the abdominal veins. The first thing to be done is to place a finger on the bleeding point aud then make the patient lie doAvn flat on his back, and after that elevate the leg; for if the leg be elevated ever so little above the patient's body, the bleeding stops at once, as blood cannot run up-hill. To stop it permanently, WG may then apply a pad of dry lint or avooI Avith a bandage; or, if in tlie country and nothing else at hand, roll a piece of fiat slate-stone, or a penny, into a handkerchief, and bind it firmly over the ruijtured spot.