161 Snrgi'ca/, Medical, and Operative. tlio ([lunlniLus fcmoiis, wliicL. also supplies tlic gemellus inferior; (10) the gemellus superior muscle; (11) tendon of the obturator intcrnus; (12) gemellus inferior; (13) tendon of the obturator externus; (11) c^uadratus femoris; (15) termination of the internal circumllex: artery; (16) part of adductor magnus; (17) the first perforating artery; (18) great trochanter, with part origin of the vastus externus; (19) the tuber ischii Avith the origin of the ham- strings—biceps, semi-membranosus, and semi-tendinosus; (20) great sacro-sciatic ligament, pierced by the coccygeal branch of the sciatic artery; (21) three burste—(«) one over the trochanter major, (6) one over the vastus externus, and (c) another over the tuberosity of the ischium. When this last one is enlarged, as by excessive [)ressure, it gives rise to the condition known as " weaver's, OP lighterman's bottom," corresponding to the "miner''s elhoio" and the ^' houxeinaitV^ knee" of other situations. The bursa over the trochanter major may be enlarged in the case of soldiers on the march, convicts and others who are condemned to the use of the "plank bed;" it might be called the "coercion bursa." The lower edge of this large muscle forms tlic " fold of the buttock," but the " fold" and the lower edge of the muscle do not corre- spond in direction, the "fold" being nearly transverse, while the lower edge of the muscle passes upwards and inwards toAvards tlie coccyx. The Great Sciatic Nerve.—This nerve is the continuation of the lower part of the sacral ])lexus, and leaves the pelvis Ijy the great sacro-sciatic foramen, below the pyriformis muscle, and a little external to the sciatic aiiery. Tlic nerve will, therefore, be found beneath a point a little external to the \mnt that indi- cates the situation of the sciatic artery on the surface of the body (see vol. i., page 141). Its course is indicated by a line drawn from the point where it emerges from the pelvis to the middle of the upper part of the popliteal space. The nerve, however, is not straight, but is curved with the convexity outwards, and at its upper part is found almost midway between the great trochanter and the tuber ischii, but a little nearer the ischium. The nerve is covered by the gluteus maximus and the long liead of the biceps, and .slightly by the pyriformis, and it lies upon all the muscles found l)encath the gluteus maximus, beluw the pyriformis—viz., tendon * L