Applied Anatomy: ■\voiuided, and care should be taken not to ligature one or both ureters. (2) The second point he insists upon is the substitution of forcipressure for the ligature; they must be left on for twenty- four, thirty-six, or even forty-eight hours, until all danger of bleeding has ceased. Such a plan is simjjler than ligature, more secure, takes much less time, and saves much trouble and suffering to the patient after the operation. C^SARIAN SECTION. This operation consists in making an incision through the abdominal and uterine walls for the extraction of a living child. Indications.—When the conjugate at the brim is two inches or less, with a transverse of only three inches, as sometimes seen in cases of rickets or malacosteon; also in cases where ovarian tumours are associated with pelvic deformities. It is also indicated in cases of cancer of the cervix, because dilatation is but slowly and dangerously effected, from the risk of lacerations, hemorrhage, and blood poisoning. In some cases this operation is performed where the life of the child is of more value than the life of the mother. It may even be practised on the dead woman, from five to twenty minutes after the last breath, after the seventh month oJ' pregnancy, with a chance of saving the child. Best Time to Perform.—After labour has begun, in cases requiring tliis operation, the sooner it is performed the better. The best time is that which immediately precedes the rupture of the membranes, /.e., after labour has begun, but before tlie close of the first stage. Should labour be anticipated, it will be necessary to start uterine action before beginning the operation, in order to make the uterus contract afterwards and prevent "flooding." Operation.—The rectum and bladder must be emptied before beginning the operation. An assistant must fix the uterus with liis two hands applied to the sides of the abdomen. Tlie Surgeon tlien makes an incision, at least five to seven inches long, in tlic linea allja between the umbilicus and the pubes. The various tissues are cut through, and the bleeding points secured as in ovariotomy. INIake a small opening in tlie peritoneum, introduce a couple of lingers of the left hand, on the palmar aspect of Avhich