Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 25 it is elsewhere. (-4) A sj^ccial form, met with in drunkards, is due probably to cirrhosis of tlie gullet (Duncan). The above forms of obstruction must be carefully distinguished from that produced by neighbouring parts, as retro-pharyngeal or retro-03sophageal abscess, aortic aneurism, enlarged mediastinal glands, or malignant disease of the bodies of the vertebras; the most common by far is an aortic aneurism pressing upon the trachea, and this therefore must always be first looked for and excluded before attempting to pass bougies. To pass the Bougie.—Put the left index finger to the back of the tongue, so that it touches the epiglottis, and pass the point of the bougie beyond this till it touches the posterior wall of the pharynx, with an inclination downwards; now remove the finger, ask the patient to swallow, and gently push it down; always be cool and gentle, and should it stick, remove it and try again. The head should not be thrown too much backwards, but should be put into the position one naturally takes up while vomiting. Treatment of Malignant Stricture of the (Esophagus.— (1) Keeping the patient alive as long as possible by feeding, but without using any other means; the patient is fed with soft food or pap, as long as possible by the mouth, and Avhen this is im- possible, by the rectum—being slowly starved to death. (2) The occasional passage of a bougie; but this, although it may assist swallowing, irritates the growth and makes it grow faster, and thus shortens life. (3) Insertion of a hollow metal tube through the stricture; this is open to tlie same objections as the bougie, and is even worse, for the tube may drop into the stomach, and necessitate gastrotomy for its removal. (4) Gastrostomy, which is probably the best operation iii most cases, if done sufficiently early. The Lymphatics of the lower two thirds of the oesophagus end in the posterior mediastinal glands; those of the upper part, in tlie deep cervical, lying along the carotid sheath. These regions must therefore be examined in cases of sujiposed malignant disease. The principal operations performed on tlie cesophagus are— 1. CEsophagotomy, opening tlic oesophagus for the purpose of removing a foreign body—a temporary opening. 2. OEsophagOStomy, opening the ftsophagus in order to make a mouth there to feed the patient—a permanent opening. Tlie position of the patient is the saroe as for ligatui'c of the common carotid.