Applied Anatomy: 1G4 internal popliteal iicvvcs, which supply the wliolc of the muscles lJelo^v the kuce. In paralysis of this nerve, therefore, the patient would be tinahle to flex the knee, and there would also be some weakness of the adductor magnus; it is evident, however, that the trunk of this nerve could not be paralysed -without also paralysing,' the internal and external popliteal nerves, witli their branches. The Anterior Crural Nerve.—This is the largest branch of the lumbar plexus, and arises from the third and fourth lumbar nerves, with a fasciculus from the second. While yet inside the Abdomen it supi^lics the U'lacuts muscle, and gives a twig to the femoral artery. In the Leg, it supplies—(1) The sartorius, usually from the middle or internal cutaneous branches; (2) the pecUneus—this muscle usually receives two branches, wliich reach it by passing behind the femoral vessels; (3) the rectm femoris; (4) the two vasti — the nerves to the vasti also supply the knee joint; and (5) the crureus. When this nerve is paralysed the patient will be unable to flex the hip properly, as the iliac us is paralysed, though the psoas is not; he will be unable to extend the knee joint; the sartorius will be paralysed, and the pectineus ])artially. The Obturator Nerve.—This nerve is a branch of the lumbar plexus, and arises from the third and fourth lumbar nerves. It supplies—(1) Two joints, the hip and knee; (2) four muscles coniijletely, the adductors longus and brevis, the gracilis, and the obturator extcrnus; and (3) two muscles partially, tlic pectineus and the adductor niagnus. Should this nerve be paralysed, the patient would be unable to press the knees together or cross the paralysed leg over the other one. The left obturator lies beneath the sigmoid flexure; consequently, when this part of the gut is distended with fiuces, or the seat of malignant disease, the nerve may bo irritated, causing a " pain in the knee," just as in hip joint disease. Both nerves lie in front of the sacro-iliac synchondrosis, and arc often early afi"ected in disease of that articulation. HIP JOINT DISEASE. It is a fact worthy of notice in connection with tlie conduction of nervous impulses in sensory nerves, that when a stimulus is applied to any part in the course of a sensory nerve—as to tlie nerve trunk, or to sensory filaments supplying parts nearer the