Applied Anatomy: 28G covering the quadratus lumborum muscle, the right kidney, and the second part of the duodenum. The Transverse Colon begins in the right hypochondrium, passes dowanvards into the upper part of the umbilical region, and then ascends into the left hypochond- rium; the central part is almost transverse, and crosses the abdomen, so that its lower edge (the convexity of the arch) is a little above the level of the umbilicus (see Fig. 175). Sometimes it is found as low as the umbilicus, or even lower. It is comi^letely covered by peritoneum, and has a wide meso-colon. On the right side it is continuous with the hepatic, and on the left with the splenic flexure. The splenic flexure is a little higher than the hepatic, and is fixed to the diaphragm opposite the tenth and eleventh ribs by a fold of peritoneum — tlie pjltrenico-colic or costo-colic ligament. The Descending Colon lies in the left lumbar region and is attached by loose areolar tissue to the outer border of the left kidney, and then to the fascia covering the quadratus lum- borum—at first lying to the outer edge of that muscle, but as it passes downwards it inclines inwards, and lies more to the front of the muscle. It is only covered at the front and at the sides by peritoneum. The Sigmoid Flexure lies in the left iliac fossa, and is continuous above with the descending colon, and at the left sacro-iliac articulation becomes continuous witli the rectum. Special Clinical Points.—(1) The Vermiform Appendix.— This structure is about four inches in length, situated at the mnor, lower, and back part of the csecum, and usually points towards tlie spleen; its diameter is rather greater than that of a goose quill. It is said that foreign bodies such as cherry-stones, fish-bones, etc., are apt to lodge here and set up infiammation; it may also inflame from constitutional causes, as struma. The inflammation thus caused may go on to stipimration, causing perityphlitic abscess; it may also set up septic peritonitis, or the aj^pendix may become adherent to the neighbouring peritoneum, forming a band or arch beneath which a loop of gut may be strangulated, or over whidi it may kink. (2) The Ileo-Csecal Valve normally 2)revents regur- gitation of the contents of the large gut into the small, but allows the contents of the small to pass into the large. In typhoid fever there is gurgling on pressure in the right iliac fossa, probably from incompetence of this valve. I merely mention this fact in order