83 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. f'ollowiug points:—(1) Is '\i fixed to the bond (2) Is there an opening in the bone % (3) Is it reducible, wholly or in part % (4) Does it pulsate % (5) Are there any cerebral complications on gentle pressure, or otherwise, such as convulsions or paralysis'? (6) Does its tension and size increase when the child cries, or during strong expiratory efforts. The most important malformations of the brain visible externally are— 1. Meningocele, where the protrusion consists of a part of the membranes filled with cerebro-spinal lluid. It is, as a rule, of small size, globular, pedunculated or sessile, fluctuating, and translucent; its tension is increased by strong expiration, and it may be entirely reduced. It is often associated with hydrocephalus. 2. Encephalocele, where the protrusion consists of brain as well as membranes. It does not fluctuate, and is opaque, but pulsates along with the rest of the brain, and may be partly reducible. 3. Hydrencephalocele, where the protruded brain is distended by an accumulation of fluid within the ventricles; it is very often large, fluctuates, and may sometimes pulsate. These malformations are believed to be due to intra-uterine hydrocephalus, and not merely to want of development of the bones of the skull. The tumours are soft, rounded, bluish in colour, and covered by thin skin, increase in size Avhen the child cries, and have been mistaken for ntevi. Several interesting cases are recorded by Mr Hutchinson, in his " Illustrations of Clinical Surgery." They are usually found in the middle line, and most frcf[uently at the back of the head, through an o^iening in the occipital bone, at the junction of the four centres from Avhich the supra - occii)ital portion is developed; the lower extremities are often ill - developed, and talipes calcaneus is sometimes present. It is also seen at the root of the nose, between the two halves of the frontal bone, from defective ossification of the frontal, nasal, and ethmoid bones: at the anterior and posterior fontanelles, and occasionally at the sides of the skull. When at the anterior part of the skull, they always communicate with the lateral ventricles; those at the sides with tlie third or lateral, and tliose in the occipital region with the fourth. In tlie occipital region—tlic usual situation—the cavity in the tumour is but a part of the