Applied Anatomy: 414 the finger is withdrawn. Sir Henry Thomson directs that they should be passed along the palmar aspect of the finger, till they are fairly in the bladder. The blades are then opened, and the stone is usually caught, being carried between the blades by the first gush of urine. The method adopted by Mr Chiene is extremely simple and effective:—The forceps being introduced, open the blades widely in the horizontal direction, turn them one-quarter of a circle, so that the handles now lie in the vertical direction, then close the forceps by lifting the lower handle, as this corresponds to the upper blade; by this means, if there be a stone present, it will be caught. The lower blade must not be moved. If the stone be faceted, there will almost certainly be others present. Lastly, the searcher must be used to explore the whole cavity, and make sure that they are all removed. Small ones may be removed by the scoop, being grasped between the blade of the scoojD and the point of the operator's finger. All bleeding arteries are then secured, the venous hasmorrhage usually soon stops of itself, but if not, the wound must be plugged. The wound is then washed out, the rigid gum-elastic tube tied in, the patient loosened and carried to bed. He is placed on a firm mattress, guarded by waterproof cloth, with the body so inclined as to favour the flow of urine from the wound; a warm draw-sheet is jilaced Ijeneath his buttocks, which are to be smeared with vaseline, to prevent excoriation. Each knee, slightly flexed and abducted, should lie on a pillow. A special attendant must watch the wound and the discharges, and see that the tube does not become blocked up by blood clots. A dose of opium may be given if necessary. When the patient makes plenty of urine, this is always to be regarded as a very good sign. The diet should at first be non- stimulating, consisting chiefly of milk, with plenty of barley-water to drink. The urine passes, in the first instance, entirely through the Avound, but after the first day it may pass several times by the urethra, because the inflammatory swelling closes up the hole in the prostate. After forty-eight hours it again passes entirely through the wound; about this time in the adult, and sooner in the child, the rigid tube is to be removed, as the sides of the wound will be glazed, so that there is no danger of urinary in- filtration, and besides, if left longer, it is likely to become coated