Siirgiol/, Medical, and Of^crntivc. 175 tho thigh, tiloug tlic shoath of the great sciatic ucrvc, or along tlic vessels through the opening in the adductor magmis; it may also ulcerate into the popliteal vessels or open into the joint; it may also pass down the leg, along the course of the great vessels and nerves. The popliteal space is the second most common seat of Aneurism, and the internal popliteal nerve being pressed upon, gives rise to " rheumatic painsthe aneurism may open into the knee joint. The Trigone of tlie Femur is very frequently the seat of " acute necrosis;" the process of separation in tliis case is cccecdiiujlij prolonged, as we are apt to have caries, necrosis, hypertrophic ostitis and periostitis and sclerosis all together; it may go on for ten or twelve years, and art can do little, as there is very rarely a distinct necrosis to remove. The ulcerative process occasionally opens into the popliteal artery. In opening abscesses in the popliteal S2)ace, as in "acute necrosis," the incision is made on the outer side, to avoid the popliteal artery, and parallel witli the anterior border of the biceps, so as to avoid the synovial pouch and yet open into the space. In the young, the periosteum, except at the points where muscles are inserted, is but very loosely attached to the bone. It is probably for this reason, together witli the fact that the posterior ligament of the knee joint is firmly attached to the lower end of the femur, that trigone-necrosis is so frequent; any hyper-extension of the knee joint, as when a person falls forwards, puts a great and sudden strain on the l)Ostcrior ligament, and this is apt to tear away the 2>criosteum, to a greater or less extent, from tlie trigone. Synovial Cysts (Baker) are common in the popliteal space, and they may or may not communicate with tlic cavity of tlic joint, and for this reason they must not bo interfered -with rashly, and always Avith strict antiseptic precautions; such cysts often occur in cases of osteo-arthritis, Cuarcot's disease, and ordinary rheumatic affections, and may sinudate an aneurism, as they may lie over the popliteal artery, and be alfected liy its pulsations. Tlie cyst may reach as low as tlie middle of tlie calf. Similar cysts also occur in connection with the shoulder joint, and may pass along tho long head of the l)iceps as far as the middle of the arm. Chronic abscesses often fullow an exactly similar course.