Applied Aiiatouiy. 282 (1) There is usually a pin-liole pupil; (2) there uiay be patches of brownish pigment on the forehead and face; and (3) the patient is always asleep. The Treatment is to cut down and expose the cyst wall, and stitch it to the abdominal wound; after this it is opened and drained. The fluid usually only consists of water, but sometimes it contains the elements of the pancreatic secretion, when it is apt to digest the skin and cause intractable eczema. The fistula usually closes spontaneously. Some observers have thought that atrophy of the pancreas is the cause of some forms of Diabetes. Lancereaux describes it as the "lean form;" its progress is very rapid. The pancreas must be very carefully avoided in excision of the pylorus, so as to avoid the necessity for ligature of any part of that gland, and, further, to lessen the risk of the cicatrix of the stomach being dissolved by the escape of pancreatic juice. THE INTESTINES. The Small Intestine begins, in the epigastric region, at the pylorus, and ends in the right iliac fossa by joining the large intestine. It is about twenty feet in length, and as Ave pass from the pylorus downwards, not only does its calibre diminish slightly, but also the thickness of its walls. It is divided into three parts —(1) The duodenum, which equals in length the breadth of twelve fingers, and extends from the pylorus to the left side of the body of the second lumbar vertebra, or at the point where the small gut is crossed by the superior mesenteric artery. Of the remamder, the upper two-fifths is called (2) the jejunum, and the lower three- fifths (3) the ileum. The coils of the jejunum and the ileum are connected to the posterior abdominal wall by tlie mesenterij, which extends in an oblique line from the left side of the body of the second lumbar vertebra into the right iliac fossa. It is a double fold of peritoneum, and between its two layers we find the superior mesenteric vessels, the corresponding plexus of nerves from the sympathetic, and a large number of lymphatic glaiuls, and lacteals from the gut. The coils lie in the umbilical, hypogastric, and slightly in the right and left iliac regions, and a few coils of the ileum may pass downwards into the pelvis, into the recto-vesical pouch in the male, and the pouch of Douglas in the female.