534 Applied Anatomy. ulna; inmrted, base of plialaux of thumb. Nerve—The anterior interosseous of the median. 57. Pronator Quadratus.—Arises, lower part of uhia; inserted, lo^ye^ part of radius. Nerve.—The anterior interosseous from the median. 58. Supinator Longus.—^upper two thirds of the ex- ternal condyloid ridge of the humerus; inserted, base of styloid process of radius. Nerve.—The musculo-spiral. This muscle is a feeble supinator, but is a fairly powerful flexor, when the elbow joint is flexed and the arm held between pronation and supination. 59. Extensor Carpi Radiaiis Longior. — ^n'ses, lower third of external condyloid ridge of humerus and septa; inserted, back of base of the second metacarpal. Nerve.—The musculo-spiral. GO. Extensor Carpi Radiaiis Brevior.—Arises, external condyle, lateral ligament, fascia, and septa; inserted, back of base of third metacarpal. 61. Extensor Communis Digitorum.—Arises, external condyle, fascia, and septa; inserted, bases of second and third phalanges of the fingers. 62. Extensor IVlinimi Digiti.—Arises, as last; inserted, joins corresponding tendon of the common extensor. 63. Extensor Carpi Ulnaris.—Arises, external condyle, fascia, and sejata, and aponeurosis attached to the posterior border of the ulna; inserted, base of metacarpal hone of little finger. 64. Supinator B rev is.—Arises, common tendon, orbicular liga- ment of radius, and depression below lesser sigmoid cavity; inserted, posterior and outer surfaces of radius above the oblique line. 65. Extensor Ossis IVIetacarpi Pollicis.—Arises, middle third of posterior surfaces of both radius and ulna and interosseous membrane; inserted, base of first metacarpal bone. 66. Extensor Primi Internodii Pollicis.—Arises, posterior surface of radius below the previous muscle, and interosseous niembrane; inserted, base of first plialanx of thumb. 67. Extensor Secundi Internodii Pollicis.—Arises, posterior surface of the ulna below the ossis, and interosseous membrane; inserted, base of terminal phalanx of thumb. The extensor muscles of the thumb are often sprained by such movements as