Suro/ctr/, Medical, and Operative. 65 ccutral tendon of the occipito-fron talis. The sul)cutancous tissue consists of fibrous bauds, for the most part directed ocrticalhj, being firmly fixed to the skin above and the fascia below; the liorizontal mesh work is very scanty; between the fibrous bands are lobules of dense fat. It will be seen, therefore, that it is just the reverse of the usual forms of subcutaneous tissue, where the vertical fibres are very scanty. The palm of the hand and the sole of the foot resemble the scalp in texture, and in all three places it is impossible to pinch up the skin between the finger and thumb. Then follows [d) a layer of loose cellular tissue, over which the above three layers, which arc really one, can be moved freely; this is often called the " dangerous area" of the scalp, from the ease with which suppurative processes arc set up in Avounds extending to this layer, and which then sjiread in all directions. Were it not for the presence of this layer, too, the time-honoured Indian custom of " scalping" could not be per- formed ; but all that is necessary is simply to make a circular incision at the proper place down to this layer, and then a sharp tug the included portion separates. 2. The Bone.—This may be regarded as consisting of—(a) The pericranial aponeurosis, Avhich is firmly attached to the " sutural ligaments" at the various sutures; (Ij) outer table of the skull; (c) the diploe, with its large venous trunks; and {d) the inner taljle, characterised by its great brittleness {lamina vitrea), and hence it may be fractured without any fracture of the external table, and is usually more extensively broken than the external—e.g., in punctured fracture 3 it is also tliinner than tlie outer table. 3. The Brain, including—(a) The dura mater; (h) the subdural space (the so-called " avaclinoid ravity"); (r) the curtain-like arachnoid; {d) the subarachnoid ^pace, containing the cercbro-spinal fluid, upon which the brain lloats, as upon a water bed, especially in the middle and posterior fossffi, but in the anterior fossa the brain rests directly on the bone; {tt) the pia mater; and (/) the brain substance proper. Attachment of the Pericranial Aponeurosis and Occipito- Frontalis.—It is firmiy attached to the fat and fascia superficial to it, Init only rery loosely connected with tlie parts beneath by means of fine cellular tissue. Posteriorly, it is attaclied to the superior curved lines of the occipital bone; at the sides, to the