lOS Applied Anatomy: cartilage. The septum is sometimes perforated, ami is very usually deflected to oue or other side. The nasal foss;e couimunicatc— in front, with tlie fticc, by the two anterior nares; and behind, with the pharynx, by the two posterior nares. Each fossa com- municates Avith four cavities — (1) The orbit, by the lachrymal canal; (2) the mouth, by the anterior palatine canal; (3) the cranium, by the olfactory formina; and (4) the splieno-maxillary fossa, by the spheno-palatine foramen. Each fossa also communi- cates with four sinuses—(1) The frontal above, (2) the sphenoidal behind, (3) the autrum on the outer side, and (4) the ethmoidal on the inner side. Along these various patlis simple inflammatory affections, or specific septic inflammations — e.g., erysipelas or diphtheria—of the nose readily spread, as their mucous lining is continuous with that of the nasal cavities. Openings. — (1) Into the superior meatus—(a) The si^heno- palatine, and (&) the posterior ethmoidal cells. The opening of the .sphenoidal sinuses is usually behind the superior turbinate bone. (2) Into the middle meatus — («) The infundibulum, by which the anterior ethmoidal cells, and through these the frontal sinuses, conununicate with this meatus; and {U) the autrum—the oj^ening of the antrum is close to that of the frontal sinus. (3) Into the inferior meatus—the nasal duct. Regions of the Nose (Fig. 151).—(1) Region of the External Nostrils, the part that appears on the face. It is roughly triangular in shape, and is lined by squamous, stratified epithelium. (2) The Olfactory Region, whicli includes the roof of the nose, the upper and middle turbinate bones, and the superior and middle meatus, and the upper two thirds of the septum. In this region the olfactory nerve is distributed, terminating in the olfactory cells of Max Schultze, -which are situated between tlie columnar cells covering the mucous membrane of this part. (3) The Respiratory Region—which includes all below the inferior turbinate bone— the inferior meatus, the floor of the nose, and the lower third of the septum. In this region the epithelium is columnar ami ciliated. In all parts of the Schneiderian membrane there are numerous glands which secrete partly a mucous and partly a watery secretion; and in many parts it is also extremely vasc\dar, almost forming an erectile tissue, especially over the inferior turbinate