30 Applied Anatomy: The infra-orbital is covered by the levator labii siipcrioris, and is about three-eighths of an inch below the margin of the orbit. It may also be stretched subcutaueously, in the same M'ay as the supra-orbital; the better method, however, is by direct incision. Operation. — The upper lip and cheek are drawn downwardw and the lo^ver lid upwards, and a short curved incision is made, with its centre opposite the foramen, and so arranged that, when healed, the cicatrix will fall mto the natural lines of the face. The skin and the fascia, together with the lavator labii superioris, are divided, exposing the nerve, which can then be stretched forcibly, or else an inch of it cut out altogether. It must be pulled well out, so as to rupture its anterior dental hrandi, as the teeth are the usual cause of the neuralgic pain. The nerve has also been divided beyond the origin of the anterior dental branch, by making an incision, parallel Avith, and just beloAV the margin of, the orbit, cutting through the orbicularis and the levator labii superioris, aud turning the latter muscle down, dividing the periosteum at the orbital margin, aiid pushing it up, with fat, eyeball, and all, so as to expose the bony floor. Tension is then made upon the nerve at the infra-orbital canal, and a strong tenotome is used to divide the nerve as it lies in the canal, and which is made to penetrate the antrum; when the nerve is divided it is easily drawn out of the canal, and by this means the anterior dental is ruptured. The part thus dragged out is then cut off. Unless strict antiseptic IDrecautions be observed, this operation is apt to be followed by suppuration of the antrum and orbit. It may also be divided in the spheno-maxillary fissure. Expose it at the infra-orbital foramen as before, and make a small puncture just below the outer commissure of the lids; after this puU upon the nerve by a pair of forceps, and mtroduce a blunt - pointed tenotone through the small incision, and put it backwards aud downwards till its point is felt to be in the fissure, Avhen it is made to shave along its maxillary border. As soon as it is divided the nerve will easily pull out of the canal. To expose the nerve in the spheno-maxillary fossa, a h-shaped incision is required, the vertical part extending from the outer margin of the orbit down- wards to a point opposite the last molar tooth, and the horizontal part Ijackwards to the root of the zygoma. The malar bone and