401 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. The case could not be verified by dissection further than during the progress of tlie operation, as tlie young lad is now perfectly well except for a slight traumatic stricture. In cases where a patient receives an injury to his perineum, and this is followed by a discharge of blood from the urethra, independently of micturition, there is every reason to suspect a complete or partial rupture of the urethra. An exception to this rule will be found in cases of rupture of the vas deferens. From a fall in the " fork," therefore, the nretlira usually ruptures a little in front of the triangular ligament, through the spongy part of the urethra; very frequently the rupture is only partial. The signs are rapid swelling in the perineum from blood and urine, should the patient attempt to pass water, difficulty in passing urine, or complete retention," and the passage of blood from the meatus. Rupture of the membranous urethra is usually secondary to fracture of the pelvis, blood rarely flows from the meatus, rather pa.ssing backwards into the bladder, and there is no primary swelling in the perineum. The urine passes behind the pubis and through the weak anterior part of the pelvic fascia into the sub- peritoneal cellular tissue, giving rise to abscess that may perforate the peritoneum, or descend by the side of the rectum, and point at the anus (Iversen). If the attachment of the pelvic fascia to the rami of the pubes and ischium be split, the urine may fiutl its way into the adductor region, and there give rise to abscess. Various plans of tpeatment are open to the Surgeon—(1) He may be able, by keeping its point against the roof of the urethra, to pass a catheter into the bladder, as the rupture is very often only partial; the catheter is then left in the bladder. (2) In cases where he cannot pass a catheter, he may cut down in the middle line of the perineum, find the rent, and then pass a soft catheter into the bladder, and leave it in for eight or ten days. (3) If it even then be impossible to find the proximal end of the torn urethra, a supra-pubic cystotomy should be performed, and then, by the aid of posterior catheterisation, an instrument can be passed along the urethra into the bladder. (4) In case of rupture complicated with fracture, Vm.h gives the following advice:— *2c