35 Surg'ical, Hfedkal, and Operative. sleeping rooms. The tonsils are situated between the anterior and the posterior pillars of the soft palate; on the outer side they rest against the superior constrictor, and just outside this again we find the ascending pharyngeal and the internal carotid arteries. On the surface, they correspond to the angle of the lower jaw. The tonsils are a long way from the mouths of the Eustachian tubes, and, even when they are enlarged, they could not cause deafness by pressing on these tubes; the deafness accompanying this con- dition is due to hypertrophy of the pharyngeal tonsils {"adenoid vegefation-s" of the naso-pharynx). When inflamed, the lymphatic glands at the angle of the jaw, just over the tonsil, enlarge, and hence give rise to the false impression that the enlarged tonsils themselves can be felt beneath the skin. The Arteries of the tonsils come from dorsalis lingure, facial in the neck (ascending palatine and tonsillar), and internal maxillary arteries (the descending palatine), and sometimes an aberrant large branch from the internal carotid, and which may cause serious haemorrhage in excision of the gland. The NerVBS are derived from the glosso-pharyngeal, and the second division of the fifth through Meckel's ganglion. In malignant disease there is intense pain shooting up the side of the head along the temporal and auriculo-temporal nerves which the patient thinks is ear-ache, and hence puts a plug of wool in his ear. Lymphatics. — The lymj^hatics from the tonsil pass to the glands near the great horn of the hyoid bone and deep cervical set, also to the deep parotid, and through them to the group at tlie angle of the jaw. In cancerous tumours, therefore, these groups will enlarge. Removal of tlie Tonsils.—In health the tonsils do not project beyond the level of the palatine arches. If they are much enlarged they interfere with respiration, causing defective development, attacks of fever, sore tliroat, and predispose to diphtlieria, ami should therefore be removed; this may be done by a probe-pointed bistoury, with plaster round its heel, so that the lip and tongue may not be cut (see Fig. 121). Seize the tonsil by a vulsellum, pass the knife diredhj haclnmrds in the line of the second molar tooth, and cut downwards and inwards, and on no account turn tlie edge of tlie knife outwards, lest the internal carotid artery