93 Si/roica/, Medical, at/d Operative. Treatment.—JJi.auu'.s pills for tlic aiui'iniii; chiiiigc Lu higlicr, drier, ;iud more airy dwellings; iodine or the iodides, both in- ternally, and externally, in the form of ointments, Avell niLbed in, in front of a good fire, or in the sun's rays. Tor the Simple form, try medical treatment lirst; only excise tlie gland if there be great dyspnoea and dysphagia. For the Cystic—tap and draw oh' the fluid, and inject iodine; the iiuid is usually like coft'ee-grounds. The Fibrous treat as the simple variety. For the Vascular forms, try medical treatment hrst; and if this fail, then use electrolysis (Duncan). Ergot and ligature of the thyroid arteries hiwc also been tried for this form. Excision of the Thyroid (Watsox). — Make a free mesial incision down to and through the deep fascia of the neck. It will be safer to divide the deep fascia on a Hat director. ]3o not divide the areolar tissue surrounding the gland, which is a prolongation of the cellular tissue sheaths of tlio arteries supplying it, and if this be torn through it will be impossible to secure the vessels, as they are so brittle; the capsule of the gland itself must also be left luidisturbcd, otherwise, if it be opened, there will be excessive haemorrhage. After the deep fascia of the neck is divided the muscles arc drawn aside and the gland exposed well all round. The vessels must now be secured. The four arteries enter at the four corners, but the veins leave on every side, except the upper edge; all vessels must be secured ■within their sheaths with double ligatures, passed l)y means of an aneurism needle. Pass all round the gland, taking up the tissue in bundles, and tying it en masse; after this divide the tissue between the two ligatures, open the areolar tissue surrounding the capsule of the gland, carefully snip through all other attachments with blunt-pointed scissors, securing any vessel as you proceed, and remove the gland entire in its capsule, taking special care lest there be adhesions to the internal jugular vein. Other methods are—Excision of one-half of the gland, and excision of the isthmus, with the hope that the gland will then atrophy. Li«tmr also scoops out a part of the gland by means of a large, sharp spoon, through an inci.sion near the edge of the stenio-nuistoid; the gland is opened by rAquni.i.v's cautery, and tlie spoon introduced. The bleeding is restrained by pressure.