101 Surgical, Rlcdical, mid Operative. time, the small vessels eaii Ijo seen and secured at tmee, and the large raiiine exposed and secured before it is divided \ further, hy this method the rauinc artery is only divided at tlic cud of the operation. A\'hcre the whole tongue is to be removed, it is better to split it, pass two ligatures througli the tip, and pull forw ard and excise one half at a time. The Structures divided are — (1) The mucous membrane; (2) genio-liyoids; (3) genio-liyoglossi muscles; (4) part of the submaxillary gland with vessels and duct, though the gland nuiy he pushed aside; (5) the palato-glossus muscle; (G) liyoglossus; (7) styloglossus; (8) intrinsic muscles of the tongue; (9) glosso- ojnglottidean folds of mucous membrane; (10) lingual vessels; (11) lingual and chorda tympani nerves; (12) hypoglossal nerve, and, perliajis, part of the glosso-pharyngeal. One-half of the tongue may be removed in the same way, after having first split it in the middle line with a bistoury. IsVx Whitehead, however, does not split the tongue nor does he perform a preliminary laryngotomy. The advantages of a preliminary laryngotomy are two-fold—(1) It idfectually prevents blood entering the trachea, and (2) the patient may be allowed to breath through the opening for some days till the wound has begiin to granulate or is well on the way towards healing. In this way the usual cause of death—septic pneumonia —is to a great extent prevented. The causes of septic pneumonia are two-fold—blood entering the air vesicles, and the inhalation of optic organisms from the floor of the mouth; but with a prelimimiry laryngotomy both these may to a great extent be prevented. The patient must be fed for a time by nutrient enemata, and the mouth washed out very frequently by a warm solution of boro-glyceride or boracic acid, and the floor of the mouth covered with a layer of impalpable boracic powder—a method introduced by IMr Duncan,—the patient in the Jiieantime breathing through Hie tracheotomy tube. l>y this means the wound is kept aseptic, ;Mid the risk of ijduding septic oi'ganisms is lessened, ami the great l ause of death avoided—sejjtic pneumonia. Later, he may be fed Ihrough a tube. In operations on the tongue the only serious immediate danger is hicmorrhage from tlic divided Unguals. The vessel may be compressed from the mouth by passing the forefinger "ver the dorsum of the tongue till it touches the epiglottis; it is