143 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. pus formation, but tlio pus and otlier matters cannot escape, as tlio opening is too small, and it also tends to become sealed up. In this way an appearance, very like that of erysipelas, is produced, the entire region about tlie elbow being of a bright red colour and very tender to pressure; the edge of the redness is rarely, however, so sharply defined as in erysipelas. The Treatment is to lay the bursa completely open and apply an antiseptic fomentation and keep the arm at rest. Veins at the Bend of the Elbow (Fig. 154).—Passing up the centre of the fore-arm is the median vein, which, when it reaches the hollow in front of the elbow joint, divides into the median basilic and the median cephalic veins. The median cephalic is joined by the radial vein, then passes up the arm as the cephalic vein, and empties itself into the axillary vein. The median basilic is joined by the anterior and posterior ulnar veins, then passes upwards as the basilic vein, and about the middle of the arm pierces the deep fascia, and is joined by the vense comites of the brachial artery, and is then known as the axillary vein. The posterior ulnar begins at the inner border of the hand and vein of the little finger—"wejza salvutella." Ai the bend of the elbow the median basilic vein overlies the brachial artery, but is separated from it by the semi-lunar or bicipital fascia, and the internal cutaneous nerve passes over or under it, while the external cutaneous passes under the median cephalic. Venesection at the Bend of the Elbow.—Either of these (median cephalic or median basilic) may be opened. The median basilic is the larger, and more easily compressed and fixed, because it has the firm bicipital fascia behind it, and it is also more superficial than the median cephalic; its great disadvantage is that it lies just over the brachial artery, so that if the operation be performed carelessly, or if the patient start during tlie entering of the lancet, it may pass through the vein and fascia into the artery beyond. The median cephalic is not quite so large, although it is large enough to afibrd a good stream of blood, but it is separated by a considerable interval from the brachial artery. Instruments required.—A yard of broad tape, a lancet, a cylindrical piece of wood for the patient to grasp in his hand, a vessel to catch the blood, and dressings.