37 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. free drainage. This, to the patient, seems a less fovniidablc operation, and could be best done when the tonsil is brittle—^just after an acute attack of tonsillitis; the question, hoAvever, is still suh jucUce. Abscess of the Tonsil.—To open an abscess of the tonsil, the bistoury must be passed directly backwards in the line of the second molar tooth, with the edge directed inwards and upwards; should the patient refuse to have it " opened," he must be told of the risk —viz., that it may burst during the night, when he is asleep, and choke him. The abscess usually tends to point at the upper part, about the junction of the anterior palatine arch with the palate, or almost in the palate itself. THE TEMPORO-MAXILLAEY ARTICULATION. This is described as an arthrodial, but it also partakes of the character of a hinge joint, and has in addition a rolling movement, resembling in these particulars the knee joint. Ligaments.—(1) The external lateral, from the tubercle of the zygoma downwards and backwards to tlie outer surface and the posterior border of the neck of the lower jaw. (2) The internal lateral, from the spine of the sphenoid to the inner margin of the dental foramen; between this ligament and the jaw we find the internal maxillary artery, and the inferior dental vessels and nerves. (3) The stylo-maxillary, from the apex of the styloid process to the angle and posterior border of the ramus of the lower jaw; this ligament separates the parotid from the submaxillary gland. (4) The capsular, a thin, loose structure surrounding the joint. (5) The inter-articular cartilage, which consists of white fibro-cartilage, and is placed horizontally between the condyle and the glenoid cavity. It is connected by its circumference to the various ligaments surrounding the joint, and in front specially to the tendon of the external pterygoid muscle. There are usually two Kijnovial memljranes. The Nerves of the joint are derived from tlie auriculo-temporal and the nerve to the niassetcr muscle. There arc two sets of move- ments in this joint—(1) Side to side and forwards and backwards, which arc accomplished by a horizontal, gliding movement of the libro-cartilages and condyles upon tlie glenoid cavities. These