442 Applied Aiiatoiiiy: turn is applied, to prevent it slipping. (4) Plug the catheter. In some cases it may be possible to tie the ends of the .string to a bimclle of pubic hairs on eachi side. In passing a gum-elastic catheter, it is better to make it rigid for the time being, as the Surgeon then possesses greater control over the instrument. To do so, the ijlan used by Professor Chiene is to pass a cylindrical metal bougie, a size or two smaller than the gum-elastic instrument, into its interior, till it is passed, when the metal bougie is withdrawn. The ordinary stylet, sold witb the gum-elastic catheters, is useless for this purpose. RESUME of the treatment of organic stricture:— 1. In the usual form of simple non-irritable stricture, where the patient cannot conveniently be confined to the house, use the usual method of dilatation by wedge- shaped bougies (Lister's). This method can usually be adopted in ninety-nine cases out of every hundred (see vol. ii., page 437). 2. If the patient can lie up in bed, and is in a hurry to get well, or in cases where the instruments can only be passed with difficulty, tie in a soft gum-elastic in- strument; fix it to the i}enis, and sac that it does not project too far into tlie bladder, the eye alone should just enter the bladder. As soon as one instrument becomes loose introduce another. 3. For severe, irritable, indurated, and resilient strictures, Holt's method of "si^litting" is usually advised; if this plan be used it is better to pass a catheter into the bladder for twenty-four hours and draw off the water, lest the mucous membrane be torn, or tie in a flexible instrument. Holt's method, I believe, should be avoided as far as possible, and Syjie's method substituted for it. 4. In tight cartilaginous and in irritable stricture, with induration in the perineum, along with abscesses and fistulee, use Syme's method of external urethrotomy; and if an instrument cannot be introduced, operate on "VVheelhouse's ijrinciplc—"perineal section."