Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 251 The dorsi-spinal veins, which return the blood from the skin and muscles of the back, surround the various processes of the vertebra?, and then perforate the ligamenta subflava and join the posterior longitudinal set of veins in the spinal canal; these in turn com- municate with the anterior longitudinal set, and this set again witli the vena' basis veiiehrarum. For these reasons a septic wound is specially apt to be followed by pyaemia and death. Dr Macewen, of Glasgow, has also operated with complete success for the relief of paraplegia, due to angular curvature; in such cases pressure may be exerted on the cord by new growths of connective tissue, or else by direct displacement of the bodies of the vertebrae The paraplegia is often accompanied Avith incontinence of urine and fa3ces, placing the patient in a most dei^lorable condition. An incision is made along the tips of the spinous process, the tendinous connections are divided, and then the soft parts are shelled aside from the bone by means of a periosteal elevator, the haimorrhage being arrested by sponge pressure. The laminae are then divided and removed over the affected jDart, the cord exposed, and the new connective tissue growth removed. It may be neces- sary to open the dura mater, and in such a case it must be carefully stitched up again at the conclusion of the operation, otherwise the cerebro-spinal fluid will drain away. Dr Macewen has a special set of instruments for this operation. SPINA BIFIDA. This has been defined as a congenital hernia of the spinal membranes through a fissure in the walls of the canal; it is most frequently situated at the lower part of tlie vertebral column, Avhere it forms a rounded tumour lying in tlie middle line of the back, ttuctuating, and may be transparent, and adhering to the l.'ones of the column. It may be possible to feel the liole in the canal and the absence of tlic spinous processes of the vertebnii in that situation; it may be partially reducible with the production of nervous symptoms. It is often associated with paralysis of tlie limbs, sphincters, or with convulsions; also witli clul) foot (especially talipes equiuo-varus) and hydrncephalus. To understand its mode of origin it will be necessary to refei' to the development of a typical vertebra. There are threeprhnarij