196 Applied Atiatomy: "bridge." In treating this condition, if the flat-foot cannot he improved, or the rigidity is causing much pain, then the best treatment is to adopt Professor Chikne's plan of letting in a rigid, slightly curved steel plate into the sole of the boot, along the inner side of the foot, so as to protect the big toe from forces that tend to dorsiflex it, with, if necessary, a gutta-percha sole, to protect the whole foot, as the sole seems in many cases hyperaesthetic. But stiff big toe is not by any means ahvays a result of flat-foot, for in many cases of very aggravated forms of flat-foot the toe can be dorsiflexed to a right angle with the greatest of ease; it is quite possible that the flat-foot is a result of the stiff big toe, the patient constantly walking on the outer border of the foot, so that in this way the arch may be brought down. The second and third toes, curiously enough, appear as if they sprang from a common stalk; the cleft between them is not quite so deep, either, as in the case of the other toes. In the condition of " webbed toes," the web is most frequently found between these toes. The longest toe is the second one, and this is the predisposing cause of "hammer toe," the exciting cause being badly-fitting boots. " Dupuytren's Exostosis."—The last phalanx of the great toe is a favourite seat for the growth of an exostosis (osteoma). It is called the subungual exostosis, as it grows under the nail, pushing up that structure and making its way out below its tip. It is probably due to pressure and inflammation caused by the hritation of a badly-fitting boot, and is a good example of the sliare that a " local irritation " takes in the origin of tumours. It is sometimes known as " Dupuytren's exostosis," as ho was the first to direct special attention to it. Lymphatics of tlie Lower Extremity.—As elsewhere, the glauds may be divided into superficial and deep sets. The Superficial Inguinal are placed immediately under the integument, and are divided into two sets—a vertical and a hori- zontal. The liorizontal set are placed along Poupart's ligament, and receive the lymphatics from the integumentary coverings of the scrotum and penis, the lower half of the abdominal wall, and from the perineal and gluteal regions. In diseases, tlierefore, of these regions the glands will enlarge, as malignant, syphilitic