Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 369 If a wire is used a loop is loft at tlie puncture in the abdominal wall; the lower ends are twisted down into the scrotal aperture, the upper loop drawn upon so as to tighten the wire, and held firm by two or three twists down into the puncture, The bight of the upper loop is then bent downwards to meet the ends bent upwards; these are curved into the form of a hook to fasten on the loop. A firm pad of lint is placed on the sliin under the arch thus formed, and a broad spica bandage secures the whole. No drainage is required. The wire is removed in a week or ten days. The lower end is first untwisted and the ends stretched to take out the spiral twist, and then cut short. Traction on the loop will then usually bring the wire out in one piece, but if there is any difficulty, the loop must be untwisted and the two pieces removed separately. This operation is said to be best fitted for cases of recent hernia in young healthy subjects. 3. Spanton's Method.—He closes the canal by screwing in, from above downwards, an instrument closely resembling an ordinary corkscrew, after invaginating a portion of the sub- cutaneous tissue of the scrotum and sac, as in "Wood's method, the finger in the canal protecting the cord. It is left in from seven to ten days. The weak point of this method is that the sac is not removed. 4. At the present time, however, the operations for the radical cm-e usually include Ligature of the Neck of the Sac, flush with the interior of the abdomen, as the principal part of the operation. The sac may then be cut oti', and the ligatured opening allowed to slip back into the abdomen; the walls of the canal and the external ring are then drawn together by silver wire, silk, or catgut sutures, taking care to leave snfficient room at the lower part for the cord to pass without compression. The above should always form part of any operation for the relief of strangulated or irreducible hernia. The hernia is exposed, the sac opened, the contents reduced, the neck of the sac freed and tied up as high as possible, and then the sides of the ring and inguinal canal stitched together. Should the sac be left, and the wound be kept aseptic, a drainage tube will not be required, as the serous membrane will absorb all that is necessary to be got rid of; but even when it is cut off, the proximity of the tunica vaginalis of the testicle will also perform the function of