Applied A natomy: 468 urethra; an ordinary straight bistoury is then plunged into the perineum in front of the anus, with its back towards the rectum and the point directed obliquely upwards, as if to cut into the apex of the prostate, wliich guides lo the membranous part of the ru'ethra (Eig..225). AVhen this is opened the urine escapes; the Surgeon may then tie in an ordinary lithotomy tube, or pass a bougie down to the obstruction and divide the stricture on its point. lu this way not only is the retention relieved, but the obstruction is divided at the same time. Mr Cock's operation closely resembles Mr Spence's. Cock's Operation—or opening the urethra behind the stricture, at a point where it is healthy, and in front of the prostate—in the membranous portion, as the stricture is usually in front of this point. The patient is tied up as for lithotomy. The operator then passes his left forefinger into the rectum, and places it upou tlie apex of the prostate, and then passes a broad, sharp-pointed, double-edged knife straight down to the apex, exactly in the middle line of the perineum. The external wound is then enlarged somewhat, the knife withdra^wn, and a probe-pointed director with a handle j^assed into the wound through the urethra, and into the bladder; along this, as a guide, a tube^—Syme's perineal catheter or a female catheter—is passed, fitted with rings, whereby it can be tied into the bladder. The objection to this operation is that it does not presumably cure the stricture. Rupture of the Bladder usually occurs when it is full, and the patient receives some form of injury. It may rupture in two situations—(1) At tlie parts not covered by peritoneum, and (2) at the parts covered by peritoneum. In the first case the urine is ettused into the cellular tissue round the viscus, but o^itside the abdomen ; in the other, the urine passes into the peritoneum. In treating rupture of the bladder, various plans are open to the (Surgeon—(1) Keep the bladder empty by siphonage, and give the patient plenty of opium, in case of peritonitis; (2) a catheter may be passed through the rent of the bladder, and the abdomen washed out with a warm antiseptic; (3) drain the bladder by perineal cystotomy; and (4) abdominal section. In cases of intra-peritoncal rupture, the wound should be stitched with Lejibeet's suture. The sutures must only go through the peritoneal and muscular coats,