Applied Anatomy: 554 the crico-thyroid membrane, and a third just ahove the episternal notch. Any of these may suppurate, when we will have an abscess in the middle line. Spinal Accessory Nerve. — The sinnal portion of this nerve arises from the lateral tract of the cord, as low down as the sixth cervical nerve. It ascends between the lirjamentum denticulatum and the posterior roots of the spinal nerves, enters the skull through the foramen magnum, and joins the accessory portion. This nerve supplies the steruo-mastoid, and communicates, in the substance of that muscle, with the third cervical nerve. In the occipital portion of the posterior triangle of the neck, it communicates with the second and tliird cervical nerves; and, after passing under the trapezius, it is joined by branches from the tliird, fotirth, and fffh cervical nerves. Cerebral Sinuses.—These are fifteen in all—five single and five paired. The Single Sinuses are:— 1. The Superior Longitudinal, which runs along the upper border of the falx major, from the crista galli to the internal occipital protuberance. It commences in a small vein, which enters the skull from the nose through the foramen caicum. On section, it is triangular, with the base of the triangle upwards. Its tributary veins oj^en into it at acute angles from behind forwards—i.e., contrary to the current of blood in the sinus itself. "Within the sinus are small tendinous cords—cliord;\3 Willisii. 2. The Inferior Longitudinal, wliich runs along the lower border of the falx major, as far as the tentorium cerebelli, and there opens into the straight sinus. 3. The Straight Sinus runs along the junction of the falx major with the tentorium. It is formed by the veins of Galen and the inferior longitudinal sinus, and opens into the torcular Ilerophili, thus connecting the two longitudinal sinuses together. The veins of Galen return the blood from the lateral ventricles, the basal ganglia, and the interior of the brain generally. 4. The Circular Sinus surrounds the pituitary body in the sella turcica, and forms a communication between the two cavernous sinuses.