457 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. The " trauslucont" appearance can be very Avell imitated, by holding up one's thumb in front of a candle flame and looking through it. Double Hydro-Sarcocele, in a young man, is most probably due to secondary syphilis, but it might be tubercular; the history, personal and family, together with the appearance of the patient, Avill help one to decide. An ordinary vaginal hydrocele and an encysted hydrocele may be found on the same side of the scrotum. (Occasionally a fatty tumour is found in the scrotum, developed from the extra-peritoneal fat. The mass of fat travels down under the spermatic coverings, and may completely envelop the testicle, simulating an ordinary vaginal hydrocele. Another curious fact is that it may become detached from the extra-peritoneal fat, and be grafted on to the tissues of the scrotum, and continue to grow there, although entirely cut ofl' from its original source of blood supply. 2. Congenital Hydrocele.—In this case, t\i(Hjrocessi(s vaginalis lias remained open, so that a communication exists between the tunica vaginaUs and the peritoneal cavity (see Fig. 201). It is dull on percussion, never tense, disappears on even, steady pressure, gradually and without slip or gurgle; it descends slowly, even though the finger be kept' on the external abdominal ring. It feels soft and even, and no irregularity or gurgling when liandled. To treat—(1) Discutient lotions; (2) withdrawal of the fluid; or (3) a truss to close up the apertiu'e. 3. Infantile Hydrocele.—In this form the proce.'tsus has only closed at the internal abdominal ring (see Fig. 202). It does not disappear on pressure, or when the patient lies on his back, and there is no gurgling on handling. It is probably due to inclusion of the fluid, when the obliteration occurred, at the internal ring. Xote that, in infants, a hernia may be translucent as well as a hydrocele, but will be tympanitic on percussion. Treat as last- one may also inject iodine, if sure tliat the cummunication 'with tlte ahdomen in closed tip. 4. Encysted Hydrocele of the Cord. —A dropsy of small unobliterated portions of iho. prorcsstis; it is obliterated at different parts of its course, leaving one or more closed sacs, which become ilistended Avith serum (Fig, 223). Or the processus may be closed