Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 269 existence; this constitutes Extroversion of the Bladder. In this condition, the bodies of the puhic bones are imperfect, the symphysis is wanting, the recti muscles separate at the lower part, and pass obliquely outwards into what remains of the pubic bones. The lower part of the anterior abdominal wall and the anterior wall of the bladder are also wanting. The penis is cleft along its dorsal aspect, exposing the floor of the urethra, and constituting the condition known as epispadias; the cleft in the abdominal wall extends to the point where the cord enters, so that there is no umbilicus. The posterior wall of the bladder is pushed outwards by the intra-abdominal pressure and forms a red vascular tumour, about the size of a small orange, just above the pubes. It is also usually possible to see the openings of the ureters, and the iirine trickling from them. The Lymphatics of the abdominal wall above the umbilicus pass to the axillary and mediastinal glands; those below the umbilicus to the horizontal set of the superficial inguinal glands. The large belly met with in children is due to the flatter diaphragm, the large liver, the smaU pelvis, and the fact that the muscles of the abdominal wall, and the walls of the intestines are weak, and therefore flatus readily collects. In rickets all these conditions are intensified, and the liver and spleen are also abnor- mally large ; this condition is often known as " pot-belly." THE STOMACH. Three-fourths of this organ are placed in the left hypochondriac region, the remaining fourth in the epigastric region. The long axis of the hypochondriac part is almost vertical, the great fundus being the highest part of the organ, and not the oesophageal opening, as sometimes stated; the epigastric part is transverse in direction, and is placed about two or three inches below the ensiform cartilage. When the stomach is empty the pylorus lies just to the right of the middle line, and directed towards the right side (Fig. 176, e); but, when distended, the pylorus moves considerably to the right of this line, and the great curvature tilts forwards and upwards, and the pylorus points backwards. The cardiac orifice is placed behind the seventh costal cartilage, aljout an inch from the left border of the sternum; the fundus reaches a little above