190 Applied Anatomy: flexors of the ankle joint; and (c) paralysis or crippling of the muscles of the calf. Treatment—Division (if other means fail) of the tendons that pass through the anterior annular ligament—the tibialis atiticus on the inner side of the foot, and the peroneus tertius on tlie outer side (these two are direct flexors of the ankle joint); the extensor longus digitorum and the extensor proprius hallucis (these two are indirect flexors of the ankle joint). They arc divided as they pass over the dorsum of the foot, and their position may be readily ascertained by rendering them tense. Care must be taken not to wound the dorsal artery of the foot, which will be found between the tendon of the extensor projirius hallucis on the tibial side, and the innermost tendon of the extensor longus digitorum on its hbular side; neither of tliesc, howevei', lie close to the vessel. The anterior tibial nerve lies to the outer side of the artery. External Popliteal or Peroneal Nerve.—This is the smaller of the two divisions of the great sciatic. It descends obliquely along the outer side of the popliteal space, close to the tendon of the biceps. About an inch below the head of the fibula it pierces the peroneiTs longus, and divides into the anterior tibial, musculo- cutaneous, and recurrent articular. The nerve can be most easily and safely exposed behind the head of the fibula, by using the inner edge of the tendon of the biceps as the guide. The anterior tibial gains the interosseous space by passing through the extensor longus digitorum. The Anterior Tibial Nerve supplies the tibialis auticus, extensor longus digitorum, peroneus tertius, and extensor proprius hallucis; when it is paralysed, therefore, the foot hangs down, and the toes catch the ground in walking (" foot drop"); the ankle cannot be flexed, and only partially inverted (by the tiljialis posticus); the toes can only be extended by the interossei, which, as in the hand, flex the first phalanges, and extend the other two. In the foot, this nerve supplies the extensor brevis digitorum. The Musculo-Cutaneous Nerve supplies the peroneus longus and brevis, and if paralysed, the foot cannot be everted, except to the slight extent effected by the peroneus tertius. If the external popliteal nerve be paralysed, the results will be the same as in paralysis of both, the above nerves; it is a frequent result of