537 Surgical, JSIedical, and Operative. 81. Gluteus Medius. — Arises, between superior and middle curved lines and iliac crest; inserted, outer surface of the great trochanter. Nerve.—The superior gluteal. 82. Gluteus Minimus.—^rfses, between middle and inferior curved lines; inserted, anterior border of great trochanter. Nerve. —The superior gluteal. 83. Pyriformis. — Arises, front of sacrum, between the first, second, third, and fourth sacral foramina, edge of great sacro-sciatic foramen, and great sacro-sciatic ligament; inserted., posterior part of upper border of the great trochanter. Nerve.—From the sacral plexus. 84. Obturator Intern us.—Arises, inner surface of true pelvis, round about and over the obturator membrane; it is joined by the gemelli, and inserted into the ujjper border of the great trochanter. Nerve.—Special branch from sacral plexus. 85. Quadratus Femoris.—-Arises, outer edge of tuberosity of ischium; inserted, linea qiiadrati on back of the great trochanter. Nerve.—Special branch from sacral plexus. 86. Obturator Extern us. — Arises, outer surface of obturator membrane, and bone round ; inserted, digital fossa of the femur. Nerve.—The obturator. 87. Biceps Flexor Cruris.^—Arises, lower and inner facet on tuberosity of ischium and outer lip of linea aspera; inserted, head of fibula. Nerve.—The great sciatic. 88. Semi-Tendinosus.—Arises, with long head of biceps, from the tuberosity of the ischium ; inserted, upper part of the inner surface of shaft of tibia, below the gracilis and beneath the sartorius. Nerve.—The great sciatic. 89. Semi-Membranous.—Arises, upper and outer facet on tlie tuberosity of the ischium; inserted, posterior part of the inner tuberosity of the tibia, and blends with the internal semilunar cartilage, fascia of popliteus muscle, and posterior ligament of the knee joint. Nerve.—Tlie great sciatic. In twists or sprains of the knee joint, there is very usually a tender point over the internal semilunar cartilage, probably from rupture of a few of the fibres of this tendon attached to that structure. Tibialis Anticus.—Ariscx, outer tuberosity and upper two thirds of the shaft of the tibia a)id the interosseous membrane;