507 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. adhesive plaster, so as to adhere to the skin and protect the patient's dress from hlood, lotion, etc. Take care that the bladder is emptied by the catbeter before the patient is placed on the table. Take a careful note of all the sponges and self-holding forceps to be used at the operation, and on no account should sponges be torn up during the operation. Position of the Patient.—She is placed on her back, on an ordinary table, with her shoulders slightly elevated, and her feet towards the window, in order that the light may be reflected into the wound. Her legs and chest should be warmly covered, and hot water-bottles should be laid at her feet and sides. The operator stands on her right side, with his back to the window. The Chief Steps of the operation are:— 1. Make an incision, four or five inches long, in the linea alba, beginning about an inch below the umbilicus. Cut through the skin and fascia, fat, and linea alba; secure all bleeding vessels, and then divide the fascia transversalis, extra-peritoneal fat, and peritoneum. 2. Having exposed the cyst, plunge in Wells's or Tait's trocar, and evacuate its contents as far as possible; the hand may also be introduced into the cyst, and septa broken down. Place two or three sponges into the pelvic cavity, and also above the tumour. 3. Seize the coUaj^sed cyst wall with Nelaton's forceps, and pull it out of the abdomen; the assistant mean- while, by means of the large, flat sponge, and pressure upon the abdominal wall, prevents the intestines from protruding. 4. Transfix the pedicle with a blunt needle, armed with a double carbolised silk ligature, avoiding all obvious veins; it may be tied in two or three portions, accord- ing to its size and vascularity. Keith secures the pedicle by means of the ordinary cautery, with cautery- clamp. The clamp alone is seldom used now-a-days. With the cautery, or ligature, the pedicle is dropped back into the abdomen; with the clamp, it is treated