Applied Anatomy: 10 TRACHEOTOMY IN CHILDREN. Here tlie relations of the parts are somewhat altered. The neck is shorter; " but, relatively, the space is greater between the isthmus of the thyroid body and the top of the sternum, so that the cervical part of the trachea is longer than in the adult" (S pence). But in the child the trachea is smaller, more deeply placed, and more movable than in the adult, and less resistant to the finger, so that it may readily be squeezed flat, or pushed aside; without one being aware of it unless care be exercised; further, it is more flattened anteriorly than in the adult; also, the danger from haemorrhage is greater, on account of the large size of the venous jalexus in connection with the thyroid and thymus glands. There is more subcutaneous fat too; and the carotids are in closer relation to the trachea, so that a sliglit deviation from the middle line may wound one or other of these important arteries.. The innominate artery and left innominate vein are higher in the child than in the adult. The jjresence and large size of the thymus body in the child will further complicate the operation. Accord- ing to Dr Symington the usual position of the larynx in relation to the vertebral column in the new-born cliild is from the lower border of the atlas to the middle of the fourth cervical vertebra; in the adult it extends from the middle of the third cervical to the lower border of the sixth cervical. He does not believe that this high position is due to its relatively small size, as often stated; and he further believes that its downward movement is caused by the growth of the facial portion of the skull. A small hard pillow, such as a stocking stuffed with towels, is placed under the neck, and the episternal notch is taken as the guide, the incision beginning a finger's-breadth above this; this point is chosen as the guide, because in the child it is difficult to be (|uite sure about the position of the cricoid cartilage, as it is softer than in the adult. It is very important to keep both the head and the incision exactly in the middle line. Tracheotomy is the operation for children., In the child the crico-thyroid .=ipace is too small to allow of the introduction of a tube of sufficient calibre to support life, and therefore tracheotomy should always be preferred. Not only is the opening too small,