Applied Anatomy: 538 inserted, internal cuneiform and base of first metatarsal. Nerve.— The anterior tibial. 91. Extensor Longus Digitorum.—^me.?, outer tuberosity of tibia, upi^er three fourths of anterior surface of shaft of the fibula, interosseous membrane, and septa; inserted, bases of second and third phalanges of the four outer toes. Nerve.—The anterior tibial. 92. Extensor Proprius Hallucis.—^r/ses, middle three fifths of the anterior surface of the shaft of the fibula internal to the common extensor; inserted, base of the last phalanx of great toe. Nerve.—^The anterior tibial. 93. Peroneus Tertius.—Arises, lower fourth of anterior sur- face of the shaft of the fibula; inserted, base of the fifth metatarsal. Nerve.—The anterior tibial. 94. Peroneus Longus. —Arises, head and upper half of the antero-external surface of the shaft of the fibula; inserted, outer side of base of the first metatarsal and internal cimeiforni bone. Nerve.—The musculo-cutaneous branch of external popliteal. 95. Peroneus Brevis.—Arises, middle third of the antero- external surface of the fibula; inserted, base of fifth metatarsal. Nerve.—The musculo-cutaneous. 96. Gastrocnemius. — Arises, i;pper and back part of the condyles of the femur; inserted, forms part of the tendo achUlis. Nerve.—The internal popliteal. A few fibres of tliis muscle are not uncommonly ruptured, especially in middle-aged gentlemen, during tlie game of lawn tennis; this is known as the " la-\ra tennis leg." The jiatient usually thinks he has received a blow from behind from some one's racket. 97. Soleus.—Arises, back of head and upper third of the posterior surface of the fibula, oblique line and inner border of tlie tibia, and a fibrous arcli between the two bones; inserted, forms part of the tendo achiUis. Nerve.—The internal popliteal. 98. Popliteus.—Arises from a depression on the outer condyle of the femur; inserted, triangular surface on the back of the tibia above the oblicpie line. Nerve.—The internal popliteal. 99. Flexor Longus Hallucis.—Arises, lower two thirds of the posterior surface of tlie shaft of the fibula; inserted, base of last phalanx of great toe. Nerve.—The posterior tibial.