162 Applied Anatomy: of the obturator interuus aud the two gciiielli, obturator cxtoruuH, quadi-atus fenioris, and adductor magnus. The nerve may bifur- cate into its two divisions at any point between the sacral plexus and the usual point of bifurcation; a not uncommon arrangement is to find it leaving the pelvis in tAvo divisions, one of -which pierces the pyriformis, and the other in the usual position. This fact must be borne in mind in the operation of " stretclung" this nerve. It is important to remember its course in connection with the operation of acupuncture for sciatica; further, it is important to bear in mind, in the oj)eratiou of stretching this nerve, that it can be exposed Avithout cutting through any muscular structure, at the lower border of the gluteus maximus (indicated by the fold of the nates), in the interval between that muscle and the long head of the biceps. To Stretch the Great Sciatic.—The instruments required are—A knife to shave the parts, carbolic oil, a scalpel, dissect- ing forceps, retractors, sponges, needles and horse-hair sutures, collodion, pads of cotton avooI and bandages, chloroform, etc. The Surgeon should, if he has a choice, stand at the o-pfosite side from the nerve about to be stretched. 1. At the Fold of the Buttock.—The part must first be rendered thoroughly aseptic. It is then shaved, if necessary, and an incision made, about two inches in length, in the line of the ]ierve; this incision divides the skin, superficial fascia, fatty tissue, and deep fascia. The finger is then introduced to hook out the nerve, which is found in the angle formed by the gluteus maximus on the inner side, and the hamstrings, as they arise from the ischial tuberosity, on the outer side; the finger first touches the vastus externus, and when drawn across this muscle towards the operator, the first tiling caught is the great sciatic nerve (Ciiiene). The nerve is then to be stretched as much as the Surgeon deems necessary, being first pulled Avell out, aud then up the limb and down the limb, in a number of short jerlcs rather than a long, steady pull. Some Surgeons lift the limb from the table by the nerve. Dr Syjiingtox advises care, lest the sacral plexus be torn aAvay from the cord. A caution is usually given not to stretch the tendon of the semi- membranosus by mistake; but by tlie above plan this is not likely to hapi)en, for it would bo impossible to liook that tendon out at