128 Applied Anatomy {(j) The pulmonary brandies, motor to the Lroncliial muscles, and excito-motor for respiration. {h) Oesophageal branches (plexus gulic). {!) The gastric branches—motor, sensory, secretory, and vaso-iuhibitory. In severe liead injuries, a not uncommon complication is pneu- monia, probably because the vagus is in some way interfered Avith, and hence also the vomiting, thirst, and sleeplessness. In shock this is the nerve first aflected, and then, through this, to the heart and abdominal bldod-vessels; the heart quickly recovers, but the paresis of the abdominal and other vessels may last some time, and keep i;p tlic condition of collapse. The vagus has extensive communications Avith the great sympathetic Jierve plexuses of the abdomen, and it is in this Avay that vomiting is caused in strangulated hernia. This nerve is the most remarkable nerve in the Avhole body. It supplies the liver, spleen, and kidney, probably the ovaries, uterus, and testicles; the right nerve ending, I believe, at the point of the penis, supplying the glans. It is probably in this Avay that crushes of the kidney and testicle arc so often followed by A^omiting; the connection of the nerve Avith the ovaries and uterus may explain to a certain extent the vomiting of pregnancy, the globus hystericus, etc. Certain it is that the vagus is the nerve most intimately connected Avith emotions, whether of joy or sorroAv, and very probably, from its effect on the heart, some have been said to die of a " broken heart," and others from excess of joy, from the too great efiect on the inhibitory centre. In concussion of the upper part of the cord, the vagus is often affected, producing a sense of suffocation, irregular action of the heart, and vomiting. Strong counter ii'ritation applied over the course of the vagi, between the mastoid process and the angle of the jaAV, has been found of great service in cholera, and has also acted like magic in cases of Avhooping-cough (Tnglott). 3. The Spinal Accessory.—This is purely a motor nerve, and supplies the trapezius and sterno-mastoid; it also giA^es motor fibres to the vagus for the pharynx and larynx. The inlribitory nerve of the heart also comes from this nerve, and enters the vagus through the upper ganglion. This nerve is also affected in certain forms of " Torticollis."