Surgical, Hfedica/, and Operative. 195 The Treatment is to get properly-shaped boots, having the inner border straight, the toe broad, and with a separate compartment for the big toe; the stocking will also require to have a separate compartment for the toe. In aggravated cases it may be necessary to perform osteotomy of the metatarsal bone near its head, an operation resembling Macewen's for genu valgum, and so bring it straiglit. When the joint is opened by suppuration it may be necessary to amputate. Hammer Toe.—In this condition the proximal phalanx is on its normal level, or but sUghtly bent up; the two distal phalanges are bent down at an acute angle, the apex of which is formed by the articulation between the first and second. It usually occurs in the second toe, as this toe is frequently longer than the others, and the boot presses it back, so that it becomes bent in the way described; when this condition lasts for any length of time it is impossible to straighten it without operative measures, on account of the contraction of the digital prolongations of the plantar fascia. In course of time, too, the flexor tendons shorten. Over the angle on the upper surface, a bunion is apt to form, inflame, and sup- purate, and may even open into the joint. In the young it may be possible to put the toe right by dividing the fascia subcutaneously opposite the first phalanx, then straighten the toe, and use projier boots afterwards. In the adult, either get proper boots with special accommodation for the bunion, or else amputate the entire toe. Some recommend excision of the head of the first phalanx, but the game is hardly worth the candle. Hallux RIgidus, or Stiff Big Toe, is a condition very frequently associated with flat foot; the toe cannot be dorsiflexed at the metatarso-phalangeal articulation, and all attempts to do so are painful. For the same reason walking is painful, as at every step the big toe in the normal foot is dorsiflexed, and the jiatient therefore tends to walk on the outer border of the foot to take all movement and pressure off tlie great toe. The cause of this condition has been the subject of a good deal of discussion, but Jio definite conclusion has been arrived at; in flat-foot the head of the astragalus passes downwards, forwards, and inwards, and no doubt displaces and stretches the tendon of the flexor longus hallucis, somewhat after the manner of the string of a violin over the