Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 279 wall to readily admit of its being brought forwards and stitched to the anterior wall, without undue strain on the various structures. An Abscess beneath the Diaphragm may simulate pneumo- thorax, especially on the right side. Such abscesses often become partly hlled with air, and so may raise the diaphragm and com- press the lung, the pleura remaining normal; the liver may also be pushed down. The abscess may result from perforation of the stomach, or perforation of the appendix or other parts of the intestine. The diagnosis between such a subphrenic abscess and a pyo-pneumothorax is difficult: in the subphrenic form, there will be (1) probably some previous signs of abdominal disease; (2) an absence of cough and expectoration, at least during the early days of the condition; (3) the heart is not displaced, nor do the intercostal spaces bulge; (4) the respiratory murmur below the clavicle is normal over the retracted lung, and there is an abrupt transition to an amphoric hum lower doAvn; (5) the displaced liver, its usual position being occupied by a tympanitic percussion note ; and (6) metallic tinkling on combined ausculta- tion and percussion, and also on succussion, together with the absence of vocal fremitus. THE PANCREAS. The Pancreas.—This is an elongated gland that passes in a slightly oblique manner across the posterior wall of the abdomen at the level of the first lumbar vertebra, or about three inches above the umbilicus. It consists of a head, body, and tail,— the head is chiefly in the right lumbar region, the body in the epigastric, and the tail in the left hypochondrium. Its length varies from six to eight inches, and its weight from two to three and a half ounces. Relations.—The head is grasped by the horse-shoe-like curve formed by the duodenum; the tail is in contact with the lower part of the concave surface of the spleen. In front, we find the stomach, the lesser bag of the peritoneum, and the ascending layer of tlu! transverse meso-colon. The posterior surface lies upon, from right to left, the bile duct, the infericn' vena cava, the vena portie, right crus of the diaphragm, the aorta, the root of the superior mesenteric artery, loft cnis of the diaphragm, left kidney, and left