Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 297 surface. (4) A meso-colon is less frequently found on this side. (5) The contents of the gut care less fluid than on the right side. In a child, the danger of wounding the peritoneum would be much greater, because a descending meso-colon is often present. The patient is placed somewhat on the right side, and the loin of the side to be operated upon made prominent by placing a pillow beneath the opposite side. The instruments required are the same as for gastrostomy, except that we will require some special apparatus for inflating the gut if it is empty, as the peritoneum is in great danger if the gut is not distended—such as Lund's apparatus—and some tube and evacuator for emptying it if it be full, and if the operation is to be done in one stage. The Surgeon stands behind the patient, and with a tape measures the direct distance between the anterior and the posterior superior iliac spines, and makes a mark at the mid-point, or half-an-inch behind it, and draws a line from this vertically upwards to the costal margin—usually near the tip of the last rib. Various forms of incision may be used; the oblique is very frequently adopted (Fig. 179, 2), and is the one Mr Bryant prefers, as there is less risk of prolapse of the bowel afterwards. It is four or five inches in length, and is made parallel with the intercostal nerves and the last rib, and midway between that bone and the iliac crest; its centre is placed opposite the ink line made in the ilio-costal space. (1) The skin and superficial fascia are divided, with fatty tissue, cutaneous vessels, and nerves. (2) The deep fascia is next divided, and then parts of (3) the latissimus dorsi, at the posterior end of the incision, and (4) the external oblique at the anterior part, are exposed and divided; these muscles, as well as those that follow, must be divided to the full extent of the superficial wound. Next (6) the internal oblique is divided in the same manner, and probably a small piece of (6) the serratus posticus inferior muscle. In the wound, part of the transversalis muscle with its undivided aponeurosis, and the posterior lamella of the fascia lumborum is exposed; further, at this stage we will find the last dorsal nerve aiid artery. They run outwards in front of the quadratus lumborum along the lower border of tlic last rib, and at the outer border of the muscle pierce the undivided aponeurosis of the transversalis muscle and pass forwards between