Applied Anatomy: 186 on account of tlie close relation of the posterior tibial vessels, and the long saijhenous vein. The tendon of the tibialis anticus passes downwards and forwards to be inserted into the anterior part of the internal cuneiform bone and the base of the first metatarsal; the tendon of the tibialis posticus grooves the inner side of the posterior surface of the tibia just above the malleolus, and then passes downwards and forwards to be inserted into the tubercle of the scaphoid, and the posterior part of the internal cuneiform bone. The position of the tendons may be ascertained by trying to evert the foot, and thus making them tense, if not already rendered tense and evident by the deformity. The tendon of the tibialis posticus is divided an incli or more above the internal malleolus, in order to be well aAvay from the synovial sheath of the tendon and the dense tube of fascia, as otherwise, it is said, the divided ends might unite with the fascial sheath and so cripple the action of the muscle afterwards. In doing so be careful to avoid wounding the posterior tibial artery which lies about a finger's-breadth behind it; to save the artery, a blunt-pointed tenotomy knife should be used after the sheath lias been opened by a sharp-pointed tenotome. If the division is made higher up there is more danger of dividing the flexor longus digitorum than when it is done at the point named. In this situation the tendon lies midway between the anterior and posterior borders of the leg—a point of some importance to know when dealing with the fat legs of cliildren. Another guide in such cases is to carry the thumb or finger nail over the surface of the tibia till it just sinks over its inner border; this wiU indicate the j)osition of the tendon and the point where it should be divided. The assistant flexes and abducts to make the tendon tense, and the ojDerator then places his left thumb on the place where he is to divide it, and keeps it there till the tendon is divided; after which a dossil of corrosive wool is placed on the iiimcturc. Sometimes the posterior tibial artery is divided; this is known by the sudden blanching of the sole of the foot, and increase of bleeding from the wound; this accident is of no consequence in an infant. In older cases, however, it may be the origm of a traumatic false aneurism. To cure this perform the " old oiieration " (see vol. i., page 11). The tendon may also be divided below the internal malleolus. The tibialis anticus is divided on a level witli