356 Applicd A natomy: a truss is that tlie continuous pressure causes atrophy of the walls of the canal; some, therefore, advise that it should be taken off during tlie evening or night, to make the pressure intermittent. In almost every case, and certainly always in children, a double- headed truss should be used. Femoral hernia is the worst to manage, as it is very difhcult, or almost impossible, to press on the neck of the sac; in these cases an " opposite-sided" truss (Salmon & Ody), or Spence's triangular pad, must be used. In fitting a truss on a cliUd, remember that the canal is not oblique, but straight in above the crest of the pubes. If the truss allows the hernia to slip through beneath it, instead of being a safeguard, it is an additional source of danger. Unless the truss fits well and keeps up the hernia, the patient is far safer without it. Measurements and Directions to be sent to the Instrument Maker in regard to a Truss.—It is better always to send the patient, if possible, both to be measured and to get it " fitted on" afterwards. If this be inconvenient, or impossible, then (1) take the circumference of the body one inch below the iliac crests, or midway between the great trochanter and the anterior superior iliac spine, the tape being carried from the lower lumbar spines, and then sloping down to the symphysis pubis. Instrument makers state that this is sufficient for single or double-headed spiral trusses, and for the double-headed Salmon & Ody truss. For the single-headed spiral truss, however, it is probably also as well to send (2) the dis- tance between the anterior superior spine and the hernial orifice. (3) State whether the hernia is single or double, and if single, whether it is on the right or left side. (4) State the nature of the hernia, whether inguinal or femoral, and give some idea of its size. (5) Take a rigid cast of one or both sides of the pelvis by means of a strip of lead, or a flattened gas-pipe; and if this cast cannot be sent as it is, then take a full-sized outline of it on a sheet of paper and send that. This is of great value, because it shows the shape of the pelvis, whether it is flattened or rounded; and if the cast can be sent it will also show the requisite amount of spiral or bevel to give the spring. (6) Lastly, send a rough sketch, showing the hernial orifices, pubic spine, Poupart's ligament, and the anterior superior iliac spine, and mark upon it the exact place where the pad should press.