Applied Anatomy: 32 impossible to keep the wound aseptic. In making the incision, we must also avoid Avounding Stenson's duct. We may trephine— (1) So as to find the nerve before it enters the bone, or (2) so as to find it in the bone. It is probably better to take it just before or at its entrance into the bone, because at this point the lingual nerve may also be divided through the same opening. Both nerves in this situation lie on the internal pterygoid muscle, the lingual nerve being about half-an-inch anterior to the inferior dental. Between the cavity of the mouth and the nerves in question we have — (1) Part of the internal lateral ligament of the lower jaw, (2) the internal pterygoid muscle, (3) part of the sirperior constrictor of the pharynx, and (4) the mucous membrane of the mouth. In using an incision parallel with the branches of the facial nerve, over the point Avhere Ave Avish to trephine, the following Structures Avill probably be divided — (1) The skm and the superficial and deep fascia, (2) some outlying lobules of the parotid gland or socia, (3) the facial vein or some- of its large tributaries, (4) the masseter muscle, (5) the periosteum, and (6) bone. After having made the incision through the soft parts and the periosteum, this latter structure should be turned aside Avitli the elevator; the trephine is then applied, and the circle of bone remoAi-ed, the nerves hooked up, and as much as possible of their trunks excised. By the parallel incision the branches of the facial nerve, the transverse facial vessels, and the duct of tlie parotid gland will usually escape injury. The Auriculo-Temporal Nerve may be reached as it crosses the root of the zygoma, and hehind the temporal artery; exjDOse the nerve by an incision parallel to its course, and stretch it, taking care of the temporal vessels. Before, hoAvever, resorting to such extreme measures for the relief of neuralgia, etc., it is a good plan ahvays to examine the mouth, and direct the patient to get rid of all rotten teeth, AA'hich are perhaps the most common cause of neuralgia. Division of the Lingual Nerve Gudatonj").—This being the nerve of common sensation to the anterior tAvo thirds of the tongue, its division has been practised inside the moutli, Avith the view of relieving the paiu of cancerous ulcers of that organ, and