106 Applied Anatomy: in many cases neither of these will give free enough access, though the wound can more easily be kept aseptic, and the jaw is not divided. 3. In cases where very free access is required, as when the the disease has spread back to the tonsil, use Syme's method; though perhaps the least safe, it gives the freest possible access. It is also to be used in cases where both sides of the anterior part of the floor of the mouth are involved, with enlarged glands under the jaw. This method will probably always require a j)relimiuary laryngotomy. Lymphatics of the Tongue. — The lymphatics of the tongue accompany the ranine veins, and pass through some small glands lying on the hyoglossus, and thereafter folloAV the course of the lingual vein, and enter the deep cervical glands near the bifurcation of the common carotid and the great cornu of the hyoid bone; it is here, therefore, that one must look for secondary glandular enlargement in epithelioma of that organ. The anterior part of the tongue may also affect the submaxillary glands, while the posterior part may affect the glands at the angle of the jaw before entering the deep cervical set. In Epithelioma of the Tongue, pain in the ear is regarded as a specially grave symptom; it may indicate either that the disease has passed deeply into the floor of the mouth and involved the trunk of the lingual nerve, or that it has passed so far back as to involve the tonsil. In the former case the pain is conducted to the ear and temporal region along the lingual nerve, and from it to the other branches of the third division of the fifth, especially the auriculo-temporal nerve; in the latter the pain passes along the branches of Meckel's ganglion to the second division of the fifth, and from that to the temple, along the temporal branch of the orbital nerve. There is, however, still another explanation—viz., that the disease has passed so far back as to involve the posterior tliird of the tongue, which is supplied by the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. This nerve, besides supplying the tongue, is also the source of the chief supply to the tonsil. It is probable, therefore, that the tympanic branch of this nerve (Jacobson's nerve), carries the irritation to tlie tympanic plexus; hence the pain in the ear, and