293 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. open it by a tenotomy knife, or trocliar and cannula. All incisions must be made in the axis of the pelvis, i.e., with an indination towards the sacrum. In cases where a part of the rectum is absent it is often difficult to know what to do. If the rectum ends in the jKlris the ischial tuberosities will be much further apart than when it ends 171 the iliac fossa. If, then, we have reason to believe that the lower end of the gut is in the pelvis an effort may be made to find it from the perineum. The chief points to be attended to are—{a) The small size of the pelvis and the relations of the bladder and the internal iliac vessels; {h) the bladder must be emptied lest it be mistaken for the distended rectum; (c) a sound should be passed into the bladder, in the male, and the vagina in the female, to act as guides to the operator; [d) & crucial incision will give most room for the finger, and it should be made in the position of the anus; (c) all the deeper incisions must be made exactly in the middle line, and in the axis of the pelvis. Very often the bowel can be felt bulging when the child cries, or when the abdomen is pressed ujjon by an assistant. (/) Try, if possible, to bring the mucous membrane down to the external wound, otherwise the risk of extravasation of fteces and consequent pelvic cellulitis is very great. In cases where the gut opens into the urethra in the male, or the vagina in the female, plastic operations Avill be required. In cases where the gut cannot be found by the perineal route, or in cases where plastic operations are out of the question, we may—(1) Perform left inguinal colotomy (Littre). (2) Perform right inguinal colotomy (Huguier), as the colon, it is said, frequently bends to tlie right, when there is no rectum. One very serious objection to opening the caicum, or any part of the ascending colon, is that the faeces in this p»art of the gut are very fluid, and cause great irritation around the artificial anus, in spite of the greatest possible care. (.3) Left lumbar colotomy may bo performed (Amussat). The objections to this operation are that the colon is often loose and takes an irregular course in the child, malpositions are very common, and there may be a long meso-colon. (4) Lastly, we may perform abdominal section, search for the end of the gut, and do the best under the circumstances. Lymphatics of the Intestines.—The glands of the small gut are very numerous, and lie between the two layers of the mesentery,