351 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. bubbles of gas escape, it indicates perforation or putrefaction. In dividing tlie constriction, the director may be used to divide tlie tight margin, but for the deeper parts of the stricture the finger is the best and safest director; it is passed up into the sac (the left index finger) and the nail slipped under the tight edge of the constricting band; the hernia knife is then passed along its jjalmar surface, lying flat upon it, till it is passed through the constriction, and has the cutting edge opposite that point. The blade is then turned for about a quarter of a circle, with its edge pointing in the proper direction, and the sharp edge of the constriction is in this way notched, and the finger is then passed into the abdomen to feel that all is clear. The contents must now be examined. The gut is pulled down a little way, and the part where the compression was applied, and the gut immediately above it, carefully examined; it may either be at once returned or left in the wound. After reducing the gut, put the finger up the canal, to make sure that the gut is in the abdominal cao'dij. The colour is of little conse- quence, provided the natural gloss of the gut is not lost, and as long as this glisten remains the gut may be put back into the abdomen; if in doubt, relieve the constriction, and let the gut lie in the wound. If it has an ashy-grey, softened look, and the glistening appearance gone, then it must not be put back, but must be left in the wound; and in doubtful cases return it just within the ring, keeping the doubtful part opposite the wound, ami leave the wound open. Recent adhesions may be torn through, old ones ligatured, if necessary, and cut. The Omentum may be either returned, or left in the sac, to plug up the orifice, or ligatured, and a part cut ofi', according to its condition and size. The neck of the sac is then to be separated well up into the internal ring, and tied flush Avith the interior of the abdomen, and the walls of tlie canal draAvn together by catgut sutures. The wound is then closed, and a catgut drain or small tube iiitruduced at its lower angle, and a guod broad antiseptic dressing applied, with plenty of wool, and the Avhole steadied by a domett spica. Tlie patient is then put to bed and kept warm, and a dose of opium administered, cither by the mouth, hypo- dermically, or per rectum (one-half grain morphia suppository).