Surgical, Rhdical, and Operative. 239 cells, the best known of which are the large multipolar cells of the anterior cornu : the functions of these cells are threefold— 1. They are Motor, passing on and intensifying the motor impulses from the brain. 2. They are Centres for Reflex Action. Reflexes are of two kinds—superficial, or skin, and deei), or tendon reflexes; the paths in the two cases are nearly the same, except that the afl^erent fibres for the deep reflexes do not enter the posterior horn directly, but traverse for a short distance the postero - external column (column of Burdach), and then enter the grey matter and pass to the anterior cells; this fact probably explains the early loss of the knee jerk (reflex of the ligamentum patellse) in locomotor ataxia, since this disease hecjins in the column in question (Fig. 174). The machinery necessary for a reflex act—(1) A sensory surface, (2) an afferent nerve, (3) a nerve centre, (4) an efferent nerve, and (5) a muscle. Injury to any one of the five parts mentioned will necessarily abolish the reflex. 3. The cells are further Trophic Centres to the various volun- tary muscles, and when destroyed the muscles waste with extreme rapidity, and give what is termed the "reaction of degeneration;" this reaction consists of both quantitative and qualitative changes, and to a great extent depends on the fact that when the nerves going to or those formed in the muscles are destroyed, then the (jalvanic current only will cause contraction of the muscle; the faradic has no power over muscles when the nerves are destroyed. The quantitative change consists in the fact that, after the first week, the muscle shows increased sensitiveness to galvanic elec- tricity ; the qualitative, in the fact that what occurs at the cathode (or negative pole) in health, takes place at the a7iode (or positive pole) in all cases where these multipolar cells are destroyed—i.e., the cathodal closing contraction, instead of being the stronger, is now feebler than the anodal closing contraction. Thus the order of contractions at the two poles in health is— C. C. C. : A. C. 0. : A. 0. C. : C. 0. C. But in the " reaction of degeneration " the anode and cathode are reversed, and we have— A. C. C. : C. C. C. : C. 0. C. : A. 0. C.