Si/ro/ra/, MediaxI, and Operative. 491 Special Pelvic Blood-Vessels in Female.—Arteries—(1) The uterine artery, which is a Lrauch of the anterior division of the internal iliac, and is found between the two layers of the broad ligament. It takes a very tortuous course, and its branches to the uterine walls are also spiral in direction, and preserve this feature in the substance of the uterus, and are tlierefore known as the " curling arteries of the uterus." (2) The vaginal artery, also from the anterior division of the internal iliac; it is distributed to the vagina, rectum, and bladder. (3) The ovarian artery, a branch of the abdominal aorta, resembling the spermatic in the male j it reaches the ovary by passing between the two layers of the broad ligament, and, after a very tortuous course, enters its anterior border. Veins.—There is no prostatic plexus in the female, hence the dorsal vein of the clitoris joins the vesical plexus; the vaginal plexus empties into the internal iliac vein, while the uterine plexus is drained chiefly by the ovarian veins; the uterine veins are not tortuous like the arteries. The ovarian veins are analogous to the spermatic in the male, and terminate in like manner—the right entering the inferior vena cava at an acute angle, while the left passes under the sigmoid flexure, and enters the left renal vem at a right angle. In the male this fact is said to explain, partly, the frequent occurrence of varicocele on the left side, as the vein is apt to be squeezed by the faecal accumulation in the sigmoid flexure; now, in the female, faecal accumulation is still more common, and this jierhaps helps to explain why it is that women so frequently complain of pain in tlie " left side," in the region of the ovary—the pressure on the vein leading to chronic venous congestion of the left ovary. From the communications between the pelvic plexuses of veins and the portal system of veins, it is easy to understand Avhy congestion of the liver, or any condition compressing the portal capillaries, should react on the pelvis, producing, as one symptom, menorrhagia. CASTRATION. This may be required for malignant disease of the testicle, as cystic sarcoma, chondro-sarcoma (" enchundroma"), and the different forms of cancerous disease, usually encephaloid ; also in