Applied Anatomy: 240 But this reaction occurs not only when the cells arc destroyed, but also in all cases where the fibres conveying the influence from the cells to the muscles are divided—e.cj., in division of the ulnar or musculo-spiral nerves; it does not occur in cerebral lesions, and for this reason electricity is of great imjDortance as a means of diagnosis between a lesion of the grey matter of the cord and a lesion of the grey matter of the brain. The Special Reflex Centres of the cord are:—Centres to the organs of generation, the bladder, and rectum, situated in the lower part of the cord; vaso-motor centres, and centres for the secretion of sweat all through the cord. For the cilio-spinal centre, see vol. i., page 546. TROPHIC SYSTEM OF NERVES. This system of nerves presides over the nutrition of the tissues and of the spinal cord. It seems, so far as is at present known, to consist of three divisions. The First Division, or system, of trophic cells, is situated in the grey matter of tlie cerebrum, and presides over the nutrition of the motor tracts of the cord. The Second Division, or system, of trophic cells, is found in the cells of the anterior horn of the cord, and presides over the nutrition of the voluntary muscles. The Third Division, or system, of trophic cells, is found in the ganglia of the posterior roots of the spinal nerves, and presides over the sensory tracts of the cord. Of the third but little is known clinically; it may be that this is at the root of locomotor ataxia. When any part is cut off from its trophic supply, that part very speedily degenerates; thus, destroy the ganglia on the posterior root, and we find an ascending degeneration of the sensory tracts; in apoplexy, where the motor tracts are severed from their trophic cells, we find a descending degeneration of these tracts; and in infantile paralysis, where the cells in the anterior horn are destroyed, the muscles nourished from the destroyed area undergo rapid atrophy, and give the "reaction of degeneration" with the galvanic current. In order to fix the previous anatomical and physiological facts in the student's memory, I will apply them, as far as possible, to two common diseases—ordinary apoplexy, and infantile paralysis.