290 Applied Anatojiiy : it in this position by introducing half-a-dozen or so of Lembert's sutures. Should the stump he long, it will be advisable to fasten it to some neighbouring part, lest, if left free, it may contract adhesions elsewhere, and form a loop under which the gut may be strangulated at a later date. Development of the Alimentary Canal.—The mouth is formed by an involution of parts of the face, and at first forms no part of the alimentary canal; this part, therefore, is of epiblastic formation, and is known as the stomodseum. It is usually stated that this involution joins the fore-gut about the region of the pillars of the fauces, but Mr Sutton states that the point of junction is on a level with the cricoid cartilage. From the fore-gut are developed the gullet, stomach, and part of the duodenum ; and in connection with different parts of these the rudiments of the lungs, liver, and pancreas. The fore-gut and the stomodffium ought to meet and join at the cricoid cartilage. In some cases, however, they do not do so, and then the gullet communicates with—or rather, has not separated from—the windpipe. In other cases, a thin membranous partition may only intervene, or this partition may be perforated in the centre, and form a congenital stricture of the oesophagus, at the level of the cricoid cartilage. From the mid-gut, the greater part of the small and large intestines are developed. Accordmg to Mr Sutton, the fore-gut and mid-gut should join just above the entrance of the bile duct. Here, again, the two parts may be separated by some distance, or the partition between them may be only partially absorbed, or not absorbed at all, thus forming either a comj)lete or perforated septum in the gut at this point. The jejunum and ileum project as a looj) through the as yet cleft abdominal wall, with the aUantois and vessels of the umbilical cord. The portion of the loop Avhich becomes the ileum is originally continuous with the umbilical vesicle through the omjshalo-mesenteric, or vitello- intestinal duct, through which the contents of that vesicle are absorbed as nourishment to the foetus tiU the placenta is in working order. This duct should entirely disapjjear, but sometimes it persists as a tube of greater or less length, passing between the lower part of the ileum and the umbilicus, when it is known as Meckel's diverticulum. Occasionally it remains patent, and then fcecal matter is discharged at the umbilicus; usually, however, it