Applied Anatomy: 7G the mouth; in the latter case, tlie hall will also prohahly frac- ture the vault froni within outwards. (4) Genuine contre coiqi, where the skull is struck, say on the vertex or sides, fracturing the base, and yet there is no fissure radiating from the point struck. A blow about the root of tlie nose may fracture the cribrifoi'm plate of the ethmoid or the orbital plate of the frontal, and a fall on the chin may force the condyle of the jaw through the middle fossa of the skull (Chassaignac), or fracture the petrous portion of the temporal (Hutchinson). The general signs of fracture of the base are—(1) Long-continued haemorrhage, (2) escape of the cranial contents, and (3) injury to the cranial nerves. In cases where a severe blow is struck on the head without causing depression of the bone, the effects of contre coup are well shown. This is due to the propulsion of the brain against the bone at the opposite point, and contusion of the brain substance is greater at this point than just beneath the fracture, though it is contused at both places. Hence, in these cases, the paralysis is always greatest on the side of the injury—i.e., the side opposite to the contusion caused by contre coup (Hutchinson). In the Anterior Fossa there is extravasation of blood into the orbit, and under the conjunctiva and skin of the lid, or possibly bleeding from the nose, sometimes followed by the escajje of cerebro-spinal fluid; the blood may come from the meningeal vessels or from the mucous membrane of the nose. In this case the Structures severed are — (1) The arachnoid, (2) the dura mater, (3) the cribriform plate, and (4) the mucous membrane of the nose. Should the patient be lying on his back, the blood from the nose may trickle back into the pharynx and be swallowed and afterwards vomited, giving rise to a suspicion of internal uijury. When the blood passes under the conjunctiva, it shows that the periosteum lining the roof of the orbital cavity is torn; as, were it not so, then the blood would only pass into the skin of the lid. In a case of this kind, therefore, the following parts are ruptured —(1) The arachnoid, (2) the dura mater, (3) the bone, (4) the periosteum of the orbit. The first and second pairs of cranial nerves may also be damaged; a common condition is effusion of blood into the sheath of the optic nerve, causing blindness, which gradually passes off as tlie blood is absorbed. When the