318 Applied Anatomy: shoulder tip, or else to irritation of the vagus, transmitted along the spinal accessory, which communicates with the cervical nerves in the posterior triangle. Similar referred pains are also noticed in disorders of the stomacli; thus in dyspepsia we find pain under the left scapula and in the loins and limbs, and in gastric ulcer pain is felt over the lower dorsal vertebrae, as Avell as locally. THE GALL BLADDER. The Gall Bladder lies in a depression on the under surface of the liver; its fundus is directed towards the abdominal Avail, being directed downwards and forwards and to the right, and projects slightly beyond the anterior edge of the liver. It is about four inches in length, one inch in breadth at its widest part, and holds from eight to ten drachms. It is situated behind the ninth costal cartilage (opposite the tip of the tenth costal cartilage—Quain), close to the right linea semilunaris (see Tig. 176, rj). It rests below, on the commencement of the transverse colon, and further back is in contact with the duodenum, and sometimes with the pyloric end of the stomach. In cases where the common bile duct is obstructed, as by gall stones, the gall bladder is distended with bile, often forming a large tumour. The swelling moves with respiration, since it is attached to the liver, and may be seen moving under the abdominal parietes as the patient breathes; further, it is egg-shaped, with the large end forwards. The patient may or may not be jaundiced. It will often be difficult to be (juite sure what is the cause of tlie obstruction before actually cutting down upon it—whether from gall stone-s, catarrh of the duct or duodenum, or tumours, simple and malignant, pressing on the duct from without. Cholecystotomy.—To relieve this condition the gall bladder has been opened by Lawson Tait and others, and the obstruction removed. This operation is known as "cholecystotomy." Tlie incision is made over the most prominent part of the tiunour parallel with the linea alba, in the linea alba, in the Hnea semi- lunaris, or, perhaps best of all, obliquely, parallel with the costal margin. The operation may be done in one or two stages, as in gastrostomy. Care must be taken, in dislodging the stones, lest perforation take place.