842 Applied Anatomy: 'pillarp. of the ring (Fig. 186, 2). The upper, or internal, pillar or columu consists of a flattened part of the tendon of the external ohlique, passing downwards to he fixed to the front of the symphysis jxihis; the lower, or external, pillar is chiefly formed hy the inner end of Poupart's ligament, and is thicker and more rounded than the other pillar, and is attached to the spine of the puhes. At the upper part of the ring there are some fibres seen passing in a transverse direction, and these are called the inter-columnar fibres. Poupart's ligament is attached internally to the spine of the puhes, and also into the pectineal line forming Gimbernat's ligament, and is to he regarded as part of the insertion of the external ohlique; a part, however, of its tendon of insertion, springing from the pectineal line and pubic crest, passes behind the internal pillar of the ring, and decussates in the linea alba with the tendon of the opposite side, forming the " triangular fascia." The ring transmits the spermatic cord in the male and the round ligament in the female. The internal ring is an opening in the fascia transversalis, and is situated about half an inch above the middle of Poupart's ligament (a point midway between the symphysis pubis and the anterior superior iliac spine.—Cunningham.) (Fig. 186, 1). Boundaries of the Canal.—In Front—(1) The external oblique (throughout its Avhole length); (2) the internal obhque (for its outer third); (3) the cremaster muscle. Behind—(1) The fascia transversalis (throughout its whole length); (2) the con- joined tendon (for its inner third); (3) the triangular fascia; and (4) the deep epigastric artery. The floor is formed by Poupart's ligament, and the roof by the free arched lower border of the transversalis muscle. The Descent of the Testicles.—The testicles are originally situated in the abdominal cavity, below the kidneys and behind the peritoneum; but before birth they pass down into the scrotum. Up to about the end of the sixth month of ftntal life they are found below the kidney, at the posterior part of the abdominal wall; but as the process of development becomes more and more complete, they gradually descend, so that, by the seventli niontli, they are situated behind the internal abdominal ring. During the eic^hth month they pass through the canal, and by the end of the