Applied Anatomy: 46 It may be partly solid and partly cystic; it occurs in the sub- cutaneous tissue in the middle line of the neck, in front of the trachea; it also forms one variety of the congenital sacro-coccygeal tumours. KANULA. This is a name applied to a cystic tumour in the sublingual region, pushing up the tip of the tongue, and carrying the body of the organ uj^wards and backwards. It interferes with the use of the tongue, and the voice is harsh and croaking, like the sound IDroduced by the croaking of frogs; hence the term ranula. It also interferes with deglutition, and may even affect respiration, threatening suffocation, especially in cases where the swelling forms or increases rapidly, as it does in the form known as "acute ranula." Varieties. — (1) The usual form, -with glairy mucous fluid. It forms a prominent swelling of a peculiar bluish tinge, from the contained fluid being seen through the mucous membrane, usually situated on one side of the middle line. The cyst wall is exceed- ingly thin, and seems to be formed by part of the natural structiires; it is almost impossible, and quite useless, to attempt to dissect out the cyst in the usual form of ranula. Its nature is disputed—(a) Some regard it as a true neoplasm —a cyst of new formation; {h) others as a " retention cyst" formed by obstruction of a mucous foUicle under the tongue { = a mucoiiji cyst); and (c) by others, again, it is regarded as a " retention cyst," due to obstruction of some of the acini (not the main ducts) of the sublingual or the submaxillary glands, as by a calculus. This view is supported by the uniformly constant position and the rela- tions of the tumour, and the slightly sacculated appearance of the cavity when opened, and the absence of a separate cyst wall. The objection is that the contents are not like saliva, and that we meet with similar swellings on the lips, whose contents are also exactly like the glairy mucous fluid of the ranula. {d) There is another possible origin in the sublingual hirsa mucosa, or space between the genio-hyoglossus and the mucous n^ombrane of the floor of the mouth, lined with squamous epithelium, (e) A ranula may also arise in connection with the glands of Blandin and Nuhn. These