323 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. and M'oU ilofinecl; (7) by passing one Land into the ilio-costal space, outside the mass of the erector spinas, while the other rests Hat on the front of the abdominal wall, it may be possible to tilt lip the tumour against tlie hand; (8) there is a line of resonance between the tumour and the vertebral spines, and tlic fingers can be readily dipped between the tumour and the spinal groove; and (9) its angle witli the costal margin is greater than a right angle. Causes of Splenic Enlargement.—It is enlarged tramientJij after every meal; more or less permanently in leucocyth;emia, adenia or Hodgkix'« disease, waxy disease, recent syphilis, and in rickets, intermittent and remittent fever, typhus, typhoid, and scarlet fever, and in congestion, from over-filling of the portal system of veins, as from valvular disease of the heart and cirrhosis of the liver. The fibrous capsule of the spleen contains mnch non-striped ninscuiar fibre, and therefore alters its shape easily. Rupture of the spleen is always a very serious accident, from the great iuemorrhage, and especially so in cases of enlarged spleen, as found m India. The free h;cniorrliage is not to be wondered at when one remembers the large size of tlie sjjlenic artery, and the absence of a proper system of capillaries. Excision of the Spleen.—This operation has been performed for—(1) Wounds or injuries of the spleen, (2) lloating spleen, (3) simple liypertrophy, and (4) malarial spleen. It must nut be performed for the enlarged spleen of leucocythtvmia; in sixteen cases Avhcre it was performed for tliis condition, ccerij patient died. As regards the Inclsion, it may be either made from tlie eightli costal cartilage along the left Unea semilunaris to the required extent (see Fig. 170, 2), or in the linea alba, Avith its centre opposite the umbilicus. The details of the operation closely resemble those of ovariotomy—the spleen being isolated from its surroundings, and its pedicle clamped and finally secured by ligature ; as already pointed out, the management of the gaslro- uplenic omentum, attached to the sides of the hilus, and cuiitaining the large vessels, forms the most diflicult part of the operation. All traction on the pedicle must be avoided, lest the si)lenic vein be ruptured; the best rcsidts have been obtained in those cases where there has been naturally a long gastro-splenic omentum. In lining out the organ, take care and not rupture its capsule.