21 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. as the arytenoid cartilages are not approximated; tlie air escapes througli this opening and the voice is lioarse. Paralysis of the Thyro-arytenoids.— During phonation, the free margins of the cords are excavated, they seem narrow and bhirred; the glottis assumes the shape of a narrow oval. One or both cords may be alfected. The most common Simple Tumours of the larynx are papillo- mata and fibromata; they usually spring from the anterior parts of the vocal cords. Malignant Disease is practically always cancerous in nature, very usually epithelioma; if it begins in the larynx, it usually starts over the pharyngeal aspect of the anjienoid cartilages; it may also spread from or to the upper part of the oesophagus. The commonest Ulcerations are—Tertiary syphilitic, tubercular (laryngealphthisis), and epitheliomatous. The Syphilitic may arise from superficial ulceration, softening of a gumma, or from peri- chondritis ; it usually attacks the base of the epiglottis first, and spreads round the aryteno-epiglottidean folds. Tubercular Disease usually begins in the inter-arytenoid fold and the laryngeal surfaces of the arytenoid cartilages; the cartilages appear as two large, pale, pyriform swellings, the broad ends of which point upwards and out- wards. It then spreads along and destroys the true vocal cords; further, the cartilages of Santorini and Wrisberg are lost, and the inter-arytenoid notch can no longer be distinguished. EXCISION OF THE LARYNX. The position of the patient and operator are the same as in trache- otomy. The following are the chief steps of the operation:— 1. Make a vertical median incision from the hyoid bone to the second ring of the trachea, cut through the deep fascia and separate the structures from the front and sides of the trachea, but do not interfere with the isthmus of the thyroid body, though tlic lateral lobes will have to be pushed aside. 2. Secure all bleeding vessels, both arteries and veins, prin- cipally the sup(?tior thyroid vessels and middle thyroid veins. iJraw forwards the trachea with a sharp hook and cut it acro.'<s, taking care not to injure the a'sophngus wliicli lies just behind it.