397 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. known by the history of the case—signs of inflam- matory feA'cr, with rigorand Avhen the abscess is opened, by the very fetid odour and brownish colour of the pus. The Anterior or Urethral Part.—It will bo well here to say a few words about the triatujular Uijament of the urethra, or deep l)criueal fascia; it is sometimes called the " im>>pcns(irii ligament of the urethra" (IMacleod), or the "urethral ligament" (Chiene). This is a ligament which fills up the pubic arch, and is, therefore, triangular in shape—hence its name; it divides the urethral triangle into superficial and deep parts. The urethra pierces it, but the penis is entirely in front of it, and the bulb lies in contact Avith its anterior surface. The so-called " posterior layer " of the triangular ligament is simply a part of the jjarictal layer of the pelvic fascia attached to tlie posterior lips of the margin of the j^ubic arch, and below to the base of the true triangular ligament. By this means there is a small space enclosed, which is spoken of as the "space between the two layers of the triangidar ligament." In tlie dissection of this part of the perineum, after having reflected the skin, we come to the superficial fascia—in this region it has been divided into a superficial and a deep layer; but these tAvo layers are practically one, only the layer has two distinct surfaces. This fascia is sometimes called the Fascia of Colles. Extravasation of Urine.—This may be caused by a rupture or A\ ound of the urctlira, as falling on a rail with the legs aj^art, a kick in the perineum, retention from a tight stricture, or perineal abscess behind a tight stricture. It may also complicate fracture of the pelvis. In cases of retention from a tight stricture, the mucous membrane ulcerates, ami when the patie:it is straiiung •with great force the urethra suddenly gives way, and the urine is rapidly extravasated; if it ru[)tures in front of the bulb, urine is eiliised into the erectile tissue, and may cause gangrene of tlie penis, bcginjiing in tlic glans. In cases of abscess the pus opens into the urethra, and urine passes into the abscess cavity, and if not o])encd externally will tend to diil'use itself widely in the tissues of the perineum. Tlie fascia concerned in this accident is thus attached—Laterally, it is attached to the margins of the pubic arch, as far back as tlie tuberosities of the ischia—beyond