Sjirgz'cal, Medical, and Operative. 39 tlie emiuontia articularis; but if this be continued too far, and if, at the same time, tlie external pterygoid muscle contracts forcibly, the condyle slips forward into the zygomatic fossa. In this way a dislocation is produced. Considerable difficulty is sometimes experienced in reducing these dislocations; as to the exact cause of this there is some difference of opinion. Nelaton believes that it is caused by the coronoid process locking against the malar bone, and in one case at least this has been shown to be possible; Ijut Mr Heath simply attributes it to excessive muscular action, the bone being pulled upwards by the temporal, internal pterygoid, and masseter muscles. Probably during the wide gape some of the sensory twigs of the fifth are squeezed, and the stimulus thus communicated to the nerve may reflexly cause contraction of the muscles that pull forward and depress the jaw. It is most likely to be the auriculo-temjioral nerve that is irritated in the same way, for example, as in ear yawning. Tire capsular ligament is not ruptured, and reduction is, as a rule, easily accomplished by dis engaging the condyle, by pressing down with the thumbs, guarded by a towel, in the mouth behind the last molar tooth, while at the same time the chin is pushed upwards and backwards by the fingers. Fracture of the Lower Jaw.—It is caused by severe direct violence. The most common situation is near the canine tooth, on one or other side, as at this point the jaw is ■weakened by the deep fang of that tooth as well as the mental foramen; it is next most frequently fractured at the angle, and lastly close to the symphysis: occasionally the neck of the condyle, or the coronoid process may be broken. Very often the fracture is double, near the canine tooth on one side and at the angle on tlie other. The mucous membrane is nearly always lacerated, and the fracture is therefore compound; tlie mental branch of the fifth is very often injured, either by the fracture directly, or a week or two after, by the growth and ossification of the " callus;" this is indicated hj an ancesthetic patch on the chin and lips. The teeth are generally displaced, or may be split and fall down between the broken surfaces; all split portions and fangs must be carefully removed before the bones arc moulded into position. The fragments are usually displaced by the force that broke the bone. As regards muscular