4,36 Applied Anatomy: witli the hand to expel the nriue, the Surgeon must on no account relax his j^ressure in the slightest degree till the catheter is with- draiun from the urethra completely, otherwise the abdominal muscles spring back, the intra-abdominal pressure is lessened, and air is driven up the catheter into the bladder, probably carrying septic micro-organisms with it. In retention from obstruction, tlie catheter enters with diffi- culty, but when once in, the urine is projected with considerable force, and is not influenced by the respiratory movements. A very fidl bladder should not be emptied all at once, lest it cause shock and fatal depression; draw off" forty ounces, let the patient rest an hour, and then draw off the rest. Incontinence of Urine. — True incontinence is of very rare occurrence, and is only found when the nerves of the bladder are injured. It is found in cases where a segment of the spiual cord is destroyed by disease or injury, usually about two weeks after the injur3^ The urine dribbles passively away as fast as it is secreted; active incontinence often occurs in boys at night during sleep, and in these cases always examine the penis for congenital lihimosis, adhesions of the prepuce to the glans, or accumulation of secretions under the prepuce about the corona glandis. Active incontinence in a child by day indicates great ii'ritability of the bladder, by night it rather shows atony of the sphincter—for the first, remove sources of irritation and try belladonna; but for the second, strychnia. The so - called " incontinence" of enlarged prostate, is not incontinence at all, but is simply the dribbling from an over - distended bladder, as the great pressure within opens up the neck of the viscus, and allows the urine to dribble through. Persistent dribbling in boys is also caused by stone, especially when coupled with a long prepuce, and by very tight traumatic strictures. In examining an unknown urethra to ascer- tain the existence, or otherwise, of stricture, always begin ^vith a good-sized instrument—say, No. 8. I will only but very briefly indicate the Treatment. In most cases dilatation by the ordinary method will be found sufficient— in ninety-nine cases out of every hundred. An instrument as large as the patient can comfortably bear is passed the first day; then at intervals of from three to four days larger sizes are passed, till the