396 Applied Anatomy: forms is to make tliem complete, and then lay the anal and abscess cavities into one. In cases of hsemophilia, the alastic ligature is vised for this purpose. Tlie abscess sometimes burrows round the rectum, in a horse-shoe fashion, before it opens into it. The com- plete form is the most common, and is usually from some irritation in the bowel; the incomplete forms are usually from constitutional causes. Mr Bell says that ischio-rectal abscess and fistula are most common just after the 12th of August, from swallowing grouse bones, which then stick about the rectum, and cause abscess and complete fistiUa. Two early and troublesome signs of fishila are the involuntary passage of flatus at awkward times, and soiling of the linen. The ischio-rectal fossa is also opened into in the operation of lateral lithotomy. Abscesses near the Rectum.—The various forms of abscesses met with in this neighbourhood are:— 1. INIarginal, in the cutaneous folds surrounding the anus, and therefore quite superficial, and probably due to some local cause—e.g., piles. 2. True ischio-rectal abscess, tubercular in nature usually, depending for its origin on the constitutional dyscrasia. A^ery often incomplete, opening into the gut only. It is more difficult to treat, and the prognosis mucli worse than in the purely local forms of abscess and fistida. 3. Abscess internal to tlie sphincters, lying between the muscular and mucous coats of the bowel, and opening into the rectum above the internal sphincter; this usually arises, in healthy men, from some local cause, and is very amenable to treatment when tlie local cause is removed. This form is not in the ischio-rectal fossa at all. tt. Peri-rectal abscess in the cellular tissue surrounding the gut (iieri-^mirAitis). Should it arise above the level of the visceral pelvic fascia, we got a condition corre- sponding to pelvic cellulitis in the female. In the male, such abscesses often spread up along the vas deferens to the inguinal .canal, and there form what is usually known as " Absce.ss of the Cord." Tlioy are