Applied Anatomy: 12G the digastric, and Lastly, the teusor tympani and the tensor palati. This third division appears on tlie face three times—(1) as the mental hranch, over the chin; (2) as the auriculo-temporal; and (3) as the lung huccal, on the cheek. The Otic Ganglion (Arnold's).—This ganglion lies immediately below the foramen ovale, on the inner surface of the inferior maxillary nerve, and round the origin of the nerve to the internal pterygoid muscle, and in front of the middle meningeal artery. Its roots are—(a) Motor, from the internal pterygoid nerve (third division of fifth), -which is the guide to the ganglion, and through Mdiich it supplies the tensor palati and tensor tympani muscles; {h) Sensory, from the auriculo-temporal; {<■) Siimpatlietlc, frojn the plexus on the middle meningeal artery; and {d) it also com- municates with the facial and glosso-pharyngeal through the small supei'ficial petrosal. Its secretory fibres probably come from the tympanic branch of the glosso-pharyngeal (Jacobson's nerve), rda the small superficial petrosal and auriculo-temporal nerves, and the otic ganglion. This nerve may be affected with " idiopathic " neuralgia, in disease of the teeth of the lower jaw, in ulcers of the tongue, in epithehoma of the tongue, and in the eruption of the lower wisdom teeth, and in tetanus; in irritable sores about the tongue, and in the eruption of the wisdom teeth, the muscles that close the jaws may be thrown into spasm reflexly, and simulate "lock-jaw." Spasm of the muscles of the jaw is often an early symj^tom in true tetanus, and is known as " trismus," or " locked jaw." The mental branch is often affected m fractures of the lower jaw. To Expose this Ganglion necessitates the dissection of the Pterygo-Maxillary Region.—(1) Clear out the parotid gland and the structures in it (see vol. ii., p. 95). (2) Eemove structures on the masseter—(«) Part of the parotid gland and socia, {h) Stbxson's duct, (c) the transverse facial artery and veins, (d) the facial vein, (e) branches of facial nerve and great auricular, and (/) the risorius muscle and some lymphatic glands. (3) Eemove the two layers of temporal fascia above the zygoma, and saw through that bone in front and behind, and throw it doAvu with the masseter muscle. (4) Snip off the coronoid process and throw it up along with the temporal muscle, and then saw through the ascending ramus, first