Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 283 The Duodenum.—Tliis part is -wider, more fixed, and its walls are thicker than any other part of the small intestine. It is found in the epigastric, the right hypochondriac, tlie right lumbar, and the umbilical regions. Except its first part, the whole of the tube is deeply jDlaced. 1. Its ascending part begins at the pylorus, in the epigastric region, then passes to the right, ending in the riglit hypochon- drium, at the neck of the gall bladder. It is completely enveloped by peritoneum, like the pyloric end of the stomach, and is freely movable, in order not to interfere with the movements of the stomach. Relations. — Above and in front, the liver and gall bladder; heliind, the portal vein, the gastro-duodenal artery, and the common bile duct. 2. The descending part descends vertically into the riglit lumbar region, as far as the level of the fhinl himhar verfebra: this part is fixed by cellular tissue, the peritoneum only touching its anterior surface slightly. This fixation is all the more necessary since the common bile duct and the pancreatic duct pierce its posterior surface, a little below its middle. Relations.—• In front, the hepatic flexure of the colon, and the ascending colon. Behind, the right kidney, only a little areolar tissue intervening. T(i tlie left, the head of the pancreas. •J. The transverse part extends from the termination of the descending part, passes across the spine, through the umbilical region, to the left side of the second lumbar vertebra; this part is firmly fixed by the musculas susxjensorius dtiodeni—a band of non-striated muscular fibres, mixed with fibrous tissue, taking its origin from the left crus of the diaphragm and tissue about the ca;liac axis. This portion is partly covered by the peritoneum —the transverse meso-colon. Relations.—Beliind, the vena cava, the left renal vein, the aorta, and the two crura of the diaphragm. It is crossed near its termination by the superior mesenteric vessels, and above is tlie lower Ijorder of the pancreas. 4. A second ascending part is sometimes described; tliis part is about one incli long, witli the Jront and sides covered by the peritoneum. It extends to a jioint wluire tlie small intestine receives a cdrnptele investment of peritoneum and a tlistiuct mesentery. Ai the point where the duodenum and jcjumim meet