278 Applied Anatomy: mecantime with the pylorus still attached; tliis cut surface is then closed by Lembeut's suture, with carholised silk, so that the peritoneal surfaces of the two walls are brought into contact. Tliis is necessary, because the stomach opening is much too large to fit the duodenum, or the duodenum might be cut ohliquehj, so as to obtain a larger border to meet the cut surface of the stomach. The remaining third of the circumference of the stomach is then divided, the duodenum cut through beyond the cancerous tumour, and Lembert's sutures introduced, so as to bring the duodenum and stomach into apposition—first at the posterior and then at the anterior surfaces. On the posterior aspect, the edges of the mucous membrane, which are apt to fall away or retract, may be attached to each other by special sutures. The parts are then replaced, the peritoneal cavity carefidly cleaned out, making sure that all bleeding points are secured, and the opening in the abdominal wall closed. For the first few days the patient must be fed per rectum, gradually leading up to fluid and then solid food by the mouth. (2) Gastro-Enterostomy.^—This operation may be performed in cases of cancer of the pylorus too bad for excision, or the cancerous mass may be excised, the ends of the stomach and the duodenum completely stitclied up, and then a food passage made by means of gastro-enterostomy. It consists, as I have alreadj^ said, in the establishment of a communication between tlie third part of the duodenum, or the ujiper part of the jejunum, and the stomach. (3) Jejunostomy.—An operation performed in cases of pyloric cancer, where the adhesions are too extensive to admit of removal, in order to prevent the patient dying of starvation. The incision is the same as in pylorectomy. The jejunum is then attached to the edges of the abdominal incision by a double row of sutures, and the rest of the incision closed; in three or four days an opening is made into the bowel, through which the patient ^ is fed. The operation, therefore, closely resembles the operation | of gastrostomy. A similar operation may al«o be performed on the duodenum, and is called Duodenostomy. Tlie objection is that the duodenuin \h too deeply placed and too firmly fixed to the posterior abdomina"