535 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. wringing clothes: tliere is swelling along the course of the tendons anil on placing the hand over the part, while the patient moves tlie thumb, a peculiar silky rustling may be felt. It is often known as "washerwoman's Avrist," or "washerwoman's sprain." 68. Extensor Indicis.—^Arises, posterior surface of the ulna below the previous muscle; inserted, joins corresponding tendon of common extensor. The previous eight muscles are supplied by the posterior inter- osseous division of the musculo-spiral nerve. LOWER EXTREMITY. 69. Tensor Fascia Femoris.—Arises, anterior superior spine and crest of ilium behind it; inserted, ilio-tibial band. Nerve.— The superior gluteal. 70. Sartorius.—Arises, anterior superior spine and notch below; inserted, upper part of inner surface of tibia, covering gracilis and semi-tendinous. Nerve.—The middle or internal cutaneous branch of anterior crural. 71. Rectus Femoris.—Arises, anterior inferior spine and above brim of acetabulum ; inserted, upper border of the patella. Nerve. —The anterior crural. Crici<et Thigh. — This is an affection of the rectus femoris that arises during the game of football. It is probably due to a sudden strain put on the muscle, not accustomed to the special action it is called upon suddenly to perform. The patient is apt to think it is due to a blow from the opponent's head, elbow, or knee; he has to stop because of the pain and lameness. In the language of the cricket field, his "pope or poop is taken." The rectus femoris is felt tense and rigid, and stands out; and this condition is brought about suddenh/, and is not due to mere inflammatory effusion, thougli effusion follows the accident, and may spread round the whole thigh. Its exact nature is doubtful; it may be due to a bruise, partial or complete rupture, and mm/ be caused by a blow with the head, elbow, or knee when tlie muscle is in the act of firm contraction. It is more likely, liowever, to be duo to the sudden strain rupturing a few fibres. It is a very common thing, when a tendon or nnisclc ruptures, for the patient to think that he has been struck sudtlenly by some one—as h\