Surgical^ Medical, and Operative. 4] "Subluxation" is jirobably caused Ly a Avant of harmony between tlio movenieuts of the condyle and the fibro-cartilage, from some faidt of the external pterygoid muscle ; hence, the bone slips for a moment in front of the cartilage—Avhich it can easily do as the capsule is so loose—where it is held fixed for a little, but can usually be put to rights by the patient himself, the reduction being accompanied by an audible snap. This corres- ponds to Hey's "internal derangement" of the knee joint, and should be treated in a similar manner. Bursse in the Neci<.—(1) There is one in front of the "pomum Adami; (2) another between the thyroid cartilage and the posterior surface of the hyoid bone; (3) and one between the genio-hyoid and the genio-hyoglossus muscles. The third may not be present; either of the bursai may occasionally be enlarged. The first is the one usually enlarged, and when it is so, it forms a tense rounded tumour, in front or at the side of the thyroid cartilage, and moves with the larijnx during deglutition. SAvelliugs that rise thus during deglutition are the bursal cysts above mentioned, swellings of the thyroid gland (bronchocele or goUre), and cysts in connection with the thyroid. By this sign, among others, one can distinguish these swellings from aneurism of the carotid, sebaceous and dermoid cysts. The one between the muscles of the tongue, when enlarged, may simulate a ranula, only it projects chiefly into the neck, in front of the larynx, and not so much into the floor of the mouth, and is in the middle line; it also forms one of the varieties of " hydrocele of the neck." Venesection from External Jugular.— This maybe useful in cases of croujJ in young children, apoplexy in adults, or in venous congestion of the head or chest. The course of the vein may be indicated by a line drawn from the angle of the jaw to the middle of the clavicle. The vein is ci'ossed obliquely by the fibres of the platysma, their relative positions being represented very nearly by the letter X. To secure a good flow, the cut in the vein must be oblique, because if longitudinal the edges Avoidd not gape. But the external jugular must not be opened by a single oblique thrust at once, because the cut would then be parallel with the fibres of the platysma, which by their contraction Avould prevent the free exit of the blood, and might give rise to extravasation and