Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 497 is, with the penis in its natural position, to apply a pair of long- bladed polypus forceps (or dressing forceps) on the penis, at a level with the corona, the blades pointing forwards and downwards; the glans slipping back is thus protected, and the prepuce is sliced off by a sharp scalpel or scissors close to the forceps. The mucous layer still covering tlie glans is slit up along the dorsum as far as the corona with probe-pointed scissors; it must then be detached from the glans, to which it is often adherent, by means of the finger and thumb, or by a probe swept round the organ. Take care that you do not introduce the probe or one blade of the scissors into the meatus, thinking it to be between the mucous membrane and the glans. Tlie square corners are then to be trimmed off with tlie scissors, and the mucous and cutaneous layers stitched together with silk, either by the ordinary interrupted or continuous suture. The patient must rest in bed for a week or ten days. In infants, sutures are unnecessary; all that is required is to wrap a strip of dry lint or iodoform gauze behind the corona to keep back the mucous membrane, and fasten it on by a figure-of-eight bandage, in the form of a cotton thread, the point where the two cones meet being the corona glandis. Paraphimosis.—In this condition the prepuce has been drawn forcibly back, and the ring before mentioned sinks into the sulcus behind the corona glandis, and effectually prevents the replacement of the parts into their proper position; the constriction speedily causes great swelling from congestion and oedema, forming a large round collar, which is the swollen mucous" layer of the prepuce, and which is placed in front of the constricting ring (Fig. 231). Further back the skin and subcutaneous tissue are swollen; hence, we find two swellings, and between the two a deep, narrow sulcus, at the bottom of which is the tight ring of the prepuce. In cases requiring an incision, the large collar is drawn forwards, and the point of a narrow-bladed scalpel passed into the sulcus behind it. It is usually done in the middle of the dorsal surface of the penis; but, as the vessels are there, it would probably be better to go a little to one side. Amputation of the Penis.—The chief risk of this operation is the production of an imj)ermcable organic stricture of the urethra at the point of section. To avoid this the corpus spongiosum must *2i