Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 2. Superficial perineal viusdes. ((•) the long pudcudcil; (-t) the blood-vessels—{a) the superficial perineal artery, {h) the transverse perineal artery. These structures being reflected, we then expose (5) the superficial muscles of the space, three in number, which form a small triangle (the perineal triangle), the floor of which is formed by the triangular ligament. The muscles are—(«) The accelerator uriuee, lying on the penis; {b) the erector penis, lying on the crus penis; and (c) the traus- versus perinei. When these are removed, (6) the bulb (the dilated posterior part of the corpus spongiosum) and root of the penis are exposed; and if they in turn be removed, (7) the anterior surface of the triangular ligament is exposed. (8) Remove the anterior layer of this ligament, and the structures between its two layers are exposed, viz.—(«) the membranous part of the urethra, surrounded by {h) the compressores urethne (Guthrie's muscle), (c) the artery to the bulb, {d) the internal pudic artery, («) Coavpeu's glands, (/) the pudic nerves, [g) the dorsal vein of the j)enis, and much compact cellular tissue. Reflect these structures and cut through (0) the posterior layer of the triangular ligament, and (10) reflect the levator ani, and the prostate gland is exposed, surrounded by its capsule and the prostatic plexus of veins; and if the rectum be turned aside, (11) the base of the bladder, with the vesicuhe seminales and the vasa deforentia are exposed. There are various structures which pierce the anterior layer (that is, the true trian- gidar ligament) of the triangular ligament, viz.—(1) the urethra, in the median line, one inch below the pubes; (2) the dorsal vein of the penis, also in the median line, half-an-iuch below the pubes; (3) the internal pudic artery; (4) the doi'sal nerve of the penis; and (5) the artery to the bulb—this vessel lies about half-an-inch above the base of the ligament, and an inch and a half in front of tlie anus. Cowpeu'« glands are a little to one side of the nuddle line, and therefore, when they are inflamed, as during an attack of gonorrhcBa, the swelling, and probably suppuration later, will not be median, but to one side of the middle line. Professor CuniMNGHam points out an interestijig thing about this dissection, viz.:—that, I'rom the surface to prostate, we meet witli an alteration of muscular and fascial strata, thvrs— 1. Superficial fascia.