Siirg^ical, Medical, and Operative. 255 upwards through the cerehro-spinal fluid, and thus keeps tlie iodine iu contact with the wall of the sac. In those who habitually carry heavy weights on their Lack— as sacks of coal, flour, etc., a bursa is often developed over the spinous process of the seventh cervical vertebne (the vertehra pwminens) which is liable to all the diseases that attack burste elsewhere. Syringomyelia.—A name applied by Ollivier to cases in which cavities of different kinds are met with Avithin the substance of the spinal cord, either connected with the central canal or not. This must not, however, be confounded with congenital and wide- spread distension of the central canal of the cord—Hydromyelia. Hydrorrachis is a generic term applied to any distension of the sjjinal canal, or its membranes, by cerebro-spiual fluid. Syringo- myelia is not congenital but acquired, and may possibly result from traumatism. Various symptoms are said to accompany this condition—(1) Progressive muscular atrophy and paralysis of one limb, but often extending to the opposite limb of the body. (2) A'asomotor and trophic disturbances in the affected limb, Avith lessened excretion of sweat. (3) Loss of the sensations of pain and temperature in the atrophied part, while the senses of touch and location may be preserved. Costal Arches. — There are usually seven costal cai'tilages attached to the sternum, corresponding to the seven true ribs. Occasionally, however, there are eight costal cartilages attached to the sternum, this peculiarity occurring most frequently in negroes. Again, there may be eight on one side—usually the right—and seven on the other. Curiously enough, the Chimpanzee and the Gorilla have eight true rilis, with eight costal cartilages attached to the sternum ; in the Ourang the arrangement is the same as in man, Avhile in tlic Gibbon the eighth costal cartilage almost touclies the sternum. Costo-Sterna! Articulations.—Tlic cartilage of the first rib is directly continuous with the sternum, without any synovial nu3ni- brane; the second and third have each two synovial membranes, \vhilc the other four cartilages have only one each. Cleft Sternum. — The foui' pieces forming the body of the slcrniini arc usually (levelo]iod fr(un a single median centre for