Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 493 from Poupart's ligament, and is inserted into the spine of the pubes by a small tendon, and it is about as difficult to see how it can lift the cord above its insertion, as it is to imagine a man lifting himself off the ground by pulling upon the waistband of his trousers. The cremaster is then divided, and the cord is grasped by two pairs of Wells's forceps, as it is too slippery to be held by the fingers of an assistant, and an aneurism needle, with a double ligature of stout silk, gradually passed through it; the ligature is then divided, and the cord tied in two halves, or the Staffordshire knot majr be used. Some tie it en masse. A sJtarp needle is not used to transfix the cord, lest it puncture a vein and set up phlebitis; the ligature being passed through the cord prevents any risk of slipping. Tie the vessels very carefully to avoid oozing, and by carefully applied pressure obliterate any cavity where the discharges can collect. The veins should be tied as well as the arteries. The spermatic artery is found in front, and the artery to the vas behind. If preferred, the vessels can all be secured separately, instead of tying cord and all in one or two parts. The cord is then divided half-an-inch below the ligature, and the testicle liberated by the fingers, aided by a touch of the knife. All bleeding vessels are then secured, especially in the septum scroti, a drainage tube is introduced and brought out at the lowes part of the wound, and the incision closed with sutures; the tube may be kept in for forty-eight hours. Should the operation be performed for tubercular disease the vas must be separated and divided as far up as possible, the operator bearing in mind the existence of the deep epigastric artery. The possible existence also of a patent processus vaginalis must be kept in mind, especially in the young, lest the injury set up fatal peritonitis. The dangers of the operation are—erysipelas, peritonitis, simple or septic, and septic thrombosis. THE PENIS. The two corpora cavernosa form the chief bulk of the organ; they are placed side by side above, and in the groove below is lodged the corpus spongiosum, wliich is pierced throughout its whole extent by the urethra. Cunningham facetiously likens