Applied Anatomy: 3G0 a drainage tube, always provided, of course, that the wound be aseptic. Professor Annandale passes a drainage tube tbrougb the bottora of the scrotal tissues. This operation was first performed by Professor Annandale, in the beginning of 1872, in a case of strangulated femoral hernia. The method he then used was to expose the sac, open it, reduce the hernia, separate the sac as high up as the internal opening, and tie it with strong catgut as close to the general peritoneal cavity as possible. The ligatured sac was then fixed by catgut sutures at the abdominal orifice of the canal, to act as a plug. The rest of the sac below this was removed. ^Nearly every Surgeon performs this operation in a slightly different way. Professor Chiene transfixes the neck of the sac as high up as possible, with a long double ligature of strong catgut, and then ties it in two halves. The two halves are then tied together, and Avlien this is done there are four free ends—two on the inner, and two on the outer side; these ends are then used as stitches for drawing the walls of the canal together — thus matting canal, sac, and all into one mass, which effectually plugs up the aperture in question. Two of the ends are used to fix the ligatured sac in position, the other two are used to bring the walls of the canal together, and after this the two pairs of ends are tied together. In this way there is a triple obstacle to a future hernia—(1) The ligatured sac, (2) the ligatured end plugging the upper opening of the canal, and (3) the matting of the walls of the canal together. Mr Ball isolates the sac, grasps its neck with a broad pair of catch forceps, and twists it by four or five revolutions of the forceps, and then ties it as high up as possible. ]\rr Barker, after freeing the neck of the sac, passes a double ligature round it, and ties it in two places, and then divides it between tlie ligatures. The upper part is then pulled up, by means of sutures, to plug the internal opening; the lower part of the sac is not removed. By this means the risk of sloughing or other injury of the testicle is avoided. The operation, in one of its many forms, where the neck of tlie sac is tied, is to be preferred to the older and more complicated operations, for various reasons :—(1) Its ease of performance;