107 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. there are others, such as the limitation of abduction, wasting of tlio hiiih, flattening of the buttock, and obliteration of the gluteal fold; the flattening of the buttock and the obliteration of the gluteal fold are partly due to the flexed jDosition of the limb, as well as to atrophy of the glutei. The fold in the groin will also bo partially obliterated, on account of the swelling. The muscles round the joint, especially the adductors, are firmly contracted, to steady the diseased part: the muscles know that the joint is diseased even before the patient is aware of it. In the very early stage of the disease the symptoms are often ill-marked, the child scarcely complains, and probably has only a slight limp when walking. 2. Second Stage.—This corresponds to yielding of the capsule, probably abscess formation, but no destruction of the bone. The signs are—{a) Adduction—some say, because the posterior part of the capsule gives way; others, that it is because the adductors are reflexly thrown into spasm. (I!) Inversion—this is not very easily explained; if the head of the bone were dislocated back- wards through the softened posterior part of the capsule, one could understand it. It may be that the external rotators are inhibited, and the internal, supplied by the superior gluteal nerve (tensor fasciai femoris, gluteus minimus, and anterior half of the gluteus medius), reflexly thrown into spasm, (c) Apparent Shortening— this is from tilting of the pelvis, so as to bring the diseased limb parallel with its fellow as the patient lies in bed. The anterior superior spine moves upwards, backwards, and outwards. The Jtexion of the first stage is increased, and, if the disease be left untreated, wiU go on increasing till the knee touches the umbilicus, or even the opposite anterior superior spine. This, of course, cannot be the position in which the joint "holds most," nor can it be due to reflex contraction of the muscles. 3. Th i rd Stage—In this stage the limb is pretty much in the same position as in the second stage, but there is now reed shortening; this results fronr the gradual destruction of the head and neck of the femur, or dislocation of the bone backwards, and tliis may occur even though a light weight is applied to the limb. The top (if the great trochanter ascends above jSTklaton'.s line; this test is very easily applied in these cases, because the cliild naturally turns over towards the soiind side, so that one can readily draw