531 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. part is known as the deep transverse muscle, and extends to the central point of the perineum. The above four muscles are suijplied by the pudic nerve. 40. Levator Ani.—Arises from the posterior surface of the pubis in front, behind from the spine of the ischium, and between these points from the "white line" of the pelvic fascia. From these points it passes downwards and inwards towards the middle line of the pelvic floor, and is inserted into the tip of the cocc}'x —the median raphe in front of that point, the sides of the lower part of the rectum, being connected with the fibres of the external sphincter, and partly with those of the internal, and again beneath the neck of the bladder, prostate, and urethra, blends with its fellow in the median raphe. The anterior portion of the muscle, arising from the pubic bone, is sometimes separated by a cellular interval from the rest of the muscle, and hence is often called the levatur jjrustake. Nerve.—-The fourth sacral. UPPER EXTREMITY. -tl. Pectoralis Major.—Arises from the anterior surface of the inner half of the clavicle, front of the sternum, cartilages of all the true ribs except the first and seventh, and aponeurosis of the external oblique, and is inserted into the outer lip of tlie bicipital groove. Nerves. — The external anterior thoracic nerve, and a branch from the internal. 12. Pectoralis Minor.—Arises from the third, fourth, and lifth ribs, near their junction with the cartilages, and is iiis'-rted into tlie coracoid process, inner border. Nerve.—Tlie internal anterior thoracic. 4-3. SerratUS Magnus.—Arises by nine digitatiojis from tlic nut(!r surfaces of the eight upper ribs, the second liaviiig two digitations, and is iimsiied into tlie anterior surface of the base of the sca[)ula, especially at the upper and lower angles. Nerve.— The posterior thoracic, or nervi; of J>i';r,L. When this muscle is paralysed, the vertebral border of llu^ scapula leaves the ribs and stands out markedly on the surface; it is also somewhat closer to the sinncs of the vertebra^, and the scapula is slightly higher than on the paralysed side. These points become much more marked when the arm is raised. The