Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 529 29. The Triangularis Sterni Muscle.—Arm's from the inner surface of the en.siform cartilage and lower part of the sternuru, and from the cartilages of the last three or four true ribs, and is iui^erti'd into the cartilages of the second, third, fourth, and fifth riljs. Lying in front of this muscle, we find the internal mammary arteries and the intercostal nerves; while its posterior surface is partially covered by the pleurto, and part of it bounds the anterior mediastinum. ABDOMEN. 30. External Oblique.—ArUes from the outer surfaces of the lower eight ribs by eight digitations—the upper five interdigitate with the serratus magnus, the lower three witli the latissimus dnrsi; inserted into anterior half of the outer lip of the iliac crest, Poupart's ligament, Gimbernat'« ligament, triangular fascia, front of pubes, and the whole length of the liiiea alba. 31. Internal Oblique.—Arises from the outer half of Poupart's ligament, anterior two thirds of the middle lip of the iliac crest, and from the lumbar aponeurosis; inserted, the lower fibres join with the lower fibres of the transversalis to form the conjoined tendon, which is inserted into the crest of the pubes and the ilio- pectineal line: also into lower border of the cartilages of the four lower ribs, and the linea alba. 32. Transversalis.—Arises from the outer third of Poupart's ligament, anterior two thirds of the inner lip of the iliac crest, outer surfaces of the cartilages of the loAver six ribs, and by three lamella;—from the tips of the spinous i^rocesses of the lumbar vertebne, the tips of the transverse processes, and from the bodies of the vertebrtc at the roots of the transverse processes, forming the fascia tumhorum; insertion into linea allja, pubic crest, and ilio-pectineal line (conjoined tendon). 33. Quadratus Lumborum.—Arises from the ilio-lumbar liga- ment and iliac crest; inserted into the inner lialf of the last rib and into the tips of tlic transverse processes of the upper four lumbar vertcbric. Nerves.—The above four muscles are supplied by the lower six intercostal, the last dorsal, the ilio-hypogastric, and the ilio-inguiual nerves. ''2h