284 Applied A natomy: is a small fold or poucli, triangular in shape, witli its broad, crescentic edge upwards, the peritoneum at this point being free from fat and blood-vessels; it is said to exist in about fifty per cent, of the bodies examined, and is the seat occasionally of retro --peritoneal or mesenteric liernia. It is known as the fossa duodeno-jejun alis. Another possible point, where an Internal Hernia may occur, is through the mesenteric hole—a perforation sometimes found at the lower end of the mesentery, between the iho-colic and the last branch of the rami intestini tenuis. At this point there is an area free from fat, glands, and blood-vessels, which is very thm, and sometimes perforated. When such hernia become strangulated, the symptoms are those of acute intestinal obstruction. Mesenteric Hernia (Sir Astley Cooper) is a condition where, from the presence of a hole in one of the layers of the mesentery, the small gut passes between or behind the layers of that structure. In the " l\1eso-Colic Hernia" of the same authority, the gut passes between or behind the layers of the transverse meso-colon. An internal hernia may also occur into the foramen of Winslow. Thus there are five forms of Internal Hernia—(1) Into the fossa duodeno-jejunalis, (2) entirely through the mesentery, (3) between the two layers of the mesentery, (4) between the two layers of the meso-colon, and (5) through the foramen of Winslow. There are yet a few other important Clinical facts about the Duodenum that ought to be kept in mind—(1) The first, already mentioned, is the relation of its termination to the posterior surface of the stomach for the operation of Gastro-Enterostomy. (2) The close relation of its descending part to the right kidney: so close is this relation, that duodenal or pancreatic disease may closely simulate disease of the right kidney, and vice versa. (3) As it lies between the ascending colon and the right kidney, and may extend lower down than the kidney, it may be opened by mistake in the operation of right lumbar colotomy. (4) In cases of injury, the small gut is more often ruptured than the stomacli: the parts usually torn are the third part of the duodenum and the jejunum. The duodenum is torn because it is fixed, and, therefore, cannot slip away; and the jejunum, because it is fixed to the duodenum.