Applied Anatoviy: 20 Paralysis of one Recurrent Nerve—The piiralysed cord lies in tlic cadaveric position, the healthy cord possesses its full range of movement, and on phonation it crosses the middle line, so that the *arytenoids are crossed and the glottis assumes an oblique position; the edge of the paralysed cord is slightly excavated. The healthy cord, therefore, accommodates itself to its paralysed fellow, so that the patient can still speak, though his voice is altered, being weak, and easily merges into the falsetto if the pitch of the voice be raised. Paralysis of the Abductors or Glottis Openers (the posterior crico-arytenoids).—When both arc affected the vocal cords lie close together in the middle line. It is indicated by pure inspiratory dyspnoea with stridor, associated with an almost normal voice. It is a very dangerous condition, as the approximated cords become still further approximated in inspiration, forming a kind of valve like the two sides of a reversed V, giving rise to intense inspiratory dyspnoea; on phonation the parts assume their normal condition. "When this condition becomes marked, it Avill be necessary to per- form tracheotomy. When one side is affected, the affected cord lies in the middle line, but respiration is free (unless combined with- direct pressure), and there is only dyspnoea and stridor on exertion, as the opening in the glottis is sufficient for ordinary breathing. The abductors are apt to be paralysed from pressure on the recurrent laryngeal, as from aortic or innominate aneurism. Bilateral Paralysis of the Abductors (imsterior crico-aryte- noids) may be caused by central disease, or affections implicating both vagi or both recurrent laryngeal nerves, as bronchocele, enlarged bronchial or cervical glands from lymphadenoma or scrofula, and cancer of the oesophagus. Unilateral paralysis may be due to the same causes, but is more frequently due to peripheral affections, and not so often to central.. Tlie usual causes are—Aneurism of the arch of the aorta, cancerous or glandular tumours of the mediastinum (sujjei-ior or 2>oderior), affecting especially the left nerve; cancer of the oesophagus, enlarged strumous glands, and tumours of one side of the trachea, often affect one nerve, usually the left, but sometimes the right. Paralysis of the Arytenoideus. — In phonation, the cords act normally, but the posterior third gapes, forming a little triangle,