Applied Anatomy: 170 The External or Short Saphenous Vein.—This vein begins on tlie outer side of tlie doi'sum of the foot, ascends hehind the outer malleolus, along the outer border of the tendo achillis, and reaches the middle of the posterior aspect of the leg, perforates the deep fascia at the lower part of the popliteal space, and empties itself into the popliteal vein; from the middle of the calf downwards, it is acconipanied by the external saphenous nerve. This nerve is formed by tlie union of the ramus communicam tibialis, from the internal popliteal, with the ramus communicans fihularis, from the external. (The branch from the internal popliteal is called by some the external or short saphenous nerve, and the branch from the external—merely a communicating branch—the communicans jjcronei.) The lymphatics accompanying the short saphenous vein, for the most part, enter the glands in the popliteal space, but some pass to the vertical set of the inguinal glands. Division of Contracted Tendons at the Knee Joint. — Tu remedy the deformity of contraction of the knee joint, division of tlie hamstring tendons is sometimes necessary. When tlie knee is diseased, and if left alone, it tends to become flexed more and more till the heel actually touches the buttock; this fact alone makes all the theories, about the contraction being due to reflex spasm of the muscles, untenable. Not only, however, is it Jfexed, but it tends to become partially luxated backwards, and at the same time rotated otitwards by the biceps. The biceps is inserted into the head of the fibula; the other two are towards the inner side of the joint—the semi-tendinosus being inserted into the upper part of the inner surface of tlie tibia, the scnu-menibranosus into a groove in the back of the internal tuberosity of the tibia. It is the biceps tendon, however, that most frequently requires division ; and it is in the division of this tendon that the greatest care is necessary. In division of the biceps tendon, the structures tiiat must be avoided are—(1) The external popliteal or peroneal nerve: and (2) the inferior external articular arterj^ In connection with the other two tendons Ave have merely to avoid the articular arteries, which, however, are not in very close relation to the tendons in question. The external popliteal nerve passes obliciuely dowuAvards and outwards, lying close to the tendon of the biceps, and passes between it and the outer head of the gastrocnemius, to a point