24 Applied Anatomy: tliG recurrent laryngeal nerves, and infiirior laryngeal arteries. In the lower cervical and ujaper dorsal region the thoracic duct ascends ohliquely between it and the bodies of the dorsal vertebree, from right to left. The narrowest parts of the tube are {a) at its com- mencement; (i) next, where it passes through the diaphragm; and (c) where it is crossed by the left bronchus. Relations in the Thorax. — In front—the trachea, the arch of the aorta, left carotid, left subclavian, left bronchus, and the posterior surface of the pericardium; behind, the vertebral column, longus coUi muscle, the intercostal vessels, and at the lower part, the aorta; laterally, the pleuree, the vena azygos major on the right, and the descending aorta on the left. The viglit vagus passes down in front of the cesophagus, and the left behind it. Foreign bodies impacted in the guUet, especially if they have sharp corners, are very apt to set up ulceration and to penetrate neighbouring parts, such as the aorta — leading to sudden and fatal haemorrhage. Cancer of the gullet, on the other hand, is very apt to ulcerate through into the trachea or bronchi; but it may involve any of the structures surrounding that tube—as the pleura3, pericardium, subclavian, carotid, and thoracic duct. It is not a straight tube, but has three curves—(1) That of the vertebral column, (2) in the neck to the left side, and (3) in the thorax, back again to the middle line and then to the left, and forwards to its opening in the diaphragm. In the thorax, the oesophagus lies between the two pleural sacs—partially touching both, but being in special contact with the right bag. The oesophagus may be obstructed, either from actual changes in its walls, foreign bodies in its interior, or from pressure of the neighbouring structures. Obstruction from changes in its walls may be—(1) Merely spasmodic, usually in nervous women, and recognised by the fact that the dysphagia is not constant. (2) Traumatic, due to organic changes in the submucous tissue, as cicatrisation after injuries—such as simple and specific ulcera- tion, swallowing acid or caustic fluids, etc. (3) Malignant, usually epitheliomatous in nature, and situated either—first, at its upper end; second, at its lower end; or third, where it is crossed by the left bronchus. At these points, as already stated, the tube is ])arrowpd, £),nd probably therefore the irritation is greater than