178 Applied Anatomy: and the tibia, a prolongation of the synovial membrane of the knee joint; (6) one between the jDopliteus tendon and the external lateral ligament; (c) one between the biceps tendon and tlie external ligament, over which the external popliteal nerve passes on its way round the head of the fibula j and (cZ) one between the outer head of the gastrocnemius and the femur. Inner side— (a) A large bursa between the femur and the inner head of the gastrocnemius and tendon of . semi-membranosus—the "^;oj?jZiYe«Z bursa;" this one very often communicates with the joint. lu effusion into this bursa when the knee joint is extended, it becomes full and tense and projects into the popliteal space, but is much less prominent and tense when the joint is flexed. If it com- municates with the joint, it may be reduced by steady pressure, the fluid being squeezed out of it into the cavity of the articulation. {h) One between tlie semi-membranosus and tibia. The bursii; on the inner side are more frequently enlarged than those on the outer side. Note, that synovial cysts arc common near joints the seat of osteo-arthritis, or of " Chahcot's disease," as the knee and shoulder. Diseases of Bursas, e.g., the bursa patelhe.—The usual aflcctions are inflammatory in nature, and are known as acute and chronic bursitis. Acute Bursitis may be—(a) Serous, or {h) Supimratkc. For Acute Serous, rest, fomentations, and, later, elastic pressure or tapping is required; for Acute Suppuratice, the only treat- ment is free incision, and drainage with an ordinary india-rubber tube—in this case catgut or horse-hair drains should not be used. Chronic Bursitis may be—(a) Serous, with or without "melon seed" bodies; or (&) Lijmphy, where layer after layer of fibrin is laid down on the interior of the bursa; this varies from slight thickening of the wall to almost complete solidity tumour). The less marked forms usually contain serous fluid, Avith or without "melon seed" bodies; sometimes it contains blood in its interior. Tor Chronic Serous Bursitis pure and simple, elastic pressure alone, or applied after tapping, may cure; if not, make a free incision and drain with horse-hair, catgut, or the ordinary rubber tube; a leash of catgut is an excellent plan, provided the ends of the strands are Irpt moist (CniENE). For the chronic serous form, with thickened walls and " melon seed " bodies, incision and drainage is the only