486 Applied Anatomy: of importance, therefore, in the obturator form of hernia. Tlie sacrum, coccyx, spines, and tuberosities of the ischium. Excision of tfie Rectum.—This operation may be performed for malignant disease, provided the patient is not too old or exhausted, if tJie finger can be passed beyond the disease, and if the diseased mass is freely movable, showing that it has not infiltrated neigh- bouring parts, especially towards the base of the bladder; it should be remembered, however, that the prostate itself is mobile, and thus is apt to deceive the Surgeon. Probably the best way would be, first to pass a bougie into the urethra, and then note if the finger in the rectum moved the handle of the bougie while trykig to move the rectum from side to side. The patient must get a purgative the day before the operation, and the bowel must be thoroughly emptied by an enema on the morning of the operation. The patient is placed in the ordinary lithotomy position, the anus dilated, and a sharp-pointed bistoury is passed into the rectum, the point being brought out at the tip of the coccyx, and the jmrts between the anus and the coccyx divided by a single cut exactly in the middle line. If necessary the coccyx may be excised to give more room. During the operation all bleeding vessels must be seized at once by Wells's forceps. Ligatm:es are then passed into the two sides of the wound whereby the edges may be held apart during the subsequent steps. An incision is next carried round the anus from the margins of the wound, and the gut then separated from its posterior attachments by means of the finger and scissors. The sides are next dealt with, and then the gut is pulled backwards and carefully separated from its anterior connections, having previously passed a sound into the male bladder, and the finger into the vagina if the patient be a female, to act as guides. The gut itself must now be divided \ this may be done by the ecraseur, scissors, or the thermo-cautery. Two and a half or three inches may be removed without wounding the peritoneum; and if the bladder be full, the peritoneal pouch is less likely to be drawn down than when that viscus is empty. According to Harrison Cripps it is useless to attempt to bring down the mucous membrane of the divided gut to the anus, as the stitches always give way. The vessels are all to be clamped with Wells's forceps, which are then to be left on for forty-eight