Surgical, Medical, ai/d Operative. 105 inii)Ossiblc to keep the lloor of the moiitli aseptic. It is tlic method to be adopted when very free access is required—c.r/., Avhen the disease has extended back to the tonsils. A piece of strong Avhip- cord is passed through the tip of the tongue, so as to enable it to be draAvn forwards when necessary, and the two central incisor teeth are extracted. Then an incision is made through the central line of the lower lip, across the chin, and down as far as the liyoid bone; the operator next divides the soft parts in the middle line, detaches the genio-hyoglossi muscles, and saws the lower jaAv through at the symphysis. It is recommended to make the section of the bone >•-shaped, so that the two halves may lock after the operation; or two holes may be drilled in the bone before the section is made, by which the two parts may be sutured afterwards. The sawn ends of the jaw are next firmly tied with a piece of narrow cotton bandage, and the two halves of the bone forcibly separated by assistants, and the mucous membrane and hyoglossi muscles cut through, first on the one side and then on the other. The tongue is next drawn forwards, and the lingual arteries divided and secured on both sides, and it is then removed from the hyoid bone by a stroke of the knife, or gradually removed by the wire ccraseur; all bleeding vessels are now to be tied, as twigs from the ascending pharyngeal, and tonsillar branch of the facial. In this, as in other methods, either or both lingual arteries may be tied before beginning the operation, or else a preliminary laryngotomy may be performed. Not only does this latter plan obviate the dangers arising from the passage of blood down the respiratory passages, but is believed also to be a safeguard against septic pneumonia, as the patient breathes through the tube, and does not, therefore, inhale septic organisms from the wound in the mouth or jaw, or from the stump of the tongue; tlie method of continuous irrigation with some warm antiseptic solution, hoAvever, should greatly lessen the risk of inhaling septic organisms. RESUME of the operations for excision:— 1. As a rule, use Whitehead's method. 2. In some cases, where the glands bcloAV the jaAv are much enlarged, and if the patient presses the operation, use IvEGNom'« method, or tlie plan iulopted liy KociiKii;