Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 267 tliis and the umbilicus; the others, with the ilio-hypogastric (from the first hinibar nerve), below this point—the latter nerve being just above the external abdominal ring. The ilio-inguinal, also iVom the first lumbar, passes through the external abdominal ring and is distributed to the scrotum and the inner aspect of the thigh. The iliac hranch of the last darsal {= the undivided lateral cutaneous brancli) crosses the iliac crest about two inches behind the anterior superior spine, and supplies the skin over the gluteal region; the iliac branch of the ilio-hypogastric also supplies the skin over the gluteal region, crossing the iliac crest a little behind its centre. It is important to remember the origin and course of these nerves, in order to ex])lain the referred pains so frequently present in disease of the spine, whether of bones or cord; such disease may be mistaken for disease of the stomach, " belly-ache," disease of the kidneys, bladder, or testicle, and also for sciatica, according to the segment of the cord affected: the nerves in con- nection with the respective parts being irritated and the pain referred to their peripheral terminations. The Lateral Muscles of the abdominal wall are—the external oblique, the internal oblique, and the transversalis; the different layers can move over each other to a certain extent, as between each there is a layer of cellular tissue. This fact explains the great difficulty that sinuses and fistuU\3 in the abdominal wall have in healing, as the muscles are moved at each respiration. Beneath the muscles comes a layer of fascia, and beneath this the extra- peritoneal fat, and then the peritoneum. The same general type of structure is observed at what we might call the roof of the abdomen (the diaphragm), and also in its floor (the pelvic dia- phragm) where the levator ani, visceral pelvic fascia, and extra- peritoneal fat and peritoneum constitute the diiferent layers. The Umbilicus and Umbilical Cord. — In the Adult, the umbilicus corresponds to the disc betAveen the third and fourth lumbar vertebra), and is about three-quarters of an inch above the bifurcation of the aorta, and the same distance above the highest point of the iliac crests. In the Foetus, it is close to the pidjes, but gradually rises, so that at birth it is midway between the ensiform cartilage and the pubes. The abdominal wall in front is formed of the combined cpiblast and the somatopleure layer of