Applied Anatomy: 330 of " catheter life," where the i^rostate is enlarged, and there is a constant partial retention, or "residual urine;" it is probably in many cases begun by the use of an imperfectly-purified catheter. The residual urine is thus infected, the organisms thrive there, aiid then spread to the kidney; this is the beginning of the end, the signing of the patient's death-warrant. Tlie moral of this is evident —always purify catheters very thoroughly lefore drawiny off the urine from a patient ivith obstruction in any part of the urethra, hut especially in old men with enlarged prostates. It is one of the great risks, too, in cases where the spinal cord is destroyed above the lumbar enlargement, as by crushes, myelitis, etc.; the risk is during the first fortnight, when there is usually retention, and the urine has to be drawn off; after this period there is incontinence. Supra-Renal Capsules.—The supra-renal capsules are situated behind the peritoneum, just in front of the upper part of each kidney. Relations.—The anterior surface is in relation, on the right side, with the inner surface of the liver; and on the left Avith the pancreas and spleen. The posterior surface rests upon the corresponding cms of the diaphragm, opposite the tenth dorsal vertebra: the lower border rests upon the upper end of the kidney: the inner border is in relation with the great splanchnic nerves and semilunar ganglia, touching the inferior vena cava on the right side, and the aorta on the left. The Nerves are derived from the solar and renal plexuses, and from the phrenic and pneumogastric nerves; the branches of the jilexus are very large, and have numerous ganglia developed on them. The function of these bodies is ill-understood—or rather, not understood at all. They are supposed to have some connection with Addison's disease, as in about half the cases the capsules are tubercular, with caseated masses in their interior; this disease is accompanied by a bronzed tint of the skin, especially on the exposed parts, or parts naturally pigmented, vomiting, progressive emaciation, extreme debility, and profound auiemia. The symptoms are probably due to implication of the solar plexus. Sarcoma of the supra-renal capsules may simulate Addisox's disease. Their usual size is from one to two inches in length, rather less in width, and from tM'o to three lines in thickness. Their weight, from one to two drachms.