Surgical, Medical, and Operative. and posterior palatine vessels, on Avliich the nutrition of the peri- osteal flap depends, be divided (see Fig. 126). The vessels are to be raised and carried with the flap; the mucous membrane of the hard palate and the periosteum form one layer, so that it is impossible to separate them. In very bad cases an attempt may be made to shift bones and all (Fergusson). In some cases where the cleft is ■wide and from end to end, a curved needle can be passed through one side, and then the other, by the aid of Hagadorn's needle- holder, or a doubly curved needle on a handle may be used. In other cases, to avoid the difliculty of passing the thread through the right side (the patient's) from behind forwards, pass a single thread through one side of the cleft and a looi^ through the other, both from before backwards; then pass the single thread into the loop and withdraw the loop, which will thus leave the thread in position (Fig. 140). If desired, a silver suture may also be attached to the silk thread,, which is in turn withdrawn, leaving the silver suture in position. Pass all the sutures before tying any of them, and in tying begin at the highest suture. In tying silk sutures pass one end through a running noose on the other, run it on till the edges are approximated, and then fix by tying a single common knot. The term Uranoplasty is sometimes applied to operations for the cure of fissures in the hard palate; the student must remember that the term has got nothing to do with the urine, or Avith plastic operations on the penis or urethra, as they sometimes seem to think, to the no small amusement of examiners. A narrow, highly-arched palate is one of the efi"ects of inherited sy^jhilis, and a somewhat similar condition is observed in cases of idiocy. For the Soft Palate—(1) Liberating lateral incisions may be simply made with the scissors, through the entire thickness of the velum, in the way recommended by Mr Bryant. (2) Fergusson's plan of dividing the perpendicular part of the levator palati midM'ay between the Eustachian tube and the hamular process, by means of a rectangular knife passed through the cleft in the palate. (3) Pollock's method of dividing both the tensor and the levator by means of a knife passed through the soft palate close to the inner side of tlie hamular process. It may also be necessary to divide the palato-glossus and the palato-pliaryngcus muscles (the anterior and posterior pillars of tlic fauces), which can easily be