Sitrgiail, Medical, and Operative. luHanuuatiou or ubscess iu the Frontal Sinuses causes much siiircring, from the uuyiekling walls of this cavity; it forms one variety of "headache," as seeu iu an ordinary cold. Discharges, as pus or lluid, from the frontal sinuses arc not iufluenced by position as arc the discharges from the antrum. Occasionally the frontal sinuses arc the seat of large mucous polypi-—mucocele of the frontal sinus. The polypi jnay give rise to considerable pro- minence of the bone in this situation, and may also bulge into the orbits, displacing the eyeballs, and causing double vision. In such a case, the sinus should be trephined, and the polypi removed, ^[ucous polypi from the nose may also make their way into the frontal sinuses. In examining the nose, for growths or obstructions of any kind, always pass a probe to sec whether the growth is luovable ; by this means one may distinguish hypertrophy of the mucous membrane of the inferior turbinate bone from polypi—the hypertrophy is not movable, while polypi are. It is necessary to use a speculum and I'ellected light to examine the nasal cavities, the head being thrown backwards and the tip of the nose elevated. One must not mistake lateral deviation of the septum for a tumour; its true nature will be recognised by observing that there is a hollow in one fossa corresponding to the projection iu the other. But if this is not the case, then it is a tumour of the septum. Polypi may be—(1) Mucous.—These usually grow from the mucous membrane of the outer Avail, especially over the inferior and middle turbinate bones: are yellowish grey in colour: are usually found in middle-aged persons, and are multiple: give rise to fits of sneezing and a nasal tone of voice and snoring at night, and are worse in damp weather; they do not, as a rule, cause deformity, nor do they give rise to liannorrhage. Occasionally, however, when numerous, they may cause marked deformity. They may make their Avay into the frontal sinus or orbit, and displace the eyeball considerably, giving rise to double vision. Under such circumstances, it will be necessary to open the orbital cavity at the inner side and remove the polypi. Structure.—Mucous polypi arc covered by a layer of beautifully ciliated, columnar epithelium. Below this there is a web of mucous connective tissue, and in the meshes of this welj there is a layer of branched mucous glands, * 11