Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 163 llic wouud so luiai' its urigin, iuid ospcciuUy wliuii Uic palieut's kucc joint is oxtcudcd. Tlic Avound is then to be washed ont bj' some antiseptic, three sntures inserted, and the "whole sealed up by flexible collodion and cotton wool. In cases of high division of this nerve, the finger may not recognise the nerve trunk, from its divided ami flattened form; in tliese circumstances enlarge the wound and hii)h for the nerve. Strctcliiug the vvjhi sciatic is more successful than the left, it is said, because tlie sigmoid Hcxurc is on the left side, and is a great cause of sciatica, as the full gut presses upon the nerve; it will be, therefore, very much worse in con- stipation. Occasionally the first perforating artery may be injured, a troublesome circumstance, as it l)leeds much, and is diliicult to secure, as it retracts beneath its fibrous arch. 2. It may also be stretched at the Middle of the Thigh, by an incision two or three inclies long, dividing the same structures as in the last case. Here the nerve lies between the bice[is on the outer side, and tlu; semi-tendinosus on the inner side. Tlie wound may be dressed as in the last case, or it may l)e drained, dressed antiscptically, and conJined in a splint for a week or ten daj's. 3. Tlie "Dry" Plan (Trojijjett.v and ISillroth).—The patient is laid on his back, the knee joint is flexed, and the ankle joint extended, and then tlie thigh is forcibly flexed on the abVlomen imtil the knee joint almost touches the chin; the thigh is then held firmly in this position Avhile the knee joint is fully extended and the ankle joint as fully flexed. Before any oj)eration for supposed sciatica, the Surgeon must make sure that the pain is not due to malignant disease of the bones or pelvic viscera, involving the sacral plexus, or to irritation caused by disease of the sacro-iliac synchondrosis, engorged rectum, varicose condition of the ])clvic veins, aneurism of the internal iliac, or its branches, or to sciatic hernia. The spine should also be examined for caries; the diseases most apt to involve the plexus ai'c sarcoma of the sacrum or os innominatuiu, and malignant disease of the rectum, and sarcoma of the soft parts in the pelvis. The Great Sciatic Nerve supplies the hip joint, entering pos teriorly, and the flexors of the leg, viz., the bicc])s, semi-tendinosus, and scmi-mendn'anosus, as well as a branch to the adductor magnus; about the lower third of the thigh it divides into the external and