Applied Anatomy. 288 chronic constipation the ciBcum is very ai^t to ulcerate and be per- forated, causing fetal peritonitis. (11) An abscess of the liver may open into the hepatic flexure or transverse colon. (12) In cases of gall stone, the gall bladder may become adherent to the transverse colon, and the gall stones ulcerate through into the gut and be discharged per anum. (13) In cases of obstruction, say about the sigmoid flexure, the distension is most marked in the lateral regions of the abdomen, especially in the region of the caecum (right iliac fossa). The same appearances are produced in cases where the gut is loaded in bad cases of chronic constipation, so that it may be possible to trace the gut, both by sight and palpation, right round to the ciecum. In cases of obstruction, however, as from cancer, fibrous strictiire, etc., the walls of the gut become hyper- trophied, there is a good deal of rumbling, and the peristaltic action may be visible through the abdominal wall. But in cases where the gut is loaded with fasces, from chronic constipation, its walls are in a state of atony, there is no rumbling, nor can peristalsis be observed through the abdominal wall. When the condition lasts any length of time the small gut will show signs of obstruction, too, so that the whole abdomen, both in the lateral and anterior regions, will become tensely distended. Perityphilic Abscess may arise—(1) Outside the peritoneum, and (2) inside the peritoneum. 1. The Extra-Peritoneal form arises from disease of the Cfficum or root of appendix, as catarrhal inflammation, ulcerations of various kinds, as from tubercle, dysentery, chronic constipation, or malignant disease. The pus in this form lies in the cellular tissue between the gut and the iliac fascia; it tends to pass upwards to the kidney, inwards to the pelvis, and downwards to Poupart's ligament, but cannot reach the thigh because of the union between the fascia and the ligament. It points usually towards the outer end of Poupart'.s ligament, near the anterior superior spine; it may also open into the crecum. Abscesses beneath the iliac fascia, as from disease of the bone, readily pass into the thigh. 2. The Intra-Peritoneal form usually arises from ulceration and perforation of the appendix, from foreign bodies, tubercular disease, etc. It differs from the last as it usually occurs in young adult males, while the extra-peritoneal form is more likely to occur