Applied Anatomy: 188 muscles of the calf; and (/) flexion of the knee and extension of the ankle during the natural cure of ankle joint disease—from not keeping the knee straight and the foot at right angles to the leg. The first phalanges are subluxated on the heads of the metatarsal bones, these latter being flexed and depressed into the sole of the foot, increasing very markedly the plantar arch: in fact, it is a reversion of the foot and mode of walking to the Digitigrade section of the Carnivora—walking on the ends of the metatarsals. In the acquired form the hollow on the sole of the foot is much greater than in the congenital form, the drop of the anterior part of the foot being also much greater. Treatment.—Division of the tendo achillis. It should be observed that both in talipes equinus and in talipes equino-varus it may be impossible to ]5ut the foot into good position at once, after the division of the tendons, etc., as the narrow posterior part of the astragalus, being persistently kept in the wider anterior part of the tibio-fibular mortise, naturally grows faster and fills np that part, and consequently it will be imjiossible, for some time, to force it back into its own narrower part of the mortise. 3. Talipes Valgus (or more usually calcaneo-valgus).—In this case the foot is everted, the outer side of the foot being raised, and sometimes the anterior part of the foot also (caJcmieo-valgtis). In this deformity the tendency, in the first instance, is to obliteration of the arches of the foot, giving rise to flat or splay foot (talijycs planus), and afterwards the outer side of the foot is raised by contraction of the peronei muscles. Causes—(«) Relaxation of the ligaments supporting the plantar arches (see vol. i., page 407), with contraction of the peronei; {h) over-fatigue in standing (and, therefore, likely to occur in young women in shops where the harharoiis custom is enforced of standing from morning till night behind tlie counter, with but little intermission), carrying heavy weights on the head, etc.; (c) sliding the foot in walking, or twisting it so as to press on its inner side; and {d) it may be liysterical. Treatment.—(a) Constitutional, aided by rubbing, galvanism, etc.; {h) if not very pronounced, it may be cured by adapting the sole of the boot so as to restore and support the arch of the foot; and (c) it may be necessary to divide the peronei tendons.