Siij'gical, Medical, and Operative. Tlio term Paronychia (-n-apa, beside, ami uw^, the nail), ia properly applied to iuflammation or suppuration round the root of the nail; it is sometimes used as if it were synonymous with " whitlow," but it had better be restricted to the above meaning. GANGLION. The synovial sheaths of the tendons round the Avrist are fre- quently the seat of Ganglia. Chronic ganglia are usually divided into two kinds—simple and compound. Simple Ganglion is supposed to have four possible modes of origin—(1) as a cystic enlargement of a cell in one of the fringes of the sheath; (2) a partial hernia of the sheath that has become cut off from the main tube; (3) from the dilatation of sub-synovial follicles; and (4) it may possibly originate as a hernia from the synovial membrane of some of the joints in the neighbourhood. The simple form is the ganglion proper. It is most common on the extensor tendons of the fingers, thumb, or wrist—especially towards the radial side of the hand, but it is also found on the corresponding part of the foot; it usually contains a clear, jelly-like substance, resembling in consistence and appearance the eye of a cod-fish, or semi-solid glycerine. It should be ruptured subcutaneously by squeezing it with both thumbs against the bone beneath, or by giving it a heavy blow Avith a book of some size; after this, apply pressure Avith pad and bandage. Blisters and iocTiue are sometimes iised. Should these plans fail, then puncture it subcutaneously Avith a clean tenotomy knife, and squeeze out the thick, jelly-like fluid, and afterwards apply firm pressure. Compound Ganglion is the dilatation of a tendon sheath itself, or of several tendon sheaths; it is not, properly speaking, a ganglion at all, being more of the nature of chronic synovitis, or hydrops of the sheath. It is usually found in the fe.ror sheaths, under the annular ligament and the loAver part of the fore-arm. There are two varieties—(a) consisting of simple serous fluid alone, and {h) that Avith melon seed bodies as Avell; the latter form may be made to crackle and gurgle as the "seeds" are squeezed from one part of the .«hcath to the other, or through tlie narroAv part of the hbur-glass-shapcd sheath beloAV the anterior annular ligament. For tlic first variety, simple puncture or tap[)ing, Avitii jiressurc