298 Applied Anatomy: it and the internal oblique. Open (7) this aponeurosis in the same way as the sheaths of arteries are opened, and enlarge the incision upon a director; in so doing it will probably be found that the compartment containing the quadratus lumboium is opened up, as well as the undivided aponeurosis, and if the muscle it contains is in the way, its edge may be freely notched. This care is necessary in opening the aponeurosis, lest by the too free use of the knife the peritoneum should be punctured. The edges of the incision are now to be held aside with broad copper spatulte, and the fatty tissue often found teased aside, when (8) the fascia transversalis is exposed and must be carefully torn through with the fingers or a blunt director, at the posterior angle of the incision, as it lies in front of the (j^uadratus lumbonim muscle. The extra- peritoneal fat, against which the colon rests and in which the kidney is embedded, at the upi^er part of the wound, is then displaced by the finger, ■\^'hich is passed in at the woiuid to hook the colon forward. The gut may be recognised by its relation to the kidney, which can easily be felt at the upper part of the wound, the gut passing downwards off its anterior surface. In cases where there is great difficulty m finding the gut, the patient may be turned on his back, when the gut will probably fall against the finger; or the gut may be inflated with air by the plan intro- duced by Lund, or by carbonic acid gas, generated by introducing solutions of bicarbonate of sodium and tartaric acid, separately, into the rectum. The remaining steps of the operation will vary according to the nature of the case. In all cases, ■where possible, the operation should be done in two stages, just as gastrostomy— an outer row of sutures being used to fix the gut to the fascia at the bottom of the woiind, and an inner row, to attach it to the skin. If this is not possible from the nature of the case, the non-peritoneal surface of the gut is brought to the wound, and a large curved needle with a stout silk ligature is passed, at the upper and lower parts of the wound, through the skin, then across the bowel, and then through the skin at the opposite side. The threads are then to be given to two assistants, who thus hold the bowel steady and pulled well forward into the wound, Tlie gut is then opened by a longitudinal incision between the two tlircads, and the finger is next passed into the bowel and the loops drawn