Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 461 lUiiy arise from a puncture of a vein duriug tapping for hydrocele, or from the bursting of a varicose vein. Treatment.—(1) Rest, general and local, with elevation of the scrotum, and gentle elastic pressure to stop the bleeding point; the application of cold may also be tried, if necessary, but elastic pressure is the chief point. (2) Later, it may be tapped, and the serum and broken-down clot drawn off. (3) In obstinate cases, it may be necessary to lay open the tunica vaginalis, under very rigid antiseptic precautions, turn out the blood clots, secure any bleeding points, stuff the wound, and make it heal from the bottom by granulation. (4) In vev]i bad, old-standing cases, excision of the testicle has been practised. Cirsocele or Varicocele is a varicose enlargement of the sper- matic veins (the plexus pampiniformis). The pampiniform plexus is formed by the remains of the veins of the "Wolffian body, and passes out at the hilus or posterior border of the testicle. This Avould correspond to the hilus of the ovary, or, as it is called, the paroophoron, which represents the remains of the Wolffian body. In women who have born children, this plexus often reaches an immense size. The left side is most frequently affected—(1) Because the vein of that side is longer, (2) it is apt to be pressed upon by fajculent accumulations in the sigmoid flexure of the colon, and (3) it enters the left renal vein at right angles. Mr Howse believes that in cases of varicocele there is an actual development of new veins, and that this probably accounts for the condition in many cases; in fact, that it is not a mere dilatation of pre-existing veins. It is usually found in young adults up to twenty-five years of age. The mass is pyramidal in shape, with the base below; it feels like a " bag of worms," and it may be possible sometimes to see the dilated and tortuous veiirs. Occasionally the veins rupture and may cause death from great extravasation. When the patient lies on his back, and the scrotum is elevated, the swelling disappears; if then the finger be pressed on the external ring, and the patient made to stand up, it will return in spite of the pressure, without the sensation of anything slipping past the finger. Tliis distinguishes it from hernia. The affected testicle is often a little smaller than the other, but it will not cause impotence, as long as the other testicle is sound. Professor Chienh classifies varicoceles cUnicalhj