Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 307 incision; both ends of the tendon are then knotted. The occasional tendency to contraction of the new anus must be overcome by means of special dilators. LiTTR^'s operation may also be performed on the right side, in this case opening the caecum; this side is also to be preferred in cases of long standing intestinal obstruction. The fluidity of the fiiices, however, must ever be a serious objection to all right colotomies. This subject is ably discussed by Mr F. Treves, in his work on " Intestinal Obstruction." LAPAROTOMY. This may be defined as the making of an opening into the abdomen, either for the purposes of diagnosis (exploratory) or treatment, or both. It is used in cases of acute strangulation of the gut, of all kinds and from all causes, such as constricting bands, cords, diverticula, strangulation through slits and apertures, etc. It is also used in treating all kinds of internal hernia, and of reduc- tion en rnasae after external hernia, provided the condition cannot be relieved by cutting down at the seat of the hernia first; also for some cases of volvulus, and in intussusception. The incision is the same as in ovariotomy; it is used as a preliminary operation in cases where enterotomy, enterectomy, etc., is to be performed. I will not describe the operation in detail, but merely indicate the more important points; the whole operation must be conducted on the same principles, and with the same care, as ovariotomy. The patient is placed on a high tal)le, with his legs hanging over the end of it, and an incision, sufficiently large to admit the hand, is made between tlie pubes and the umbilicus through the liiiea alha; by making the incision in the linea alba no vessel of any size is divided, no inter-muscular cellular planes opened up, the wound is not deep, and its edges can be readily approximated witliout any tendency afterwards to hernial protrusion of the bowel. The instruments required are the same as in gastrostomy, and the instrument clerk should have all the instruments, especially the sponges and "VVeij^s's forceps, carefully counted and noted, so that he may call the roll before the wound is stitclied up, lest any of thorn be left in the abdominal cavity. Tlie temperature of the room must bo carefully regulated and the bladder emptied before