Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 301 (2) the greater permanency of the cure; (3) it gets rid of the sac, which is the chief cause of tlie persistency of any hernia; (4) it resembles more closely Nature's method of cure, by closing the sac aud canal, not corking them; (5) it restores the abdomen to its natural condition, merely leaving a dimple or scar, which tends to disappear, at the site of the internal ring^—so that if hernia is reproduced, the new hernia has all the work of sac formation to do over again. Dr Macewen, instead of leaving a dimple, aims at making a projection over the internal ring. It is doubtful if any form of " radical" cure will be constantly and always " radical;" it is always better and safer to wear a liglit well-fitting truss. The advantage of an operation is, that it will make the truss certain of keeping up the hernia. The radical cure may be required for—(1) Irreducible hernia, because the patient is in constant danger, for (a) it may become inflamed, (6) it may become obstructed, and (c) it may become strangiilated; the operation is performed therefore to save the patient from these risks. (2) In reducible hernia that cannot be kept up by a truss. The operation in this case is easier, because the hernia is first reduced and kept in the abdomen, while the sac is exposed and opened, without the risk of wounding the contents of the hernia. (3) For strangulated hernia, because the same incision does for both operations—relief of strangulation and the performance of the radical cure. For the first two conditions, the time of operation may be chosen; and one should therefore see that the health of the patient is good, esjiecially that there is no acute cough, from any cause. Antiseptic precautions are specially important in this operation. RESUME of tlie operation for .sti-mgulated hernia, with the radical cure :— 1. The patient is laid on his back, his shoulders raised somewhat, and the knee of the affected side bent over a pillow. Empty the bladder, shave and wash the seat of the operation. 2. An incision of sufficient length is made over the neck of the sac, by pinching up the skin and subcutaneous