Applied Anatomy: 358 over to the inner side and the needle pushed through the skiu. The needle is then threaded with the tendon suture, or, if wire be used, a bend at the end of it is hooked on. The needle is then witlidrawn at the scrotal wound and the suture detached, leaving about six inches projecting from the puncture in the abdominal wall. The finger is then passed behind Poupart's ligament, the spermatic cord felt for and pushed aside. The point of the finger is then carried close to the ligament, along the groove of the outer pillar of the external ring, to a point oj^posite the internal ring; the needle is then passed through the aponeurosis of the external oblique, and, by drawing the skin well outwards, is made to appear at the puncture already made. The end of the suture which is projecting from the puncture is then attached to the needle, which is drawn out at the scrotal wound. There is thus a loop left projecting at the puncture on the abdominal wall, and two free ends from the scrotal wound. The needle is then carried from the scrotal wound across, behind the sac, between it and the cord, the latter being isolated and dra\Tn backwards with the finger and thumb of the left hand while the needle is being passed, as in the operation for varicocele. The end of the suture, which passes through the conjoined tendon, is then attached to the eye of the needle, and drawn through between the cord and the sac. If the hernia be large and the ring wide, the needle is now to be passed agam from the scrotal wound through the end of Poupabt's ligament, just above the pubic spine, and then carried through the inner pillar of the ring and the triangidar fascia close to the os pubis, at the edge of the rectus muscle. The outer edge of the suture, that passing through the outer pillar of the ring, is then connected with the needle and drawn across, so as to lace up the canal like a boot. If a tendon suture is used, the ends are now drawn firmly downwards at the scrotal wound, by which the loop projecting at tlie puncture in the abdominal wall will be drawn in beneath the slviu. The free ends are then secured firmly by a reef-knot, cut short, and buried in the wound. A short drainage tube is then inserted, reaching to the external ring, and an antiseptic dressing applied. If all goes well the wound heals by first intention, and the tendon suture is gradually absorbed.