492 Applted . 111 atomy: "simple" conditions that have resisted local and constitutional treatment, as large hernia testis, which is a source of annoyance and discomfort to the patient, some forms of syphilitic testicle, in tubercular disease, to prevent systemic infection, and in some cases of incompletely descended or misplaced testicle. The pubes is shaved, having first made sure of the absence of hernia on the side to be operated upon; the patient is jjlaced upon his back with his legs and thighs hanging over the end of the table. The instruments required are—Scalpel or straight bistoury, blunt hooks, sponges, ligatures, silk ligature for cord, aneurism needle, Wells's forceps, drainage tube, antiseptic dressings, scissors, chloroform, etc. The Surgeon stands between the patient's legs and grasps the posterior part of the testicle with his left hand so as to tighten the parts in front, while his assistant looks after the other testicle. In ordinary cases, the incision should extend from the external abdominal ring to the bottom of the scrotum, in order to ensure free access; if the tumour be large and the skin much stretched, so as to endanger its vitality—also in cases where it is involved by the malignant g^o^^^ih,—two elliptical incisions should be made, wide of the disease, enclosing a part of the skin of the scrotum. The tunica vaginalis should be next opened, lest an old ha?matocele may have been mistaken for a solid tumour of the testicle, and the testicle itself must be examined before attacking the cord, lest the original diagnosis may be at fault, and it is too late to remedy mistakes when the cord is divided. The testicle is then grasped with the left hand, while the coverings are shelled off with the right, and the firm fibrous mesorchium, stretcliing between the back of the testicle and the scrotum, divided by a touch of the scalpel. The cord is then isolated as high as thought necessary, and, in the case of malignant and tubercular disease, it will be well to open up the inguinal canal upon a director, in order to go if possible above the furthest limits of the disease. In dividing the cord we are always warned to be careful lest it be pulled up into the inguinal canal before the vessels are tied, and so pass beyond the reach of easy ligature; the cause of this retraction is said to be the cremaster muscle. This muscle arises