Applied Anatomy: 510 rounded, and the intercostal spaces are wide; on transverse section, it is almost circular. The lower edges of the lungs vary much with the respiratory movements; there may be a difference in the level of three inches between fidl expiration and full inspiration. The lungs are tlio commonest seat of pya3mic abscesses, and of secondary deposits in sarcoma; this is because these conditions spread by the agency of the blood-vessels, and it is in the lungs that the veins break up into capillaries. The Frequency of Respiration in the adult male varies from 15 to 20 per minute; in the female it is slightly more rapid, and in the child the average is from 30 to 40 per minute. The ratio between respiration and the joulse is about one respiration to every four and a half beats of the heart—say, respirations 17, and the jiulse 76 jDcr minute; it is very important to remember this relation, as either the one or the other may be disturbed, according as the fault lies in the respiratory or the circulatory systems. "When any new case is seen for the first time, three things should always he done—(1) Take the temperature, (2) count the respirations, and (3) count the pulse : if all three preserve their normal relation- ships, it is unlikely that there is much wrong with the patient; but when this relationship is disturbed in any way, then search must be made for the cause. It is of far more importance to do this than to look very wise and shake the head over the patient's tongue, Avhich, in the great majority of cases, is a sealed book; look at it by all means if you like, it will please the patient, but I doubt if it will help the Surgeon much, except in a few cases, as confirmatory evidence—e.g., in scarlet fever. The Rhythm of Respiration. — In health, inspiration begins suddenly, and advances rapidly to its completion; cqyiration im- mediately follows this, and at first advances rapidly, but towards the end much more slowly: the slo"\v part is knoAvn as the p^iU'^e. As regards the relative length of the different parts of the act, opinions vary. Taking, then, the whole act as 10, some divide it thus: — Inspiration = 5, expiration = 4, pause = 1; others, as inspiration = 3, expiration = 4, pause = 3. Be that as it may, it will be observed that expiration (including the so-called " pause") is at least as long as, and probably longer than, inspiration.