Applied Anatomy; 520 PORRO'S OPERATION. This is a modification of the old Ctesarian Section, the difference being tliat the uterus and its appendages are removed, after the child is extracted. Lawson Tait calls it " amputation of the pregnant uterus." Its special advantages, as compared with the older operation, are-—(1) It lessens the risk of ha3morrhage. (2) It avoids the risk of effusion into the abdominal cavity; instead of leaving the incised uterus, with the wound probably gaping, with all the attendant risks of septic peritonitis, it is fixed externally in such a way that it can be readily dressed. (3) The Surgeon can choose the period for the performance of the operation, because, as the uterus is removed, it is not necessary to wait till uterine contrac- tions have commenced, as in the old Cfesarian Section. For this reason the operator can make his own arrangements, and have skilled assistance at a definite hour. (4) It saves the woman from the risk of again becoming pregnant. It is required in the same class of cases as the older operation. The best time to perform the operation is when the uterus is fully developed, and some days before labour sets in; at this period there is less risk to the bladder than if one waited till the labour had begun, as the bladder, during labour, is an abdominal organ, and, therefore, more apt to be injured, and the incision has to be made higher up. Further, the operator is not troubled by the contractions of the uterus, and its Avail is less vascular. Lawson Tait thus performs the operation—" Jfo special instru- ments are required—nothing but a knife, some artery forceps, a piece of rubber drainage tube, without perforations, two or three knitting needles, and a little perchloride of iron." " My method of operating is to make an incision through the middle line large enough to admit my hand, and then I pass a piece of rubber drainage tube (without any holes in it) as a loop over the fundus uteri, and bring it down so as to encircle the cervix, taking care that it does not include a loop of intestine. I then make a single hitch and draw it tight round the cervix, so as to completely stop the circulation. I give the wids of the tube