418 Applied Anatomy: the neck of the bladder is inflaiued; so also iii liyportropliy of the prostate in old men, especially of the "middle" lobe. As the lirst part of the nrethra lies in the prostate, it is very often inflamed in affections of that gland, so that there will also be pain during micturition to a certain extent. THE MEDIAN OPERATION. (The Old " Marian," ok Tiui " Oi'euation of the Apparatus Major.") In this case the incision is made in the middle line, in the space between the rectum behind and the bulb in front. A staii' with a median groove is passed into the bladder, and the left index finger passed into the rectum, and made to touch and rest on the apex of the prostate gland. The knife is then entered with its edge directed upiuai'ds, half-an-ineh in front of the anus, and its point so directed that it cuts a small part of the apex of the prostate and the membranous urethra; it is next made to cut upwards for a little way, opening the membranous urethra a little more fully. A ball-pointed probe is then passed along the staff into the bladder and the staff withdrawn. The finger is now introduced and the prostate gland dilated sulUciently, if this be possible. This operation has been characterised as, " small incision, much dilatation ;" but it is doubtful whether it is altogether " dilatation." After dilatation is completed, the stone is extracted by the forceps. The Structures divided arc—(1) Skin and superficial fascia ; (2) sphincter ani; (3) the central poiiit of the perineum and the structiues meeting there; (4) the lower edge of the triangular ligament; (5) apex of the prostate; and (6) membranous urethra, surrounded by (7) the compressores urethrre muscles. Advantages — (1) It is said to be more easily performeil. (2) There is less bleeding, as it is in the median raphe, and tliere is no risk of cutting the artery to the bulb. (3) It is said to be iinpo8sihle to open up the visceral layer of the pelvic fascia, as it is dilatation, not cutting; there is less injury to the lateral ligaments of the bladder. Disadvantages.—(1) Danger of wounding the bulb, and (2) dan- ger of M-ounding the rcctuin—both greater than in lateral. (3) The