8 Applied Anatomy: thumb, whether the i^atient is prepared to breathe through his larynx again; but in this case the inner tube must be always introduced when the patient takes food or drink. In no case should there be an opening in this situation through hotli tubes, for then the patient would also breathe through his larynx, and keep it in a condition of unrest. The tube, in openings of a temporary nature, can usually be removed from the sixth to the thirteenth day. After Treatment.—The extreme ends of the wound are approxi- mated by horse-hair sutures, or perliaps better left entirely open. The bed must be surrounded by a canopy M^hich must be filled with a warm moist atmosphere, and yet contain plenty of fresh air; a careful nurse must be provided, whose duty it is to look after the tube and wound, keeping the inner tube clear, and its outer end covered with warm moist gauze or a small sponge. The causes of death after this operation are—(1) The disease necessi- tating the operation; (2) interlobular suppurative jmeumonia, from blood being inhaled at the moment the trachea was opened; and (3) bronchitis from the inhalation of cold air, as the warming apparatus provided by nature (the nose) is out of use for the present, and its place must therefore be filled by artificial means, such as the bronchitis kettle, warm moist gauze, etc. RESUME of the high operation:— 1. Place the patient in a proper position. 2. Make a sufficiently long incision, beginning over the middle of the thyroid cartilage, and keeping exactly in the middle line. 3. Divide the skin, fat, and superficial fascia, and secure or draw aside any evident vein, such as the anterior jugulars. 4. Divide the deep cervical fascia, and draw apart the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles. 5. AVith tlie handle of the knife expose the trachea and isthmus of the tliyroid body, and feel for the lower edge of the cricoid cartilage. 6. Pincli up the fascia over the trachea at this point, and divide it by a small transverse incision close to tlie