S/irgiml, Medical, and Operative. 97 leaves it by its upper, anterior, and lower borders, The order from the surface is—nerves, veins, arteries. Paralysis of the facial nerve is a not uncommon result of tumours in this region; it is specially common in malignant tumours, but not in innocent; some even use this as a diagnostic difference between simple and malignant tumours. The difference is probably due to the rate of growth in the two cases. But, further, the deep surface of the gland is in relation with the internal carotid artery, and internal jugular vein. Parotitis and abscess have frequently been found after injuries of the abdomen and pelvis; the cause is not known, though some have suggested that it is jirobably jDyajmic in nature. In operations about the gland for the excision of tumours or the opening of an abscess, the knife should not be entered behind a line drawn from the condyle to the angle of the jaw, lest the external carotid artery should be injured; and, to avoid wound- ing the trunk of the facial nerve or the chief branches of the pes anserinus," the incisions should be made as far as possible parallel with the main trunks—i.e., the knife must be held hori- zontally, and the gland at the same time be drawn well forwards. The facial is the motor nerve of the muscles of expression, and its division gives rise to paralysis of these muscles; hence the importance of preserving it from injury. Abscesses, however, in this region are best opened in the way introduced by the late Mr Hilton—an incision is made through the skin and deep fascia only, near the angle of the jaw, and then a director is pushed on into the cavity of the abscess; that the director has reached the abscess is indicated by the fact that the point is free, or else by the escape of pus along the groove. Then a pair of dressing forceps are passed along the director, closed, and when they have entered the cavity the director is taken out and the blades of the forceps are tlien opened, and the instrument withdrawn. As elsewhere, the opening must be dependent for the purposes of drainage. In connection with abscesses in this region, it should be noted that there are a few lymphatic glands deeply placed in the substance of the parotid, and which receive lymphatics from the nasal, temporal, and orbital foss;c, and from the mucous membrane of tlie pharynx and mouth. Irritation in these parts, therefore, may readily be the starting point of a parotid abscess.