Applied AiiatoDiy: gall-stone colic may closely simulate obstruction of tlie bowel. Vomiting ami constipation may be well marked, and there may be a total absence of jaundice. Slighter cases of pain, due to the passage of gall stones, are probably often merely called " spasm of the stomach " (Hutchinson). Dr Symington describes the liver as a right-angled triangular prism with the right angles rounded off; he speaks of live surfaces —anterior, posterior, superior, and right and left inferior: the left inferior corresponds to the so-called inferior surface. He further regards it as a soft, plastic, sponge-like mass, easily changed in shape from pressure of neighbouring orgaiis, especially by the stomach; when this organ was distended he found that the trans- verse diameter was considerably diminished, while the vertical extent on the right side was considerably increased, this change in shape being due chiefly to a movement of its left inferior surface. This plasticity and sponge-like character may account, to a certain extent, for the beneficial effects of physical exercise. Professor Rutherford used to teach us that the liver was like a sponge, and that the compression of the walls of the abdomen and chest around it squeezed out the bile. But physical exercise has another beneficial effect, as it quickens the venous return, by tlie aspiration of the thorax, through the inferior vena cava— so that at eacli inspiration the blood is drawn rapidly througli it: it thus acts in two ways—by squeezing and by aspirating. It is no doubt for this reason that the hepatic veins have been made non-collapsable. This is seen to the best advantage in ]uountain climbing. Herein also, no doubt, lies the special value of laughter as a therapeutical agent. " A merry heart doetli good hke medicine," said the wisest of men in ancient times; and "Laugh and grow fat," says the profane man of our own time. In this way melan diole is got rid of—by which is meant, I suppose, the stagnated products of the liver. The same may also be said for the jolting exercise on horseback, and also the great good derived from taking a few full and deep respira- tions occasionally. Here, also, I would point out one of the great evils of corsets, as worn by ladies at the present day; not only do they keep the liver constantly compressed, distorted, and semi-asphyxiated, but also render it impossible to take full and