Surgical, Medico/, and Operaiive. 120 Hypoglossal Nerve (ninth, Motor LiiKjua;).—It arises from tlio fourth vciitriele, near the point of the calamus scriptorius, Iseueath the fascicuhis teres. It leaves the skull, often in two bundles, through the anterior condyloid foramen, and then lies at first behind the internal carotid artery and internal jugular vein, next it passes between the artery and the vein, hooks round the occipital, and crosses the- external carotid artery, and passes beneath the digastric and mylo-hyoid muscles to the tongue. Its Branches are—{a) Descenclens noni, which forms a loop (ansa hypoglossi) with the commimicans noni, and supplies both bellies of the omo-hyoid, the sterno-hyoid, and the sterno-thyroid muscles; (5) a special branch to the thyro-hyoid; (c) branches to the genio- hyoid, genio-hyoglossus, the hyoglossus, and the styloglossus; and lastly, it su])plies the intrinsic muscles of the tongue. In Paralysis of this nerve the tongue is pushed to the paralysed side. In long standing cases the paralysed half of the tongue atrophies; and this will take place, not only when the root of the nerve is affected, but also in pressure on its trunk—e.g., in the anterior condyloid foramen. In the disease known as Glosso-labio-laryngeal Paralysis (Bulbar paralysis) the deep origins of the hypoglossal, facial, spinal accessory, and the pneumogastric nerves — and probably also the glosso-pliaryngeal—are affected; hence the progressive loss of power of the muscles of the tongue, soft palate, pharynx, larynx, and in the orbicularis oris. The disease consists in de- generation and atrophy of the large nerve cells in the anterior horns of the upper part of the cord, and the cells in series with these in the medulla, forming the deep origin of the above- mentioned nerves. The nerves specially affected in Hydrophobia appear to be the deep origins of the hypoglossal, glosso-pharyngeal and vagus, and neighbouring parts of the medulla. In Tetanus the spinal cord is specially affected, together with the motor part of the fifth, the facial and spinal accessory. The hypoglossal may also be paralysed by sudden and forcible bending forwards of the head, as in leaping, when the nerve is probably crushed at the anterior condyloid foramen. It may also be affected by fractures through the foramen, or by disease involving it, e.rj., caries or necrosis.