Applied Anatomy: 392 Ventral Hernia.—By tliis is meant a hernia tliroiigli any part of the abdominal wall, except the inguinal, the femoral, or the i;mbilical apertures. The treatment and the radical cure are the same as in umbilical hernia. Lumbar Hernia.—Here the gut escapes through the "triangle of Petit," either by piercing the structures forming the floor, or by pushing them before it. This triangle is bounded by the latissimus dorsi behind, the external oblique in front, and the highest point (about the middle third) of the iliac crest below; the floor is formed by the internal oblique and the fascia lumborum. A lunrbar hernia may follow in the track of an old lumbar abscess, and may be mistaken for an abscess, especially if there be traces of a jDrevious abscess at the part, and at the same time the spine is stiff and rigid; under such circumstances one is very apt to think that it is a recrudescence of the old disease, and that the swelling is a collection of pus, and plunge a knife into it. If the swelling be a hernia, this of course is a serious mistake; and before opening any abscess in this region it is well to percuss the swelling—if intestine, it will be resonant; but if an abscess, dull on percussion. In operating on a case of lumbar hernia, after getting rid of the sac, stitch the contiguous margins of the latissimus dorsi and the external oblique with strong catgut. Diapligramatic Hernia.—Varieties—(1) Congenital, the left leaflet of the central tendon being absent; this is the most com- mon variety, and is due to an arrest of development whereby tlie original j^iewo-peritoiteal cavihj has not been completely divided into thorax and abdomen. (2) Where the abdominal viscera pass through one of the naturally deficient parts of the diaphragm, usually just behind the ensiform cartilage, or in front of the vertebrse., occasionally through the oesojihageal opening. (3) Cases where the diaphragm is ruptured by external violence; it is said that rupture of the diaphragm is usually followed by excessive and insatiable thirst. From the presence of the liver, protrusions of abdominal viscera into the thoracic cavity will only occur on the left side. The displaced thoracic viscera may be recognised by percussion and auscultation; the stomach, transverse colon, and oroentuni; are the viscera usually herniated