Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 91 with tlie thyroid is tlio tliyroid duct, more commonly Icnown as the " processus pyramidalis," and as it is often surrounded by muscular tissue, is frequently described in anatomical text-books as the "levator glandulaj thyroideaj." The lingual duct is sometimes present in the adult, and extends from tlie foramen cajcum on the dorsum linguse to the hollow of the hyoid bone. Should both ends become closed, it will give rise to a lingual dermoid; it may also give rise to tumours structurally resembling the thyroid gland— thyroid dermoids, or the congenital adenomata (Bland Sutton). Relations.^—Anteriorly—The integumentary structures and deep fascia, and the sterno-hyoid, sterno-thyroid, and omo-hyoid muscles. Laterally—The sheath of the carotid vessels. Posteriorly—The trachea and larynx and the lower part of the pharynx, and on the left side the oesophagus also. Structure.—It consists of a capsule of connective tissue, from which, as usual, septa pass off into the interior of the organ, dividing it up into lobes and lobules; numerous blood-vessels and lymphatics ramify in the septa. Each lobule consists of a number of closed vesicles closely surrounded by a kind of vascular connec- tive capsule, derived from the septa; each vesicle is lined by a single layer of epithelial cells, and contains a viscid, homogenous, semi- fluid, slightly yellowish, or bloody material, in which are found red blood corpuscles in all stages of disorganisation and discoloration. Vessels.—The thyroid gland is a very vascular structure. Its Arteries are the superior and inferior thyroids, and sometimes tlie tliyroidea media or ima, which arises from the innominate, or the arch of the aorta, and passes up in front of the trachea. The arteries are very large, and anastomose with great frequency. The Veins form a plexiis round the gland and on the front of the trachea, from which plexus the superior, middle, and inferior thyroid veins arise; tlie superior and middle end in the internal jugular, the inferior in the innominate vein. The superior crosses in front of the upper part of the common and the lower part of the external carotid, the middle in front of the lower part of the common carotid, and the inferior in front of the trachea; they must, therefore, be carefully looked for and secured, in ligature of these arteries, and in the low operation of tracheotomy. The Nerves are derived from the pneumogastric, and from the middle