246 Applied Anntoviy: As regards the causes of I'ractiire-tlislocation, it may be due to— (1) Indirect violence, as from extreme bending of the spine, usually- bending forwards, especially in the cervical region; (2) direct vio- lence, as from a blow with something heavy; or (3) a mixture of the two, as when a person in falling from a height strikes a bar and is then doubled over it—this is perhaps the worst of all. The cord may be entirely destroyed, while the tough dura mater remains untorn. The cord is beUeved to be injured at the moment the violence is applied, the displaced or fractured vertebraj crushing it to a pulp, as if between the two blades of a blunt and badly set shears, and after this partially springing back again to their places. "Girdle sensation" is usually present in fracture, but not so con- stantly in dislocation. In fractiu'e, also, of any extent, there will probably be some movable spinous processes—a circumstance that rather points to severe injury and smashing of the bodies. The cord, however, may be very seriously damaged, while there is but very little or almost no apparent deformity. A curious fact has been noted by Professor Chiene—viz., that if, when a person falls from a height on his feet, the os calcis, or the bones of the leg are broken, the spine is saved; but if the bones of the leg resist the shock, the s]3ine suffers. Just as when a watch falls, if the glass be smashed the Avorks escape; but if not, the works will probably be irreparably damaged. Girdle Sensation.—Girdle pain is often found in cord lesions, and usually corresponds to the upper limit of the lesion. It is due to the fact that at this point the cord is not yet completely destroyed, but is being irritated, as a zone of inflammation precedes the destructive change. It may be due also to the irritation of the nerve roots, as in spinal caries. There is a feeling as if a belt was tightly bound round the thorax or abdomen; the line of the belt is oblique, following the course of the intercostal or other nerves. It is often an early s;yTOptom in locomotor ataxia; it is also very niarlcod in spinal meningitis, but less so in myelitis. In connection with injuries of the spine, it should be noted that the spinal nerves do not arise from the cord opi)Osite the vertebnv after which they are named. The cervical nerves escape alove. tlie vcrtebrte after which they are named, the eighth being above the fii-st dorsal vertebra; the rest of the nerves escape Uloxo the vertebrae after