201 Suri^ical, lilcdical, and Operative. hepatic dullness, but it corresponds to a line drawn from the upper limit of the absolute hepatic dullness on the right side, to the outer and inferior part of the apex beat. This base line, in liealtli, should bo about three or four inches in length. Sounds of the Heart.—There are two sounds—the first and second: the first is longer, louder, and duller than the second, and marks the beginning of the systole. It is caused by—(a) Closure and tension of the auriculo-ventricular valves jDriucipally, (h) the muscular sound of the contracting ventricles, and [c) cardiac inqndse against the chest wall. The second sound is short and sharp, and marks the beginning of the diastole; it is caused by the closure and tension of the aortic and pulmonary semi-lunar valves. It Avill thus be seen that iwo sets of A^alves give rise to the first sound, and other two sets to the second; if, tlierefore, there be any want of synchronism between the sets producing a particular sound, tlic sound in question mil appear to be doubled. This is known as reduplication. Further, if one set of valves be closed more quickly or powerfully than the other, as from increased blood-pressure behind it, on listening over the area where the valve in question is best heard, the sound will appear accentuated. The second sound is tJie one usually accentuated—in the Aortic Area, in cases of aneui'ism of the aorta, and in hypertrophy of the heart; in the Fidmonarij Area, in mitral regurgitation or obstruction. Adven- titious or abnormal sounds, accompanying or replacing the normal heart sounds, are called Murmurs. Course of the Blood through the Heart.—It is poured into the right auricle from the systemic veins, and from thence it passes into the right ventricle througli the tricuspid valve (right aurirulo- ventrievlar), tlien into the pulmonary artery and lungs, through the pulmonary semilunar valves; from tire lungs it passes along the pulmonary veins to the left auricle, and from thence passes into the left ventricle through the mitral valve (left aurimlo-ventriciilar), and from the left ventricle is sent into the aorta through the aortic semilunar valves. Now, in cases where, for example, the Mitral Valve is Diseased, tlic blood pressure acts back in exactly the opposite direction, or the blood itself is actually forced back: thug, in Mitral Stenoxix, the blood is liept bade, and in Mitral Rp(jur(jituli(m, or incompetence, the blood is sent Ijaclc. It is sent