328 Applied Anatomy : down to the kidney, the needle may strike a transverse process and lead to a mistaken diagnosis. Hydronephrosis.—Tliis is a chronic affection, and may occur at any period of life, and may even be congenital, causing obstruc- tion during the second stage of laboiir; this seems to show that the kidneys secrete actively for some time before birth. It is a mechanical dilatation of the pelvis of the kidney, with atrophy, first of the mali^ighian pyramids, and finally of the whole interior of the organ, forming a large, often lobulated, smooth-wcdled cyst with a few ill-developed septa in its interior. Causes.—It is caused by obstruction anywhere between the upper end of the ureter and the meatus urinarius. If single it must be from obstruction somewhere in the ureter of that side, as an impacted calculus, stricture from iilceration and inflammation of the ureter itself, or of the pelvis of the kidney, tumours of the pelvis of the kidney, as papilloma or sarcoma, tiunours of bladder obstructing one ureter, compression by a tumour external to the ureter, unilateral pelvic cellulitis, e.specially in women, tumours and cysts of the ovary, or broad ligament, on one side, injury to, and subsequent organisation of a blood clot in, the ureter. In bad cases of single hydronephrosis the obstruction is usually either at the upper or lower end of the ureter. Double Hydronephrosis— where the obstruction is in, or in front of, the bladder, as stricture of the urethra, enlarged prostate, paralysis of the bladder following spinal injuries, widespread villous or other tumour of the bladder. Hydronephrosis is almost twice as frequent in females as in males, I^robably due to the frequency of pelvic cellulitis (utero-sacral) and cancer of the neck of the uterus, as the ureter in the female passes along the sides of the cervix uteri and upper part of the vagina. Congenital Hydronephrosis is usually due to twists of the iu:eter, arteries or bands passing in front of the ureter and compressing it, an abnormally narrow opening into the bladder, or a very narrow opening in the point of the penis. This condition is often associated with other deformities, as club-foot, hydrocephalus, and spina bifida. ITrom this relation of the ureter to the upper part of the vagina it occasionally happens that a uretero - vaginal fistula forms, from accidents during parturition, pelvic cellulitis, abscess, and