Surgical, Medical, and Operative. Rupture of the Liver is very serious, from the great litemorrliage and subsequent peritonitis. Extra-Hepatic Bile Channels—The bile leaves the liver by the rigid and left hepatic duds; these join to form the common hepatic i/tict, which is in turn joined by the duct from the gall bladder (the cystic diui), and the duct thus formed is calletl the common bile duct—the ductus communis clioledochus. It is about the size of a goose-quill, and about three inches long, and is placed, with the hepatic artery and portal vein, in the lesser omentum, the duct being to the right, the artery to the left, and the vein behind and between. Along witli the duct of the pancreas, it pierces the duodenal wall verij ohliqnehj, near the end, and to the inner side of the posterior aspect of its descending part. In stones, passing from the gall bladder, as long as they are confined to the cystic duct, there will be no jaundice, as the bile, from the liver, can easily pass into the gut; it is only when they enter the common bile duct that jaundice becomes marked, but even then a little may pass into the intestine, as the stones are usually facetted. The secretion pressure is extremely low, and, therefore, a very feeble obstniction is sufficient to cause its re-absorption — ohstruciive jaundice. Other causes of obstruction, leading to the re-absorption of bile, are—catarrh of the ducts, often due to duodenal catarrh (duodenal dyspepsia); parasites, as a round Avorm (ascaris lumbricoides); and tumours, as cancer of the head of the pancreas or pylorus, as the duct passes behind the first part of the duodenum and is covered by, or included in, the head of the pancreas. The first inch or so of the common duct runs in the lesser fimentum, and is here liable to be compressed from enlarged glands and other tumours; for the rest of its course it runs under cover of, and between, the duodenum and pancreas, and may be com- pre.ssed by growths springing from these organs. When the ducts are blocked between the transverse fissure and the entrance of the cystic duct, there will be persistent jaundice, witliout distension of the gall bladder. When there is persistent jaundice, with continued dilatation of the gall bladder, it points to blocking of the common duct, as from stricture, calculus, or disease of the duodenum or pancreas. It is of importance to note tliat the