Surgical, Medical, and Operative. suggestion, it lias beeu extended by Dr Duncan to the treatment of liaro-lip, with the best possible resnlts. Nothing is pared aAvay at all, and instead of the thin scar-like union, ^vc have a broad thick lip (Figs. 136 to 139). The lip is split at the point where the red mucous membrane joins the white skin, and not in the centre, therefore, of its thickness; the mucous membrane is folded inwards towards the mouth, and the skin surface folded outwards, and then each stitched to each. It may be necessary to make short transverse incisions at one or both ends of the vertical cut, in order to allow the skin to fold outwards without wrinkling; and a further short transverse incision may be made at the lower end and a little jiiecc turned vlownwards, in order to have a slight projection at the free edge of the lip, to avoid any approach to a nick afterwards. In suturing the lip some Surgeons use three kinds of sutures— (1) A silk suture is passed through the mucous membrane of the inner side of the lip, and left untied; (2) a deep silver-wire suture is then passed through the tissues of the lip, to steady the parts and act as a splint, but is also left loose ; and (3) horse-hair sutures are used to bring the skin edges together. The sutures thus intro- duced are tied in the reverse order—viz., the horse-hair, silver-wire, and, lastly, the silk suture through the mucous membrane of the prolabiuni. The suture through the mucous membrane (silk) is introduced first, because when the others are tightened it would be almost impossible to introduce it; before tightening it, see that there is no blood clot between the edges of the mucous membrane, as it is important for the after result to secure neat apposition and early union. On account of the narrowing of the nostrils, and the altered condition of the child's mouth in general, for a short time after the operation, it is apt to become semi-asphyxiated, or may even choke altogether, from its tongue sticking against the roof of its mouth; the nurse should therefore be warned about this, and be prepared, with the handle of a teasitoon, to bring the tongue down to the floor of the mouth should signs of choking supervene. In cases Avhere silver sutures are u,s(;d, the mother must be warned about tliem, lest shawls or other articles of dress be caught by the end of the wire, and the sutures torn open ; for the same reason, the, ends of the wire .should be covered up as much as possible.