374 Applied Anatomy: subeutaueously. When the retraction is relieved, the skin falls into its normal position, the wound being opposite the external ring. The operation is therefore partly subcutaneous. When the canal has been brought together, a decalcified chicken-bone drainage tube is placed with its one extremity next the external ring, the other projecting just beyond the lower border of the external wound. A few chromic gut sutures are then introduced along the line of skin incision. Dressing the Wound.—Iodoform is dusted over the wound, tlie interstices of the scrotum, and its junction with the thigh. A sublimated wood-Avool pad is applied, held in position by an aseptic bandage. As a rule, a portion of elastic webbing is placed over the margins of the j)ad to secure it firmly. As the patient is laid in bed, a pillow is placed under his knees, while his shoulders are slightly raised, so as to relax the tissues about the canal. After Treatment.—The rectal temperature is taken night and morning, and at the same time the dressings are inspected. The dressings are left undisturbed from fourteen to twenty-one days, unless they are previously stained or the temperature is abnormally high. On their removal at the end of that period, the wound is found healed, the extremity of the decalcified drainage tube which l^rojected beyond the margin of the skin is seen to lie loose on the dressings along with the external portion of the majority of the superficial stitches. A fresh pad is applied to maintain pressure over the part. From four to six weeks after the operation the patient is allowed to rise from bed, but he is not permitted to work until the end of the eighth week. He is further advised not to lift heavy weights until the end of the third month at the verj' earliest. Adults engaged in laborious occupations are advised to wear a bandage and pad as a precautionary measure. Those who are not so engaged are not required to wear a belt except when of very lax habit. All are recommended not to over-strain themselves. In the majority of cliildren (six to fourteen years) the closure is so complete and firm that further treatment by pad or belt is (juite unnecessary. In Congenital Inguinal Hernia the sac is first isolated from the cord. As this structure is generally intimately connected with the posterior surface of the sac, often by close organic