Stirgical, Medical, ami Operative. 45 the trachea or ocisophagus, air or food will pass through. The only cure is to excise the whole tract; should it communicate with the air or food passages, then perform Mr Duncan's operation of separating the cutaneous from the mucous surface, and stitching each to each. Branchial Cysts are formed by closure of the cleft at both ends while the middle part is not obliterated. In this way a portion of the epiblast is included and embedded in the deeper tissues, forming the so-called dermoid cysts, and which most frequently develop into prominence from the tenth to the thirtieth year. It is doubtful, however, whether a dermoid cyst and a branchial cyst are the same; the germ of a branchial cyst is laid down Jjefore the appendages of the shin are developed, and, therefore, should only contain epithelium. But the wall of a dermoid cyst contains hair follicles, sweat and sebaceous glands, and occasionally teeth, nails, fingers, etc. Many names are applied to these congenital cysts. Koser calls them branchial cysts; Langenbeck, dermoid cysts of the sheath of the internal jugular vein ; Schede, deep-seated atheromatous tumours; A^irchow, tumours of the branchial clefts; Mannoir, hydrocele colli congenita; Luschka called them hygroma colli, and said that they were probably a cystic degeneration of the " carotid ganglion"; and Luecke, atheromatous cysts of lymphatic glands. A^ery often these tumours have a close connection with the sheath of the internal jugular vein, and hence they will be sliglitly movable from side to side, but perfectly immovable from above downwards. The serous hranchial cyst, or hydrocele, is found in children or in young adults; the walls are very thin and vascular, and the contents serous. They are often situated at the root of the neck, behind the sterno-mastoid, and may dip down to the first rib and pleura, and arc unilocular, and may be symmetrical. Many of the ranulas about the base of the tongue arc probably dermoid in nature; this variety is recognised by its deep position and fixity, and the absence of the usual opalescent or bluish appearance. The term hygroma is more properly applied to midtilocular fibro-cystic tumours, probably from the intra-ut(irine transformation of a suljcuiancous naivus of ordinary type, or it may be a lymphatic nsevus; sometimes one may find a l)it of nfevoid tissue in the neighbourhood, or a great growth of hair.