Applied Anatomy: 184 incision, and the anaf?toniotLca magna runs parallel with and close to the tendon of the adductor magnus, and is, therefore, hehind the incision. Dr Duncan perforins this operation on the outer side, and when the limb is straightened there is a cuneiform gap left, which will fill up with new hone. By this means tlie bone is more easily broken, and the straightening more easily overdone; the wound also is on the outer side, and well out of the way, there- fore, of any subsequent pressure by splints or bandages. Whatever method be adopted, it is of the greatest importance to do it with the strictest antiseptic precautions, as all jJi'oduce a compound fracture of the femur, close to the knee joint. After Treatment.—A single or double long splint is applied, according as one or both knees have been operated upon; it may also be necessary to apply extension by means of the weight and pulley. There is a short shelf attached to the lower edge of the long splint opposite the knee, passing inwards, and on this the back of the joint rests. The leg must be securely bandaged to the splint, and, as usual, in knoclc-knee cases, care taken to avoid all rotation of the limb. CLUB FOOT. There are four primary varieties of this deformity—(1) Talipes varus (or, more usually, talipes equino-varus; the sole of the foot looking inwards, and the heel being usually a little raised); (2) talipes equinus (in this form the heel alone is raised); (3) talipes valgus; and (4) talipes calcaneus. It may either be congenital or acquired, and is said to be more common in boys. It is very often a result of infantile paralysis, a disease attacking children usually about a year and nine months old, and due to destruction of the cells in the anterior horn of the spinal cord. When congenital, one ought always to look for spina bifida, evident or occult. 1. Talipes Varus.^—This is the most common form of congenital club foot—or rather talipes equino-varus, as it is rarely pure. When it is congenital, usually both feet are affected, and it is frequently associated with spina bifida. In some cases, however, it is ac- quired, and, when this is the case, usually only one foot is alfected. In early foital life the back of the loAvcr extremity lies in contact