Applied Anatomy: 06 nuiscle; behind, by the external auUitoiy mciitus, pinna, mastoid process, and sterno-mastoid muscle; anteriorly, it stretches over the masseter muscle, and from this part the duct emerges. The deep surface of the gland extends to the styloid process, passes beueatli the mastoid process and sterno-mastoid muscle; it also fills up the hollow behind and below the articulation of the lower jaw, and further, passes to the great vessels in this region. The gland is invested by a dense fibrous sheath, derived from the deep cervical fascia; it is very dense on the outer and lower aspects of the gland, but on the irpper and deep aspects it is very thin, and between the styloid process and the external pterygoid muscle it is absent altogether. Abscesses therefore tend to pass upwards towards the temporal or zygomatic fossa3, or inwards towards the pharynx, rarely passing outwards or downwards. Pus may also make its ^vay from the pharynx outwards to the jjarotid region, or down from the temporal fossa. The deep surface of the gland has a very close relation to the cartilaginous part of the external audi- tory meatus, the ramus of the lower jaw, and the tempore-maxillary articulation, as ^\"ell as the great vessels and nerves of the neck— the internal carotid artery, the internal jugular vein, the vagus, the glosso-pharyngeal, the spinal accessory, and the hypoglossal nerves. It has a close relation also to the foramen ovale and the exit of the third division of the fifth nerve, so that pus has been known to pass from the parotid region into the skuU along this nerve (ViRCHOW). Tumours and Abscesses of tliis gland give rise to much pain because of the dense unyielding fibrous capsule of the gland, and, therefore, should be relieved early by incision (in the case of abscess), or excision (in the case of tumours). The relation of the gland to various important vessels and nerves must be kept in mind :—(1) The external carotid enters the deep .surface of the gland, and gives off in it the following branches :—(a) Occipital, {})) posterior auricular, («) temporal, and {d) internal maxillary. (2) Passing from the gland is the external jugular vein, formed in the gland by the union of—{a) Tlie temporal, (i) internal maxillary, (c) posterior auricular, and {d) transverse lacial veins. (3) The aurieulo-temporal nerve enters the gland at its lower and posterior part, and tlie facial nerve passes through the gland and