546 Applied Anatomy: Myosis. — Persistent contraction of the pupil; tliis is found in hypersestliesia of the retina, in cases also where the vessels of the iris are full of blood, in cases of nervous disease where the sympathetic fibres to the iris are paralysed, or where the third is stimiUated, in cerebral concussion, and from the use of drags, as Calabar bean, locally—opium and chloral hydrate, internally. Myopia.—" Short-sightedness." Parallel rays are brought to a focus in front of the retina even when all accommodative efforts are suspended. It is usually due to elongation of the antero- posterior axis of the globe. Distant objects cannot be seen, but near objects can if held close to the eye. The amount is measured by the refractive power of the wealcest concave lens that enables the eye to discern distant objects distinctly—an object twenty feet off. In myopic patients there is a great liability to liquefaction of, and opacities in, the vitreous, cortical cataract, and detachment of the retina. Nyctalopia.—" Night blindness," or want of sight in the dusk; vision is good in bright light, but in the dusk require to be led. This condition is found in retinitis pigmentosa, and sometimes in syphilitic choroido-retinitis. Nystagmus.-—-Involuntary oscillating movement of the eyes: associated with congenital defects of sight, or defects produced soon after birth—e.g., by ophthahnia neonatorum. It is also found in coal-miners, and in some forms of cord disease. " Occlusion " of Pupil.—When the orifice is filled up by inflam- matory products, which organise into a thin membrane. Onyx.—Pus between the lamelloi of the cornea, which usually sinks to the lowest part. Ophthalmia.—All forms of inflammation of the conjunctiva are included in this term. Ophthalmoplegia.—Paralysis of the muscles of the eyeball. (1) Ophthalmoplegia externa = paralysis of all the e.vfernal muscles of the eye, met with sometimes in locomotor ataxy, syphilis, diphtheria, cold, and alcohol. (2) Ophthalmoplegia interna = l)aralysis of the three internal muscles of tlie globe — ciliary muscle, dilator, and sphincter pupilla3. When the ciliari/ muscle alone is aflected, it is called Ci/cloplegia; when the nnisclos of tlie iris alone, Iridoj^hgia.