Stirgicnl, Medical, and Ope^'ative. Ill is a very serious matter. The state of the pulse will be some guide as to what to do; if the pulse be hard and incompressible do not be in too great a hurry to stop it. (3) In the old—It may arise from disease of the vessels, or from weak and ansemic states of the system, and also from the various conditions causing epistaxis in middle life as well. In the old and weak it is a very serious matter if profuse, but in the young and plethoric it rarely does inuch harm. Treatment.—(1) Inject ergot hypodermically, as it acts much more quickly this way. (2) In the interval between its injection and the time it takes effect, use general means, as mental and bodily rest with the head elevated; the head must not be held down over a basin. That in itself is quite sufficient in many cases to cause epistaxis, and is a very important agent in keeping up an attack. Cold to the back of the head and neck to stimulate the vaso-motor centre—hence the popular, old-fashioned, cold door key; the modern " Chubb " is of little use. A very important point, I believe, is to keep the mouth open and breathe freely and deeply for a short time, as this in a very marked manner lessens the congestion of the vessels of the head and neck by the aspiration of the thorax, and if persisted in will even cause fainting from antemia of the brain; this is the only method I adopt in my own case, and I have always found it speedily effectual. It may also be supplemented by elevation of the arms, as this expands the thorax. (3) By means of a soft camel's hair brush swab out the interior of the nose freely with a mixture of equal parts of perchloride of iron and glycerine, especially in the region of the anterior nares and the inferior turbinated bone—parts, on account of their great natural vascularity, from which the bleeding is most likely to come. In most cases, I believe, this will be quite sufficient without plugging of any kind. (4) Plug the anterior nares; for this purpose use a long, narrow strip of lint, and a narrow-bladed dressing forceps, and pack the lint firmly into the anterior nares in all directions, leaving one end of the strip projecting a little way from the nostril. (5) As a last resort plug the posterior nares as well. For this purpose we require a plug of folded lint one inch long by half- an-inch wide, or the size of the last phalanx of the thumb, fixed by its centre to the middle of a long piece of strong cord, and a