289 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. in middle-aged females. As the appemlix is usually blocked before- hand, extravasation of f;«ces is rare, so that the inflammation may remain localised, though it occasionally gives rise to slowly spreading diffuse peritonitis. Removal of the Appendix.—In opening the abdomen for the relief of a perityphlitic abscess, it is better, at the same time, to remove the appendix as well. The general details of the opera- tion are the same as in any other case of abdominal section. The incision—Various forms may be used, but the great point is to secure free access. (1) An incision just above, and parallel with, Poupaut's ligament has been used: this form is too low down to reach the appendix easily. (2) One nearer the iliac crest, resem- bling Abernethy's modified incision for ligature of the external iliac artery. This form may be used, either when we wish to open the peritoneal cavity, or where we wish to reach an abscess and the appendix outside the peritoneal cavity, more especially the latter. The objection to this form is that one cannot wash out the peritoneal cavity properly. (3) An incision may be made in the middle line, between the umbilicus and the symphysis pubis; but this form is too far away, and it is impossible to manipulate the parts easily. (4) An incision may also be made in the right linea semilunaris, beginning one or two inches above Poupaet's ligament. The chief objection to this form is that the deep epigastric artery is in the way, and will probablj'' be divided; if this is the case, then it must be secured by a double ligature before division. (5) Bull (jSTeAV York) makes an incision from the middle of Poupart's ligament, vertically upwards, or even a little outwards. Treatment of the Appendix.—There are two chief methods— (1) Simply to ligature the appendix near the caecum, and cut off the part beyond the ligature. This plan often does very well, but there is considerable risk, on account of the septic matters in the gut and stump of the appendix, that a process of septic ulceration be set up, which will open up the ligatui'ed appendix and cause septic peritonitis. (2) A much better and safer plan is, when the appendix is removed, to invaginate the cut edges of the stump, and stitch them in that position. First turn in the mucous and muscular coats, and introduce a few stitches, and after this tuck in the peritoneal coat, all the way round, like a hem, and keep