204 Applied Analoiny: But the miirmurs arc conducted («) principally by tlie blood stream, but also (i) by the bones of the chest wall, and advantage is taken of this fact to differentiate the sounds produced by the several valves. The points on the cliest wall, where the sounds are best heard, are known as the "areas," and do not necessarily correspond to the position of the valves producing the sounds. 1. The Mitral Area corresponds to the apex beat, and it is here that we listen for murmurs produced by the mitral valve— the left auriculo-ventricular. 2. The Aortic Area is at the junction of the second right costal cartilage with the sternum; here Ave listen for murmurs produced by the semi-lunar valves of the aortic opening, as at this point the aorta comes nearest the surface of the chest wall. 3. The Pulmonary Area corresponds to the junction of the third left costal cartilage with the sternum, or the space imme- diately above it; the pvdmonary oj^euing is, of all the openings at the base of the heart, the one nearest the surface, and its " area" therefore corresponds pretty closely with the actual position of its valve. 4. The Tricuspid Area.—This is a large area, almost the whole of the anterior surface of the right ventricle of the heart, though systolic murmurs especially arc best heard at the left border of the lower part of the sternum, at the level of the foiu-th, fifth, and sixth left costal cartilages, as the jet of blood is directed towards this point. But even Avhen we have found out tlie seat of the maximum intensity of any murmur (endo-cardial), in the cardiac region, that alone is not by any means sufficient to enable us to give an exact diagnosis; for this purpose we require, in addition to find out other two points—(a) the time of the murmur, Avhich is done by placing a finger on the apex beat itself, or else on the common carotid (the radial pulse is too far away), when we know that the impulse in the vessels corresponds to the cardiac systole; and {h) its propagation. Given a murmur, therefore, find out— first, its seat of maximum intensity; second, its time; and third, its propagation. If this be done in an intelligent and systematic manner, the student ynW in most cases readily arrive at a correct diagnosis.