110 Applied Anatomy: and axis, beliiud the phamyx; hence, it is possible to have a retro- pharyngeal abscess from disease of the nose (Frankel). This, of course, would not communicate with the vertebrse, and the patient would therefore be able to move his head freely in all directions. The Nasal Bones are frequently broken by direct violence, and the "bridge" of the nose driven in; if the mucous membrane be torn, there will probably be subcutaneous emiihysema. The bones must be moulded into position by a pair of forceps jiushed up th(3 nostrils and the fingers without; when once in a position there is no tendency to a redisplacement, as no muscles act upon them. The fracture unites with great rapidity, being usually quite solid in two weeks. A blow at tbe root of the nose, however, is less likely to produce a fracture of the nasal bones, as at that point they are thick and strong; a fracture of the cribriform plate of the ethmoid, or the orbital plate of the frontal, is far more likely to occur, with or without injury to the first and second pairs of cranial nerves (olfactory and optic). It may also j^roduce a depressed fracture into the frontal sinus, but without injuring the inner table, or the contents of the cranial cavity. It should be remembered that a crack into the frontal sinus, or the nose, or the antrum, will produce subcutaneous emphysema. Epistaxis, or bleeding from the nose, may either be traumatic or idiopathic. Traumatic, usually from a direct blow, or from fractiu'e of the base of the skull. Idiopathic, as from local congestions of the mucous membrane, disease of the blood-vessels, altered blood states, as purpura htemorrhagica, hasmophilia, and scurvy; from an impoverished state of the blood in the cachetic and ansemic, also associated with kidney, liver, and heart diseases; and, lastly, from vascular malignant growths. It might also be classified according to the age of the patient. (1) In the young—From local congestion, as frequently seen in children, and in young persons about puberty, especially in girls; in the young, also, epistaxis from falls and blows is common. (2) In middle life— As an accompaniment of kidney, liver, and heart disease, especially the granular contracted kidney and cirrhosis of the liver; in some of these cases, especially in general plethora, the bleeding instead of doing harm may do good, as it may be the means of preventing a cerebral hremorrhage. In the antemic and cachectic, however, it