Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 51 of the lip very freely from the jaw, but leaves the sound half attached, so as to give a fixed point to pull the other side towards the middle line, in order to lessen the flattening of the nostril. In cases of double hare-lip, the inter-maxillarj'^ bone and the tissues covering it, are, as a rule, only used to form the columna and to push up the point of the nose. In operating for hare-lip, the following Structures will be divided from without inwards:—(1) The skin; (2) the superficial fascia; (3) the orbicularis oris muscle; (-t) the coronary vessels; and (5) the mucous glands and mucous membrane. Note the position of the vessels between the muscle and the mucous membrane. In operating, the chief points to attend to are—(1) To pare the edges freely, so as to give a raw surface with sharp corners and not rounded edges; (2) to loosen the mucous membrane between the lip and the gum freely, to avoid tension on the sutures, and obviate the necessity of such things as trusses, etc.; and (3) to make the vertical depth of the lip too great at first, so as to prevent any nick or dent in the Up afterwards. For this purpose some are content to trust to free paring of the edges and loosening of the mucous membrane and neat apposition with sutures (Tigs. 127, 128); others (as the late Mr Spence) make the raw edges concave, from above downwards (Figs. 129, 130). Nelatox, in cases where the fissure does not extend up to the nose, does not pare off the parts from the sides of the cleft, but leaves them attached to the free edge of the lip, and brings them doAvn so as to make a diamond-shaped wound instead of the usual triangular cleft; a somewhat similar plan niaj^ be adopted in cases where a marked " nick " is left after a previous operation (Figs. 131, 132, 133). The sides are then brought together, and instead of a depression there is a distinct projection at the site of the former deficicmcy. In other cases oidy one of the tags is left, which is then brought across the cleft and stitched to the opposite side. In other cases parts of both tags may be left and turned down, so as to form a little projection at the free border of the lip (Figs. 134, 13.5). The best age for operating will depend on the strength and health of the patient, uidess the want of strength is due to the condition in question, but otherwise no time is too