^4 Applied Anatomy: end; hence, the central end, instead of formmg a bulbous mass, unites with the ijroximal. The cause of neuralgia of the fifth nerve is very frequently bad teeth, but there are other causes besides the so-called "idiopathic." The nerves are enclosed in rigid canals lined with periosteum and are accompanied by venous and arterial plexuses; any slight swelling of the periosteum, therefore, may press on the nerve and give rise to paiu. Vasomotor changes also, by dilating the arteries, may produce the same effect, as well as passive venous congestion. It is a curious fact how an aching tooth seems to groAv better all at once when one sets out for the dentist's consulting room: the cause is probably due to contraction of the vessels, from the peculiar mental state stunulating the vaso-motor centre. THE TONSILS. The tonsils are glandular organs, consisting of much adenoid tissue and mucous glands. In the substance are a number of recesses (twelve to fifteen) from which numerous foUicles branch out into the gland; the recesses open by small orifices on the surface. Around the follicles are a number of closed capsules of adenoid tissue, resembling the solitary glands of the intestines. The follicles and recesses contain a thick greyish secretion; when inflamed, plugs of thickened mucus and softened epithelium fill the openings on the surface, causing great foetor of breath, from the decomposing epithelium, and give rise to an appearance often called "diphtheria"—from the whitish-yellow patches plugging the recesses. It is extremely difiicult to distinguish follicular tonsillitis from true diphtheria with certainty; if the redness and l^atches are also found upon the uvula, in all probability it is diphtheria, but if limited to the tonsils it is impossible to say with certainty. There can be little doubt but that unhealthy tonsils are a very frequent cause of tubercular disease of the glands of the neck, and even more widespread tubercular disease; it is a question also whether they are not the source of entrance into the blood of many of the organisms causing so-called idiopathic diseases, as acute necrosis, fevers, etc. Sewer gases seem to have a special tendency to affect chronically enlarged and inflamed tonsils, especially in cases where the gases gain admission to