406 Applied A natoniy: and used, as the angle is rounded. The hroad part of the handle should be roughened, especially the side towards the concavity of the stall". 4. Knife, with a large handle—for the adult, say about four and a half inches. The blade is about tlu'ee inches long, and does not cut to the heel, the cutting edge only extending about an inch and a quarter from the point. The blunt part is to allow the finger to be placed below the blade, to press and keep the knife in the groove of the stalf during the second part of the incision. It should be bevelled off at the back near the point, so as to enable it to glide easily along the groove of the staff. A probe-pointed knife, with blunt heel, is sometimes used to enlarge the deeper part of the wound before the stone is extracted. Aston Key uses a straight staff at the latter part of the operation. Buchanan uses a rectangular staff; the angle is felt in the perineum, and the knife cuts straight down upon it, and then along the straujlit groove into the bladder. In Professor Chiene's staff (Fig. 215), the two parts are almost at right angles to each other; but the angle is not sharp but rounded, so that it possesses the advantages of both the ordinary and the rectangular staff—ease of introduction and less risk of the knife slipping out of the groove. For the ordinary Cheselden staff, probably Fergusson's knife is the best; but for Professor Chiene's or Buchanan's staff, Liston's knife is better. For the first part of the operation, the knife is held under the hand; in the second part, Liston held it above his hand. 5. Blunt Gorget, probe-pointed, with blade about four or five inches long. This is sometimes useful as a director and safe guide for the forceps, and for dilating the already cut wound, and may be used in cases where the finger cannot reach the bladder, as in enlarged prostate, and in a fat person with a very deep perineum. Sharp gorgets, formerly much used for cutting the deeper part of the wound, are now discarded. 6. Forceps of various sizes, straight or curved, to suit the axis of the pelvis; the blades, when closed, shoidd be about an eighth of an inch from each other. The curved pair may be required in cases where the prostate is enlarged, and the stone in the pouch behind it. The handles have a ring on one side, and a hook on the other; the ring is for the thumb, the hook for the fingers.