Applied Anatomy: 552 "Wilde's Line."—This is a line drawn from the apex of the mastoid process upwards at right angles to the sagittal suture. It is about half or three-quarters of an inch from the auricle. It is in this line that " Wilde's incision" is made, in cases where it is necessary to cut down to the mastoid process in ear disease, as it is behind the posterior auricular artery. It is also a very useful guide in the operation of trephining the mastoid antrum. The trephine or gimlet is entered in this line, on a level with the upper border of the external auditory meatus, and then worked in a direction parallel with the meatus, i.e., inwards, forwards, and slightly upwards. Mr Treves introduces a pencil into the meatus, and then keeps the shaft of the gimlet parallel with that. A gimlet is much better than a trejjhine, as one has more command over it. The antrum varies in size from a pea to a small bean. In Fig. 119 (see vol. i., page 576), it is three-sixteenths of an inch in height, and five-eighths of an inch in length. Its Outer Bony Wall.—The petro-squamous suture closes during the first year of extra-uterine life. Its existence during that period, however, is no doubt a very frequent cause of death from ear disease in the case of children. In the foetus there is hardly any mastoid process, and the outer wall of the antrum is verj'' thin. About this period the mastoid process begins to grow in a peculiar manner. There is a continuous formation of new bone from the periosteum, which is laid down layer after layer on tlie surface of the old, so that the external and inferior walls of the antrum become gradually thicker and thicker. In a new-born child, the outer wall is only 1 or 2 mm. thick ; by the age of five years it is about 6 mm., while at nine or ten years of age, it is about 1 cm. deep (Symixgton). In the adult, it is about To cm. deep, or three-fifths of an inch. The new bone is at first finelj' can- cellous. About puberty this tissue rrndergoes a process of partial absorption, by which it is converted into a number of communi- cating air cells, Avhich are lined by a delicate mucous membrane. In the adult, the chances of extension of the inflammation to the lateral sinus are much greater than in children. In children there is a thick layer of fine cancellous tissue between the mastoid antrum and the lateral sinus; but this may be converted in the adult into air cells, some of Avhich are only separated by very