Applied Anatomy: 434 sitz bath to get rid of the spasm, just as steam is used in croup; and if that is not enough, use a morphia suppository, or some preparation of morphia and bella- donna, and a dose of bromide of potassium, put him in a warm bed, and apply fomentations to his perineum. Lastly, if all fail, try to pass a ISTo. 9, or even larger, rigid catheter in the way already described; if you fail in the ordinary way, then put the patient under cMoroform and try again. It is usual to use the Trench olivary catheters to start with, and should they fail, to use silver instruments. Should this also fail, tliree courses are open—(1) To aspirate above the pubes, (2) tap per rectum, or (3) open the membranous urethra by Mr Spence's method. As a rule, the first is to be preferred. Organic Stricture is due to the organisation of a plastic exu- dation thrown out into the submucous tissue; this is transformed into fibrous tissue, which gradually contracts and closes the canal. The usual causes are—(1) Inflammation (usually gonorrhoeal, but may occasionally follow non-specific urethritis). (2) Traumatism, as rupture of the urethra from falling across a spar with the legs apart, when the urethra is snapped across between the pubic arch and the spar; in this case it is the bulbous part of the lu'ethra that is injured. The urethra is also frequently injured in fractures of the pelvis, but in this case it is the membranous part that suffers. The traumatic stricture is the worst of all forms, and is very frequently situated in the membranous part of the urethra; probably 99 per cent, arise from gonorrhoea. Locality.—According to Sir Henry Thomson—(a) 67 per cent, are found near the junction of the bulbous with the membranous portion; (5) at or near the external orifice, 17 per cent.; (c) 16 per cent. betAveen these two points. It is well to note that stricture is not found in the prostatic part of the urethra; examiners find some difficulty in believing in the existence of prostatic stricture, notwithstanding they are told of it so repeatedly. In fact, it is a physical impossibility, because the inflammatory process roimd the urethra in the substance of the prostate produces fibrous tissue, which as usual tends to contract; but as the capsule of tlio prostite