Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 89 or fontaiiello, in times of extra pressure in the contents of tlie cranium. In connection witli tliis, it is interesting to observe that for some time after birtli the anterior fontanelle actually increases in size; this is no donbt due to the very rapid groM'tli of the brain during this period of life, and probably acts as a safety valve, preventing convulsions. (7) In tumours of the brain, if their seat can be diagnosed. Compression differs from Concussion, in that there must always be a palpable lesion in the former; whereas, in concussion there is no palpable lesion—the changes being probably circulatory. The symptoms come on at once, and are much more evanescent than in compression. If compression is produced at once, it is due to depressed bone; if it comes on in a few hours, it is due to h.-emorrhage; if later—ten to twelve days—it is due to the effects and products of inflammation. Hamiorrhage may either be—(«) acfire, coming from the arteries; or (h) jicissive, from venous sinuses; in the latter case, it is very much slo'wer and more insidious in its onset than when it comes from an artery. Tumours of the Brain.—The usual signs of brain tumour are—(1) Fixed, persistent, and often intense-psim (cej^JialaJgia), especially when near the surface of the brain; (2) sometimes severe giddiness; (3) irritation of motor or sensory functions, or of the special senses; (4) optic neuritis ('■'■ cliol-ed d/.^c"): (5) vomiting is a common .symptom; and (6) alteration in the size of the pupils. The evil results arise—(a) From displacement of parts, (h) hum interference with the functions of the neighbouring parts of the brain, (c) from irritation of parts, followed by inflammation and degeneration, as a direct result; or (J) from interference with the cranial contents, generally from the increased intra-cranial pressure. Should the tuiuour be seated in or near the medulla, we may expect polyuria and diabetes mellitus, or interference with the heart and respiration ; if it is in the cerebellum, affections of co-ordination and eipiilibrium, with a staggering, drunken-like gait. "When a tumour, r.;/., a glioma, affects the cortical centres, epileptiform seizures are common, and tlie fit begins by .'^;^vrt.s•^// of the part in conne(!tion with the centre implicated. These spa.sms, or occasionally paresis or paralysis of certain p.arts, indicate the j)art f)f the crtrtex affected and the point at which the trephine