Applied Anatomy: 250 fifth: ankle clonus at the first and second sacral: and the plantar reflex at the fourth and fifth sacral. The cord may be compressed from other causes than traumatism; it may be compressed during the course of caries, from the bodies falling together, also from malignant disease of the bones or parts near, from aneurism, from hydatid cysts, and from meningeal tumours. When both the lower limbs are paralysed, and sensation lost as high as the navel, it indicates a lesion as high as the ninth dorsal nerve. If, in addition to this, the muscles of the belly wall and intercostals are paralysed, and sensation lost as high as the second rib and a portion of the inner side of the arm, it indicates a lesion as high as the first dorsal nerve. If still higher, say up to the fifth cervical, the upper limbs will be paralysed and the respiration Avill be entirely diaphragmatic. The seventh dorsal nerve supplies the skin over the pit of the stomach, and it has been said that " belly-ache " has been diagnosed instead of disease of the spine, the jDain being referred to the peripheral termination of the nerve. In like manner also, in atlo-axoid disease, the great occipital nerve is implicated, causing intense headache, which may lead the Surgeon off the scent, especially in the case of children, who persistently complain of a " sore head." Trephining tiie Spine.—The object of this operation is to cut down on the vertebral column, remove a few of the spinous pro- cesses and laminae, in order to relieve the cord from the pressure of displaced or broken vertebra?, or from the pressure of eff"used blood; tlie cord is often crushed against the laminas, and their removal allows it to curve round the projection without undue pressure. The great risk of such an operation is septic meningitis, as it converts the simple wound into a compound; but if tlie Surgeon has sufiicient faith in antiseptic principles, and in his own ability to carry them out, it matters but little, as the wound will readily heal, and the patient is in no worse a condition than before. The operation will only be of use where the paralysis is due to pressure of bone or blood effusion, but will do no good should the case be one of rupture of the cord, or wliere the cord is crushed to a pulp inside the untorn dura mater. A septic wound in this region is specially dangerous from the large number of venous plexuses in connection with Mie vertebne.