Applied Ajiatoiny: 88 set up ii^iscliief if left, wliicli will necessitate their removal at a later iDeriod under less favourable conditions. Very often, also, tlie dura mater is wounded by the instrument causing the fracture, or else a sharp specule of bone is driven into it. The trephining in this case is not to relieve compression. (2) At once, in cases of compound comminuted depressed fracture, in the adiilf—not in cases of mere fissure with wounded scalp. In the child, wait for symptoms. (3) In simple depressed fracture, try other means first, and only trephine when the symptoms of comjoression are urgent and persistent. By following this plan we avoid unneces- sarily transforming the simple into a compound fracture. (4) In compression due to extra-meningeal hicmorrhage, when its position can be diagnosed—by the existence of a fissured fracture over the course of the middle meningeal, for example. (5) In comin-es.sion Fig. 149. Pott's Puffy Tumour. (After Spence.) " Puffy Tumoiiv." Abscess. Scalp. Boue. Hiu-.i -Mater. Bmin. due to sujipuration, if the seat can be diagnosed, as from the previous existence of suppuration of the middle ear, or from the presence of Pott's " puffy tumour," or unhealthy state of a scalp woimd, the edges of which become everted and retracted, leaving the bone discoloured at the bottom of the wound, and the discharge becomes thin and gleety. Pott's tumour is merely a boggy infiltra- tion or flattened swelling under or in the scalp tissues, but there is no well-marked "tumour;" if present, it will be of assistance in cases where the scalp is not wounded (Fig. 149). It indicates suppuration between the bone and the dura mater. (6) In cases of epilepsy or local paralysis, due to some local injury, such as a contusion; in these cases the existence of an old scar may guide. In trephining in cases of epilepsy of non-traumatic origin, it probably matters but little what part of the vault of the skull be removed, as any opening thus nwdc will act as a safety valve.