352 Applied Anatomy: Tor thirst and vomitiug, give liim ice to suck: the food most consist of milk, arrowroot, and beef-tea. He must not be purged, but the bowels left to act of themselves, or at the most a castor oil and gruel enema given; even though many days pass one must not be anxious. "When the bowels have acted spontaneously, then the patient may be regarded as convalescent. Accidents of the operation are—Wound of the gut, or wound of some of the vessels near the openings. The operation is some- times followed by peritonitis. Reduction en masse or en bloc.—By this is meant the return of the hernia, sac and all, bodily behind the abdominal parietes, within the internal ring, still in a state of strangulation, or, in any case, the external protrusion made to disappear somewhere, whether into the abdomen or not. Properly speaking, it is said to be pushed into the extra-peritoneal tissue, or between the fascia transversalis and the muscles. But it probably also includes other conditions, as cases where the bowel bursts through a hole in the neck of the sac, but the hernia is still strangulated by the mouth of the sac. Mr Bryant says it can only occur in a femoral hernia. Reduction en bissac. — In some cases an intra - parietal sac exists as a diverticulum from the ordinary sac, and the hernia is displaced into it instead of into the abdomen; this only occurs in congenital forms of hernia. After the gut has been apparently reduced, the Symptoms of Strangulation may still persist. Causes—(1) It may have been reduced en masse, but in this case there will have been no gurgle on reduction, the canal is open, and neither sac nor tumour to be felt. (2) A strangulation may have existed within the sac while taxis only overcame the external strangulating cause—e.g., a kink of bowel through a hole in the omentum. (3) The nipped segment of gut remains in a state of j^aralysis from acute inflammation— " laming of the bowel." (4) Reduction en hissac, or the sac may have been hour-glass-shaped, one part in and the other outside the abdomen, and the gut is simply displaced from the one to the other. (5) A second strangulated hernia may exist at some other aperture. (6) The gut may have ruptiu-ed and set up acute peritonitis; or (7) acute peritonitis may have been set up without upture of the sac. (8) Other forms of displaced hernia—(a) Wliero