Surgical, Medical, and Operative. to the upper part of tlio prostate), forming the hxteral and anterior true ligaments of the bhulder, and thus open into the pelvic cavity, which accident is almost certain to be followed by infiltration of urine and ditfuse cellulitis. (5) The bulb must be avoided. (0) If the knife be thrust too deeply in the last stage of the incision, the posterior wall of the bladder might be wounded. In performing lithotomy in children, there are certain diiierences in the size and position of the parts concerned—(1) The urethra is proportionately larger; (2) the perineum is more vascular usually ; (3) the rudimentary state of the prostate gland; (-l) the bladder in children is situated much higher, being rather an abdominal than a pelvic viscus; and (5) if the point of the knife is not raised sutticieutly in making the deep part of the incision, the bladder may not be entered at all, but the knife may pass between the bladder and the rectum, and in attempting to dilate the supposed wound, the neck of the bladder may be torn from the urethra. ^\'"ith these ditferences in. minel, the operation is performed in the same Avay as in the adult. In Stone in the bladder, pain is felt at the end of micturition, because the bladder contracts on tlie stone and forces it against the sensitive trigone; hence, when some urine collects again, the pain is relieved, because the bladder is raised off the stone. In Cystitis, the pain is produced in a different manner—viz., by the contact of the urine with the inflamed mucous membrane, and is therefore relieved immediately after the act, as the irritant is removed, but begins again as soon as the urine begins to collect. The pain felt at the end of the penis in stone, is because the prostatic plexus of nerves end just behind the glaus penis. Many kidney affections simulate stone in the bladder, notably scrofulous kidney; but other conditions—either in the pelvis of the kidney, in its substance, or in the tissue around it—may give rise to similar symptoms. The pain in stone is increased by movement, showing that it is most likely due to a movable body. The student sliould remember that, in boys, all the signs of stone may be due to adherent prepuce. When tlie urethra is inflamed, the pain is worst dariw/ micturition. Simple inflammation of the neck of the bladder and prostate, abscess of the prostate, and tubercular disease of the prostate, may all closely simulate stone in the bladder, as *2u