82 Applied Anatomy: smell iu the middle temporo-splieiioidal, and taste in the inferior temporo-sphenoidal (Fig. 147). The centres for the trunk muscles are placed on the mesial surface of the marginal gyrus, the anterior part heing for the neck muscles, the middle for the shoulders, and the posterior part for the muscles helow this. The centre for touch is said to be placed in the posterior part of the mesial surface of the gyrus fornicatus. The anterior convolutions of the brain are the most tolerant of severe mechanical injury; they seem to be able to bear the greatest amount of injury -without being followed by any bad result. Teaspoonfuls of brain matter have been squeezed out in fractures of this region, pieces of iron driven in for inches, or even driven right through from side to side, and yet the patient recover with- out a single bad symptom, and with absolutely no change in his mental faculties. Extravasation of Blood within tjie Cranium may take place— (1) Within the brain itself, from the bursting of a vessel, or from laceration of the brain substance; (2) in the meshes of the pia mater on the surface of the brain; (3) iu the subarachnoid sjjace, where it spreads widely over the surface usually, but it may also remain circumscribed. In the above situations the blood is derived from the vessels of the pia mater or of the brain itself. (4) Between the skull and the dura mater, from wound of a meningeal artery— usually the middle; and sometimes from a sinus—usually the lateral. When the middle meningeal is the source of the bleeding, the clot extends deeply down to the base of the skull, as the blow that ruptured the artery possibly also separated the dura mater from tlie bone. In this way the effused blood may press on the cavernous sinus, leading to fulness of the vessels of the eye, protrusion of one eyeball, wide dilatation of the pupil, and probably paralysis of some of the ocular nerves; this occurs on the same side as the extravasation, and there may also be hemiplegia of the opiJOsite side, but the widely dilated and insensible pupil is on the same side as the injury (Hutchinson). MALFORMATIONS OF THE BRAIN. In examining any swelling on the head to ascertain whether it communicates with the cavity of the cranium, fuid out the