542 Applied Anatomy: Cataract.—Opacity of the crystalline lens, from any cause; it is due to some change in the composition or structure of the lens fibres. There are many forms, and below the age of thirty-five years are all soft, but above this age are usually hard. (1) The Nuclear, begins in the centre of the lens ; usually in old people, and is hard. (2) The Cortical, begins in the superficial parts, as lines or triangular patches, shooting in towards the centre. It begins at the edge of the lens, and, like the last, is usually found in old people, and is hard. (3) The Lamellar or Zonular—In this the nucleus and the superficial layers of the lens are clear, but there is a zone of opacity between them. It is present at bii-th, and wiU probably remain stationary for life; the subjects of this condition often suffer from infantile convulsions. If the area afi'ected be not verj' large, perform an ividedomij downwards and inwards. The objection to this is the slight permanent deformity. If the afi'ected area nearly involve the whole cornea then remove by "solution,'" letting the remains of the lens out at the lower part. This is one of the most risky forms of cataract operation. Only do one eye at a time, and watch the result very carefully. (4) Pyramidal, or Anterior Polar — A small, weU-defiued spot in the middle of the pupil, at the anterior pole of the lens, due to a previous localised inflammation of the lens capsule and the layers below it; it is stationary, and is the result of perforating ulcer of the cornea, usually from ophthalmia neonatorum. (5) The Posterior Polar—This begins as a thin layer at the middle of the posterior surface of the lens. It is often associated with disease of the interior of the eye, as retinitis pigmentosa, disease of the vitreous, severe choroiditis, etc. In the congenital forms of cataract, nystagmus is often present. For Traumatic Cataract, i-ec Discission. " Cat's Eye."—An appearance noticed in glioma of the retina. The pupil lias a peculiar glistening appearance, or metallic-like lustre. The patient is usually a child, and the mother or nurse notices the peculiar appearance of the pupil, and consults tlie medical attendant about it. It is supposed to resemble a cat's eye. In the earlier stages it may be mistaken for suppurative choroiditis (" .^cwfulous deposit"). In glioma, however, the tension is jjlub; whereas in suppurative choroiditis it is minus.