Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 209 the scapular lino: and to the tenth at the vertebral column, some say the eleventh—roughly, therefore, the levels at front, sides, and back may be taken as the sixth, the eighth, and the tenth ribs. Owing to the gap for the heart, the lower margin of the lnjt lung would begin about the seventh or eighth rib, and then follow the same course as the right. The right lung is shorter than the left as the diajjliragm rises higher on the right side, to accommodate the liver. The left lung is the narrower, owing to the heart and pericardium encroaching on the left half of the thorax. Tlie right lung is the heavier of the two, and has three lobes, Avhile the left has only two. Special Forms of Chest.—(1) The Phthisical Chest. — In persons predisposed to phthisis the chest is long and narrow, often flattened from before backwards, with great obliquity of the ribs; the scapulaj project in a wing-like manner; hence, this form of chest is often called the " aiar," or " pterygoid." (2) The Rickety Chest.—In this form the sides of the chest are flattened and the sternum is thrown forwards, so that a transverse section of the chest would almost be triangular. The transverse diameter of the chest is less than it should be, whereas the antero-jjosterior is greater than it should be; hence, the name of " pigeon breast" is applied to this form of chest. It is caused chiefly by the atmospheric pressure, from the difference between the opening of the glottis and the rate of descent of the diaphragm; the diaphragm descends too quickly, the air enters the glottis too slowly: hence, the ribs are forced in, because they are softened, especially at the junction of the cartilages with the bones. As a result of this, we find a groove on each side, where the cartilage and bone join; the left is shallower tlian the right, because of the support from the heart; the right is deeper, but not so long as the left, because of the support of the liver. There is, how- ever, another constriction a little above the costal arch; this is not due to the diapliragm, but is duo to the fact that the lower costal arch is prevented from falling in from the presence of the liver, stomach, and spleen. It is exceedingly doubtful if direct muscular action has anything to do with these peculiar deformities. (3) The Barrel-Shaped Chest.—This form of chest is generally the result of pulmonary emphysema. It is enlarged in all its diameters,