Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 185 with tbo belly wall, but as dovelopiuent proceeds it rotates so that the calf comes to look backwards and the sole of the foot downwards. Talipes e(iuino-varus may be regarded as due to an imperfect rotation, and so also the fact that all children seem to be born with the first stage of club foot, and also of bandy leg. The natural position of the foot is talipes equino-varus. In congenital cases of one foot, it is twice as often found in the right foot, and most frequently in boys; further, it is hereditary, beius transmitted through the male side. Causes—Contraction of (rt) tibialis anticus and posticus, (5) the muscles of the calf, and (f) the plantar fascia. It may be caused by paralysis or spasm; it is usually from paralysis of certain groups of muscles; and the constantly acting tonus of the opposing group, together Avith the natural position of the limb, carry the foot round. The great cause is infantde paralysis. Changes produced—(1) The heel is raised and the toes pointed; (2) there is inversion and adduction of the foot; (3) contraction of all tissues, soft and hard, on the inner side of the sole, from constant pressure preventing groAvth; and (4) lengthening of all the tissues on the outer side, because there is too little pressure. Treatment. — The treatment is division of the contracted structures; as to the order in Avhich they should be divided there is considerable variety of opinion. Mr Ciiiene's excellent rule is to divide the tensest structure first, and then the next, and so on till all the resisting structures are divided, and do it at the place where they are most easily reached. A very sharp Icnife must be used as there must be no sawing movement, as this might pump in air, and, if cutting towards the skin, one is more apt to go through it. There must be some mark also on the handle of the knife to let the operator know where the cutting edge lies after it is intro- duced; it is better always to pass the knife between the skin and the tendon and cut from the skin. The assistant has three things to do—(1) He must first make the tendons tense, if they are not already so, in order to assure the o[)erator of their exact position; (2) he next relaxes the tendon while the tenotome is being introduced; and (3) makes the tendon again tense as tlic operator presses the edge of the knife against it. Tlic tendons of the til)ialis anticus and posticus require great care in tlicir division,