Applied Anatomy: 536 rupture of the tendo acliillis, "lawn tennis leg," and in the accident now under consideration. 72. Vastus Extern us.—Arises, anterior border and outer sur- face of great trochanter, outer border of linea aspera and septa; inserted, outer border of patella. Nerve.—The anterior crural. 73. Vastus Intern US.—Arises, whole length of the side of the linea aspera and septa; inserted, inner border of patella. Nerve.— The anterior crural. This muscle forms the promment muscular mass just above the inner side of knee joint; and in cases of knee joint disease, atrophy of this muscle is one of the causes of the great apparent prominence of the internal condyle of femur. 74. Crureus.—Arises, upper three fourths of the anterior sur- face of femur; inserted into upper border of patella. Nerve.— The aiiterior crural. 75. Pectineus.—Arises, ilio-pectineal line and surface in front of it; inserted into the line from lesser trochanter to linea aspera. Nerves.—The obtnrator and anterior crural. 76. Gracilis.—Arises, rami of pubes and ischium; inserted, iipper part of inner surface of the shaft of the tibia, above semi- tendinosus and below sartorius. Nerve.—The obturator. 77. Adductor Longus.—Arises, by a round tendon just below the crest of the pubes; inserted, middle third of inner lip of the linea aspera. Nerve.—The obturator. When this muscle is over- stretched, as in those Avho ride much on horseback, it is called "rider's sprain;" from its constant use in cavalry soldiers, the tendon is sometimes ossified, forming the " ridcv's 'bone." 78. Adductor Brevis.—Arises, front of pubes below the longns; inserted, linea aspera and line leading from the lesser trochanter. Nerve.—The obturator. 79. Adductor Magnus.—Arises, outer side of tuberosity of ischium, and rami of ischium and pubes; inserted, wliole length of linea aspera, crossing obliquely from the outer to the inner side. Nerves.—The obturator and great sciatica. 80. Gluteus Maximus. — Arises, superior curved line, crest above this, side of sacrum and coccyx, great sacro-sciatic ligament; inserted, ilio-tibial band and line leading from the great trochanter to the linea aspera. Nerves.—The inferior gluteal from the small sciatic, and special branches ft-om the sacral plexus,