Snrg-iail, Medical, and Operative. 227 5. Lymphatics.—These may he affected in diseases of the breast, in the axilla, in the lower part of the posterior triangle of the neck, and in the anterior mediastinum. Note that the glands are enlarged in inflammatory affections, as well as in scirrhus. In inflammatory affections, however, they are usually painful, and tender to pressure; whereas in scirrhus they are densely hard and not tender to pressure. They are not, as a rule, enlarged in sarcoma of the breast. EXCISION OF THE MAMMA. This is most frequently required for the removal of malignant tumours—cancer or sarcoma. In performing this operation for malignant disease, the Surgeon must cut wide of the disease so as to give a good wide atmosphere of healthy skin; the whole of the gland tissue, together with the nipple, must also be removed, and at the present day most Surgeons believe that the axilla should be cleared out at the same time, whether the glands are visibly affected or not—a procedure advocated and practised by Lister many years ago. The instruments required are—A large straight broad-bladed bistoury, a scalpel, dissecting forceps, a large number of Wells's or Pean's forceps, blunt hooks, retractors, horse-hair sutures, catgut ligatures, two or three silver-wire button sutures, sponges, scissors, drainage tubes, needles, dressing forceps or sinus forceps, bandage to secure the arms, tenaculum, chloroform, and the usual dressings. The patient is laid upon her back, her head and shoulders resting on a pillow, the arm of the affected side hanging over the side of the table, tied down or held by an assistant, so as to put the pectoralis major on the stretch; when the axilla is being cleared out, the assistant must draw the arm vertically upwards, parallel with the side of the patient's head. The operator must stand on the same side as the breast to be removed. The Operation.—The whole breast, side, and axilla should be well washed with carbolic lotion, 1 in 20. Two elliptical incisions are then carried round, above and below the nipple, parallel with the fibres of the pectoralis major, as otherwise the edges of the wound might gape. The whole gland and the nipple must be removed in malignant disease. The incisions must at once pass