Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 489 rest of its course is as in the niiilo. The "Pouch of Douglas" is subdivided iuto three by means of the two utero-sacral folds, formed by folds of peritoneum passing between the rectum and the uterus; each fold contains the ureter, the obliterated hypogastric artery, the superior vesical artery, and a mass of cellular tissue. The left division of the pouch is deeper than the right. In tlie broad ligament we find—(1) The round ligament of the uterus; (2) the Fallopian tube; and (3) the ovary with its ligament —this order from before backAvards; also (4) parovarium; (5) the nerves, vessels, and lymphatics of the uterus and ovary; and (6) a considerable quantity of loose cellular tissue, which is frequently the seat of pelvic cellulitis. Inflammation of the pelvic peritoneum in the female is called pelvic peritonitis or perimetritis ; any part of the peritoneum below the brim of the true pelvis may be affected. Inflammation of the cellular tissue, below the jDeritoneum but above the levator ani, is called pelvic cellulitis or parametritis; the cellular tissue is found in the broad ligaments, in the space between the uterus and the bladder, and in the utero-sacral ligaments, as well as be- tween the rectum and vagina. Both conditions are usually caused by abortion, parturition, or gonorrhoea; it should be remembered tliat a direct communication exists from the outside into the pelvic peritoneum of the female, along the Fallopian tubes. THE SPERMATIC CORD. This structure extends from the internal abdominal ring, tlirough the inguinal canal, to the back part of the testicle. Its special Coverings are—(1) The inter-columnar, or external spermatic fascia; (2) the cremasteric fascia—consisting of fibrous tissue and muscle; and (3) the internal spermatic, or infundibuli- forrn fascia, or fascia propria. The component parts are—(1) Tlie vas deferens or excretory duct of the testicle. (2) Three arteries—(«) The spermatic, from the abdominal aorta; the cremasteric, from the deep epigastric; and {c) the artery to the van, from the superior vesical. (3) The spermatic plexus of veins (pampimform plexus). This plexus forms the chief mass of the cord, and passes up in front of the