280 Applied Anatomy: supra-renal capsule; the feeders of the portal vein are also behind it—the splenic vein running along behind the gland, while the inferior and superior mesenteries pass under its lower border to join the splenic. The upper border is in relation with the coeliac axis and the splenic arterJ^ At its lower border Ave find the transverse part of the duodenum. Tlie duct of the pancreas is called the canal of Wirsung; close to the duodenum it comes in contact with the common bile duct, when both bend downwards, and together pierce the lower and back part of the second portion of the duodenum, and open into the gut by a common orifice. They pierce the gut wall very obliquely, and this renders a valve in the interior of the gut unnecessary; in this respect it resembles the openings of the ureters into the bladder. For this reason the secretions can readily pass in, but all regurgitation from the gut is rendered impossible; this contrivance is evidently more effectual and surer than any valve could be, for a valve might become incompetent, but this never does. Diseases of the Pancreas.—Cancer usually affects the duodenal end or head, and as it increases presses upon the neighbouring structures, but does not, as a rule, give rise to secondary deposits in other organs. The common bile duct is apt to be speedily involved, giving rise to very deep and persistent jaundice, and these facts help to distinguish it from other forms of jaundice. Thus, in cirrhosis of the liver, the jaundice is not usually deep: in gall stones it is usually intermittent: while in catarrh of the ducts it is transitory. Further, the liver is not greatly enlarged, as in cases of cancer; nor is it atrophied, as in cases of cirrhosis. In cancer of the pancreas the liver, in the early stage, is slightly swollen and tender, but later it begins to shrink, and may even be smaller than natural. The gall bladder is always dilated, and this, together with the continued jaundice, show that both the cystic and the hepatic ducts are free, and that it is the common duct that is at fault. When this is the case, the obstruction is most likely due either to cancer of pancreas or impacted gall stones. As the growth proceeds there is pain or "back-ache," probably a tumour can be felt in tlie epigastrium, and there is marked and rapid anajmia and emaciation, on account of the great importance of the pancreatic digestion, which can no longer be