90 Applied Anatomy. should iDe applied, e.g., a tumour about the centre of the right fissure of Eolando will probably cause spasm, paresis, or paralysis, of the left upper extremity ; when the posterior part of the lower half of the pons is affected, we meet with alternate liemiplegia or crossed paralysis—i.e., the facial is paralysed on the same side as the brain lesion, while the body is paralysed on the opposite side; in lesions of the upper lateral half of the pons, the facial is on the same side as the body paralysis, and both are on the side opposite to the bram lesion. When the crura cerebri are affected, we find simultaneous paralysis of half of the face and body, on the side opposite to the brain lesion, but paralysis of the third nerve (motor oculi) on the same side as the brain lesion. THE THYROID GLAND. In man, this is a ductless gland, situated at the upper part of the trachea, and consists of two lateral lobes and the connecting isthmus; the isthmus joins the lower third of the lateral lobes, and usually covers the second, third, and fourth rings of the trachea. Each lobe extends from the fifth or sixth ring of the trachea to the side of the thyroid cartilage ; the right lobe is a little longer and wider than the left. There is sometimes a conical third lobe, called the pyramid, arising from the left side of the isthmus, or from the left lobe, and ascends as high as the hyoid bone. The whole gland is rather larger in females than in males, and is slightly increased during menstruation; the right lobe is slightly larger than the left. Some muscular bands are said, by Sommerring, to pass from the body of the hyoid bone to the upper part of the isthmus, forming a muscle called the levator glomdidm thyroidece. In all the vertebrata the thyroid body arises, as one or more diverticula, from the ventral wall of the pharynx, or floor of the mouth ; in a few of the lowest forms it retains its connection with the pharynx, but in the higher forms this communication becomes shut off, and the duct rendered obsolete. In man and other higher mammals this communication is represented in the embryo, and the passage—first detected by His—is known as the thyreo-hyoid, or the thyreo - lingual duct. On the appearance of the hyoid bone, the duct becomes divided; the segment in relation with tlie tongue is the lingual duct, whilst that which retains its connection