183 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. largest " osteotome " is introduced Jongihullnalhj by its side, till it reaches the bone (Fig. 1G4); tlie knife is then withdrawn, and the osteotome turned transversely to the long axis of the femur, but in doing so do not press too heavily upon it, lest the periosteum be stripped off the bone. Ly means of the mallet and osteotome the bone is then divided, the operator bearing in mind that the outer side of the femur, in this situation, is much broader in the antero- posterior diameter than the inner, and directing the osteotomes ac- cordingly, and always working away from the popliteal artery—i.e., from behind forwards, and towards the outer side. As the incision is carried through the bone, finer-pointed osteotomes may be used till about two-thirds of the bone is divided. After each blow with the mallet the osteotome must be moved a little from side to side in the longitudinal axis of the limb, to prevent its point becoming fixed. After the bone is divided sufficiently, a sponge saturated with 1 to 40 is jslaced over the wound, the Surgeon holding this in one hand, which he at the same time employs as a fulcrum, while the other hand grasps the limb lower down and, using it as a lever, bends the bone in an inward direction till it is brought into a straight line, or even slightly past it, so as to make it a little bow-legged (genu varum). Another very good plan is, I think, to first bend the bone doiunioards over the sand-bag on Avhich it is resting till it cracks, when it can readily be brought into proper position by bending it in an opposite direction. It is always better to slightly overdo the straightening, making the patient rather bow-legged; in this way it is quite possible, and even likely, that a slight gap is left on the outer side of the femur, but covered by periosteum. The Structures divided in this operation are the skin, super- ficial fascia, cellular tissue and fat, deep fascia, and a part of the vastus internus, periosteum, and bone. No bone is removed, the bony tissue being simply condensed at each side of the incision made by the osteotome. The incision is above the epiphysis, so tliat it is not injured—the epiphysis being on a level with the "adductor tiibercle." The flexing of the kuee carries the synovial pouch down out of the way, and besides, the mode of entering the osteotome wouhl push it aside. The femoral artery is well out of the way; the superior internal articidar runs below the line of the