Applied Anatomy: 218 THE MEDIASTINUM. Tlie mediastinum, or inter-pleural space, is the space left in the middle line of the chest, between the two pleural sacs. It may be divided into four parts—the anterior, middle, posterior, and superior parts. 1. The Anterior Mediastinum.—This space is bounded va. front by the sternum, hehind by the pericardium, and laterally by the pleurae. It contains some loose areolar tissue, lymphatic vessels, and glands; the lymphatic vessels come from the convex surface of the liver, the chest wall in front, and mammae. 2. The Middle Mediastinum.—This space is bounded in front by the anterior mediastinum, hehind by the posterior mediastinum, and laterally by the pleura. It contains the heart and peri- cardium, the ascending part of the aorta, part of the superior vena cava, bifurcation of the trachea, pulmonary artery and veins, and the phrenic nerves, with their accomijanying vessels. 3. The Superior Mediastinum (Struthers).-^—This is the part of the inter-pleural space that lies above the pericardium, and is bounded below by a plane passing from the junction of the manubrium with the body of the sternum in front, and the lower part of the body of the fourth dorsal vertebra behind. It is bounded in front by the manubrium sterni, behind by the vertebras, and laterally by the laleurse. It contains the remains of the thymus body, the two innominate veins, the commencement of the superior vena cava, the superior intercostal veins, the ter- miuation of the vena azygos major; the transverse part of the arch of the aorta, with its three large branches; the vagi, and phrenics; the cardiac and left recurrent laryngeal nerves, for a part of their course; and, lastly, portions of the trachea, oesophagus, and the thoracic duct. 4. The Posterior Mediastinum.—This space is bounded in front by the pericardium and root of the lungs, hehind by the vertebral column, and laterally by the pleura?. It contains the descending thoracic aorta, the oesophagus, the two vagi, the thoraci(; * Professor Stiiutiiers marks off the lower boundary beliiiul, a vertebra higher than in the subjoined description.