Applied Anatomy: 390 Obturator Hernia.—This is a rare form, and very often is not detected during life: it usually occurs in women. It may be possible to feel it per vaginam, or per rectum, and it causes a slight fullness, or actual tumour, or it may be only an increased sense of resistance and tenderness on pressure, at the inner and upper part of Scarpa's triangle, deep among the adductors and to the inner side of the femoral vessels. When strangulated, the obturator nerve is pressed on, and there is pain down the inner side of the tliigh and at the knee joint, especially on eversion of the thigh, and it may therefore simulate hip-joint disease. In likely cases it will be justifiable to incise and explore; the incision should be parallel with the femoral artery, and on the adductor longus muscle. The fascia lata and pectineus muscle must be divided. The coverings of an obturator hernia are—skin, superficial fascia, fascia lata, pectineus, fascia covering the obturator externus, the obturator externus itself, extra-peritoneal fat, and then comes the sac of the hernia. The pelvic fascia does not give it a covering, as the opening through which the hernia comes is above the upper edge of the parietal pelvic fascia. In dividing the constriction, the edge of the knife must be directed downicards, because the artery is usually above. Umbilical Hernia (Omphalocele or Exomphalos).—This form •—"starting of the navel"—is not uncommon in children; in the adult, it is more usually ventral, and not exactly at the umbilicus. It occurs in stout-bellied people usually, and comes through some of the fibrous septa, such as the linea semilunaris, or lineas trans- versfe, but very rarely at the umbilicus. It is supposed that the apertures through which the vessels or pellets of fat pass, cause the local weakness, necessary for the production of any form of hernia. It usually forms a large tumour, which rapidly becomes irreducible from omental adhesions. In the child, the coverings are often very thin, consisting of little else than the integument of the umbilical cord—the contents consist for the most part of bowel; in the adult the coverings are thicker, consisting of in- tegument and deep fascia, tranversalis fascia, and sac. UmbiHcal hernia (or ventral), in the adult, has a great tendency to become incarcerated, but very little tendency to strangulation, as the open- ing is usually large, and there is practically no neck to the sar. In the child the opening readily closes, if the bowel be kept in