Applied Anatomy: 6 and so gives the Surgeon more room; further, it helps to steady it—the mohiUty of tlie trachea being one of the difficulties of the operation—and also brings it nearer the surface, as well as ensuring, as far as possible, a clear air-way to the lungs. The first assistant must be specially cautioned to keep the head exactly straight and in the middle line, and at the same time to avoid squeezing in the mouth or nostrils. Instruments required. — Scalpel, Spence's hernia director, a good supply of Wells's forceps, dissecting forceps, blunt hooks, a sharp hook to fix and draw forward the trachea, trachea tubes and tiipes, trachea dilator, sponges, ligatures, scissors, etc. The Surgeon stands on the right side. Incision.—In the high operation, begin the incision over the middle of the thyroid cartilage; in the low, begin over the cricoid cartilage, and carry it downwards, exactly in the middle line, for about two or three inches. By this incision (1) the skin, (2) fascia, and (3) fatty tissue are divided. On each side of the median line we find an anterior jugular vein, which are very often connected by a transverse communicating branch: these must, if possible, be avoided, or at once secured. (4) Cut through the inter-muscular fascia connecting the edges of the sterno-hyoids and sterno-thyroids, and separate them with the handle of the scalpel; also turn aside the inferior thyroid veins, the flii/roidea iina artery (if present), and the isthmus of the thyroid body, and some loose cellular tissue will now be brought into view. After the deep fascia of the neck is divided the hJcuJe of the knife must be laid aside ; after this use the handle of the knife or Spence's hernia director. Turn aside this loose tissue with the point of the finger or the handle of the scalpel, and the trachea is then exposed, and may be opened (either above or below the isthmus of the thyroid body, as circumstances may detevniine) thus:— Transfix and draw it forwards by a sharp hook inserted into the cricoid cartilage, and push in the point of the knife—the blade being held between the finger and the thumb half-an-inch from the point, to avoid the risk of transfixing the oesophagus,—with its had- towards the sternum (this is done whether the operation be above or below the isthmus), and cut through three or four rings, and introduce the tube, taking care first that all bleeding