Applied Anatomy: 382 vessels and fat,—the whole mass being called the septum crurale, and the compartment containing them the crural canal. This canal is, therefore, situated between the femoral vein and the inner wall of the crural sheath. It extends from the crural ring to the upper part of the saphenous opening, and is about half-an-inch in length. Boundaries of the Canal.— Anterior wall, the fascia trans- versalis, Poupart's ligament, and the falciform process of the fascia lata; posterior wall, the iliac fascia and the pubic part of the fascia lata; outer wall, the fibrous septum covering the inner side of the vein; the inner wall, the inner side of the femoral sheath. Boundaries of the Crurai Ring.—In front, Poupart's ligament, and deep crural arch; behind, the body of the pubes, covered by the pectineus and the fascia iliaca; on the inner side, the sharp border of Gimbernat's ligament, conjoined tendon, and fascia transversalis; on the outer side, the femoral vein, covered by its sheath. Femoral hernia is more common in women—(1) Because the distance between the iliac and pubic spines is greater, and Gimbernat's ligament is smaller, and for these reasons the femoral ring is larger; and (2) from changes in the abdominal viscera during pregnancy. The long diameter of the hernia is transverse, not vertical, as in inguinal. The coverings of this form of hernia are—(1) The skin; (2) superficial fascia; (3) cribriform fascia; (4) the femoral sheath; (5) crural septum, which is equivalent to the extra-peritoneal cellular tissue and fat; and (6) the peritoneum (Fig. 207). The fascia propria is the anterior part of the crural sheath fused with the septum crurale, and therefore immediately invests the sac; to distinguish between the sac and fascia propria (see vol. ii., page 350). In reducing femoral hernia by taxis, it is necessary (1) to bear in mind the course of the hernia, and (2) to put the limb in such a position that the falciform process of the saphenous opening will be relaxed. The hernia enters the crural ring, passes down the crural canal, till it is checked by the adhesion of the sheath to the femoral vessels, and then passes forwards and escapes by the saphenous opening—at first passing downwards and forwards, and