519 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. as may bo done with safety. The catheter is now withdrawn, and the uterus is turned to the left, the cervix lifted into the incision by the fingers, the membranes ruptured, and the child extracted. Risks of this Operation. — (1) "Wound of the deep epigastric at tlie inner end of the incision, (2) opening into the pouch of Douglas, (3) wound of the bladder, and (4) wound of the ureter. Before concluding the operation, the bladder should be injected with milk to make sure that it has not been wounded. One of the difficulties of the operation is ha?morrhage from the vaginal walls, but by the use of Paquelin's cautery this risk is much diminished. The Arteries are branches from the hypogastric, the inferior vesical, the internal pudic, and the ha?morrhoidal. The Veins form a plexiis round the whole vagina, but are specially marked at its upper and lower ends. SHORTENING THE ROUND LIGAMENTS. (Alexander-Adams's Operation.) This is an operation advised for the relief or cure of prolapsus uteri; by shortening the ligaments, it is said, the displaceable segment is drawn up and fixed. The bowels and bladder are emptied, the patient placed on the table, chloroformed, and the pubes shaved. An incision is made upwards and outwards from the pubic spine, two inches in length, in the line of the inguinal canal. The incision divides skin and fascia, and opens into the external abdominal ring. Tlie end of the ligament is then grasped and pulled out gently as far as possible, and fixed in its new position by stitches. The other side is treated in an exactly similar manner. I have tried this operation on the dead body, and was specially impressed by two facts—(1) The difficulty in certainly finding the round ligaments, and (2) the still greater difliculty of appreciably shortening them Avhen found. The ligaments are not like pieces of string drawn through tubes, but are firmly adherent throughout their wliole extent, first to the sides of the inguinal canal, and then to tlie pelvic cellular tissue, so that it is next to impossible to shorten them in such a way as at all likely to benefit a prolapsed uterus.