194 Applied Anatomy: bones ; and (7) one between tlie internal cuneiform bone and the first metatarsal bone. The Nerves of the Toes—On the plantar aspect (Fig. 168) the ext&)'nal j)icmtar supplies one and a half toes (= the ulnar of hand); the internal plantar supplies three and a half toes (= the median nerve of the hand). On the dorsal aspect (Fig. 169), the musculo - cutaneous nerve supplies three and a half toes—all except the cleft between the first and second toes, and the outer side of the little toe. The anterior tibial supplies the cleft between the first and second toes, while the external or short saphenous nerve supplies the outer side of the little toe. The internal or long saphenous nerve may sometimes supply the inner side of the big toe, but it usually ends at the "ball" of that toe. Can this have anything to do with the " perforating ulcer" so frequently found in this situation—e.g., in locomotor ataxia? Perforating ulcer is also occasionally found in cases of spina bifida, and in diabetes. I have noticed a curious circumstance in reference to the big toe: in cases of apparently complete paraplegia from pressure on the spinal cord, the patient can often just move the big toe, but no more. I have also seen the same thing in a middle-aged man in a case of otherwise complete paralysis of one leg, the result of infantile paralysis. Bunion.—This is the formation of a false bursa over the inner aspect of the enlarged and projecting head of the first metatarsal bone; the bursa is apt to inflame and suppurate from the irritation of the boot, and may even open into the metatarso-phalangeal articulation, and in old people is specially dangerous, as it may be the starting point of senile gangrene. It is caused by badly- shaped and narrow-toed boots, whereby the great toe is pressed outwards over the second (hallu.i: valgus), the pressure of the boot producing the bursa in the first instance, and afterwards causing it to inflame. When this has lasted some time the tendon of the flexor longus hallucis is displaced outwards, and acts as an adductor of the great toe (to the middle line of the foot), and so keeps up the condition. In severe cases I have seen the proximal phalanx completely dislocated from the head of the metatarsal bone,