Applied Anatomy: 27G the results of traction as the ulcer heals. In ulcer, the pain is localised, worse on pressure and on taking food, and persists till the stomach is emptied by vomiting. Operative Treatment (Loreta's operation).—An incision, three or four inches in length, is made in the median line, between the ensiform cartilage and the umbilicus, as the stomach is usually displaced downwards and to the right. After all the bleeding is stopped, the peritoneum is opened, and the stomach exposed. After this it is to be gently held forwards into the wound by means of forceps, the blades of which are protected by india-rubber. An opening is next to be made into the stomach, midway between the two curvatures, and about two inches or so from the pylorus— if the pylorus is the opening to be dilated. Should the cardiac orifice require to be dilated, the incision must be made nearer that end. Care must be taken not to allow blood, etc., to pass into the peritoneal cavity, by introducing sponges between the stomach and the abdominal wall. In order to avoid bleeding, the incision in the stomach wall should be vertical, as the vessels pass round the stomach transversely, not too near the pyloras, and large enough only to admit the index finger, with which it is at once plugged (Treves). A couple of fingers are next to be slowly introduced into the stomach and then through the pylorus, first the one and then the other. The opening in the stomach must then be closed by stitching, first the mucous and muscular coats, and after that the peritoneal coat, by means of Lembert's suture. The patient must be fed for a week or ten days by means of nutrient enemata, and kept under the influence of morphine; he may be allowed to suck ice to relieve thirst. After this he may take milk and soda water by the mouth. LoreTxV has successfully dilated both orifices of the stomach at one sitting. In bad cases the operations recommended for malignant stricture might also be tried (see next page). 2. IVIalignant Stricture.—This form is also most frequent at the pyloric end of the stomach, or at the pylorus itself. The form of cancer met Avith most frequently is "scirrhus;" but other forms are found, as columnar-celled epithelioma {cylindroma), and colloid cancer. It is to be diagnosed by the presence of a tumour, the gradual emaciation, pain, and vomiting, and by the signs of a dilated stomach—viz., distended abdomen, percussion showing