•58 Applied Anatomy: done by a touch of the knife. The point where the greatest difficulty in approximation is experienced is just -where the soft palate joins the hard. Here the soft palate is attached to the hard by dense autero - posterior bands of fibrous tissue, bet^ween the anterior and posterior mucous surfaces. In order to secure easy approximation it is necessary to divide everything bet^ween the two layers of mucous membrane, or even to divide everything except the mucous membrane in the mouth - aspect of the soft palate, for the most important part of the whole operation is to avoid tension on the stitches. Dr Duncan, after having approxi- mated the two sides, simply feels with his finger for any tense structure anywhere and divides it, until there is an entire absence of tension. In this operation the following Structures, composing the Soft Palate, are divided from before backwards:— 1. Mucous membrane. 2. Submucous tissue, glands, vessels, etc. 3. Palato-glossus muscle. 4. Aponeurosis of the tensor palati. 5. Palato-pharyngeus, anterior fasciculus. 6. Levator palati and azygos uvulse muscles. 7. Palato-pharyngeus, posterior fasciculus. 8. Submi;cous tissue, glands, vessels, etc. 9. Mucous membrane. To assist the memory notice that they run in pairs, the first and ninth, the second and eighth, and so on. Instruments required. — A long-handled weU-woni scalpel, Fergusson's rectangular knife, curved scissors, forceps to grasp the palate while paring it, special needles on handles for passing the sutures, Hagadorn's needle-holder, gag, periosteum elevators, chisel, silk sutures, catgut ligatures, dissecting forceps, silver-wire, sponges on sticks, or special sponge holders, or grasped by Peak's forceps, chloroform, etc. Dermoids of the Palate.—These arise from faulty closure of the cleft between the two sides of the palate. Tliey are of two kinds—Epithelial Pearls and Dermoids proper. (1) The Epithelial Pearls are small bodies, from the size of a millet seed to a pea, that hang do-\vn by short pedicles from the median raphe of tlie