Surgical, Medical, and Operative. Vj the outer side of the true vocal cords. All the muscles, exce^jt tlic The Joints of the Larynx.—(1) The Crico-thyroid Joint— Betweeu tlic inferior coriiua of the thyroid cartilage, and the lower and posterior part of the side of the cricoid cartilage. The movements that stretch or relax the vocal cords take place at this articulation, i.e., the movements that govern pitch of notes; the axis of the joint is transverse, and the thyroid cartilage moves up and down like the handle of a bucket: the arytenoid cartilages may also be tilted backwards at the same time. (2) The Crico - arytenoid Joints— Between the arytenoid cartilages and the upper part of the cricoid behind \ the movements that govern the width of the rima glottidis take place at this articulation. The axes of these joints are vertical, the movements being chiefly rotatory. The Movements of the Larynx :— 1. At the Crico-thyroid Joint— Crico-thyroids render the true vocal cords tense. Thyro-arytenoids relax the true vocal cords. 2. At the Crico-arytenoid Joint— The Arteries of the Larynx.—The laryngeal branches of the superior and inferior thyroids. The Nerves of the Larynx.—The superior and the inferior, or recurrent, laryngeal branches of the vagi, with twigs from the sympathetic. The superior supplies the mucous membrane of the larynx with sensation, tlie crico-thyroid muscles, and half of the arytcnoidcus. If this nerve be irritated, as wlicn a crumb of bread goes the wrong way, two events take place—(a) An inhibition of inspiration, and (i) an exciting of tlie expiratory centre — a cough; this is important, as the first prevents it being drawn in furtlier, and tlie cougli forces it out. If the trunk of the nerve be pressed on—as by a carotid aneurism high up, enlargeil glands, or enlarged thyroid,—we have the peculiar bras-sy cougli, but without expectoration. It should be noted arytenoideus, arc paired. The posterior crico-arytenoids The lateral crico-arytenoids The arytenoideus widen the rima glottidis (the abductors). close the rima glottidis (the adductors).