Applied Anatomy: 448 aad puslies it up into the abdomen. To relieve the retention try the following instruments, in order:—(1) A soft red rubber catheter, which is not grasped by the meatus, and twirl it in; (2) an a coudee or bi-coudee catheter. From the presence of the elbow, or elbows, on this catheter, its nose is kept against the upper wall of the urethra, and consequently passes along that tube much more easily. (3) The silver catheter, ordinary or " prostatic," with the long curve; and (4) the gum-elastic, with stylet: pass this up to the obstruction, then withdraw it a little, pull out the stylet for a short distance, holding the catheter steady — tlie withdraAving of the stylet makes the end of the catheter curl up, and moimt through the curved urethra. (5) If it is impossible to introduce an instrument, then aspirate above the pubes. Means adopted to Diminish the Size of an Enlarged Prostate. —(1) The administration of ergot; (2) the occasional passage of very large bougies; (3) the continuous electric current, on account of the power it has of affecting nutrition—-trophic effect—the so- called "electrolysis;" and (4) Prostatectomy — open into the bladder, as in the operation of supra-pubic lithotomj^, and excise the enlarged and projecting " third lobe." The mucous membrane is incised, and the growth enucleated in one or several portions. There is often free hajmorrhage in this operation. Perineal Cystotomy.—In certain cases Professor Annandale performs a median perineal cystotomy. It is done in cases of enlarged prostate with persistent and aggravated irritability of the bladder, where there is a constant desire to pass water, with cystitis. He prefers the perineal route, because (1) the bladder drains better, and (2) the incision through the prostate seems to have a good effect on the enlarged organ. A staff is passed into the bladder with a median groove, and the patient is tied up, or held, in the usual lithotomy position. The left index finger is then passed into the rectum and jjlaced upon the apex of the prostate. The knife is entered about three-quarters of an inch in front of the rectum, with its edge directed upwards, and the staff struck. The knife is then turned, and the wound enlarged a little downwards. A beaked director is then passed along the groove of the staff into the bladder—as it is impossible to reach the bladder with the finger, on account of the enlarged prostate—and the staff