Applied Anatomy: 232 and the first sacral vertebra. The apices of the two middle pyramids meet at the fourth dorsal vertebra; at this spot there- fore the spine is smaller, and this gives more room for the play of the lungs. In a general way, the movements of the individual vertebrse upon each other are very limited, and this affords additional securitj' to the column; as a whole, however, it is pretty movable. Flexion, or bending forwards, is most free in the cervical and lumbar regions, especially in the latter, between the fourth and fifth vertebrte; it is very slight in the dorsal region, on account of the shape and direction of the articular facets; this is fortunate, as it prevents compression of the thoracic viscera. Extension, or bending backwards, is also most free in the cervical and lumbar regions, especially in the former; it is limited in the dorsal region, from the du-ection of the spinous processes and the imbricated laminte. Lateral movement is also most free in the cervical and lumbar regions. Rotation or twisting is most marked in the dorsal region, as the articiilar facets and spinous processes allow of this movement. In the neck, except between the atlas and the axis, it is exceedingly limited; this is important, as other- wise dislocation would be apt to occur. In the lumbar region, the locking of the articular process almost entirely prevents this movement. Occasionally we find half a vertebra too many, sometimes as many as two or three halves too many. In such a case tlie half vertebra forms a wedge-like mass, consisting of half the body, half the spinous process, one lamina, and a transverse process. This forms one of the causes of " lateral curvature " of the spine. The junction of the dorsal and lumbar regions is the part of the spine most moved, and this probably accounts for the frequency with which we meet with spinal caries (Pott's disease) in this situation. THE SPINAL CORD. Coverings.—(1) The spinal dura mater is a tough fibro-serous membrane, and is attached to the edges of the foramen magnum ; from this point it passes downwards to the apex of the sacrum or the base of the coccyx; its cavity, hoAvever, stops about the second or third sacral vertebra. It difi'ers from the cranial dura mater, in that—(rt) it does not form the periosteum of the bones, as between