Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 285 This part of the duodenum is about one inch above the umbili- cus, and, from its relation to the peritoneum, it may be ruptured cither info or behind that membrane. In cases of rupture be- hind the peritoneum, there may be emphysema of the abdominal wall. (5) Ulceration of Brunner's glands, in cases of burns. The nicer may perforate a vessel and cansc death from internal luBmorrhage; the special signs of perforation are sudden collapse, Avith abdominal pain, pallor, and tossing of the extremities. It may also go directly into the peritoneum and set up speedily fatal acute peritonitis; or it may give rise to abscess between the liver and the diaphragm. This ulcer is found in twelve per cent, of fatal cases of burns. (6) Catarrhal inflammation of the duodenum readily spreads back along the bile duct, and causes catarrhal jaundice. (7) The duodenum may be pressed on and obstructed in cancer of the liver, cancer of the head of the pancreas, or malignant disease of the lymphatic glands in the neighbourhood. Primary cancer is very rare; when it does occur it is usually colloid. (8) When the Small Intestine is distended it assumes a peculiar spiral or cork-screw-like arrangement, closely resembling the " worm " of a still. In obstruction, towards its lower end, the swelling is most marked in the umbilical and the hypogastric regions, and less so in the epigastric, the flanks and iliac fosstc remaining flat; the abdomen is equally resonant all over, and in those rare cases where the intestinal coils can be seen moving through the abdominal wall, from the anatomical arrange- ment of the gut, they appear moving more or less in transverse lines. In typical cases, the abdomen presents the appearance of a six-months' pregnancy, but a very much distended sigmoid flexure may produce the same appearance. The Large Intestine.—The Cgecum is the blind commencement of the large intestine, and lies in the right iliac fossa; it is usually covered anteriorly and at the sides by peritoneum. In the foetus it has a well-marked mesentery, and this condition is occasionally found in the adult. The ileum joins it on its inner aspect, about two and a half inches above its blind end, and at this point the ascending colon begins. The Ascending Colon passes straight up- wards through the right lumbar region. It is covered anteriorly and laterally with peritoneum, and its bare part rests on the fascia