Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 15 the sixth cervical vertebra. (3) The epirjlotth, like an obovate leaf in shape, placed behind the tongue, and in front of the superioi' opening of the larynx; during respiration it is vertical, and curved slightly forwards over the base of the tongue; but during deglutition it is carried or pushed downwards and backwards, so as to close the upper opening of the larynx. It is attached to the thyroid cartilage below, by the thijru-e^iighdtic liijmnenf; to the hyoid bone in front, by the hyo-epigloitic ligament; and at the upper part to the tongue, by the median and two lateral ghssa-epiglottidean Ugamcnt--<: to its sides the aryteno-epiglottidean folds are attached. The paired cartilages are — (1) The two arytenoids, perched upon the upper border of the cricoid at its posterior aspect; they are pyramidal in form, and tlic anterior angle, at its base, gives attachment to the true vocal curds. (2) The Cornirula larijngit; (cartilages of Santorini) are perclied u}")on the apices of the arytenoids, and serve for the attachment of the posterior end of the aryteno-epiglottidean folds. (-3) The funeiform cartilages (cartilages of Wrisberg) are placed, one on each side, in the aryteno-epiglottidean folds. The True Vocal Cords.—The true vocal cords are two bauds of yellow elastic tissue, attached in front to the middle of the receding angle between the wings of the thyroid cartilage, and behind to the anterior angle of the base of the arytenoid cartilages ; their lower border is continuous with the thin lateral parts of the crico-thyroid membrane. They are called true, as they are concerned in the jn-odiiction of sound; they are further known as the inferior thyro-arjjtenoid ligaments. The mucous membrane covering the true cords is very thin and closely adherent, as there is no submucous tissue, and it is destitute both of mucous glands and ciliated epithelium. The False Cords, or the siij>erinr thyro-arytenuid ligaments, arc simply two folds of mucous membrane with a little fibrous tissue between. Between the false cords abovi; and the true below is situated the ventricle of the larynx; this leads to the laryngeal pouch, which in the human race is very small, but in some of the lower animals it is very large—e.g., some kinds of monkeys, and the various members of the group /'eZ/.s' I)(niipf^lirii>f vel Cidvs, and to this is dvic, no doubt, the hideous noises produced by the latter