Applied Anatomy: 142 The Axillary Fascia.—This is a dense sheet of fascia forming the floor or base of the axilla. It becomes continuous on the inner side "with the fascia over the serratus magnus; at the outer side it is continuous with the deep fascia of the arm, and receives fibres from the tendons of the latissimus dorsi and teres major; it also becomes continuous "with the deep fascia ensheathing the muscles forming the anterior and posterior walls of the axilla. In this way a strong fascial chamber is formed, open only at the upper part of the root of the neck. In operations in the axilla care must be taken to prevent the entrance of air into the large axillary vein. This is apt to take place—first, because of its posi- tion so close to the chest, and therefore subject to the aspirating power of that cavity during inspiration; and, secondly, because it is surrounded and held open by the dense fascia of this region. THE BEND OF THE ELBOW. The Triangle in Front of the Elbow Joint (anticuUtal fossa). —This space is bounded—on the outer side, by the supinator longus; on the inner side, by the pronator radii teres; the base is an imaginary line drawn across the arm at the level of the condyles; the apex is the meeting of the supinator longus and the pronator radii teres. The roof is formed by the skin, the superficial and deep fascia, cutaneous nerves, median cephalic and median basilic veins; the floor is formed by the supinator brevis and the tendon of insertion of the bracliialis anticus. The Contents, from within outwards, are:—(1) The median nerve. (2) The brachial artery, with its venee comites; the artery in tliis space divides into its radial and ulnar branches. (3) .The tendon of the biceps. (4) By pulling the supinator longus outwards a little, the musculo-spiral nerve will be seen dividing into radial and posterior interosseous, and also the anastomoses between the radial recurrent and superior profunda; and by displacing the pronator radii teres a little inwards, the anastomoses between the anterior ulnar recurrent, inferior profunda, and auastomotica. The bursa over the olecranon process is very apt to be injured by falls or blows, in workmen especially, and very frequently the little sac is opened; in this way septic matter gets in through the small opening, gives rise to a septic spreading inflammation and