48 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. tlic glosso-pliaryiigeal and tlie ninth nerve pass forwards between the artery and the vein, while the spinal accessory passes obli(|uely outwards behind (sometimes in front of) the vein, and the vagus passes downwards behind and between the artery and vein. On the right side, at the root of the neck, the vein is a little way to the outer side of the common carotid, but on the left side it usually crosses the artery at this point. The right internal jugular crosses the first part of the subclavian artery. In the jugular foramen this vein lies in the posterior compartment, the end of the inferior petrosal sinus in the anterior, and the three divisions of the eiglith pair of nerves in the middle compartment. Arteriotomy from Anterior Branch of Temporal.—This may be necessary in affections of the eye, e.g., in iritis when there is great pain, although leeches are usually preferred. Its pulsations can be felt about one inch and a quarter behind the external angular process of the frontal bone. Compress on the didal side of the intended opening, to fill and distend the vessel (veins should be compressed on the proximal side). Expose it by cutting through the superficial structures and the dense fascia covering it, and then make an oblique opening into it, taking care not to cut it completely through. To stop the flow, cut the artery completely through, when its coats will, as a rule, contract and retract sufficiently to stop the bleeding; if not, secure by acupressure, or ligature the cut ends. A pad is then to be placed over the wound, and held in position by a "stella" bandage. BRANCHIAL CYSTS AND FISTULJE. About the beginning of the second month of foatal life the pharynx forms an open cavity bounded on each side by four branchial or visceral arches with their corresponding clefts. The. upper end of the cartilage of the first visceral arch (Meckel's cartilage) is ossified into the malleus, and in the membrane sur- rounding the rest of this cartilage the lower jaw-bone is formed; when the lower jaw is very small or altogether wanting, it is from some arrest of development of this arch. From the cartilage of the ■'iccond arch are developed the incus and stapes, the styloid process, and the lesser cornu of the hyoid bone, and possibly also tlie stylo- hyoid ligament. From the third arch is formed the great cornu