Applied A natomy: 208 operations on tlie kidney, especially where the last rib is removed to give more room. As a rule, however, they do not go beyond the eleventh rib, so that the anterior end of the twelfth could be safely excised without injury to the pleuraj. In other parts the relation of the pleurte to the chest walls is the same as that of the lungs. The lungs do not, as a rule, go below the tenth rib. The Lungs.—The anterior margins of the lungs he behind the sterno-clavicular articulation; from this point the apices extend up into the neck for about an inch and a half above the clavicle. To mark out the apex, therefore, draw a line somewhat obliquely upwards and outwards from the sterno-clavicular articulation, the highest part of the arch being an inch and a half above the clavicle, and then curve it gently down to the anterior edge of the trapezius, on the same level as the sterno-clavicular articulation. From the posterior end of this arch the posterior margins of the lungs approach the vertebral column, and then pass down about an inch external to the spinous processes. Starting from the sterno-clavicular articulation the anterior margins of the lungs pass down, approaching each other obliquely so as to meet a little to the left of the middle line at the level of the junction of the manubrium sterni with the body of that bone [i.e., at the level of the second costal cartilage)—the first piece of the sternum, there- fore, being almost destitute of any pleural lining, and having hardly any lung behind it. The right lung extends a little across the mid-sternal line, and maintains this position all the way down. Between the two lungs and pleural sacs in this position is a narrow space—or almost rather a potential cavity—the anterior medias- tinum. From the level of the second costal cartilage the anterior margins pass downwards, parallel with each other, as far as the level of the fourth costal cartilage, at which point the margin of the left lung curves outwards to leave room for the heart, a part of the anterior surface of which is in this way left uncovered (the absolute cardiac dullness). The anterior edge of the right lung continues straight downwards as far as the sixth costal cartilage, where it joins the inferior margin. Under ordinary conditions the lower margin of the right lung reaches to the sixth rib at the sternal border: to the upper border of the seventh in the mam- millary line: to the eighth in the mid-axillary line: the ninth in