Applied Anatomy: In support of this view he states that in eases of complete crush of the spinal cord below the fifth cervical nerve, the upper extremities are abducted and elevated, and with rotation outwards of the humerus, together with flexion of the elbow and supination of the Avrist. These positions are due to tonic contraction of the supra-spinatus and infra-spinatus muscles, together with the deltoid, biceps, brachialis anticus, and supinators, with paralysis of the other muscles of the limb. As regards sensation, Dr Ross has pointed out that the outer parts of the limb are supplied by the higher roots, and the inner by the lower, in continuous order. Erb's Paralysis.—This is a partial paralysis of the arm, the result of some injury to the neck, though it may come on apart from injury. The muscles affected are the deltoid, the biceps, brachialis anticus, and the supinators. It is believed to be due to disease or injury of the fifth and sixth cervical nerve roots— probably rupture of the fifth root. Thorburn maintains that the suf)ra-spinatus and the infra-spinatus escape in Erb's paralysis. Duchenne's Obstetrical Paralysis.—The distribution is some- what similar to the above, only the supra-spinatus and the infra- spinatus muscles are paralysed. It is produced in infants at birth, either by pressure from the position of the arm, or by traction on the neck with the finger or hook. Most of the cases slowly recover. It is believed to be due to rupture or bruising of certain of the cervical nerve roots, including the fourth root. The Cord itself may suffer in a variety of ways—(1) It may simjDly suffer from the primary " shock " or concussion, the effects of which pass off in a little, although the prognosis should be guarded; if there be sudden and complete paralysis at once it must either be from concussion or crushing. In concussion of the upper cervical region, the vagus, spinal accessory, and phrenic are likely to be irritated, causing a sense of suffocation, irregular action of the heart, and vomiting (vagus); spasm of the sterno-raastoid and trapezius (spinal accessory J, hiccup and girdle pain in the region of tlie diaphragm (2')hrenic). In the lower cervical regioii the ner^'cs of the brachial plexus arc apt to be disturbed. (2) There may be reactionary hfeniorrhage from a few hours after the accident to the end of the first two days, causing high temperature, paiji.