Applied Ajiatoiny: 12 safer, from the simple anatomy of the parts; (3) it is more quickly performed; and (4) diseases which necessitate the operation in the adult have little tendency to spread downwards. It should be used, as a rule, in the adult male; it is best in cases of foreign ])odies impacted in the larynx, limited chronic disease, as syphilitic ulceration, acute or chronic oedema glottidis, tumours of the larynx, spasm of the muscles of the larynx from reflex irritation, as in cases of aortic aneurism. But in cases of foreign bodies in the trachea, bronchi, or pharynx, and as a preliminary to other opera- tions about the head and face, where there is danger of blood passing down the trachea, then tracheotomy should be performed. (Edema Glottidis.—QEdematous infiltration about the larjnix may occur in simple acute laryngitis in the adult, but is very often erysipelatous in character, and is chiefly confined to the sub- mucous areolar tissue roimd the epiglottis, ar3'^teno-epiglottidean folds, and arytenoid cartilages, ventricle and false cords. In these situations the sub-mucous tissue is very abundant and loose and freely movable, and readily becomes infiltrated and distended M'ith serous effusion—so much so, as almost to occlude the rima glottidis. But this effusion and distension never extends below the true vocal cords, being limited at this jioint by the direct adhesion of the mucous membrane to the fibrous tissue forming the cords, without the intervention of anj^ sub-mucous coat. The SAvollen folds over- lap the chinlf of the glottis and cause in the first instance difficulty of iiispiraiion, which is prolonged and stridulous, but after a time expiration is affected as well. INTUBATION OF THE LARYNX. For the modern form of this operation we are indebted to ]Jr J. O'DwYER, of New York. It is intended to take the place of tracheotomy, in suitable cases, more especially in the case of children suffering from croup or diphtheria; it is a bloodless operation, and for this reason alone is likely to be preferred by the patient's jDarents or friends. Instruments—(1) A gag; (2) an introducer; (3) an extractor; and (4) five tubes of different sizes. The tubes vary in length and size; at the upper end of each tube is a diamond-shaped head with rounded angles, which rests upon the ventricular bands and prevents the tube from sUjjping into the