Applied Anatomy: 112 IjEllocq's sound or an ordinary gum elastic catheter. AVithdraw the stilette of the catheter, and then pass the catheter along the floor of the nose and hook it out through the mouth; tie the string firmly to the end of the catheter and then withdraw it, when the string will be brought out at the anterior nares. The catheter is then cut free and the plug drawn into and firmly impacted in the posterior nares; both ends of the cord are then tied together loosely at the angle of the mouth. If both nares require to be plugged, of course we will require two plugs. The plug is left in for forty-eight hours or so, and when it is to be removed it must be pulled back through the mouth; the string, however, should not be taken away till all the risk of recurrence seems past. Rhinoplasty.—Plastic operations for the complete restoration of lost or for the repair of mutilated noses. The flaps may be taken from—(a) The cheeks, (6) the forehead, or (c) from a distant part, as the inside of the arm. (1) From the Cheeks (Stme)—Either by gliding, or partial rotation leaving the flaps attached above. (2) From the Forehead (the Indian operation) — Here a properly-shaped flap is twisted down from the forehead, being left attached by a narrow pedicle; the incision on the right side is made lower than on the left to give it an easy twist, the flap being then turned to this side. The flap is supplied by the frontal artery and the supra-trochlear nerve, and it is important to make the pedicle of sufficient length to allow of its being twisted round without affecting the circulation through it. (3) From a distant part (the Italian or the Tagliacotian operation) —Tlie flap is taken usually from the left upper arm over the biceps muscle; the arm is bandaged up over the forehead, and the flap left attached by its base to the arm for a few da3'S till it has become organically connected with the nose. Other methods might be used as—(a) Superimposed, or double flaps, one flap being turned douui from tlie forehead M'ith its epithelial surface next the nasal fossae., and then two-quadrilateral door-like flaps slid over it from the cheeks, {h) Transplantation of a piece of skin from one part of the body to the other, the transplanted part being completely separated at the time of the operation; in this case, however, the flap runs a great risk of dyuig before it becomes adherent to the nose.