Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 119 if diseased, may Ije taken instead. Tlio first molar is a specially perishable tooth, and, therefore, likely to be less missed than the others j but remove any cariotis tooth. Do not try to perforate in the site of an old extracted tooth, as the walls of the socket will have come together, or the cavity be filled up with dense bone. (3) The antrum may be perforated through the outer wall of the inferior meatus of the nose; this was John Hunter's plan (1771), and has recently been revived by Mickulicz and others. CRANIAL NERVES. The Facial Nerve (portio dura of seventh).—This is tlie motor nerve of the face. Its deep origin is from the formatio reticularis on the dorsal aspect of the pons at the upper part of the floor of the fourth ventricle, and from the lenticular nucleus of the opposite side; the fibres of the portio intermedia can be traced into the glosso-pharyngeal nucleus. It enters the internal auditory meatus to the inner side of and above the auditory (portio mollis). At the bottom of the meatus it enters the aqueduct of Fallopius, traverses that canal, and makes its exit at the stylo-mastoid foramen (Fig. 152). In the bone it first passes outwards then hackivards, forming the knee-shaped bend, where there is a gangliform enlarge- ment (the genicidate ganglion), and after this it passes straight down to the stylo-mastoid foramen. It then divides in the parotid gland into temporo-faeial and cervico-facial divisions; these, by a series of divisions and anastomoses, form the p>es anserinus, from which branches pass to supply the muscles of expression. Branches.—In the meatus it communicates with the auditory nerve. In the actueduct—(a) The great superficial petrosal nerve from the ganglion, passing out at the hiatus Fallopii, grooving the anterior surface of the petrous part of the temporal bone, then running underneath the fifth nerve and Gasserian ganglion, it is joined by a twig from the sympathetic (carotid plexus), and after this is known as the Vidian nerve, which partly passes through the foramen lacerum medius into the Vidian canal, and enters Meckei/h ganglion, of which it forms the motor root, and is dis- trilnited to the azygos uviilre and levator palati muscles, (b) The small superficial petrosal, also from the ganglion. It takes a course similar to the last, but passes out at the foramen ovale and enters