Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 177 l)elo\v the head of the tibula, whore it divides iuto its tenniiuil brauclies. Iii dividing the biceps, it is better to make a small external incision and cut down Tipon it directly, ratber than to risk division of the external popliteal nerve. Should this nerve be divided, the muscles in front and on the outer side of the leg arc paralysed—muscles supplied by the anterior tibial and musculo- cutaneous nerves. In such a case, there will be "foot drop," as well as inversion—the toes being pointed and drooping, the heel and the inner border of the foot raised. The Articular Arteries are arranged as follows: — (1) The superior internal passes round the femur, and above the inner condyle, under the tendons of the adductor magnus, semi-mem- branosus, and semi-tendinosus muscles; (2) the superior external passes round just above the outer condyle, beneath the tendon of the bicej)s; (3) the inferior internal passes down below the internal tuberosity of the tibia, beneath the lateral ligament and the tendons of the sartorius, semi - tendinosus, and the gracilis ; and (4) the inferior external passes above the head of tlie Jibula (and, therefore, higher up than the internal) beneath the external lateral ligament and tendon of the biceps. The biceps tendon is divided near its insertion into the head of the fibula ; the other tendons are then put upoii the stretch and also divided near their insertions. The knife must in all cases be entered Avith its point directed from the middle line of the leg and close to the tendon to be divided. Bursse In the Region of the Knee Joint.—There are eight altogether—two in front and six behind. In front—(a) The bursa patelhc, situated in front of the patella, being the structure afiected in "housemaid's knee." (Jne or both may be affected in a house- maid, the exciting cause being kneeling. When both bursic arc enlarged and thickened, Avithout a history of kneeling, the cause is probably syphilitic. {!>) Another bursa, placed between the ligamentum patella3 and the upper part of the tubercle of the tibia. In acute infiamraation of this bursa active extension of the knee joint is painful, the ligamentum patellae is slightly too prominent, and there is a swelling on each side of it, Avith iluctuation from side to side. Behind there arc six—four on the outer side and tAvo on the inner. Outer side—(a) One betM'een the popliteus tendon