187 Sitrgical, Medical, and Operative, the internal malleolus; the knife is passed from the outer side of the tendon to avoid the risk of wounding the dorsal artery of the loot; but, on the other hand, equal care must be taken not to divide the trunk of the internal or long saphena vein, which lies the inner side of the tendon in question. The assistant first ibducts and extends the foot to make the tendon tense. The plantar fascia is divided, if necessary, an inch in front of its attachment to the os calcis, as at this point it is narrowest. Ey leaving the division of the tendo achillis to tlie last we have a lulcrum or fixed point, by which we can twist the foot into a })roper position. If the division of the other structures is not sufficient, then the tendo achillis must also be divided. It is divided about an inch above the os calcis, as at this point the tendon is contracted, and, further, it is above the large bursa which hes between it and the upper part of the posterior surface of the OS calcis. The knife is entered from the inner .side to avoid the posterior tibial vessels. IJesides section of ligaments and tendons, in some cases other means are necessary. We may, for example—(1) Remove the cuboid bone (Little), or take a wedge out of it. (2) "We may remove the astragalus (Lund); or (3) remove a wedge-shaped mass of bone from the tarsus (Davies-Colley). In cases where a wedge is removed, whether from the cuboid or tarsus, the piece removed must Ije wedge-shaped in two directions, wider on tlie outer than the inner side, and wider above than below. It cannot, however, ! be too strongly insisted ui^on that all operative measures are merely IweUminarii to treatment; the real treatment is to persistently keep the foot in good position for a leugtliened period by proper ijiparatus and dressings. Strictly speaking, Davies - Colley's operation .should be performed by means of an incision on the outer side of the foot only, but the operation is rendered much easier wlien a free incision is made on the inner side of the foot as well. 2. Talipes Equinus. — This form has hardly ever been known to occur as a congenital deformity, although it is the commonest acquired form. Causes—(a) Contraction of the gastrocnemius and soleus; (A) paralysis of the anterior group of muscles from infantile diseases; (/•) irritation, caused by worms; (it) nervous disturbances during teetliing; (r) abscess in the calf of leg, cripjiling the