Applied Anatomy: (2) the external oblique, (3) the internal oblique, and (4) trans- versalis muscles; (5) the fascia transversalis; (6) extra-peritoneal fat; (7) the peritoneum; then comes (8) the stomach wall itself. More internally, we simply find the rectus in its sheath, fascia transversalis, extra-peritoneal fat, and peritoneum. Difficulty in swallowing {dysphagia) may arise from other causes than stricture, viz.—(1) Tumours in the pharynx, such as polypi or abscess; (2) oedema about the back of the eijiglottis; (3) tumours in the neck outside the oesophagus; (4) aneurism of the innominate artery; (5) aneurism of the arota; (6) dislocation of the sternal end of the clavicle backwards; (7) impaction of a foreign body in the gullet; (8) intra-thoracic tumours, such as enlarged bronchial glands, cancerous masses, etc. These tumours must be carefully distinguished from aneurisms. In aneurism there is dullness on percussion, dyspnoea, dysphagia, a fixed gnawing pain between the shoulders, shooting pains down the arms or side of head, and distension of the superficial veins of the chest. This operation may also be performed for stricture at the cardiac end of the stomach. RESUME of Gastrostomy :— 1. Make an incision, parallel with the costal margin, as already explained, or use the vertical one if preferred. 2. Cut through the various structui-es forming the abdo- minal wall till the peritoneum is exposed. 3. Then tie all bleeding points very carefully, and sponge the ■wound dry. 4. Open the peritoneum, introduce a carefully-cleaned finger, and hook forward the stomach; make sure that it is the stomach by feeling for the pyloric and cardiac ends. The transverse colon may present first, but its walls are much thinner; it must be pushed downwards. 5. Introduce a loop of silk into the stomach Avail, by whicli to keej) it in the wound during stitching ojieratious; this loop should go down to, but not through, the mucous membrane, and should be left to act as a guide to the subsequent operation of opening the stomach, after it has adhered to tlic anterior abdominal wall.