408 Applied A iiatomy: 7. Scoops. 8. Searcher, specially made for such, or else use au ordinary sound. 9. It may be sometimes necessary to liave some means i^resent for crushing the stone. 10. A pair of Lithotomy Tapes, of -worsted or coarse flannel, three yards long^ and three inches broad; or leather anldets and wrist-bands may be used. 11. A silver or gum elastic Rigid Tube, Avell rounded at the end, and provided Avith rings, ■whereby it can be tied into the bladder, with or without " petticoats." There are also specially made " air tampoon" tubes for the same purpose. Tlie tube with the petticoat or air-bag is specially adapted for plugging the M'ound in cases of deep venous ha-morrhage; and being rigid, the walls of the tube are not scj^ueezed togetlier, so that the urine and discharges can still pass freely through. This tube is not to drain the Avound, and must therefore only have holes at its ends; and besides, lateral holes Avould allow the urine to flow out and soak the raw surface of the wound (Fig. 21G). 12. Catch forceps, tenacula, ligatures, sponges, lint, morphia sujjpository (half-grain), towels, etc. In all forms of perineal lithotomy, the object in view is to make an opening into the bladder, large enough to admit of ea^y extraction of the stone without opening up the visceral pelvic lascia, with the least risk to the pudic artery or its branches, and witliout injury to the rectum. Assistants.—Three special assistants are required—one to steady and abduct each knee, and a third to hold the staff and pull the scrotum uji out of the way. This assistant stands on the left side of the patient, close behind the assistant holding the left knee; he is also to grasp both scrotum and penis with his left hand, and pull them up, for by so doing he not only holds the scrotum out of the operator's way, but by stretching the penis, lie also draws up the bulb, Avhich is thus less likely to be Avounded, and increases the space betAveen the urethra and rectum. The Surgeon is seated on a loAv stool facing the patient's buttocks, so that Avheu operating his fore-arms are almost on a level Avith the patient's perineum, Avhich should be jierpendicular. The instruments are arranged in