Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 58 soon, as tlie amovmt of blood lost is next to notliing, and the operation enables the mother to feed the child better, and also tends to bring the sides of tlie cleft in the palate together. It may be done from a few weeks after birth up to the third or fifth niontli, usually always before the first dentition. If not done by that time, it must be left till after the completion of the lirst dentition—after the second year. Instruments required.—A well-worn and very sharp scalpel, several pairs of Wells's forceps, dissecting forceps, hare-lip pins, wire-cutting nippers, silk sutures for the mucous membrane, horse- hair sutures for the skin, silver wire for deep sutures, adhesive plaster, catgut ligatures, flexible collodion, scissors, sponges—large and small, some fastened on small sticks, or on special sponge holders, or else grasped by a pair of Pean's forceps,—bone pliers, and a large sheet in which to wrap and hold the child. To steady the parts after operation, a button suture is probably better than the old hare-lip pin and twisted suture. In cases of double hare-lip, where there is no deformify of tlie inter-maxillary hones, the edges of the central part are pared, and it is puished up to form the columna of the nose. Where there is bony deformity, the bone may be either pushed back or renioved altogether; to push back, one may use simple force, or partially divide its neck and then force it back; if large and strong, and very projecting, it should be removed, at the same time making use of the muco-periosteal and cutaneous tissues to form the columna of the nose. This should be done as a preliminary operation, some time before closing the cleft. Many years ago, l)x John Duncan first taught that the proper way to operate for fistula—e.g., faecal fistula—was, not to j^are the edges, but to split them. The advantages of so doing are— (1) No tissue is lost, so that the sides are more easily brought together; and (2) it affords a broad raw .surface, along which union may take place. The mucous surfaces are turned inwards and stitched, and then the skin surfaces turned outwards and also stitched. The principle of this excellent method has been ■gradually applied to other fistuhe, congenital or acr^uired ; it was further adapted by I'rofcs.sor Ciiiene to the cure of ruptured pcrina'um, and rccto-uretliral fistida; and (piitc recently, at his