Applied Anatomy. 532 ami cannot be raised above a right angle, because the scapula cannot be fixed. The patient is unable to push so strongly on that side, nor can the hand be advanced so far in front of the patient as on the liealtliy side. 44. Deltoid.—Arises from the outer third of the anterior border of the clavicle, outer border of acromion, and lower edge of spine; ■inserted into the middle of the outer surface of the shaft of tbe humerus. Nerve.—Circumflex. A bony deposit may sometimes take place in the tendon of insertion of this muscle in infantry soldiers, from pressure of the butt-end of the rifle, forming a so- called " exercise-bone," a kind of exostosis. 45. Subscapularis.—Arises from the ventral surface of the scajjula, and is inserted into tlie lesser tuberosity of the humerus. Nerves.—The short and middle subscapulars. 46. Supra-Spinatus,—Arisesivoiw the supra-spinous fossa and upper surface of spine, and is inserted into the upper facet on the great tuberosity of humerus. Nerve.—The supra-scapular. 47. Infra-Spinatus.—Arises from the infra-spinous fossa, ridges, and fascia, and is inserted into the middle facet on great Luberosity. Nerve.—The sujira-scapular. 48. Teres Minor.—Arises from the upper two thirds of tlic dorsal surface of the axillary border of the scapula, and is inserted into the lower facet on great tuberosity. Nerve.—Branch of the circumflex, with ganglion. 49. Teres IVIajor,—Arises from the dorsal surface of the inferior angle of the scapula; inserted, inner lij) of the bicipital groove of tlje■humerus. Nerve.—The middle subscapular. 50. Biceps Flexor Cubiti.—Arises, tip of coracoid process and apex of glenoid cavity (long head); inserted, back jmrt of the bicipital tubercle of the radius. Nerve.—The musculo-cutaneous. The chief action of this muscle is to Hex and supinate the fore- arm. Like the deltoid, tlie tendon may ossify, forming a so-called " exercise bone." 51. Coraco-Brachialis.—Arises, tip of the coracoid process; inserted, inner surface of middle of the shaft of the humerus, opposite deltoid. Nerve.—The musculo-cutaneous. The musculo- cutaneous nerve pierces this muscle, and is often known as the perforans Gusserii,