Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 105 central nervous system tlian tli(i final distril)ution of the nerve,— that the impulses appear to be conveyed to, or to spring from, its terminal filameiUs (in fact, a sensory nerve appeart; to l)e able to conduct impulses Jmlli ways). 'J'luus, if we compress the ulnar nerve at the elbow joint, we feel the painful impression conveyed to the terminal filaments of the nerve supplying the little finger and the idnar side of the ring finger. We also find an example of the same pheuomenoir in connection Avith hip joint disease in its earlier stages; for at first the jsatient does not feel pain in the hip joint, but on the inner side of the knee or in the knee joint itself So also in spinal caries, pain is felt at the hip, and this may put the incautious Surgeon off the scent; also in kidney diseases, pain is often felt in the bladder or testicle. Pain at the inner side of the knee is also felt in disease of the sigmoid fiexiu-e, from irritation of the Obturator Nerve, or in any other condition in- volving this nerve in any part of its course, as caries of the lower lumbar vertebrae, psoas abscess, sarcoma of the bones or soft parts, and obturator hernia, and, in cases where there is an accessory obturator, femoral hernia as well. This is no doubt due to the fact that the obturator nerve supplies sensory filaments to both the hip and knee joints; and also because there is frec|uently found on the inner side of the lower third of the thigh, a plexus of nerves known as the "obturator plexus," which is formed by filaments from the internal cutaneous, long saphenous, and obturator nerves. The pain at this spot is most marked when the disease begins in the head of the hone, as the obturator nerve enters the round ligament, and is in this case, therefore, early affected. Besides the obturator nerve, the great sciatic (through its branches) also supplies both the hip and knee joints. By Morbus Coxae is meant strumous arthritis of the hip joint, whether it begins in the bones or the synovial membrane. When it begins in the soft parts, it is called the arthritic form; in the acetabulum, the acetalmlar; and in the head of the femur, the femoral. It 1ms been divided for convenience into various stages. 1. The Inflammatory Stage, probably accompanied Avith some synovitis and softening of the structures round the joint, and the limb a.ssumcs that jiositiou where the cavity can liold most with the least tension. The signs of this stage are—{<() FJiwitm, as in