Stirgiccil, Medical, and Operative. 67 nail. (2) The blood may be ell'used under the occipito-frontalis, and may be either diffuse or circumscribed; as a rule it is diffTise, giving a crackling sensation to the finger, and easily moved from place to place. (3) The blood may be effused under the pericranium; this form is most frequently met with in children at birth, and is caused by the pressure of the pelvic bones or by the use of the forceps, and is usually seen over one of the parietal bones. It is firmly fixed to the bone, and is limited by the " sutural ligaments " to the bono over which it commenced; and, further, the scalp should be movable over it. This must also be distinguished from a depressed fracture by the rules already laid down. Abscesses also may form in the same three positions, and follow the same laws. In making incisions into the scalp in cases of septic cellulitis, in the dangerous area, the position of the various vessels must be kept in mind and carefully avoided: the vessels are — (1) The supra-orbitalj (2) the temporal, with its anterior and posterior divisions; (3) the posterior auricular; and (4) the occipital. The ordinary caput succedaneum, formed by tlie effusion of liquor sanguinis from the over-full vessels, is found between the occipital frontalis and the pericranium, in the loose cellular tissue. The pericranium stands in the place of periosteum to the bones of the skull; but even though it is removed over a considerable area the bone is not so likely to die as when an ordinary bone is stripped of its periosteum, since its nourishment is principally derived from the diploiJ and dura mater. Further, in cases of necrosis of the bones, it is doubtful whether the ^pericranium ever forms new bone, and in this way also it differs from the periosteum of other bones. The dura mater acts as periosteum on the other side; it is very firmly attached to the base of the skull, but much less firmly to the vault, and hence it is readily separated in this position by a blow or blood extravasation. Tlie bone is principally nourished by the dura mater (endosteum), and therefore difl'ers in this third respect from an ordinary bone, which is chiefly nourished by the periosteum. Necrosis of the skull is very oftru sypliililic beginning usually as gummatous periostitis: this is specially common about the forehead—corona veneris, or the " mark of the beast," as it is called. Necrosis of the outer table is more common