Siirgicd/, Medical, ami Operative. 11 but it is also too near the larynx and vocal cords, and hence the tulje may cause much irritation and even ulceration of the larjaix and necrosis of the cartilages, as the conditions in the child requiring this operation are usTially of an acute inflammatory nature. In the child it is better for the Surgeon to grasp and steady the whole of the structures, including the trachea, between the two carotids (I.e., excluding the carotids) between the finger and thumb of his left hand; in this way he will, with most certainty and Avith greatest ease reach and open the trachea, and with less risk of wounding important neighbouring organs. Whether this operation is performed in children or in adults do not put it off till the patient is moribund, and never leave the operation uncompleted, when once begun, whether the patient be alive or dead. It should be performed whenever the voice is lost or nearly lost, and the degree of obstruction is marked as shown by the indrawing of the lower ribs, the epigastrium, and the episternal notch, during inspiration. It should be remembered that an enlarged thymus gland in infants may cause great dyspnoea, and even suffocation. LARYNGOTOMY. The crico-thyroid membrane is quite superficial, and may be felt as a slight depression about one inch below the " pomum Adami." If the case is urgent, open by plunging in the knife at once; if not, Ave may take the matter more coolly. Over the space make a vertical incision in the middle line through the skin, about an inch in length, and then make a cross cut through the membrane. The only danger likely to arise is ha?morrhage from the small arteries Avhich cross and anastomose in front of the membrane (the crico-thyroid branches of the superior laryngeals). They are seldom a source of trouble; and by making a cross incision they arc not likely to Ije wounded. Cases, however, are on record where serious and even fatal hifmorrhage occurred from these vessels; I have myself seen a subject in the dissecting-room where a trunk as large as the radial artery cro.ssed in front of the crico-tliyroid membrane. Laryngotomy is to be preferred in the adult because:—(1) The opening is often quite as good as in the trachea; (2) it is far