447 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. sphincter ani and skin between the aims and coccyx (see vol. ii., page 403). It will be easily understood, therefore, how anal and prostatic or bladder affections act and react on each other: as bladder and prostatic affections, causing tenderness and pain in the rectum and about the anus; and anal troubles, causing frequency of micturition, pain at the point of the penis, or even retention, as seen sometimes after operations for fissure and piles. Inflammatory affections of the prostate, simple and tubercular, give rise to symptoms like those of stone in the bladder, as the neck of that viscus is affected in these conditions. The abscess very frequently opens into the urethra, and the pus may pass back into the bladder, and set up cystitis; next in frequency, it opens into the rectum, and lastly, it may make its way towards the perineum. Tubercular abscesses of this gland are verj'' troublesome, and the tension caused by the dense capsule may cause absorption and generalisation of the tubercular material, and carry olf the patient by tubercular meningitis; the best treatment is to open into the gland by a free median perineal incision, and scrape away the diseased matter. Prostatic affections are very apt to cause orchitis, or first rather, epididymitis; the inflammation spreads into the ejaculatory ducts, then along the vas to the epididymis and testicle. This is seen in acute gonorrhoea or gleet, in prostatic calculus, prostatic abscess, irritation from the frequent passage of catheters during " catheter life," and sometimes after lateral lithotomy; it also explains, probably, why tubercular disease of the prostate and epididymis are so frequently found together. The curious thing is, why one testicle only should be affected, e.g., in gonorrhoea, since the two ejaculatory ducts are so close together. Management of Prostatic Cases.—(1) By care as to diet and clothing, keeping the bowels and other functions regular, emptying the bladder at once when nature calls, the patient may get along pretty comfortably. (2) Should these means fail, then the patient must begin his " catheter life." He must be provided with a suitable instrument, and be taught liow to draw off his water. In retention due to enlarged prostate, the bladder does not hold so much as appearances at first sight would indicate, as the enlarged prostate fills up the pelvis, encroaches u])on the bladder.