Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 3 TRACHEOTOMY. By this is meant tlie making of an opening in some part of the trachea. Laryngotomy—when the opening is made in the crico- thyroid membrane—usually by a single thrust; Tracheotomy— when the opening is made through some part of the trachea itself, either above or below the isthmus of the thyroid body; and hence Avc have the hUjli and the low operations. LaryngO-tracheotomy. —In this operation the opening is made through the crico-thyroid membrane, the cricoid cartilage, and the upper rings of the trachea. Ill Thyrotomy, the thyroid cartilage is split hi the middle line, in whole or in part, by a vertical incision, and the interior of the larynx exposed; the two halves arc then held aside, while foreign bodies or morbid growtlis are removed from the cords or ventricles. In cases where the lower j^art only of the thyroid cartilage is split, it will be necessary to divide the upper two or three rings of the trachea, to give more room for manipulation ; Avith partial division thus, the power of speech is less likely to be so seriously affected afterwards, as the vocal cords are less disturbed. The opening in the wind-passage may be temporary or permanent. A temporary opening may be required for—(1) Obstructive (Edema glottidis; (2) acute laryngitis; (3) spasins from pressure on, or irritation of, the recurrent laryngeal nerve ; (4) emphysema of the loose connective tissue of tlie neck, as from a penknife wound ; (5) scalds of rima, by boiling water or caustic fluids; (G) foreign bodies in the air passages; (7) masses of food in the gullet; (8) crouji; (9) diphtheria; and (10) many operations about the jaws, tongue, and palate. In diphtheria the obstruction is always at the chink of the glottis, but in croup it is in the trachea and bronchi as well. A permanent opening may be required for—(1) Chronic diseases of the larynx, resulting in thickening of the mucous membrane, abscesses, necrosis of cartilages — as from syphilis, tubercular disease, fevers, and cancer; (2) polypi of the larynx; (3) laryngeal plithi.sis. Some .Surgeons doubt wiietlier it sliould be opened in croup and diphtheria. In croup, the dangers are—(a) Obstruction to the larynx; and (If) extension of the disease down to the lungs, So also in diplithcria we have similar dangers—{a) (Obstruction