Applied Anatomy: 456 somewhat, or a solution of cocaine may be first injected; some use carbolic, as it is less painful—a drachm, liquified in glycerine. After the solution is injected, the scrotum must be well shaken, so as to bring it in contact with every part of the secreting surface. If, however, a communication exists between the cavity of the tunica vaginalis and the general peritoneal cavity, irritating fluids, lilve tincture of iodine should not be injected lest they set up fatal peritonitis. In the passage of the trocar, the following are the Structures pierced—(1) The skin, (2) the superficial fascia and dartos, (3) the inter-columnar fascia, (4) cremasteric fascia, (5) tlie infundibuliform fascia, and (6) the parietal layer of the tunica vaginalis. The method of injection must not be used in children nor in feeble old men. In the child, hydrocele is often congenital, wlien the iodine would pass into the abdomen and set up peritonitis; in these cases, treat by discutient lotions (such as hydrochlorate of ammonia), acupuncture or simple withdrawal of the fluid, or lastly, incision and drainage. A somewhat similar method may be used in the old and debilitated—simple withdrawal or acupuncture may cure the condition, especially in cases where the patient has previouslj'^ lived in a warm climate, as the West Indies. Differential Diagnosis between Vagin Scrotal Hernia. 1. Tumour oblique iu shape and direction. 2. Tlie protrusion lies in front of and covers the spermatic cord, and testicle can be felt at the bottom of the scrotum. Scrotum can- not be folded u]) on the abdomen as in hydrocele (Chieke). 3. An impulse is imparted to the tumour if the patient coughs: gurgling sound at attempts at reduction : percussion note clear (if intestine), but dull if omentuni. 4. No transparency on examination by the transmitted light of a candle. Hernia and Hydrocele of Tunica alis:— Hydrocele. 1. Tumour, oval or pyriform and began at bottom of scrotum. 2. The constituents of the cord can be felt free in the inguinal canal at the external ring, but the testicle cannot be felt easily at the bottom of the scrotum, hut is situated behind, and in large collections at the upper part. 3. No impulse on coughing : no gurgling at attempts at reduc- tion: percussion note dull. It is possible to feel the rounded vjtpcr end of the tumour. i. Is usually transparent when t))us examined.