560 Applied Anatomy: This instrumeut serves a double purpose—(1) It secures adhesion between the adjoining walls of the bowel, and (2) it slowly separates the " spur," which usually falls off about the end of the seventh or eighth day. The "spur" is seized between the teeth of the instrument and gradually compressed, so that it sloughs off from the wall of the bowel. Before this, however, the peritoneal surfaces are firmly adherent, and the peritoneal cavity thus completely shut off from the cavity of the bowel. 2. The next step is to close the fistula. This is to be accomplished, not by paring the edges, but by Duncan's method (see vol. ii., page 53). Lesions in Cortege and Substance of tiie Brain.—Lesions of the cortex reach their maximum gradually, are incomplete, and more or less limited. A monoplegia, advancing progressively towards a hemiplegia, is very significant of a cortical lesion. It is further very often preceded by, or associated with, monospasm or the " early rigidity" of the paralysed limb; tliis is indicative of an irritating, not a destroying lesion. Consciousness is less frequently lost in cortical lesions, and there is often localised pain in the head. Cortical lesions may involve the psychical centres for vision and hearing, inducing " word-blindness" and " word-deafness;" that is to say the patient is unable to translate written symbols into ideas, or understand spoken words. The per- ceiving centres are abolished, although the will power remains. The features of a lesion of the substance (central) of the brain are, roughly speaking, the reverse of the above. Central lesions reach their maximum at once, and are complete, affecting the whole of one side—hemiplegia. It is rarely preceded by, or associated with spasm of the parts affected. The rigidity of the paralysed side is usually "late," not "early"—the symptoms, in fact, pointing to a destroi/ing lesion, rather than an irritating one. Consciousness is usually lost, but there is rarely marked pain in the head. The psychical centres are left intact, though the motor and co-ordinating powers are abolished; the patient knows Avell enough what to say, but is unable to say it. In short, though he is speechless he is not wordless. A slowly advancing haemorrhage on the surface of the brain, e.g., from the middle meningeal artery, will illustrate a cortical lesion; while rupture of the lenticulo-striate artery is an