Applied Anatoviy: 7i the root of the nose, between the nasal eminences. Tlie Inion corresponds to the external occipital protuberance. The sutures are first obliterated at the part in which the ossifi- cation of the skull was last completed—i.e., in the neighbourhood of the fontanelles and the sagittal suture, and last in the squamous; tlie obliteration begins on the inner surface of the bones, between forty and fifty years of age; this union between the bones of the skull is known as synostosis. A knowledge of this will be of some vise in judging the age of a skeleton. Fractures of the skull may be divided into those of the vault and those of the base. Fractures of the Vault are usualty caused by direct violence. They may be divided into— The inner table is usually more splintered than the external; many reasons are advanced to explain this—(1) The inner table is thin and brittle (lamina viirea); (2) the force is more diffused by the time it reaches the inner table; (3) the bone bends as a whole, and this tends to make the force more diffuse; and (4) there is nothing firm beneath the inner table, and hence the greater splintering, as in driving a nail through a board when there is nothing solid below to oppose the blow. The outer table woidd be affected in a similar manner were it so placed in regard to the force, as the table furthest from the violence splinters most. In examining the state- of the bone, in open wounds of the head, always use a finger as the probe. A fissured fracture must be distinguished from svitures or abnormal fissures, as the " parietal fissure," and from the edge of the torn pericranium. A fissured fracture appears as a bleeding, more or less straight, red line, Avliich grates under the finger-nail. A suture is not a red, bleeding line, and is not straight, but very zig-zag and serrated. The edge of the pericranium is smooth, does not grate under the finger-nail, and shows a slight yielding to pressure. A blunt instrument causes a " gutter " fracture; a round one, like a hammer, a "saucer" or "pond" fracture. FRACTURES OF THE SKULL. 1. Fissured... 2. Depressed 3. Pmictin-ed Always compound.