Surgicaly Medical, and Operative. 329 ulcerations. lu this condition the "water from one ureter comes away constantly, while the water from the other one collects in the bladder, which the woman herself can empty from time to time. This constant dribbling of nrine, together with the occasional emptying of the bladder as in health, distinguishes uretero-vaginal from vesico-vaginal fistula, where the water all comes away in a continuous dribble when the patient is in the erect posture. A constant dribbling of urine is also a very early sign of retroflexion of the gravid uterus; this dribbling, however, is the overflow of an over-distended bladder, resembling the condition met with in the opposite sex from enlarged prostate, being really due to retention. Pyelitis is an acute or chronic inflammation of the mucous membrane of the pelvis of the kidney. It is usually caused by calculi, or tubercle, either primary, or spreading from some other part of the genito-urinary tract. JSTote how the pain radiates in renal affections—along the line of the rrreters to the bladder or testicle, causing retraction of that organ; it may also shoot down the thigh: there is also local pain in the lumbar region. In Abscess round the Kidney, the thigh of that side is flexed to prevent the psoas pressing upon the inflamed tissue; hence, the patient is lame, and often Avalks with the body bent forwards and leaning to one side, and also sits on one tuber ischii, and is unable to extend the thigh. The knee joint is often complained of, and it is then apt to be mistaken for morbus coxae; but when the thigh is flexed the pain is less, and the joint can be moved freely in all directions. Perinephritic abscesses are very apt to involve the pleura and lung, causing empyema, pneumonia, and abscess, or may open into the colon or bladder. It very frequently forms a " lumbar abscess." Pyonephrosis. —This diff"ers from hydronephrosis in that tlio tluid distending the pelvis is not water but pus: it is hydro- ncplirosis, plus pyelitis. "Surgical Kidney." — This may be defined as suppurative nephritis, pyelitis, or both togethei', forming ^uppnrailw pijclo- iif'/iliritix, and is usually secondary to obstruction to the outflow of urine, to reflex irritation, or to decomposition of the urine in the bladder, the micro-organisms then spreading up to the kidn(>.y. It is tlie worst form of " urinary fever." It is tlie constant rifik