Siirgica/, Medical, and Operative. 215 ill"; under such circumstances, these cavities have been cut down upon, emptied, drained, and washed out, with tlie best results. In a case of this hind, oj^erated on by Mr Caiiid, he introduced an aspirator needle, so as to tap the cavity, then made a free external incision, and after this forced a pair of sinus forceps alongside the needle into the cavity. The needle was then with- drawn, about two inches of a rib excised, the finger passed in, and the opening dilated; a dependent counter opening was next made, large-sized rubber drainage tubes were inserted, and the cavity washed out with warm boracic. The only untoward symptoms that occurred during the progress of this case were three smart hfemorrhages which took place from the interior of the cavity about a fortnight after the operation—possibly from pressure of the drainage tube, causing ulceration into one of the branches of the pulmonary artery. The diseased conditions that may require the operation of Bronchotomy are — (1) Abscess of the liuigj (2) gangrene of the lung; (3) bronchiectasis; (4) tubercular cavities; (5) hydatids; and (6) foreign bodies. In operating for gangrene, make sure that the gangrene is not caused hy an aneurism pressing upon the root of the lung. If due to this cause, and should an operation be performed, one would be very apt to open into the sac of the aneurism, leading to a fatal issue from sudden and severe haemorrhage. FRACTURE OF THE RIBS. The two upper and the two lower ribs are rarely fractured— tlie upper two being protected by the clavicle, wliile the mobility of the lower two renders their fracture less likely. The ribs may be fractured—(1) by direct violence; (2) by indirect violence, as from pressure in a crowd, etc.; or (3) from muscular action during parturition. Season has also a most marked effect, fractured ribs being specially common about Christmas and the New Year. In indirect violence, they usually give way at the angle or near it, or close to their junction with the cartilages; in direct violence, at the part struck. The great danger in fracture of the ribs is injury to the pleura and lungs, from sharp fragments projecting hiwards, and this is far more likely to occur in fracture due to direct violence than in fracture due to indirect yiolcncc, In simple fracture there