Applied Anatomy: 610 (2) Lawson Tait's operation, (3) do Hysterectomy, or (4) adopt Apostoli's treatment. 3. Submucous, when the tumour projects into, and dilates, the uterine cavity; they lie just below the mucous membrane, and may be sessile or pedunculated. When pedunculated, they are known as fibroid polypi. They act as foreign bodies, and cause uterine contractions and great hypertrophy of the muscular coat of the uterus. The usual treatment is to dilate the cervix, divide the mucous membrane, and shell out the sessile variety, or divide the pedicle and remove the polypoid form. These fibroid tumours develop during the period of active sexual life, being greatest probably between the ages of thirty and forty. They do not begin before puberty, nor after the menopause; their growth, in fact, being usually arrested after the menopause, though the menopause is often delayed when they are present. They very often cause sterility. The Surgeon may have to interfere because of the severe haemorrhage they often cause, or on account of their rapid increase in size, and severe pressure symptoms on the abdominal or pelvic viscera, especially the bladder and urethra; he must be prepared to remove the entire body of the uterus if necessary—"hysterectomy." Ergot of rye has often a beneficial effect on fibroids: it acts in two ways—by diminishing the blood supply, and by favouring the pedunculation and expulsion of the submucous variety. Natural Terminations.—(1) Before the menopause, they may continue to grow, or remain, stationary; after the menopause, they usually atrophy and disappear. Pregnancy may also cause their disappearance. 2. They may degenerate—as fatty degeneration, become oedematous, inflamed, and gangrenous, or they may become calcified, or ossified, forming " womb-stones." (3) The submucous form may become pedunculated by the uterine contractions; or (4) they may become extruded, from the pedicle being torn across. HYSTERECTOMY. In this operation the body of the uterus is removed along witli the tumour—in short, amputation of the uterus at the os internum. Tliis operation is a very serious one, and should not be performed except when the growth of the tumour is rapid, the patient young