Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 415 with phosphatic deposit. The great use of the tube is to allow the wound to be plugged in cases of hiemorrhage; ]\Ir Bryant does not think a tube necessary, and does not use it at all. After eight or ten days it again begins to pass by the urethra, and in about three weeks after the operation it ceases to pass by the wound altogetlier. There is no risk of stricture following this wound of the urethra, because the incision is longitudinal, or in the long axis of the tube, and not transverse (Duncan). In Boys, the operation differs somewhat from the same operation in adults. In the adult the bladder is easily opened into, but the difficidty is the removal of the stone; in boys, on the other hand, the stone is easily extracted, but the difficulty is to open into the bladder (Chiene). It is rarely fatal in children, except from violence on the Surgeon's part, tearing through the membranous portion of the urethra. An objection urged against this method in boys is that it means emasculation. This is very doubtful; in any case. Nature provides him with two seminal duets and vesicles, as well as two testicles. This difference depends upon the relative position of the bladder, and the size of the prostate gland in the child and in the adult. In th.e child the bladder is chiefly an abdominal organ, and is more movable than in the adult, and the prostate gland is not yet developed. See that the groove does not pass too far up the staff, or else the contents of the bladder escape along the groove, leaving the Surgeon to cut down upon an empty bladder, which is very dangerous, as one may readily pass between the bladder and the rectum. The staff, further, should be strongly curved. In making the second part of the incision, direct the knife a little upwards; and in introducing the finger carry it along the concave side of the staff, against the roof of the urethra, which is fixed and rigid. Mr Heath introduces a strong director before the staff is removed, and then passes his finger along the director. It is not necessary to tie up a child in the usual manner, as the limbs can easily be held in position by the assistants. The staff must be Jcejit in contact with, the stone from first to last, till the Surgeon feels it with his finger. The cutting operation is usually preferred in boys under ten or fifteen years of age, though it has been shown that the crushing operation may be performed safely at a much earlier ago.