Surgica/, UTedical, and Operntivc. 85 Meuingocclo — Clear cerebro-spinal (luid. Na'viis = Pure blood. Dermoid Cyst = Nothing, as the eontciits are too lliirk to pass tlirougli the needle. I have said nothing about the histories of the difl'erent cases, as the student shonld always try to arrive at a definite diagnosis from physical examination alone. A meningocele, of course, is alw ays congenital; and a na^vus, if not congenital, usually begins about a couple of M'eeks after birth. Whenever, therefore, there is a s'mrjle tumour on any part of the head, but especially in the middle line, exercise great caution in diagnosis and treatment. Dermoids of the Scalp. — Dermoids of the scalp are often attached to the dura mater. INIr Sutton explains this by stating that early in embryonic life the dura mater and the skin are in contact, and that the skull-bones are developed between these two layers at a later period, and should be looked upon, therefore, as secondary cranial elements. The usual situations for cranial dermoids are the anterior fontanelle, the root of the nose, and the external occipital protuberance, and they are apt to be confounded with sebaceous cysts, or with meningoceles. When over the anterior fontanelle, the tumour is exactly like a meningocele, rising and falling with regular pulsation, and apparently filling out when the child cries or coughs. The Head in Ricl<ets. — In this condition—(1) The anterior fontanelle remains open for a long time—to tlie third or fourth year; (2) the l)ones are thickened, especially near the sutures ; (3) the antero-posterior diameter is long; (4) the forehead is high, square, and projecting; (5) the bones of the face are ill-developed, hence the face is often small, while the head is large; and (G) the tocth are developed late, and are apt to fall out. In Congenital Syphilis, periosteal deposits of new bone are often found upon the four processes that bound the anterior fontanelle. Such deposits are known as Parrot's nodes, or Osteophytes, and they give to the anterior part of the skull a peculiar natiforni appearance. The new bone, is at first veiy spongy and vascular, but by-and-by becomes more compact. Tlieso osteophytes usually develop between tlie sixth and twelfth months. Sometimes also we find atrophic patclies—Craniotabes.