228 Applied Anatomy: fhrough. the skin and fascia, and many Surgeons advise tliat the lower incision sliould be made first, so that the parts may not be obscured by blood, as they are apt to be when the upper is made first. All bleeding vessels must be tied or twisted as the operation proceeds, or else secured by catch forceps. In cases, however, where the Surgeon has determined beforehand to clear out the axilla, the incisions are often made transversely to the trunk, and from their point of union below, an incision is prolonged to the posterior border of the axilla; in addition, another incision is prolonged upwards along the anterior border of the axUla as far as may be deemed necessary, in order to thoroughly explore that space. The transverse incision drains better than the oblique one. By means of these incisions the glands and fat of the axilla may be completely cleared outj the position of the different sets of glands must be kept in mind (see vol. ii., page 137), especially those glands along the lower border of the pectoralis major. Great care is necessary in performing this jDart of the operation, especially when working towards the outer and posterior walls of the axilla, chiefly because of the presence of the large subscapular vessels— the vein, from the risk of air being sucked in, and also because the vessel is kept open by the dense fascia surrounding it \ the artery, because of its large size and the difficulty of securing it. When injured near the parent trunk the vessels retract, so that it practically becomes a wound of the parent trunk. This is specially the case should they happen to be cut near the main trunks, for then by their retraction and contraction the accident becomes equivalent to a wound of the axillary artery or vein; a similar accident may happen from the injudicious use of the fingers, whereby some small vein is torn close to the main trunk. If the opening in the axillary vein is small, simply pinch it up and apply a ligature without including the whole circumference (parietal ligature); but, if large, the entire vessel must be sur- rounded on each side of the opening. The Arteries divided in this operation are chiefly the perforating arteries from the internal mammary, the long thoracic or external mammary, as well as the short and alar thoracics, and branches of the subscapular. The arm is now to be brought to the side, and the wound closed. Drainage tubes should be introduced at the lower angle