Applied Anatomy: 452 Gaertxeu's duct—the other end being free and closed. Gaeutnek's duct is the remains, in the female, of the duct of the AVolffian body, the middle part only of this duct being persistent in that sex. The tubes of the par-ovarium and Kobelt's tubes open into it. It lies at first in the broad ligament of the uterus, and then becomes in- corporated with the wall of the uterus and vagma, upon which last it is lost. It is important to keep these points in mind as they explain the origin of cysts of the epididymis. The scattered remains of the Wolffian body constitutes the organ of Giraldes or the paradidymis of Waldeyer, and forms jjerhaps the commonest source of tumours and cysts of the epi- didymis and testicle. The same also is true of the kidney; for it is easy to see how parts of the Wolhian body might become ncorporated with the permanent kidney, or Avith the testicle, since both are developed close to the original Wolffian body. In connection with this, compare, and observe, the similarity in appearance between " cystic degeneration " of the kidney and the same condition of the testicle, probably in both cases due to the incorporated remains of the Wolffian body. Coverings of the Testicle as it lies in the Scrotum.—(1) The skin, which is thin and dark-coloured, and usually in rugiij; (2) the superficial fascia, which in this region is peculiar in tlie fact that it contains no fat, but has a layer of non-striped muscular fibres—the dartos inusc/e; (3) the inter-columnar or external spermatic fascia; (4) the cremasteric muscle or fascia; (5) the infundibuliform fascia; and (6) the tunica vaginalis, the special serous membrane of the testicle, which under normal conditions is entirely cut oft' from the peritoneal cavity. It consists of a visceral and a parietal layer; the visceral layer covers the front, sides, upper and lower ends of the testicle; but towards the posterior part it is reflected from the testicle, and becomes continuous with the parietal layer. The parietal layer is attached to the infundibuliform fascia by loose areolar tissue, and is more extensive than the visceral part, extend- ing higher up and lower down than the testicle. The tunica vaginalis, like other serous membranes, is a closed cavity, and it 'Hs of importance to remember that it is towards the front and sides of the testicle, so that the testicle seems suspended at the back of this serous sac; in the normal condition, however, its two layers