206 Applied Anatomy: with, rytlimical variations in intensity. It is chiefly due to an alteration in the calibre of the vein at this point. Tlie vein partakes of the general relaxation of tissue, but at the root of the neck it passes through the deep cer- vical fascia, and at this spot, therefore, it cannot enlarge, though it does so above and below, and this alteration in calibre causes the murmur (Fig. 171). It is heard best on the ricjlit side, because on this side the innominate vein has a straight course into the thorax, and it empties with greater rapidity than the left, which is longer and more oblique. A similar venous hum may also be heard over the ophthalmic veins and the cerebral sinuses. (Z») Organic— due to actual structural changes in the valves (chronic endocarditis).—This form of disease is incurable, and cardiac tonics make the murmurs more distinct. For the purpose of finding the cardiac areas, and many other important points about the chest, it is, of course, very important that the student should be able to count the ribs easily and with certainty. It is sometimes a little difficult to be quite sure of the position of the first rib, especially in stout persons; but if the student will bear in mind that there is always a fairly well marked ridge on the front of the sternum at the junction of the first and second pieces, and that this corresponds with the level of the second rib, he will find no difficulty whatever. Development and Malformations of tlie Heart.—The heart is at first represented by two tubes, placed side by side, wliich very soon fuse into a single tube. Soon after this two transverse con- strictions appear in the tube, dividing it into three chambers— a posterior, or primitive auricle; an anterior, the arterial bulb or fruncus communis arteriosus; and a middle chamber, or primitive ventricle. About the third Aveek of development the heart becomes doubled upon itself, and represents tlie permanent condition found in the fish. In a few rare cases this has been found in the child at birth—the development of the heart being arrested about the third week, so that the child has only a single auricle and a single ventricle. A septum appears about the sixth week, Avhich grows upwards from the ap)ex of the ventricle, dividing the single cavity into