169 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. joint tlio paticut coniiilains of, suflicient ohjedive signs of disease are not found there to account for tlie subjective sensations, then loolc higlier up; the same remark applies to spinal caries simulating hip joint disease—our motto in both cases being " Excelsior." Sacro-iliac Synchondrosis.—This is the articulation between the cartilage-coated surfaces of the sacrum and ilium. It is an amphiarthroidal joint, and there is sometimes a delicate synovial membrane. The Ligaments are—(1) The anterior sacro-iliac, which is very thin and passes between the two bones; (2) the 2^osterior sacro-iliac, wliich is a very strong ligament, the fibres being partly oblique and partly horizontal—the oblique part is attached to the posterior superior iliac spine. The joint is supplied by the superior gluteal, from the lumbo-sacral cord, and branches from the sacral nerves. The lumbo-sacral cord and the obturator nerve pass over the front of the joint, and are early affected in disease of the articulation. Sacro-iliac Disease.—In disease of this joint, unlike hip joint disease, the limb is not flexed (unless the psoas muscle is involved as well); it, very constantly, seems longer than its fellow, due to tilting forwards and rotation downwards of the whole side of the jjelvis. There is pain when the iliac crests are grasped and attempts made to force them asunder or together, and also when the pelvis is compressed laterally. There will also probably be pain along the branches of the anterior crural, obturator, and great sciatic nerves; there is further marked pain when direct pressure is made on the joint, just internal to the posterior superior iliac spine. The joint is painful luJiether the jpatient stands or sits, in this respect differing from hip disease, where the patient can sit with comfort. The fact that the hip can be fully extended, and when flexed there is neither rigidity nor pain in moving the hip joint, provided the sacro-iliac be kept still, will exclude hip joint disease. Pus from this joint comes forward through the anterior sacral ligaments, and very usually presents as an iliac abscess somewhere between the femoral vessels and the the anterior superior iliac spine. It may, however, pass into the sheath of the psoas when the limb will assume a flexed position, or it may pass along the vessels and nerves passing through the great sacro-sciatic foi 'amen and point in the buttoclc, or through tlie tliyroid Ibramen,