Applied Anatomy: 500 Lymphatics of Pelvis and Abdomen.—The Pelvis—In the pelvis we find three groups of glands—(a) The exte)-nal iliac, a chain accompanying the vessels of that name; three' are placed at the beginning of the artery, just ahove Poui^art's ligament. This set of glands communicates below with the femoral, and above with the lumbar glands, {h) The internal iliac glands surround the vessels of the same name, and communicate with the lumbar glands; these glands receive vessels from the bladder, prostate, uterus, and penis, (c) The sacral glands occupy the sides and front of the sacrum; this group receives vessels from the bladder, rectum, and uterus, and also communicates Avith the lumbar group. The Abdomen. — The glands of the abdomen are called the lumbar glands. They are placed on the front of the lumbar vertebra?, surrounding the common iliac vessels, the aorta, and inferior vena cava; they receive the lymphatics from the lower extremities, pelvis, testes, and most of the viscera of the lower part of the abdomen. In cases, therefore, of malignant disease of these parts they ought to be examined. If much enlarged, they may cause obstruction of the vena cava inferior or of the common iliac veins. Marked pain in the lumbar region probably indicates that these glands are implicated. FASCIA OF THE ABDOMEN. Fascia Transversalis.—This is an extensive sheet that lines the entire abdominal wall, lying between the muscles and the extra-peritoneal fat. Above, it is thin, and becomes continuous with the fascia lining the under surface of the diaphragm : below, it is much thicker, and is attached to the inner lip of the iliac crest, and it is here continuous Avith the iliac fascia—the fascia covering the psoas and iliacus in the iliac fossa. ToAvards the front, it is attached to Poupart's ligament, external to the iliac vessels; and internal to tliese vessels, to the ilio - pectineal line and pubic bone behind the conjoined tendon. About half-an-inch above the middle of Poupart's ligament the spermatic cord passes through it, pushing a funnel-shaped process before it (the ivfinuli- hiiliform fascia), and opposite the femoral vessels it is prolonged into the thigh, as the anterior layer of the femoral sheath. Close