Applied Anatomy: urctlirii' muscle, and is the most IVcquoiiL suat of fHHumfxlir stricture. Spasmodic stricture, however, may occur at auy jiart of tlic membrauous or peuile portion of the urethra, for the urethra is as truly a muscular tube as the oesophagus, and, like it, has a complete muscular coat, (r) The spongy portion.—The posterior part of this portion is sometimes called the htdbons poHioit, from tlie fact that it is surrounded by the bulb of the uretlmv (whicli is simply the dilated posterior part of the corpus spongiosum, just as the glans penis is the dilated anterior part). The length of the spongy portion is from live to six inches (the bulbous part occupies about an inch of this). The direction of this part necessarily varies with the state of the penis; the bulb, however, is the loAvest part of the whole canal, and into it the ducts of CuwrER's glands open. Tlie bulb is, further, the most frequent seat of organic stricture, probably because, lieing the lowest part, the inflammatory products tend to accumulate at this point. Along the floor of the spongy l)ortiou proper numerous mucous follicles open, their orifices being directed to\vards the meatus; there is also a large one in the roof of that part of the urethra situated in the glans penis, called the lacuna magna, and this one must be avoided in passing smaU catheters. When these lacunic inflame and suppurate, the abscess thus formed will be in the middle line, thus diflering from abscesses due to inflammation of Cowper's glands. Size and Shape of the Urethra.—The urethra, as wo have already pointed out, admits of consideralde dilatation, so that no exact measurement is obtainable of its absolute size; we can, Iiowever, compare the size of one part with another. The most distensible part is the prostatic urethra. When closed, it is siin])ly a slit—at the anterior part, the slit is revtical; further back, tlie slit is Iransvcrt^c: Avhile in the prostatic portion, the slit is curced, with its concavity downwards, as seen on transverse section. It is narroM-est at the meatus, and the next narrowest part is at the junction of the membranous with the spongy portion—/>., as it l)ierces the triangular ligament (anterior layer). If the jirostaltc [lart be distended it is seen to be fusiform in shape, being widest in the middle and a little contracted at each end; the inemhranoits portion is the narrowest. The bulbous part of the spongy portion is dilated; it then grows somewhat smaller, but expands again ni