Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 223 Ihin spot the abscess may come to the surface. This poiut is above the origin of the external obhquc, external to the insertion of the rectus, and internal to the origin of the serratns maguns. Dermoid cysts of the chest, or actino-mycosis of the hmg, may simulate an cmjjyema. Surgical Treatment. — 1. Aspiration. — This may sometimes cure the condition—as, for example, Avhen the abscess is limited by adhesions, or when the cause of the pus formation has ceased; sometimes, howevoi", the pus is too curdy to flow through the aspirator. By aspiration we avoid the effects of tension, the fever falls, the lung expands, and adhesions form around the collection of pus, Avhich niay thus cut it ofl' from the general cavity. If there is a large quantity iDresent, do not remove it all at one sitting, as the risk of hamorrhage, lung irritation, and rupture of some large vessel, is too great. To avoid these untoward effects of negative pressure, we may siibstitute a corresponding amount of some bland fluid for the pus removed, e.g., a one per cent solution of phosjihate of sodium. If the pus re-collects slowly, and tends to become more serous, then aspiration should be persisted with; but if it collects rapidly, and of the same quality as before, then asjDiration will not cure. For the position of puncture, see vol. ii., page 217. 2. Incision and Drainage.—When aspiration fails, an iiicisiun should be made. In abscesses, usually the opening is made at the most dependent point, in order to favour drainage. Now, in empyema, this would be as far back and as low down as possible ; but, as a matter of fact, this is not the best jjlace. If it is too low down behind, as the chest falls in, the liver rises and stops up the hole; tlie opening must at least be two or three inches from the lowest point of the pleural cavity. It should not be made too far back either, because (1) the patient usually lies partly upon the affected side, so as to allow fi'ee play to the other lung; (2) the I'ibs are closer togctlier posteriorly; and (.3) as the lung expands it fills up the posterior part of the chest, and -would close up tlir opcnhig and intorfci'e with drainage. Points usually chosen.—(1) The space between the iiftli and the sixth ribs, an inch to an inch and a half in front of tlie mid- axillary line. (2) In the eighth or ninth intercostal space, just anterior to the angle of the scajjula (f Jodlki;) ; this incision will