Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 33 diniiuishing the ijrofuse salivation iu cases where operation is out of the question. It is a branch of the third division of the fifth, and opposite the second molar tooth it is simply covered by the mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth. 1. Hilton's Plan. — This is to divide the nerve oj^posite the second molar tooth, where it can be raised by a blunt hook, seen, and divided; here it is only covered by the umcous membrane. But in cases where the disease has involved the floor of the mouth this plan is inapplicable, and, further, the guides to the spot in question are not quite definite. 2. Mr Lucas gags the patient and then passes a strong silk ligature through the tip of the tongue, and pulls it forwards, and to the opposite side to that on which he is to divide the nerve. In this way the nerve is seen standing out as a firm cord, extending from the angle of the jaw along the side of the tongue. A sharp hook is next passed beneath it, the mucous membrane divided over it, and the nerve then cut, stretched, or a portion removed, as the Surgeon may think fit. 3. Moore's Plan. — He divides the nerve further back than Mr Hilton, and takes as his guide the last molar tooth. Guide.—A line drawn from the middle of the crown of the last molar tooth to the angle of the jaw. The junction of the upper with the middle third of this line indicates the point where it should be divided. It lies about half-an-inch from the tooth, between it and the anterior pillar of the fauces, parallel with, but behind and below the prominent alveolar ridge on the inner side of the body, and ascending ramus of the lower jaw. Enter the knife about three-quarters of an inch behind and below the last molar tootli, and cut down to the bone, and the nerve is certain to be divided. It is doubtful if mere division of a nerve will cure neuralgia, as the nerve usually unites again with great rapidity; it would probably be better, therefore, to remove an inch or so of the nerve, as it has been found tliat anything under an inch will almost certainly unite, so great is the growth from the central end of the divided nerve. Tlie reason why the nerves unite so very readily and surely after division or excision for neuralgia, is because they are, as a rule, in bony canals, and the canal acts as guide to the central end, leading it to the proximal