Applied Anatomy: 224 pass through the latissimus dorsi. Each of these points have their respective advocates—some Surgeons preferring the one, some the other. The patient is placed under tlie influence of chloroform, and during the operation must be laid on the affected side and partly over the edge of the table, so that the sound lung may have free play. An incision is made through skin and muscles, and then a director is thrust into the pleural cavity, and along this a dressing forceps is passed, by Avhich the opening is dilated. Rib resection.—If the intercostal spaces are wide, it is unneces- sary ; but if there is any reasonable doubt on this point, then a part of a rib should be removed, in order to give sufficient room for the drainage tube. An incision is made directly on the rib and one and a half to two inches removed, leaving the periosteum in the adult; but, in the case of children and young persons, it is probably better to remove the periosteum as well, as new bone is formed so rapidly as to seriously endanger dramage. In order to turn back the periosteum, use an incision of this form— and then, by means of a curved elevator, turn aside the two doors of the periosteum, then free the inner surface of the rib without opening the pleural cavity, and remove the piece of rib with the bone forceps. If the transverse incisions are not used, then the periosteum is apt to be stripped off the rib to an indefinite extent. In connection with incisions in the mid-axillary line, it should be noted, that when a string is passed round the chest at the level of the nipples, it will cut the seventh space in the mid-axillary line. In opening the cavity of the chest, the need of strict anti- septic precautions cannot be too strongly insisted upon; once allow the pus to become septic, and, in the adult at any rate, the chances of the patient's recovery are very small. The patient should be directed to hold his breath while the dressings are being changed. 3. " Thoracoplasty"—Estlander's operation.—This operation is used in cases Avhere the lung is bound doAvn and the chest wall is prevented, by the rigidity and close apposition of the ribs, from falling in any further and obliterating the cavity. In such