Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 23 anterior jugular veins, the sterno-liyoids, stemo-thyroids, omo-hyoids, possibly the sterno-mastoids, thyroid gland, superior and inferior thyroid arteries, the thyroid veins, especially the inferior, recur- rent laryngeal nerves, trachea, and oesophagus, and the pre-vertebral muscles. In most cases the head is thrown so well back that the gash may extend right down to the vertebrte without injuring the carotid arteries, and therefore without causing immediate death; the lower down the cut is made, the more likely are these vessels to be opened. The dangers are—(1) Great and fatal h.osmorrhage at once from a large artery, or more slowly from the venous plexuses; (2) less rapid death by being gradually choked by the blood inhaled into the windpipe; (3) later, septic jDneumonia from the entrance of blood into the bronchi and pulmonary vesicles; (4) bronchitis from the entrance of cold air; and (5) asphyxia from sudden oedema glottidis. When a large vessel, like the carotid artery, is divided, death is sudden, and the weapon usually falls from the hand, on acconnt of the sudden loss of blood causing syncope and muscular relaxation for the time being. In cases, however, where no large vessel is divided, death is more slowly produced, being usually caused by asphyxia, and after death the weapon will generally be found firmly grasped in the hand. The risk of cedema glottidis is so serious that it is probably better for the patient to at once perform tracheotomy, then stitch np the gash in the throat, and treat it as an ordinary wound. Suicidal wounds are usually oblique from left to right, and from above downwards— unless the person be left-handed—and are deeper on the left than on the right side. OPERATIONS ON THE (ESOPHAGUS. Relations in tlie Neck.—It is about nine inches in length, and extends from the lower border of the cricoid cartilage, or the sixth cervical vertebra, to the stomach—about the level of the ninth dorsal verteljra. In front is the trachea and the thyroid gland; the oesophagus projects a little to the loft of the trachea in the neck ; behind, it rests against the vei'tebra?, following the curves of the column, and also rests on the longus colli muscle ; on each side are the common carotid arteries, the thyroid gland,