Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 291 forms a blind tube two or three inches in length, from one to three feet above the ilio-ca^cal valve. Clinical Relationships of Meckel's Diverticulum—(1) It may produce intestinal obstruction by forming adhesions to neighbouring parts, compressing the gut below it, or may form nooses or knots or kinks, and thus obstruct the lumen of the tube, or it may, by traction, entirely obliterate the lumen of the gut. Its free end may be club-shaped, hammer-shaped, pointed, etc. (2) It is the probable source of many of those cases of umbilical ffecal fistuhe met with in children. (3) The possibility of its presence is one reason why the umbilical cord of the newly-born child is tied three finger's-breadth from the child's belly, as already pointed out. (4) As the duct, when present, is sometimes adherent to the umbilicus, in all cases where the abdomen is opened for the relief of internal strangulation, the finger should be introduced and swept over the internal surface of the umbilicus to at once make sure of its presence or absence. From the hind-gut, only a very small part of the alimentary canal is developed—-viz., the lower end of the colon and the rectum. It should be particularly noted that the caecum and colon lie, in their early stage, to the left of the mesial plane, on a level with the umbilicus. After this the CEecum mounts up into the left hypochondrium, passes in front of the duodenal Ioojd, through the epigastric region, into the right hypochondrium, and then descends through the right lumbar region into the right iliac fossa. In some cases the descent does not take place, and it then remains in the right lumbar region, or even in tlie right hypochondrium. Jn other cases it may pass too far, descending into the pelvis. In short, the ca;cuni may be arrested finally in any part of its journey from the left side of the umbilicus to the right iliac fossa. In the child the sigmoid flexure is very long, but tlie rest of the large gut is very short. The anus is formed in a precisely similar way to the mouth— viz., by an invagination of the epiblast, which at length opens into the hind-gut; this invagination is known as the proctodseum. Malformations of the Lower End of the Large Intestine.— (1) The anus may be congenitally narrow. (2) The anus may Ije completely closed by a thin membranous septum, while the rectum