354 Applied Anatomy: upper opening of the canal, and the body still corresponding to its axis. In this case a cough or sneeze may easily cause the hernia to come " down with a bolt en masse." This is most apt to happen in small recent femoral, whether reducing by taxis, or by the extra-peritoneal method of operation, unless care be taken to first empty the sac of its contents, and not push both back together. This test of Spence's is also diagnostic in cases where an internal strangulation exists, coincident Avith a reducible hernia; the hernia can easily be made to reappear in this case, and shows that the jDersistence of the symptoms must be due to something else than the hernia. Taxis in Inguinal Hernia.—In the operation of taxis—that is, reducing the hernia by manipulation—the jjarts shoidd be relaxed as much as possible; and for this purpose the shoulders should be raised and the lower extremities flexed at the hip and knee and adducted. By this means the fascia lata, which is attached to Poupart's ligament, is slackened, and, of course, Poupart's liga- ment itself, and in this way also the walls of the canal are relaxed. The bladder should be emptied to increase the capacity of the abdominal cavity, and the patient should be made to keep his mouth open and breathe freely, to relax the diaphragm and lessen intra-abdominal pressure; furtlier, the pelvis should be a little higher than the abdomen, so that the weight of the intestines may help to pull in the protruded gut. The neck of the hernia should be steadied with one hand, while pressure is made in the direction of the canal with the other, with gentle lateral motion, if need be. By gentle compression for a long time the venous and serous contents are emptied out, which will also be aided by raising the sac. Taxis must not be carried out too vigorously or for too long a period, if the constriction does not yield. In children, it is important to remember that the canal is not oblique. The principal Adjuvants to Taxis are—(1) A large enema, (2) cold, and (3) chloroform. An enema is useful by exciting peristalsis, as well as probably lessening the total contents of the abdomen. Cold must only be used for a short time in recent hernite, but never if there is any suspicion of gangrene; it calms and relieves the local irritation and congestion, causes the vessels to contract, and coirdenses gases, thereby lessoning the bulk of the