Applied Anatomy: 524 head. This at once puts the muscle in action, and we then see whether the tumour is over or under it. Another method is to make the patient turn his head forcibly to the opposite side, while the Surgeon pushes his chin in a contrary direction. Beneath the upper third of this muscle we find Hutchinson's " sub-niastoid potato tumour." 3. Sterno-Hyoid.-—Arises from the back of the sternum, first costal cartilage, and clavicle, and is inserted into the body of the hyoid bone. Nerve.—Descendens noui. 4. Sterno-Thyroid.—Arises from the back of the fii-st piece of the sternum, and is inserted into an oblique line on the side of the thyroid cartilage. Nerve.—Descendens noni. 5. Omo-Hyoid.—Arises from the upper border of the scapula, close to and on the transverse ligament, and is inserted into the body of the hyoid bone. Nerve.—Descendens noni. This muscle consists of two bellies, united by a central tendon; the bellies, it will be remembered, take part in the subdivision of the anterior and posterior triangles of the neck. In use it probably resembles the platysma, assisting the venous return from the deep veins of the neck, just as the platysma assists the venous return from the superjicial veins. For this reason it is divided into two bellies, with a tendon between; the posterior belly passes over the deep veins in the posterior triangle, while the anterior passes over the deep veins in the anterior triangle—notably the internal jugular. When either belly contracts, it shortens and tends to rise up off the deeper parts, and takes the deep cervical fascia with it; the posterior belly contracts from the scapula to the central tendon, while the anterior contracts from the central tendon to the hyoid bone. If there were no central tendon, and were the muscle to contract as a whole, it would press upon the deep veins and retard the venous return, instead of assisting it. But, with the two bellies, when it contracts, the deep cei'vical fascia is raised up and the pressure upon the veins relieved. 6. ThyPO-Hyoid.—Arises from the oblique line of the thyroid cartilage, and is inserted into the body and great cornu of the hyoid bone. Nerve.—Special branch from ninth (hypo-glossal). 7. Masseter.—Arises from the zygomatic arcli and nialar bono, and is inserted into the angle and ramus of lower jaw.