544 Applied Anatomy: Ectropion.—Eversiou of the edge of the lid or lids. Emmetropi a.—Normal vision. When the accommodation is relaxed, parallel rays, or rays from distant objects, are focussed on the retina; but divergent rays, or rays from a near object, are focussed behind the retina. Entropion.—Inversion of the border of the eyelids, from any cause, such as organic change in the tissue of the lids or spa.sm of the orbicularis. Exclusion of Pupil.—Where the whole pupillary margin or the entire posterior surface of the iris is adherent to the lens capsule; also called "total posterior nijnechia." Hemeralopia. — "Day-blindness;" occasionally met Avith in persons from the East or West Indies. Hypermetropia.—The "long sight" of young people. Parallel rays, when the accommodation is relaxed, are not focussed on, but fall behind the retina, and therefore to see distant objects the patient must use active accommodation. It is due either to delicieut refractive jjower, or else to sliortness of the antero- posterior axis of the eyeball; hence there is a constant strain of accommodation. It always dates from birth and does not increase afterwards, and often causes convergent squint, from the excess of accommodation required. It is measured by the refractive jDOwer of the strongest concex lens through which he can see distant objects clearly. It may be—(1) Manifest, or that part of accom- modation that the patient can voluntarily relax, but he never relaxes his power of accommodation completely: this is measured by the strongest convex lens through which he can see distant objects clearly. After having noted this, then put atropia into his eye, "when he will now see clearly through a stronger convex lens than before; this is called (2) Latent hypermetropia = that masked by accommodative effort, and Avhich he is unable to sus- pend at will. The manifest and the latent added together give the Total hypermetropia. Hyphgema.—Blood in the lower part of the anterior chamber. Hypopyon.—Pus in the lower part of the anterior chamber; often associated with the superficial spreading septic ulcer of the cornea (" Serpiginous Ulcer"). Irideremia, Congenital.—Congenital absence of the iris.