485 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. oolie-likc pains iu tlie abdomen. (3) lUood and mucus in the stools. (4) Patulous anus, or " ballooned " rectum. (5) Tape-like motions. (G) Pain down the thigh, probably from the fact that the malignant mass lias involved the branches of the sacral plexus. (7) Detection of the stricture by digital examination. To Treat malignant stricture we may either perform colotomy or excise the rectum. Colotomy may also be necessary in some forms of non-malignant stricture. The Finger in the Rectum may feel the following—(1) The temperature of the part, as indicating the existence or otherwise of inflammation of the rectum itself, or the parts near, such as the prostate. (2) The trigone of the bladder separated from the finger by the wall of the rectum, with the rectal and recto-vesical layers of pelvic fascia, with a packing of cellular tissue between. (3) The vesiculse seminales and vasa deferentia, especially if enlarged, as in tubercular disease. (4) The prostate gland, about an inch and a half within the anus. (5) The membranous part of the urethra passing from the apex of the prostate. (Tj) The triangular ligament proper, as a tight band stretching between the rami of the pubes and ischium. (7) State of the sphincters and anal reflexes, the contraction of the anus on the finder is slower and feebler than in health, in crushes of the spinal cord. (8) Diagnosis between prostatitis and inflammation of the neck of the bladder; if of the prostate, there will be swelling, tenderness, and heat felt per rectum. Other things that may be felt are — fissure or ulcer of the anus, the internal opening of a fistula, a catheter in the mem- br anous urethra, folds of Houston, fajcal accumulations, stricture, piles (in the anal region), polypi (higher up); in the child we may feel the sound in the bladder, or a stone by the bimanual method; and lastly, ovarian, uterine, and pelvic tumours. In relation to the prostate gland, it is important to note whether it is hypertrophied; also note the nodular feel, with soft spots here and there, characteristic of tubercular disease, and the large size and pulpy feel of encephaloid cancer sometimes jnet with in young boys. In regard to the vesicuhe seminales and vasa deferentia, the chief point to note is the existence or not of tubercular disease. It is also possible to feel the obturator foi'umen, aiul