217 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. of non-union. Over all is placed a broad flannel bandage, tight enough just to be easy for the patient. During the process of healing of a rib, on account of the almost coiiKtimt movement, there is a good deal of eusheatliing callus thrown out. It unites in about three weeks. PARACENTESIS THORACIS. This is an operation for the removal of serous or purulent fluid from the chest. It is best performed with a pneumatic aspirator, and the point chosen for the introduction of the needle is either in the fifth or sixth intercostal spaces, at the line of the inser- tion of the serratus magnus, about midway between the sternum and the angles of the ribs, i.e., the mid-axillary line, or in tlie seventh or eighth spaces in a line with the inferior angle of the scapula; at a lower level than this, the diaphragm might be wounded. The needle is pushed into the chest, close to the edge of the lower rib of the space in which it is performed, to avoid wounding the intercostal artery, which lies near the lower border of the iqjper rib. Thus, suppose the operation is performed in the sixth intercostal space, the needle, or trochar, is pushed over the upper edge of the seventh rib. But from the mid-axillary line onwards there is an artery at each border of the space; and, therefore, it should be entered through the middle of the space, and during inspiration, as the space during this act is widened. It is necessary to thrust in the needle with considerable force, so as to make sure of its piercing the pleura, which is usually thickened; otherwise it might simply drive the thickened pleura before it. The usual order of structures in the si^ace is vein, artery, nerve; but in the upper three or four spaces the artery is below the nerve. When tapping the pleural cavities, the lungs should be in a condition to expand freely and fully: otherwise, as when bound down by adhesions, the rajjid removal of fluid may lead to rupture of the lung tissue and ha3mothorax. In hydrops pericardii the pericardium may be tapped in the fourth or filth intercostal spaces, in the cardiac region, and close to the sternum, in the same manner; the point of tlie greatest accumulation of fluid being determined by percussion. A very fine needle must lie employed, and the fluid drawn oil' very slowly.