Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 309 operation (prlmarij) is its low inoi'tality, easo of [)erfoniiance, and the almost absolute certainty of securing snmetldng, and of making an opening in tlie gut somewhere above the obstruction. RESECTION OF THE INTESTINE. In this operation a diseased portion, of varying size, is cut away and removed from the body. It may be performed for stricture, simple and cancerous, occlusion of the gut liy hopeless matting, and for gangrene. It is called Enterectomy, when performed on the small intestine; Colectomy, when performed on the large. Colectomy was first performed by Mr Bryant. In many cases it is the only operation which cures the disease, and, therefore, possesses this great advantage over enterotomy; and it, further, does away with the necessity for a .permanent artificial anus. As regards the amount that may be removed, it is difficult to state definitely, but a couple of yards have been removed without any apparent damage to the intestinal tract, so far as function was concerned. There are two modes of performing the operation — (1) The part of the gut is removed, and the two divided ends are reunited, thus restoring the lumen of tlie tube; the gut is then put back into the abdomen, and the external wound closed. The objections to this plan are—{a) Although the obstructing part is removed, yet the distension of the gut above, remains for some time after the (Operation, as the segment of the bowel involved in th(( operation is paralysed for a time, and prevents a free passage along the tube, {h) operation is very diflicult, long, and tedious, and tliis is Ijad for the patient, who probably before the operation was already in a low condition, and the long exposure may cause fatal {)aralysis of the gut. {r) It may be impossible to sutui-e the gangrenous bowel, oi- the suture line may slough and lead to extravasation and death. For these reasons the next method should always be preferred —(2) Instead of stitching the divided ends together, an artificial anus is formed by the ends of the divided gut being stitched to tlic skin incision, first the distal and then tlie proximal. At a later period another operation is performed for the cure of the artificial anus.