350 Applied Anatomy: by a probe-pointed bistoury. The sac is known by its rounded tense appearance, filamentous character, and by the arborescent arrangement of vessels on its surface; it is bluish in appearance, and it may be possible to see fluid and the intestines through it. It may be difficult to distinguish the fascia propria from the sac, but in all cases of doubt, open as if it were the sac. The gut wall is smooth and polished, probably congested, but has no arborescent vascular network; but should the sac be opened inadvertently, as a rule, a sudden jet of fluid will escape, and the doughy, granular omentum protrude. To distinguish the fascia propria from the sac—The fascia jaropria is prolonged indefinitely upwards on the sweUing, heiiKj continuous with the margins of the aperture through which the hernia protrudes; whereas, when the sac is fairly exposed, the sharp defined margins of the aperture can readily be felt. The greatest difficulty is most likely to be met with in femoral hernia. When the fascia propria is not divided, the tip of the finger cannot be made to enter the abdomen; when it is divided, the nail can be inserted under the sharp margin of the ring. The sac in femoral and in. all small hernia; should be opened at its loLver part, because in this position there is usually some fluid which protects the bowel from injury; in large herniie the neclc of the sac must be oj^ened. If the sac is not very tense, take it between the finger and thumb and displace the contents, and then pinch a small part up by the forceps, and divide it with the edge of the scalpel, held horizontally; a director is then introduced, and the opening enlarged by a probe-pointed bistoury, and then each side of the opened sac seized by a pair of Wells's forceps. If the fluid is clear and transparent, or slightly yellowish, like serum, and communicates no Ijad odour to the finger, the prognosis is good, as it indicates that the inflammation has not been of very long standing or severe; the gut will probably be found deep red and glistening. >Some hours later the fluid is dark-bro^vn in colour, the gut purple, but still glistening. Still later the fluid resembles a strong infusion of cofl'ee, the gut is purple or black, and the glisteji lost; it has a sodden appearance, like wet parchment, or is ash-grey in colour. When the fluid has a very bad odour, it probably indicates gangrene, and the prognosis is bad; should