527 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. laryngeal nerve, and (2) the inferior laryngeal branch of the thyroid artery. Between the base of the skull and the superior constrictor there is a semi-lunar interval, known as the " space of Morgagni." It is filled up by the specially strong submucous coat of the mucous membrane of the pharynx; two muscles are seen in this space—the levator palati and the tensor palati, and between them is situated the orifice of the Eustachian tube—and two arteries passing into the pharynx—a branch from the ascending pharyngeal artery, and another from the inferior palatine. 23. Rectus Capitis Anticus IVlajor.—Arises from the anterior tubercles on the transverse processes of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebra; (same origin, therefore, as the scalenus anticus), and is inserted into the under surface of the basilar process, close to the median line. (For the other recti and obliques, see vol. ii., page 230.) 24. Longus Colli.—This muscle consists of two oblique jDor- tions, and one vertical. (1) The inferior oblique part arises from the bodies of the first and second dorsal vertebraj, and is inserted into the transverse processes of the fifth and sixth cervical. (2) The superior oblique part arises from the anterior tubercles of the third, fourth, and fifth cervical vertebrae, and is inserted into the anterior tubercle of the atlas. (3) The vertical portion arises from the bodies of the three lower cervical and the three upper dorsal vertebraj, and is inseiied into the bodies of the second, third, and fourth cervical. At the lower part of the neck the vertebral artery lies between this muscle and the scalenus anticus. 25. Splenius.—Arises from the lower half of the ligameutum nuchse, the spine of the seventh cervical and the ujjper six dorsal vertebraj. hisertion—Splenius capitis, across the mastoid process and the outer third of the superior curved line; the splenius colli has the same insertion as the urigin of the levator uiiguli scapulte —the posterior tubercles of the upper four cervical vertebrae. 26. Com plexus.—Arises from the transverse processes of the u[)per six dorsal vertebraj and articular processes of the lower cer- vical, and is inserted into the occipital bone between the superior and middle curved lines. This muscle has a tendinous intersec- tion about its middle, and is pierced by the great occipital nerve (- the internal branch of the posterior primary division of the