61 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. room, aud the first-comers may take more than their own sliare of space. This irreguhirity is usually among the teeth anterior to the bicuspids, and it may he necessary to remove some of the permanent teeth in order to make room for the others, and it becomes a question of the " survival of the fittest." Eemember that the canines are the most durable, and in this respect, there- fore, the most valuable; but they do not make their appearance till the eleventh or twelfth years, and, therefore, their temporary predecessors should not, if possible, be removed, as they, as it were, keep a place for the permanent ones. Note also that the first molars, the first of the permanent set to appear, are the least durable, and therefore, in this respect, of but little value, and may be sacrificed without any scruples, if necessary. 4. In Extracting Teeth with the forceps, remember two points —(a) That, like the stones of an arch, the fangs of the teeth are broadest on their outer aspect, and (&) that the outer wall of the socket—except in the case of the last molars of the lower jaw—is much thinner and weaker than the inner one; hence, therefore, in using the forceps, the force must be applied in an otUward direction, otherwise much difficvdty will be experienced. 5. In using the ElevatOP, to get rid of roots or stumps, remem- ber that the transverse partitions are less dense in structure and yield more readily than either the outer or the inner walls, and direct the force towards, or against the spongy partitions rather than against the lateral walls. 6. From a medico-legal point of view, the date of eruption of the second molar tooth should be noted in cases of supposed violation of the Factory Acts, as children are often sent to work in factories before the age of thirteen; of course, the presence or absence of the second molar tooth is not conclusive, but, along with other points, it is of considerable value. 7. I^ote, lastly, that bad teeth, or rotten stumps, are a fertile cause of various disorders—(«) They are an exceedingly common cause of neuralgia or headache, {h) they are also the cause of one form of acute ear-ache, (c) they may cause spasmodic closure of the jaws, and (rf) they are a very frc(pient source of enlarged glands in tlie neck.