Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 495 of the prepuce, and it is this narrow ring that gives rise to the trouble in plumosis and paraphimosis. It is important to note tills ring in reference to the operation of circumcision; the con- traction is not of great breadth, being merely narrow and ring-like; hence, all that is required is to remove this ring, and if it is not removed, it matters but little what else is taken away, the con- dition will not be relieved without a second operation. The skin itself is not tight, only the mucous membrane and the part where it joins the skin. Nerves of the Penis.—The anterior branch of the perineal nerve supplies the under part of the integument of the penis, the rest of the integument—upper surface and sides—being supplied by the dorsal nerve of the penis, from the pudic. The erectile structure is supplied by offshoots from the prostatic plexus of the sympathetic; these offshoots communicate with the dorsal nerve of the penis. ISTow comes a curious fact: in cases where a segment of the spinal cord is destroyed, either by injury, e.g., as in fracture of the spine or inflammation—myelitis—thus cutting off the cord from the sensorium, even though the crush or inflammation be well up into the dorsal region, so that motion and sensation are completely destroyed as high as the umbilicus, or even higher, the 2)oint of the penis escapes, and still retains its sensation. It would seem, therefore, that the gUms penis has an entirely different sensory supply from the rest of the penis. Now there are, at least, two possible explanations of this:— The first and, I believe, the most likely explanation, is that the point of the penis is supplied by the right pneumogastric; this nerve, we know, joins the solar plexus, and it is probably con- ducted from this along the aortic plexus to the hypogastric plexus, and from thence through the prostatic to the point of the penis. I believe also that this view receives support both from physiology and psychology. The other explanation is that the supply of the glans comes from the spinal cord through the great splauchnics (which are derived from the thoracic ganglia of the sympathetic, from the sixth to the tenth inclusive), which we know also pass to the solar plexus (semiJnvar ganglia), and could then bo conveyed to the penis in the way already iiKtiitioiied. Tlio first, however is, I believe, the true explanation of this curious phenomenon.