128 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. unal)le to detect sweet or saline tastes. Taste Ncems to he aflected when the olfactory norve is paralysed ; this is not becanse it is actually affected, but because the power of distinguishing flavours is lost, so that one is unable to tell an apple from an onion. (/*) The sense of hearing will be aflected, us the stapedius muscle is paralysed. There is usually increased sensibility for all musical notes or sounds, and the patient can detect sounds of a very low pitch; or may seem subjectively to hear acute sounds (oxyakoia), because the stapedius is paralysed, and hence the tensor tympani keeps the membrane too much on the stretch. (c) The mouth will be dry, because the salivary glands are not secreting (the lower two by the chorda, the parotid through the small superficial petrosal). This is known as " dry mouth," or xorodomia. (d) The palate falls down on the paralysed side, because the levator and azygos uvulse muscles are paralysed (through the great superficial petrosal), and the uvula points towards the healthy side. 3. The Paralysis may be Central, that is, in the brain. In this case, curiously enough, the uiiper part of the face usually escapes— the brow and the muscles collected round the orifice of the orbit. This is probably because of the fasciculus of fibres that arise from the opposite side. Another important difference is, that in central or cerebral lesions the electrical reactions are the same as in health; whereas, when the paralysing lesions are in the course of the nerve, we very quickly get the " reaction of degeneration." It is often stated, in cases where this nerve is paralysed, that the tongue is also affected. This I believe to be a time-honoured misunder- standing. It certainly seems to go to one side, but this is becanse the mouth is not in the middle line in facial paralysis, and hence the tongue, even when put out quite straight, is nearer the paralysed than the healthy side. The Facial Nerve is at fault in cases of "histrionic spasm," or actor's paralysis, which consists of an almost constant twitching of the muscles of the face. To cure this condition the nerve has })een stretched. Operation.—i\Iakc an incision from the root of the mastoid process d(jwnwards and forwards to near the angle of the lower jaw, and expose the anterior border of the process and tlie anterior edge of the sterno-mastoid, and turn the parotid gland forwards.