U6 Applicd A natoiiiy: " tliromljus." If tlie flow be sluggish, tho patient sliould move his fingers while he grasps something firm in his hand, so as to compress the deep veins and cause the blood to flow into the superficial set through the profunda communication. AVlien enough, blood has been extracted, place the thumb over the wound, and remove tlie bandage or " fillet," bend the arm and apply a comjiress of lint, and fix it by a figure-of-eight bandage and sling the arm. If the artery be punctured during the operation, this injury will be manifested by (1) the blood being redder than it should be, (2) that it escapes in jerks, and (3) pressure on the vein below the opening does not stop the bleeding. The results of such an accident are various: it may lead to—(1) A False Anewism, that is, the blood poured from the artery may be enclosed in a sac, not formed by the coats of the vessels as in true aneurisms, but hy the surrounding tissues. (2) It may lead to an A7ieu7'ismal Varix, that is, when the wounded artery and vein adhere at the wounded point, and jets of blood are driven into the vein from the artery, dilating it, and causing incompetency of its vah^es, and leading to a varicose state of the veins in the neighbourhood. (3) It may lead to a Varicose Aneurism, that is, an aneurism the sac of which communicates with both artery and vein, and blood from the artery is projected into the vein tliroiigli the sac of the aneurism. Other risks of this operation are (4) septic lymphangitis from the use of a dirty lancet; (5) sometimes a very painful neuralgic condition results, probably from the cutaneous nerve of the corresponding side being involved; and, (6) less frequently, "bent arm" results, probably from some injury to the cutaneous filaments of the musculo - cutaneous, setting up irritation and causing reflex con- traction of the biceps and brachialis anticus (Hilton). The Lowest Lymphatic Gland of the upper extremity is placed a little above the internal condjde, towards the anterior aspect of the arm. It very frequently inflames and suppurates as a result of poisoned wounds of the inner jiart of the hand and the inner fingers, as it arrests the poison (^ptomaine) before it reaches the axillary glands. It is also very constantly enlarged during tlie secondary stage of acquired sypliilis, and forms a readily accessible aid to diagnosis.