Applied Anatomy: ISO Ibo i)ropcr relations, fur, like water, tension tends to find its own level. Three steps are usually recognised in this process (I) Tension and elongation of the tissues at the inner side of tlie joint; (2) relaxation and contracture of the tissues at the outer side; and (3) bony deformity — the increased growth being due to elongation of the shaft, not the epiphysis (Mickulicz). There is no antero-posterior thickening of the femur, for when the knee is bent the limb appears quite straight. Clinically, Professor Chiene divides cases of knock-knee into two classes—(1) Those that are growing worse; and (2) those where no change is going on, and the parts have become solidified permanently in the deformed position. For the first of these classes the conditions must be reversed; the pressure or tension at the inner side of the joint must be increased, while that at the outer side must be diminished. This is to be accomplished by some form of external splint, and then an clastic bandage to draw the knee towards the splint; the most important point in putting up tliis apparatus is to avoid rotation of the limb. In the second class of cases some operative form of treatment is indicated. 1. Ogston's Operation.— Flex the knee as fully as possible and enter a long tenotomy kuife, flatwise, two or three inches aboA'e the inner condyle, and pass it forwards and outAvards till its point is felt in the inter-condyloid notch; next turn the edge of the knife towards the bone, and divide the soft jmrts as the knife is withdrawn. Now introduce an Adams's saw, and divide the condyle for about three-quarters of its thickness; then remove the saw and forcibly straighten the limb, when the condyle is broken ofl" and slips iqjwards over the sawn surface. The great objection to this operation is that it opens into the knee joint, and is espe- cially apt, therefore, to lead later to chronic rheumatic arthritis. This is avoided by 2. Professor Chiene's Operation. — He removes a Avedge, by means of a chisel and mallet, from the base of the inner condyle, but in such a way that the knee joint is not opened into. The instruments required for this operation are the same as in the next operation, and the part of the femur operated upon is also the same as in Macewen's operation. It is a small, triangular- shaped, muscular interval, the bone forming its floor (Fig. 163).