512 Applied Anatomy: assistant closely following the knife with a sponge and sopping up the blood. After removal of the mass Dr Keith scoops out and disinfects the cervical canal, and applies a solution of perchloride of iron to the stump. The stump is then placed at the lower angle of the abdominal incision. 5. Carefidly clean out the peritoneal cavity as in ovariotomy, and then close the abdominal wound by sutures brought close up to the pedicle. The clamp wire is tightened day by day, the stump meanwhile being kept clean and dry, and dusted with iodoform. The distal end of the pedicle usually separates in about three weeks. It would be rarely possible, or advisable, to perform this operation for malignant disease of the uterus, as malignant disease usually attacks the cervix—the very part that is left in this opera- tion. On the subject of Hysterectomy for uterine fibroids, Dr Thomas Keith thus writes:—" What I now plead for is, that for a time all bloody operations for the treatment of uterine fibroids should cease, and that Dr Apostoli's treatment,* as practised by him, should have a fair trial Hysterectomy, remember, which is performed every day for a complaint that rarely of itself shortens life, kills every fourth or fifth woman who is subjected to it. This mortality must cease; it is not a question of Surgerj^, it is a question of humanity." REMOVAL OF THE OVARIES. The removal of the ovaries is known as " Battey's Operation," or Oophorectomy. In this operation the ovaries alone are removed. The name, properly speaking, should be restricted to cases where the ovaries removed are of normal size, or, at least, not the seat of large tumours. This operation may be required —(1) In cases of severe dysmenorrhoea, with serious general symptoms; (2) to check the growth of uterine fibroids, especially when they are the cause of severe haemorrhage, uncontrollable by other means; (3) hystero- epilepsy; and (4) prolapsed and fixed ovaries. Battey's object, * Treatment by Electricity.