Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 127 iit the ucck of the contlyh;, aud again at ilic levtil of tlic molar toeth. This now exposes the Jirst aud second parts of the internal maxillary artery, the two pterygoid muscles, and the chief branches of the third division of the fifth. (5) Xow disarticulate the condyle of the jaw and throw it forwards with the external pterygoid muscle, when the foramen ovale, the trunk of the third division of the fifth, and the chorda tympani nerves are all exposed. Lastly, secure the nerve to the internal i^terygoid muscle, and trace it up to the ganglion. The Eighth Pair consists of three divisions, and which all come from nuclei in the lower part of the floor of the fourth ventricle. 1. The Glosso-Pharyngeal.—This nerve supplies the posterior third of the tongue with ordinary sensation and Avitli the sense of taste. It also supplies the stylo-pharyngeus muscle, and helps to supply the constrictors of the pharynx; it further supjjlies the tonsil, and gives oft" Jacouson's nerve.to the tympanum. Its relations to diseases of the tongue aud tonsil have been already seen. 2. The Vagus, or Pneumogastric, is principally distributed to the lungs and respiratory j^iissages, the heart, and the pharynx, oesophagus, and stomach. Its branches are— {a) Arnold's nerve, which is the nerve of common sensa- tion to the back of the auricle and external auditory meatus—the " .llderman's nerve." {I)) The jDharyngeal branch helps to form the pliarnygeal l^lexus and supply the constrictors. ((;) The superior laryngeal, sensory to the larynx and root of the tongue at the base of the epiglottis, aud motor to the crico - thyroid muscle, and probably half the arytenoid; it can also inhibit inspiration and excite expiration, and reflexly cause spasm of the glottis. ('/) The cervical cardiac branches, sensory nerves of tlie heart (^'deprestsur nerve"), also vaso-inhibitory to the blood-vessels of the abdomen—this nerve is probably much aftected in "shock." {e) The recurrent laryjigeal, motor to all the muscles of the larnyx not supplied by the superior. (/) The inferior cardiac, inhibitory of the heart.