Siirgicdl, Medical, ai/d Operative. 155 aftectod, ;iiul the tbiuiib never, as it lias uo prolougatiuii from the pahnar fascia. The fascia contracts very dense adhesions to the skin, and perhaps a little to the tendon sheath. The tendons are not alfected, because the carpo-metacarpal joints arc most contracted ; if it were the tendons, it would be the other two. The condition is often symmetrical, and occasionally the feet are affected as well. Cause. — It is most frequently found in the well-to-do, and, therefore, cannot be due to any special position of the hand at work, as with round-headed tools, etc. It is probably associated with some special constitutional diathesis, as the gouty and the rheumatic, shice the small joints are often enlarged in this affec- tion, just as they are in chronic rheumatic arthritis. Alcohol lias l)robably a good deal to answer for as a cause. Treatment.—When the disease is beginning, as the hard palmar knot, tr}' what an anti-goirty regimen will effect—Carlsbad waters, and cut off starch, sugar, and alcohol. Operative.— (1) MultljiJe JSubcHfaiieous Dirision, flip Oontrwted Band.<—Introduce the knife at all points where the skin is not densely attached to the fascia, and divide the bands, and try to straighten the finger; do this in many places, till the finger can be In-ought straight; when straight enough, keep the hand in a straight splint for four weeks, then leave oJf the splint during the day, and finally leave it off altogether. (2) Busch's Operation—Make a V-shaped incision, with its base opposite the root of the finger; dissect up the fiap and straighten the finger, so that the V now becomes a Y ; finish by suturing the flap to the limbs of the Y. This is exactly Jonks's oj^eration for cctropioji. (3) Dissect up flaps of skin from the palm, and cut out the contracted fascia altogether. A curious accident occasionally happens from a blow, or by giving a forcible tlick with the finger—viz., rupture of that part of the common extensor tendon attached to the last phalanx of one of the fingers. The ruptured tendon is ajtt to adhere to the second phalanx, leaving the terminal phalanx entirely useless. Cutaneous Nerves of the Fingers.—In Front (Fig. 157), the median nei-ve sui)plics tlie thumb, index and middle fingers, and the radial half of the ring finger; the ulnar supplying the ulnar side of the ring, and the whole of the little linger. Behind (Fig. 158), the radial nerve .supplies the lingers supplied by the