Applied Anntoiiiy: 462 into—(1) Those that give rise to mental trouble, and (2) those tliat do not: in the former only, under ordinary circumstances, should any operation be performed. The degree of mental trouble produced has no relation to the size of the varicocele. Treatment.—1. Palliative.—A weU-fitting suspensory bandage, with the removal, if possible, of the conditions that tend to keeji up undue pressure in the veins—e.^/., constipation. Cold bathing of the genitals morning and evening is also valuable. In some special cases, where the cause was chiefly obstruction to the venous circula- tion in the abdomen, Mr Spencb recommended a light truss—the truss was not to interrupt the circulation, but to act lilce a valve and support the column of blood above: in ordinary cases a truss would be hurtful. 2. Radical.—In cases (1) where there is much mental trouble on account of the varicocele, (2) for admission to public services, and (3) where there is great pain, frequent seminal emissions, and atrophy of the testicle. Operations. — Open Methods. — AVith strict antiseptic precau- tions, make a short incision over the cord, towards the outer aspect, or behind. When the veins arc exposed, scj^arate them carefully from the other constituents of the cord, especially the vas deferens and the spermatic artery, free them for some distance, puU them out at the wound, and tie them above and below in one or more buniUes with strong catgut, and cut off the part between the ligatures. At the same time, do not be afraid to cut off a good large piece of the loose and pendulous scrotum; this will brace it up afterwards, and act as a suspensory bandage. Insert a small drainage tube, stitch the skin, and dress. Professor Annandale was the first to advise and perform the operation of excision of the veins, combined with removal of a portion of the skin of the scrotum. • Bennett's Operation.—W. II. Bennett believes that to cure varicocele it is necessary to shorten the cord. An incision is made exposing the thin fascia surrounding the varicocele, which fascia must not be divided. The veins are tlien tied en masse at the lower part, the ends of the ligature being left long. A second ligature is next passed round the veins at the upper part and tied with a slmjle knot, which is kept tight by an assistant. The portion of the veins between the ligatures is then excised, and the upper ligature tightened, the ends being left long. After the