Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 453 are in contact. In the condition of inversion, the testicle occupies the front of the scrotum, the whole organ being turned round, so that the vas, instead of being beliind the cord, is in front of it. The testicle is sometimes found in the perineum attached to the tuber ischii. The lu-ocessus vaginalis usually accompanies it. AMien this is the case, it communicates with the peritoneal cavity; and it is important to remember this in excision of the gland, lest fatal peritonitis bo sot uji. Lymphatics of the Testicle.—The lymphatics from the testicle proper pass to the lumbar glands, those from the integuments of the scrotum pass to the horizontal set of the superficial glands in the groin. In encephaloid cancer, therefore, the lumbar glands will be first enlarged; but when the integuments beconxe involved the glands in the groin will also enlarge. In chondro-sarcoma the secondary growths will be found in the internal organs—as the lungs and liver; but it should be noted that this form of sarcoma of the testicle is also very usually readily difiiised by the lyra- phatics. In superficial aftections, therefore, of the scrotum, as eczema, syphilitic skin affections, soot wart (" chimney - sweep's cancer"), parafihi wart, etc., the glands in the groin will be affected; but in affections of the testicle, the lumhar (/lands enlarge. Nerves of the Testicle.^—The testicle is supplied by the i^pemiatic jilexus of the sympathetic; this is derived from the renal plexus, which is in turn immediately derived from the solar plexus. This brings the testicle into a very close relationship with the kidney and solar plexus, and hence probably the pain in the testicle so frecpiently found in kidney affections, and j)ain in the kidney in some aflFections of the testicle. The reason why tlie testicle is thus supplied is because it is develoijed in the abdomen, just under the kidney, but afterwards descends to the scrotum (see vol. ii., page 342). VARIETIES OF HYDROCELE, 1. Hydrocele of the Tunica Vaginalis consists of a collection of serous (luid wifhin the (xwity of tliis sac; as the fluid accumu- lates it forms a swelling at the front and sides of the testicle, and also passes up in front of the spennatic cord towards the external