Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 463 bleeding has ceased the ligatured stumps of the varicocele are brought together, and retained thus, by knotting the ends of the upper ligature to those of the lower. The ligatures are now cut short and the operation completed. Subcutaneous Method.—Another plan is by multiple sub- cutaneous Catgut Ligatures, with or without division between the ligatures. Velpeau's method of obliteration, by means of a hare-lip pins and twisted suture, cannot be recommended; and the same remark ajjplies to Vidal's method of twisting by means of specially-constructed needles and silver wire. Structures divided in the ojjen method are—Skin and dartos, inter-columnar fascia, cremasteric fascia, and infundibuliform fascia. Vessels and Nerves.—Twigs of the ilio-inguinal and genito-crural nerves; branches of superficial external pudic and cremasteric arteries. Sarcoceie.—-ISy this is meant merely a solid enlargement of the testicle. This may be—{a) Simple, usually a form of chronic inflammation following acute orchitis, and affecting all parts of the testicle equally; it is smooth and uniform, and may be painful and tender, {h) Tubercular, affecting the epididymis and the vas deferens in the fii'st instance, which become craggy and nodular, with perhaps soft spots here and there. {<■) Syphilitic, a tertiary l^henomenon appearing two or three years, or longer, after infection; the cord is healthy, the body of the testicle alone being affected, and is very often accompanied by hydrocele (hydro-sarcocele). There are two forms—(1) It may be a diffuse orchitis, or (2) it may be in tlie form of a localised gummatous tumour, {d) Tumours of the Testicle, simple or malignant—as encephaloid cancer, cystic sarcoma, and chondro-sarcoma. Cancerous tumours are usually of a soft and rapidly-growing form, and begin in the body of one testicle, from proliferation of the epithelium of the seminiferous tubules, and very rapidly infect the lumbar glands. Sarcomata begin in the connective tissue of the gland or the tunica albuginea; it is most common in children under ten years. Tlic so-called enchondronia of the testicle is a sarcoma which develops cartilage (chondrifi/in'j sarcoma), and the secondary growths in the internal organs retain the characters of the primary. In adults the sarcoma is often cystic. Cartilaginous tumours of the testicle spread by means of the lympliatics, as well as by the veins. The rapid