Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 347 behind the external ahdominal ring. It may be possible also, at first, to observe the oblique neck of the tumour in the one case, but not in the other. The great causes of hernia in old men are chronic constipation, bronchitis, and dysuria. The deep epigastric artery in the normal condition, as we have already stated, almost bisects the triangular space concerned in inguinal hernia—passing from near the middle of the base (Poupaut's ligament) to its apex, which is formed by the meeting of the horizontal line with the linea alba (see Fig. 186). The Seat of Strangulation may either be—(1) Due to the neck of the sac becoming thickened and constricted by plastic deposit, and its subsequent organisation and contraction—this is the most common cause; (2) by the inter-columnar fascia; or (3) by the transversalis fascia; (4) by the ravelling of the contents among each other—e.g., a kink of bowel through a hole in the omentum ; (5) during some strain, a fresh loof) may pass into the neck of an already full sac, or past a partially descended testicle; and (6) occasionally by the body of the sac. STRANGULATION. Operation for Strangulated Inguinal Hernia. — The operation for the relief of this condition in hernia of any kind is often called Kelotomy or Herniotomy. The objects of the operation, as in all cases of a similar nature, are—(1) To divide the constricting struc- ture, and (2) to perform the radical cure at tlie same time—viz., to tie the neck of the sac flush with the interior of the abdomen, and mat the rest of it together by several catgut sutures, or else cut it off altogether, and then bring the walls of the canal together by catgut sutures, leaving enough room below the lowest suture for the passage of the spermatic cord. In all cases of hernia, the usual rule is, when in doubt, operate, and never let the patient vomit three times before operating. Of course, one must never operate, against the patient's will, for tins condition or any other; as otliei'wise, slinuld tlie patient recover, he or she may liring an action for assault against the burgeon, and claim heavy damages. Such is the ingratitude of human nature ! Tliere are two forms of operation—{a) Tlie extra-peritoneal, where the sac of the hernia is not opened, the constricting cause being divided outside the neck.