Applied A iiatoniy: ^00 dullness, it is sufficient for all practical purposes to percuss in two directions—(a) vertically, an inch to the left of the sternum, in order to avoid the aorta; and {h) transversely, at the level of the fourth rib, to escape the liver dullness. It is obtained heavy percussion, and hence called the deex) dullness, as the greater portion of the heart is separated from the chest wall by the over- lapping lung; it corresponds in shape to the measurements already given. The size of the normal adult heart is five inches in length, three and a half in breadth in the broadest part, and two and a half in thickness. Its weight in the adidt male varies from ten to twelve ounces; in the adult female, from eight to ten ounces. Compare the shape and extent of the normal cardiac dullness Avith that found in (1) pericarditis with effusion, (2) hypertrophy of the heart, and (3) dilatation of the heart. In Pericarditis with effusion, the sac of the serous pericardium is distended, and forms a triangular or pear-shaped dullness, passing beyond the apex beat, when that is present, with the base to the diaphragm and ^he obtuse apex above, and extending upwards to the second rib, or even higlrer; the apex beat also seems to be raised. In Hypertrophy, the dullness resembles, so far as shape is concerned, pretty much the normal cardiac dullness, but is increased especially downwards and to the left; the apex beat is disjilaced in the same direction, and is very much more poAverful than the normal, some- times making the whole chest heave. In Dilatation, the duUness is more square-shaped, increasing more to the right side of the sternum; the apex beat is indistinct and diffused, and there may be epigastric pulsation. Very constantly the two conditions are associated in causing enlargement of the heart. The absolute or superficial cardiac dullness corresponds to the part of the heart uncovered by the lung, Avhich consists of the right ventricle. It is of triangular shajje, and is thus mapped out on the chest wall in the normal condition. The rigid harder extends along a little to the right of the mid-sternal line, from about the level of the fourtli to that of the sixth costal cartilage (some give the right border of the sternum); the left harder is an irregular line, passing obhquely downwards and to the left from the upper end of the right border, until it reaches the outer limit of the apex beat. The hase caunot be percussed out, because at this point the cardiac merges into tlic