Applied Anatomy: 304 through its peritoneum-covered surface. The incision resembles that for ligature of the external iliac artery. Littr^: operated on the left side. The incision is carried from a little above the level of the anterior superior iliac spine downwards and inwards, about an inch and a half above, and nearly parallel with, Poupart's ligament, for two and a half or three inches. The incision must be external to the deej) epigastric artery, and above the level of the deep circumflex iliac, with one-third above, and the other two- thirds below, the level of the anterior superior iliac spine. The Structures divided are—(1) The skin and superficial fascia, fatty tissue and deep fascia, Avith the cutaneous nerves and the superficial external circumflex vessels; (2) the external oblique; (3) the internal oblique; (4) the transversalis muscle, with branches of the deep circumflex iliac artery; (5) the transversalis fascia and extra-peritoneal fat; and (G) the peritoneum. The operation should be done, if possible, in two stages, as gastrostomy. The large gut is distinguished from the small gut by the longitudinal muscular bands, and by the appendices epiploicae. LiTTRiii's operation in the left groin was originally proposed for cases of congenital absence, or deficiency, of the rectum; in children, however, it is well to bear in mind that the sigmoid flexure is often misplaced, especially in cases of congenital deformity, and may be on the right side, or in the pelvis. For this reason it has been advised that the operation should always be performed on the right side, as one is almost certain to find either the sigmoid flexure or the ca3cum in this region. It is also used in cases of stricture of the rectum and loicer part of the sigmoid flexure. The operation is said to be less severe, and it places the anus in a more convenient situation, so that the patient can attend to it himself; for this reason also it should be preferred in the labouring poor, who are unable to afford a special attendant to attend to and keep the parts clean, wlien it is placed behind. Statistics, up to 1884, seem to show that it is somewhat more fatal than Amussat's operation; since that period, however, the mortality has fallen considerably. Malignant and other stricture is very frequently situated in the flexures, and in the case of the sigmoid flexure, Amussat's operation must be performed.