Applied Anatomy: 114 often of cousidcrable thickness. For this reason many prefer to call tliein adenomalom polypi, instead of mucous. The polypi also contain blood-vessels and lymphatics. The mucous tissue may become more highly developed, being transformed either into fat or fibrous tissue, or partly both. (2) Fibrous.—These usually grow from the periosteum of the naso-pharynx, Ijasi-s^jhenoid, or nasal roof, and are probably sarcomatous in nature; they occur earlier in life, are deep red in colour, single, with a broad base: they cause deformity, widely separating the eyes, and giving rise to "frog-face:" and, lastly, are frequently attended with severe epistaxis. (3) Malignant, usually begin from the antrimi (see "Diseases of the Antrum"). The chief clinical features of the case, besides the deformity produced, are obstruction of one or both of the fossae and bleeding. Polypi are also apt to press upon and obstruct the nasal duct, giving rise to one form of " watery eye." Bulging of the cheeks, ■widening of the eyes, broadening of the nose, are usually charac- teristic of malignant polypi. These signs are also more or less present in fibrous, and sometimes, though rarely, in the mucous forms — which, through repeated attempts at removal, tend to become fibrous in structure. It should be remembered that, by snuffing up 23owdered tannin or rectified spirit, mucous polyj)i may be made to disappear. Annandale's Operation for Naso - Pharyngeal Tumours.— Professor Annandale uses this operation for the removal of large naso-pharyngeal tumoiu's. The steps of the operation are the followmg:—(1) Preely expose the anterior uares by the separation of the upper lip from its attachments and by division of the nasal septum, as in Eouge's operation. (2) Next, saw through the hard palate, and if necessary divide the soft palate as well. (3) Forcibly separate the two superior maxillaj. (4) Eemove the growth by finger, forceps, etc. (5) Then plug antiseptically, and bring the hard and soft palates together again. The advantages of this operation are—(1) It produces no deformity ; (2) it forms the preliminary stage of a further operation, should it be deemed necessary to remove the whole or part of the upper jaw; and (3) the section being central, there is less bleeding.