258 Applied Anatoniy : 2ncl Cervical.—Transverse process of the atlas just below and in front of tlie mastoid i^rocess, and is the deep guide to tlie position of the spinal accessory nerve at the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle: the lower edge of the teeth of the upper jaw on a level with the body of the axis. 3rd Cervical. 4th Cervical.—Level of the hyoid bone. 5th Cervical.—Between the fourth and sixth vertebrte we find the thyro-hyoid membrane, the thyroid cartilage, and the crico- thyroid membrane; the middle of the thyroid cartilage corresponds to the level of the true vocal cords. 6th Cervical.—Level of the cricoid cartilage: "carotid tubercle" (anterior tubercle of the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra). Just above or at this j)oint the common carotid is usually tied in the high operation: it coiTesponds also to the point at which the omo-hyoid crosses the common carotid: just below this level the vertebral artery is tied, using the " carotid tubercle " as deep guide. It also cor- responds to the end of the pharynx; the beginning of the oesophagus; the beginning of the rings of the trachea; and just below it, the trachea is opened in the liigh operation of tracheotomy. Sterno-Claviciilar Articulation corresponds to the formation of the innominate veins, the bifurcation of the innominate artery, the common carotid on the left side, and still fm-ther back, the anterior edge of the lungs. Upper Edge of Sternum is on a level with the disc between the second and third dorsal vertebrfB, at the end of expiration. Anterior End of First Rib, on a level with the posterior end of the fourth, and so on for the others: the anterior end of second on a level with the posterior end of the sixth: the third with tlie seventh, etc. Ridge on Sternum at Junction of Manubrium and Gladiolus.— This corresponds to the level of the second rib, and is, therefore, a useful landmark when counting the ribs: it also corresponds to the highest point of the arch of the