102 Applied Anatomy: then turned tow.ards the side on which the artery is to be com- pressed and hooked forcibly up against the jaw. The lingual artery may also be ligatured at the beginning of the operation. The incision thus made may be utilised to remove suspicious sub- maxillary glands. t p RESUME of Whitehead's operation (slightly modified):— 1. Perform a preliminary laryngotomy if thought necessary. 2. Introduce the gag at side of mouth ojDposite disease. 3. Transfix the diseased half with the stout silk ligature; loop and knot the ligature, and pull the tongue well forwards. It is probably better also to pass a ligature through the other half of the tongue as well. 4. Split the tongue with a sharp-pointed bistoury along the raphe to a point well behind the disease. 5. Pull the diseased half well forwards and divide the mucous membrane close to the jaw, to be well away from the disease. 6. IS'ext divide the anterior pillar of the fauces, and free the half of the tongue all round. 7. Divide the muscles fixing the tongue to the floor of the mouth. 8. Divide it transversely behind the disease with short snij^s, or by combined snipping and tearing, till the lingual artery is exposed. 9 Secure the artery with a pair of Wells's forceps, remove the tongue, and then tie the artery; or the artery may be tied before the tongue is removed. 2. By incisions below the Jaw.—Eegnoli's incisions were the following:—An incision of semi-lunar shape made along the line of the lower jaw, if possible confined within the space between the two facial arteries; another, a perpendicular incision, carried from the centre of the semi-lunar one, under the chin down as far as the hyoid bone, and then the flaps dissected back. Care must be taken not to injure the facial arteries. Then (o) the integuments are cut through, and after this the structures forming the floor of the mouth—viz., (/>) the anterior bellies of the digastric muscles; (c) the mylo-hyoids, transversely at their anterior part; {d) the