Applied A nntODiy: 4G0 " infantile " treat as below, (i) In tlie Infantile variety, which is probably due to inclusion of fluid, use cold, evaporating, discutient lotions, as— Aininonii'c Chloricli gr. xxx. Aceti Destillati, ..... Sj- Spiritiis Rectificati, .... 5j- Aquam ad, ..... gj. Misce. Acupuncture may be employed, using a needle to puncture the sac of the tunica vaginalis; or simple tapping and support afterwards. In A'^ery obstinate cases you may inject iodine, if you are quite sure that the opening into the abdomen is completely shut olf. II. In the Young and in Middle-Aged Adults.—The cause may have to be treated—usually some chronic inflammation of the testicle. After the condition has become chronic, then use palli- ative measures at first, i.e., simple tapping, and the wearing of a suspensory bandage afterwards. If this does not cure, then resort to the radical cure—tapping, followed by the injection of iodine; where this fails, from the great thickness and non-collapsable nature of the wall of the sac, then use simple antiseptic incision and drainage, carefully stitching the tunica vaginalis to the skin, in order that the sac may granulate from the bottom. III. In the Old and Debilitated.—Do not interfere, unless it is causing troul^le and increasing. If interference is necessary, then adopt palliative measures, as repeated simple tapping, and the wearing of a suspensory bandage between times; where it is small, one may use acupuncture. In the form of hydi'ocele, so frequent in warm countries, simple tapping feeems to cure. It is only in exceptional cases that tlie radical cure by free incision and drainage, or the injection of iodine, should be attempted in old men (Bryant). In Haematocele (that is, a collection of blood in the tunica vaginalis), the shape is usually globular; it is heavier than hydro- cele, and hard or doughy to the touch, with obscure fluctuation, as the wall is very thick and rigid, opaque to transmitted light, and dull on percussion. If tapped, a coffee-coloured fluid is di-awn oft', consisting of altered blood. It may arise from a traumatism, when there will be marks of bruising in the tissues of the scrotum ; or it