Applied Anatomy: 324 Some trouble is also occasionally caused by adhesions between the spleen and the jjancreas or even with the left kidney. The special dangers of the operation are (1) hemorrhage from the omental vessels, (2) injury to the pancreas, and (3) injury to the dense plexus of sympathetic nerves in this region, in relation to the left supra-renal capsule: it is probably from this cause that persistent vomiting sometimes follo"\vs the operation. THE KIDNEYS. The Kidneys are situated in the right and left lumbar regions, opposite three and a half vertebras—from the last dorsal vertebra to the middle of the third lumbar vertebra; the hilus of the kidney is opposite the first lumbar vertebra, and about tM'o inclies from the middle line. They lie entirely hehind the peritoneum, embedded in loose areolar tissue, and are placed somewhat obliquely, the iipper ends of the kidneys inclining toAvards tlic vertebra\ This obli(|ue position is important, as in cases ■where, the spine is bent much forwards, the kidney for this reason iits into the bend better, and with less chance of being cr\ishcd up. The size of each kidney is about four inches in length, two in breadth, and one in thickness—the left is somewhat larger, though thinner, than the right. The weight of the kidney in the adult male varies from four and a half to six ounces; in the adult female, from four to five and a half ounces, the left being nearly ahvays heavier than the right by about two drachms. Relations.—Each kidney rests on the corresponding crus of the diaphragm, quadratus lumborum, and psoas; or, rather, on the fascia covering these muscles. In front is the colon; at the upper end is the supra-renal capsidc; the lower end is about two inclies above the crest of the ilium. The above relations arc common to the two kidjieys ; but there are certain special relations —in front of the right kidney is the second part of the duodenum; in front of the left, the pancreas; at the upper end of the right kidney is the right lobe of the liver; at the upper end of thi' left, the spleen. The right kidney is a little lower than the left, probably because the liver presses it down somewhat; the left kidney reaches to the upper border of the eleventh rib, but the