Surgical, Medico/, and Operative. 555 5. The Tramverse or Badlar Sinus crosses the basilar process, and forms a communication between the two inferior petrosals. The Paired Sinuses are :— 1. The Cavernous Sinuses (see vol. i., page 519). 2. The Inferior Petrosal Sinuses pass from the cavernoiis sinus and open into the lateral sinus outside the skull, passing through the jugular foramen, in front of the eighth pair of nerves. They groove the contiguous margins of the petrous part of the temporal bone and the occipital bone. 3. TJie Superior Petrosal Sinuses pass from the cavernous sinus along the upper border of the petrous part of the temporal bone to the lateral sinus. The petrosal sinuses are apt to be torn in fractures of the petrous portion of the temporal bone—giving rise to the passive form of cerebral haemorrhage, as opposed to the active arterial form. 4. Tlie Occipital Simises are found along the attachment of the falx cerebelli. 5. The Lateral Sinuses are the largest of the cerebral sinuses, and, commencing at the torcular Herophili, take a curved course to the jugular foramen on each side. Each sinus grooves the following bones—occipital, parietal, temporal, and occipital again. The sinuses receive the mastoid veins through the mastoid foramina, and end in the internal jugular veins, practically return- ing the whole of the blood from the brain. Just external to the .jugular foramen, the lateral sinus is joined by the inferior petrosal, this coalescence forming the internal jugular vein. The most important sinuses, from a Surgical point of vieAV, are the cavernous and the lateral. The former, because of abscesses and tumours in the temporo-sphenoidal lobes, causing pressure upon tliem; and the latter, because of the great risk of mastoid disease giving rise to septic thrombosis and pyaemia. Sinuses differ from Veins—(1) Because they are enclosed in sheaths of dura mater, to which they are firmly attached, so that they remain patent when divided; further, they have no muscular coat. (2) They have no valves. (3) The veins open into them in a direction contrary to the flow of the blood within them.