Applied Anatomy: 26 Instruments required.— Scalpels, directors, retractors (broad copper), blunt hooks, catch forceps, dissecting forceps, a biilbous- headed bougie, sponges, needles, ligature, etc. Make an incision about four inches in length along the anterior border of the left sterno-mastoid (as tlie cesophagus in the neck lies to the left of the middle line), beginning about the level of the cricoid cartilage. The incision is almost the same as that necessary in ligature of the left common carotid, low down, but a little nearer the middle line. By making the incision a little higher, the operation of Pliaryngotomy may be performed. Divide the skin, platysma, and fascia, and draw aside the sterno-mastoid, or divide its sternal head. CarefiUly dissect down, with the handle of the knife, or fingers, between the carotid sheath on the outer side, and the trachea and larynx on the inner side. Draw the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles towards the middle line, the thyroid body upwards, the carotid sheath with its contents and the sterno-mastoid outwards, and if the omo-hyoid be in the way, divide it. Great care is now necessary to avoid wounding the thyroid arteries—especially the inferior—passing to the lower angle of the thyroid body behind the carotid sheath; also to avoid injuring the left recurrent laryngeal nerve, which lies between the ojsophagus and trachea. The cesophagus being exposed, pass a bulbous bougie, or probang, through the mouth into it, and cause its walls to project; this is made to serve as a guide for the necessary incision; otherwise the air passages miglit be cut iiito. The operation of a'sophagostomy has been auythiiig but a successful one; there is a great risk of setting up deep cellulitis in the tissues of the neck; but apart from that, the patient very often dies. It is better in almost all cases, I believe, to perform the operation of gastrostomy early. After Treatment.—The patient must be fed through a narrow tube (No. 10 catheter) passed through the mouth, past the wound in the oesophagus, for a few days, till granulations form on the sides of the wound, and close up the inter-muscular cellular planes. No sutures are required for the wound in tlie n'sophagus, or for the external wound either, though after the granulations have formed it may be stitched up if thought necessary. The danger of this operation is the risk of setting up cellulitis in the extensive