Applied Anatomy: 410 if no stoiiG be found, the water should be drawn off and the viscus examined empty 3 for this reason a hollow sound should be used in preference to a solid one. When it has entered the bladder, the point is first directed to the deepest part of the bladder where the stone usually lies, and made to move gently from side to side, then from before backwards; it is next rotated slightly with the beak downwards, and the handle gently depressed between the patient's thighs, so as to examine the floor and sides of the bladder and the part immediately behind the prostate; the sound is moved slowly along the floor and sides, and gently twirled from side to side in the meantime, so as to examine every part in a regular methodical manner. The handle may be depressed stUl further, and the beak turned upwards, so as to examine the pubic portion of the bladder wall. The usual positions of the stone are—(a) At the right side of the neck of the bladder; (h) at the fundus, near one or otber ureter; (c) in the pouch behind the prostate, especially in oUl men; and (d) more rarely, in a pouch under the pubes, or in the posterior and upper wall: in the child, as the bladder is an abdominal organ, it may be caught above the pubes. If the sound alone cannot detect the stone, then try with the finger in the rectum; and if still unsuccessful, draw oft" the water and try the empty bladder. The stone may be missed if it hes in the pouch behind the prostate or above the pubes in the child, or if it lies in one of the recesses of a sacculated bladder. A lithotrite makes an excellent sound, as one is better able to measure the stone or judge of its hardness by the bite of the lithotrite, and also of the number present. Other points to be noted in sounding are—the expulsive power of the bladder as the water is drawn oti", and the capacity of the bladder Avhen the boracic acid is injected; and the state of the prostate, by the direction and distance the sound travels, aided by the finger in the rectum ; and also, of course, the presence or absence of stricture of the urethra. I ouglat to mention that some Surgeons use a flat piece of wood, stuck on to the end of the sound, to act as a sounding-board and intensify the " click" of the stone. A stone may be thought to be present when it is not, by the sound clicking against a ring on the operator's finger, or its point rubbing against a projecting third lobe, or projecting rugce, coated with phosphatic deposit.