Stirgical, Medical, and Operative. 479 2. Internal Piles.—It should be remembered that piles are purely aual growths, being usually situated just opposite the sphincter. Internal pUes are also dilated veins, but very often arteries and capillaries are developed in them, as a secondary result to fibrous change. They have been divided into two chief groups—(a) The longitudinal ov flesliy pile.-—It is " blind " usually, i.e., non-bleeding, sessile, and of a dusky brown tint, (h) The globular pile.—This very often forms the bleeding pile, because it is much more vascular, and may be blue or red, according to the relative proportion of capillaries and veins, and may be pedun- culated. When ulcerated it forms a deep red sessile projection, like a strawberry, covered with granulation tissue, from which the blood comes. There is no arterial pile proper, though fibrous tissue nodules, with arteries passing into them, are frequently enough developed as a secondary result. The blood is often arterial, as the arteries and capillaries may give way, from the great back pressure. The blood may come from the bursting of a small vein, or from the granulations covering the "granular" or "strawberry pile." Some persons have "fits of the piles;" by this is meant that the piles are inflamed, as from cold and Avet, and protrude through the sphincter. Others, again, tend chiefly to bleed, and thus escape attacks of inflammation. To Treat.—ISTo operation of any kind is to be undertaken for the cure of internal or external piles, when the piles in question are inflamed. Always treat them, in the first instance, as a physician. The patient should keep his bowels comfortably easy, with senna, sulphur, or castor oil, or glycerine enemata. A favourite preparation is a mixture of confection of pepper and liquorice powder. He should also wash the parts with cold water after every motion, and night and morning as well. An ointment, say, of hamamelis, should also be used to smear the parts to prevent irritation, and at the same time to exert an astringent eflect. External Piles are usually simply snipped ofl' with the scissors j if the raw surface is large, a stitch may be introduced. There is no danger of htemorrhage, as the inflammation around has condensed the tissue, and tlie veins are thrombosed and blocked off from the circulation. Internal piles are rarely so occluded,