130 Applied Anatomy: LYMPHATICS. Of the Head.—The student must remember that, in a general way, the course of the lympliatics is very similar to that of the veins, both superficial and deep, and when thinking therefore of the probable source of any given glandular enlargement, he has only to think where the veins near the glands come from, in order to reach the irritating focus; or conversely, when a malignant tumour is discovered in a given situation, he has only to think of the course of the veins, which will, as a rule, lead him to the enlarged glands. I do not think that, the spread through the lymphatics is merely a mechanical washing along the stream, of "juices" or cells, for there can be little doubt that the spread is sometimes against the stream; and this fact seems to lend support to the theory that malignant tumours have a microbic origin, for only life can go against the stream. The Glands of the head consist of two groups—{a) The occipital at the back of the head, along the attachment of the occipito- frontalis; {h) the auricular, near the upper end of the sterno- mastoid. They receive the lymphatics from the posterior and middle vertical zones of the head; the vessels follow the course of these occipital and posterior auricular veins. These glands will be enlarged in cases of disease affecting the scalp in these zones— as pediculi, impetigo contagiosum, favus, and eczema. The Face.—The glands of the face, in front of the ear, are— Tlie parotid, placed on the surface of that gland, and a few deeply in its substance; one or two, just under the zygoma; the buccal, on the buccinator muscle; and the submaxillary, set just beloM' the body of the lower jaw, underneath the cervical fascia. The parotid receive the lymphatics from the anterior vertical zone of the head, the vessels following the course of the temporal veins to the front of the ear, and after passing througli the superficial parotid glands, join the submaxillary group. These glands will therefore be enlarged in conditions like those already enumerated, and by boils about the upper eyelid, epitheliomatous sores in this region, septic scalp wounds, and erysij)elas. There are also a few glands along the middle line of the neck, from the chin to the sternum, l.)ut especially toAvards the upper part.