Surgical, Medical, and Operative. Ijcat, it indicates tlie ujjper level of the liver, as well as the loAver iiiargiu of the heart {margo ucutns). A penetrating wound of the; chest wall—say about the fifth, sixth, or seventh intercostal spaces —would go through both liver and lung, and open up both the pleural and peritoneal cavities (Fig. 185). The "upper" surface of the liver is in contact with the diaphragm; the under surface is in relation with the stomach on the left side, and on the right side with the gall bladder, the duodenum, the hepatic flexure of the colon, the right kidney, and right supra-renal capsule. The posterior border is in relation with the aorta, the inferior vena cava, and the crura of the diaphragm. That jDortion of the liver that is in contact with the anterior abdominal wall gives an almost absolutely dull note on percussion, and is known as the area of absolute hepatic dullness; the upper border of this area corresponds roughly to the lower edge of the lungs (except on the left side, where it merges into the cardiac dullness), about the level of the sixth rib in front, the eighth in the mid-axillary line, and the tenth behind. Above this, a layer of lung tissue, gradually increasing in thickness, intervenes between tlie liver and the chest wall; this area is known as the area of the relative hepatic dullness. It lies about three inches above the absolute; extending up to the fourth right space or the fifth rib. The liver dullness may extend further down than normal, without great alteration in its absolute size or shape—as from (1) an abscess between the liver and the diaphragm, (2) right imeumo-thorax, (3) pleurisy with effusion on the right side, and (4) emphysema of the lungs. It is distorted as well as depressed in " tight lacing." The hepatic lilexus of the sympathetic is the largest offset of the creliac plexus, and receives filaments from the left pneuniogastric and the right phrenic nerves. Tumours connected with the Liver necessarily partake of the respiratory movements, and in this way may be distinguished from tumours of the right kidney. Further, tumours of the liver have no intestine in front, and it is impossible to insert the fiingcrs between the costal margin and the upper border of the tumour, as in tumours of the kidney; tlic dullness is continuous with the normal liver dullness, and the tumour enlargement begins above In cases of cancer, the liver will be nodulated.