Applied Anatomy: 94 When Acute Bronchocele gives rise to serious symptoms, three courses are open to the Surgeon—(1) To perform the low operation of tracheotomy; (2) division of the sterno-hyoid, sterno-thyroid, and omo-hyoid muscles, as they bind the gland down and press it against the trachea (Bonnet); (3) division of the isthmus for the same purpose, to remove the pressure from the windpipe (Gibb). Clinical Relationships.—^The relation of the thyroid gland to— (1) Cretinism, (2) Myxoedema, (3) Acromegaly, and (4) to certain bone diseases, is well worthy of the student's attention. 1. Cretinism has been observed as a sequel to excision of the gland. 2. Myxoedema (Ord) has also been frequently observed, by KocHER and others, as a sequel to the same operation. In this disease the connective tissue, especially of the hands, feet, and face, become swollen, waxy-like, and rounded in outhne; it seems that the constituent gelatine and chondrine revert to the embryonic type, and become transformed into mucin or mucous tissue. There is a gradually increasing debility, harsh dry skin, large baggy swellings in the supra-clavicular regions; the intellect becomes dulled, the circulation sluggish, thought and speech, and all the mental faculties become slow; the eyelids become thick, heavy, swollen, and transparent; the hands spade-like, and the expression of the countenance idiotic ; and the patient may even become insane. To avoid this unfortunate result, it has been advised that the isthmus alone be removed, and in many cases its removal has been followed by atrophy of the lateral lobes. The a^dema in this aifection differs from ordinary dropsy, in the fact that it is not necessarily found in the most dependent parts, and that the swollen parts do not pit on pressure. It is most frequently found in women of middle age; the usual change in the thyroid consists in the substitution of delicate fibrous tissue for the proper glandular substance. The ]Myxoedema Committee believe that it is the same disease as that named Sjwradic Cretinism affecting children, and probably identical with Cachexia StrumipHva of KocHBR, and also closely allied to the " cretinoid condition" of Gull. It is quite probable that the gland has a tropliic function; in its clinical relationships it seems to resemble the supra-renal capsules.