68 Applied Anatomy: than the inner, hecause it is more exposed to injury, and its bloud supply is less. Meningeal Arteries.—(1) In the anterior fossa of the skull we have small branches from the anterior and posterior ethmoidal arteries. (2) In the middle fossa we have —(a) The middle meningeal entering through the foramen spinosum; (Z/) the small meningeal entering through the foramen ovale; (c) the meningeal branch from the ascending pharyngeal entering through the fora- men lacerum medius. (3) In the posterior fossa we have small branches from the occipital and vertebral arteries. The largest and most important of these is the middle meningeal. It is liable to be ruptured by blows on the temple, producing fracture of the parietal or temporal bones, or great wijig of the sphenoid—more especially in the case of the parietal and sphenoid, as it enters the skull through the foramen in the spmous process of the sphenoid, and frequently traverses for a short distance a bony canal in the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone, and here it is very apt to be ruptured. But the various sinuses, especially the lateral, at the base of the cranium are also liable to be ruptured—e.g., liEemorrhage into the orbit and ej'^elid points to rupture of a cavernous sinus; bleeding from the ear, followed by the discharge of a clear fluid, may be due to fracture of the petrous part of the temporal bone, with laceration of some of the sinuses in that neighbourhood (inferior or superior petrosals and lateral). The position of the middle meningeal artery—about an inch and a quarter behind the external angular process of the frontal bone, and about the same distance above the zygoma—as well as the structures cut through to reach it, have been already given. (See "Ligature of the Middle Meningeal, vol. i., page 104.) THE BRAIN. Its Blood Supply (Fig. 142).—The Oivde uf WiNi.-< is formed by the union of the internal carotids and vertebral arteries. The vertebrals join at the upper part of the meduUa to form the basilar artery, and this again soon divides into the posterior cerebral arteries, from which the posterior communicating pass to join the internal carotids. The internal carotids divide into tlic anterior and middle cerebrals; the anterior are united by the anterior communicating,