Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 75. Ill the young, tlic condition known as Craniotabes must not be mistaken for a depressed fracture; it is caused by hereditary syphilis or rickets, and usually aflects the occipital and parietal bones. The bones are thinned in patches, so that they readily yield under the finger. A Contusion of the bones of the head may produce a variety of lesions—(1) It may cause concussion; (2) internal haemorrhage, active or passive; (3) suppuration between the bone and the dura mater; and (4-) cario-necrosis of the injured bone, "with its risks, chronic hypertrophy, ostitis, causing thickening of the bone and nodulation on its internal surface, giving rise to epileptic or even maniacal attacks. Occasionally the sujaerior longitudinal sinus may be wounded by jiieces of depressed bone being driven into it, and when the bone is removed it is apt to be followed by profuse venous haemorrhage. To treat this condition a compress of boracic lint should be applied, and held in position Ijy a bandage, for forty- eight hours or so; this will usually permanently arrest the bleeding. An occasional result of simple fracture of the vault is a traumatic Cephalhydrocele. This is a tumour formed by an accumulation of cerebro-spinal fluid beneath the scalp. The fluid in this case is believed by Clement Lucas to come from the lateral ventricles, owing to laceration of the brain substance, rather than the sub- arachnoid space. Fractures of the Base.—These are more serious, because they ai'c nearer the vital ganglia and are nearly always compound, and hence the great risk of septic meningitis; for example, the fracture is compound when it passes through the membrana tympani ov mucous membrane of the pharynx, the sphenoidal sinuses, and the cribriform plate of the ethmoid, into the nose. They are usually caused by Indirect violence, as—(1) A blow by a large, soft, heavy body, or a fall on the top of the head, and then a fracture is apt to extend from the part struck through the peti'ous portion of the temporal bono. (2) Sometimes by a fall on the feet or buttocks by the impact of the spine against the condyles of the occipital bone. (3) By direct violence, as a knife nr umbrella driven into the orbit or nose, or a pistol-shot in