Surgical, Ilfedical, and Operative. 19 anciirisms; or the paralysis may be due to degeuerative cliaiiges of the large ganglionic nerve cells in the medulla and pons— e.(j., iu glosso-lahio-pharyngo-laryngeal paralysis (or, more shortly, Bulbar puralijsiti). Both nerves are liable to be aflccted in central disease, and also occasionally in some forms of bronchocele or goitre, enlarged bronchial or cervical glands, from lymphadenoma or scrofulous aflections, and in cancer of the upper part of the cosophagus, though in this latter condition one only may be affected; the right nerve alone is often involved in the intlam- matory and cicatricial changes consequent on phthisis of the apex of the right lung. When both nerves are j^aralysed, the cords are fixed and immobile, in the " cadaveric position" very like M'hat is found in ordinary quiet breathing, not so close as in phonation, nor so open as in deep inspiration. Bilateral Paralysis of the Adductors, or the muscles that close the glottis, is sometimes found in hysteria and debility, and is marked by complete aphonia, and the cords remain in the position of inspiration. Unilateral Paralysis of the Adductors may result from chronic poisoning by lead and arsenic, or from diphtheria, also from disease uf the nerves or nerve centres; aneurism of the arch of the aorta may cause paralysis of the left adductor; aneurism of the right subclavian or carotid, paralysis of the right adductor; but in these cases it often affects the abductor as well. There is aphonia or dysphonia, and the character of the cough, sneeze, and laugh are greatly altered in tone. The laryngeal nerves may be paralysed at their origin, or from injury to the nerve trunks. Paialysis at their origin is seen in multiple sclerosis and bulbar paralysis, and usually affects both sides. Peripheral paralysis may occur near the roots of the spinal ficcessory and vagus, or attack the vagus after it has been joined by the spinal accessory, or the recurrent nerve may alone be allectcd; such peripheral paralyses are usually unilateral, and arc caused by such conditions as aneurism of the arch of the aorta, mediastinal tumours, usually affecting the left nerve; aneurism of the innominate and right subclavian, usually all'ccting the riglit nerve; while thyroid tumours, or g(jitre, and cancer of llie u'soi)hagus may affect one or both.