100 Applied Aiintfliiiy: 1. From the inside of tfie IVIouth—The ijatient is gagged and the tongue is secured with a piece of whip cord, and drawn well forwards and upwards. Then, liy means of a strong curved pair of scissors, cut through—(a) the frsenum lingu£e; (i) insertions of genio-hyoids; (c) insertions of genio-hyoglossi muscles, and cut well back so as to set free the base of the tongue, dividing (r/) the palato-glossus; then cut (e) the reflexion of the mucous membrane on the floor of the mouth from the lower jaw. Free the base of the tongue with the fingers and dra^w it well forwards, and apply the wire t'craseur and gradually remove the organ. If the anterior pillar of the fauces be in the way it may be cut across. If one half of the tongue is to be removed then two ecraseurs must be used; or, better, after the base of the tongue is freed, then by means of a sharp-pointed bistoury transfix the tongue at the posterior part, from below ujjwards; and then cut accurately along the middle line to the tip, and apply the ocraseur at the base of the half to be removed. i Wilitehead, of ]\[anchester, removes the tongue through the mouth with the scissors alone. The patient is gagged as before, and the gag committed to the care of an assistant. Then a double ligature is passed through the tongue one inch from its tip, and given in charge to a second assistant who has to make steady traction upwards and outwards during the whole of the operation. Another assistant must be prepared to keep the mouth and throat free from blood by means of sponges. Instruments required.—Sponges and holders, scissors, "Wells's forceps, a handled needle threaded with stout silk, and carbolised silk ligatures. The operator then divides all the attachments of the tongue to the jaw and pillars of the fauces with a pair of ordinary straight scissors. Tlie muscles forming the base of the tongue are next to be cut across by a series of short snips, with blunt-pointed scissors, as far back as the safetj"- of the epiglottis Avill permit. Bleeding vessels are seized and twisted or tied as soon as exposed, and lastly, a loop of silk is passed through the glosso-epiglottidean folds of mucous membrane as a means of draAving forward the floor of the mouth in the event of secondary haemorrhage: this ligature may be removed on the second day. By the combination of short snips with the scissors, the tongue being pulled forward all the