226 Applied Anatomy: numerous and important. AVe have—(1) Twigs from the fourth and fifth cervical nerves; (2) twigs from the anterior cutaneous branches of the second, third, fourth, and fifth intercostal nerves, and of the lateral cutaneous of the third, fourth, and fifth. Xow, from the second is given off the intercosto-humeral, suppljdng the skin of the inside of the arm and axilla; from the third, a branch to the same parts, and also the skin about the shoulder; and from the fourth and fifth, the skin near the scapula. These communi- cations explain the widely diffused pain in cases of inflammatory affections, especially of the breast. In abscess of the breast, the pus may be—(1) Above the enveloping fascia, just under the skin; (2) in the breast, usually associated with lactation ; or (3) behind the breast, between it and the great pectoral, usually in the strumous and cachectic, or from caries or necrosis of a rib. These forms are usually known as supra- mammary, iiitra-mammary, and sub-mammary. Clinical Points.—1. In opening abscesses in the breast, the incision should be made in a line radiating from the nipple, so as to avoid unnecessary mutilation of the galactophorous ducts; and, after being opened, the finger must be introduced, and all septa carefully broken down; to do this, it is necessary that the patient be under the influence of chloroform. 2. In treating inflammatory affections of the breast, and after all operations on it, the whole arm must be firmly bound to the side, just as in fracture of the clavicle, otherwise, every time the arm moves the part will be disturbed by the great pectoral. 3. In testing for adhesion between the gland and the great pectoral, e.g., in cancer of the breast, do not try to move the gland across the fibres of the pectoral, as both muscle and breast would move then, but try for mobility along the fibres of the muscle. 4. Spence's Test, — In examining a breast for a suspected neoplasm, place the whole hand flatly over the breast, and gently try to flatten it out against the chest wall; if there is a new growth present, this will almost certainly detect it; but if the swelling is only a chronic inflammatory induration of some one of tlie lobules, the hand will recognise nothing but the characteristic wormy and knotty feel of the slightly enlarged ducts and acini of the normal gland.