139 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. in the posterior wall there is also a large vessel—the subscapular artery; and in the inner wall we llnd the nerve of IjKLl and the superior tlioracic artery, but the artery is small and placed high up. In making incisions, therefore, into the axilla, as for the evacuation of pus, the operator must cut toirards the inner irall in order to avoid the important structures in relation to the other walls of the space, or else use Hilton's method. 4. Pressure on the Nerves and Vessels of the Axilla.—Pressure on the brachial plexus, as from a tumour in the axilla, or in sub- glenoid dislocation of the humerus, will cause a severe numb pain to be felt in the hand and arm. The pressure on the artery may arrest the radial pulse, and pressure on the main vein will cause (i^ideraa of the hand and arm. When the group of glands along tlie axillary vessels are enlarged, as in poisoned Avouuds of tlie hand, or in cancerous tumours of the breast, the vein suffers most, as the glands are nearer it and its walls are thin; oedema of the hand and arm, therefore, in cancerous tumours of the breast is a grave symptom, as it shows that the disease has passed through the anterior set of glands and involved the deejjer set along the main vessels, passing up towards the supra-clavicular glands. As cancer always grows towards the best blood supply, in the case of the breast, it stretches along the lymphatics and vessels in the anterior fold of the axilla forming a tail-lilie growth. The pressure of a crutch, the pressure of an axillary pad in fracture of the clavicle, and the pressure caused by the arm hanging over the back of a chair (as in drunk persons), may also partially paralyse one or more bivanches uf the axillary plexus. THE BRACHIAL PLEXUS. The Brachial Plexus is formed by the anterior primary divi- sions of the fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth cervical nerves, and half of the first dorsal; it also receives a branch from the fourth cei-vical nerve. They lie in grooves on the upper surface of the transverse processes of the cervical vertebraj, and appear in the neck between the scalenus anticus and tlie scalenus medius muscles; here they lie in the posterior triangle of the neck (clavicular part), and they then pass between the clavicle and the first rib into the axilla as far as the coracoid process, or the