326 Applied Anatomy; mark the outer border of the kidney. By joining the upper and lower ends of these Unes, a little box is marked out which con-e- sponds to the position of the kidney. In carrying the dissection through this box the following structures are found covering the kidney-—(1) Skin, with the cutaneous branches of the lower dorsal and lumbar nerves, and cutaneous twigs of the intercostal and lumbar arteries; (2) deep fascia; (3) aponeurosis, and part of the muscular fibres of the latissimus dorsi; (4) serratus posticus inferior; (5) posterior layer of the aponeurosis of the transversalis; (6) the internal oblique— the external oblique muscle is also seen, as well as the last rib, and the lowest external intercostal muscle; (7) the erector spinas muscle; and (8) then the middle layer of the aponeurosis of the transversalis muscle. The quadratus lumborum muscle is now ex- posed, and resting on its anterior surface are the anterior branches of the four lumbar arteries. (9) The quadratus and vessels are now removed, and after that (10) the anterior layer of the aponeurosis of the transversalis. (11) A quantity of loose adipose tissue is next to be removed, when the posterior surface of the kidney is exposed. Crossing the posterior surface of the kidney from above downward, we find («) the anterior branches of the last dorsal vessels and nerve, {h) the ilio-hypogastric nerve, and (c) the iho-inguinal nerve. To the inner side of the kidney is the psoas. Tumours of tlie Kidney (1) usually first show themseh'es a little above and external to the umbilicus, filling up the hollow in the loin, and, further, it is usually fi.ced in the loin: (2) the resonant large intestine passes in front of the tumour; (3) thej^ do not partake of the respiratory movements, as they are not attached to the diaphragm, altliough they may adhere to the liver and spleen, and when tliis is the case they mil move more or less with the diaphragm; (4) there is no resonant line between the tumour and the spine; (5) it has no sliarp-notclied edge like the spleen, but is rounded on i^cery side; ((3) there is a peculiar fainting or sickening sensation when the tumour is handled; (7) it may some- times cause varicocele; and (8) its angle with the costal margin is less than a right angle. In examining the kidney one liand is placed in the flank, with the fingers outside the mass of tlie erector spina?, tlie other in front, outside the rectus abdominis.