Applied Anatomy: 254 sacro-coccygcal tumour usually lies iu frout of tlic coccyx and lower part of the sacrum, Leliind the rectum and below the levator ani. An attached, or suppressed, foetus is placed higher up than a sacro- coccygeal tumour, aud a spina bifida higher up still, being usually found in the lumbar region. Acqiuired Tumours in this region are—Sebaceous cysts, lipoma, fibroma, and sarcoma. Occasionally a large abscess may be found in this situation iu connection with spinal caries. Treatment.—As in other forms of congenital hernia, the cure is sometimes spontaneous, and therefore it is advisable to wait a few months before doing anything. The natural tendency is usually towards death, either from bursting of the sac leading to convulsions, or from hemiplegia and its effects on the bladder and bowel; at times, again, it may cure by becoming blocked off from the canal. In cases where the tumour is large and threatening to burst, tapping, followed by pressure, has occasionally cured tlie condition. Ligature and excision of the sac has been tried, but usually Avith a fatal result, from meningitis; drainage has also been tried, but has always been fatal Ijy convulsions, from the too rapid escape of fluid. A very common cause of death is meningitis, set up by inflammation of the sac and the tissues over it. Morton's Method.—This seems to be the most successful and safest mode of treatnient yet discovered. About half the fluid iu the sac is withdrawn by a small trochar, introduced obliquely at the upper part, and through the sound textures, to avoid leakage afterwards, and in such a way as to avoid large veins and nerves, Avhich can best be doue by examining the swelling in a dark room by transmitted light; it will also be better to make the trochar traverse sound tissue for some little distance before its point enters the sac. A syringe is then filled with Morton's solution and emptied into the sac through the canula. The quantity injected M'ill necessarily vary according to the size of the tumour, but half a drachm may be taken as the average. As the cannula is removed, the edges of the wound must be grasped to prevent the entraiice of air, and the opening then sealed up with flexible collodion and cotton wool, and supported by a pad and bandage. Morton's Solution.—Iodine ten grains, and potasii iodidi thirty grains, to an ounce of glycerine. The glyccrijie prevents diffusion