Surgical, Medical, a/id Operative. 449 withdrawn. The kiiifo is then jiassed along this director, and the prostatic urethra nicked. A large-sized tube is next passed along the director into the bladder. The tube may either be an ordinary lithotomy tube, or Watson's (Boston) tube may be used. This tube is specially long and curved, so as to suit itself to the curve of the prostate. The tube is fastened into the bladder in the usual manner, and must be kept in for two or three weeks. At the end of this time Professor Annandale introduces a soft red rubber catheter, of full size, with velvet eye, cut short, so that its rounded end will just lie in the bladder, and its cut extremity project from the perineal wound. This end is fitted Avith a vul- canite tube of half-an-inch long, with bulbous ends; this allows of the soft tube being tied in by two loops, without interfering with the canal of the catheter. To the other end of this vulcanite tube a convenient length of india-rubber tubing is fixed, with a taj) at the distal end. By this means the bladder may be emptied at any time by turning on the tap. The red rubber catheter is used, because it is soft and pliable, and the patient can Avalk about Avith it. The only objection is that, being a foreign body, it may cause cystitis. Perhaps a better plan would be to make a permanent perineal fistula, and not Avear a tube at all. The operation, as performed by Professor Annandale, is not folloAved by permanent incontinence, the patient still having control over the sphincter. The only difference is that his mode of urinating approximates the female type. Supra-Pubic Cystotomy.—The above operation may also be performed above the pubes, although, for reasons already stated, the perineal route is probably the best. It is, hoAvever, impossible to say Avith certainty Avhich is the better, as neither operation has as yet been performed a sufficient number of times to enable one to judge. In fat patients, or where more room is needed, it has been advised to use a transverse incision, instead of the usual vertical one.