530 Applied Anatomy: 34. Psoas Magnus.—Arises from the front of the transverse processes of the lumljar vertebras, from the inter-vertebral discs, and from the tendinous arches bridging across the four lumbar arteries; inserted into the lesser trochanter of the femur. Nerves.—From lumbar plexus. The action of this muscle is to flex the thigh and rotate it outwards, resembling in this respect the biceps muscle of the upper extremity. 35. Iliacus.—Arises from the iliac fossa, ilio-lumbar ligament, base of sacrum, and capsule of the hip joint; inserted along with the psoas magnus. Nerve.—The anterior crural. The psoas and iliacus muscles give that peculiar heave of the leg and foot observed in adults, where the entire lower limb has been paralysed in infancy (infantile paralysis). 36. Transversus Perinei.—Arises from the inner aspect of the ascending ramus of the ischium, and blends with its fellow of the oijposite side in the central point of the perineum. 37. Accelerator Urinae or Bulbo-Cavernosus. — This muscle takes origin from the central point of the perineum, and from the septum between the muscles of the two sides, and is inserted— the posterior fibres are attached to the superficial aspect of the anterior layer of the triangular ligament; the middle envelop the corpus spongiosum, and blend with the muscle of the opposite side on its upper surface; while the anterior pass along the sides of the corpora cavernosa, and are inserted into an aponeurosis on the dorsum of the jjenis. 38. Erector Penis or Ischio - Cavernosus.—This muscle lies upon the crus penis; it arises from the inner aspect of the tuber iscliii, and is inserted by an aponeurosis into the anterior i:)ortion of the crus. 39. Compressor or Constrictor Urethras.—It arises from tlic pubic arch, close to its junction Avith the ramus of the ischium. It passes above and below the urethra, and blends with its fellow of the opposite side in the middle line. The part enveloping tlie urethra is sometimes called Guthrie's muscle (the compressor uretJtrie proper). A second part is Icnown as AA^'ilson's muscle, or the levator uretlmv, and consists of two small slips passing from the back of the pubis, and is inserted into the central point of tlic perineum; it is supposed to sling up the urethra. A third