421 Sin'gical, Medical, and Operative. it is divided near the parent trunk and may retract witliin the fascia; in old jDeople, too, the coats are often so diseased tliat they will not hold a ligature. Mr Ltston mentions a fatal case due to this cause. III. The Superficial Perineal Artery.—This vessel arises from the pudic, a little anterior to the last, and, after giving off the transversus perinei, passes to the scrotum along the erector penis. Sometimes the vessel lies directly in the line of the incision and is necessarily divided ; it is not likely to give rise to trouble, however, unless it is divided close to the parent trunk. lA^. Artery to the Bulb.—This artery usually arises from the pudic, about fourteen lines * in front of the anus, passes across the perineum between the two layers of the triangular ligament to the bulb. The incision is begun as far forward as this {cm inch and a quarter, or an inch and a half in front of the anus), and one would think, therefore, that it should be cut during the ordinary operation. Mr Spence believed that it was frequently cut, but that it did not give rise to trouble because it was divided so far from its origin—provided that it was really cid, not merely luounded. (1) The vessel has been known to arise as iisual from the pudic, pass directly backwards to near the anus, and then curve up to gain the bulb (Spence). (2) It may also come off from the pudic, posterior to its usual origin, and pass across the triangular liga- ment to the bulb. (3) It may also arise from an irregular pudic, and run along the membranous part of the urethra to the bulb (see previous page). Should such irregularities exist on the left side, the vessel will probably be divided, but from no fault on the part of the Surgeon. (4) Mr Spence mentions another case, where the pudic gave off no artery to the bulb, and where this vessel came from the anterior division of the internal iliac, passed along the side of the bladder, and upon the upper surface of the prostate, pierced the left true ligament of the bladder, crossed the membranous part of the urethra obliquely, and then entered the bulb. V. Prostatic Artery.—This artery may come directly from the interna] iliac, arise in common Avitli the vesical, or come from the * 12 lines = one inch.