214 Applied Anatomy: and, like the bronchial, may be high, medium, or low pitched, ac- cording to the size of the cavity; amphoric breathing is also heard in pneumo-thorax. In cases of effusion of fluid into the pleural cavity, the vocal resonance is peculiarly altered if one listens near the upper margin of the fluid, usually near the inferior angle of the scapula; it resembles tlie bleating of a goat, or Punch's voice, having a peculiar nasal character: it is called mgophony, or the iijgophonic resonance. In effusion of air into the pleural cavity, when one coin is laid against the front of the chest and tapped with another coin, a peculiar tinkle, like the sound of a silver bell, is heard over the posterior aspect of the chest; this is known as the " bell sound." To sum up the points mentioned in the foregoing pages in regard to Auscultation of the Chest, four things are to be done:— 1. To determine at each point during natural and deep respiration, the relative duration of the expiratory and the inspiratory murmurs. 2. The quality or type of the breath sounds—whether vesicular or bronchial. 3. Tlie presence or absence of accompaniments or super- added sounds, as dry or moist nlles, or friction sounds. 4. Tlie character of the vocal resonance. BRONCHOTOMY. This is an operation sometimes performed for hroncMectasi.i. This condition consists in a dilatation of the lumen of the bronchial tubes at certain parts, and is most frequently met with in the mammary region or base; it is characterised by fits of violent coughing and expulsion of a great amount of secretion after long intervals. The sputa thus expelled has a very putrid odour, but does not contain lung tissue; the patient's breath is also very foetid. In addition to these signs we also find the physical signs of vomicEE, viz. :—dulness in the neighbourhood but resonance over the cavity, amphoric breathing, pectoriloquy, whispering and otherwise, gurgling moist sounds, and sometimes the " cracked pot" sound. The contents of the cavity decompose and slowly poison the system, and in some cases the patient may be unable to expel the collection, or only after severe and exhaustive cough-