438 Applied Anato 111)1: Tlie instruments required are—A sharp-pointed "bistoury; No. 10 catheters, silver and gum-elastic, and red rubber tubing to fit the catheter; probes, straight and curved; Syme's grooved and shouldered staff (Fig. 219), lithotomy tapes, a large number of "Wells's forceps, ligatures, sponges, etc. The tliick part of the staff is about the thickness of a No. 11 catheter; the slender part, No. .3, or less. Tlie patient is tied up in the lithotomy position, and the perineum shaved. The staff is passed before tying up, making sure that it is in the bladder by passing the finger into the rectum and feeling. The assistants required are the same as in lithotomy. The lower half of the staff is slender and grooved, but the upper part is of full size, and the shoulder, where the two parts meet, rests firmly against the face of the stricture, while the slender part passes through it into tlie bladder. The groove extends over the shoulder, and on to the thick jiart of the staff for a little way. An assistant holds the staff in his right hand, and draws up the scrotum with his left; and the operator, seated on a low stool facing the patient's buttocks, satisfies himself that the staff is in the bladder, and then makes an incision in the median rapln', from above downwards, about two inches long, and continues the dissection till he can distinguish the shoulder of the staff, which is the guide to tlie stricture. He then takes a shari), straight bistoury in his right hand, and holds the staff with his left, enters the point of the knife into the groove in the staff, with its edge upwards, at the posterior part of the Avound, about one inch below the shoulder, and cuts upwanh through the stricture; he next withdraws the staff about a quarter of an inch and extends the incision that much further forwards. If the strictiire has been completely divided the thick part of the staff may now be passed through it; the staff is then withdrawn, and a large gum-elastic catheter (10 or 12) passed and tied into the bladder, and a siphon arrangement attached to it, by which the urine is continuously drained off. It will be noticed that the point of the knife is guided to the groove by the index finger of the hand holding the knife, and not as in lithotomy. The knife rests against the finger, while the finger tip rests against the groove on the staff, and the knife is slid forwards by a movement