470 Applied Anatomy: 2. From the Bladder.—The blood in this case is not diffused through the urine, and often comes almost pure at the end of mictm'ition, or just after the urine; further, it is often accom- panied by flat or irregular shaped clots, and the blood retains more or less its red colour. The reason of this is evidently the higher specific gravity of the blood: average specific gravity of the urine is 1020; of the blood as a whole, 1055; of the red corpuscles alone, 1088—hence, of course, they sink to the bottom of the bladder. 3. From the Kidney. — The blood is intimately mixed or diffused through the urine, producing, when copious, a dark porter-like colour; when scanty, a uniform " smoky" tint; it is often accompanied with long narrow blood clots or " casts" of the ureters. The dark colour of the blood is due to the haemoglobin being changed to methaemoglobin, by the action of the acid in the urine. Tests for Blood.— (1) Perhaps the best and most delicate test is the microscope. (2) Tincture of guaiacum and an ethereal solution of peroxide of hydrogen (= " ozonised ether ") develops a beautiful light blue colour. Note.—Urine containing blood does not always give this reaction; and if iodide of potassium be present, a blue colour will be produced, even though no blood be present. (3) Hasmin crystal test.—Treat the blood with hydrochloric acid, or else use glacial acetic acid and common salt, when rhomboidal, yellowish- red crystals are formed. (4) Heller's test.—Heat the urine, and then add a solution of caustic potash, and heat again; the clot first formed is redissolved, and the solution thus obtained is dirty green by transmitted, but blood-red, by reflected light. Tumours of the Bladder.—^Observe the differences between the hajmaturia caused by sarcoma and that due to cancer. In Sarcoma the ha3morrhage usually 'precedes the other symptoms, such as pain and frequency of micturition. As in Papilloma, at first it occurs in attacks, the urine between times being quite clear; the attacks gradually become more frequent and last longer, until at last tlie urine is never quite free from blood. In Cancer the pain and frequency of micturition usually precede the appearance of blood in the urine. The bleeding from papOloma is more abundant than from stone; there is pain in stone, but very seldom in papilloma. If in doubt about the presence of a tumour, and if no tufts of