Applied Anatomy: 478 one on each side of the rectum. (2) The two middle hiemorrhoidal arteries, from the anterior division of the internal iliac, or from the inferior vesical. (3) The two inferior haemorrhoidal, from the internal pudic. At the upper part of the rectum the arterial branches pass transversely round the gut, outside or between the muscular coats, but at the lower part they pierce the muscular coat and pass downwards longitudinally in the sub-mucous cellular tissue. This fact is of importance in Whitehead's operation for piles. At the external orifice both arteries and veins form anastomosing loops. The Veins of the Lower End of the Rectum, in common with those of the prostate, bladder, and uterus, form a dense plexus just under the mucous membrane; this plexus is peculiar, as it forms the connecting link between the systemic and the portal system of veins—part of the blood reaching the inferior vena cava and part the portal vein. It wiU be seen, therefore, that there must be a considerable pressure on the feebly-sujiported htemorrhoidal plexus of veins, as the portal vein and its radicles have no valves ; this fact is looked upon as a predisposing cause of hsemorrhoids, or piles. Lymphatics of the Rectum. — Those from the integument surrounding the orifice of the anus pass to the horizontal set of inguinal glands; this set will, therefore, be enlarged in squamous- celled epithelioma affecting the verge of the anus. The vessels of the gut itself, above this point, pass first to the pelvic glands around the internal iliac artery, and thence to the lumbar glands. The Nerves of the rectum are derived from the hypogastric plexuses of the sympathetic, in common with the other pelvic viscera. Hsemorrhoids.—These consist of a varicose dilatation of the inferior hgemorrhoidal veins, with tlirombosis, and subsequent inflammation. At first it is a mere dilatation, but by-and-by the blood clots, and the connective tissue around hypertrophies. 1. External Piles are a dilatation of the subcutaneous veins around the anal orifice; their walls are thickened, and the connec- tive tissue around is also thickened. There are various subdivisions —((t) The anal tab, a solid, flaccid fold of skin; (i) external piles proper, a soft, blue, compressible swelling, covered by skin—this is a dilated vein; and (c) the same structiu-e inflamed and oedematous.