Applied Anatomy: 266 muscle splits to enclose them. It may be defined as a slightly curved line drawn from the tip of the ninth costal cartilage to the pubic spine; it is about three inches distant from the umbiUcus. The Linea Alba (Fig. 176, c).—This is marked on the surface by a slight depression in the middle line of the abdomen. It is a dense fibrous cord, passing downwards from the ensiform cartilage to the symphysis pubis, and is regarded as the continuation down- wards of the sternum; it is formed by the union and interlacing of the aponeuroses of the two oblique and transversalis muscles of the opposite sides. Above the umbilicus it is a little broader than it is below that point, as the recti do not come quite so close together; piercing it are several small round openings for the passage of blood-vessels, and through some of them little pellets of fat proceed. The fatty masses may enlarge and form "fatty hernia," or the openings may act as "local weaknesses," and be the starting point of a ventral hernia in the adult. At this point, therefore, the wall of the abdomen is thin and devoid of muscular tissue and blood-vessels; it is chosen for this reason, in many operations, as the best place at which to enter the abdomen, as ovariotomy, laparotomy, supra-pubic lithotomy, and paracentesis abdominis. At the upper part, the Superficial Fascia of the abdomen is thin and weak; but at the lower part it is much thicker, and contains numerous elastic fibres on its deep surface: this is the representative, in man, of a continuous layer of elastic tissue found in many animals—e.g., the horse, where it is known as the " abdominal tunic" or belt. At the lower part, the fascia is con- tinued over Podpakt's ligament, and enters the thigh; towards the middle line it is carried over the spermatic cords and penis, to tire scrotum and perinfeuni. In the thigh it is attached by its deep surface to the fascia lata, coinciding internally with Poupart's ligament, but externally some distance from that structure; over the spermatic cord there is a gap, it having no attachment at this point (see "Extravasation of Urine"). The Cutaneous Nerves of the abdomen are derived from the lower four or five intercostal nerves, the last dorsal, and the ilio- hypogastric; the sixth and seventh supply the skin over the pit of the stomach; the eighth, ninth, and tenth, the skin betM-eeu