Applied Anatomy: 422 pelvic portion of the pudic; it usually pierces the visceral layer of fascia, and lies on the side of the prostate, there dividing into liranches whicli supply this gland and the neighbouring part of the rectum; in this case, it is not likelj' to cause trouble. Some- times, however, the vessel gains the perineal aspect of the prostate icifJiont dlriilivri into hranclics, and may be fully as large as the artei'y to the bulb, and would give rise to great trouble if divided. Tiiis irregularity is nearly throe times as common as the dangerous forms of irregular artery to the bull). It would lie well, in all cases of perineal lithotomy, to make a careful examination of the prostate and membranous part of the urethra from the rectum, especially on the left side, as it might be possible to detect the pulsation of the dangerous forms of irregular arteries to the prostate and bulb. VI. Serious bleeding occasionally occurs from the plexus of veins (or rather venous sinuses) on the perineal aspect of the prostate gland in old men (SrENCE). THE HIGH OR SUPRA-PUBIC OPERATION. It may be necessary to perform this operation—(1) On account of the large size of the stone, (2) rigid hip joint, and (3) contracted pelvic outlet. It is also advocated for boys, as it avoids the risk of a large wound in the perineum, rupture of the membranous urethra, and injury to the vesicular seminales and ducts. Tlie bladder must be distended with twelve or sixteen ounces of some warm antiseptic, so that it can be felt above the pubes; if it cannot hold water, then this operation cannot be performed. An elastic ring may be passed round the penis to prevent the escape of the iluid. The injection may be accomplished through a silver catheter, the opening of which is securely plugged, and the instrument left in the bladder to serve as a guide during the latter part of the operation; or it may be taken out, and a stafl' introduced for the same purpose. This operation should only be used in cases where the urine is healthy; it is not likely to suit in cases of long- standing stricture, or enlarged prostate. In septic cases, a free drain is essential for the patient's safety. The patient rests flat on his back on a table, with his shoulders slightly raised. His legs are not allowed to hang over the end