31 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. zygoma arc tlien cut through, and the arcli turned down along with the masseter muscle; the fatty tissue and the temporal muscle are then pushed forwards by a blunt instrument, and, if necessary, divided, or the coronoid process may be divided, and the temporal muscle thrown up as a whole, the posterior wall of the upper jaw found, which will guide to the fossa. The nerve is then hooked np, and as much as possible removed. The bleeding from the venns plexus in this situation, and from the branches of the internal maxillary artery, may be free; and the operation has been followed by stiffness of the lower jaw. It is also possible in this way to reach and destroy, or excise, Meckel's ganglion. The Mental Branch of the Inferior Dental is found below the depressor anguli oris muscle, midway between the alveolus and the lower border of the jaw in the adult. It may either be stretched " subcutaneously " or by the direct method, in a manner similar to the preceding nerves, and should, if possible, be reached by an incision through the mucous membrane of the mouth. The Trunk of the Inferior Dental may be exposed by making an incision over the ramus of the lower jaw, trephining over the point where it enters the dental canal, and then excising a por- tion of the nerve. It can also be reached by making an incision immediately in front of the masseter, disjjlacing the fatty tissue and the buccinator muscle forwards, and then, by means of a blunt hook, the nerve may be caught and stretched or divided. The objections to this method are—(1) The great risk of dividing the branches of the facial nerve, and (2) one is very apt to open into the cavity of the mouth. In trephining the ramus, remendjer that the nerve enters the canal on a level with the upper border of the molar teeth, at a point rather nearer the posterior than the anterior edge of the ramus. In this operation two important points should be kept in mind—• (1) To make the external incision in sucli a way that the facial nerve will not be injured ; either make it parallel with the nerve at the point where you wish to trephine, or else go below the level of the nerve and make a curved incision over the angle of the jaw, and turn up the masseter. In this way the branches of the facial nerve are lifted up with tlie llap. (2) Tlie second important point IS not to open into the cavity of the mouth, for then it will be