545 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. Iridodesis.—A method adopted by Mr Critchett for making an artificial pupil. A loop of iris is drawn out through a. small opening and strangulated by a noose of fine waxed silk ligature; it is difficult to do, but leaves a very neat opening. It is, how- ever, apt to be followed, it may be years after, by inflammation of the iris and ciliary jjrocesses—irido-cyclitis, and even sympathetic ophthalmia of the otlier eye. Iridotomy, or Iritomy. — Another method of operating for artificial pupil, but is limited to cases where the lens is absent. An incision is made through the cornea and sclerotic junction at a point furthest from that part of the eye where the artificial pupil is to be. The iritomy scissors is next introduced closed, and when near the iris it is opened, and the sharp-pointed blade either passed behind the iris or made to perforate it; the iris is then divided by a single snip as nearly as may be across its fibres, which then retract and leave an elliptical opening. It is used after cataract extraction, in cases where the iris has become tightly fixed in the scar tissue, either from iritis or prolapse. Iris, Tremulous (Iridodonesis).—A condition in -which the iris is seen to tremble or shake about with every movement of the eye, having lost its firm posterior support. It is found, therefore, in cases where the lens is displaced, or where the vitreous humour is unusually fluid, as from disease of the choroid, and after cataract extraction. Keratitis.—Inflammation of the cornea; the common form is interstitial syphilitic keratitis, which shows no tendency either to pus formation or to idceration. It is most common between the ages of six and sixteen. Its course is very slow, and it is apt to cause myopia. Leucoma.—A dense, white, opaque spot on the cornea, left after the healing of an ulcer; if the opacity be very faint, it is called nebula. Lippitudo.—A raw irritable condition of the edge of the eye- lids, following the loss of all the eyelashes, as in blepharitis ciliaris. " Live Blood."—Spontaneous twitching, especially of the lower lid, met with in some cases of hypermetropia, when the digestion is out of order. !'f o ^ .vl