343 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. ninth month they have reached the bottom of the scrotnm. The means Ly which this descent is effected is rather obscure, and was formerly believed to be due to the contraction of certain muscular bands—the " gubernaculum testis"—which piloted the testicles into their proper haven, but is now commonly believed to be the result of a general process of development. In some mammals— e. (J., the elephant—the testes remain permanently Avithin the abdomen, and in the rodentia they only descend at each " rutting " season. Sometimes the testicles in the human subject are retained in the abdomen, and then they are very frequently imperfectly developed; this condition is known as cryptorchismiis. A process of peritoneum — the processus vaginalis — passes down into the scrotum, and precedes the testicle by some time in its descent; and as the testicle originally lies behind the peritoneum, and still retains this position in its descent, both layers of this pouch of peritoneum necessarily lie in front of the testicle. But, as the te.sticle passes down it receives certain coverings from the layers of muscle and fascia forming the anterior abdominal wall: thus it receives—(1) The inter-columnar or external spermatic fascia (sometimes called the "fascia propria" of Camper) from the external oblique, as it passes between the pillars of the ring; (2) the cremasteric muscle or fascia, continuous with the internal oblique; (3) the infundihuliform or funnel-shaped fascia, from the fascia transversalis (also called the internal spermatic fascia). The transversalis muscle gives no covering to it, as the free arched border of the muscle is too high, the testicle passing through below it. All these coverings are continued over the testicle as it lies in the scrotum. The pouch of peritoneum, preceding the testicle, at first communicates with the peritoneal cavity; but a little time before birth its narrow neck becomes closed, while the nnobliterated lower end forms the tunica vaginalis, which is in this way entirely .shut off from the abdominal cavity (Fig. 187). This complete obliteration of the tunica vaginalis is peculiar to the human species, probably on account of the erect attitude. In the female foetus an analogous pouch of peritoneum descends for a .short distance along the round ligament of the uterus, and is known as the canal of Nuck. Occasionally the ovaries are prolapsed into this canal, being an attempt, apparently, to imitate