77 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. luuniorrhage is beneath the conjunctiva it is of a fan-sliaped form, increasing in extent as we pass backwards, and the blood retains its scarlet colour, as the oxygen readily reaches it through that membrane ; in these respects it diil'ers from a black eye, for in this condition there is bruising of the superficial textures, and the hicmorrhage is chiefly in the skin; whereas, in fracture of the skull, the elfusion is into the loose suhcutaneous cellular tissue, and the escaped blood is seen through the undamaged skin. In the Middle Fossa, the most characteristic sign is bleeding from the ear, followed by the discharge of a watery fluid, as the fracture is usually through the petrous portion of the temiDoral bone, involving the internal auditory meatus; further, tlie tympanic membrane is ruptured, as well as the sheath of arachnoid sur- rounding the facial and auditory nerves in the internal auditory meatus. The Tissues involved are—■(!) The petrous part of the temporal bone, the fracture involving the internal auditory meatus with the internal and middle ear; (2) the arachnoid; (3) the muc- ous membrane of the tympanum; and (4) the mcmbrana tympani. If the tympanic membrane is not torn, the blood will pass down the Eustachian tube into the pharynx and probably be swallowed; there will also be more or less deafness. So also in cases of fracture through the basi-spheuoid, the blood is swallowed; take care there- fore lest vomiting of this swallowed blood mislead the diagnosis. The fluid has the characters of cerebro-spinal fluid—very watery and limpid, and therefore of low specific gravity, containing much chloride of sodium, a trace of albumen, the faintest trace of sugar, and is not coagulated by heat or nitric acid. Other possible sources of this fluid have been suggested—a secretion from the mucous membrane of the tympanic cavity, serum from a blood clot, but if so it ought to contain much albumen, the liquor Cotunnii (periliimpli), or the liquor Scarpa' (endolijmxjli). In fracture of this fossa the facial nerve is often implicated, causing facial palsy; other nerves in tliis region may also suffer—as the auditory, when there will be deafness on that side to the tuning fork applied to the bones of the head. In fracture ^)^ the Posterior Fossa the signs are very obscure. There may be deep-seated extravasation of blood, producing a ycllowisli discoloration of ilie skin some days idler the accident.