6G Applied Anatomy: mastoid process, attoUcns and attraheiis aurem muscles, and zygoma; in front, it is blended with the corrugator supercilii, orbicularis palpebrarum, and the pyraniidalis nasi. The two bellies of the occijjito-frontaUs arise in front and behind at the points indicated, and both are inserted into the broad tendinous aponeurosis which extends over the top of the head. The connection of the anterior belly witli the muscles round the orbit is taken advantage of in Pagenstecher's operation for ptosis; subcutaneous ligatures, one or more, are inserted from above the eyebrow to the ciliarj^ edge of the upper lid; this acts like a seton, and forms a band of subcutaneous cicatricial tissue by which the upper lid is rendered movable by means of the occipito-frontalis. In Bruises of the scalp, extravasation may take place either into or under the aponeurosis, or thirdly, under the pericranium; these swellings are known as cepliallicematomata. In siippuration beneath it, the pus gravitates to the most dejjendent parts, mitil arrested by its attachments; and, according to its position, may form a bag bulging over the orbits, the root of the nose, or above the zygoma, or passing down towards the neck behind : fluid blood would also behave in a similar manner. Sometimes it spreads over the whole extent of the head, and yet the scalp does not die because it carries its blood supply with it. (1) Extravasation into the scalp may simulate a depressed fracture. Owing to the density of the scalp texture, the extravasation is limited, and forms a circumscribed flattened swelling; the edges feel extremely hard from the coagulation of the blood in the interstitial textures of the scalp, while the centre, where the blood is not yet coagulated, is soft, and gives rise to the supposition that there is a depressed fracture. Further, inflammatory lymph is effused round the edge of the blood clot, and this, with the coagulated blood and granulation tissue, form the hard rim. By firm, downward pressure, however, the unbroken cranial bone may be detected beneath; and besides, the hard edge is not incompressible, sharp, and irregular, but rounded, and to a certain extent is compressible, and should be movable over the bone beneath. Further, the firm edge rises gradually, and is itself raised above the level of the bone outside it. In depressed fracture the hard edge is not raised above the bone beyond it, nor can it in the least be indented by the fiugcr