Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 325 right only readies to the middle of the coi'responding rib on the opposite side; the left kidney is also longer and narrower than the right. The ureters arise at the hilus of the kidney, from the dilated pelvis, and also pass down behind the peritoneum. Each ureter is about fifteen inches in length, and is about the size of a goose quill. At the upper part they rest on the psoas muscle, the genito-crural nerve, the common iliac vessels on the left side, but the external iliac vessels on the ricjlit, and then enter the posterior false ligaments of the bladder, pass across the recto- vesical pouch of peritoneum, and run forwards by the side and base of the bladder, below the level of the obliterated hypogastric arteries, and enter the bladder wall about two inches distant from eacli other. They traverse the bladder wall very obliquely for about three-quarters of an inch, and then open internally about an inch distant from each other and fully one inch behind the urethra, so that the three openings almost form ah equilateral triangle. This oblique perforation of the bladder does aAvay with any necessity for a valve to guard the orifice, just as is the case with the bile duct. In cases of the so-called " double ureter," the extra ureter opens into the uterus masculinus, being, in fact, a persistent Muller's duct. Both ureters are crossed by the spermatic vessels, and the right ureter lies a little external to the inferior vena cava, while the left is a short distance from the aorta. The Relation of the Kidneys to the Surface of the Body. —Anteriorly (see Fig. 175).—According to Mr Morris, their position may be defined thus—(1) A horizontal line through the umbilicus is below the lower edge of each kidney, but the left is a little higher up than the right; and (2) a vertical line carried up from the middle of PourART's ligament, parallel with the middle line of the body, has one-third of the Icidney to its outer side, and two-thirds to its inner side. Posteriorly (see Fig. 179).— (1) A line parallel witli, and one inch from, the spinous processes of the vertebne, extending from the lower edge of the eleventh dorsal spine to the corresponding part of the third lumbar vertebra; and (2) a line parallel witli the first, and of the same length, but two inches and three-(|uarters to its outer side, will