472 Applied Anatomy: Teats for Pus.—(1) Liquor potassas makes it ropy and gelatinous, so that it cannot be poured out drop by drop. (2) The microscope and aoetic acid. The acid clears up the pus cells and shows the tri-partite nucleus. Acetic acid coagulates mucus. Calculi.—The common forms of stone are— 1. Urates, probably Avith some Uric Acid as well—it is flat- tened and ovoid, the colour varies from dark brown to light fawn, the surface is fairly smooth or slightly warty, and it is of medium hardness. Not only is this the most common form of stone, but it also forms the commonest nucleus for other stones, as the oxalic; it usually comes from the kidney. In children the nucleus, or the entire calculus, may consist of urate of ammonium, forming a grey- fawn or pipe-clay coloured stone. 2. Phosphates; white and chalk-like, very soft and brittle, and egg-shaped. It usually consists of phosphate of lime (" stellar 2)1 los- plude ") and triple phosphate (" ainmonio-niagiiesian 2^liOspliate "J, and is knoAvn as the " fusible calculus." Pure triple phosphate is rare except as a coating on instruments tied into the bladder, or on foreign bodies, and round other stones that have been in the bladder long enough to set up cystitis. The phosphatic nucleus is vesical from the first, and the urine is alkaline and stinking; it may be deposited in one of the sacculi of a sacculated bladder, as the urine there tends to decompose. .3. Oxalate of Lime,—This forms a round, densely hard stone, with a vitreous fracture, rough and tuberculated on the surface, and very dark in colour from the hsematin of the blood, as it is apt to cause bleeding. It may come from the kidney in the first instance, or be formed round a uric acid nucleus; like the uric acid, it is found in clear acid urine. It is Imown as the " mulberry calculus." Chemical Characters of Calculi:— 1. Uric Acid— (a) Exposed to the blow-pipe, it groAvs black and slowly burns away, leaving only a slight ash, wliich is alkaline to test paper. (b) Add nitric acicl aod evaporate to dryness, when a red