124 Applied Anatomy: Next define the upper border of the posterior belly of the digastric; the nerve runs parallel to this, and will be found emerging from under the mastoid process. Meckel's, or the Spheno-Palatine Ganglion—This structure is deeply placed in the spheuo-maxillary fossa, close to the spheno- palatine foramen, on a level with the root of the pterygoid processes, and immediately below the superior maxillary nerve. Roots.—1. The Sensory, from the second division of the fifth, as it lies immediately above it, crossing the spheno-maxillary fossa. 2. The Sympathetic, from the carotid plexus through the Vidian. 3. The Motor, from the facial (great superficial petrosal J, through the Vidian also. The ganglion may be most readily exposed by removing the upper jaAv, and it is probably always exposed in that operation. It will be found in the spheno-maxillary fossa, imme- diately in front of the Vidian canal, and connected with the Vidian nerve. It may also be reached by Carnochan's operation: The anterior wall of the antrum is exposed, and a large, trephine hole made; next expose the infra-orbital nerve by cutting away the lower Avail of the infra-orbital canal, and follow it up to the posterior wall of the antrum. Then just under this make a small trephine hole in the posterior wall, isolate the nerve, and follow its descending branches to Meckel's ganglion. Lastly, divide the main nerve close to the foramen rotundum, and remove it along with the ganglion. After this, of course, the levator palati and the azygos uvula? of that side are permanently paralysed. Its Branches are motor to the levator palati and the azygos uvula* muscles, and also to the muscle of Muller ; for the rest, it is sensory to the nose, pharynx, and palate. Cases of intractable epileptiform neuralgia have been greatly benefited, or even cured, by excision of this ganglion. The Second Division of the Fifth (s/qjerior maxillary nervej.— It arises from the Gasserian ganglion, leaves the skull by passing through the foramen rotundum into the spheno-maxillarj^ fossa, crosses that fossa and enters the orbit through a fissure of the same name, and then enters a canal on the floor of the orbit, appearing on the face at the infra-orbital foramen, where it divides, beneath the levator labii superioris, into palpeljral, nasal, and labial brandies. It is purely a sensory nerve. Its branches in the fossa are—