41G Applied Anatoi/iy : AVhen the patient is on tiie table, the order of events is the following:— 1. Administer chloroform. 2. Draw off all the urine in the bladder. 3. Inject four to six ounces of a warm boracic solution. 4. Introduce the staff, and strike the stone; and if felt— 5. Tie up the patient. (). Shave the left side of the perineum. 7. Cut— (a) Fird incision, down to the staff in the membranous urethra. (h) Second 'incision, from this point into the bladder. 8. Eemove the stone or stones. 9. Fix a lithotomy tube into the bladder. The following Facts are worthy of Special Note:—In making the deeper incisions, the side of the knife should be kept parallel with the ramus of the ischium, because, if the edge be turned too much towards the mesial line, (1) the rectum may be wounded; and if the edge be turned too much outwards, (2) tlie internal pudic artery may be cut, which is bound down in a strong sheath of obturator fascia, under cover of the ramus and tuberosity of the ischium. It lies about three-quarters of an inch above the margin of the tuberosity. (3) The artery to the bulb, instead of coming off from the internal pudic, between the two layers of the triangular ligament, and running transversely inwards to the bulb, sometimes arises further back, and sometimes even in the ischio-rectal fossa. In this case it is almost certain to be wounded, and the accident is attended with considerable danger to life, from hitmorrliage, for three reasons—(a) From its size, and from the fact that it is cut (usually) near its origin from the parent trunk; (b) it is so deeply placed tliat it is almost impossible to apply a ligature; and (c) the fibrous nature of the tissues in which it lies at this point tends to prevent its contraction, and the consequent natural arrest of the hemorrhage. The proper course is to enlarge the wound, and tie both ends of the bleeding vessel. (4) The incision into the prostate should be as limited as possible, lest the knife pass beyond it and cut through the reflection of the pelvic fascia from its sides and front (the point of reflection, however, is close