Applied Anatomy: 306 7. Again pull out the bowel, and fix it to the skin and parietal peritoneum by half-a-dozen sutures or so on each side. They must only go through the peritoneal and muscular coats of the bowel, but must not pene- trate the mucous membrane, otherwise it will be impossible to keep the wound aseptic, on account of the leakage along the sutures. The gut should be so stitched that two-thirds of its circumference is external to the wound. The sutures pass through the skin one-eighth of an inch from the edge of the wound, then through the parietal peritoneum, and, lastly, through the bowel. The last suture at each angle should go across from one side to the other: it is better to pass all the sutures before tying any of them. 8. Stitch vip the extremities of the skin incision as far as may be thought necessary. 9. In dressing the wound, place a piece of green protective over the exposed part of the bowel, otherwise granula- tions will shoot uato the dressing and fix it firmly to the gut. 10. Open the gut in five or six days, using the provisional sutures as the guide, the bowel being opened to the full length between them, paring off the cut margins of the bowel with scissors to the level of its attachment to the skin (Cripps). All sutures may be removed by the ninth day, or earlier. In order to obviate the tendency to prolapse of the gut, Mr Cripps, before inserting the jDrovisional ligatures, draws out as much of the loose bowel as will readily come, passing it in again at the lower angle of the wound; this gets rid of all loose folds of the sigmoid flexure above the opening. Some Surgeons bring the loop of bowel co7npletely outside the abdomen, in order to secure a good spur, and entirely prevent fasces passing by the rectum. The loop is held forwards by means of a kangaroo tendon suture, entered about an inch" from the edge of the wound, then passed through tlie mesentery in the concavity of tlie loop of gut, and brought out about an inch from the edge of the other .side of the