Siirgica/, Medical, and Operative. 400 ;i couvouient manner on a tray witliin easy roach, or else coniiiiiLiud to the cliarge of an assistant. Ijefore operating, the patient sliould be kept quiet for a week or ten clays, and his general health and secretions carefxdly attended to. The bowels must be opened the previous day by means of an aperient. The left side of the perineum may also be shaved, as this will save trouble on the morning oT the operation, or this can 1)6 done with less unpleasantness to the patient after he is under cliloroform and tied up. On the morning of the oj^eration, the rectum must be emptied by an enema of warm Avater, administered two hours or so before the operation; it is necessary to see that it acts ju'operly before the operation, lest it act when the patient is on the table, and besides, a distended rectum adds greatly to the risk of the operation. A loose circle of bandage may also be fastened round the pelvis, to which the tapes of the tube are fastened after the operation is finished. The urine is allowed to collect for an hour or so before the operation, or else five or six ounces of tepid carbolised water must be injected after the urine is drawn ofl", as one can then know exactly how much fluid is in the bladder. The patient being now placed on the table, an anfesthetic is administered, the sound passed, and the stone struclc, the " click" being heard both by the operator and his assistants. If the stone is detected, he proceeds with the operation, but if he cannot detect it, the operation must be abandoned for that day at least; for the law is, that this operation must never be performed unless tlie stone can be felt when the patient is on the table, and lliis law, like the laM's of the Medes and Persians, altereth not. In sounding, the patient lies on his back upon a hard mattress or table, with his buttocks raised by means of a pillow, so as to displace the stone from the pouch behind the prostate, and the bladder moderately distended with urine, or, better, draw off all the urine and inject a measured quantity of warm boracic lotion. The Surgeon at first stands on the patient's left side till the sound has entered the bladder; after this he may change to the right side, as he can then Jiiore easily work the sound with the right hand, while the left hand is free for the rectum. A full-sized sound, Avoll warmed and oiled, is then allowed to enter the bladder by its own weight. In sounding, the bladder sliould at lirst bo moderately full, iind then.