Applied Anatomy: 332 tappings. In cases of this nature, Dr Duncan Tecommends the injection of iodine into the cyst, after evacuation of its contents, before resorting to nephrotomy; the only disadvantage of this plan is the severe pain to which it gives rise, (i) In cases of hydatid cysts where it is impossible to empty the cyst thoroughly; (c) pyonephrosis ; and {d) for calculus, or tubercular abscess. The incision resembles that for lumbar colotomy, only being a little nearer the median line and higher up (Fig. 179, 1). The incision Mr Morris recommends is slightly oblique, in the ilio-costal space, beginning over the outer edge of the erector spinas and continued forwards for three inches and a half. The kidney is then exposed, the cyst opened and the contents evacuated, the edges stitched to the sides of the incision, and a drainage tube inserted—the inten- tion being to make the wound heal from the bottom upwards. In cutting down upon the right kidney the operator may first reach the liver: it forms at this jioint a narrow resisting edge, ■v^dth a shallow groove between it and the kidney. Dr Syjiingtox first pointed out to me that this was the case, especially if the stomacli Avas at all distended, and I was able to confirm this observation when operating upon the dead body. Of course, to actually expose the liver the peritoneal cavity must be opened, an accident tliat must be carefully avoided. Nephiro-Litliotomy.—This operation Avas first performed by Mr Henry Morris in the year 1880. It is an incision into the secreting tissue, or the pelvis of the kidney, for the express pur- pose of removing a calculus. The cases in Avhich he recommends this operation are, when the syuijDtoms of renal calculus are not influenced by medicinal treatment and interfere Avith the comfort and usefiUness of the patient's life, "^^'here there is almost con- stant pain in one loin, passing along the ureter probably to tlio testicle of the same side; Avliere there are recurring attacks of renal colic, with blood, pus, or albumen in tlie urine, probably Avith the passage of gravel jier urethram. An incision four inches and a half long is made parallel Avith the last rib, and three- quarters of an inch beloAV it (Fig. 179, 1). AVhen the kidney is exposed, then feel its posterior surface Avith the finger for the presence of hardness or irregularity; and if this fail to detect stogie .tlvJjii jjass a fine Jiecdlc into tlie secreting substance. lu