Applied Anatomy: 482 of a hypodermic syringe, an injection is slowly made into the centre of each pile, of from two to five minims. After the injections the piles are returned, and must be at once rehirnecl should they come down afterwards. The advantages of this method are said to be that the patient is not laid up, suffers practically no pain, and runs no risk to life from hfemorrhage, tetanus, erysipelas, or pysemia. Region of the Sphincters of the Rectum.*—The External Sphincter is a thin layer of fibres immediately beneath the skin and surrounding the anus. It is elliptical in form, and half-an- inch in breadth on each side, and is attached behind to the coccyx, and in front blends with the other muscles at the central point of the perineum. The Internal Sphincter is a muscular belt surrounding the lower part of the rectum, an inch above the anus; it is half-an-iuch in depth and two lines thick, and is simply a thickened part of the circular muscular fibres of the rectum. About a couple of inches or so above this point there is a circular fold of mucous membrane containing muscular fibres, which is sometimes called the spldnder tertius. The diseased conditions met with in the neighbourhood of the external and internal sphincters and levatores ani, and kept up and aggravated by their action, are numerous and important. Among these we may sjDecially mention—(1) Fistula in ano, which is chiefly prevented from healing by the unrest produced by the sphincters. (2) Anal Ulcer or Fissure—the nearer this condition approaches the sphincters the greater the pain, and the less tendency it shows to heal. (3) Piles, which are jaurely anal growths, being situated in the region of the sphincters. It should be noted that the " region of the sphincters " is not a mere circle, but is a canal of some depth, from half-an-inch to an inch in length. The external sphincter is supplied by the fourth sacral nerve principally. This same nerve, it will be remembered, also supplies the skin between the coccyx and the anus, the levator ani, and the neck of the bladder. The communications explain very clearly tlie effect of anal affections on tlae bladder, e.g., retention of urine after ligature of piles; it also explains the symptoms of This corresjionds to Dr Symington's " Anal Caual."