Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 433 tissue felt between it and the finger, all is well. It is only when the point of the catheter is allowed to press against the lower wall that false passages are made (Fig. 218). Above all, force must not be used, and there must be no " milking" of the penis. When the operation is completed, give the patient a warm drink, and make him comfortable in bed for a little. To pass a Catheter in the Female.—The patient should not, if possible, be exposed. She is to be laid on her back, and the operator stands on her right side; her right leg is to be flexed, the sole resting on the bed or couch. A tube, five feet in length, should be attached to the catheter, so that the urine may flow dii-ectly into a receptacle placed on the floor; the end of this tube should be passed beneath the patient's flexed leg. The operator then passes his right hand under the jjatient's right leg, and places the index finger in the fold bet^yeen the labia, a little in front of the anus, and glides it forwards gently till he feels it entering the orifice of the vagina, and in bringing it a little further forward, always in the middle line, the point of the finger comes into contact with the urethra, which is thus gently steadied between it and the pubic arch. The other hand is then passed over the patient's thigh with the catheter, the point of which is slid along the palmar surface of the index finger placed against the urethra, till it enters that orifice, when it can easily be pushed on to the bladder, as the canal is so short and straight. The only difliculty is to strike the meatus by touch alone. The operation may be performed from the left side, if preferred. Some use the clitoris as the guide for the orifice, but I believe that the way described is much better in every way. Stricture of the Urethra :— 1. Spasmodic, either alone, as from reflex irritation, or complicating congestive or organic stricture. 2. Inflammatory or Congestive, from swelling of mucous membrane, as in the retention of acute gonorrhoea. 3. Organic.—This alone will not cause complete retention; cither spasm or acute inflammation, or both, must be superadded. For this reason, therefore, the flrst thing is, not to pass a catheter, but to give the patient a hot *2 E