Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 817 deep respirations, or perform th at physical exercise whicli would do it a world of good. For the same reason also they play an important part in the production of phthisis. It is impossible to take full and deep inspirations, and many parts of the lungs are thus thrown out of use, and as a result of this the tissues tend to degenerate, and fall an easy prey to the invading hosts of micro- organisms. Full and free respirations are the gymnastics of the lungs. Hence the value of th.e frequent practice of vocal music. The waist of the Venus do Medici in the Uffizi Gallery, at Florence, forms a graceful oval of nearly twenty-seven inches, l3ut the waists of her modern representatives are reduced, by means of corsets, to an ungraceful circle of from eighteen to twenty-two inches. But not only do corsets distort the body and keep the liver semi- asphyxiated and inactive, because it is surcharged with stagnated blood, but, I believe, they also play a very important part—pro- bably the chief exciting cause—in the production of cancer of the breast. At every step the woman takes the breast partakes of a quivering or trembling movement, and the nipple is irritated against the upper edge of the rigid corsets. This constant irrita- tion of the nipple, over a long period of time, may play a more important part in cancer production than many are inclmed to suppose; at any rate, in the cases of cancer of the male breast 1 have seen, there has always been a sufficient exciting cause, in the shape of local irritation, comparable to that which might be produced by corsets. "With a fair amount of attention to the more obvious laws of health, no one should be conscious that he has got such an organ; but, curiously enough, whether rightly or wrongly I do not say, it seems to be looked upon as the prime cause of half the diseases that afflict human male flesh—in short, it stands in the same relation to diseases of tlie male sex, that "utero-gestation," or more correctly, constipation, seems to stand in relation to female diseases. There can be but little doubt, I think, that in most cases it is more sinned against than sinning. In cases of disordered liver, pain is often felt in the right clavicle and tip of the shoulder; the exact cause is doubtful. It may either be due to conduction along the phrenic to the third and fourth cervical nerves, and then along the acromial branches to the