Surgical^ Medical, and Operative. removing a stone it is better to cut into the secreting substance, as there is less risk of urinary fistula than when the incision is made into the pelvis. A dramage tube is then introduced and tlie wound stitched up, dressings applied, and a pad of German peat moss placed below to absorb the urine. The dangers are hemorrhage from the divided renal substance, cellulitis, renal abscess, renal fistula, and lumbar hernia. As regards palliative and preventive treatment, the patient should avoid excess of animal diet, and live chiefly on milk, use alkaline drinks to dissolve the stone, especially salts of the alkalies (potassium and lithium) with the organic acids, or the waters of Vichy or Eras. Composition of Renal Calculi.—In infancy the nucleus is urate of ammonium, recognised by its fawn colour; in childhood, other urates; in the j'oung adult it is uric or oxalic acid; and after forty years of ago it is oxalic acid or phosphates. Nephrorraphy.—This operation consists in cutting down ui)un iuid exposing tlic kidney, and stitching it to the edges of the wound. It is employed for floating, movable, or wandering kidney, which is the seat of frequent severe and spasmodic attacks of pain, or continuous suffering. An incision is used similar to that for nephrotomy. A floating kidney is one that has a meso-nephron and for this reason is able to move about; a movable kidney is one that moves about behind the peritoneum, but which lias not a meso-nephron. Nephrectomy is the complete removal of a Icidney from the living body. It is used for the removal of a diseased kidney in Avhich all less radical measures have failed; in some cases where nephro-lithotomy is not practicable; in ureteral urinary fistula; ini badly M'ouuded or ruptured kidney; tumours, xmaV and vicdiuin 4::pd, of various kinds; and sometimes in Avandering kidney. It was first performed by Simon, of Heidelberg, who lai<l down the law that it is only to be done when the patient's life is in danger and all other means have failed. It may be performed through a lumbar incision; the advantages of this form of incision arc (I) the poritonoum is not opened, and (2) the wound drains well.. An incision is made four and a liall: inches in length, slightly oblir|uc, at least half-an-inch below the last rib, lest the pleura be Avouiidcd (Fig. 170, /). Except tlud, it is on a higher lev(>l, the