203 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. portal vein, wliicli usually hegins in the belly—Ascites. Lastly, in heart disease, especially towards the end, the Peritoneal Vessels transude in excess, and hence we have ascites. Observe carefully that mitral stenosis is a frequent cause of " spitting of blood;" this condition is, of course, suggestive of phthisis, and might mis- lead the student, uidess he examines the heart. The back pressure in the lungs is much more continuous and severe in mitral stenosis than it is in mitral regurgitation, hence the haemoptysis. On the Arterial Side, in cases of heart disease, we find the arteries are not sufficiently filled, especially those going to tlie brain; but, in addition to this, there is the risk of " vegetations " being swept oft" the valves, forming emboli. The emboli usually make for the brain, kidney, or spleen. In the brain they cause hemiplegia, with ajjhasia—often, however, more or less transient iu character; in the kidney and spleen they cause hcemoi-rhagic infarcts, as the vessels affected are " terminal." A very curious phenomenon is sometimes observed in aortic regurgitation, with hypertrophy of the heart, viz. : — Capillary Pulsation. This may be observed on the cheeks, beneath the nails, or on the brow, especially if the finger-nail be drawn across it, so as to form a congested line; at each systole the part flushes, and during the diastole it becomes pale. Cardiac "Areas."—The four valves of the heart, in relation to the chest wall, are situated very close to one another, round about the junction of the third left costal cartilage Avith the sternum and the space below it, so close that, according to "Walshe, an area of half-an-inch square will include a part of all four. Position of the Valves.—The Mitral Valve is close to the left border of the sternum, just below the third costal cartilage. The Aortic Valve is found on a level with the third left costal cartilage behind the left half of the sternum. The Pulmonary Valve cor- responds to its "area," and is higher up and more superficial than the aortic, and behind the junction of the third left costal cartilage with the sternum. The Tricuspid Valve is behind the middle of the sternum, on a level with the foiu'th costal cartilage. It will, therefore, be at once evident to any one that it woidd be imiiossible, in diseased conditions of the valves, by listening over them, to detect with certainty wliich of the four is at fault.