490 Applied Anatomy: vas; but at the'upper part they collect into a single trunk, wLicli enters the abdomen through the internal ring, terminating on the right side in the inferior vena cava, but on the left side in the left renal vein. (4) Lymphatics, which terminate in the lumbar glands. (5) Nerves—(a) The sympathetic plexus (from the renal plexus); and (J) the genital branch of the genito-crural, which supplies the cremaster muscle. This fact exjDlains the "cremasteric reflex," best seen in boys—that is, on tickling the inner side of the thigh over the distribution of the crural branch of the same nerve, the testicle of that side is observed to rise almost or quite up to the external abdominal ring. The Vas Deferens can always be recognised by the hard, firm, whip-cord-like sensation it gives when the cord is held between the finger and thumb. It commences at the lower part of the globus minor, and ascends along the posterior and inner side of the testis and epididymis, and then along the posterior part of the cord; at the internal abdominal ring it lies to the inner side of the spermatic vessels, then hooks round the deep epigastric artery and descends upon the inner side of the external iliac vessels into the pelvis. It now passes downwards and backwards upon the side of the bladder, crossing to the outside of the obliterated hypogastric artery; it next passes to the inner side of the ureter and reaches the base of the bladder, where it becomes dilated and slightly sacculated, and lies, at the trigone, to the inner side of the corresponding seminal vesicle. At the base of the prostate it unites with the duct of the seminal vesicle to form the common ejaculatory duct; this duct runs forwards and upwards in the prostate and along the sides of the sinus pocularis, ending in a slit-like opening at the margin of the sinus in the prostatic urethra. Each vas is about two feet in length; the walls are very thick and dense, but the canal is extremely small. In describing the course of the vas, note the five "inners." The vas deferens is sometimes ruptured, as the result of a sudden strain; the patient feels as if something had given way, experiences a severe pain in one or other groin, and a little while after bright blood flows from the urethra, but mic- turition is performed normally. Later, the cord and testicle become painful, tender, and swollen. It is usually followed by atrophy of the testicle.