413 Surgical, Medical, and Opera live. is turned towards the ojaerator's right liaiid. The knife is then sli|iped along the upper surface rather of the finger, and its point pushed through the memhranous urethra into the groove of the staff, wliile the finger protects and pushes aside the rectum. The hlade of the knife is then inclined till it lies parallel with the rami of the pubes and ischium, the point being slightly above the level of the handle, and is then pushed steadily along the groove into the bladder, taking care not to depress the handle too much, lest the opening in the jirostate may be made too large, nor elevating it, lest it slip from the groove altogether, till if.i iwint is arrested hi/ tlie termination of the groove; when the ordinary staff is used, the angle between the knife and staff should be about forty-five degrees all through this second incision. The knife must be kept firmly pressed against the side and upper jiart of the groove, lest it slip out. Just as in ligature of arteries, the jprinciple here is to make a free superficial incision, but a limited deep incision. The opening in tlie prostate may be enlarged as far as necessary when withdrawing the knii^, by depressing the handle, only be careful to keep the back of the knife against the staff all the time. In the enlarged and indurated prostates of old men, a larger incision will be necessary than in young adults, as it will not dilate so easily. As the knife is withdrawn, the operator pushes his finger along the groove in the staff into the bladder—(a) to plug up the wound, and prevent the escape of fluid; (Ji) to feel the stone and judge its size, and turn it in the proper axis for the forceps; (c) to dilate the prostatic incision; and (d) to judge what si/.e of forceps is most suital)le. The Structures divided in the second incision are—(1) The rest of the membranous urethra and the compressores urethrai muscles; (2) a few fibres of the levator ani (leocdor prostatce) ; (3) the left lobe of the prostate, and the prostatic portion of tiie urethra; (4) a dense ring wliich surrounds the prostatic urethra; and (5) the internal sphincter of the urethra (sphincter vesica;). As siion as the finger feels the stone, the Surgeon asks the assistant to withdraw the stalf. IMie forceps arc then introduced, the finger already in the bladder acting as a guide; the Idades are separated a little, so as to embrace the finger, upon the dorsal surface of wliich they arc pushed through the prostate into tlic bladder as