7 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. has ceased—unless the bleeding he due to the semi-asphyxiated state of the patient, when obviously the best means to stop it is to open the trachea as quichly as possible. In the high operation, the fascia connecting the isthmus to the cricoid cartilage can be divided by a transverse incision, and the isthmus depressed by tlie handle of tlie scalpel, and hold there by a blunt hook, in cases where it is necessary to increase the space ; or the isthmus may be freely divided in the middle line if necessary, each side being first clamped by a pair of Wells's forceps. The opening in the trachea and the tissues covering it must correspond exactly, otherwise mucus and air will escape into the cellular tissue, pro- ducing emphysema. When the opening is made the handle of the knife must be inserted flat-wise and then turned at right angles, while the Surgeon turns away his head till the jjatient coughs, and after this he puts in a tracliea tube, while the handle of the knife causes the opening to gape; make certain that the tube has passed into the trachea and not into the loose tissue beneath the deep cervical fascia. Some prefer to use a special trachea dilator. The tube is then to be fixed by means of tapes, attached to the outer sheath, which are then to be tied on one side of the patient's neck. Take care that the tapes are not too loose, lest both tubes be forced out during a fit of coughing, and the patient be suddenly choked. The Trachea Tube must be of a size corresponding to the age of the i)atient: in children under eighteen months, a diameter of about one-sixth of an inch is said to be sufficient; from that age up to four years the diameter should be about a quarter of an inch. In any case it must be of such a size as to admit air freely, but without distending the trachea, and should always be double. The inner tube should be /oo.sc ami a Utile louQer than the outer tu])e, so that it may be driven out by coughing should it happen to bocfime blocked up, and still the patient can breathe Chrough tlie outer tube. Were it shorter, or even the same length as the outer tube, then, in cases of block, removal of the inner tube would not relieve the patient, as the outer sheath would still be plugged. The (lutur tube has often an oi)ening on its ujiper and convex surface, by means of which, when the inner tube is removed, one can try, by closing the external opening Avith the