Siirgica/, Medical, and Operative. 311 of the clamp are next approximated and two rows of sutures introduced—the inner to bring the edges of the mucous membrane together (C/erny), and an outer iwr to inchide the muscular and serous surfaces (Lembert). Gussenbauer brings both the mucous and serous layers into contact by a single suture. The Lembert suture is to be preferred, and is quite sufficient alone (Figs. 182 to 184. When tlie mucous membrane is pierced, leakage takes place along the thread, and is apt to set up septic peritonitis, and it should not therefore penetrate the mucous coat. When the gut is divided the longitudinal muscular fibres retract and carry the serous covering with them, so that the mucous coat can be readily reached and sutured. Various plans have been tried in order to make the gut rigid during the introduction of the sutures—such as plugs of gelatine or dough, decalcified bone, a saiisage-shaped india-rubber bag that can be inflated, etc. According to Mr Treves, about fifteen sutures are required for the inner row, and ' twenty-fivo for the outer. The clamps are now removed, the gut dropped into the abdomen, and the abdominal Avound closed. In the second method, when the diseased part is removed, the clamp is removed from the distal end of the gut, and its margin stitched to the skin incision; the proximal end is then treated in the same way, taking care not to allow the contents to escape into the peritoneal cavity. After a time the cavity of the gut is rendered continuous by a second operation. This method is much better, more easily performed, and safer than the other. THE LIVER. Th is organ fills up the greater part of the right hypochondriac region, extends through the epigastric, and passes slightly into the left hypochondrium, being about an inch and a half beyond the left margin of the sternum. It measures, in its transverse diameter, from ten to twelve inches; from six to seven in its antei'o-posterior, and is about three inches vertically, at the back part of the right lobe. It weighs from fifty to sixty ounces. The lower border, at the left side, is close to the apex beat; in the epigastric region it is midway between tlie ensiform cartilage and the umbilicus; and on tlie right side, from the mammary lino, it follows pretty closely the costal margin ; in the erect