Applied Anatomy: 340 is where the contents of tlie boicel are checked in their passage at the sccat of the hernia—a local constipation; the term incarcerated hernia is sometimes applied to the same condition occurring in an irreducible hernia. An inflamed hernia is one in which the peritoneal envelope, or sac, is inflamed — a local peritonitis. A strangulated hernia is one where the venous blood return is checked by some constricting structure; this is followed by swell- ing, cedema, and then the arterial supply is also checked, and unless relieved the condition quickly passes on to gangrene of thu bowel; in addition to this, it is also irreducible and obstructed. Congenital herni;c are most liable to strangulation. INGUINAL HERNIA. This form is much more common in males, because in them the inguinal canal is larger, while the crural ring is smaller, than in females, on account of the less expanded iliac crests. The sjjace concerned in inguinal hernia is triangular, corresjaonding to the inguinal region of the groin, and has the following boundaries— Below, by Po up art's ligament; internally, by the linea alba; and above, by a line drawn from the anterior superior iliac spine to the linea alba. In connection with the subject of hernia, it Avill be well to consider the structure of the abdominal Avail at this point; the two longitudinal muscles (the rectus and pyramidalis) may be left out of account for the time being. If we were to examine the triangular space, mentioned above, from the inside of the abdomen, we would find that it is subdivided into two trian- gular parts by the deep epigastric artery (Fig. 186, e)—the arterj', in fact, almost bisecting the triangle in C[uestion—an outer triangular part, and an inner triangular part known as Hesselbach's triangle (Fig. 186, C, A, D). In dissecting the abdominal wall in the region of the outer triangular part, we find—(1) Skin; (2) super- ficial fascia; (3) tendon of the external oblique; (4) the internal oblique ; (5) the transversalis muscle; (6) fascia transversalis; (7) extra-peritoneal fat; and (8) the peritoneum. In the inner triangular space (that is, Hesselhach's triangle) the structures met with are similar, except that the tendons of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles are inseparably imited, forming the "conjoined tendon," which is altarlicd to the crest of the pubes