Applied Anatomy: 346 most common form of direct hernia, the gut leaves the abdomen internal to the obliterated hypogastric artery, and therefore passes through the conjoined tendon. (6) In the second, the hernia passes between the obliterated hypogastric artery and the deep epigastric (see Pig. 186), but altogether external to the former structure, and therefore has no covering from the conjoined tendon, the coverings in this case being practically the same as in the ordinary oblique form. On the inner surface of the abdominal wall in this situation certain ridges are found—in the middle line is the uraclms, and then on each side of this we find ridges formed by the obliterated hypogastric and the deep ej)igastric artery. By means of these ridges little peritoneal fossfe are formed, called " digital fosste," because they look like indentations caused by the tips of the fingers—one external to the deep epigastric artery, another between that vessel and the obliterated hypogastric, and a third internal to this latter structure. These fossaa indicate a local ivealmess in the abdominal wall, and this, combined with some exciting cause, explains the frequency of hernia in these situations. Were the walls of the abdominal cavity equally strong in all situations there could be no reason why it should occur in one situation more than in another. In practice, it is extremely difiicult, and often impos- sible, to distinguish between the oblique and the direct forms; because in the oblique form the internal abdominal ring is apt to be drawn towards the middle line, more especially if the hernia be of long standing. The diagnosis would not be important were it not for the different relations of the two forms to the deep epi- gastric artery—the oblique being external and the direct internal to that vessel; and this might have an influence in determining the direction of the incision in the operation for strangulated hernia, it being necessary to cut from the artery—or, at least, not to cut towards it. But, from the difficulty in diagnosis above indi- cated, the best rule is, in every case, to cut upwards and sliglitly inwards, parallel with the deep epigastric artery; by this moans the artery escapes injury. When recent and of small size, it may be possible to distinguish between the oblique and the direct forms by reducing the hernia and then asking the patient to cough, when, in the oblictue form, the protrusion of the gut will be felt at the internal abdominal ring, and in the direct immediately