Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 171 fas!cia to the bony prominences aronncl the knee joint, fluid matter, siieli as jius, gatliering about the joint will necessarily tend to pass upwards. At the outer side of the limb there is a specially strong band known as the ilio-tihial hand whicli stretches from the ilium above, to the head of the tibia below, and into which are inserted the greater part of the gluteus maximus and the whole of the tensor fascia! feinoris, and through it these two muscles act indirectly on the knee joint, and are believed to be specially brought into use in maintaining the erect posture. From the deep surface of the fascia, ensheathing processes are given off to every muscle, blood vessel, and nerve in the limb; two of the processes given off are specially strong, and are known as the inter-muscular septa. The external septum is the stronger, and extends from the insertion of the gluteus maximus along the outer side of linea aspera to the outer condyle of the femur, along tlie outer edge of the popliteal surface of that bone. It separates the vastus externus in front, from the biceps behind. The internal septum is thinner, and extends from the lesser trochanter, along the inner side of the linea aspera and popliteal surface of the femur, to the inner condyle; it separates the vastus internus from the adductor muscles, and is incomplete at one point to allow the passage of the femoral vessels into the popliteal space, where they become the popliteal vessels. It is possible, therefore, that matter forming around or in the joint, and escaping on account of destruction of its ligaments, and collecting in the upper part of the popliteal space behind, between those layers, and beneath the general sheath of the limb, would find its way up the limb towards the troclianters, by passing along the fibrous tunnel formed by the vessels in their passage through the septum. But there is another M'ay in which pus may pass from the knee joint up to the trochanter minor. There is a considerable portion of the inner siu-face of the shaft of the femur, extending from thf^ small trochanter above, to tlie condyles below, and from half-an-inch to tliree-fourths of an inch in breadth, from which no muscular fd)res arise. This interval lies between the origins of the crureus and the vastus internus, and is bridged over l)y tlie conjoined fibres of these muscles. In suppuration, there- fore, witliiu th() joint, where the suppurative action destroys or perforates the ligaments, or the large synovial membrane of the