103 Stirgical^ Medical, and Operative. insertions of genio-hyoids and of the genio-hyoglossi; and (e) the mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth. A piece of strong whip cord is then passed through the tip of the tongue, or it is seized with a strong hook-forceps, and drawn through the opening betAveen the lower jaw and the hyoid bone, and removed by the knife, or ccraseur, by dividing its attachments—(1) to the epiglottis, viz., the three epiglottidean folds of mucous membrane (a central and two lateral)- and (2) to the hyoid bone, viz., the hyoglossus and genio-hyoglossus muscles, and the hyoglossal membrane. The lingual ends of the palato-glossus and stylo-glossus will also be divided. The lingual arteries may now be secured, or they may be exposed and tied before removing the tongue; they Avill be found to pass forwards on the outer side of the genio-hyoglossi muscles between them and the hyoglossi. The wound is then stitched up and drained from the lower end of the vertical cut. The great objection to this operation is, that all the muscles that elevate the hyoid bone and larynx are divided, and it consequently interferes with the movements of deglutition and respiration to a certain extent. Kocher's Method (Fig. 150).—By this method not only the tongue, but the infra-maxillary glands are also removed. He performs a preliminary tracheotomj^, and introduces a Trendelen- burg's canula, or a Hahn's tube, and the facial and lingual arteries are ligatured at an early stage of the operation. The incision he uses is the following:—It begins a little below the lobule of the car, and is carried down along the anterior edge of the sterno- mastoid to the level of the great cornu of the hyoid bone. From this point the incision is carried forwards nearly to the body of the hyoid bone, and then upwards along the line of the anterior belly of the digastric to the jaw. The lingual artery and the facial vessels are secured and divided, and the flap is then turned up over the face, and by a careful dissection the submaxillary lymphatic glands and tongue are removed. Not only may the sub- maxillary glands be removed, but the glands near the angle of the jaw and those about the bifurcation of the common carotid, as well as those on the hyoglossus, may also be taken away by this incision. The advantages claimed for this method are that the dangers from hemorrhage, septic absorption, and pneumonia are done away Avith.