28 Applied Anatomy. (2) Posterior or retro-pharyngeal abscess. — These abscesses are found at the back of the pharynx, bulging forwards; they are usually due to cervical caries; it may also bulge towards the side of the neck. If possible, it should be opened at the posterior edge of the upper part of the sterno-niastoid by "Hilton's method;" if not, it may be aspirated through the mouth. Were it opened in the mouth by a bistoury in the usual way, the sudden gush of pus might choke the patient. (3) There is another possible source of a retro-pharyngeal abscess, viz., the lymph glands in the submucous tissue in front of the vertebrae, towards the upper part of the pharynx. Some of the lymphatics from the nose empty themselves into these glands, which may occasionally suppurate; but in this case there is an absence of symjjtoms pointing to disease of the cervical vertebra}. The abscess, too, is more likely to be circumscribed, though the loose submucous tissue favours the spread of pus round the pharyngeal wall. Foreign bodies are apt to stick in the pharynx, and may cause sudden death from lying over the upper opening of the larynx; this is the usual cause of sudden death from " choking" during eatmg. It is important to remember that in these cases the foreign body is almost always Avithin reach of the fuiger, and the treatment therefore is at once to p)ut the finger down and hook it up. Parotid Duct (Stenson's).—Its course is indicated by a line drawn from the lower margin of the concha of the ear to midway between the red margin of the lip and the ala of the nose; it is about one finger's-breadth below the zygoma. Above it is the transverse facial artery, and below it are some branches of the facial nerve; its length is about two and a half inches, and it begins about the middle of the masseter. It perforates the cheek obliquely, or almost at right angles to its former course, opposite the crown of the second molar tooth of the upper jaw, perforating the buccinator muscle. It is necessary to remember its course, as it may be divided in wounds or operations about the face, and give rise to salivary fistula. The fistula is recognised by the great flow of a watery fluid during mastication, which is alkaline in reaction, and has the power of converting a solution of starch—first into dextrine and then into grape sugar, as shown by the chemical tests for these substances. Thus—