Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 403 (2) situated between the orifices of the vagina and the anus, is a structure Icuown as the "perineal body," which corresponds in position to the central point of the perineum, but contains much elastic tissue; (3) the two halves of the muscle, corresponding to the accelerator urina? in the male, are separated by the vulva, forming the bulbo-cavernosus muscle or sphincter vaginae; and (i) the vagina pierces the triangular ligament of the urethra. From the above it is evident that we cannot get " extravasation of urine," as in the male. Nerves of the Perineum.—The Pudic Nerve supplies, by its inferior haamorrhoidal branch, the skin around the anus, and com- municates with the long pudendal nerve; the anterior and posterior divisions of the perineal branch supply the skin of the ischio-rectal fossa, the scrotum, and under part of the penis, and sends filaments to the levator and sphincter ani. The Dorsal Nerve of the penis supphes the integument of the ujJiDer part and sides of the penis and prepuce. The Muscles supplied by the pudic nerve are— (a) Transversus perinei, (6) accelerator urinte, (c) erector penis, and (r7) compressor urethras. The pudic nerve also supplies the mucous membrane of the urethra. These communications of the pudic nerve explain the painful erections (eliordee), and the spasm of the urethral wall in cases of acute inflammation of the urethra. The fourth sacral nerve is distributed to the viscera of the pelvis, notably the neck of the bladder, and joins the hypogastric plexus of the sympathetic; it also supplies the levator ani, coccygeus, sphincter ani, and skin between the anus and the coccyx. This nerve is the one chiefly affected in cases of " fissure of the anus," more especially its branch to the sphincter ani, which also gives twigs to the skin about the anus. The Inferior or Long Pudendal Branch of the small sciatic curves forwards below the tuber ischii, pierces the fascia lata, supplies the skin of the scrotum, and communicates with the superficial perineal and the inferior hpemorr- hoidal nerves; other branches of the small sciatic supply the skin at the upper and inner sides of tlie thigh, towards its posterior aspect. It will be observed, therefore, that the anus and uretlira, with their muscles, are practically supplied by the same nerve, and this explains why they are so frequently involved together, and why disease of the one reacts on the other—e.g., operations on the