Surgical, .Uiuh't-dl, aiul Operative. 431 the glans penis to form the fossa iiaviculaiis, and then contracts to form the meatus. Tlie widest parts of tlio tuljc are (a) the centre of tlie prostatic portion, {b) the bulbous portion, and (r) tlie fossa navicuhiris—in tliis order from behind forwards. Curves of the Urethra.—In the Haccid condition of tlie penis, the general course of the urethra somewhat resembles the letter 8 lying on its side; but when the penis is erect the anterior cuitc is obliterated, and hence this is called the temporanj curve. Tlie penaancut curve, however, renuuns under all circumstances, and we have thus two curves—(1) tlie temporary, and (2) the jjer- nianent; and to this latter the curve of the catheter con-esj^onds. The permanent curve is maintained by—(«) The pelvic fascia, fixing the neck of the bladder and the prostate gland; {h) the connection of tlie root of the penis witli the pubes by means of the suspensory ligament of the penis; (r) the two layers of tlic triangidar ligament fixing the membranous part; and (d) the con- nection of the base of the triangular ligament witli the superficial fascia of the perineum, and through it to the " central point of the 2)erineuni." It is of importance to remember tliat, with the finger ill the rectum, the anterior layer of tlie triangular ligament, the membranous part of the urethra, prostate gland, and cA'cn the base of the bladder beyond, may be felt. Tliese parts are more easily distinguished if a catheter be previously introduced; and in this way the fact of having made a false passage may be detected, the catheter not being found in the bladder, nor bearing the proper relation to the parts in (piestion. To be right, the catheter should be felt exactly in the middle line, with the prostate gland and the rectal wall between it and the finger; in false passages it will probably not be iu the middle line, and the finger will recognise only a linn layer of tissue between it and the catheter. The mucous membrane of the urethra is supplied by the jDudie nerve. To pass a Catheter in the Male.—The patient is placed on his back in bed, lying perfectly straight, with the upper and lower parts of his Ijody well covered; the Surgeon stands on the patient's left side. .See first that the catheter is well cleaned, by forcing a stream of carbolic lotion through it by means of a syringe, being specially careful of the eye of the instrument, about which dirt is apt lo Indgi-; it must ne.\t be slightly warmed and