526 Applied Anatomy: aponeurosis, and through tliis to the lumbar and sacral spines, the outer lip of the iliac crest, the last three ribs, interdigitating with the external oblique, and sometimes from the lower angle of the scapula; inserted into the bottom of the bicipital groove of the humerus. Nerve.—The long subscapular. 17. Levator Anguli Sqapulae. — Arises from the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the third, fourth, and fifth cervical vertebrae; inserted into the j)osterior border of the scapula above the spine. Nerves.—Two or three deep branches of the cervical plexus, and a branch from the nerve to the rhomboids (brachial plexus). 18. Rhomboideus Minor.—Arises from the ligamentum nucha' and spinous processes of the last cervical and first dorsal vertebra ; inserted into the posterior border of the scapula opposite the root of the spine. 19. Rhomboideus IVlajor.—4r/s(is from the spinous processes of the four or five upper dorsal vertebras; inserted into the posterior border of the scapula below the spine. Nerves. — Both minor and major are supplied by a special supra-clavicular branch of the brachial plexus. 20. Tlie Superior Constrictor.—Arises from the lower third of the internal pterygoid plate, from the hamular process, from the pterygo-maxillary ligament, and from the lower jaw; it is inserted into the median raphe behind. 21. Tlie iVIiddle Constrictor.—Arises from the greater and lesser cornua of the hyoid bone, and from the stylo-hyoid ligament; it is inserted into the median raphe. 22. Tlie Inferior Constrictor.—Arises from the oblique line of the thyroid cartilage and from the side of the cricoid cartilage; it is inserted into the median raphe. The three constrictors overlap from below llp^vards, the inferior overlapping the middle, and the middle overlapping the superior. Between the middle and the superior we find (1) the glosso- pharyngeal nerve, (2) the stylo-pharyngeus muscle, and (3) the stylo-hyoid ligament. Between the middle and tlie inferior we find (1) the superior laryngeal artery, (2) the internal brancli of the superior laryngeal nerve, and (3) the external branch of the same nerve. Passing below the inferior we find (1) the recurrent