Applied Anatomy: 60 At six years of age the child possesses the greatest mnnbcr of teeth — viz., forty-eight — twenty deciduous and tAventy - eight permanent. There are a few important clinical and medico-legal points to be noticed in connection with the 'permanent teeth :— 1. In Hereditary Syphilis, the up2ier central permanent incisors are short, narrow, and peg-shaped, widely separated, and slant towards each other; they are " notched " from defective develop- ment of the middle lobe, giving them a screw-driver-like outline. The angles are rounded off, and their sides are convex in outline. In pure syphilitic teeth the enamel is smooth and regular, except at the part where the notch occurs; in the first instance, the place occupied by the notch is filled up by spines, but these wear off and leave the cresentic notch in the biting edge. This condition of the teeth is often accompanied with interstitial keratitis and choroiditis disseminata (Hutchinson). It is probably due to the action of the specific stomatitis upon them while they are yet soft and uncut. 2. In " IVIercurial" Teetll (Hutchinson), the result specially of mercurial stomatitis in childhood, the first molars of both jaws are the test teeth. In this case the deficiency chiefly concerns the enamel, and the exposed dentine is dirty, rugged, and pitted, and in some cases the enamel is cut off at one level all round, leaving a stump of exposed dentine; there is no characteristic notch, as in syphilis. The honeycomb excavations and the horizontal markings in the enamel distinguish them from syphilitic teeth. The first molars suffer most, as they are the first to develop; the origin of the mercurial stomatitis is that the child has jorobably suffered from fits in infancy, and been dosed with calomel. This condition of the teeth is often accompanied with lamellar, or zonular, cataract—a condition that also points to in- fantile convulsions at an earlier ijeriod. It is possible, of course, to find both these conditions of the teeth present in varying proportions: the notched and pegged condition of syphilis, and the pitted, discoloured appearance of mercurial stomatitis. 3. It is very important to remember the dates of eruption of the permanent teeth in the treatment of cases of irregularity or overcrowding; in some cases the teeth, as it were, cannot all find