Surgical, Medical, and Operative. thus gains the fourth ventricle, and from thciico, it passes (a) into tlie central canal of the sjainal cord through an opening at the point of the calamus scriptorins, (h) along the aqueduct of Sylvius (iter a tertio ad qnartum venirieulum, or simply the "iter"), into the third ventricle, and from thence to the lateral ventricles by means of the foramen of Manro. The central canal of the cord, and all the ventricles, except the fifth, are the permanent remains of the ectodermal canal, around which the spinal cord is developed. Hydrocephalus.—One form of hydrocephalus is believed to be due to the closure of the foramen of Macjendie, leading to an ex- cessive accumulation of fluid in the ventricles (Hilton) and their consequent expansion. In tapping the ventricles for this condition (jiaraeentesis cajntisJ, the needle is entered either through the coronal suture, or some part of the anterior fontanelle, far enough from the middle line to avoid the superior longitudinal sinus. THE SUTURES. The Lambda, or point of junction of the lambdoid and sagittal sutures, is between two and three inches above the external occipital protuberance; the Bregma, is the point of junction of the coronal and saggital sutures. In infants, these points indicate the positions of the anterior and posterior fontanelles. The anterior is the larger, and is diamond-shaped, having four sides; it should be closed by the second or third year, but remains open much longer in rickets. The posterior is small and triangular, and usually closes soon after birth. The Sagittal Suture is found in the middle line stretching between the lambda and the bregma. The position of the bregma is shown by a line drawn vertically upwards from the external auditory meatus to the vertex, when the head is in the ordinary position. The Lambdoid Suture is indicated by the upper two thirds of a line drawn from the lambda to tlie apex of the mastoid process. The Coronal Suture is indicated by a line drawn from the bregma to the point wliere the zygoma joins the malar bone. The Pterion is the point where the frontal, parietal, squamous portion of the temporal bone, and the great wing of the si)henoid meet; it is situated an inch and a quarter beliind the external angidar process of the frontal bone, and the same distance above tlie zygoma. Tlie Glabella is i\w depression at