Applied Anatomy: 242 Infantile Paralysis, a lesion in the Second Division of the Trophic System—the large cells in the anterior cormi. 1. There is immediate paralysis of one muscle, a group or groups of muscles. 2. There is great and rapid wasting of the affected muscles, as they are cut off from their trophic centres. 3. The reflexes in the affected area are abolished since the lai'ge cells are destroyed. 4. The muscles do not become rigid but remain preternaturally flaccid. This is perhaps the great cause of club foot. 5. The electrical reaction is altered, the muscles giving the " reaction of degeneration." In Apoplexy, the primary lesion, pathologically speaking, is comparatively insignificant, the secondary changes induced being far more serious than the original injury. In Infantile Paralysis, one of the special features is that it reaches its maximum extent and intensity at once, and any further change is towards improve- ment. It does not induce .secondary changes in the cord. Many years ago, Mr Hutchinson pointed out a possible connection between infantile paralysis, herpes zoster, and localised sclero- derma (morpha'a). Neither of these affections tend to spread, and they are all developed to their full extent at once; in all there is a tendency to reparation, to a certain extent; in none, as a rule, do second attacks occur; and in each case we are alike ignorant of the predisposing influences, and of the means of cure. In infantile jDaralysis, a motor nerve is affected; in herpes zoster, a sensory nerve; while in scleroderma, a vaso-motm- nerve is pro- bably at fault. Note also that in lesions affecting the surface of the cord— e.g., acute meningitis,—the symptoms are tliose of irritation of the motor and sensory functions of the cord, such as the intense pain in the back and shooting along the spinal nerves, spasms and rigidity of the muscles, e.(j., as often seen in spinal caries. In lesions of the substance of the cord,—aj., acute myelitis,—the symptoms are rather those of paralysis of muscles, and anesthesia, coming on rapidly, while the pain in the back and along the spinal nerves is not well marked ; l;ut there !i.re wcll-inarked trophic