213 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. again as fresh air is inhaled : consequently, this form of crepita- tion is heard almost invariably at the end of inspiration—e.g., in the first stage of lobar pneumonia. Those due to the bubbling of air through fluid contained in the vesicles, as in oedema of the lungs, are known as fine and course bubbling riiles, and are usually heard over the base of the lung, as the fluid of course tends to seek the lowest point. When " moist sounds " are heard at the ape.i-, it is strongly suggestive of phthisis, the sounds being caused by the presence of pus produced by ulceration. The dry rales, or rJioncld, are caused by anything that narrows the lumen of the bronchi, as swelUng of the mucous membrane, or the adhesion of viscid secretion, foreign bodies, etc. In the large tubes, the sound is low-pitched {sonorous), and in the small tubes it is high-j)itched and whisthng (sibilant). The dry rales are most characteristically heard in bronchitis. When we listen over the trachea while the patient speaks, it is possible to distinguish what he says; but if we listen over any part of the cliest, provided the lung is healthy, it is impossible to distinguish the words, all we hear being a confused murmur. This is known as the vocal resonance, or the auscultation of the voice. The reason we cannot distinguish the spoken words is because the sound-waves are so broken up by the air vesicles, being reflected and re-reflected, echoing and re-echoing, that it is impossible for the sound-waves to convey to the ear any meaning; but, let the vesicles be filled up, as in lobar pneumonia, then the sound-waves come straight along the bronchi, so that we can distinguish the spoken words, just as we do over the trachea normally. In this case the words seem spoken into the end of the stethoscope next the patient; this is called hronclioplwny. When this is still further intensified, and the patient's mouth seems to be close to the listening ear, it is called pectoriloquy; this may be heard over the very large bronchi, and over cavities. A more characteristic sign of a cavity, however, is v-hisperin(j pectorilo<pnj; the patient whispers in liis tliroat, witliout making any audible noise with the lips or tongue, and to one listening over a cavity, it seems as if his mouth were actually close to the listening ear. Over a cavity, too, the breath sounds resemble those produced by bloM'ing into an empty jar or bottle; this is known as the amphoric type of breathing,