40 Applied Anatomy: action, at the angle the masseter and the internal pterygoid practically balance each other; when the fracture is near tlie canine tooth, the mylo-hyoid tends to pull the broken bone inwards; in a fracture on each side of the symphysis, the central portion would be pulled downwards and backwards by the naylo- hyoid, genio-hyoid, the genio-hyoglossus, and the other depressor muscles of the jaw. Great care must be exercised in the treat- ment of this form lest the tongue fall back, or be forced back by the splint or bandage, and choke the patient. Treatment.—Mould the jaw into proper shape, and then keep the lower jaw fixed against the upper one by a four-tailed bandage; in this way the upper jaw acts as a splint. Some wire the teeth together, but this is apt to spoil them; others use a poroplastic or gutta percha splint, moulded to the jaw, embracing it in front and below; this is of doubtful utility, as the displacement is not outwards but toAvards the mouth. Thomas drills and wires the broken fragments together. The patient will have to be fed through the gap behind the last molar tooth, or where other teeth have been lost, with jiuid food; all talking must be mterdicted. The Four-tailed Bandage.—Take a cotton bandage, three inches wide and four to four-and-a-half feet in length (a Httle more than twice the circumference of the head), and fold it on itself at its middle ; then make a slit large enough to. admit the patient's chin—but not in the centre of the breadth, but in such a way that two inches may be on one side and one on the other. Lastly, make it four-tailed by splitting it lengthwise, in the same manner as the chin slit, to within two inches of the slit on each side; in this way there are two broad and two narrow tails. To apply.—Insert the point of the patient's chin into the slit, in such a way that the broad part of the bandage is underneath the jaw, and take the two broad tails and bring them up and tic loosely over the vertex; then carry the narrow ends back to a point behind and below the occipital protuberance and tie them there ; or, better, cross them there, lead them forwards to the forehead, and tie in front. Eeadjust and tighten the broad half of the bandage, and put in safety pins at the points where the bandages cross cacli other; this will prevent them slipping. This bandage may be used alone, or outside the moulded gutta percha splint.