272 Applied Anatomy: that exists between the aorta and the oesophagus, malignant disease of the (Esophagus is very apt to ulcerate into the aorta, and suddenly produce fatal haemorrhage. The patient is laid on his back, and, according to Sedillot, a crucial incision—each limb of which is about one inch and a half in length—should be made on the left side, two finger's-breadth to the inner side of the costal cartilages, and one-third nearer the ensiform cartilage than the umbilicus. This form of incision is rarely used at the present time. The space, in some part of which the opening should be made, is bounded on the left side by the eighth, ninth, and tenth costal cartilages—above and internally by the liver, aud below by a line drawn at the level of the tenth costal cartilages. This space is known as the " triangle of Tillaux." An oblique incision, made parallel with, and one or two finger's-breadth from, the costal margin—beginning at the sternal extremity of the seventh intercostal space, and carrying it down- wards and outwards from two to four inches,—is a form frequently used (Fig. 176, 1). Labbe contents himself with an incision in this position about an inch and a quarter, or an inch and a half in length, Howse prefers a vertical incision, nearly at the same level, passing through the outer fibres of the rectus muscle, which will, it is hoped, afterAvards act as a sphincter to the opening. The opening may also be made through the left linea semilunaris, or beyond this, passing through the three flat muscles of the abdomen. The instruments required are — Scalpel, dissecting forceps, probe-pointed bistoury, directors, plenty of Wells's forceps, broad copper retractors, blunt hooks, needles and silk, sponges, scissors, chloroform, a silver tube, etc. By some one of the foregoing incisions the abdominal wall is cut through, and when all the bleeding vessels are secured, the peritoneal cavity is opened and the stomach grasped and drawn out into the opening by ring - forceps, or a stitch. Care must be taken not to mistake the transverse colon for the stomach; but the colon is distin- guished by (a) its sacculi, (5) its longitudinal bands of muscular fibres, and (c) by the appendices epiploic;e, and {d) its thinner walls. If the colon presents it must be pushed downwards