541 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. Asthenopia.—Weakness of the eyes, or any condition in which the eyes cannot he nsed for long together; in the morning the patient sees well enough, hut the eyes soon feel fatigued. There are two forms—(1) Accommodative—from insufficiency of the ciliary muscle in hypermctropia, as it is constantly overtaxed iji efforts to sec near ohjects. The symptoms are heat, with dis- comfort, or actual pain in the eyes, a desire to close them, and after the patient reads a short time the letters seem to run together. (2) Muscular — from insufficiency of the internal recti in myopia; there is defective power of convergence of tlie optical axes, as the halance hetween the action of the ciliary muscle and the internal recti is disturbed. Astigmatism.—A form of ametropia due usually to irregular curvature of the cornea. It may he refjiilar or irregular. In regular, the meridians of greatest and least refractive power arc always at right angles to each other, and, as a rule, the one of greatest refractive power is vertical, or nearly so; and, of course, the rays passing through this meridian are brought to a focus before the rays passing through the other meridians. In irregular it is not so, as this condition is due to the result of corneal wouuds or ulcers, conical cornea, etc. Regular may be—(1) Simple, Avherc one meridian is natural, but the meridian at right angles is either myopic or hypermetropic. (2) Compouml, where all the meridians are either myojjic or hypermetropic, but one is more so than the other. (3) iI/;'.';efZ, where, for example, the meridian of least refraction is liypermetropic, and the one of greatest refraction is myopic. Blepharitis.—Inflammation, with the formation of pustules on tlic edge of the eyelids, at the points Avhere the eyelashes emerge from the skin, with inflammation of tlie hair follicles, as well as ■(jf the skill.- Blepharospasm.—Spasm of tlic orbicularis palpebrarum, often very markedly present in superficial strumous ulcers of the cornea '(p/i/if/enalar (•oHjiiiteHrilin}. Bupthalmos (Ox-Eye).—A disease probably allied to glaucoma, which comes on in very early life, ail'ects both eyes, and causes great defect of sight. The eye is enlarged in all its diameters, the anterior chamber very dee.p, the cornea usually hazy, and the teusion slightly increa.scd.