4.51 Surgical-, Medico/, and Operative, spaces thus formed the seniiual ducts begin (Fig. 221). Covering the inner surface of tlie tunica albuginea is the tunica vasculom, or the j>/a mater of the testicle. It consists chiefly of a delicate plexus of blood-vessels. Towards the posterior part we find the epididymis. This is an elongated crescent-shaped mass adapted to the upper end and tlie outer side of the posterior border ol the testicle; its upper end is larger than the rest and is called the (jlohus nuy'df, its lower end the cjlohus minor, and the part between the boitij of the epididymis. Seminal Tubules.—-The tubules begin in the lobules of the gland.; the lobides lie in the spaces formed by the septa from the mediastinum testis. Passing from the lobules we have—(1) The rasa recta: these enter the fibrous tissue of the mediastinum, and form a network called (2) the rete testis ; (■'>) from this sj^ring a number of ducts, called the vasa eferentia; (4) these in turn form the coni va^culosi, which, together, form the (.5) globus major of the epididymis. Next comes (6) the body of the epididymis, and then (7) the globus minor, or tail; from wluch (8) the vas deferens springs. About the junction of the globus minor and vas deferens, tlie vas aherrans of Haller is occasionally found. The Development of the Testicle.—The testicles arise in the abdominal region, in close relation to the AVolflian body, and from the same cell mass. The Wolffian bodies are often called the primonlial kiiJneys. The permanent kidneys arise in relation to the dorsal aspect of the "Wolffian duct. This duct is converted into the body and globus minor of the epididymis, the vas deferens, and the common ejaculatory duct. The vas aberrans is probably a persistent portion of the original tubules of tlie Wolffian body. The vasa eflferentia, coni vasculosi, and the globus major of the epididymis are produced from a special cell mass, distinct from, though close to, the Wolffian body. Its tubules then become continuous, on the one hand Avith the rete testis, and on the other with the body of the epididymis. In the female this mass of cells become converted into the par-ovarium of JCouelt (= the organ of EosENMULLER, or the epoljphoron of Waldeyer). The vasa elferontia of the male would in this way correspond to the par-"*^ ovarian tubules, Kobelt'« tubes, and also CIaertner's duct of the female. Kobelt's tubes are attached, by one end only—to