Applied Anatomy: 428 by the left hand and drawn over the lithotrite, which is held almost parallel with the abdomen at this stage. It thus descends to the bulb, the shaft becoming gradually perpendicular: it is not to be depressed at this stage, as is usual when passing a catheter, as this would make the blades impinge upon the upper wall of the urethra in front of the triangular ligament, and probably rupture the urethra. It is kept perpendicular and allowed almost to pass by its own weight till the point reaches the prostatic urethra, and then the handle is depressed and the instrument enters the bladder. To catch the Stone two plans may be adopted—(1) To make the lithotrite hunt for the stone (Civiale's, or the Continental plan). The stone is first felt by the closed lithotrite, which is then opened and the blades turned down upon the stone, just as a bird picks up a stone with its beak; this method may be necessary occasionally in picking up stones behind an enlarged prostate, but is not so good as the next method. (2) To make the stone come to the lithotrite (Brodie's, or the English method). The lithotrite is never shifted from the mesial plane; it rests in the middle line, the blades are then opened wide, the under one depressed when the stone rolls into its grasp. The stone must not be crushed in this position, but the lithotrite must first be raised, to make sure that no mucous membrane is grasped; it is then screwed home gradually and completely. The instrument must never be withdrawn till the blades are screwed completely home, otherwise fragments are left between the blades which lacerate the neck of the bladder and urethra. The fragments are then removed by means of the large evacuating catheters and aspirating siphon. Calculus in the Female.— Stone is of rare occurrence in women. When it does occur, it may be removed—(1) By Lithectasy, i.e., through the dilated urethra, dilated eitlier— (fl) by a sponge tent, or special dilator, or (ft) by incising the mucous membrane. (2) By Lithotomy — (ft) the supra - pubic operation, as in the male; {ji) the urethral operation, by introducing a grooved staff and cutting along it into the bladder; or (';) the vaginal operation, by cutting through the anterior wall of the vagina and the base of the bladder, (3) By Lithotrity, or Lltholapaxy.