Applied Anatomy: 518 fibroid of the uterus, nor when the head is firmly impacted in the pelvic brim. It cannot be performed twice on the same side. The operation is performed on the right side, since the presence of the rectum on the left side is against the operation on that side. Four special assistants are necessary, besides the one who administers chloroform. Position of the Patient.—She is placed on her back, with the pelvis raised, and in the same position as for ovariotomy. Before beginning the operation, the cervix must be dilated as far as possible. The operator stands on the right side. An assistant, standing on the left side, draws the uterus upwards, and to the left, as far as possible, while the Surgeon makes the incision. The incision begins one inch above the anterior superior spine of the ilium, and is carried downwards and inwards, in a slightly curved direction, parallel with Poupart's ligament, to a point about two inches above, and a like distance external to, the sjDine of the pubes —i.e., about the middle of Poupart's ligament. The incision is almost the same as that for ligature of the right external iliac artery by Abernethy's incision. It must not approach any nearer the spine of the pubes, lest the round ligament or the deep epigastric artery be wounded. The superficial epigastric is necessarily divided, and must be secured at once. The skin, superficial and deep fascia, the aponeurosis of the external oblique, the internal oblique, and the transversalis muscles are divided, and the fascia transversalis exposed. Secure all bleeding points, and then open this fascia. Next separate the peritoneum from the transversalis and iliac fascia, and direct an assistant to keep the peritoneal sac, witli the intestines, well out of the way, for the rest of the operation, by means of a Avarni, soft, aseptic cloth. Another assistant now passes a rigid catheter into the bladder, and holds it against the posterior wall of the bladder, or the anterior wall of the vagina. A blunt, bulbous instrument of some size is next passed up the vagina, and the vagina pushed by it above the ilio-pectineal line; on this an incision is made by Paquelin's cautery, heated to a red-heat only, as far below the uterus as possible, to avoid the large venous plexus at its upper part, and parallel with the ilio-pectineal line. Through the opening thus made the catheter is felt in the bladder, and then the vagina is torn through as far forwards and backwards