Applied Anatomy: 16 animals in their nocturnal revels. Small foreign bodies, sucli as peas or pills or small fruit stones, may pass the " Avrong way" and lodge in the ventricles, and quickly cause death from reflex spasm of the vocal cords; the ventricles are supplied hy the superior laryngeal. The length of the cords in the adult male is about five-eighths of an inch (Holden) ; in females and boys thej' are shorter than i]i the adult male. The greater the length of tlie cords, other things being equal, the deeper the voice. The Rim a Glottidis is the opening between the true vocal cords in front, and the bases of the arytenoid cartilages behind \ it consists therefore of two parts—(1) The vocal part in front, between the cords; and (2) the respiratory part behind, between the cartilages. It is the narrowest part of the larynx, and in the male it measures rather less than an iuch in length, and is about a third to lialf-an-inch in breadth when dilated; in the female it is less by two or three lines. Duriug quiet breathing the opening represents a narrow isosceles triangle with the l>ase behind, the sides, at the posterior part, being shghtly bent iuAvards at an obtuse angle. In inhaling a very deep breath, they are separated to the widest jJossible extent, and represent a wide, almost pentagonal, opening. During the emission of a high note, the opposite cords and cartilages are abnost in contact, leaving a narrow parallel slit between them. The intrinsic Muscles of the Larynx.—(1) Crico-arytenoideus posticus—Each muscle arises from the posterior surface of the cricoid cartilage, passes upAvards and outwards, and is insi^rtcil into the posterior external tubercle of the arytenoid. (2) Crico- arytenoideus lateralis — Each muscle arises from the up]ier border (jf the lateral part of the cricoid cartilage, passes upwards and backwards, and is inserted into the posterior tubercle of the arytenoid cartilage. (3) Arytenoideus — A transverse band of muscular fibres passing from the posterior surface of one arytenoid cartilage to the same part of the other. (4) Crico-thyroid—Each muscle arises from the side of the cricoid cartilage, and is inserted into the lower border of the thyroid, including the lesser cornu. (5) Thyro - arytenoideus—Arises from the angle between the wings of the thyroid cartilage, and is inserted into the front part (if tlic l)asp of llic arytenoid cartilago; tliey lie parallel with and to