Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 469 and one shonld be inserted just beyond each end of the wound. Try if it is water-tight before closing the abdominal wound. In all abdominal sections the bladder must be first emptied lest it be cut by the Surgeon, as occasionally happens. Clinical Points.—(1) The internal trigone is the most sensitive and the most vascular part of the bladder, and it is always smooth, as there is no submucous coat, the mucous membrane being attached to the muscular coat directly; it is also the lowest part of the bladder, and as the bladder contracts, a calculus, if present, is pressed against this very sensitive part. (2) Bladder afiections react on the rectum, through the pelvic portion of the sympathetic and the fourth sacral nerve. (3) When obstructions exist to the outflow of vxrine, if the obstruction is not too complete and the patient not debilitated, the wall of the bladder hyper- trophies, and the bundles of muscular fibres stand out like the columnaj carnea3 of the heart, forming " fasciculated bladder;" these fasciculi may become coated with phosphates, and lead the Surgeon to think that the bladder contains a stone. (4) But if the obstruction is too complete or the patient debilitated, the wall of the bladder dilates and tbins, and may rujiture. (5) In cases of hypertrophy, the mucous membrane is sometimes forced through between the bundles of muscular fibres, forming sacculi—• "sacculated bladder;" the walls of the sacculi contain no mus- cular fibres. (6) The saccidi lodge residual urine, which is apt to decompose and deposit phosphates; in this way encysted calculi are formed. HiEMATURIA. Blood in the Urine may be derived from the Urethra, Bladder, or Kidney :— 1. From the Urethra.—In this case it may pass independently of urine or micturition; it may pass with the first few drops, with or without the passage first of a long clot, the size and shape of the urethra. It may also pass with the last few drops of urine, when it comes from tlie prostate or neck of bladder; it will be impossible to distinguish profuse prostatic from vesical hemorrhage by mere examination of the urine, as the blood Hows into the bladder from the prostate.