235 Surgical, ilfedical, and Operative. at the auterior part of the lateral column, just iu front of the crossed pyramidal tract. There is still another tract that should be noted—viz., the postero-external column (column of Burdach), situated in the posterior column, close to the posterior cornu; this is the tract where the changes are first seen in locomotor ataxia (Fig. 172). These tracts cannot he distinguished in the healthy cord, it is only when they are cut off from their trophic centres and undergo degeneration that they are rendered visible; the motor tracts are the seat of descending degeneration, while the sensory are the seat of ascending. The troi^hic centres for the motor strands are in the third layer of the grey matter of the cerebrum; those for the sensory strands are in the ganglia on the posterior roots of the spinal nerves. In addition, however, to the motor fibres in crossed pyramidal tract, we also fiud other two sets of fibres—{a) The vaso-motor, and (Z;) fibres that convey impulses for the inhibition of spinal reflex action; the latter fibres probably come from the corpora quadrigemina, and pass to the large cells of the anterior horn; hence, when the crossed tract degenerates, these fibres are also destroyed, the results being dilatation of blood-vessels and exag- geration of the normal reflexes. MOTOR AND SENSORY PATHS. Motor Path:— 1. Motor centres on the surface of the brain, iu the region of the fissure of Eolando. 2. The fibres of the corona radiata. 3. The anterior part of the posterior division of the internal capsule. 4. The corpus striatum, partly. 5. The superficial longitudinal fibres of the crura and pons (= the crusta). G. The anterior pyramids of the medulla, where most of the fibres cross to the opposite side, to form the crossed pyramidal tract; a few fibres do not cross, but pass down the same side as the direct pyramidal tract. 7. The crossed pyramidal tract of the opposite side of the cord, and the direct pyramidal of the same side.