334 Applied Anatomy: incision resembles that for colotouiy. When tlie kidney is readied a second incision is made by dividing the tissues fi'om within outwards by a probe-pointed bistoury; this second cut is vertical, along the outer border of the quadratus lumborum, and joins the previous incision about an inch from its posterior end. By means of the second incision the pedicle is ligatured more easily; in cases where the space is small, some Surgeons advise excision of a part of the last rib, although Mr Morris strongly condemns this practice, preferring, if more room be reqiiired during ligature of the pedicle, to drag the lower ribs forcibly upwards, with the fingers of the left hand dipped into the wound. In the pedicle the vessels and the lu'eter are usually ligatured separately; the ligature is passed by means of an aneurism needle. If the vessels are ligatured separately the arterij must be ligatured before the vein. The lower ribs are then pulled upwards and the kidney dragged into tlie wound, another ligature applied to the pedicle, which is then divided and the kidney removed; in many cases it will be advisable to incise the capsule and enucleate the Ividney, leaving the capsule behind wvtli the jiedicle^—-especially in cases where there has been much peri-renal inflammation. All bleeding vessels are then tied, the sutures cut oH' short and dropped into the wound ; a tube, like that used in lithotomy, Avithout lateral perforations, is then inserted and the wound closed. This tube is to carry ofi" the urine alone; if the wound requires draiuagi' a sej^arate tube must be used, as the urine is not to be allowed to flow over the surfaces of the wound. If tlie wound is in the substance of the kidney, the tube is left in two or three daj's; if in the pelvis, it must be left in a Aveek or ten days. Tlie dangers of this operation are—tearing open the peritoneum or colon, injury to the vessels from too great strain, giving rise to luvuiorrhagc later, unemia, haemorrhage from the broken up kidney-substance, and shock. The Abdominal Incision.— This form is used in tlie case of large tumours, and for the excision of wandenng kidney. An incision is made, opposite the kidney lo be removed, in the coiTC- sponding linea semilunaris, its length varying mth the size of the tumour to be removed. Tiiis incision is the more fatal of the two, and for tliis reason the other is lo be used -wliere possible. Its chief