543 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. Further, in glioma the growth goes on increasing, destroys the cornea, and projects from the eyeball; but in suppurative choroiditis the eyeball soon begins to shrink. Chalazion.—A little cyst or tumour, formed by obstruction to, or overgrowth of, a meibomian gland. C hem OS is. — Eifusion into the cellular tissue connecting the conjunctiva with the eyeball, raising it in a ridge around the cornea: it accompanies some of the more severe forms of con- junctivitis, as ophthalmia neonatorum. Coredialysis.—A tearing away of the iris from its ciliary attachment, as from a blow or concussion, but without rupture of the hard coats of the eye; this takes place because the iris is not very firmly adherent at its insertion (the ligamentum pedinatum). Corelysis.—An operation for the purpose of freeing the iris from posterior adhesions to the front of the lens capsule, either by means of a spatula-like hook to tear them, or fine cannula scissors to cut them, introduced through an incision at the corneal margin, usually at a point oj^posite to that of the adhesion. Cyclitis.—Inflammation of the ciliary processes; it is rarely found alone, but is usually associated with inflammation of the iris, sclerotic, or cornea. The signs resemble those of iritis, but vision is more impaired than one would exi:)ect for the appear- ances present, and the eye in the ciliary region is very tender to touch. Dacryo-Cystitis.—Inflammation of the lachrymal sac. Discission.'—The method of treating cataract l.)y solution. The inipil is first dilated, then a needle is introduced, and the capsule of the lens lacerated, and the lens substance broken up; it is then gradually absorbed by the action of the aqueous humour. It is also called Ki'mfnni/.''i>i. .Severe blows on the eye may also rupture the lens capsule, when tlie aqueous humour enters and is imbibed by the lens fibres, which swell up, speedily become opatjue, disintegrate, and are finally absorbed: this is called traumatic cutaract. Distichiasis.—Where tlicre seem to be two rows of eyelashes; one is in the normal petition, the other is misdirected and rubs against the globe.