Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 229 of the incision, and if this is not the lowest part of the wound, tlieu anotlicr special opening must be made at the very lowest part by the dressing forceps and scalpel, after Hilton's method of opening abscesses, and a tube introduced there also. To bring the edges of the wound together it will in all probability be necessary to introduce two or three silver-wire " button sutures," then several deep horse-hair (double hairs) sutures (^^ sutures of support," or of relaxation), to bring the deep parts together, and also to relax the edges of the skin Avound; and lastly, a number of finer horse-hair (single hair), sutures to bring the skin edges accurately into apposition (" t^utures of apposition," or of co-aptation). In tying horse-hair sutures it is better to put the first knot twice through to prevent it slipping; in introducing the superficial sutures carefully avoid any in turning of the lips of the ■wound or protrusion of fat. Protective is then jilaced over the wound, and over the buttons, and then a large amount of antiseptic wool, the arm being brought close to the side, and the fore-arm laid across the chest, with the hand pointing to the opposite shoulder; it is then to be firmly bandaged to the side, somewhat after the manner of treating fractured clavicle. The dressings will require to be changed within the first four-and- twenty hours. After excision of the breast, especially in cases where the axilla has been cleared out, there may bo a good deal of stiffness of the arm, pain and swelling of the hand; this is due to the cicatricial tissue pressing on the nerves and veins and binding the arm down. Thomas's Operation for Simple iVIammary Tumours.—The operation consists in making the incision along the curved groove formed below the breast, where it hangs against the thorax. The gland is then turned up from the muscle, and the tumour removed from its lower surface by a radial incision. The chief advantage of this operation is the avoidance of obvious mutilation. The Lymphatics of the breast pass to the glands in the anterior fold of the axilla, and a few into the anterior mediastinal glands. In both cases the infection may reach the root of the neck—in the one case, to the glands at the base of the posterior triangle; in the other, to those near the origin of the stcruo-niastoid.