59 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. palate, and arc composed of epithelial cells. (2) Dermoids proper also occur liere, and at first sight may be mistaken for an additional tongue, being of the same colour and consistence as that organ. THE TEETH. In connection witli the inter-maxillary and pre-maxillary bones, and the occasional jiresence of three incisor teeth on each side instead of the usual number, in man, it is interesting to observe the presence and disappearance of a similar condition in the lower animals. In the Ungulata, or hoofed quadrupeds, including the Pachydermata {e.g., tapirs), the Solidungula {e.g., the horse, the ass, and the zebra), and the liuminantia {e.g., the ox, the sheep, and antelope), three incisors is the rule. In the typical ruminant, as the ox, we find three in the lower jaw, but none in the upper, only a callous pad of hardened gum against which the lower incisors impinge. In the Carnivora, also, as the lion and tiger, thi'ee incisors is the rule. Approaching the higher group of the animal kingdom, the Quadrumana, we find that the true lemurs, found in Madagascar, and which may be regarded as the lowest order of the group, have usually three incisors, though they may be very much modified, as when met with in man. In the Platyrhine group the dentition is almost the same as in man, only the premolars are more numerous; and in the highest or Catarhine group, Avhich includes the anthropoid apes, the dentition is exactly the same as in man. Eruption of the Teeth in Man.—The milk set are twenty in number, and appear during the following months:— Incisors. Canines. Molars.. 7-9 18 12-24 'I'hi.s only represents a half of one jaw, but the rest are just tlie same, only tlie lower teeth usually appear a little in advance of the upper. The permanent teeth are thirty-two in number, and appear during the following years :— Incisors. Canines. IMcnspid.s. Alolars. 7-8 11-12 9-10 G, 12-13, 17-2.5 Or the years may bo arranged tlius':— "'. L i. b. h. c. VI. III. 0 7 8 9 10 11-12 12-13 17-25