Siirgicn/, Medical, and Operative. to tho iliac crest this fascia is pierced b}' the tenuiual hranchcs of the deep circuiuHex iliac artery, ilio-hypogastric, and last dorsal nerves. Ilio-psoas Fascia.—This is one continuous sheet also, covering these muscles in the iliac fossa. Above the level of the iliac crests, it is thin and narrow and envelops the psoas muscle, being attached externally to the anterior layer of the fascia lumhorum (that layer arising from the root of the transA^erse processes and passing in front of the quadratus lumhorum), and internally to the spinal column by a series of fibrous arches that bridge over the lumbar arteries. Above, it forms the ligamentum arcuatum internum. Below, it is more properly called the iliac fascia, and is attached to the crest of the ilium externally; and internally, after passing over the psoas, it is fixed to the brim of the true pelvis and side of sacrum. Ou the outer side of the external iliac vessels it is continuous with the fascia transversalis, and is, with it, attached to Poupart's ligament, and behind the vessels it is carried doAvn into the thigh as the posterior layer of the femoral sheath. It passes with the ilio-psoas muscle to its insertion, and blends with the fascia lata; there is no definite septum between the psoas and iliacus, and it is only loosely attached to both, on the ujjper surface. The external Uiac vessels lie upon this fascia, the anterior crural and external cutaneous nerves lie behind it, while tlie genito-crural nerve pierces it to join the external iliac artery. A Psoas Abscess passes under the ligamentum arcuatum internum, and enters tho psoas sheath, passes down and forms a swelling above the middle of Poupart's ligament j it does not, as a rule, pass into the pelvis, because of the attachment of the ilio-psoas fascia to the brim, but fills up the iliac fossa. It then passes by a nan-ow neck under Poupart's ligament in the line of the anterior crural nerve to the outer side of the femoral vessels; then, guided by the profunda, it passes under the femoral vessels and forms a collection on the inner side of these structures, bounded by the adductor magnus behind, the longus in front, and the gracilis internally. A fully formed psoas abscess, there- fore, consists of four parts—(1) A narrow part in tho psoas sheath, (2) a well in the iliac fossa, (3) a narrow neck under Poupart's ligament, and (4) a well in the inner side of the thigh (Fig. 234),