Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 221 expectorated material containing liair. Tliej'^ may also give rise to symptoms suggestive of an empyema. The superior vena cava may be occluded, from the pressure of cidarged glands, tumours, and gummata; and this being the case, the blood must reach the heart in a roundabout way through the inferior vena cava; the veins of the abdominal wall often enlarge to a very great extent, and become varicose; and if the superior vena cava is at fault, when a portion of one of the enlarged veins on the surface is emptied by pressure, it is seen to fill from above downwards. The azygos veins, too, Avill take a very large share of the work when the cavte are blocked. The vena azijgos major communicates below with the lumbar veins, tributaries of the inferior vena cava, and above it opens into the lower part of the superior vena cava. The vena azygos minor su2')erior communicates above with the vein that carries the blood from the upper two intercostal spaces to the left innominate vein, while below, at the level of the eighth dorsal vertebra, it joins the vena azygos major. The vena azygos minor inferior begins below, from one of the lumbar veins, and at the level of the ninth dorsal vertebra it also joins the vena azygos major. For the effects of aneurism on the contents of the cliest, refer to " Aneurism of the Arch of the Aorta" (vol. i., page 34), "Aneurism of the Descending Thoracic Aorta" (vol. i., page 40), "Aneurism of the Innominate" (voh i., page 53), and " Carotids." See also, "Paralyses of the Larynx" (vol. ii., page 18). Abscesses may spread down from the neck, or develop in situ, from suppurating glands or caries of the vertebra?. Dermoid cysts are also occasionally found in the mediastinum, and the bronchial and mediastinal glands are enlarged in "Wool-sorters' disease." The mediastinal glands may also be enlarged in malignant disease of the ovary, e.g., alveolar sarcoma, and the tumour thus formed may cause death, by pressure upon the bronchus. The leading signs, tlierefore, of Mediastinal Tumours arc— (I'^dcma of tlie arm and hand, a swollen and livid condition of the neck and face, due to the blocking of the large thoracic veins. When the superior vena cava is blocked, the azygos veins carry on the circulation ; when both innominate veins are blocked, the superficial veins of the cliest and back carry the blood past the