154 Applied A luxtoiiiy : and rest u2)on a spliut afterwards, may be enough. If uot, and should it pass under the annular ligament, make a small incision above, and another below, the annidar ligament, and drain with an ordinary tube, catgut, or horse-hair for a few days, with strict antiseptic precautions. Should it be septic or suppurating in the first instance, or unfortunately become so during treatment, then wo may use Syjce's plan of completely dividing the anterior annular ligament; but first patiently try the effect of a continu- ous warm boracic lotion bath. Tor the form with melon seed bodies, a puncture must always be made in the first instance, to let them out, then treat with pressure, and rest on a splint; otherwise, the treatment is the same as in the serous variety. Ec very careful and particular about antiseptic precautions in these operations, as an error in this respect may cost the patient his hand or even his life. In cases where the large sheath under the anterior annular ligament is very full or much enlarged, fluctuation can readily be felt between the hollow in the palm, and the lower part of the fore-arm, above the annular ligament. In order to make an opening into this collection for the purposes of drainage, make an incision a little to the ulnar side of the palmaris longus, just sufticiently fixr to avoid the median nerve, squeeze out the melon seed bodies, and then insert a catgut or liorse-hair drain. In order to make drainage free, it may be necessary to divide the anterior annular ligament subcutaneously with a probe-pointed bistourj'. In cases where the sheath does not project mucli, j^ress a thumb on the hollow between the thenar and hypo-thenar eminences, when a prolongation of the sheath will be made to project above the ligament, to the ulnar side of the palmaris longus, at the exact place Avhere the upper opening should be made. " Dupuytren's Contraction."—This is a chronic, inflammatory thickening and contraction of the palmar fascia, especially of its digital prolongations; the contracted bands begin at the line of transverse flexion of the palm, and the flexion is most marked opposite the second j^halanx. The disease begins as a hard knot in the palm, about the level of the transverse line of flexion, and opposite the root of the ring finger; this finger is then gradually bent into the palm; the little finger is next afi'ected, and it is often more bent than the ring finger; the other fingers are not much