87 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. Cautions.—The chief points to be attended to are—(1) To avoid the course of sinuses and arteries, and also sutures, because veins very often pass through at or near sutures. (2) To work the trephine very cautiously, as one can have no idea of the thickness of the skull—it may be very thin or very thick, or one side thick, the other thin; the rule Mr Chiene gives is, to trephine just as if the skull in question were the thinnest skull ever seen, and thinner in one half of the circle than the other. (3) The pericranium must be preserved. The old way was to make a crucial incision through everything right down to the bone at once, and then turn back the flaps. At the present time a V- or horse-shoe-shaped incision is usually employed; the flap must be made in such a way that the blood-vessels are cut where they are smallest—i.e., the convexity of the horse-shoe must be towards the saggital suture, so that the trunks of the arteries are in the base of the flap. (4) The circle of bone must be sawn com- pletely through before it is removed, or a sharp splinter is left on the inner edge, which is difficult to remove, and which if not removed will set up inflammation of the membranes. The centre pin of the trephine is made to project, and fixed by the screw at one side for that purpose; it is then applied to the denuded bone, into which the centre pin is at once pressed, so that it may fix the trephine head till it has made a groove for itself. It is rotated alternately from right to left, until the groove is sufficiently deep to hold the crown, when the centre pin must be withdrawn. The groove is to be cleared out from time to time by a small brush, and measured by a quill or probe to see if it is of the same depth all the way round. "When the diploc is reached the sawdust will he tinged with blood, and then the operator must be specially cautious. With the view of avoiding wound of the dura mater, some operators recommend a conical-crowned trephine. When to Trephine.—No exact rules can be laid down for all cases; each case must be judged on its own merits. The following rules (after Spenck) may be taken as fairly typical and trust- worthy:—{\) At once, in all cases of distinct punctured fracture. In these cases the fracture is, of course, always compound, and we know that the inner table is much broken up, probably into a number of loose, sharp-cornered fragments, which are sure to