331 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. OPERATIONS PERFOEMED ON THE KIDNEY. Diagnostic Incisions.—A diagnostic incision is one that is used, in cases of doiilit, to clear up the diagnosis, and also, if necessary, for treatment as well. Various forms are used — (1) Professor Chiene always uses a vertical incision, as for colotomy, only well up into the angle between the last rib and the erector spina-; by this incision the anatomical guides are more definite—first the edge of the erector spina?, and then the edge of the quadratus lumboruni. Should the kidney require removal, the space may be increased a more or less transverse cut at the upper end of the vertical incision. (2) Another way is to make the oblique cut first, and tlien, if necessary, add tlie vertical. An incision is made from below the free end of the last rib backwards to the edge of the erector spinte; tlie posterior end of this incision must be at least three - quarters of an inch below the rib, lest the jileura be wounded. Then, should the kidney require excision, a vertical incision is made downwards, along the outer border of the ijuadratus lumborum. Tapping the Kidney.—This operation is performed for («) hydro- nephrosis, (/>) pyonephrosis, and {(•) large isolated cysts, whether s(>rous, bloody, or from hydatids, when there is danger of the cyst ^\■all giving way, or the pressure symptoms are serious. Seat of Puncture.—Over a fiuctuating point, if there is one; if not, then on the left side, about an inch in front of the last intercostal space (see Fig. 179, 5) : on the right side, midway between the last rib and the iliac crest, about two inches and a half behind the anterior superior iliac spine (see Fig. 179, 6'). The puncture is made in this position on the right side, to avoid the liver. Risks of the Operation.—(a) Ell'usion of tlie contents into the peritoneal cavity—the peritoneum is usually adherent and prevents this accident; (/;) puncture of gut; (c) puncture of some of the largo a1)dominal vessels; {d) puncture of tlie liver; and (*') puncture of tlie pleura, if too near the last rib. Nephrotomy. — P.y this is meant an incision into the kidney for puri.oses otlier tlian tlie I'cmoval of a calculus, it is used for— (") llydro-nephrosis, when the cyst refills quickly, after repeated