13 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. trachea. Tlie anterior aspect of the head is bevelled off where it rests against the base of the epiglottis, and at its anterior part is a small eye, through wliicli a double thread is passed, lielow the the neck is a fusiform enlargement, to make the tube self-retaining. Each tube is fitted witli a jointed obturator, in the upjjer end of which is an opening to receive the introducer. Tlie stem oX the introducer is fitted with a sliding tube, which may be pushed for- wards by a thumb-piece to release the obturator from the laryngeal tube when the latter is in position in the glottis. The extractor is constructed on the principle of a dilator. When used, the closed bhides are passed into the end of the laryngeal tube ; a lever on the handle is then pressed down to open the blades, which impinge against the inner aspect of the tube, and hold it firmly so that it may Ije witlidrawn. The Operation.—A suitable tulje should be threaded with silk or linen tluead, making a loop about sixteen inches in length. The obturator should then be screwed upon the introducer and the tube attached; the instrument is then ready for use, and should be placed upon a table within easy reach. The child is wrapped in a shawl and held upright in the nurse's lap, with its liead resting against her left shoulder; an assistant stands behind, to hold the gag and steady the child's head. The gag is inserted on tlie left side. The Surgeon then passes his left index Knger "ver the tongue, behind the epiglottis, and feels the arytenoid cartilages; then the introducer, with the tube attached, is passed under the forefinger and directed into the larynx, and, when through the glottis, is lield by the index finger while the obturator is disengaged. The thread attached to the tube is allowed to remain tiU the child has cleared the trachea and got over the dyspnoea caused Ijy the introduction; the finger is then unce more placed upon the head of the tube, the thread divided and withdi'awn. The object of the tJiread is to enable the tulie to be withdrawn, should it have been passed into the pharynx. iSo anaesthetic is used, nor does the child complain of pain. Should any difficulty be experienced in the fii'st attempt, the apparatus should be withdrawn to give the child air. That the tube has entered the larynx will be indicated by violent coughing and easy respiration. The tube should be removed probably from the fourth