454 Applied Anatomy: abdomiual ring; it also passes do^Yn below the testicle, so that if well marked, the testicle cannot be felt at the bottom of the scrotum. The fluid is pale yellow or amber coloured, sometimes a little greenish, and without smell. It is neutral in reaction, and the specific gravity is about 1024, and it contains about G per cent, of albumen, as shown by heat and nitric acid, and farther con- tains fibrinogen. This fluid contains more albumen and fil^rinogen than the fluid of ordinary dropsy. In old chronic cases, it may have a glistening or sparkling appearance, from the presence of cholesterine crystals, the result of fatty changes. There is an acute form of hydrocele which is associated with acute epididy- mitis ; it is painful and tender, and the skin over it is red. The fluid in this case may coagulate spontaneously. Acute hydrocele is not so common with acute orcMHs, as the strong tunica albuginea lies between the inflamed structure and the serous covering; but in epididymitis the inflamed tubules are just outside the tunica vaginalis. It is very probable that the usual chronic hydrocele is associated with some inflammation of the testicle proper, evident or obscure. In hydrocele the fluctuation is free and uniform all over and in all directions, and this distinguishes it from cystic tumours of the testicle. In tapping this distended sac, grasp the tumour with the left hand, so that the testicle lies in the centre of the palm, and hold the trocar in the right hand, with the index finger about three-quarters of an inch from its tip, to prevent it going too far, and with the thumb on the flange to press the cannula home, and then plunge it with a sudden thrust into the most prominent part of the front of the scrotum, so as to avoid injury to the testicle, which is usually at the posterior part; it is first plunged in perpendicularly, and then made to pass obliquely upwards (Fig. 222). In tapping for vaginal hydrocele, carefuUy avoid large veins, and make sure that the case is not one of inversion of the Testicle —i.e., the testicle lying in front, instead of at the back, of the scrotum, or that it is not fixed there by previous inflammatory adhesions; further, make sure that the condition is chronic. The position of the testicle may be made out by the aid of a caudle and stethescope, as well as by the " testicular sensation" produced when the place where the testicle is situated is squeezed. When