Applied Anatomy: 528 second cervical lierVe), and also by the posterior division of tlie third cervical nerve. Its most internal part is often named the Biventer cervicis, as it consists of two fleshy bellies with an intervening tendon. Between this muscle and the underlying semi-spinalis colli, we find the profunda cervicis artery anas- tomosing with the j)rinceps cervicis, and the vertebral; also the posterior branches of the cervical jjlexus of nerves. It further forms the immediate roof of the sub-occipital triangle (see vol, ii., page 230). CHEST. 27. External Intercostals.—Eleven in number on each side; they are placed between adjacent ribs, and extend from the tubercles of the ribs to the point of union of the rib with its cartilage. From this point to the sternum, a membrane extends, called the anterior intercostal membrane. The fibres pass down- wards and forwards. 28. Internal Intercostals.—Equal in number to the anterior, but the fibres of which are directed obliquely downwards and backwards; they extend from the angles of the ribs to the edge of the sternum. The gap thus left behind is completed by the posterior intercostal membrane. The intercostal nerves lie be- tween the two muscular layers, as far as the mid-axillary line; but at this point they pierce the internal intercostal muscle very obliquely, and opposite the cartilages they are placed between the internal muscle anteriorly, and the pleura and triangularis sterni muscle posteriorly. The internal mammary artery is also in front of these nerves. The intercostal arteries lie between the muscles practically all the way round. In each space one artery comes forwards, while two pass backwards. Pa><fing forwards, in the upper tM'o spaces, the vessels come from the superior intercostal artery; in the lower nine, from the aorta. Passing haclcwanU, in the upper seven spaces, the vessels are derived from the internal mammary artery; in tlie lower four, from the musculo-phrenic. As far as the mid-axillary line, the single vessel lies \uidcr cover of the lower edge of the rib, but at this point each divides into two twigs, which pass forwards along each edge of the space and ana.stoniose with the corresponding anterior intercostals.