Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 117 by the zygomatic surface. Its aperture is near the u]-)per level of the cavity, and communicates with the middle meatus of tlie nose, the position of the opening being about the centre of the middle meatus, and one inch above the floor of the nasal cavity; the opening here is sufficiently large to admit the end of a small probe, and in some cases is much larger. Projections into the floor are made by the fangs of the first and second molar teeth usually, but others may also project into it, from the canine to the wisdom, inclusive. The fangs of the first molar may lie free in the cavity, being simply covered by the mucous membrane. A growth in the cavity may, therefore, readily encroach upon the orbit above, displacing the eyeball and giving rise to double yision unilateral optic neuritis, and severe neuralgia, from pressure on the infra-orbital nerve; the nose, on the inner side, closing up that cavity and also obstructing the nasal duct of the same side, causing " stillicidium lachrymarum ;" in front, causing a projection on the cheek; behind, into the zygomatic fossa ; and downwards, into the floor of the mouth. The antrum should always be first examined in any supposed tumour of the upper jaw. Diseases of this Cavity.—1. Tumours—(a) Malignant often begin in the antrum, such as sarcomata, and a very rapidly-growing form of epithelioma—the "boring epithelioma;" the Surgeon must be on his guard, as a sarcoma of the upper jaw may at first cause symptoms resembling toothache, the patient thinks, or neuralgia. Epithelioma may also simulate caries or necrosis. (&) Simple, such as enchondroma, fibroma, osteoma, etc. 2. Suppuration and Abscess—This may arise from—(a) In- flammation spreading from the nose and blocking up the opening of the antrum, leading to tension and abscess; (6) from disease of the teeth, as suppuration of the fangs of the bicuspids or first molars; (c) in weak debilitated strumous children, after fevers, etc., and in such cases there is often disease of the bone as well; and {(1) it may arise from injury. If the opening is not blocked up, then tlie pus may overflow into the nostril, especially, when tlie patient lays the sound side of tlie head flat on a pillow; but if llu! opening be blocked up, it will most probably point at the upper part, under the orbit, or through tlie thin canine fossa, lower down.