393 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. THE PERINEUM. Dissection of the Perineum. — The Anatomical perineum corresponds to the inferior outlet of the pelvis, and in shape resembles an heraldic lozenge, and has the following boundaries— In front, the symphysis pubis and sub-pubic ligament; laterally, in front, the divergent rami of the pubic arch, and tuberosities of the ischia—behind, the convergent great sacro-sciatic ligaments, overlapped by the glutei maximi muscles ; and behind by the tip of the coccyx. The space is divided into two jDarts by a line passing from the anterior border of one tuberosity of the ischium to the other; tlie posterior division is called the rectal part, and the anterior division the urethral. The Surgical perineum does not extend so far back; it must be regarded as ending at the "central point of the perineum"—the point where the terminal prolongation of the triangular ligament is attached, and where the superficial perineal fascia turns round the transversus perinei muscle to be attached to the base of the triangular ligament; the two transversus perinei muscles, accelerator urinas, and siDhincter ani all meet at this point: it is midway between the anus and the root of the scrotum. All beyond this point is to be regarded as ischio-rectal fossa, or the rectal part of the anatomical perineum. The female perineum is the angular interval left between the rectum (third part) as it passes downwards and backwards, and the vagina as it passes downwards and forwards. The Posterior or Rectal Part.—This part is the same in both sexes, and contains the lower end of tlie rectum and tip of the coccyx ; and on either side there is a space known as the " ischio- rectal fossa." Each space is pyramidal in shape, and has the following boundaries—Its base is formed by the skin and fascia covering it; its apex by the meeting of the outer and inner Avails; the outer wall is the obturator fascia covering the obturator internus muscle, and giving a sheath to the internal pudic artery; the inner wall is the fascia covering the levator ani and external .sphincter niusclcs; the anterior wall is formed by the base of the triangular ligament and transverse perineal muscle; the posterior wall i.s formed by the gluteus maximus, great sacro-sciatic ligament, and the coccygeus muscle.