287 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. to caution the student not to attempt to get this gurgling by pressure, lest, by so doing, the pressure cause an ulcerated patch to burst into the peritoneum. (3) At the point where the colon (right or left) is opened in colotomy, the quadratus lumboruni is just behind it, so that this muscle must be divided or pushed to the inner side, in order to reach the gut. Further, the outer edge of the erector spin;e usually corresponds with the part of the colon uncovered by peritoneum. On this bare part is the posterior longitudinal band, which is more easily seen if the gut is looked at obliquely, so as to let the light glint off it. (4) Tlie Sigmoid Flexure forms a loop like a cajiital C, the narrow open part of the C corresponding to the root of the mesentery; and when this is narrow the gut is very apt, when loaded with fasces in chronic constipation, to twist, the upper part of the loop toppling down over the lo^\•er half, giving rise to the condition of Volvulus— a condition which, when once produced, will never right itself Avitliout an operation. (5) Cases of Intussusception occur most frequently in the ileo-ceecal region, at the point where the ileum joins the large gut, probably due to the difference in calibre of the two tubes, aided by the fixity of the Cii'cum and the mobile lower end of the ileum, and probably also by the sphincter-like action of the ileo-cajcal valve. Remember it is usually the ileum and c;ecum that pass into the colon, preceded by the ileo-ca'cal valve, wliich in the usual variety always forms the apex of the intussusception, even though it should protinde at the anus. (6) Malignant Disease of the large intestine (columnar-ceUed f^yithel/oma or cijliiidrovia) is usually found in the rectum, or at the point where it joins the sigmoid flexure, and then after that at the various Jh.atrc-'-: (7) Foreign Bodies, as pins, fi.sh-bones, etc., if they pass the stomach, may stick at the ilco-ctecal valve, or appendix, but most frequently are caught in the rectum, and may there give rise to ischio-rectal abscess. (8) Large masses of foreign materials in the rectum naturally lead to attempts at expulsion, but if the mass be fixed, as in cases of cancer, an intussusception, the attenqits, of course, fail, though tliey are frequently repeated, causing tlic very painful condition known as /enesiiius. (9) In cases of obstruc- tion of the large gut any wliere, the ctecum seems to be always more severely distended than any other part of the gut. (10) In cases of