445 Stirg-ical, Medical, and Operative and two lateral. The middle lobe is tlie smallest of the three, ami lies immediately below the prostatic portion of the urethra; it is pyriform in shape, and wheu prominent the base projects into the bladder, forming the mmla vesicce. From base to apex the prostate measures twelve to fourteen lines in the adult, and from the apex at the membranous portion of the urethra downwards and outwards it measures three or four lines more; it is in this latter direction that the incision is made in lateral lithotomy—both because we get more room, and also because the incision is not likely to injure the visceral layer of the pelvic fascia. Its usual size is an inch and a half in the transverse diameter at the base, an inch and a quarter in its antero-posterior, and nearly an inch in thickness. In elderly men the prostate frequently becomes enlarged, and it is the middle lobe in some cases that seems to enlarge most, or the enlargement of which gives rise to the most serious consequences. This is probably partly from its position, as it wiU tend to grow in the direction of least resistance, that is, up into the base of the bladder. According to Sir Henry Thomson, a measurement of two inches from side to side, and a weight of one ounce, means hypertrophy: the usual weight is about six drachms. The results of the enlargement are:—(1) A poucli is formed behind the projection, so that the urine tends to dribble away after it has passed in a full stream; in many cases, also, the urine lies in the pouch, and cannot be entirely expelled, and the unexpelled portion soon becomes decomposed and amnioniacal, and irritates the mucous membrane of the bladder, leading to chronic cystitis. (2) The projecting part may overlap the orifice of the urethra (which is normally the loicest point of the bladder), and act like a valve, preventing the passage of the urine through the urethral orifice, and the more the patient strains the tighter it becomes. (3) It alters the direction of the urethral tube, forming a little recess, and tbis must be kept in mind in passing a catheter, and special care taken to pass none but perfectly purified instruments; otherwise this well of " residual urine" is inoculated Avith septic matters, the probable result being the rapid onset of septicaemia. The patient consults a medical man, not for retention, but for what he calls too frequent making of water, especially at night; this is really "dribbling," or overflow from an already over-full