Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 9 cricoid cartilago; separate it from the trachea by means of Spence's hernia directoi', free it still more from the cricoid cartilage if necessary, and 2)ush down the isthmus with the handle of the scalpel. 7. Transfix and draw forward the trachea, and open it in the middle line, with the blade of the scalpel held between the finger and thumb about half-an-inch from its point, the back of the knife being directed towards the sternum. 8. Keep the opening patent by the handle of the scalpel, or Spence's double blunt hook; let patient cough, then introduce and fix the tube. Note.—(1) If the incision be not exactly in the middle line, it will be difficult to keep the tube in its place; and, besides, the carotid arteries might be injured. (2) Above the isthmus the trachea is f[uite superficial, and, as a rule, has no veins of con- sequence in front, except a communication betAveen the superior thyroids or anterior jugulars; where the isthmus crosses (about the third or fourth rings), there is usually a plexus of veins, besides the isthmus itself; below the isthmus, the trachea is more deeply placed, being covered, in addition to the superficial structures, by the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, the large inferior thyroid veins, and sometimes by a special arterial branch to the thyroid body—the " thyroidea ima." (3) In stout, short-necked persons, the lower part of the trachea is more deeply placed. The chief diflleulties of the low operation are:—(1) The trachea is deeper, as it gradually recedes from the surface as it passes downwards; (2) the inferior thyroid veins and the anterior jugulars, with a cross branch between them, are in the way; (■"}) the danger to the i.sthmus is greater, because we must cut tovards it, in order to avoid the important structures behind the upper part of the sternum; (4) the thymus body may bo in front of this part; (5) the occasional presence of the "thyroidea ima;" (C) the l(!ft innominate vein may take an unusually high course, and is all tlu! more likely to be in the way when the. head is thrown back ; and (7) the carotids may arise by a common trunk, and in such a case the right passes in front of the lower part of tlie trachea in the neck, in order to reach its usual situation.