314 Applied Anatomy: The Enlargements of the Liver may be— (a) Uniform—As fatty liver, waxy liver, congestion, obstruc- tion of the bile duct either from catarrh or gall stones, and in the early stage of cirrhosis. (A) Irregular—In syjjhilitic aflectious usually, " gin-drinker's liver," cirrhosis, hydatid cysts, cancer, abscess, and distended gall bladder. The liver is the second most common seat for the secondary deposits in sarcoma, spread by the systemic veins: it is the most common in sarcoma, spread by the portal vein. Secondary deposits of cancer are by no means uncommon, especially of the softer varieties. Abscess of the Liver may arise from affections of the bowel, dyseutry, typhoid fever, etc., probably from minute venous or lymphatic emboli—as the portal vein, that drains the intestines, passes to the liver, and there breaks uj) into cajjiUaries. The abscess may open into the duodenum, colon, pleural cavity, or the hmgs, and the pus be coughed out—or the stomach, and be vomited up. Sometimes it makes its way into the pericardium, or bursts into the general peritoneal cavity. The usual causes of these abscesses are injuries of the head, pyaemia, and dysentery; also wounds and contusion of the liver itself, irritation of the veins about the rectum as in fistida in ano, and after operations for hsemorrhoids; and, lastly, inflammation and ulceration of the stomach, gall bladder, or bile ducts. The diagnosis between abscess and hydatid cyst may be made certain by tlie use of the hypodermic needle, or a line aspirator; there will also be a history of fever and rigors in the one case, but not in the other, and with hydatids the fluctuation is often accompanied by the peculiar " hydatid fremitus." If the abscess have adhered to the abdominal wall under the ribs, it may be tapped or opened by direct incision, cleaned out, and a drainage tube inserted; if it is not adherent, the case requires greater caution, lest the pus and discharges escape into the peritoneum. Attempts may be made to open it in two stages, as in gastrostomy. Hydatid cysts should first be tapped ; and if this does not cure, then open in two stages, and drain.