245 Surgical^ Medical, and Operative diapliragmatic, and is rapid; but this is not sufficient to maintain life, and tlie patient gradual!}' dies comatose, the lungs after death being found congested and markedly oedematous; this is because the patient is unable to cough, since the abdominal muscles are paralysed. In fracture-dislocation of the lower dorsal region, the prognosis is fairly good, provided the patient can be kept alive; there is usually a considerable improvement in from six months to two years. The chief points to be attended to are careful nursing to avoid bed-sores (often acute or tropldc), and special attention to the bladder and bowels, drawing off the urine at least twice a daj'. Tor the first fortnight there is usually retention of urine, from paralysis of the detrusor centre, or else from some Avant of co- ordination between the higher and lower centres, so that it must be drawn off, and this constitutes the dangerous period; for if the catheter be not thoroughly purified, or if, during the emptying of the bladder, while applying pressure over the pubes, the hand is raised before the catheter is withdrawn, the abdominal wall springs back and air is sucked into the bladder, fermentation is started, and this leads to severe septic cystitis, suppurative pyelo-nephritis, and death. This condition of retention, in the course of two or three weeks, however, gradually passes into complete incontinence, probably from the destruction of the centre for the sphincter. The centre is in the lumbar enlargement of the cord, and the connections pass along the third and fourth sacral nerves. In the case of the rectum, there is at first involuntary passage of its contents, but by-and-by the centre regains itself. It is a curious fact that in cases of complete or partial recovery the centre for the bowel seems to regain its function sooner than the bladder centres; it is common enough for the bowel to recover itself, even though the urinary centres are still deranged, and may remain so till the end of life. It is probably because the process is a less complex one, and comes to be performed in a purely reflex manner, Avith little or no help from the brain centre; the diflference may also depend to a certain extent on the koUcI nature of the contents. If the centre be actually destroyed there will be incontinence of fa?ces from the very first; but with urination it is different—this, apparent.ly, can rarely, if ever, come to l)e perfectly performed ruflexly, prolmbly because of the li(|uid nature of the excretion.