Siirg-uai, Medical, and Operative. 131 The superficial lymphatics of the fixce accompany the cor- responding veins, especially the facial, pass through the glands on the surface of the buccinator (buccal), and thence to the large submaxillary group. The submaxillary group receives the lymphatics of the rest of the face directly, including the lips, and are therefore affected in inflammatory and malignant diseases of the lips—as boils, epithelioma, hard chancre, herpes, malignant carbuncle, antlu-ax, cancrum oris, and actinomycosis. The deep lymphatics of the face come from the mucous membrane of the nose, mouth, and pharynx and orbital fossa, accompanying the internal maxillary vein, and end in the deep parotid set of glands, and thence to the submaxillary and deep cervical groups. These glands will therefore be affected in malignant disease, simple inflammation, and septic and specific conditions of these parts—as malignant tumours of the nose, jaws, and tonsils, strumous inflammation of the nasal cavities, cancerous ulcers of the inside of the cheek, chronic inflamma- tion of the faucial, pharyngeal, or lingual tonsils, coupled, no doubt, with the entrance of specific organisms, and in caries of the teeth. The Neck.—The superficial glands are placed along the course of the external jugular vein, between the platysma and the sterno- mastoid; they are, however, most numerous at the lower part of the posterior triangle, and from thence they are connected with the axillary glands, and also receive communications from the occipital and posterior auricular gimips of the head. The deep glands form a chain along the inner side of the carotid sheath, between it and the pharynx, cesophagus, and trachea, and extend from the base of the skull to the thorax. Above, they receive the intra-cranial lymphatics, and below, they communicate with the glands in the thorax; the vessels finally converge and empty into the right lymphatic ducts on the right side, and the thoracic duct on the left. It will be noted, therefore, that there are two possible ways in which the glands at the root of the neck may be affected in cancer of the mamma—from the axillary glands, or from those in the posterior mediastinum. The lymphatics from the larynx enter the deep cervical glands, as well as those of the cesophagus and pharynx.