424 Applied Anatomy. solution of mercuric chloride—1 in 4000—is injected into the bladder, and during the operation the wound is irrigated with a solution of 1 in 2000. The advantages of this method are— (1) Tlie urethra, prostate, and neck of bladder are left uninjured; and (2) its simplicity does away with the risks of lateral lithotomy in children. This plan is best adapted for children, Avhere the bladder is an abdominal organ. The great trouble of this operation is the difficulty about easy and free drainage. Many plans are adopted—(1) An ordinary tube, aided by the position of the patient. (2) Drainage has been attempted, by adopting the principle of Sprengel's air-pump. (3) Professor Chienb uses a glass tube, Avith a bundle of worsted threads inside, so as to suck the urine up, in the same Avay as the wick of a lamp sucks up the oil. A dry antiseptic sponge is placed over the upper end of the tube and worsted threads, and this in turn absorbs the urine, and is then squeezed dry from time to time, either by the patient liimself or his attendant. The threads might be elongated, encased in an india-rubber tube, and allowed to hang over the side of the bed, and drijj into a vessel placed there. (4) A tube may be passed by the urethra, and the urine drawn off by siphon action. The chief dangers of this operation are—(1) The risk of in- filtration of urine into the cellular tissue of the wound; (2) the risk of wounding the peritoneum; and (3) the chance of setting up kidney mischief, such as suppurative pyelonephritis. RESUME of this operation:— ' 1. The patient is placed on his back on the table, his shoulders slightly raised, the pubes shaved, and the parts carefully washed with 1 in 20. 2. A catheter is then passed, the urine drawn off, the bladder washed out with warm boracic, if thought necessary, and then fully distended with the same fluid; the penis is then secured by an india-rubber band, or tape, to prevent the escape of the fluid. If a silver catheter be used, it may be plugged and left in to act as a guide. When the rectal bag is used, teji or twelve ounces will probably be enough.