Applied Anatojiiy: 480 aud, therefore, they could not be simply snipped off with safety, as the risk of hi^jmorrhage is great—just as in a burst varicose vein of the log. Internal Piles must always be treated by constitutional manage- ment first. If this fails, then (1) the clamp and cautery may'be used, or (2) they may be crushed, or (3) they may be ligatured— well adapted for cases of solitary prominent piles. (4) The piles, with the mucous membrane from which they spring, may be removed, after the manner introduced by Whitehead. There is less pain after the clamp and cautery than after ligature; there is also less tendency to reflex retention of urine. Further, there is no ■large mass left to slough off. The risks of hgamorrhage, septicsemia, and pya3mia are about equal in both cases. It is said that in ligature, a vein may be punctured, and lead to htemorrhage and septic absorption. In ligaturing, many Surgeons cut through the mucous membrane over the lower half of the pile. In this way the ligature cannot slip, the mass tied is smaller, aud con- sequently the slough separates sooner. The mucous membrane of the upper half of the circumference is not cut, as the arteries enter at that point. The crushing operation is rarely performed. In making the first visit to the patient after the operation, take a catheter with you, and inquire if he has passed water since the oijeratiou. If not, draw it ofl'. Whitehead's Operation.—This method may be used where the piles are very diffuse, ill-defijied, and all round the gut. The patient is an;esthetised and placed in the lithotomy position, and the sphincters are paralysed by stretching; and then, by the use of scissors and forceps, an incision is made through the mucous meiubrane, just within the verge of the anus (Fig. 226), the mem- brane separated all round for a little up, till healthy membrane is reached above the piles, and then this cuff of mucous membrane is split at one side and excised, and the gut above brought down and stitched to the mucous membrane left at the verge of tlie anus (Fig. 227). The gut must not be cut off' transversely all at once, but simply snip by snip, securing the vessels and introduciug the sutures as you proceed. The sutures are of carbolised silk, or of horse-hair; the wound is dressed with iodoform, and a dose of castor oil is given on the morning of the fourth day—probably