Applied Anatomy: 440 of the tlnimb and second finger. A morphia suppository is then introduced, and the patient made comfortable in bed. At the end of forty-eight hours the catlieter is withdrawn, and about three days later a full-sized bougie is passed—I believe Mr Syme himself passed a specially-constructed catheter througb the perineal tcound, and not an ordinary catheter through the penis. Later, a bougie is i^assed once a week or once every two Aveeks, as circumstances may require. This operation may also be used instead of Holt's plan, in resilient stricture; the great advantage is that it gives the dilatation a good start, a full-sized instrument being passed at once, and all that is to do is to keep it from contracting again. Wheelhouse's Operation, or " Perineal Section:"— Definition.—Opening the urethra at a healthy part about one quarter of an inch in front of the stricture, passing a probe through tbe stricture, and then dividing it from before backwards. Instruments. — Lithotomy tapes, special grooved staff with a button-like end, scalpel, two pairs of forceps, nibbed at the point, artery forceps, director, probe, gorget, silver catlieter (jSTo. 10) with elastic tube attached. The patient is tied up in the litbotomy, position, tbe staff is passed and made to rest against the stricture, and tbe urethra opened a quarter of an inch in front of this through healthy urethra. Then grasp the edges of the divided urethra with the nibbed forceps, and bold apart; and next with- draw tbe staff a little, turn round, and hook the button-like end against the upper angle of the wound. ]N"ow pass the probe tbrongli the urethra into the bladder, divide the stricture, and pass tbe blunt gorget through the groove on the director, and on this the catheter is guided into the bladder. The catheter is passed from the meatus doAvn to the wound, and then the gorget guides it into the bladder. Note these three operations—(1) Syme's, Avhcrc a grooved stafl is passed througb the stricture, the urethra opened behind, and the stricture divided from behind forwards. (2) Wheelhouse's, where the urethra is opened in front, a grooved probe passed, and the stricture divided from before backwards. (3) Spence's or Cock's (see vol. ii., page 467), where the urethra is opened behind the stricture, the stricture itself being left untouched, hoping tliat the induration and the swelling will disappear and the stricture