Siirg/'cal, Medical, and Operative. 27 intov-musculai" cellular planes of the neck. As the "wound in the a^sophagus is I'jarallel Avith its long axis, thci-e is no risk of sub- sequent stricture. If a permanent opening is desired, the edges of the opening in the a^sopliagus must he stitched to the lips of the skill incision. THE PHARYNX. This is a membrano-muscular sac, about four and a half inches in length, extending from the under surface of the basi-sphenoid portion of the skull to the cricoid cartilage. Behind, it is con- nected by loose areolar tissue, with the vertebrae and the longus colli, and anterior recti muscles. It is connected above to the base of the skull, being attached to the basi-sphenoid, the petrous part of the temporal bone, internal pterygoid plate, the pterygo- maxillary ligament, the lower jaw, posterior nares, mouth, hyoid bone, larynx, and styloid process. In relation to its outer surface, we find the common and internal carotid arteries, the internal jugular veins, the glosso-pharyngeal, the spinal accessory, the vagus, and the ninth cranial nerves, and the sympathetic trunks. It has seven openings—the two posterior nares {c.hoana' narium) the two Eustachian tubes, the mouth, larynx, and cesophagus. In aneurism of the internal carotid one can readily understand how it tends to bulge into this cavity, pressing in the thin un- resisting pharyngeal wall rather than to make its way to the skin surface through the dense cervical fascia, sterno-mastoid, digastric, stylo-hyoid and stylo-pharyngeus muscles, all of which structures resist its passage in that direction. Pharyngeal Abscesses are lateral or posterior—(1) The lateral are rirmmscrihed abscesses, usually just behind the tonsil; they project inwards, and may simulate an aneurism or malignant disease of the tonsil. There is deep-seated pain in the neck, and pain behind the ear and shooting up the side of the head, along the auriculo-tcmporal nerve; they are said to occur chiefly in rheumatic patients. The pus may make its way out through the gap in the cervical fascia, and present in the parotid region, or at tlie posterior border of the sterno-mastoid; if it does so, tlien it should bo opened at these points by IIii.ton's method; if it is opened from the inside, be careful to turn the edge of the knife inwai'ds.