553 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. thin l)Oiiy scijta from the sinus (Symington). lutra-cniuial com- plications more often follow disease of the middle ear on the right side, because the right lateral sinus is larger than the left, and consequently the bony wall between it and the mastoid cells is thinner than on the left side (Korner). Middle ear disease in early life is a common cause of Deaf-mutism. Mr Hulke has specially pointed out that hemiplegia, coming on with signs of compression many weeks after a head injury, indicates very certainly the exist- ence of a cerebral abscess (see vol. i., page 57-i). In opening an Abscess of the Middle Ear, an incision is made through the lower and posterior part of. the membrane tympani, for reasons already pointed out (see vol. i., page 559). In this connection, observe the size of the tympanic cavity. It measures about five lines from before Ijackwards, three lines in the vertical direction, and between two and three in the transverse—that is, not quite a quarter of an inch. The Avidth of the tympanum varies from one-twelfth to one-sixth of an inch (Quain). It is a little broader behind and above than it is below and in front. Xow, unless the Surgeon be careful, he is apt to introduce the knife too deeply and strike the inner wall, the result being that he punctures or divides the facial nerve, an accident that has actually happened. Cerebral Abscess.—It is only wlicn the abscess is circumscribed that Ave meet Avith the characteristic symptoms (see vol. i., p. 570). Tlie moment the pus bursts its limiting Avail, Avhether into the lirii in substance or into the lateral ventricles, the symptoms entirely change. Instead of low temperature, sIoav pulse, and coma, avc find a high temperature, severe pain, rapid pulse, and delirium; the same symptoms are also observed in pyivmic abscesses—e.g., in rrlcerative endocarditis, Avhich has been mistaken for acute mania. The tension in cerebral abscesses is often so great as to be almost past belief. Mr JIulke says he has seen the pus ejected Avith such violence as not only to bespatter the operator, but to be driven half-Avay across the operating-room. Lymphatic Glands of the Neck.—In speaking on this matter (see vol. ii., p. 131), I ouglit to have pointed out more particularly the glands often found in the middle line of the neck. There is one just below the symphysis nienti, another about the region of