Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 211 Types of Respiratory Movement.—The types are chiefly two— (1) AVhero it is most marked in the abdomen, the diaphrarimatic type—this is best seen in ordinary respiration in the male; and (2) where it is most marked in the chest, the codal type; this is best seen in women during ordinary breathing. But, of conrsc, the chest also moves in the male to a certain extent, and the abdomen in the female—if it can ; in deep breathing both parts move, whether in male or female. If the hand be placed over a healthy chest wliile the patient speaks, a peculiar vibration is felt; it is even better felt in a cat, whilst purring: this is known as the vocal fremitus. This vibration is rendered evident by anything that blocks up the bronchi, or where there is effusion of Huid or gas into the pleural cavity —e.;/., pleurisy with effusion ; it is increased by anything that renders the lung more solid, as blocking up of the vesicles, in lobar pneumonia especially, or in the consolidation of phthisis. Note especially the very marked difference in this respect between pleurisy with effusion, and lobar pneumonia of the lower lobe behind—where it usually begins. Breath Sounds.—These are produced by the friction of the air on the respiratory passages and the lung tissue. There are two great types, the A^esicular and the Bronchial. 1. The Vesicular is a gentle, breezy, rushing noise, and may be likened to the sighing of a gentle breeze among the tree-tops on a summer's evening, in a coiintry churchyard; it is due to the entrance and exit of air from the air vesicles, and is heard at most parts of the chest in health, as the air vesicles are close to the chest wall. It consists of two j^arts—an inspiratory and an crpiratory, iritli, no panse h'twccn; the lns])iratory is about tliree times as long as the expiratory, and is also much better marked: the expiratory i.s very short and ill-marked in health, and is very often inaudible, and hence tliis sometimes gives the irajircssion that there is a pause between the two parts of the murmur. In Disease, tlierc are various modifications of this type: thus we have—(«) The harsh or puerile, a condition normal in boys, and found in the adult when one lung, or a part of both, is in- capacitated—as, for example, in pleurisy with effusion ; {h) it may be jerky or cog-wheel-like; {<:) it may be extremely faint, Avhere a