47 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. glands are found on the under surface of the tongue, near its tip, under the mucous membrane. The glands are of the racemose type of structure, and form two small oblong masses. This view of the possible origin of these tumours receives support from the fact that the tongue often seems to be hollowed out into one huge thin-walled cyst when the finger is introduced. Treatment.—Simple incision and drainage, as sometimes recom- mended, is absolutely useless, and a seton is painful, troublesome, and unnecessary. The plan to be adopted is to seize the upper wall of the swelling with a pair of the old artery forcej^s, and cut out a large oval portion with a pair of scissors, evacuate the contents, and keep this opening patent, by passing a probe into it every day, till it heals from the bottom iipwards; some paint the interior of the cavity with a strong solution of iodine or nitrate of silver, so as to make the obliteration quicker and more certain. The mucous labial cysts, and similar growths of the tongue, are treated in the same way. (2) Another variety of ranula is the dermoid cyst, with porridge- like contents, consisting of epithelial cells, hairs, etc. This form occurs in the situations of the embryonic visceral clefts—either in the middle line or at the side, between the mylo-hyoid muscle and the mucous membrane; it is deeper than the first variety of ranula, and has not the bluish opalescent appearance, but it has a distinct and separate cyst wall, so that it can be entirely removed, both cy.st and contents. This variety often projects under the angle of the jaw, and may be attached to the sheath of the carotid vessels. Tlie treatment is to expose and enucleate the cyst, with the handle of the scalpel, if possible without opening the cyst. (3) A third variety is of the nature of an enlarged bursa, either the suhllncjual hursa mucosa, or the bursa occasionally found above the hyoid bone, between the genio-hyoid and the genio-hyoglossus muscles; this variety may project very markedly into the neck, and, of course, is always in the middle line; it forms one variety of liydroccle colli." Cervical Auricles are often associated Avith branchial fistula?, and when so are usually placed along the anterior border of tlie stemo-mastoid, the fistula lying beneath and partly covered by the auricle.