271 Sjirgical, Medical, and Operative. may also give rise to abscess between the liver and the diaphragm, just as duodenal nicer sometimes does. An abscess here presses down the liver and pushes np the diaphragm, and the pus may- even pass through it into the base of the lung, and be expectorated through the bronchi. The ulcer may also open into the peritoneal cavity, leading to fatal peritonitis. Gastrotomy.—An opening of a temporary character made into the stomach for the pnrpose of removing a foreign body. Gastrostomy. — An opening made into the stomach for the purpose of feeding the patient, and to establish a permanent gastric fistula. Operations of this nature may be rendered necessary in con- sequence of impermeable stricture of the oesophagus, to prevent the patient dying of starvation. There are four varieties of Stricture described—(1) The nervous or spasmodic—this form is usually intermittent, and if the patient can be induced to forget about it for the time being, the food passes quite easily. (2) Fibrous stricture, the result of -swallowing corrosive fluids and boiling water —this form may be dilated by passing bougies. (3) Cancerous —this is the most common form, and is apt to follow the fibrous variety. The bougie seems to pass over a rougliened surface, and its introduction is followed by the coughing up of blood, or blood and pus; the cervical glands will also probably be enlarged, and other signs of the " cancerous cachexia " present. By these means it may be diagnosed from fibrous stricture, and this will also be assisted by the history of the case. (4) There is also a peculiar form of stricture, met with in drunkards, probably from general cirrhosis of the mucous and submucous coats. Malignant disease is usually of the nature of squamous - celled epithelioma (the so-called "scirrhus"), and is mo.st frequently found opposite the cricoid cartilage (at the beginning of the oesophagus), next at the cardiac orifice, and, lastly, opposite the bifurcation of the trachea. As long as possible the patient may be fed with slops, or through a catheter, or by the use of artificially-digested foods per rectum; and, if these are not sufficient, the stomach may be opened. Another possible condition must always present itself to the student's mind, in connection with the diagnosis of stricture of the oesophagus— viz., aneurism of the aorta. This condition must alwai/s t)e e.rcluded he/ore cdfempting to imss a bougie. On account of the close relation