Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 355 protruded part. The greatest adjuvant of all, however, is chloroform, but before giving it, gain the patient's consent to an operation, if necessary; this -will save much valuable time, as otherwise it will be necessary to allow him to recover consciousness. RADICAL CURE OF HERNIA. 1. A Truss.—Professor Chiene strongly insists that a properly- fitting and properly-worn truss ought to be a racUeal cure, instead of a palliative measure, as it is usually called. If the bowel is prevented from ever again passing down, by pressure of sufficient amount and at the same time properly directed, nature will do the rest. The canal has a natural tendency to contract and close, and it is only the occasional passage of the gut that prevents it, just as the occasional passage of a bougie prevents the closure of a urethral stricture. A properly applied and properly fitting truss constantly worn, most nearly approaches Nature's method of cure. The pressure must be applied directly to the canal and the internal abdominal ring, and must be just of sufficient amount to keep up the hernia; if it be too powerful, it will induce atrophy of the walls of the canal. Pressure over the external ring merely prevents tlie hernia passing into the scrotum. All that is wanted is to allow the neck of the sac to close; this is specially the case in children, where the natural tendency to close is very marked. The pressure must not be nipple-shaped, but fat, or rather, corresponding to the curve of the abdominal wall, so as to keep the walls in contact throughout their whole extent. The pad must be as large as possible, provided it does not press upon the spine of the pubes, for then the hernia would slip out beneath it, nor must it interfere with the flexion of the hip joint, lest the thigh, when flexed, push up the pad. It should be light, firm, and elastic, and well fitted; reachj-made trusses are an unmixed evil. It must pass round tlie boni/ pelvis, and yet be out of reach of the effects of contraction of the glutei. It must be worn night and day, or, at night, a properly applied clastic spica, with cotton wool below it, may be used if the truss is uncomfortable, but the truss must be put on before the patient gets out of bed in the morning, or even before ho assumes tlie sitting posture; a special gum-elastic truss must be worn when taking a bath. The objection to the constant use of