Applied A natoviy: 132 It will Toe seen, therefore, that the glands of the neck may be enlarged from a variety of causes, of which the following are a few:— 1. Epithelioma and chancre of the lips and tongue, 2. Cancrum oris, charbon, and carbuncle of lips and face. 3. Diseases of the nose, orbit, mouth, and pharynx— inflammatory and malignant. 4. Diseases of the scalp—as pediculi, eczema, impetigo contagiosum, epithelioma, etc. .5. Carbuncle in the occipital region. 6. Secondary syphilis. 7. Chronic inflammatory affections of the tonsils. 8. Caries of the teeth. 9. Strumous inflammation. 10. Simple lymphoma, lympho-sarcoma, and lymphadenoma, and probably leueocythaimia. 11. Otorrhcea. 12. Malignant disease of the larynx, pharynx, and ccsophagus. Wry Neck—Torticollis, or Caput Obstipum.—Causes—(1) It may be congenital, or it may follow measles or scarlatina. In the congenital form, the face on the same side develops less rapidly than on the other side, the eye becomes oblique, and the cervical spine curved. (2) Long-continued irritation, as from inflamed cervical glands under the sterno-mastoid; in this case the position is taken up no doubt to lessen direct pressure on the glands, but also from reflex contraction due to the irritation of the branches of the cervical plexus. (3) Disease of the cervical vertebrae (caries) and their ligaments. (4) Traction from the cicatrix of a burn. (5) Clonic or tonic contraction of the sterno-mastoid and trapezius of the same side, from irritation of the spinal accessory, or it may even be due to contraction of the platysma. (6) Paralysis of the opposite sterno-mastoid. In wry neck there is a threefold displacement of the head—(1) It is drawn downwards towards the sternum; (2) it is rotated from the affected side, so that the chin points over the opposite shoulder; and (3) it is inclined laterally to the affected side. As a cure for some forms of wry neck, it has been proposed to stretch the spinal accessory nerve; but this operation is hardly ever followed by any permanent