72 Applied Anatomy: The brain is protected from the results of external violence in many ways—(1) The density and mobility of the scalp; (2) the arch-like arrangement of the bones, their nnmerous segments, with the interposed sutural ligaments, and the elasticity of the bones themselves; (3) the mobility of the head upon the spine; and (4) the water pillow on which the brain rests. The Internal Capsule (Fig. 144) is a narrow band of white matter close to the base of the brain, immediately above the crura. It is formed by the fibres of the corona radiata, coming from or going to the grey matter of the cortex; the fibres are collected into a compact baud which has a very intimate relation with the basal ganglia. It consists of a posterior part, an anterior part, and a genu. The posterior part lies between the optic thalamus and the lenticular nucleus ; its posterior third is sensory, its anterior two thirds motor and trophic. The anterior part lies between the nucleus lenticularis and the nucleus caudatus; its function is probably concerned with the psychological functions of the brain. The genu coimects the two parts of the capsule. THE CEREBRO - SPINAL FLUID. Its Uses.—It is—(1) Protective, protecting the brain and cord from the effects of violence. (2) It obviates the ill effects of changes in the cerebral circulation, the fluid being displaced when the blood- vessels are over-filled, and returning again M'hen the circulation has resumed its proper equilibrium. In this way the tension is kept equal throughout, for whenever the tension is unduly increased or diminished the effect is the same—viz., convulsions. This is well seen in cases of spina bifida, for when the tumour is pressed upon convulsive phenomena are produced, and in cases where the fluid is drained off either accidentally, by the bursting of the sac, or intentionally, the child dies in convulsions. (3) It has ijrobably a nutritive function. It is found within and around all parts of the cerebro-spinal system, and can readily pass in every direction ; thus it fills the subarachnoid space of both brain and cord, and from thence it can pass into the central cavity of the cord and into all the ventricles of the brain, except the fifth. The point of communication is the foramen of Magendie., an opening in the pia mater that closes in the roof of the fourth ventricle; the fluid