Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 483 Fissure of the Anus. In this condition the anus is very much contracted, from spasm of the sphincter; towards ^posterior part, where the fissure is usually placed and where it gives rise to most trouble, is often seen a single pile, and at the base of this, as a rule, we find the fissure. The fissure runs longitudinally, and very often a little ulcer is found at its upper end; the floor of the fissure is formed by the sphincter, and a twig of the fourth sacral nerve is believed to be exposed and irritated, causing the intense pain. The pain is two-fold—(1) That caused directly by the passage of fajces over the raw surface of the fissure; and (2) the reflex pain lasting some liours^ after defecation, because, as the anus closes, the fissure is squeezed, the nerve irritated, and causes sudden action of the levators. This action and reaction goes on for hours, like the swinging of a pendulum, until the sphincter gradually calms down. To the finger the fissure feels soft and velvety, and shaped like the button-hole of a shirt. Treatment.—Local applications are of little use, but the most useful is an ointment of one part or more of the subacetate of copper to four parts of zinc ointment, to be used as a suppository at night after the bowels have acted. Operative.-—(1) Give the patient chloroform dee]}ly, and, with the two thumbs, forcibly over-stretch the anal aperture. (2) Another plan is to paint the surface of the ulcer with cocaine, then inject a few drops of the same solution just under its base, and introduce the index finger into the rectum with a straight probe-pointed knife, cutting to the point (see Fig. 121, page 36), and draw the edge of the knife along the fissure, so as to divide its base for one-eighth of an inch in depth. If the Surgeon chooses he may also forcibly stretch the anus at the same time. The plan of transfixing the base of the ulcer with a sharp-pointed curved bistoury, with the finger in the rectum to protect its walls from the point of the knife, must be avoided, as the finger might be pricked and the Surgeon in- oculated with syphili.s, to say nothing of other poisons in this neighbourhood. Prolapsus Recti.—This condition is most common in children, from the fact that the mucous coat is much looser than in the adult; the rectum is nearly straight, more vertically placed, and partly an abdominal organ in the child; and lastly, worms and