Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 459 spermatozoa; but later, when a communication is formed between the cyst and the vasa efferentia, spermatozoa arc found. Of course, if the cyst arise primarily in one of the tubules of the vasa efferentia, spermatozoa will be found from the very first. The fluid contains only a trace of albumen, and effervesces on adding an acid, from the presence of alkaline carbonates. In some cases it is opalescent, the opalescence being due to the presence of seminal fluid, and the spermatozoa may be recognised under the microscope. "When this is the case, it is called a spermatocele. In diagnosing Scrotal Tumours the first thing is to ask one's self two questions—(1) Does it belong to the scrotum 1 or (2) Does it come from the abdomen? In pure Scrotal Tumours the swelling has no nerlc, as shown by grasping the tissues near the external abdominal ring between the finger and thumb, on both sides of the body, for the sake of comparison; by doing so we get above the upper end of the tumour, and feel the constituents of the cord healthy and free, e.g., in hydrocele, hsematocele, and simple forms of sarcocele; but in malignant tumours of the testicle and tuber- cular testicle, the vas deferens is often tliickened to the size of a goose quill, instead of being the usual size and feel of whip cord. Tumours of the Testicle itself, with the exception of cystic sar- coma, are solid; swellings of the Tunica Vaginalis, are practically always fluid. Tumours that come from the Abdomen have a neck, which can easily be felt when the tissues near the external ring are grasped between the finger and thumb. Hydrocele of the Cord is cylindrical and sausage-shaped, the testicle is quite free below, and the upper end can usually be felt in the abdomen at the internal ring, and there is no gurgle on manipulation, as in a reducible hernia. I shall now give a short RESUME of the chief ways of treating Hydrocele:— I. In the Child.—(a) In the Congenital form a truss i^i the proper treatment, after returning the fluid, so as to obliterate the communication into the abdomen. Should anything further be required, use cold evaporating lotions or simple tapping with a fine trocar, but never inject iodine, as it would pass up into the abdomen and probably cause peritonitis. When once it becomes