427 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. is a thing of tlio past. In the groat majority of cases of stnne, lithotrity is tho operation performed for thoir cure; according to Sir Henry Thomson, it is operation for nine-tenths of adult cases of stone, and may even bo used for chiklren as well. Tiie special instruments rerpiired are—(1) A set of large evacuating catheters, (2) an exhausting syringe, and (3) a lithotrite. Conditions Necessary for Crushing—(1) A bladder not too irritable; it must be able to retain at least three or four ounces of urine. (2) The kidneys, prostate, and urethra healthy; there nnist be no stricture of the urethra present. (3) The patient must not be too young; under ten or fifteen years, lithotomy is usually to be preferred. (4) The stone must not be too large or too hard; the si/e, however, is not of so much moment, but a very hard stone is a serious objection. (5) Several calculi are rather against crushing, especially if they are hard. The patient is placed on his back on a firm mattress or table, with Ins pelvis raised above the level of the shoulders by a ftrm pad, three or four inches thick, so that the stone may roll to the posterior surface of the bladder from its i^oucli behind the prostate; a pillow is placed under his head, and his thighs are separated so that his knees are about a foot apart. In children, and in cases of enlarged prostate, it may be necessary to raise the pelvis a couple of inches more. The Surgeon stands on the right side of the patient, as he holds the lithotrite with his left hand and works the screw with the right. An anaesthetic should be ailministered. The urine is first drawn off by a hollow sound or catheter, and then four or five ounces of tepid carbolised water is slowly injected; the urine is drawn off to enable the Surgeon to tell how much fluid there is in the bladder. Too much is bad, because the stone readily moves about and " dodges" the lithotrite; yet it must contain a fair amount to prevent the mucous membrane from being grasped by the lithotrite, or being injured by splinters of the stone. To pass tlie Litliotrite.^—-The Surgeon may stand in the usual catheter position (the left side) till it has passed, then he must come to the right side; or, if he so prefer, he can stand on the right aide all the time. The lithotrite is warmed and oiled and the lilados closed and pointed downwards; the penis is then i-aised