Surgical, l)fedical, and Operative. 125 ((/) orbital or loiiiporo-malar, {li) spheuo-palatiuc to j\[KCKnr/iS ganglion, ami (r;) posterior dental to tlic teeth of tlic upper jaw. In the infra-orbital canal it gives oil' the anterior dental brauchcH. In deep-seated affections of the cornea and iris the pain is sometimes retlected along this nerve, allccting the upper jaw through its dental branches, and the temporal region along its orbital l)ranch. A blister in the temporal region sometimes benefits eye atlections, probaljly by acting through this nerve as a connter-irritant. This nerve may be affected with neuralgia from unknown causes, or from diseases of the teeth in the upper jaw; and from malignant tumours of the antrum, or the spheno-maxillary fossa. It appears on the face three times—(1) as tlie infm-orhifal; (2) as the temj>oral, in the temporal fossa; and (3) over the malar bone, as the ruiaus snb- cntancoKS mahp. The Third Division of the Fifth fhi/eriur maxillanj).—'\W>i is the largest division, and, like the last, it arises from the Gasseriau ganglion, leaves the skull through the foramen ovale, and is tlicn joined by the motor root of the fifth, and thereafter divides into a small or anterior division, chiefly motor in function, and a large or pusterior division, chiefly sensor}". From the anterior division proceed—(a) the masseteric nerve to the masseter muscle, and some- times a twig to the temporo-maxillary articulation.; [h) two deep temporals to the temporal muscle; (c) branches to the two pterygoids; and, lastly {il) the long buccal nerve. The nerve to the internal pterygoid furnishes the motor root to the otic ganglion, and througli that to the two tensors—tensor j^alati and tensor tympani. The hiic'-td nerve is sensory to the buccinator muscle and the mucous membrane and skin of the cheek, and man liossihlij contain motor filaments; it also communicates with the facial nerve. This divi.sion, it will be noted, supplies the muscles of mastication. From tlie posterior division come—(n) the auriculo-temporal—this nei"ve also supplies the joint of the lower jaw and the external auditory meatus; {h) tlie inferior dental; and (c) the gustatory, or lingual, nerve. From the lingual comes the mylo-hyoid nerve, which supplies the mylo-hyoid muscle and the anterior belly of tlie digastric. When this division of the fifth is paralysed the following muscles are alfecteil—the massctei', the temporal, external and internal pterygoids, the mylo-hyoid, and the anterior belly of