249 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. and paralysis from pressure; tlie special feature here is that the paral3'sis is not at once but some hours after the injury. (3) At the end of ten days or a fortnight the symptoms of meningitis, or inflammation, may show themselves—fever, severe shooting pains along the course of the intercostal nerves, rigidity, and muscular spasm,—from irritation of the motor and sensory nerves, with hypertesthesia and excessive reflex irritability. This must be dis- tinguished from myelitis: meningitis is an irritative but myelitis is a destroying lesion, and, therefore, in myelitis the signs of ii'ritation are not so well marked, but the signs of paralysis are very well seen. There is a short irritative stage passing into motor and sensory paralysis, with probably trophic lesions, since the grey matter is affected, as severe cystitis, involuntary passage of fteces, bed sores, and the " reaction of degeneration " in the muscles affected. (4) The .symptoms of the immediate shock may pass off, leaving but little apparent ill effects, but slow ascending and descending degenerative changes may follow—chronic meningo-myelitis, even more to be dreaded than anything else—Avhich will ultimately carry off tlie patient. This condition is often seen after severe railway accidents—" railway spine." A fall on the lower end of the spine may produce injury to the cord or coccyx. In cord injury, the signs are as already described, with pain in the lower extremities. When the coccyx is injured, we may either get coccyodyuia or injury of the sacro-coccygeal joint: in this case, there is great pain caused by the muscles attached to the bone—the gluteus maximus, coccygeus, levator ani, and sphincter,—especially during defecation, and in women. The Reflexes.—The principal reflexes are—(1) The Epigastric, got by scratching the skin over the fourth, fifth, and sixth inter- costal spaces: this shows that the fourth to seventh pairs of dorsal nerves are uninjured. (-2) The Abdominal, got by stroking the side of the abdomen from the edge of the ribs downwards: this shows that the eighth to twelfth pairs of dorsal nerves are safe. (.3) The Cremasteric, by stroking the skin on the inner .side of the thigh when the testicle i.s draAvn up: tliis shoAvs tliat the first and second lumbar nerves are all right. This reflex is best marked in boys. The reflex centre for the knee jerk is said to be opposite the third and fourth lumbar nerves: the gluteal at the fourth and