220 Applied Anatomy: MEDIASTINAL SWELLINGS AND TUMOURS. The pressure symptoms produced by aneurism of the various large arteries of the thorax have been already given (see vol. i., page 34), and, in addition to what is there stated, I would only add that an aneurism pressing on the bronclii may cause collapse of a portion of the lung, or, by pressing on the vessels at its root, may cause gangrene. Enlarged Glands in the medias- tinum—e.r/., as in Hodgkin's disease (adenia)—may press on the trachea or bronchial tubes, causing difficulty of breathing; on the large thoracic veins, causing jDassive congestion of the upper extremities or head; directly affect the voice, from pressure on the windpipe, or indirectly, from pressure on tlie recurrent laryngeal nerve, especially the left. In the child, enlargement and con- gestion of the thymus and other glands may cause laryngismus stridulus (s]jasmocUc croup or child-crowing) from pressure on the recurrent laryngeal nerves. Enlarged Scrofulous Glands may also press on the same nerve. Primary Cancer of the lung, \isually starting in and spreading from the bronchial glands at the root, will press upon and involve the various structures forming the root (see vol. ii., page 219), and also press on neighbouring parts, as the superior vena cava and right vagus on the right side, the aorta and left vagus on the left side. Cancer of the (Esophagus is very apt to involve or press on the trachea, on one or both recurrent laryngeal nerves, depending on the part affected, though the left is the most common, causing cough and alteration in the voice. Eetro-oesophageal Abscess, Disease and Tumours of the bodies of the vertebrae, are also likely to press on and otherwise involve the oesophagus. In Pericarditis with effusion the vessels of the arms and head are distended, from pres- sure of the effusion on the thoracic veins. It is also apt to ijress on the lungs and trachea, causing dyspna?a; on the oesophagus, causing dysphagia; and on the cardiac nerves, giving rise to shooting pains down the left arm and up the left side of the head. The hypertrophied heart of aortic regurgitation ("Cor bovinum"), also gives rise to shooting pains in the same directions—" anginous pains." Dermoid Cysts may also occur in this region, and may make their way into a bronchus. This will be known by the