S'lirgical, Medical, and Opcradzv. 337 lluctnati'on, but tlie raising of tlio otlier hand as well. Elasticity is merely the sinking of tlie fingers of one hand, but without raising the fingers of the other. Botli hands must be used, and the swelling must be firmly fixed, so that it cannot move en masse. Fluctuation Wave can only be obtained where there is a fairly large collection of fiuid, as in ascites and large unilocular ovarian cysts. The palm of one hand is placed fiatly over one side of the abdomen, Avhile the opposite side is tapped sharply with the fingers of the other, when a distinct wave will be found to strike the palm of the first hand. It is necessary, however, to exclude the vibrations of the aT)dominal walls, which is done b^- placing a book in the front of the abdomen, or by getting an assistant to place the edge of one hand gently on the centre of the abdomen. This will check the vibrations of the abdominal wall, .just as a violinist checks the vibration of the strings of -his fiddle at any given point, but will not stop the fluid wave. It is also necessary to diagnose ascites from colloid cancer of the peritoneum. In this case there is great enlargement and dullness over the whole of the abdomen, but an absence of fluc- tuation. It must also be diagnosed from distended bladder, large elastic tumours, renal cysts, and from a pregnant litems. It is often very difficult to diagnose an. ovarian cyst from an encysted dropsy of the peritoneum. In encysted dropsy, however, the tumour is more likely to occupy a central position, and the umbilicus is usually markedly everted. Nature of Different Fluids.—Parovarian fluid.—The paro- varium, or organ of Rosenmuller, corresponds to the epididymis in the male. The fluid is clear, transparent, and limpid, and consists of nothing but water and salts. It is slightly opalescent, and the specific gravity is about 1005 ; it is not coagulated by heat or nitric acid, and therefore docs not contain albumen. Hydatid fluid closely resembles parovarian fiuid, but it contains booklets. It is watery and limpid, of specific gravity 1008 to 101.3; it contains no albumen; there is a certain quantity of extractives and salts, especially chloride of sodium; and, floating in the fluid, are a number of booklets and scolices or echinococci heads. Ovarian fluid is very often markedly viscid, of a dark greenish- brown colour, and may be so thick as almost to be gelatinous,