Applied Anatomy: 168 a line between the two bony points. The natural cure of this condition is by ankylosis, and care must be taken lest this occur, as it is apt to do, in the flexed and abducted position. Should it occur the effects are minimised by the production of a lumbar curve (lordosis). Hip joint disease must be diagnosed in the early stage from the diseases and injuries that cause abduction and eversion of the thigh (see vol. ii., page 170), and in the later stages from conditions that cause adduction and inversion, as the backward dislocation of the femur at the hip joint, which, indeed, may be but a result of the hip disease. It must also be distinguished from suppuration of the bursa under the gluteus maximus over the great trochanter; in this condition there is great pain, on pressure, over the great trochanter, as the diseased area is between the surface and the bone, but not, as a rule, Avhen pressure is made on the knee or heel, nor by direct pressure on the head of the bone just below Poupart's ligament. In actual hip disease there will be pain, on pressure, in all the three situations. Pus, in the arthritic and femoral forms of hip disease, usually passes behind, as the posterior part of the capsule is thinnest; it then comes forwards beneath the gluteus medius and minimus, tensor fasciaj femoris, and upper part of the sartorius, and forms a collection below the anterior superior spine. It may then pass down, if unchecked, and open behind the ilio-tibial band, a little above the middle of the thigh. In the acetabular form of the disease the pus collects between the bone and pelvic fascia and sheath of the obturator internus; the fascia thickens and prevents its passage downwards, hence it makes its way up to the pelvic brim, perforates the attachment of the pelvic fascia to that part, and points above or under Poupart's ligament. It may sometimes pass along the tendon of the obturator internus and point behind, or even pass into the rectum. When a "psoas" abscess forms from hip disease, it is probably due to a connnunica- tion between the bursa under the psoas tendon and the cavity of the hip joint. While the Surgeon must be on his guard, in cases where the knee joint is complained.of, rather than the hip where the actual disease is situated, not to be misled in his diagnosis and treatment, yet he must bear in mind that hofh knee and hip may be diseased; the rule is, tliat if, in examining the