Applied Anatomy: 38 movements are to a great extent caused by the external pterygoid muscle, and the importance, therefore, of its attachment to botli the bone and cartilage is evident; were it not so, " subluxation " or "internal derangement" would be much more frequent than it is. (2) Hinge-like movements, which take place between the condyle and the cartilage. Movements.—The mouth is opened by the anterior belly of the digastric, mylo-hyoid and geno-hyoid muscles, and gravity. It is closed by the masseter, the anterior part of the temporal, and the internal pterygoid. The chin is protruded by the simultaneous action of the external pterygoids, and retracted by the posterior fibres of the temporal. The grinding movement is caused by the alternate action of the two external pterygoids. The condition of the lower jaw at different periods of life is of considerable importance in medico-legal practice. At birth, the bone consists of two lateral halves, united by cartilage; the body is a mere shell containing the sockets of the milk teeth, and consists of the alveolar portion of the body only—the part ahove the oblique lines—and the angle is obtuse. Towards puberty the basilar part, or the part helow the oblique line, has grown to a considerable extent, and the angle is less obtuse. In the adult, the two parts of the body—the alveolar and basilar—are fully developed, the mental foramen is midway between the upper and the lower borders, the ramus is almost vertical, and joins the Ijody nearly at right angles. In old age, when the teeth fall out and their sockets are absorbed, the basilar part alone reniams, and hence the most of the body is below the oblique line; the dental canal and the mental foramen are close to the upper edge of the body, the rami are oblique, the angle is obtuse, and the cliin approaches the nose. Dislocation of the Lower Jaw.—This is perhaps the. most common muscular dislocation. It is usually caused by some sudden exertion on the part of the patient, or spasmodic action of the depressors of the jaw, as in gaping, fits of laughter, attempting to take too large a bite, etc. It may be—(1) unilateral or incomplete; (2) bilateral or complete, according as one or both of the condyles are displaced. When the mouth is opened the condyle, with the inter-articular fibro-cartilagc, glides forward on to