29 Siirgica/, Medical, and Operative. Iodine + starcli = blue : Iodine + dextrine - red, whicli dis- appears on warming, and does not reappear on cooling: Cupric sulphate and oaustic potash + grape sugar and heat = reddish yellow precipitate of cuprous oxide. The fluid should also give a blood-red colour on the addition of neutral ferric chloride— from the presence of potassium sulpho-cyanide. I have seen one case where the fistula opened just behind the car. The principles of treatment arc the same as in all fistuhc—to make it easy for the secretion to go the right M'ay, by enlarging the opening into the mouth, when the abnormal opening will usually close of its OAvn accord. FIFTH NERVE. Division of the Fifth Nerve on the Face.—The supra-orbital notch or foramen is situated about the junction of the inner with the middle third of the supra-oi'bital margin. From this point a perpendicidar line, drawn with a slight inclination outwards, so as to cross the interval between the two bicuspid teeth, passes over the infra-orbital and mental foranuna. The supra-orbital is covered by the orbicularis palpebrarum; in exposing tliis nerve, care should Ijc taken not to wound the palpebral ligament (a prolongation from the periosteum of the orbit) of the lid, as blood would then be extravasated into the orbit and under the conjunctiva, and the chances of suppuration greatly increased. The periosteum of the orbit, it will be remem- bered, splits into two layers at the margin of that cavity, one of M'hich is continuous with the external periosteum of the skull, while the other forms the tarsal or palpebral ligament. Operation.—The skin of the forehead is drawn upwards and tlic eyelid downwards, and a short curved incision, parallel with the eyebrow or along some natural Avrinkle, the centre being opposite the supra-orbital notch or foramen. Tease through the fibres of the orbicularis witli a director, when the nerve is exposed, lying against the pericranium, and may either be stretched with a blunt hook, or a part removed. It may be done " subcutaneously," i.e., without seeing the nerve, by making a very small incision over its course;, inserting a blunt hook, and scraping it along the bone—hoping in this way to catch up the nerve.