Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 133 bcucfit, and if it is to be interfered witli at all, it is better to cut it right tlirougli, or even to remove an inch or so out of the trunlc of the nerve. Division of the sterno-mastoid is also practised for tlie relief of this deformity. To Stretch the Spinal Accessory Nerve.—This nerve leaves the cranium, in the same sheath of dura mater as the vagus, by the jugular foramen, and after having jiassed through, is found lying, Avith the otlier divisions of the eighth pair, between the internal jugular vein and the internal carotid artery. It then passes downwards and backwards either in front of or behind the internal jugidar vein, and appears below the posterior belly of the digastric, and close to, but beloAV, the transverse process of the atlas, and enters the deej) surface of the sterno-mastoid. The great land-mark for this operation is the prominent transverse jirocess of the first cervical vertebra. In this region it may be exposed, and stretched or cut, by an incision along the upper ]3art of the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid, commencing an inch below the mastoid process, and carried downwards for two or three inches. By dividing the superficial structures, and defining the anterior edge of the sterno-mastoid, and then defining the transverse jjrocess of the first cervical vertebra, the nerve will be found emerging from below the posterior belly of the digastric, curving round the process above indicated, from before backwards and downwards, and entering the deep surface of the former muscle. The incision must not be carried too far up, lest the external jugular vein (which lies midway between the angle of the jaw and the mastoid process) or the parotid gland be injured. The nerve is also crossed by the occipital artery, probably also by the sterno-mastoid artery. Division of the Sterno-Mastoid.—The nervous supply of this muscle is in great part the spinal accessory nerve, but it also receives branches from the second cervical nerve through the cervical plexus; the second cervical communicates with the spinal accessory, and also with the superficial cervical and great auricular branches of the third cervical nerve. Any irritation therefore in the region of distribution of these nerves, as infiamed glands, will readily throw the sterno-mastoid into contraction refloxly; the same thing will also occur in disease of the upper three cervical