394 Applied Anatomy: The Contents of the space are—(1) Twigs of the small sciatic nerve; (2) the inferior haemorrhoidal nerve; (3) the fourth sacral nerve—to the external sphincter; (4) the superficial perineal nerves; (5) inferior haemorrhoidal vessels; and (G) much loose granular fat, AA'hich forms a movable elastic packing for the rectum. Abscesses may form in this space; and unless they are early and freely opened, they will either burst into the interior of the gut, or spread Avidely upon the nates, being unable to " point" readily at the base of the space on account of the strong fascia covering it. They should also be opened early, because they cause great suffering, both from tension and pressure on the nerves of the space. In opening abscesses of any kind in this region, the knife should be directed so as to cut towards the anus, parallel with the radii of a circle of which the anus is the centre, to avoid, as far as jjossible, division of the vessels and nerves of the space, which radiate towards the anus. Another reason why it should radiate towards the anus is that when the finger is introduced, if it be found to have almost entered the gut, the incision should be extended and the operation for the radical cure of fistula in ano performed. This space is also concerned in the various forms of Fistula in Ano, which frequently arise from abscess in this region; and in tlie complete form of fistula the structures between it and the rectum must be divided, so as to lay the two cavities into one, before a cure can be effected. In this operation the Structures divided are—(1) The integu- mentary coverings, (2) the sphincter ani and wall of the rectimi, (3) fatty tissue, and (4) small blood-vessels and nerves. As the great cause of persistence of this fistula is the constant movement of the parts, the section of the sphincter paralyses this movement, and gives the parts rest. Abscesses in the anal region may also begin just under the skin over the base of the space, or beneath the mucous membrane of the bowel: fistula in ano is sometimes caused by malignant disease of the rectum and tertiary syphilitic ulceration. It is worthy of notice, too, that fistula in ano is very frequently associated with phthisis — perhaps due, in the first instance, to the excessive coughing. In rapidly advancing phthisis, where tlie fistula has a large, ragged orifice and undermined edges,