159 Surgical, Medical, ami Operative. femoral slioath by a small part of the psoas—at this part of its courso the nervo is not round, but may be triangular or (piadri- latcral in shape; (">) the crural branch of the geuito-crural iierve lying on the femoral sheath; (G) the femoral sheath with its component parts, compartments, and contents—the artery most external, the vein in the middle, and the beginning of the crural canal most internal (see "Femoral Hernia"); (7) below the sheath, the origin of the pectineus; (8) Guibernat's ligament— a coutinuation of Poupart's—along the pectineal line, and part therefore of the insertion of the external oblique; and (9) the accessory obturator nerve, in cases where this nerve exists, lying beneath the pectineus muscle. Superficial Glands of the Groin.—These glands are arranged in tAvo rows—one disposed irregularly along Poupart's ligament, the other disposed vertically along the inner side of the thigh, or groui:)ed irregularly around the saphenous opening. The first of these receives the lymphatic vessels from the integument of the penis, scrotum, or vulva, parietes of the lower half of the abdomen, the perineal and gluteal regions; the vertical group receives the lymphatic vessels from the lower extremity. These glands frequently become enlarged in diseases implicating the parts from which their lymphatics spring (bubo). Thus, iu malignant disease, when it involves the integument, syphilitic or otlier venereal affections of the genital organs, abscess of the perinanini, cancer of the scrotum, etc., the glands along Poupart's ligament Avill be implicated, while the vertical set will be enlarged iu affections of tlie lower limb and foot, e.g., melanotic sarcoma about the toes. SCARPA'S TRIANGLE. This is a triangular space situated at the upper third of the anterior surface of the thigh; from base to apex it is about a hand's-breadtli in extent—about four inches. Boundaries.—On the outer side, the inner border of the sartorius; on the inner side, the inner prominent half of the adductor longus; its base is formed by Poupart's ligament, and its apex is formed by the crossing of the sartorius over tlio adductor longus. Its roof is formed by tiie skin, superficial and deep fascia, and the cribriform fascia.