273 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. till the stomach comes iuto view. Having found the proper viscus, the second step is to sociire it to the edges of the opening. This is best done by carbolised silk sutures passed through the serous and muscular coats only; the loosely attached mucous coat can readily be shaken away by grasping the other coats between the finger and thumb. The sutures are passed through the wall of the stomach, then through the divided peritoneum, and, lastly, through the skin and fat; the muscular tissue of the abdominal wall is not included. Some prefer to use a double circle of closely set silk sutures, the outer row passing through the whole thickness of the abdominal wall, in order to secure a wide peritoneal attach- ment, and then tie the sutures over pieces of india-rubber tubing, or a lead button; the inner circle simply passes through the serous coat of the stomach and the cut edge of the skin wound. All the sutures are passed before any are tied; they are about one-sixth of an inch apart, and should enclose a circular area of the stomach wall about the size of a shilling. Thus secured, the wound is dressed antiseptically in the usual manner, and the patient fed per rectum for a period of from three to five days; by this time the stomach will have adhered to the Avound. The third step of the operation is to make a sraall opening in the stomach, which is done by passing a narrow sharp-pointed bistoury throi:gh the middle of the adherent area; the opening should only be large enough to admit a iSTo. 10 catheter. Into this ojaening an india-rubber, or silver, tracheotomy tube can be fitted. The sutures should not be removed for ten days. The great risk of this operation is peritonitis; but by the proper use of antiseptics and the adoption of the method of doing the operation in two stages—introduced, we believe, by Mr Howse—the risk is reduced to a minimum. Instead of using sutures, in connecting the wall ol the stomach with the abdominal wall, Mr Howse uses a pair of loose torsion forceps, the blades being shielded with rubber, to grasp the outer coats of the stomach, and then lays the forceps on the surface of the abdomen, beneath antiseptic dressing. In this way the stomach is retained in position till adhesions have formed. The Structures divided will necessarily vary with the incision used. In tliis situation, speaking generally, the abdominal Avail is composed of the foUoAving structures: — (1) Skin and fascia;