549 Surgical, J\IcdicaI, and Operative. Ogston's Operation for Fiat-Foot.—In ccases of flat-foot, the treatment will necessarily varj^ with circumstances. 1. In the acute and painful stage, absolute rest is necessary, till all the acute symptoms and pain subside. It is worse than useless to attempt to do anything else in this stage. 2. When the acute symptoms have subsided, and provided " stiff big-toe '' be absent, then the proper treatment is calisthenics for the feet. The patient must practise rising on tip-toe several times a-day, and then attempt to waUv on tip-toe—in short, he must endeavour to execute the various moA^ements of an accomplished ballet-dancer. 3. In cases where the patient has much standing during the day, he should be provided with an artificial arch, to give him support, while lie is standing. In the evening he shoTild remove the arch, and practise foot calisthenics. It should be remembered that an artificial arch, while it may preA'ent the condition becoming worse, will not cure the deformity; besides, in many cases, the patient is unable to wear it. 4. In those cases where "stiff big-toe" is present, it M'ill be impossible to adopt calisthenic treatment. I'or this class of cases, Professor Ciiiene's plan should be adopted—viz., to insert a rigid, slightly-curved steel plate into the sole of the boot. This prevents all pressure on the tip of the big-toe, and, consequently, all move- ment at the painful joint—the metatarso-phalangcal of the big-toe. In certain cases, Oojston's operation may be adopted. 0. Ogston's Operation.—An incision is made along the inner side of the foot, into tlie mediotarsal joint, the soft parts shelled off the bones, so as to expose the articulation sufficiently, and then, by means of an ordinary chi.sel, the head of the astragalus and the back of the scaphoid are denuded of their cartilage, so as to be adapted for osseous ankylosis. In old cases of the deformity, the head of the astragalus, grown out of shape, has to be rounded oil", so tliat it can be restored to its proper position before the arch of the foot can be replaced in its original shape. An assistant holds the arch in the right position, and then two pegs of carefully disinfected ivoiy, three inches long, are hammered into two holes drilled through the scaphoid and astragalus. This fixes the arch, and when the spare ends of the pegs have been nipped off, and