400 Applied Anntouty. 3. Tmugiilar ligaiuoiit. 4. Comj^regsor urethnii muscle. 5. Parietal pelvic fascia, or posterior layer of triangular ligament. G. Levator ani muscle. 7. Capsule of prostate and pubo-prostatic ligament. Ill relation to the subject of extravasation of the urine from rupture of tlie membranous part of the urethra (which is said to be the usual seat of tramatic rupture), it is difficult to see how the urine can sj)read as it does, because the space between the two layers of the triangidar ligament, where the membranous urethra is situated, is practically a closed membranous box. But when a patient falls, and is caught by a beam in. the " fork," it is anatomi- cally impossible that the memhranoiis urethra could be ruptured. This portion of the urethra stops at the anterior layer of the triangular ligament, and this ligament is not at right angles to the surface of the earth, but almost parallel with it, and therefore, in falling, its whole anterior surface, and not its edge, -woiUd strike the beam, and the part jammed between the beam and the jmbes is the bulbous portion of the urethra, and hence there is no difficulty at all in ixnderstanding the course of the extravasated urine. In fractures of the pelvis, however, it is the memhranous urethra that is torn, and hence the extravasated urine is confined in the space between the two layers, and between the pubes and the bladder, and does not present the usual well-marked and characteristically- shaped swelling.'^ I saw a beautiful example of "this fact in a case of Dr Cairo's. The case Avas one of rupture of the urethra, due to lateral compression of the pelvis, and the catheter could only draw off a limited amount of fluid from the space between the two layers of the triangular ligament and behind the pubes, and which was evidently being lilled from time to time from the bladder. Dr Caird cut down in the middle line in order to find the divided ends of the urethra, and when it was reached the finger could be passed into a cavity behind tlie pubes in front of the bladder, and which had evidently no connection with the " pouch " in the perineum. * III relation to tliis suliject, sec a Paper liy Ur Axkl Iviiiif^EX.