252 Applied Anatomy: centres—one for the bodj^, which appears about the eighth week of fojtal hfe, and one for each himina which appear about the sixth Aveek; the secondarii centres for the processes and upper and lower surfaces of the body do not concern \is at present. The laminiB should unite behind during the first year of extra-uterine life, and the ossification begins above and passes downwards, so that naturally the lower dorsal and sacral laminae are the last to close, and it is exactly in this situation that spina bifida is most frequently found. Varieties of Spina Bifida, —(1) Spinal Meningocele, where the membranes of the cord alone protrude, forming a sac filled with cerebro-spinal fluid. In this case the unaffected cord lies in the middle of the canal as usual. The spinal nerves come off from the sides of the cord, and pass outwards and forwards to make their exit at the inter-vertebral foramina. (2) Meningo-Myelocele, where the sac is formed, not only by the membranes, but by the nerve roots, and even part of the cord itself. The unaltered cord is usually attached to the posterior wall of the sac. The spinal nerves spring from their usual point of origin, and pass across the cavity of the sac to make their exit at the inter-vertebral foramina. This is the most common form. (3) Syringo-Myelocele.—In this form the membranes also form part of the sac wall, but the cliief feature is that the central canal of the cord itself is dilated to form the sac—the inner lining of the sac being formed by the expanded and atroplaied substance of the cord. The spinal nerves arise from tlieir usual situation, and then curve round the expanded cord, pass- ing forwards to reach the inter-vertebral foramina. (4) Myelocele.— In myelocele there is no marked tumour, the spread out halves of the cord being almost on a level with the skin. It forms a triangular rosy-pink surface, with the apex above, and in the angle we find a small opening—the central canal of the cord. The surface is very vascular, being covered with a closely set plexus of enlarged and tortuous capillaries (Sutton). The spinal nerves emerge from the anterior surface of the spread out and flattened halves of the cord, and pass forwards to gain the intcr-vertebral foramina. In this case, therefore, not only are the laminae of the vertebrEB deficient, but, in addition to this, the primitive dorsal larainaj of the blastoderm, which bound the original neural or