Surgical, Medical, atid Operative. 281 carried on. For this reason, loo, we frequently find undigested fat in the stools, often visible to the naked eye, or ether may be used to dissolve it out, and when the ether evaporates we can produce a translucent greasy stain on blotting paper. Fatty vomit has also been observed, and very frequently sugar appears in the urine; this latter symptom is very frequent in other pan- creatic diseases, e.g., pancreatic calculus. Cancer usually runs its course within six months from the first appearance of the symptoms. Cancer of the pancreas may simulate cancer of the pylorus, as it presses upon that end of the stomach, and gives rise to dilatation of that organ; but in cancer of the intestine the liver is very apt to be the seat of secondary dejDosits, which cause considerable enlargement and burapiness on its surface; probably also the glands at the transverse fissure would be enlarged and compress the common hepatic duct, so that the gall bladder would not be enlarged. In cancer of the pancreas the liver is not usually affected, is never bossy on the surface, and before death is often smaller than natural. Tixe cancer may also involve, by direct continuity, the walls of the colon, duodenum, or stomach. One would also expect portal congestion, or even thrombosis, Avith gradual or sudden onset of ascites, enlargement of the spleen, and blood in the stools, from damming back of the blood in the feeders of the portal vein. The vena cava may also be pressed upon, giving rise to dropsy of the feet and ankles. The most characteristic signs of the disease are—(1) The deep, persistent jaundice, accomjjanied with distension of the gall bladder, wUhout syviptoim of gall stones; (2) the absence of any enlargement of the liver; (3) the presence of sugar in the urine; (4) the marked and rapid anasmia and emaciation, and the rapid course of the disease, death usually occurring within five or six months from the onset of the "back-ache;" and (5) the presence of a tumour, together with the age of the patient. Cysts of the Pancreas are occasionally found; the swelling is situated in the epigastric region, displaces the stomach upwards, the transverse colon downwards, and presents just above, and to the right side of, the umbilicus. It is covered in front by the great omentum. Some curious .symptoms are observed in cases of cysts of the pancreas, probably from pressure on the solar plexus—