550 Applied Anatomy: the wouud sutured, the joint heals, by bony ankylosis, under a plaster-of-Paris bandage (see vol. i., page 407). Watson Cheyne's Operation for Bunion.—After the parts have been thoroughly disinfected, a longitudinal incision is made over the inner and dorsal surface of the metatarso-phalangeal joint, the soft parts being divided down to the bone. The periosteum on the inner side is then stripped away, and a vertical slice of the thickened bone sawn off, a small portion of the articular surface being also removed. A portion of the subcutaneous tissues on the inner side of the joint may also be removed. The toe is then brought straight and pressed upwards. The wound is next stitched, antiseptic dressings applied, and two splints fixed, one on the inner side to keep the toe inwards, and one beneath to keep it upwards. After the wound has healed the foot may be put up in some permanent dressing—e.r/., silicate bandages. Mr Cheyne states that the essential cause of the j'svsistence of a bunion is the thickening of the end of the metatarsal bone, and this thickened mass must be removed before a cure can be attempted. The toe is displaced in a two-fold direction—everted and depressed, so that it must be pressed upwards as well as drawn inwards. The original cause of bunion is badly-fitting boots—narrow-toed and tapering along the inner border of the foot. The big toe is pressed outwards, and the bursa that naturally exists over the ball of the great toe is irritated and becomes inflamed. If the patient will submit to wear easily-fitting, though probably ugly, boots no operation need be performed at all (see vol. ii., page 194). Bursas.—In addition to the usually recognised bursaj about the hands and feet, the late Professor Syme pointed out that there was a "series of superficial bursa; just under the integument over all the joints of the fingers and toes. Even the so-called adventitious burste, met with over the external malleolus in tailors (" Tailors' bursa"), and on the outer border of the foot in cases of aggravated talipes equino-varus, he stated, were only enlargements of previously existing bursas. I\1aclaren's Operation for Varicose Veins. —Dr Maolaren believes that varicose veins are, to a great extent, due to laxity of the integumentary structures, and that, if this does not pre- dispose to them, it certainly keeps up the condition. As a means,