Applied Anatomy: 420 blades, previously " set," are made to cut their way out in with- drawing the instrument. Through the opening tlius made in the prostate the stone is extracted. irregularities of the Vessels met with in Lateral Lithotomy.'^ I. Internal Pudic.—(1) It may come directly from the internal iliac, pierce the visceral layer of the pelvic fascia, run along the lateral lobe of the prostate, and there divide into three branches —(a) the dorsal artery of the penis, (h) one to the crus, and (c) one to the bulb, which runs along the memhranous ])art of the urethra, and is j^retty certain therefore to be divided in the operation, if it is found on the left side.f (2) A case somewhat similar is described by Dr Allen Thomson. The vessel at first lies between the bladder and the rectum, then on the side of the prostate, and crosses the membranous portion of the urethra obliquely, below the visceral fascia, to gain the sub-pubic arch; were this present on the left side, it would be cut in the lateral operation. (3) Mr Spence also describes a case where a vessel arose from the mternal iliac in common with the obturator, and reached the sub-pubic arch by passing along the upper surface of the prostate; this variety would be in no danger of injury during the oiJeratiou. A similar course is sometimes pursued by the dorsal artery of the penis; it passes along the lower and lateral wall of the bladder, then across its neck, above the visceral layer of fascia, over the upjper surface of the prostate, and leaves the pelvis by passing between the anterior true ligaments of the bladder; this vessel would also be quite safe, as it is above the visceral layer of fascia, unless the incision divides this layer and opens up the ujiper surface of the capsule of the prostate, which it should never do. II. The Inferior Hsemorrhoidal.^—This vessel leaves the pudic opposite the tuber ischii, and divides into several branches, which pass across the base of the ischio-rectal fossa; sometimes it does not divide thus, and then the trunk is cut in making the hrst incision, and bleeds profusely, both from its size and also because * See article by tlie kte Prolessor SrENCE, iu Uie " Edinburgh Monthly j\Ieclical Journal," for March 1841. + This specimen is preserved iu the Anatomical Museum of the University of Edinburgh.