4G5 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. Kote the two forms of syphilitic disease—(1) A diffuse inter- stitial orchitis. In this case the outline is uniform, smooth, and even; both are affected. It is apt to occur in the young and the middle - aged, and soon after the infection. (2) As a localised gummy tumour. In this case the outline is irregular, nodular, or craggy; it occurs later in life, and longer after the infection. THE BLADDER. This is one of the pelvic viscera. When empty it lies entirely within that cavity behind the pubic bones, and is of a triangular form; when moderately distended it is of a rounded form, and when fully distended it is ovoid in shape and rises above the pubes and enters the hypogastric, or even the umbilical, region. Its relations to the prostate and rectum are given elsewhere. The Nerves of the bladder are derived from the vesical and prostatic plexuses sent oflp by the hypogastric plexus, which su^jplies its ujiper part, and the fourth sacral nerve; in this way the neck of the bladder is brought into very close relation with the anus, the importance of which has been already pointed out (see vol. ii., page 4:40). The vesical plexus contains a large proportion of spinal nerve fibres. Puncture of the Bladder.—This operation may be performed either from the rectum or above the pubes; and in doing so, advantage is taken of the anatomical facts that there is no peri- toneum on the base of the bladder (that is, the part towards the rectum) nor on the antero-inferior surface. The part left uncovered varies with the amount of distension of the organ. In tapping above the pubes, the bladder must be distended, so as to raise the reflection of the peritoneum well above the pubes; in tapping from the rectum, it must be done exactly in the middle line, and close to prostate. The part which may be punctured with safety is triangular in shape, each side of the triangle being about an inch-and-a-half in length (the external trigone), and has the following boundaries:—Un either side are the vasa defurentia (a vas on each side), and immediately beyond these, the vesicuhe scminales; the base of the triangle is formed by the line of reHcciion of the peritoneum on to the rectum, ajul is about an *2n