504 Applied Anatomy: An Iliac Abscess forms a swelling between the crest of tlic ilium and the femoral vessels, and does not extend into the thigh at all. In this case look for disease of the lumhar sjiiuc, the sacro- iliac joint, necrosis of the ilium, or suppuration around the cajcum or sigmoid flexure. In a perityphilitic abscess, and abscess round the sigmoid flexure, the pus is not beneath the iliac fascia but above it, and therefore does not spread down the thigh, but fdls out the corresponding iliac fossa and bulges at the femoral ring. In a case of iliac abscess with, at the same time, signs of hip joint disease, it is most probably due to disease of the acetabulum. Pelvic Abscess.—This is an abscess associated with the boun- daries or contents of the true pelvis. Such abscesses may " point" in the groin in the position of an iliac abscess, in the inguinal canal, or pass into the scrotum or the labia in the female; in the one case, the cord or vas deferens is the guide by which the abscess travels, in the other, it is the round ligament of the uterus. A pelvic abscess may also escape through one of the sciatic foramina and appear as a deep abscess in the buttock; in this case the arteries that pierce the pelvic fascia will guide the pus—gluteal, sciatic, or pudic. The abscess may be due to disease of the acetabidum, supjjuration in the cellular tissue in front of the bladder or around the rectum, and abscess of the seminal vesicles spreading along the vas to the inguinal canal and into the scrotum. In the female pelvic cellulitis is extremely common, and the abscess may spread up along the round ligament; the usual causes in the female arc— diflicult labour, miscarriage, or gonorrhwa. Lumbar Abscess.—This is an abscess that makes its way through the muscles or fascia of the posterior abdominal wall, being guided along some of the structures that pierce it, as the ilio-hypogastric and last dorsal nerves with their accompanying arteries; it usually points in the region of the triangle of Petit, at the outer border of the erector spinas. It may be caused by disease of the spine, or a perinephritic abscess may open in this region, and the right side abscesses may be connected with the caecum. In lower lumbar and upper sacral disease the pus may enter the sheath of the pyriformis, follow the sacral nerves, and point in the buttock beneath the gluteus maximus, or pass into the