207 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. two; this septum should be complete about the eighth week. Occasionally it is not completed at all, but a permanent opening remains between the two ventricles, towards the base of the heart. This form is also sometimes met with in the human heart, and corresponds to the normal form of the heart in the clielonia and scaly reptiles. After the ventricular septum is completed, a septum appears at the upper part of the single auricle, and grows downwards, dividing it into two auricles; an opening, however, exists in this septum during the whole of intra-uterine life, called the foramen ovale. This foramen slioidd close up a few days after the birth of the child, though occasionally it exists throughout life, so that the blood in the two auricles is more or less mixed. A partition also grows in the truncus communis arteriosus dividing it into the ascending aorta and the trunk of the pul- monary artery. This septum grows from above downwards, and the part last formed, therefore, is the part next to the ventricles. Occasionally the lower part of the septum is deficient, so that the aorta and the pulmonary artery communicate directly with each other. The leading signs of such malformations are—(1) The presence of marked cyanosis, deep livid or abnost black, affecting the surface generally; (2) difficult or gasping respiration; (3) the Hippocratic finger, the nails being dark blue and the tips bulbous; (4) low external temperature; (5) sometimes epileptiform seizures; (G) a bruit at the base or mid sternum with no definite propagation; and (7) increase of the cardiac dullness to the left. It is difficult or impossible to say which of the various malformations are present. Relation of the Lungs and Pleurae to the Chest Wall.— The Pleurae.—Except at the lower border, the relation of the pleuraj to the chest wall is the same as that of tlie lungs. In front, the right pleura extends to the seventh rib; in the mid-axillanj line, to the ninth; and hehind, to the eleventh. The left is a little lower all round, probably from the lower level of the diaphragm, reaching as low as the tenth rib in the mid-axillarij line. It should be noted that the pleurae may sometimes extend a little below the level of tlie last ril), iind may tlierefore be opened in