233 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. it and tho lamiiife there is mucli loose fat and cellular tissue, and a venous mesliwork; {h) it does not split to form venous sinuses; and (f) it does not send processes into the substance of the cord. Divide the dura mater, and Ave come to (2) the subdural space (araclmokl cavitij), with very little fluid; (3) next comes the spinal arachnoid mater; and below this (4) the subarachnoid space, containing the cerebro-spinal fluid, and also traversed by a deli- cate mesh work of fine connective tissue (the subarachnoid tissue); and (5) the pia mater, which is more fibrous, less vascular, and more adherent to the cord than the corresponding membrane of the brain. The Cord itself.—It extends from the foramen magnum to the lower border of the first lumbar vertebra—passing above into the medulla oblongata, and below into the filum terminale; its length is from fifteen to eighteen inches. Eelow the first lumbar vertebra the bundle of nerve-roots jjrolonged downwards form the " cauda equina." At the third month of intra-uterine life, the cord i^asses along the entire canal; but after this period the nerve roots and the bones grow faster than the cord, so that it is apparently drawn up into the canal. At birth the spine is quite straight, and the cord reaches the lower border of the third lumbar vertebra. Occasionally, however, it extends along the whole canal at birth. There are two enlargements of the cord—the cervical and lumbar. The Cervical is the larger, and extends from the third cervical to the first dorsal vertebra; it corresponds to the origin of the nerves for the bracliial plexus and the upper extremity. The Lumbar is opposite the twelfth dorsal and first lumbar vertebra?, and from it spring the nerves for tlie lower extremity. The cord consists of white matter externally, and grey matter in the centre. The white matter consists of fibres, and is the part that conducts impulses to and from the sensorium; it is roughly divided into anterior, lateral, and posterior columns on each side by the two median fissures, and by the point of emergence of the anterior and posterior roots. The anterior root is motor, and leaves the cord by a number of fasciculi; the posterior is sensory, and has a ganglion on it, and leaves tlie cord as one bundle. More particularly, however, the white columns arc seen to be functionally divided into a number of strands.