353 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. the neck of the sac is detached from the internal ring, and the hernia thus pushed up beneath the abdominal wall, the gut being still strangulated by the narrow mouth of the sac; and (i) where the sac and the gut escape into the subserous fatty tissue, but still strangulated. Two courses are open to the Surgeon—either to cut down upon the canal, and see what has gone wrong, or else perform laparotomy, having made sure of the absence of a second hernia and peritonitis. It is probably better to open the canal in the inguinal region, as the Surgeon can then perform the radical cure, as well as relieve existing constrictions and adhesions. In cases of reduction en hloc, the late Professor Spence taught that if the hernia could be brought down again by coughing, it could not be an example of that condition. Mr Bryant states that of the four forms of displaced hernia—(1) reduction en masse, (2) detachment of the sac and peritoneum from the internal ring, (3) cases Avhere the sac bursts, and (4) reduction eri bissac,—the first two may be reduced, forced down again by coughing, and re-reduced frequently. It is most difficult to be c[uite sure, but absence of the sudden jerk as the hernia is reduced, and the return of the symptoms of strangulation after the effect of the chloroform has passed off, should put the Surgeon on his guard, and will warrant him in cutting down on the hernial canal and exploring. This is better than opening the abdomen, because (1) Ave can with more certainty and greater ease find the constricted hernia, (2) judge of its fitness for reduction or otherwise, and (3) when actually gangrenous, or doubtful, it can be dealt with more satis- factorily than when the abdomen is opened in the middle line. The late Professor Spence, however, distingnished two varieties of reduction en hloc or en masse. The true reduction " en hloc" where it is reduced completely within the abdominal parietes, and no effort, such as coughing or sneezing, can make it re-appear, because the sac, with its contents, no longer corresponds to the opening or axis of the canal, as it is pressed aside and the body flexed on the neck, altogether out of the line of the canal. The other kind, to which, I think, he rather applied the term reduction "en masse" is where the hernia is partially jiushed back, with the constriction unrelieved, but where the liernial sac and contents still lie in the line of the canal—the fundus still occupying the