Applied Anatomy: 134 vertebrae. The part whicli most frequently requires divLsiou is the sternal head, but both heads may be divided. In doing so it is well to bear in mind the proxiniity of important structures, e.g., the internal jugular vein, and several veins passing to join it, lie behind the muscle, opposite the interval between its two heads, and if care be not taken the operation may be followed by a fatal result; further, the external jugular vein is often close to its onto.r border, and the anterior jugular at its inner. The incision should be made from behind forwards, close to the sternum, and along the clavicle, and if this be done, there is little risk of doing any damage; the tension of the muscle tends to make it project forwards, and away from the carotid sheath. The following method is that recommended by Erichsen :—Por the sternal head make a puncture on the inner side of the tendon Avith a sharp scalpel, and then push a narrow director behind the muscle, and after that pass an ordinary tenotome between the director and the tendon flatwise, turn it and then cut forwards. In dividing the clavicular insertion make a puncture with a scalpel upon and down to the clavicle in the space between the two heads of the muscle, and then push a blunt-pointed, narrow- bladed tenotome between that bone and the insertion of the muscle, and cut forwards, or a director may be used as in the last case. In children the muscle may also be divided about its centre by passing a tenotome behind the muscle, from Avithout inwards, putting it on the stretch and then cutting forwards. The Deep Fascia of the Neck.—This is attached behind to the spinous processes of the cervical vertebrte It splits to enclose the trapezius muscle, and then the two layers join to form the roof of the posterior triangle of the neck; it again splits to enclose the sterno-mastoid and the depressor muscles of the hyoid bone, and then unites across the middle line with the fascia of the opposite side. This layer is attached — above, to the base of the lower jaw, the zygoma, mastoid process, the sui^erior curved line and the protuberance of the occipital bone; below, to the upper and posterior part of the manubrium sterni, clavicle, acromion process, and spine of scapula. If pus forms beneath this layer, it will in all probability find its way into the anterior mediastinum, or else bag oyer the sternum.