Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 335 dangers are—Septic peritonitis, pvilmonaiy embolism, and py;emiii. An advantage of the abdominal method is that both kidneys can be examined, especially if the incision be made in the linea alba, so that there is less risk of removing the healthy kidney and leaving the diseased one. Of course a median laparotomy might be i^erformed, the kidneys examined, and then the diseased one removed by the lumbar operation. PARACENTESIS ABDOMINIS. A small incision is made with a scalpel in the middle line, a little below the umbilicus (about two inches), and through this opening the trocar is thrust; if the aspirator is used, a preliminary incision is unnecessary. It is better, however, to keep up pressure on the abdomen as the fluid escapes, lest the abdominal vessels burst on account of being thus suddenly relieved from the pressure of the fluid. The instruments required are—Scalpel, trocar or aspirator, split sheet, sponges, needle and silk sutures, scissors, avooI and collodion, bucket, adhesive plaster, brandy, etc. Pressure is best kept up by means of a broad flannel roller, split at each end to within six inches of the middle, and applied in such a way that the untorn part covers the front of the abdomen, while the ends are crossed behind and given to an assistant on each side to keep up the pressure as the fluid escapes. A small hole must be made in the anterior part of the flannel roller through which to introduce the trocar or aspirator. The Surgeon must be ready to close the cannula with his finger should the flow threaten to become inter- mittent, lest air be admitted. Another precaution is to make sure that the bladder is empty before the operation. In tai)ping the abdomen in other situations, the course of the epigastric vessels must be kept in mind. The possible dangers of the operation are latal syncope, peritonitis, csi)ccially in cases of Bukiut's tliscasc, lucmorrhage, wound oC the bladder, wound of the bowel I'rom not selecting a dull area, or from plungijig the instrument too deeply. SouTHKY uses a small " drainage - trocar," which is left in till the distension is relieved. The fluid is drawn ofl' xluwh/, and this avoids the risk of syncope, and the necessity of bandaging. It has no tendency to set \\\\ ])critonitis, and is almost painless.