322 Applied Anatomy: he excised from its external aspect. The inner surface is concave, and is connected with the stomach hy the gastro-splenic omentum —the structure which causes the most anxiety during excision of the organ, as it contains the large arteries and veins—the splenic and the vasa brevia. The anterior border is usually notched; this fact is useful in diagnosing enlargements of the spleen from other tumours. The lower or outer end of the spleen, in health, usually reaches midway between the posterior and mid-axillary lines, over the ribs already named. At this point it most nearly reaches the surface, and a small portion may be made out by percussion; as it passes upwards and backwards, however, from this point it is separated, as already mentioned, from the surface by the left lung and the thick layer of muscles of the back, and is beyond the reach of percussion. The si^lenic dullness is more evident when the iDatient lies on his right side, for then the spleen gravitates forwards; the normal spleen is best percussed when the patient is standing Avith the left arm removed from the side. In conse- quence, however, of the near presence of the stomach and the splenic flexure of the colon, it is necessary to percuss very lightly, in order to obtain its true position. The splenic plexus of the sympathetic is formed by branches from the right semilunar ganglion and from the right pneumogastric nerve. Occasionally, a communication is formed between the splenic artery and vein, giving rise to aneurismal varix. The recorded symptoms are obscure—profuse hgematemesis, very tender abdomen, diarrhoea, Iruit over the region of the spleen, resembhng a " venous hum," bleeding from the bowels, and ascites. Splenic Tumours and Enlargements are to be distinguished by the following points — (1) They move with the diaphragm during inspiration and expiration; (2) the position shifts by turning the patient over to the right side, when it gravitates forwards; (3) tlie mode of origin and course—they begin above in the left hypochondrium, and grow downwards and forwards towards the umbilicus, curving round in front of tlie fundus of the stomach and colon, and therefore have no bowel in front, as is the case with renal tumours; (4) the dullness is continuous with that of the normal splenic dullness; (5) they are usually paiidess; (6) the tumour has a milrh in the anterior border, wliich is also sharp