Applied Anato7ny: 884 then upwards; and, therefore, in applying pressure, it must be directed downwards, backwards, and upwards; and to relax the falciform margin of the saphenous opening, the thigh must be flexed on the abdomen, adducted, and rotated inwards. The hernia is directed upwards on account of the close attachment of the superficial fascia to the lower margin of the saphenous opening, which thus prevents its further descent. The fact that there is greater friction and pressure on the upper surface, from Poupart's ligament, will also direct it upwards, and perhaps also the flexing of the thigh will press in the same direction. The seat of stricture in femoral hernia is usually the sharp edge of Gimbernat's ligament. Femoral enterocele must be distinguished from three forms of fatty swelling in this region—(a) a subcutaneous lipoma (Fig. 208), (&) hernia of septum crurale ("fatty hernia") (Fig. 209), and (c) epiplocele (Fig. 210). The two latter are tethered on their deep surface, an ordinary fatty tumour is freely movable in the tissues. Occasionally, however, a "fatty hernia" may become detached from the extra-peritoneal fat and be engrafted on to the tissues in its new position, and grow there, closely resembling an ordinary fatty tumour. It must also be diagnosed from an enlarged gland with inflammation around it; here the fixing on the deep surface is not at one point, but is more general and all round the gland, with prohahly thickening and adhesion of the skin over it. The gland in the femoral canal may thus enlarge and come forwards; of com-se, an inflamed gland might be phis a hernia at the same time. If the bowels move with castor oil, and there is no vomiting, it is not likely to be a strangulated hernia. Operation for Strangulated Femoral Hernia.—The superficial structures are divided by a vertical or a T-shaped incision. Tlie vertical limb of the incision is made over the neck of the tumour; it may be two or three inches long, and its centre must correspond to the upper part of the saphenous opening. The horizontal limb is made parallel with Poupart's ligament, and immediately below it. Whether the T-shaped or a vertical incision be used, it is better to make it as far as 2)ossiUe from the genital organs, compatible with the object in view; it will thus be more easily kept aseptic. The various coverings are carefully divided till the sac is reached; and the finger is then passed along the canal till the stricture is found,