150 Applied Anatomy: the slicatlis of the tendons of the little finger, or thumb, is far more likely to involve the common sheath under the anterior annidar ligament than when it occurs in any of the other fingers; this is because the synovial sheaths of the flexor tendons of the thumb and the little finger communicate directly ■vvith the common sheath, while those of the three other fingers do not; but in no case, however, is the distance between the common sheath and the synovial sheaths of the flexor tendons great—usually about a (quarter of an inch. To check the spread of the inflammation and relieve the tension, it is advisable either to foment the finger with warm water, or make an early and free longitudinal incision into the finger, and if the pus has formed loitldn the sheaths, make an incision down to the bone at once, or, in the case of septic wounds, immerse the whole hand in a warm boracic acid bath. If pus form or accumulate in the common synovial membrane under the anterior annular ligament, the appearance presented is peculiar— there is a swelling in the palm and another in the lower part of the fore-arm, with a constriction between, caused by the annular ligament. In opening a palmar abscess, always cut on a meta- carpal bone parallel with its long axis, and towards its head, to avoid the digital nerves and vessels. Also avoid going too near the root of tlie thumb lest the superficial palmar arch be injured. The Anterior Annular Ligament. — Passing beneath this structure, and enveloped by a common synovial sheath, we find— (1) The tendons of the flexor sublimis; (2) the tendons of the flexor profundus; (3) the tendon of the flexor lougus polhcis; and (4) the median nerve. The tendon of the poUicis, however, has usually a synovial sheath to itself. Passing over the ligament, we fijid—(1) The tendon of the palmaris longus, (2) ulnar vessels, (3) ulnar nerve, and (4) cutaneous twigs of the ulnar and median nerves to the palm. Passing through its substance is the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis (Fig. 156). The Posterior Annular Ligament has six compartments, cor- responding with grooves on the bones. The first, on the outer side of the styloid process of the radius, transmits the tendons of the extensor ossis metacarpi poUicis and extensor primi internodii poUicis; the second transmits the tendons of the exteusores carpi