Applied Anatomy: 33a Ovarian Dropsy and Ascites in the Female :- Ovarian Dropsy. 1. The tumour gradually develops from one iliac fossa, and is in front of tlie intestines, and is attached by pedicle to pelvis. 2. Tumour is more or less central in position and ovoid, and causes the centre of the abdomen to project when the patient lies on her back, or may be more at one side than the other, o. On percussion, the dullness is round about the umbilicus, the intestines giving a clear note at the sides. The upper limit is convex. •i. The fluid is confined in a cyst, and, therefore, change of position does not alter the shape of the dullness, though the whole cyst may fall to one side. o. Swelling of the feet and ankles only occurs in the last stages. 0. No particular change in the veins of the abdominal wall. 1. Flnctuatinn, nr (luctualiou wave, often indistinct, and if the cyst be multilocular is unequal at different parts. 8. No bulging into tlie posterior wall of the vagina, in uncomplicated cases. Ascites. 1. There is no history of latcial development, and the intestines lloat up upon the fluid. 2. The bulging is at the flanks when the patient lies on her back, and the front of the abdomen is flattened, but when well marked may be of a uniform globular outline. 3. The dullness is at the flanks, as the fluid gravitates there; the, centre is clear as the intestines arc floated up. The upper limit is'concave in the ei'ect posture. 4. Tlic fluid is free, and change of position alters the line of dull- ness, as it gravitates to the lowest part. 5. Swelling of the feet and ankles an early symptom. 6. The veins are very well marked, and fill most quickly from below upwards, as the pressure of the free fluid presses on the inferior vena cava. 7. Fhu'tuntion, or fluctuation ware, well marked, always, equally, and in every direction. S. Bulging into the posterior wall of the vagina, from the pressure of the fluid in Douglas's pouch. Note the differeucc between "Fluctuation" and "Fluctuatiiui AVave." In Fluctuation, when the halls of the fingers of one hand are placed gently and firmly on one side of the Auid swelling, and the other hand presses the opposite side of the tumour gently, the tumour is felt to rise under the fingers nf the first hand. It is not alone the sinJn'inf of the fingers nf the second hand that con.slitutcs