Surgicdl, Medical, a)id Operative. 115 Maligiuuit tumours of the iuitruui and U])pcr jaw graduiilly creep through the various t'oramiiui aud fissures of tlio haso of tlie skull, and encroach upon the nasal cavity, mouth, and orbit. Polypi must be diagnosed from—(1) TJiickeued mucous membrane over the inferior spongy bone; this is red, and cannot be moved with a probe. (\L) Abscess of the septum. (3) Deviation of the septum to one or other side; in this case there will be a hollow on the opposite side. (4) A meningocele, protruding through the roof of the nose. Ozasna is a term applied to cases where there is a purulent discharge from the nose, frontal, ethmoidal, or sphenoidal sinuses, and which has a specially offensive and penetrating odour. It is said to arise froin chronic atrophic rliinitis, with purulent secre- tion ; this dries and forms crusts witli a very offensive odour. It is usually bilateral; and if unilateral, is regarded as characteristic of empyema of the antrum. The crusts must be got rid of by sniffing up into the nostril, or spraying it with solutions of the alkaline carbonates or bicarbonates; and after this, local tonic, antiseptic, and soothing applications used. Ozieua may also be due to a foreign body introduced from without; in this case it will be unilateral, and the patient will smell the disagreeable odour with the sound nostril. It may also be due to injury, syphilis, and struma, or to the so-called " atrophic catarrh." Syphilitic ozjena is the only form that causes rapid destruction of the bones of the nose, although strumous inflammation may also cause destruction of the bones, but mnch more rarely. In cases of obstinate oztena, due to necrosis, in which the seijuestra cannot be removed through the nose. Rouge's operation may be adopted. In this operation the upper lip is everted, a transverse incision is made between the second bicuspid teeth of each side, and the soft tissues connecting the upper lip with the jaw divided; the cartilages are next separated, and the septum of the nose divided, with strong scissors, .sufficiently to allow the upper lip and nose to be pulled upwards far enough to expose the nasal cavity. vVfter this operation no scar is visible, as the skin is not divided. Perforation of the Septum of the nose may occur under four conditions—(1) In the scrofulous; (2) in syphilis, hereditary _or