Applied Anatomy: 98 DERMOID GEOWTHS. Definition.—Dermoids* are cysts or tumours, furnished with, skin or mucous membrane (which may or may not be accompanied with the apjjendages peculiar to these structures), occurring in situations where skin and mucous membrane are not normally found (J. Bland Sutton). The simple cystic forms contain a porridge-like material composed of sebum, cholesterine, and shed hairs, and are lined with skin, e.g., at the outer angle of the eyebrow. Complex forms may contain, in addition to hair and skin, luuscular fibres, teeth, nails, and masses resembling mammas. Dermoids are apt to arise in situations where, during embryonic life, coalescence takes place between two surfaces covered by epiblast—as in the middle line, where the two halves of the body join. Such a line may be indicated by starting at the root of the nose and drawing a line to the external occipital protuberance, then along the mid line of the back to the coccyx, then through the perineum, scrotum, and penis, upwards through the umbUicus, thorax, and neck to the symphysis menti; also along the median raphe of the palate. They also occur in the lines of the various secondary fissures of the face and neck (see vol. ii., page 44); in such cases the dermoids will not be situated in the middle line. They may also be produced on any other part of the body liy implantation of epithelium under the skin, as in punctured wounds —e.g., on the limbs, fingers, iris, etc.—" implantation dermoids." Another group of dermoids has its origin in connection with obliterated embryonic canals and ducts-—usually in, or in con- nection with, some part of the jirimitive alimentary canal, and are most commonly found near the coccyx, the tongue, and the neck. They may be found in the pharynx, hanging from the soft palate or roof of pharynx, and also in the rectum. Of such a nature, in aU jjrobability, are the congenital sacro-coccygeal tumours. " It is an interesting fact that the six obsolete canals existing in the embryo of a mammal—viz., the infundibulum (of the brain), the neuro-enteric passage; the post-anal gut, the crauio-pharyngeal canal, the thyreo-lingual duct (duct of the thyroid body), and the * For a full account of Dermoids, see an exceedingly able and interest ing series of lectures by J. Bland >Sutton, iMt.c.t!.