435 Surgical, Median/, and Operative. is more resistant than the mucous membrane, it contracts toimrds the capsule as the fixed point, and will therefore actually dilate the urethra, just as cirrhosis of the lung produces bronchiectatic cavities for the same reason. Signs.—One of the earliest signs of stricture is frequency of micturition, especially at night; this may be accompanied with a gleety discharge and dribbling at the end of micturition. Some- times also there is a difficulty in beginning to pass water. There are also changes in the size, shape, and direction of the stream— it may be forked or spiral, or go suddenly to one side. This is because the presence of the stricture does not allow a stream to pass, large enough to distend the meatus, on which its size and shape depend. Then from some slight cause, as cold, wliisky, etc., comes complete retention, from the superadded inflammation and spasm. Retention of Urine.—In children, retention is usually due to the impaction of a calculus at either of the narrow jiarts of the uretlira, or malignant disease of the prostate, sometimes to a string tied round the penis. In newly-born children, it may depend on a contracted orifice of the prepuce. In young men, it is usually due to urethritis, simple prostatitis, or abscess. In middle-aged men, usually to organic stricture, lolus con- gestion or spasm. In elderly men, it is usually from congestion of an enlarged prostate, or from atomy due to an enlarged prostate, or to old organic stricture. True Atony must be distinguished from paralysis : in atony, it is the muscle that is primarily at fault, not the nerves. It will also depend on the vitality of the person, for the obstruction that would hypertrophy a healthy bladder will dilate and render a weakly one atonic. When the bladder is much distended, we may get cedema of the legs, from pressure on the iliac veins. In retention from atony, the catheter enters easily, and the urine flows out in a slow, uniform stream, and is not projected by the contraction of the detrusor, the only variations being due to the respiratory movements and to the abdominal muscles. A very important caution is necessary here. In pressing over the bladder