AppHed A natomy: 2G8 the mesoljlast, and is at first an ojjen cleft witli the intestines protruding through it; this gradually closes, and the intestines are pulled into the abdomen, the last place to close being the region of the umbilicus. The Cord at birth consists of—(1) Two umbilical arteries, (2) one umbilical vein, (3) Whakton's jelly (mucous tissue), and (4) a serous covering derived from the amnion. At an earlier stage, in addition to the above we find— (1) The omphalo-mesenteric vessels, the seat of the first circulation; (2) the vitelline duct (vitello-intestinal), the duct of commimi- cation between the umbilical vesicle and the alimentary canal; (3) the stalk of the allantois; and (4) a fold of intestine. The last three structures are occasionally met with in the child at birth. ^ The Viteline duct, when jicrsistent to any extent, is known as Meckel's diverticulum; occasionally it is so long as to reach the umbilicus and may be pervious, when it forms an umbilical fiecal fistula. The Allantois.—The intra-abdominal part of this sac becomes the urinary bladder, and probably also the first part of the urethra; as the umbilicus rises and the abdominal wall closes, part of it is drawn out into an attenuated peduncle called the urachus: the urachus is occasionally patent, and discharges urine through the umbilicus. The Fold of Intestine is sometimes found and is apt to be injured, either during ligature of the cord or when the cord separates, forming another variety of fiecal fistula; its possible presence is one reason why the cord should be | tied at some little distance from the belly wall; if present, it forms a truly congenital hernia. In the interior of the abdomen of the child at birth, the umbilical vein courses upwards to the liver, the urachus passes down to the apex of the bladder, and the two umbilical arteries (now called the hypogastric arteries, and in the • adult the internal iliacs,) run down into the pelvis. In the adult, the umbilical vein becomes the round ligament of the liver; the urachus is the same as in the foetus, and the hypogastric arteries are represented by fibrous cords. AVhen the abdominal wall is . not completely closed around the umbilicus, and when the gut is not entirely withdrawn into the abdomen, we have the condition of true Exomphalos. Another defect in development is where ' the anterior part of the pelvic girdle and the lower part of the abdominal wall liave been arrested at an early part of their