Applied Anatomy: 514 j)edicle is then dropped back, and a glass drainage tube introduced. If the tube cannot be removed, the opening in it is carefully stitched to the abdominal incision. Tait believes that removal of the uterine appendages will arrest menstruation. The operation may be required—(1) To control htemorrhage in the case of fibroid tumours, and to stop their growth or cause their atrophy; (2) menstrual epilepsy; (3) chronic ovaritis; (4) salpingitis, haamatosalpins, pyosalpinx and hydro- salpinx. In the latter cases, the tubes are removed because they are diseased, and the ovaries because they are probably diseased as well, and because they are of no use without the tubes. In fibroids, both ovaries and tubes are removed, in order to check the haemorrhage. It may also be performed for tubal or ovarian dysmenorrhoea ("appendage dysmenorrhoea"). The leading signs of this condition are—(1) Premenstrual pain, often severe; (2) more or less continuous pelvic pain; (3) profuse menstruation; (4) sterility; and (5) dyspareunia. EXCISION OF THE WHOLE UTERUS. (Freund's Operation.) This operation has been performed in the case of malignant disease of the uterus. It may be performed :— I. By Abdominal Incision (Freund's method).—The mortahty in this method is very high, and therefore most operators have given it up in favour of the vaginal method. The abdomen is opened, the uterus separated and fixed, and then each broad ligament is ligatured in three parts, the lowest ligature passmg through the lateral fornices of the vagina. The uterus is next cut away from the broad ligaments, the peritoneum divided aU round the cervix, and its connection with the fornices severed, and the whole organ removed. The ends of the ligatures are brought through the hole in the roof of the vagina, and a drainage tube introduced into the same opening. II. Through the Vagina.—In the first instance, the vagina must be thoroughly disinfected. The operation is performed with the patient in the lithotomy position, and a douche is so arranged that a stream of warm carbolised water may continually irrigate