Surgical, Medical, and Operative 345 oblique variety of inguinal hernia often attains a large size, as, wlien once begun, there is but little resistance to its groAvth. The coverings of this form of hernia are—(1) The skin; (2) superficial fascia; (3) inter-columnar fascia; (4) cremasteric fascia or muscle; (o) infundibuliform fascia; (6) the extra-peritoneal fat; and (7) the peritoneal sac. The "fascia propria" of the hernia is the united extra-peritoneal fat and the fascia transversalis, and immediately invests the sac. The sac, as here seen from the outside, may be recognised by its rough, and bluish appearance; it is not smooth and glistening. Direct Hernia.—It is called direct, from the direction it takes; it is also called internal, from its relation to the deep epigastric artery, Avhich lies to its outer side. This form does not pass through the Avhole length of the inguinal canal, but escapes from the abdomen through that part of the triangular space concerned in inguinal hernia, known as Hesselbach's triangle (the boundaries of Avhich, and a description of the structures forming the abdominal Avail at that point, have already—see Fig. 186—been described), enters the inguinal canal, pushing the conjoined tendon before it (unless, as is sometimes the case, the conjoined tendon is small, and does not fill up all the triangle in question), passes through the loAver part of the canal, and escapes by the external abdominal ring. The testicle is placed behind the hernia. It is probably oftenest met AA'ith in elderly men, and rarely attains a large size, but usually forms a small globular tumour, just above the crest of tlie pubes, as the resistance to its groAvth is considerable. The coverings in this form of hernia are almost the same as in the oblique form; the only difference being that, instead of reading " cremasteric fascia or muscle," as in the oblique variety, read " conjoined tendon." This tendon, as Ave have said, is the tendon of the conjoined internal obliijuo and the transversalis muscles; but, as the transversalis muscle gives no covering to any form of inguinal hernia, it may simply be read in place of the cremasteric muscle, Avhich is continuous Avith the internal oblique: in other respects the coverings of the two forms are exactly the same. Rut as already indicated tliere are two forms of direct Hernia. Tlie obliterated hypogastric artery passes across IIes.skUiAcii's triangle, dividing it into two parts (see Fig. 186, h)—(«) In the