Surgical, Medical, and Operative. 437 mcjatus will aduiit of no larger size—porliaps from 14 to IG, Englisli size, or even larger. The instruments are taken out as soon as passed, and after getting a Avarm drink, and lialf-an-hour to an hour's horizontal rest, tlie patient may be allowed to depart; it is well to warn him, on the first occasion, that he M'ill find the stricture worse the following day (from the inflammatory effusion), hut hy the third day he Avill he all right. In passing catheters the rule is — to pass the size below the largest one passed on the paticnVs previous visit, and never to miss a size. During the passage of instruments the patient must he covered as far as possible—a blanket over his chest and abdomen, and another over his legs and feet—only leaving the upper part of the thighs exposed. After their passage he should then get a warm drink, and be allowed to rest in bed. He ought also to be told to keep his water as long as j^ossible after they have been passed, lest there should be an abrasion about the urethra. With these precautions, the risk of " urinary fever" is much lessened. Tor the same reason, some Surgeons give a dose of quinine a short time before the passage of instruments. Resilient Stricture. — By this is meant strictures that very readdy dilate up to the full size, but very speedily return again to the contracted condition. In this case it is impossible and useless to treat them by the above method. It Avas for such as these that Mr Holt introduced his method of "sphtting " the stricture by a special wedge-shaped instrument. The risk is that the mucous membrane of the uretlira Avill also be split, and leave a surface for septic absorption, and it may be foUoAved by serious or even fatal clfects. Relapse after this treatment is very speedy and common, as the ncAv cicatrix contracts faster than the original filnmis stricture. Syme's Operation of External Urethrotomy—sometimes called " Perineal Section."—1'his ujethod of external urethrotomy is employed in obstinate cases of stricture, Avherc there are at the same time large and numerous fistulse, and great induration of the perineum, and the condition refuses to improve after a fair trial of rest, and draAving olf the urine by the catheter. Strictly speaking, the name of " perineal section " should be applied to cases Avhere the urethra is cut down upon Avithout a guide passed into the bladder—e.g., Wheelhouse's operation.