179 Surgical, Medical, and Operative. troutment, as the sccd-likc bodies must be got rid of first; for tlio solid lyuipby form (biirml tumour), tlie only treatment is excision. " Loose bodies " in bursa)—e.(j., in the pre-patellar bursa—are very often not " loose" at all, but hang from the walls of the sac by pedicles of varying length. They do not develop from synovial fringes, us a bursa has no fringes, but are outgrowths of granula- tion tissue, that gradually become more and more fibrous ami pedunculated. After excision of the bursa patellro, patients often complain very bitterly of a severe dragging pain in the part; this is due to the unavoidable injury to the rich pre-patellar plexus of nerves, which is formed by branches from the long saphenous, internal, and middle cutaneous nerves. As the Avound cicatrises, these nerves are dragged upon, and hence the jjain. The Internal Popliteal Nerve suj^plies directly the gastroc- nemius (both heads), the plantaris, soleus, and poplitcus; through its continuation (the posterior tibial) it supplies the tibialis pos- ticus, the flexor longus digitorum, and the flexor longus liallucis. The posterior tibial divides into the plantar nerves, which sujiply the muscles of the sole of the foot. "When the internal pojilitcal nerve is paralysed, therefore, all these muscles are also paralysed; it is impossible to extend the ankle (pointing the toes), or to flex the toes, or raise one's self on tiptoe, and impossible, therefore, to walk or dance properly; inversion of the foot is also impaired, as the posterior tibial muscle is paralysed. Internal Condyle of Femur. — In strumous arthritis of the knee this condyle seems unduly prominent, so much so as almost to suggest the presence of malignant disease of the bone. This l>i'oiuincnce is due to—(I) Atrophy of the vastus internus chiefly; (i') tlic possible sliglit enlargement of the, Ijonc itself, from ostitis; (3) tliickening of the synovial membrane and other tissues over it; and (-1) a tendency to knock-knee, due to relaxation of the ligaments. GENU VALGUM. Genu Valgum, Knock, or X-Knee, is a condition brought about by altered pressure relations at the two sides of the knee joint; it is low ut tlic inner side and high at the outer, and hence the increased growth at the inner side, wliich is an attempt to restore