Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https://archive.org/details/b23983048i)AN THE BEASTLYE ABUSERS, BOTH OE CHYRURGEEIE AND PHYSYIiE, IN OUEE TYME : ^ gooblgc Doctrme .nntf Jnstructi'on, NECESSAB.TE TO BE JIARKED AND FOLOWED, OF ALL TRDE CHIRURGIENS : JOHN HALLE, CHYRUEGYEN. EDITED BY T. J. PETTIGEEW, ESQ., F.R.S., F.S.A. FKLLOW OP THE nOTAL COLLEGE OP SURGEONS DOCTOB OF PHIL080PHT OF THE UNIVERSITY OP Gi ETC. ETC. JiTC. LONDON. PRINTED FOR THE PERCY BY T. EICHABDS, 100, ST. MARTIN'S LANE.. Febeuary, 1844. No. XLLAN THE BEASTLYE ABUSEES, BOTH OF CHYRURGERIE AND PHYSYKE, IN OUEE TYME : a gooblge Boctti'ne antr Instruction, NECESSARYE TO BE MARKED AND FOLOWED, OF ALL TRUE CHIRUHGIENS : JOHN HALLE, ^ 7 CHYBURGYEN. EDITED BY T. J. PETTIGREW, ESQ., F.R.S., F.S.A. VEMOW OP THE nOVAl, COLLEGE OP SUIIGEONS OP ENOLAND, UOCTOB OP PUILOSOruV OP TUB UMIVEKSITY OP GuTTlNGEN, ETC. ETC. ETC. LONDON. ^RINTED FOE THE PERCY SOCIETY, 4 V) i.-/^ T-JilCHARDS, 100, ST. MARTIN'S LANE. o .M.DCCC.XLIV.1 teVAL SOLLROE OF P»YSfCIAN8 LIBRARY AOCN. 30UP.... DATECOUNCIL OF President. The Et. Hon. LOED BRAYBEOOKE, F.S.A. THOMAS AMYOT, Esq. F.R.S. The as. S.A. WILLIAM HENRY BLACK, Esq. WILLIAM CHAPPELL, Esq. F.S.A. Treasurer. J. PAYNE COLLIER, Esq. F.S.A. T. CROFTON CROKER, Esq. F.S.A., M.R.I.A. PETER CUNNINGHAM, Esq. REV. ALEXANDER DYCE. WILLIAM JERDAN, Esq. F.S.A., M.R.S.L. CAPTAIN JOHNS, R.M. T. J. PETTIGREW, Esq. F.RS., F.S.A. LEWIS POCOCK, Esq. F.S.A. E. F. RIMBAULT, Esq. F.S.A. Secretary. WILLIAM SANDYS, Esq. F.S.A. WILLIAM J. THOMS, Esq. F.S.A. THOMAS WRIGHT, Esq. M.A., F.S.A.INTEODUOTION. The following tract is appended to a rare work which forms one of the earliest English books in surgery. It is a translation of Lanfranc's " Chi- rurgia Parva/' by John Hall, sui'geon. Of the translator little is known. There are no biogra- phical notices of him beyond those which can be gathered from his writings, and from these we learn that he was a surgeon in practice at Maid- stone, in Kent, and a " member of the worshipful Company of Chirurgeons." He addresses his book to the members of that body, for protection, as well as to call upon them to unite with him in his endeavours to put down empiricism, and to advance the knowledge of surgeons in general. He appears to have been a man of strong mind, and of great zeal in his profession. A portrait, (wood cut), of which a facsimile is here given, taken when thirty-five years of age, shows that he was born in 1529 or 1530, and is prefixed to the work. Following his " Vera Effigies," is, in seven quatrains :—viii THE BOOKES VERDICT. As some delighte moste to beholde, Eche newe devyse and guyse, So some in workes of fathers olde, Their studies exercise. Perusing with all diligence Bokes written long before : Wherin they learne experience, To heale both sicke and sore ; Which I alowe in dede and werde, In those that understande ; For otherwyse it is a sworde Put in a mad mans hande. Let idiotes and betles blynde, Therefore lay me aparte : Leste contrarie myne author's mynde They rudly me perverte. For as the bee doth honie take From every goodly flowre, And spyders of the same doe make Veuim that wyll devoure : So all that learned men and wyse To good purpose can use, The rude, that knowledge doe despise, Will ever more abuse. Wherefore all those that use me right I shall increase their fame: And vyle abusers all my mighte Shall be to doe them shame. ftix In his address " unto the Worshipful the Mais- ters, Wardens, and consequently to all the whole Company and Brotherhood of Chirurgiens of Lon- don," he strongly laments the prevalent ignorance of the profession, " and alas," says he, " where as there is one in' Englande, alraoste throughout al the realme, that is indede a true minister of this arte, there are tenne abhominable abusers of the same. Where as there is one chirurgien that was apprentise to his arte, or one physicien that hath travayledinthe true studie and exercise of phisique, there are tenne that are presumptions swearers, smatterers, or abusers of the same ; yea, smythes, cutlers, carters, coblars, copers, coriars of lether, carpenters, and a great rable of women." He afterwards says, " I would to God, therfore, my dere maisters and brethren, that there might no fault be found in us concerning these thinges ; for truly if we weare such men of science as we ought to be, these false abusers would be more fearful to medle as they doe." He contrasts the conduct and information of the professors of other arts and sciences, with those of surgery, and he demon- strates the necessity of drawing attention to the works of the learned and experienced, to improve their condition. With this view he undertook the translation of Lanfranc's work. Lanfranc was a physician, born at Milan, and «X flourished in the thirteenth century. Ho was a pupil of Gulielmus de Saliceto, and having com- pleted his studies, he went into France and settled at Lyons, whence he was, by his great reputation, called to Paris, where he taught his profession with great eclat. His work is intitled " Ars Chi- rurgica," the MS. of which is in the Bibliotheque du Roi de France. It gives a miserable picture of the state of surgery in France in his time, and was first published at Venice, in 14.90, and again in 1519, and 1546. It was also printed at Lyons, in 1553, together with the works of Guy de Ohau- liac, Roger, &c., and it was translated into Grer- man by Otho Brunfels, and published at Frankfort in 1566. Altogether it is of little importance, and relates to the " treating of woundes, of apos- themes, of ulcers, (the cancer and the fistula), of algebra or restoration, (dislocations and fractures), and of the diseases of the , eyes." Then ensues " The Antidotarie," or account of remedies em- ployed, which concludes " Lanfranc's Briefe." Halle says that it was translated " out of Frenshe, into the olde Saxony English, about two hundred years past." John Halle is bold in his expressions against the quacks of his day, a most determined enemy to ignorant empirics, exulting in the exposure of their nefarious practices, their urinoscopicalxi examinations, &c., and loud in his protestations against the combination of magic, divination, and physic. In one place he says, " I will not ceaiSe while breath is in my body, to lay on with both handes till this battell be wonne, and our adver- saries convinced and vanquished; w^hich, although, as I saide afore, they are tenne to one, yet truthe being our weapon, and good science our armoure, with our generall the high author of them, we node not to doubt but that one shal be good enough for a thousand, not so strongly armed, but naked men, and bare of all knowledge." He seems, how- ever, to have had some misgivings as to the pub- lication of the "Historian Expostulation," as a letter from Dr. William Ouningham, a reader of lectures at Surgeons' Hall, and dated from his house in Colman Street, April 18th, 1565, is af- fixed in recommendation of the undertaking, and advises him not to withhold his condemnation of the " rabble of ronnagates." This is succeeded by another letter, from the pen of Thomas Gale, a " maister in chirurgerye," approving his work, and urging its publication in the following manner : " Aspire, therfore, and take breth unto you; let no vayne and frivolous opinion overcome you, for I see no cause wherfore you shoulde excruciate your selfe. Every wyse man wyll accepte your indevours, excepte those whiche neyther mynde theyr office.ii neither the utilitie of the publiquc wealth ; every good man will embrase, and with great gladnes revolve over your boke as sone as it is published, and wil, at the first sight of your good travell, have you in more estimacion then ever they had. And why ? because you set forth the most famous and excellent arte of medicine." Some lines addressed to the " loving readers," precede John Halle's own epistle to the reader, in which occur many good observations, and in which the character of the man is well displayed. He lays on most lustily against the empirics, and ignorant surgions, the " very caterpyliers to the publique orders." He accuses them of running about the country, " like pedlars, tynkers, ratte katchers, and very vacaboundes, some only to set bones, some to drawe tethe, some to let blood, some to cutte ruptures, and take out stones ; but all thys rather (under suche colour), to mayntayne an idle and thevyshe lyfe, then to profyte the com- mon weale, to the great uprobrie of all the whole profession of medicine." He then laments that less attention is paid to the making of good sur- geons, than of other artificers. " Alas, there are goodly orders taken, and profitable lawes made, for makyng of clothe, tannyng of leather, makyng of shoes, and many other externall thynges, the abuse wherof is but a dearth or disprofite ofxiii the purse ; and shall there not be a redresse had for the true use of a science whereupon dependeth the health of mans body ? without whiche what is mans lyfe but a very misery or wretched werines ? the abuse of whiche science is not only a disprofite to the purse, but a farre greater charge, that is to saye, the losse of helth and lyfe." He descants upon the neglect shown to apprentises taken by many, as he says, " not for to teache them science, but only to be their drudge, and to doe their toyle and labore, which is the cause, that so many come out of their yeares so ignorant. For their intent is to have servantes to dooe the toyle in their house, and not to make them cunnyng men; yea, and some will refuse a yonge man that is learned, and apte to understande, to have an ignorant slave, to beare the water tankard, and scoure pannes; suche a one, (as the common proverbe is), that will never doe man of science harme, unles he steale away his dynner." The necessary consequence of this conduct is thus pointed out; " And yet will suche a one bragge and boaste, at seven years ende, as though he had all the learnyng and cunnyng under the sunne, although in very dede, the moste know- ledge that he hath is, to poule, or shave, drawe a toothe, or dresse a broken pate. Alas, is not this a great pytye, that suche a noble arte shall thusxiv be abused every way, through the filthie lucre and avaricious myndcs of men ? Is it not a shame to use such roberie ? Doe ye not steale lyke robers the service of your apprentyses, when contrary to your covenants, ye hyde your science from your servantes, to whom ye are bounde to teache it; and yet, (in the meane season), receive the labor of their bodyes more lyke slaves then men; be- side the great dishonor that therby you doe to your own profession, God graunt that I may see this amended, as I trust I shall." Halle objects to the division of medical science, shows the dependence of the several departments upon each other, by reference to the opinions of ancient authors; asserts that by " pernicious division all hath been brought to confusion, so that neither parte is nowe used only of the experte professors therof, but rather of every smearer, that listeth to abuse them. For as the phy- siciens thynke their learnyng sufficient, without practyse or experience, so the chirurgien, for the moste parte, havyng experience and practise, thinketh it unnedeful to have any learnyng at all, which also hath boldened every ignorant rusticall, ye and foolyshe women, to think them selves sufficient to profess and worke in so noble and worthy an arte." He then states what a surgeon should be: learned, expert, of good discretion, &c.XV and having established these points, he asks, " Why is every rude, rusticke, braynsicke beast, fond foole, undiscrete idiote; yea every bedlem baude, and scoldinge drabbe, suffered thus (with- out all order) to abuse this worthy arte upon the body of man ? What avayleth the goodly orders, taken by our forefathers and ancient authores, that none should be admitted to the arte of chirurgery, that are miscreate or deformed of body; as goggle or skwynte eyed, unperfecte of sight, unhelthy of body, unperfecte of mynde, not hole in his members, boystrous fingers or shakyng handes. But contrary-wyse, that all that should be admytted to that arte, should be of cleare and perfect sight, well formed in person, hole of mynde and of members, sclender and tender fingered, havyng a softe and stedfast hande: or as the common sentence is, a chirurgien should have three dyvers properties in his person. That is to sale, a harte as the harte of a lyon, his eyes like the eyes of an hawke, and his handes as the handes of a woman: what avayleth this order I saye, sithe the contrary in all poyntes is put dayly in use, and that almost without hope of redresse ? seyng also, that those auncient authors had not only this regarde to the forme of the body, but also, and as well to the bewtie or ornament of the mynde, and honest conversation of him that shouldxvi be admitted to chirurgery, as are tlies: He ought to be well manered, of good audacitie, and bolde where he may worke surely; and, contrariwise, doubtfull, and fearfull, in things that be dangerous and desperate. He must be gentyll to his pacients, witty in prognostications, and forseyng of dangers, apte and reasonable to answere and dissolve all doubtes and questions belongynge to his worke. He muste also be chaste, sober, meeke, and merci- full; no extorcioner, but so to accomplishe his rewarde, at the handes of the ryche, to maynteine his science and necessary lyvynges, that he may helpe the poore for the only sake of God : what meaneth it, I saye, (those things considered) that so many sheepe heades, unwytty, unlearned, unchaste, ribaudes, lecheours, fornicators, dronk- ardes, belygoddes, beastly gluttons, wrathfull, envious and evell manered, shall thus myserably be suffred to abuse so noble an arte; yea, that they shall also be mayntayned (in despyght of those that are men of science indede) preferred lyvynges for that profession, contrary to the ordinances and lawes of a citie, beyng a carpenter, a cobler, or a corier of lether, or whatsoever he be: the wyttye, the learned, the man of knowledge, the citizen, and the free man, in the meane season wantyng preferrement and lyvyng V He professes much anxiety for the success ofxvii his observations, and trusts that if his book, being read by any abuser of chirurgery, he should find himself "rubbed on the galle," he will leave his vice and improve. He also admonishes the young to study, to attend to their anatomy, to the nature and complexions of their patients, and the pro- perties of their medicines ; to let their practise be founded on their reason, and that " none may worke without knowledge joyned to experience." Finally, he warns the young man entering the profession, to avoid "games and spendyng the time in playe. And hereof assure thy selfe, that if thou have not as great desyre to thy boke, as the greatest gamner hath to his game, thou shalte never worthily be called cunnyng in this arte. For thou must thynke and esteme all tyme of leysure from thy worke and busynes, even loste and evill bestowed, in which thou hast not pro- fyted somewhat at thy boke. Let thy boke there- fore, I say, be thy pastyme and game : which (if thou love it as thou oughtest) will so delight thee, that thou shalt thinke no tyme so well bestowed as at it. Yea, thou must desyre it as the child doeth his mother's pappe ; and so will it nourishe thee, that thou shalt worthily growe and increase to a worshypfull fame of cunnynge and learnyng." To the work of Lanfranc, Halle has added an expositive table of the " strange wordes, names, cxviii diseases, syraples, &c. which occur in the book; ' A very frutefull and necessary briefe worke of Anatomie," and the "Historiall Expostulation," herewith reprinted. To the first of these is affixed the following acrostic :— NOMEN AUTHORIS SUB HIS AT11ACTI1.IS JACET. If reason maye the justice be Of this my minde the truthe to trye: Howe can ther be dispaire in me No truthe sithe reason can denye. Happye it is when men esteme : All one in truthe, the same to tell: Let no man voyde of reason deme, Lest he agayuste the truthe rebell. The proheme contains a very creditable defence of the ancients and their modes of study, and concludes with some quaint lines which terminate thus:— In wicked men, so wickednes Will alway have alway: Dispraising still, throughe hatefiilnesse, Eche good and perfect way. Thomas Halle, the brother of the author, then addresses the " Gentle Readers that thirst for science," and adds several stanzas in praise of the intent of the work, and also some lines which bearxix the signature of " Ihon Yates, Chirurgion." In the table, under the head of Algebra, is said: " This Araby worde Algebra sygnifyeth as well fractures, as of bones, &c. as somtyme the restauratyon of the same." Of Scabiosa " Men saye that S. Urban at the peticions of a certaine asthmatike sister of his, (that used scabiosa continually) sente to hir these verses, of the vertues therof:— UHBANUS SUO SENESCIT PHETIUM SOABIOSiE. Non purgat pectus quod comprimit segra senectus; Lenit pulinonem, pui-gat laterum regionem ; Apostema frangit, si locum bibita taugit: Tribus uncta foris anthracem liberat horis. To Urbane him selfe, it is uncertaine Howe many vertues in scabiose reygne : But excellently it clenseth the breste Of sicke aged folke, that there are opreste. The pypes of the lunges, if rough they apere, It maketh them smothe, yea gentle and clere ; The roumes of the breste, that we the sydes call. It purgeth well, from incumbrances all. K it be drunke, so that it touche the place, Apostemes it breakes, by peculiar grace; Without to carbuncles if it layde be, It doth lose and breake them within howres three."XX At the end of the table are these verses : — Though envie me accuse, In suche as wyll disdayne; It can not make me muse, Nor nothyng rere my brayne. For they that doe misuse Their tongues in suche a case, Wyll styll them selves abuse. In runnyng of that rase. But reason is myne ayde To take my cause in hande: And I nothyng afrayde With hir in place to stande. Havyng my hope so stayde, That those who lyste to rayle Wyllbe ryght sore dismayde, When reason shall prevayle. For truthe, by reason strong, Wyll have the upper hande ; When envie vyle and wronge, Shall fayntly flee the lande. And truthe hath alwaye been, A daughter unto tyme ; Whiche as it hath been seen, Detecteth every cryme. The " Treatise of Anatoinie" forms the prin- cipal work of our author. He quotes from a writer, Henricus de Ermuuda Villa, who compareth Ixxi " the chirurgien ignorant in anatomy, to a biynde man whiche woude hewe a pece of tymber; for as a biynd man that hevveth on a logge knoweth not how muche he should hewe therof, nor in what maner, (and therfore commonly erreth in hewyng more or lesse than he ought to doe :) so lyke wyse doth the chyrurgien that worketh on the body of man, not knowing the anatomy." The frame of man, he tells us, has been called by the Greeks " Microcosmos, a little world, because in the same (even as in the frame of the greate worlde) so manye wonders maye bee scene of natures works to the hygh honor and glor-ye of Almyghtye Grod. Maye it not be proved, that the brayne (lyke unto the heavens) hangeth without any maner of staye or proppe, to holde by the same ? nay, it is so evident, that every learned anatomiste writeth of the same, as a thyng not to be doubted of, and therfore judge the same to have a certeyne lyke- nes with the heavenly nature. And as the world hath two notable lyghtes to governe the same, namely, the sonne and the moone; so hath the body of man, planted lykewyse in the hyghest place, twoo lyghtes, called eyes, whiche are the lyghtes of the body, as the sonne and the moone are the lyghtes of the world. And it is also wrytten of some doctors, that the brayne hath vii concavites, being instrumentes of the wyttes,xxii which answere unto the vii spheres of the planotes. And to be briefe, it is a worlde to beholde, and a wonderful wonder to thynke, that as great mer- veyles may bee seene, wrought by God in nature in this little worlde, man his body, as ther is to be considered in any thyng in the unyversall great worlde, above or benethe at any tyme. " Secondly, it is called a common weale, for as muche as there is therin conteyned as it were a ryghteous regiment, betwene a prynce and his subjectes, as for example. Let us call the harte of man a king, the brayne and the lyver the chiefe governours under hym, the stomache and the guttes, with other aperteinyng to nutryments, the officers of his courte, and all the members universally his subjectes. And then let us see, if any man can devyse any necessary instrument of a common weale, nedefull for the wealth of the same, from the hyghest to the lowest, that the lyke shall not be founde in the body of man, as it is so well knowne to all those that travel in the knowledge of anatomie, that I nede not here muche therof to wryte. Can it be perceyved that the hande or the fote, or any part of them or such lyke (which we may lyken to the labourers, or as some call them vyle members of a common weale) at any tyme to resiste or rebel againste the harte their soveraigne lord, or any other officer underxxiii hym their superiors? No, truly. The body of man is a common weale without rebellion: the kyng so lovyng his subjectes, and the subjectes so lovyng their kyng, that the one is ever redy to mynister unto the other all thynges nedeful; as if the harte by any occasion susteyne damage, as we may see in the disease called 8incope, or swoundyng. At suche a tyme I saye the face, the handes, and the fete, are founde colde and without felynge, strengthe or lyfe; and what proveth it, but that as lovynge and obedient subjectes they thynke nothyng theyr own wherof the harte hath nede, which is their lorde and governour; yea, they utterly depryve themselves of altogether to serve and please their lord. Immediately as the swoundyng ceaseth, the blonde resorteth to the face, the handes and the feete are warme agayne, as it were benefittes done, rendered agayne with thankes and joye. And is not such a lorde and kyng worthye of good subjectes, that for the helpe of one' of the leaste of them wyl spend all that he hath, so long as lyfe endureth ? as if a member be hurte, wherby any veyne or artery is cutte, the blonde or spirit will issue in suche wyse that it wyll not cease commyng thyther so longe as any is lefte, if it be not in tyme prevented. Oh kynd and gentyll governour, oh wel wyllyng and obe- dient subjectes."xxiv His anatomy is composed to the end of advanc- ing his chirurgery, and for the time in which it was written, is a very fair compendium. There are two figures whole length, cut in wood, but the references apply only to the exterior parts of the body and its regions. The conclusion of the work gives a good summary in relation to the temper- aments. All his writings appear to be terminated by rhyming verses, and those attached to his anatomy are in praise of chirurgery, as founded upon a knowledge of anatomy, and condemnation of those who practise without learning. Halle's antipathy to quacks was inveterate. Throughout his writings he omits no opportunity of expressing his horror of, and aversion to them ; but in the following and concluding " Historiall Expostulation," he enters into particulars, gives many curious details of the practices of itinerant impostors, principally such as resided in, or visited Maidstone, in Kent, where it appears he exercised hisprofession. His " Goodlye Doctrine and Instruc- tion" is drawn up in verse, and is marked by good sense, and in itself is a curious composition. According to Watt and other authorities. Hall or Halle was also author of " The Court of Vir- tue, containing many Holy or Spretual Songs, Son- nettes, Psalmes, Ballets, and Shorte Sentences, as well as of Holy Scripture as others, with Music, Notes, London, 1565," 16mo.XXV But an earlier production, (being in 1550), may be mentioned : " Oertayne Chapters taken out of the Proverbes of Solomon, with other Chapters of the Holy Scripture, and certayne Psalmes of Da- vid, translated into English Metre, by John Hall." By the remainder of the title it appears that the proverbs had been, in a former impression, unfairly attributed to Thomas Sternhold. A copy of verses by Plalle, is prefixed to " The Enchiridion of Surgery, by Thomas Gale, London, 1563,12mo."''' Halle and Gale seem to have enjoyed much intimacy, and to have had minds congenial to each other. Gale served in the array of Henry VIII, at Montreal, in 1544, and in that of King Philip, at St. Quintin, in 1557 ; he was serjeant- surgeon to Queen Elizabeth, and his picture of the state of military sm'gery in his time, appears to have been no better than the civil surgery as de- scribed by Halle. The following extract may not be uninteresting to the reader :— "Iremember," says he, "whenlwas in the wars," in the time of that most famous prince. King Henry VIII, there was a great rabblement there, that took upon them to be surgeons. Some were sow-gelders, and some horse-gelders, with tinkers and coblers. This noble sect did such great cures that they got themselves a perpetual name ; for, like as Thessalus's sect were called Thessalians, so clxxvi was this rabblement, for their notorious cures, called dog-leachers, for in two dressings they did commonly make their cures whole and sound for ever, so that they neither felt heat nor cold, nor no manner of pain after. But when the Duke of Norfolk, who was then general, understood how the people did die, and that of small wounds, he sent for me and certain other surgeons, command- ing us to make search how these men came to their death, whether it were by the grevousness of their wounds, or by the lack of knowledge of the surgeons ; and we, according to our command- ment, made search through all the camp, and found many of the same good fellows, which took upon them the names of surgeons,—not only the names but the wages also. We asking of them whether they were surgeons, or no, they said they were ; we demanded with whom they were brought up, and they with shameless faces would answer, either with one cunning man or another, who was dead. Then we demanded of them what chi- rurgery stuff they had to cure men withal, and they would show us a pot or a box, which they had in a budget, wherein was such trumpery as they did use to grease horses heels withal, and laid upon scabbed horses backs, with nerval, and such like. And other that were coblers and tinkers, they used shoe maker's wax, with the rust of oldxxvii pans, and made therewithal a noble salve, as they did term it. But in the end this worthy rabble- ment was committed to the Marshalsea, and threat- ened by the duke's grace to be hanged for their worthy deeds, except they would declare the truth what they were, and of what occupations, and in the end they did confess, as I have declared to you before." The Bodleian Library contains a MS. (178), being a translation by J. H. of Bened. Victo- rius's " Cure of the French Disease"; also some letters between J. H. and Dr. William Ouning- ham, dated 1565. The latter is well known by his " Cosmographical Glasse, containing the pleasant principles of Cosmographie, Greographie, Hydrographie, or Navigation, London, 1559, folio." Many of the cuts of this work were executed by the author, who is reported to have been ingenious in the art of engraving on copper; the map of ' Norwhich' is his own production. The work is one of the finest that issued from the press of Day. Mr. Halliwell tells me that a few years ago he saw the original MS. of this work at Denley's, a book- seller, near Drury Lane. Dr. Cuningham resided at Norwich about 1556-59, and afterwards in Lon- don, where he was appointed to read the lectures at Surgeon's Hall, in 1563. He commented on the book of Gralen upon " Tumours against Nature."xxvii He also wrote a Commentary on the book " De Aere Aquis et Eegionibus,"" by Hippocrates. He calls Morbus Gallicus Chamoeleontiasis. T. J. P.AN HISTOHIALL EXPOSTULATION: Against the beastlye Abusers, bothe of Chyrurgerie, and Physyke, in oure tyme: with a goodlye Doctrine and Instruction, necessarye to be marked and folowed, of all true Chirurgiens: Gathered and diligently set forth by JOHN HALLE, Chyrurgyen. Imprinted at London in Flete Streate, nyghe unto Saint Dun- stones Churche, by Thomas Marshe. An. 1565.AN HYSTOEIALL EXPOSTULATION, ETC. For as muche as in the epistle and prefaces, I liave declared the dishonor that the nohle arte of medicyne susteyneth by deceavynge fugitives, and other false abusers; I thinke it good here to blasen the dedes of some in this our tyme, that it maye apere that not withoute a sufficiente cause, I have so there of them complayned. Fyrst, there came into the towne of Maydstone, in the yere of our Lorde, 1555, a woman whiche named hir selfe Jone, havyng with hir a walkyng mate whome she called her husbande. This wicked beast toke hir inne at the sygne of the Bell, in the towne aforesaydCj where she caused within short space to be published that she could heale all maher, bothe inward and out- ward diseases. One powder she caried in a blader, made of the herbe daphnoydes, and anise sede together, whiche shee (as an onelye sufficient remedie for all grefes), administred unto all hir folishe patientes, in lyke quantite to all people, neyther regardyng tyme, b24 AN EXPOSTULATION AGAINST THE strengthe, nor age. All the tyme of her being there, (whiche was about iii wekes), there resorted to her company, divers rufRans, and vacaboundes, under pre- tence of being diseased, and sekyng to her for remedye, so that hir false profession, was unto their wicked behavioure, for the tyme in that towne a safe suppor- tation. This beastlie deceaver, amonge manie others, tooke in hand an honest mans child, who had a suppurat tumor in his navell, percynge dangerouslye the pani- cles of the belye, to whome she administered the sayde ponder in great quantitye, in so muche, that the childe dyd vomyte continuallye for the space of halfe a daye and more, withoute ceassynge, whereby the sayde aposteme brake. The parentes of the chylde then feared much, by the grevousnesse of the syghte, that his stomache woulde breake, whiche may be thought that in very dede it so dyd. For in processe of tyme ther issued out by the orifice of the same vii. wormes, at vii, seve- rall tymes (such as childi-en are wont to avoyde eyther upwarde or downwarde, from the stomache and guttes, called teretes i. rotundi), with also a certayne yelowe substance, not stinkynge, suche as we sometymes fynde in the stomaches of dead men when we open them. This fearfull syght, I saye, caused the childes pa- rentes to sende for me, to knowe therein myne opinion and counsell; unto whome I prognosticated (as I sawe good cause), that the mater was very dangerous, and not lyke to be cured. But this beastly forme of aABUSERS OF CHYRURGERIE AND PHYSYKE. 6 woman, hearyng me so saye, answered that slie douted therein no daunger, and farthermore offered hirselfe to be locked up in a chamber with the chylde, and that yf she healed him not, shee myghte be punished; with a great deale more circumstance of prating and deceyt- full braggynge werdes. Unto whose moste wicked and divlishe boldnes I thus answered. Wher as you saye that ye doubte not any daunger in this childe, I verye well beleue you, for ignorante fooles can doubte no perils, and who is bolder then blynde bayerd ? howe shoulde they doubte that knowe not what a doubt meaneth? Notwithstandyng this preheminence you deceavynge rennegates have, ye maye bragge, lye, and face, tyll ye have murdered, or destroyed suche as cre- dyte you, and then are ye gone, ye shewe your, heles, and that is onelye your defence. But honest menne of arte muste have truthe for theyr defence, and expe- rience of their true worke, and maye promyse no more then they may performe. What should I make manye wordes, the parentes of the childe all to late discharged this deceaver, and the child, notwithstandyng the counsell had of dyvers learned men, dyed afterwarde of the sayde grefe. But the sayde deceaver, accordyng to my prophesie, after iii. dayes, ran away, she and her walkyng mate, rob- bynge their hoste where they lay, of the shetes, pillow- beres, and blankets that they laye in; and by their entysement of one of the mayde servauntes of their sayd hoste, they hadde muscadell served them insteade of bere, whyle they laye there for the moste parte ;AN EXPOSTULATION AGAINST THE •6 which entyced servant ranne awaye also with them, and coulde not synce be herde of. Secondly, in the yere of our Lord 1556, there re- sorted unto Maydstone, one Robert Haris, professynge and pretendyug an hyghe knowlege in physike; under cloke wherof he deceaved mervaylouslie with vyle sor- cerie. This deceaver could tel (as the folish people reported of hym), by only lokyng in ones face, all se- crete markes and scarres of the bodie, and what they had done, and what hadde chaunced unto them all theyr lyfe tyme before, Wherwith he had so incensed the fonde and waveryng myndes of some, that pitie was to here. Amonge whome one woman (whoe for Mr yeares and profession, ought to have bene more dis- crete). When I reasoned with hir agaynste his doynges, she ernestlie affirmed that she knewe well that he was then dystant from hir, at the leaste vii. myles, and yet she verelye beleved that he knewe what she then sayde. Oh greate beastlynes and infydelitie, specially in suche as have borne a face to favour the worde of God. Well, for jestyng a lyttell agaynste the madnes of thys deceaver, I hadde a dagger drawne at me not longe after. The wordes that I spake were to his hostes, when I sawe him goe by, in this wyse. Is this (quod I), the cunnyng sothsayer, that is sayde to lye at your house ? Sothesayer, quod shee; I knowe no suche thynge by him, therefore ye are to blame so to name him. Why, quod I, suche men and suche en- formed me that he can tell of thynges loste, and helpe children and cattell bewitched and forspoken, and canABUSERS OF CHYRURGERIE AND PHYSYKE, 7 tell by lokyng in ones face, what markes he hathe on his bodie, and where, and tell them what they have done, and their fortune to come. Yea, and all this in dede he can doe, quod she. Why, then, he is a sothe- sayer and a sorcerer, quod I. Well, quod she, yf he have so muche cunnynge in his bellye, he is the hap- pyer, and it is the more joye of him. Nay, quod I, it were mere folyshnes for hym to carye his cunnyng in his bellye. And why ? quod she. Why, quod I, thynke you that men of lerning and knowledge cary their cunnynge in their bellies ? Wher else, quod she, and why not ? Mary, quod.I, yf he should beare his cunnyng there, he should alwayes waste it when he wente to the privye, and so in time he should lose all his cunnyng. This beyng merylye spoken, turned me afterwards not to a little displeasure, even at their handes, where I had deserved and loked for frendship as of dutie; butlmust cease to marveyle any longer at this, when almoste everie suche abhominable vylaine is de- fended, upholden, and mayntayned, by suche as of righte, and according to the holesome lawes of this realme, shoulde punish them for these their abusions. Tet surelie the grieffe were the lesse, yf onely the blynde, and supersticious antiquitie had a regarde and love to suche deceavers. But nowe a great number that have borne an outwarde shewe of great holynes, and love to Gods holie worde; we see them seke day- lie to suche divelishe wyches and sorcerers, if their fynger doe but ake, as though they were Goddes, and coulde presentlie helpe them with wordes, althoughAN EXPOSTULATION AGAINST THE 8 they knowe that God in his Israeli, hath called them an abhominacion, and hath farther commaunded that none suche should be suflPred among them to lyve. Thyrdlie, in the year of our Lord a thousand fyve hundred fyftie and eyght, there came to Maydstone one Thomas Lufkyn, by occupacion a fuller, and bur- ler of clothe, and had bene brought up (by reporte of divers honest men), at the fuUyng mylles there besyde the towne, nevertheles he had ben longe absent from that contrie, in whiche tyme he had by roving abroade, become a phisician, a chirurgien, an astronomier, a palraister, a phisiognomier, a sothsayer, a fortune de- vyner, and I can not tell what. This deceaver was the beastliest beguiler by his sorcerys that euer I herd of, making physike the onely colour to cover all his crafty thefte and mischieves, for he set uppe a byll at hys fyrste commynge, to publishe his beyng there, the tenour wherof was in effect as foUoweth:— If anye manne, womanne, or childe bee sicke, or would be let bloud, or bee diseased with anye maner of inward or outwarde grefes, as al maner of agues, or fevers, plurises, cholyke, stone, strangulion, impos- tumes, fistulas, kanker, goutes, pocks, bone ache, and payne of the joynts, wliich commeth for lacke of bloud- lettyng, let them resorte to the sygne of the Sarazens Hedde, in the easte lane, and brynge theire waters with them to be sene, and they shaU have remedie. By me, Thomas Luffkin. Unto this divell incarnate, resorted all sortes ofABUSERS OF CHYRURGERIE AND PHYSYKE. 9 vayne and undiscrete persons, as it were to a God, to" knowe all secretes, paste and to come, specially women, to know how manie liusbandes and childi'en they shoulde have, and whether they shoulde burie their, liusbandes then lyving. And to be brefe, there was not so great a secrete, that he would not take upon him to declare, unto some he prophecied death within a moneth, who thankes be to God are yet lyving, and in healthe. All this he boasted that he could do by astronomic; but when he was talked with of one that had but a yonge and smaUe skyll in that arte, he coulde make no directe answere no more then puppe my dogge. This vilayne coulde wyth a wodden face, bragge, face, and set oute his maters wyth boulde talke, that the symple people was by him mervelously seduced to beleve his lies, and boastinge tales. Amonge manye that talked with him, one of mine acquaintance asked him this question: Sir, quod he, if you be so cunnynge as ye are named, or as you woulde fayne be estemed to be, wherefore goe ye, and travaUe ye from place to place ? for beinge so cunning, ye can not lacke wheresoever ye dwell, for people will resorte unto you farre and nere, sekynge upon you, so that you shoulde not neede thus to travaile for your livynge.' Unto whom he made thys beastlye answere; I knowe, quod he, by astronomye the influence of the starres, and therby perceave when, and howe long any place shall be unto me fortunate, and when I perceave by the starres that any evell fortune is like to chaunce to me10 AN EXPOSTULATION AGAINST THE in that place, I streiglite waye wiselye avoid the daun- ger, and goe to an other place, wheras I knowe it wil be fortunate and luckye. For what use they to cloke theyr vilanies wyth but astronomye, phisicke, and chi- rurgery, as I shewed you before. But thys false knave had answered more truelye if he had sayd thus: though for a tyme as all newe fan- gels are highlye sette by and mervailed at amonge the folishe and rude people, so naughtye false merchantes, wyth their craftye, and vilainous deseightes, maye for a time have credite and successe according to theyr wicked expectations; yet in a whyle wyth use, the people wiU begin to smell oute, and be werye of theyr doynges, whiche they at the fyrste so gredelye did seeke, for the strange newes. For suche false decea- vers perceave and knowe that the fonde myndes of the common rude multytude of people, at the fyrste, in seekynge to see strauuge thynges, are madde of desire, and as they are unreasonable in seekynge the newes, so are they sone werye of the use therof; for muche familiaritye engendereth contempte, even in good thinges ; therfore when men begin to perceave and to espye the crafte and subtUty of suche deceavers, it is time for them to change their place, that they maye the easilyer deceave agayne, where theyr falshode is strange and newe, and all together unknowne. If I saye he hadde thus answered, he hadde sayde the very truthe. Thys deceaver hadde sufficiente audacitye, wyth talke tQ sette oute hys falshode, and to beare downe all that be ignorante, so longe as his knaverye kuackes wereABUSERS OF CIIYRURGERIE AND PHYSYKE. 11 unknowne; well, the ende of hys being there, was as it is common wyth them all, wythoute anye dilFerence, for he sodainlye was gone wyth manye a poore mannes monye, whyche he had taken before hande, promisinge them helpe, whiche onlye he recompensed wyth the winge of his heles. Fourtlalye, in the yeare of our Lorde a thousande fyve hundi-ed and three score, one Valentyne came into a paryshe in the welde of Kente, called Staple- hurste; wheras he changed hys name, caUynge hym selfe master Wynkfylde, aflirmynge hym selfe to be the Sonne of a worshipful knight of that name. Thys abhominable deceaver made the people beleve that he could tel aU thinges present, past, and to come; and the very thoughtes of men, and theyr diseases, by onlye lokinge in theyr faces. When anye came to hym wyth urines (whyche commanlye in the countrye they bring in a stone cruse), he made them beleve that onelye by feling the weight therof, he would teU them aU theyr diseases in their bodies, or wythout; and otherwhile made them beleve that he wente to aske councel of the devel, by going a litle asyde and mumblyng to him selfe, and then comming agayne, would teU them all, and more to; for what care of shame or eveU have these heU houndes who see theyr abhomination ? but even as the ape tourneth his filthye partes to every mannes syghte, so shame they not to acknowledge them selves to have conference with the diveU, that so yet all wyse men may know theyr dedes to be all divell- ish, wherin the vaine opinion of some (though not of12 AN EXPOSTULATION AGAINST THE the wysest sort), lielpctii tliem not a litle, who esteme those dampiiable artes to be hygh'poyntes of learnyng. Oh ethnike madnesse! Thys beastlye beguyler so incensed in shorte space the vayn myndes of the rude and waverynge multitude of people, that he was sought unto, and estemed more a greate deale then God, (oh heathenish and idolatrous people! not much unlyke this was their outragious madnes to their pevysh pilgrimages, wherwith in times past they were most miserably bewiched). Yea suche a wonderfuU fame and brute wente abroad of his do- ynges, that some of the verie worshipfuUes of those partes were striken with admiracion, and desyre to seke to him, to knowe manie good morowes; wherof also he would not a lytle bragge and boaste.. But as tyme revealeth all thynges, so this devylyshe beaste in short tyme was knowne in his righte kynde and name; and that he had iii. wyves lyving at that present, of which the fyrste lyved very porelye and myserably in Canturbury; the second, after she knewe his wickednes, departed from him, and maried after with a preste; the third, whiche he at that present had, he maried at Westmynster, as I was credible in- formed, beyng there a riche widowe. But nowe after this vylaynie was knowne, by his fyrst wyfe comming to Staplehurste, he ran awaye from hyr also, leavynge her desolate, undone, and in muche miserie, for he had spent aU her substaunce by riotous fare; for he was reported to fare at his table lyke a lorde, and was served as fynelye as a prynce; but suche shamefuUABUSERS OF CHYRURGERIE AND PHYSYKE. 1 3 dedes can never be withoute wicked ende, at the leaste at Gods hande, thoughe it be neglected of the magis- trates. This laste wyfe beyng sente on his errande to Mayd- stone, to an apothicaries wydowe for certeyne di-ougges, chaunced to forgette some of their names, wherewith the women beyng bothe not a lytle troubled, the apo- thecaries widowe asked whye her husbande dydde not wryte for hys thyuges, wherunto his womanne answer- ed that Mayster Wynkfylde was a ryght Latynist, for he coulde wryte no Euglyshe. By this ye maye per- ceave he was a well learned manne. This woman beyng as I saide, lefte desolate, maried after with one Thomas Riden, who was his man, who wente together to Westminster, there to dwell, whither not lang after, this Winkefield came, minding agayn to seduce the woman to folowe hym, as before she had ; who so detested his late beastly usance, that she com- playned him so to the archebyshop of Canturbury, and other of the quenes majesties honorable councell, that he was long imprysoned in the gate house, and for his wickednes sore punyshed.* Yet in the ende beynge delyvered, he ceased not any whit to use his olde prac- tise, for he came immediately to Robardesbridge, in Sussexe, where he wrought the lyke wickednesse as afore, and beyng there espied, within a whyle with divers wycked factes, he removed, putting on a brasen face, and came again into Kente, to Staplehurst, wher * He was whipped.14 AN EXPOSTULATION AGAINST THE he freshly renewed the use of his odiouse feates, for the wliich maister Bissey, person of Staplehurste, caused him to be ascited of the ordinary to the spiritual! courte, as an adulterer, and a woorker by divlishe and magi- call artes. Wherfore he removed two myles from thence, to a paryshe called Marden, thynkinge him selfe therby the more salfe, but the lawe notwithstand- ing, proceded so against him, that he was ther upon his contempte, excommunicated; and yet never lefte his olde fashions. He spent in his house weekely sixe pound (as dyverse honeste menne reported), in meate and drynke, with suche resorte and banketyngee, as it was a wonder to see, whereby he not a litle augmented his fame; the people resorting to him farre and nyghe, for he woulde teU them suche wonders, that aU had hym in admiration. But especially, he was cunnyng to inchaunte women to love, and did for rewardes, dyverse feates in suche cases ; and lastly, he began to worke properly for himself as foloweth: At a paryshe called Loose, in the hundred of Mayd- stone, a certayne blynde man, called blynde Orgar, hadde a wyfe who was sycke of djr^rers aches and swellynges, who hearyng of this marveilous monster, sente hir daughter upon a Wednesday, downe to Mar- den, with hir water, to this maister Wynkfelde, who so inchaunted hir, that she forgate hyr waye home to hyr father and mother in so much that hyr mother thouglite hyr loste, for she taried there tyll the Satur- daye folowyng: then takyuge hyr waye homewarde, and beyng come halfe waye, hyr mynde was so intox-ABUSERS OF CHYRURGERIE AND PHYSYKE. 15 icate, that she retourned backe agayne to hyr lover; who lovyngiy (fearynge leaste hyr frendes shoulde make exclamation therof), accompanied hir, tyll she was nyghe at home, and then returning, he promysed hyr to come to hir mother by a certayne daye, whiche he in deede performed; and so fylled he the symple wo- man with suche flatteryng and craftie perswasions, and fayre promyses of healthe, that she thoughte nothynge to whotte or to hea.vy for hym, no, not hyr daughtei-, as it apeared, for he forsoke Harden (where he was xii. jDouude in debte, and upwarde), and came to inha- bite at Loose, in this poore blynde mans house, in so muche that in a whyle, all people theraboute spake muche shame, that it was suflFered. The whiche reporte, at suche tyme as it came to the eares of the worshipfuU justices thereaboutes, with also the trade of his former lyfe, the complaynte of dyverse honest men whose money he had taken, and deceaved them: and the clamour of his creditours, to whom he ought, as is aforesayd. They sent out their war- rante, to aU constables of that hundred, chargynge them to aprehende and brynge hym before them at Maydstone, the Thursdaye folowyng. Who beynge warned therof by certeyne disemblyng men, and chiefly a flatteryng minister, he fledde, and coulde not be founde, neyther was he synce heard of in that coun- trey. This later fitte chanced in the yere of our Lorde 1562, in Lent. Many more particuler histories coulde I here wryte of his detestable factes, but to avoyde prolixity, I leave them at this tyme, trustyng that tliis16 AN EXPOSTULATION AGAINST THE may suffyce to describe what he is, and to geve al men warning of hym and all other lyke deceivers. The truthe was so; he had no learnyng in the world, nor coulde reade Englishe (and, as I suppose, knewe not a letter, or a b from a bateldore), as it was well proued, yet made he the people beleve that he coulde speake Latin, Greek, and Hebrue. Item in the yere 1562, there came to the towne of Maidstone an olde felowe, who tooke upon him to heale all diseases, as a profounde phisitien, whom (for be- cause men had been so deluded by divers former de- ceivers,) I caused to be examined before the officers of the said towne. And when he was asked his name, he said, John Bewly; secondly, wher he dwelte, and he answered at London, in the Old Bayly, against Sir Roger Chamley. Thirdly, if he were a phisitien, he sayde yea. Fourthly, where he learned that arte, and he sayde by his owne study. Fiftly, where he studied it, he answered, in his owne house. Sixtly, what authours he had redde, he sayde, Eliote, and others. Seventhly, we asked what other, and he said, he had forgotten. Eightly, we asked liim what weare the names of Eliotes bookes, he sayd, he re- membered not. Then we brought him an Englyshe booke to reade, whiche he refused; but when he was commauuded to rede, he desired us to be good to him, for he was a poore man, and in deede coulde not i-eade, and sayd that he intended not to tary there, but to re- payre home agayne. This beyng done on a Sondaye, after evensong, his hoste was bounde for his foorth-ABUSERS OF CHYRURGERIE AND PHYSYKE. 17 comming the next daie, when upon his humble sute, he was let goe; beyng warned with exhortations, to leave suche false and naughty deceytes. Farther in the same yere, one William, a shomaker, came into Kente, pretending to be very cunning in cm-ing diseases of the eyes; and being brought to a frende of myne, to have his judgement in ones eye, whereof the sight was weake; first putting them in muche feare of the eye, he at lengthe promised to doe great thinges therto. But the frendes of the partie diseased desired me first to talke with him, to under- stande his cunning; which I, at their request, did, at a tyme ajjpointed, and asked him if he understoode what was the cause of liir infirmitie. He said he could not tel, but he wold heale it he doubted not. Then I asked him whether he were a surgien, or a phisitien; and he answered, no, he was a shomaker, but he coulde heale ail maner of sore eyes. I asked him where he learned that; he sayde that was no matter. Well, sayde I, seyng that you can heale sore eyes, what is an eye ? whereof is it made ? of what members or partes is it composed ? and he sayde he knewe not that. Then I asked hym if he weare worthy to be a shoe- maker, or to be so called, that knewe not howe, or wherof a shoe was made ? he answered no, he was not worthy. Then, sayde I, how dare you worke upon suche a precious and intricate member of man as is the eye, seyng you knowe not the nature therof ? and why, or by what reason, it doth see more then a mans nose, c18 AN EXPOSTULATION AGAINST THE or his hand dothe ? He answered, that though he could not tell this, yet could he heale aU maner of sore eyes. And that where as maister Luke of London, hath a great name of curyng eyes, he coulde doe that which maister Luke could not doe, nor turne his hande to. Thus bragged this proude varlette, against and above that reverent man of knowne learning and experience. And I sayde I thought so, for Maister Luke, sayde I, is no shoemaker. Well, sayde he, I perceive you doe but skorne me, and flunge out of the doores in a great fume, and coulde not be caused to tary and drynke by any intreaty, neither have I since that tyme heard any thyng of hym. What other men and women, besydes these, have come into the forsayde place, if I should rehearse them, and the discourse of their doinges, it weare to tedious, yea, it wold abhorre any honest mans eares to heare of it. There came a woman thither, (as she reported hirself), a ministers wife, (but I thynke she falsely lyed), in the aforesayde yeare. The ofiicers hearing of hir prophession, called hir before them, and exa- mined hir, with whom she was so stoute, as to say (when she was warned to departe the towne, in payne of imprysonment), these wordes: I have, quod she, travelled thi'ough all partes of this realme, and I was ne- ver yet forbidden in any place to minister my physike. and hath (sayde she), your towne a privilege above all other, to forbydde me to doe good, and to heale the queenes leige people ? Then was she asked what autho- ritie she hadde, or of whom she was allowed thus toABUSERS OF CIIYRURGERIE AND PHYSYKE. 19 dooe, or what certiflcat she hadde brought with hir, to witiies with hir of hir good behavour in places where she was before ? and she sayde she was never before so examined, neither feared to be put to suche triall, neither sawe she ever the place, that a woman coulde fynde so little curtesie, especially sithe she asked no- thynge gratis of any man, or otherwyse then for hir mony: these stoute wordes notwithstanding, she was expelled the towne. And not longe after, came thither a make shifte, with two men wayghting on hym, as very rakehelles as him selfe, bragging that he was a profounde phisicien; and being called by the officers to examination, was so streyghtly charged, that he confessed himselfe and Ms men, to be felowes in frendshippe, and all of one krewe; and this was a shifte, mutually devised among them to get mony; and so weare they expelled the towne; or rather they shifted sodainly away for feare of punyshement; whiche if they had taried, they could not have escaped, so good then was the mynde of the officers for that yeare. And now one historic of the tyme present, to knitte up this my tale of vagabondes and rennegates most hatefull. One Robert Nicols, a false deceiver, and moste igno- raunt beaste, and of the profession of vagaboundes, (as weare his former felowes), hath in tymes passed boasted him selfe to have been the servaunt of Maister Vicary, late sargeant chyrurgien to the queenes highnes. But now the matter being put in triall, he sayeth he was apprentice with a priest, among whose wicked and pro- e 2AN EXPOSTULATION AGAINST THK 20 digious doynges, (wMclie are infinite, one very notable cliaunced in the yere of our Lorde 1564, the 26 of September; he poured in a purgation to an honest woman of good fame, one Riches, wydowe, of Linton, (a paryshe of three myles distant from Maydestone), whiche within three or foure houres at the moste, purged the lyfe out of hir body, so violent was this mortal potion. The woman being before in perfecte health, to aU mens judgementes, beinge onely of sim- plicitie perswaded to take the same, by the deceivable perswasions of this Nicols, who made fayre wether of all thynges, and hir to beleve that he would deliver hir of suche diseases as in deede she had not. For he should have had by composition, xx. shiUinges for the saide drynke. For this murderous facte, he was by the queenes majesties justices apprehended, and imprisoned in the gaile of Maydstone, where he was communed with aU, concernyng his knowledge and doynges, and for what cause he gave hir that purgation, and howe she was perswaded to take it. He answered, that he knewe by hir complexion, that hyr lyver and hyr lunges weare rotten, and therfore he toulde hyi- so. Wherunto one replyed sayinge, naye, she was not sycke, but thou tould- est hyi- so for thy fylthye lucre, and she beleved thee. And because (as thou saydest), thou knewest all this, by hyr complexion, I praye thee what complexion am I of ? He answered, you are sanguine. Then was it asked him, whether it weare proper to a sanguine man to have blacke heare, as that partyeABUSERS OF CHYRURGERIE AND PHYSYKE. 21 haclde on his bearde ? to this he answered, O, ye wyll saye ye are more a the choler. Then the partie gave hym hys hande to feele, which was commonly colde, saiynge, is a cholericke man wonte to be so colde? whiche when he hadde felte, he sayde: 0 then ye woulde be of the fleme. Then was he asked, what is a sanguine man ? or why is he called sanguine ? he answered, a sanguine man is he that hathe a good dis- gesture. Mary, as thou sayest, quod the demaunder, here in hast thou shewed howe great thy cunnynge is in judgyng complexions. Then was it saide to hym, ye professe bothe phisicke and chirurgerie, what au- thours have you redde? He answered, Vigo and Gasken. Then was it demaunded, what medicyne gavest thou the woman wherwith thou haddeste so evyll lucke ? And he sayde, catapussis. Then beynge rebuked for that he would take on hym to geve medicyne inwardlye, whereof he knewe not the names, muche lesse the natm'e: he sayde as stoutely, as obstinatly, that he knewe as many purgations as the partie that reproved hym. Then he asked hym of foure or five, such as came first to minde, as tamar indes, mirobalanes, aga- rick, &c., of all the whiche he sayd he knew none. Then was he requyred to name them that he dyd know, and he sayde he knewe catapussis, and catapistela. Then was he asked what catapistela was. Why, quod he to the demaunder, doe not you knowe it ? No, sayde the partie, not by that name. And it was further asked whether it weare an herbe, a roote, a22 AN EXPOSTULATION AGAINST THE tree, a stone, the hove, home, or tayle of a beaste, or what it was ? Nicols answered that it was none of those, but a thynge made beyonde the seas. It is not made in Englande, quod he, I thynke it be made in Fraunce. Then was he agayne reproved for his beastly braggyng. And here maiest thou see, quod the person that rea- soned with hym, thyne owne ignoraunce, in that thou sayest it is made, wher it is in deed the fructe of a tree called cassia fistula, (as I thynke thou meanest), and not catapistela. And he answered, (not withstand- yng his former impudencie), it is so; saiyng also thus, oh, you call it casia, belyke because it is lyke a case. Then this man begynning to prove his cunnyng in the natures of symples, asked hym the nature of peper. He sayde it was hotte in the firste degree, and colde in the seconde. Why then, sayde the demaundaunt, what saye you to the nature of an oyster? and he, (answerynge as before of the temperamente), sayde colde in the fyi'st degree, and hotte in the thyrde. Then was it sayde to the standers by, here may you see his beastly ignorance, dyd ye ever heare that two contraries coulde dwelle together and agree in one sub- jecte ? Wlierunto this lewde felowe most proudly answered, though I can not reason so well as you, but am confounded at your hande, yet have I done great and many cures, whiche, sayd he, commeth of some- what, though you saye I knowe nothyng. After this, one asked him if he weare by authoritie admitted, accordinge to the lawes of this reahne, to use phisicke and chirurgery, as a practiser of the same ? To whomABUSERS OF CHYRURGERIE AND PIIYSYKE. 23 an other sayde j thynke you that any such ignorant asse as this is, can he any where so admitted ? Unto all this he sayde, if none should be suffered to use them but the learned, or suche as are permitted, a great manye poore people should perishe for lacke of helpe. To this he was answered, nay, rather a great numbre that are daily kylled or lamed, by suche ignorant beastes as thou arte, might, (by the benefite of nature, and other good helpes of cunnyng men), recover right well, and lyve, if suche as thou art weare not. Among other questions of the anatomic, to al the which he answered as beastly as in other thinges before. It was asked him what the splene was, and he answered, that it was a disease in the syde, baked hard lyke a bisket; deniyng that there was any thyng called the splene, but the disease, (sayeth he), so called. Then was it further demaunded of him, (because he boasted muche of chirurgerie), what a wounde was; and he answered, a wounde is a hurte, or a bruse. What is an ulcer, then, sayde the opponente ? he an- swered, an ulcer is a wounde. And then beyng asked whether a wounde and an ulcer weare all one, he sayde, a wounde is that wliiche is newe, and an ulcer is that wliiche is olde. To this it was replied, that an ulcer might also be newe, and that it was an ulcer though it weare but one daye olde. After this he sayde that he knewe an ulcer with a canker, also a marmole and a fistula. Wherfore he was asked what was a canker, and he sayde, a canker is when an ulcer doth by rank- ling become a canker. Wherunto one replied, saying.24 AN EXPOSTULATION AGAINST THE a cancer may in dede be ulcerate, and is often so; but that every ulcer may by rankling (as thou saiest) be- come a cancer, it hath not been redde nor seen. But then he sayde that he spake of a canker, and not of a cancer; for a cancer, sayde he, is when an ulcer stynketh. Muche more could I wryte of his beastly answeres, if I thought this not enough, yea, to much, except it weare better. And though I thinke this enough to greve any wyse mans eyes to see, or eares to heare, yet shall I desyre them to beare with a worde or twayne more, that what they are, even the unskilfull may per- ceive, and learne to beware of them. A certaine pacient of myne, (having lately been cured at my hande), metynge with this Nicols at his brothers house, reasoned with hym of a payne that he sometyme hadde in his hyppe ; I trowe, quod he, ye cal it a sciatica, doe ye not ? Yea, sayde Nicols, there is a sciatica, and a sciitica. Then sayde my pacient, I never hearde my chyrurgien name any suche. Who is that, sayde Nicols ? and my pacient named me. Then began Nicols to praise a neighbour of myne, sai- yng that he was cunuinger then I, but my pacient praysed me to be cunninger then my neighbour. Yea, sayd Nicols, in talke, Halle can talke better. Then sayde my paciente, I hadde a grevous sore legge, with greate apostemacions and hoUownes, wlierefore if he coulde have done nothing but talke, he myght have talked long enough to my legge before it would so have been whole.25 ABUSERS OF CHYRURGERIE AND PHYSYKE. Unto the same man also he made his vaunte on a a tyme, that he sawe his maister, close a mans head together, that was clefte from the crowne of the head, down to the necke, who sayde he was after healed, and did live. This shamles lye, beyng hearde of a mery man, was with an other like lye quited, on this sorte. Tushe, (sayd this mery man), I have heard of as great a matter as this; for a certayne man fallyng into the handes of theves, was robbed, and his head was so smoothe cutte off, that it stoode styll upon his necke tyU he rode home; whose wyfe metyng hym at the doore, perceived his bosome bloudy, and asked hym if hys nose had bledde; whiche wordes when the man hearde, he tooke his nose in his hand to blowe it, and therwith threw his head in at the dore. And nowe as it is tyme I leave also this monster, least I should to muche weary the lovynge readei', with the long readyng of these moste frivolous communications, and tragedi- ous doynges, (which I have with griefe of harte writ- ten, trusting that it will not onely be a warning unto some, that they committe not their lyfe and healthe in sicknesse, unto suche lyfe purgers, but also that in com- myng to the handes of some vertuous menne, may with the pitie of other mens myseries, move them to laboure, to the most of their power, to redi-esse these evels). Omitting also one Carter, otherwyse called CarveU, otherwyse Maye, who is a sorcerer, and a worker by dyvelyshe spirites, clokyng the same under the colour of phisick, and hath done much mischief among the people, with his abhorrefuU doynges, whicheAN EXPOSTULATION AGAINST THE I wiU hereafter (as leysoure and occasion shall serve), farther declare. I wiU here also omitte to talke of Grigge the poul- ter, with divers other, whose endes have made their doinges knowne. And also of a joyner in London, a Frencheman borne, that is of late becomme a phisitien, who is estemed at this daye, among dyverse ryght wor- shipfull, to be very learned and cunnyng, that knowe not his originall; yea, they call him doctor James; but an honest woman, an olde neighbour of his, (not longe synce), at a man of worshyppes house in Kente, merveyled to see hym in suche braverye, and lordly apparell; who, when she tooke acquaintance of hym, he wronge hyr harde by the hande, and rounded hyr in the eare, saiyng: if thou be an honest woman, kepe thy tongue in thy headde, and saye nothinge of me. For surely a monstrous great legende should I make, if I shoulde here recite all suche, as I have knowne and heard of; but if any man would knowe more of the doynges of these deceyvers and runnegates, let hym reade a little booke called a Galley late come into En- glande, from Terra Nova, laden with Phisitiens, Apo- thecaries, and Chirurgiens, &c., the author wherof I knowe not. Also let them reade a little worke, enti- tuled, A Poesie, made in forme of a vision, &c., lately imprinted. Also let them reade the verses of maister Bulleyne, in his Bulwarke, in the dialogue betwene sore- nes, and chirurgery; where he ryghte truly and plea- santly describeth them in their ryght colours. In theABUSERS OF CHYRURGERIE AND PIIYSYKE. 27 whiclie boke also in clivers places, he notetli the sleighty practises of suche abusers as he hath knowne in di- vers countries. "What shall we thinke Diogenes would saye, if he now lived, and sawe so many rusticall craftesmen leave their misteries, and become phisitiens ? seynge he sayde to one that was a weake wrestler, (and after became a phisitien), these wordes in efFecte: what in- tendest thou nowe, quod he, craftily and privily be revenged of them that weare wont to vanquishe or overthi-owe thee ? Or what would Socrates nowe saye, who saide (upon like occasion), to a paynter that became a phisitien; nowe thou workest subtillye, (quod he), for wheras before thyne errors were espied, and judged of all men, nowe thou wylt hyde them in the earth, or bury them in the groimd, Meanyng (without doubt), that such phisiciens are more like to kil men, than to save or heale them. WeU sure if there were good orders in all places, and the holesome lawes of this realme well executed, there coulde none such deceyve, with theyr running about, and kreping into corners, unsuspected, and ex- amined. For it is easy to conjecture, or rather per- fectlye to knowe, that no honest cunning man, that meaneth trulye and justlye, will refuse to dwell and continue in some estemed city or towne, (for unto such wise and learned men delight to resort), and to run about here and there, through all the realme, thus like vacaboundes, to deceive the unskilfull people wyth theyr beastly doinges.AN EXPOSTULATION AGAINST THE I trust yet one day to see it better loked on : and in the meane season, let a great many abusers (whome I knowe, especially in Kent, bothe men and women, and have not here named them), repent and leve their wickednes, otherwise let them assure them selves I wil no more stay to publysh tliem with their wicked doings, and knavery knackes, bringing them into this register, then I have don to set forth these. It shall behove every good chirurgien therfore, to place hym selfe in some good towne, or famous citye, and surelye the people will resort unto hym, and send for him at theyr nede, to hys sufficient profit and liv- ing ; neither wyll anye good man despeyre of thys. It can not be without suspicion therfore, either of the lacke of cunnyng, or of a deceivable false con- science, that a chirurgien, or phisitien, shall refuse to fixe himselfe constantly in some dwellyng place, and to become a wanderynge fugitive, as these were and are, of whom I have wrytten. Notwithstanding, I am not ignorant that constante dwellers may be also deceavyng abusers, so long as ther is no punyshment, nor execution of lawes to the con- trary, as for example. One named Kiterell, dwelleth in Kente, at a parysh called Bedersden, that hath been all his lyfe a sawyer of tymber and borde, a man very symple, and altoge- ther unlearned; who at this present is become a phisi- tien, or rather a detestable deceavyng sorcerer. He wyll geve judgement on urines, and whyles he loketli on the water, he will grope and fele liim selfe all about;ABUSERS OF CHYRURGERIE AND PHYSYKE. 29 and otherwhyle, where as lie feleth, lie will slirynke, as though he were pricked, or felte some great paine. Then he tourneth to the messenger and telleth him where, and in what sorte the partie is greved; whiche maketh the people thynke him very cunning. They seeke to hym farre and neere for remedy for suche as are bewyched or inchanted, and as they commonly terme it, forespoken. What stuffe is this, let the wyse and learned judge. And he hath so prospered with these doynges, that in shorte space he hath been able bothe to purchase and buylde, as I am credibly enform- ed of divers men that doe knowe and have seen the same. For there are many that reporte, (and they no small fooles,) that he hath cured suche as al the learned phisitiens in England coulde doe no good unto, beleve it who wyll. Notwithstanding Cardanus, a learned philosopher, in his worke De Suhtilitate, in the tenthe booke therof, intituled of spirites or divels, seemeth to prove that there are certayne griefes, chaunsing sometime to mans body by enchauntement, or the workyng of cursed sciences; wherof for so muche as phisicke and chirur- gerie knowe no cause, they are also to seeke of a re- medy. For in these laudable artes, there is a reason- able cause founde of every disease, upon the reason wherof, ther is ordeined a renledy. But when through divilyshe and wicked sciences there is any sycknesse procured, wherof the laudable arte of medicine know- eth not the cause, so can it procure no helpe, but only by helpe of some of those sciences most detestable,30 AN EXPOSTULATION AGAINST THE must the same be taken away agayne ; so that it seem- eth to be a common composition among them, the one to tormente the bodies both of man and beastes, that an other may be sought unto to remedy the same. So one beyng ever a workynge instrument to an other. It may chance nowe that some whose myndes are already affectionate to those artes, will saye, that it is necessary that such men should be, for the comforte of them that have neede, when as no helpe otherwise wil serve. To whom it may be answered, that if they be Christian men, they ought not to seke helpe at divels, sithe the Holy Ghost, by the mouth of Sayncte Paule, hath warned, that no man doe eveU that good may come therof. Farthermore, if none suche (as God in his holy lawe hath commaunded), were suffred to lyve, there could no such inconvenience chaunce, wherby any man should have neede to seke to them for helpe, seynge that there is never any neede of their ayde, but where the effect is firste caused, through the wycked workyng of those damnable artes. But let this suffice that we have spoken, concernyng the wycked abuses of phisicke and chirurgerie, and lette us nowe precede to the dutie of the chirurgien, and the good observation of his office, whiche wyU avoyde these, and all lyke abuses, wherunto at tliis day (God amende it), phisicke and chyrurgery is made a cloke. For none of these false merchantes wyll wyllyngly be called by the name of that whiche they moste use, but they wyll be called phisiciens, chirurgiens, and astronomers, when they can as muche skyll in any of them as brute beastes.ABUSERS OP CHYRURGERIE AND PHYSYKE. 31 And concernynge the behavour that is requyred in a true cliirurgien to liis paciente, and of one cliiruv- gien to an other concernynge councell, honeste work- yng, and knowledge, I have thought good to gather the councels, and good documentes of dyvers good and veterate authores, (and have formed the same into Englyshe verses, or metre), and here to place the same, for the better instruction of aU yonge chirurgiens, that it may as weU be easy to learne, as apte to be kepte in memorie, of aU wyUynge learners. Harke, and drawe nere, ye younge studentes, Your eares loke ye unclose ; The worthye arte chirurgery. To practise that purpose. And marke what the greate masters saye, That here before have wroughte ; And did to theyr disciples leave, In wrytinge what they taughte. And to theyr scholers did descrive, A briefe methode or waye ; Commaundinge them the same to marke. On thys wise gan they saye: — When thou arte callde at anye time, A patient to see; And doste perceave the curq to greate, And ponderous for thee :AN EXPOSTULATION AGAINST THE See that thou laye disdeyne aside, And pride of thyne owne skyll: And thinke no shame counsell to take, But rather wyth good wyll Gette one or two of experte men, To helpe thee in that nede; And make them partakers wyth thee. In that worke to procede. For in so doinge, thine honestye Thou shalte well kepe and save; Also thy patiente therby Righte greate comforte shall have. By thys meanes thou mayste haplye learne, Ryghte seldome sene before ; Of thee, or hym, whyche fyrste thee taughte, Thoughe thou have cunnynge store. And also if oughte goe a wrye, Or hinder in thy cure. The one maye mende the others faulte, While frendship dothe endure. The wounded or sore man also, Shall have no cause to grudge In you suche uniformitye, Whyle he maye see and judge.ABUSERS OP CHYIIURGERIE AND PHYSYKE. And farthermore tliou haste thy parte, Bothe of profyt and fame ; "When that your worke hathe good successe, And luckilye dothe frame. And if it happe to frame amisse, Suspicyon can be none ; Sythe thou haste soughte all meanes of healthe, And wouldste not be alone. So eche man shall with other beare, Thy juste cause to defende; All wise and learned men also, Shall thee prayse and commende. For all that be discrete doubtlesse, Wyll judge thee to be wyse; In that thou doest desyre to learne. And augmente thy practise. And wylte not that throughe negligence, And pride of thine owne waye; Thy pacient in paine shoulde spill, To perishe and dekaye. Thy purpose thus thou shalte attaine, Wyth ease and honestye; Where otherwyse it maye thee brynge. Shame and ignominye.34 AN EXPOSTULATION AGAINST THE And farther if thou waye it righte, It is easie to gesse ; That better two, then one alone, All errores maye redresse. For as all men that here doe live, Borne in this wretched vale, Are fraughted full of errores greate, Oure boote mixed wyth bale; From whyche the prudent Salomon, Was never voide and free; As of him selfe he wryteth playne. Who so will reade maye see. So if thou in chirurgerye, Alone wylte walke and wade ; Thine errores will thy worke confounde, And all thine honoure quade. Sithe Bernarde* knewe not all hym selfe, Thinke never in thy minde ; But that at laste by painfull proofe, Thou shalt thine errores fynde. For errores, not staide at the firste, But suffred to procede, * This is an allusion to Lanfranc's « Chirurgia Tarva," which was addressed to his pupil Bernai-d.ABUSERS OP CHYRURGERIE AND PHYSYKE. To mischiefes greate, as Plato saythe, Will growe in verye dede. But the beginninge if thou stoppe, By good counsell and pure ; All doubtfull thynges thou shalt prevent, And harde diseases cure. For all to late comes remedye, When throughe thy negligence The griefe is growne paste aide and cure, And all experience. But one thinge note, when two or moe Together joygned be; Aboute the paynfull patient, See that ye doe agree. See that no discord© doe arise, Nor be at no debate; For that shall sore discomforte hym, That is in sycke estate. And when alone with your foreman, One of you is presente; Defame nor dispraise in no wise, The same that is absente. For noughte can more discomforte him, That lies in griefe and peyne, D 2AN EXPOSTULATION AGAINST THE Then heare that one of you dothe beare, To other suche disdeine. Wherfore what so ye have to saye, In thinges aboute your arte; Let it be done among your selves, In secrete and a parte, Wyth one consent uniformlye Comforte the wounded man; But unto some good frende of hys Expresse all that ye can. And let them knowe the daunger greate, That like is to succede; Prognosticatinge wittilye, And in convenient spede. Wherfore eche one of you shall take, At other his counsell, Howe that in moste convenient wise. Ye may the griefe expeU. And so that one in anye wise. From other nothinge hide ; But by all meanes consulte, and for The sicke mannes healthe provide. For in that nede if any doe His counsell kepe a loofe,ABUSERS OF CHYRURGERIE AND PHYSYKE. And so the wounded man decaye, It shall be his reproofe. See that for goulde or covetise, Ye take no thing in hande, Wliiche incurable for to be, Ye doe well understand. Or oughte unlesse to cure the same Thou have some perfecte grounde; For if thou doe, it will thy fame In utter shame confounde. Looke of thy selfe in anye wise. Thou make no praise nor boste ; For that shall turne to thy dispraise, When thou doest use it moste. See thou dispraise none other man, His error thoughe thou knowe ; For sure an other for thy plage. Shall thee like curtsye showe. Commende the dedes of eche good man. The best loke that thou saye; So shaU good fame redounde to thee. From all men day by daye. Not onlye in chirurgery, Thou oughtest to be experte ;AN EXPOSTULATION AGAINST THE liut also in astronomye, Bothe prevye and aperte. In naturall philosopliye, Thy studye slioulde be bente; To knowe eclie herbe, slirubbe, roote, and tree, Muste be thy good intente. Eche beaste and foule, wyth worme and fishe, And all that beareth lyfe; Their vertues and their natures bothe, With thee oughte to be rife. And in the grounde metall and stone, And veines of earthe also ; Their powres and vertues in degre, Shoulde not be hid the fro. But chieflye the anatomye, Ye ought to understande; If ye Avill cure well anye thinge, That ye doe take in hande. For by the same above the rest, Ye shall greate fame deserve; The life of man from manye streightes, To save and well preserve. Withoute the knowledge of whyche arte. Thou canste not chose but erre;ABUSERS OF CHYRURGERIE AND PIIYSYKE. In all that tliou slialte goe aboute, Thy knowledge to preferre. As if ye cutte or cauterize. Or use phlebotomye; Ye can not but erre in the same, Withoute anatomye. He is no true chirurgien, That can not shewe by arte, The nature of evrye member, Eche from other aparte. For in that noble handye worke, There dothe nothinge excell The knowledge of anatomye. If it be learned well. Endevoure therfore by all meanes, The same to know and cunne, For when thou haste it perfectlye. Thine arte is halflye wunne. For therby shalt thou understande, Of eche member in dede, Their nature and their offices, And howe they doe procede. And unto what good use they serve, As well the leaste as moste;40 AN EXPOSTULATION AGAINST THE And by their hurte prognosticate What action will be loste. Wherby of knowledge and greate skill. Thou shalt obteiae the brute; And men to thee in generall, For helpe shall make their sute. Wherfore all honour, laude, and praise. To God ascribed be; The Father, Sonne, and Holye Ghoste, One God and personnes three. Perhappes nowe some man wyll object and saye, that it is not possible alwayes to observe these rules. For if I dwell farre from expert men of whome to aske councell, and peradventure am matched in the place where I dwell, with some braggynge proud boye, that came latelye oute of his prentishode, who shaU for lacke of knowledge and discretion soke myne infamy and dishonour, and is therfore not mete to associate my selfe wyth, but rather to be avoided. To this I answer, that it behoveth a good chirurgien to be ingenious, and that in this case is thy remedy. To be ingenious, is to be apte to devise newe remedies for new diseases, and suche as thou haste not before scene nor hearde of. In suche a case in deede it behoveth thee to be verye polytique, and that Allmightye God maye the better prosper all thy wox-kes and devises, serve Grod faith-ABUSERS OF CHYRURGERIR AND PHYSYKE. 41 fullye in liartye contemplacions daye and nighte, desir- inge God for Jesus Cliristes sake, hys dei'e Sonne oure Savyoui'e, to enspire tliee wytli suche grace, that thou maiste to his honor and glory, ende all suche enter- prises as thou takest upon thee to doe; (of whyche prayer I will hereafter wryte an example), for if God be on thy syde, feare not who so ever be agaynst thee. And that thou mayste the better knowe what thou doste, that wilt be a chirurgien, and what thou takest upon thee to professe, knowe oute of good and learned authores, what chirurgerye is, and so shalte thou be the better able wiselye to worke alone, where the nedefuU Society of counseU dothe wante. Chirurgery, therefore, (as Angelus Bolognius in the prologe to his boke of the cure of externall ulcers, sayeth), is the moste aunciente, ye the moste sure and excellente parte of the arte of medicyne, whiche work- eth by handy operation. For the name thereof whiche was geven thereto by moste auncyent authores, signi- fieth nothynge elsse; for chirurgery is Operatio Man- ualis, that is handye worke. Wherfore feyth it is a parte of phisike, we can not so rightlye name it in Englishe, as to call it the handye worke of medicine. And farthermore the arte of medicine or phisicke, (wherin chirui-gery is comprehended), is an arte, and so it oughte to be named, and not a science; and chi- rui-gery is not an arte properlye of it selfe wythoute phisike, or seperated from the same, as some doe thinke; neyther can phisike be an whole and perfecte arte wythout chirurgery, as some woulde imagin. Fov42 AN EXPOSTULATION AGAINST THE sythe they are both partes one of an other, how can they be devided or separate wythout detriment to them bothe ? for it is not a whole body that lacketh one of hys cliiefe" members, or partes ; for nether can chirurgerye be perfectlye learned wythoute theorike, nor phisike wythoute practise. And wheras theorike and practise goe not together, whether ye call it phi- sike or chirurgery, I dare boldlye afiu-me, that there is in them no manner of perfection worthy commenda- tion. Yet some there be that thinke that onlye to phisike belongeth theorike, or speculation, and that to chirurgery belongeth onlye practise; but howe farre their judgementes differ from truthe, let everye wyse man judge. What knowledge is there in phisike that is not requisyte in chirurgerye ? whether it be gramer, philosophy, astronomye, anatomye, or anye other; ye, the very judiciall of urine, and the pulse, as good doc- tor Record, our worthye countrye man witnesseth; wherfore I affyrme, accordynge to the sentence of moste wise authoures, that the knowledge of chirurgerye consisteth in ii. thinges, namelye, speculation and prac- tise, and therfore it is not only a workinge, but an excellente knowledge, and understandynge howe to worke well and perfectly. But the effectuall actes of chirurgerye in deede, (as Guide saythe), consyste in cuttinge, in knittinge, in bindinge, in purgyng, purify- ing, and exercisynge the handye operation, and all this upon the bodye of man, to heale, or bring health to the same, as muche as is possible. Whiche addition we put to, because it never hath beu, is, nor shalbe possi-ABUSERS OF CHYRURGERIE AND PHYSYKE. 43 ble for any cliirurgien to lieale all that are diseased and sore. Therfore we maye thus conclude that chirurgery is an ai'te both workynge and teachinge how to worke upon the bodye of man, to heale all suche diseases as are possible to be cured. Nowe therfore, let the good cliirurgien, (that wil avoyde wicked crafts and abuses), first learne, and then worke and use experience; wherin thou shalt under- stande that the onlye readinge in bookes is not suffi- cient, as mauye a one at this day, (to the great hurt of muche people), thinketh. For there is no science that can wythoute seinge the practyse and experience of cunnyng masters therin, be lerned; and surelye in the arte of medicine, (chieflye chirurgerye), practise and experience is the chiefest learnyge; although withoute other learnynge (I confesse) no man can attayne to the perfection that therin is required. And for this dothe learnynge (in bookes conteined), chiefly serve to teache men to knowe the workes of learned masters of old tyme; but assure thy selfe, (what so ever suche mas- ters have wrytten), thou shalt never perfectlye digest to thine owne use, anye thinge in them, except thou be able to joyne by comparison, that which thou haste sene in other mennes workes before thine eies, and in the practise of thine owne handes, wyth that whiche thou findest wrytten in olde authors ; for lyttle profit, swetenesse, or understandinge sliall one gette of au- thores except he seethe same also put in practise. Ther- fore when thou haste sene proved by cunning masters, the whyche thou haste red, thou arte trulye learned in44 AN EXPOSTULATION AGAINST THE thine arte, and tlierfore apte to worke and use expe- rience thy selfe. And this regarde to experience in learninge made Socrates say, that lerning ought not to be wrytten in bokes, but rather in mennes mindes. For this excel- lent philosopher well perceived that the committinge of cunnyng to wrytten bookes, made men to neglect the practise and experience of their wittes by meanes wherof they became uncunninge. Galen also hathe frendly admonished us, that we ought not, (if we wiU be perfectlye cunninge), to trust onelye to doctrine wrytten in bokes, but rather oure propre eyes, whiche are to be trusted above aU other authores, ye, before Hippocrates and Galen ; for wyth- out the eyes consent, (saith Socrates), the eares oughte not to be trusted; for the eares are subjectes, and often deceived, but the eyes are judges bothe true and cer- taine. As I woulde therfore, that aU chirurgiens shoulde be learned, so woulde I have no man thinke him selfe lerned otherwise then chiefly by experience; for leai-n- ing in chirurgery consisteth not in speculation only, nor in practise only, but in speculation well practised by experience. Therfore when we saye that a chi- rurgien muste firste be learned, and then worke, it is not ment that any man by the reading of a booke, or bokes onlye, may learne how to worke, for truelye that hathe caused so many deseivinge abusers, as there are at this daye. Good chirurgien, therfore, have a regard to theseABUSERS OF CHYRURGERIE AND PHYSYKE. 45 things, even as thou wilte answer for the same at the dredful daye, when the eternall Lord, and almighty Master, shall call for accompt of eche mannes talent, whether they have gained therwith, accordinge to his will, or whether they have abused, or vainlye hid the same. Furthermore, these thinges considered and observed, it is expedient chiefly, and before aU thinges, that thou have Groddes feare alwaies before thine eies, that thou leade a vertuous life, and (as nere as God shal geve thee grace), unspotted to the world, doing just and ver- tuous dedes, abhorring and abstaining from all vicious- nesse. Let wicked pride be farre from thy hart, and rather with all humility confesse that thou canst doe nothing of thy selfe, (as thou canste not in deede), but through the grace and mercifull favoure of God. Likewise avoide envye and wicked wrathe ; be ney- ther wrathfull, nor envyous, that an other man of thyne arte hathe better successe then thy selfe, but rather endevoure thy self in the feare and service of God, to learne to doe better, and to excede others. For to a diHgente and wyllynge minde, there is nothing to harde ne impossible. Let charitye surmounte covetise, so that it have no place in thy harte, otherwise then it shall be requisite for thee to live like a man of science with a decent and honest maintenance of necessaryes. Let no slouthe cause thee to neglecte thy cures, wherof thou haste taken charge, least through thy negligence they pear-46 AN EXPOSTULATION AGAINST THE ishe, and their bloud call for vengance on thee at the handes of God. In anye wise be thou no lechoure, but adorne thy life wyth honest, chaste, and sober manners; for that uncleane and lilthye vice is muche to be abhorred in a chirurgyen, consideringe the secretes of manye honest folkes, that to hys charge and cure muste be com- mitted. Lastlye, and above all these, beware of dronken- nesse, a vyce that was never more used, then it is of manye at this tyme. For when hathe this vile reporte (or rather reproche), gone of so manye as it dothe at this daye, he is a good chirurgyen in the forenone ? 0 abhomination of all other in a chirurgien to be de- tested ! but how unmete suche arte to be chirurgiens 1 have touched more at large in my preface. Let vertue, therfore, I saye, be thy guide ; let hir be bothe thy rule and compasse, wherby to frame all thy doinges. And consider that chirurgerye is an arte to heale dyseases, whyche is a vertuous exercise, ye, a gifte of Goddes spiryte, as saythe S. Paule; and therfore can never be well used of vicious personnes, althoughe they have never so muche lerninge; for vice and vertue can never accorde, but alwayes one is expelled by the other, for two contraries can never agree in one subjecte. Consider, also, howe by vertuous and holye lyfe, and by faithfuU prayer, the very angelles at Goddes ap- poyntment have descended from heaven to aid and helpe men in their nede, teachinge them remedies forABUSERS OF CHYRURGERIE AND PHYSYKE. 47 divers griefes; as liolye Eaphaell was sent to Tobye. And as thou mayste reade in the xxxviii. chapiter of Jesus, the sonne of Sirache, wher he, (treatinge of the phisitien), saythe : the houre maye come that the sycke maye be healed throughe them when they praye unto the Lorde, that he maye recover and get health to lyve longer. Loe, here mayste thou see that thy duety is to praye unto God for thy pacient, and for helpe and grace to heale him. Praye, therefore, faithfully unto God, serve hym devoutlye, call rightlye upon his holy name daye and night, wyth an holye abstinence as scripture teacheth, not omyttinge dedes of almes, the frutes of perfecte faythe. Moreover, be not ingrate nor unthankefull unto God when he sendeth good successe to thy businesse, good lucke to thy handes, and graunteth thee thy hartes desyre. For unthankfulnesse many times is the cause that our prayers are not heard. Praise God, therfore, for his benefites, and pray faithfullye to hym in all thy streightes of nede, and this doinge, be sure that God will prosper all thy wayes, and geve good successe to all thy workes. Take here, therefore, an example of prayer whiche thou mayste use, I trust, to the glorye of God. A PRAYER NECESSARTE TO BE SAYDE OF ALL CHIRURGIENS. O ALMiGHTTE, etemall, impassible, and incomprehen- sible Lorde God, whiche haste created all tliinges of nothinge, and man out of the slime of the earthe, set-48 AN EXPOSTULATION AGAINST THE tinge him in paradyse to live ever in felicitye, from whiclie he most disobedientlye fell into this worlde of infyrmities; whiche infirmities yet neverthelesse thou haste, (of thy greate mercye), so pityed, that for tlie helpe and ejaration of them, thou haste, (by thy spe- ciall grace), geven vertue unto trees, herbes, rootes, beastes, foules, fishes, wormes, stones, and metalles; and in fyne hast left nothing among all that thou haste made wythout a propre vertue, for man his utilitye and helpe in tyme of neede, and haste also, moste gracious- lye geven knowledge unto men for to use and minister thy creatures to the helpe of their griefes, graunte unto me, moste mercifull God, that (as I truely beleve, and faithfully trust, that all healthe and vertue com- meth from thee), I maye so knowe and use thy crea- tures to the helpe of my Christen brethren and neigh- boures, in that arte that I, throughe thy providence, have from my youthe up bene trained and instituted unto, that not onlye I for the prosperous successe of mine arte, but my poore pacientes also, and all other together, maye praise and honor thy holy and blessed name, which livest and reignest one God in trinitye, and trinitye in unitye, world wythout end. Amen. AN OTHER. 0 Lorde God, evei'lasting and almighty chirurgien, who only art the Lord that healest Israeli, (that is thine elect), and hast created medicin out of the earth, (of no wise man to be abhorred), so that bitter water was made swete by the vertue of a tree, that menABUSERS OF CHYRURGERIE AND PHYSYKE. 49 mighte learne therby to knowe that thou haste geven vertue to all thiuges, and hast geven wisdome and knowledge unto men from time to time, that thou maist be honored in thy wonderous workes. For Sa- lomon spake of all rotes and trees, even from the cedar that groweth in Libanon, unto the hisope that spring- eth out of the wall. Ye, he spake also of beastes, foules, wormes, and of fishes. I reade also, O Lorde, that by a little meale, the bitternesse of colocintliis was cured in the potage pot of the prophets children; and by a plaster of figges kinge Ezechias was healed of his sick- nesse sore. . I also remember that by the gaule of a fyshe, the blindnesse was taken from olde Tobies eyes. Innumerable, O Lorde, are the testimonies of scripture, beside dailye experience, whiche provoketh and stir- reth me to laud and praise thy moste glorious name ! I beseche thee therfore, oh moste mercifull Lord, that I maye so use, and all my patientes so receive, thy creatures, that thou so graciously haste ordeined for medicine, that health may be obteined, and thy name for the same everlastingly honored. Graunt this. Oh Lorde, holy and everlivyng G-od, for the merites of thy dere Sonne, our only Saviour and mercye seate, thy holy wisdome Jesus Christ, in whom is all vertue to cure all thynges, worlde without ende. Amen. A PRAIER TO BE USED OP THE GOOD CHIRURGIEN BEFORE HE CONCLUDE TO TAKE IN HANDE THE CURATION OF ANY HARDE AND DIFFICULTE THING, , AT ANY MANS IMPORTUNATE SUTE AND REQUESTE. O ALMiGHTiE Lorde God, heavenly Father, who by E50 AN EXPOSTULATION AGAINST THE thy divine providence forseest and disposest all thinges to thy glory, and the profite of thy Churche. Thou seest all thinges before they come to pass, and thinges that yet are not are with thee as though they were; but man thou hast inclosed within metes and boundes of knowyng thinges after they are chanced, so that we only judge of thinges present, and as for thynges to come, we can not before hande certenly decerne them. Not withstanding for so much as thou hast mercifully decreed through our Lorde Jesus Christe, that aU thinges turne to the beste to those thy chosen chyldren, who rightly love and feare thee. Thy strengthe sup- plieth our weakenes, thy wysdome our folye, and thy knowledge our ignorance; and causest us, neverthe- lesse, to fele by faithe in our soules, that whiche our carnall senses can in no wyse taste. My prayer, ther- fore, oh mercifull Lorde, is that of thy gracious good- nes, and merciful benignitie, thou wilt so forsee and provide for me, most unworthy and wretched sinner, (yet thy servant through Christe), that I never take upon me to cure either this, or any other thing, unles thy godly will be, that I may through thy grace so ende the same that not only I may thereby attayne an honest fame, and the partie greved joye, gladnes, and health; but chiefly that we both, and all other good people, (the same consideryng), may remember thee with thankes, laud, honor, and prayse, for thyne abun- dant mercie, grace, and vertue, to our lyves ende. Graunt this, 0 Lorde God, eternall and omnipotent, for the sake of thy everlasting word, thy dere Sonne,ABUSERS OF CHYRURGERIE AND PHYSYKE. 61 our only Saviour and Mediatour, by whome thou work- est aU in all tliynges, who lyveth and reigneth with thee and the Holy Ghost, one God in trinitie, and tri- nitie in unitie, worlde without end. Amen. Nowe that after my symple skill I have formed praiers mete for chirurgiens, I thinke it mete to shew also an example howe to prayse God for the good successe of the chirurgiens busines, as foloweth. O ETERN ALL father, almyghtie God, maker of al things, howe great and glorious are all thy wonderous workes, thy lovyng kyndnes and mercies to mankynde excedynge them all, for thy benefites bestowed on mankynde are infinite and incomparable. Among whiche thy crea- tures and workes of thy handes, I, moste poore unwor- thy man, and wretched sinner, have endlesse cause to acknowledge thy grace and mercies. If, oh Lord, I should once imagin to gratifie thy goodnes, beholde what hath mortal man to geve unto God ? or what hath man that is not Gods ? neyther hast thou, 0 God, any nede of man, or ought that man hath. But not withstandyng, thy Sonne our Saviour, by divyne providence, hath satisfied for us thy wyll, and apeased thy wrath, justly bente on us for our ma- nifold sinnes, and through the Holy Ghoste, thy spirit of truthe, (who leadeth us unto aU truthe), we are in- formed that thou askeste of us from henceforthe no more, but a lyvely sacrifice of thaukes gevyng and prayse of thy holy name.AN EXPOSTULATION AGAINST THE Wherfore not witlistanding mine unworthines, througli Christe I am boldened, (fully hopyng that of thy great mercyethou wilt fatherly accepte the same), moste hartily to thanke thee with all my harte and soule, for the good successe that haste geven to the exercise of my handes to bringe even wonderfuU thinges to passe. Wterfore, OLorde, holy and just, all possible thankes, honour, glory, and prayse, be geven unto thee. Be- seching thee, (for Jesus Christes sake), to geve me grace that I never forgette or put out of mynde for any thynge whyle I lyve, to remember styll to offer thee this sacrifice, so that I receyve not this thy great graces unthankefuUy unto my lyves end; and after this lyfe that I may with the holy patriarkes, prophetes, apostles, evangelistes, martyrs, confessors, angels, and archangels, synge with incessant voyce before thy throne, holy, holy, holy, Lorde God of Sabaoth, for ever and ever. Amen. Finally, see that ye ascribe al honor unto the holy Trinitie, and seke not in any wyse your owne prayse and vayne glorie, least ye therin displease God, and justely provoke hym to withdrawe his grace frome you, whose instrumentes ye are, whyle ye dooe well, as is the hammer in the hande of the woorke manne. For as sayeth the prophete Esaie, (cap. 10.) Num gloriabi- tur securis adversus eum qui ea secat ? aut serra mag- nificabitur adversus eum qui se tractate Quodperinde esset ac si virga sese elevaret contra eum qui ipsam ferl, et baculus sese extolleret quasi ligntiin non esset. ThatABUSERS OF CHYRURGERIE AND PHYSYKE. 53 shall the axe boste it selfe against him that hew- eththerwith? or shall the sawe bragge against him that handleth it? Whiche were even lyke as if the rodde did exalte it selfe against hym that bear- eth it, and the staffe should extolle it selfe as though it "weare no woode. FINIS.NOTES. P. 3,1. 1.—Epistle and Prefaces. These allude to the work of Laufranc, to the ti-anslation of which, by John Halle, the " Historian Expostulation" is appended. P. 3,1. 16,—Daphnoydes. AafvoeiSijc, the Greek term for the laurel plant. P. 5, 1. 10.—Blind Bayerd, or Bayard. Bayard signifies properly a bay horse, and is sometimes used for a horse in general. " As bold as blind Bayard," is to be found in Ray's Collection of Proverbs, alluding to a person who leaps before he looks ; and Chaucer (edit. Urry, p. 126.) " Though ye prolle aye, ye shall it nevirfind, Ye ben as bolde as is bayarde the hlinde." P. 16,1. 20.—Eliotes bookes. This must be an allusion to Sir Thomas Elyot, an eminent scholar in the reign of Henry VIII, who excelled in the knowledge of gram- mar, rhetoric, philosophy, physic, and history. He died in 1546, having, besides other works, written " The Go- vernour," " The Castle of Helthe," " Of the Education of Children," " The Banquet of Sapience." The only medical work he published was the Castle of Health, which went through many editions, printed by Berthelet, Marshe, and others, and which subjected him to much censure from members of the medical profession, as wellNOTES. as the commimity in general. The latter conceived it to be a subject beneath the dignity of the pen of a knight, and the fomer were incensed that it should be written in English. Sir Thomas Elyot was one of the most learned and virtuous men of his time, and an intimate of Sir Thomas More. P. 18,1. 3.—Maister Luke, of London, hath a great name for curyng eyes. I can find no other notice of this practi- tioner ; he does not appear to have published any work, or detailed his modes of practice. Several interesting notices of quack oculists wiU be found in Mr. Eim- bault's edition of Chettle's "Kind-Hearts Dreame," printed by the Percy Society (pp. 22-26-75.) I have also given several in a Memoir of the late James Ware, Esq. See Medical Portrait Gallery, vol. iii. P. 19, 1. 27.—Maister Vicary. Thomas Vicary was one of the earliest writers on anatomy in the English language. He was serjeant-sm-geon to four sovereigns, namely: Heniy VIII, Edward VI, and queens Maiy and Eliza- beth. He was also chief surgeon to St. Bartholomew's Hospital, the principal scene of his labours. In 1548 he published " The Englishman's Treasure, with the true Anatomy of Man's Body," London, 4to. This was seve- ral times reprinted, and an edition with the title some- what altered, was put forth in 1577, by the surgeons of St. Bartholomew's Hospital. P. 21,1. 13.—He answered Vigo, and Gasken. Of the latter nothing is known. John de Vigo was physician to Pope Julius II, and wrote largely and wisely on several sub- jects of surgeiy. He composed many treatises, the whole of which were collected together, and translated into56 NOTES. English by Bartholomew Traheron, and published in folio, in 1543, and again in 1550, from the press of Edward Whytchurch ; it was reprinted in 1571, by Thomas East, and Henry Middelton, and again in 1586, 4to., together with some pieces by Thomas Gale, with a preface by George Baker, Gent., who together with Richard Norton, diligently revised and corrected the whole work, which was printed by Thomas East. !6,1. Q.—Grigge the Poulter. In the reign of Edward VI, Grigg, a poulterer in Sun-ey, was put in the pillory at Croydon and again in Southwark, for cheating people out of their money by pretending to cure them by charms, or by looking at them, or by casting their water. (Gentle- man's Magazine, Vol. xxxiii. p. 105). Many other quacks have at various tunes been also subjected to punish- ment.—Anthony was punished for his Aurum Potabile ; Arthm- Dee for advertising medicines to cure all diseases; Foster for selling a powder for the cure of chlorosis; Tenant, an urine caster, who sold pills at £6 each; Aires for selling purging sugar plums; Hunt for putting up bills for the cure of diseases in the streets. The Council in the reign of James I despatched a warrant to the Magistrates of the City of London, to take up all reputed empirics, and cause them to be examined by the censors of the Royal College of Physicians. Several were taken up and acknowledged their ignorance; Lamb, Reed, Wood- house, &c. In the reign of King William, Fairfax was fined and imprisoned for doing injury to persons by his Aqua Coelestis. And in Stow's Chronicle it is recorded that a water caster was punished for exercising his quack- ery. He was set on horseback, his face to the horse's tail, which he held in his hand, with a collar of minals about his neck, led by the hangman through the city, whipped, branded, and then banished.NOTES. 67 p. 2«, 1. 28.—Maister BuUeyne. William Bulleyn, or Bul- lein, was a learned physician, bom about the year 1500, in the Isle of Ely. He was intimately versed in the writings of the Greek and Arabian physicians, and he travelled over various parts of England and Scotland, to acquire botanical knowledge. He studied both at Cam- bridge and at Oxford, and was an ecclesiastic as well as a physician. He was rector of Blaxliall, in Suffolk, where he preached divinity, and practised physic. Upon the accession of Queen Mary, being a protestant, he thought it best to retire from his rectory, and he removed to Durham; where he became intimate with Sir Thomas Hilton, governor of Tinmouth Fort, engaged with him in a commercial speculation, and had occasion, also, to attend upon him in an attack of malignant fever, of which he died. Bulleyn was pm-sued and charged, by the bro- ther of the governor, with the mui'der of his relative, but of this he was honourably acquitted. He was, however, detained in prison for a debt, and during his incarceration composed his medical works, which are distinguished by learning, fancy, and humour. They consist of "The Governement of Helthe," "A Comfortable Regimen against the Pleurisie ;" Bulwarke of Defense against all Sicknes, Sornes, and Wounds, that doe daily as- saulte Mankind;" and " A Dialogue both pleasaunt and pietieful against the Fever Pestilence." He was elected into the Royal College of Physicians of London, and had a great practice. He died in 1576. P. 27,1. 13.—For where as before thyne errors ivere espied. This of Socrates appears to be the original of that which has been reported of others. The eccentric Dr. RadclifiFe is known never to have paid his bills without much im- portunity ; a paviour, after long and fruitless attempts, F68 NOTES. caught the Doctor just as he was alighting from his cha- riot, at his own door in Bloomsbury Square, and accosted hini. " Why you rascal," said the Doctor, " do you pre- tend to be paid for such a piece of work ? why you have spoiled my pavement, and then covered it over with earth to hide your bad work." " Doctor," said the pa- viour, " mine is not the only bad work that the earth hides." " You dog, you," said the Doctor, " are you a wit ? you must be poor, come in."—and paid him.—Sec Medical Portrait Gallery, vol. i. P. 38,1. 1.—But also in Astronomye. Sir George Ripley, in his ' Compound of Alchimie,' tells us that— " A good pliisytian who so intendeth to be, Our lower astronomy him nedeth well to knowe ; And after that to lerne, well, urine in a a glasse to see, And if it neede to be chafed the fyi-e to blowe, Then wyttily it, by divers wayes to throws, And after the cause to make a medicine blive. Truly telling the ynfirmities all on a rowe: Who thus can doe by his physicke is like to thrive." Chaucer's pictiu-e of a good physician, will furnish also another instance of the prevalent opinion of the necessity of a knowledge of astronomy, in practitioners of the medical art. I have adduced many other authorities in my work " On Superstitions connected with the Histoiy and Practice of Medicine and Surgery." P. 41,1. 14.—Angelus Bolognius. Angelo Bolognini was an Italian surgeon and professor of surgery at Padua, from 1508 to 1517. He is generally regarded as the inventor of the use of mercm'ial frictions. The able work of this surgeon referred to by Halle, is inserted in tlie collection of Gesner and Uffenbach, entitled " De cura Ulcenun exteriorum et de Unguentis commmiibus in Solutione continui."NOTES. 69 P. 42,1. 17.—Good Doctor Record. Robert Recorde, doctor of medicine, is a person of whom we have to regret that but few biographical particidars are known. My friend Mr. James Orchard Halliwell has, in an interesting little tract on "The connexion of Wales with the early science of England," published by Rodd in 1840, col- lected together several circumstances which show that he is to be regarded as the first original writer on arithmetic in English ; the first on geometry; the first person who introduced the knowledge of algebra into England; the first writer on astronomy in English; the first person in this country who adopted the Copernican system; the inventor of the present method of extracting the square root; the inventor of the sign of equality; and the in- ventor of the method of extracting the square root of multinomial algebraic quantities. He lived in the reigns of Heniy VIII, Edward VI, and Queen Mary; to the latter sovereign he was physician. He was a native of Tenby in Pembrokeshire, and, according to Fuller, a protestant: he publicly taught rhetoric, mathematics, music, and anatomy, at Oxford, about the year 1525, and was elected a fellow of All Souls College in 1531. He was created M.D. at Cambridge in 1545, resided in London in 1547, and is supposed to have died in 1558. His will, from which Mr. Halliwell has given some extracts, bears the date of June 28, 1558, and he therein styles himself as "sicke in body, yet whole in mynde." This will was made in the King's Bench prison, where he was confined a prisoner for debt. His works, which are all written in the form of Dialogue between pupil and teacher, consist of " The Grounde of Artes;" (arithmetic); " The Urinall of Physick;" (a work entitled " the Judicial of Urines" is supposed to be the same with a difierent (title; I have never been able to see a copy of it). " TheNOTES. Pathway to Knowledge," (Geometry); "The Gate of Knowledge," (Mensuration); " The Castel of Knowledge " (Astrology and Mathematics); " The Treasure of KnoJ- ledge," (Astronomy); "The Wlietstone of Witte," (Algebra and Arithmetic). All these were printed between theyears 1540, and 1557,andmostofthemseveral times reprinted. Recorde also edited the early edition of Fabyan's Chronicle, and Sherburne attributes to him " Cosmographiae Isagoge," " De Arte Faciendi Horolo- gium," and « De Usu Globorum et de Statu Temporum." He is said to hare been well skilled in the Saxon lan- guage, and to have made large collections of historical and other ancient manuscripts. P. 42, 1. 25.~As Guido saythe. Guy de Chauliac was in surgical science one of the most distinguished men of the 14th centuiy. He studied at Bologna, and at Mont- pellier, where he afterwards was appointed a professor. He practised at Lyons, and was physician to Pope Cle- ment VI in 1348. He has given an excellent account of the plague as it appeared at Avignon. His principal elTorts were directed to the improvement of surgery, which he relieved from many of the barbarous practices of his age. He improved the method of perfoming many operations, and invented several instmments. His works were collected together, and published as ChirurgitB Tractatus Septem cum Antidotario, which first appeared at Venice in 1490, and was afterwards published under the editorial care of several surgeons, and repeatedly printed. niCHARDS, I'RINTKR, ST. MARTIN'S LANK.1