tfctee One Shilling.22101424268Med K8580THE “ QUEEN ” COOKERY BOOKSTHE “QUEEN” COOKERY BOOKS I No. 4. ENTREES. COLLECTED AND DESCRIBED BY S. BEATY - POWNALL, Departmental Editor “ Housewife and Cuisine,” Queen Newspaper and Author of “ A Book of Sauces.” THIRD EDITION. LONDON: H DEACE COX, “QUEEN” OFFICE, WINDSOR HOUSE, BREAM’S BUILDINGS, E.C. 1904./o raotfozr LONDON PRINTED BT HORACE COX, WINDSOR HOUSE. BREAM’S BUILDINGS, E.C. WELLCOME INSTITUTE LIBRARY Coll. welMOmec Call No. Q7PREFACE. Little, if any, originality is claimed for the following recipes, most of which have appeared in the Cookery columns of the Queen during the last eight or nine years, from whence they have been collected at the request of many readers of the Queen, to save reference to back numbers not always within reach. Additional recipes have, how- ever, been given, to bring this little work as much up to date as possible; but all these, like the previous ones, have been carefully tested, and are all (as I know from practical experience) well within the capacity of any ordinary “ good plain cook,” gifted with fair intelligence and a little goodwill. I desire also to take this opportunity of acknow- ledging my indebtedness to the various authors of standard foreign cookery books, and also to offer my grateful thanks to Mrs. A. B. Marshall, and several other well-known chefs, whose kindness has so materially helped and rendered possible my work in these last years. S. Beaty-Pownall. June, 1904.CONTENTS. CHAPTER I. Entrees and Rechauffes CHAPTER H. Cutlets, Fillets, &c 2 CHAPTER III. Cutlets, &c. (Continued) 34 CHAPTER IV. Souffles, Mousses, &c. 61 CHAPTER V. Timbales, Vol-au-Vent, Patties, &c. 84 CHAPTER YI. TJnclassed Entrees 101 CHAPTER VII. Rachauffes 116 CHAPTER VIII. Rechauffes (Continued) 136 CHAPTER IX. Chaufroix, and other Cold Dishes ... 152 CHAPTER X. Chaufroix, &c. (Continued) ... 167 CHAPTER XI. Sauces ... 189 CHAPTER XII. Odds and Ends ... 221Advertisements. The Largest Mustard Manufacturers in the World. COLMAN’S MUSTARD. Ask for D.S.F., with the yellow label, and see that COLMAN'S name and the Bull’s Head are on the tin. Obtained the GRAND PRIX, Paris Exhibition, 1900. COLMAN’S CORN FLOUR, For BLANC MANGES, CUSTARDS, &c. Made by Best Process from Rice. COLMAN’S SELF-RISING FLOUR. Made from the Finest Brands of Wheat. For BREAD, PASTRY, CAKES, PUDDINGS, SCONES, &e. J. & J. Colwian Ltd., 108, Cannon Street, London, E.C., & Carrow Works, Norwich.ENTREES. CilAPTEE I. ENTREES AND RECHAUFFES. Originally entrees were often, and indeed at first almost always, called hors cVoeuvre, or, as one might paraphrase it, “ by the way dishes ” ; not included in the actual menu, but simply trifles brought in “ to amuse the guests ” whilst waiting for the serious parts of the dinner, termed releves, or removes, as we call these main dishes for want of a better word. Hors d’ceuvre were at first both hot and cold, but gradually that name was restricted to the cold trifles sent in as a whet to the appetite; whilst the word entree was used for the hot dishes. For this word there is no actual equivalent in our language, though some people do call them side-dishes and made-aislies. To translate it literally we must call these, “ brought-i*1 ” dishes, a somewhat awkward term, but one which derives some meaning from the fact that entrees were brought in with all their accessories, such as sauce, garnish, &c., on the same B9 ENTREES. dish; and though fashion has since permitted the addition of sauces to he handed round (to allow of variety of tastes) with many little dainties that are properly served dry, the name of entrees has been retained. The uncertainty as to their name also extended to their position on the menu, which wandered about, first appearing before, then after the soup; then they were placed, as they still are often in France, after the joint, whereas in England the fancy obtained of making them serve as an introduction to the joint or relevc. Much may be said for both services, though personally the French method appeals to me most, for two reasons. First, the keen edge of the hungry diner’s appetite being taken off by the solid releve, he is better able to appreciate the delicacy of the little dishes which constitute an entree; in the second place, in England joints are generally roasted, so that if the joint is served after the entrees two roasts clash, the roast game, or rot, of the second course coming on top of the equally roasted joint, a collision which is avoided by the French system. We have so modified the old way of serving food that we have considerably reduced our dinners, and indeed a good many of us would shudder and give tip in despair were we expected to work our way through the solid bill of fare of former days, when everything was doubled, if not (in the case of entrees and sweets) actually quadrupled. Now a dainty dinner will often consist of soup or fish, one or perhaps two entrees, a roast bird of some kind, a sweet (preferably iced), and a savoury, “ and thereENTRIES AND RECHAUFFES. 3 an end,” as Pepys has it in his most fascinating diary, which, by the way, is a storehouse of quaint culinary and gastronomic ideas. Another fancy has arisen amongst us, and that is the taste for cold dishes, a fancy which, however, chiefly affects the temperature of the smaller or “kick-shaw” part of the meal, such as entrees, sweets, and savouries. Now there is a good deal to be said for this fancy, from the point of view of the economic housewife with a limited kitchen staff. Cold dishes can be prepared beforehand, while there is leisure to bestow the time and care such dainty trifles demand if they are to be a success, and please remember that unless an absolute success, in however simple a way, such things do not justify their existence. What should we think of a woman who tried to atone for the inferior material and bad cut of her dress by a quantity of discordant and carelessly adapted trimming ? Such a sight is not uncommon one ruefully admits, but still I repeat my question, what would be our opinion of the wearer were we in the Palace of Truth P Yet many a woman who would shudder at such barbarous dressing is guilty of taste just as deplorable in the service of her table. If cookery is to be even decent, much more “ high class ” (to use the jargon of the day), both material and preparation must be good. A sloppy sauce redolent of the cruet stand, with a plentiful sprinkling of black shoe leather cut in snippets, encircling some badly trimmed thin loin chops smothered in greasy bread crumbs, is not improved by being called “ cotelettes a la Perigueux,” b 24 ENTRIES. or any other high sounding name evolved from a half forgotten cookery book or the imagination of the person entrusted with the menu. Difficult though such “ good cooks ” may find it to believe, those who consume (or try to do so) these weird dishes would gladly exchange them for a plain but carefully cooked chop and a floury potato. Little dishes, such as entrees, may be an actual economy, and are certainly a pleasant relief, especially in hot weather, from the heavy, solid joints popularly supposed to constitute our national fare ; but before allowing her cook to send such things to table the mistress should take care that her cordon bleu has mastered the foundations of her profession. She should be taught the difference between a chop and a cutlet; that between steak and a fillet of beef; the various ways of cooking meat, such as boiling, frying, roasting, stewing, broiling, braising, &c., and also be taught approximately to gauge the appearance, more or less, of a dish from reading a recipe. For this purpose the four great sauces should be distinct entities to her, and she should be able perfectly to differentiate between bechamel and veloute, or between brown and Espagnolej (or Spanish) sauce. Now this is no recondite matter in reality. Veloute is sauce made precisely like melted butter, only using plain and fairly colourless stock instead of water, with the result that veloute if properly made has always a soft creamy tinge ; thus distinguishing it from bechamel, which is prepared by using either milk alone or white stock and milk mixed, instead of the5 EXTREES AND RECHAUFFES. water of melted butter. For brown stock you allow the flour and butter, which is the basis of the sauce, to colour till it is of a soft light brown (be careful it does not burn or cook too quickly, as in this case it would have black spots through it, and all but certainly acquire a bitter taste that no subsequent dosing with wine, Harvey, or Worcester sauce will either remove or even disguise), and then dilute it with dark-coloured nicely flavoured stock. White sauces depend for their flavour a good deal on the little additions made to them in the process of finishing off, as they are developed into their separate divisions ; but brown sauce must taste fairly strongly of good, well flavoured stock, though no actual distinctive flavouring must be permitted when it is simply to serve as the foundation of richer and more intricate sauces, such as poivrade, browu Italienne, Ac. Espagnole, on the contrary, is of itself a somewhat strongly flavoured sauce, a slice or two of lean ham or bacon, a sliced tomato, and a few sprays of parsley, thyme, bayleaf, Ac., being allowed to fry with the initial butter and flour, or roux, as it is technically called. The stock added to this should have had a slice of ham or smoked lean bacon, some green onions, a little sherry, and a good bouquet boiled with it to flavour or “ perfume ” it, and the whole is boiled together till the sauce has reduced a fourth part, both, to intensify its flavour and to give it more substance. This point is one not sufficiently attended to by British cooks, who resort to the traditional “bit of butter rubbed in flour,” and the stock adjuncts of the cruet stand,ENTREES. 6 give their sauces the body and savour of the properly made foreign ones, thus meeting with the fate of those too ignorant or careless to start their work in the right way, a proceeding that invariably brings its own punishment in the shape of extra trouble. Having mastered these details, the cook will soon find that veloute, or velvet sauce (as its name would run in English, from the smoothness to which it is brought when properly made), will be the foundation of such white sauces as need not be absolutely snow white; such as allemande (veloute enriched at the last with egg yolks lightly beaten up with a little new milk or cream, and made with stock rather fully flavoured by boiling mushrooms or their trimmings in it) ; Indienne (veloute finished off at the last with a good piece of fresh butter rubbed up with as much good curry powder as it will take up, just allowed to bpil and then finished off with the egg and milk liaison) ; pascaline (a good sauce for hashed lamb by the way, made by adding a gill of colourless stock made from the lamb bones, to three- quarters of a pint of veloute, boiling the whole down a fourth part with some chopped shallot and mushroom peelings, then straining or tammying it, and finishing with the egg and milk liaison, lemon juice, and finely minced parsley and mushrooms), &c.; whereas the milk white bechamel would be the foundation of sauce d la creme, or blanquette, when a good slice of lean ham and a bay leaf are simmered for twenty to thirty minutes in about three-quarters of a pint of bechamel till reduced a fourth, then tammied or sieved, and finished off like the pascalineENTRIES AND RECHAUFFES. 7 —which lias, however, not sucli a delicate white tinge ■—or any other dainty sauce that must be of pure white colour. In the same way, brown sauce would be used as the basis of ordinary brown sauces, such as tomato, Bretonne (a brown onion sauce), Chutney sauce, &c., Espagnole being reserved for such highly flavoured dishes as involve wine, truffles, &c., in their com- position, such as Perigueux, Madere, or other very high class and expensive sauces. One more word must be said anent these same sauces, and that is that in first-class cookery certain appellations have certain very definite meanings, to such a degree, in fact, that a skilled connoisseur could distinguish blindfold between the different sauces. So please observe that if you choose to christen your dishes by high sounding names, such names will lead every connoisseur before whom you may put them, to expect very definite results, and to resent accordingly any deception in the matter, however unconscious on your part. A striking example of this is to be found in a dish more often seen mentioned on menus than produced on the table, namely, supreme de volaille. For this the -uncooked breasts of fowls must be used, whilst for the sauce you require a very carefully made velocity, produced from delicately flavoured chicken stock, which is thickened at the last with rich cream, a dash of lemon juice, and any addenda in harmony with the garnish from which it takes its name. Directions for this dish will be given amongst the recipes later on, so it need not be insisted on further, save toENTRIES. 8 remark tliat no one knowing anything of cookery will accept contentedly a fricassee of chicken, how- ever good of its kind, as a substitute for the supreme mentioned on the menu! Though under its proper name those same critics would very likely have praised it warmly. So much for hot sauces. Next the cold sauces, required for cliaufroiz and other cold dishes, must be considered. These in the present day the average “ good cook ” generally produces by mixing to a given proportion of any sauce required a certain amount of aspic jelly in a state of liquefaction: the two are then boiled—or not boiled, as the cook fancies—till somewhat reduced, when they are poured over the article to be covered or “masked” (as it is technically termed), when just on the point of setting. Now this certainly produces a very nice liquid for masking purposes—especially when the reduction has been attended to—but for high class cookery such a sauce tastes too strongly of vinegar to be judged altogether correct by the gourmet. If you are giving a dish, say, of quails en aspic, then by all means use this aspic-stiffeued sauce; but where it is simply a case of a chaufroix, the sauce chosen should be thickened bv reduction or boiling-in till stiff enough to coat any piece of meat, &c., by its own density. This is the truly correct method as practised by first rate chefs, who do not need to consider time, expense, or work; but where these have to be taken into account, even first rate chefs nowadays admit the addition of a little isinglass or the pure leaf gelatine (such as Mrs. A. B.ENTREES AND RECHAUFFES. 9 Marshall’s) to the coating liquid, to ensure its adhering evenly and smoothly. About |oz. to foz. of the gelatine to the pint of sauce will be sufficient, according to the density to which you have reduced the latter. This addition, though giving body and adhesiveness to the sauce does not affect its flavour as would aspic, which always, from its nature, must impart a strong acid taste to whatever it is mixed with. So I would ask my readers to understand that unless the word aspic is mentioned in connec- tion with any dish where cliaufroix is named, it implies that the sauce—whatever its nature—is simply stiffened with from -|oz. to foz. of Mrs. A. B. Marshall’s leaf gelatine to the pint of sauce. This gelatine being added at the last, just before the sauce is tammied or sieved, and allowed to dissolve thoroughly in it. Before concluding this chapter a few words or so must be said regarding garnishes. It cannot be denied that of late these have been fearfully over- done, with the result that in many cases it is absolutely impossible to tell the nature of the dish set before one. I am not now alluding to those awful specimens of how “ not to do it,” exhibited occasion- ally by over clever, but fifth-rate cooks, who torture a nice ouiet shoulder of mutton into the semblance x of a hideous duck, with glass eyes and a gruesome tail of shred smews ; or who send up one’s much longed-for ice in the form of a candle with a wick of burnt almond, in a (sham) Dresden candlestick !) Such things are all very well for a wager, but are not high class cookery, in any shape or form.10 ENTRIES. Every dish sliould be as daintiiy served and decorated as is consistent with its nature, and with the least amount of handling. Any garnish that suggests the “ pawing” (I can use no more refined phrase) of one’s food is distasteful, and no amount of so-called decoration will make up to the connois- seur for the repulsion such dishes evoke! Some years ago there was a craze (American I believe in origin) for coloured dinners, when every dish had to bear its share of a certain fixed scheme of colour. Now, such an idea is all very well when the colour chosen can be obtained naturally, as, say, a red and greeu, or a brown and cream mixture; but when it comes to the host’s liveries, or the hostess’s toilette being matched by the menu, it is carrying the idea too far, and is an atrocity one must admit, sorrow- fully, that women alone could have inaugurated. Their food is far too serious a thing with men to put it at the mercy of any colouring bottles, however harmless. For savoury dishes, red, brown, cream, green of various shades, and yellow, can all be pro- duced readily by the use of various vegetables, eggs, milk, &c., not to mention prawns, caviare, olives, &c., without dragging in all kinds of extraneous matter, tasteless at best, but very often utterly subversive of the original dish to which they are added. Finally, a few words must be said with regard to rechauffes, from which some of the daintiest, if also the homeliest entrees can be produced. The great secret in preparing these is care. The British cook reads rechauffe, and correctly too as far as that11 EXTREES AND RECHAUFFES. goes, as “ heated up,” or “ warmed over,” to use her own detestable phrase, when she does not offer the even more repulsive “ hotted-up.” If properly prepared, meat is often nicer the second day than the first, for many things gain by keeping. Take curry for instance, always (if properly made) better the second day than the first; whilst a stew, or a fricassee, not to speak of a hash, is immensely improved by the prolonged steeping of the meat in its gravy, on the condition, of course, that it is never allowed to re-boil in the course of its re- heating. Our ancestors knew this when they cherished those delicious hash dishes of theirs with their dainty little spirit lamps under them, and the outer hot-water jacket often seen with them; these same dishes, by the way, have been reintroduced from America as novelties, under the name of “ chafing-dishes.” Any persons possessing one of these articles have only themselves to blame if the hash is a failure. Try it this way and it is sure to be a success, if only the directions are carefully followed out: Have ready some nicely made brown sauce (if the meat is brown, say mutton), add to this a few drops of essence of anchovy, a very little Harvey (for table cookery cruet sauces are per- missible), a tiny squeeze of lemon, a dust of cayenne or coralline pepper, and, lastly, a little, very finely- minced parsley and chives or shallot. Lay the meat into this and leave it to steep, covered, till the dish is wanted; then light the lamp, and let it all just not come to the boil, and serve at once. This will be found a very different dish from the hash aa12 ENTRIES. ordinarily understood. White meat can be heated in the same way, only using white instead of brown sauce, flavouring it with lemon juice and peel, a very few drops of chilli vinegar, and a little mush- room ketchup, being careful to keep the colour, by the addition of a spoonful or two of new milk or cream, to a very pa'e cream if it is not actually white, which it can easily be if bechamel be used for the foundation instead of veloute. A salmi of game is made in precisely the same way, the only secret lying in the flavouring. It is difficult to class entrees very definitely as the various kinds are apt to run into one another. For instance, chicken fillets are frequently served on a border of quenelle meat, or farce; or cutlets are finished off with a financiere ragout, &c. Moreover, it must be remembered that entrees are not necessarily always made of meat, but can be prepared from fish or vegetables, but such dishes will be given separately in the series set apart for these.CHAPTER II. CUTLETS, FILLETS, &c. Few better tests of a cook’s capacity exists than the appearance of lier cutlets. To start witli she must study the meat from which she cuts them. Small well-fed mutton should always be chosen for this purpose, as this is free from the intermixing of fat and lean, which, if at all exaggerated, renders the cutlets most uninviting. Having chosen the meat, remember that for your purpose the best end of the neck (the loin as a rule is only fit for mutton chops) is the part required. From this order the butcher to remove the chine bone, in other words, the top of the ribs. Now with a sharp, rather heavy knife (there is a proper cutlet knife for this purpose), divide the piece, if small, by a straight, decided cut, exactly half way between the bones ; if the mutton is large, however, you will have to follow the line of the bone, only slightly outside it, aod thus obtain a cutlet-shaped, but boneless slice of meat in between the two bones, which can be either set aside for other purposes, or can be placed alternately, when cooked, with the boned cutlets. Do not attempt to trim your cutlets before separating them, as each should be prepared individually. When divided off, layENTREES. 14 each cutlet on a wetted chopping board and beat or “ bat ” it out with either the side of the cutlet knife or with a cutlet bat, or, failing these, with the rolling pin; only remember whatever you use must first be wetted with a little water. When properly batted out, the meat will have become a little spread out, and even with the edge of the bone. Now trim it neatly, removing all superfluous fat and skin, leaving only an even layer or border of the former about |-in. thick all round as in Fig 1; then just where the lean meat stops make a straight cut right down to the bone, as at B D, and then clear the bone down to C from all flesh, skin, &c., scraping it nicely. When all the cutlets have been trimmed in this way, the bones being all cut to an equal length and scraped till clean and shining, remove the little bit of bone which is almost always left at the thicker end at F. A butcher does this with one sweep of his heavy knife, but for the amateur it is better to set the knife carefully on the right spot, and then separate off the bone by a sharp blow on the back of the knife with the rolling-pin. The illustration just mentioned shows the cutlet trimmed and un- trimmed. The shaded part from F to F shows the chine bone which the butcher should remove, whilst the rest of the shading from F to G is what the cook must trim off. It is a matter of taste and expediency whether the meat is trimmed off by the straight line B D, or by the curved one E under- neath it. Cutlets thus trimmed may be broiled, sanies, or egged and crumbed and fried in the frying basket, as you please. Loin cutlets are occasionallyCUTLETS, EILLETS, &c. 15 chosen, as their flavour is considered by some people superior to the drier neck cutlets, and, moreover, the)r are undoubtedly less wasteful, but they need very careful trimming to make them presentable. Of late years the fashion has obtained in this case, of dispensing with the bone altogether. The loin of mutton answers to the surloin of beef, and, like the latter, is finished with a T shaped bone, very easily removed in one piece if the loin has not been jointed. Now cut the cutlets in each case flush withL6 ENTREES. the hone, producing alternately a boned and a bone- less cutlet, all of the same thickness, and then care- fully remove the bones from the former; you will now have a chop as at Fig. 2. (You will see that, also like the surloin of beef, the loin of mutton possesses a miniature undercut (known in France as the filet mignon), shown at point A) Now bat this out as advised for cutlets. (Please remember— what too many cooks forget—that “ batting ” is not synonomous with mashing, but should be done gently and with discretion, or the cutlet, chop, or steak will be reduced to an unappetising and mangled mass of purplish red, anything but inviting, either to the eye or the palate.) When nicely batted, trim off all the skin, B B, together with as much of the fat as you judge convenient, either retaining all the undercut fat, and delicately skewering it round the lean part (previously gently pressed into shape with the wet knife), as at Fig. 3, or else removing it almost entirely, as at Fig 4. The latter is perhaps the best way of treating large mutton. The cutlets thus prepared are known as “ noisettes,” though strictly speaking the whole of the undercut is in French termed the “ noix,” and becomes noisettes when sliced straight down in rounds, or “ filets mignons ” when cut into longitudinal slices. These noisettes are also termed escalopes, grenadins, medallions, &c., according to the method of their serving, or at times, of their garnish; at the same time, these latter terms are nowadays more frequently applied to beef or veal, or even fish, than to mutton. These noisettes may be cooked when trimmed, byCUTLETS, FILLETS, &c. 17 any of the methods advised for cutlets, and fuller directions for their treatment are given below Another method, and one much to be recommended when they are to be used cold en chaufroix, or mayonnaise, is to have them stewed. For this purpose the whole of the best end of the neclc or loin should be put into the pan with vegetables, stock, seasoning, spice, Ac., and then gently braised till cooked, when it is lifted out and allowed to get quite cold. It is then cut into cutlets, and these are trimmed and served egged and crumbed; or coated with rich forcemeat on both sides ; either wrapped in paper cases (en papilottes) and broiled, or used cold as they are en chaufroix or cn mayonnaise. By far the most difficult method of cooking cutlets is to broil them, and it is one that requires much practice, though at the same time it is well worth the trouble, as it is undoubtedly the most delicate way of serving them, the crisp, fresh, burnt taste, always characteristic of a broil, harmonising with and enhancing any garnish with which it may be served. The proper method is as follows: Have a delicately clean and bright gridiron, and rub its bars lightly with a morsel of suet; see that your fire is clear as well as sharp; then dip each cutlet singly in some hot butter, melted, or, better still, into good salad oil, and lay each on the grid, allowing the latter to be very near the fire at first so as to let the surface of the meat catch (though without actually burning), thus sealing up the pores, and keeping in the juice of the meat. Turn them frequently whilst cooking (they will take about eight to ten minutes), cENTREES. 18 being very careful not to use a fork in the process, for if the meat is pricked all the juice will run out, and the cutlet will become like leather. If you have not proper cutlet tongs use two spoons, or stick the fork into the fat if any be left on. When ready to serve, the cutlets will be a dainty brown, with darker stripes showing the mark of the grid bars, and when cut they will be a nice pinky-red inside and full of juice. To saute them, have a well buttered saute pan, lay the cutlets in carefully, not overlapping or even touching, sprinkle them with a few drops of wine, glaze, and a sprinkle of pepper, and cover them with buttered paper ; then let them cook over a clear fire, turning them once or twice in the process. These are often put into the oven and allowed to cook quietly in there, but care must be taken not to let them dry up. Cutlets can also be stewed if a well-buttered pan is lined with sliced vegetables, a slice of ham, a bunch of herbs, and seasoning to taste; the cutlets are laid’in on the top of this, the pan being covered down, and the whole is allowed to fry for a minute or two till the vegetables, &c., begin to colour a little; a little stock is then poured in, a buttered paper laid over all, and the pan covered; directly the stock is brought to the boil the pan is drawn to the side of the fire and the whole allowed to simmer (not to boil!), quietly and steadily, for an hour or so, after which they are lifted out and either put between two plates, on the top of which a weight is placed, to press them evenly (stewed cutlets are mostly used for chaufroix) or else dished with either their own gravy strained19 CUTLETS, FILLETS, &c. aand freed from fat, witli any vegetable garnish you .please, or with any sauce and puree most suitable in the cook’s eyes. A very dainty way of broiling cutlets is en papilottes—i.e., the trimmed cutlet is covered on both sides with any nice farce, such as -sieved pate de foie gras, a thick Villeroi sauce, or a ;puree of onions, mushrooms, &c., as you choose. IHeart-shaped pieces of white paper are then oiled, i the cutlets laid in, the paper folded over and tightly i -.twisted-up at the edges, and the whole are broiled M over a clear, bright fire for eight or ten minutes, and llsserved as they are in their cases. If at any time a cutlet has to be cooked for an iinvalid, the following method, though distinctly Mostly, may be recommended: Cut three cutlets, , t wo rather thinner than the third, which latter must I nicely trimmed; tie the three together , and broil im over a clear, sharp fire till the outsides of the o outer cutlets are quite burnt, then lift them off, Darate them, and the centre cutlet will be found st cooked to perfection, and if served at once, th a carefully boiled and very floury potato sviously rubbed to snow through a clean sieve, it difficult to suggest a nicer little dish for a ivalescent. One point more regarding cutlets. >road mutton is almost invariably marinaded Core been served as cutlets, noisettes, &c., and the ison is not far to seek. Such treatment would, wever, be, with one exception, profanity for our inty Welsh or juicy South Down mutton; but r coarser (and, low be it whispered! frozen) itton it is an excellent plan. The usual marinadeENTRIES. 20 consists of oil and vinegar (four parts of oil to one of vinegar), a shallot or a small onion sliced, a bay leaf, ten or twelve peppercorns, a few cloves, a very tiny pinch of salt, a spoonful of minced parsley (or the broken up stalks may be more economically used, and are equally efficacious), a strip or two of lemon peel carefully freed from any white pith, and, if liked, a very few drops of garlic vinegar. The cutlets may be left in this for two to four hours, according to taste, after which they should be lifted out and well drained, but not wiped, and then cooked as you please. If you have a good deal of Welsh or other small mutton, the following marinade produces a delicious, venison- like dish of cutlets. Put into a pie-dish a wine- glassful (claret) each of port, vinegar, and mush- room ketchup, with a small sliced onion, a table- spoonful of currant jelly (which should have been dissolved in the above mentioned liquids), a few peppercorns, and a little mignonette pepper, with a dessertspoonful of minced thyme and marjoram. Let the meat soak in this, then drain, broil, and serve with a rich brown sauce to which you have added a share of the strained marinade. (N.B.— Cold roast mutton treated thus makes a dish for a king.) As economy is always associated with really good cooking, it may be observed that the cost of cutlets is materially lessened if the whole neck (scrag, best end and all) be taken, for then the trimmings from the cutlets added to the scrag will provide a tooth- some Irish stew, or a decidedly enticing haricot, orCUTLETS, FILLETS, &c. . 21 Navarin for luncli; while the cutlets can be trimmed to taste at home. In France, where beef steak is appreciated, or, rather, where slices of meat broiled, fried, or sautes are to be served under that name, the filet is chosen in preference to the parts from whence we obtain our steak, i.e., the rump or the round, which are not abroad considered so tender as the meat derived from what we know as the “ undercut.” But to English ideas what is gained in tenderness by this arrangement is lost in flavour. However, the fact remains that when fillets of beef are spoken of, the sliced undercut is properly meant. At the same time, many a cook ignores this, and quietly utilises her steak, rump or other- wise, by cutting it into the required shape and serving it with the desired garnish. Like mutton, beef also is served both as filets, grenadins, medallions, noisettes, escalopes, Ac., but in these cases the meat is usually more or less larded, and in any case, is smaller than the less pretentious filets. Properly speaking, for filets the fillet is cut out in one piece, and is then sliced in a slanting direction to produce small wedge-shaped slices ; these are then peppered and brushed over with, or dipped into, good salad oil or dissolved butter, and broiled for eight minutes or so, turning them once or at most twice in the process; they are then arranged on a very hot dish, and served with t.ny vegetable garnish to taste. Usually a little savoury butter is spread on the dish, the fillets laid on this, and then a tiny ball of the same butter is placed on each fillet as it is to be served- after it has been garnished with fried22 ENTRIES. potatoes, ribbon potatoes, or, indeed, potatoes in any shape or form, or any other vegetables you choose. More generally, however, in England, the fillet is cut into slices from fin. to fin. thick, and then stamped out with a cutter into rounds from 2in. to 2fin. in diameter. These are then batted out gently, and either broiled as above or sautes, i.e., each round is seasoned with pepper, salt, chopped parsley, and a very little shallot, then laid in a well-buttered saute- pan, sprinkled with a few drops of sherry and stock, covered with a buttered paper, and cooked over a sharp fire for five or six minutes, turning them only once in the process. They are then dished either en couronne or straight down the dish, and served with a garnish of turned olives stuffed with mayonnaise, or anchovy, or any other savoury butter, small glazed onions or carrots, broiled mushrooms, or tomatoes, &c., as you please; or if dished en couronne, they may be garnished outside with the vegetables and any rich brown sauce you please, the centre being filled up with horseradish cream, shrimp or oyster sauce, or any nice ragout to taste. These, of course, take their names from their garnish and sauce. Grenadins are, properly speaking, pear- shaped (Fig. 5), and thickly and regularly larded, but they are more generally seen round-shaped, like the mSdaillons, Eig. 6, which are smaller rounds, larded more sparsely, or round the edge only, with thin strips of French or larding bacon; whilst escalopes should be long, narrow strips; but, as a matter of fact, the names are used pretty much indiscriminately according to the fancy of the chef. Lastly, there23 CUTLETS, EILLETS, &c. are tlie tourne-clos, which derive their name, it is said, from the fact that they are usually served with alternate slices of some other substance, and, so to speak, turn their backs on one another. Like noisettes, these tourne-dos are of somewhat modern in- vention, aiid the names only came, I believe, into com- mon use in the last half century. For larding, use very fat, firm bacon, which should be kept in a cold place, on ice, if possible; cut this bacon into blocks about l^in. to 2in. long, then slice these from £in. to |in. thick, and cut these slices again into strips of the same width (these strips are called “ lardoons ”), being careful to see that these widths will fit the larding needle, a straight tube of metal tapering to a pointENTREES. 24 at one end, and slit into four at the wider end (sea Pigs. 7 and 8 for the lardoon and the bacon-threaded larding needle). The size of the lardoons requires attention, for if they are too large to fit the needle they will be pressed out whilst being drawn through the meat, while, if too small, the needle will not keep its hold of them. It is evident that these dishes can be varied ad infinitum by changing the sauces and garnishes used for them ; for instance, arrange on a hot dish some nicely mashed potato, shaping these heaps into rounds flattened on the top, and on each of these place a delicately larded grenadin (of the round sort), and then fill up the top, by means of a rose pipe and bag, with a rosette of either sauce Cambridge, Caza- nova, or Creme Raifort a l’Alceste and send to table at once ; these would mani- festly be grenadins a la Cambridge, or Cazanova, or a l’Alceste, according to the sauce chosen. Or, again, choose pear- shaped, neatly larded grenadins, and dish them alternately with crisply fried crou- tons cut to match, and spread with anchovy butter, garnishing outside with Fig 8 scraPe<l horseradish, and filling the centre with oyster sauce, when they could be 6tyled tournedos aux huitres, or d la Whitstable, or aux Marenncs, as you choose. Almost every chef adapts names in this way, as the fancyr CUTLETS, FILLETS, &c. 25 strikes liim, when le thinks of some slight varia- tion of an every day dish. Of course if this variation should happen to be somewhat out of the common, the name becomes known, and after a time passes into the kitchen vocabulary, where it takes a recognised place, like the Chateaubriand, and the cotelettes a la Reform, &c., but more often the fame is purely local and of transitory importance. In the ordinary good French menus special names, unless of first rank, are seldom given, the dish taking its name from the accessories and sauce which garnish it. This is an excellent plan, as it conveys far more idea of the nature of the dish than, say, cotelettes a la Sirdar, or filets a la presidente, both of which have ere now figured on menus de circonstance. A very delicate yet nameless dish is made by mounting each little larded round of beef on a hot artichoke bottom, previously flavoured with white pepper and salt, a little minced tarragon, oil and vinegar, and then serving it with a very rich supreme sauce round it. Another variante is to broil the round and unlarded filet, and mount it on little mounds of rather stiff mushroom puree, placing just enough very firm mayonnaise on the top to fix there a turned olive stuffed with an anchovy preserved in oil, or a little anchovy butter. It should be remembered that a touch of savoury butter, anchovy especially, both on th© dish and on the meat, adds enormously to the flavour of beef or mutton. For instance, try this: Have ready some croutons two or three sizes larger than your grenadins, lay on each of these a broiled slice of tomato, and on this again the delicatelyENTREES. 26 broiled grenadin, with on the top a rosette of Perigord butter. As French women say, vous m'en clirez des nouvelles, if your cook has taken trouble with the dish. For this Perigord butter, mince down five or six good sized truffles, and cook them for a few minutes in a gill of Madeira or sherry with a seasoning of pepper; pound these when cool in a mortar, with 4oz. of butter and half of a well washed anchovy till perfectly smooth, and use. Veal can be filleted like both beef or mutton, i.e., you can have cutlets of veal cut from the best end of the neck exactly as with mutton, and excellent these are! Or, again, you can use the filet or undercut, or the fillet (in other words, the round), precisely as you would beef. The noisette is usually cut from the cushion or fillet, as may be also the escalopes, though these latter are more often cut in long narrow strips from the loin. Any of these forms of veal may be served broiled, stewed, braised, sautes, or in cases. Veal in these small portions is almost invariably either barded or larded, i.e., it is either wrapped in thin slices of fat or larding bacon, or it is larded with tiny lardoons passed through the surface of the meat, as shown for grenadins, or passed straight through from side to side. Owing to the dryness of this meat it requires basting frequently, and should also at the last be brushed over with glaze and set in the oven for a minute or two to crisp this and also the lardoons, which, needless to say, should have been neatly trimmed. For fillets of fowl, you should take off the whole breast on each side of the breastbone, right down to27 CUTLETS, FILLETS, &o. tlie wing joint, and then slice this neatly, according to the thickness and the size you wish your fillets to be. The best way to manage this is to slit the skin of the bird right along the breastbone down to the neck, turning this skin well back as you do so ; slip the blade of the knife (which should be a pointed one) close down the breastbone on each side, free the meat from the merrythought, then lift the flesh from the breast to the base of the wing, of course keeping the knife close to the bone so that you can lift the meat off on each side in a solid piece thicker at one end than the other. Place each piece flat on a board, skinned side uppermost, then divide it lengthways into slices as nearly even in size and thickness as you can manage; a good large fowl should yield about six of these slices from each side of the breast. These fillets should be batted out precisely like cutlets (being careful not to bat them too heavily, or you will mash and consequently spoil them), and then pressed and trimmed with a wetted knife, rounding the broad and pointing the narrow ends to give them a cutlet shape. To cook these fillets they are generally laid on a well buttered baking dish lightly sprinkled with strained lemon juice and a very little white stock, then covered with a buttered paper and cooked from eight to ten minutes according to thickness, in a fairly hot oven. Fillets thus prepared can be used for all sorts of dishes, especially for the well-known (but seldom seen) Supreme de Volaille. This latter dish, though a very recherche one, is not so expensive as it sounds, as the legs can be grilled and devilled or28 ENTREES. else boned, stuffed with anj delicate forced meat and braised, then served as Ballotines de Yolaille (a very high class and delicate little entree) on a bed of nicely mashed potatoes, chicken farce, or mushroom puree, as you please; the rest of the flesh carefully picked from the bones and finely chopped, answers capitally for quenelles, souffle's, &c., whilst the bones will serve as a foundation for the Supreme sauce, or can be utilised in the stock pot, so that no part of the fowl is wasted. Any bird, game or otherwise, can be used in the same way. For lesser birds, such as pigeons, quails, &c., two other recipes are also followed. For the first, usually known as cutlets, the birds are boned (with the exception of the feet and leg bones), halved, seasoned to taste with pepper, salt, and mushrooms, chives, herbs, or spice according to the use they are to be put to, then fried or sautes in plenty of butter from three to five minutes, after which they are placed between two plates lightly weighted, and then left till cold. They are then masked with a layer of suitable farce, carefully smoothed over with a hot wet knife, brushed over with unbeaten white of egg, wrapped neatly in a piece of poi-k caul, again brushed over with white of egg, and cooked in a buttered baking dish under a buttered paper in a moderate oven for twelve or fifteen minutes, according to the size of the bird. Many cooks, after spreading these cutlets with the farce, dip them into whole beaten up egg, then into freshly grated and very white bread crumbs, and fry them in plenty of clean boiling fat till of a delicate golden brown; they can then be29 CUTLETS, FILLETS, &c. served with any garnish or sauce to taste. The other method of using the smaller birds when they are boned, stuffed, cooked, pressed, and sliced is only adapted for chaufroix, and will be given under that heading. Hares and rabbits can be filleted by cutting out the strip of meat lying alongside the backbone on both sides exactly as described for filleting fowls, and if well larded these make a very pretty dish, whether served in rounds as Grenadins or Medaillons or in long narrow strips as Filets or escalopes. The little under fillet, answering to the sirloin in beef, to be found under the ribs of both hare and rabbit, and known in France as filets mignons, is superior to the fillet proper, but is unluckily as diminutive as it is dainty. All fillets or cutlets made from brown meat, whether flesh, or fowl, can be marinaded, and this when the meat is dry, as it is especially with hares and venison, will be found a great improvement.* For beef the commonest form of marinade is that previously given for mutton cutlets, and is made with four parts of salad oil to one of vinegar, with the addition of a small shallot or onion sliced, a bay leaf, four or five cloves, eight or ten peppercorns, a saltspoonful of salt, a good strip of thinly pared lemon rind, and a spray or two of parsley and thyme, or marjoram, to every gill of salad oil; needless to say this can be varied by changing the proportions of the herbs and spice. A very nice marinade for giving a venison taste to mutton can be prepared as below (but for this the meat, which30 ENTREES. can also be bare if preferred, should have been previously roasted, rather underdone, and allowed to get. perfectly cold): put into a dish a gill each of good malt vinegar, port wine, and mushroom ketchup, in which you have previously dissolved a good spoonful of red currant or rowan jelly, with a teaspoonful of quatre epices or cook’s pepper, a salt- spoonful of salt, five or six peppercorns, a sliced onion, and about a dessertspoonful of minced thyme and parsley (cold cooked meat needs only a few hours steeping, but if raw should be left in all day). This marinade is strained and added to the thick brown sauce in which the meat is to be heated ; it is then boiled up sharply all together till reduced a fourth part, when th« meat is laid in and allowed to heat (not boil) very gently in the bain-marie; then, if served round a mound of French beans with its sauce, it forms a decidedly excellent entree, though it belongs properly.to the rechauffes. For venison you use what is called a coolced marinade, prejiared thus : fry together for five minutes four ounces of sliced carrot, double that of sliced onion, a good spoonful of minced mixed herbs, and double that amount of minced parsley, with an ounce of well clarified beef dripping; then add to this a pint of vinegar, a pint of common claret, and a pint of water (or omit the wine and use a quart of water), rather more than an ounce of salt, half an ounce of freshly ground pepper, and a blade of mace; let this all boil up, then simmer for half an hour, after which it must be strained and used at once when cold, or it can be bottled and kept till wanted.31 CUTLETS, FILLETS, &&. Yenison should be left in this for three or four days, turning it constantly. Remember these marinades need not be made in large quantities, as all that is needed is to have the bottom of the dish in which the meat is laid covered to about half an inch in depth, as the meat to be marinaded must be frequently turned. When wanted for use just lift the meat from the liquid, let it drain for a minute or two, and then prepare it at once by whatever recipe you choose. (N.B.—Bear’s meat, lately referred to by several newspapers, is excellent if the fillets are prepared by either the marinade given for beef, or the coohed one mentioned for venison.) Sweetbread, or riz de veau, to use its French name, is usually served either in cutlets or “ en escalopes.” To begin with, sweetbreads (like brains which are often used in their stead) must be well soaked in cold salted water to cleanse them and get rid of the blood; they are then blanched, i.e., they are put into sufficient cold water to cover them, with, if liked, a little vinegar or lemon juice, say a spoonful, two or three peppercorns, a spray of parsley, and a sliced onion ; as soon as this is brought to the boil the sweetbread is lifted out, placed between two plates, lightly pressed, and left till cold; it is then wrapped in a thin slice of fat bacon, and next in a buttered paper and placed in a stew-pan with loz. of butter, a carrot, an onion, a blade of celery, and a bunch of herbs; now fry it lightly for twelve or fifteen minutes, then pour on to it a gill of good white or colourless stock, and let it cook gently in the oven for an hour, adding more stock as that in32 ENTRIES. the pan evaporates. It is now allowed to cool a little, sliced and served with any sauce or garnish to taste. This of course is when it is to be served as escalopes. It can also be served whole, either cooked as above, with any garnish to taste, or after blanching and pressing it may be larded and then braised as above. In this case, when taken out of the paper, it is usually brushed over with liquid glaze and set for a minute or two in the oven to crisp and brown the lardoons before dishing it on the puree (whether of mushroom, sorrel, tomato, &c.) with which it is to be served. Or it can, when braised, be sliced down, and dipped in egg and breadcrumb, or in good frying batter, and lightly fried ; or it may be sliced down as before, and dished like fillets of beef, on a border of mashed potato, and served with supreme, or any other rich white sauce poured over and round it. An average sweet- bread takes about an hour’s gentle cooking to be in perfection. A variety of meat can be served as fillets or escalopes, which hardly come under the heading of cutlets (though that name too is occasionally applied to them), as, for instance, liver, which, like ham or foie gras, when cut into long narrow fillets, or even slices, is also known as tranches or lames, of what- ever the meat. These names are simply given to explain their use on foreigu menus; for ordinary purposes the description can be omitted altogether, and simply the name of the meat used, as for instance, foie de veau a Vitalienne, a very favourite French dish, which, as will be seen when theCUTLETS, FILLETS, &c. 33 description is given, is not nearly so pretentious as its name would imply. Foie gras is usually known as escalopes, cliiefly from the shape of the slices, which are mostly scooped out in a concave shape with a silver spoon. Lastly, there is a form of fillet known to French chefs as filet contise, of which Fig. 9 gives a clear idea. (Fig. 10 shows the fillet Fig. 9. Fig. 10. ready for cooking; Fig. 9 showing it cut ready for inserting the garnish.) The fillet is lifted clear off from the breast-hone of the bird, or the backbone of a hare or rabbit, and instead of being sliced down as described above, each fillet forms one portion (except in the case of a hare or large rabbit, when • each side fillet can be halved, cut, and trimmed into shape). This pear shaped piece of meat is then . gashed right across horizontally three or four times, D34 ENTRIES. a slice of red pickled tongue, or a fillet of truffle, &c., being fixed in each gash, the pointed end being then gently trimmed and pressed round with a wet knife, into a rather spiral form. These fillets are more solid than the usual ones, and are particularly good when the meat has been marinaded, as it allows the flavouring to permeate the flesh thoroughly. But their preparation demands much deftness and care on the part of the cook, for their appea?'ance depends entirely on their regularity,CHAPTEK III. CUTLETS, FILLETS, &c. (Continued). Haying given general directions for the preparation of cutlets and fillets of various kinds, a few specific recipes may be offered, as suggestions, for it would be impossible in a book of this size to give anything like an exhaustive list of the numerous ways of preparing such things, For instance, cutlets plainly broiled (i.e., neatly trimmed, left plain, or larded if liked, with fine lardoons previously rolled in quatre epices, brushed over with, or dipped into either dissolved butter or good salad oil, then grilled over a clear fire for four or five minutes, the other side being turned and cooked in the same way if unlarded; or if larded, then set for four minutes or so in a sharp oven, to crisp the lardoons and finish the cooking;) can be served in a circle with any nice vegetables such as peas, asparagus points, cucumber, souffle or ribbon potatoes, fried tomatoes, mush- rooms, &c., or with any good puree, such as mush- room, tomato, celeri d Vespagnole (the celery well cleansed, blanched, and stewed in good well flavoured brown stock, then rubbed through a sieve and heated in a rich espagnole sauce), artichoke, salsify, cardoons, lettuce, spinach, potato, &c., to taste, d 2ENTRIES. 36 naming the dish according to this garnish) ; or d la jardiniere (with various vegetables cooked sepa- rately, then finally tossed in a little butter and sugar to glaze them) ; or en macedoine (with a mixture of plainly boiled vegetables, either fresh or canned); a la Mancelle (with a rather thick, richly flavoured chestnut puree); a la Palestine (with a thick puree of Jerusalem artichokes); a la Soubise (with a rich white puree of onions), a la Bretonne (the same puree, only brown, or with stewed haricot beans); d la Milanaise (served with carefully cooked macaroni, mixed with strips of ham, truffles, and a rich cheese cream sauce) ; a la chijoolata (with chipolata garnish, tossed in a full-flavoured espagnole sauce); d la financiere (financiere garnish tossed in a rich espagnole) ; d la Toulouse (much the same, only a rich allemande being used instead of the espagnole) ; d la Valenciennes (with a mixture of mushrooms, artichoke bottoms, prawns, crayfish or lobster, and rice, all tossed in a good sauce Indienne) ; a, la marecliale (served on a border of very creamy mashed potato, with a clear meat gravy rather strongly flavoured with cayenne pepper, lemon juice, and a few drops of sherry); a la Viennoise (larded and served with a rich brown sauce in which some red currant jelly has been dissolved, with a little port wine) ; d Vorientale (with a border of savoury tomato rice, a ragout of olives in the centre, and a rich brown or white cuny sauce); a la Smyrniote (served on savoury rice, flavoured with saffron and mixed with stewed sultanas or raisins, and a white poivrade), &c. If preferred instead of37 CUTLETS, FILLETS, &c. broiling tliem tlie cutlets may be sautes, i.e., placed when trimmed in a well buttered saute-pan, sprinkled witb a little wine and glaze, covered with a buttered paper, and cooked over the fire or in the oven for eight to ten minutes ; but in this way they of course miss the burnt taste which to epicures is the predominant quality of a well cooked cutlet. Or again when trimmed, the cutlets may be dipped either in dissolved butter or whole beaten egg, then rolled in very fine white (dry) bread crumbs, and fried in boiling fat till delicately coloured, when they must be well drained; in this case the cutlet should be trimmed straight from B to D, not in a curve as at E (see Fig. 1). These breaded cutlets can be served with any vegetables, or vegetable puree, to taste ; or indeed the preceding recipes may be adapted to them; very often the bread crumbs are seasoned with pepper and salt (or quatrc epices), and sometimes with grated cheese, minced ham, truffles, &c.; or else a layer of rich farce is laid over the meat, which is then egged and bread crumbed, fried, and served with an appropriate sauce. (This farce may be made of almost anything from foie gras to plain beef farce, or even delicate sausage meat). For instance, they may be served en robe de chambre (when a delicate veal forcemeat is laid over the cutlets, which are then egged and crumbed, fried, and served with a demi-glace, i.e., a thin espagnole made by boiling together sharply half a pint each of espagnole sauce, good plain stock, or a little consomme, and an ounce of glaze for five minutes); a la Reform (when the bread crumbs areENTRIES. 38 seasoned, and mixed with about one-third their bulk of grated ham; the cutlets are then broiled, and served with Reform sauce, to which a Reform garnish of hard-boiled white of egg, ham, tongue, and truffles all cut into julienne strips, has been added); a la Soyer (marinade the cutlets for eight or ten hours, then drain well, and dip them first into beaten egg and then into a mince made of equal parts of cooked tongue, lean ham, and hard-boiled egg white, very finely chopped; let them rest till firmly set; then again egg them and dip in very fine white bread crumbs and fry a delicate golden brown; dish on or round a pile of sorrel puree, and send the following sauce round in a very hot boat; add a small teaspoonful of essence of anchovy and the same of chilli vinegar to three-quarters of a pint of espagnole sauce, and reduce it by sharp boiling to half a pint; then stir into it a teaspoonful of mush- room ketchup, the same of red currant jelly, and half a glass of Marsala; as soon as the jelly is all melted stir into it a tablespoonful each of hard- boiled egg white, cooked mushrooms, lean cooked ham, and two gherkins, all cut into julienne strips and serve hot (this is a form of Reform cutlet, and its garnish and sauce are equally good for beef fillets) ; a la Marquise (when a thin strip of rather fat ham is placed on each side of the cutlet, which is then egged and. crumbed, broiled or fried, and served with a rich allemande sauce with dice of ham in it) ; au Parmesan (grated Parmesan mixed with the bread crumbs, and a rich cheese cream) ; or any rich sauce, white or brown, may be reduced till veryCUTLETS, FILLETS, &c 39 thick, spread thickly on the cutlets which are again egged and crumbed, and served dry on a bed of any nice vegetables. These of course take their name from the sauce coating, for instance if coated with a very rich allemaude sauce delicately flavoured with lemon juice, mushrooms, &c., they are called cotelettes a la Tilleroi (a rich white sauce thickened almost to a paste by reduction, being known as a Villeroi), aux petits pois (or whatever vegetables form the garnish). Again cutlets, abroad especially, are often braised, i.e., they are placed on a layer of soup vegetables, with a slice or two of ham, a good bouquet of herbs, seasoning to taste, and lastly sufficient strong stock to just cover them, a buttered paper is put over them and they are then simmered very gently till cooked, when they are lifted out, and placed to press between two plates under a weight till perfectly cold; they are then trimmed, the liquor in which they were cooked is strained, freed from fat, and reduced a little by rapid boiling, the cold trimmed cutlets being then gently heated in •this sauce and served with any garnish to taste. Lastly there is the Maintenon cutlet, for which various methods of cooking are often given. The nicest I think is this: cut the cutlets rather thick, then split them through horizontally to the bone, and lay in this a good spoonful of cV TJxelles mixture (i.e., a mixture cf minced parsley, mushrooms, chives, and tongue or ham, all tossed till cooked in a little butter), close down the cutlet skewering it into shape with very tiny skewers, and broil it for four minutes or so each side (a variation of this dish40 ENTRIES. is cutlets a la Rothschild, when a pur^e of foie gras is used instead of the d' Uxelles) ; more frequently these cutlets are broiled in oiled paper cases, a spoonful of d' TJxelles sauce being added to each case for the Maintenon, and a spoonful of sauce Rothschild for the Rothschild cutlets. But for this the boneless noisetti?s or grenadins are to be preferred. If liked, any of these cutlets can be cooked as noisettes, i.e., deprived of their bones, rounded neatly, and broiled or sautes, as you choose. But if so served they should always be mounted on something, say a round of fried bread, carefully fried in clarified butter to a delicate golden brown, or on a mush- room, or an artichoke bottom, or a sliced tomato, or on a mound of stiff vegetable puree, as you please. These noisettes make a delicious dish if placed on a delicately fried crouton, spread with a little savoury butter, finished off with a tiny pat of the same and sent up at once very hot. Maitre d’hotel, Perigord, Proven9al, ham, or curry butter, or stiff mayonnaise, tartare, or Bearnaise sauce can all be utilized, and present an agreeable variety. Lamb cutlets can be treated in the same way, the recipes with white sauce being specially suitable for lamb. Fillets of beef, however served, can be dressed by many of the recipes given for cutlets, savoury butters of all kinds being especially suitable and appetising. As a general rule it may be broadly stated that when beef is served as fillets, it is un- larded, whereas as grenadins or medaillons, it is allCUTLETS, FILLETS, &c. 41 but invariably larded or barded (i.e, wrapped in thin slices of fat bacon.) Kemember that many recipes (especially if rich ones) given for fillets can be applied to the smarter form. Filets de bceuf aux huitres.—For these choose rather thick rounds of beef cut from the rump, and split each horizontally without quite cutting it in two, then inside each round lay one or two ovsters, according to size, seasoned with a tiny dust of cayenne, and a squeeze of lemon juice, skewer the fillet back into shape with a tiny skewer, or fix it with nicely seasoned lardoons, and sautez them in a well buttered pan with a little wine, and stock, and serve round or on a pile of very creamy mashed potato with a demi-glace poured round it, and if liked, a garnish of seasoned watercress. F. a, Vintendante.—Make a delicate force meat with poultry livers, grated bacon, mushrooms, very finely minced shallot and spice, moistening it with yolk of egg; prepare the grenadins as in the previous recipe, filling them with a layer of this forcemeat, then fastening them together into shape with seasoned lardoons, and sautez them delicately, setting them in the oven for a minute or two at the last to crisp the lardoons; brush them over with warm glaze, and dish in a circle, filling up the centre with a financiere ragout, and pouring a rich demi-glaze round it. F. d la Bearnaise.—Slice down a piece of the fillet into neat wedge-shaped pieces, thicker at one end than the other, bat them out with a wet knife, and trim off all superfluous fat, skin, &c., season eachENTRIES, 42 fillet witli a little salt and coralline pepper, and brush over with dissolved butter or best salad oil, and grill or broil for four minutes on each side; then dish straight down the centre, putting a little bearnaise sauce on the top of each fillet and serve at once very hot, garnished with potato ribbons or straws; if liked, maitre d’hotel, or any other savoury butter, can be substituted, a particularly toothsome dish (filets aux crevettes), being made by using anchovy butter for the garnish, dishing the fillets en couronne, and filling the centre with a rich shrimp sauce, over which you lightly pile the potato straws. F. a I’empereur.—For this cut the fillets of beef rather thin, and season with salt and coralline pepper; on each of these lay a slice of calf’s liver cut to match, and join them by running lardoons of fat bacon (rolled in qucctre epices before use) right through; trim these lardoons, brush the fillets well over with dissolved butter, place some straws, previously brushed over with the butter, on the grid, lay the fillets on this liver side down, and broil them for eight minutes or so, then place them in a buttered baking dish and crisp the upper (or beef side, on which the lardoons should be left rather longer), in the oven for a few minutes. Lightly brush them over with warm glaze and serve with a puree of mushrooms in the centre, and a Borde- laise sauce round. (This is simply espagnole rather strongly flavoured with essence of anchovy, light white French wine, and shalot, garnished, after tammying, with finely minced tarragon or parsley, and chives.43 CUTLETS, FILLETS, &c. F. a la chasseur.—Sautez the fillets (or use grenadins or fillets as you please, varying the name accordingly) which should have been larded and marinaded in the venison marinade for a few hours beforehand, and serve round a pile of souffle potatoes, with the sauce given for cutlets a la Soyer, round them ; or the real Eeforra sauce and garnish, can be used, and gives its name to the dish; or olives stoned and stewed in good brown sauce may be used as the centre garnish. F. a la raifort aux ceufs.—Bat out and trim some neat round fillets, and broil these over a clear fire after brushing them over with oil or liquid butter ; have ready some rounds of bread fried a delicate brown and brushed over with liquid glaze; also as many nicely poached eggs as you have fillets (mind these are nicely trimmed so as to have only a very tiny rim of white round them ; indeed, many cooks use the yolk only for this purpose), then place a fillet of beef on each crouton, a poached egg on the beef and lastly a tiny heap of “ Spring’s horseradish cream ” on top of all. Strictly speaking, any savoury butter can be used in this way, but this particular novelty is so very delicious it deserves special men- tion. Eemember that when liquid glaze is mentioned, Liebig and Co.’s extract of beef is a particularly effective substitute for home-made glaze, always being at hand, and in good condition, which is more than can be said for the home-made glaze in every case. A small teaspoonful of this extract added to any sauce is an immense improvement, and will give strength and value to even second stock. For theENTRIES. u sauces a reduction it is particularly valuable. Lastly, there are what may be classed as stuffed fillets, or filets fourres, i.e., when the piece of meat, of what- ever shape you please (though usually a round form is preferred), is cut thick enough to allow of its being sliced (as for filets de bceuf aux huitres), any farce or stuffing being then introduced, as for example, d la St. James, when a slice of foie gras or liver farce is placed between the sides of the tiny steak, which is saute, and finished off with a compote of cherries (see escalopes de lievre aux cerises), and a rich mushroom sauce ; or d la Grande Bretagne, when the meat is stuffed with a mixture of rather thick horseradish sauce, grated Parmesan cheese, and cooked macaroni cut into tiny rings, the fillets, when sautes, being served with fried potato straws, and a good brown sauce; or d la Riga, when a little delicate sausage meat is placed between the sliced meat, which is braised, and lastly served with brown sauce round, a garnish of sliced and broiled tomatoes, and a pile of peas, asparagus points, or any other nice vegetable in the centre; or d la Perigueux, i.e., stuffed with a ragout of truffles sliced and tossed in a little wine, sautes, and served with a rich tomato sauce. In short, they may be varied almost ad infinitum, for if nicely sautes, or broiled, filets de boeuf may be served with almost any sauce, if care be taken as to the accompanying garnish, as, for instance, d la Nemours, i.e., stuffed with a delicate chicken force- meat, and dished alternately with small slices of nicely broiled ham, and a rich a'llemande sauce. It may be mentioned that sometimes fillets of beef thus45 CUTLETS, FILLETS, &c. prepared are egged, breadcrumbed, and fried, the farce having been previously laid on the side of the fillet. (Cutlets are also very good served in this way.) Finally, there is the Chateaubriand steak, which was originally a piece of rump or fillet steak cut about l|in. thick and placed between two pieces of ordinary steak about |in. thick, this being then broiled until the outside meat was all but a cinder, when it was served with the outer meat removed, and was found cooked just to perfection. This is, however, now simply an extra thick steak or filet, of which the outer sides are fairly scorched over a clear grill fire, leaving the centre rather underdone and very juicy ; it is then served with a tiny ball of maitre d’hotel butter placed on a hot dish underneath it, a similar ball being placed on top of each filet, and a demi- glace thickened with maitre d’hotel butter being served round it, together with souffle or straw potatoes. The above will give some idea of the different ways of serving fillets of beef, whilst of veal it may be said that almost any recipe given for either mutton or beef cutlets or fillets will suit veal; the following, however, is the conventional “ veal cutlet ”: Take either the “ noisettes ” from the best end of the neck as described for mutton, or a slice cut from the fillet about fin. thick, and shape this into rounds, batting these out neatly ; either flour these well or dip them in egg and breadcrumb, in either case frying them in clarified butter till of a pale golden brown, and perfectly cooked (underdone white meat is unpardon- able), which will take from twelve to fifteen minutes46 ENTRIES. according to the size of the cutlets, then lift them on to a hot dish ; meanwhile add a little more butter to that in the pan, dredge in about a dessertspoonful of fine dry flour and cook these together till of a very pale fawn shade (a spoonful or two of white wine may with advantage be added to this); now add gradually from a gill to one-third of a pint of good stock, or even boiling water, seasoning this to taste with pepper, salt, and lemon juice, boil it all up together, then pour it over and round the veal cutlets, which may be further garnished with slices of lemon and tiny rashers of bacon cooked thus : Slice the bacon very thinly, cutting each rasher into two or three, roll each piece up neatly and thread it on to a skewer and toast or bake these lightly till just cooked. Some people add the finely grated peel of a small lemon to the breadcrumbs in which the veal cutlets are rolled; or, again, you may add a dessert- spoonful of best curry powder to about 2oz. of breadcrumbs, and half a small teaspoonful of salt, and roll the egged cutlets in this ; when fried, serve either with good curry sauce or with the gravy made as in the preceding recipe, only using half flour and half curry powder to thicken the sauce; or again, the cutlets may be cooked as in the first recipe, and served with tomato sauce. It must be remembered that abroad veal cutlets are also cut precisely like mutton cutlets, from the best end of the neck, and treated in pretty much the same way; or they may be served au gratin (or a la bordelaise, as it is sometimes called) thus : Cut and trim the cutlets exactly as for mutton47 CUTLETS, FILLETS, &c. cutlets for egg and crumbing, and dust these well on both sides with salt and quatre ejrices, or pepper and a very little grated nutmeg ; have ready a mix- ture made by mincing finely a good slice of bacon, a shallot, and a spray or two of parsley and tarragon, mixing this well with one raw egg, then spread a layer of this mince over each cutlet, and brush it over afterwards with the yolk of an egg; sprinkle a well buttered baking dish with finely grated bread crumbs seasoned with a little salt and white pepper, and lay in the cutlets side by side, moistening them with half a gill each of stock and of claret, and let them bake till cooked, which they will be, when the stock, &c., is nearly all absorbed. Three well-known German dishes must be mentioned, as they belong to the fillet and cutlet genus. The first is Wiener schnitzel. For these cut the veal into rather thin fillets, rub these well with pepper and salt, and dip them into a good but rather light batter (or, if pre- ferred, beaten egg yolk), then into crushed rusks {zwieback), and fry a golden brown in plenty of butter or lard. Serve well drained, sprinkled with a squeeze of lemon juice, and a garnish of fried eggs, capers, and filletted sardines arranged in a kind of trellis over all. Gulasch: Cut about a lb. of nice fillet of veal (free from all skin, sinew, &c.) into dice; cut up two small potatoes and one apple, washed and peeled in the same way, and mince down 4oz. of bacon. Melt l|oz. fresh butter and fry in this half an onion finely minced, till slightly coloured, then lay in the minced veal, seasoning it with salt and pepper, and cook it gently for ten minutes overENTRIES. 48 a clear fire (a liot oven will also do) ; now sprinkle it all with a dessertspoonful of flour, moistening it with a gill of veal stock and half a gill of sherry or Madeira; add about a teaspoonful of carraway seeds tied up in a piece of muslin, and let it all simmer slowly together. Meantime fry the minced bacon, potatoes, and apple slowly in l|oz. of butter till of a pale golden brown, then pour off the fat, and stir the bacon, potatoes, &c., into the meat with a fork, being careful not to mash it as you do so. Let it all cook very gently together till the meat, &c., is thoroughly done, then lift out the carraway seeds, and serve very hot. This is an Hungarian dish, and the pepper used should be the Hungarian paprica. (Tender beefsteak is excellent also cooked thus.) Fillet a la Viennoise.—Take fib. of good well trimmed fillet steak, and mince it finely, seasoning it as you do so with salt, paprica (or coralline pepper answers capitally), and very finely minced chives; roll out this paste, flattening it out like a bannock, and dusting it lightly with the flour; sautez it for ten minutes in clarified butter, standing it for a minute in the oven, to crisp, just at the last. Serve with a rich demi-glace, diluted with sour cream, round it. Chicken fillets, prepared as described in the pre- vious chapter, may be served with almost any sauce and garnish. For instance, filets de volatile a Vambassadrice: Cut down the breast of the fowl into neat and rather thin fillets, and coat each of these with a little delicate chicken farce mixed with minced truffle (for this mince and pound to a smooth pasteCUTLETS, FILLETS, Ac. 49 5oz. of chicken meat—that picked from the rest of the carcase will do—then mix it with 5oz,. of panade, also previously pounded, and work the two together in the mortar, seasoning it to taste with white pepper, salt, coralline pepper, and a very tiny grate of nutmeg; adding an ounce of fresh butter and the yolks of two eggs, to bind it all) ; now brush them over -with yolk of egg, and roll them in bread crumbs, half seasoned with minced truffles and half with grated ham; fry a delicate colour, and serve in a circle with a ragout of cucumber, stewed in cream sauce. Yeal, rabbit, &c., can be used thus. F. a la Cardinal.—Fillets cut as for supreme and cooked in the oven in a well buttered baking dish, with a squeeze of lemon juice, and covered with a buttered paper; they are then dished in a circle, the centre being filled with a ragout of truffles, and a sauce cardinals round; cardinal sauce is really a rich allemande sauce coloured to a delicate pink with crayfish or lobster butter. A shelled prawn is often laid in each fillet for this dish. F. aux huitres.—For this slice down the fillets rather thinly, and cook as in the previous recipe; then dish in a circle, filling the centre with a rich oyster sauce. (Some cooks spread a delicate oyster farce over the fillet and cover this with another, fixing tbem together by means of lardoons of seasoned fat bacon, and then cook as before.) F. a Vecarlate consists simply of fillets of chicken sautes and dished alternately with slices of very red cooked tongue, a rich allemande sauce being served round. E50 ENTRIES. Supreme de Volatile.—For this the two sides of the breast of the fowl are lifted off in a piece and split in half (instead of being thinly sliced down), each being then cut in two, these fillets being placed in a well buttered baking dish with a very little lemon juice and chicken stock, covered with a buttered paper and cooked from eight to ten minutes, according to thickness; then dish them alternately with sliced hot cooked tongue cut to match, fill up the centre with a ragout of truffles, and pour sauce supreme round, sending more to table in a boat. French cooks look on a supreme de volatile as a masterpiece, and grudge neither trouble nor expense in preparing it. It is bound to be an expensive dish, as the breast only produces four, or at most eight fillets, though French chefs also use the filets mignons (or the portion answering to that name); moreover they shape the fillets most carefully into a pearshape, by batting and pressing them into shape with a hot wet knife. The sauce is the richest white sauce of the French cuisine, and according to some cooks should be made solely with chicken stock. M. G-ouffe however advises it being prepared thus : Put into a pan a gill of chicken glace, three gills of very carefully made veloute sauce (prepared with veal stock), and one quarter gill of essence of mushrooms; bring this all to a boil, then draw it to the side of the stove and let it simmer very gently for half an hour; after skimming it well, stir it gently over the fire till the sauce will mask the spoon, then dilute it a little with strong rich chicken stock. The supreme is always preparedCUTLETS, FILLETS, &c. 51 thus, though its name may vary from the garnish served with it; as for instance supreme de volatile aux truffes (with a ragout of truffles in the centre) ; supreme d la royale (the fillets being served on a border of vegetables, with supreme sauce round, a macedoine of cooked vegetables being piled up in the centre) ; S. a Vivoire (when the fillets cooked as above are mounted on a border of chicken farce, delicately flavoured with foie gras, a supreme sauce being poured over and round them, and the centre filled with either asparagus points, peas, or a macedoine of young spring vegetables) ; for the border prepare a farce of chicken as given in filets a Vambassadrice, adding to it at the last two or three tablespoonfuls of cream, and fill a well buttered border mould with the mixture, putting in pretty freely small dice of pate de foie gras truffe (just taken from the pot, for if left standing they lose their aroma), cover with a buttered paper, and poach or steam till on touching the centre with your finger it feels firm. This list might be prolonged to any extent, as, given the foundation described above, supreme can be varied indefinitely. It must be remembered that rabbits, partridges, pheasants, and indeed any kind of game, may be cooked like fowls, as fillets, whilst venison can follow the recipes given for mutton. Cotelettes de Pigeon a la d'TJxelles.—Prepare the pigeons as described in chapter 2, boning them and leaving just enough of the leg to form the bone of the cutlet'; bat and trim this neatly into shape, then cover or “ mask ” each pretty thickly with a e 252 ENTREES. rather stiff d' JJxelles sauce, and when this has set a little, brush each cutlet over with egg and then fine breadcrumbs, and fry in plenty of hot fat till of a golden brown (about twelve to fifteen minutes) and serve with rich brown sauce, strongly flavoured with mushrooms, shallot, and tomatoes, with a dash of white wine and a spoonful of capers added at the last, and a garnish of broiled mushrooms. If the pigeons are boned and coated with a liver or foie gras farce, fried, and served with tomato sauce they are called d la moderne; in short, pigeons may be cooked and served with any variety of sauce and garnish, for example a la milanaise, spread with a liver forcemeat (not foie gras) fried, and served on a bed of well cooked macaroni mixed with white sauce strongly flavoured with grated cheese, strips of ham, and truffles, with the cheese sauce round; or on a bed of tomato sauce and macaroni, with a demi- glace poured round; or d la chipolata, with a rich espagnole and a chipolata garnish ; or d la flamande, with a good strong brown gravy (not thickened sauce) and a garnish of stewed cabbage, and carrots, turnips, tiny onions, &c., first cooked, then tossed in enough butter with a tiny pinch of sugar, to glaze them; or a la Montglas, when the rest of the flesh carefully picked from the carcases of the birds is made into a rich mince with stock (made with the bones of the pigeons and a little strong stock, flavoured like an espagnole sauce), into which you stir some sliced truffles; or if cut in half, without boning, the pigeons may be grilled and served on a bed of spinach with tartare, mayonnaise, Cazanova,53 CUTLETS, FILLETS, &c. or any other nice iced sauce, the cold sauce blending admirably with the fire-scorched broil. Another way is to bone the birds, then by means of a bag and forcing pipe to fill them back into shape with a farce (prepared like the border for supreme of chicken d Vivoire) well flavoured with truffles and foie gras, fastened into shape with a buttered band of paper, as shown in Fig. II; then set the birds thus prepared on a well buttered tin, and cook in the oven for fifteen to eighteen minutes, keeping them well basted all the time; then halve them with a warm we knife, brush them over with white of egg that has Fig. 11. been broken up, but not whisked to a stiff froth, wrap each cutlet in a strip of pork caul, again brush over with white of egg, roll in minced truffle, and set them in a buttered baking tin covered with a buttered paper, and cook in the oven for ten minutes, after which they are dished on a potato border, and served with a quenelle mixture, or a financiere garnish, in the centre, and any rich sauce such as Perigueux, Champagne, &c., round it. It must be remembered that all birds, such as quails, partridges, larks, &c. (not to mention hares and rabbits), can be cooked by these recipes, by the use54 ENTRIES. of a little intelligence and good will on tlie cook’s part. For instance, the green plover so often seen in poulterer’s shops make a delicious dish if the fillets are used as above described; or, again, the foreign game sent over from the continent frozen, lends itself particularly well to these recipes, as its rather strong flavour is obviated by the sauces which would be almost wicked used in connection with our own fresh and delicately flavoured game. By the way, few people appear to know how well grouse and mushrooms go together. Fillet the birds (using the rest of the body for a broil or grill in connection with tartare sauce), and cook in a well buttered tin, seasoned with a little salt and pepper, a few drops of sherry and a very little stock, under a buttered paper, in the oven from eight to twelve minutes according to the thickness of the fillets (in Scotland where birds are plentiful a side of the breast should be allotted to each guest, but where economy has to be studied, slice down the fillets), and dish them alternately with delicately fried croutons strewed with a d’ Uxelles mixture, on a bed of mushroom puree prepared thus: Chop fairly fine a pound of well wiped mushrooms, and let them draw down (cook slowly) at the side of the stove with l^oz. of fresh butter for seven or eight minutes, then stir in two tablespoonfuls of freshly grated white bread crumbs, season with a little coralline pepper and salt, add a spoonful or so of good brown sauce, and use. Filet de Ghevreuil a la Dauphin.—Lard some neatly trimmed fillets of roe deer and lay them in aCUTLETS, FILLETS, &c. 55 stewpan lined with slices of fat bacon and smoked ham, together with three or four green onions, and a bouquet; moistening it with consomme, and little by little, a pint of champagne ; when the fillets are cooked, skim, strain, and slightly reduce this sauce, if necessary, and pour it round and over the fillets, garnishing these with fried croutons, spread with savoury butter to taste. Filets de Sanglier d la Frederic le grand.—Trim a fillet of wild boar neatly, and place it in a pan lined with sliced bacon, a slice of lean ham, two carrots, two onions stuck with cloves, two bayleaves, a good bouquet, salt, pepper, peppercorns, and two good glasses of light white wine, covering it all with sliced fat bacon and a buttered paper; braize it gently for two hours in the oven, with heat above and below, and serve sliced rather thickly, with its own liquor carefully skimmed, strained, and reduced. Lean pork thoroughly steeped in cooked marinade is excellent thus. In a book of the present size it is manifestly im- possible to give anything like an exhaustive list of the methods of preparing cutlets and fillets, but the above will help towards giving a general idea of the way such things may be utilised by even the most economical and the plainest cook, who is willing to take a little trouble, to the making of her own reputa- tion, the benefit of her mistress’s pocket, and the improvement of the British cuisine. To conclude this chapter, a recipe or two for hare and rabbit fillets may be given. For escalopes de lievre aux cerises: Remove the fillet on both sides of56 ENTRIES. the backbone of a nice hare, and wrap it in buttered paper till wanted; meantime remove all the flesh from the rest of the hare, and break up the bones; put these in a pan with a carrot and turnip, two onions (one stuck with two or three cloves), and a good bunch of herbs, together with a strip or two of celery if handy, and cover this all with common stock or water and bring it to the boil, skimming it, and then allowing it to simmer gently but steadily till you have about one and a half pints of stock ; have ready some thick veloute sauce made with half a pint of the hare stock, and loz. each of flour and butter, cooked together to a smooth paste and then diluted with the stock, letting this reduce till fully as thick as thick melted butter; season to taste with pepper and salt, adding, if liked, a few sliced truffles to the mixture as you stir in the minced flesh of the hare (using two parts hare to one of the sauce), fill a buttered mould with the mixture and poach or steam it. Meanwhile cook the fillets of the hare, pre- viously sliced down and batted out neatly, in butter, wine, and stock, in the usual way under a buttered paper in the oven. Get ready the sauce by pour- ing what you have left of the stock on to a couple of ounces or so of brown roux, letting this cook together for about ten minutes till slightly reduced and thickened, then wring it through a tammy or a fine hair sieve, and re-heat in the bain-marie, adding to it half a gill of port wine, a tablespoon ful of red currant jelly, and some dried cherries (allowing three or four for each fillet), with a seasoning of salt and coralline pepper; let this all simmer together57 CUTLETS, FILLETS, &c. till the jelly is perfectly dissolved and the cherries are hot, then turn out the border mould, dish the hare fillets neatly on this, and fill up the centre with nicely cooked French beans, or mushrooms, or any nice garnish to taste, and pour the sauce, cherries and all, round, and serve very hot. F. de Lievre aux Olives.—These are cooked in pre- cisely the same way as above, only using a rich ragout of olives for the centre and a good sauce piquante for the one there given; or the fillets of hare may be egged and crumbed, and fried, then dished en couronne alternately with little cutlet- shaped pieces of fried hare stuffing, served with a rich espagnole sauce (made with the bones of the hare), and the centre filled with carefully stewed button mushrooms and tiny pickling onions. Babbit Fillets a la friande.—Prepare the fillets of a rabbit as described before, and toss them in a little butter till firm; then strain off the butter and leave the fillets till cold, when they must be larded nicely, well dusted with pepper and salt on both sides, and each rolled round a small onion, fastening the ends with a tiny wooden skewer. Line the bottom of a stew-pan with thin slices of bacon, place the pre- pared fillets on this, covering each with another slice of bacon, add a slice or two of veal, a sliced carrot, a bouquet, and about half a pint of good stock, lay a buttered paper over it all and braize very gently for three hours in the oven, with heat above and below. When cooked lift the fillets on to a dish and keep them hot; then skim and strain the liquor in which they were cooked, reducing it a little by58 ENTRIES. rapid boiling; meantime dish the rabbit fillets neatly alternately with fried croutons delicately spread with anchovy butter, and garnish with rolls of fried ham; then pour the reduced sauce, boiling, into the centre, and serve at once. The veal and bacon in the stock pot will make delicious rissoles or croquettes. Hare is excellent cooked thus. Finally there are the fillets of calves’ liver, so frequently seen and appreciated abroad. Foie de Veau d V Italienne.—Cut a nice calves’ liver into thickish slices as for liver and bacon, and place these in a stew-pan with a tablespoonful of salad oil, a slice of smoked bacon, or ham, a gill of light white French wine, and lastly a d’Uxelles mixture of parsley, green onions, and mushrooms ; season with salt and white pepper, and repeat these layers of liver, bacon, and d’ZJxelles mixture till the liver is done, finishing with a slice of bacon. Put the lid on and let it all cook together gently for rather more than an hour over a very gentle fire ; lift out the liver and dish up neatly in a circle on a very hot dish; strain the sauce after carefully removing the fat, and pour it round the liver, garnishing the latter with fried parsley. If the sauce should be too thin, let it boil rapidly in an uncovered pan to reduce it; fit, on the contrary, it is too thick, add more sauce, and let it cook till it will just coat the back of a spoon. F. de Veau d la Lyonnaise.—Slice down about 21b. of calf’s liver, seasoning it with salt and pepper, and dusting it fairly generously with flour. Melt 3oz. or 4oz. of butter in a pan, and when it isCUTLETS, FILLETS, &c. 59 dissolved and very hot, lay in the liver, and let it cook in this bntter for six minutes, turning it once during this time; then lift out the liver and keep it hot. Now add to the butter in the pan 3oz. of well washed and finely minced onions, and let these cook for two or three minutes, then dish the liver en couronne, and pour the butter and onion into the centre. Serve at once, with a cut lemon and red pepper handed round. F. de Veau d la Menagere.—Cook the liver exactly as in the preceding recipe, then strew over the meat a teaspoonful of finely chopped and well washed shallot, about twice as much well dried flour, and about a tablespoonful of finely minced parsley ; moisten this all with a full gill of wine, either white or red, and the same of stock, let it all boil up and serve at once. There are one or two recipes which are much appreciated in France, and may well come in here, though it is somewhat difficult to class them; such are, for instance, Lapin en Matelotte: Skin, well wash, and dry a rabbit, and cut it into neat joints, then fry it in batter with some mushrooms and a good-sized onion cut into rings; when lightly coloured and firm, dust it all well with flour and moisten it with a good gill each of wine and stock; then bring it to the boil and let it simmer gently till about halt cooked; now add to it a small eel, skinned and cut up, a spoonful of capers, and two or three well washed, boned, and minced anchovies; let this all simmer together till cooked, then pour it all on to a very hot dish, and serve garnished with croutons of fried bread.60 ENTRIES. Lapin ail Pere Douillet.—Skin, wash, dry, and cut up a good rabbit into neat pieces, larding these with fat bacon rolled in quatre epiccs; lay a slice of beef or ham into a pan with a carrot, turnip, two or three onions, and a good bouquet; lay the larded rabbit on this, seasoning to taste with salt and pepper, and add- ing equal parts of good stock and light French white wine to just cover it. Bring it all to the boil, then let it simmer gently till the rabbit is cooked; cut a slice of bread from a loaf into four, removing all crust, fry this in clarified dripping or butter till of a golden brown, then drain well, dust with coralline pepper, and place it on a hot dish ; pile the joints of rabbit neatly on this, and pour over ail the liquor in which they were cooked, carefully strained, skimmed, and reduced, and serve very hot. Fillets of Rabbit a la Horti.—Remove the fillets from a good-sized rabbit, and slice them down not too thinly; marinade them for a few hours in oil, sliced lemon, a spray or two each of parsley and thyme, peppercorns, &c. When well flavoured, drain lightly, and broil over a clear fire. Serve dry with a garnish of baked tomatoes and little rolls of broiled ham. Fowl or foreign game are excellent treated in any of these ways.CHAPTER IV. SOUFFLES, MOUSSES, &c. Few dishes betray inexperience more than a souffle, which is held by the average cook as the ne plus ultra of “ high class cookery,” and the cordon bleu capable of turning out what she is pretty certain to term a “ souffel,” in good condition, feels perfectly entitled henceforth to describe herself as “a cook, experienced,” and to demand wages accordingly. Yet, in truth, granted a little care and good will, a souffle, whether baked or steamed, is no very recondite preparation. The point to observe is the due proportions, which are as follows : For a meat or fish souffle you mast reckon a full gill of thick sauce (or rather liquid panade) to every three or four eggs used; the meat or fish giving the dish its distinctive character, minced as fine and pounded as smooth as possible, being added in the proportion of rather more than an ounce of the puree to each egg, i.e., for the yolks of three and the whites of four eggs you would need a full gill of sauce or panade, and 3|oz to 4oz. of the meat puree, The method is simple enough. Begin with the panade by stirring together over the fire an ounce each of butter and fine sifted flour, till these areENTRIES. 62 perfectly amalgamated, when yon dilute them with a gill of water, millc, or good stock (this varies accord- ing to the meat used, as brown or espagnole sauce for brown meat or game; veloute, or bechamel for chicken or any white meat; or fish stock for fish), let this cook over the fire very gently (being careful not to let it colour if for white meat), for eight or ten minutes, to insure the flour being perfectly cooked; then stir in the minced or pounded meat (using your judgment as to whether you add 3|oz. or 4oz., according to its solidity) with seasoning and flavouring to taste, and lastly the yolks separately, stirring one well in before adding in the next; and lastly stir in quickly and lightly the whites of the eggs whisked to a very stiff froth, and at once pour it all into the papered souffle tin or case, and set it in a sharp, but not fierce oven ; as, though this must be hot enough to raise the souffle quickly, it must not be so hot as to darken the surface too rapidly at first; in fact, after a few minutes the heat may be slightly slackened. The quantities given will require about half an horn’s cooking. The mixture rises enormously in the cooking, therefore the case (whether tin, china, or paper, and about 5in. across, and 4in. deep) should not be more than half full to start with, and should have a band of well-buttered, stiffish paper (projecting fully 2in. above the edge of the case), firmly tied or fastened round it to prevent the contents of the mould running over and wasting. (See Fig. 12 of papered mould.) If preferred the above mixture may be cooked in small paper or china cases instead of one largeSOUFFLES, MOUSSES, &c. 63 one, and will take from twelve to fifteen minutes to cook. A matter deserving attention is the buttering of the paper band, and the souffle case, especially if the souffle is to be steamed instead of baked. A good coating of butter should be actually spread, not merely lightly rubbed (as some cookery books advise) on the band and the case, or else the souffle will not turn out neatly, or if baked will be ragged when the band is removed. All souffle's are made in the above fashion, their distinction depending on their seasoning (which Fig. 12. must always be delicate), and the appropriateness of the liquid used in making the panade. For instance, in souffle a la bourgeoise, for which cold roast beef or mutton may be taken, the gravy of the meat may be used, or failing this, water strengthened with a little Worcester, Harvey, or anchovy sauce, and at the last a little wine, may be substituted; if game is to be the foundation, “ perfume ” a little ordinary bone stock with the broken up bones and trimmings of the game, a few drops of wine, Ac., as you choose; for white meat, a delicately flavoured white sauce may be employed; while for fish soufflesENTREES. 6* I have known careful housewives use the milk in which a Finnan haddock had been cooked for breakfast, to dilute the panade; or the remains of last night’s melted butter or oyster sauce were utilised. In fact souffles once mastered, form a dainty and invaluable method of using up all sorts of scraps that would otherwise be wasted, and for that reason should really form an important part of the succeeding chapter on rechauffes. However, for gala use, the meat should always be raw, and if possible sieved after pounding, though for ordinary household use this rather troublesome process may be omitted; but any way care must be bestowed on the smoothness of the pounding. Mousses differ from souffles by their lightness, as for the above proportions four egg yolks should be used, and a good spoonful or two of stiffly whipped cream should replace one of the egg whites. In fact many chefs replace the egg whites entirely by stiffly whipped cream, but though this gives a delicious and delicate lightness to the dish, it results in so soft a mixture as to demand great experience and deftness in the cookery. Mousses are always turned out, in fact many people hold that the turning out of a souffle transforms it into a mousse, but the real difference is in the greater lightness of the latter. Mousses, like souffle's, may be served in small portions instead of one whole dish, and make delicious entrees ; in such cases they are frequently called zephyres, from their fragility. Cooks often, when experienced in preparing these dishes, omit a portion of the pulped meat, replacing it by tiny dice65 SOUFFLES, MOUSSES, &c. of any flavouring meat to taste, adding tlieso in at the last with the whipped cream. But if this is done, the meat or substance so added must always have been previously cooked; for instance little cubes of foie gras may be added at the last thus and impart a most delicate flavour to a mousse of chicken or game; in fact are infinitely to be pre- ferred to the use of bottled truffles, which never seem to preserve their aroma as they do when imbedded in pate. If truffles are used (and they should always be fresh ones) they should be added thus at the last, the trimmings having been utilised in the making of the panade. (If one may be pardoned a digression, it would be well could one impress on both mistress and cook that bottled truffles are seldom if ever satisfactory, for they do not bottle well, and unless of very first rate prepara- tion have little of their distinctive fragrance left after a month or two’s bottling. A jar of pate de foie gras truffle imparts fully more flavour and is not at all more expensive than the bottle of truffles). In cooking souffles and mousses it must be borne in mind that if baked, the oven door must be very care- fully handled when opened to inspect the dish, for if opened too soon, or worse still if banged, the souffle is all but certain to be spoiled by the shock; if it, or a mousse, is steamed, the lid must not be lifted more than once at the most. In this latter case the best plan is, about ten minutes after the mould has been set in the bain-marie or pan, to lift the lid of the latter very slowly and gently, and inspect it carefully. If it is rising slowly and r66 ENTRIES. evenly it is all right, and may be safely left to take care of itself; if on the contrary, it has by then risen well up in the paper band it is rising too fast and will infallibly fall and toughen when turned out The right way is to stand the case containing the souffle or mousse in a pan on a doubly folded sheet of paper, pouring boilin6 water round it to three parts the height of the souffle case, and carefully laying a sheet of buttered paper over the souffle before putting on the lid of the outside pan, to prevent the steam condensing on this lid from falling back on to the mixture and so making it uneven and holey; the surrounding water after being brought to the boil is kept at a gentle simmer till the souffle is cooked. If this water should by any chance boil up sharply the chances are it will boil over on to the souffle, which will in that case either curdle, or else will boil itself, when it will go into holes and become sodden. The reason for the paper under the souffle case is that as no water can get under the pan, the bottom surface of the souffle (which will later on be the top) would toughen and harden from the direct heat under it. (This point is only too often overlooked with all steamed dishes.) Next, after souffles and mousses, come creams, a trifle more solid than the former, but still lighter than the quenelle, which also belongs to this branch of cookery. For creams you increase the proportion of pulped meat to the foundation sauce or panade, atoning for this by an extra quantity of cream or egg yolks. For fib. ofSOUFFLES, MOUSSES, &c. .67 4 carefully pulped raw meat (it rpnst be raw for tliis) you allow a gill of foundation sauce or panade, and half a pint of cream (which may be either the thick separated cream sold in little jugs, or double cream whipped till it thickens, but with- out standing up in points, as stiffly frothed cream will do), and two whole unbeaten eggs, as, unlike souffles and mousses, the cream must not be spongy, but perfectly smooth in texture like a custard, how- ever light it may (and, indeed, must) be. The moulds used for this mixture must be well buttered, never more than three-quarters filled, and both covered with, and stood on a buttered jDaper, whilst the cooking must be carefully watched. In the case of all these light steamed mixtures it is well to cook a tiny portion first to see if you have really got the proportions right, as this saves disappointment later. Like souffles, &c., creams are cooked when the centre feels firm on being touched with the finger. Be very careful in turning any of these out, for if this is hurried, or the paper is torn away hastily, the sub- stance will certainly tear, whilst if a knife has to be used to loosen it at the sides it will look ragged and uneven. To turn it out properly, lift it very gently, sloping the tin or case towards yourself so that the mixture falls away from the sides and slides out from its own weight; but be very, careful to keep tight hold of the tin lest it drop from your hands, and in falling crush the mixture. A steamed mould takes about the same time to cook as a baked one. The simplest of all this class of dishes is the quenelle, for which you use real panade instead of sauce, using 7 2ENTRIES. 68 4oz. of panade to |lb. of pulped meat (weighed after sieveing), loz. fresh butter, one whole raw egg, and a tablespoonful of white sauce or thick cream. These are all pounded together, working the egg, butter, or cream in at the last, and pounding it till you obtain a mass of the consistency of pate de foie gras. Season this carefully with salt, white and coralline pepper, and a very little lemon juice. Have ready one large or several small and well buttered moulds, which may be either plain, or thickly sprinkled with lobster coral, coralline pepper, minced parsley, or truffles, &c., as you please, and rather overfill these moulds with the mixture, rounding them into a dome-shape with a hot, wet knife. As you fill these moulds strike them sharply now and again on the edge of the table to settle down the contents. These quenelles are usually poached, i.e., you place the moulds or the quenelles on a greased paper in a pan, and pour round them sufficient boiling water or stock to just (and only just) cover them; let this re-boil, then draw the pan to the side and keep the outer water steadily at the simmer for fifteen to twenty minutes, according to the size of the quenelles, without allowing this liquid to boil, or it will utterly spoil the appearance of the quenelles. If you have no suitable moulds you can shape the quenelles in the old-fashioned way with two spoons dipped into hot water, and then gently slide these shapes into the buttered pan and allow them to poach as before. Tiny pea-sized quenelles for garnish of all kinds may be prepared by forcing the puree from a small-nozzled forcing bag on to theSOUFFLES, MOUSSES, &c. 69 saute-pan buttered as before, in tiny round shapes, poaching these as in the previous recipe. Quenelles are served, when used as an independent dish, with any nice sauce poured over and round them, and a delicate vegetable garnish; if small, however, they form a very nice garnish to many entrees, such, for instance, as the vol-au-vent, timbale a la financiere, &c., while, as said above, if made into pea-shaped and sized quenelles they are admirable for soups. Border moulds, when well buttered, are filled with a cream or a quenelle mixture, then steamed, precisely like a mousse or souffle; panade is usually preferred to sauce for these, as it makes them more substantial, but care should be taken not to overdo this or they will inevitably be stodgy, a fault only too common with quenelles as made by British cooks. For the panade put |oz. of butter into a pan with a gill of milk, stock, or water, as you please, and bring it to the boil; now sift into it 2oz. of fine flour, and stir this altogether over the fire till it becomes thick enough to ball, when you draw the pan a little to the side of the stove (keeping it, however, on a hot part), and let it cook a few minutes longer (stirring it at intervals to prevent its catching), till the flour is thoroughly cooked. (It is, by the way, to neglect of this precaution that the unpleasant raw and pasty taste of so much melted butter is due.) Quenelles and creams are frequently nowadays enriched with a delicate ragout of any kind, added thus: About half fill the well-buttered mould with the quenelle mixture, then with a hot wet spoon, or your thumb dipped into hot water, hollow out a70 ENTRIES. cavity in the centre and fill this up with any ragout to taste, finally covering it with more farce, smoothed into a dome shape with a hot wet knife. For in- stance, a cube of pfite de foie gras truffe, or a mix- ture of minced cooked sweetbread, cooked meat, poultry or game, button mushrooms, truffles, ham or tongue, See., may be stirred into a little rich veloute or bechamel, seasoned with salt and pepper, and placed in a quenelle of chicken farce, and the whole poached as advised above ; or any nice ragout on these lines, or a little rather thick oyster or shrimp sauce, may be used for brown meat as you please. Sometimes, instead of putting the farce thus filled into a tinned mould, it is tied into shape in a piece of muslin, and simply poached, being when •cooked turned out on to a hot dish with any rich sauce to taste poui’ed over and round it, and a garnish of some kind served with it. Prepared thus it is frequently known as a bondin, while if small rolls of stuffed farce are dished thus, these are often termed boudinettes. Lastly, there is the pain, or cake, which is usually a combination of fillets of any kind of meat, and a rich quenelle or cream mixture. For instance, pain de volatile au foie gras may be prepared thus : Well butter a round charlotte mould, and arrange round the sides neat fillets of chicken, previously three parts cooked as for filets de volatile d la supreme, pressing these well against the buttered sides ; now line the mould pretty thickly with creme de volatile flavoured with pate de foie gras, as described above, leaving a small hollow in the centre which you fill up with a ragout of cooked sweet-71 SOUFFLES, MOUSSES, &c. bread, tongue, truffle, and foie gras, all cut into neat tubes and tossed in a thick rich bechamel sauce; then cover this down with more of the creme farce, cover with a buttered paper, and steam as described before for souffles and mousses. These meat cakes may also be made with previously cooked meat, and consequently answer admirably either as a hot rechauffe or a chaufroix. Almost any good farce can be utilised for these pains. For instance, the homely liver and bacon will furnish an extremely palatable entree thus; Cut into dice equal parts of fresh calf’s liver and parboiled fat bacon, and fry these for five minutes with one and a half to two small parboiled onions (for a pound of liver), also minced, seasoning it all with salt, coralline pepper, and finely minced parsley; then turn it into a mortar and pound it all together to a very smooth paste; now add to it some thin fillets of rather lean ham, and the yolks of two eggs beaten till light, incor- porating these well with the mixture, and lastly, stir in quickly the stiffly whipped whites of three eggs; fill a well buttered plain charlotte mould with the mixture, and steam it steadily for an hour, when itis turned out and served with a good espagnole over and round it and a garnish of broiled mushrooms. Of course, if possible, this may be made with poultry livers, and is rather more delicate, and also more expensive ! This farce is also particularly good for stuffing birds, such as pigeons when to be served en chaufroix; or for larks, ortolans, quails, &c., in cases. Quenelle meat is sometimes enriched with any72 ENTRIES. good sauce to taste and truffles or foie gras, and then spoonfuls of this are first rolled in flour, shaped into the size and form of pigeon’s eggs, wrapped in small pieces of caul, dipped in liquid butter, and then fried a golden brown; well drained and served with appropriate gravy as crepinettes (from crepine, caul) of whatever the foundation of the quenelle mixture may be. Boudins a la Czarina.—Take about half a pound of chicken farce, as prepared for chicken creams, and fill with it a small baking tin about 8in. by 12in., lay over this a sheet of buttered paper and poach it in the usual way from six to eight minutes; then leave this till cold, when you divide it in half lengthways, dividing these two strips each into eight, mask these with a rich bechamel sauce, reduced by rapid boiling to the consistency of very thick melted butter, and dip in breadcrumbs twice, fry in plenty of fresh boiling fat, and serve deco- rated with fried parsley, and send a rich bechamel sauce to table in a boat. Boudins of Pheasant a la Prinz Karl.—Prepare some quenelle farce with pheasant, mix with it about a sixth of its bulk of minced truffles, and let it stand on ice for a little to set it; when firm take off pieces the size of a small egg and with your well floured hands give these an oval shape slightly flattened at the sides (this is the real houdin shape), being careful they all match in size and shape; now poach in boiling water, as described above for quenelles, for a few minutes, after which drain them well and leave them till cold, when you dip them73 SOUFFLES, MOUSSES, &c. into beaten egg and then into finely minced parsley and cooked ham. Ten minutes before they are wanted for table toss them over the fire in a well buttered pan till perfectly hot but not coloured; drain them well, dish neatly either on a fried croustade of bread, or mashed potato, and serve with a rich Sauce Madere flavoured with stock made of the pheasant trimmings. Boudins d la Richelieu.—Cut a medium sized onion into tiny dice, removing all the skin and hard parts, blanch it, rinse it well, and then let it stew in some butter till perfectly cooked but not coloured, keeping it stirred with a spoon; at the end of ten minutes again drain it well and mix it into about three-quarters of a pound of good quenelle farce. This farce may be either of chicken, game, rabbit, or veal. Have ready some strips of buttered paper 5in. long by 3in. wide, place on each band of paper a piece of the quenelle shaped to an oblong 4in. wide by 2in. long and 2in. deep; now with the handle of a spoon lift out half of the farce leaving a hollow about an inch square, fill up this with a mince of cooked tongue, cooked chicken, and cooked truffles, all tossed in some very much reduced allemande sauce. When all the houdins are filled cover the filling with more farce, smoothing it over with a hot wet knife. A quarter of an hour before serving them, poach these quenelles carefully as described above, remove the papers, and serve with a rich game espagnole sauce. This dish can be varied almost indefinitely according to the meat used for the quenelles. For instance if you use chicken74 ENTRIES. farce, a rich ragout of truffles, or even a thick puree of the same may be used instead of the mince previously given, a rich sauce Madere replacing the espagnole. Or again if grouse or partridge is used instead of chicken the bovdins may be filled with a thick puree of mushrooms; a good brown sauce made from the bones and carcase of the birds, delicately flavoured with sherry and the mushroom trimmings, being served with them; or if beef be used for the farce, rich and rather thick oyster or shrimp sauce may supply the filling, the boudins dressed en couronne with a good espagnole round and the centre filled with oyster, shrimp, or prawn sauce to taste. Needless to say the name of this dish must vary with the material used for it. Creme Francillon.—Have ready about a pound of chicken farce prepared as for creams; well butter some pretty little plain moulds (egg moulds are perhaps the prettiest) and garnish them to taste with little pea shapes cut from a cucumber, pressing these well against the sides of the moulds; now partly fill the moulds with the cream mixture, making a well in the centre of each, fill this with cooked asparagus points tossed in reduced veloute sauce, cover over with more farce as in the boudins (or if egg moulds are used join the two parts together) and poach or steam them for twelve or fifteen minutes, and serve on a border of chicken farce which has been masked with veloute sauce, add a garnish of delicately stewed cucumber and cooked asparagus points and serve. Creme de Lapereau a la Heine.—Have ready a75 SOUFFLES, MOUSSES, &c. pound of delicate rabbit quenelle farce, butter a border mould either plain or fluted, or a timbale mould as you please, strew it generously with chopped truffles, and fill it with the quenelle mixture; steam it for half an hour, then turn it out and serve with a good veloute sauce. A portion of pate de foie gras truffle carefully mixed in with the quenelle farce as described above adds greatly to the flavour of this dish. Creme de Riz de Veau a la Frangaise.—Blanch one large or two small calves’ sweetbreads, then rinse them well, and place them in a stew-pan with a sliced carrot and onion and a bunch of herbs, with enough well-flavoured light stock to just cover them; bring this to the boil, then draw it to the side of the stove and let it all simmer gently and steadily for about an hour, when you lift it out and press it till cold between two plates. (Set the stock in which these were cooked aside carefully.) When the sweet- bread is quite cold remove all skin, sinew, &c., and rub the sweetbread through a coarse wire sieve ; add half a pound of this puree by degrees to 6oz. of panade previously pounded till smooth, with two large tablespoonfuls of creamy and rather thick Bechamel sauce, a small wine glassful of sherry, an ounce of fresh butter, two tablespoonfuls of thick cream, a little salt and white pepper, and lastly three raw eggs; when the sweetbread has been thoroughly added to all this, put it into a forcing bag with a large plain pipe, and force it into little bombe moulds (any pretty small moulds will do) previously buttered and sprinkled with chopped truffle and76 ENTRIES. tongue, and poacli these for twenty-five to thirty minutes. When cooked turn out on a hot dish and serve with a rich allemande, or with a sauce made with the liquid in which the sweetbreads were cooked, strongly flavoured with shallot and mushrooms, clari- fied in the usual way with white of egg, and then thickened with arrowroot previously rubbed down in a little sherry, some truffles cooked in wine and stock being added as a garnish. Creme a la Monza.—Butter some little moulds, and strew them with finely chopped parsley, and cooked tongue or ham, then line these moulds with a thin layer of chicken farce, and fill up the moulds with a puree of partridge; poach these moulds in the usual way for fifteen to twenty minutes; when firm turn them out on to a puree of potatoes or green flageolet beans, and serve with a rich espagnole sauce. Crepinettes a la d’Estine. — Take a pound of partridge quenelle farce and add to it about 6oz. of par-boiled fat bacon and 4oz. of truffles, both cut into small dice (or use tiny cubes of pate de foie gras truffe); mix with these a tablespoonful of espagnole sauce and the same of strong glaze pre- pared from the partridge bones, seasoning to taste with cayenne; mix this all well together, then take spoonfuls of this mixture into your well floured hands, and mould these into egg shapes, wrap each in a piece of caul, flatten slightly on both sides, dip them in clarified butter, and fry a light golden brown, drain well, dish them in a circle, pour round them a demi-glace of partridge stock, into which youSOUFFLES, MOUSSES, &c. 77 have stirred half an ounce of fresh butter, and the juice of half a lemon, and serve very hot. Crepinettes a la Favorite.—Prepare some good rabbit quenelle farce, using espagnole instead of white sauce and some pate de foie gras truffle; have ready some pieces of caul and lay on each a tea- spoonful of the farce, place on this a tiny fillet of rabbit, seasoned with white pepper, a very little salt, and a d’Uxelle mixture; cover this again with the farce, smooth it in a dome shape with a hot wet knife, and wrap the caul all round them, trimming it neatly; dip these quenelles into fine breadcrumbs, next into well beaten whole egg, and then into bread again, pressing the crumbs neatly round them with the blade of the knife. A quarter of an hour before serving, broil them over a slow clear fire, and as soon as they are coloured on one side turn them lightly and finish cooking the other. Dish them neatly on a border of fried bread, filling the centre with cooked mushrooms and very small poached quenelles, pour- ing a rich game-flavoured espagnole sauce over the whole. Custard {Savoury).—Beat three eggs into one and a half gills of cream or preferably half a gill of cream and a gill of strong stock, seasoning it rathe) highly with Cayenne, chopped parsley, chives or shallot, and some grated tongue or ham; mix it all well and pour this custard into small well buttered cups, and steam them for ten minutes. Heat as many cooked or canned artichoke bottoms as you have custards, in a little boiling water, then drain well, turn a custard out on to each, and serve with aENTRIES. 78 very rich thick sauce round. The kind of sauce depends entirely on what you have flavoured the custards with; for instance, game stock in the custards would require a rich espagnole made with game. If minced ham or tongue be added to the shape a nice tomato sauce might be used, and so on. Chicken Souffle d la Baronne.—Scrape off all the meat from the legs of a raw chicken, mince and pound it and rub it through a fine wire sieve; to each ounce of this meat after sieving it add one raw egg yolk, a finely chopped truffle, and a dust each of salt and coralline pepper; mix this well, then for every 2oz. of meat allow a gill of stiffly whipped cream, and the whites of two large eggs, previously whisked to a firm froth with a pinch of salt. Have ready some small stiff paper cases previously oiled on the outside, and then dried; fill these three parts full with the souffle mixture, and bake for twelve or fifteen minutes in a moderate oven. Serve at once on a napkin. Souffle of Pheasant.—Cut all the flesh from the breast of a raw pheasant, mince, pound, and sieve it, then mix the puree with half a pint of very stiffly whipped cream, seasoning it to taste with salt, pepper, and minced truffles or mushrooms, put this mixture into a buttered mould, and steam for twenty minutes, then turn out and serve with Supreme sauce poured all over it. If chicken, rabbit, or veal are used for this dish you will need three-quarters of a pint of stiff cream, and a good flavouring of grated ham or tongue. Souffle of Partridge a la Roy ale.—Prepare a nice,SOUFFLES, MOUSSES, &c. 70 cream mixture witli partridges, flavouring it with strong game glaze and a little creamy Bechamel sauce ; stir in the yolks of two or three eggs, at the last add the whites of these stiffly whisked, mixing it all lightly and quickly together. Fill some paper cases with this preparation, brush their tops over lightly with demi-glace, place them on a baking sheet, and bake them in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes, then dish them on a napkin, and serve. Souffle a la Victoria.—Mince and pound some raw beef, and sieve it; then to half a pound of this puree add a gill of thick brown sauce, a few drops of Mrs. A. B. Marshall’s carmine, a full tablespoonful of thick cream, a good dust of coralline pepper, salt, and the raw yolks of four eggs, with a tablespoonful of sherry; when this is all well mixed add the whites of the eggs whipped to a stiff froth, and when smooth, put it into a forcing bag with a large plain pipe, and force it out into a plain charlotte mould previously thickly buttered and ornamented with rounds of cut truffle and sliced cooked macaroni. Poach this mould in the ordinary way for about half an hour, then turn out and serve with a rich espagnole, Pe'rigueux, or other highly seasoned sauce to taste. Pains.—These delicate entrees are best moulded either in plain charlotte moulds or in border moulds, the latter especially taking less time to poach (a great consideration, on account of their delicacy), then turned out and served with a rich sauce over and round them, and a varied garnish, eitherENTRIES. 80 Financiere, Montglas, or Reform, &c., according to the composition of the pains. It is always advisable when preparing this dish to poach a little in a small mould, so as to be sure of having the consistency right. Pain a la Nemours.—Prepare a rich creme mixture with the flesh of two or three partridges (reserving, however, the breast of one), using a reduced Sauce Madere instead of the usual white sauce ; fill the plain, well-buttered mould with this (or a timbale mould is prettier), and poach or steam for three-quarters of an hour; just before serving it slice down the breast previously set aside, and cook these slices in the oven in a well-buttered baking tin, seasoning them with a little sherry, pepper, and salt; turn out the mould and pour over it a very smooth Perigueux sauce, have ready heated a bottle of Financiere garnish, mix the cooked fillets with this, arrange this all in little heaps round the mould, and serve at once. Pain de Lievre.—Take the fillets from the back of a good hare, cutting each fillet into three or four pieces, as you please, trimming them neatly, and larding them with tiny lardoons of par-boiled bacon, arrange these on a buttered baking tin with a little claret or port wine, pepper, and salt, and cover them with a buttered paper. With the rest of the flesh make a creme farce, fill a border mould with it, being careful the mixture settles down well into the tin, and poach for twenty-five or thirty minutes according to the size of the mould; just about ten minutes before it is ready, cook the little fillets in the ovenSOUFFLES, MOUSSES, &c. 81 for six or eight minutes, then turn out the pain, arranging the fillets round the top, and serve with a rich hare sauce and dried cherries. Petit Pain de Becassines.—Prepare a brown creme mixture with the flesh of some raw snipe, using the broken up carcases to make a rich and strongly flavoured Espagnole sauce. Take the flesh from the breast of a cooked snipe and cut it into Julienne strips, and some truffles to match, moistening this with a little of the sauce made from the snipe, boiled in till thick. Now half fill some well buttered bombe moulds with the creme mixture, then put in a spoonful of the Julienne, and cover with more of the farce; poach in the usual manner, turn out and serve with the sauce above mentioned. Pain de Volatile au Foie Gras.—Prepare a good chicken cream mixture, and with this half fill a well buttered plain mould ; turn out a small jar of pate de foie gras truffe, remove all the fat, &c., and place it in the centre of the mixture, covering it all up with more of the farce; poach or steam in the usual way, then turn out and serve with a rich Bechamel or Supreme sauce round it. Quenelles of Grouse d la Windsor.—Take the flesh from two good grouse or blackcock, and make with them a delicate quenelle mixture ; meanwhile, pre- pare a strong game stock with the carcases, covered with a little ordinary stock, and let this cook for about three-quarters of an hour till strongly flavoured. Now with this moisten a brown roux, made with l^oz. of butter, and loz. of flour, season to taste with salt, a little cayenne, and some port GENTRIES. 82 wine; meanwhile, put the quenelle mixture into as many small moulds as you need; with the rest, if any be left, fill a rather shallow border mould (fail- ing the grouse farce, use any other good quenelle mixture), and poach both the quenelles and the border mould ; then turn them out and dish the quenelles on the border, and pour the sauce over and round it, filling up the centre with small broiled mushrooms, slices of cooked tongue heated in a little stock and wine, and some poultry livers, carefully sautes in butter and sherry. Quenelles of Rabbit a la Sevigne.—Prepare a nice, not too solid, quenelle mixture with the flesh of one large or two small rabbits ; butter some small patty pans (preferably oval ones), fill them with the quenelle mixture, making a hollow in the centre of each with the handle of the spoon ; into this put a teaspoonful of rather stiff mushroom puree, cover them with the quenelle farce, smoothing this over in a dome shape with a warm, wet knife ; strew over them some finely minced truffles, pressing these well into place with a knife, and poach in the usual way for eight or ten minutes ; have ready cooked some tiny pea-shaped quenelles, drain these well, mix them in a little well reduced allemande sauce with some cooked button mushrooms and sliced truffle. Dish the quenelles with the truffled side uppermost in a fried crouton, and fill up the centre with the quenelles, &c., and serve with, if liked, a little more allemande sauce in a boat. The crouton may be either a plain slice deprived of its crust, delicately fried in butter; or it may be83 S0UEEL1*S, MOUSSES, &c. used by hollowing out a slice 2in. thick, leaving a rim round the edge and then frying this; drain it well, dust the edge round with coralline pepper and finely minced parsley, and dish the rabbit quenelles, &c., neatly in it. This is a particularly pretty way of serving a small entree. o 2CHAPTER Y. TIMBALES, VOL-AU-VENT, PATTIES, Ac. Like souffles, mousses, &c., the entrees treated of in this chapter have been pretty generally relegated to the haute cuisine, and as such considered entirely outside the sphere of the ordinary cook. This, how- ever, is a mistake, for, granted that cook ” can produce good pastry, she can perfectly well make either vol-au-vent, or even a timbale; while, if she lias not got what is technically known as “a light hand for pastry,” the most ordinary meat pie or fruit tart is beyond her reach. Unfortu- nately, the art of pastry making is not easily acquired from description, so, if possible, a cook should always be taught this part of her pro- fession by demonstration and practice. Have ready |lb. of good puff paste, to which you have given six turns (be very careful in the rolling out of this ; all puff paste needs rolling evenly if it is to rise properly; but for vol-au-vent, which, as its name implies, is the lightest form of pastry, this precaution is doubly requisite), and with a round or oblong cutter, about 8in. in diameter (or, if oval, 9in. by 6in.), stamp out evenly a round of this paste from fin. to l|in. thick, and slip it on to a butteredTIMBALES, YOL-AU-YENT, PATTIES, &c. 85 baking disli; now, with another cutter, stamp out a round inside the first, allowing an inch margin all round, and being careful to press the inner cutter only about two-thirds the depth of the crust; then brush it all oyer with a beaten egg, and place the sheet with the vol-au-vent upon it into a brisk oven and bake for twenty to thirty minutes, according to the thickness you elect to make your vol-au-vent. You then lift out the inner rim, and carefully scrape off all the inside underdone and rather greasy paste, without injuring the sides of the case, and cover any thin places with a flake or two of the crust removed from the centre, or the gravy will leak out and spoil the appearance of the dish. If properly made, the paste will have risen pretty high and be quite light and flakey. It is now filled with any rich ragout to taste, the inner round, carefully freed from any greasy underdone paste, being placed lightly on the top to act as a cover. Little patty cases, which are simply miniature vol- au-vent, are made in precisely the same way. Some cooks make their vol-au-vent by stamping out three or four rounds of puff paste, according to the height they wish the vol-au-vent to be, leaving one round whole, but cutting the centres out of the others, and these are then baked for fifteen to twenty minutes, and wdien cooked lightly brushed over with white of egg, and piled one on the other, one of the inner circles being used as a cover. But though this is a trifle easier to make than the proper wav, the effect is not nearly so satisfactory. The difference between a timbaleENTRIES. 86 and a vol-au-vent is that the latter is always made with puff paste, and is allowed to rise to the fullest capacity of the paste ; whereas, for a timbale, short paste is used, well pricked to prevent its rising, and is made in a mould, in which the timbale crust is kept till the last minute. For the paste take |lb. of fine sifted flour, 4oz. butter, half a teaspoonful of salt, the yolk of an egg and about a gill of water (this depends a good deal on the flour) ; make a well or hollow in the flour (technically called a “ bay ”), and into this put the egg, salt, butter, and two-thirds of the water, and with your fingers work this all to a rather firm dough; next dip your fingers into the flour to free them from the paste sticking to them, sprinkle a little more water over it, and work it up till it comes clear away from the sides of the basin in a ball; then throw a doubled cloth over the basin till the paste is wanted, when you roll it out, and with it line a well buttered mould, pressing the paste well to take the shape sharply (one of the jointed moulds with hinged sides, is the nicest for this, as the timbale when cooked can be more readily and safely turned out), prick it well all over, put a sheet of paper inside and fill this with rice, &c., and bake; a cover to match should be prepared from puff paste, and cooked with the timbale. Formerly, a timbale was cooked in a stewpan, and, indeed, properly it is a form of pie, mostly served cold. Another method is to line a mould with the crust, as described above, then pack it with whatever you mean to fill it with, generally a rich ragout of chicken, macaroni, cream, ParmesanTIMBALES, VOL-AU-YENT, PATTIES, &c. 8? cheese, Ac. ; make a small hole in the paste with which, you cover it, and bake; then turn it out and serve with or without rich gravy round it. In France meat pies, called tourtes bourgeoises, are made in this way, only differing from English pies by their delicacy and lightness, as the meat is always cooked first, so that only the time used to bake the crust nicely is required. Little china or metal ramequin cases lined with paste and filled with a dainty ragout make particularly attractive entrees with a minimum of trouble, as any odds and ends can be used for the filling, and any scraps of paste may be used for the pastry, only remember a tiny vent hole must, in every case, be made, and a corresponding tiny rosette of pastry baked with itr to hide it when served. Where, however, the cook cannot make the paste properly, a baker will always supply the required vol-au-vent, or patty case. But really it is far better to get the cook to make it, as it encourages her to be allowed to make the smart parts of the dinner as well as the more common place portions. While on the subject of substitutes for the home- made dainty, I may mention that nothing surpasses in delicacy one of the croutes, in which pate de foie gras is nowadays so often served, needless to say, after its first contents have been consumed. On one occasion I encountered a pate which looked wonder- fully familiar to me, though its contents were not what I expected. Later on my friend confessed to me that, having used the inside of a pork pie for sandwiches, her economic instinct had urged her to88 ENTRIES. utilise tlie pastry case for lier ragout, and I must admit lier experiment was completely successful. Besides these timbales, made with pastry, there are also the so-called timbales, when a plain mould of any shape to taste is thichly buttered, boiled macaroni being then arranged neatly all round to form a hind of casing, which is then filled up with any ragout to taste. The macaroni must be just cooked, but not over-cooked, or it will become pappy with the second cooking ; and care must be taken to keep it as unbroken as possible, so that it may lie evenly round and round (like a beehive, for which reason these patties, when small, are often called ruches a la So and So, according to the filling); for this dish usually a rich farce or creme is used as the filling, this being hollowed in the centre (as described for the boudin), and a piece of foie gras, or any rich ragout, placed therein, the whole being then covered in with more farce and the macaroni. Again, timbales are sometimes (abroad especially) lined with polenta or nouilles, and then filled in with financiere, scraps of poultry, cockscombs, brains, &c., as you like. Needless to say that if the cook is honestly incapable of making these cases you must trust to your baker, or else content yourself with croustades, which latter are by no means to be despised. For these, cut a slice of bread straight off the loaf about Hin. to 2in. thick, trim this neatly into shape either oblong, round, or square, then mark out a line from fin. to lin. inside the outer rim all round, sinking the blade of the knife to two-thirds of the depth of the bread, and fry this bread in plenty of hot fat tillTIMBALES, VOL-AU-YENT, PATTIES, &c. 89 of a golden brown; then drain it well, and remove the inner circle or square, trimming off all the under- done, greasy bread inside just as you did for the vol-au-vent, and set it and the cover in the oven to crisp, being careful it does not burn. Fill this with any ragout to taste exactly as you would a pastry case. These croustades can be made any size you please. In many houses, moreover, the fillings used for these timbales are frequently simply packed into fireproof china cases with lids to them, and no pastry or even nouille paste used at all, finishing these cases off just as you would the corresponding timbales. This form of mould takes its name from its shape, which was considered like a kettledrum (timbale) and is straight-sided, the top being rounded like a bowl. Of late years the timbale mould is made in a border shape, the centre open, and so the name originally always implying a pie of some kind, has come to be applied to creams, and even ices. Vol-au-Vent Financiere.—Prepare the pastry case as described above, then have ready a ragout of tiny quenelles made of any raw white meat, any remains of cooked brains or sweetbread, cut up small, little fillets of cooked chicken, small strips of cooked tongue, and, if at hand, a bottle of financiere garnish well drained, ano1 heat all this in a rich veloutc or bechamel, to which you add at the last the yolk of one or more eggs, beaten up with a spoonful or two of cream; then pour this all into the vol-au-vent, and serve at once. As a fact, anything can be used for a vol-au-vent, and it is a plat very dear to the thrifty French housewife in consequence, as it enables90 ENTREES. her to use up her scraps of all sorts in a dainty manner. The above is the regular vol-au-vent, to which oysters, prawns, truffles, mushrooms, foie gras, &c., may be added ad lib., but the culinary purist would call this, from its white sauce, a vol-au- vent Toulouse, a financiere ragout being strictly, served in a light brown sauce. Needless to say, small patties and cases may be filled in exactly the same way, and take their name from their filling; as for example, petits vol-au-vent aux huitres, when the cases are filled up with a rich and rather thick oyster sauce; aux crevettes, and de homara a, la creme, when creamy shrimp or lobster sauce is used; or p. v. a la Montglas (minced chicken, tongue, truffle, &c., tossed in white or brown sauce); a la Milanaise (the filling consisting of shredded ham, chicken, truffles, macaroni, &c., tossed in white sauce strongly flavoured with grated Parmesan cheese) ; p. v. a la royale (filled with minced foie gras, chicken, sweetbreads, mushrooms, &c., tossed in creamy bechamel sauce coloured with lobster butter); p. v. a la Valenciennes (filled with minced chicken, lobster, mushrooms, artichoke bottoms, and rice, all tossed in veloute rather strongly flavoured with curry butter) ; p. v. a la Barras (the filling consisting of turned olives cooked and heated in a bigarade sauce, with tiny fillets of cooked wild duck, or, indeed, duck of any kind); p. v. a la Lucullus (for this have some tiny quenelles poached in the usual way, and made from the creme mixture given in the chapter on souffles, &c., some cubes of foie gras, and three or four raw truffles cooked either in champagne orTIMBALES, YOL-AU-YENT, PATTIES, &c. 91 Rhine wine, and then shced into julienne strips; put a spoonful of rather thick Champagne sauce into each patty, and On this place the quenelles and the foie gras, then the truffle julienne, and lastly a plover’s egg, being careful to have everything very hot) ; finally, there are petits vol-au-vent a la menagere, when the cases are filled with a hot mince of any roast meat, heated in a good wine-flavoured sauce, a small poached egg being placed on the top just at the last instead of a cover, but this more properly belongs to the rechauffes. Groustade a la Ghampenoise.—Prepare a bread croustade as described above, and keep it hot. Mean- time prepare a ragout as follows: Three-parts cook a good slice of ham, then take it up and cut it into little dice ; now return it to the pan with a cooked carrot, some mushrooms, and two truffles cut to match; toss these all in a little fresh butter, moistening it now and again with clear stock and a glass of champagne; let it reduce till fairly thick, then remove all fat, and stir into it the breast of a cold roast fowl, two well washed anchovies, some blanched gherkins and some parsley, all minced small, and let it heat without actually boiling, season- ing it to taste with salt, white pepper, and lemon juice ; then pour it all into the crouton, garnishing the latter with little rolls of fried ham, and if at hand, some tiny chicken quenelles. If liked, sweet- bread or pate de foie gras may be sliced down and added to this ragout, which is an excellent way of using up otherwise unproducible scraps left over from a dinner party. Like many other dishes of the92 ENTREES. sort this croustade would be very expensive if all its contents had to he got ready for itself, hut when made in this way of dainty scraps, it is really a case of what our grandmothers called “ elegant economy.” It is on care of this kind that the success and inexpensiveness of cooking depends. It is not only in knowing and obtaining the best things that a good housewife scores, but in knowing how to utilise to the best advantage the bits left over. Any remains of game, hash, fricassee, salmi, &c., can all be served in croustades, and also in patties. Tourte Bourgeoise.—For this have ready some rough puff paste, and lay it on a baking tin, then place on it any cooked ragout (as described for the filling of the croustades or vol-au-vent), mixed with rather stiff sauce, so that it does not run about too much, then cover this with another sheet of paste cut to match, and lay this over the first, turning up the moistened edges, and rolling them between your fingers; leave a small hole in the top, and have a tiny rosette of paste baked with it to fill it with. Bake this till nicely coloured and well risen, then lift it out, add a little suitable gravy through the hole in the top, which you then fill with the above-mentioned rosette and serve very hot. Tiny patties made in this way are also extremely good. Timbale Milanaise.—Line a mould with the short crust as described above, and have ready some just boiled macaroni, enough to about quarter fill the pie; now put it back into a pan with some good meat gravy or stock, one part Parmesan to three parts Gruyere cheese, and as much butter as youTIMBALES, YOL-AU-VENT, PATTIES, &c. 93 have cheese, then lay into this mixture some poultry livers, bits of game or poultry, pieces of ham, &c. (you really can put in pretty much what you please), and let it all simmer together very gently forty to forty-five minutes. Now dot some morsels of butter over the bottom of the paste-lined timbale, sprinkle this with grated cheese and a little pepper, and then lay in the mixture you have been cooking, cutting the macaroni into lfin. lengths and dusting each layer lightly with cheese, pour over it any gravy you may have left, cover over with more jaaste, pinching the edges well together, and bake for half an hour. Then turn out and serve plain or with rich gravy. This dish may be varied almost indefinitely. For instance, T. a la Napolitaine, Avhen tomato sauce diluted with gravy is used instead of pure gravy, and stewed beef cut into neat pieces, cubes of fat and lean bacon, and herb-farce meat balls are stirred into the macaroni, the whole being finished off as before; T. alia romana, when tiny sausages, the breasts of any little birds, cooked brains, &c., are all mixed into the gravy-steeped macaroni, and the whole is again finished off as before. Another form of filling is with raviolis; for this you need nouille paste made with -^lb. fine flour, half a tec spoonful of salt, the yolks of fdur raw eggs, and sufficient milk or water to bring it all to a stiff paste; roll this out very thin, then cut it into oblongs about 2in. or 3in. long by lin. to l|in. wide; put into each of these a spoonful of finely minced meat, raw or cooked, rather highly seasoned with herbs, &c., and moistened with a little gravy,94 ENTRIES. or tomato sauce, and fold tlie raviolis over into a square, pinching the ends well together, after which you drop them into fast boiling salted water, and simmer for thirty minutes. Lift them out with a skimmer, and drain well. Have ready the paste- lined timbale and pack it as before with the raviolis, a good dust of black pepper and grated cheese, and enough thick tomato sauce to fill up the interstices, and bake as before. Polenta Timbale. — Prepare the polenta by dropping handfuls of Indian corn meal gradually into a saucepanful of boiling salted water, stirring it steadily till the flour is thoroughly cooked and the polenta becomes like porridge. It must be remem- bered that the meal takes up a great deal of water, a pint of liquid to a not over-large handful of meal is about the right proportion. Butter and grated cheese may be added in the making, and certainly add to the flavour of the polenta. The butter should be put into the boiling water at the first, but the cheese is sprinkled in as you stir the mixture. When this polenta is very thick and stiff turn it out on to a dish or slab and let it become quite cold, when it will be of about the thickness of a stiff cornflour shape. Cut this polenta out into long fingers the depth of the timbale mould, butter the latter well, lay in the bottom a round of polenta about lin. thick, then arrange the fingers all round, just as you would line a Charlotte russe. Now fill up the centre with grated cheese (Parmesan), pieces of the polenta, slices of Gruyere cheese, balls of forcemeat, or little cakes of sausage meat, shredded ham or anyTIMBALES, VOL-AU-YENT, PATTIES, &c. 95 meat, cooked poultry livers, and red pepper, with, pepper and salt to taste, some pieces of butter, and a very little stock from the stock pot; cover with another disc of the polenta, and bake for an hour. This may be made in just the same way with macaroni. (These dishes lend themselves most suc- cessfully to a vegetarian style, tomato sauce or vegetable stock replacing the meat sauces, whilst mushrooms, artichoke bottoms, &c., can be used instead of the meat itself.) Timbale de Macaroni a la Roviaine.—Line a well buttered mould which has been rather thickly sprinkled with vermicelli, with good lard paste, pressing this well home into the shape of the mould; have ready stewed a rabbit or an old fowl (or a corresponding amount of cooked veal, or other white meat, as long as it is lean) cat up small, 2oz. of boiled macaroni, and a little cooked vermicelli, all cut into inch lengths, 2oz. grated Parmesan cheese, a little very finely minced shallot or chives, pepper and salt to taste, and either a few blanched almonds or a handful of pignole, or fircone kernels (these are not indispensable adjuncts), mix these all lightly together and place in the mould; add from one- fourth to one-third of a pint of cream or new milk, cover with a round of the paste and bake for an hour. Turn out and serve with brown, white, or tomato sauce as you please. This, like a good many of the other timbales, is very nice if the ragout is packed into a well buttered pie dish, then covered with puff paste in the ordinary way, and baked like the common pie.96 ENTREES. Timbale de Nouilles au Jambon.—Make a nouille timbale as described for the polenta timbale, only using instead of the polenta the nouille paste given for the raviolis; blanch the pieces of nouille in salted water, and set them aside to cool after seasoning them with pepper and salt; then line a well buttered plain Charlotte mould with this paste, the prettiest way being to put a disc of the paste at the bottom, and all round this a row of triangles cut from the nouille paste, points upwards, and then finish with a second layer of triangles points down- wards, fitting just between the points of the first row; now fill this up with nouilles like the raviolis (only filling these with a herb farce flavoured with a little anchovy instead of meat), pieces of York, Bayonne, or other very good cooked ham, cut into dice, a good sprinkling of Parmesan cheese (grated) and sufficient rich allemande sauce to moisten the whole duly; then finish off, like the Polenta timbale. Croustade d la, Chasseur.—Prepare a croustade of fried bread as given above, and set it in the oven to crisp ; meanwhile cut the fillets from a leveret or two rabbits (or any game or even poultry to taste), and saute them in butter, a little stock, and a little wine; cut some cooked macaroni into inch lengths, and mis it with either the stock made with the rabbit bones, or some tomato sauce, mixing into this lightly some stewed or broiled mushrooms, and some fried ham or bacon cut into not too small dice, and season pretty highly. Now lift out the crous- tade, drain it, and arrange the fillets of rabbit round the edge, pouring a little sauce (the same asTIMBALES, YOL-ATT-YENT, PATTIES, &c. 97 you used for the macaroni) smoothly over them and fill up the centre with the macaroni ragout, piling it up pretty highly. If you use hare for this dish mix herb farce balls and a very little grated Parmesan with the macaroni, in addition to the mushrooms and ham, using rather richly flavoured brown sauce to which you have added a little red wine. This dish can manifestly be varied indefinitely. Petites Timbales de Macaroni aux huitres.—Well butter some small plain moulds, placing at the bottom a round of either cooked tongue (see that this is a good colour) or truffle, stamped out with a plain round cutter; then line the mould neatly round and round with boiled spaghetti (a sort of smaller pipe macaroni), and fill these with a chicken quenelle mixture ; now with a spoon handle (dipped out of hot water), make a hollow in the centre of each and lay in one or more bearded oysters, seasoned with coralline pepper and lemon juice and a very little thick bechamel, cover over with more of the quenelle mixture, smoothing this in a rather dome shape with a hot wet knife, and poach in boiling water till firm; then drain them on a clean cloth, and dish each, either on a halved cooked tomato, or an artichoke bottom. Remember in dishing these entrees that their appearance is always improved by bein^ stood upon something, so as to raise them above the level of the entree dish; this foundation may be either a border of farce, a border of potato, or a little flattened cone of mashed potato, or of any vegetable puree to taste, or as above on a tomato or an artichoke. A wall of mashed or sieved HENTRIES. 98 potato either browned in the oven or left white, or a casserole of rice answer admirably for these ragouts. For the casserole of rice well wash lib. of good rice, add to this a quart of water, with pepper and salt to taste, and cover with a good slice of bacon; when the rice is well burst and soft, pound it to a paste in a mortar, and when perfectly smooth (its beauty depends on this) roll it up into a ball and turn it on to a baking sheet covered with a sheet of buttered paper, and shape it into a plain round like a Char- lotte mould (chefs of course mould this rice into all kinds of shapes, but the above is quite enough to expect from the ordinary plain cook), and when quite smooth, brush it all over with liquefied butter, and set it in the oven till delicately browned; then scoop out the inside, leaving the sides fin. thick, and smoothing the inner surface with the back of a spoon previously dipped in hot water. This casse- role can be prepared some time beforehand, and keeps well if stored in a dry place. Some cooks butter moulds and fill them with the mashed potato or pounded rice and bake them till nicely coloured, turning them out and scooping the inside away when cooked. This of course saves trouble. These cases can manifestly be made any size required. Besides these, first rate cooks make butter cases for such ragouts as are given above; but, though I have known a so-called plain cook who made these to perfection, they are hardly within the scope of the average “ good plain cook.” I give the recipe, how- ever, for anyone bent on experiment. Roll l^oz. of fresh butter with your hand in finely sifted flourTIMBALES, VOL-AU-VENT, PATTIES, &c. 99 then dip it into well beaten whole egg, and roll it in fine bread crumbs ; repeat this egging and crumbing, then shape it into a cylinder, cut a round at one end, and at once fry in boiling fat till of a nice gold colour. Fry these cases very quickly, lifting them out, removing the round at the end, and pouring off the liquefied butter inside, the very moment they are sufficiently coloured, and fill them at once with any nice and very light mince or creme, which must be quite hot when added to the cases. The butter poured away from these will be found excellent for sauces, &c. E 2CHAPTER YI. TJNCLASSED ENTREES. However systematically one may try to class entrees, there are always some that appear to escape one, and it is for this reason I include in this chapter a variety of odds and ends that I should be sorely puzzled to find a proper heading for. I therefore give them as they occur to me, and must trust to the index for their alphabetical classification. Pigeons sur Croutes.—Truss half as many pigeons as you have guests, for roasting, and tie a slitted slice of fat bacon over the breast of each; toast as many slices of bread as you have pigeons, butter them generously, and spread them pretty thickly with a mixture of parboiled and minced poultry livers, mushrooms, and washed and boned anchovies, with, if liked, a suspicion of finely-minced shallot or chives. Place these toasts at the bottom of a double roasting tin, with the pigeons on the grid over them, so that as they cook the basting from the pigeons will fall upon them. They will take from twelve to fifteen minutes to cook, according to size. As soon as they are ready slice each pigeon in half as quickly as possible, divide each toast in half, lay a half pigeon, cut side down, on each, and dish on a101 UNCLASSED ENTRIES. liot dish with a garnish of seasoned watercress. The frizzled bacon on the breasts may be removed or not as preferred. Yon will need two or three mush- rooms, two anchovies, and one or more livers for each pigeon. JBallotines de Volatile.—This is a very pretty way of using the legs of a fowl, turkey, &c., when the breast has been used for supreme, &c. Prepare a farce by mincing and pounding together £lb. of lean white meat (chicken, rabbit, or veal) and 4oz. of good bacon or fresh pork, then nib this all through a wire sieve into a basin, and add to it loz. of ham or tongue, two or three cooked chicken livers, two or three cooked mushrooms, and a truffle if at hand, all being fairly finely minced. Mis this with the yolks of two raw eggs, a dust each of coralline pepper and salt, and set aside till wanted. (This is enough farce for two, or perhaps three legs of fowl.) Bone the legs, retaining, however, the skin; season the inside with a little salt and coralline pepper, and fill them up with the farce given above, sewing each leg up with a needle and thread to keep in the farce and to preserve the shape of the ballotines. Now wrap each up in a sheet of buttered paper, screwing or tieing up the ends pretty tightly. Line a stewpan with l^oz. of butter or marrow fat, a piece of fat bacon rind, one onion, sliced, and stuck with a clove, a sliced carrot, a blade of celery, and a bunch of herbs, with three or four peppercorns, and lay the ballotines < on the top of this; cover down the pan, and fry its (contents lightly for twelve or fifteen minutes, then aadd about a gill of good stock, and braise the wholeENTRIES. 102 gently, either in the oven or at the side of the stove for about three-quarters of an hour, keeping the legs well basted. Now lift them out from the pan, remove the papers, brush them over with thin glaze, and set them in the oven for eight or ten minutes to crisp ; have ready a nice potato border and twice as many croutons of fried bread spread with ham, truffle, or any other savoury butter to taste, as you have ballo- tines; then divile each ballotine into half lengthways, and dish on the potato border alternately with the croutons, filling up the centre with broiled mush- rooms, stewed cucumber, potato straws, or any garnish you please. If preferred, you may roll up the little ballotines like miniature galantines, in a cylindrical shape, and serve them hot with espagnole or any other nice sauce to taste on a puree of spinach, mushrooms, &c., as you please. Or, if the ballotines are left till cold, then sliced and masked with chaufroix sauce to taste, they make a very pretty little dish. When the ballotines are sliced in this way they are very economical, as two legs go a very long way. Beignets de foie gras.—Make a good batter with two heaped tablespoonfuls of dried and sifted flour, the yolk of one egg, a tablespoonful of oil (or loz. of liquefied butter), with coralline pepper and salt to taste, and lastly a gill of water added very gradually when the other ingredients are well mixed and perfectly smooth. Let this batter stand for two hours at least, and when about to use it, stir into it quickly the stiffly whipped whites of two eggs. Be careful to have the batter thick enough to adhere103 UNCLASSED ENTREES. smoothly and evenly to the object to be fried. Bring a pan of boiling fat to such a heat that it is perfectly still and a very slight blue vapour is beginning to rise; dip into the batter some neat pieces of foie gras (previously seasoned with salt, coralline pepper, and lemon juice), and slip each as coated gently into the fat, turning it over lightly with a fork, and, when perfectly crisp and of a delicate golden brown, drain it on kitchen paper in front of the fire; then dish on a napkin, lightly sprinkled with coralline pepper. Pieces of sweet- bread, calves’ brains, oysters, poultry livers, &c., can all be used in this way. Nicely cooked tripe is delicious if cut into neat pieces, seasoned with pepper, salt, and lemon juice, and then fried in batter as above, and served plain or with tomato sauce, in which case it is known as beignets de gras double a VOrlie. Tripe, Scotch Fashion.—Tripe is usually looked on with aversion in England, though many of these same dainty people eat it with gusto at the table d’hote when disguised as gras double a la soubise (i.e., stewed and served with a rich onion sauce), d la Orlie, &c. Stew the tripe till perfectly tender, and let it get cold. Make ready a good veal forcemeat to which you have added a little very finely minced onion and an egg. Now cut the thick plain part of the tripe into neat pieces about If in. by 3in. or 4in. long. Spread some of the stuffing on each (if liked add a little of the honeycombed part of the tripe, which does not roll, finely minced, to the stuffing, as it improves the flavour greatly), then roll these up neatly like a beef olive, skewer each into shape with a fine skewer,ENTRIES. 104 roll in egg and fine breadcrumbs, and fry it a delicate brown. Have ready some rich, well-flavoured brown or espagnole sauce, lay the tripe olives in this, and allow them to soak at the side of the stove, keeping hot, but never actually even simmering, for an hour or so, till they absorb the flavour of the sauce, then serve in a wall of mashed potato. Gras Double a la Franraise.—Roll up tightly a thin piece of dressed tripe and skewer it with a tiny wooden skewer about ^in. from the end of the roll, then cut this off in a slice |in. thick, with the skewer in the middle, like a little wheel. Repeat this process till you have as many of these little wheels as you need, when you brush them with beaten egg, and then dip them into savoury breadcrumbs (freshly made white breadcrumbs mixed with a quarter the quantity of grated cheese, with pepper and salt to taste). Then fry a golden brown in plenty of hot fat, drain well, and serve garnished with fried parsley, with a squeeze of lemon juice, and a dust of coralline pepper. Ganeton a I’Indecis.—Three parts roast a fine young wild duck (or an ordinary duck), then cut it into joints, and lay it in a stewpan with salt, pepper, two tablespoonfuls of best olive oil, half a glassful of claret, and the juice of one lemon. Stir this all over the fire for half an hour, then serve. This is said to be a recipe liked by Sara Bernhardt, who, however, adds truffles to it, it is said. Mauvlettes a la Favre.—Bone the larks, put a large oyster into each bird, truss the latter into shape for roasting, skewering a slitted slice of fat bacon over105 UNCLASSED ENTRIES each little breast, and place each bird on a well- washed and dried mushroom, previously seasoned with black pepper, salt, and a morsel of butter ; cook the birds and the mushrooms on a buttered baking tin in the oven for fifteen minutes ; have ready little rounds of buttered toast seasoned with pepper and salt, set each of these into a paper case previously oiled and dried, then place the mushrooms and the birds on this toast, pour a little maitre d’hotel butter mixed with the warmed oyster liquor over each bird, and serve with seasoned watercress in the centre, one bird per guest. Mauviettee en caisses.—Bone as many larks as you require, and prepare a farce as follows : For each lark take |oz. lean veal, |oz. minced ham, a few drops of essence of anchovy, ^oz. of fresh butter, a teaspoouful of freshly made and sifted breadcrumbs, pepper and salt to taste; pound it together to a paste, and then rub it all through a wire sieve. Mix either some mushrooms or some dice of foie gras with this mixture, and fill the birds back into shape by means of a bag and forcing pipe; tie them into shape with a broad tape or a piece of muslin, and stew them gently in half a pint of stock made with the bones, &c., of the larks (to which you have added a gill of good strong brown stock, and a gill of sherry) in a covered pan for half an hour, basting them now and rgain. Then lift them out, brush them over with liquid glaze and crisp in the oven for a minute or so. Place a thick slice of tongue, heated in a little stock and wine, at the bottom of some oiled and dried paper cases, and set the larks on this.ENTREES. 106 add a little of the sauce round, but not over, them, and serve. If preferred, the same farce as was given for the ballotines de volaille may be used for the larks, or pate de foie gras rubbed through a sieve can be used. They may also be cooked after tieing them up in a band of buttered paper, on a buttered baking tin, for twelve or fifteen minutes, then glazed in the oven, as above, and set in the cases on a little bed of cooked farce, and garnished with sliced truffle, &c. My Grandmother's Veal Collops.—“ Slice a piece of veal down thinly, and stamp out these slices into rounds the size of a five-shilling piece ; melt a piece of butter the size of four eggs (sic) without allowing it to brown, then lay in the collops, and keep them well stirred with a wooden spoon, taking care to keep them white ; add a little pepper, salt, and very finely minced shallot, and thicken the sauce by stirring in a little flour cooked to a smooth paste in butter, &c. Let this simmer gently to cook the flour. It must not boil, however, or the veal will harden. Have ready fried and drained some rounds of bread, a size smaller than the collops, and lay these in the pan with the meat, &c. Toss it all together over the fire squeezing the juice of half a lemon over it, and serve very hot garnished with tiny rolls of broiled ham/’ Lapereau en Fricassee.—Cut a young rabbit up into neat pieces, scald them well, then drain off all moisture carefully. Make an ounce or so of butter hot in the pan and lay into it the rabbit (well dusting the latter with fine sifted flour) with some washed and dried mushrooms and a bouquet, and let it cook,107 UNCLASSED ENTRIES. moistening it from time to time with good stock. Now paint a ring lightly on a silver dish with semi- liquid glaze, and on this fix a wall of fried triangular croutons, then lift the rabbit joints and the mush- rooms into this ; strain the sauce, add to it a liaison made by beating up the yolk of an egg in two or three spoonfuls of cream, stir it all over the fire to thicken it, but without letting it boil, then pour it over and round the rabbit, and serve very hot. Langue de Bceuf en Pcipillotes.—Slice down into moderately thick slices a good ox tongue (which should have been braised for the purpose and allowed to cool in its braising liquor), cut some heartshaped pieces of white paper, oil them lightly, and lay on half of this paper a thin slice of very fat par-boiled bacon, spread a layer of d’Uxelles mixture on this, then put in a slice of tongue, then more d’Uxelles, and lastly another slice of bacon, and twist up the paper neatly and tightly. Now broil these cases for ten minutes over a clear fire, turning them now and again, and as soon as the paper begins to colour and puff out, serve at once. D'TJxelles Mixture.—Wipe some nice mushrooms and dry them, after rubbing them well all over with lemon juice to keep them white, and mince them with half their bulk of parsley and chives, stir to them some breadcrumbs) not too many, or the mixture will be stodgy) grated and finely sifted, and put it into a pan with salt, pepper, a tiny grate of nutmeg, and about |oz. of fresh butter, moistening it with good gravy or stock till it will absorb no more, and use. Langue a Vltalienne.—Slice a tongue cooked as108 ENTRIES. before, have ready a well-buttered fireproof dish sprinkled with grated cheese, lay on this a layer of peeled and thinly sliced tomatoes, then more cheese, then a layer of tongue, and repeat these layers till the dish is full, finishing with a layer of cheese and white breadcrumbs plentifully seasoned with pepper and salt. Put some morsels of butter over the top, and bake a golden brown. Foie de Veau a la Broche.—Wash and well dry a nice calf’s liver, then lard it neatly and evenly with lardoons of French or larding bacon, and wrap it in a sheet of well-buttered paper; now either roast it or set it on the grid of the baking tin and cook it in the oven for about one and a quarter hours, being careful to keep it well basted over the paper. When cooked it may be served on a bed of French beans with its own gravy round it. It is very often marinaded for a few hours before cooking in a marinade composed of a gill of oil seasoned with chopped parsley, thyme, bay leaf, onion, and pepper- corns. In this case a little of the marinade is added to the gravy. It is often, for the convenience of helping, sliced down rather thickly. Foie de Veau, Hdtelets de.—Slice the liver rather thickly, and then cut it into squares with an equal number of similar squares of rather fat bacon or ham, and thread these on tiny skewers, a piece of liver and one of bacon alternately, season them with salt and black pepper (freshly ground is best), dip them into liquid butter or oil, and then in finely sifted breadcrumbs, and broil them over a clear fire. Serve with seasoned watercress.109 UNCLASSED ENTRIES. Another way of cooking liver is to slice it down rather thickly, marinading these slices as described for the roasted liver, then wrap them in sheets of oiled and dried paper with a little minced fat bacon, mushrooms, chives, parsley, &c. Fold over the papers tightly, and grill them gently for about half an hour, then serve in their papers with a sauce boat of poivrade sauce. Cervelles de Veau Frites.—Remove all skin and string from the brains, and steep them for a little in tepid water to remove all the blood ; then blanch them for a little in boiling water, and leave them in cold water to set. Now put a little boiling water in a pan, previously rubbed with fresh-cut garlic, with some fat bacon cut into dice, a good bouquet, sliced onion and carrot, two or three cloves, and two or three slices of lemon, lay in the brains and let them cook gently for an hour. Then drain them well, cut them into neat pieces, laying them as done in a little vinegar seasoned with salt and pepper, dip them into some good frying batter, and fry in plenty of hot fat to a delicate golden brown. Drain well, dust with coralline pepper, and serve with fried parsley. Ox Palates, to CooJc.—Blanch three or four ox palates for ten minutes in boiling salted water, then drain, and when cool, scrape off all the white skin, trim them neatly, and place them in a pan with a quart of stock, a good bouquet, and a couple of slices of smoked ham or bacon; bring this all to the boil, then draw the pan to the side of the stove and let it simmer steadily, but gently, for three to four hours ; now drain the palates on a sieve, and leave till cold,110 ENTRIES. wlien they are split in half lengthwise, and trimmed neatly. They can then he trimmed in all sorts of ways, as an Jcari, when they are heated in a rich cnrry sauce, and served with fried croutons, spread with curry butter and boiled rice; a la poivrade, heated in the sauce of that name; d la Orlie, when the pieces are dipped in batter, fried a golden brown, and served with a rich tomato sauce; en cannelons, i.e., spread out flat, a layer of d’Uxelles mixture laid on each piece, and each then rolled up, tightly skewered into shape, and either egged and crumbed, or dipped in batter and fried a golden brown, being then served plain or with any sauce to taste; or en paupiettes d la financiere, when they are prepared as above, a rich quenelle mixture replacing the d’TJxelles, when they are simmered in plenty of good stock for twenty minutes ; they are then drained, the ends trimmed off, and are placed in a pan with a little liquid glaze and rolled in this over the fire till thoroughly coated with this as it boils in, when they are dished in a pyramid, and sent to table with a garnish a la financiere. They may also be cut into neat square pieces, laid in a pie-dish with half their number of square pieces of truffles and of mushrooms, some reduced d’Uxelles sauce being poured over them and left till the sauce has almost set upon them. Now run the pieces on small silver skewers, alternating the palates, the mushrooms, and the truffles, and with a knife spread the rest of the sauce in the dish over them, flattening it well on them to a square shape; then dip in egg and crumbs, and fry a golden brown. Serve in a pyramidUNCLASSED ENTRIES. Ill garnished •with fried parsley. If the palates are prepared as above, and the mixture packed in oiled and dried cases, and lightly broiled, they also make a very nice entree. Oxtails, to prepare.—Oxtails, and equally, of course, calf’s tails, may be made into very nice dishes, thus : Cut the tail into neat pieces and soak it for two hours, then blanch it in boiling water for fifteen minutes; rinse it well in cold water, drain, and trim it. Now lay into a stew pan a slice or two of ham or bacon and some veal or beef trimmings, with two or three carrots, three or four onions (one stuck with three cloves), a bouquet, and some peppercorns, lay the tail on this, covering it with a sheet of well buttered paper, and pour in sufficient stock to moisten it all without covering the tail; bring this to the boil, then draw it to the side and let it simmer for two hours, till it is ready; when you lift out the tail, dish it on a hot dish, garnishing it with little heaps of the carrot, tossed in two or three spoonfuls of veloute, and garnish round the edge of the dish with braised and glazed cabbage- lettuce, or any other dainty vegetables to taste. If braised as above, seasoned with salt and a little cayenne pepper, rolled in melted butter, and then in breadcrumbs twice, then broiled over a clear fire, and served with a good mayonnaise or tartare sauce it is called queue de bceuf d la Ste. Menehould. Oxtail braised as above may be served in the same way as oxpalates. Like them also, it can be served au gratin, i.e., placed on a fireproof dish thickly strewed with seasoned breadcrumbs, grated cheese,112 ENTREES. and a little minced parsley and mushrooms, a similar mixture being generously sprinkled over the tails, with tiny morsels of butter, and the whole set in the oven till thoroughly hot and nicely coloured. Beef Olives.—For these cut slices of beef ^in. thick by 1 \in. to 2in. wide, and from 3in. to 3^in. long ; spread each of these neatly on one side with a nice veal stuffing, to which you have added either a boned and minced anchovy, or a few drops of essence of anchovy, then roll it up tightly, and tie it into shape with a piece of thread at both ends (this must, of course, be removed before serving). Now place an ounce or so of clarified dripping in a stew- pan, and lay in this loz. or 2oz. each of thinly sliced onions, carrot, turnip, and, if at hand, mushrooms (the stems and peelings will do for this), and then the beef olives, with a due seasoning of salt, pepper, &c Toss all this over a clear fire till lightly coloured and stiffened (this is the meaning of the French term revenir), then add good stock to about half the depth, cover with a buttered paper, and cover down the pan closely; let this all braise gently in the oven, basting the olives now and again with their own liquor. They will take from one and a quarter hours’ to one and a half hours’ very gentle cooking. When tender, lift them out carefully, and dish in a pile, serving rich brown espagnole or tomato sauce round and over them as you please. Almost any meat may be cooked thus, only varying the stuffing and sauce to taste. Bis de Veau a la Financiere.—Well wash, blanch, and rinse a couple of good sweetbreads, then placeUNCLASSED ENTRIES. 113 them between two plates and press them till perfectly cold, when they are larded neatly, trimming the lardoons nicely. Wrap the sweetbreads in a well buttered sheet of paper, and place them in a stew- pan with l|oz. of butter, a blade or two of celery, a carrot, an onion, and a bunch of herbs; fry this all lightly for fifteen minutes, then pour in a gill of good stock and let it all cook in the oven for an hour, adding more stock as that in the pan evaporates. When cooked, brush the breads over lightly with warm glaze and set them in the oven again to crisp the lardoons; then dish on fried croutons, and serve with the following sauce round it. For this sauce, put into a pan two wineglassfuls of sherry, a dust of cayenne, three fresh and well washed mushrooms, and the essence from a bottle of truffles, if handy ; let this all boil into half, when you add to it three- quarters of a pint of rich Espagnole sauce and the strained liquor from the sweetbreads well cleared from fat. Let this all boil together and then use. Breast of Mutton a, la Marseillaise.—Braise the whole of a breast of mutton with vegetables, &c., in the usual way, with a good bouquet, some cloves and peppercorns, and half a bottle of light French white wine. (The pan should properly be well rubbed first of all with a freshly cut clove of garlic.) Bring this all to the boil, then draw it to the side of the stove and let it simmer as slowly as possible for three hours till the breast is perfectly tender, and the sauce almost a glaze. When cooked, let it cool a little, then drain it well on a reversed sieve, or a rack, and remove all the bones, putting the meat iENTREES. 114 between the plates to press. When perfectly cold cut this meat up into neat pieces, the length and shape of chicken fillets, brush them over with salad oil. and roll them in very finely sifted crumbs, and set them aside till fifteen minutes before they are wanted, when you grill them over a very clear but not too fierce a fire, turning them carefully at the end of seven or eight minutes; then pour over them a little liquid glaze (or the stock in which they were cooked carefully strained, reduced, and freed from fat), and arrange them in a circle on a hot dish, filliug the centre with tiny stuffed egg plants or small tomatoes (either of these are freed from seeds, and filled with a mixture of fine seasoned breadcrumbs, parsley, chives, mushrooms, and ham all finely minced and mixed with a little butter and baked—these make a nice little entree, or breakfast dish, by themselves), or indeed any nice vegetables you please, and send to table with some good Espagnole sauce in a boat. Larks d la Taverney.—Singe and empty twenty- four larks, removing the necks and the claws ; eight or ten minutes before they are wanted melt 3oz. or 4oz. of fat bacon finely minced, in a saute-pan; lay in the larks, and toss them sharply over the fire until they are firm, then drain off the fat, pour a glass of Madeira or sherry into the pan, and allow it to reduce over the fire. Now lift them off, pour over them about a gill and a half of strong and much reduced Espagnole sauce, and roll them in this to coat them well; have ready two or three dozen olives turned and cooked in readiness, and also a bread croustade (as described in the chapter on timballes),UNCLASSED ENTREES. 115 arrange the larks round this, filling up the centre with the olives, pouring a spoonful or two of sauce round and over them, and, lastly, put tiny triangular croutons between each bird, spreading these with a mixture of the larks’ trail mixed with a little foie gras, cayenne, butter, and lemon juice, and tossed over the fire for a few minutes. This dish can manifestly be varied ad infinitum.CHAPTER VII. RECHAUFFES. Many hints with regard to rechauffes were given in the first chapter, but it may be as well to risk repe- tition in the attempt to enforce on the British cook the fact that a rechauffe is not a twice-cooked dish, deprived of all its goodness and succulence by over cooking. It is not too much to say that there are few dishes nicer than the despised hash, when well made, and it may be added few nastier if the oppo- site is the case. All meat intended for reheating must be deprived of any string, sinew, skin, and especially of all over-cooked parts, and fat, if too predominant, must be judiciously trimmed away. Now, if you contemplate a hash, cut this meat into neat, moderately thick slices, dust these very lightly with a little sifted flour, and pepper (white for white, and freshly ground black for brown meats), have the sauce whatever it may be, ready prepared, and lay the meat in this, cover it down, and let it all soak together till wanted; then allow it to heat as gently and slowly as possible, being careful to remove the meat the moment it shows the least sign of cooking. As a general principle hashes are far better if made in what our grandmothers called a117 RECHAUFFES. hash-dish, now better known as the American chafing-dish (not the only thing by the way origi- nally our own, that we have received back under a new name from our thrifty cousins across the sea, and many thanks to them for it). A chafing-dish should form an indispensable part of the table service in any daintily inclined household. Hashes may be varied almost indefinitely according to the meat to be served. Mention has been already made of beef or mutton hash, and of salmi, which is simply a hash of game specialized by its rather strongly flavoured sauce ; then there is the fricassee, a hash of poultry usually, cut into neat joints instead of being sliced (this, reckoned in England a dainty name for a dish, lies under much the same obloquy in France as does our corresponding word, “hash,” at home, for, while we say of anyone blundering that he or she “ has made a hash of it,” so the French contemptuously dub a bad cook a fricasseur, and when wishing to describe an utter muddle, say scornfully c'est une veritable fricassee) ; then there is the emince, like our own hash produced from slices of beef or other meat, but in this case the meat in question is actually allowed to simmer steadily but gently for an hour exactly. It certainly is a delicious dish as anyone who tries the emince de bceuf aux tomates given further on will readily admit, but its chr'ef merit depends on the exact obedience paid to the cooking time, one hour, neither more nor less. Then again there is the gratin; this derives its name from the fact that the ingredients at the bottom of the pan, and on itsENTRIES. 118 surface, are gratines, or browned and caught by the beat of the disb in which they are cooked. For this purpose you require a fireproof china dish of nice appearance as it must come to the table; the white Limoges fireproof china is about the nicest, but there are also very pretty royal blue, and rich dark green dishes now to be had, that are well worth looking at. (Of course if preferred a silver dish may be used, but in this case be very particular to stand this on a folded sheet of kitchen paper, in a baking tin with boiling water about one-third the height of the inner silver dish, all round it, or else the latter will infallibly be burned, if not altogether spoiled. This hint may be well observed by cooks anxious to reheat any little plat without turning it out of its dish, but never forget the doubled sheet of paper as this absorbs the moisture and prevents the bottom of the silver dish from catching, as it infallibly would do, even if its sides were protected by the outside water). Having chosen your dish, in shape and size according to what you intend to use it for, strew the bottom with a fairly generous layer of freshly made sifted white breadcrumbs, finely minced parsley, mushrooms, shalot, young spring onions or chives (according to what you have), and either grated fat bacon or tiny morsels of clarified dripping or butter, according to the gratin you are making; these ingredients should properly be well mixed first, and then spread at the bottom of the dish; season with pepper and salt, then lay in your meat, and cover it with another layer of bread- crumbs, &c., putting on this some more tiny bits of119 RECHAUFFES. dripping or butter ; then pour over it a wineglassful of light French wine and the same of good clear stock, and bake in a quick oven from ten to fifteen minutes, watching it closely, and adding a very little more stock should it show signs of drying up too much. This is the general rule for preparing a gratin of any kind, but it is naturally subject to- variations according to the foundation meat; for instance if you intend to gratiner beef or mutton, alternate the meat slices with sliced tomato or par- boiled Spanish onions ; if veal or lamb, or chicken is used, employ sliced cucumber, artichoke bottoms, or mushrooms, whilst for veal or chicken some thinly sliced ham or tongue will also be found an addition; many people also approve of the addition of finely grated Parmesan cheese to the breadcrumbs and it undoubtedly adds a flavour; then others use red wine such as claret or Burgundy and brown stock for brown meat, leaving the white wine and the white stock for the more delicate meats, in short like most other rechauffes the gratin may be varied to suit individual tastes. Next comes the familiar (far too familiar) mince, almost as great a trial as hash, yet, like it, capable of all sorts of dainty developments, if we will accept the French hachis for our English mince. (By the bye, how few people seem to realise that the Scotch “ haggis ” is only a form of the French “ hachis.”) To begin with, please remember that for a mince deserving the name, the mincer must be taboo, unless its knives are kept in such a delicate condition of cleanliness and sharpness as to ensure the meat120 ENTRIES. being really minced (hackee, or chopped), and not torn and reduced to a stringy pulp, as is all but invariably the case if entrusted to the ordinary cook’s mincing machine. Choose your meat, what- ever it may be, and remember, if thriftily inclined, that the more kinds of meat used the merrier. Remove all skin, sinew, gristle, and a good deal of the fat, and chop it up as finely as possible with a sharp chopping knife; add to it a fifth of the quantity of meat, of sausage meat, and half as much breadcrumbs as you have sausage meat, seasoning it with pepper, salt, and a little parsley. Now put into a pan a nice piece of butter, according to the amount of meat you have, and, as soon as this melts, lay in a finely chopped shallot or a small onion, and let it brown delicately, keeping it stirred in the process. (Be careful your pan does not rest flat on the coals, or its contents will certainly catch.) Then turn into it the meat, &c., sprinkle it with a teaspoonful of fine flour, and keep it well stirred over the fire for five minutes, at all events (more if you have a rather large quantity of meat), then pour into it from half a gill of good stock upwards, according to quantity, and let it cook very gently over a slow fire for half an hour, when you add a tiny squeeze of* lemon juice, and serve garnished with fried croutons, plain or spread with savoury butter. This may be varied by serving it in a wall of potato, either nicely mashed and browned, or served in the form of potato snow. Or, again, a little curry powder may be fried with the onion, the mince being prepared exactly as before, plus the curry powder, and served in a wall of rice;121 RECHAUFFES. or tomato sauce, spinach, or mushroom puree, &c., can all be used as a change, or it may be served a VItalienne, i.e., with a wall of nicely boiled macaroni well mixed with grated cheese (equal quantities of Gruyere and Parmesan are nicest), black pepper, and a little salt, about |oz. or so (for an average dish) of butter being sprinkled over it in little bits; arrange this on a hot dish, place the mince prepared as above, in the centre, cover it all with more macaroni, &c., and set it in the oven for four or five minutes, and serve very hot. (This last, by the way, is an excellent way of serving the otherwise unpro- ducible remains of any poultry, rabbits, or game, the livers of the birds tossed in butter, some bits of broiled ham or bacon, and a mushroom or two being all great additions, and helping out the dish. This makes a decidedly appetising little dish out of the veriest scraps, as I can assert from frequent personal experience.) A wall of savoury rice used instead of the macaroni is also good. Any meat can be prepared in this way, and, if preferred, only one kind need be used; but the sausage meat is always a great improvement. The merits of mince are seldom appreciated from the lack of variety too often seen in its preparation. One version always stands out in my memory, from the fact that a friend suddenly turned up to share our meal on a day when our menu was distinctly scanty. Cook was a good soul, how- ever, and rose to the occasion, and, to my amuse- ment, the quaintest little fricassee helped out the broiled steak, which was our piece de resistance (we were but two in family in those days), which proved122 ENTREES. as palatable as it was attractive in appearance. When I questioned cook as to its origin, sbe laughed and told me that it was simply the meat scraped and cut from the remains of a joint which had already done duty twice, both in the dining room and the kitchen, and this meat she had mixed with scraps from the carcase of a fowl in the stock pot, a kidney left over from the morning’s breakfast, and some tiny rolls of bacon. “ And,” she added, “ I really had not time to mince the meat properly, so I just cut it into as neat shreds as I could.” She had then taken a half cauliflower (cold) intended to serve as a gratin next day, had broken it up small, mixing it with the melted butter over from the fish, together with some grated cheese, salt, and pepper (both white and red), had arranged it round a hot dish, and stood it in the oven till hot, when she had poured her fricassee into the middle, covering it all with tomato sauce made in a hurry with half a bottle of French tomato pui'ee, and a little stock from the stock pot. I was after- wards entreated by our guest’s wife for the recipe of “ that lovely little French dish you had the other night.” Fritters, again, are an excellent way of using up remains of any sort, fish, flesh, or fowl, especially if a few scraps of vegetables are used with them. Most people who have stayed in Italy have learnt to appreciate a well made frittura. The meat should be as varied as possible, and should always be marinaded for an hour or so before use in oil, lemon juice, sliced onion, parsley, &c. (using a gill of best salad oil, the juice of one medium lemon, three or123 RECHAUFFES. four sprays of parsley, one medium onion sliced, a bay leaf, and two or three peppercorns. This is sufficient for a good quantity.of meat; for instance, a whole chicken when cut up would only need half the above). Scraps of chicken, pieces of cold cooked veal cut into pieces the size of a florin, remains of sweet- breads, brains, cold tongue, sliced vegetable marrow, cucumber, artichokes, potato, broken-up cauliflower, &c., can, all and any, be used in this way, and the greater the mixture the better the dish. Only remember the cook must know how to fry to perfection before attempting this frittura. Frying is not by any means a difficult art, granted a little care and intelligence The three great points in fritter-frying are, good batter, plenty of friture (or frying fat), and a clear even fire. If you go in for this style of cookery it is well worth while to invest in a proper frying kettle; as this is, however, often rather an expensive item, it is just as serviceable to buy a pan known to iron- mongers as a “ fish pan,” which is simply a two- handled rather shallow fish kettle without a lid, and usually sold with a wire drainer, as it is generally used for frying fish in. This costs but a few shillings even in seamless steel, and is of course cheaper (though naturally not so durable) if bought in seamed tin. (This pan, of a fairly large size, I have, by the way, frequently utilised as a bain-marie.') Having seen that your pan is perfectly clean and dry, put in whatever friture you choose, being careful to have it when melted fully two inches deep, but see that there is from two and a half to three inches space above this to prevent any124 ENTRIES. cliance of boiling over, or any such like accident. With regard to the frying fat to be used opinions differ; oil is, of course, the favourite friture abroad, but its price is somewhat prohibitive over here, though, like every other fat, it can be used more than once. It, however, does not lend itself to economical use in the way other fats do, as once burnt there is no way of re-clarifying it. Jewish cooks often use pure cotton seed oil, which is much cheaper than good olive oil, but this, unless very refined, has a distinctly objectionable smell when cooking, which renders its use in particular households undesirable. Next to oil undoubtedly comes beef dripping, a medium objected to, however, greatly by many so-called “high class cooks,” partly through ignorance, partly through a dishonest fear of loss, as such persons appear to consider the sale of the household dripping a perquisite quite compatible with a character for honesty! However, considering so great a culinary authority as M. Goutfe considers it a distinctly praiseworthy frying medium, recom- mending the collection of all dripping from roast meat, and next to this the rendering down of good beef suet for frying purposes, it hardly becomes less competent authorities to reject this substance as “ impossible,” as I have before now heard it called by a haughty but ignorant soi-disant cordon-bleu. I may add a fact that may surprise a good many British housekeepers, and that is that the same high kitchen oracle utterly condemns the use of lard, as always carrying with it the risk (if not actually the inevitable certainty) of greasiness in whatever is125 RECHAUFFES. cooked in it! Butter is seldom to be recommended for frying as it beats up so quickly, and in con- sequence is liable to burn at very short notice. It should be remembered when oil is used that it must be very slowly heated, and be kept all the time at as low a temperature as is compatible with its use. Having settled your pan and your frying medium, the next thing to consider is the batter. For this mix the yolks of two eggs with two tablespoonf uls of good salad oil, and then work into this carefully and smoothly about 3|oz. of fine sifted flour, and half a saltspoonful of salt; when you have got this to a perfectly smooth paste add to it gradually enough tepid water to bring it to a smooth batter, that when finished will coat the spoon you use in mixing it sufficiently to hide the material of which the spoon is made whilst showing its shape. (If too thick, thin it carefully with a little more tepid water till you get it right.) This batter should be well beaten for ten minutes after mixing (at which time it should be a thick sauce), and as soon as ready should be set aside in a fairly warm corner, carefully covered with a doubled cloth, and allowed to stand at least two- hours before use. Just as it is to be used, stir into the batter lightly and quickly the white of one egg whipped to the stillest possible froth with a dust of salt. There are many forms of batter, and almost every household has its own special make, but the above will be found excellent for savoury use of all kinds, and the quantities given are sufficient for a small dish of fritters. When making fritters start126 ENTRIES. by having everything wanted at hand; have the basin of batter, covered with a cloth, at your side, and arrange the objects to be dipped in it neatly on a plate or dish, after carefully draining off the marinade. Have ready the fat, which should have reached the point of being perfectly still, with a very thin blue vapour just beginning to rise (if this vapour is too evident the friture is too hot, and anything put into it will burn) ; test the fat by throwing in a small piece of breadcrumb, and if it frizzles up, producing large air bubbles, andbrowns in under a minute, the fat is ready, and the fritters should be dropped in gently at once, being careful to have each one thoroughly covered with the fat. You should always use a wire fiying baslcet for this purpose, but if you do not possess one (which, however, every well arranged kitchen should do, as they are anything but costly utensils), lift each fritter out with a skimmer, and hold it over the pan for a minute or two to let the fat drain off; then at once lay it on a sheet of clean kitchen or blotting paper, or on a clean cloth. (Some cooks set the fritters as done on a wire drainer and stand them for a moment or two in the mouth of the oven or on the kitchen fender.) When quite dry dish them on a hot dish, piling them up and dusting them well with minced parsley, coralline pepper, &c., as you please. Remember not to crowd your pan; only so many should be fried at once as the pan will hold comfortably; but be sure and let the fat cool a little before putting in the next lot, or they will be burnt. Be sure to strain your fat each time after using it, by letting it cool for twelve or fifteenRECHAUFFES. 127 minutes after all tlie frying is finished, and then pouring it through a piece of clean muslin into a basin, and leave it till cold. If this is attended to, the fat can be used repeatedly. Full directions for the clarifying, &c., of fat will be found in the chapter on Odds and Ends. KromesMs are another method of re-serving meat, and are something between fritters and rissoles, as they are always cased in batter, and are often made with the farce mixture used for croquettes and rissoles. For these you can prepare any nice little ragout of any meat to taste, flavouring it with foie gras, truffles, mushrooms, oysters, &c., as you please. The various things to be used should be cut up fairly small, and then stirred over the fire for a few minutes in any rich sauce to taste, till mixed to a smooth paste, and then left till cold, when you should have ready thin slices of parboiled fat or French larding bacon, about one and a half inches broad by two and a half inches long; lay a tea- spoonful of the mixture (called in French cookery a salpicon) on each slice, roll them up, fixing the bacon with a little white of egg, then dip them with great care into the batter and then into the friture, and finish off precisely like the fritters. Orlies are another form of fritter, usually only made of white meat or fish, this being marinaded, and then finished off precisely as described above for fritters and served with a rich tomato sauce, and a garnish of fried parsley. It is the sauce and the parsley that transforms the ordinary fritter into an orlie, but brown meat cannot properly be treated thus, though128 ENTREES. it often is, and if not absolutely correct makes a particularly nice disk. Next come papillotes or cases, and these are a ” very good way of using up remains of any butcher’s meat. For these have the meat of a medium thick- ness, and cut two slices of fat bacon rather thinly for each piece of meat. Now have ready some heart or oblong - shaped pieces of white paper previously oiled and dried, and on each of these lay a slice of the bacon, then the meat seasoned with pepper and salt, and then the other slice of bacon, fold the paper over, twisting the edges tightly together, and broil for twelve to fifteen minutes over a clear fire. Serve in the papers and send to table a boat of any good sauce to taste, according to the meat used, with them. If liked a d’ Uxelles mixture may be spread on the bacon before laying in the meat, in which case when cooked the dish will be known as bceuf (or any other meat) en papillotes d la d’ JJxelles; if slices of chicken are used for this dish, put a slice of tongue and a slice of chicken between the slices of bacon, and just before twist- ing up the paper pour in a spoonful of rather thick tomato puree and finish up as before. This method can evidently be varied to taste. Closely connected with fritters, &c., are croquettes and rissoles. For these prepare a farce thus: mince finely the remains of a cold roast fowl, add to it half its bulk of finely minced ham or tongue, and the same of mushrooms, or a minced truffle or two if handy; stir over the fire to a smooth paste loz. each of sifted flour and butter, and when this is129 RECHAUFFES perfectly blended, stir in a gill of cream (or new milk) or stock, or equal parts of either, with a finely minced spray or two of parsley, one-third of a finely grated lemon rind, a squeeze of lemon juice, a grain of cayenne, and pepper and salt to taste, and when this is all mixed add in the minced chicken, Ac., and stir it all over the fire till thoroughly blended; then turn it out on a dish to Fig. 13. cool. When cold, shape portions of this into balls, cutlets, corks, or any shape you please, roll it in beaten egg, and then in finely sifted breadcrumbs and fry a golden brown in hot fat (exactly as for fritters). Or have ready some puff paste rolled out very thin, and either put little balls on half of a sheet of this as in illustration, Fig. 13, cover down the remaining half of the paste, and stamp it out K130 ENTRIES. with a fluted cutter as in Figs. 14 and 15 and fry in plenty of hot fat as before. If preferred, you may roll out the paste as before, stamp it out in rounds with the fluted cutter, place a teaspoonful of the mince on one half of the paste, folding the other half over, and pinching the moistened edges 'well together and giving the little croquette a half moon shape ; it can then be fried as it is, or dipped in broken-up vermicelli and fried. Drain thoroughly from all fat, and serve piled up with a garnish of Figs. 14 and 15. fried parsley. Any meat can be used for these, but be careful to vary the sauce and the seasonings, &c., according to the meat used. Another way of serving cooked meat is en pannequets, as French cookery books call it. For this prepare ordinary pancakes, being careful to have them pretty thin ; lay these pancakes out flat, and spread on each about two tablespoonsful of the rissole farce (having this a trifle more moist than for ordinary use),131 RECHAUFFES. and roll eacli pancake up. Now cut them into neat lengths, place them in the frying basket and fry a delicate golden brown. Serve well drained, with fried parsley. Another way of serving these pan- cakes is to cut each up into oblongs two inches wide by three inches long, spread a very thin slice of parboiled bacon on each (mind this is smaller than the pancake), spread the farce on this, roll it up, arrange them side by side on a buttered baking tin, brush them over with beaten egg, strew bread- crumbs over them and bake in the oven till of a golden brown. Omelettes fourrees are another very favourite method of serving cooked meat. Prepare an omelet in the usual way, and have ready any nice fish, flesh, or fowl, minced and heated in any good and rather thick sauce to taste ; just as the omelet is ready to serve, slip one or more good spoonsful of this mince according to size, into the omelet, fold it over and serve. Scallopped Meat, again, makes a pretty and in- expensive entree. For this you require some shells, either plate or china, though at a pinch paper cases oiled and dried will serve. Butter the shells generously, then lay in whatever meat you wish to U3e, minced fairly fine, and moistened with good sauce of any kind to taste to ensure its being nice and moist. Then sprinkle the surface with savoury breadcrumbs (i. e., crumbs mixed with salt, pepper, minced parsley, minced chives, minced mushrooms, or grated cheese to taste), and bake in the oven till the crumbs on the top are browned. A very pretty version k 2132 ENTRIES. of this dish, where shells are not available, are casso- lettes meringuees. For these take little paper or china cases previously oiled and dried, and nearly fill them with any delicate and rather moist mince available ; have ready some whites of egg beaten to a stiff froth and seasoned with coralline pepper, minced parsley, grated cheese, &c., to taste, and with a bag and plain pipe cover each of these rockily with the egg-white meringue and set it in the oven till the meringue is crisp and of a pretty fawn colour. Needless to say, these admit of many variations. For instance, if you use a chicken mince, lay a bearded and seasoned oyster on the top of each case befoi*e covering with the meringue as before ; with minced game a piece of foie gras or a small truffle may be used; or the case may have a layer of thick mushroom puree, the mince on this, and lastly the meringue. Turnovers, again, or patties, are very easily made if any scraps of pastry are available. Roll the paste out fairly thin and cut it into squares, place a thin slice of bacon on each square, and a spoonful of any mince on this, then fold the paste over diagonally, pinching the moistened edges of the paste well together, and bake. These can be eaten hot or cold, and are a very popular dish for shooting lunches, by the way. Some cooks mix a little cooked potato and onion with the mince and then call these Cornish pasties, though they are not, these properly re- quiring raw meats. Tiny patties of puff paste can also be used as cases for any rich savoury mince. Paupiettes are another pretty form of rechauffe. For these cut rather thin slices of any kind of meat,133 RECHAUFFES. spread them with any farce to taste, from d’Uxelles or veal stuffing to foie gras, pinch them lightly together, lay them on a buttered baking-sheet, dust them with flour, and bake till nicely browned, and serve with any nice sauce to taste. These paupiettes, like rissoles and suchlike things, depend greatly on their flavourings, and if success is to be attained this must be carefully studied. For instance, with white meat use veloute or bechamel for heating the mince, season with grated lemon rind, mushrooms, a tiny dash of nutmeg, and parsley, or use veal stuffing ; if brown meat is used, take rather strongly flavoured brown or espagnole sauce, onion, boned and minced anchovy, and even a suspicion of Worcester sauce if liked. The above will give a general idea of the methods of serving up cold meat as practised by good cooks, who, please remember, are all but invariably the most economical in the long run. In England an idea obtains that made dishes are necessarily insipid and inevitably extravagant. If the preceding recipes are intelligently and carefully followed, the result will certainly not be liable to the complaint of iustclessness. Whether they are extravagant or not will depend entirely on the housekeeper and the cook. For instance, if to make a dish of rissoles you insist on opening a tin of button mushrooms, or buying a lb. of fresh truffles, you certainly will not err on the side of economy. But if you once manage to make a cook understand the art of saving all her odds and ends you will be astonished to find how far these scraps will go in making tasty dishes. I haveENTRIES. 134 given a specimen in the emince au choufleur grating, and almost every good housekeeper can give similar examples. One of the prettiest specimens of this dainty economy is the egg cutlet, for which you require a hard hoiled egg, a slice or so of bacon left over from the morning's breakfast, a gill of melted butter from the previous night’s dinner, a spoonful or two of cooked peas, asparagus cut up, or mush- rooms, according to what you have over, and a little cold sweetbread, brains, or even tongue, cut into dice. This is all stirred together over the fire till well blended, then left to cool, and when cold, shaped into cutlets in your well-floured hands, dipped in beaten egg, and then in sifted breadcrumbs, and lastly fried in boiling fat till a golden brown, and served with fried parsley. This dish was once pre- pared by Mrs. A. B. Marshall at one of her lessons to show how scraps could be utilized (a subject, by the way, which she is very keen to impress on her pupils). She simply gathered up the scraps left over after an Entire Dinner Lesson, a perfect gallimaufry of odds and ends, and in about ten minutes turned out a dish of the daintiest little cutlets imaginable, fit for the most recherche lunch or breakfast. But if this kind of dainty housewifery is to be practised, it cannot be too firmly impressed on the cook that every scrap must be saved, and, moreover, saved tidily. Never stint your cook in the matter of larder plates; these can be cheaply purchased at any cheap china warehouse, and well repay their first cost. Scraps of vegetables, each on a separate saucer, neatly freed from grease and sauce, can be com-135 RECHAUFFES. fortably used again; but if huddled all on one plate, piled one on the other, they look, and indeed are, fit for nothing but that last refuge of the bad cook, the pig-trough. I can assert from experience that honest, respectable cooks can soon be taught this neatness, and are very quick in learning to utilise scraps daintily, especially when commendation is freely bestowed on their successful efforts.CHAPTER VIII. RECHAUFFES (continued). Attelets, or Atteratjx (as they are sometimes called) of Yeal and Ham.—Cut some nice cooked veal and some ham into neat squares about l|in. square and ^-in. thick, and thread these on tiny wooden, steel, or silver skewers alternated, be- ginning and ending with the veal; dip these in beaten egg, and then into fine sifted breadcrumbs, find fry them just sufficiently to heat the meat and colour the crumbs. Drain and serve on a napkin garnished with fried parsley. This dish can evi- dently be made with almost any meat. Rabbit especially is excellent if cut into neat pieces, and skewered alternately with equal-sized pieces of par- boiled fat bacon and mushrooms, dipped in very stiff sauce of any kind to taste, and then into fine breadcrumbs rather highly flavoured with salt and pepper, and fried as above. Or again an oyster may judiciously be introduced between the slices of meat find bacon ; whilst cooked ox palates make a delicious dish thus : Cut into inch squares some pieces of cooked ox-palates, some decidedly under- done roast beef, and some mushrooms ; place the two first in a basin, and season them with a good137 RECHAUFFES. cVUxelles mixture; now thread the palates, the bee! and the mushrooms, beginning and ending with the beef, dip them in a rich Yilleroi sauce, and then into seasoned breadcrumbs (a little grated Parmesan cheese is a great addition if mixed with the crumbs), and fry as before. Blanqueite.—This is simply a dainty hash of any white meat served in a blanquette, or white sauce, i.e., a sauce made on a bechamel foundation, seasoned with lemon juice and finely minced parsley. Naturally this dish can be varied indefinitely accord- ing to its adjuncts. For instance d Vancienne small pieces of pork (either fresh or salt) are cooked and served with the other meat, usually veal, with the addition of mushrooms ; or the meat may be mixed with ham or tongue, and served in a croustade of fried bread, with allemande sauce, though pro- perly this should be called d la poulette. In short, the variations are almost endless. Bobotjes.—This is a Malay dish originally, though it is also well known in India and in the Cape. Stir together over the fire one large onion finely minced and fried; a tablespoonful of curry powder or paste, fried in the pan after the onions; a pound of any cooked meat finely minced; an equal bulk of breadcrumb soaked in milk, stock, or water, and then squeezed fairly dry; the juice of half a lemon ; a gill of stock; one egg; and pepper and salt to taste ; when this lias cooked for five minutes pour it into buttered cups, stand these in a baking dish surrounded by hot water, and bake for half an hour in a quick oven. Serve in the cups, or if138 ENTREES. preferred turn out and send to table with a light curry sauce. Burdwan Stew.—Cut up a cold cooked chicken into neat joints, and dust these with fine flour, salt, and white pepper; slice down a pickled walnut, one or two pickled capsicums, and two blanched onions, mix these well with a glass of sherry, two of water or weak stock, and a spoonful of essence of anchovy; pour this all over the chicken, and let it all heat together gently. Lemon juice and a little white roux are an addition to this dish, which must be allowed to cook very gently till the onions are perfectly tender. Cannelons.—Mince down 2|lb. of underdone roast beef freed from skin, sinew, &c., and mix it with a pound of cooked and minced, or pounded ham, half the rind of a lemon grated, and some parsley, thyme, &c., well powdered or minced; season to taste with pepper, salt, and a dash of nutmeg, work in two eggs, and shape it into a roll (like a roly-poly pudding), wrap this in well oiled or buttered paper, and bake half an hour in a moderate oven. Now remove the paper, and serve on a very hot dish with any nice rich gravy or sauce poured over it, and if liked a garnish of forcemeat balls and tiny sausages. This dish is a capital and appetizing way of using up any kind of meat, white or brown, only being careful to vary the flavouring and the sauce, to suit the foundation meat. Cassolettes Meringuees.—Prepare some little casso- lettes of fried bread, about 2in. deep, and when crisp and of a pretty gold colour, brush the tops over139 RECHAUFFES. with warm butter, and dip them in minced parsley and coralline pepper ; have ready any kind of meat, fish, flesh, or fowl, cut into very tiny dice, and heat these in any suitable and rather thick sauce till hot, fill up the cases with the mixture, and pile them up rockily with stiffly whipped egg-white either plain, or seasoned with minced parsley, cheese, coralline pepper, &c., to taste, and bake in a moderate oven till delicately browned. In this, as in every case of rechauffe, the excellence of the dish depends on the delicacy of the sauce, and the daintiness of the service. Cones.—Mince finely l^lb. of veal or any white meat, with a good slice of ham, and pound it in the mortar with 2oz. of fresh butter ; now mix in four or five good tablespoonsful of cream (or new milk), or stock, white pepper, salt, and a little grated lemon rind to taste. Shape this mixture into neat cones about 3in. high, brush them over with beaten egg, and strew them with breadcrumbs; fry them in plenty of hot fat to a delicate golden brown, drain, and serve very hot, either dry with a garnish of baked crumbs, or with any nice gravy or sauce to taste. These are called veal, chicken, beef, or game cones according to the meat used. Croquettes de Bceuf d la Milanaise. — Prepare some beef croquettes according to the recipe given for croquette farce in the previous chapter, only using brown instead of white stock, and adding a little finely minced onion, a drop or two of essence of anchovy, and a little fat bacon to the mixture. Roll this in egg and breadcrumbs, fry, and serve on140 ENTRIES. a bed of boiled macaroni, tossed in a little butter, and seasoned well with black pepper, and grated cheese. Curries.—The meat for curry should properly be freshly cooked for the purpose, but very palatable dishes of this kind may be made with cooked meat, granted a little care. For the ordinary form pre- pare a nice curry sauce (see sauces), and when ready lay in the meat cut into neat pieces, with some hard- boiled eggs, either sliced or quartered, and leave it to soak in this for as long a time as you can afford ; when wanted heat very gently without allowing it actually to cook, and serve very hot with a dish of boiled rice. Few people realise how easy it is to re- serve curry. Let the curry left over stand in its dish, in its own gravy, till wanted, then stir in half an ounce each of butter and delicately fried onion, a teaspoonful of curry fried in the pan in which the onions were cooked, and a gill or so of milk, reheat gently, and you will be astonished to find what a tempting dish it will make. Another way of utilising the remains of a curry is the dry curry. For this lift the pieces of meat out of the curry with just so much sauce as will stick to them; melt half an ounce or so of butter (or even clarified dripping) in a pan, and lay in the meat, rather wide apart so that the pieces do not touch, and let them evaporate over a very slow fire, stirring them gently with a delicately clean wooden spoon, till the sauce becomes dry and powdery, when the meat will be ready. Cutlets in Cases.—Prepare a farce by mixing to- gether half a teacupful of finely grated breadcrumbs.RECHAUFFES. 141 a large tablespoonful of very finely minced fat bacon, a chopped shalot, a little minced parsley, salt, pepper, and nutmeg to taste, binding tlie whole with the well beaten yolks of two eggs ; have ready some neat slices of underdone veal, spread each with a layer of the farce, and roll them up, wrapping each first in a slice of fat bacon, and then in a sheet of well oiled paper, fry them then for about eight minutes, and serve in the cases garnished with fried parsley. Be careful to twist up the paper cases pretty tightly. Another form of these cases is to have ready a sheet of oiled paper; on half of this lay a slice of fairly fat bacon, next a layer of either d'TJxelles mixture, or simplv fine minced shallot or onion and parsley, and on this a slice of any underdone meat (beef or mutton is excellent thus), then more seasoning, and lastly another slice of bacon ; twist the halves of the paper tightly together to prevent the contents escaping, and broil it, or bake it in the oven, till the paper puffs out and begins to brown, when it is served at once in the paper cases. If preferred a spoonful of thick tomato puree may be used instead of the seasoning. Needless to say the meat may be of any kind, but vary the seasoning and the name accordingly. Cutlets, Coated.—Make a rich onion puree, by cooking; four or five onions in an ounce or two of butter or clarified dripping till tender enough to pulp through a sieve, then stir over the fire with the yolk of an egg, a spoonful of fine sifted flour, pepper and salt to taste; allow it all just to boil up, then142 ENTREES. turn it into a "basin to cool. Have ready some cold cooked mutton cutlets, and spread each of these a quarter of an inch thick with the cold onion puree, then dip into beaten egg and breadcrumbs and fry quickly a golden brown. These are excellent as they are, but even nicer if a little tomato sauce be served round them. Any very thick sauce or puree may be used in the same way, instead of the onion puree, and if cutlets run short supplement them with equal sized and shaped pieces of cooked meat. Fricassee a la Villeroi.—Slice down some cold cooked chicken and some tongue neatly, and lay these alternately in a well buttered dish sprinkled with salt, pepper, and finely grated Parmesan cheese, pour over this meat a layer of Villeroi sauce, and strew this with minced parsley, freshly grated crumbs, cheese, pepper, and salt, repeating these layers till the dish is full; then strew over it crumbs, &c., and tiny morsels of butter, and bake. Another form of this fricassee is to cut a cooked fowl into neat joints, mask them with the thick Villeroi sauce and when this has set, dip in a little egg, and crumb and fry it. Serve with rolls of fried bacon and parsley. Needless to say any meat can be done in this way. Fritot cle Bis de Veau.—Slice down the remains of a nice sweetbread and stamp them out in rounds with a plain cutter ; lay these rounds for an hour in a marinade of a tablespoonful of oil, a squeeze of lemon juice, and some parsley (remember that broken-down parsley stalks are quite as good for marinade as the leaves), then shake off most of the143 RECHAUFFES. marinade, dip the pieces of sweetbread into good frying batter and fry a golden brown in plenty of hot fat. Drain, dnst with coralline pepper, and serve alternately with slices of cooked tongue, heated in a little wine and stock between two plates in the oven. This can be served plain with fried parsley or with any nice vegetable garnish, or even mayonnaise, to taste. Kromeskis.—For these take small slices of fat par- boiled bacon and any delicate farce, as for croquettes, &c., to taste; roll the latter in the bacon, dip in frying batter, and fry in plenty of hot fat till of a golden brown, then drain and serve. A veiy nice kromesky may also be made by laying a thin slice of cold veal or chicken on the bacon and then an oyster on this, rolling it all up neatly and finishing as before. In short, these may be varied to any extent. Kew Mince.—Mince together very finely lib. of cold meat of any kind and 6oz. of suet; mix with this three or four tablespoonfuls of breadcrumbs, the beaten yolks of four eggs, a few drops of essence of anchovy, or one anchovy, washed, boned, and finely minced, with pepper, salt, and a glass of port wine. Pour it all into a well-buttered mould, and bake in a quick oven. Turn out and serve with any nice gravy or sauce to taste, round it. Miroton cle Bceuf.—Cut an onion into thin slices and fry this in plenty of butter or clarified beef dripping till it begins to colour, then dust in a little flour, add a wineglassful of white wine, half a pint of stock, pepper and salt to taste, and a teaspoonful of French mustard. When this has all simmered144 ENTRIES. together for a few minutes, lay in some slices of underdone beef (or mutton if liked), cut into neat, even, perfectly wedge-shaped pieces, and keep the whole at the side of the stove till the meat is thoroughly hot, but without allowing it to cook again. Miroton an gratin. — Slice down neatly some underdone meat of any kind, and lay these slices on a buttered tin, strewing them well with finely chopped mushrooms, parsley, chives, onions or shallot, and pour in at the side as much stock as will come level with, but not cover, the meat; strew grated and seasoned breadcrumbs freely over it all, and bake for twenty to thirty minutes till the moisture is nearly all evaporated. (If liked mix a little wine with the stock used in moistening it.) Miroton aux tomates.—Cut into neat slices some underdone beef or mutton, as for the first miroton, and heat these in a buttered baking tin, with peppey and salt and a little sherry, then dish them neatly iu a circle, on a hot dish ; add the liquor in the baking tin to half a pint or so of good tomato sauce, and let it just boil up, then pour it round and over the meat, filling up the centre with baked tomatoes or broiled mushrooms, as comes handiest. Miroton aux croutes.—Slice down neatly some cold cooked pork (or any meat may be used in this way), heat these slices as in the preceding recipe, only using stock or gravy instead of wine, dish in a circle alternately with croutons of fried bread; thicken the sauce with a little roux, stir in some good French mustard, or a spoonful of Spring’s horse-145 RECHAUFFES. radisli cream, and, as it is ready, stir in a ball of maitre d’hotel butter; add a squeeze of lemon juice and a dash of cayenne. Pour over and round the %> meat, filling up the centre with sautes, or straw potatoes. Miroton a la Japonaise.—Cut some thick slices of underdone roast beef or mutton, and hollow out one side of each ; fill this hollow with the remains of some oyster or shrimp sauce, or any nice mince tossed in a little rich gravy, or even a vegetable puree ; lay these slices together sandwich fashion, egg and crumb them, and bake in the oven in a well buttered tin till quite hot, basting them well with a little butter. Serve on a puree of any kind of vegetables. Miroton aux choux.—Slice down some cold beef, preferably cold boiled beef, and heat it by tossing it over the fire till hot and beginning to colour. Have ready some cold cooked greens of any kind, with one- third of their bulk of cold cooked potato ; chop them up together, seasoning them with salt, pepper, and a little finely minced onion. Add to them a little butter or clarified dripping, and stir it all over the fire till quite hot; then dish it in a mound, with the fried beef round, and send to table at once. If preferred, pack the chopped vegetable in a buttered cup or jar, and bake till ready to turn out, and use as before. This is really a French version of “ bubble and squeak,” the only difference being that they generally use the fresh bouilli from the pot au feu. Miroton a la Chasseur.—Make a good sauce with an ounce or two of brown roux, and half a pint of L146 ENTRIES. brown stock. When this is well blended stir into it a glass of port wine, a teaspoonful of walnut or mushroom ketchup, and a teaspoonful of made mustard; have ready some wedge-shaped pieces of underdone brown meat (game or venison are the originals of this dish, but good hill or moor mutton makes a delicious dish), and heat these in this sauce; when hot, dish the meat neatly in a circle, pour the thickened sauce in the centre, and serve garnished with bunches of mixed pickle. Miroton a la Tartare.—Dip some neat pieces of underdone meat in liquefied butter, and then into fine breadcrumbs, and broil it gently till nicely browned, when you serve it with a rich tartare sauce in a boat. Miroton ct la Diable.—Prepare a sauce with an ounce or two of roux and half a pint of strong gravy or stock; stir into this three red capsicums or chillies, pounded smooth, with a tiny pinch of saffron and two spoonfuls of minced pickles; simmer this all till nicely coloured, then lay in some neatly trimmed slices of underdone cold beef, previously dusted with cayenne, and when these are hot dish in a circle with the sauce in the centime and a garnish of fried croutons spread with cayenne butter, and slices of lemon. Miroton a la minute.—Cut the meat into rather long thin slices, roll it in flour, and fry a delicate brown in hot butter; drain them well, and keep them hot. Meantime pour into the pan as much gravy or stock as you will require, a spoonful each of essence of anchovy and chilli vinegar, and two or three147 RECHAUFFES. shredded shalots; stir this altogether over the fire till thoroughly hot, then pour it over and round the meat, garnishing with fresh parsley. Oliveau.—Mince finely and mix well together |lb. kidney suet, lib. of meat, and 4oz. of breadcrumb soaked in gravy; mince this all till as fine as sausage meat, then bind it with two or three eggs, season to taste, and bake in buttered cups or little moulds; turn out and serve with a rich sauce of any kind. (These are delicious made of game, with fat ham, and a rich Richelieu sauce.) Olives aux Huitres.—Chop together till fine lib. of underdone mutton fillet (the inside of the loin), -lib. of beef or veal kidney suet, and a pint of oysters scalded and bearded. Mix this all well together, seasoning it with white pepper, salt, and a little mace, bind it with tn egg, roll it into finger length rolls, dip in liquefied butter and breadcrumbs and fry a golden brown. Serve on a napkin with fried parsley. (This is excellent made of the remains of a cold fowl; the veriest scraps will do.) Potato Ragout.—Parboil and mince finely an onion, with 2oz. of any cold cooked meat and loz. of ham, stir to it 3oz. mashed potato, one and a half teaspoonfuls of mixed herbs (parsley, chives, &c.), the yolks of two eggs, and seasoning to taste. When ready stir in lightly and quickly the whites of the eggs beaten to the stiffest possible froth, drop this in small spoonfuls into boiling fat, and fry a golden brown. Drain well and served piled high on a napkin. The great thing about this is to have the fat at the right l 2148 ENTRIES. heat and to drain the little ragouts well, or they will be hopelessly greasy. Poulet a la Ghipolata.—Peel and stew some nice chestnuts till tender but not broken, slice down some cooked carrots and some small silver onions pre- viously blanched, having about twelve or eighteen of each according to your dish; cut down some cold cooked sausages into pieces to match; and put all these into a pan with some button mushrooms, and enough good veloute or bechamel to heat it all well; slice down the flesh of a cold cooked fowl into neat little fillets, lay it into the sauce with the rest, and heat it all together; then dish on an entree dish with fried croutons spread with maitre d’hotel or truffle butter. (This is a capital way of serving cold turkey.) Poulet aux champignons. — Lay some nicely cleaned and trimmed mushrooms in a pan in which you have previously melted a good piece of butter, and before their juice begins to run out, dredge them lightly with a little sifted flour, moistening it gradually with two parts of -white stock to one of light white wine ; season it with white pepper, salt, and a little nutmeg, lay in the chicken sliced down, or cut into neat little joints, as is most convenient, and let it all get hot. Serve in an entree dish garnished with fried croutons and tiny rolled rashers of broiled bacon ; or it may be served similarly garnished in a fried bread croustade. (Any meat can be served in this way, but white meat is perhaps the best.) Poulet d Veslragon. — Slice down neatly someRECHAUFFES. 149 chicken (or any white meat), and heat it in a little good white stock; adding gradually enough tarragon vinegar to season it, and just as you are about to serve it, strew over it some minced green tarragon leaves. Decorate with croutons spread with ham butter, and season with coralline pepper and a few drops of lemon juice. Poulet en Puree.—Pound till smooth |lb. of minced chicken (or any white meat), then work into it the yolks of three raw eggs, 2oz. freshly ground (or pounded) almonds, and half pint single cream or new milk; rub down smoothly lfoz. creme de riz, in a gill of milk, and stir it over the fire with three- quarters of a pint of strong chicken stock, until it boils, when you add to it the chicken, almonds, &c., and stir it all over the fire till thick, but without letting it boil. Serve piled up in a dish with a garnish of oysters, seasoned with lemon juice and cayenne, dipped in batter and fried. Poulet d la Cocasse.—Wipe some nice mushrooms over with lemon juice till clean, then dry them in a clean cloth and mince them; pull the meat from a, cold cooked fowl into little shreds, and mix this with grated ham, the minced mushrooms, and some bearded oysters; stir into half pint of rich veloute the liquor of the oysters, and the yolk of an egg beaten up with a spoonful of cream, and stir the mince into this over the fire for ten minutes, then serve in tiny china cases (small fried bread croustades, or paper cases previously oiled and dried), strewing over the top some delicately browned fried bread- crumbs.ENTRIES. 150 Poulet en fricot a V Orlie.—Prepare the flesh of some cold cooked chicken (rabbit, veal, or indeed any meat may be used in this way), as for rissoles, and when cold take little pieces of this farce, roll it into tiny cutlet shapes between your well floured hands, roll it in a slice of parboiled fat bacon, egg and breadcrumb it, or dip it in frying batter, and fry it a golden brown, drain well, and serve piled up cutlet fashion (en bnisson) in the centre of a hot dish with a rich tomato sauce round it. Tomates a la Beyniere.—Split the tomatoes at the side, and with a teaspoon remove the seeds and the pulp. Mince the latter with fine herbs (parsley, chives, &c.), a suspicion of shallot, and any fine mincemeat at hand (such as fine sausage meat, minced chicken, game, ham, &c., seasoning it all lightly with pepper, salt, and a very little grate of nutmeg. Pill the tomatoes with this farce, set them on a buttered baking dish, sprinkling them with very finely sifted bread raspings, and bake till nicely browned in the oven. Many cooks prefer to cut off the stalk end of the tomato, leaving it as a kind of cup, filling it up as befofe. Aubergines, or egg plants, are very good cooked in this way; baked potatoes are also very good treated thus, baking them, removing the floury potato, and mixing it with a rather liquid mince of any delicate kind, then, after seasoning it rather highly, replacing the cut off top and returning it to the oven till as hot as fire will make it. Vegetable marrows, and cucum- bers, also are often scooped out in the same way, filled up with a mince mixed with their own pulp,RECHAUFFES. 151 tied back into shape, and steamed or stewed in butter till cooked, then dished after removing- the tape, and served with any nice white sauce poured over them. Onions again are admirable stuffed. Peel and blanch some good equal-sized onions for fifteen minutes, then remove a little from the centre, and replace it with an equal quantity of good, highly-seasoned beef force-meat or sausage meat, binding this farce with an egg, or a nicely seasoned sheep’s kidney may be used; arrange them on a buttered baking dish, strew a few browned breadcrumbs over them, and bake in a sharp oven till nicely browned. Serve very hot. Black game is excellent cooked thus, though any nice mince of cooked meat does well for it.CHAPTER IX. CHAUFROIX, AND OTHER COLD DISHES. During the last few years, in which the general culinary taste has been more and more cultivated, and in consequence a more delicate style of cookery has become popular, cold dishes have grown in general favour, for two reasons: I. their palatable nature ; II. the convenience they afford to the cook, who can prepare them beforehand, before the hurry and bustle of the actual dinner is upon her; indeed it is to the (more or less) professed she-cook that these dainty dishes are so acceptable, for in very few houses has she so much assistance as to enable her to dispense with the time-saving chaufroix, or aspic. Unfortunately the ‘cordon bleu aforesaid has not altogether grasped the correct nature of the cold dishes she serves, and consequently mixes up chau- froix, aspic, and even salad, in a manner more than disconcerting to the connoisseur, and certainly not intended by the inventors of these various methods of food preparation. As a general principle, cold dishes may be roughly divided into three classes, chavfroix, entrees en aspic, and mayonnaises. Curiously enough there is a certain mystery connected with each of the three. The origin of the name chaufroix, orCHAUFROIX, &c. 153 chaudfroid, as some still spell it, is open to dis- cussion. Some people say it takes its name from chaud, hot, and froid, cold, the dish having been originally served hot before it made its appearance as a cold entree. The great objection to this, how- ever, is that, properly speaking, a chaufroix is by no means a re-serving of bits left over. On the con- trary (in spite of a legend that it owes its name to the fact that some great man was delayed by business till his dinner was cold, and having no time to have it re-heated, ate it as it stood and was so pleased with the result that he requested to have such dishes served in future as cliaudfvoids), the fact remains that for a proper chaufroix the meat used should be specially cooked for the purpose. It follows therefore that the balance of probability is in favour of the theory mentioned in the well known French gastronomic review, L'Art Culinaire, “ that its name was derived from its inventor Angilon de Chaufroix, chef-entremetier des cuisines de Versailles” who flourished about 1774. Aspic again is like Jeems de la Plush, “ wropped in mistry ”; some people advance a somewhat gruesome suggestion that it is derived from the foundation jelly being made from asps, or aspics, or small vipers; viper broth being still in request in many out-of-the- way parts, as a restorative, most nourishing for various kinds of invalids. Those who reject this, declare it owes its name to its snake-like coldness and slipperiness. The real fact however is that it derives its name most probably quite simply from espic, the old French name for lavender (in connec-ENTRIES. 154 tion with which it may be mentioned that the common lavender of the herb garden is still called in many country places “espic or spike-lavender”), which of old was of considerably more importance as a pot-herb than it is in the present day. As a matter of fact it is mentioned by Grimod de la Reyniere in the Almanack des Gourmands, in company with fenouil (fennel), ciboule, and cibouleites (chives), espic (lavender), &c., as a flavouring herb in much request. Lavender has been historically known as popular for many generations, and is said to have actually derived its common English name from its use as a perfume in the laundry; for of old the laundress or washerwoman was always spoken of as a lavender, from laver, to wash; whilst espic, or spike-lavender as it was called indifferently in the kitchen, was the name given to the herb used for flavouring. Mayonnaise again is, if possible, more inexplicable still, and is spelt in all sorts of ways by all sorts of authorities. Mayonnaise (said to be derived either from a duke of Mayenne at the time of the Fronde) ; Mahonnaise (from the town of Mahon), Magnon- naise (from an old Prove^ale word meaning to labour, or to tiro, from the fact that the proper mixing of the sauce and the salad herbs with which it was prepared was a tiresome operation ; a fact still remembered in the technical French term for mixing a salad, i.e., fatiguer la salade, whence as salads were usually mixed and stirred by the youngest lady present—generally with her hands—she was called la magnonnaise or tirer) ; are some of the variations155 CHAUFROIX, &c. of the word, which appears, however, nowadays to have crystallised into the phrase mayonnaise, and to be referred most usually to the actual sauce or dressing. Broadly speaking chaufroix are pieces of meat covered, or masked over, with an appropriate sauce, thickened by boiling in, or reduction, till it has become an actual glaze. The great chefs of old were famous for their sauces a reduction, to produce which they boiled down joints and carcases to an essence, or fumet, as a strong glaze-like sauce is still called in the French cuisine. This, however, was necessarily a somewhat costly method of preparing sauces, and only suited to the households of such as could afford to postpone considerations of economy to the gratification of their palates. So as demo- cracy spread even into the kitchen, cooks learnt first to utilise stiff meat jelly (made from inferior joints and bones) for the foundation of their sauces, and thus diminished the boiling-in process needed to ensure the density of the preparation; and then latterly, even well known chefs availed themselves of the stiffening properties of isinglass, and later on of the finest leaf gelatine. Prepared as they taught, sauces stiffened with either isinglass or the finest leaf gelatine, betrayed no trace of the strengthening medium which they carefully dissolved in the sauce, i and boiled down with it till the desired consistency, and the perfect cooking of the gelatinous matter, was f secured. Of itself, if of good quality, the stiffening * medium possesses no distinctive flavour, and if cooked to the point of dissolution and smoothly blended with whatever it is mixed, leaves no trace ofENTREES. 156 1 its presence beyond the dainty firmness, and the delicate glazy surface it imparts. But this delicacy is the outcome of knowledge and care, and as its use descended to those who possessed neither that know- ledge nor that care, only the result, i.e., the stiffness of such sauces, was noted, and as to such persons gelatine was gelatine, and cost was a consideration, sufficient attention was not bestowed on the quality of the stiffening substance; so when carelessly melted (more or less) in boiling sauce, it was discovered to be lumpy, and very often distressingly rough and gluey in flavour; accordingly a substitute was sought for and discovered in the bottled aspic jelly offered by various enterprising firms as a garnish, in which the rough taste of the gelatine was hidden by the flavouring. This being convenient, was accordingly added recklessly to any sauce that was to be used cold, regardless of the nature of the latter. As a matter of fact the strong taste of vinegar, flavoured or plain, which is such a marked characteristic of aspic jelly, is absolutely destructive of the delicacy of any sauce of which acidity is not a feature, overpowering as it does the natural savour of the foundation condiment. A sauce made by the modern “ good cook’s ” formula of dissolving from one to two parts of aspic jelly in one part of sauce may produce a nice smooth masking-sauce, which, to the average diner-out, is possibly palatable enough ; but to the gourmet it leaves a good deal to be desired, and if served as a chaufroix (without the qualifying en aspic) is distinctly a mistake. Aspic jelly may be added with impunity to any sauce157 CHAUFROIX, &c. which contains vinegar or acids of any kind, such as mayonna'se, mint, raifort, or even tomato sauce, but it utterly destroys the delicate flavour of supreme or bechamel sauce, and entirely changes the character of such full-bodied sauces as the Espagnole, or the Richelieu. Aspic chopped, or in blocks, may be used as a garnish to any cold dish a discretion, on con- dition that it is a garnish only, i.e., so served that its consumption is not unavoidable by those to whom its acidity is repugnant. As a proof of the truth of this assertion try the following, the first, the supreme en chaufroix of the first-rate chef; the second, the ordinary poulet en aspic, otherwise supreme, of the average “ professed cook.” For the first, remove the fillets from the breasts of one or more fowls accordino- to quantity, slice these down neatly, into fairly thick fillets, and place them on a well buttered baking tin, seasoning them with white pepper, a very little salt, and a squeeze of lemon juice, cover with a buttered paper, and cook in the oven for eight or ten minutes. When cooked lay the fillets on a dish, reverse another over them, and lightly weight this to press the chicken fillets till perfectly cold. Meanwhile prepare a delicate white sauce by dissolving an ounce or more of butter, blending it to a perfectly smooth paste with about an ounce of fine sifted flour, and then moistening this with rich white stock, either entirely made from chicken bones, &c., or of these and veal stock in the proportion of one- third veal to two-thirds chicken stock, delicately flavoured with lemon juice, mushrooms, and parslev; when well blended and smooth dissolve in this \oz.158 ENTRIES. of the very best leaf gelatine (I always use Mrs. A. B. Marshall’s gelatine, as for these delicate pre- parations the most easily soluble and most tasteless kind is indispensable) for each pint of sauce; let it all boil together till reduced about one-fourth, then add a gill of double cream for each pint of sauce, and use just as it is setting. Put the pan containing this sauce in another half full of warm (not boiling) water to keep it just at setting point, lift each fillet separately on a broad-bladed or palette knife, and pour over it (or “ mask ” it, as it is technically called) the stiffen- ing sauce from a spoon, being careful to cover it all thickly and smoothly, and then leave it till set. The masking must then be repeated, only this time use meat jelly prepared as below instead of the sauce, to ensure the surface being nicely glazed. When set, dish the fillets neatly in a circle alternately with sliced tongue, foie gras tniffe, or plain truffles as you choose, filling up the centre with turned and farced olives, tiny cubes of foie gras, salad, &c., to taste, either with a plain or a mayonnaise salad dressing, and serve. If you prepare a supreme in this way and mount it on a border mould of cold chicken cream set in a mould lined with the chicken jelly, and fill up the centre with oysters bearded, and tossed in white mayonnaise and crisped celery, serving it as Supreme a VAmericaine, you will score a distinct success. I do not recommend this as an economy, for, as I have observed before, a supreme can never, from its nature, be anything but an expensive dish (though properly managed as I have also previously shown, it need not be extravagant),159 CHAUFROIX, &c. but it is most certainly, if carefully made, a very seductive one. For the meat jelly put into a delicately clean pan loz. of leaf gelatine, a pint of well flavoured stock (white or brown, according to the use you intend putting it to), a sliced onion, a bay leaf, a bunch of herbs, a few peppercorns and allspice mixed, and the white and shell of an egg, and bring these all very gently to the boil, whisking them well together till the boil is just reached, then run it all through a wanned jelly bag. It should be crystal clear, but if not, strain it through the bag again. How for the second version of this dish : Prepare the conventional white sauce of commerce, stiffen it with vigorously acidulated aspic jelly in the propor- tion of two parts aspic to one of white sauce, and with this mask thickly some slices cut from a cold fowl, either roast, boiled, or stewed, as may be con- venient, and when this first coating is set, glaze with the plain aspic, and serve, in all probability with slices of tinned tongue’and canned peas, or a tinned macedoine. How, I do not for one moment assert that if carefully prepared this roughly described dish may not result in a distinctly appetising little entree on an emergency, and if the masking sauce is well flavoured, the aspic not unduly acid, and especially if the dish be modestly styled chicken in aspic, and tinned garnish be eschewed, it will meet with much approval, but a supreme en chaufroix, or en aspic, however nicely prepared, it simply is not, and never will be ! For an entree en aspic, the meat used may, or may not, have been cocked for the purpose. Of course.ENTRIES. 1G0 it is daintier in the former case, but if nicely pre- pared, cold meat can be used up in this way most successfully. The great thing with all these cold dishes is great neatness and simplicity in the serving. All appearance of handling must be most scrupu- lously avoided A certain amount of garnish is, of course, almost cle rigueur, but care must be taken not to overdo it. A safe rule for cold savourv entrees is to restrict the colourings religiously to such as may be naturally obtained. I do not say that they may not be judiciously helped out on occasions with a few drops of artificial colouring, but in this case impress on your cordon bleu. Hamlet’s advice to players, “ with this special observance, that you o’erstep not the modesty of nature . . . but hold, as ’twere, the mirror up to nature ! ” A large scale of colour may be obtained by the judicious use of coralline pepper, shrimps or prawns, tomatoes, radishes, &c., for reds ; greens of all shades, from the soft grey-green of the olive or the pale sea green of the cucumber, to the almost black green of caviar; the black of the truffle; the yellow and white of the hardboiled egg, &c.; all these may justifiably be utilised, whilst dark or pale golden aspic chopped, or in cubes, adds brightness to any dish with which it may be in harmony. The recipes given in the next chapter will serve to show how these various addenda may be utilised, and an intelligent cook will very soon learn to vary her entrees almost indefinitely. Lastly come the mayonnaises. As a general principle the foundation of these is the mayonnaiseCHAUFROIX, &c. 101 sauce. For tliis a recipe is given in the chapter dedicated to sauces, hut it may be varied in plenty of ways; for instance, the blending together of a gill each of rich mayonnaise, tomato puree, and just liquid aspic, with a spoonful of tarragon vinegar, produces a beautiful tomato mayonnaise, which may be made with tomato ketchup (in this case omit the subsequent vinegar), conserve de tomates, or the fresh vegetable, as you choose. If necessary, a drop or two of carmine may be permitted to bring up the colour, but for pity’s sake do not overdo this ! Eemember that though every mayonnaise is more or less of a salad, a salad is not necessarily a mayonnaise. A mayonnaise is especially dear to the economic, if dainty, housewife, as by its means so many pretty dishes may be improvised at comparatively short notice out of the veriest scraps. For instance, say you have on the previous day had a duck for dinner, which, though but little has been eaten, has been decidedly mangled in the carving. Cut this duck up into the smallest and neatest joints, mix together three large tablespoonfuls of rich mayonnaise with half a pint of just liquid aspic, stirring into this as you mix it two tablespoonfuls or so of minced and blanched olives, a good dust of coralline pepper, and, if at hand, a tablespoonful of stiffly whipped cream, mask the duck joints with this, and leave them till set. Have ready some quartered cabbage lettuce, carefully removing the outer leaves ; break up these outer leaves as small as possible with your fingers (do not use a knife on any consideration), mix them MENTRIES. 162 with any scrapings from tho carcase of the duck, a few minced olives, some washed, honed, and filleted anchovies, and half a pint of rich mayonnaise sauce. Arrange a thick bed of this on a dish, pile the mayonnaise-covered joints on top and surround it all with the quartered lettuce, some quartered hard- boiled eggs, and, if at hand, a little finely chopped aspic jelly, and you will have a dish no one need be ashamed of. A variante of this, obtained by coating the duck joints with cold Bigarade sauce mixed in the same proportions with aspic jelly as the mayon- naise, may be served on a Russian salad made of all kinds of cold cooked vegetables, anchovies, hard- boiled egg, &c. Or you may make a chaufroix by dissolving |oz. of best leaf gelatine in, say, half a pint of very thick brown olive sauce, letting it boil in a quarter part, and then using as it is setting. Cold mutton, if cut into neat little wedge-shaped pieces and marinaded as described in the first chapter, then masked with Chevreuil sauce (stiffened with from joz. to |oz. of leaf gelatine to the half pint of sauce when boiled in, and served with any salad convenient — preferably French bean salad, made by tossing some cold cooked beans in a mixture of oil, lemon juice, and seasoning to taste), is a very dainty form of “ cold mutton.” The plain cold mutton can also be turned into an attractive dish if coated with tomato aspic and served with any kind of salad tossed in mayonnaise. Wedge-shaped fillets cut from cold roast beef are excellent if masked with Lorraine sauce, i.e., a gill, each of good brown sauce, tomato puree or conserve, and aspic,163 CHAUFROIX, &c. with half a wineglassful of sherry, and a teaspoon- ful of chili vinegar, all just boiled up together with a seasoning of black pepper, salt, and caster sugar, then used when just setting, and served with a mayonnaise of oysters and crisped celery. If you have time to prepare it, Neapolitan sauce is delicious with cold roast beef, made thus : Scrape a nice stick of horseradish very finely, and put it on the fire with 2oz. of glaze (or Liebig Co.’s extract of meat), a small pot of currant jelly, half a pint of red wine, and half a gill of much reduced espagnole sauce, brought to the boil with j[-oz. of leaf gelatine, and simmered together for twenty minutes, then tammied and either used as a mask or left on ice and used as a sauce, as you please. While on the subject of mayonnaise, it may be well to remark that many a good plated dish is irremediably spoilt by the acid of tlie dressing; therefore if you are going to use one of these dishes run over it all a layer of aspic jelly about the thick- ness of a florin and let this set quite hard before arranging the mayonnaise in it. Tins will effectually protect the dish, and is easily removed by washing the latter in boiling water. To coat the dish you proceed exactly as in coating a mould, i.e., you jDour the jelly, when just on the point of setting, into the dish and turn the latter round and round in youi hands till the slowly coagulating jelly is evenly distributed over its surface. Lastly there are the souffles glaces, and the coquilles, or cases, en mayonnaise. These are very simply prepared. For the souffle, mince down the meat m 2164 ENTREES. rather coarsely and either season it with a plain oil and vinegar dressing, or with mayonnaise of any kind. Have ready a neatly papered souffle dish, and lay in first a layer of aspic whipped to a stiff froth, then a layer of the seasoned meat, then more whipped aspic, and proceed thus till the dish is full right to the top of the papered band, and leave it on ice till set, when you remove the paper band, and send to table. This can be made with any scraps of meat, fish, flesh, fowl, or game as you please, of course varying the dressings to suit. For instance for white meats use white mayonnaise, or Maximilian sauce (for this adding enough tomato puree to tartare sauce to get it to a delicate pale pink); or Iriandaise sauce (a gill each of rich, thick mayonnaise, stiffly whipped cream, and aspic jelly, seasoned to taste with tarragon vinegar, coralline pepper, and caster sugar, with enough greening to bring it all to a faint green; then stir into it the shred meat, and about half a gill of separately cooked and shred young vegetables, such as young carrots, turnips, peas, cucumber, &c.). For game use Richelieu or Espagnole stiffened with leaf gelatine; whilst for beef or mutton few things beat tomato mayonnaise Or Gorgona sauce (i.e., tartare into which you have mixed a spoonful of essence of anchovies, a spoonful each of minced parsley and chives, and of tarragon vinegar, a washed and minced anchovy or two, the pulp of two raw tomatoes, and a gill of aspic jelly for each gill of tartare). The coquilles or cases may be served in either china or silver shells or cases, or in paper cases asCHAUFROIX, &c. 165 you please, and consist of all sorts of tiny scraps of meat, sucli as chicken, game, cold roast meat, brown or white, cold cooked brains, sweetbread, ham, tongue, &c., according to what you have, mixed with capers, minced olives, young cold cooked vegetables, fillets of anchovy, minced truffles, &c. In short all and every kind of scraps, but depending for their success entirely on the way the said scraps are harmonised and mixed with the sauce, and garnished. A recipe or two for this kind of dish will be given in the next chapter. The only thing to remember with these pretty little dishes is that though distinctly economical, they need foresight, and in this as in every case the woman who cannot pay with her purse must pay with her person, as the French say. Whenever by any chance there is a surplus in the domestic budget, employ some of this in the judicious purchase of a few odds and ends, such as a bottle of good olives, another of anchovies in brine, or the same fish in oil, some stuffed olives, a pot or two of any nice paste, such as anchovy, cod’s roe, shrimp, &c., a bottle or two of capei’s, and last but not least, some pretty moulds, and china or paper cases in profusion. It is a great stimulus to the cook who has really done her best with homely tools, to bring her in, say, a dozen of any pretty little moulds of a fancy shape; a pastry rack for masking her chaufroix on; some little knives for “turning” (i.e., cutting vegetables artistically), a potato slicer, &c.; such things bought singly do not run into much money individually, and add enor- mously to the comfort of the cook, and the using ofENTREES. 166 otherwise wasted scraps. Well do I remember find- ing one day in the larder a saucerful of tiny morsels of flaked fish flanked by some skin and the bones and trimmings of the fish. “ Why, you have for- gotten to give Pussy her supper last night! ” I observed. “ Pussy’s supper, ma’am, indeed no ! She had it all right enough ; why that’s my savoury for to-night, ma’am! ” and sure enough, up came some tiny little souffles that evening evolved from scraps I should have thought any cook justified in emptying into Pussy’s plate. If we only realised it, servants are as fond of fancy work as their mistresses, and if you teach your cook to look on these little dishes as fancy work it will add enormously to the daintiness of your menu, whilst actually reducing the weekly sums inscribed in those dreadful red-covered “ weekly-books,” which are such a nightmare to most housewives. Only don’t begin encouraging this culinary embroidery on the score of economy, please! Admire their beauty, and their niceness, and so get her into the way of such things, and you will gradually find her amour- propre is wakened to the amusement of contriving into what shapes she can twist remnants that other- wise she would have denounced you as a skin flint for wishing to utilise.CHAPTER X. CHAUFROIX AND OTHER COLD DISHES. (Continued). Aspic eh Belle Vtje.—For tliis decorate some small timbale moulds in this way: Slice down a. hard-boiled egg one-eighth of an inch thick, and with a plain round cutter, about the size of a threepenny piece, stamp out rounds of the yolk, and cut the white into lozenge-shaped pieces; line the moulds with clear aspic jelly and just as this is setting place the yellow round in the centre, arranging the lozenge-shaped pieces round it like a daisy, or a sun- flower, and set this decoration with a little more aspic; now pour in a layer of aspic about a quarter of an inch thick, then place on it a similar layer of sliced foie gras, or ham and chicken cream, or any nice potted game, &c., rubbed up with a little thick cream, and fill in with these two layers till the moulds are full; then put them aside till set when they may be turned out and served either on an aspic jelly border, or surrounded with shred lettuce tossed in a rich mayonnaise. The same dish, if fined with meat jelly as described in the previous chapter, garnished with a daisy of truffle and filled with alternate layers of chicken cream mixed with pate cle foie gras, and iavourv jelly, may be served on a1G3 ENTREES. border of salad, tossed in a French salad dressing O I and packed in a border mould lined with savoury jelly, as ckaufroix de volatile en belle vue. En belle vue invariably implies a certain amount of decoration of the dish in question. Aspic d la Royale.—Toss together till well mixed, tiny round pieces of cold cooked chicken the size of a half crown, sliced truffle, rounds of tongue, mush- rooms, and a bottle of financiere garnish (quenelles, cockscombs, &c.) in sufficient white chaufroix sauce; then with this mixture fill a plain timbale mould previously lined with clear savoury (chicken) jelly, covering it all with a good layer of jelly, and leave it till quite set, when it is turned out and served gar- nished with chopped aspic and a tomato salad dressed with a rich mayonnaise dressing. Aspic aux Tomates a VAmericaine.—Prepare a richly coloured tomato aspic, and with it line a border mould pretty thickly; then fill the latter with a mixture of shred chicken, ham, tongue, sweetbread, &c., as you please, covering it with a finishing layer of tomato aspic, and put it aside till set; when it is turned out and the centre filled up with a mixture of celery (cut up into strips and thrown into water to crisp) and blanched walnuts, using one-third the quantity of walnuts that you have of celery, and moistening the whole with white mayonnaise. Garnish the outside of the aspic mould with quartered cabbage lettuce and either plover’s eggs or quartered hard boiled eggs. (The bottled plover’s eggs come in well for this.) Another version of this dish is made by filling theCHAUFROIX, &c. 169 savoury jelly-lined mould with chicken cream (made as for creme de volatile), setting it with more of the savoury jelly (which should be rather stiff for this purpose, allowing loz. of leaf gelatine to each pint of strong chicken stock), and filling in the centre with an oyster mayonnaise, garnishing it outside with bunches of seasoned watercress and sliced tomato. This dish is one that any intelligent cook can vary to any extent, as any meat can be used in this way. Aspic de Volatile aux Huitres.—Blanch some good oysters in their own liquor till plump and frilly, then drain them and leave till dry; cut the white meat of a cold cooked chicken into neat pieces, either dice or rounds, and shred and crisp two-thirds as much celery as you have chicken, and blanch half the bulk of good walnuts; now line a plain charlotte mould with jelly cream (i.e., a gill of thick double cream carefully stirred with half a pint rather stiff savoury jelly; or if preferred, use a rich creamy bechamel sauce stiffened with |oz. of best leaf gelatine to the pint of bechamel), and then fill up -with the chicken, celery, walnuts, and oyster, mixed with a little good mayonnaise aspic, and serve garnished with prawns, caviar, and chopped aspic jelly. Aspic d la Menagere.—This is very much the same as the previous recipe, only the mould is lined with a brown chaufroix sauce (prepared by mixing to- gether half a pint aspic jelly and a gill each of tomato and brown sauce, with a wineglassful of sherry, |oz. of glaze or Liebig Co.’s extract, and a dust of coralline pepper), and fill up the mouldENTRIES. 170 with minced underdone beef or mutton, mixed with tomato mayonnaise, washed, boned, and filleted anchovies, minced olives or capers, &c., and serve garnished with any nice salad of cold cooked vege- tables set with aspic in little cups or dariole moulds. Aspic en Chaufroix a la Juive.—Prepare a sauce thus : Have ready one and a half gills of thickly reduced veloute sauce, and stir into this a good spoonful of capers, and let it cool; then stir into it two spoonfuls of washed, boned, and sieved anchovies worked up with a little stiff savoury jelly (a little essence of anchovy may be used instead of the puree if the jelly is fairly stiff), rub it through a tammy, and then add to the above quantities a gill of aspic jelly. Have ready some moulds lined with tomato aspic and fill them up with cold roast mutton cut into dice and mixed with the above sauce; let these set, then turn them out on to rounds of aspic jelly on which you have placed a slice of tomato seasoned with oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper, and serve gar- nished with chopped aspic. Cailles en Delice.—Bone the quails and with a forcing bag and plain pipe farce them with sieved foie gras, then tie them into shape again with a band of buttered paper, place a slice of slitted bacon over the breast of each bird, sprinkle them with a little cooking sherry, place them in a well buttered baking tin, and cook in a moderate oven for fifteen to twenty minutes, then set them aside to cool. When perfectly cold remove the paper and the bacon, and mask the birds with a rich white chau- froix sauce and garnish with blanched and shredCHAUFKOIX, &c. • 171 pistachios (or with pignole) and truffles, with some chopped aspic. Quails can he used for chaufroix dishes in a variety of ways; for instance, if stuffed with a delicate quenelle mixture of chicken and pate de foie gras flavoured with truffles, they may when cold he cut into slices about -|in thick, each of these slices being then masked with a delicate brown chaufroix sauce and finally glazed with a little of the savoury jelly previously mentioned. Manifestly this dish may be varied almost indefinitely according to the garniture; for instance: ]Escalopes de CailleS‘ en Chaufroix. — For this prepare a farce by first mincing and then pounding till smooth |lb. of any raw white meat such as chicken, rabbit, or veal, and 2oz. of cooked tongue, moistening this as you pound it with a good table- spoonful of thick be'ckamel sauce and the yolks of two raw eggs, working into it at the same time about 2oz. of pate de foie gras; rub this all through a fine wire sieve, mixing in with it as you do so half a very finely minced shalot, season with pepper and salt to taste, put it into the forcing bag, and use. (This will be found sufficient for three quails, which would give about fifteen slices; this is a less expensive way of serving quail than whole.) When cold, slice the bird as before, and mask the slices half with tomato chaufroix and half with white chaufroix. The way to do this is to press a thin piece of cardboard, or the blade of a small knife, lightly across the centre of the slice, and cover half of the slice with one sauce, then go on to the nextENTREES. 172 slice ; and so have the sauce-covered half slices quite set and firm before attempting to mask the other halves. Unless this precaution is taken the sauces will be certain to run, and then be messy ; when both are set, glaze them neatly with a little clear savoury jelly. Now place an artichoke bottom previously seasoned with a few drops of salad oil and tarragon vinegar, some finely chopped chives, and salt, and pepper, at the bottom of some little cases, and place a quail slice on each, garnishing it round with very finely chopped aspic jelly and quartered plovers’ eggs, or truffle, if the plovers’ eggs are not attainable. This is one of Mrs. A. B. Marshall’s recipes, and will show any intelligent cook how these quail dishes may be varied at pleasure. The quails thus stuffed can, if liked, be made into tiny galantines and braised, after which, when cold, they may be pretty thickly masked with liquid aspic jelly, and when this is set they are sliced down and served on a mayonnaise of fresh or cooked vegetables as is most convenient. It must be remembered that any kind of farce may be used for stuffing them. Sometimes when the birds have been stuffed and cooked as above, they are, when cold, halved length- ways with a sharp knife previously dipped ,in hot water; a rich brown cliaufroix is then used to mask them, and when set they are dished in oval-shaped paper cases partly filled with chopped aspic, and are sent to table with tufts of seasoned watercress round them. In all these recipes aspic has only been used as an independent garnish, but, of course, if the flavour is not objected to, it can be used both in theCB.A.UFROIX, Ac. 173 masking sauce and for glazing; but in that case, properly speaking, the dish ceases to be a ckaufroix, and should be called Cailles en aspic a la so and so. It must be remembered that almost any birds, such as partridges, larks, &c., can be dressed in these ways, pigeons being particularly good. Caneton en Mayonnaise.—For this the ducklings should properly have been roasted the previous day, and left to get cold uncut, this, however, is a counsel of perfection. Cut the cold bird up into neat joints and marinade these carefully for a few hours in a tablespoonful of olive oil, the juice of a lemon, and some broken up parsley stalks. Meanwhile prepare a rich mayonnaise sauce ; have ready some well washed cabbage lettuces from which you remove the outer leaves, putting aside the hearts ; break up the outer leaves as small as you can, and season them with oil, vinegar, black pepper, and salt, tossing them well together to get them thoroughly seasoned with the dressing; now lift them out of the mixing bowl, and make a layer of them on the centre of a dish, arrange the duck joints, which you have lightly drained from the marinade, neatly over this, and pour the mayonnaise smoothly over it all. Now arrange the quartered hearts of the lettuce round the dish alternately with plovers’ eggs (if in season, if not, replace them with quartered hard-boiled eggs); washed, boned, and filleted anchovies; or, if preferred, remove the stones from some nice olives filling these either with a fillet of anchovy in oil, or anchovy butter. This will give an idea of how the Salade en Mayonnaise is served by first-class FrenchENTRIES. 174 cooks. It can be varied, like every otlier disk, to suit individual tastes ; for instance, if grouse or any other brown fleshed game bird is used, these latter may be arranged on a bed of mushroom salad, then covered with a mayonnaise, and garnished with tomato and celery; or again, chicken joints may be arranged on a bed of Russian salad (i.e., of cooked vegetables), some dice of ham being sprinkled amongst it, the whole being covered with mayonnaise as before, and garnished round with small lettuce leaves, each containing a little white mayonnaise and a bearded and seasoned oyster; this, by the way, is an American dish. Ciaufroix de Cailles d la Castilienne.—For this the birds are boned, stuffed with forced meat, and cooked as before; they are then either sliced or halved, with a hot wet knife, as you prefer, masked with a rich brown game sauce, stiffened with aspic, with which the slices or cutlets are also glazed, then served with a cold cherry salad mixed with a little of the masking sauce. Partridges, pigeons, or any small birds may be served in the same way. Chaufroix de Gotelettes d la Fermiere.—For this the cutlets are braised, trimmed, and, when cold, coated with a creamy maitre d’hotel sauce stiffened with strong savoury jelly, and served round a mound of salad. If coated with espagnole sauce similarly stiffened and served (round a pile of cucumber and tomato tossed in Sucdoise sauce), they are called Chaufroix de Cotelettes a la Btisse, while, if coated with different sauces, such as tomato, veloute, and espagnole, and dished alternately round a pile of any175 CHATJFROIX, &c. nice salad, they are called a la Pompadour; if masked with mayonnaise aspic, and served on an aspic border with a macedoine of vegetables in tlie centre, they are called en Bellevue, a name also applied to them if larded with tongue, ham, or truffles, and braised, then set in aspic, from which they are cut out when cold, and dished with a jardiniere garnish. Lamb and veal can also be served by any of these recipes, or the cutlets may be braised, aud, when cold, spread rather thickly with sieved pate de foie gras, then coated with any rich brown sauce, such as Pcrigueux, madere, &c., and served with any salad to taste, Yeal cutlets may be braised in white stock, and, when cold, carefully trimmed, spread with a thin slice of ham (or, if preferred, with a thick layer of ham cream), and coated with white mayonnaise ; they are then dished round a pile of tomato salad tossed in mayonnaise, and the dish containing them is set on a larger one full of crushed ice, when they are known as d VAmericaine; this is also excellent for lamb < cutlets. If the veal cutlets are braised, larded with bacon and tongue, then, when cold, set in aspic, •from which they are cut out, and served with a salad .garnished with a Reform garnish, they are called id la St. Gar at. The remains of a dish of veal icutlets can be made into a very pretty dish by 1 masking each cutlet thickly with aspic-thickened ttomato sauce, dishing this round a macedoine of any i nice cooked vegetables garnished with washed and I boned anchovy fillets, turned olives, and tiny slices of ham. Mutton cutlets can be done in the same176 ENTRIES. way, but are, of course, nicer if braised for the purpose. Chaufroix de Faisan.—Cut the remains of any cold roast pheasant into neat fillets and mask these with a good espagnole flavoured with stock from the bones of the bird, and stiffened with gelatine in the proportion of |oz. of gelatine to the half pint of sauce; dish these neatly in a circle, and fill up the centre with any nice salad tossed in mayonnaise and garnished with hard boiled eggs. Clmufroix de Lapereau d VIndienne.—For this a cooked rabbit, or more as required, is cut up into neat joints, and these are then coated with a delicate Indienne (a white curry sauce), and served on a mound of cold boiled savoury rice. Rabbits are specially useful for chaufroix, as they can be used for anything for which the recipe says chicken; they are also especially good if the joints, when cut up, are marinaded for an hour or so in oil and lemon juice, then either glazed with savoury jelly or plain or tomato aspic, on a border mould of aspic jelly and a nice salade mayonnaise in the centre. Chaufroix de Mauviettes.—The birds are boned, stuffed, and cooked in exactly the same way as the quails described above, and are then masked with any rich brown sauce to taste, such as espagnole, Pcrigeux, &c., stiffened with isinglass or best gelatine; they are then glazed, if necessary, with a stiff savoury (not aspic) jelly, and are served either on a bed of chopped aspic or in paper cases similarly garnished. Larks cooked as above are often simply glazed with pure aspic or placed in moulds of aspicCHAUFROIX, &c. 177 and served as a garnish to any kind of salad from which they take their name. Chaufroix a la Paysanne.—For this you require a plain charlotte mould, which must he lined an eighth of an inch thick with aspic jelly, which is then decorated, while it is setting, with cold cooked vegetables cut into shapes to taste, and this then set with a little more jelly, the centre being filled in with meat, minced (not too finely), mixed with shred salad, hard boiled egg, chives, parsley, washed, boned, and filleted anchovies, stoned olives, &c., to taste, the whole being stirred with, if beef is used, aspic-stiffened horse radish sauce; or, if mutton, any good brown or tomato sauce to taste, the whole being finished with a layer of aspic fin. thick. This can be turned out and served plain or with a garnish of halved tomatoes which have been filled with a mayonnaise of any nice cooked vegetable to taste, and left on ice till wanted. Chaufroix cle Perdreaux.—For this you can use the red legged partridge with advantage. Eoast the birds carefully, and remove the fillets in one piece; pick all the meat from the rest of the carcases, and mince and pound the flesh thus obtained, with one or two truffles, and a few mushrooms; meanwhile break up the carcases into rather small pieces, and put them into a pan with a good claret-glassful of light white wine, the trimmings of the truffles, the stems, &c., of the mushrooms, a shalot or more according to the quantity, and a bay leaf, bring it,to the boil and let it simmer gently till reduced by quite a quarter, strain it through a clean cloth, and add to N178 ENTRIES. it two ladlefuls of clarified stock; take tlie lialf of tliis and work into it gradually over the fire the pounded meat, stirring it carefully together with a wooden spoon till it is perfectly smooth and quite boiling ; then tammy it and leave it till cold. The fillets of the birds should have been cooked in the usual way in the oven, pressed till cold, then masked with the sauce previously set aside, and stiffened with a little gelatine. Have ready a border mould of aspic jelly and arrange the fillets on this, alternately with slices of truffle, or cooked tongue, according to what you have, fill up the centre with the cold puree and surround the dish with very bright aspic. Ghaufroix de Volatile.—This may vary from the cold roast fowl cut up into neat joints and masked with mayonnaise of various kinds, or with more or less rich white sauce, to the delicate supreme de volatile en chaufroix, where the fillets of chicken are specially cooked for the purpose, and the sauce is a delicately prepared veloute enriched with cream, &c., and stiffened with isinglass or the very best leaf gelatine. For instance, in c. de v. d la Marie, the chicken joints are served masked with white Indienne sauce and served with cold savoury rice and farced olives ; in c. de v. d la Carlton, they are masked with mayonnaise aspic and served with a mayonnaise of julienne strips of beetroot, celery, cucumber, ham, &c., mixed with capers, and if liked, little heaps of caviar; a la Pompadour, one-third of the joints are covered with tomato aspic, one-third with very golden mayon- naise, and one-third with stiffened sauce verte andCHAUFROIX, &c. 179 dished alternately with slices of ham between, and either peas or asparagus points tossed m mayonnaise in the centre. Or you can have c. cle v. aux con- combres, when the pieces (which should properly be fillets cooked for the purpose or else very neatly sliced pieces from the breast of a cold cooked fowl) are masked with cold cucumber sauce, and dished alternately with cutlets of ham cream. For these mix together half a pint of stiffly whipped cream, a gill of just liquid aspic, and two jars of potted ham (Lazenby’s for choice), adding a very few drops of carmine to make it all a delicate pink, whip this all well together for a few minutes, then fill some aspic- lined cutlet moulds with the mixture, and when set turn out and serve alternately with the chicken. If liked freshly grated ham can be used instead of the potted ham. It may be mentioned that any potted meat is excellent treated thus, and if set in dariole moulds affords an extremely pretty garnish for any kind of salad, Russian salad especially. Poulet en chaufroix a, la Princesse is made by masking the chicken slices with aspic cream, serving them on a border mould lined with clear aspic, and filled with Russian salad tossed in mayonnaise ; filling up the centre of this with an oyster and celery mayonnaise. Another version of this dish is made by stirring little squares of chicken, ham, or tongue, and Cucum- ber into a thick white chaufroix, and either setting this in cutlet moulds, or running it into a plain tin about three-quarters of an inch thick, and when set stamping it out with a cutlet cutter and masking it with clear aspic ; arranging these shapes on an aspic n 2ENTRIES. 180 border mould, with the centre filled up with a vege- table mayonnaise mixture. A very pretty garnish for a chaufroix of chicken is to prepare the fowl as advised for caneton en mayonaise, and then garnish it with little darioles or timbale moulds lined first with clear aspic, garnished with rows of cold cooked peas or asparagus points, then set with a layer of aspic cream and filled up either with Russian or ordinary mayonnaise salad, or if preferred, with alternate layers of clear aspic and ham cream, setting these round the pile of masked bird, with a shelled prawn encircling a turned olive filled with any savoury butter, on the top of each mould. Or if preferred, caviar may be used instead of the olives. Cotelettes a la Connaught.—For these braise a nice neck of lamb carefully, with vegetables, &c., and when pressed and cold, cut out the cutlets and trim them neatly, masking them pretty thickly with mint aspic (t'.e., three tablespoonfuls of mint sauce stirred carefully into half a pint of just liquid aspic and used when setting) ; dish them en couronne with a nice mayonnaise of asparagus points, or young green peas in the centre. The noisettes, or boneless cutlets, may be masked in the same way, and served on artichoke bottoms delicately seasoned with a few drops of oil and tarragon vinegar and a seasoning of pepper and salt, either with or without the mayon- naise in the centre. Epigrammes de Mouton en Chaufroix.—Remove the skin, bones, gristle, and superfluous fat from a nice breast of mutton and flatten it out; then spread it first with a delicate sausage meat farce, and thenCHAUFROIX, &c. 181 with a layer of the following farce: mix together some freshly made white breadcrumbs, the hard boiled and sieved yolks of three eggs, three or four anchovies, washed, boned, and lightly chopped, with a grate of lemon peel, salt, and pepper to taste. Now roll up the' meat carefully so as to cover in all the stuffing, in a well buttered paper (clarified beef dripping is equally good), tying it into a roll with broad tape, and then broil or roast it, keeping it well basted over the paper. When cooked set it aside to cool, and when cold remove the paper, tapes, &c., and mask it evenly with well stiffened brown sauce, or aspic, and serve it with a nice mayonnaise of young green peas or with an Irlandaise sauce (in which case of course it is not epigrammes at all by the way but a roulade de mouton en aspic), or slice it down in half-inch slices, mask these as recommended for the roll and serve on a bed of chopped aspic with a tomato, cucumber, and celery salad. (N.B. The breast of mutton cooked thus and served hot with rich brown sauce poured over it, and a nice jardiniere garnish, makes an extremely pretty lunch dish. Needless to say breast of veal is equally nice in this way.) Creme de Lapereau aux Tomates.—Pulp a pound of cooked tomatoes through a sieve and mix this puree with three tablespoonfuls of just liquid aspic; line twelve cutlet moulds with this, then fill them with a mixture as follows : take some nice cold braised white meat (or failing this braise a nice rabbit, in white stock, with a bunch of herbs, a carrot, turnip, and a strip or two of celery, with seasoning to taste), andENTRIES. 182 mince and pound this meat, moistening it with a little good bechamel (or the stock in which the rabbit was cooked thickened with white roux and a little milk), and mix this paste with half pint of stiffly whipped cream, and three good tablespoonfuls of just liquid aspic; then cover over the moulds with a layer of the tomato aspic, and put them aside to set, when they are arranged round a block or on a border of aspic and served with any nice salad to taste. Cold game is excellent in this way, which is also an admirable method of utilising old birds of any kind. Filets de Lievre Glaces aux Cerises.—Prepare a puree of hare by mincing and then pounding the fillets of a nice roast hare, moistening them as you do so with two good tablespoonfuls each of Richelieu sauce (Espagnole sauce made from the hare bones, Ac.), and of aspic jelly. When this mixture is quite smooth mix it lightly with half pint of stiffly whipped cream, and with this fill some cutlet moulds pre- viously lined with Richelieu sauce stiffened with aspic, and leave them till set. Have ready a border mould of clear and rather stiff aspic jelly, turn out the cutlets and dish them on the border, filling up the centre with either a cherry or French bean salad; for the cherry salad stone the fruit and take 'out the kernels; for each pound of cherries allow a table- spoonful of salad oil, one of brandy, a few drops of tarragon vinegar, a pinch of castor sugar, and a tea- spoonful of picked tarragon and chervil, and stand it all on ice till wanted. This salad can be made with fresh or with dried (uncrystallised) cherries. IfCHAUFROIX, &c. 183 liked, a spoonful or so of the same sauce as was used to mask the hare cutlets may be stirred in with the cherries. Foie Gras en Aspic.—This is a very easy entree to prepare granted the presence of some aspic jelly. Line some pretty little moulds with aspic, then place in each a cube of foie gras truffe, and fill up with aspic, leaving it till set when it is turned out and served on chopped aspic, or en mayonnaise with a salad. If preferred the moulds may be fined and filled up with aspic cream. Petites Caisses a la Whitstable, or aux Marennes.— Have ready some nice crisp patty cases, and place in each a spoonful of white mayonnaise, then some cold cooked sweetbread cut into dice, and a bearded and seasoned oyster or two, a little more mayonnaise, and pile over it all some crisped celery cut into Julienne strips. Chicken, cold veal, game, &c., can all be utilised in this way with advantage. Petites Coquilles de Volaille en Mayonnaise.— Have some silver or china shells for this dish (or failing these use little paper cases, but then say caisses instead of coquilles'), and place a spoonful of good mayonnaise in each ; fill up the shells with any remains of cold fowl or game cut up into little dice, with ham or tongue cut to match, quartered slices of hardboiled egg, and some stoned and chopped olives (if at hand toss some nice chicken fivers in butter, with a seasoning of pepper and salt, for ten minutes or so, let them get cold, slice them and mix them with the chicken, &c.) ; now mask it all smoothly over with mayonnaise sauce, lay two filletsENTRIES. 184 of washed anchovy crossways over each shell, with three capers in each of the quarters thus made, fix an olive stuffed with anchovy butter on the top of each and serve. Bis cle Veau en CJiaufroix.—Prepare a nice sweet- bread in the usual way, and, when cold and pressed, slice it down neatly, or cut it in rounds with a cutter a quarter of an inch thick, mash it with white chau- froix, lay a round slice of truffle on each and glaze it over with either savoury or aspic jelly as you please, set these slices on a border of aspic, filling up the centre with a mayonnaise salad. * Bis de Veau d la Chinoise.—Slice down the remains of a lai’ded sweetbread and place a slice in an aspic lined cutlet or sandwich mould, lay a round of hard boiled egg, and some beetroot cut into julienne strips on each; set tbis all with a little more aspic, and, when set, dish on a bed of chopped aspic with a garnish of cold rice. Bis de Veau au Beurre Montpellier.—Round slices of cold cooked sweetbread, set in aspic jelly, then arranged in a circle with a tiny pat of Montpellier butter on each, and a mayonnaise of asparagus points or young green peas, as you please. Salmi de Perdreaiix en Chavfroix.—For this cook the partridges on purpose, and cut the birds up neatly in fillets and little joints, masking each of these carefully with salmi sauce reduced and stiffened with leaf gelatine, and, when set, dish them en couronne on a bed of chopped aspic with sliced truffles tossed in mayonnaise. If liked, some nice cold potatoes sliced may be mixed with theCHATJFROIX, &c. 1S5 truffles, when the dish becomes chaufroix de per- dreaux a la Demidoff. Tomates a VAlgerienne.—For these, properly speaking, you require tomato moulds, but, really, any pretty little shapes will do. Line whichever mould you choose with well-coloured tomato aspic, and fill with the following mince: Pound and rub through a wire sieve the breast of a cold cooked fowl (or an equivalent amount picked from the rest of the carcase); mix into this two tablespoonfuls each of veloute sauce and liquid aspic, stirring in lightly and quickly half a pint of stiffly whipped cream. When the tomato moulds are full press them closely together, and set them on ice for at least twenty minutes; they are then turned out and served on a border of aspic jelly with a good lettuce mayonnaise in the centre. Another dish of tongue and chicken may be made in much the same way; slice down a nice red tongue, and cut these slices into cutlet shapes ; have ready a puree of fowl prepared as for the tomato, only substituting four tablespoonfuls of mayonnaise aspic for the veloute and plain aspic jelly; add to this farce the remains of the cut up tongue, and, if at hand, either some sliced truffle or dice of pate de foie gras, setting this in little cutlet moulds ; mask both the tongue and the chicken cutlets with very clear aspic jelly, and dish them alternately round a pile of any nice mayonnaise. This is called in France Tranches de langue a Vecarlate. Any intelligent cook will find it easy to use up almost any scraps of meat, poultry, or game on the lines of the above recipes.ENTRIES. 18 6 Timbales a, la Pompadour.—Take as many little timbale moulds as you require, lining a third of their number with cream aspic, another third with tomato aspic, and the last third with cucumber cream, and fill up the little moulds with shredded chicken, minced lobster, prawns or shrimps, some cold cooked mushrooms and artichoke bottoms cut into dice; add a small spoonful of rich white veloute, and cover over with stiff aspic or some of the lining sauce, as you choose ; put them on ice till set, then serve garnished with chopped aspic, alternating the colours. Turban de Foie Gras d la d' JJxelles.—Prepare a d’Uxelles mixture thus: Into a delicately clean pan put fib. of well washed and minced fresh mushrooms with an ounce of butter, salt and pepper, a teaspoon- ful of freshly minced parsley, and the same of minced chives, or one very finely chopped shalot. Let it cook at the side of the stove for about ten minutes, then add to it half a wineglassful of sherry, half a pint of good espagnole sauce, and rather better than f oz. of leaf gelatine; let this just boil up, then set it aside to cool. Prepare a good savoury jelly by dissolving foz. of best leaf gelatine in half a pint of well clarified consomme, and, when this is setting, line some cutlet moulds with it; then put in a layer of the d’Uxelles mixture, which should be just on the point of setting, and on this place a nice piece cf pate de foie gras ; cover it well over with more d’Uxelles, and lastly glaze with a little savoury jelly, and put these aside to set. Turn the rest of your savoury jelly into a border mould to the depth of fin. or lin., and, when this is set, turn it out and mount the187 CHAUFROIX, &c. d’Uxelles cutlets (neatly trimmed) on this, and fill up the centre with a delicate walnut and celery mayonnaise, This dish may be garnished in various ways, as with a truffle and new potato salad, a Royale or a Montglas garnish tossed in cream chaufroix, &c., with plovers’ eggs, whole truffles cooked in champagne, crayfish or prawns, &c., as you please. Needless to say, this does not imply that all these ingredients should be used in the same dish, but simply as variations. It can never be too strongly impressed on the British cook that too many flavours and an extravagant use of expensive material are simply vulgarity and utterly destructive of culinary perfection. The appearance of chaufroix dishes is, of course, a capital feature in their preparation, and must accordingly be carefully studied; at the same time, all over colouring and over decoration must be scrupulously avoided. Set dishes, involving waxen cupids and uneatable combinations of all kinds, are utterly out of keeping for first-class private cookery, and are tours de force that should be strictly reserved for culinary exhibitions and such like. Moreover, it is well to be able to decide whether a dish is a sweet or a savoury at the first glance if possible. I admit it is not easy when a Neapolitan ice is just as likely to be savoury as sweet, and such a curious combination as an “ iced devil ” is possible. Of course, one has Dante’s authority for considering a frozen region part of the Inferno; still, in matters culinary, it sounds a contradiction in terms. One garnish may be mentioned which often adds to the appear-188 ENTRIES. ancc and condition of a chaufroix, and this is the ice "border. This is easy enough to prepare by any- one possessing an ice cave, as it is simply a question of filling a border mould with plain water and setting it in the charged cave till frozen. Another excellent adjunct for chaufroix is the ice tray, but this requires a special double mould, though otherwise it presents no difficulty, and is well worth its cost in a kitchen where chaufroix and ices are much studied.CHAPTER XI. SAUCES. The question of sauces is always a puzzle, "both to the average cook and to her mistress, and it cannot unfortunately he asserted that either can answer it satisfactorily. Even plain melted butter, simple as it really is, appears to present enormous difficulties, judging by the results only too frequently seen in the national sauce boats. Yet without sauces, and well-made ones at that, few, if any, entrees are possible. The secret of this failure is in almost all cases the insufficient cooking of the flour and butter founda- tions. Unless the flour is thoroughly cooked every sauce built upon this foundation will have a raw, harsh flavour, which nothing will eradicate entirely. Flour takes from ten to twelve minutes steadv V cooking, at least, to remove this ; but as the average cook seldom, if ever, thinks of preparing her sauces till a few minutes before they are sent to table, it follows naturally that her sauces are all but in- variably raw, and consequently seldom, if ever, smooth. The cook might save herself untold trouble and much waste of time, temper, and material, if she would keep at hand (as all good French cooks do)190 ENTRIES. a couple of jars containing white and brown roux respectively. Uoux is practically the French synonym for thickening, and being used in the first instance for the stronger-flavoured brown sauces, was always of a chestnut brown, or roux colour. When, how- ever, economy in labour and material suggested the advisability of replacing in white sauces the costly process of reduction by a thickening differing only in colour from that used for the darker, fuller flavoured condiments, a roux blanc was invented; a contradiction in terms doubtless, but an intelligible one all the same. Both are very easily prepared, and, as said before, add greatly both to the cook’s success and to the saving of labour. To begin with a roux brun—put into a pan from 4oz. to 6oz. of butter, and melt this very gently over a clear, slow fire, stirring into it as it melts an equal quantity of fine, sifted flour, and allow it to cook gently over the fire till it assumes a soft, even, fawn colour ; the slower it is cooked the better it will be, as if in the least hurried it will most likely burn, or, at any rate, catch, and will develope a spotty colour, and an acrid, harsh flavour, which no subsequent dosing with wine, cruet sauces, &c., will ever entirely overcome. When it has reached the required colouring, which will probably take fully half an hour, if not more, a slight seasoning of salt should be added to it (do not overdo this, as it is only used as a preservative, the actual seasoning of the sauce being added later). This paste will keep in a cool place for several days, and may be used as required thus—take out with a spoon the amount you need (remembering that a 1SAUCES. 191 heaped up tablespoonful will, roughly speaking, represent about 2oz.), and dilute it gradually over the fire with the stock or liquid you may choose, stirring it well till it boils, to get it perfectly smooth; as soon as it boils up it should be tammied or sieved, and receive any additions required by the recipe. Naturally sauce prepared in this way can be made much quicker than by the ordinary method, and is the secret of the large variety of sauces used by a foreign chef, who would not dream of repeating the same sauce twice, in any menu, however long. Eather a different plan from that pursued by the ordinary good plain cook to whom brown sauce is brown sauce, and nothing more; and as such to be used indiscriminately from one end of her dinner to the other. This is really no exaggeration. I once myself beheld a highly-trained and so-called “ pro- fessed cook” start her preparations for a dinner by compounding a large basinful each of white and brown sauce, i.e., the traditional “ bit of butter rolled in flour,” just boiled up with milk in one case, and stock in the other, and plentifully seasoned for the one with mace and nutmeg, and for the other with a combination of most of the contents of the cruet stand. The white sauce began duty with the fish, and went on to the pudding, when it was flavoured up as an accompaniment of the sweet; whilst the brown sauce started with the first entree, and literally ended with the savoury! In another case, and equally with an “experienced” cook, I once tasted the hare soup, which was the first dish in the menu, straight through to the savoury omelet. Stock192 ENTREES. is stock, and so the contents of the soup pot had * been economically utilised straight through from first to last. Now this economy, though perhaps praiseworthy (?) is in ordinary cases distinctly to be deprecated. Good cookery acknowledges practically four founda- tion sauces, or sauces meres as they are called in France. Veloute and bechamel for the white, and brown and espagnole for the brown sauces. These four are the foundations of nearly all sauces, saving the butter sauces, which are a class apart. To begin with the white sauces. Veloute, or velvet sauce, as it may be Englished, is made by dissolving together loz. each of butter and fine sifted flour, diluting these when perfectly cooked and blended, with half a pint or so of colourless stock made from bones, &c,; this is then tammied through a woollen cloth, or pressed through a hair sieve, to ensure its perfect smoothness, and seasoned with salt and pepper to taste. In this condition it serves as a foundation for many sauces, but if it be Used by itself, it is generally finished off by the addition of one or two tiny morsels of butter, stirred into it whilst boiling hot just as you lift it from the fire; or by a spoonful or two of cream, or a spoonful or so of new milk beaten up with the yolk of an egg (and in this case it is often spoken of and used as allemande, though really this sauce needs a strong flavouring of mushrooms besides the egg and milk mixture called by cooks a liaison). In plain English, foundation veloute is neither more nor less than melted- butter made with colourless stock of any193 SAUCES. kind. Bechamel on tlie contrary requires the addition of milk, the butter and flour being prepared as before, and diluted with half colourless stock, half new milk, its excellence when served alone depend- ing on the careful flavouring of the liquids with which it is diluted, and the use of more or less rich stock and the substitution of cream for milk. Need- less to observe that where the cook keeps las she should do) roux at hand, a couple of spoonfuls of this, according to the thickness, is diluted with the liquid, in any case allowing the whole to boil-in rapidly till reduced a fourth part, a reduction on which, be it added, the success of the sauce greatly depends. Brown sauce is simply veloute made with a flour and butter roux, which has been cooked till of a pale coflee brown, and then diluted with more or less strongly flavoured brown stock, and seasoning to taste. Of course, when used as a groundwork to more elaborate sauces, it is flavoured, and seasoned additionally, but its original taste should be of strong, well made stock, without any predominant flavour beyond that of meat. The fourth sauce on the list, espagnole, derives its name from the Spanish ham and Spanish wine which originally were indispensable parts of its flavour. Many French cooks call any good brown sauce, espagnole nowadays, but this, with all due humility, may be classed as a mistake, for the above is the real origin of the name. When your cook has really mastered the aid of making veloute and bechamel, and has succeeded oENTRIES. 194 in differentiating tlie two, you may easily teach her to vary her condiments ad infinitum. Thus, veloute may he used for any sauce which does not need to he absolutely snowy white, as for in- stance, the alleviande mentioned above, which is made as follows: Pour into a delicately clean pan rather more than half a pint of good veloute (made with more or less rich stock, according to the use you intend making of it), add to this a gill of veal or poultry stock, previously strongly flavoured with mushrooms (it must be impressed on cooks that the stems and trimmings of mushrooms, the trimmings of truffles, and the stalks of parsley are all excellent for flavouring purposes and economise the use of the original article, which is frequently a consideration), and stir this altogether over a sharp fire till reduced, or boiled-in, a fourth part; have ready the yolk of one or more eggs beaten up with two or three table- spoonfuls of cold white stock, a dash of lemon juice, and the very smallest grate of nutmeg, and stir this all into the reduced sauce; when perfectly blended rub it all through a tammy, heat it in the bain- marie, and mix into it just at the last, as you are about to dish it, a morsel of butter; stir this till dissolved, and then pour it all into a previously scalded sauce boat. Many cooks use alleviande as a foundation, but this is to be deprecated on the score of expense. An observation must be made re the tammy. Where there is a kitchenmaid its use should be insisted on, as nothing gives the velvety texture so characteristic of a well made sauce as the tammy; but for household purposes, or where the195 SAUCES. cook is singlehanded, attention to the initial roux will render unnecessary this troublesome process, or where it is a sine qua non the mistress must provide her cook with a tamis-pressoir (a fine sieve furnished with a rotary dasher, which forces the sauce through the fine meshes of the sieve). Allcmande, with the addition of a little finely minced parsley, and a spoonful or so more of cream at the last, becomes Sauce poulette; or, if minced mushrooms and a suspicion of shallot are added to the parsley, it is known as Sauce Pascaline, a very favourite sauce for hashed lamb; whilst if two tablespoonfuls of d' TJxelles mixture are added for each pint of allemande it becomes sauce d’ TJxelles blanche, or sauce aux fines herbes (needless to say where economy has to be con- sidered veloute may be used as the foundation of these sauces, but a spoonful of cream or new milk, and a tiny morsel of butter just at the last are in that case indispensable). Sauce Indienneis simply allemande sauce to which you have stirred one or more ounces of curry butter just at the last, or if preferred an ounce of fresh butter and a spoonful of curry pow- der; in this case, however, allowing the sauce just to boil up for a minute or two after adding the curry to »ok the latter. Sauce Portugaise is made by reducing gether a fourth part, a pint of veloute and a gill of white (preferably poultry) stock, and at the last> after sieving it, stirring in the juice of an orange, and the finely peeled and blanched rind cut into Julienne strips. Sauce Villeroi is a carefully made allemande, reduced till very thick, and further thickened by an egg and cream liaison, and used for o 2196 ENTRIES. masking cutlets, &c., previous to egg and crumbing them. Bechamel sauce is made by diluting an ounce or two of white roux with rather better than a gill each of white stock, and milk (the latter previously boiled up with a bunch of herbs, one or two green onions, and seasoning to taste). This, when reduced a fourth part, is then finished off with a couple of spoonfuls of thick cream, a dash of lemon juice, and white pepper and salt to taste. Obviously this sauce may be made more or less rich according to the richness of the stock used, the substitution of cream for butter, &c. But the point to remember is that the milk used in the original mixing of the stock, must have been first boiled up with the flavouring herbs, and seasoning; it is this which constitutes the difference between sauce blanche, which is simply melted butter made with milk instead of water, and bechamel muigre, when no stock is used, but only milk flavoured as above. From bechamel we obtain sauce blanquette, when the milk used has been boiled with a slice of lean smoked ham as well as the herbs, &c., and the whole, when tammied, is mixed with minced parsley, and mush- rooms (if liked), a squeeze of lemon juice and a spoonful or so of cream. The difference between this and poulette is its superior delicacy and the snowy white tint which differentiates it from the more substantial and cream coloured poulette. Sauce a la creme is another variant of bechamel, mtide by reducing about a fourth part rather more ibar. a pint of bechamel, with a gill of rich white197 SAUCES. stock, a bouquet, a slice of liam, and a handful of mushroom stems and peelings, then tammying it, and adding into it very gradually 3oz. or 4oz. of butter, broken up small, never adding another piece of this till the previous piece has been thoroughly dissolved. A little attention to this point adds greatly to the velvety smoothness and lightness of this sauce. Sauce a la creme a Vestragon, more succinctly known as creme a Vestragon, is made in precisely the same way, save that a teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar is added just before it is sieved, and a little finely minced green tarragon is sprinkled in, as it is to be served. Creme au fenouil, or au persil is made in the same way, using fennel, or parsley, instead of the green tarragon, and plain or chilli vinegar. Creme de concombres, a most delicate accompaniment for lamb cutlets, &c., is made by stewing a small cucumber in white stock till tender enough to sieve, moistening it with a little more stock or milk and reducing it over the fire to a thick puree. Then dilute this with a short half pint of bechamel, season to taste with white pepper, and just let it heat for a few minutes (but not boil) in the bain-marie, and at the last stir in a couple of spoonfuls of stiffly whipped cream. This sauce may be served white, or it may be coloured to a faint cucumber green with a drop or two of green colouring. Creme de champignons can be made in precisely the same way using fib. finely chopped young button mushrooms, and stewing these in milk and butter, seasoning it with either a shor j gill of light French wine, or halfENTREES 198 a sherry glassful of sherry and a little lemon juice. This can also be made with older mushrooms and brown stock. For Sauce Italienne {blanche) mince and blanch four shallots, and toss them when drained, in a good spoonful of salad oil with two or three finely minced mushrooms, and a bouquet; let them cook for five minutes, then add a gill of French white wine, and let it all boil together till the wine is reduced to half, when you stir in half a pint of good reduced bechamel, and a little white stock; boil it up, and serve, after skimming off all the oil care- fully and removing the bouquet. (It cannot be too strongly impressed on young cooks that greasy sauces are an unpardonable offence. As a matter of fact it is to neglect of this rule that so many persons object to French sauces as “ so rich ! ” The right way is just before serving to draw the pan containing the sauce to the side of the stove, and sprinkle in a few drops (not spoonfuls!) of cold water on the surface; this forces the butter or fat to the top, whence it can be easily removed with a spoon on tilting the pan slightly. Sauce Milanaise, also called Creme au fromage, is made by adding two tablespoonfuls of freshly grated Parmesan cheese, a good dust of coralline or cayenne pepper, and a gill of new milk or cream to half a pint of creamy bechamel, and stirring it over the fire till the cheese is melted and well blended with the rest of the ingredients. A very nice sauce for cutlets, &c., may be made in precisely the same way, only using brown or espagnole sauce instead of the bechamel, and stirring in a spoonful of made orSAUCES. 199 French, mustard with the cheese, &c. A variant of this sauce is often known as Sauce Morny, and is made by stirring two good tablespoonfuls of freshly grated Parmesan cheese, and a dust of cayenne, or preferably coralline, pepper into half a pint of good veloute sauce until it boils, when it is sieved and used. Usually with this sauce, which is frequently served with quenelles, rissoles, &c., a cheese mixture, made by dissolving 2oz. or 3oz. of very thinly sliced Gruyere, or any other cheese to taste, in two table- spoonfuls or so of thick cream, and a dust of cayenne pepper, is used as a surface coating, sprinkled with finely chopped parsley, and browned with a red hot salamander or the kitchen shovel. This sauce is particularly good for rechauffes of all kinds. Sauce Eaifort is prepared by simmering a small finely scraped horseradish in about half a pint of be'chamel sauce (which for this purpose is generally the kind made without any stock) for half an hour ; then sieve it, heat in the bain-marie, and stir into it a liaison of one or more egg yolks, beaten up with two or three tablespoonfuls of thick (and preferably sour) cream; season with a few drops of tarragon or horseradish vinegar, and use. An excellent sauce for tournedos or fillets of beef, either fresh or rechauffe. Sauce Ravigotte, another sauce much approved of with either beef or mutton cutlets, is made thus: Blanch 2oz. of onions and a tablespoonful of minced parsley for five minutes in boiling water, then strain off the .vater, replacing it with a pint of milk, andENTRIES. 200 let it all boil together till the milk is well flavoured with the onion, &c.; then strain this milk on to 2oz. of white roux (or loz. each of butter and flour previously cooked together till perfectly blended), and boil it all gently together for a few minutes, stirring it occasionally till it thickens. Meanwhile boil together a tablespoonful each of tarragon and • chilli vinegar till reduced to half, and stir this into the sauce, adding to this latter just at the last one tablespoonful of picked parsley, a dessert spoon- ful of garden cress, and a teaspoonful of chives and chervil (all very finely minced), with sufficient green colouring to bring it all to a very pale green. If liked, a spoonful of thick or whipped cream may be stirred in just at the last. A plainer version of this sauce is Sauce Maitre d’Hotel, for which you stir into half a pint of more or less rich bechamel maigre, just at the last, an ounce of Maitre d’Hotel butter, a teaspoonful of finely minced parsley, a few drops of lemon juice, and a seasoning of salt and white pepper. Sauce Soubise, more generally called Huree, or Crbne Soubise (a garnish much appreciated with broiled cutlets), is made thus: Blanch two good sized onions for five minutes in a little boiling water, then drain off this and mince the onion not too finely; stew this onion in an ounce of butter (or well clarified dripping) till perfectly tender, but not coloured, then lift the pan off the fire, stir in half a pint of bechamel sauce, and let it all boil up, skimming it carefully; now let it boil-in a little over the fire, rub it through a sieve, and reheat in the201 SAUCES. bain-marie, adding at the last a spoonful of whipped cream. A variation of this is made by stirring about a tablespoonful of grated cheese into the mixture, which is then known abroad as Creme Soubise au fromage. Both these sauces should be very white, but there is a form of onion puree in which the onions, when stewed, are allowed to colour, and are mixed with veloute sauce, being in consequence almost a light fawn colour, which is often known in England as Sauce Soubise, though its real name is Sauce Bretonne. This, again, is also sometimes mixed with well-made tomato puree in the proportion of two parts onion to one part tomato, and is an excellent accompaniment to either beef or mutton. Of Sauce Supreme we have already spoken, so the only remark about it need be that as it is one of the choicest in the whole list of French sauces, it should never be attempted unless the cook is prepared to use the most delicate stock, the freshest butter, and the richest of cream, and to give her closest attention to its manufacture. The same remarks as have been made with reference to veloute and bechamel apply quite as forcibly to brown and espagnole sauces. For the first the roux brun must be slowly and carefully prepared; the flour used for it being free from all mustiness or staleness, and above all, be perfectly dry; whilst the butter used, if the very best fresh cannot be afforded, should be good and well washed salt butter; whilst the stock must be strong, delicately seasoned, and well flavoured with vegetables. In all cases, it is better to give this vegetable flavouring by means of202 ENTRIES. the stock; but many delicate sauces are absolutely ruined by the crude tastes of raw vegetables added at the last, after the sauce is practically made, to give the requisite characteristic. Where wine is required, though vintage wines need not be em- ployed, good sound liquor, however light, is indis- pensable, and is, moreover, easily procured by those who care to look for it. Corked, soured, or stale wine is absolute destruction; sour, coarse stock is distinctly unwholesome; whilst roux made of inferior flour and bad butter can never be anything but disagreeable, and if stale from overkeeping is pretty sure to be indigestible. Roughly speaking, brown sauce is simply melted butter made with well-flavoured brown stock, but espagnole is somewhat differently prepared: Fry together a carrot, turnip, two or three green onions, a tomato or two, and some mush- rooms if handy, all sliced or roughly chopped, a bunch of herbs, and a good slice of lean smoked ham, in butter or clarified dripping till nicely coloured (a very tiny pinch of caster sugar sprinkled over all this is declared by many chefs to improve both the appearance and the flavour of the subse- quent sauce) ; then moisten it either with rich brown stock, or good brown sauce (in the former case when boiled up it must be blended with a spoonful or two of the brown roux) and boil it up sharply till reduced a fourth part; now tammy or sieve it, adding a little sherry or Madeira, lemon juice, and seasoning to taste, let it just boil up and as you pour it into the scalded-out sauce boat, add a small piece of butter, which should dissolve on its way to the dining-room.SA.UCES. 203 It is evident that the flavour imparted by these two sauces must differ considerably, and on the cook’s capacity for realising this difference will depend the success of her sauce. When extravagance took the place of gourmetterie, espagnole came to be used as the only foundation sauce, till Gouffe, realising the unsuitability of the highly spiced espagnole, quietly ignored its history and set up the brown sauce given above under the name of espagnole. One more hint before giving particular sauces ; this is with regard to Sauces de Reduction (literally reduced sauces), i.e., sauces whose consistency is due to their boiling-in whilst making. Perhaps the using of the word “thickening” in place of the French roux has strengthened the fallacy that the substance of a sauce depends on the greater or less quantity of roux used for it. To a certain extent this is of course true, but no sauce is really properly made which owes its substance simply to its thickening; a sauce never obtains its full flavour till the qualities of its ingredients are condensed by this boiling-in process. From the plain brown sauce we derive Sauce au Beurre d-AncTiois. Boil together a pint of good brown sauce, a bunch of herbs, and a gill of strong brown stock, and let it reduce till the sauce clings to, and slightly coats, the spoon with which you stir it; then skim well, sieve if necessary, and leave it in the bain-marie till wanted. When to be served stir into it at the last moment an ounce or more of anchovy butter, and serve at once. Sauce Bretonne is made exactly like the Sauce Sou- bise previously given, only using good brown sauceENTRIES, 204 instead of the veloute there mentioned. This sauce is also called Sauce Claremont. Sauce aux Champignons.—Boil 4oz. or so of nicely wiped and broken up mushrooms in half a pint of good brown sauce for a few minutes, stirring it well, and serve as it is, plain or sieved, seasoning it to taste with lemon juice, salt, and cayenne, adding a tiny piece of butter just as you lift it from the fire. This is excellent for cutlets, fillets of beef, &c., and should be of the consistency of a thickish puree. Chutney Sauce.—For this boil together for a minute or two two tablespoonfuls each of hot and sweet chutney, four tablespoonfuls of good brown sauce, a small teaspoonful of made or French mustard, a full tablespoonful of tomato pulp, and a good spoonful of very strong stock, or a little of Liebig Co.’s extract of meat; season to taste and serve. Sauce Crapaudine.—This is most excellent with any kind of broiled or fried bird. Stew 4oz. of freshly grated white breadcrumbs in 6oz. of butter or clari- fied dripping, till lightly coloured to a nice brown, then pour off the fat, moisten the bread with half a pint of good brown sauce (ready for use), add a teaspoonful of finely minced parsley, a dash of coralline pepper, and the juice of a small lemon; let it boil up once or twice and serve as it is. Curry Sauce.—Blend together a couple of ounces of good roux and about an ounce of curry powder, then moisten it with a pint of thin, well flavoured brown sauce, stir it over the fire till it205 SAUCES. boils up, let it boil for fifteen minutes, then sieve and keep it hot in the bain-marie till wanted. Another method is to dilute the flour, curry, and butter with half a pint of boiling water in which you have previously infused a couple of tablespoon- fuls of tamarinds ; boil this altogether for fifteen to twenty minutes, then stir into this half a pint of good brown or tomato sauce, bring it to the boil, add a spoonful of cocoanut milk, or a squeeze of lemon juice, and a little grated cocoanut, and serve. Especially good with veal, or white meat, and also with fish of any kind. Sauce JSchalotte.—Moisten six or eight shallots, a bay leaf, some parsley, and a little thyme, with half a gill of strong veal stock, and reduce it to a glaze; then pour on to it half a pint of brown sauce, let it cook gently for ten minutes at the side of the stove, strain, and keep in the bain-marie till wanted. This is also very good, if clear stock or gravy is used instead of thick sauce. Excellent with mutton. Sauce Marsala.—Boil up together a gill of Marsala, a good pinch of freshly ground black pepper, and a gill of strong stock till reduced to half; then add to it half a pint of brown sauce, and let it cook together till the sauce will coat the spoon. If to this sauce thus made you add some turned (i.e., stoned) olives, and allow them to cook in the sauce till thoroughly hot, adding at the last a small pat of plain, or maitre d’hotel butter, with a squeeze of lemon juice and a suspicion of coralline pepper, you have Sauce aux olives, most excellent with fillets of beef, &c., or hashed duck. Like most of these206 ENTRIES. sauces, this may, if liked, be made on a foundation of espagnole. Sauce Poivrade.—This is a sauce frequently used as a foundation for others, and in this case is made by frying together, till lightly coloured, two shallots •with 4oz. minced lean ham, a bay leaf, and some parsley, moistening it all with a gill of good brown vinegar; let it cook till reduced to half, when it is added to three-quarters of a pint of brown sauce; skim well, and boil till reduced to half, when it is ready. If to half a pint of this you add a spoonful of minced pickled gherkins with a few drops of the pickling liquid belonging to them, bring it just to the boil, and at the last add a tiny pat of plain butter, you have Sauce aux Cornichons, excellent with fillets of beef, &c. If, again, you stir into half a pint of this 'poivrade one-third of a pint of light claret and a gill of strong stock, allowing it to reduce sharply a fourth part, skimming it care- fully, and adding just at the last a teaspoonful of currant or rowan jelly and the juice of an orange, you produce Sauce chevreuil, most excellent with venison, roe deer, and mountain goat especially (from personal experience this may be recommended with ibex venison), and said to be a form of the original Sauce Robert, which many authorities assert to be the translation into French of the old English “ roe- brewet,” or roe deer sauce. An ounce of anchovy butter, or of plain butter, with a squeeze of lemon juice, a few drops of essence of anchovy, and a good tablespoonful of capers, stirred into half a pint of this poivrade and simmered in it for a few minutes,207 SAUCES. produces a delicious caper sauce, excellent witli any broiled or stewed meat, &c. Sauce Portugaise.—Put into a pan tlie grated rind of a nice lemon, five or six roughly crushed black peppercorns, five or six cloves, a bay leaf, a spray of thyme, and, if liked, a tiny blade of mace; dilute this with one-third of a pint of sherry or marsala, and simmer for ten minutes over a slow fire. Then add to this half a pint of well reduced brown sauce, a gill of strong stock or glaze, and bring it to the boil gently, skimming it well, and allowing it to reduce a little. Sieve it, and. leave in the bain-marie till wanted, when a pat of maitre d’hotel butter may be dissolved in it; or, failing this, a little plain butter, a squeeze of lemon juice, and some very finely minced parsley. Excellent with braised fillet of beef or boeuf au gratin. Sauce Tomate.—Stalk and halve 31b. of good, well- coloured tomatoes, and place them in a largish sauce- pan with a bouquet of herbs, a small teaspoonful of salt, half a one of pepper, and a full gill of water; bring this gently to the boil, and simmer slowly for forty minutes, stirring it constantly and gently with a very clean, or new, wooden spoon, to prevent its catching; then rub it all through a wire sieve, and mix it with one-third of a pint of thin brown sauce, and let it cook together for fifteen or twenty minutes longer, stirring it constantly. If too thick, add a little more thin sauce; if too thin, boil up sharply to reduce it. This sauce may be made with canned tomatoes simply pulped through a sieve and cookedENTRIES. 208 for twenty minutes with the brown sauce. A drop or two of carmine is permissible in this case, as the great beauty of this sauce is its rich colour, and for this canned tomatoes are not always sufficient. This will be found rather thicker than the ordinary tomato sauce, but in France it is almost invariably served as a sort of puree, like the puree Soubise, there used instead of our onion sauce. It should taste very strongly of tomato, and, therefore, brown sauce is better with it than the highly spiced and flavoured espagnole, which would almost overpower the proper tomato taste. This tomato sauce is often mixed-with Portugaise and other sauces for use with braised and broiled beef; and, when cold, is mixed with mayonnaise sauce in equal parts, adding a dash of lemon juice or tarragon vinegar, when it becomes Sauce Tomate a la mayonnaise; or with equal parts of tartare sauce, with the addition of a little chopped green tarragon and a few drops of tarragon vinegar, when it is known as Sauce Maximilien. The deriva- tives from espagnole sauce are many, and include most of the more delicate and expensive brown sauces of the French cuisine. Sauce Bigarade.—Peel thinly a Seville or bitter orange (bigarade), shred it into julienne strips, and blanch it for three or four minutes in boiling water ; stir together half a pint of good espagnole with a gill of glaze or strong stock made from game bones, reduce, by sharp boiling, a full third, then stir in the blanched and shred orange peel and the strained juice of two Seville oranges, with a good dash of cayenne. This sauce is usually served with wildSAUCES. 209 duck, and in that case the broken-up carcase of the bird is used for the glaze. This sauce can also be made with plain brown sauce, adding to this, how- ever, a little essence of anchovy. Sauce Bordelaise.—Put into a pan a tablespoonful of minced and blanched shallot, a pinch of fresh and coarsely ground black pepper, and a full gill of claret (Bordeaux), and reduce it sharply to half, when you stir into it half a pint of good espagnole, skim and reduce a little, add a tablespoonful of finely minced parsley, and serve. This sauce should always be rather thin. Sauce Bourguignonne.—Toss in an ounce of butter or clarified dripping, two or three mushrooms, two or three shallots or small silver onions, and a spray or two each of parsley and thyme, till they are well browned; then add half a pint of red wine (Burgundy), and two or three cloves, and let it reduce to half; stir to this half a pint of rich espagnole, and a gill of strong stock or consomme, or some Liebig extract; boil for fifteen to twenty minutes, skimming it well, and letting it reduce a fourth part; tammy, and use. Many cooks just tie the thyme, parsley, and mace, if used, into a bunch, and lifting this out at the last, serve the sauce as it stands. Sauce Chateaubriand.—This is made exactly like Sauce Marsala, only using espagnole and white French or Rhine wine, for the brown sauce and the Marsala there given. Served frequently with filet Chateaubriand. Sauce d la Biable.—Fry together in butter a slice or two of lean minced ham and a minced shallot or p210 ENTRIES. two, moistening these, when lightly browned, with half a gill of good vinegar; add a bouquet and some roughly bruised black peppercorns, and simmer it all gently till the vinegar is reduced to half; mean- while work together one and a half gills of good espagnole, a gill of tomato sauce, and half a gill of veal stock, reduce this a fourth part, then add the reduced vinegar strained, and a tiny pinch of caster sugar ; let it boil up once or twice, sieve and stir into it just at the last an ounce of cayenne butter. Excellent with almost any rechauffe. Sauce Financiere.—To a pint of rich espagnole add two or three mushrooms, two or three truffles (previously tossed in butter and moistened with sherry), and loz. of good poultry glaze; let it cook together till it will mask the spoon when lifted, then serve either plain or tammied. Many cooks flavour this with the truffle trimmings, adding the cooked and sliced truffles at the last. (It may be well to mention that poultry or other glaze or essence is simply very strong stock boiled down to a thick gluey substance, just like the meat glaze sold in bladders. Where much game comes into the house, a good cook will utilise and store in this way, the stock from the carcases, trimmings, &c., for a little added to any stock gives it much delicacy; at the same time it needs judgment, for if used for any and everything it would lead to the same mistake as caused M. Gouffe to give up espagnole). Sauce Italienne {Brune).—Boil down a gill of any light white wine (French for choice) to half, then stir it into half a pint of rich reduced espagnole,SAUCES. 211 with half an ounce of glaze, and a good spoonful of d’Uxelles mixture and serve. Sauce Madere.—Keduce a gill of sherry or Madeira seasoned with a pinch of coarsely ground black pepper to half ; stir together over the fire half a pint of rich espagnole and half a gill of strong veal stock till reduced a third part, then pour it on to the wine, let it boil up and use. Sauce au Champagne is made in the same way, only omitting the pepper. Many people, however, prefer brown sauce as a foundation for this, as hiding the flavour of the wine less. It is served generally with roast or braised ham, fillet of beef, Ac. Sauce Malaga is made like the Madere, only using port wine, and adding two or three blanched and minced shallots to the pepper, and stirring in at the last a squeeze of lemon juice and a pat of cayenne butter. Sauce Mirabeau.—Put into a pan a shallot, a few black peppercorns, a bay leaf, and a gill of tarragon vinegar, and reduce it to half; then stir to it another ounce of glaze, a dust of caster sugar, and a full gill of espagnole, just bring this to the boil, then lift it from the fire and work into it 2oz. of butter broken up small, allowing it to just not boil up between addiug each piece of butter, so as to ensure the melting of each before the next is added; it is on attention to this point that the flavour of this sauce depends. Finish off with a little finely minced parsley or tarragon, and a dust of coralline pepper. Mirar beau is really a brown form of Bcarnaise, and should properly come amongst the butter sauces. It is used with cutlets, fillets of beef, &c. If preferred, light p 2ENTRIES. 212 French white wine can be used instead of the vinegar, finishing it off with lemon juice instead of herbs. It is then called Sauce Parisienne and is delicious with noisettes of any meat. Sauce Perigeux.—Fry in butter till lightly coloured 4oz. minced lean ham, two small shallots, the trim- mings of four or five truffles, and a pinch of black pepper; moisten it then with half a gill of Madeira or sherry, and reduce this rapidly to half. Pour on to this half a pint of rich espagnole, and half a gill of strong veal stock, and simmer it at the side of the stove for twenty minutes, skimming it carefully; then tammy, and again reduce till it will mask the spoon. Before serving, stir in a spoonful or two of finely sliced truffles cooked in a little sherry. Sauce Piquante.—For this mix a gill of the poivrade sauce, previously given, with half a pint of good espagnole, let them reduce a fourth part to- gether, and use. It may be mentioned that when sauce Poivrade is to be served as a sauce by itself it may be made by the former recipe, only using richly flavoured espagnole instead of brown sauce, and adding a little wine. Sauce Reform.—The original recipe for this was to bring half a pint of poivrade sauce (made with espagnole) to the boil, then to stir into it half a gill of port wine, an ounce of red currant jelly, and a good dash of cayenne, and boil together till reduced to the right consistency. This is the way it was made originally at the Reform Club whose chef invented the dish. Now almost any rich brown sauce, flavoured with Worcester sauce and currant213 SAUCES. jelly, is admitted, as long as the Reform garnish is adhered to. Sauce Robert.—Cut two medium sized onions into dice, and fry in butter till of a golden brown, then drain off the butter, and cook them in a little stock with a tiny pinch of sugar, till melted; meantime boil a full half pint of espagnole with a gill of light French wine (or white wine vinegar), and a handful of mushroom stalks and trimmings, till reduced a fourth part; sieve it, stir it to the onions, add a good spoonful of made mustard and serve. Excellent with pork cutlets, hashed goose, &c. Sauce Richelieu.—This is simply espagnole made with strong game stock, and enriched at the last with strong game glaze or essence. It should be specially dark in colour, and taste strongly of game. If 3oz. or 4oz. of dried cherries or prunes are stewed in a gill of claret with a strip of lemon peel, a piece of stick cinnamon, and a few cloves, for twenty minutes at the side of the stove till tender, and then stirred into a good half pint of this sauce (after removing the lemon peel, cinnamon, and cloves) it is known as Sauce St. Hubert, and is in Germany much used with venison, wild boar, &c. It is manifestly impossible in a book of this size to give even a tenth of the sauces in use, but the above will allow of considerable variety, and if thoroughly mastered, will enable the cook to pick up any new sauces she may come across fairly easily. Hot butter sauces are much used abroad, and very delicious they are, and well worth the trouble they entail. For instance:ENTRIES. 214 ' Sauce JBearnaise.—Put into a pan three or four shallots, some roughly crushed allspice or black peppercorns, as you please, and a tiny bit of mace, pour to this a gill of tarragon vinegar and half a pint of water, and allow it to boil-in to half; then strain and leave it till cold. Strain three or four eggs into a pan, and stir them over a slow fire with enough of the above liquid to produce a rich custard, then stir in bit by bit 2oz. of fresh butter, and when these have all been worked in, sprinkle in a tea- spoonful of minced tarragon, and serve. This sauce should be made just as it is wanted, as it oils if it has to stand; still, as accidents will happen, it will keep fairly good for twelve or fifteen minutes if stood in the bain-marie; whilst if it oils, the addition of a tiny knob of ice in summer, or a little oold water in winter, will often bring it back to fairly pood condition. This sauce should be like mayon- naise in appearance and consistency. Indeed, it is often called “ hot mayonnaise.” Sauce a la ID'Orleans.—Bring to the boil two tablespoonfuls of the best Orleans vinegar, then add to it a full tablespoonful of rich espagnole sauce, and let this heat; now work into it bit by bit l^oz. to 2oz. of fresh butter, being careful not to add the next piece till the first is perfectly dissolved; then stir into it a dust of cayenne and of caster sugar, with a good pinch of finely minced parsley, and serve. Sauce Frangaise.—To the quantity of Bearnaise sauce given above add half a gill of good tomato puree, with an ounce of very strong chicken stock;SAUCES. 215 add a small teaspoonful of finely minced parsley and a teaspoonful of chilli vinegar, and use with fillets or cutlets of any meat or poultry. These butter sauces, again, are many. Lastly, there are cold sauces. For brown chaufroix sauces, roughly speaking, an excellent result may be obtained by placing in a pan a gill of any rich brown sauce, with half a gill each of wine and very strong stock, dissolving in this as it boils from ■|oz. to ^oz. of best leaf gelatine, skimming it well, and allowing it to reduce a fourth part; then sieve and use as it cools. Manifestly this chaufroix can be varied according to the sauce and the wine used. For instance, brown sauce and sherry or Madeira; espagnole and Madeira or champagne; Richelieu with Chablis or port; Perigeux Sauce and Burgundy; Salmi sauce and port, &c., can all be used with excellent effect according to the meat to be masked, glazing all of these with strong, clarified, and just liquid stock, in which {-oz. to |oz. of gelatine to the half pint has been dissolved. White chaufroix may be made in exactly the same way, only using white stock and cream instead of the wine, and glaze. A delicate red chaufroix is produced by dissolving gelatine in a rich-coloured tomato sauce and using it in the same way; whilst a very delicate green chaufroix may be made by adding ^oz. of gelatine and a drop or two of green colouring to the Creme cle concombres previously given amongst the white sauces. Of course, where aspic may be used with the sauces, you stir together a gill of any good sauce to half aENTRIES. 216 pint of aspic jelly, let it reduce a little, and use when setting. Then, of course, en aspic must be added to the name of the dish. But aspic is not to be recommended for the finest white sauces, with which the acidity of the vinegar is apt to disagree. As a fact, almost all the delicate creme sauces previously given may be turned into chaufroix by the help of fine leaf gelatine, and are generally delicious, if stood on ice till perfectly cold, without being actually frozen, as are some of the more strongly flavoured ones. Mayonnaise.—Crush in a bowl with a wooden spoon about a teaspoonful of mustard flour, half an average saltspoonful each of salt and white pepper, then work into it the yolk of a raw egg (see that a special wooden spoon is kept for mayonnaise making, and that it is well scalded each time of using), and add to it, drop by drop, the very best salad oil, till it is quite as thick as butter; then add about If tea- spoonfuls of vinegar (plain or flavoured, as you please), when it should become quite creamy, and is ready. It should be used at once, but if it must stand a little, stir into the above quantity about a small dessertspoonful of actually boiling water. The above will make half a pint of sauce. If from any cause, such as the too quick pouring in of the oil, &c., the sauce thin or curdle suddenly, the only thing to do is to break another egg into a clean basin and slowly work into it the curdled sauce, almost drop by drop. If stored in a cool place it is possible to keep mayonnaise good for a day or so,217 SAUCES. but it must be closely covered up, for exposure to the air soon turns it oily and rank. Mayonnaise, like many other sauces, can be very much varied. For instance, white mayonnaise is prepared by using lemon juice instead of vinegar, and adding at the last a gill of very stiffly whipped cream to the mixture. For red mayonnaise stir equal parts of mayonnaise and tomato puree together, adding, if necessary, a dash of flavoured vinegar to the mixture. For green mayonnaise blanch some sprays of parsley, chervil, and tarragon, drain off the water, pound the herbs smoothly, and then incorporate them with some mayonnaise sauce, adding a drop or two of green colouring to get it all a delicate green. If mayonnaise aspic is desired, add three large tablespoonfuls of mayonnaise to a short half pint of aspic jelly, incorporating them well. A delicious masking sauce may be made by stirring a full tablespoonful of mixed olives, or truffles, as you please, into a short half pint of mayonnaise, with a dust of coralline pepper, and a squeeze of lemon juice, stirring in at the last about a gill of stiffly whipped cream. All these sauces should be stood on ice till wanted. Mint Sauce.—Take the tops of some young mint, washing and drying them carefully in a clean cloth, and mince them as finely as possible, being careful not to squeeze or crush them, or the flavour will be lost; put them at once into the tureen with two tablespoonfuls of caster sugar to every three table- spoonfuls of minced mint; stir them well together. Add to this quantity five tablespoonfuls of best218 ENTRIES. vinegar, and let it all stand for two or three hours before use. Mousseline Sauce.—Stir together a gill of aspic whipped till stiff: and frothy, a gill of mayonnaise sauce, and a gill of stiffly whipped cream, with a dust of coralline pepper and of caster sugar, and a small spoonful of vinegar. Plain, white, green, or red mayonnaise can be used for this. Creme Baifort.—Well wash, scrape, and grate finely a stick of young horseradish, then whisk it quickly into a gill of stiffly whipped cream, flavouring it as you do so with cayenne and plain or chilli vinegar, or lemon juice. If preferred, sour cream can be used for this. A very delicate form of this sauce is Creme Baifort a VAlceste (said to have been called after the flagship of the admiral who invented it, Sir Beauchamp Seymour, I believe), made by pounding the yolk of a hard-boiled egg with a good inustardspoonful each of English and French mustard, half a small teaspoonful of caster sugar, and a saltspoonf ul of celery salt; this is then stirred lightly into about half a pint of stiffly whipped cream, with a pinch of grated orange peel, a tea- spoonful of tarragon vinegar (the quantity of this is a matter of taste), and a full tablespoonful of freshly grated horse radish. This can be moulded, or left rocky, but in any case should be frozen in ice or in an ice cave. If set in a border mould it makes a most delicious border for neatly sliced cold beef, seasoned with oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt, and finely minced parsley, chives, &c., a nice French salad being served in the centre.SAUCES. 219 Bemoulade.—To half a pint of thick mayonnaise add a spoonful each of capers, minced pickled gherkins, and blanched and minced shallots, with two washed, boned, and minced anchovies, and leave on ice till wanted. Sauce Tartare.—To half a pint of remoulade add a spoonful of minced herbs (parsley, chervil, chives, tarragon, &c.), a small tablespoonful of made English mustard, a teaspoonful of chilli vinegar, and a dust of cayenne. Sauce Suecloise,—Stir together two tablespoonfuls each of finely-graxea norse-radish and thick cream into half a pint of rather thick mayonnaise, add a dust of cayenne, and set on ice till wanted. This is very good frozen. Cambridge Sauce.—Pound four well-washed and boned anchovies with the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs, a good spoonful of capers, a few minced chives, two or three sprays each of parsley, tarragon, chervil, &c., blanched and minced, adding gradually as you pound it all, a teaspoonful each of made English and French mustard, a little white pepper, and, if necessary, a little salt. (This must depend on the anchovies.) When these are all smooth, add gradually sufficient good salad oil to bring it to the consistency of butter, thin it with a very little tarragon vinegar, and sieve it all, carefully scraping up all the sauce that adheres to the under side of the sieve, and set on ice till wanted. Cazanova Sauce.—Prepare some mayonnaise by using a hard-boiled egg yolk as well as a raw one, together with a mustardspoonful each of220 ENTRIES. English and French mustard, working it up with thick cream instead of oil, adding this very slowly, as it is even more apt to curdle than oil, thin it with about a dessertspoonful of strained lemon juice, getting the sauce quite white and thick. Now rub the dish in which it is to be served once or twice with fresh cut garlic, stir into the sauce the hard- boiled egg white and two or three truffles, all cut into julienne strips, and serve in the garlic-rubbed dish, after standing for an hour or two on ice.CHAPTER XII. ODDS AND ENDS. Aspic.—The nature of this savoury jelly depends a good deal on what it is to be used for. Formerly it was almost invariably made by boiling down calves’ feet with various addenda of spices, vegetables, &c., a costly and tedious process which stood in the way of its general use in ordinary households. Since however the introduction of gelatine of good quality, and the reduction in price to some extent of isin- glass, these last products have been utilised as a foundation, to the saving of time and trouble. If a strong meat flavour is required, the gelatine should be added to strong and well clarified consomme, or dissolved consomme Maggi, meat glaze, &c., as may be convenient; if only needed for an ornamental garnish it can be perfectly made with water, as follows: put into a very clean stewpan 2|oz. of best leaf gelatine, a dessertspoonful of salt, eighteen or twenty peppercorns and allspice mixed, the strained juice of a lemon, a bay leaf, a sliced onion, and a good bunch of herbs (parsley, young green onion, green tarragon—if this is not available, use either a table 01 dessertspoonful of tarragon vinegar—and a blade of mace), stir into it the broken-up shells and222 ENTREES. the whites of two eggs, pour over it a quart of warm water, and a short gill of brown vinegar; bring this gently to the boil, whisking it a little at the first to mix the ingredients well, and when it boils up, strain it through a warm jelly bag. It should be quite clear, but if not, run it through the bag a second time. (The meat aspic jelly is made in precisely the same way, only substituting a quart of well flavoured stock for the water.) This jelly will be pretty stiff, as it is intended for borders; if only needed for garnishing and chopping l|oz. to 2oz. of gelatine will be found ample. (It may be observed that if aspic jelly is not in constant use it will be best to strain it through a clean napkin instead of the jelly bag, as the vegetables, vinegar, &c., might give an un- pleasant flavour to any sweet jelly run through the bag afterwards, however carefully the latter is scalded out.) Be careful of the temperature of the liquid added to the ingredients, for if too hot, or boiling as some cooks advise, it will curdle and set the egg whites at once and not clear well. Whisking the jelly too long, i.e., after it has nearly reached boiling point; using a greasy or dirty pan, or allowing the gelatine to touch anything greasy, are both causes of clouding. To chop aspic, sprinkle a sheet of white paper well with cold water, and cut up the aspic with a well wetted knife, on this; sprinkling it with a very little more cold water if necessary, and chop as fine as possible, for the finer it is the more brilliant it will be. If to be put on with a forcing bag and pipe, be sure the latter are well wetted before putting in the jelly, or it will not223 ODDS AND ENDS. flow out properly. For aspic cream, tomato aspic, &c., stir a gill of cream, tomato puree, or whatever sauce is to be used, with half a pint of just liquid aspic, add a little tarragon vinegar if necessary (be careful about this, for over-acid aspic is a very common fault), tammy it, and use when cooling, for masking, lining moulds, &c. Bain-marie.—This utensil is a most useful one, and of almost universal use abroad, where few save chefs have kitchenmaids; though in England it is Fig. 16. looked on as a luxury only required in very large kitchens. This, however, is a great mistake. Where a cook is single-handed it is all but impossible to get ready everything required at the moment of use. So various things such as sauces, garnishes, &c., may be kept warm, and handy in this vessel, and indeed are so kept abroad, as shown in the illustration copied from a real pot in use (Fig. 16). Various substitutes for tnis pan have been introduced (on account of itsENTRIES. 224 large cost in this country), of which probably the best known is the “ gourmet-boiler,” but with a little management the cost need not be in the least pro- hibitive. The only things required are, a shallow kettle (such as most ironmongers sell as fish fryers), and a few small block tin saucepans, to fit in it. Of course where expense is no object copper pans, &c., are nicest, but the above homely arrangement works admirably. In putting sauces in this pan, pour a spoonful of liquid very gently over the surface of each, as this prevents the formation of a skin, which it is not easy to dissolve in a hurry when wanted; using brown stock for dark and milk for white sauces. Blanching Vegetables, &c.—This is very simply done by putting the object to be blanched, after cleaning and trimming it, into plenty of cold water with a pinch of salt, then bringing it to the boil, straining it off directly it has reached that point, rinsing it in cold water, and drying it in a clean cloth. Various meats, such as sweetbread, &c., are blanched, but in that case are allowed actually to cook for a little after the water is brought to the boil, to ensure the firmness of the article blanched. Batter.—Of this there are several kinds. One has already been given ; another is made by putting into a basin say 4oz. of fine sifted flour; make a hollow in this and drop into it the yolks of two fresh eggs, with a tablespoonful of bes-t salad oil, little by little mixing in the surrounding flour, adding a little cold water gradually, as required, but keeping the mixture thick enough to ensure its rubbing smooth;ODDS AND ENDS. 225 when half a gill of cold water has been added in this way, beat the batter well with a wooden spoon till it is quite full of air bubbles, then mix in another half gill of water and let it rest for two hours at least, when you mix in lightly and quickly the whites of the eggs beaten to a very stiff froth with a tiny pinch of salt, and use. A commoner kind of batter is often made, but the above will be found well worth the little extra trouble it entails. For pan- cakes make a batter with loz. tine sifted flour, a pinch each of salt and coralline pepper, and two and a half tablespoonfuls of milk for each egg used. Strain this and fry in butter, or marrow fat, but not lard. Borders.—These are made of many things, but the principal ones are farce, rice, or potato for hot borders, and savoury cream, rice, or aspic for cold ones. The directions for farce borders have been given in the chapter on creams, mousses, &c. For a potato lordtr; peel and boil the potatoes carefully, to have them as dry as possible, as when cooked they must be sieved through a wire sieve; now season with a little salt, and for three average- sized potatoes mix in loz. butter, the yolk of one raw egg, and a dust of coralline pepper, or use a spoon- ful or two of milk instead of the egg; mix this all with a clean wooden spoon till it ceases to cling to the finger if touched, then turn it out on to a well floured paste board, and roll it out with your well floured hands into a straight roll, about 2in. across and just half as long again as the utmost breadth you wish your border to be. Cut this roll in half, as QENTRIES. 226 in Fig. 17, trimming off the ends diagonally, as at the dotted lines c c, then bend these two pieces into a round, or an oval, as in Fig. 18, smoothing over the join with a hot wet knife, and flattening the top (and, if liked, the sides, according to the shape you want your border) with the same knife. Brush it over with beaten egg, and bake a light golden brown in the oven. To dish it slip a palette knife between it and the tin, and slide it gently on to the dish, so as not to break it. If using one of the long narrow entree dishes, you leave this border quite straight, c c Fig. 17. Fig. 18. instead of rounding it. A hot rice border is made in two ways : either the rice is plainly cooked, and piled loosely round the dish, as for curry, or it is moulded. For this latter boil the rice in the usual way, till tender, but do not dry it; then press it tightly into a well buttered mould, cover it with a buttered paper, place another paper folded in the bain-marie pan, set the mould on this, and poach it m the bain-marie for half an hour or so, and then turn out. If to be used cold, cook some milk or stock in a well buttered pan (this prevents any risk of sticking), and when this is hot, but not boiling, put227 ODDS AND ENDS. in the rice (allowing 2oz. of Carolina rice to the half pint of liquid), bring to the boil, then keep it at simmering point from thirty to forty-five minutes, till it has absorbed most, if not all, of the liquid, and is soft and plump, but not cooked to a pap. It should be covered with a buttered paper, and the lid of the pan kept on whilst cooking, being careful that it does not catch. When done, add to it a tea- spoonful of cold water, or milk, and pour at once into a border mould previously well rinsed in cold water, and leave it till cold before turning it out. This is all the better for being iced. Another way to make rice border, or a centre for any dish, is to put the- rice on with cold water enough to cover it well, and! blanch it, then rinse in cold water, and return it to- the pan with more cold water, cover with a butteredi paper, bring to the boil, and then simmer it very slowly in the oven, or at the side of the stove, for two and a half to three hours, adding a little more water now and again, as required. When cooked and quite dry, pound it till quite smooth, and work it to a ball with your hands dipped in cold water (to avoid its sticking), dry well on a deem cloth, and press it tightly into a well buttered plain mould, and weight it down firmly till perfectly cold, when it can be turned out and used, or cut to any desired shape. The first method given can also be used cold, but must be turned out whilst hot. Breadcrumbs {Savoury).— Any odds and ends of stale bread should be put into the oven (carefully sorting the crumb from the crust), and thoroughly dried, without, however, letting it'colour; it is (hen228 ENTRIES. crushed to a powder, sifted, and stored in wide- mouthed bottles tightly stoppered. These crumbs will be found far nicer for crumbing purposes than freshly made ones. When freshly grated crumbs are advised, they are often mixed with cheese, palt, pepper, parsley, &c. The usual proportions are loz. of freshly grated Parmesan cheese to 4oz. of bread- crumbs, and a plentiful seasoning of coralline pepper, salt, and minced parsley, to taste. Butters.— Savoury butters are much used in foreign kitchens, either as garnish, or to put the finishing touches to any delicate sauce. Hot Butter: For this purpose rub up a teaspoonful of either cayenne, coralline pepper, curry powder, or mustard flour with 5oz. to 6oz. of fresh butter, being careful to get it to a perfectly smooth paste. Anchovy Butter: Pound six to eight well washed and boned anchovies (or, though not so good, an equivalent amount of anchovy paste or essence) to a smooth paste with a full ounce of fresh butter, seasoning it with a few drops of lemon juice. Horseradish Butter: G-rate down as finely as possible some horseradish and pound it to a smooth paste with an equal quantity of fresh butter, sieve it and finish off with a drop or two of chilli vinegar. Delicious with beef, hot or cold. Maitre d’Hotel Butter: Blanch and mince sufficient nice green parsley to fill a table- spoon, and pound it to a smooth paste with 2oz. or 3oz. of butter, a tablespoonful of lemon juice, and a dust of white pepper. (Keep this in a cool place, and do not work it too much in the making.) Ham, Cayenne, Lobster, or Shrimp Butter, &c., may be all229 ODDS AND ENDS. made thus, and can he varied ad infinitum according to the materials at hand, and the use they are to be put to. Caul, or Crepine.—Pieces of pig’s caul (called in French crepine, whence the name of crepinettes applied to small entrees wrapped and cooked in pieces of the caul), used for wrapping little balls of forcement or other small entrees. This material should be well washed and kept in salted cold water, when it will last good for some days. Driessatices.—These most valuable additions to one’s store-cupboard are the invention of M. C. Driessens, a well-known French chef, who discovered the method of solidifying various white and brown sauces, so that they can be stored in air-tight tins or bottles for almost any time; and only need the addition of water, according to the directions, together with a little fresh minced parsley, &c., to produce decidedly excellent brown and white sauces of all kinds. These are invaluable in the country, as impromptu dishes may be prepared at literally a few minutes’ notice by their help. Dripping, to prepare, &c.—Pour the dripping, if hot, into a saucepanful of boiling water; (if cold, break it up in small pieces and put these in the boiling water;) let it boil up, and then boil for fifteen minutes, stirring it now and again; then pour it all into a large basin, and leave it till perfectly cold, when the dripping will have formed a thick, firm white cake, from the under side of which the im- purities, blacks, &c., can easily be scraped. Dripping thus p repared keeps well, and the operation can be230 ENTREES. repeated several times as long as the fat is not allowed to burn. It is more economical to let dripping cool before adding water, as it always contains a portion of rich gravy, which would be wasted if it is poured direct into the boiling water. D’Uxelles Mixture.—This is prepared by frying together equal parts of mushrooms and parsley, a third of shallot or chives, and a little truffle (all minced separately), in fresh butter, seasoning it with salt, pepper, and a very tiny grate of nutmeg; stir this all over the fire for five minutes, then stir to it a large wineglassful of light French wine (or use the same quantity of sherry and water), previously reduced to half by sharp boiling ; mix with the yolk of an egg and a dash of lemon juice. This mixture is often used as a garnish, and also as an addition to sauces, e.g., add a tablespoonful of the d’Uxelles to half a pint of veloutc, bechamel, or allemande, for a white d’Uxelles, or the same amount of mixture to brown or espagnole sauce, for a brown one; either are then known as Sauce d’Uxelles, or aux fines herbes. Farce, or Stuffing.—Farces are of various kinds: For instance, beef farce; pound 5oz. of panade, add to it 5oz. of minced and pounded beef, and pound the two well together, adding in loz. of fresh butter, two or three raw egg yolks, pepper and salt, and a little Coralline pepper ; sieve it, and use. If required for a; border, 2oz. or 3oz. more each of beef and panade rii'ay be added to the above proportions. Yeal, rabbit, or chicken farce is prepared in exactly the sWe way. Liver farce is made by frying together231 ODDS' AND ENDS. ^lb. of liver (calf, game, or poultry livers may be used), with 4oz. each of fat bacon and white meat, all cut into dice, in an ounce of butter, or marrow fat, with two bay leaves, two or three sprays of thyme and parsley, salt, coralline and black pepper; fry it all for five minutes, then whilst hot, pound it to a smooth paste, sieve it, and mix into this puree two or three minced button mushrooms, or truffles, and one raw egg yolk, and use. (This is sufficient farce for four pigeons.) The delicacy of this depends naturally on the materials used, game and poultry livers mixed with chicken or rabbit meat being especially dainty. Foie gras farce is simply pate de foie gras trujfe, rubbed through a sieve, and if liked mixed with some truffles cut into dice. Herb farce, used for veal, hare, &c., is made by mixing together 4oz. freshly made breadcrumbs, 2oz. finely chopped beef suet, a tablespoonful of minced mixed herbs, two whole raw eggs, with pepper and salt to taste. Tiny balls of this last farce, rolled in flour, may be boiled gently in boiling water for ten minutes or so ; or if preferred may be rolled in flour, dipped in beaten egg, and then into freshly made bread- crumbs, and fried a pale gold colour, as a garnish for any hare entree. ' Garnishes.—This is a word roughly applied to any addenda served with a dish, and includes vegetables, sauce, &c. It is, however, more particularly applied to small ragouts, or mixtures of various kinds of meat, fish, vegetable, &c., tossed in some rich and appropriate sauce, and served with the dish in question. The best known of these are : Chipolata.ENTRIES. —Stir together an equal number of chestnuts (blanched, and stewed in stock till tender), mush- rooms (wiped and peeled), small cooked carrots (or pieces of carrot cut into the size of small corks), turnips (similarly treated), and tiny chipolata sausages (these are really nothing but very deli- cately made and tiny sausages, rather highly seasoned with spice, &c., cooked and skinned after cooking), in a little thick espagnole sauce, till hot. Financiere. — Equal quantities of sliced truffles, cockscombs, mushrooms, and small quenelles, heated in a rich espagnole or Madere sauce; if heated in a rich veloute or bechamel sauce, this garnish is called ala Toulouse. Flamande.—Carrots, turnips (if small whole, quartered if large), small onions, and small quartered cabbages, stewed in stock with a little salt pork or bacon, or bacon rind, and some sausages, till tender ; then carefully freed from fat and the bacon rind, and served with the sausages sliced and the bacon cut into dice, as a. garnish for braised fillets, &c. Godard.—Equal parts of sliced truffles, any kind of dainty game or poultry quenelles, and pieces of sliced sweetbread heated in espagnole or Richelieu sauce strongly flavoured with essence of mushrooms and champagne. Italienne.—Minced sweetbread, mushrooms, and fried ham, served in white or brown Italienne sauce. Jardiniere: Equal parts of cooked and nicely trimmed cauliflower, Brussels sprouts, and twice the quantity of braised carrots, well drained and glazed with a little good demi-glace; this is the strictly correct version, but mixed vegetable garnishesODDS AND ENDS. 233 of any kind are frequently served by tbis name, though, if drained, mixed, and served either with white or brown sauce, or, if cold, with a vinaigrette, they are called macedoine. Julienne is composed of a variety of cooked and well drained vegetables shred into long thin slips, then tossed in butter and a very little caster sugar till glazed. Mancelle.—Of this there are two kinds, the first being made of sliced foie gras, minced truffles previously cooked in sherry or Madeira, and a good spoonful of d’Uxelles mixture, heated in either espagnole or Richeleu sauce. This is, abroad, served with game, for which, however, it would be too strongly flavoured for most English tastes. The second form is simply chest- nuts blanched and delicately stewed till tender in any rich wine-flavoured brown sauce. Milanaise.—Cooked macaroni mixed with filletted chicken, truffles, and mushrooms, well strewed with grated cheese, and moistened with either espagnole or tomato sauce. Montglas: A mixture of shred chicken, tongue, and sliced truffles heated in any rich sauce to taste, some people adding to it minced sweetbread or sliced foie gras. Reform.—Cooked truffles, ham, and hard- boiled eggs, cut into Julienne strips, and heated in Reform sauce. Valenciennes.—A mixture of cooked artichoke bottoms, minced chicken and lobster (or prawns), mushrooms, and rice, tossed in a rich white Indienne sauce. Gelatine.—When this is used, only the best quality should be chosen, as only in this way can the disagreeable gluey flavour, so noticeable in inferior gelatines, be avoided. All the recipes in this234 ENTRIES. book liave been given on the supposition that Mrs. A. B. Marshall’s leaf gelatine is used, as this, in addition to its undoubted and guaranteed strength and purity, needs no previous soaking, dissolving very readily in a very little hot liquid. Where other gelatines are used a previous soaking in cold water is always necessary, and nearly half as much again in quantity should be used. Whenever gelatine is used the utmost care should be taken to have it thoroughly dissolved, for if not, itwill coagulate and form gluey lumps through the mixture, giving a ■disagreeable, raw, and gluey flavour to the whole thing; a flavour, moreover, generally laid to the •account of the gelatine, whereas it is most usually the result of carelessness on the cook’s part. Macaroni, to Boil.—The great thing to remember about this is that macaroni must be put on in plenty •of boiling water and kept at the boil all the time it is cooking, adding sufficient salt with the macaroni. Directly the paste is cooked dash into the saucepan •containing it a tumbler or more of ice cold water to throw it oft: the boil, and drain off the macaroni at once. It is difficult to say how long it will take to cook, as this depends a good deal on the size and quality of the macaroni itself. From twenty to thirty minutes, however, is a fair guide; but the best way is to try it by biting a morsel of it. If it bites soft, yet short, it is cooked, and the sooner it leaves the pan the better. In England macaroni is systematically overcooked, when it is woolly and pappy. All macaronis and pastes are cooked thus, and too much water cannot be given.235 ODDS AND ENDS. Olives en Ragout.—Turn or stone eighteen or twenty fine olives, put them into a pan with sufficient good stock to cover them, add half a wineglassful of sherry, three or four drops of essence of anchovy, and stew them gently at the side of the fire in a tightly covered pan for about half an hour. Panade.—Boil half a pint of water with a pinch of salt and loz. of butter, and when boiling well sift in four large tablespoonfuls of fine flour, and cook on the stove for five minutes or so, stirring it occasionally to keep it smooth, and prevent its catching. Use when cool. Quatre Rpices.—This is a flavouring powder made by sifting together loz. each of powdered cinnamon, nutmeg, and black pepper with foz. of cloves, and storing this in a tightly stoppered bottle. Rice.— Almost every cook has his or her own way of boiling this ; the two following methods are given from long and successful use. The first is Indian. Pick over and well wash the rice, then put it into a pan with a pinch of salt, and a liberal allowance of cold water, say, a full quart to fib. of rice. Bring this water to the boil gently, and when it boils up the rice should be cooked ; now drain off the water, return the pan and the rice to the fire for a minute or two, and stir it gently with a fork to get all the grains of rice separate and dry. Or : put into a pan ■Ub of rice with sufficient cold water to cover it, and A a pinch of salt; bring it sharply to the boil, then drain off the rice, rinse it well in more cold water, and return it to the fire with about three pints of boiling water, and cook it steadily for twelve to236 ENTRIES. fifteen minutes ; now turn it into a colander, drain oft all the hot water, and pour a little hot water- over to rinse it well; then throw a doubled cloth over the colander and let it all stand for an hour or so by the fire. For rice to be served thus, Patna is the best, as Carolina, though quite as nice to taste, does not look so well. Rice can be served in a variety of ways as an adjunct for all sorts of dishes,. e.y., Coralline rice : To rice boiled as above add a. good piece of butter (2oz. for a good sized dish) melted, with a very little salt, and a goodly pro- portion of coralline pepper, and toss the rice in this till it becomes of a delicate terra cotta shade. Curried rice : To lib. of boiled rice add a couple of spoonfuls of tomato conserve or puree, and half a pint of good curry sauce ; stir this all well together, dry it by the fire for a little, and serve with quartered hardboiled eggs and seasoned watercress. Tomato rice: Cook the rice in any nice stock (meat or vegetable) with an onion, a bouquet of herbs, a. bay leaf, some peppercorns, cloves, and a tiny blade of mace, till cooked. Now take away the herbs, bay leaf, and onion, and mix into the rice about half a pint of tomato pur^e, conserve, or pulp, and garnish with rings of onion fried a golden brown and crisp, in oil or butter. Savoury rice: Blanch fib. of rice, drain and cover with weak white stock of any kind (that made from mutton shank bones is excellent), bring it very gently to the boil, then add a teaspoonful of salt, half as much of sugar, loz. minced onion, cayenne to taste, and just as much saffron as will colour it nicely (the best way is to dry aODDS AND ENDS. 237 little saffron in the oven, and then powder it down), stir in a small piece of butter, and let it cook gently till the liquid is all absorbed by the rice; now turn it out on a hot dish, and garnish with strips of red ehillies, chopped ham or tongue, rings of fried onion, shredded chicken, sliced sausage, &c., to taste, according to what you have at hand, and use. This can manifestly be varied in many ways. Sauces to Tammy.—Tammy cloth is a loosely woven •woollen material used for straining the sauce or liquid Fig. 19, required. The word is said to be derived from tho French tamis, a very fine sieve. There are two methods of tammying, the first (Fig. 19) is by two persons holding the material firmly at each end, and twisting or wringing the cloth in opposite directions; the second (Fig. 20) is also done by two persons, each having a spoon in one hand, and the end of the cloth in the other,and keeping their spoons together, working them backwards and forwards with a regular rhythmical action that forces the sauce through the meshes of the238 ENTRIES. cloth. Nothing gives such a velvety substance to sauces as either of these processes, which, however, are only possible in a household where the services of a kitchenmaid or helper can be secured. For singlehanded cooks the only resource is either a fine hair sieve or the French tamis-pressoir. Truffles, to Coolc.—Put a dozen fine fresh and well cleansed truffles in a pan with sufficient sherry or Fig. 20. madeira to cover them, with a pinch each of salt and pepper, and cook them gently till tender; now stir in half an ounce of glaze, let this melt well, then drain off the truffles, keeping them very hot; add an ounce of butter to the wine, and boil it up sharply till somewhat reduced, when you pour it over the truffles and serve. Truffles cooked thus may be heated in any rich brown sauce to taste, the wine in which they are cooked being added to the sauce.INDEX Aspic, 8, 153, 221 a la juive, 170 ,, menagere, 169 „ royale, 168 cream, 223 de t. aux huitres, 16y de tomates, 168 en belle vne, 167 tomato, 223 Attelets, 136 Bain-marie, 223 Ballotines, de vol., 28, 101 Barding, 26 Batter (frying), 102, 125, 224- (pancake), 225 Bear, to marinade, 31 Beignets de foie gras, 224 de gras double, 103 Blanching vegs., &c., 224 Blanquette, 6, 137 Bobotjes, 137 Border farce, 69 potato, 225 rice, 228 Boudins and boudinettes, 70 a la Czarina, 71 „ Prinz Karl, 71 „ Richelieu, 73INDEX. 240 Breadcrumbs (savoury), 227 Breast of mutton & la Marseilla’se, 113 Burdwan stew, 138 Butters, 228 anchovy, 228 cayenne, 223 ham, 228 horseradish, 228 hot, 228 lobster, 228 maitre d’hotel, 228 Perigord, 26 shrimp, 223 Caisses a la Whitstable, 183 Caneton a 1 ’inddcis, 104 en mayonnaise, 161, 173 Cannelons, 138 Cases, 128 Casserole of rice, 98 Casoolettes meringuees, 132, 138 Caul, 229 C61eri il l’espagnole, 31 Cervelles frites, 109 Chafing dish, 11 Chaufroix, 8, 152-155 de faisan, 176 a l’indienne, 176 & la paysanne, 177 de mauviettes, 176 „ perdreaux, 177 „ vol. a la Marie, 178 „ ,, ,, Carlton, 178 „ „ Pompadour, ! 78 ;, aux concombres 179 Cherry salad, 182 Cold entrees, 3, 152 Cones, 139241 INDEX. Coquilles, 163, 165 de vol. en may, 183 Creams, 66, 67 Creme & la Francillon, 74 ,, Monza, 76 „ reine, 74 aux tomates, 181 de riz de vean, 75 Crepine, 229 Crepinettes, 72 a la d’Estine, 76 „ favorite, 77 Croquettes, 128-131 de boeuf a la Mil., 139 Croustades, 88, 89 a la Champenoise, 94 „ chasseur, 96 Croutons, 82, 88 Custards (savoury), 77 Cutlets, 13, 35, 40 to braise, 39 ,, broil, 17, 35 „ coat, 141 „ egg and crumb, 37 „ saute, 18 ,, stew, 18 ,, trim, 13 for invalids, 19 a la Bretonne, 36 „ Chipolata, 36 „ financiere, 36 ,, Maintenon, 39 „ Mancelle, 36 „ Marechale, 36 „ Marquise, 38 „ Milanaise, 36 „ orientale, 36 E242 INDEX. Cutlets (Continued)— & la Palestine, 36 „ Parmesane, 38 ,, Reform, 37 „ Rothschild, 40 ,, Smyrniote, 36 ,, Soubise, 36 „ Soyer, 38 „ Toulouse, 36 ,, Valenciennes, 36 „ Viennoise, 36 „ Villeroi, 39 aux petits pois, 39 en robe de chambre, 37 „ chaufroix a 1’Americaine, 17 6 „ „ a la Connaught, ISO „ „ „ fermiere, 175 „ „ „ Pompadour, 176 „ „ „ Russe, 175 „ ,, „ St. Gar at, 176 „ „ „ Bellevue, 176 egg, 154 de pigeons, &c., 28, 51, 53 „ ,, a la Chipolata, 52 „ ,, ,, d’Uxelles, 5L „ ,, „ Flamande, 52 „ „ ,. Milanaise, 52 „ „ „ Moderne, 52 „ „ „ Montglas, 52 „ ,, en caisses, 140 „ sur croutes, 101 veal, 45-47 Demi-glace, 37 Driessauces, 229 Dripping, 229 D’Uxelles, 39, 107, 230 Egg plant, stuffed, 114INDEX. 243 Eminc6 de bceuf a l’ltalienne, 121 „ „ aux tomates, 117 Entrees en aspic, 152, 159 Fpigrarames en chau., 180 Escaloppes, 16, 21, 26, 32 de lievre anx cerises, 44, 55 ,, foie gras, 33 Earce, 71, 105, 128, 171, 230 Filets, 21, 26, 32, 35 Contises, 33 mignons, 16, 29, 50 de bceuf a la bearnaise, 41 cbasseur, 43 Chateaubriand, 43 Empereur, 42 Grande Bretagne, 44 intendante, 41 Nemours, 44 Perigeux, 44 Baifort aux oeufs, 43 Riga, 41 St. Janies, 44 Yiennoise, 48 aux creyetles, 42 au gratin, 46 „ huitres, 41 fourres, 44 de chevreuil a la dauphine, 54 „ grouse aux champignons, 54 ,, lipereau a la friande, 57 „ Horti, 60 ,, »> ’ „ lifeyre aux cerises, 162 „ ,, » olives> 57 ,, sanglier &, la Frederic le grand, 55 ,, veau bordelaise, 46 „ volaille, 26, 27 ^ l’Ambassadrice, 49INDEX. 244 Filets (Continued)— de volaille, a la Cardinal, 49 » » „ ^carlate, 49 » „ aux huitres, 49 „ „ en supreme, 7, 27, 51, 53 j> » „ aux truffes, 51 » jj „ a l’ivoire, 51 » »> „ k la royale, 51 >> » „ chaufroix, 157 » » ,, a l’Am^ricaine, 158 Foie gras en aspic, 183 ,, ,, esc., 33 „ „ beignets, 103 de veau a la broche, 108 „ en batelets, 108 „ „ caisses, 109 ,, & l’ltalienne, 32, 38 „ k la Ljonnaise, 58 ,, „ mfenagfere, 59 Fricassee, 8, 117 Villeroi, 142 Fricdt de riz de veau, 142 Fritters, 123-126 Friture, 123-125 Garnish, 16, 21, 22, 25, 29, 23) Ckipolata, 231 Financiere, 232 Flamande, 232 Godard, 232 Italienne, 232 Jardiniere, 233 Julienne, 233 Mancelle, 233 Milanaise, 283 Montglas, 233 Reform, 233 Toulouse, 232 Valenciennes, 233INDEX. 245 Gelatine, 8, 9, 233 Glaze, 210 Gras double (see tripe) Gratin, 117, 119 Grenadins, 16, 20, 22, 29 Gulasck, 47 Hare, to fillet, 29, 33 to marinade, 30 Hash, 11, 176 Ice border, or tray, 158 Jelly (savoury), 159, 186 Kromeskis, 127, 143 Kew mince, 143 “ Lames,” 32 Langue de boeuf en papillotes, 107 „ „ a l’ltalienne, 107 Lapin en matelotte, 59 au Pere Douillet, 60 en fricassee, 156 Larding, 23, 26 ,, needles, 24 Larks (see Mauviettes) Liquid glaze, 43 Macaroni, to cook, 234 Marinade, 19, 20 for bear, 31 for beef, 29 for mutton, 29 cooked, 30 Mauviettes k la Favre, 104 a la Tavernay, 114 en caisses, 105 Mayonnaise, 152-154, 160 Tomato, 161 of duck, 161 Medaillons, 16, 21-29 Mince, 119246 INDEX. Miroton de bceuf, 143 a la chasseur, 145 „ diable, 146 „ japonaise, 145 „ minute, 146 „ tartare, 146 aux choux, 145 „ croutes, 144 „ gratin, 144 „ tomates, 144 Mousses, 64-66 Noisettes, 16, 17, 21, 26, 40, 43 en chaufroix, 17 Nouilles, 93 Oliveau, 147 Olives, to cook, 235 aux huitres, 147 (beef), 112 Omelettes fourr^es, 131 Onions stuffed, 151 Orlies, 127 Ox palates, 109 „ a l’Orlio, 110 ,, au kari, 110 „ en cannelons, 110 ,, „ hatelets, 110 „ „ paupiettes a la fiuancifere, 110 tails, 111 „ k la Ste. Menehould, 111 „ au gratin, 112 Pains, 70-79 de vol. au foie gras, 70-81 de foie au lard, 71 a la Nemours, 80 de lievre, 80 de becassines, 81 Panade, 69, 235INDEX 247 Pancakes or pannequets, 130 Papillottes, 17, 19, 128 a la d’Uxelles, 128 Paste, nouilles, 93 timbale, 86 Patties, 84, 132 Paupiettes, 131 Potato, ragout, 147 Poulet Chipolata, 148 aux champignons, 148 Cocasse, 149 a l’estragon, 148 en ch. a la princesse, 179 en puree, 149 a l’Orlic, 150 en aspic, 157, 159 Quails in aspic, 8 a la Castillane, 174 en chaufroix, 171 en cotelettes, 25 en delices, 170 Quatre epices, 235 Quenelles, 66-72 fourrees, 69 de grouse a la Windsor, 81 de lapin a la Sevigne, 82 Rabbit, &c., to fillet, 29-33 Raviolis, 93 Rechauffes, 10-12, 116 Rice to cook, 235 coralline, 236 curried, 236 savoury, 236 tomato, 236 Ris de veau, 31, 32 a la chinoise, 184 au beurre Montpellier, 184INDEX. 248 Ris en cliaufroix, 184 Rissoles, 128 Roulade en aspic, 181 jardiniere, 181 Roux, 81, 189-191, 201 Salmi de perdreaux en ch., 184 Salpieon, 127 Sauces, 3-7, 189 Allemande, 6, 192-195 an beurre d'anohois, 203 Bearnaise, 214 Bechamel, 4, 6, 192-193 maigre, 196 Bigarade, 208 Blanquette, 6, 196 Bordelaise, 42, 209 Bourguignonne, 209 Bretonne, 7, 201, 203 Brown, 5, 7, 192-193, 201 Butter, 213 Cambridge, 24, 219 Caper, 207 Cazanova, 24, 219 Champagne, 211 Chateaubriand, 209 Chaufroix, 8, 215 „ red, green, &c., 215 Chevreuil, 206 Chutney, 7, 204 Claremont, 204 Comichons, 204 Crapaudine, 204 & la creme, 196 ,, estragon, 197 „ fenouil, 197 „ champignons, 197, 204 ,, concombres, 197249 INDEX. Sauces (Continued) — k la persil, 197 . „ raifort, 218 ,, „ a 1’Alceste, 218 Curry, 20-1-205 Demi-glace, 37 it la diable, 209 D? Orleans, 211 D’Uxelles, 195 Echalotte, 205 Espagnole, 45, 193, 201 Financier e, 210 Fines herbes, 195 Fran9aise, 214 Gorgona, 164 Indienne, 195 Irlandaise, 164 Italienne (brown), 210 „ (white), 198 "Lorraine, 5, 162 Madere, 211 Maitre d’hotel, 200 Malaga, 211 Marsala, 205 Maximilian, 161, 208 Mayonnaise, 216 ,, aspic, 217 ., red, green, &c., 217 „ aux olives, 217 Meres, 192 Milanaise, 198 Mint, 217 Mirabeau, 211 Morny, 199 Mousseline, 218 Napolitaine, 3, 163 Clives, 205250 INDEX. Sauces (Continued) — Pascaliue, G, 195 Parisienne, 212 Perigeux, 7, 212 Piquante, 212 Poivrade, 205, 212 Portuguaise (brown), 20? „ (white), 195 Poulette, 195, 196 Raifort, 199 Ravigotte, 199 Reduction (de), 203 Reform, 212 Bemoulade, 219 Richelieu, 182, 213 Robert, 20G, 213 St. Hubert, 213 Soubise, 200 Suedoise, 219 Supreme, 50, 157, 201 Tartare, 219 Tomato, 207 „ a la may, 208- Veloute, 4, 6, 192 Villeroi, 19, 195 to clear of fat, 198 to tammy, 237 Scalloped meat, 131 Silver dishes, to save, 118- Souffles, Gl-64 a la baronne, 78 ,, bourgeoise, G3 „ royale, 78 ,, Victoria, 79 „ glace, 163 moulds to paper, 62- pheasant, 78INDEX. 251 Souffles (Continued)— proportions for, 61 to cook, 65 Sweetbreads (see R.is de veau) Timbales, 84-8S milanaise, 93 napolitaine, 93 nouilles aux huitres, 97 ,, aux jambon, 96 paste, 86 polenta 94 Pompadour, 185, 185 raviolis, 93 romana, 93 Tomates al^erienues, 185 Tomatoes stuffed, 111, 150 Tournedos, 23, 25 ,, aux huitres, 24 Tourte bourgeoise, 87, 92 “ Tranches,” 32 ,, de langne a l’ecarlate, 185 Trimmings, 194 Tripe (gras double), 103 ,, flitters, 103 „ a Pecossaise, 103 „ a la frant;aise, 104 ,, a l’Orlie, 103 ,, a la Soubise, 103 Tmffles, to cook, 65, 238 Turban de foie gras, 1S6 Turnovers, 132 Yeal a la bordelaise, 46 cases, 26 collops, 103 cutlets, 45 noisettes, 45 to cook, 26INDEX. OKO Venison to marinade, 29-31 Vox, ad Vent, 84 k la Barras. 90 „ financiere, 89 „ Lucullus, 90 „ menag^re, 91 ,, milanaise, 90 ,, Montglas, 90 „ royale, 90 „ Valenciennes, 90 aux crevettes, 90 „ huitres, 90 de homard a la creme, 90 Wiener Schnitzel, 47 Zephyres, G4ITlje Series consists of tlje following: SOUPS. ICES. PICKLES AND PRESERVES. ENTREES. MEAT AND GAME. SWEETS-Part I. „ Part II. BREAKFAST AND LUNCH DISHES, SALADS, SANDWICHES, AND SAVOURIES. VEGETABLES. BREAD, CAKES, AND BISCUITS. FISH—Part I. i „ Part II. (Cold Fish). HOUSEHOLD HINTS.