3 I 2 CONTUSIOF OF THE LUNG. ment is required for this fracture as for a broken rib ; the broken cartilage most commonly uniting by a bony, callus which surrounds the fractured ends. Fracture of the Sternum,—The sternum is not often broken. The accident occurs usually from very severe and direct violence ; and when this is applied on the fore part of the chest, the ribs or costal cartilages are more likely to suffer. The elastic support furnished to the sternum by these structures explains in a great measure the rarity of its fracture. It may also be produced by violent bending forward of the body after the spine has been broken. The bone has been known to be broken, though very rarely, by violent straining muscular efforts during parturition. Its iractures are always transverse, usually single, but sometimes multiple. I have seen it broken into three nearly equal fragments by a fall from a scaffold. The displacement of one of the frag- ments is sometimes considerable, the upper fragment being almost invariably behind the lower; but even if there be but little deformity, the very super- ficial situation of the bone will always enable the Surgeon to judge of the exact nature of the injury it has suffered, the signs of which resemble those of a fractured rib. The Treatment must be conducted on the same principles as that of a broken rib, and presents nothing special. Indeed, when fracture of the sternum occurs from external violence, it is commonly associated with fracture of the ribs, near the angles ; and then the chest-bandage or plaster answers equally for both injuries. Should the sternum be broken during parturition, the patient should oe made to sit up in bed, with the shoulders supported and leaning slightly forwards, so as to take off the tension of the abdominal muscles. If a portion of broken sternum be depressed, it should be left undisturbed, unless it can be readily got into position by placing a firm pillow under the back and allowing the shoulders to fall backwards. If this fails, the displacement will probably give rise to no serious inconvenience, while any attempt to remove it by surgical interference might be attended with the greatest danger. INJURIES OF THE LUNG. Contusion of the Lung without injury to the pleura covering it mav happen from severe blows on the chest, as from falls from horseback or kicks on the side. It may be complicated with fracture of one or more ribs ; but this is not necessarily a concomitant of the injury. The symptoms are as follows. After the receipt of the blow, the patient is seized with difficulty in breathing, which is apt to become paroxysmal, so as to resemble asthma There is expectoration, at first of mucus untinged with blood. On listenino- at the chest, coarse crepitation, with some dulness on percussion, will be found over the injured part of the lung. After some days, the patient coughs up a small quantity of dark, coagulated, viscid fluid; and the sputa may be tino-ed for some time afterwards. The dyspnoea and cough are greatly relieved and recovery gradually takes place. ' It is probable that in these cases the lung is ecchymosed at the time of the injury, and that the blood extravasated in its tissue gradually breaks down being then discharged by coughing in the viscous, semi-coagulated state above described-very different from the florid frothy sputum of a recent luno- wound