POISONED WOUNDS. 368 SNAKE-BITES. Snake-bites are seldom fatal in England, the viper or adder not possessinij a sufficiently energetic poison to destroy a healthy adult, though it might possibly kill a child or a very weak person. Snakes are said to be most actively venomous in warm weather and during the season of procreation. Their bites are most dangerous if inflicted through a vein or near the centre of the circulation, or about the neck and face. In tropical countries the bite of the rattle-snake, the cobra di capello, the puff-adder, or the tobacco-pipe snake is often fatal. The number of persons who are annually killed by snake-bites in those parts of India alone from which returns are procurable amounts to about 12,000, or about 1 in every 5,000 of the inhabitants ; and it occasionally happens even in this country that the Surgeon has an opportunity of seeing wounds inflicted by these fearful reptiles in menageries. Thus, Sir E. Home has recorded a fatal case of rattle-snake bite occurring in England. A similar instance has been seen at St. George's Hospital, and another hi Paris, both in showmen. The only case of this kind which has come under my own observation occurred some years ago at the University College Hospital. The patient, a keeper at the Zoological Gardens, was bitten on the bridge (jf the nose by a cobra di capello, the poison-fang having apparently penetrated the angular vein. When brought to the hospital, about half aii hour after the accident, he was apparently dying, being unable to speak, swallow, or support himself; the pupils were dilated, the face livid, the heart's action feeble, and he was scarcely conscious. After death, which took place in little more than an hour from the time of the infliction of the wound, the veins of the brain and the cerebral sinuses were found gorged with blood, as were also the lungs and the solid abdominal viscera. The right cavities of the heart were loaded with dark blood, the left being empty ; indeed, the pheno- mena of asphyxia were strikingly marked. In this case, death would appear to have resulted from the poison paralysing the respiratory centre, at the same time that it exerted some direct injurious action on the blood. Effects of Snake-poison.—The venom of the cobra has been found to consist of an albuminous fluid of neutral reaction, holding cells in suspension. The researches of Weir-Mitchell, Reichert, Wolfenden, and others have shown that the poisonous properties of the venom of the cobra and other snakes depend upon the proteid bodies which it contains, whilst bacteria and alkaloids are absent. Wolfenden finds that the chief proteids contained in cobra-poison are globulin, acid albumin, and serum albumin. The poison is secreted by a gland communicating by a duct with the hollow fang, and so situated that in the act of biting it is compressed by the muscles of the jaw and the venom is thus forcibly ejected from the fang. When given internally, or applied to the conjunctiva, it does no harm if the mucous surface is unbroken. Snake-poison, when introduced into the system through a bite or puncture, may prove injurious or may kill, either primarily by a direct depressing influence on the nervous system, like that of some narcotic poisons; or, secondarily, by exciting severe diffuse inflammation of the areolar tissue of the part. The intensity of its effects depends upon the quantity injected, and consequently upon the size and vigour of the animal inflicting the wound ; one that has been compelled to bite frequently loses its destructive power. The first mode of death occurs only when the poison is very powerful or the