VENEREAL DISEASES. met with. But such cases are exceedingly rare, and occur only after an interval of some years has elapsed between the two attacks. Hutchinson has related a very interesting example of this kind in a medical student, who also suifered from two attacks of small-pox. Daily experience shows that in many constitu- tions syphilis cannot be eradicated, and that in most others, when once it has occuiTcd, it is apt, even when apparently cured, to modify certain cutaneous and other affections in a remarkable manner, after a lapse of many years ; showing clearly that, if the poison no longer exists in the system, the constitu- tion has received a peculiar impress from it, which it is long in losing, Treatmej^^t.—The treatment of the primary stage of the disease is local and constitutional. Local Treatment, which is all that is required in the simple chancre, is of comparatively little importance in the true syphilitic sore, the causes of the local manifestation being beyond the reach of any direct application. If the initial manifestation assumes the form of the desquamating papule every effort must be made to prevent its ulcerating by the application of some simple non- irritating substance, such as vaseline, to protect it from irritating secretions and friction. Attention to cleanliness by frequent washing is also essential. If an indurated sore forms, iodoform, which is of such singular benefit in the simple chancre, will be found of little use. Attention to cleanliness, the avoidance of irritating dressings, and the application of a piece of lint soaked in black wash will be found in most cases to be all that is necessary. Black wash sometimes proves irritating ; a weak lead lotion, made by adding 5 minims of liquor plumbi diacetatis to an ounce of water, may then be used. Caustics are always injurious. It has been recommended by Ausspitz and others to excise the sore—on the theory that the virus may be still localized at the seat of infection, and that by removing the initial manifestation the further progress of the disease may be arrested. Experience has shown that excision does not produce the desired effect, a fact which confirms the view that the induration of the sore is in fact the first sign of constitutional infection. Should the sore assume a phagedtenic form, it must be treated as already described. The Constitutional Treatment of primary syphilis need not be separated from that of the secondary stage, as the same remedies that favour the healing of the initial manifestation exercise a beneficial influence on the secondary affections. The constitutional treatment of syphilis has undergone various changes according to the prevailing doctrine of the day. It had been decided by the Surgeons of the last and the early part of this century, that mercury acted as a specific against the syphilitic poison. This doctrine was so firmly established, that Hunter, and many of the great Surgeons of his school, looked on the curability of a sore without mercury as a proof that it was not syphilitic. About the commencement of this century, however, it was found by obser- vations of the Army Surgeons, amongst whom Rose took a principal share in the inquiry, that many forms of venereal ulcer (no distinction being then drawn between the local non-infecting sores and the ulcers which resulted from the contagion of the constitutional disease) were curable without the necessity of administering mercury, or indeed of having recourse to any specific treatment whatever. These observations, which were chiefly made in »Spain and Portugal during the Peninsular War, led to the introduction ot