VARIETIES OF FY.EMI A. 98: In those cases in which decomposing discharges are pent up in a deep wound, the conditions are essentially analogous to those which exist when putrid fluids are injected beneath the skin, as in Koch's experiments. The explanation of the pathology of pygemia may therefore be fairly sought in the experimental investigations which have already been described. That in all cases a true infective process is developed in which a specific poison enters the blood and multiplies in it is not proved. In some cases, in which the secondary abscesses are limited to the lungs, it is possible to explain all the phenomena by supposing that the fragments of a putrid clot enter the blood-stream, and lodging in the lung, cause a number of embolic abscesses which may prove fatal without any general infection of the blood. Varieties of Pyaemia.—lu the preceding pages a description has been given of the general symptoms and post-mortem appearances of pyaemia. The Fig. 349.-Micrococci, plugging a small branching arteriole in the muscular fibre of the heart The tissues aronnrt are infiltrated with inflammatory exudation. (Koch.) disease, however, does not always run the same course, and a few definite varieties may be mentioned. Acute Pysemia.—In this form the rigors are well marked, the fever is hio-h secondary abscesses form early, and almost invariably affect the viscera • dearth takes place usually before the tenth day. Acute pyjemia is found after death to be almost constantly associated with softening thrombi in the veins and embolic abscesses. It is most common after operations or injuries invol'vino- the bones, as amputations or compound fractures, and is frequently preceded by septic osteomyelitis. It is invariably fatal. The part taken by embolism in the production of the secondary abscesses is often so evident in this form that it has been described as emlolic lyyccmia. Chronic Pyaemia.—In this form of the disease the fever is less intense • there may be but a single rigor, but occasionally it may be repeated frequently throughout the case. The secondary inflammations affect chiefly the subcu taneous cellular tissue and the joints, and occasionally the pleura, the viscei-i not being affected. Sometimes the secondary abscesses appear at points ex