88o INJURIES OF THE ABDOMEN AND PELVIS. themselves, and may become localized in the neighbourhood of the part from which they were originally poured out ; owing, in the first instance, to the surrounding pressure, and, at a later period, to the formation of adhesions between the folds of intestine and the neighbouring viscera. In rare cases, the existence of a wound of the intestine is proved by the escape of the intestinal contents through the wound in the abdominal wall. In a certain number of cases there is emphysema of the abdominal wall, and very rarely hseniorrhage from the rectum. The evidences of free gas in the peritoneum may sometimes be present. All these symptoms of wound of the intestine are, however, absent in the majority of cases ; their presence is of the greatest value in determining the existence of a wound of the bowel, but on the other hand the Surgeon is not justified in concluding that no such injury exists because the above-mentioned symptoms are absent. 2. Penetrating Wounds of the Abdomen with Visceral Protrusion are much less common than those above described. Intestine, mesentery, or omentum may protrude through the opening in the abdominal wall, and the bowel may or may not be wounded. The protruded mass is often large in comparison with the aperture from which it escapes, the sides of which constrict it tightly, so as to form a distinct neck to the protrusion. If left unreduced, the mass speedily loses its polish and bright colour, becoming dull and livid from congestion ; it then swells, and soon becomes gangrenous from the pressure exercised upon it by the sides of the aperture. The existence of a wound of the protruded bowel will readily be ascertained by the escape of gas, or of the fluid contents of the gut. The characters of the wound vary, as Travers pointed out, according to its size. If it be a mere puncture, or even an incision two or three lines in length, eversion or prolapse of the mucous membrane will take place, so as to close it sufficiently to prevent the escape of the contents. If the aperture be above four lines in length, this plugging of it by everted mucous membrane cannot occur, and then the contents of the bowel escape ; but, even in these circumstances, there will be a tendency to the protrusion of the membrane, which forms a kind of lip over the edge of the cut. Although the protruded portion of intestine be uninjured, it must be remembered that a wound of some neighbouring coil, which has not escaped from the abdomen, may yet be present. Prognosis of Penetrating Wounds of the Abdomen.—Penetrating wounds of the abdomen are amongst the most fatal of all injuries. In the reports of the American Civil War, thirteen cases of punctured or incised wounds without injury to viscera are recorded, with nine recoveries, and nineteen similar injuries from gunshot, with twelve recoveries. Of fourteen recorded cases of punctured or incised wounds with visceral lesion only two recovered. The recorded cases of gunshot wound with visceral injuries amounted to 3,771, and of these only 421 recovered, and in 242 the result was unknown. In the great majority of these cases the exact visceral injury was not recorded. In seventy-nine the stomach was wounded, and of these nineteen recovered. In G53 the intestines were wounded, and of these 118 recovered ; but the exact part of the gut is not specified in a large proportion of these cases. Otis, however, states that he has been unable to find a single incontestable case of bullet wound of the small intestine in which recovery took place. On the other hand, there are good records of at least fifty-nine cases