522 FRACTURES. frequently to puncture the skin, or to perforate an artery. It is more trouble- some in its cure than the transverse, owing to the difficulty of keeping the fragments in accurate apposition ; hence, also, there is a greater liability to shortening of the limb. It is principally met with in the shafts of the long bones of adults. The Spiral Fracture is the result of violent twists, and is most frequently met with in the tibia and femur. In it the fissure runs obliquely round the axis of a long bone. The fracture is usually rendered complete by a second fissure joining the line of the spiral ; but it has occasionally been met with in an incomplete form (Fig. l.")9). The Longitudinal or Fissured Fracture of a long b(me consists of a splitting or fissare in the direction of its axis (Fig. 159). It is not very common in civil practice ; but in military practice it is frequent, especially from the action of conical rifle-balls. In such cases, when the shaft is struck and shattered, the splitting of the bone ]nay extend widely in either direction—sometimes into the neighbouring joint (Fig. 105, p. 340), although, as Stromeyer has remarked, it usually stops short of this, terminating at the epiphysis. When the fracture is produced by a blow—which need not be a very severe one—upon the articular end, the bone may be spht and the joint opened. In flat bones, the fissures may radiate from the spot to which the violence has been apphed, forming the stellate fracture ; or a sharp instru- ment may perforate the bone, giving rise to a punctured fracture. The Separation of the Epiphysis of one of the long bones from the shaft is an accident that occasionally occurs in children and young people at any period up to that of the completion of the ossification between the parts. Hence Fig. i-f. - Oblique, is i^et with under the age of 21 or 22. This kind of Spiral, and Longi- ° . . tiidinai Fractures. fracturc is always trausversc. It IS apt to simulate a dis- location very closely ; but the diagnosis may be made by observing that the bony points of the separated epiphysis maintain their normal relation to those of the other bone or bones entering into the articulation. For instance, at the elbow the inner and outer condyles of the humerus maintain their normal relation to the olecranon and the head of the radius. Moreover, the displacement is easily reduced, and as easily reproduced, while in a dislocation reduction is difficult, but when ac- complished the bones tend to stay in their normal position. Union readily takes place by bone, and the longitudinal growth is consequently in many cases seriously interfered with. Not only are the epiphyses of the long bones liable to this separation through the line of junction, but the same thing may happen to various processes, as the acromion, olecranon, &c. ; and some osseous structures, as the acetabulum and sternum, may under external violence separate into their original component parts. SiGXS OF Fracture.^—The history given by a patient who has broken a bone will usually be that he has met with a violent accident, during which he felt, and perhaps heard, something break or snap, and that, immediately, he found himself unable to move the affected part, any attempt to do so causing