VARIETIES OF CARCINOMA-SECONDARY GROWTHS. 1049 there is no difficulty in recognizing the type to which the cell belongs. In other cases the cells may be larger and show a more exuberant growth than the normal epithelium, but their general characters remain the same. The old idea that there existed a peculiar specific " cancer cell" is now completely abandoned, and it is universally recognized that no certain opinion can be pronounced as to the cancerous nature of a tumour without a careful examina- tion, not of the cells only, but of the stroma, and of the relation of the cells to the stroma. The cells of all cancers are prone to early fatty degeneration. In some forms they undergo a colloid change. Varieties of Carcinoma.—Cancers are classified primarily according to the variety of epithelium that enters into their composition, and certain sub- divisions are made according to the modifications in the stroma or in the mode of growth of the tumour. The following classification is that usually adopted :— 1. Cancers the cells of which are derived from glandular or spheroidal epithelium. Spheroidal or Glandular Carcinoma. a. With abundant dense stroma. Scirrhus, or Hard Cancer. h. With a small proportion of stroma forming large alveolar spaces. 3Iedullart/, Encephaloid, or Soft Cancer, c. One of the above forms {a or h), with colloid degeneration of the cells. Colloid Cancer. 2. Cancers the cells of which are derived from squamous or stratified epithelium. Squamous Carcinoma. 3. Cancers the cells of which are derived from columnar epithelium. Columnar Carcinoma ; sometimes also called inaccurately Adenoid Cancer. The above form the typical and universally recognised varieties of cancer. There are, however, two other morbid growths which must be included in the same class : thyroid cancer and rodent cancer, or as it is more commonly called rodent ulcer. Thyroid Cancer is an extremely rare malignant growth, commencing in the thyroid body and closely resembling the normal gland tissue in structure. It gives rise to secondary growths in the lymphatic glands, the lungs, and the bones, accurately repeating the structure of the primary growth, (See Diseases of the Thyroid Body, Vol. II,, Chap, LV.) Its general mahgnancy forms the most marked feature of the disease. Rodent Cancer or Ulcer is a cancer in structure, being composed of columns of epithelial cells in a very imperfectly developed stroma, like a true car- cinoma. Its malignancy is, however, purely local, and although it slowly invades and destroys every structure with which it comes in contact, it never gives rise to any secondary growths. (See Rodent Ulcer, Vol. II., Chap. XXXVII,) The special clinical and pathological features of the various forms will be considered after the general facts which are common to all varieties. Secondary Carcinomatous Growths.—The most marked feature of a cancer is its tendency to give rise to secondary growths of a similar nature in various parts of the body. These may occur in three situations. First, in the lymphatic glands which receive the lymph from the affected part ; secondly, in the cellular tissue in the immediate neighbourhood of the growth ; and thirdly, in distant parts, especially in internal organs. The secondary growths always resemble the primary growth in structure. The secondary tumours from a glandular cancer contain glandular epithelium, those from a squamous