345 PROJECTILES. produce serious lacerations. Suicides occasionally forget to put a bullet into the pistol, and firing into their mouths, blow open the cheeks, and injure the pharynx and glottis by the explosive force. Some years ago, a man was brought to University College Hospital, who had discharged some powder from the tube of an Italian iron into his mouth, and he died in consequence of the injuries he received. In another case, a man died, on the fifth day after firing a pistol into his mouth, of asphyxia, occasioned by sloughing of the pharynx and inflammation of the glottis and larynx, consequent on the scorch of the explosion. Wadding and Soft Materials, as pieces of clothing, will occasionally inflict serious wounds by the force with which they are driven into the body. These injuries ofteu happen on the stage, at reviews, fairs, &c. Taylor relates several instances of the kind :—one of a girl killed by a gun charged with paper pellets ; also, one of a man who was killed by a kid glove fired from a blunderbuss. Dupuytren mentions a case in which a fowling-piece loaded with powder and a paper wad, and fired at a distance of two or three feet, killed a man by piercing the abdomen with a round hole. Small Shot often inflict serious injuries, and these are most commonly met with in civil practice. If the person wounded be within a few feet of the muzzle of the gun, a terribly lacerated wound, even worse than that occasioned by a bullet, will be inflicted ; for the shot, not being scattered, are driven through the body in a compact mass, and tear the tissues to a great extent. The compactness of a charge of shot when striking close to the muzzle of the gun may be very remarkable, making a wound like that of a bullet. A lad was admitted into University College Hospital under my care, who had acci- dentally shot himself. The whole charge had passed from before backwards between the skin of the inner side of the arm and the brachial vessels and the accompanying nerves, leaving a bridge of skin about three inches in width and the vessels and nerves uninjured, the triceps, however, being torn. The patient made an excellent recovery. When shot scatter as they fly, they produce at a greater distance a less serious injury, usually lodging in the subcutaneous areolar tissue, where they may remain permanently without causing any trouble ; or they may give rise to suppuration. Penetrating an important part, shot may cause serious or fatal results ; thus, a single shot penetrating the eyeball will destroy vision : or, lodging in the heart or in the femoral vein or other large vessel, may give rise to rapidly fatal results. A ]3atient was once brought to University College Hospital, who had fired a pocket-pistol loaded with small shot into his mouth ; after death, the shot were found deeply lodged in the vertebral column. Splinters of metal, wood, or stone, carried by the force of an explosion, as in blasting and mining operations, may inflict grave, injuries. These latter inflict perhaps the worst forms of injury from bodies propelled by explosive force that are met with in civil practice. In siege operations much injury also IS often inflicted by the splinters from parapets, or by the forcible throwing up of gravel and small stones by the explosion of shells. In naval actions, too, the force with which splinters of wood are driven, when struck and scattered by cannon-shot, is often so great as to inflict the most serious and even fatal mischief. A particular form of injury, formerly common in civil practice, was a wound of the eyeball by the splintering of faulty percussion-