FRACTURE OF THE SPINE: SYMPTOMS. 807 displacement; usually, however, some change of position ensues, in many cases to such an extent as to compress or lacerate the spinal cord. The mode ol occurrence of the fracture will influence the amount of displacement. If the fracture he through the arch, or consist in a simple detachment of the spinous process by a fall or a blow on the back, there may be no displacement. If it occur from a fall upon the head, or by a forcible flexure of the neck and body forwards, as when the body is compressed between the top of a van and an archway, there will probably be great displacement and pei haps separation of the articulating surfaces of contiguous vertebrje. In these cases the upper part of the spine is almost invariably displaced forwards. The Signs of this injury vary very greatly, and depend in a great degree upon the extent of the displacement. If this be inconsiderable, it may be extremely difficult, and even impossible in some instances, to pronounce with certainty whether the spine has been broken or not ; the more so if the fracture do not implicate the body of the vertebra. If, on the other hand, the displacement alfect the axis of the column or compress the cord, the symptoms ;ire so marked that diagnosis is easy. They are of two kinds : those due to injury of the bone, and those dependent on injury by compression or lacera- tion, or both, of the spinal cord. The Local Signs are usually pain at the seat of injury, greatly increased by pressure on, or motion of the part ; inequality of the line of the spinous processes, with depression of the upper portion of the spine, and corresponding- prominence of the lower. There is an inability to support the body in the erect position, and to move the spine in any way ; hence, when the upper portion of the column is injured, the patient holds his head in a stiff and constrained attitude, fearing to turn it to either side. The General Symptoms of fracture of the spine are dependent upon the injury which the cord has received. If the fi-acture have not implicated the spinal canal, as when only the tip of a spinous process has been broken off, or if it be unattended with displacement, although it may traverse the body and arches, no symptoms depending upon injury of the cord need exist. But even in these cases there may be transitory paralysis, owing perhaps to the concussion to which the cord has been subjected at the moment of injury ; and occasionally a sudden movement by the patient will bring on displacement, by which the cord is compressed and all the parts below the injured spot are paralysed. A woman was admitted into University College Hospital with an injury of the neck, the nature of which could not be accurately ascertained. She was in no way paralysed, but kept her head immovable in one position. A few days after admission, whilst making a movement in bed, by which she turned her head, she fell back dead. On examination, it was found that the spinous process of the fifth cervical vertebra had been broken oft" short, and was impacted in such a way between the arches of this and the fourth as to compress the cord. This impaction and consequent compression probably occurred at the time of the incautious movement, thus causing immediate death. When there is only partial dis- placement, there may be but incomplete paralysis of the parts below the injury—of one arm, one leg, &c. In these cases there is usually great pain at the seat of fracture, and extending from it along the line of junction between the paralysed and the sound parts round the body'^or along the limb. This symp- tom, which is of great importance as exactly defining the seat of injury, is due.