SUPPURATION AND ABSCESS. 252 charo-e. In surgical practice we find it most commonly in connection with old joint disease, caries of the spine and unhealed empyema. There is only one Treatment for the disease, and that is to remove the source of the suppuration ; or if that is impossible, to adopt every means in our power to diminish the quantity of pus discharged. There is sufficient evidence from recorded cases to show that this may be followed by recovery. A most interesting case of this kind occurred under the care of the late John Marshall in University College Hos[)ital. The patient was a boy aged about ten, who had long suffered from extensive disease of the hip. The signs of albumenoid disease were well marked, the liver reaching nearly to the umbilicus. Amputation at the hip-joint was performed, and the boy made a good recovery. Ten years after he returned to the hospital on account of a small abscess in the stump due to some necrosis of the bone near the aceta- bulum. At this time his general health was good, and no enlargement of the liver could be detected. When the disease is far advanced, however, such operations are out of the questiou, as the patient could not withstand the necessary shock and loss of blood. VAKIETIES OF ABSCESSES. Pus may be discharged from a mucous or serous surface or from a wound or ulcer, constituting purulent exudation, or may be widely diffused through the tissues, giving rise to -purulent infiltration, or may be enclosed in a definite circumscribed cavity, forming an abscess. The clinical features of purulent infiltration will be described with Phlegmonous erysipelas and Diffuse celluhtis (Chapter XXXII.). Surgeons divide abscesses into two chief forms—acute and chronic. The acute abscesses are due to the pyogenic organisms before mentioned, while a very large proportion of chronic abscesses are due to tubercle. Acute or Phlegmonous Abscess may be taken as the type. When it is about to form, the part which has previously been inflamed swells con- siderably and becomes oedematous with a throbbing pulsatile pain ; the skin becomes shining, glazed and red. If the abscess be very deeply seated, the superimposed tissues become brawny and oedematous, without, perhaps, any other sign indicating the existence of pus. As the swelling approaches the surface, it softens at one part, where fluctuation becomes perceptible, and a bulging of the skin covering its summit takes place. An abscess has a special tendency to advance in the direction of least resistance, towards a free surface, whether that be external or internal, skin or mucous membrane ; the tissues between it and the surface towards which it is progressing being gradually broken down. This process is spoken of as " the pointing of the abscess." As the pus approaches the surface, the skin at first becomes more or less livid, tense and oedematous, indicating the interference with its circulation : as the summit of the abscess presses upwards, the overlying skin sloughs at the most central point, from which the cuticle has previously peeled off, and, the outward pressure of the pus speedily detaching the slough, the abscess discharges itself. Though acute abscesses, if left to themselves, usually run this course and burst through the skin, the mucous or serous surfaces, or even into the interior of joints, yet some collections of pus, if very deeply seated or confined beneath a strong