i;8 GENERAL REMARKS ON OPERATIONS. patient's strength, by means of a nutritious diet, previously to the performance of the operation. Indeed, in many of the more severe surgical diseases, it is only by the use of a nutritious diet, and by the administration of tonics, such as quinine, or iron, and stimulants, sometimes in considerable quantities, that the patient can be brought into a condition to bear the shock and consequent depression of the operation. This is more particularly the case with hospital patients of bad constitution, who have met with serious accidents followed by much suppuration and fever. In the more chronic cases, the time should be seized for the operation when the temperature of the body is not too high, when the secretions are free, the tongue clean, and the action of the skin and kidneys healthy ; and, above all, the mind should be kept tranquil and hopeful, being allowed to dwell as little as possible upon the impending event. In many operations, as those on the rectum and urinary organs, or in those of a plastic character, special modes of preparation are required, which will be discussed when we come to treat of the operations in detail. The Surgeon himself must always feel the heavy responsibility that hangs over him during the performance of a great operation—" at that moment when," as Dr. Grant has elegantly said, " Death everywhere surrounds his knife'as he is endeavouring to convey all his knowledge to its point." But having carefully considered each successive step of the operation, provided for every emergency that can by any possibility arise in the course of it, and trusting in Him, from whom all knowledge is derived, to strengthen his judgmelit and guide his hand aright, he will proceed to the performance of his duty with self-reliance, and in the full confidence of being able to effect all that Art can accomplish. GENEBAL ANiESTHETICS. The prevention of pain in surgical operations has probably been an object of solicitude to Surgeons, as well as to patients, from the earliest ages : and narcotics of various kinds have at different times been employed with this view. But the effect of these was so uncertain—their after-consequences per- haps so injurious—that no permanent reliance was placed upon them. The earliest distinct record of an attempt to induce anaesthesia by the inhalation of vapours is to be found in the works of Theodoric, Bishop of Cervia, who wrote about the middle of the thirteenth century. (Lib. lY., Cap. VIII.) He recommended the use of the Spongia Sonmifera, invented by his master, Hugo of Lucca. The sponge was thus prepared : opium was mixed with the juice expressed from unripe mulberries, mandrake leaves (mandragora officinarum), ivy and hemlock, with the seeds of lettuce and sorrel and some other sub-- stances. When these were all mixed together in a brazen vessel, new sponges were placed in the fluid, and the whole boiled, and subsequently placed in the sun in the dog days until it was completely evaporated to dryness. When required for use the sponge was soaked in hot water for an hour and then held over the nostrils of the patient until sleep was induced. After the operation the patient was roused by another sponge soaked in vinegar or fenugreek being held to the nose. It is probable that the desired effect was seldom produced, as later writers make no mention of the method. It was not till the commencement of the present century that definite attempts were made to induce anesthesia by inhalation. The discovery of the remarkable loroperties exercised on the nervous system by nitrous oxide then led Sir Humphry Davy and others to entertain hopes that it might be used as