VENEREAL DISEASES. "54 mercury cannot safely be used of a greater strength than a quarter to half a grain to the ounce of water ; stronger preparations must be applied with a brush. In very obstinate cases cyanide of mercury is often useful; it may be used as a solutioii of the strength of 5 to 10 grains to the ounce, which must be applied with a brush by the Surgeon himself. When the ulcers heal, the contraction of the cicatrices may give rise to stenosis of the pharynx. This may occur in three situations : 1st, between the top of the palate and the posterior wall of the pharynx, so as to cut off the nasal portion of the latter ; 2ndly, between the soft palate, the walls of the pharynx and the tongue, and ordly, across between the pharynx and the poste- rior wall of the larynx. This stenosis is probably the result of ulceration of the opposiCe mucous surfaces ; but it is often out of all proportion to the extent of the ulceration. It may gradually increase until the contraction becomes so irreat that swallowing is seriously impeded and breathing is carried on with difficulty. In the second and third forms of the contraction it becomes necessary, in order to enable the patient to swallow and to breathe, to dilate the opening. This, if the stenosis be not too tight, may be done by simple dilatation by means of bougies. If very contracted, its edges should be carefully notched before dilatation. Before doing this it may be well to perform tracheotomy as a prophylactic measure, averting all danger of suffocation and spasmodic irritation during the manipulations in the pharynx. Syphilitic ulcerations have been described as occurring also in the (esophagus and leading to stricture of that canal. The mucous membrane of the larynx is frequently affected both in early and in advanced syphilis. The affections are similar to those of the fauces and pharynx. During the early exanthematous eruptions there may be some catarrh causing hoarseness and cough. Later on flat mucous tubercles may appear, but ulceration is rare. They disappear under treatment, leaving no ill effects behind. In the tertiary stage the most extensive ulceration, leading to destruction of the epiglottis and vocal cords, with necrosis of the cartilages, may take place. There is usually great thickening of the arytseno-epiglotti- dean folds, not unfirequently complicated by the formation of submucous gummata. If the patient recover, the opening of the glottis may be so far closed as to necessitate tracheotomy, and the use of a tube for the remainder of life. The symptoms and treatment are more fully described with Diseases of the Larynx, Yol. II. The Nose is often extensively affected in constitutional syphilis, especially in individuals who are addicted to drink or much exposed to changes of tem- perature, and who are unable to pay proper attention to their treatment. The mucous membrane becomes chronically thickened, and this is accompanied by discharge of blood and pus, coryza, and habitual snuffling. In other cases ulceration takes place, with a very foetid odour of the breath, and the formation of thick crusts on the septum, or between this and the ala^. This ulceration is very persistent and troublesome, and usually requires mercurial treatment, with the local application of strong nitric acid, or of the acid nitrate of mercury, to arrest its progress. In many cases ulceration will rapidly proceed to destruction and perforation of the septum, or necrosis of the spongy bones, the vomer, and ethmoid ; sometimes excavating the whole of the interior of the nose, hollowing it out into one great chasm. When this