WOUNDS OF THE TIBIAL AND PERONEAL ARTERIES. 485 deviate from the usual principle of treating primary hemorrhage from a wounded artery, viz., to cut down on the vessel at the seat of injury, and tic it, above and below the wound in it. The same rule of treatment applies to Wounds of the Anterior Tibial and Peroneal Arteries. In performing this operation, if the posterior tibial be wounded in the upper two-thirds of its course, the Surgeon will have to cut freely by the side of or through the muscles of the calf. This he must do in the direction of their fibres, injuring them by transverse incision as little as possible ; and by taking the track of the wound as his guide, the bleeding vessel will at last be reached, and must then be tied in the usual way. Such an operation, practised on a person with a muscular limb that is infiltrated with blood and inflammatory effusions, is in the highest degree difficult. In the lower third of the leg the arteries are superficial, and are reached with comparative ease. When the haemorrhage is secondary, or if a diffused aneurism have formed, with or without external wound, as in a case of fracture, the Surgeon may, by means of the bloodless method, succeed in applying a ligature to the wounded vessel. Thus, Battle, in a case of diffused traumatic aneurism of the calf, which was mistaken for an abscess, successfully ligatured the lower end of the popliteal and both the tibial arteries. Recourse has, however, occasionally been had to ligature of the superficial femoral with success. The vessel may be tied in Scarpa's triangle, or, which would, I think, be better in such a case, in Hunter's canal. If this fails, amputation is necessarily the only resource. In one of the successful cases S. Cooper ligatured the popliteal—a plan that has found favour with the French Surgeons. In another, Dupuytren tied the superficial femoral for a pistol-bullet wound in the leg. The others were cases of diffused aneurism, arising from secondary haimorrhage occurring in the course of a fracture. The subject of Wounds of the Tibial Arteries as a result of fracture of the tibia, will be more fully discussed in Chapters XX. and XXI. Small Circumscribed Aneurisms are occasionally met with in the foot, in consequence of wound of one of the plantar arteries, as. in operations for club-foot. If pressure have failed in preventing or curing the disease, the only course left to the Surgeon is to lay the tumour open, and to ligature the artery on each side in the usual way.