NAKED-EYE APFEAEANCES OF TUBERCLE. 1091 It then gives rise to the formation of tuberculous tissue in various situations throughout the body. Each tubercle is surrounded by its zone of irritation, and thus in a membrane we may get an apparently diffuse inflammation as in tuberculous meningitis. It is probable that some constitutional condition is necessary for the development of acute tuberculosis as well as the local source of infection, for it seems most likely that in all local tuberculous diseases the virus must frequently enter the blood-stream, and yet acute general tubercu- losis is not a common termination of local disease. From the foregoing description, therefore, it will be seen that tubercle is a form of chronic infecti^■e inflammation caused by the invasion of the tissues by the bacillus tuberculosis ; it gives rise to the formation of non-vascular cellular nodules, destroying and occupying the place of the original tissues of the part in which they lie. It spreads locally by invasion of surrounding parts, and by the lymph or blood-stream to distant parts. The actual tuber- culous tissue is incapable of higher development; its natural tendency is to fatty degeneration, after which it may dry up and remain unchanged ; it may calcify or it may soften. Its presence causes irritation of the surrounding tissue beyond the actual tuberculous area. This is accompanied by hyperemia and various other changes according to the intensity of the local process and the resisting power of the tissues. Thus around the tubercle we may have chronic overgrowth of fibroid tissue, rapid formation of vascular granulation tissue, acute inflammation with exudation as in tuberculous meningitis, and even suppuration. Tubercle may be fatal by its local effects on vital organs, as in pulmonary phthisis, by the exhaustion following suppuration round local centres as in tuberculous diseases of bones or joints, or by general acute infec- tion or acute tuberculosis. It may be recovered from by degeneration and by being encapsuled in fibrous tissue, by caseation and calcification and subse- quent encapsulation, or by softening and suppuration and elimination from the body. Whether the organism is completely destroyed, or whether its spores remain encapsuled in the healed tissues, we do not know. We are now in a position to consider the clinical features and the morbid anatomy of tuberculous affections. ITaked-Eye Appearances of Tubercle.—In the description of these, we must here confine our attention to tubercle as it comes under the care of the 8urgeon, omitting all mention of the lungs. A single tubercle follicle forms ii minute dot just visible to the naked eye ; it is semi-transparent and grey in colour, and of cartilaginous hardness, audit has received the name of the semi- transparent grey granulation. By an increase in the zone of lymphoid cells, or by the close approximation of two or more separate nodules, the grey granula- tions frequently reach the size of a millet-seed, and have consequently received the name of miliary tubercle {milium—millet). The grey granulation has long been considered the most characteristic feature of tubercle. It is commonly surrounded by a zone of hypertemia, and often by distinct evidence of inflam- mation. Thus on a serous membrane it may be covered by a thin layer of lymph, and the cavity lined by the membrane may contain an excess of fluid. In joints it may be surrounded by a zone of granulation tissue before which the normal structures are disappearing. In some cases, instead of forming distinct nodules, tubercle infiltrates the tissues in a single mass. This is often seen in the testicle when the disease is advancing from the epididymis into the body. Here there may be a hard semi-transparent zone more than an eiohth