WOUND OF THE PERICARDIUM. S65 protruded lung did not appear to re-enter the chest on inspiration, but Avas firmly fixed in its new situation. No treatment was adopted in the case, nor does any appear admissible in similar instances. Hernia of the lung has been known tO' occur from fractured ribs without any wound, and even from violent straining during labour, I have seen a case in a man who gained his livelihood by playing the cornet. In these cases it is probable that, the intercostal muscles and costal pleura having been divided or ruptured by the efforts of the patient and not having united afterwards, the lung has, during expiration, gradually insinuated itself into the aperture so formed until at last the hernial tumour has appeared. This protrusion may take place at any part of the thoracic parietes; thus Velpeau observed it in the supraclavicular region of a girl; but most com- monly it occurs on one or other side of the chest. The tumour may attain a large size; I have heard Yelpeau state that he had seen one half as large as the head. It does not appear to shorten life. The only affection with which a hernia of the lung can be confounded is a circumscribed empyema which is making its way through the walls of the chest. Here, however, the dulness on percussion, and the absence of respira- tory murmur and of crackling under the fingers, will readily enable the Surgeon to make the diagnosis. WOUNDS OF THE HEART AND LARGE VESSELS. Wounds of the Pericardium.—The pericardium may be wounded with or without penetration of the chest, and with or without injury of the heart. Without wound of the chest-wall, it may be lacerated by a severe contusion ; with penetration of the chest-wall, it may be wounded by a stab or by gunshot. Laceration of the Pericardium may take place from a severe blow on the chest, I have seen the membrane split longitudinally for two or three inches, from contusion received in a fall. The Pericardium may be wounded by a stab without the heart being injured. Thus I have seen a wound of the pericardium in a young man, inflicted by his sweetheart with a sharp-pointed pair of embroidery scissors. The pericardium may be bruised or cut by an oblique gunshot wound without damage to the heart. This I have seen happen from a pistol-bullet penetrating the chest obliquely. In injuries such as these, collapse to a greater or less extent is alwavs met with. This is followed by inflammation ; the ordinary auscultatory si'o-ns of pericarditis followed by effusion, such as friction, with extended dulness on percussion, become perceptible ; and there are intense thoracic oppression dyspnoea, and restlessness, with pallor and a small rapid pulse. ' In some cases of wound of the pericardium, with a superficial injury to the heart, one of the coronary vessels may be divided, and blood effused into the sac. In these cases the interposition of the layer of blood causes the heart sounds to be weak and remote, the impulse of the apex to be indistinct or imperceptible, and the cardiac dulness to be widely diffused. The I'rognosis of cases of injury of the pericardium is necessarily very unfavourable The heart may become choked by the intrapericardial extra- vasation of blood or the inflammatory effusion. VOL. I. 3 K