II28 VENEREAL DISEASES. troduced into the skin. Tlie existence of chancre within the urethra may be suspected if the urethral discharge be small in quantity, serous in character, and tinged with blood. The chancre may be detected by everting the edges of the urethra, or, if situated too high up the canal to be seen without the help of the endoscope, by being felt, hard and nodulated, through its coats. Care must be taken not to mistake the inflammatory induration sometimes occurring around the urethra in gonorrhoea for that of a hard sore. In some cases of unnatural depravity chancres are met with at the margin of the anus. In this situation they present nothing peculiar. In women chancres are very rare on the vaginal wall; about four per cent, are said to occur on the cervix uteri, and the remainder on the external organs of generation. Labial and Facial Chancres are by no means uncommon, being usually the result of the inoculation of a small crack on the lip or excoriation of the skin of the face with the discharge from mucous tubercles in the mouth of an in- fected person. Chancres on the lip may possibly result also from drinking or using a spoon after a syphilized person, or smoking the same pipe. These sores are often very deceptive, the raised and indurated base causing them closely to resemble epithelioma. They frequently show a tendency to the formation of a soft fuugating growth, all induration being absent. In a case of chancre of -the cheek lately admitted into University College Hospital, the sore was as large as half-a-crown, and raised abruptly above the surrounding skin for about a quarter of an inch. It was scarcely indurated, and the dis- charge was serous and bloody, mixed with a little pus. The surface had a great tendency to become covered with scab. In other cases the induration may be of the same character as in the Hunterian sore on the penis. The diagnosis can usually be made by attention to the foul surface, hard base, and persistent character of the sore, and by the invariable presence of indolent enlargement of the nearest lymphatic glands commencing at the same time as the appearance of the sore or at most a few days later. Later on, the appearance of skin eruptions will; make the nature of the case evident. From cancer, chancre of the lip can usually be distinguished by the age and sex of the patient, as it is most commonly met with in girls and young women who have not reached the age for cancer ; indeed, in women at any period of life cancer of the lip is extremely rare. Chancres have been met with even on the tongue and tonsil. I would especially caution the Surgeon not to be misled in his diagnosis by the modest look or the respectable station in life of the infected woman. In this, as in all other cases of venereal disease, he must make an independent diagnosis without regard to social considerations or to the statements, often purposely misleading, made by the patient. Syphilis not unfrequently occurs amongst Surgeons and accoucheurs as a consequence of inoculation on the fingers, during the dressing of a venereal sore, or the delivery of a diseased woman ; and is occasionally met with also among non-professional persons. It usually appears as a small sore by the side of the nail and under its matrix, with much sweUing, redness, and pain in the finger, which becomes bulbous ; indolent swelling of the glands at the elbow and in the axilla soon follows. If the nature of the disease be not recognized, the ulceration will creep round the tip of the finger, will have a foul and sloughy look, with exquisite tenderness, and, resisting all ordinary treatment, may be