CELLULAR EBYSIFELAS. 955 inflammation at the seat of inoculation may be slight the niis(*ief l^^g chiefly at a distance; thus in a punctured wound ot the finger, the d ^use inflammation may take place principally in the planes of areolar t sue m the axilla and sides of the chest. Diff-use cellulitis also affects the interiial planes of areolar tissue. This may happen, for instance in the fascu^ ot tl^c pelvis after lithotomy, or in the anterior mediastinum after operations at tnc root of the neck. In these cases there is deep-seated pain and tenderness, ana the skin may be slightly reddened and osdematous. The superficial veins are often full and clearly indicated on the surface. Sloughing frequently occui^s with remarkable rapidity, the areolar tissue being broken doAvn into pus and shreddy sloughs in the course of thirty-six or forty-eight hours, more especially when the disease has resulted from the inoculation of decomposing animal matter. , The constitutional symptoms vary in different cases. In some tney are those of acute inflammatory fever ; in others the affection is accompanied by signs of the gravest blood-poisoning. In these latter there is probably a general infection of the system. After the sloughs become exposed to the air decomposition rapidly sets in, and the symptoms then assume the type ot acute septic poisoning from the absorption of the chemical products ot pntre faction. Pathological Anatomy.—The state of the areolar tissue is the same as m phlegmonous erysipelas. The streptococcus pyogenes is usually found m the inflammatory exudations. Should the patient die, the viscera present the ordinary appearances of acute blood-poisoning (see Septicemia). Prognosis.—If the subcutaneous tissue of a limb only is affected many cases can be saved by proper treatment. Amongst twenty-four cases registered as cellulitis in the" reports of University College Hospital thei-e were six deaths. TOen the deeper planes of areolar tissue are affected, and when the process is very acute, death commonly occurs early, often in two or three days ; in other instances life may be prolonged for some weeks, the patient ultimately dying of exhaustion or of some secondary complication, as pyasmia. Diagnosis.—Superficial cellulitis closely resembles cellulo-cutaneous erysipe- las, and in the later stages it may be indistinguishable when the skin becomes affected. In any case the diagnosis is of little importance as the treatment is the same. Deep-seated cellulitis is often very difiicult to recognize ; the swelling, with some oedema and slight redness, the fulness of the superficial veins, and the deep-seated pain and tenderness, with the history of a cause likely to induce the disease, such as a post-mortem wound, combined with the characteristic constitutional condition, will, however, usually enable the Surgeon to recognize the condition. Treatment.—In the treatment of diffuse cellulitis it is usually necessary to administer stimulants early ; ammonia, wine, or brandy may be required from the very first. The Surgeon must judge of this by the constitutional condition of the patient, and more particularly by the state of his pulse and tongue- The LocM Treatment is precisely of the same kind as that adopted in phleg- monous erysipelas, except that the incisions require to be made earlier and perhaps more freely; in all other respects, there is no dift'erence between the general management of these two forms of disease. Special Forms of External Erysipelatous Inflammation.—Erysi-