370 POISONED WOUNDS, ness come on, the patient must be made to walk about; and artificial re>;pira- fion, together with galvanism, may be resorted to as a last means of maintaining life until the effects of the stimulants may overcome those of the poison. Enforced exercise—the patient being made to run for some distance behind a carriage driven at a steady pace—is another means of keeping up the respira- tion, while the sweating aids in the elimination of the poison. Large doses of arsenic have been recommended as a kind of specific, and the " Tanjore pill," a celebrated Indian remedy, owes its activity to this mineral; but care must, of course, be taken in administering it, lest the remedy prove as fatal as the injury for which it is administered. In cases of bite by the " brown snake," a very venomous kind, whose bite is nearly always fatal, Halford, of Melbourne, recommends the injection of strong solution of ammonia, diluted with twice its bulk of water, into a superficial vein, such as the radial. Fifteen or thirty minims are thrown in, and this is repeated according to circumstances. This is described as immediately rousing the patient from his stupor. Sir Joseph Fayrer, however, finds that this remedy has no power in cases of cobra-bite, nor as an antidote to the poison of Indian serpents, whatever its efficacy may be in couuteracting the deadly effects of those of the Australian species. As liquor potasste decomposes the virus into a sediment and a supernatant fluid, both of which are innocuous, it might be supposed that it would act as a true antidote; but it has not been found to do so when injected into the blood of bitten animals. Difficulty with respect to antidotes for snake-poisoning appears to exist as much in their application as in their discovery. The venom^ of a snake is at once injected into the blood of the animal bitten, is carried with the circula- tion to the nervous centres, decomposing the fluid that conveys it, so that it has the start of any antidote that can possibly be applied to prevent its direct toxic effects on the system. It is difficult to understand how an antidote could act unless it were injected into the veins simultaneously with the intro- duction of the snake-poison into the blood. Unless a Surgeon be at hand prepared to do this at the moment, as in the case of an animal bitten for experiment, the time lost would probably render the counteraction of the poison impossible. It is evident that drugs or substances swallowed with the view of acting as antidotes could not be absorbed from the stomach in time to be efficacious. There is indeed nothing to be done but to endeavour to keep the patient alive, by the administration of stimulants, until the effects of the poison wear off. BITES OF RABID ANIMALS: RABIES OR HYDROPHOBIA. During a period of thirty-eight years, ending 1885, 988 deaths are stated to have occurred in England and Wales from bites of rabid animals. This disease occurs in man only as the result of inoculation from one of the lower animals. It is originally an affection of animals of the canine species, the dog, wolf, fox, and jackal, but it is frequently communicated by them to the cat, horse, ass, cow, pig, deer, or sheep. It is gene rally believed that rabies in the dog invariably arises as the result of inoculation from a rabid animal, and that it cannot arise de novo. This view is supported by tne satisfactory results of muzzling dogs for the prevention of the disease as carried out in Berlin and elsewhere, and by the fact that rabies is unknown in