FEMUR-TREATMENT OF FRACTURED SHAFT. 621 Knee, Vol. ii.), with four short sphuts surrounding the broken bone, fornis u most excellent apparatus for a fracture of the femur. The end of the splint must be slung to a cradle so as to raise it about six inches from the bed, and flexion of the trunk must be prevented by a broad bandage carried over the chest and secured to the mattress. Hodgen, of St. Louis, has introduced the suspension splint for fractures of the femur which is represented in Fig. 217. It consists of a light iron frame, bent at a slight angle opposite the knee. The limb is supported m the splint by a series of strips of strong bandage attached to its two bars. A plaster-extension apparatus adjusted to the leg in the usual way is carried to the transverse end of the splint which projects beyond the foot. Finally, the whole splint is slung by cords which pass over a pulley attached to a firm upright beyond the foot of the bed. Continuous extension and muscular relaxation are thus obtained. The splint is especially adapted to the treatment Fig. 217.—Hodgeu's Suspension Splint. of fractures near the upper end of the shaft with much displacement forwards of the upper fragment, and to fractures low down with displacement backwards of the lower fragment. 4. The starched or plaster bandage may be emjiloyed in most cases. In treating fractures of the shaft of the thigh-bone with the starched bandage, the following plan will be found convenient. The hmb should be evenly and thickly enveloped in a layer of cotton wadding ; a long piece of strong paste- board, about four inches wide, soaked in starch, must next be applied to the posterior part of the limb, from the nates to the heel. If the patient be very muscular, and the thigh large, this must be strengthened, especially at its upper part, by having strips of bandage pasted upon it. Two narrower strips of pasteboard are now placed, one along each side of the limb, from the hip to the ankle, and another shorter piece on the fore part of the thigh. A double layer of starched bandage should now be applied over the whole, with a strong and well-starched spica. It should be cut up and trimmed on the second or third day, and then re-applied in the usual way. With such an apparatus as this I have treated many fractured thighs, both in adults and in children, without confinement to bed for more than three or four days, but as a rule it is better not to apply the starched bandage before the end of the