DISLOCATIONS BETWEEN THE PHALANGES. 685 heads of the short flexor more tightly round the neck of the bone. Very severe extension has been employed without any effect ; and there is a tradition in the surgical profession in London of a thumb having been dragged off" in the attempt to reduce this dislocation by pulleys. If the Surgeon fail m reducing the displaced phalanx by manipulation under chloroform, as above described, or by traction, the dislocation should not be left without a furthei- effort to replace the bone ; and this may usually be done readily enough by the subcutaneous section of the resisting structures. The Surgeon must bear in mind that the obstacle to reduction is purely mechanical; that muscular contraction has nothing to do with it; and that it is quite as great when the patient is anaesthetized as when he is not. He must therefore enlarge the slit in the capsule, and divide the tense bands formed on each side by the tendinous attachments of the short flexor. This operation is best done by passing a tenotome through the skin in front of the joint, and cutting first on one side, then on the other. The chief resistance will be found on the ulnar side of the thumb, where the tendinous insertion of the adductor pollicis joins that of the short flexor. After these structures have been cut through, Fig. 265.—Reduction of Dislocation of Thiiiiib. the phalanx can be placed, and the thumb should be put up securely between splints. When reduction has been efi'ected, care must be taken to prevent recurrence of the displacement. This is best done by keeping the thumb bent into the palm, and retaining it there by means of a gutta-percha cap moulded over it and bandaged down. If the dislocation be left unreduced, the thumb will to a great extent become useful, but necessarily shortened, and incapable of much flexion. [n Compound Dislocation of this joint, the bone may usually be readily replaced, but in some cases it has been found necessary to remove the head of the metacarpal bone. Dislocations between the Phalanges are usually partial or incomplete, and most commonly consist of a twist of the second upon the proximal phalanx. Complete dislocation of the ungual phalanx, though very rare, is possible. I have seen it in the thumb when, by a fall upon its end, the ungual phalanx has been thrown on to the back of the proximal one, the head of which projected on the palmar aspect. I have also known the ungual phalanx of the little finger dislocated backwards in an attempt to catch a cricket-ball. Partial dislocation of the middle phalanx, which is a very common accident