EYE AFFECTIONS FOLLOWING SPINAL INJURY. 799 Affections of the Eye after Spinal Injury.—In the various forms of spinal injury it has been seen that some affection of the eyes is not uncommon; it will be convenient now briefly to consider these effects in a more detailed manner. The following conditions need separate attention :—Asthenopia, Photophobia, Alterations in the Fnpil, Changes in the Field of Vision, and Congestive and Inflammatory Affections of the Optic Nerve. Asthenopia—Th\^ occm-s as a symptom of general nervous shock resulting from spinal injuries. We have already seen that it is an evidence of nervous exhaustion, and is due to failure of accommodation. The patient complains of dimness and weakness of sight, so that he cannot define the outlines of small objects ; the letters of small print are often seen clearly for a few seconds, but soon they run into one another, and become obscured and blurred. If the eyes were free from errors of accommodation before the accident the asthenopia will disappear with restoration to health ; but in many cases the defect is merely an exaggeration of a condition of hyper- metropia or presbyopia previously existing. PhotophoUa.—The condition of nervous exhaustion may be accompanied by an irritable condition of the eyes. They cannot bear a strong light, even that of an ordinary window, in the daytime, or unshaded gas or lamplight. In consequence of this irritability of the eyes, the brows become involuntarily contracted, and the patient acquires a peculiar frown so as to exclude light as much as possible. This intolerance of light may amount to perfect photo- phobia, and is then associated with congestion of the conjunctiva accompanied by lachrymation. One or both eyes may be thus affected. The condition is usually accompanied by muscge volitantes and spectra, rings, stars, spots, flashes, and sparks, or an appearance of white-coloured flame. The appear- ance of a fixed luminous spectrum, a line, circle, or coloured bar across the field of vision, is sometimes comj)lained of. There is an undue retention of the image in many cases ; and where the patient has looked at any fixed object, such as the sun or the fire, complementary spectral colours, often of the most beautiful character, of varying degrees of intensity, will develop themselves in succession. The patient is in some cases conscious of the circulation in his own eye, which becomes distinctly visible to him, even in its pulsatory character. Alterations in the Pupil.—A dilated pupil with sluggish movements is commonly met with in general nervous shock. In cases of damage to the cervical and upper dorsal regions of the spinal cord by htemorrhage or laceration, or by the subsequent inflammation, contraction of the pupil has been observed. This may be unilateral or bilateral, and results from paralysis of the pupil-dilating fibres. Irritation of this part of the cord, on the other hand, as by compression, is followed by irritative dilatation of the pupil. Budge and Waller, in 1851, first demonstrated that the filaments of the sympathetic, which supply the eye, take their origin from that part of the spinal cord which is contiguous to the origin of the first pair of dorsal nerves. Hence, by these physiologists the part of the cord from which these fibres arise has been called the ciUo-spinal region.'' The pupil-dilating fibres leave the cord by the anterior nerve-roots from the fifth cervical to the fifth thoracic, and pass to the last cervical and first thoracic ganglia of the sympathetic; thence they pass through the cervical sympathetic to the Gasserian ganglion, and reach the iris in the ciliary branches of the ophthalmic