DISSECTION AND POST-MORTEM WOUNDS. 387 Duration.—The disease proves fatal usually in a week or fortnight, but may extend to a month. It occasionally assumes a chronic form in the human subject and lasts for several months. Prognosis.—If the disease assumes the acute form, death is almost certain to follow. When it becomes more chronic, accordiuo- to Durham, about one half of the cases recover. Treatment.—Beyond the general treatment of supporting the patient, opening the abscesses, and freely usiug antiseptics both for the nose and the local sores elsewhere little can be done. Those who have care of the case must protect their hands by india-rubber gloves, if possible, while dressing the sores: and all dressings or rags which have become soiled with the discharges must, be immediately burned. WOUNDS WITH INOCULATION OF DECOMPOSING ANIMAL MATTER,* AND THE PRODUCTS OF UNHEALTHY INFLAMMATIONS. Although every student of anatomy frequently cuts himself in dissecting, we rarely see any ill effects from these injuries. In some cases, however, the most serious results, terminating in permanently impaired health, or even in death, ensue. The result depends quite as much on the state of health of the person injured, as on the condition of the body from which the poison is received. If the health be broken by any cause, whether dissipation or overwork, very serious effects may follow, which would not occur if the patient had the resisting power of a sound constitutiou. Many persons are peculiarly liable to be affected by exposure to septic influences. They suffer in various ways, —such us nervous depression, sore throat, or diarrhoea—from working in dis- secting or pod-morteni rooms. The same thing happens from exposure to the contaminated atmosphere of a crowded hospital ward, and more especially to the exhalations arising from patients affected with phlegmonous erysipelas, ])ya3mia, gangrene, or other septic diseases. The susceptibility is greatest in those least frequently exposed to such infections. Those who habitually work in such an atmosphere seem to become acclimatised to it after a time. If for a time the habit is broken, they suffer on resuming their work as much as those exposed for the first time. A person so suffering in health is peculiarly liable to local or general infection on the receipt of a dissection- wound. Causes.—The deleterious influence exercised by the dead body may be .attributed to three different causes : 1, the ordinary Irritation of the Wound • 2, Inoculation of Putrid Matter; or, 3, Introduction of a Specific Septic Virus into the system. I think it probable that each of these causes may exercise a •distinct influence ; but the worst effects of dissection-wounds are dependent on the inoculation of a speciflc virus. 1. That ill effects sometimes result from the simple Irritation of the Puncture, is evident from the fact that mere scratches or punctures with splinters of wood, or other substances free from an actual poison, o-ive rise to considerable local disturbance in certain states of the constitution; so aho those operation- and dissection-wounds which are i-ao-ged and torn, such as are made by spicula of bone or the teeth of a saw, are peculiarly troublesome * See also Chapter XXXI.—iSeptifaiiiiia. C C 2