8i6 INJURIES OF THE FACE AND ADJACENT PARTS. CHAPTER XXVI. INJURIES OF THE FACE AND ADJACENT PARTS. Face.—Cuts about the Cheeks and Forehead are of common occurrence. These injuries present nothing pecuhar, except that the structures of the face show the same ready disposition to repair that characterizes the scalp when injured. In the Treaiment of these wounds, it is of much consequence to have as little scarring as possible. The edges, after being well cleaned, should be brought neatly into apposition by one or more wire or catgut sutures deeply applied to take the chief strain, and a number of fine horsehair interrupted sutures to bring the edges in accurate apposition. If the wound penetrate to the nose or mouth, so that there will be sufficient drainage from the mucous surface, the skin may be covered with collodion ; if not, a dry wool dressing is the best. When the wound is in the neighbourhood of the eyelids, especial care must be taken to prevent suppuration, lest the contraction of the cicatrix produce eversion of the hd. In those cases in which a portion of the nose or lip has been lost, much may be done to repair the deformity by properly conducted plastic operations, such as will be described in Chapter LVIII. The bleeding, which is usually very free in wounds of the face, is easily arrested by ordinary means. If the Li^j be cut from ivitUn, by being struck against the teeth, the coronary artery may be divided, the patient swallowing the blood that flows into the mouth. Some years ago, a man was brought to the Hospital, drunk, and much bruised about the face. Shortly after his admission he vomited a large quantity of blood, which was at first supposed to proceed from some internal injury ; but, on examining his mouth, it was found that the blood came from a wound of the coronary artery of the lip. Parotid Duct.—It occasionally happens in wounds of the cheek that the parotid duct is divided, in consequence of which the wound does not close, and a trickhng of saliva takes place upon the outside of the cheek ; a Salivary- Fistula, which is a source of great disfigurement and inconvenience, being established. The surface surrounding it is puckered and somewhat excoriated, and the fistula opens by a granulating aperture. If from its anatomical situation a wound is known to have divided the parotid duct, the formation of a fistula may be prevented by bringing the skin surface accurately together, leaving the mucous aspect of the wound freely open and covering the surface with a piece of lint dipped in collodion. If the divided ends of the duct can be seen in the wound it has been recommended to pass one end of a fine piece of silver wire down into the mouth and the other up the duct towards the parotid for a short distance and then through the mucous membrane into the mouth ; the two ends are then knotted together