9^6 SEPTICEMIA AND PYAEMIA. posed to pressure, as the shoulders, the elbows, or the back; in other eases suppuration takes place in subcutaneous injuries, as bruises or simple fractures. The patient may linger on for weeks, and finally die of exhaustion ; or recovery may take place, leaving him in shattered health, with perhaps one or more joints firmly ankylosed. Chronic pyaemia is most frequently met with after mjuries of the soft parts, especially the genito-urinary organs, and it constitutes a not uncommon form of puerperal fever. It has been known to follow gonorrhoea, and is allied to some forms of " gonorrhoeal rheumatism." Should the patient die, as a rule no softening thrombi are found in the veins. Umbilical Pyaemia is a name which has sometimes been given to a form of the disease occurring in infants from thrombosis of the umbilical vein, with subsequent softening of the clot. Pyaemia without an Open Wound.—This may occur as the result of ulcerations of the alimentary canal, as in typhoid fever or dysentery, or as a consequence of some infective inflammation of a deep part. A general febrile disease with rigors and the formation of metastatic abscesses has also been observed as a complication of gonorrhoea. Perhaps the most common example of pyemia from a subcutaneous inflammation is the form that so frequently follows acute necrosis of bones in children. This is an acute infective inflam- mation terminating rapidly in the formation of pus beneath the periosteum. It is veiy frequently complicated by thrombosis of the veins leading from the bone, and subsequent softening of the thrombi and emboHsm. The emboli are impregnated with the infective products of the local inflammation, and wherever they lodge they give rise to abscesses. The staphylococcus aureus (p. 243), is always found in these cases, and its presence has been demonstrated in the secondary abscesses as well as in the primary. Idiopathic Pyaemia is a term applied to those rare cases in which the symptoms during life and the post-mortem appearances are those of pysemia, and yet no local source of infection can be found. Mixed forms of Pyaemia and Septicaemia.—Although these diseases have been described separately, it must not be supposed that they are always met with in actual practice distinct from each other. In most cases of pyemia the patient suffers at the same time more or less severely from septic poisoning ; the early blood-staining, the soft and swollen spleen, the subserous petechia, and the other characteristic signs of that condition form prominent features at the post-mortem examination. In other cases, with the exception of an unhealthy wound, a softening thrombus in the vein, and some softening infarcts in the lungs, the post-inortem appearances may be those of a healthy body. Between these extremes every variety may be met with. It is this that has led some Surgeons to the conclusion that septicasmia and pyeemia are mere modifications of a single process. Prognosis.—The prognosis in pyaemia is always bad. When active acute pyemia has fairly set in, recovery rarely, if ever, takes place, the patient usually dying between the fourth and the twelfth days. One or two rigors may occur, and yet the patient may recover. Each repetition of the attack adds to the gravity of the case. In fact, the rapidity of the fatal termination in any given case will generally correspond to the frequency of the rigors and their severity. When the pysemic attack is from the first subacute or chronic, it may be recovered from, after prolonged illness, the formation of numerous or large abscesses, and great and continued disturbance of the general health. In