VARICOSE ULCER. 283 and is very slow to separate. Even after it has separated a'fresh extension may commence before the sore has healed. It is accompanied by severe burning- pain. The Treatment consists in the application of some simple antiseptic dressing and the internal administration of opium in as large doses as the patient can bear. As soon as the patient is fully under its influence the sore will begin to heal. Eczematous Ulcer.—This term is applied to those ulcers in which the surrounding shin is afiected by eczema. It is red and at first covered by minute vesicles ; these burst, and a raw-looking surface is left, on which the corneous layer of the epithehum is wanting. It discharges an abundant, yellow, serous fluid, strongly alkaline in reaction, which stifl^ns any linen rag which may be applied to^soak it up. The ulcer itself presents nothing peculiar, and may assume any of the forms already described. The ulceration may arise as a secondary complication of eczema, or the irritation of the skin by the discharge from a badly tended ulcer may be the cause of the eczematous eruption. Treatment.—The boric acid ointment, prepared with vaseline and paraffin, win usually be found the best application to the eczematous ulcer. If there is much irritation, it can often be allayed by the addition of half a drachm of extract of belladonna to each ounce of the ointment. Strict cleanliness is at the same time essential, but in washing the limb common soap must never be used ; warm water alone, or with a small quantity of soft soap, will be found the best application. If the patient be gouty, the usual remedies for gout must be administered. Varicose Ulcer derives its chief characteristic from being complicated with, or dependent upon, a varicose condition of the veins of the leg. In this affection the skin, most commonly between the calf and the ankle, suffers from the effects of passive congestion. It becomes indurated and of a purplish- brown colour, whilst numerous small tortuous veins may be seen ramifying in it. The surface of the skin is shining and its elasticity is lost. Owing to the imperfect horny change in the epidermis abrasions are readily produced by shght injury, and thus an ulcer is formed, which may vary in character, being often inflamed, and tending especially to become indolent. One of the most serious effects of this ulcer is that, by penetrating into one of the dilated veins, it occasionally gives rise to very abundant hgemorrhage, the patient in the course of a few seconds losing a pint or more of blood. The hajmorrhage comes chiefly from the proximal side, in consequence of the in- competence of the valves in the varicose veins. It may be readily arrested by laying the patient on his back, elevating the limb, and compressing the bleed- ing point with a pledget of lint and a roller. The Treatment of a varicose ulcer must have special reference to the con- dition of the veins that occasion it; no local apphcations have much effect unless the pressure of the column of blood in the dilated vessels be taken off the part. This may be done by means of a well-applied bandage, made of elastic material, or a laced or elastic stocking applied to the leg, so as to keep up uniform pressure upon the distended vessels. Martin's india-rubber bandage, already described in the treatment of the chronic ulcer, will be found especially useful. It has the great advantage over the elastic stocking of being suited for application over the ulcer, as it does not become foul, and, if it be properly put on, the pressure is more uniform. In many cases, the cicatrisa- tion of the ulcer cannot be brought about by these modes of treatment; or, if