INHERITED SYPHILIS: SYMPTOMS. and liable to a crumbling decay. The upper central incisors usually suffer early, and always first; then the lateral ones become carious and drop out ; and lastly, in some cases, though rarely, the canines wear away so as to present a tusk-like appearance. In consequence of the early decay of the incisors, children are often edentulous, so far as these teeth are concerned, from an early age, until the permanent ones are cut. The permanent teeth present the more marked characteristics of an inherited syphilitic taint; and in these, as in the temporary teeth, the disease declares itself chiefly in the central incisors of the upper jaw. These will be observed to be usually dwarfed, too short and too narrow, rounded at the angles, standing apart with interspaces or converging, and marked by a deep broad notch. They are of a bad colour, soft and crumbling, are slender, and readily wear down (Figs. 409—411). The characteristic features are the dwarfing and the central cleft in the free edge. In other cases the cutting edge of the incisor teeth is narrow, so that the teeth have a peculiar "pegged" shape. The upper alveolar border is often narrow and the arch of the palate unduly high. The Bones are very frequently affected in congenital syphilis, though until recently the changes tHat take place had been partly overlooked and partly confounded with rickets. The observations of "Wegner, Parrot, Barlow, and others, have, however, clearly established the fact that the implication of the bones is second in frequency only to that of the skin. Parrot states that the affections of the bones in hereditary syphilis assume two principal forms, one consisting in atrophy of the pre-existing structures, and the other in the development of new tissue. The Atrophic form he divides into two varieties. The first, to which he applies the term GeJatimform, affects equally the cranium and the bones of the extremities. The bone is altered in colour, varying from a pale red or rose tint to different shades of yellow. The medulla becomes transparent, and is at last reduced to a network composed of vessels and delicate fibrillae, the meshes of which are filled with watery fluid. When the compact tissue is invaded it becomes rapidly