8i4 INJURIES OF THE SPINE. The Diagnosis between a dislocation and a fracture of the cervical spine is not easily made. But there is one symptom which, according as it is present or not, may throw much light on this point. This is the occurrence of pain, amounting- to hypera^sthesia, along the line of junction between the paralysed and the unparalysed parts. In fracture this will commonly be found to be present (p. 807). In dislocation, where the nerves are not irritated or lacerated in their exit through the spiual column, it is absent. The Treatment of dislocation of the spine resembles in all important respects that of fracture of the vertebral column. Reduction has, however, been effected in a sufficient number of cases to justify the attempt being made when the danger is imminent. Dislocation of the Transverse Processes of the Cervical Vertebrae occasionally occurs. The patient, after a sudden movement, or a fall on the head, feels great pain and stiffness in the neck, the head being fixed immovably, and turned to the side opposite to that on which the displace- ment has occurred. In these cases I have known Redudion effected by the Surgeon placing his knee against the patient's shoulder, drawing on the head, and then turning it into position, the return being effected with a distinct snap. Wound of the Theca Vertebralis.—Holmes has recorded two cases in which this accident happened from the stab of a penknife in the lumbar region ; in one of them the patient died. The only characteristic sign was the escape of cerebro-spinal fluid in large quantities from the wound. Operation in Injuries of the Spine.—As the fatal result of fracture of the spine, with compression of the cord by the broken vertebra, or by extrava- sated blood, is almost inevitable, the idea has naturally suggested itself to Surgeons that life might be prolonged, and health perhaps restored, if the same operation were extended to the spine which is successfully employed in analogous cases of injury of the head ; viz., the elevation and removal, if neces- sary, of the depressed portion of bone. This operation, originally proposed by Heister, was first performed by Louis and Cline. In all cases of compound fracture the wound must be enlarged and any fragments removed. The results of operation in cases of fracture have not been very encouraging; but, as fracture of the spine with serious lesion of the cord is almost invariably fatal, and as the evil consequences of the fracture are occasionally dependent not only upon the primary lesion of the cord, but on the secondary inflam- matory processes set up in it by the continued irritation of the fractured fragments, the Surgeon is surely justified in attempting the removal of this source of certain misery and impending death by the only means in his power—operative procedure ; the more so as the operation is not necessarily dangerous, does not appear often to have hastened death, and has certainly, in some cases, afforded relief, the paralytic symptoms disappearing to a great extent, and the patient being able to move limbs that were previously motionless. Unfortunately in the great majority of cases the fracture of a vertebra is through the body and not through the arches. Little more than temporary relief can be expected from the removal of the pressure from behind by cutting away the arches, when the cord is partially divided and lacerated by a rough and jagged edge of the broken body of a vertebra thrust back ao-ainst it. It is when the arches only are fractured and displaced—a rare