937 EMPH Y8EMA TO US GANGRENE. swelling, redness, and tension spread upwards, and are speedily followed by a dusky purplish tint, by a soft doughy feeling of the parts, and in the course of a few more hours by a deep blackish-purple discoloration, which spreads uniformly and with great rapidity through all the tissues affected. This is accompanied or immediately followed by emphysematous crackling, due to the presence of gases which are developed by the decomposition of^ the parts attacked by the gangrene. The changes, which are of a putrefactive nature, first develop in the wound itself, and speedily extend from it to the sur- rounding parts. That portion of the limb which is below the gangrenous ■part becomes pale, cold, and oedematous. The portion which is above becomes rapidly infiltrated by serous exudation, which runs up the inner side of the limb to the axilla or groin, as the case may be. The part immediately above the limit of the tissues that are actually mortified is swollen by oedema- tous infiltration, tense, pitting slightly on pressure, and usually of a dusky brownish-red colour ; and frequently beyond the edge of the advancing redness, there is a brownish discoloration, apparently due to pigment liberated by the breaking up of the red corpuscles in the gangrenous tissues and diffused beyond the area of inflammation. The process has no tendency to limit itself ; the oedema and peculiar discoloration extend higher along the inner side of the limb, where they always first reach the trunk. Emphyse- matous crackling rapidly sj)reads along the same parts, and the gangrene here travels with great rapidity, hopelessly involving the tissues and entering into the areolar planes of the axilla or groin in a very few hours. As the gangrene advances, the parts affected are transformed into a soft, pulpy, black mass. On making an incision into the parts so affected, it will be found that the gangrenous inflammation is primarily seated in the areolar planes of the limb, and that the muscles are not affected in the first instance. It will be observed also that the disease extends through the areolar tissue, the skin falling secondarily into slough. The constitutional symptoms early assume the character of acute septic poisoning, the patient sinking into a prostrate condition, and the temperature falling below normal. Unless relieved by treatment, death almost invariably ensues in three or four days after the invasion of the disease, and always shortly after the gangrene has reached the trunk. Treatment.—The jDreventive treatment consists in very carefully cleaning any wound into which mud or dirt has been ground with a powerful antiseptic fluid, perchloride of mercury (1 in 500) perhaps being the best. Should emphysematous gangrene appear the Surgeon will be placed in a great diffi- culty. If he trust to constitutional treatment, in the hope of a line of demar- cation forming, he will certainly be disappointed, the gangrene rapidly spread- ing up to the trunk ; and if he amputate, he will probably lose his patient by the stump becoming affected. Yet amputation should, in my opinion, be per- formed at once. For, although this operation is necessarily very unfavourable when practised in these cases, yet it must be remembered that, if the Surgeon wait for the line of demarcation or trust to other means such as incisions or general treatment, the patient Avill certainly die. The only chance of safety, then, lies in amputating early, and removing the limb high above the part afifected ; thus, in spreading gangrene of the arm, at the shoulder-joint ; and of the leg, in the upper part of the thigh. In most cases it will be found that the infiltration precursory to the gangrenous mischief runs up one side of the