232 LOCAL DISTURBANCES AND INFLAMMATION] experience is required to produce a perfect rubber, one, for instance, who can pick out tlie individual muscles and stimulate them to contraction ; but, for- tunately, Fuch high art is seldom required. In the majority of cases, a few lessons will enable anyone gifted with ordinary intelligence to rub a chronicahy inflamed part Avith sufficient skill to produce some good effect. The points to be attended to are to rub always in the direction of the circulation, not up and down as is commonly done ; to use the right amount of force, and yet not to make the skin sore, and to rub for a sufficient length of time. That a trained masseirr is in every way superior to an unskilled amateur need not be said, and wherever it is possible to obtain the services of a professional rubber it is wise to do so, but in private jDractice in the country, and amongst the poor, such a luxury is not to be had, and much good may be done even by an amateur. Counter-irritants are local applications which give rise to irritation of the skin of varying intensity according to their nature, the mildest forms, as a camphor liniment, causing merely a passing dilatation of the cutaneous vessels, and the most severe, as the actual cautery, producing destruction of the skin and even of part of the subcutaneous tissue. The value of counter-irritants is recognised by all practical Surgeons, and they are undoubtedly amongst the most effective local means that we possess for combating chronic inflammation ; yet their mode of action is difficult to explain. The old theory that by exciting a local inflammation in the skin it was possible to draw the disease away from the deeper and more important parts is no longer tenable ; the theory that by stimulation of the sensory nerves of the skin a dilatation of the superficial vessels is produced, accompanied by a corresponding contraction in the deeper parts, cannot be supported by scientific evidence ; in fact, as Billroth has pointed out, it is probable that in many cases, especially in extremely sluggish chronic inflam- mations, the good produced is probably rather by an increased afflux of blood to the affected part than by a diminution of the blood supply. Most counter- irritants are applied solely with the intention of causing a certain degree of hyperasmia or of inflammation in the part of the skin on which they are placed, while others exert, or are supposed to exert, at the same time a consti- tutional effect, being absorbed into the system from the cutaneous surface. Counter-irritants are classed according to the degree of local irritation they give rise to. Rubefacients are those that cause merely a dilatation of the vessels of the part to which they are apph'ed, such as camphor liniment, mustard poultices, Kigollot's mustard leaves, capsicum plasters, &c. In surgery, they are chiefly used in rheumatic inflammations of muscles or nerves. Vesicants arc those applications which cause a degree of inflammation sufiicient to give rise to abundant exudation, which raises the corneous layer of the cuticle from the Malpighian layer beneath, thus forming a bleb or blister. Yesicants are extensively used in surgery to promote absorption of the products of chronic inflammation, and in some cases to check the process, as in the application of blisters in chronic synovitis or periostitis, or to the perineum in chronic prostatitis. The preparations of cantharides are the chief blistering agents employed ; of these the two most common are the Emplastrum Cantharidis, or common fly- blister, and the Liquor Epispasticus. The former is applied to surfaces free