1038 TUMOURS. a glioma arising from the retina. It is most common in young children, and frequently runs a malignant course, projecting beyond the eyeball, infiltrating surrounding parts, and giving rise to secondary growths. Another variety of small-round-celled sarcoma is the Lympho-sarcoma. It is distinguished by the character of the stroma, which consists of a fine reticulum. After pencilling or shaking a thin section in order to remove some of the round cells, it will be found that the reticulum is formed by the branching processes of small nucleated cells. The structure of the tumour thus closely resembles that of a lymphadenoma. Lympho-sarcomata occur chiefly in mucous membranes and lymphatic glands, but occasionally aflPect the tonsil and testis. They tend to cause secondary disease of the lymphatic glands at an early stage of their growth. Spindle-celled Sarcoma. Fasciculated Sarcoma. Recurrent Fibroid Tumour. Fibro-plastic Tumour.—These tumours are composed of spindle- shaped, fusiform, or oat-shaped cells, either lying closely in contact with each Fig. 376.—Round-celled Sarcoma, from a large tiunoiir in the muscles round the upper end of the femur (ISS diam.). The cells vary in size and liave a very clear nucleus and nucleolus; tlie matrix which has shrunk away from the cells is liiintly granular. Fig. 377.—Spindle-celled Sarcoma, from sub- cutaneous tissue of groin (188 diam.). Cells of medium size ; no intercellular fibres. other or separated by a homogeneous or fibrous intercellular substance (Fig. 377). The cells vary greatly in size in different tumours, but are usually tolerably equal in the same growth. They may be little more than ToVoth inch in length, or they may reach entirely across the field of the microscope. This has given rise to the distinction between large and small spindle-celled sarcomata. The intercellular substance is usually more abundant and more fully developed into fibrous tissue in the small than in the large-celled growths ; and it is the former, therefore, that gradually merge into fibromata, so that it is often difficult to determine under which heading to class them, and some Avriters have given them the name fibro-sarcoma. All spindle-cells, large or small, contain an oval nucleus with one or more nucleoli. The cells are usually arranged in bands crossing each other in various directions, often giving the growth a fasciculated or fibrous appearance, and if a band happens to be cut transversely it presents the appearance of a group of small round cells. The vessels, as in other sarcomata, are abundant and thin-walled. The small-spindle-celled sarcomata are usually firm in consistence, and of a pinkish or w^hitish colour, the central parts being yellow from fatty degenera- tion. Occasionally they contain cysts filled with straw-coloured fluid, and they may closely resemble in aspect the common fibroid tumour. They grow