742 IJJURIES OF THE HEAD. such a case as this, however, we should, I think, treat the depressed fracture irrespectively of the spinal injury, thus giving the patient a chance of recovery, of prolongation of life, or, at least, of return of consciousness before death. A man was admitted under my care into the Hospital, with depressed fracture of the left parietal bone, and injury of the cervical spine, the precise nature of which could not be accurately determined. He was in a state of complete coma and paralysis. I trephined the skull and elevated the depressed portion of bone ; he recovered his consciousness to a great degree, but died m a few days, apparently from injury to the spine. On examination after death, we found a fracture of the fifth cervical vertebra. CEEEBRAL COMPLICATIONS OF INJURIES OF THE HEAD. These maybe primary or secondary. The brain is subject to three principal Primary States of Functional Disturbance arising from injury ; viz., 1. Concussion, 2. Compression, and 3. Cerebral Irritation. Any one of these may be followed by, or be complicated with, subsequent inflammation, which derives peculiar characteristics from the conditions with which it is associated, and from the injury by which it is occasioned. In describing these different conditions, we are compelled to define the symptoms that characterize them more distinctly than is the case in actual practice, where they are not so clearly individuahzed, and become merged together to a considerable extent. 1. Concussion of the Brain.—Concussion, or stunning, appears to be a shock communicated to the head from the application of such external violence as will produce commotion of the substance of the brain, or interfere with the circulation through it; in consequence of which its functions become suspended, usually in a slight and transitory degree, but occasionally to such an extent that the patient does not rally for many hours from the depressed state into which he is thrown. The Pathology of concussion of the brain is very obscure ; so much so, in fact that the term must be considered to have rather a clinical than a patho- loo-ical significance. Clinically the term is used to cover all those cases m which insensibihty of a temporary character not due to any evident coarse lesion or compression of the brain follows an injury to the head. When cases of this kind, that have been chnically classed as concussion, have died without rallying, examination has always shown some actual lesion of the brain. In some cases the brain is ecchymosed in a punctiform manner, whilst in the most severe cases, portions of the brain substance, varying m size from minute points to patches an inch or more in diameter, have been disintegrated and more or less ecchymosed. In fact, no sharp line can be drawn either chnically or pathologically between the more severe cases of concussion and those of obvious cerebral laceration and contusion. The theory that the symptoms of concussion can be produced simply as the result of a temporary arrest of the normal cerebral action by a violent vibration of the nerve tissue is not now generally accepted. There is, however, much reason for beheving that a condition of cerebral anaemia is the essential cause of the symptoms. This anemia partly no doubt depends upon the general vaso- motor paralysis and weak action of the heart, which allow the blood to stagnate in the relaxed vessels, especially in the veins of the abdominal viscera and