933 HOSPITAL GANGRENE: CAUSES. circular ulcer of about the size of a split pea. The ulcer once formed, rapidly extends by sharp-cut edges into the surrounding integument. Constitutional Symptoms.—In the early stage there may be active febrile disturbance, with high temperature and quick pulse. But these symptoms soon subside into those of prostration. In the majority of cases the consti- tutional symptoms follow the local invasion of the wound. This was certainly so on the two occasions in which in former years I had an opportunity of observing outbreaks of the disease in University College Hospital ; and the same has been noted by Delpech, Blackadder and others. Causes.—All wounds and sores are liable to be attacked in this way, but the disease most frequently affects those that are of recent origin. Hutchin- son believes that it is specially prone to originate in syphilitic subjects. The experience of many wars has led incontestably to the conclusion that hospital gangrene will certainly be developed amongst the wounded if they are crowded in too great numbers under one roof, however large may be the building ; whilst, amongst the wounded who are treated in the open, or in " hut hospitals "—mere temporary sheds—it is all but unknown. In many German hospitals in which it was formerly of very frequent occurrence, it has been entirely excluded by the adoption of antiseptic methods of treating wounds, all other conditions remaining unchanged. It is evident, therefore, that the disease is primarily due to two causes, the overcrowding of patients in a ward and the putrefaction of the discharges from their wounds. The last outbreak that occurred at University College Hospital, more than twenty-five years ago, was evidently due to these causes. In one of my wards, which was intended to contain 15 or 16 patients only, owing to accidental and un- a,voidable circumstances, 21 patients were admitted, and slept for one night, many of them having suppurating wounds. The result was an outbreak of hospital gangrene, which spread through the institution, and was most serious and persistent. But though it commonly has its origin in this way, especially in the crowding of military hospitals after a hard-fought action, it is met with out of hospitals. Well-marked cases of this affection, some of a very severe character, have at times occurred amongst the out-patients of University College Hospital. In these cases, as in many others, it is probable that the disease was occasioned by the neglect of hygienic conditions, in the close and ill-ventilated houses of the poor, aided possibly by some atmospheric or epidemic influence ; erysipelas and phlebitis being also very prevalent at the time. This had been observed during the first occurrence of the disease at our Hospital, in 18-i-l ; and it is impossible not to recognize a similarity of cause in these different affections. Hospital gangrene is" highly contagious, and when once it has broken out it wih readily spread from patient to patient by contact with nurses' or Surgeons' fingers, instruments, dressings, and above all if the pernicious custom of using sponges in cleaning sores be adopted. It is impossible to be too careful in these respects. The disease may also be carried by the air, and may thus be said to be " infectious." Pathological Anatomy.—The slough is composed of the tissues of the part infiltrated with inflammatory products, the fluids having undergone coagulation. The individual cells are not recognizable, the whole presenting a finely granular appearance. When stained and properly prepared, innumer- able micrococci are seen amongst the granules; they are in colonies or chains, or single. The perishing tissues immediately beneath the slough are