THE PLASTER OF PARIS BANDAGE. 539 apparatus Immediatd!/ after the reduction of the fracture ^/^f^f ^^^^ P^;;^^f ^ a safe one, even in fractures of the thigh ; so much so that the Ho^^^^^^^^^^ for some time rarely used any other plan of treatment. The n odeiate pressure of the bandages, aided probably by the great evaporation from so extensive and thick a mass of wet starch, seemed to take clown be swellmg most effectually. Thus the patient was often able to leave his bed about the third day after the injury, when the fracture was m the leg or ankle, ana about the sixth when it was the thigh that was broken. ^ j • fi,-. Further experience, however, showed that the fractures to be treated m this Avay require selection. A simple fracture of one bone of the leg or ot botn bones, without comminution or marked displacement, or great extravasation ol blood, may safely be put up immediately in the starched bandage or any other rigid apparatus. In more severe cases it is better to wait till the end of the first week or the beginnino- of the second before applying the starched bandage. In fractured thio-hs also it is better to allow a certain degree of consohdation to take place, otherwise from the difficulty of completely fixing the hip-jomt by means of a starched bandage some return of displacement may take place The best time for its application in these cases is about the end of the second week. Care must be taken to enclose the foot in the splint, otherwise rotatory displacement outwards may occur. By this means I have obtained the most satisfactory results in cases of fractured thigh ; patients having frequently .been cured without any appreciable shortening, with the preservation of the natural curve of the bone, and without confinement to bed after the second week. Plaster of Paris may be used in the treatment of fractures m any one ot the four following ways :— 1. The simjjle jjlaster hcmdm/e is thus applied : A coarse mushn bandage is first prepared by rubbing some fresh plaster thoroughly into its meshes. The very best plaster must be used, and it must be quite fresh ; if it has been exposed even for a few days in a damp place it will be practically useless. The bandage is then loosely rolled up, a little more plaster being sprinkled between its turns as this is done. The necessary number of bandages having been got ready, the limb must be prepared. This is done m various ways. Formerly at University College Hospital we used merely to grease the limb and apply the plaster directly to the skin. This had the disadvantage of being difficult to remove. The better plan is to apply a dry flannel bandage smoothly to the limb. The bandage must be made of elastic Welsh flannel and must not be drawn more tightly than is necessary to prevent creasing, otherwise it might cause constriction of the limb. A prepared plaster bandage is then placed, end upwards, in a basin of water deep enough to cover it completely. It is then taken out and squeezed to get rid of the excess of water and smoothly rolled over the flannel. The bandage must on no account le pulled. It is to be laid smoothly on the limb without making reverses. In order to avoid these, it may be cut whenever necessary. The muslin bandage, it must be remembered, is used merely as a convenient means of applying the plaster and to give toughness to it when it is set; a plaster bandage must on no account be used to exert pressure, or when it sets it may cause serious constriction of the limb. As the bandage is applied it must be rubbed with the hands to squeeze out any air that may have got between the turns, and if necessary, some plaster made into a cream with water may be rubbed in with the hand. If it be