INJURTHS OF BLOOD-VESSELS. 4o6 CHAPTER XIIL INJURIES OF BL00D-YES8ELS. INJUBIES OF VEINS. Veins are very commonly wounded suicidally, accidentally, or in surgical operations ; but, unless they are deeply seated, injuries of them are seldom attended with any serious consequences. Occasionally subcutaneous rapture or laceration of a vein takes place from a blow or strain. In such cases extensive extravasation of blood will occur, which, however, usually undergoes absorption in a few weeks ; but it may sappurate, or the changes described at p. 312 may take place. This accident is most commonly seen in the internal- saphenous vein. There are three sources of danger in open wounds of veins : 1, Loss of Blood ; 2, Septic or spreading inflammation of the vein ; 3, Entrance of Air into the Circulation. 1. A vein is known to be wounded, when dark blood flows in a rapid and uniform stream from the seat of injury. The Haemorrhage from a wounded vein may, if the vessel be superficial, be arrested by position, and the pressure of a compress, with a few turns of a roller. A wound of one of the larger veins of the trunk—as of the vena cava, innominate, or iliac—will necessarily prove rapidly fatal from uncontrollable hemorrhage. When one of the large external veins is wounded, such as the internal jugular, the axillary, or the femoral, it should be fairly exposed and tied with catgut ligature above and below the wound in it. Langenbeck has in this case advised that the companion artery should also be tied. And a priori it might be supposed that this would be a wise precaution. But experience and the result of statistical inquiries have alike demonstrated its fallacy. Gross and Morris have shown that the ligature of the internal jugular when wounded in operations about the neck or in suicidal attempts is a very safe procedure, whilst if the common carotid be hgatured at the same time, the mortality following the double operation becomes very high. In the extremities also the simultaneous ligature of the main vein and artery is especially apt to lead to gangrene. A very small puncture in a large vein may be treated by picking up the wall of the vessel at the injured spot, and applying a ligature, so as to include the opening without completely occluding the vein. A wound in a vein is closed in different ways according to the size of the opening and the mode of treatment. If the vein be completely divided and a ligature applied, the closure of the vein is brought about in the same way as that of an artery under similar circumstances (see Wounds of Arteries). When a wounded vein is treated by pressure, the lips of the wound come in contact with each other, and union takes place without permanent occlusion of the vessel. If a clot forms above and below the point pressed upon, it is absorbed