ADMINISTRATION OF ETHER. 21 It is not necessaiy in all operations to administer the anesthetic to the same extent. In the greater operations, such as amputation, lithotomy, or the lio-ature of an artery, enough should be given to completely paralyse muscular movement, as well as to suspend consciousness. In operations for hernia, also, and all other proceedings implicating^the abdominal walls, if complete muscular relaxation be not induced, great inconvenience and no little danger may result. So, also, in very painful operations about the anus and genital organs, a full dose should be given. But for minor operations of short duration, it will be sufficient to give enough merely to suspend sensibility without inducing com- plete muscular relaxation. Administration of Ether.—The best washed sulphuric ether should be used for anassthetic purposes. Its specific gravity should be about -720, and it should be free from alcohol, water, and fusel oil; the first two impurities may be recognised by the higher specific gravity of the mixture, and the last by a greasy stain left on paper, on which the ether is allowed to evaporate. Pure ether does not redden litmus paper. It should be kept in a well-stoppered bottle in the dark to prevent decomposition. The administration may be effected by the application over the mouth and nostrils of a hollow sponge, or a towel folded into the form of a hollow cone, saturated with the ether ; but it is better to employ some form of inhaler, as from its extreme volatility, unless some means are taken to economise it, the quantity required becomes a serious inconvenience. When given by means of a sponge, the face may be greased to prevent the pungent effects of the ether on the skin. Amongst the numerous inhalers which have been invented of late years. Clover's smaller apparatus is perhaps the best (Fig. 1). It consists of a face-piece to cover the mouth and nose, to which a circular metal vessel to con- tain the ether is attached by a short metal tube. On the other side of this is a thin india-rubber bag, also con- nected with the ether-chamber by a short tube. The ether-vessel can l)e rotated on the face-piece, and according to the position in which it is placed, the course of the air passing througli the apparatus varies. When it is turned so that the small indicator points to " no ether," the expired air passes into the bag without entering the ether- chamber, and is breathed again at the next inspiration. When at " full ether," the air in inspiration from the bag aud expiration into the bag must all pass through the ether-chamber, which is warmed partly by the patient's breath, aud partly by the administrator's hand on the outside. By a simple mechanical arrange- ment these variations in the direction of the air are effected without valves, and the instrument is for this reason less likely to get out of order. It is used in the following manner : Two ounces of ether are first poured into the ether-chamber, and the face-piece is fitted to the patient's face Ki>;. 1.—Clover's Etlior Inhaler.