HUMERUS: INJURY OF NERVES. 593 of the shaft of the humerus, it may happen that the trunk of the musculo- spiral nerve, where it winds round the bone, may be damaged, either by the fracture itself or by becoming involved in the subsequent formation of callus so as to be paralysed. So also when the fracture is lower down, and the external condyle is broken ofP, the posterior interosseous branch of that nerve may be injured, whilst very rarely the median and ulnar nerves are damaged. When the musculo-spiral is paralysed, supination is imperfect, and extension of the hand and fingers is entirely lost; the forearm becomes pronated, and the hand and fingers flaccid, so that a form of wrist-drop ensues ; all the muscles supplied by the musculo-spiral nerve being paralysed. Some degree of supination, however, can be effected by the action of the biceps. Although the extensors of the wrist and fingers have become paralysed, yet, when the fingers are flexed into the pahn (Fig. 190 a), they can be extended rapidly, and with some degree of force, at the first interphalangeal articulations, as far as is represented in Fig. 190 h. This limited movement of extension is due to the action of the iuterossei and lumbricales which, being supplied by the ulnar and median nerves, do not participate in the paralysis, for, as pointed out by Duchenne of Boulogne, the interossei extend the second and third phalanges and flex the first phalanx, flexion of the two distal phalanges being accomplished entirely by the long flexors. When the posterior interosseous nerve only is paralysed, the loss of supina- tion and extension is necessarily less complete ; these movements being still practicable to a limited extent, through the medium of the long supinator and the long extensor of the wrist, which are supplied from the main trunk. If Fig. 190.—Paralysis of Hand (Wrist-Drop) after Fracture of Huiuerus. Fig. 1!>1.—Permanent Flexure from Paralysis after Fracture of Humerus. Fig. 102.—Apparatus for Wrist-Urop after Fracture of the Humerus. the paralysis of tlic extensors and supinators be allowed to continue for some time, the forearm and hand are drawn into a state of permanent flexion and pronation by secondary shortening of the muscles that act in those directions (Fig. 191). The treatment of this complication of simple fracture of the humerus must be conducted on the principles laid down in the Chapter on Injuries of Nerves. The patient should be encouraged to use the hand as much as possible as soon as the state of the fracture will allow of it, and a splint may be applied at night to prevent the occurrence of deformity. In order to overcome the VOL. I. Q Q