SIGNS OF FRACTURE. 523 the most agonizing pain. These facts are common to many other injuries besides fractures, and merely serve to direct the Surgeon s attention to tne seat of injury. The patient must be carefully stripped, the injured part being disturbed as little as possible, the clothes being cut wherever it is necessaiy, rather than pulled off", as any violent movement might convert a snnpie into a compound fractnre. The limb being fully exposed, the Surgeon proceeds to examine it hrst by inspection, secondly by measuring, and lastly by manipu- lation, comparing it as regards form and size with the umnjured part on the opposite side. It is better to leave the painful process of manipulation till the last, as in many cases the existence of a fracture can be determined without it The limb will often show some increase in size, due to the extravasation ot blood round the fracture, which ofoen takes place to a very considerable extent, even without the wound of any large vessel ; and to the approximation ot the attachments of the muscles by the shortening of the limb. Diminished bulk, or flattening, occurs in some cases, in consequence of the weight of the limb drawing the part down, and thus lessening natural rotundity. Neither pain nor alteration of bulk can be regarded as pathognomonic of fracture. The more special and peculiar signs of fracture are three : 1. A Change in the Shape of the Limb ; 2. Mobihty in its Continuity ; and 3. The Existence of Grating between the Broken Ends of the Bone. 1. The Change in the Shape of the Limb, due to the displacement of portions of the broken bone, is a most important sign of fracture ; it manifests itself by a want of correspondence between the osseous points on opposite sides of the body, by an increase or diminution of the natural curves of the limb, by angularity, shortening, rotation, or swelling. In investigating the displacement in a case of fracture, the Surgeon should compare the correHponcUng points of done on the opposite sides of the l}ody, by grasping the injured part and the corresponding portion of the healthy limb in his hands, and running the fingers lightly over the depressions and eleva- tions, marking any difference that exists. Measurements must also be made with a tape between easily recognised bony points in the injured and uninjured limb. In some cases the measurement must not be made between the trunk and the limb injured, or even from one extremity of the limb to the other, as shortening of the whole member might depend on causes other than fracture, such as infantile paralysis, disease of a joint, or dislocation ; when this is the case, the measurement must be taken between different points of the bone injured, and compared with a similar measurement of the sound limb ; and in children the length of the uninjured bones of the limb must also be compared in order to ascertain whether the shortening is due to a general want of growth in the limb. The displacement of a broken bone may be the direct result of the violence which occasions the fracture, the fragments being driven out of their position, as when a portion of the skull is beaten in ; or it may result from the weight of the hmb dragging the outer fragments downwards, as in the case of a fractured clavicle or acromion. Muscular contraction is, however, the great cause of displacement; hence it has been found that in paralysed limbs, if a bone be broken there is but little deformity. The contraction of the muscles draws the more movable fragment out of its normal position owing to the resistance offered by the unbroken bone being removed. When two sets of opposing muscles are attached to the one fragment, the stronger will prevail;