CO UNTER-IRRITANTS. 233 irom hair, the latter to the scalp or perineum. In applying a blister, or the liquor epispasticus, it is essential that the part should be as free from grease as possible, and for this purpose it must be washed with soap and hot water, and afterwards, if it can be conveniently done, sponged over with a very dilute solution of ammonia, before the blister is put on. The blister should rise in from eight to twelve hours. When the bleb is fully formed, if it is not intended to prolong the action, it should be carefully pricked with a needle, but the cuticle 'should not be removed. It should then be covered with cotton-wool and a bandage, or a little simple ointment on a piece of linen. If it be desired 10 prolong the counter-irritation, the cuticle may be removed, and the raw surface dressed with savin ointment, by which means it may be kept open as long as is wished. A blister does not, as a rule, leave a scar ; but it may do so, and it is well therefore not to apply it to the face or hands if this can be avoided. The extent of sui-fMce to which it is applied must not exceed a few square inches, for there is some danger of the absorption of the cantharidine, and of consequent con- gestion of the kidneys, hematuria, and strangury. This Avill of course happen more readily if there be a raw surface beneath the plaster. Blisters must always be used with great caution in very old or feeble subjects, and in those suffering from Bright's disease, or any other serious visceral affection, as in such cases they occasionally cause sloughing. Suppurants or Pyogenic counter-irritants are those agents ^vhich are of sutiicient intensity to give rise to inflammation reaching the stage of sup- Fig. 87.—Introduction of a Seton. puration. The most common of these are croton oil, issues, setons, and the actual cautery. An issue was a suppurating sore, made with a caustic and kept open by savin ointment, or a pea put in the middle of it and retained in position by plaster. A seton consisted of a few threads of silk passed under a fold of skin, in the w'ay shown in Fig. 87. The suppurating track was often kept open for many months. Both these modes of treatment are now abandoned. The Actual Cautery is very successful in chronic inflammation of joints before destruction of the cartilages has set in, and it is especially useful when there is great pain with nocturnal startings. The relief given by it is often immediate and permanent. In the application of the cautery it is the object of the Surgeon to destroy the cuticle and the tips of the papillae, but to leave the deeper structures of the skin uninjured, so that there shall be no contraction of the scar when the sore has healed. For this purpose the cauterising iron should be of a dull red heat, and must