82 AMPUTATIONS. in extensive crush of the lower extremity up to or above the middle of the thigh, such as is not uncommon from railway accidents. Amputation through the upper third of the thigh, or at the hip-joint, is then the only available operation, and it is often done ; but I am not acquainted with a single case in which it has succeeded in men who have arrived at full maturity. In children and young adults it has proved successful. i • i • As death from shock, after primary amputations, happens usually within twenty-four hours of the performance of the operation, it cannot in any way be affected by the conditions to which the patient is exposed after the operation, so far at least as hospitals or other external influences are concerned. We may, therefore, look upon death from shock as a part of the accident to which the person has been exposed, aggravated, doubtless, by the further depressing influence of the operation. Death from shock necessarily occurs more frequently under similar conditions of injury at advanced than at early periods of life. It is interesting also to observe that season exercises an influence on the liability to death fi-om shock after primary amputations. According to Hewson, of Philadelphia, it is most fatal in winter, the cold, to which the sufferer has been exposed after the accident, acting as an additional cause of depression. -, , , i i • The only way therefore to diminish the proportion of deaths from shock is not to amputate in hopeless cases in order to give " a last chance " to a patient whose vital powers have already been depressed to the lowest ebb by a fearful mutilation. Such amputations which sometimes consist in little more than the severance of a limb still attached to the trunk by shreds of muscle, ought scarcely to find their way into a statistical table professing to give the results of operations the majority of which are performed more deliberately, and with a better prospect of success. They ought, in fact, to constitute a class of cases apart; the more so, as they are frequently complicated with internal injuries which are not detected until after the death of the patient. Shock, as has already been shown, exercises its influence chiefly in primary amputations, far less in secondary ones ; and disappears entirely as a cause of death, in pathological amputations, except in a few cases of such operations as amputation at the hip-joint or shoulder-joint in patients already greatly ■ enfeebled by disease. 2. The development of some form of " septic disease," is, however, far more important than shock as a cause of death after amputation, first because in former times these diseases proved fatal in a considerable propor- tion of all cases operated on, and secondly, because they are to a great extent, if not altogether, preventible. The terrible frequency of these diseases a few years ago is shown by the fact that out of the 681 cases of amputation before mentioned no fewer than 8(5 died from one form of septic disease alone— pyemia—irrespective of those who are reported as having died of "ex- haustion," septicemia, erysipelas, and " low cellulitis." Of the 80 cases from University College Hospital ten died of pyaemia alone. The influence of this disease on the delith-rate was found not only to vary greatly according as the operation was primary, secondary, or for disease, but also to differ considerably in different hospitals, x^bove one-third of the deaths amongst the primary amputations were from this cause. In the secondary amputations 44-4 per cent, of the deaths were from pyemia, and in those for disease 34-0 per cent., an amount nearly equal to that of the primary operations.