ULCERATION. 282 recommended that the tender spot should be found, and a knife or lancet point passed under it, so as to divide the branch of nerve passing- to it, a treatment which IS often successful. Inflamed Ulcer.—This is characterised by redness, swelling, heat, and pain in the surroimding skin. The edges are sharply cut. The surface is often at tirst-dark red and dry from stasis in the vessels of the granulations, but later on it becomes covered with a thin yellow slough. The hase is swollen and oedematous, like the surrounding tissues. The discharge is serous and often bloody In the most acute stage the surface of the sore may be dry, and covered with a thin crust or scab. It arises most commonly in people who drink to excess, and is not unfrequently associated with gout. Any sore may, however, become inflamed if neglected and allowed to become covered with irritating discharges. The Treatment must be both general and local. As a rule, the patients are better for purging. This may usually be effected by a mercurial pill, after which sulphate of magnesia, 53s, infusion of quassia, ^i., may be given three times daily for a few days. If the patient be gouty, ten drops of vinum colchici may be added to each dose. Locally the hmb must be elevated, and the patient kept in the recumbent position. Hot applications will be found always to give the greatest relief. Hot boric acid fomentations in most cases speedily reduce the pain and swelling. Another excellent application is the following : acetate of lead, 5ss ; tincture of opium, 3SS ; water, to sviij. ; pour a small quantity of the lotion into a saucer and add an equal ciuantity of boihng water ; moisten with this diluted lotion a piece of lint of sufficient size to cover the whole reddened area ; apply it warm and cover it with oiled silk, then wrap the whole part in a sheet of cotton-wool. We' thus get warmth and moisture, with a powerful astringent and sedative, and experience has shown that the quantity of acetate of lead present is sufficient to prevent any decomposition of the discharges. If preferred, tincture of belladonna may be substituted for the tincture of opium. Sloughing Ulcer.—When not specific, this is an increased dejrree of the inflamed variety, usually occurring in feeble or cachectic states of "the consti- tution, and generally accompanied by a good deal of fever. The surroimding shin presents an angry, dusky, red blush ; the edges are sharply cut ; and the surface is covered with a greyish slough. The discMrge is serous and offensive ; there is a sense of heat and pain, and the inflamed area is acutely tender. The ulceration, unless arrested, spreads rapidly. Treatment.—The general health must be improved by a nourishing but un- stimulating diet, combined with the use of tonics. Opium is of the o-reatest value. One grain should be given twice or thrice daily. The patient must be kept in bed, and the part elevated. If the surface of the sore be very foul, it may be sprinkled with iodoform, after which hot fomentations must be applied to the whole reddened area. As the inflammation becomes less acute, the warm lead and opium lotion above mentioned may be applied, and when the sloughs have separated, and the surface has become clean, the ordinary treatment of a healthy sore must be adopted. (See Gangrene.) A special form of sloughing ulcer is not uncommonly met with in patients suffering from diabetes. It commences sometimes as a bleb, which bursts and exposes a dark brown slough, including the whole cutis, but not extending deeply into the subcutaneous tissue. The slough may very gradually extend,