EFFECTS OF DIVISION OF NERVES, 493 the unaffected muscles of the limb, or from shortening of the paralyzed and atrophied muscles, should their points of attachment be approximated by the position in which the limb is placed. The division of a purely sensori/ nerve, such as a branch of the fifth, completely abolishes sensation in the part supplied by it, but does not necessarily cause any serious disturbance of nutrition. This is probably due to the free communication between the various nerves of the face. Arloing- and Tripier have shown by experiment that, after the division of a superficial sensory nerve, the neighbouring cutaneous nerves which communicate with the terminal branches of the one divided rapidly assume its functions so that sensibility may return in a few days without repair of the divided nerve. If the whole trunk of the fifth nerve is destroyed together with the Casserian ganglion, serious interference with nutrition follows, such as ulceration of the cornea or of the nasal mucous membrane. In central disease affecting the fifth nerve, the ganglion remaining intact, trophic changes do not occur, although, from loss of sensibility, the parts supplied by it are prone to suffer from injury. It may, in fact, be stated as a general rule that grave trophic changes do not occur unless a part is completely cut off from all communica- tion with a healthy nerve-centre. After the division of a mired nerve, such as the ulnar, the nutrition of the part supplied by it is seriously modified. The muscles, as before stated, degenerate and waste. The whole part supplied by the injured nerve becomes congested, bluish, and, after a tempoi'ary rise of temperature in some cases, colder than natural. The fall of temperature is often very marked. Thus, I found in a woman who was under my care for a wound of the forearm, in which the ulnar nerve had been divided, that, twenty-one days after the injury, the temperature between the ring and the little finger of the injured side was 9° Fahr. below that of the same spot on the opposite hand. Some- times the part becomes oedematous ; the skin often becomes rough and peels, but more commonly it is smooth, red and shining—the " glossy skin " of Paget; the nails grow badly, and are brittle or scaly, and abnormally curved longitudinally. Gradually increasing stiffness, with sometimes painful swelling, of one or more of the joints of the fingers may occur, lilebs, the contents of which become purulent, not uncommonly form (m the tips of the fingers. Chilblains are readily produced by slight exposure to cold, and they frecjuently become vesicular or slough, leaving sluggish and unhealthy ulcers. Wounds in such parts heal badly, and are peculiarly prone to be affected by unhealthy spreading inflammations. If the patient be a growing child, the development of the affected part will be more or less completely arrested. If union takes place between the opposite ends of the divided nerve, the various phenomena that have just been described gradually disappear, and complete restoration, first of sensation and afterwards of motion, with a return to the normal nutrition of the part, eventually takes place. Some voluntary motion usually returns in the muscles before electrical irritability is re- established. In many cases, however, especially if a piece of the nerve have been removed, or if the wound in which it has been divided heal by the second intention, recovery fails to take place. Under these circumstances, the central end becomes bulbous, just as in similar conditions in stumps, and it may then become the seat of intense neuralgic pains darting downwards to