1089 CASEATION OF TUBERCLE. to many generations out of the body, and then inoculated on animals with the effect of giving rise to genuine tubercle, in which again the organism was found on microscopic examination. The media which have been chiefly employed arc solidified blood-serum, and agar-agar peptone to which G or 8 per cent, of glycerine has been added. Cultivation from human tubercle is not easy, and requires much special management and apparatus, and in many tuberculous diseases it is very difficult to find the bacillus by the microscope. Its presence has, however, been proved by the inoculation of the doubtful material into the anterior chamber of the rabbit's eye. This is followed, if the bacillus is present, by tuberculous disease of the iris, and subsequently by general tuberculosis, the bacillus then being found in the diseased tissues. This method is free from error, as the rabbit's eye is never the seat of spon- taneous tuberculous disease. The explanation which may be given of the process up to this point is, therefore, that the bacillus, either in its fully developed state, or as a spore, becomes lodged at the point at which the tubercle subsequently forms. It may come there by the blood or lymph stream, and is possibly carried by a white blood-corpuscle which has taken it up into its substance. When it lodges it causes a local irritation, and the formation of the tubercle represents the effort of the tissues to expel or destroy the invading parasite. The first eflFect of the irritation is to cause an abundant migration of leucocytes from the surrounding vessels. At the same time some proliferation of the fixed tissue cells occurs, and thus the epithelioid cells are formed, in large measure no doubt from the endothelium of the small blood-vessels and lymph spaces. Many views have been expressed concerning the origin of the giant cells. It has commonly been believed that they are formed by fusion of a number of leucocytes round the bacillus. That such a process is possible is suggested by the observations of MetchnikoflF on certain molluscs in which he watched the fusion of cells round bacilli experimentally introduced. Other views have, however, been held as to their origin, and Treves has maintained that they are merely lymph-coagula enclosing some of the smaller cells. Cheyne believes that the giant cells are derived from the epithelioid cells either by hypertrophy of individual cells or by coalescence of neighbouring cells. The lymphoid cells around are merely migrated corpuscles. If the cells destroy the bacillus the process comes to an end, the migrated cells disappear, and repair takes place in the ordinary way, probably from the original cells of the part, a small fibrous nodule remaining in the site of the tubercle. If the bacillus over- powers the cells, it multiplies, and subsequently spreads by invasion, into the surrounding parts. The evident irritation of the tissues round the bacillus is supposed to be due to the chemical products formed by the organism in its growth. If the morbid process continues to advance, the next change observed in the tubercle is the fatty degeneration of the central part. Granules appear, first clouding the cells and obscuring the nuclei, and subsequently complete degene- ration takes place, and the central part of the tubercle becomes merely a granular cheesy mass in which no cell structures are recognizable. In the process of degeneration the lymphoid corpuscles become withered and shrunken and granular before complete disintegration. In this state they were observed by Lebert and believed to be characteristic of tubercle, and hence he named them Tubercle-Corpuscles. This is the process of Caseation of Tubercle. VOL. I. , .