246 SUPPURATION AND ABSCESS. part by the blood or lymph-stream. In the former case they may enter by the air passages or alimentary canal, or occasionally from another centre of sup- puration,' either directly or by the lymphatics. The distribution of the organisms by the lymphatics from a primary centre of suppuration is seen in the suppuration of the lymphatic glands so common in poisoned wounds, soft chancres, &c. The organism having then effected a lodgment damages the surrounding tissues, probably in all cases chiefly by the chemical products formed in its growth, and thus sets up the process of inflammation, which must be regarded as the defensive reaction of the part against the invading pathogenic fungus. The chemical irritant acting upon the tissues, as described in the chapter on Inflammation (p. 174), suspends their vitality, or, in other words, damages them in proportion to its intensity. In order that suppuration may take place, this damage must be of a certain degree, and persist for a sufficient time. The first effect is to cause the ordinary signs of dilatation of the vessels, with retarded flow and exudation with migration of leucocytes, which move towards the spot invaded by the micro-organisms. This movement towards the organisms is explained most commonly by the theory that the products of their growth exert an attractive influence on the amoeboid cells—positive chemiotaxis (p. 161). If the inflammation quickly subsides and a return to health takes place, it is believed to be due to destruction of the invading organisms. How this is effected is a matter which at the present time is giving rise to much discussion, and cannot be regarded as by any means settled. That the organisms are frequently found in the substance of the migrated cells is undoubted. They are found both in an active state and degenerating as indicated by the readiness or difficulty with which they stain. That sometimes they appear to multiply in the phagocytic cell, and causing its death, is also certain. According to Metchnikoff and his followers, the whole process of migration is conservative, and the migrated cells acting as phagocytes seize upon the invading micro-organisms, take them into their substance and destroy them by intraceUular digestion. In the struggle, many of the defending cells may perish Irom the action of the chemical products of the organisms, and from overcrowding and want of nutrition, and these fonn the dead pus-cells. This view, which looks upon the phagocytes as the chief if not the only protectors of the body against the invasion of pathogenic fungi, is opposed by many pathologists, of whom Buchner may be considered the chief. They maintain that the phagocytes are engaged in clearing the tissues of necrotic elements which have perished from the action of the chemical pro- ducts of the invading organisms, and that when the organisms are found in the migrated cells, they have either been taken up by the phagocytes after they have perished from other causes, or are actively invading the migrated cells, which are themselves perishing. They maintain that, when an invading organism perishes, its death is brought about by the chemical action of the fluids of the part. They maintain that the normal blood serum possesses bactericidal properties towards certain organisms, and that chemical substances may be formed, possibly from the breaking up of some of the migrated cor- puscles, which are even more potent in killing the organisms or inhibiting their o-rowth. Again, it is not impossible that the organisms themselves may in their growth give rise to chemical products which arrest their further development. Whatever may be the ultimate solution of the question, the