MUCOUS CYSTS. 1009 there are two points that require attention : first, the base of the cyst should never be transfixed ; and, secondly, no attempt at dissection should be made. If either of these precautions be neglected, troublesome haemorrhage may ensue. The hair should be cut away from the immediate neighbourhood of the tumours and the scalp thoroughly washed with soap and hot water and a dilute solution of ammonia. A towel soaked in 1 in 80 carbolic lotion should be applied for half an hour before the operation. The incisions should be sutured, and dressed with an efficient antiseptic dressing firmly applied with a capelline bandage. When situated about the face, back, trunk, or limbs, sebaceous cysts usually require to be dissected out, being thin and more closely incorporated with the skin ; and often, in consequence of former inflammation, adherent to the subjacent parts. In doing this, care should be taken that the whole of the cyst-wall is extirpated. If, however, any portion of the wall be left, it should be freely rubbed with nitrate of silver, lest a troublesome fistula remain. When the tumours are situated between the shoulders or on the back, and the patient is unwilling to submit to an Fig. 354.—Laige Atlieroniatous Cyst from the Back, simulating Patty Tumour. (Half the natural size.) operation, I have sometimes cured them by opening up with a probe the small black orifice, whicli will always be found leading into them, squeezing out the contents of the cyst, and then pushing in two or three silk threads, which, acting like a seton, have excited the amount of inflammation requisite to bring about a closure of the cyst. The horns and malignant ulcers that result from these growths require excision. If, however, the ulceration be connected with the cranium by its base, or be very extensive, as in the case depicted (Fig. 353), it may be impossible to remove it, and it will be safer to treat it by the application of the chloride of zinc, or by occasionally touching it with potassa fusa, (^) Mucous Cysts arise in mucous membranes in the same way as atheromatous cysts in the skin. Their walls are usually thin, and, as a consequence, they seldom reach any great size. Their contents usually consist of a turbid viscid fluid, and cholesterine is sometimes present. They are most commonly met with in the mouth, and occasionally in the tongue. They form one variety of ranula ; and the so-called dropsy of the antmm^ is in most cases a mucous cyst developed within the cavity. They are also met with in the labia, arising from the glands of Bartholini, and Cowper's glands in the male are said occasionally to undergo a simihir change. They are best treated by excising a piece of the wall and applying a strong solution of chloride of zinc to the interior of the cavity. (y) Cysts arising from the dilatation of the ducts of glands are less VOL. I. 3 ^