TUMOURS. ior4 follicles, and hair (Fig. 356). Their contents are usually rather thinner than those of the ordinary atheromatous cyst, though closely resembling them in appearance. Often a small ball of coiled-up hair is found inside the cavity. The contents are the accumulated secretions of the glands in the cyst-wall mixed with desquamated epithelium. It is interesting to note that cysts lined with epidermis are occasionally met with on the fingers or elsewhere as the result of punctured wounds. In such cases the epithelium from which the cyst formed has been driven into the sub- cutaneous tissue by the instrument inflicting the injury. Those rarer forms of dermoid cysts which develop from an embryonic canal which fails to undergo the normal process of obliteration are distinguished by Bland Sutton as "tululo-dermoidsy A well-known example is the dermoid cyst which occasionally forms beneath the tongue in the middle line of the floor of mouth. This cyst, in some cases at least, is developed from the thyreo-lingual duct or canal of His, which passes from the foramen caecum at the back of the tongue downwards behind the hyoid bone to the isthmus of the thyroid body. Normally this duct becomes completely obliterated, but should the closure fail in that part which lies above the hyoid bone a sublingual dermoid cyst may result. To the same class belong those dermoid cysts which occasionally occur in the neck beneath the deep cervical fascia at the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid, and arise in a deep unobliterated portion of one of the branchial clefts. Dermoid cysts of this class may or may not contain sebaceous glands in their wall, and accordingly the contents may consist of the usual sebaceous matter or of clear fluid. Dermoids of the ovary are remarkable from the complex nature of the structures often present in their walls. Among these may be mentioned bone, teeth, cartilage, &c., whilst in two remarkable specimens a mammary gland projected into the interior of the cyst ; one of these recorded by Bland Sutton is preserved in the Museum of the Middlesex Hospital. Ovarian dermoids may gradually contract adhesions to the omentum or mesentery and lose their connection with the ovary itself. (&) Congenital Cysts arising in Imperfectly Obliterated Foetal Structures.—Certain dermoid cysts already described arise in this way, but the cysts included in this class differ from them in possessing no lining of skin or mucous membrane. To this variety may be referred the cysts of the spermatic cord which arise from the distension of a portion of the processus vaginahs testis which has remained unobhterated, although cut off from the cavity of the peritoneum above and the tunica vaginalis below. Some tumours of the testicle and some growths arising in the neighbour- hood of the kidney which contain large cysts lined with columnar epithelium are supposed to arise from the unobliterated remains of the "Wolffian body ; and the parovarian cysts arising in the broad ligament of the uterus have the same origin. A rare form of congenital tumour known as a teratoma may conveniently be mentioned here. It consists of a complicated mass of various tissues and organs, which is adherent to or included within the body of an otherwise perfectly developed foetus. Certain congenital tumours of the sacral region are supposed to be of this nature. (5.) Parasitic Cysts.—Cysts occasionally come under the care of the Suro-eon which owe their origin to the presence of a varasite. The most