SENILE GANGRENE. When the circulation becomes arrested from the conjoined influences of diminished cardiac power and arterial obstruction, gangrene inevitably results. It is met with in the lower extremities of people past the middle period of life, and the tendency to it increases as age advances. Senile gangrene may set in in different ways. In many instances it commences without any apparent exciting cause. The toes and foot simply shrivel, without any sign of local inflammation and with but little constitutional disturbance. The part that is destroyed becomes black, dry, and shrunken, resembling in appearance the limb of a mummy ; hence the change is often termed Mummiiication (Fig. 336). The toes often look like the shrivelled skins of over-ripe or sucked-out black grapes. This form of gangrene is usually due to the com- plete occlusion of a previously diseased artery by thrombosis. In other cases the gangrene is the immediate result of some slight inflammation accidentally induced, as from the excoria- tion produced by a tight boot, or from a trivial wound in cutting a corn or toe-nail. In these cases the slight injury, which in healthy tissues would be harmless, causes the for- mation of a small slough. This decomposes, and the products of putrefaction acting on the surrounding tissues give rise to a spreading inflammation, which, owing to the greatly diminished vitahty of the part, terminates in gangrene, and the process thus started may spread until it reaches tissues of sufficient vitality to resist its progress. In other instances, again, the disease is ushered in by more acute symptoms. The whole foot becomes swoUen, oedematous, and red; inflammation, apparently of a gouty character, being set up in it. The gangrene may at first affect only one toe, or it may from the commencement involve several toes. It gene- rally begins as a purple or blackish-red spot on the side of one of the toes, usually the inner side of the great toe ; this spot may be sur- rounded by an inflamed areola, and accom- panied by much smarting and burning pain of a paroxysmal character ; it spreads by gradually involving the inflamed areola, which continues to extend in proportion as the gangrene pro- gresses. The pain, which is often of the most intense character, subsides when the gangrene becomes complete In whichever way the gangrene commences the affection gradually'extends mvadmg perhaps one toe after another, involving the instep (Fio- 336) or the sole of the foot and the heel ; and unless it terminate by the fomiation of the Imeofdemarcation, or death put an end to the patient's sufferings it mav extend up to the ankle or leg. In other instances, the gangrene being limited to a small extent, as to the toes only, the patient may recover with the loss of the fore part of the foot. The constitutional symptoms vary with the mode of invasion. In the Fig. 335.—Pop- liteal and Ti- bial Arteries obstructed by Thrombosis. Fig. 336. — Senile Gangrene: Ex- posure of Bones of Foot.