348 G UN-SHOT WO UNDS. The sloughing which occurs around the apertures is usually more extensive around that of entry than that of exit, so that the former may, at a later stage, become larger than the latter. I saw this well exemplified in the case of a young man shot through the neck with a pistol-ball in a duel. The aperture of entry, which was at first the smaller, appeared on the second day the larger in consequence of the extrusion of a black slough ; though it continued more regular in shape than that of exit. The wounds produced by conical Udlets may present characters resembling m general those above described, but the small size of those now used and their high rates of velocity would seem materiallv to modify the character of the lesions produced by them. Surg.-Capt. Perry Marsh has recorded the case of a labourer who was accidentally wounded in the thigh by the conical bullet of a Lee-Metford rifle fired at a distance of 2,660 yards. The entry wound on the front of the thigh measured | in. by | in. ; whilst the aperture of exit behmd was a " clean-cut transverse slit," -V in- in length. Healing took place by first intention, and on examination after the patient's death from acute bronchitis on the 54th day, the track of the bullet could not be traced. Other cases lately recorded shew that the apertures of entry and exit may be identical in character. At short ranges, however, great destruction of the bones and soft tissues appears to be produced. The experiments made in France by Delorme and Chavane with the Lebel and Gras rifles shew that under these circumstances muscles are pulped and bones extensively fissured. . Fragments of Shell, if of large size, inflict the most terrible wounds met with in military practice, tearing off whole limbs, or great masses of flesh, and splintering the bones in all directions. At the battle of Sedan, after the G-ermans had shelled a crowded mass of French troops, the ground was described as covered with " heaps of flesh and rags." A small fragment may either become lodged, or make its way out, the aperture of entry being somewhat incised, though very irregular, and the aperture of exit large and ragged. The old round Cannon-Ball, in fact, solid shot of all kinds, are now quite abandoned in war, being replaced by shells fired from rifled cannon. The old cannon-balls inflicted two kinds of injury. Sometimes they contused a part deeply without destroying the integrity of the skin, the ball being " spent," and striking obhquely. In such cases the skin, owing to its elasticity, remained untorn, though all the subjacent textures—bones, muscles, and vessels—might be crushed into a pulp, if a limb were struck ; or if the trunk itself were injured, the vertebral column and lumbar muscles might be disorganized, and the liver, kidneys, spleen, stomach, and intestines ruptured. These injuries, at one time erroneously attributed to the action of the current of air set in moti.on by the ball, were known by the name of " wind-contusionsy In some of these contusions, gangrene of the limb set in, apparently from the rupture of the principal vessels. Cannon-shot more commonly carried away the whole thickness of a part, shattering a limb, tearing off the thick and fleshy parts of thigh, calf, or shoulder ; or they inflicted the most fearful injuries by smashing the trunk and head. Symptoms.—The Pain in gun-shot injuries varies greatly. It is most severe when a bone is fractured, or a large cavity penetrated; when soft structures alone are injured, a dull and heavy sensation is experienced, which has often been compared to that occasioned by a blow with a stick. In many