1031 PAPILLOMA. them is not adherent and retains its natural colour. The alfection may remain for a long: time, or even permanently, limited to one set of glands. In these cases, as a rule, the stroma is in great excess, and the tumours are hard and fibroid. After a time they may cease to grow. When large numbers of glands are affected and disseminated growths are present in the viscera, the growths are usually, but not always, softer, and the case almost inevitably terminates fatally after two or three years. Deatli may take place from the general disease, or from the e}fects of local pressure, especially when the growth extends beneath the sternum, or presses on the trachea or recurrent laryngeal nerve. Lymphadenoma frequently comes under the observation of the Surgeon affecting a single gland or group of glands unaccompanied by any constitu- tional disturbance. In these cases the disease seems to be a mere hypertrophy of the alfected glands ; and perhaps, strictly speaking, should hardly be classed with tumours. The diagnosis of lymphadenoma in the early stages is practi- cally impossible. At a later period, the great enlargement of the glands, and the constitutional symptoms, indicate the nature of the case. The absence of a local cause of irritation, and the want of any tendency to caseation or suppuration, serve as a rule to distinguish it from chronic inflammation of the glands. The question of removing the enlarged glands often comes before the Surgeon. If the affection is local, and the general health fairly good, the operation may safely be undertaken. If there is very marked ansemia, or if there be a high temperature, and especially if the tumours are very numerous, the spleen enlarged, and the white corpuscles distinctly increased in number, any operative interference should be avoided unless it seems possible to relieve the patient from imminent death from pressure on the trachea. F. Papilloma. Tumour resembling the Papillae of Skin or Mucous Membrane.—A papilla is a more or less pointed projection composed of connective tissue, surrounding a capillary loop and covered by epithelium, which may consist of many layers, as in the skin, or of only one, as in the intestine. Lymphatic spaces and capillaries are present in the areolar tissue. The tumours which pass under the name of papillomata are usually mere hypertrophies of the normal papillae of the part on which they grow, and are covered by the variety of epithelium natural to the part. The papillas of which they are composed differ from those normal to the part in size, shape, and vascularity. Thus, instead of merely microscopic papillae, such as are normal to the skin, we may have growths sometimes reaching the size and presenting the appearance of the head of a good-sized cauliflower. Instead of simple papillae, we may have branched growths subdividing again and again, and connected with the parent tissue only by a narrow stalk. The vessels of these growths are always abundant, and frequently dilated to a con- siderable size. The connective tissue forming the basis of the papillse is more or less crowded with small round cells, according to the rapidity of the growth. Sometimes the deeper layers of the epithelium are darkly pigmented. Malignant tumours of various kinds when seated on a free surface may assume a papillary form, but these must not be confounded with papillomata. On the other hand, a papilloma may by invisible degrees merge into a squamous or columnar carcinoma, the distinction between them some- times being difficult, even with the help of the microscope. So long, however, as the tumour maintains a simple papillary form, the epithelium beino-