932 INFECTIVE DISEASES OF WOUNDS. observed in the so-called wound-diphtheria. Wound-diphtheria is much more nearly allied to hospital ganp^rene ; in fact, the term is extended by many writers on the Continent to that process, the affection here described being: regarded as the mildest form of tlie same disease. It is well, however, to separate the process above described from genuine hospital gangrene, on account of its less evident contagiousness and its comparatively harmless C ll cl I'&C t/ G1* Treatment.—This is very simple. It is only necessary to apply some sbrong antiseptic lotion, such as chloride of zinc (gr. 40 to 5]'), carbohc acid (1 in"20), or the surface may be rubbed over with solid nitrate of silver or sulphate of copper. When a wound assumes this condition the hygienic sur- roundings of the patient should be carefully investigated, and any faults_ of ventilation, cleanliness or drainage corrected. In the mildest cases dusting the surface with iodoform may be sufficient to arrest the unhealthy process. HOSPITAL GANGBENE. This affection is also known by the names of contagious or pulpy gangrene, or sloughing phagedsena, and by some French and German writers the term wound-diphtheria is extended to it. It is characterized by a rapidly destruc- tive and spreading infective inflammation, the affected wound becoming covered bv an adherent slough as the process extends. It attacks open sores and wounds. It is rarely met Avith in its fullest extent, except m military practice ; the accumulation of a large number of wounded persons with foul suppurating sores under one roof, and the want of proper cleanliness and attention during an active campaign, disposing to it. Local Signs.—When hospital gangrene invades a wound or open sore that has hitherto been perfectly healthy, grey soft points of slough appear upon it, which rapidly spread, until the whole of the surface is affected. At the same time the sore increases rapidly in superficial extent, and commonly in depth ; the surrounding integument becomes cedematous, swollen, and of a livid red colour ; the edges of the ulcer are everted, sharp-cut, and assume a circular outline; and its surface is covered with a thick pulpy greyish-green tenacious mass, which is firmly adherent. There is usually some dirty yellowish-green or brownish discharge, and occasionally some bleeding ; the pain is of a severe burning character ; and the foetor from the surface is great. The ravages of this disease, when fully developed, are very extensive. The soft parts, such as the muscles, areolar tissue, and vessels are transformed into a grey pulpy mass, and the bones are denuded and necrosed. The larger blood-vessels resist the progress of the disease longer than any other parts, but may at last be exposed, pulsating at the bottom of the deep and foul chasm. There is, however, little risk of hemorrhage in the early stages ; but, when the slouo-hs are separating, an artery may give way, and bleeding to a dangerous or fataf extent ensue. Hennen states that there is most danger of this about the Eleventh day. When the sloughs are thrown off, in the form of reddish-brown or o-reyish-green, viscid, and pulpy masses, a very sensitive granulating surface is left, having a great tendency to bleed, and to be again invaded by the gangrenous process. _ Blackadder has described a form of this affection, m which a vesicle con- taining a bloody ichor forms, with a hot stinging pain ; this breaks, leaving a