126 SPECIAL AMPUTATIONS. and in the diminished risk of sloughing of the flap, as its vascular communi- cations are not much disturbed. These advantages are not, however, always real, and are in some degree counterbalanced by the liability to recurrence of the disease for which the operation may have been performed, in the portion of the OS calcis left in the flap. When it is practised for injury, however, this objection does not hold good. After either 8yme's or Pirogoff's operation, patients can run ; which they cannot do after amputation of the leg in any part. In cases of caries of the tarsus requiring amputation, it occasionally happens that the Surgeon cannot determine with certainty whether the morbid condition is limited to the anterior rauge of tarsal bones, or extends so far backwards as seriously to implicate the astragalus and calcaneum ; and he is consequently unable to decide whether the condition of the foot admits of removal by Chopart's operation, or requires disarticulation at the ankle-joint. In these circumstances all doubt will be cleared away by making an incision across the dorsum of the foot in the line of the astragalo-scaphoid and calcaneo-cuboid articulations ; these are then opened, and the state of the bones is examined. If the astragalus and calcaneum be sound, or but slightly diseased on their anterior aspect, Chopart's operation may be done, and any'carious bone left behind gouged away. If, on the contrary, these bones be found to be deeply implicated, the flap may be dissected back for about an inch, and disarticula- tion at the ankle-joint proceeded with. Results.—The amputation of a toe, of a metatarsal bone, or even of a portion of the metatarsus, is but very seldom attended with fatal consequences. Should death occur, it must be the result of an accidental attack of tetanus, erysipelas, or pyajmia. Disarticulation at the ankle-joint, though necessarily somewhat more dangerous, is yet one of the most successful operations in Surgery, the mortality attending it being but very small. The statistics of uncomplicated cases from the practice of Socin, Volkmann, and Max Schede, under antiseptic treatment, show 65 cases, with 2 deaths, 1 in a woman, aged 77, and 1 re-aiuputation. Those of Bruns, Bardeleben and Billroth, in the pre-antiseptic period, show 39 cases, with 10 deaths, 8 of which were from pygemia. The highest mortality was from Pirogoff's operation, of which there were 13 cases, with 5 deaths, 4 from pysemia and 1 from erysipelas. Amputation of the Leg.—The selection of the line of amputation must depend upon the extent of the disease or injury, but, whenever practicable, the operation should be performed low down ; the mortality diminishing in proportion as the limb is removed near to the ankle. Surgeons used formerly, even where the disease or injury was limited to the foot, to amputate imme- diately below the knee, or, as it was said, " at the seat of election," in all those cases in which the patient would be obliged to wear a common wooden pin, the long leg-stump being highly inconvenient when the patient rested on his bent knee ; whereas, in those individuals who could afford the expense of a well-constructed artificial limb, the amputation, when practicable, was done in the lower part of the leg. But this diificulty has been removed by the intro- duction of a short wooden pin, in the socket of which the stump may be fixed in the extended position ; and amputation in all admissible cases should con- sequently, even amongst the poorer classes, be done as low down as possible. The number of arteries divided will depend upon the situation of the I