BED-SORES. 917 gangrenous process. Konig, however, showed, and the statement has been con- firmed by others, that the gangrenous inflammation may cause an increase in the amount of sugar and intensify the other symptoms, and that under these circumstances anti-diabetic treatment is hkely to fail. Until recent years the question of amputation for diabetic gangrene did not present itself. Experience has, however, shewn that extensive wounds will often heal quite satisfactorily in patients suffering ft'om diabetes if strict asepsis can be maintained. This has been especially insisted upon by Konig, and amputation for diabetic gangrene has also been advocated by Roser and Kiister, and recently in this country by Godlee and Spencer. It has already been pointed out that arterial disease is doubtless a most important factor in the produc- tion of the gangrene of diabetes, and indeed in cases which appear to be of this variety the same rules of local treatment may guide the Surgeon as in senile gangrene. If high amputation be undertaken no pains must be spared to keep the wound aseptic. In the more chronic and painless forms of this affection, which are probably, in part at least, dependent on changes in the nerves, Godlee suggests that the case may more safely be left for the chance of separation by natural means. The high amputation is under these circum- stances hardly likely to be called for,; and if removal of the limb be practised, it may be done a short distance above the gangrenous part. In the treatment of Raynaud's disease gangrene must if possible be pre- vented by improving the nutrition of the limb, for which purpose shampooing and galvanism have proved of service. Barlow recommends that the extremity of the affected limb be immersed in a basin of salt water, whilst one pole of a constant-current battery is placed on the upper part of the limb, and the other in the basin. The strength of the current should be such as the patient can comfortably bear, and it should be made and broken frequently. If gangrene occurs and is limited to the fingers or toes Eaynaud strongly re- commends that the dead part should be allowed to separate by natural means. It is only in those rare cases in which the process is more extensive that the advisability of amputation will have to be considered on the same grounds as in other forms of spontaneous gangrene. BED-SORES. When a part of the body is com})ressed too severely, or for too long a time, even in a healthy person, it loses its vitality, and a limited slough results \ this separates, and an ulcer is left, which cicatrizes in the usual way. But in certain deranged states of the health, more especially when the blood is vitiated, and the constitutional powers lowered, as during fever, or when the heart is diseased and weakened, more particularly if the''patient be old and debilitated, or if innervation be acutely affected, and he be paralysed, the skin covering those points of the body that are necessarily pressed upon in the recumbent position, such as the sacrum, the trochanters, the elbows, shoulders, and heels, becomes congested and inflamed, assuming a dull reddish-brown colour, and speedily becomes excoriated, often without any pain being felt by the patient. One great cause of bed-sores is undoubtedly bad nu^sino- It would not be just to say that a bed-sore is always the result of neo-lio-ent nursing, but it may truly be said that the chance of the formation of bed- sores, and their severity when formed, will be increased or diminished in the