346 GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. caps. Wounds of the face and other parts by the splashes or spHnters of bullets from the surface of targets, are of common occurrence among markers at rifle-ranges. Slugs are irregular bits of lead of no definite form or size. They produce w ounds more ragged than small shot, but, unless fired at very short range, they seldom penetrate deeply. The experience of the Ashantee War, in which the natives used slugs almost exclusively, showed that the proportion of severe to slight wounds was very small, the projectile not having sufficient power to break a large bone. Bullets occasion more serious wounds, lacerating soft parts, fracturing and crushing bones, tearing asunder vessels and nerves, per- forating the viscera and occasionally cutting off parts, as a. finger, the nose, or an ear. The introduction of rifled fire-arms into warfare greatly increased the destructive eff"ects of bullets. On the bones especially, the modern conico-c7jlindrical huJM often pro- duces the most destructive effects ; not only comminuting. the part struck, but often by its wedge-like action split- ting up the shaft of the bone in fissures many inches long, leading into contiguous joints (Fig. 105). The bullet of the new Lee-Metford magazine rifle is small in diameter, and has a very high velocity. Thus the diameter of the Snider bullet is (»-577 in., that of the Martini 0'45 in., and that of the Lee-Metford O'SOS in., whilst the muzzle velocities are 1240, 1315, and 1800 feet per second respectively. The outer sheath of the new projectile is composed of a very hard com- bination of copper and nickel, which prevents the breaking-up of the bullet at the moment of impac- tion, and thus may tend to diminish the almost " explosive " effects of the old lead bullets. Direction.—In the majority of cases, a bullet traverses the part struck, and the wound has two apertures, one of entry, the other of exit; occasionally it happens, however, that in consequence of the ball being spent, or of the oblique direction with which the ball strikes the part, it reboimds or glances off", leaving merely a contusion or dent. In other cases there is only one aperture ; and here the bullet, partly spent, has probably lodged in the soft tissues, or in a bone, or in one of the cavities of the body. It sometimes I happens, however, that the ball drops out through the apertureat which it entered, as (•'ig. 100.—Rifle bullets. 1, .Snider; 2, Martini- ^vheu a Spent ball Strikes a rib ; or that it Henry ; 3, Lee-Metford. ^^^^.j^g ^ p^^^j^ clothiug before it, which enables the Surgeon to withdraw it. One bullet may make even more than two apertures; thus a round ball has been known to split against the sharp edge of the tibia, and to have one aperture of entry and two of exit; or it may pass through both thighs or both calves, Pig. 10,^.—Perforation of Right Femur by bullet. Kongitiidinal (Splitting of Bone. (United States Army Museum.)