TREATMENT OF POST-MORTEM WOUNDS. 391 the lymphatics become inflamed, the belladonna and o-ljcerine should be thickly painted along their course, and the arm enveloped in cotton-wool. The general treatment ofcleariug out the bowels with a free purge, followed by moderate stimulation, must be adopted in the early stage ; but tonics and strong support will soon .be required, and if there be much constitutional irritation, opiates may advantageously be administered. The treatment of the more severe forms of dissection-injury consists princi- pally in the application of glycerine and belladonna with hot fomentations in the early stages, followed by early and very free incisions into the finger, axilla or pectoral region, or wherever else the part may become tense and brawny. These should be made, if there is much tension, even though matter have not already formed, with a view of preventing suppuration. Should abscesses form, they must be opened early. All incisions should be made with antiseptic precautions, and treated afterwards by some of the modes of antiseptic dressing already described. Even when sloughs have formed, they are not putrid, and the patient's danger will be greatly increased should they be allowed to become so. In the constitutional treatment, our great reliance, after administering a free purge, is on the administration of bark, ammonia, wine, and brandy, with such fluid nourishment as the patient can take ; the case being treated as one of the worst forms of asthenic inflammation. If the patient survive, he must be sent as soon as possible into the country, and must devote some months, perhaps, to the re-establishment of his health. The punctured part often continues irritable for a great length of time, even for many years, remaining red, inflamed, and desquamating, pustules sometimes appearing on it. This condition is best remedied by the occasional application of nitrate of silver. In conclusion, I cannot too strongly urge upon the dissecting student that, unless he take scrupulous precautions as to cleanliness and disinfection, he may readily contaminate with septic poison any patient whose wound he dresses. No dissecting student or operating Surgeon who has examined a dead body ought to approach a patient who has an open wound without changing his coat and thoroughly disinfecting his hands, by washing them for at least five minutes in hot water and soap, and afterwards soaking them in some strong antiseptic solution, such as carbolic lotion (I in 20), solution of perchloride of mercury (1 in 1000), or tincture of iodine and water (5ij to Oj).