969 SEPTICAEMIA AND PYyEMIA. experiments have shown that similar results follow whether the embolus owes its irritating properties to its mechanical condition, its chemical composition, or to its containing a specific virus. Thus abscesses in the lung have occa- sionally followed the injection of charcoal, and mercury. Decomposing fibrin or blood-clot or putrid fat never fails to produce them. If the emboli enter the general circulation, abscesses may form in other viscera or tissues. These observations show that the existence of secondary or metastatic abscesses does not necessarily indicate a true general infective process, as the causes of the disseminated local inflammations may be carried by the blood without develop- ing or multiplying in that fluid. Experimental pathology has thus thrown great light upon the nature and causes of septicsemia and pyaemia, but much still remains to be explained. It will be noticed that the genuine infective diseases are associated with the presence of definite microscopic organisms which, there is every reason to believe, stand in a direct causal relation to the process, yet they all arise from the injection of apparently similar putrid fluids. Microscopic examina- tion shows that in the early stages of putrefaction numerous different organisms—bacilli, bacteria, and micrococci—are found in the putrid fluid ; but it has not been clearly shown that each of the forms subsequently found in the blood of the affected animals is present. As putrefaction advances, the ordinary septic bacteria which, as shown by Hiller, cannot develop in a living animal, become more abundant, choking the other forms, and this fact has been suggested as an explanation of the diminished virulence of the fluid after the second day. Septic poisoning by the chemical products of putrefaction can be produced with certainty in any animal by the injection of a sufficient dose of the putrid fluid. The symptoms produced are nearly identical in all species, though some animals, as the rodents, suffer more severely than the carnivora. On the other hand true septic infection cannot always be produced at will. The same dose of the same fluid injected into different animals of the same species may induce the disease in some and fail in others ; and different species are differently affected. It is evident therefore that there are other causes dependent upon the animal itself, which are essential to the development of the infective disease, and of the nature of these we are still ignorant. When once, however, the disease is developed, it can be communicated from one animal to another of the same species with perfect certainty ; but frequently it is incapable of being transmitted to animals of a different species. Our knowledge may be briefly summarised thus : All putrid animal fluids contain a chemical poison which, if absorbed, will cause a constitutional disturbance proportional to the dose, and they frequently, and perhaps always, contain also a virus capable under favourable conditions of setting up a true general infective disease ; lastly, should solid particles, as from a softening thrombus, enter the blood-stream, they will, if impregnated either with the simple chemical poison or the specific virus, set up disseminated centres of inflammation and suppuration wherever they lodge. The importance, there- fore, in regard to the prevention of pytemia and septicjemia, of avoiding putrefaction in the discharges of wounds cannot possibly be over-rated. Although the conditions in a wound in the human subject are somewhat different from those present in experimenting on animals, yet the analoo-y is close enough to justify us in applying the results obtained to surgical practice