PREVENTION OF INFLAM2IATI0N BY COLD. 213 and to this they partly owe the reputatioa for preventing inflammation in wonnds. Benzoic acid possesses extremely powerful antiseptic properties, but has not been used pure in the treatment of wounds. It forms an important con- stituent of Compound Tincture of Benzoin, Friar's Balsam, or Wound Balsam, which was formerly extensively employed as an external application to wounds, and is still sometimes applied to compound fractures. Turpentine was, in former times, a constituent of almost all salves for wounds, and doubtless did excellent service as an antiseptic. At the present time it is scarcely ever used. A highly refined form is sold under the name of ferebene, which, dissolved in olive oil in the proportion of 1 to 5, forms a useful antiseptic application. Thymol is the aromatic principle of thyme. It is said to be an efficient antiseptic if dissolved in water in the proportion of 1 in 1000. It is but little irritating and is not poisonous ; but it presents few other advantages, and is rarely used except for washing out a cavity, as the rectum, from which carbolic acid might be absorbed in dangerous quantities if injected. Glycerine possesses feeble antiseptic properties, the efficient strength with water being, according to Miquel, 1 in 4. It is chiefly useful as an addition to boric or carbolic lotions, to prevent their drying too quickly. Alcohol.—According to Miquel, the efficient antiseptic strength of an alcoholic lotion is 1 in 10, that is to say, two ounces of absolute alcohol or four of proof spirit in a pint. Absolute alcohol has no influence whatever on the spores of pathogenic baciUi. Alcohol is but little used in surgery as an antiseptic, as it evaporates too rapidly, but it may be employed as a wash for wounds or for the hands and instruments if none more efficient is at hand. Other Methods of Preventive Treatment.—Amongst the most useful means of preventing inflammation is the application of cold. This causes contraction of the vessels, and thus limits exudation and prevents swelhng and tension. The cold should not be so intense as to lower the vitality of the injured part, or it may cause the very mischief it is intended to prevent. For this reason it is of doubtful utility in all superficial injuries or in cutting short superficial inflammations, while it is of undoubted use when applied to the skin in sprains and other injuries of joints, or in injuries of the brain. In the latter cases it causes a contraction of the vessels without actually chilling the injured part. Cold is of no use in checking- infective inflammations of any kind, its chief value being in limiting the simple traumatic inflammation following subcutaneous injuries. Its application must be continuous, or the periods of hypereemia in the intervals between the cold applications will undo any good that may have resulted from the cooling. If the injury be not very severe, hnt dipped in cold water, frequently renewed, may be applied; or, if the skin be unbroken, an evaporating alcoholic lotion may be used. Should a joint be severely injured, cold irriga- tion will be a preferable mode of applying cold. This may be done by suspending over the part a large wide-mouthed bottle full of water, in which a few pieces of ice may be put ; one end of a skein of cotton, weh wetted, is then allowed to hang in the water, whilst the other end is brought over the side of the bottle. This, acting as a siphon, causes a continual dropping upon the part to which the cold is to be applied.