146 SPECIAL AMPUTATIONS. without inwards, carrying the incision only through the skin and fat, which may then be turned up for a couple of inches, the muscles being divided last of all at the higher level. The wound must be carefully united with sutures, a large drainage-tube being inserted at the outer side. In comparing the above methods of disarticulation at the hip-joint, that by transfixion undoubtedly has the advantage of rapidity of performance. In former times this was of the greatest importance, and the operation was often effected in from thirty to forty seconds, and frequently in even less time. With improved means of arresting haemorrhage time is of less consequence, and the transfixion method has been largely replaced by others. The removal of the limb by circular division of the soft parts low in the thigh, and sub- sequent removal of the bone through a vertical incision, has very justly gained great favour of recent years ; and by the adoption of this principle it may i3e fairly hoped that the mortahty of amputation at the hip will be much diminished. The chief advantages of this method, which are only imperfectly obtained by the oval incision, are : first, that the shock is lessened by the low division of the soft parts ; secondly, that the hemorrhage may be con- trolled by the use of Esmarch's bandage ; and thirdly, that the wound, althoug-li a very large one, is more conveniently placed for the application of an antiseptic dressing. Results.—The mortality after amputation at the hip-joint is very high, as we should naturally expect from the size of the part removed and the conse- quent shock to the system. The rate of recovery varies greatly according to the condition of the limb that necessitates the operation. Thus, amputation at the hip-joint had been performed, so far as I could ascertain from published records, 126 times up to the year 1864 ; of these cases, 76 died. In 47 instances it was for injury : of these 35 proved fatal; whilst of 42 cases in which it was done for chronic disease, 24 recovered and only 18 died. Primary amputation at the hip-joint in cases of severe injury of the thigh, by gunshot or otherwise, with comminution of the femur, is one of the most fatal operations in surgery. • Indeed up to the time of the American War, there was no authentic instance of recovery under these circumstances. But in the elaborate and most able surgical history of that great war, published by the Surgeon- General, 19 cases of primary amputation at the hip-joinfc for gunshot injury of the feiimr are related. Of these 11 died from the immediate shock of the operation ; 5 died between the 2nd and the 10th day ; and 3 recovered. One of these, a man 28 years of age, on whom the operation was performed by Surgeon Shippen, seven hours after the receipt of his wound, was-in perfect health in 1892, 29 years afterwards. Intermediate operations, or those done during the inflammatory period, are very unsuccessful : 18 cases that occurred in the American war were all fatal. Secondary amputation, in cases of attempted preservation of the limb after severe injuries and gunshot-wounds, has been far more successful. Four cases in which J. Roux practised it in the French campaign of 1859 in Italy all recovered, as did two out of nine in wliith it was practised in America. Re-amputation at the hip-joint for diseased thigh-stumps has also been a successful operation : 4 out of 7 American cases recovered.