IS CANCER CONSTITUTIONAL OR LOCAL? fo&i One niain source of error in respect to the origin of cancer has been, that it has usQally been studied in organs, such as the mamma, in which the tumour often attains the size of a nut, or even a larger size, before it is detected ; many months may have been required for the small group of cells from which the disease started to reach such a size, and during this time the surrounding tissues and lymphatics may have been widely infected. 2. The hereditariness of cancer is undoubted ; but it is a fatal error in etiology to confound hereditariness with constitutionalism. Hereditariness may be local as well as constitutional. The hereditary transmission of a particular feature cannot be considered a proof of a constitutional tendency. So also the hereditary transmission of a malformation, as of supernumerary fingers or exostoses, is certainly purely local. But diseases may also be trans- mitted through descent without being in any way constitutional. Tumours that are not cancers are hereditary, as warts, lipomata, enchondromata, &c. ; sebaceous cysts of the scalp are strongly hereditary, and yet there can be no pretence that these are in any way constitutional or blood-diseases. These are instances of hereditary local diseases that are not congenital, but develop after the body has reached maturity ; just, indeed, as a cancer does. All that we can therefore assume is, that it is probable that in some cases there is a pre- disposition of unknown nature, hereditarily transmissible, which may favour the development of cancer ; and that this hereditary tendency may be local, as m a certain tissue, or in a particular organ which is the usual seat of election of cancer, as the mamma., the testis, or the pylorus. 8. The greater virulence exhibited by cancers in some individuals than in others, and the varying degrees of rapidity with which they run their course, would undoubtedly lead to one of two inferences : either that the primarv cancer is more active, has greater inherent vitality, or that the constitution in which it occurs is more favourable to its development. The varying virulence of a cancer depends much more upon its anatomical structure than on any constitutional condition of the patient. All the glandu- lar cancers are more malignant than the squamous or columnar ; yet those who hold the theory that cancer is a blood-disease, maintain that it is a mere accident where the primary tumour arises, and consequently what form it assumes. The locality in which the cancer develops has also much to do with the rapidity with which the glands are aflFected. H. Arnott pointed out that the softer, the more vascular, and the more movable the primary seat of the tumour IS, the more rapidly the secondary growths appear. Thus carci- noma of the tongue always affects the glands very early, while with a similar growth on the skm of the leg the patient may escape glandular affection for many months. The fearful rapidity of growth and virulence shown by a cancer of the mamma during pregnancy consequent upon the physiological increase of the supply of blood to the gland is another example of a local condition affecting the malignancy of the growth. Moreover, if great rapidity of the growth were^due to the presence, of the poison in the blood in greater amount than usual, we should expect to find the development of the tumour most rapid m those who showed the most marked cachexia, whereas the reverse is often he case. The younger the patient and the better the general health at the time of invasion, the more malignant as a rule will be the course of the disease