LOCAL TREATMENT OF CMEONIC LNFLAMMATLON. 231 alkaline waters, such as those of Vichy iii France, or purgative waters, such as Carlsbad, or neutral waters, such as Bath, Baden-Baden, or Homburg ; and for rheumatism, Buxton and Bath. In many chronic diseases of joints, hot salt baths, either of sea-water, artificial solution of salt or the natural brine springs of Droitwich, are very useful. Local Treatment of Chronic Inflammation.—In chronic inflammation, our local means of treatment are much more varied than in the acute form of the disease. Local Blood-letting is scarcely ever useful in chronic inflammations. Warmtli and Moisture are not so serviceable in chronic as in acute inflammation, and care should be taken that they be not continued for so long a time as to make the parts sodden. An astringent or stimulant, such as liquor plumbi or spirits of wine, may often advantageously be added to the warm application. In many chronic inflammations recovery is delayed by the passive conges- tion which so often accompanies the process. In these cases, although the part may possibly always contain an excess of blood, it circulates too slowly, and consequently there is reahy a diminished supply. Many of the most important means of treating chronic inflammation are intended to empty the congested vessels, and to cause an afflux of blood and a hastening of the circu- lation through the aff ected part, stimulating the tissues in the normal processes of absorption and repair. Thus Cold, not applied continuously as in acute inflammation, but for a short time twice or thrice a day, by douching with cold water, is often of great use. It first tends to cause a contraction of the vessels, which, perhaps, by calling them actively into play, exercises them as it were, and tends to restore their healthy tone ; and this is followed by dilata- tion, with an increased flow of blood through the affected part, thus improving the nutrition of the tissues and hastening their repair. A somewhat similar effect may be produced by the use of Electricity, in the form of the con- tinuous current ; but perhaps the most useful of these modes of treatment is Rubbing, or Massage. Eubbing acts in several ways. First, it mechanically empties a congested part of blood, causing a fresh flow to it, and thus promotes healthy nutrition ; secondly, the mechanical stimulus causes a contraction of the muscular coats of the vessels followed by a relaxation, thus exercising them and aiding in restoring their normal tone ; thirdly, if properly applied, it empties the lymph-spaces, and thus aids in relieving the part of serous or inflammatory exudation ; fourthly, it stimulates the contraction of muscles which have been thrown out of work (as in the case of an inflamed joint), and thus maintains their nutrition ; and, lastly, it helps to break down adhesions amongst contiguous structures. Rubbing must be done with sufficient force to produce the desired effect, but not so violently as to injure the skin. A skilful rubber can do this with- out greasing the hand, but usually it is better to use a little oil. If it be desired to produce a greater afflux of blood, some stimulating liniment may be used, but this is not usually of any great advantage. The time for which the rubbing should be kept up varies with the case from a quarter to half an hour or more. The more chronic the case, the longer will the rubbing be required. Eubbing is chiefly applicable to chronic inflammations of joints, synovial membranes and muscles, and it is undoubtedly one of the most efficient means of treatment that we possess. A large amount of training and