ERYSIPELATOUS LARYNGITIS. 959 or downwards. It may extend upwards through the nares, out through the nostrils, and thus spread over the face and head, or downwards, implicating the larynx. Erysipelatous Laryngitis is extremely dangerous. The inflammation, commencing in the fauces, rapidly spreads to the mucous membrane and loose submucous areolar tissue external to and within the larynx, giving rise to extensive cedematous infiltration, which, by obstructing the rima glottidis, may readily suffocate the patient. In consequence of this special tendency to oedema, the disease has by many writers been termed a'dematous laryngitis.'' After death, the submucous areolar tissue of the fauces, that about the base of the epiglottis, and especially that which enters into the arytseno-epiglottidean folds and that covering the posterior part of the larynx, will be found to be distended with serum or a sero-puriform fluid. This infiltration reaches to the rima of the glottis, and, extending into the interior of the larynx, gives rise to such swelling that its cavity is nearly obliterated. Great as the swelling may be in all these parts, however, it never spreads below the true vocal cords. This fact, which is very important, is explained by the mucous membrane being adherent to the fibrous tissue of which these structures are composed, without the intervention of any submucous areolar tissue. The progress of this oedemarous inflammation of the mucous membrane and loose submucous tissue in these situations, is often amazingly rapid, the swell- ing being sufficient to induce suffocation at the end of thirty-six or forty-eight hours or even sooner. If the patient be not carried off in this way, there will be a great tendency to suppuration and sloughing of the affected tissues, lead- ing perhaps eventually to death from septicgemia or pyaemia. The Sijinptoms of this affection are strongly marked. Diffi.culty and pain in deglutition, and huskiness of the voice, are followed by more or less difficulty in breathing, hoarse croupy cough and tenderness under the angles of the jaw and about the larynx. The difficulty in breathing increases, and may speedily threaten the life of the patient, giving rise to fits of intense dyspnoea, in one of which he may probably suddenly die. The difficulty is greater in inspiration than in expiration, as the swollen parts above the opening of the larynx fall together like a valve in the former act, while they are easily separated by air coming from below in the latter. On examining the throat the fauces will be found much reddened and dusky in tint, and by depressing the tongue the epiglottis can be felt, and perhaps seen, to be rigid and erect. Examination with the laryngoscope readily shows the condition of the parts to be as above described. Enlarged lymphatic glands can usually be felt early in the case behind the angle of the lower jaw. In the Treatment, local means are of the first importance. The tongue having been well depressed, the posterior part of the larynx, the epiglottis, and the arytteno-epiglottidean folds must be well scarified by means of a probe- pointed bistoury, protected nearly to its extremity by strapping or lint wrapped round it. If no better instrument be at hand in case of emergency, a very useful amount of scarification may be done by the nail of the Surgeon's index- finger, notched with a knife to make it tear the mucous membranemore readily. The patient should then be directed to inhale the steam of hot water, to which a few drops of creasote or carbolic acid may be added, and several leeches may be applied under each angle of the jaw, to be followed by large and hot poul- tices. The bowels must be kept well opened ; most frequently, I have found antimonials of great service in the early stages, followed later by support and