INJURY OF ARTERIES IN FRACTURE. 549 should deviate from the acknowledged rule of Surgery, to tie the wounded vessel at the injured spot. Amongst the cases tabulated by Bruns are the following treated by this method :—Axillary artery, 3 cases, 2 deaths ; brachial, 2 cases, 0 deaths ; femoral, 1 fatal case ; anterior tibial, 7 cases, 5 cured, 1 amputated, and 1 death ; and posterior tibial, 2 cases, 1 amputated and 1 died. In. two of the cases of the anterior tibial the vessel could not be tied, and the wound was plugged successfully. In the successful axillary case the aneurism did not appear till the eighth day. 2. The circulation through the main artery may be arrested by compression or by ligature on the proximal side. Bruns records five cases in which com- pression was attempted. Of these three were successful. In one the artery w'ounded was supposed to be the circumflex at the shoulder ; in the two other cases the injured vessel was the anterior tibial; but in both the aneurism w-as of small size and slow formation. Compression failed in a circumscribed aneurism of the brachial, and still more markedly in a large diffuse aneurism of the femoral artery. Proximal ligature is recorded in seven cases. In one the subclavian was tied for a diffuse axillary aneurism with a fatal result; in one the axillary was tied for a circumscribed aneurism of the brachial ; in one the femoral was tied successfully for a popliteal aneurism, which appeared four days after the fracture, and in one for a diffuse popliteal aneurism, fatal from gangrene ; and in three cases, only one of Avhich was really diffused, the femoral was successfully ligatured for aneurism of the posterior tibial. 3. Amputation may be performed. This severe measure need not be carried out at once. The Surgeon may wait a day or two and watch the progress of events. If he find that there is no sign of restoration of pulsation in the vessels beyond the injury, that the coldness and numbness of the limb continue to increase, and, in fact, that gangrene is impending, then the sooner he ampu- tates the better for the patient's safety. If the artery have been tied, and gangrene result, the limb ought at once to be removed. To sum up : It would seem from the evidence before us that if one of the larger vessels, such as the femoral, popliteal, axillary, or brachial, be wounded iu a fracture, and a rapidly spreading extravasation form at once, the best chance for the patient lies in following the ordinary treatment of subcutaneous arterial extravasation, and attempting to secure the bleediug vessel at the injured point. In such cases compression is inefficient, and proximal ligature wil probably be followed by gangrene. If the vessel cannot be found owing to the laceration and displacement of the surrounding structures, or if the bones are much comminuted and the soft parts crushed, amputation above the seat of fi-acture is the only resource. If the aneurism develops slowly and tends to assume a circumscribed form, compression or proximal ligature offers a good prospect of success. In w^ounds of the arteries of the leg, if the extra- vasation be not increasing with dangerous rapidity so as to threaten gangrene of the limb, there can be no reason why the effects of pressure upon the femoral artery by means of Carte's or some other appropriate compressor should not be tried before proceeding to more severe measures. If this should fail to cure, and the aneurism should yet show some tendency to become circumscribed with return of pulsation, w^armth and sensibility in the parts beyond, proximal ligature of the femoral artery in Scarpa's triangle offers a good prospect of success ; but should the swelling continue to increase and the foot, remain