SYPHILITIC DISEASE OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 1163 degenerative diseases of the cord, especially sclerosis of the posterior columns (locomotor ataxy), follow syphilis with sufficient frequency to justify the beliet that the disease mav stand in some causal relation to them. Syphilitic disease of the brain declares itself by two chief symptoms, which may occur either separately or conjoined ; viz., paralysis and epileptic convul- sions. Before these definite signs manifest themselves, various premonitory symptoms may have existed. The most common is severe pain m the head usually fixed in one spot, often worse at night ; there may also be some mental disturbance and want of sleep. Paralysis from syphilitic disease of the brain usually assumes the form ot hemiplegia. It may be preceded by paresis of special parts, as of one limb or group of muscles, which may be temporary in its character. The nerves of sensation may also be affected. Special cranial nerves may suffer. The third, fourth, sixth, and seventh are often early attacked, giving rise to ptosis, strabismus, or facial palsy. I have never seen the fifth nerve paralysed in syphilis, but cases have been recorded in which it was affected. Oculo-motor paralysis in some form, on the other hand, is very frequently the result of syphilis, and when it occurs in young men it should, however passing and shght, always attract the most serious attention, as it is often the precursor of more general paralysis. The early affection of the nerves that He in the w^all of the cavernous sinus is probably due rather to syphilitic thickening of the dura mater, with which they are in such close relation, than to an affection of the substance of the brain. If the patient be hemiplegic, he may be completely so, but very often the paralysis is limited to one limb, or may be irregular in its degree in different parts! It is often accompanied by rigidity. These differences are due to the situation of the disease in the brain. Gummata in the dura inater or bone in the region of the cortical motor centres may cause irregular paresis or complete paralysis of the parts corresponding to the affected centre. Syphilitic growths in the deeper parts of the brain may give rise to complete hemiplegia, coining on gradually, and occlusion of a cerebral artery affected with the changes already described as occurring in syphilis may lead to the same symptoms being developed suddenly. Aneurisms of the cerebral arteries, ending in rup- ture with the ordinary signs of apoplexy, may also occur as the consequence of syphilis. Optic neuritis is very common in syphilitic disease of the brain, especially iii cases of very chronic meningitis, or when gummata are present. Epileptic seizures are common in syphilitic affections of the brain. They generally result from chronic thickening of the dura inater, or the develop- ment of gummata in the membranes or substance of the brain in the region of the cortical motor centres. Gowers states that they " differ from the ordinary convulsions of epilepsy, especially when the motor zone of the cortex is diseased, in the deliberate onset of at least some of the attacks ; in consciousness being lost late, and in the patient being aware of the local onset of the convulsions in the face, hand, or foot. In other cases, probably when the sensory rather than the motor region is diseased, a sensory aura, often involving the special senses, may herald the fit." According to Gowers, syphihtic epilepsy is recognized by its appearing usually at an age when the idiopathic disease seldom commences, by the headache between the fits, by the coincidence of optic neuritis, and often of local paralytic symptoms, and by the early and