636 SPECIAL FRACTURES. the fact of the fracture usually beiug oblique ; so that the sharply pointed end of the upper fragment is likely to be thrust through the integument when the lower part of the limb falls backwards as the injured person attempts to rise or is being raised from the ground. The fracture may also, of course, be ren- dered compound by the same direct violence that breaks the bone. The treat- ment must be carried out according to the principles set forth on p. 547 et seq. Haemorrhage from one of the main vessels is a rare complication and must be treated according to the rules laid down on p. 555. Fractures in the Vicinity of the Ankle-Joint are among the most common injuries of the bones of the lower extremity. They are usually occa- sioned by twists of the foot, by slipping ofiP the kerb, by jumping from a height to the ground, or off a carriage in rapid motion. They are usually associated with severe strain, or even dislocation, of the ankle. Twist of the foot in these cases must not be confounded with dislocation of the ankle. In a twist the foot carries with it the lower fragments of the leg-bones, and the malleolar arch in a more or less perfect state. In a dislocation, the foot is thrown out from under this arch. The twist of the foot is almost invariably outwards, with the inner side down- wards and the outer edge turned up, and the sole usually remains in this direction, though not always to the extent that Dupuytren states, and the inner malleolus projects under the skin. Most commonly the toes are turned somewhat outwards, and the heel inwards. Fractures of the lower ends of the tibia and fibula present four distinct varieties in degree :— 1. The fibula may be broken at its weakest point, two or three inches above the malleolus externus, the deltoid ligament being either stretched or torn. 2. The fibula may be fractured about three inches above the ankle, the tip of the malleolus internus being splintered off as well (Figs. 235, 2;-56). This constitutes the form of injury called Pott's Fracture, and is perhaps the most common fracture in this situation. It very frequently becomes compound, the sharp edge of the root of the inner malleolus cutting through the skin as the foot is twisted outwards. 3. The fibula may be fractured about three inches above the ankle, and the lower end of the tibia at the same time may be splintered off' in an oblique direction from without, downwards, and inwards (Fig. 237). 4. The internal malleolus may alone be broken off", the fibula remaining sound, but one of the divisions of the external lateral ligament being torn through. The Signs of these fractures vary somewhat according to the bone that is injured. When the fibula alone is broken, there is but slight displacement of the foot, but there are great pain and much swelling, with perhaps indistinct crepitus, and irregularity of outline, at the seat of fracture. When the lower part of the fibula is broken, pain is produced at the fractured part by squeezing Fig. 235.—Displacement of Bones and Foot in Pott's Fracture. (Richard.)