576 SPECIAL FRACTURES. Fig. ITii.—Haimiiond's Splint for Fi'actni-(Ml Jaw. on fluid nourishment—and talkinji- being prohibited. Ln a simple case in which good position is easily maintained the four-tailed handagc, applied as shown in Fig. 173, often answers admirably. Pick suggests that by carrying the upper ends of the bandage behind the occiput, rather than to the nape of the neck as usually recommended, the ten- dency to displacement of the anterior fragment backwards is avoided. In some cases a gutta- percha splint (Fig. 174), moulded to the pare (Fig. 175) is of service. It should be lined with lint, and applied Avith a four-tailed ban- dage. The teeth in these cases require special attention. Any that are loosened must be left in, as they will soon contract adhesions, and fix themselves firmly; if neces- sary, they may be tied to the sound teeth with silver Avire, or dentist's silk. Care must be taken that any tooth that may have dropped between the fragments be remoA^ed; in one case in Avhich a tooth Avas overlooked in this position, no union of the fracture took place till it had been removed. In any case of fracture of the body of the lower jaAv, in Avhich a sufficient number of firm teeth are present, HammomVs splint (Fig. 17G) gives excellent results, and has largely re- placed other methods. A stout piece of tinned iron wire is made accurately to surround the whole of the teeth of the loAver jaAV, and its ends are soldered together. The Avire may be conveniently moulded to a cast of the teeth, Avhich can easily be prepared with Avax and plaster of Paris. This stout iron wire frame is firmly fixed in position by fine binding wire, Avhich passes separately around individual teeth and binds the splint to them. No support should be taken from the teeth immediately adjoining the fracture, as these are likely to be loosened. When depression, especially near tlie symphysis, is considerable, Lonsdale's clamp apparatus, Avhich fixes the chin and line of teeth, answers the purpose of steadying the fragments extremely Avell. When the fracture is double, one fissure occurring near the symphysis, the other near the angle, there is often P'ig. 17". Vvri. ITS. ThDiiiais's lirst inetluxl of UiiitiiiL; Fracture of tlic Lowttr Jaw. A. B. wires na.sscil tlinmgli (lrill-h()les and coiled by the key, Fig. ITS.