545 GANGRE2(E AFTER FRACTURE. warned. Gangrene of the limb (Fig. IGi!) may occur after simple fracture as tlie result (1) of tight bandaging ; (2) of the swelling of the limb and com- pression of the vessels consequent upon extravasation of blood ; or (8) of in- flammatory infiltration causing strangulation within a bandage that has been at first but lightly applied. Gangrene is almost Invariahly the conse([uence of the pernicious practice of apptijing a bandage directly to the limb under the apparatus. I have never known gangrene to occur after fracture except when this had been done, since it is much more likely to occur in those cases in which the fracture is treated by the unskilful apphcation of an immovable apparatus, whether of starch, plaster of Paris, or other similar material, than when splints arc used. Indeed, if the splints be well padded, and no bandage be put on under them, it is almost impossible that an amount of constriction can be exercised on the limb sufficient to interrupt the circulation through it. I believe that this accident would rarely, if ever, occur, if the Surgeon were to avoid the direct application of a bandage to the limb, however lightly, in fractures, more particularly in children. The danger of strangulation is Fig. 1()G.—Gangrene of Forearm and Hand from Tight Bandaging. especially great if, as happened in the case from which the accompanying cut (Fig. 1(H')) is taken, the hmb be bandaged whilst straight, and then flexed, as the bandage will then cut deeply at the flexure of the joint, and will certainly destroy the vitality of the part, if not of the whole limb. The pressure of an axillary pad, used in many fractures of the upper extremities, may also tend to the supervention of gangrene by interfering with the return of blood through the axillary vein. Hence in these cases the fingers should be examined daily. Even if no direct bandage have been applied, the apparatus should at once be removed, and the limb examined if any appearances of congestion, such as blueness, coldness, oedema, or vesication of the fingers or toes, show them- selves, or even if the patient merely complains of slight uneasiness. If it be left on beyond this, gangrene will probably set in, slow strangulation going on under the bandages without much, if any, pain. Vesications of very large size will often occur, as a consequence of the raising of the cuticle by the transuded serum of extravasated blood. It is only when associated with cold- ness of the limb, a dusky purple hue, and a putrescent odour, that they are indicative of gangrene. An excellent plan of judging of the activity of the cir- culation in a fractured limb, after it has been put up, is to leave the ends of the fingers or toes uncovered by the bandage ; when, by pressing upon one of the nails, the freedom of the circulation may be ascertained by noting the rapidity