468 TRA UMATIC ANEURISM. possessing- a distinct sao. There are two rarieties of this form of aneurism :— 1. In tlie first, as the result of a punctured wound or subcutaneous rupture of the vessel, as from a strain, blood is extravasated into the tissues surround- ing the artery. So far, the condition is merely one of diflTnsed subcutaneous hsemorrhage as above described, and in order that a circumscribed aneurism may form, it is necessary that the further diffusion of the extravasated blood should be in some way limited. . This may occur in sevei'al ways : first, if the patient faint, the opening in the vessel may be temporarily plugged by a clot of blood, perhaps filling the sheath on each side of the wound : secondly, if the wounded vessel be small and the surrounding structures dense, as in the case of a wounded digital or plantar artery ; thirdly, in larger arteries, if the wound be small and the artery enclosed in a sheath of fascia, as the femoral in Hunter's canal ; lastly, the further diffusion may be temporarily arrested by the application of a pad and bandage by the Surgeon. By any of these means, the extravasation may be for a time arrested while the blood coagulates firmly in the meshes of the surrounding areolar tissue, thus presenting a barrier to further diffusion, when the conditions which have temporarily Hraited or arrested the escape of blood from the wounded artery are removed. The tension and pressure caused by the extravasated blood give rise within a few hours to some inflammation of the surrounding parts, and the barrier pre- venting diffusion is then strengthened by the matting together of the surrounding fasciae, muscles and other structures by inflammatory exudation. In a few days this may be followed by the formation of new connective tissue, as in the process of formation of a scar. Thus a more or less definite sac is formed, composed of the surrounding structures firmly matted together by new fibrous tissue, lined internally by layers of clot, which soon assume the laminated form met with in spontaneous aneurisms. The central cavity contains fluid blood, and is in free communication with the lumen of the artery. The tissue forming the sac, although sufficiently firm to prevent diffusion of the blood, is not strong enough to resist the distending force of the heart; it consequently slowly yields, and the tumour increases in size. The yielding of the sac is not a process of simple stretching, for it does not become proportionately thinner as it increases in size ; it is accompanied by a constant growth of new fibrous tissue. As the aneurism increases, however, and produces more and more irritation by its pressure, and consequent inflam- mation of the surrounding parts, the growth of the fibrous tissue is less perfect, and finally becoming too soft to withstand the pressure of the blood, the sac may rupture and the aneurism become dilFused, but many weeks or even months may elapse before this occurs. The symptoms of this form of aneurism are at first in most cases those of subcutaneous arterial haemorrhage, severe throbbing pain accompanied by the rapid formation of a swelling in the line of an artery following a wound or strain. In punctured wounds, there may have been free arterial bleeding at the time of the injury. The swelling may or may not pulsate at first. The rapid extension soon ceases from one of the causes above mentioned, and is followed by some consolidation of the tumour as the extravasated blood coagulates. As the clot yields and the tumour increases in size, the rapidity of growth varies with the size of the artery and the resisting power of the wall and the clot. It now most commonly pulsates with the characteristic expan-