1037 VARIETIES OF SARCOMA. they may slough and ulcerate, forming foul cavities, sometimes of great size ; but more commonly, when relieved from the pressure of the skin, they form large fungating protrusions, often bleeding profusely, the so-called "fungus hcematodes" Cysts are of frequent occurrence in some forms of these tumours. On scraping after a section has been made, sarcomata do not yield a milky juice when fresh, but after about twenty-four hours it can often be obtained. Some sarcomata are distinctly circumscribed and enclosed in a fibrous capsule; others infiltrate surrounding parts like the carcinomata. Sarcomata are most frequent in youth and middle hfe, but may occur at any age. As a rule, it may be said that sarcomata infect the system through the medium of the blood-vessels, while carcinoma is disseminated chiefly by the lymphatic system. This rule has many exceptions, yet nothing is more common than to see secondary growths of sarcoma in the lungs, liver, and other organs, without the lymphatic glands having ever been alfected. The reverse is the rule in carcinoma. It may also be broadly stated that, the more closely a sarcoma approaches to fully developed connective tissue in its structure, the less likely it is to prove malignant; but this rule is not free from exceptions. Sarcomata vary greatly in their rate of growth, some proving fatal in less than a year, others lasting many years without attaining any considerable size. Sarcoma tissue sometimes occurs mixed with other kinds of growth. Yarieties of Sarcoma.—Small-BiOuud-celled Sarcoma. Granulation Sarcoma. Encephaloid Sarcoma.—These tumours were formerly included among soft or encephaloid cancers. They resemble in structure the superficial layers of granulations, being composed of small round cells about the size of a white blood-corpuscle, or a little larger, each containing a round or oval nucleus, and imbedded in a homogeneous intercellular substance (Fig. 376). Sometimes the intercellular substance is scarcely perceptible, sometimes it is more abundant, as shown in the accompanying figure. It may be more or less distinctly fibrillated. These tumours are soft, sometimes even pulpy, and grey or whitish in colour. They usually infiltrate surrounding parts. They are excessively vascular, and often present scattered patches of haemorrhage or cysts resulting from extravasation of blood. They may pulsate forcibly, and have more than once been mistaken for aneurisms. They yield no milky juice when quite fresh, but when decomposition sets in, it can easily be obtained by pressure or scraping. Their chief seats are the skin, bones, subcutaneous areolar tissue, muscles, and occasionally glands. The diagnosis cannot be accurately made till after removal. They show a malignancy equal to that of the worst carcinomata. Their growth is rapid, and they early give rise to secondary deposits, especially in the lungs, and the lymphatic glands are frequently affected. One form of small-round-celled sarcoma has been described by Virchow under the name of Glioma, from its resemblance in structure to the neuroglia or connective tissue of the brain and spinal cord, ft'om which it always sprino-s It is composed of an excessively delicate areolar stroma, having round cells imbedded in its meshes. Ziegler states that the apparent areolar stroma is in fact composed of numerous branching processes going off in all directions from the cells. These tumours vary much in consistence, being sometimes soft and sometimes quite firm. They are never circumscribed, always invadino- the surrounding parts. They occur in connection with the nerves or nervou's centres. The tumour formerly known as soft cancer of the eyeball is in fact