INJURIES OF THE SPINE. 8io the feet from the ground. Extension under these circumstances, however, cannot be devoid of danger, and the better plan would be to apply the apparatus in the way recommended by Walker of Peterborough. He first puts on the patient a flannel vest without sleeves, or if there is any difficulty in doing this, a piece of soft flannel wide enough to reach from the axilla to the hip may be passed under the back, and carefully sewn down the front, so as to leave no creases. A number of strips of muslin bandage, cut of the proper length to encircle the body, and to overlap for a few inches, are then prepared. These are dipped in a mixture of plaster of Paris, 1 lb., water, ^viij, with 5] of mucilage of gum acacia added, to delay the setting. They are then quickly spread on a bed covered with a mackintosh sheet, each overlapping that above for two-thirds of its width. Thev must be thus arranged till a suflicient width is reached to extend from the patient's axilla to midway between the crest of the ilium and the trochanter ; and a sufficient number of strips should be used to make the whole about six layers thick. The patient is then carefully lifted and laid on the bandages, which are folded over and rubbed smooth, as in an ordinary plaster of Paris bandage. A pad should be put over the epigastrium, which can be withdrawn when the splint is firm. In the cases treated by Konig, and in Hill's case, the results were most satis- factory. Two cases have, however, been recorded in which the patient could not bear the bandage, but no harm was done by the attempt to use it. Another plan of treatment, originally recommended by Wormald, is to raise the patient carefully up, and place beneath him a large sheet of softened gutta-percha, and so to mould a splint to the back. In cases in ivhich the cord is injured, attempts at the reduction of the fractured and displaced spine must not be lightly undertaken. It may prove unsuccessful, greatly increase the sufferings of the patient, or hasten his death. In cases of injury to the lower cervical vertebrse, it would rarely, if ever, be proper to make such attempts. In the upper and middle dorsal they would not be likely to succeed, owing to the want of mobility of this part of the column. In the lower dorsal and lumbar regions they would be less dangerous, and more likely to prove advantageous. All our efforts must be directed to prolonging life, if the fracture be in such a situation (at any point below the upper dorsal vertebrae) as to hold out a prospect of continuance of life for a few weeks or months. Means must be taken to prevent the occurrence of sloughing of the nates, an accident that is commonly fatal. The patient should be laid on a water-bed, cushion, or mattress, and must be kept scrupulously clean. If possible, a mattress should be obtained, with a segment that will pull out to admit the bed-pan, or some such arrangement to avoid disturbance of the spine. Every precaution should be taken to prevent the supervention of cystitis. For this purpose the urine must be drawn off" with a catheter, regularly, at least twice in the day. The catheter should, before being used, be dipped in a vessel containing a 1 in 20 solution of carbolic acid and lubricated with carbolic oil (1 in 10). If, in spite of these precautions, ammoniacal decomposition of the urine should take place, the bladder must be washed out with an antiseptic solution every time the water is drawn off. Solution of permanganate of potash, or three grains of quinine, with three minims of dilute sulphuric acid to the ounce of water, will be found the most efficient preparations. (See Cystitis.) If, as usually happens after a time, the bowels become confined, relief must be afforded by