SPECIAL FRACTURES. 6i6 Pathology.—The deformity accompanying this injury has been shown by Bigelow to be due in great measure to the anatomical structure of the femur. If a series of horizontal sections be made of the neck of the bone, " it will be found that at the upper part the anterior and posterior walls are of nearl}' equal thickness, but that, as we approach the lower surface, the anterior wall becomes of great thickness and strength, while the posterior wall remains thin, especially at its insertion beneath the posterior intertrochanteric ridge, where it is of the thinness of paper." The result of this is that, when severe direct violence is applied to the trochanter, the posterior wall yields, crushes up, and becomes impacted, while the anterior " serves as a sort of hinge upon which the shaft rotates to allow the posterior impaction." This causes the rotation outwards. The shortening Bigelow explains by obliquity of the neck of the i'emur, which causes the limb to be shortened in proportion to the rotation. That this is the true explanation of the deibrmity in all the slighter cases of this injury is highly probable. In the more severe crushes of the trochanter. the anterior wall of the neck as well as the posterior may be driven amongst the splintered fragments. The Treatment of the extracapsular fracture may very conveniently and efficiently be conducted by means of the long splint, a padded belt, if necessary, being strapped firmly round the hips underneath it ; or the plan recommended by Astley Cooper, of placing the patient on a double inclined plane, with both ieet and ankles tied together, and a broad belt, well padded, firmly strapped round the body, so as to press the fragments of the trochanter firmly against one another, will be found an excellent mode of keeping the limb of a proper length, and the fragments in contact. In many cases a Thomas's hip-splint, applied as soon as the swelling has subsided, will be found a most efficient and comfortable apparatus. In impacted extracapsular fracture nothing can be done to diminish the deformity. Solid bony union always takes place, even in aged subjects. The patient remains throughout life more or less crippled, chiefly by the eversion, the amount of shortening being of little consequence. In these cases a Thomas's hip-splint may be used from the first; or after three weeks' rest in bed a leather splint may be applied, and the patient allowed to move about on crutches. Fig. 218.—Union in Impacted Extra- capsular Fracture of Neck of Femur. Fig. 214.—Impacted Extracapsular Fracture of Nock of Femur : Abundant Formation of Callus.