TUMOUm. ioo8 change show great local malignancy, rapidly infiltrating and destroying the surrounding parts, but as a rule the lymphatic glands are not implicated. I have seen a case in which the skin was destroyed from a little below the vertex to the root of the neck, and from ear to ear transversely. The surface was covered with fungating granulations, but there was no implication of the glands. Liicke states that in such cases a genuine transformation of the atheromatous cyst into a squamous carcinoma has taken place, the epithelium penetrating the cyst-wall and growing in the tissues beyond. It most commonly occurs after middle life. Diagnosis. The only diseases with which these tumours can be confounded are abscesses and fatty growths. From an abscess a sebaceous cyst may be distinguished by its history, slow growth, situation, elasticity, and mobility, and if there should be present the dilated orifice of the sebaceous duct, through Fig. 352.—Horn on Nose of a Child. Fig. 353.—Ulcerated Cystic Tumour of Scalp. which some of the contents can be squeezed, the microscopical examina- tion of these will serve to confirm the diagnosis. From fatty tumours these growths may be diagnosed by their firmer and more regular feel ; and in case of doubt, by the evacuation and examination of their contents. Some- times the cysts may be lobulated so as closely to resemble a fatty tumour (Fig. 354). But even in these cases they may be distinguished by the Surgeon pressing on the edge of the tumour ; if cystic it will remain fixed, and the finger can be pressed through it ; if a lipoma it will roll away. When this cyst has become cancerous, its origin can be ascertained only from the history. The Treatment of a tumour of this kind consists simply in its removal, after which it is never reproduced, unless a small portion of the cyst-wall has been left behind. So long as these tumours are small, and do not give rise to inconvenience, they may be left without surgical interference. But when large, and more particularly when they have become inflamed, they should be removed. The method of operation will vary according to the situation of the cyst and the thickness of its wall. When situated on the scalp, where the cyst is dense and tough, the tumour may very readily be removed by transfixing it and the skin covering it with a scalpel, squeezing out the contents, and then seizing the cyst-wall with forceps and pulling it out. In this little operation