PY^IIA: DIAGNOSIS AND TREATMENT. 9^1 these less active and acute forms of pyaemia, the joints are specially liable to implication, more particularly the knee, and elbow. Destructive ^W^at on may be set up in the joint, and loss or permanent impairment of utility ot cne limb will be the inevitable result. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of pyaemia requires to be made :—l, irom orui- nary Surgical Fever, the Inflammatory Fever which accompanies wounds ana Injuries, and Typhoid Fever ; 2, from Ague ; 3, from Rheumatism ; 4, from Septicaemia. , 1. The Diagnosis from ordinary Surgical Inflammatory Fever ana Typhoid Fever is usually sufficiently easy, the course of these fevers being unbroken by severe rigors, by sudden fluctuations of temperature, or by sweats. All ordinary fever may be ushered in by a rigor ; but this is seldom so intense as that which marks pyemia, and certainly does not recur during the attack Tlie temperature also in ordinary fevers is more uniform. It is not marked by those sudden exacerbations, followed by eqnally rapid declines, that are so characteristic of pyaemia. 2. From Ague the diagnosis would not be easy in the earlier stages, it the patient had been exposed to malarial influences, and was at the same time suft'ering from surgical fever resulting from a wound, as then the characteristic feature "of intermittent fever, the prolonged period of normal temperature between the rigors, will be wanting. Thus in a person injured whilst living in a swampy country, there may be much doubt as to the nature of the attack ; but in large towns, the general absence of ague and the obvious surgical cause of the pyaemia will render the diagnosis more easy. In the later stages, the signs of articular inflammation and suppuration, the secondary visceral and areolar abscesses, will all tend to clear up the diagnosis. In any doubtful case a chart should be made of the temperature, when the regular periodicity of the attacks in ague will be very apparent if that disease is present. 3. From Rheumatism it is easy to make the diagnosis of pyemia, provided the recurrent rigor and other early symptoms have been well marked. But if these have been somewhat obscure, and if the secondary articular implication be early developed, there may be some difficulty in determining the nature of the disease. But, independently of the recurrent rigor, the great prostration, the early supervention of atonic symptoms, and the local centres of suppura- tion, will establish the true nature of the disease. Moreover, the temperature of rheumatic fever does not show the extraordinary variations seen in pyaemia ; and the sweating in rheumatism is continuous, and not merely the sequence of a rigor. In pygemia the tongue is usually dry, and perhaps brown, and never presents the creamy white fur characteristic of rheumatism. The smell of the patient is sweet or "saccharine " in pyasmia, while in rheumatism it is sour, and quite distinctive. 4. From Septic Poisoning and Septic Infection it is not always possible to make the diagnosis. In fact, as before stated, pyaemia is in the majority of cases more or less complicated by septic poisoning. In septic infection the acute symptoms, the single rigor, the marked signs of blood change, such as the icteric tint, the dyspnoea, and the early insensibility together with the absence of secondary inflammations, may serve to determine the nature of the case ; but in many cases the diagnosis is almost impossible during life. Treatment.—The Preventive Treatment is Local and General. The Local Preventive Treatment consists in preventing the accumula-