COMFOUND FRACTURE INTO ANKLE-JOINT. 639 taken place, the ankle remaining rigid, weak, and nseless for a long time. When this fracture occurs in advanced life the mobility of the ankle-joint is rarely, if ever, regained, and lameness is the almost inevitable result, due partly to adhesions in the sheaths of the tendons, partly to some slight dis- placement of the articular surfaces. In such cases wrenching, followed by passive motion, douches and frictions may do much to restore mobility. Dupuytren's Fracture owes its name to the Surgeon who first described it in 181 (!. The injury resembles Pott's fracture in its mode of ])roduction, being caused by forcible eversion of the foot. It differs, however, in the fact that wide separation of the tibia and fibula occurs as the result of rupture of the inferior tibio-fibular ligaments, or separation of that part of the lower end of the tibia to which they are attached. The fibula being fractured about three inches from its lower end, the lower fragment with the foot is forcibly driven outwards, so that the articular surface of the astragalus is completely displaced upwards and outwards from the surface of the tibia. This variety of fracture is extremely rare, and Dupuytren described only two examples. In a specimen in the London Hospital Museum the fracture was compound and due to the fall of a heavy weight on the foot. The Treatment must be carried out on the same lines as that of Pott's fracture. Fracture of the Internal and External Malleolus occasionally takes place, with great displacement of the foot backwards. It most frequently occurs from catching the heel in running down stairs. The displacement backwards is sometimes not very evident, as the malleoli having gone back with the bones of the tarsus, the appearances are very deceptive, and the patient may thus be left with the toes pointed down and an almost useless foot. It is a good rule in every case of fracture near the ankle to look specially for displacement backwards, even if there appear at first sight to be none, as it is not uncommonly overlooked. Treatment.—This displacement may be treated by the application of the jointed splint above mentioned (Fig. 238). Syme's anterior splint may be used. This is a straight splint, long enough to reach from the head of the tibia to below the foot; its lower extremity is cut out into a deep horseshoe- shaped notch, wide enough to take the instep between the two prongs. It must be padded with a double pad, made of two rolls of cotton-wool in calico ; these must lie one on each side of the spine of the tibia to protect it from l)ressure. The splint is then firmly bandaged to the anterior aspect of the leg, and the foot is drawn forward by bandages passing round the prongs and under the heel, the heel being protected by a thick soft pad. Compound Fracture into the Ankle-joint is necessarily a dangerous accident. In this injury, the edge of the fractured bone cuts through the integument by apparently a clean and simple wound, but the subjacent areolar tissue is often widely torn, and the deep-seated mischief may be far more extensive than the Surgeon would be led to expect from the external ap- pearances. When the wound is made by the sharp edge of the root of the malleolus, as soon as the foot is replaced and the tension on the skin caused by the eversion is relaxed, the opening no longer cori'esponds to the seat of fracture, and consequently, if decomposition of the discharges takes place and the joint becomes filled with septic matter, there is no efficient means of drainage, and suppuration, with great tension and deep burrowino-