iiyo VENEREAL DISEASES, decalcified ; the lamella seem to melt away, and large spaces appear between them, filled with a gelatinous substance, like the altered medullary tissue. The second variety he terms chondro-calcareous atrophy. The most marked feature of this form is that the layer of calcified cartilage which naturally exists in the growing line between the shaft and the epiphysis assumes an abnormal thickness and loses all regularity in its outline. The calcified cartilage can be recognized by its density, brittleness, and chalky appearance. The formation of this brittle tissue renders the bone liable to fracture, and when the two forms of atrophy occur simultaneously this result is almost certain to take place. The fracture occurs always in close proximity to the epiphysis, and the accident is not unfrequently followed by suppuration, and from the close proximity to the joint suppurative arthritis may be set up. These fractures give rise to symptoms closely resembling paralysis of the affected limb, and Parrot has applied to the condition the name of syphilitic pseudo-paralysis. The limb hangs powerless, and, as a rule, there is singularly little pain, but the muscles respond readily to the faradic current. The looseness of the epiphysis can sometimes be readily recognized, and some fine grating crepitus may be present. The second form of disease of the bones in hereditary syphilis, to which Parrot applies the term osteophytic, is much more common. This also he divides into two varieties, accord- ing to the density of the new tissue. When this is hard and bony he terms it osteoid; when soft, filro-spongioid or rachitic. The osteoid form of growth may be met with at any period of childhood, and possibly may commence before birth ; the rachitic is never met with before the fifth or sixth month. The osteoid growth is composed of trabeculse, arranged more or less perpendicularly to the surface of the bone, separated from each other by medullary tissue ; the new tissue contains large quantities of lime salts. It differs from normal bone in its brittleness and in its yellow or pink colour. In the rachitic form the new tissue is almost white, pearly, or yellowish in colour. It is fibroid in structure and very vascular. Various modifications between these two forms of tissue may be met with. Thus the osteoid tissue maybe arranged in several layers, or spongy tissue may be found covering the harder tissue. The periosteum coveiing the new growth* is always distinctly thickened, and adheres firmly to it. There is almost always a distinct line of demarcation between the new tissue and the healthy bone beneath. The thickness of the growth varies from one-tenth to three-eighths of an inch on the long bones, but it may exceed this on those of the skull. In extreme cases almost the whole skeleton may be affected, but more commonly the diseased condition is met with only in certain parts. The most common situations are the lower end of the humerus, the tibia, the femur, and the ulna, where, unless the child be very fat, it can often be recognized during life. In the rachitic form the long bones may undergo modifications in form from bending or fracture, as in rickets. The bones of the Skull present changes of a very marked character. These most commonly consist of the formation of " bosses " of new bone, from the Fig. 412.—A tibia from a syphi- litic child show- ing osteophytic ■growths.