EFFECTS OF LWATURE. 435 outer one. The divided coats are separated for a short distance from the external coat and turned upwards and downwards into the himen of tlie vessel. The first change that takes place after the application of the ligature is the Formation of the Internal Coagulum. For the first few hours there is little if any appearance of this ; but, within about twenty-four or thirty-six hours after the application of the ligature, a coagulum will usually be found extending some distance from the ligature and adherent by its base to the injured part of the vessel. The part in inmiediate contact with the divided inner and middle coats will by this time be found to be of a yellowish or buff' colour, owing to its being infiltrated or replaced by the inflammatory exudation which has been poured out in the bottom of the cul-de-sac formed by the turn- Fig. 13»).—Iiiunediate effects of the Application of a Ligature. Fig. 137.—Femoral Artery, lifty-six hour.s after Aiia- putatioii. ing inwards of the divided coats. About the third day the clot (Figs. 137 and 188) will be found to be conical in form, firmer in structure, and more adherent to the inner coat of the artery, and by this time it extends most frequently as far as the nearest branch given off from the vessel above the ligature (Fig. 139). Its base is more distinctly decolorised, the remainder being of a dark purple or maroon colour. Its apex lies loose and floating in the artery. The further changes that occur within the artery are the same as those already described as taking place in the permanent closure of a divided vessel (p. 415). In some cases, there is an imperfect formation of the internal coagulum, or even a total absence of it should a branch arise immediately above the li'o-a- ture. In other cases, the insufficient formation of the coagulum is apparently due to the constitutional condition of the patient. Sometimes the clot seems to undergo a kind of disintegration or liquefaction after it has been formed (Fig. 140). This I have seen happen in a case of ligature of the carotid artery, in which death occurred from visceral disease ten weeks after the operation • and in the femoral, in cases of pytemia. When an artery is ligatured in its continuity the coagulum formed in the distal cul-de-sac is seldom so abundant as that on the proximal side of the ligature. In other respects the internal changes that occur are identical on the two sides of the hgature. F F 2