302 CONSTITUTIONAL EFFECTS OF INJURY. of great mental fortitude, or whose minds are actively engaged at the moment of the receipt of an injury. The condition of shock may gradually increase, the pulse becoming more feeble, the respiration more shallow, and the consciousness more impaired, till death takes place. Fortunately, however, this termination is comparatively infrequent, and occurs only in the most severe injuries. As a rule, after a longer or shorter period, varying according to the severity and seat of the injury and the nervous susceptibility of the patient, the symptoms abate and reaction sets in. The surface becomes warmer, the pulse more forcible, the respiration fuller, consciousness becomes more perfect, and colour returns to the face. Vomiting is not an uncommon symptom during the early periods of reaction, and is probably due to some degree of hyperaemia of the brain following the cerebral anaemia which forms a prominent feature of extreme shock. It is not uncommon to find the temperature very slightly elevated during the period of reaction. The recovery from shock is usually complete. In cases, however, in which it has arisen from violent concussion of the whole system, as in a railway accident, various secondary phenomena may present themselves. These are probably due to actual lesion of the nervous centres, and are fully described in the chapter on Injuries of the Spine. Pathology of Shock.—There are no characteristic post-mortem appear- ances. The heart, rarely contracted, is more often found full of blood, especially the right side, and the whole venous system is somewhat gorged, unless the patient has lost much blood from the accident. The blood was said by Hunter to remain fluid in some cases, but this is certainly very rare. Kigor mortis is usually well marked. The lungs are engorged, the abdominal viscera congested, but the brain is pale and anaemic. It is evident that the symptoms above described are more than can be accounted for by any simple theory of cardiac inhibition. The most probable explanation of shock is that it is due to a general exhaustion of the nervous centres consequent upon an extremely violent afferent impulse. In cases of injury this impulse is partly physical, due to the division or crushing of the nerves of the injured part, and partly mental, arising from the fear and sense of suffering caused by the accident. In operations performed under the influence of an auEesthetic, the latter cause would be absent ; but as the conductivity of the nerves and the functional activity of the medulla and o-reat centres at the base of the brain are unimpaired during anesthesia, shock is not avoided, though it is certainly diminished in intensity. The exhaustion of the nervous centres in shock is shown by the general state of muscular relaxation, the loss of tone throughout the vascular system, the feeble action of the heart, and the state of semi-unconsciousness into which the patient is thrown. The general relaxation of the vessels throughout the body, thus occurring simultaneously with an extremely feeble action of the heart, leads to an accumulation of blood, with partial stagnation in those parts of the vascular system which are most dilatable. This is especially marked in the veins of the abdominal cavity. The lungs are also frequently gorged with blood. The abstraction of so large a portion of the blood from the circulation causes ansemia of other parts, and it is thus that the pallor of the skin and the anaemia of the brain may be explained. It has been assumed that the vaso-motor paralysis is most marked in, or even limited to, the parts supplied J