TREATMENT OF MENINGEAL HEMORRHAGE. 769 the tip of the small wing : here it takes a sharp curve backwards, and often enters a canal in the bone ; from this point it is directed backwards and upwards in the groove which crosses the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone (Fig. 308). Its course may be found externally by the following rule :— Draw a straight line (a, b) backwards from the external angular process of the frontal bone ; take a point (c) at any distance between one inch and two and a half inches from the angular process in this line and draw a vertical line (d, e) through it from the zygoma ; measure a corresponding distance up this line, and the point so found (m) will be over the artery. If the distance taken be under one inch and a half, the artery will very frequently be found in a canal in the bone ; beyond this it is usually in a groove. Accuracy is of importance only when a fissured fracture is found, as the centre of the crown of the trephine should, if possible, be at the point at which the fissure crosses the line of the artery. In other cases a very sufficient and practical guide is to put the pin of the trephine two and a half inches vertically above the con- dyle of the lower jaw. The bone should be exposed by a semicircular incision around the spot to which the trephine is to be applied. This incision divides the scalp and the temporal aponeurosis and muscle. A large branch of the superficial and one or both deep temporal arteries will require ligature. The flap, together with the periosteum, is turned downwards from the bone with an elevator and the crown of a large trephine applied, with the pin of the instrument over the spot where the vessel is supposed to lie. If the diagnosis have been correct as soon as the circle of bone is removed a dark solid clot pushes its way up into the opening. As a rule, however, it is too solid to come out without the use of a scoop, and for this purpose a small hthotomy scoop may be used ihe burgeon, having now trephined and removed the blood-clot, is confronted with what IS truly the greatest difficulty of the case. The artery in the majority of cases follows the dura mater, for it is only if it be in a canal in the bone that it i^mains superficial. If the brain expands as soon as the pressure is removed, the injured artery may come into view ; if not all that is VOL. I. ' 3 D