974 SEPTIC/EMIA AND PYjEMIA. Although at present, therefore, we are unable always to separate septic poisoning and septic infection in actual practice, it is to be hoped that further observation will enable us to do so, for the importance of the distinction is very great. Septic poisoning is not infectious, and can be relieved by removing the local source of the septic poison ; septic infection, on the other hand, is supposed to be intensely contagious, and may be readily com- municated from one patient to another, and as it is a general or blood-disease no relief can be hoped for from treatment applied to the local source of infection. Symptoms of Septic Infection.—The disease is usually ushered in by a distinct rigor, often severe, and sometimes repeated more than once. The temperature rapidly rises, reaching 104° F. or 105° F., or even a higher point during the rigor. The subsequent symptoms closely resemble those already described as occurring during septic poisoning. There is delirium, ending in insensibility, and even in profound coma. The pulse is extremely rapid and quickly becomes feeble. The tongue soon becomes dry and brown, and the lips and teeth are covered with sordes. Diarrhoea or vomiting may occur. The skin assumes a yellowish tint, and purpuric spots may appear in it. The temperature may fall and become subnormal before death, or may remain high to the end. Dyspnoea is often a marked symptom before death. In very acute cases death takes place on the second or third day after the commencement of the disease, but life may be prolonged even for a week. The post-mortem appearances are the same as in septic poisoning- visceral congestion, subserous petechise, early and intense post-mortem staining, and usually a swollen and softened spleen. In some cases there is pneumonic consolidation of the lung, and there may be pleurisy with blood-stained effusion. It is probable that different forms of micro-organisms may by infecting the blood cause the symptoms of true septicemia in man. It is known that the pyogenic organisms may under certain circumstances be present in the iDody without causing suppuration. According to Von Eiselsberg, quoted by Watson Cheyne, staphylococci or streptococci were found in almost all the cases of septic fever which he examined ; whilst Monod and Macaigne have recorded five cases of septicemia in which streptococci were present in the blood. Diagnosis.—In the present state of our knowledge it is frequently impos- sible to distinguish septic infection from septic poisoning except in the definite absence of the cause of the latter condition, as in some poisoned wounds. Septic infection is also identical in its symptoms and post-mortem appearances with the malignant forms of the acute specific fevers in which the patient dies before the characteristic eruption appears, and unless the source of infection is evident the diagnosis may be very doubtful. Prognosis.—The uncertainty of the diagnosis necessarily interferes with an accurate prognosis ; but when the evidence is strong that the affection is a genuine infective process the case is almost hopeless. Treatment.—If the case is complicated by a septic wound, means must be taken to remove the septic matter and clean out the cavity with some strong antiseptic solution, as of chloride of zinc (40 gr. to or carbolic acid (1 in 20), or perchloride of mercury (1 in 500). The patient's strength must be supported by fluid nourishment, and stimulants and quinine may be given in large doses.