t66 local disturbances AND INFLAMMATION. microscope shows that this forms an essential part of acute inflammation. Consequently Lister's theory did not meet with the acceptance it deserved ; aud until the migration of the white corpuscles was finally established by Cohnheim in ISGT, the process of inflammation, according to the Cellular Pathology of Yirchow, was regarded as essentially one of increased nutritive and foriuative activity of the inflamed tissues. All the new cells were supposed to be formed Ijy the rapid proliferation of the original elements of the aflected tissues. The discovery of the migration of the white corpuscles, however, fully accounted for the appearance of the new cells in the inflamed area, without necessitating the improbable assumption, that injury to living tissues imme- diately increases their vital activity. The changes which occur in the tissues as the result of inflammation have been observed both in vascular and non-vascular structures, during life and in preparations made after death. Amongst non-vascular structures the cornea may be taken as the type, and has most frequently been made the subject of investigation. The cornea is composed of a peculiar form of fibrous tissue arranged in strata, between which lie spaces of an irregular stellate form con- taining corpuscles corresponding with them in shape but not accurately filling them, thus leaving room for the passage of blood plasma and, under certain conditions, of white corpuscles. When the cornea of any animal is irritated by passino- a fine silk thread through it, there forms, before many hours are past, an opaque spot extending for a short distance round the part mjured. At the 'same time the vessels of the conjunctiva and of the sclerotic become eno-orged with blood. If the cornea be cut out and examined about sixteen to twenty-four hours after the injury, in the inflamed area, instead of the single stellate corpuscle naturally seen in each space, there will be found a group of rounded cells having all the appearances of white corpuscles. At one time it was thought that these were produced by proliferation of the corneal corpuscles. It has since been shown clearly that the appearance is really due to an accumu- lation of migrating cells in the space in which the corneal corpuscle lies, so as more or less completely to obscure the original cell. Whenever the original cell can be recognised, it shows no change. The behaviour of the corneal cor- puscles under the influence of irritants was made the subject of a careful fnvestio-ation by Senftleben. He applied to an extremely limited area m the centre of the cornea a solution of chloride of zinc of sufficient strength to kill the corpuscles with which it came directly in contact, without apparently damao-ino- the fibrous tissue and especially the anterior homogeneous lamina. This was' not followed by any dilatation of the peri-corneal vessels, and no cloudiness appeared round the injured area. The microscope showed no alteration in the uninjured corpuscles surrounding the damaged area and no mio-ration of leucocytes into it. The explanation of this is that from the veiT small amount of the caustic applied, if any found its way by the lymph channels to the neighbourhood of the peri-corneal vessels, it arrived there so o-reatly diluted as not to produce any injurious eff"ect on them, and thus no dilatation or migration took place. If the anterior homogeneous lamma was accidentally destroyed, the damaged tissue beneath, being exposed to the air, became septic, and the products of the septic change reaching the peri-corneal vessels damaged them, causing dilatation and migration into the cornea. The same effect could be produced by using a larger amount of the caustic or by applyino- it too near the corneal margin. Senftleben showed, therefore, that