CHEMICAL ANTISEPTICS: MERCURY. 209 made containing 1 part of perchloride of mercury, 450 of water, and 50 of glycerine. The wool or gauze is soaked in this for a few minutes, and then squeezed as dry as possible in a wringing-machine. It is next hung up to dry as far as the glycerine will permit, and is then ready for use. Jute, sphagnum moss, peat, sawdust, ashes, sand, and a variety of other absorbent substances may be prepared by being soaked in a 1 in 500 solution and dried. Small pads or cushions may be prepared by filhng bags made of the gauze with any of the above materials. When applied as dressings, they are secured by bandages prepared in the same way. Bruns introduced a material made by grinding pine-wood, and known as " wood-wool," which from its softness, elasticity, and power of absorption makes an excellent dressing when prepared as above described. Corrosive sublimate has proved a most efficient, useful, and economical antiseptic, but like all others it has its drawbacks. Amongst its advantages, especially in military practice, must be included the concentrated form in which it can be carried, and the ease with which almost any absorbent sub- stance can be impregnated with it without the employment of any special apparatus. Like all other powerful antiseptics, however, it is irritating and poisonous, and as it possesses these properties in a higher degree than most others, a corresponding degree of caution is necessary in the preparation of the solutions and dressings and in their use. The maximum medicinal dose of the perchloride is contained in about 4i drachms of the 1 in 1000 solution, and it is evident, therefore, that in using such a preparation in a large hollow wound, a serous cavity, or a mucous canal, care must be taken that a poisonous dose be not left behind. Should such an accident happen, or should^ the patient' be peculiarly susceptible to mercury, he is seized with pams in the belly, and diarrhoea with tenesmus and bloody motions. This may be followed by collapse and death, or the fatal result may be occasioned by exhaustion from constant diarrhoea. The colon and rectum, and some- times the small intestine, in such cases are found to be acutelv inflamed and superficially ulcerated. Salivation has rarely been observed. The number of cases on record in which fatal poisoning has followed the use of perchloride of mercury as an antiseptic is very considerable if those occuri-ing in obstetric practice are included. In any case in which there is evident danger of such an accident, the strength of the solution should on no account exceed 1 m 2000. Local irritation from sublimate dressings rarely occurs if the proportion of mercury is not too great. When it does happen, there may be redness and vesication or a superficial inflammation resembhng eczema. Sal Alembroth, a double chloride of mercury and ammonium, has been suggested by Lister as a substitute for the pure perchloride in preparino- dressings. Its advantages are, that it is less irritating, and less prone to form au inert compound with albumen. Gauze impregnated with 1 per cent and \vool with 2 per cent., are the preparations that have been used. The only disadvantage which sal alembroth presents is its extreme solubility It is very readily washed out of the dressing by an abundant discharge. The .auze arid wool as sold are stained with an aniline blue to distinguish them .nn 1 f ^ Mercury and Zinc.-A combination of these cyanides of son en-hat uncertain composition has been introduced as an antiseptic by J^ister, and is now extensively used. It is insoluble in water, . but VOL. I.