VARIETIES OF CHRONIC ABSCESS. 255 fluid they contain is usuallj^ thin, flaky and curdy, though in some cases the pus is healthy in appearance. Sometimes they contain masses of a soft yellowish substance, apparently formed of coag-ulated fibrin entangling- the fatty remains of degenerated cells, but more commonly the shreds and flakes are of small size. No micrococci or bacteria are found in the pus of a chronic abscess of this kind, nor can tubercle bacilli be recognised as a rule by micro- scopic examination. This is probably due to the fact that the bacilli in the contents of the abscess have probably broken up, leaving only their spores, for inoculation experiments on animals show that the virus of tul)ercle is present in the fluid contents of the abscess. The microscopic examination of the sac usually demonstrates the presence of tubercle. Occasionally, even after an abscess of this kind has reached a considerable size, its fluid contents may be absorbed and the abscess undergo a spontaneous cure, its site being indicated, if the opportunity arises of examining it, by some dry cheesy matter enclosed in a dense scarlike mass of fibrous tissue. The above is a description of the most typical form of the chronic tuberculous abscess, but intermediate forms are met with between it and an acute abscess. In joints, abscesses due to tubercle, especially if rest of the affected part be not ensured, not unfrequently contain thick pus with abundant pus-cells, and the wall is formed of a fungating pulpy mass of granulation tissue. In these it sometimes happens that there is a double infection of the tubercle bacillus and one of the common forms of pyogenic micro-organisms. Again, it some- times happens that a chronic abscess which has scarcely advanced for months may rapidly increase in size, and be found, on being opened, to contain thick creamy pus. This, also, is probably due in some cases to infection of the cavity with the acute pyogenic organisms. Chronic abscesses, most frequently due to tubercle, are also met with very commonly in the lymphatic glands, and sometimes in bursge or in the subcuta- neous tissue. As they slowly approach the surfiice, the skin becomes purple and congested, and finally gives way at one point, allowing the curdy fluid to escape, leaving a cavity beneath the undermined skin which is very difficult to cure. The so-called Li/mphatic or Congestive abscesses, which are met with in cachectic individuals, arising often without very evident cause in the ihac fossa, axilla and other places, are probably in most cases tuberculous, arisino- in connection with some small patch of disease in a bone or elsewhere, whichlias given rise to no pain or other symptom to draw attention to it,'so that the fluctuating swelling may be the first symptom noticed. In Admomycosis, that is to say, the infection of the tissues by a peculiar ray-shaped fungus is another occasional cause of chronic suppuration {See Actinomycosis.) The softening of a syphililk gumma may also form a collec- tion of fluid of the nature of a chronic abscess. {See Syphilis ) Another very important form of chronic abscess is not uncommonly met with in practice. It arises from an arrest or abortion of the acute process It IS probable that this is caused by the death of the micro-organism after the formation of a definite abscess cavity. The acuteness of the process then sub- sides, owing to the cessation of the formation of irritating products of the organisms. The presence of the fluid causes a very mild irritation (or stimu- ation) of the surrounding tissues, leading to an overgrowth of the connective tissue. The fluid thus becomes enclosed in a dense wall of fibrous tissue so