414 ARREST OF ARTERIAL E/EMORRHAGE. It was not until 1805, that Jones, by a series of admirably conducted vestigations, finally determined the mode in which the arrest of ha3niorrhage takes place. The Natural Arrest of Arterial Hcpmorrhage is effected by means that in the first instance are temporary, but after wards 7>er»?«?^«^^^f. Temporary Means.—The means which temporarily ai-rest the flow of blood from an artery are threefold. If the vessel be small, as the facial or radial, these means are sufficient in many cases to stay the haemorrhage without the interference of the Surgeon : and, whatever be the size of the vessel, his opera- tions are materially assisted by the efforts which Nature makes, though they may sometimes be unsuccessful to prevent a fatal escape of blood. They consist in: 1. The Coagulation of, and an Alteration in, the (Constitution of the Blood ; 2. A Diminution of the Force of the Heart's Action ; 3. Certain Changes produced in and around the Artery. 1. The Coagulation of the Blood in and around the wounded artery is the most important means adopted by Nature for the arrest of hsemorrhage. Were it not for the property of coagulation, the blood would continue to drain away ft'om any cut artery, however small, until life became extinct. But the coagulation of the blood is sufficient, in all arteries below a certain size, to close the opening in the vessel, and so to arrest the further escape. The Alteration that tales place in the Blood, as was first pointed out by Hewson, consists in an increase of its coagulability as it flows. 2. The Diminution in the Force of the Heart's Action, owing to the patient becoming faint, exercises a very material influence in arresting the flow of blood from an artery. The forcible manner in which the jet of blood is propelled at each systole of the ventricle, is the principal obstacle to the formation of an adherent blood-clot around and within the cut vessel; for so long as the jet is more powerful than the cohesion of the clot, it will certainly wash the coagulum away. As the blood flows, and the heart's impulse gradually lessens in force, the jet falls lower and lower; until at last, when faintness comes on, it is almost entirely arrested, and time is afforded for the deposit of a coagulum in the vicinity of the wound. The collapse conse- quent on excessive and sudden loss of blood may therefore be looked upon as one of the provisions of Nature for the safety of the patient, and should not be too speedily counteracted by stimulants or in any other way. 3. The Changes that take place in and around the Vessel itself are those upon which the final arrest of the bleeding is de]3endent. They consist in the Retraction of the artery within its sheath, in the Contraction of the cut ends, and in the Formation of a Coagulum around its exterior, and in its interior. When an artery is cut across, its longitudinal elasticity causes it immediately to retract ivithin its sheath, and at the same time its orifice is narrowed by the contraction of the muscular fibre cells of the middle coat in consequence of the stimulation of the mechanical violence. As the artery retracts, the interior of the sheath is left rough and uneven. Through this uneven channel the blood is projected, and as it flows over the roughened surface of the sheath, it becomes entangled in the fibres, and tends to coagulate upon them ; this tendency to coagulation is favoured by the increased plasticity of the blood as it flows, and by the diminution of the propulsive force with which it is carried