277 SKIJ^ GRAFTING. islets of fi-eshly separated cuticle on the o;ranulatiQg surface, each can be made to form a centre for the development of new epithelium, which, spreading in all directions, coalesces with that growing- from the surrounding skin, and thus rapidly covers the sore. The covering of the surface with epithelium is, how- ever, only a part of cicatrisation, the contraction of the granulation-tissue and its development into fibrous tissue forming an equally essential process. The hopes that were entertained at one time, that by the grafting of cuticle the contraction of the scar, which causes such extensive deformity in the case of large burns, could be prevented, have been but imperfectly realised. The process of grafting, in ftict, in many cases amounts to little more than dressing the sore with cuticle, if such an expression may be allowed, the new epithelium cells growing over the surface long before the development of the fibi'ous tissue of the scar has made any appreciable progress. In such cases the cicatrix formed is very weak and apt to break doAvn—much more readily than the scar produced by the natural process of heaUng. Moreover, even after successful gralting, much contraction frequently takes place as the granulation- tissue becomes completely developed into fibrous tissue. Still, however, trans- plantation of cuticle is of great use in promoting the healing of large sores ; and probably, although it does not prevent the subsequent contraction, it does in some cases lessen its amount. The process of .transplantation of cuticle is as follows: If the sore be not aseptic, it should be dressed every four hours Avith boric lint moistened with a concentrated solution of boric acid. In about forty-eight hours the sore will be free from septic matter. A piece of skin on some sound part of the body— the outside of the arm, for instance—-about the size of an oat, is pinched up with a pair of forceps, and snipped off" with curved scissors. The whole thickness of the skin need not be separated, but merely the cuticle down to and including the papillary layer of the true skin, so as just to draw blood. The operation, when properly performed, is almost painless. The little patch of cuticle is now placed, with the raw side downwards, on the surface of the ulcer, care being taken not to injure the granulations in so doing. It is better to apply several small grafts of skin than one large one. Each graft is now covered with a small piece of " green protective," and the ulcer is dressed with a thin layer of boric acid ointment spread on muslin, and dipped in boric acid lotion before being applied. Over this again must be placed a thick layer of iodoform or salicylic wool. The dressing may then be left undisturbed for four days. It frequently happens that by the third or fourth day the graft has entirely disappeared, but becomes again recognisable a few days after. This is due to the desquamation of the opaque corneous layer of the transplanted cuticle leaving only the thin transparent Malpighian layer behind ; the reappearance of the graft takes place as soon as sufficient new epithelium has grown to be again opaque. For the success of this little operation, it is necessary that the granulating surface, on to which the transplantation is made, should be a healthy one, and that the process of cicatrisation should have commenced at its edges. When many grafts are required, and especially if the patient be old or nervous, it may be convenient to obtain some from another person. It must not be forgotten that syphilis may be communicated in this way if the grafts are taken from a person sulfering from that disease in its active stage. Deubel