696 SPECIAL DISLOCATIONS. Traction is thus performed :— Flex the tliigh upon the abdomen, bending the limb at the knee to a right angle (Fig. 275). The flexion relaxes the ilio-femoral ligament, and the relaxation may be further increased by slight adduction ; then rotate very slightly inwards ; that is to say, move the foot away Irom the middle line \Yhile the knee is held steady. This disengages the head from behind the socket; slight traction in the line of the femur will then usually bring the bone into position ; if more force is required the Surgeon may place his foot, covered only with a stocking, on the anterior superior spinous process, to steady the pelvis while he raises the bent knee. In the great majority of cases reduction will easily be effected by this plan. Rotation is thus performed:—The Surgeon, standing on the injured side, grasps the ankle with one hand and the leg below the knee in the other as in Fig. 27(i. He then steadily flexes the thigh upon the abdomen, so that the head of the bone is lifted out from behind the acetabulum and the ilio-femoral lio-ament relaxed. At the same time that the thigh is flexed it is better to keep it slightly adducted. The limb must now be slowdy abducted, and finally rotated outwards by bringing the foot of the injured side over the sound leg. By this manoeuvre the head is made to revolve around the great trochanter, which is fixed by the outer branch of the Y-ligameut, and to rise into its articular cavity (Fig. 277). Finally the limb is brought down parallel to the other. Bigelow has summarised the movements necessary to effect reduction this way in the following words, " Lift up, bend out, rotl outy Reduction by iExtension, according to Astley Cooper's method, is effected in the following manner. The patient, having been put under the influence of chloroform, is laid on his back upon a strong table. One staple should then be fixed in the floor near the head of the bed at the side corre- sponding to that of the dislocated limb, while another staple is placed in the wall at the foot, above the level of the body, in a direct line with the axis of the limb and about twelve feet from the other. The counter-extending force must then be made by a jack-towel or a padded leather belt passed between the injured thigh and the periufeum, and fixed to the staple in the floor. The pulleys inust now be attached to proper straps, or to a towel fixed with a clove-hitch knot immediately above the knee, at one end ; the other extremity Ijeing attached to the staple in the wall, which should be so situated as to be continuous with the axis of the lower part of the hmb. The knee being then slightly bent and rotated inwards, traction is applied slowly and steadily until the head of the bone has approached the acetabulum, when the Surgeon rotates the limb outwards so that the head may slip into its socket (Fig. 278). This method is seldom, if ever, required in recent dis Fig. 277.—Dorsal Dislocat ion. Reduction by Rotation. The limb lias been flexed aud abducted, and it reniaius only to rotate it outwards, and so to render the outer Branch of the Y-ligament tense. (Bigelow.)