972 SEPTICJi:MIA AJVB PYAEMIA. falls, and may sink even below normal, consciousness is lost, and the patient may become comatose before death. Dyspnoea is a common symptom during the last days. The skin may assume a yellowish tint before death. The urine frequently contains albumen. In cases in which the septic matter which is causing the mischief is in the cavity of the pleura or peritoneum the symptoms may set in and prove fatal before the end of the third day. When the primary mischief is a large wound of the soft parts, or a compound fracture, the symptoms may be less severe and the duration of the case may extend to a week or more before death takes place. In these less acute cases the temperature is lower ; vomiting and diarrhoea are common ; there is rapid emaciation with loss of strength, death finally occurring rather from exhaustion than collapse. In contrasting these symptoms with those produced in animals by the injection of putrid fluids beneath the skin, it will be seen that there is a general resemblance, which is quite as close as could be expected when the differences in the conditions are considered. In experimental septic poisoning the full dose is injected once for all under the skin, or into the blood ; if in sufficient quantity it is speedily fatal, if not the animal recovers. In septic poisoning, as it occurs in man, the process of putrefaction gradually develops in the putrescible matter in the wound, and the symptoms consequently are more slowly manifested. The local inflammation caused by the pent-up septic discharges is necessarily accompanied by exudation, which maintains a constant supply of fresh decomposable matter, and consequently a continuous development of the poison takes place. The symptoms are in fact as a rule the result of the prolonged administration of a moderate dose of the septic poison rather than of the sudden entrance of a fatal quantity into the blood-stream. The Post-mortem Appearances are almost identical with those observed when the disease is produced artificially in animals. In extremely acute cases the signs of decomposition set in early, and the surface in a few hours after death becomes marked by lines corresponding to the superficial veins. Eigor mortis is often feebly marked. On opening the body the blood may be found imperfectly coagulated and dark in colour, but this is by no means common. A slight excess of serum, often darkly stained with the colouring matter of the blood, may be found both in the pericardium and the peritoneum. The heart is flabby, and marked in many cases by small extravasations of blood (petechi*^ beneath the pericardium, usually most abundant at the back of the organ. Similar petechise may also be found beneath the pleura and peritoneum. On opening the heart the endocardium is found darkly stained, even at an early period after death. The lungs always show marked hypostatic congestion, their posterior part being dark purple, swollen and oedematous. The liver and kidneys are swollen and often full of blood, and the spleen is swollen and soft, sometimes almost diffluent. The mucous membrane of the alimentary canal is often congested, but with nothing approaching to the intensity met with in animals. The post-mortem appearances are due, first to the changes in the blood, the most marked of which is the rapid disintegration of the red corpuscles, causing the staining of vessels and tissues. This disintegration takes place in extreme cases before death. The corpuscles are found not to run together in rouleaux but to form irregular clumps. This has also been observed during