UNION BY SECOND INTENTION. 293 tion of the poison of any of the specific spreading inflammations, as hospital gangrene or erysipelas. Union by Scabbing does not require any detailed description. The formation of the scab may in fact be regarded rather as a form of occlusive dressing than as a pathological process. The scab is composed merely of the dried serous discharge, and its formation is favoured by the presence of hair, wliich becomes matted together and gives toughness and solidity to the crust. A scab also serves to keep the wound free from decomposition, as for its formation tlie absence of water is necessary, whereas the presence of water is essential to putrefaction. When once formed it mechanically excludes the causes of decomposition. For healing by scabbing the same conditions are necessary as for union by first intention; anything that causes a persistence of inflammation, by leading to continued effusion, will soften or loosen the crust. If the scab forms before the serous effusion has ceased, and thus retains it in the wound, the surfaces will be separated, and tension, causing persistent in- flammation ending in suppuration, will follow, which in many cases will be aggravated by decomposition of the pent-up discharge ; for although the scab may exclude organisms from without, the wound will jirobably contain large numbers which have entered before it was closed, and are ready to develop if they find a suitable fluid in which to grow. In the human subject, therefore, it is only in small cleanly cut wounds that heahng by scabbing is likely to occur ; it is, however, more common in the lower animals. The processes that occur beneath the scab are identical with those already described under union by first intention. 4. Union by Granulation.—In those cases in which, from the nature of the wound, union by first intention is impossible, or in which from the broken state of the patient's constitution, or from some local interference with the process, it fails to be accomplished, healing by "the Second Intention," as it is termed, occurs ; and we may often see in the same wound one portion unite by primary union and the remainder by granulation. Amongst the injuries in which we look for union by the second intention are included contused and lacerated wounds of all kinds, in which, from the mechanical violence done to the tissues, a layer of variable thickness is completely deprived of its vitality and has to be cast off as a slough by ulceration before the process of repair can commence ; incised wounds with loss of so much substance that it is impossible to bring the surfaces into apposition, as after the removal of malignant tumours ; and wounds through which some secretion flows, as in hthotomy. Poisoned wounds also must unite in the same way, as they are accompanied by a persistent and often spreading inflammation due to the virus with which they are infected. The raw surfiices following burns and scalds, and the cavities left after removal of dead bone, are repaired by the same process. Union by granulation, although apparently differing so widely from that by the first intention, is in reality accomplished by the same process modified according to the altered circumstances of the injured part. In union by the first intention we saw that after the surfaces of "the wound are brought into apposition and put at perfect rest, every source of irritation is absent, and consequently inflammation with its accompanying exudation ceases as soon as the injured tissues have recovered from the state of lowered vitality into which they were thrown by the injury. In wounds which unite by granulation