TREATMENT OF SECONDARY HAEMORRHAGE. 459 of the deep palmar arch. Secoadly, in extremely foul or sloughing wounds, the Surgeon may fail to secure the bleeding point by ligature or other means, and under these circumstances proximal ligature is his only resource. Thirdly, if the bleeding has recurred more than once after ligature in the wound the Surgeon may, as a last chance, apply a ligature to the mam trunk at a distant point. In applying these rules it must be considered whether the bleedhig takes place, 1, from a stump; or, 2, from an artery tied in its continuity or ligatured on each side of a wound. 1. The treatment of secondary hsemorrhage from a stump will depend partly on the degree of union that has taken place between the flaps, and on the situation of the stump. If the haemorrhage be no more than a slight oozing, elevation and pressure may arrest it. Should it continue, however, the Surgeon has three courses open to him : separation of the flaps and ligature of the artery at the bleeding point ; ligature of the main artery above the stump ; and, lastly, re-amputation. The first of these alternatives, viz., lixjature of the artery at the Ueedimj point, is universally recognised as the object to be aimed at if the htemorrhage have occurred early when the flaps are still easily separated, or in later cases when the union has been extensively broken down by the hasmorrhage. But even if, notwithstanding the hsemor- rhage, the union between the flap continues sound and firm, the blood flowing merely through a narrow channel leading to the main vessel, this same rule must, in most cases, be followed. The wound must be opened up, all adhesions, however firm, being broken down with the finger, and the artery must be secured at the bleeding point. Besides the main artery tliat bleeds— one of the tibials, for instance, if it be a leg-amputation—there will generally be very free oozing from many points. The more abundant of these may be stopped by a ligature passed, if the tissues be friable, by means of a ntevus- needle under the vessels ; free general oozing may usually be arrested by clearing the surfaces of the flaps of all coagula, and by the firm uniform pressure of the dressing. If the tissues are so softened that ligatures will not hold, the actual cautery may be applied to the smaller bleeding points, whilst in the case of the main artery a sufficiently healthy part of the vessel may be reached by separating it for a short distance from the face of the flap. The treatment of secondary hasmon-hage horn the main artery by digital compression of the vessel higher in the limb or the use of a horse-shoe tourniquet is too uncertain to be recommended. In those cases where the amputation has been done close to the trunk, as at the shoulder-joint or the middle or upper part of the thigh, there is less objection to the practice of ligaturing tlie artery at a higher level instead of opening up the stump. The length of limb to be nourished is so small that there is little fear of gangrene. Even in these cases, however, the Surgeon will be wise to follow the general principle of treatment, and by opening up to a sufficient extent the track from which the blood is escaping, to endeavour to apply a ligature above the bleediug point. Ligature of the main artery alove the stump is the only alternative in those amputations close to the trunk in which the hsemorrhage recurs after an attempt has been made to arrest it by opening up the flaps. In the case of the shoulder the third part of the subclavian should be tied, and in amputa-