2 14 LOCAL DISTURBANCES AND INFLAMMATION. But the direct application of pounded ice in a bladder or thin rubber bag is the most effectual means of applying cold, when it is intended that its effects shall penetrate deeply, as in an injured joint, spine, or head. Another very efficient mode of applying cold is to surround the part with a coil of india-rubber tubing through which a stream of iced water is allowed slowly to flow from a reservoir placed above the bed. This method was intro- duced by Otis as a mode of applying cold to the genital organs, and for this purpose it is very efficient. When applied to the head or to a limb, the weight of the part is apt to compress the tube and arrest the flow. To overcome this difficulty, the apparatus known as " Leiter's tubes," made of soft metal which can be accurately applied to any part of the body, has lately been intro- duced. In using this the water must not be iced, as the greater conducting power of the metal renders this not only unnecessary but dangerous. The application of a cold Lead Lotion acts as a powerful local sedative, and tends greatly to restrain local iuflanimation. Absolute rest of the parts is an essential element in the preventive treat- ment of inflammation. Rest as to movement or use is imperative. An injured joint should be placed at rest on a sphnt; light should be excluded from an injured eye. At the same time all constitutional disturbance must be prevented by a moderate and well-chosen diec, by repose of body, by regulation of the action of the bowels, and by careful attention to the hygienic surroundings of the patient. CuEATiVE Treatment of Acute Inflammation.—In the curative treat- ment of inflammation the first object of the Surgeon is, if possible, to remove the cause, and to exclude every accessory source of irritation from the inflamed part. Thus, if there be an accumulation of septic matter, this must be removed, and the septic process checked by the use of antiseptics. If a foreign body be lodged in the flesh it must be extracted, and complete anatomical and physiological rest of the inflamed part must be ensured. At the same time the afflux of blood must, if possible, be kept within bounds, and blood-pressure reduced so as to limit the exudation and reduce tension. In attaining these objects constitutional and local means are made use of. Local Treatment of Acute Inflammation,—Position and Rest.— The first step in the treatment of an inflamed part is to put it at perfect rest. All motion and use must be prevented, and, if necessary, restrained by splints and other appliances. If possible, the inflamed part should be elevated to a level with, or above, the rest of the body, in order to facilitate the return of blood, and thus to diminish congestion and reduce the blood-pressure in it, and thus lessen exudation and tension. Cold and Heat are both used in the treatment of acute inflammation. The use of Cold in the prevention of inflammation has already been described (p. 213). When inflammation is fully established with its cardinal symptoms of redness, swelling, heat, and pain, cold should never be applied ; as, although it may lead to a diminished flow of blood to the part by causing contraction of the arteries, it tends still further to lower the vitality of the affected tissues, and thus to increase the adhesion of the corpuscles and the retardation of the flow, till stasis, followed by death of the part, may result. Cold should never be had recourse to when suppuration is threatening or has set in ; still less should it be employed when there is a tendency to mortification. The modes of applying cold have already been described (p. 213).