132 SPECIAL AMPUTATIONS. The cartilage on the femur should be left untouched, as thus the cancellous structure is not opened, and one predisposing cause of pyEemia is avoided. The operation is not adapted to cases in which the joint is diseased ; in them it is better to amputate through the condyles. In the after-treatment great trouble may arise from accumulation of the discharges in the synovial pouches. This can be prevented only by proper drainage and pressure. Be- fore closing the wound, two long tubes must be put in, in such a way that their deep extremities lie in the extreme upper parts of the synovial pouches, and their lower ends at the ano'les of the wound. These tubes should not be touched till the third day ; after that they may be drawn out half an inch or more at each dressing, and the projecting piece cut off. They must on no account be completely removed in order to shorten them, as it would be im- possible to replace them. Should pus form in the synovial pouches from failure of the drainage, it will be recognised by the swelling, redness and pain, with fluctuation. A free incision must be made into it as soon as the condition is recog- nised, or the pus may burst through the limits of the synovial pouch, and burrow up the thigh beneath the vasti. These precautions for drain- age are necessary in all amputations in which the synovial pouches are opened. 2. Stephen Smith disarticulates at the knee by Lateral Flaps in the following way : The incision is commenced in the middle line in front, about an inch below the tubercle of the tibia, and is carried downwards and backwards over the side of the leg, until it reaches the under surface, where it is directed upwards and towards the median line. AYhen that point is reached, it is carried directly upwards to the centre of the pophteal space. A second incision begins at the same point as the first, and pursues a similar direction on the opposite side of the limb, the two incisions meeting in the median line behind. The flaps are next raised, and the soft parts dissected up circularly until the joint is opened, and the leg then removed. The inner flap should be rather the larger, because of the greater size of the inner condyle ; the patella Fig. 74.—Amputation tlirouKli the Knee by Long Anterior Flap.