INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 74° signs of inflammation of the brain, three from the effects of cold weather, and one only from diffuse meningo-encephalitis. In many of these animals large portions of cerebral substance were cut away without causing any inflam- matory disturbance beyond the area actually injured. The experiments also showed conclusively that a five per cent, solution of carbolic acid may be apphed with impunity to the brain or its membranes. The statistics given by Kramer in an inaugural dissertation at Breslau in 1880 show no less conclusively the great advantages to be derived from antiseptic treatment. Of twenty-five cases of compound fracture of the skull with wound of the brain, in which no operation was performed, ten died, five from meningitis, and one from pneumonia, and the rest directly from the injury to the brain. Of twenty-five cases of primary trephining for injury, only two died, one from circumscribed meningitis and one from diffuse meningo-encephahtis ; in twenty-one the wound healed by first intention. Of six cases in which secondary trephining Avas performed only one died with hernia cerebri. These results are certainly much better than any that had been obtained previous to the introduction of the antiseptic treatment. The treatment should be carried out as follows : The wound must as soon as possible be covered with a piece of linen rag soaked in a three per cent, solution of carbolic acid in water. The whole head is then to be shaved and carefully cleaned with soap and water. If necessary it may be sponged with a weak solution of ammonia to get rid of grease ; but, of course, in doing this the liquids used in washing must not be allowed to flow into the wound. The head is then cleaned with the carbohc solution (1 in 20), and this may be allowed to enter freely into the wound. It must not on any account be forcibly injected, as by so doing it might become widely diffused in the subarachnoid space or the brain might be injured. "When the operation is completed the edges of the wound must be brought together, pared, if much contused, and very dirty, provision being made for drainage, and some eificient antiseptic dressing may be applied. It is not always possible to render the wound thoroughly aseptic, as much dirt may have been ground into it, and some time may have elapsed before the case is seen; but the dangers of septic meningitis are so great that it is always worth while to make the attempt even in apparently hopeless cases. In doubtful cases the wound should be freely powdered with iodoform. If no special antiseptic dressing is at hand the wound, after having been thoroughly washed with carbolic acid lotion, may be dressed with carbolic oil (1 in 10), or terebene and oil, and during the time it is necessarily exposed in dressing it may be irrigated with the antiseptic solution. Failing all other antiseptic dressings, the wound may be washed out with spirit and water and dressed with dry lint or cotton-wool, in the hope that decomposition of the discharges may be pre- vented by drying. The one thing that is more certain than anything else to ensure decomposition is washing the wound with common water and applying simple wet lint to it, as was formerly the universal practice. All the precautions applicable to cases of injury of the brain, such as low diet, purging, perfect quiet, dry cold to the head, &c., must be employed as rigorously when the antiseptic treatment is adopted as when it is not. It has been recommended in cases of simple depressed fracture, without injury of the brain or its membranes, to make an attempt to draw the depressed portion of bone to its normal level by means of a cupping-glass.