AMPUTATION IN GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. 361 rally obvious enough from the direction taken by the ball, the commnmtion of the bones, and perhaps the escape of synovia ; but a joint may be fata Iy injured by the longitudinal splitting of the bone into it, although the bullet lias not passed within some inches of it. In bullet-wounds of joints, excision may be advantageously substituted tor amputation in cases in which the soft parts are not too extensively torn, the large nerves and vessels are uninjured, and the shaft of the bone is not too widely splintered, the mischief being confined chiefly to the articular ends. Bullet-wounds of the head, ?ieclc, or troclmnters of the femur, splintermn the bone into the articutation, are necessarily most serious. If they be left to palliative ti-eatment, the death of the patient may be considered as almost inevitable ; if amputation at the hip be performed, the prospect is better, and, though desperate, the case must not be considered hopeless. This is well illustrated by the result of amputations in the American Civil War. In Primary amputations at the hip-joint for gunshot injury, the mortality was, according to one estimate, 94, according to another, which I think more correct, 84 per cent. All Intermediate amputations were fatal ; the Secondary ones only at the rate of 77 per cent. If the shaft be not too much implicated, it is probable that the best hope lies in excision of the splintered head of the bone, and careful removal of the loose fi-agraents. This operation, originally proposed by Guthrie, and first successfully performed by O'Leary in the Crimean war, presents the most reasonable, though but a slender, hope of safety to the patient, and should accordingly be practised. With this view the wound must be laid freely open, loose fragments extracted, and the upper end of the bone detached, turned out, and sawn off. Of six cases in which this was done in the Ci-imea, one patient, O'Leary's, recovered. Gurlt, who has collected all the cases of excision of joints for gun-shot wounds which have been recorded since 1792, states that excision of the hip has been performed 139 times ; 16 of the patients recovered, 122 died, and the result of the remaining case is uncertain. Bullet-wounds of the hiee-joint are among the most serious injuries in surgery ; and this whether the bones be much comminuted or not, provided the epiphysis of the tibia or femur be perforated, or the articulation be fairly traversed or qxqu penetrated by the ball. Prior to the American war there were seven cases in which excision of the knee had been done for gun-shot injury—five in military, two in civil practice ; the two latter cases recovered, the other five died. In the American war the operation was done eleven times : in two cases, one primary, the other secondary, recovery took place ; nine deaths resulted, chiefly from pysemia. In three cases in which the patella alone was excised, death ensued. Gurlt has collected the records of 146 cases, of which 33 recovered, 111 died, and the result was uncertain in the remaining cases. These results are so bad that the operation for the future will probably be abandoned in military surgery. It is in this class of cases, however, that Bergmann and Reyher have obtained a very considerable measui'e of success by conservative treatment, with strict antiseptic dressing. Bergmann had 15 fresh gun-shot wounds of the knee under his care after one of the battles in the Russo-Turkish war. These were all treated by superficial clean- ing of the skin with carbolic lotion and the application of a mass of salicylic wool, especially thick at the knee, secured by an elastic bandage and covered with a plaster-of-Paris apparatus. They were then immediately sent