SPECIAL DISLOCATIONS. 686 is readily recognized by the deformity it causes (Fig. 266), and is easily reduced by pressure and traction in proper directions. A very convenient mode of applying traction is by means of the toy called an " Indian puzzle " which grasps the finger more tightly the more it is pulled upon ; or the apparatus represented in Fig. 265 may be used. The finger will continue to be stiff and comparatively useless for some length of time, the joint being swollen and tender ; the patient can generally bend it, but cannot extend it fully or bear any traction upon it. This condition is especially apt to be troublesome and chronic if the patient be gouty, or if his general health be otherwise deranged, and it requires rest and local counter-irritation, with appropriate constitutional treat- ment. In Gomfpound Dislocation of the phalanges, the bone should be replaced, the finger supported by a gutta- percha splint, and the wound dressed antiseptically. In some cases it is necessary to remove the projecting end of bone before this can conveniently be done ; ankylosis then results, a suffi- ciently useful finger being left. Fig. 2C6.—Partial Dis- location of the Mid- dle Phalanx of tlie Middle Finger. DISLOCATIONS OP THE LOWER LIMB. Dislocations of the Pelvis.—It occasionally happens that, in conse- quence of severe blows upon or compression of the pelvis, the Symphysis of the Pubic Bones, or more frequently the Sacro-iliac Articulation, is displaced. Here the nature of the injury is indicated by the deformity that results ; and the same treatment is required as in fracture of the pelvis, with which these accidents are commonly associated. The Coccyx is sometimes violently bent, and almost dislocated/orz^'^Yfe, by falls ; or it may be forcibly bent Jmclwards during violent parturient efforts. These accidents are apt to be followed by that painful neuralgic affection Coccydynia, described at p. 607. Dislocations of the Femur.—Notwithstanding the great depth of the- acetabulum, the complete manner in which the head of the thigh-bone is received into its cavity, the firmness of the capsular ligament, and the great strength of the muscles which surround and support the joint, dislocations of the hip are more frequently met with than those of many other joints that appear less perfectly supported. This is doubtless in a great measure owing to the action, on the head of the femur, of the great length of leverage of the thigh-bone itself when external violence is applied to the knee, and of the whole of the lower extremity when the violence is applied to the foot. Dislocation cf the hip-joint occurs chiefly in young or middle-aged adults In very old people, fracture of the neck of the femur will commonly be pro- duced by the same violence that would have displaced the head of the bone at an earlier age. In children dislocation is rare, as the shaft generally gives way. Yet it does happen even at a very early age. Two cases have occurred in my practice : in one the bone was dislocated on the pubic bone, in a child a year and a half old; in the other on the dorsum ilii, in a boy of six. The different forms of dislocation of the femur were described with great clearness and precision by Astley Cooper, according to whom the head is most