WOUNDS OF DURA MATER. ns When the signs of compression are well marked, it must not be assumed that the pressure caused by the depressed fragments of bone is in all cases the sole or even the chief cause of the symptoms. It is scarcely possible for a man to suffer from a severe depressed fracture without serious bruising and laceration of the brain substance beneath and a more or less extensive in- tracranial extravasation of blood. Both these conditions are important factors in producing the symptoms. The celebrated case so often quoted, in which Cline trepliined a man who had been unconscious for thirteen months after a fall on the head, Avhich caused a slight depression in the skull, restoring him almost immediately to consciousness, will hardly bear investigation. The man had been pressed into the navy, and was consequently likely to feign disease to escape from it, and there are many cases of malingering on record quite as extraordinary as his. During the whole period of his "insensibihty " he was able to make signs with his " lips and tongue " when he wanted food. This fact alone would be sufficient to throw the gravest doubts upon the genuineness of the case. Wounds of the Dura Mater.—The great danger in cases of depressed and comminuted fracture arises not only from the compression of the brain, but from the rapidity with whicli inflammation (p. 771) so frequently follows, the injury. This is due partly to the sharp fragments wounding and irritating the membranes of the brain, but chiefly to the septic matter which almost inevitably forms within the skull after these injuries, unless efficient means are taken to prevent it. In a compound depressed fracture the conditions present are as follows : Sharp fragments of the inner table are lying pressed against, the dura mater, or possibly penetrating it and the arachnoid ; the subarach- noid space is thus opened and the brain itself possibly wounded ; the frag- ments are surrounded by more or less extravasated blood, and in a few hours a considerable amount of inflammatory exudation will necessarily be added. All this decomposable material is in communication with the air through the fissures in the bone, and at the same time these fissures allow of but imperfect drainage from within the cavity of the skull. Consequently, the decomposing discharges are pent up and burrow within the cranial cavity. If the dura mater were not wounded at the time of the accident, it will inevit- ably soon be perforated by ulceration at the point at which the sharp fragments, of the inner table, bathed in putrid pus, are pressing against it. In either case, the subarachnoid space is opened and the septic matter diffuses itself widely, giving rise to the usual symptoms with the fatal termination charac- teristic of meningitis. If the fragments are removed early and the external wound is left open so as to provide perfect drainage from within the skull, the dangers of secondary perforation of the dura mater are very slight ; and even should that membrane have been wounded at the time of the accident, the patient has a fair chance of escaping difluse meningitis ; for adhesive inflammation may occur within a few hours, and thus present a barrier to the diffusion of any septic matter that may form afterwards. If, with the removal of sharp fragments and the provision of good drainage, we combine some perfect method of antiseptic treatment of the wound, the danger to the patient, though still great, will be most materially diminished. Indeed, a wound of the dura mater, however slight, is a dangerous comphcation. This is more especially the case in those injuries in which the inner table is extensively splintered, as in the different forms of punctured fracture. In these cases