948 ' ERYSIPELAS. and especially by the characteristic sharply defined margin. It is most commonly confounded with the red blush surrounding a wound in which sei)tic matter is pent up : in this, however, the margin of the redness is not sharply defined ; the enlargement of the lymi)hatic glands and the definite invasion are usually absent. From in/iamnudmi of the veins or of the lymphalics, the diag- nosis is not always easy, more especially as the two conditions frequently co- exist. If a vein is inflamed, the general absence of cutaneous redness, the existence of a hard round cord, and the tenderness along the course of the vessel, are sufficient to establish the diagnosis. In inflammation of the lymphatic vessels the redness is not uniform, but consists of a number of small and separate red streaks, running in the direction of the lymphatics, and aflfect- ing the glands towards which they course. These two aff"ections—erysipelas of the skin^and inflammation of the'lymphatics—are so frequently conjoined that a differential diagnosis is not of much importance. Prognosis. The prognosis in uncomplicated cutaneous erysipelas is by no means grave. Of 3G cases of idiopathic erysipelas admitted under the care of the physicians in University College Hospital during a period of ten years, only two died, and one of these was suffering from chronic Bright's disease. When traumatic the disease is far more dangerous. Of 148 cases admitted under the Surgeons or breaking out in the surgical wards during a similar period 35 died? In only five is no special coraphcation mentioned in the report, and oiie of these was an infant. Two died of pneumonia, seven of pyemia which attacked the patient after the erysipelas had subsided, two of meningitis from injury to the head ; two suffered from Bright's disease, two from severe constitutional syphilis, one from general albumenoid degeneration, two from advanced cancer of the breast, one from cancer of the liver, one from heart disease, two from suppuration of the kidneys secondary to cystitis ; one had a laro-e cavity in the lung ; one was an habitual drunkard, one was in very bad health, and one was dying at the time of invasion ; one died from bed-sores, one from secondary hemorrhage, one from an abscess, and one from throm- bosis of the veins of the leg and sloughing of the skm after the specific disease had subsided. These statistics show that cutaneous erysipelas rarely proves fatal unless it attacks an individual previously suffering from grave constitutional disease, but that by exhausting the strength it may leave the patient liable to fall a victim to other complications of wounds such as py^mni. Disease of the kidneys is always a most serious complication. High fever, violent delirium, profuse diarrhoea and early prostration are grave signs durino- the progress of the case. Traumatic erysipelas is more dangerous than idiopathic, as other unhealthy processes are apt to follow in the wound ; on the other hand, sores which have been ranking no progress for a long time often heal rapidly after an attack of cutaneous erysipelas. The disease is most dano-erous at the extremes of life. . • , ■ Treatment.—Preventive Measures.—The occurrence of erysipelas is best o-uarded ao-ainst by attention to hygienic measures, more particularly prone? ventilation with pure air, and the avoidance of overcrowding of patients. With every care however, erysipelas can never be completely eradicated from suro-ical wards, as iL is often epidemic, and brought into the hospital from without It often happens that erysipelas is unusually frequent m certain wards a,nd even in certain beds. Its persistence m these respects will be found to be owino- to some local cause, such as the emanations from a dram or dust-