AMPUTATIONS. 68 operation is then completed by division and retraction of the muscles as in the ordinary circular method. This operation is especially indicated in mus- cular parts, such as the arm, thigh, or leg. The advantage of this procedure over the ordinary flap-operation is very great in stout muscular subjects. Fig. 24.—Modified Circular Amputation in tlio third of the Leg. Amp-utation by a long and a short rectangular flap. Teale's Method.—The late Mr. Teale of Leeds, in 1858, invented a method of amputating by a long and a short rectangular flap. In selecting the structures for the formation of the long flap " such parts must be taken as do not contain the larger bloodvessels and nerves." In the lower part of the thigh and in the leg the long flap will therefore be anterior and the short posterior : in the fore-arm the long is dorsal and the short palmar, and in the arm the long flap will be chiefly taken from the outer side. The long flap is a perfect square, and the rule for its formation is, that its length and breadth must each be equal to half the circumference of the limb at the place of amputation (Fig. 25). If the circumference be 12 inches, the length and breadth of the flap, both at its base and at its free extremity, should be 6. The short flap is to be one-quarter the length of the anterior flap ; in the case above supposed it would be 1\ inches. In performing the operation the measurements must be carefully made, and the outline of the flaps marked on the Hmb with ink. Both flaps are to be made to include all the soft parts of the limb. The bones are sawn in the angle of union of the flaps, without any previous retraction of the soft parts. After the vessels ha^•e been secured, the long flap is folded over the end of tlie bone, and attached by suture, partly to the short flap, and partly to itself; thus the proximal quarter of the long flap is first accurately sewn to the short flap ; the remaining part of the long flap is then doubled over on itself, its free end being accurately fitted to the free end of the short flap, and attached by sutures ; finally stitches are applied where the terminal part of the flap is in contact with the second quarter, as in the figure (Fig. 26). The advantages claimed by Teale for his method of amputating were, that it provides an abundant covering free from tension. This it evidently does, as the covering amounts to 1|- diameters of the limb. Secondly, it provides a dependent opening for the exit of discharge ; and thirdly, that when it is healed the cicatrix is behind the bones, and that con- sequently the patient can bear the whole or a part of his weight on the end of the stump ; this is especially advantageous after amputation in the thigh oi- leg, where a stump capable of bearing direct pressure would be of very