FAT EiMBOLISM-HYPOSTATIC CON(;ESTION. 543 speedily induced. In many surgical injuries we have the conditions necessary lor fat embolism. In fractures crushing the medulla of a bone a large number of the fat-cells of the marrow are broken up aud the liquid fat set free ; and the same may happen in violent contusions of the subcutaneous tissue in fat subjects, aud in contusion or laceration of a fatty liver. At the same time the pressure of extravasated blood and of inflammatory exudation favours the entrance of the fat into the circulation. Fat embolism has also been met with in acute inflammation of the marrow of a bone, and in diffuse gangrenous inflammation of the subcutaneous areolar tissue. Fat embolism as a complication of simple fracture may occur within the first twenty-four hours, as the direct efi'ect of the injury, or on the second or third day, or as the result of the inflammatory exudation pressing on the injured medulla or adipose tissue. The symptoms caused by it are somewhat doubtful. Eiedel and Scriba state that the fat is eliminated by the kidneys, and will, in a very large proportion of fractures of long bones, be found microscopically in the urine about the third or fourth day. At a later period, from the tenth to the fourteenth day, it is often met with again, a fact which Scriba attributes to the dislodgment of the emboli from the lungs and other viscera and their elimination by the kidneys. A trace of albumen and some casts are sometimes met with at the same time. These appearances need not be accompanied by any constitutional symptoms. Should the quantity of fat which enters the circulation be very large, it is supposed to be capable of causing grave or even fatal symptoms, of which, according to Scriba, the following are the most characteristic : slight lowering of temperature, dyspnoea, occasionally slight hsemoptysis, and in extreme cases, fatal collapse, spasms or localized paralysis, ending in coma and death, Scriba is of opinion that whenever fat embolism proves fatal it is from obstruction to the vessels of the brain, and that the interference with the pulmonary circulation is never sufficient to cause death. That death does occur in some rare cases after simple fractures with some or all of the above-mentioned symptoms is certainly true, and that fat embolism can be found post mortem is equally certain ; but that ic is the cause of the symptoms is doubted by Cohnheim and many authorities, as experiments have shown that very large quantities of fat can be injected into the circulation of animals so as to cause most extensive embolism without being followed by death or even any serious symptoms. In cases of septic inflammation following a compound fracture or a severe laceration of adispose tissue, the fat emboli may become impregnated with the septic poison, and thus set up inflammation wherever they lodge. The emboh from subcutaneous injuries are said occasionally to give rise to hasmorrhagic infarcts around the point at which they are arrested, and in some cases to cause oedema of the lung by extensive obstruction to the circulation ; but being perfectly unirritating they never set up inflammation. No treatment has yet been suggested for fat embolism. In fractures of the lower extremity occurring in old people, there is a great tendency to Hypostatic Pulmonary Congestion, as a consequence of long confinement in the recumbent position ; these fractures often prove fatal in this way. The use of the starched bandage, by enabling the patient to move about, is the most effectual preventive of these accidents. The treatment of the more general accidents presents nothing that need