474 WOUNDS OF SPECIAL BLOOD-VESSELS. CHAPTER XYI. —i— WOUNDS OF SPECIAL BLOOD-VESSELS * VESSELS OF THE HEAD AND NECK. Caeotid Artery.—Wounds of the Carotid Artery and of its branches are not uncommon in civil practice, as the neck is frequently the seat of suicidal wounds. The hEemorrhage from wounds of the main trunk is usually immediately fatal. In the event of a Surgeon being at hand, both ends of the bleeding vessel must be ligatured. Should the jugular vein be also wounded a ligature must be applied above and below the opening, but if the wound be very small—a mere puncture—it may be closed by pinching it up and applying the ligature in such a way as not completely to occlude the vessel. Should the hiEmorrhage, whether primary or secondary, proceed from a deep branch of'the external carotid, as the internal maxillary, so situated as not to admit of the vessel being ligatured at the seat of wound, the ordinary rule of tying a wounded artery at the seat of injury must be departed from, and the main trunk must be ligatured at the most convenient spot. Considerable difference of opinion has existed as to whether, under these circumstances, it is better to tie the external or the common carotid. Guthrie strongly advocated the application of the ligature to the external carotid, but most Surgeons have preferred to tie the common trunk above the omo-hyoid, fearing that the application of a ligature amongst the numerous branches of the external carotid would be followed by secondary hgemorrhage. The results of this mode of treatment, however, have been far from satisfactory ; not only have many patients died directly from the operation itself, but in a very large proportion the haemorrhage for which it was performed has recurred and proved fatal. Harrison Cripps has collected 50 cases of ligature of the common trunk for haemorrhage, 28 of which terminated fatally. He has therefore advocated a return to Guthrie's practice of applying the ligature to the external carotid, and the exact point he recommends is hetween the superior thyroid and the lingual. Wyeth recommends simultaneous ligature of the superior thyroid. This operation is not difficult of performance, and seems in itself to be less dangerous than the deligation of the main trunk. Madelung has collected the records of 60 cases, of which only 7 died. There seems every reason therefore for preferring it, when possible, to the more serious operation of tying the common trunk. Internal Carotid.—If the internal carotid is wounded, ligature of the common carotid gives the best chance of recovery. In consequence of the speedy fatality of the wounds of the carotid artery and its branches, Traumatic Aneurisms are rarely met with in this situa- tion ; they do, however, occasionally occur, and the records of surgery contain * A full description of the operations required for the ligature of the various arteries will be found in Vol. 11., Clxapters XLIII. and XLIV.