699 THYROID, OF FEMUR. When he lies on his back the knee is much raised, the thigh being flexed according to Bigelow to an angle of 35°. Reduction by Manipulation may be done by rotation or traction as follows. Traction may be done thus : the Surgeon flexes the limb and abducts it, and then placing his foot upon the side of the pelvis, pulls or jerks the thigh in the direction in which the head is required to go to reach the socket. If more force is required a towel may be put round the lower part of the thigh. In rotation the limb, having been flexed on the abdomen so as to bring it into a perpendicular position, must be slightly abducted so as to disengage the head of the bone. The thigh is then to be strongly rotated inwards and adducted, the knee being carried towards the floor (Fig. 281). Reduction by Extension is done as follows :—The patient is laid on his back ; a counter-extending girth, or towel, is then placed round the pelvis and fixed firmly to a staple next to the sound side of the patient. A padded Fig. 282.—Reduction of Dislocation into Thyroid Foramen by Extension. girth is then to be placed between the perin^eum and the upper part of the dislocated thigh. From this, extension is made by means of the tourniquet or the pulleys, which are fixed to a staple at a little distance from the injured side of the patient. Extension having then been made to such a degree as to elevate the head of the bone from the depression in which it lies, the Surgeon passes his hand behind the sound leg, and, seizing the ankle of the injured limb, presses it backwards and draws it towards the mesial line, taking care to keep the knee straight, and thus throwing the head of the bone into the acetabulum by the action of a long lever (Fig. 282). The following are more rare forms of dislocation downwards :— The head of the thigh-bone may be thrown directly downwards, so as to rest on the lower margin of the acelaUilum, between the sciatic notch and the thyroid foramen. Two cases of this injury have been recorded by Gurney of Camborne, and one by Luke. In it there is less eversion of the limb than