1090 TUBERCULOSIS. It has been asserted that this caseation may be the result of a simple chronic inflammatory process arising from various causes, and that the bacillus finds a nidus for its growth in the degenerated tissues. Koch distinctly denies this. He asserts that the bacilli can be recognised only before caseation takes place, and that as degeneration progresses they either perish or break up, leaving their spores behind. That the latter is probably the case is shown by the fact that although no bacilli can be recognised in the cheesy mass, it still retains its virulent properties when inoculated on an animal. Two causes probably determine the caseation of tubercle : it is partly due, no doubt, to insufficient blood supply resulting from the absence of any newly formed vessels ; and secondly, it is thought probable that it is also caused by various irritating chemical substances produced by the bacillus. Even after caseation recovery may take place. The bacillus may perish, the cheesy nodule may gradually become dryer and firmer and be encapsuled in a zone of fibrous tissue formed from the surrounding parts ; or lime salts may be deposited in it and it may become calcified, and this may remain harm- lessly imbedded in fibrous tissue. In bone it may be surrounded, according to ISTelaton, by a thin capsule of dense osseous tissue. In other cases, after caseation, it may soften, inflammation and suppuration may occur round it, and it may be expelled as a foreign body. However widely the tuberculous process spreads, it consists merely of a repetition and extension of the changes here described. The more acute the process the less clearly will the individual nodules be marked, and the more it will take the form of a uniform small-celled invasion of the surrounding structures. If the morbid process continues to extend, invading surrounding parts, it often causes extensive destruction of tissue. The Extension of Tubercle takes plac- in various ways. It is, of course, evident that it can occur by direct infection of contiguous parts. The baciUus itself is non-motile and cannot migrate, but Koch beheves that the organism may be taken up by wandering cells which subsequently enter the lymph stream and are thus carried to other parts, either near the original focus or at a distance, bearing the organism with them. The actual presence of bacilU in the corpuscles has been demonstrated by Koch after injection of the organism into the blood-stream. In this way we may find the new tubercles dotted closely round the primary focus. The well known frequency with which the disease implicates the nearest lymphatic glands is further evidence of this mode of propagation. Again, it easily spreads over a surface such as the synovial membrane of a joint or a mucous membrane. Thus we see in white swelling of the knee that after infection of the joint fi-om a small tuberculous centre in the bone the whole synovial surface quickly becomes affected, and in tuberculous disease of the kidney we find infection of the ureter and bladder. Lastly, the virus may enter the blood-stream, and general dissemination occur throughout the body as an acute disease. There is no reason to believe that this ever occurs as a primary condition, or that it is due to an infection of the blood, and to an increase of the virus in the blood. Tubercle is always primarily a local disease, and although the virus may be disseminated by the blood, it probably does not multiply in it. The acute disease is due to the entrance into the blood-stream of softened tuberculous matter from a local centre, either indirectly through the lymphatics or directly through the veins.