8i8 INJURIES OF THE FACE AND ADJACENT PARTS. as a j^ood general rule, that if a round or oval body cannot be dislodged by syringing it will not be removed by instruments ; and if the proper use of the syringe do not suffice, it is better to leave matters alone, and to allow the foreign body to become loosened, when it can be easily syringed out, than to poke instruments into the ear with the view of forcibly extracting it. These attempts are ill-advised ; and I have known death, from inflam- mation and suppuration in the middle ear extending to the meninges of the brain, to follow from prolonged and imsuccessfal efforts at the extraction of a pebble fi'om the ear. Orbit.—Injuries of the Orbit may be dangerous, either to the brain or to the eye. Deep wounds are usually directed upwards, so that the roof of the orbit is the part most likely to suffer. The gravity of such a wound may not be recognized until meningitis sets in, for the small skin wound may rapidly heal, or may even be wanting if the penetrating weapon have passed between the lid and the eye. The optic nerve may be divided without damage to the globe itself, and thus immediate and permanent blindness may result. Foreign bodies in the orbit are easily overlooked and may cause trouble for months before their presence is suspected. Orbital abscess is sometimes the result of a wound, with or without the retention of a foreign body. It may run an acute course, or it may be ex- tremely chronic and strictly localized, thus simulating a tumour. In the acute form there is swelling of the lids, almost erysipelatous in character, with pro- trusion of the eye, loss of movement and intense widespread throbbing pain. The eye may also be displaced vertically or laterally according to the position of the pus. The widest interval between the globe and the orbital therefore the point at which an incision should be made. A narrow-bladed knife, held with its back towards the globe, should be passed deeply into the orbit. The early evacuation of the pus is very essential lest blindness result from the prolonged pressure upon the optic nerve, or lest the inflammation spread backwards and set up purulent meningitis. Eye-lids.—These may be extensively cut or lacerated without damage to . the eye itself, but a careful examination of the eye should always be made when there is any fear of the lid having been penetrated. Wounds of the lids unite readily if sutured, but great care must be taken that the margin of the lid be brought into accurate apposition.' For this purpose a fine suture should first be inserted in the free border of the lid, and then a row of others placed in the skin. If there be much gaping of the wound, a deeper suture or a fine pin with a figure-of-S turn of silk may be used. Eye.—Injuries of the Conjunctiva.—The most common minor injury of the eye is the impaction of a minute fragment of some foreign body in the cornea or conjunctiva. The foreign body will most often be found imbedded in the lower half of the cornea, as this part is most exposed in the palpebral fissure. There is usually much pain and discomfort, aggravated each time that the patient closes the eye when the upper lid is scratched by the offending particle. The eye waters freely and is intolerant of bright lio-ht; the pupil may be smaller than the other (congestion myosis). The removal of a foreign body from the eye may be effected as follows. The patient should be seated. The Surgeon stands behind, with the patient's head resting against his chest. After dropping some 2 per cent, solution of cocaine into the eye, the Surgeon concentrates the light of a lamp on to the