824 INJURIES OF THE FACE AND ADJACENT PARTS. and a stronger pair of scissors, curved on the flat, for cutting the optic nerve (Fig. 319). Having inserted the speculum, the Surgeon picks up the conjunctiva with forceps close to the corneal margin, and often cutting a small opening in it with the scissors, divides it completely round as near the cornea as possible. The capsule of Tenon is next opened by cutting back between the position of any two of the recti muscles, keeping close to the globe. By now passing the strabismus hook along the track of the scissors and sweeping it gently over the surface of the sclerotic, the muscles can be picked up in succession and divided on the hook close to the sclerotic. It is immaterial where the opening in the capsule is made, but a convenient spot is to one side or other of the inferior rectus, and from this opening the operator divides the muscles in whichever ft. h. c. (L e. Fig. 319.—a. Wire-Speculuni. h. Toothed Forceps with Fine Points, c. Straight Scissors. d, Strabismus-Hook. e. Scissois for Dividing Optic Nerve in Extirpation of the Eye. order is most convenient. The optic nerve is next cut through with the curved scissors, which are passed backwards with the blades closed until the optic nerve is felt. Any remaining structures may be divided close to the globe. A compress should be firmly applied with a bandage for a few hours, after which a light pad of antiseptic gauze or wool is sufficient. At each dressing the lids should be separated and the orbit irrigated with tepid mercurial or boric lotion. Mouth.—"Wounds of the mouth are seldom met with, except as the result of gunshot violence. The amount of injury done to the soft structures, however great, is usually only secondary to the mischief that results to the brain, spinal cord, jaws, and skull, and must of course be dealt with on the ordinary prin- ciples of treatment of gunshot and lacerated wounds. Tongue.—Wounds of the tongue usually occur from its tip or sides being- caught between the teeth during an epileptic fit. They have been known to be inflicted by insane patients, in attempts to excise or to bite off this organ. Should the h£emorrhage be free, it can be restrained by the application of a