552 FRACTURES. The occurrence of Dislocation at the same time as the fracture often causes great difficulty, as it becomes necessary to reduce the dislocated joint before the fracture is consolidated. In several instances of this kind which have come under my care, I have succeeded in reducing the dislocation at once, by putting up the limb very tightly in wooden splints, so as to give a degree of solidity to it, and to permit the lever-hke movemeiit of the shaft of the bone to be employed ; and then, putting the patient under chloroform, I have replaced the bone without nmch difficulty. Should the Surgeon have omitted to reduce the dislocation in the first instance, he must wait until the fracture has become firmly united, and then, putting the limb in sphnts or in starch, he may try to effect reduction, which, however, wih then be very difficult. In addition to the foregoing complications I have met with many others, such as fracture in a limb which is the seat of an Old Unreduced Disloca- tion, or an Ankylosed Joint, or in the Site of an Excised Joint or in the Stump of an Amputated Limb. In such cases union has taken place readily, the splints being necessarily modified in such a way as to adapt them to the altered form of the limb. Amputation is only required in simple fractures for gangrene either from tight bandaging, the direct effect of the injury to the soft parts, or wound of the main vessels. These complications are very rare, and 1 have never been obliged to amputate for a simple fracture. No amount of comminution will necessitate the operation if the skin and the main vessels are sound. I have had under my care a man, in whom the condyles of both femo?-a and the left patella were crushed into numerous pieces by a fall from a great height on the knees, the limbs at the seat of the injury feeling like bags of loose fragments of bone ; yet, as neither the skin was broken nor the main vessels injured, though both knee-joints appeared to be disorganized, the limbs were preserved, and good union ensued. Compound Fracture.—A compound fracture is one in which there is an open wound leading down to the broken bone at the seat of fracture. Thus the term includes injuries varying in severity from a single fracture compli- cated by a small punctured wound of the skin made by one of the fragments to a complete smash of the whole limb, such as is made by a railway-train passing over it. Compound fractures therefore include many injuries far more severe than any simple fracture can possibly be; but, in a veiy large proportion of cases, the injury to .the soft parts and the splintering of the bone are no greater than in many simple fractures, the sole difference being that, in the one case, there is a wound by which the causes of decomposition can find access to the decomposable blood-clot and inflammatory exudation suiTounding the broken ends of the bone, while in the other they are excluded by the unbroken skin. As a consequence of this, unless special means are taken to prevent it, decomposition sets in, the blood-clot breaks down and is discharged, and the septic matter in the cavity of the wound excites inflamma- tion, reaching the stage of suppuration, in the surrounding tissues. Portions of the bruised muscles and the torn periosteum, which in a simple fracture would either have recovered, or if too severely injured would have been pene- trated by wandering cells and absorbed, may perish in consequence of the additional irritation caused by the septic matter and finally be cast off as sloughs. From the same causes portions of the ends of the bones which may