SPECIAL AMPUTATIONS. 112 This flap, includiiio: skiu and fat only, is raised sufficiently to expose the whole insertion of the trapezius, which must then be cut through. The limb is now allowed to fall below the table, so as to tilt forward the upper part of the scapula, and the remaining attachments are divided in the following order, the omo-hyoid, levator anguli scapula3, rhomboid muscles and serratus magnus. As the levator is cut, an assistant must be prepared to seize the posterior scapular artery in forci-pressure forceps. The suprascapular, if not already tied, must also be seized as soon as cut. The bleeding is comparatively shght, and the operation is by no means difficult. It is important m the first stage to remove enough of the inner part of the clavicle, otherwise there may be some difficulty in securing the vein. If there is much trouble in exposing the vessels, the upper part of the anterior incision may be made, and the pectoralis major divided to bring them more easily into view. General Results of Amputations of the Upper Limb.—Amputations of the upper extremity are, as a rule, extremely successful. Fatal shock rarely occurs except after operations at the shoulder-joint, and consequently with good hygienic surroundings and efficient antiseptic treatment almost every uncomplicated case of amputation in the upper limb should recover. This degree of success is in fact common at the present time. Where these advan- tages are not to be obtained, as for example in military surgery, the average death rate has been from 20 to 34 per cent, for the arm, and from 5 to 10 per cent, for the forearm. Amputation at the shoulder-joint for injury, although necessarily more fatal, is very successful for so severe a procedure. At University College Hospital I have done the operation six times with one fatal result. In the English army in the Crimea, the mortality was only 35 per cent., and in the American Civil War it was 39-2 per cent. When the operation is performed for disease the results are more favourable. Amputations of the Foot.—The Phalanges of the Toes seldom require amputation : when they do, they may be removed in the same way as the corresponding parts of the hand. In removing a toe at the Metatarso-phalangeal Articulation, the oval method should always be practised, so that the sole of the foot may not be cut into (Fig. 53). The articulation is situated about the same distance above the web as the point of the toe is below it, and the incision must therefore be commenced about half an inch above this point (Fig. 53). In removing any of the three middle toes, those on each side must be forcibly separated, and^ at the same time flexed as much as possible by pieces of bandage passed round them. The toes are too short to be held aside easily by the fingers of the assistant (Fig. 53). The forcible flexion of the neighbouring toes renders the articulation more superficial, and greatly facilitates the operation. Amputation of the Great Toe is frequently required for injury and for destruction of the metatarso-phalangeal joint by extension of inflammation into it from a suppurating bunion. In such cases the head of the metatarsal bone should never be removed if it can possibly be saved, as it forms the anterior extremity of the arch of the foot on the inner side, and its loss tends to cause the foot to turn outwards. It is a common error to leave an insuffi- cient covering for the head of the bone, the great size of which should always be borne in mind. To avoid this the operation should be performed by the racket-shaped incision, the oval part of which should not commence till the