678 SPECIAL DISLOCATIONS. hand in a position midway between pronation and supination. On ex- amination no displacement of the bony points at the elbow can be detected ; complete flexion of the elbow is impossible and supination is arrested at the mid-position. Of the many explanations of these symptoms which have been suggested two may be especially mentioned. Some Surgeons have supposed that an incomplete dislocation of the head of the radius forwards occurs, whilst others believe that the radius is drawn away from the capitellum by the sudden extension applied to the forearm and that the return of the bone is prevented by a folding in of the orbicular ligament. The Treatment consists in flexing the elbow and strongly supinating the hand, when a click is felt over the head of the radius and the movements of the limb are restored. The elbow should then be fixed for three or four days. Congenital Dislocation of the Radius is occasionally met with, the head of the bone being displaced in either of the three directions mentioned above. F. C. Abbott has recorded a remarkable series of seven cases of congenital dislocation forwards, occurring in four generations of one family. The Radius and Ulna are sometimes displaced in Opposite Directions, the ulna being thrown Ijaclavards, and the radius forwards. This injury, of which I have seen two instances, usually results from heavy falls upon the hand, with a wrench of the limb at the same time, as when a person is thrown out of a carriage and alights upon his hands. The deformity is of course great, but is readiiy recognized by the combination of the characters of the two forms of displacement, provided an examination be made before the swelling, which rapidly sets in, has come on. Complications.—Dislocations of the elbow-joint are very frequently com- plicated with fracture of one or other condyle of the humerus, of the olecranon, and—more rarely, as we have already seen in the displacement of the ulna— of the coronoid process. In these complicated injuries an exact diagnosis is often extremely difficult, owing to the laxity and mobility of the parts, and to the great tumefaction that accompanies accidents of this description. Diagnosis.—For the diagnosis of these various injuries a good knowledge of the relative bearings of the different osseous points is essential, but an accurate comparison of the injured with the sound limb is equally important. To do this the Surgeon should stand in front of the patient, whose arms should be placed in exactly the same position on each side. The Surgeon then grasps the right elbow with his left hand, and the left with his right, in such a way that his forefinger on each side is on the point of the olecranon, his thumb on the outer condyle, and his middle finger on the inner condyle. The relative position of these three points is thus easily ascertained. If they bear their normal relation to one another the case is not one of dislocation of both bones in any direction, but it may in a young subject be a separation of the lower epiphysis of the humerus (see p. 522). The thumb on each side must then be gradually moved down the ridge formed by the outer condyle, and if the radius is displaced a hollow will be felt immediately beneath it, contrasting clearly with the prominence on the uninjured side. An assistant should then pronate and supinate the hands, by which the head of the radius will easily be recognized in whatever position it may be. Many errors in diagnosis of these injuries arise from not carefully comparing the two sides in this way. It not unfrequently happens, however, that the swelling so obscures the bony points that within a few hours of the injury diagnosis is impossible.