SYMPTOMS OF FEVER IF GENERAL. 197 spoken of as high fever, and above that point the terra hyperpyrexia is applied to it. Few patients recover from any febrile condition in which the thermo- meter rises above 107° F. (-41-6° C). The temperature is usually taken in the axilla, but occasionally the mouth or rectum is used instead. In taking the temperature in the mouth, the bulb of the thermometer must be put under the tongue and the lips kept firmly closed for three minutes. In the mouth and rectum the temperatures regis- tered are about half a degree higher than those in the axilla. The temperature in all inflammatory fevers shows the morning fall and evening rise, common to nearly all febrile conditions. Many febrile conditions arising in surgical practice, especially those con- nected with acute suppuration and some forms of blood-poisoning, are ushered in by chillimss, sldveriny, or a rigor. A well-marked rigor commences with a sensation of cold, accompanied by great nervous depression and anxiety, often amounting to fear, on the part of the patient. The feeling of cold is so intense that the patient covers himself with hot clothing and shivers beneath a heap of blankets till his teeth chatter. If during this cold stage of the rigor the temperature be taken in the mouth, it will be found to be greatly above normal, often as high as 105° F. If the temperature had been taken before the rigor commenced it would have been found that the rise in the thermo- meter began some time before the sensation of chilliness set in. During the cold stage the face is pale and the whole surface of the body is more or less blanched. The surface temperature of the extremities is not raised and may be subnormal. This is due to the contraction of the arteries of the skin, which is the essential feature of the cold stage of a rigor. The bloodless condition of the skin thus induced is the cause of the sensation of cold, and by limiting the loss of heat from the surface it takes some part in producing the rapid elevation of temperature. After a time varying from ten to twenty minutes or even more, the contraction of the cutaneous arteries yields, and a corresponding dilatation follows. The surface of the body becomes red', the face is flushed, the skin becomes moist, and gradually a profuse perspiration sets in—sufficient, in many cases, to soak the sheets of the bed. During this hot stage of the rigor, the patient feels intensely hot, although the thermometer shows that the temperature is rapidly falling, the loss of heat from evaporation of the perspiration being necessarily very great. In half an hour or more the sweating ceases and the whole rigor is over, leaving the patient weak and exhausted. In all forms of fever there is increased frequency of the heart's heat. This is, as a rule, proportional to the elevation of the temperature and to the degree of weakness of the patient. The respiration is increased in frequency, usually m the same proportion as the pulse. The face is generally flushed, but by no means always so. Another feature common to all forms of fever is emaciatmi and loss of strength. The increased production of heat must be regarded as work, and consequently during febrile disturbances the patient may be expending force as truly as if he were carrying weights or chmbing mountains. At the same time, his appetite is lessened and his powers of digestion and assimilation of food reduced. The rapid exhaustion and emaciation of many fevers is there- fore not to be wondered at. Thirst is always one of the most prominent symptoms, and the appetite is