3 T 2 CYSTIC TUMOURS. lo" reduced it by successive tappiii,2:s, and then, laying it open, allowed it to granulate from the bottom. When practicable, however, the cyst should always be dissected out. (2.) Many cases have been described as blood-cysts, which are in reality serous cysts into which an accidental hct^morrhage has taken place. In these, unless the haemorrhage be very recent, the blood has undergone changes in colour from disintegration of the corpuscles. In some cases it is treacly from absorption of a part of the serum. (3.) The term "hematoma" is more commonly applied to cysts ivhich have their origin in an extravasation of Uood. The changes that occur in extrava- sated blood have already been; described (p. 812). In some cases, as there pointed out, absorption fails to take place. The extravasated blood distends the spaces of the areolar tissue, or fills a cavity formed by subcutaneous laceration. A deposit of fibrin first takes place, and subsequently, in consequence of the irritation caused by the tension of the fluid, an ill-defined capsule of fibrous tissue is formed round the extravasation. The contained blood becomes altered in colour from disintegration of the corpuscles, and^finally the contents assume the appearance of more or less darkly-tinged serous fluid. The hasmatoma of the ear so frequently met with as the result of violence during the game of football, when played according to the Rugby rules, is a cyst of this kind. Similar cysts are not uncommonly met with in the ears of lunatics, and in these cases the cause is not so evident. I have seen a large hsematoma on each ear of a lunatic. The contents consisted of semi-solid coagulum. Similar cysts are occasionally found as a result of hsemorrhage into the subarachnoid space. The coagulated blood in the course of time becomes completely discoloured, and forms a thin membrane-like layer of tissue which encloses a cavity containing a small quantity of serous fluid. (4.) In many cases which have lately been recorded, it has been found that tumours which were described clinically as blood-cysts were in reality soft sarcomata, the structure of which had been broken down by haemorrhage. (See Sarcomatous Blood-cysts.) (c.) Cystic Tumours.—These are tumours in which the development of cysts is an essential of their growth, and not merely an accidental complica- tion. To this class belong the compound or multilocutar cysts met with in the ovary, the mamma, and the testicle. In many cystic tumours solid'growths project from the walls into the cavities, and from this they have received the name of proliferous cyststhe growths are spoken of as intracystic growths. Multilocular cysts, as met with in the ovary, form the best example of this form of tumour. These cysts are composed of a fibrous wall and an inner lining of columnar epithehum. Immediately beneath the epithelium is a layer of embryonic tissue, from which spring the intracystic growths. These assume the form of branched papillte projecting into the cavity of the cyst ; they are covered by columnar epithelium. Wilson Fox showed that secondary cysts may be formed by the adhesion of adjoining masses of this papillary growth, thus forming small closed spaces or daughter-cysts, which gradually become distended by secretion. In some cases the reverse process takes place, and instead of the number of cysts increasing by the formation of daughter-cysts, they become diminished by coalescence. Unilocular ovarian cysts are sup-. posed to be often formed in this way. The contents of these cysts vary from a liquid as thin as ordinary blood-serum, to a viscid fluid. It is alkaline in