542 FRACTURES. soda of the consistence of syrup, which can be purchased ready prepared and keeps well in a stoppered bottle, and some thin bandages. The bandages are to be thoroughly soaked by being drawn through a sufficient quantity of the solution in the bottom of a basin, and then rolled up again. A thick padding of cotton-wool is then put round the limb, and the silicate bandage applied directly upon it. No pasteboard splints are used, and about four or five liiyers of bandage will be required. It dries in from 12 to 24 hours, and makes a clean, firm, light case, which can be cut up and treated like a starched bandage. In the ti'eatment of ordinary simple fractures of the shafts of long bones, the following are the chief points that require attention : 1. To effect reduction at once, and with as little disturbance of the limb as possible. 2. Not to apply any calico roller to the part of the limb in which the fracture is situated, nor under the apparatus. 3. To line or pad the apparatus uniformly, 4. To include and fix in the apparatus the two joints connected with the injured bone, 5. To disturb the apparatus as seldom as possible. 6. To use starched pasteboard or plaster apparatus, when practicable, in preference to any more special form of appliance. Accidents and Complications during Treatment are liable to occur, some of which are general and others special. Amongst the complications to which cases of fracture are liable, in common with a 11 others, are tetanus and erysipelas, but these rarely follow simple fracture, and require no further notice here. Traumatic Delirium, or Delirium Tremens, is by no means an un- common complication, and is always serious. The geueral treatment has already been given (p, 301)). Locally, as soon as the symptoms show themselves, the fracture must be firmly supported by splints or by a starched or plaster of Paris bandage. The injured limb must be slung from a cradle, and on . no account tied to the bed. This, as a rule, fixes only the lower fragment, while the upper works about during the struggles of the patient, and may cause the most serious mischief. Fat Emljolism.—If the lungs of a patient who has died shortly after a severe accident crushing one or more bones be examined microscopically, after staining with osmic acid, a certain number of the capillaries, and perhaps some of the terminal arteries, may be found plugged with liquid fat. The appear- ances are very characteristic, the fat being stained black by the osmic acid ; and it is easy to recognise the plugs in tortuous capillaries surrounding the air-vesicles or in the small branching arterioles. If the remaining organs be examined, similar embolic plugs may be found in all parts of the body and in the nervous centres. In the kidney the loops of vessels in the Malpighian vessels are frequently found distended with fat. Experimental enquiry into the subject has led to the following conclusions. If liquid fat or oil be in any way set free amongst the tissues it may find its way into the circulation either by'means of the lymphatics or by the veins. If injected into the healthy subcutaneous tissue it enters the circulation more slowly than from the pleura or peritoneum. Pressure favours the process ; thus, if the fat of the medulla of a long bone be broken down and a laminaria tent inserted, fat embohsra is