COLUMITAR CARCINOMA. 1075 met with also in the uterus, ovary, and gall-bladder, and, in rare cases, in the breast, springing from the larger ducts. Appearance and Progress.—A columnar carcinoma bears the same relation to the papilloma of the intestine that the squamous carcinoma does to the common wart on the skin. A simple papilloma as it increases in size keeps its superficial character, and becomes in most cases pedunculated and shows little tendency to ulcerate. A columnar carcinoma spreads widely with a somewhat firm fleshy base. Its surface remains papillary at the circum- ference, but soon ulcerates in the central parts, becoming rugged and irregular, and bleeding readily and abundantly. The growth extends through the whole thickness of the gut, and may implicate neighbouring viscera. Columnar carcinoma shows a much lower degree of malignancy than squamous carcinoma. It grows as a rule slowly, and frequently does not affect the lymphatic glands Fig. 308.—Columnar Carcinoma of TraiLsverse Colon (188 diam.). One tube is cut obliquely, the others transversely ; tlie e])itlielium is irreo'ular in shajie and size, and is sometimes arranged in I'nore than one layer. The stroma is fibrous, containing small round cells. till a late period of the case. "Visceral recurrences are rare, and are met with chiefly in the liver. Death commonly takes place ft-om the local disease, either from exhaustion from the discharge and loss of blood or from obstruction of the bowel or pylorus. Structure.—A section of such a growth (Fig. 308) shows it to be composed of tubes lined with columnar epithelium, bound together by a delicate con- nective tissue, more or less infiltrated with small round cells. The tubes resemble gigantic crypts of Lieberkiihn. By the microscope alone it is not always easy to distinguish these tumours from simple papillomata covered with columnar epithehum, in which the bases of the papilte on section give the appearance of tubes. The irregularity of the structure and the greater cell- infiltration of the connective tissue would lead to a suspicion of malignancy. If the base be examined and the proper structure of the tumour be found im- plicating the muscular coat or extending to neighbouring parts, its malignant nature is placed beyond a doubt. The secondary growths met with in the glands and liver maintain the characteristic features of the primary tumour, so that a tissue, looking like crypts of Lieberkiihn irregularly massed together, may be found in the lym-