458 ARREST OF ARTERIAL HJEMORRHAGE. distance on the proximal side, if the operation succeeds in arresting the bleeding, the artery will be obliterated in two places, at the seat of ligature and at the wound, and, for the reasons already given, gangrene is very likely to occur. Thirdly.—li the anastomosing circulation is so free that gangrene does not occur, it is very probable that the operation of ligature at a distance would fail to arrest the bleeding. Fourthly.—The hgature of the main trunk on the proximal side involves the performance of a serious operation on a patient in a most unfavourable condition from loss of blood and septic fever, and possibly also from some infective process such as erysipelas, hospital gangrene, or pyaemia. Fifthly.—As secondary hjemorrhage almost invariably occurs as a consequence of septic inflammation and suppuration in the Avound, the patient's condition is usually improved by opening it up and cleaning it out with some efficient antiseptic. For this reason the patient will in most cases be benefited by the attempt to secure the bleeding vessel in the wound, even if the operation cannot be completed, and the Surgeon is driven as a last resource to tie the vessel at a distance on the proximal side. The only argument of any weight which has been brought forward against the rule of operating at tlie bleeding point is that as the first ligature has failed, probably from the unhealthy condition of the wound, the second ligature is likely to fail also from the same cause, and that if, in order to reach a healthy part, the artery is exposed at a higher point by an incision continuous with the original wound, the fresh raw surface will inevitably be infected from the foul wound. Against this it may be urged that it is very possible that the fresh incision, even if made at a distance, may become infected with the unhealthy process affecting the original wound, especially in cases of erysipelas, hospital gangrene, or w-ound diphtheria, and thus nothing would be gained by applying a ligature at a distance on the proximal side. Moreover, when the wound is freely opened up it may, in most cases, be brought into a healthy condition by the free application of some powerful antiseptic, such as chloride of zinc (gr. 40 to gj.), or perchloride of mercury (1 in 500), and afterwards dusting the surface with iodoform, and applying some antiseptic dressing. For these reasons it may be stated as a general rule, to which there are but few exceptions, that however deep the wound, and however unhealthy the neighbouring parts may be, there is no safety to the patient unless the artery be exposed and tied at the part injured. An operation of this kind is often attended with the greatest difficulty, not only owing to the htemorrhage that usually accompanies it and obscures the parts, but also in consequence of the inflamed, infiltrated, and sloughy condition of the tissues in the wound. In applying the ligature under these circumstances, the tissues will necessarily have in a great degree lost their cohesion and firmness; and-?ilthough the arterial coats resist the disorganising influence of inflammation much longer than areolar or muscular tissue, yet they will also have become softened and less resistant. Hence the vessel must be isolated with gentleness, and the ligature very carefully applied. In many cases it will be necessary to expose the artery a short distance from the surface of the wound in order to find a part sufficiently healthy to hold the ligature. The exceptions to this rule are in the first place the same as in primary h£emorrhage, viz., the deep branches of the carotid and some cases of wound