SIMULTANEOUS AMPUTATION OF TWO LIMBS. 75 stitclies and arranoino- the dressing in pads, so as to have the edgxs of the wound free. In the hands of some Surgeons the open treatment, that is to say, arranging the stump on a pillow without the application of any dressing has proved very successful. The late Mr. Calleiider obtained excellent results by the use of drainage-tubes for from twenty-four to thirty-six hours, and placing the stump on a well-padded splint, to which it was bandaged, so as to prevent all voluntary movement and disturbance from involuntary twitchings. Tlie wound was dressed with lint soaked in carbolic acid and oil, and cleansed when necessary with a glass brush dipped in a spirituous solution of carbolic acid. In fact any method of treatment which secures the essential conditions of rest, drain- age and asepticity will, if carefully carried out, be followed by success. The amount of rest that a stump gets depends to some extent upon the skill with which it is handled by the Sui-geon at the dressing, but it is evident that the most perfect rest will be obtained by those methods of treatment which involve the least frequent change of dressing. Whatever dressing may be adopted, the stump must be supported on a soft pillow, and the weight of the bed-clobhes taken off by a cradle ; or should the covering be composed of heavy muscular flaps, it may advantageously be placed on a well-padded wire splint. In some cases, although the flaps may appear abundant at the time of the operation, the retraction may much exceed that which was anticipated, and a wide granulating surface may be left after the deep parts have healed. This is most common in amputations in the thigh. If the covering has really been sufficient, this will usually remedy itself, the contraction of the granulating sore gradually bringing the skin edges together. The healing of the stump under these conditions is hastened by applying weight extension, which is done thus : a piece of diachylon plaster is cut of sufficient length to reach to the next joint above the amputation on the anterior and posterior aspects of the limb, and to form a loop extending at least one foot beyond the end of the stump. Its width at each end must be nearly half the circumference of the limb, but in the middle it may be somewhat narrower. The plaster is well warmed and applied to the stump, and surrounded by a few turns of a bandage made of the best elastic Welsh flannel. A wide " spreader," made of a piece of wood with a hole in it for the rope which supports the weight to pass through, is then put into the projecting loop of plaster. The spreader saves the end of the stump from being squeezed. The weight is then applied over a pulley in the same way as is described under the treatment of fracture of the femur. The results of tliis treatment are most satisfactor}'-, especially in the lower third of the thigh. In most cases the stump is benefited by the application of a bandage to support and mould it during the final stage of healing. After cicatrisation is completed, the patient may go about on crutches, but must not wear an artificial limb for some months, until the parts have become firmly consoli- dated ; during the whole of this time the stump should be kept carefully bandaged, and not exposed to injury. Simultaneous oe Eapidly Consecutive Amputation of two Limbs for severe injury or for gangrene, has occasionally been successfully practised, either by two Surgeons performing the two amputations at the same time ; or by the same Surgeon doing first one and then the 9ther, the vessels of the first limb being secured by an assistant whilst the second limb is being removed. The circulation through both lower extremities may be completely arrested by