MENINGEAL HAEMORRHAGE: SYMPTOMS. 765 I could trephine she died. On examination, a four-ounce clot was found on the dura mater, under a ruptured meningeal artery, but without fracture. . I have seen the same in a boy, who, running- down stairs to his dinner, struck his head against the opposite wall ; he ate his dinner, vomited, became drowsy and died. A large clot was found between the dura mater and the bone at the part struck. In neither of these cases Avas there any external bruise oi- other sign of injury. In a case of murder at Liverpool the man, after receiving the fatal blow, walked half a mile home, half a mile to see a medical man, and finally home again, and did not become unconscious for three hours and a quarter after the injury. In the cases in which the interval of consciousness is wanting, this is due either to very rapid haemorrhage or to simultaneous laceration of the brain. As the haemorrhage takes place the symptoms of compression set in, and gradually increase in intensity. The extravasation being in the great majority of cases over the motor area of the cortex, paralysis is usually an early and important symptom. Most commonly, if the case be seen early, there is paralysis of the side opposite to the extravasation—in. rare cases, more marked at first, perhaps, in one limb. As the pressure increases the paralysis usually becomes general, but even when this state is reached the thermometer in most cases shows that the temperature of the extremities is higher on the side opposite to the clot. Convulsions may occur early in the case but are not common. Vomiting is a very frequent symptom. In the early stages the patient becomes drowsy and dull, with a slow and labouring pulse, dilated and sluggish pupils, and a tendency to slow respira- tion. As the compression increases complete coma sets in with loud ster- torous breathing. When the symptoms follow the typical course with a distinct interval of consciousness we may feel tolerably sure that the extravasation results from injury of one of the meningeal arteries or large venous sinuses, and that there is no laceration of the substance of the brain ; for it may safely be assumed that if the patient recovers consciousness after the accident, he cannot have such a degree of tearing and bruising of the cerebral substance as to lead to an escape of blood sufficient to cause compression. The vessel most commonly ruptured is the anterior branch of the middle meningeal artery, (Fig. 308a) which, from its situation in a deep groove in the parietal bone, is peculiarly apt to be torn in injuries of the side of the skull. When this artery is the source of the blood, the clot extends deeply down into the base of the skull; and Hutchinson pointed out that in this way it may exert powerful pressure on the cavernous sinus, leading to fulness of the vessels, with protrusion of one eyeball and wide dilatation of the pupil. This occurs on the same side as the extravasation, and thus we may get hemiplegia of the opposite side, while the more dilated pupil is on the same side as the injury. It may, however, be pointed out, that in his experiments upon compression of the brain Dean found that under certain circumstances locahzed pressure on the cortex caused wide dilatation of the pupil on the same side. In cases complicated with a fissured fracture, some of the blood forces its way through the fissure, and thus may cause marked fulness of the temporal fossa on the affected side, clearly to ,be seen when the head has been shaved. A few years ago a man was admitted into University College Hospi- tal who had fallen from the driving-seat of a van. He got up again and took