7o8 SPECIAL DISLOCATIONS. injuries to wliicli the Hmbs are hable ; the external wound being usually large, ragged, and accompanied by the protrusion of the condyles of the femur, with much laceration of the soft structures in the vicinity of the joint. These injuries, as a general rule, call imperatively for amputation ; but cases have occurred in which the limb has been saved. Hence, if the patient be young, if the great vessels do not appear to have been seriously injured, and if the wound in the soft parts at the same time be not very extensive, nor much bruised, an attempt may be made to save the limb. In a case of this kind m a boy, A.White sawed off the end of the femur which protruded through the ham, and succeeded in saving the limb. Congenital Dislocations of the Knee have occasionally been met with, with displacement of the tibia forwards. Cases of this kind have been recorded by Hilton, Guerin, Barwell, and Godlee. In some it was complicated by absence of the patella. In Barweh's case flexion was extremely hmited, but by pushing the tibia backwards it could be carried to a considerable angle, and by fixing it in this position with a plaster of Paris bandage, the disloca- tion was completely cured at the end of six weeks. Subluxation of the Knee, Displacement of a Semilunar Cartilage, or as it was termed by Hey " internal derangement of the knee-joint," is a common and very troublesome accident. It usually occurs whilst the knee is shghtly flexed and the leg rotated inwards or outwards. Thus it may happen in rising from a kneeling position or in kicking a Ibotball (the limb affected being that upon which the patient is standing), or by striking the toe against a stone in walking. The patient is seized suddenly with acute and sickening pain in the knee, often so severe as to cause nausea or faintness. He may fall, but is conscious of having injured the knee before iaUing. On examination the hmb will be found semiflexed and incapable of complete extension, any attempt to straighten it fully being attended with severe pain. In many cases a distinct fulness can be recognized on one side of the ligamentum patellse in the hollow between the tibia and the feipur, and there is tenderness at the same spot. In the course of a short time in m.ost cases the joint becomes distended by inflammatory effusion. This accident has l)een the subject of much investigation from the time it was first described by Hey. It has long been recognized that it is due to a displacement of one of the semilunar cartilages. The internal cartilage is far more commonly displaced than the external, although considering the firm attachments of the internal cartilage, the wide separation of its extremities and its considerable size, it might appear probable that the opposite would be the case. From anatomical considerations, Scott Lang is of opinion that the internal cartilage is displaced during flexion with rotation outwards, and the outer by flexion with rotation inwards. As the former is infinitely the more common movement, this would explain the comparative rarity of dis- placement of the outer cartilage. Usually the anterior extremity of the cartilage is partially displaced and loosened, but more rarely the dislocatiou is complete. In a case of this kind found in the dissecting-room and recorded by Godlee, the external cartilage was completely torn away from its attachment to the capsule of the joint, and occupied a vertical position in the intercondyloid fossa. Occasionally the cartilage is torn as well as displaced, and a portion may even be completely detached.