TUMOURS. ;,I06p until after secondary deposits have occurred that the characteristic cachexy sets in. 5. If the primary tumour be removed before neighbouring parts have become contaminated, the health, if it have suffered, often improves materiatlv. 6. All pathological evidence tends to show that the secondary growths arise directly as a consequence of the primary tumour, first, by extension by continuity of tissue ; secondly, by extension along the line of the lym- phatics ; and thirdly, through the blood-stream, leading to growths scattered throughout the body in the same directions as the secondary abscesses in pyaemia which result from septic emboli. 7. Secondary cancers affect the form of the primary one. Thus, primary glandular cancer leads to deposit of masses of the same structure in the lungs ; columnar carcinoma of the rectum to secondary growths in the liver, with identical structural peculiarities. The secondary growths scarcely ever appear in those parts in which primary growths arise ; indeed they usually occur in tissues in which primary carcinoma is unknown, as the lymphatic glands and bones. 8. Growth is fiivoured by local circumstances, as the warmth and moisture of cavities. 9. In some rare instances no recurrence whatever takes place after operation, tjie disease being eradicated from the system, which could not be the case if it were constitutional. 10. When recurrence does take place soon after an operation, it is almost invariably either in the cicatrix or its immediate neighbourhood, or in the nearest lymphatic glands, owing to cancer cells which had been widely dis- seminated, escaping removal, and subsequently developing into new tumours. Were the disease constitutional, recurrence would be as likely to take place in other parts, especially in symmetrical parts. The theory of the local origin of cancer is undoubtedly a very captivating one. It explains in the readiest and the simplest way possible most of the phenomena of the disease ; but some pathologists doubt if it is competent to give a satisfactory solution of all. There are at least four conditions that have been supposed to militate against the theory of the primary localization of cancer, and which have been adduced as evidence of the constitutional origin of the disease. These are—1. The almost absolute certainty of the recurrence of the disease after the removal of the primary growth ; 2. The frequent hereditariness of the disease ; 8. The varying degrees of rapidity with which cancers run their course and the different degrees of virulence they exhibit in different individuals ; and 4. The geographical distribution of cancer. Let us briefly examine those conditions which have mainly been relied on in support of its constitutional origin. 1. The liaUlity to recurrence after removal can have but httle weight, when we consider the rapid tendency to diffusion which characterizes cancers, owing to their peculiar mode of growth, and the relation of the cells to the lymphatics. The fact is, that the cancer cells have already become diffused through the neighbouring structures, and may have entered the lymphatics or the blood long before the primary tumour has attained such a size as to attract attention.