i6o LOCAL DISTURBANCES AND INFLAMMATION sake of clearness. The corpuscles, 1, 2, 3, and 4 in and on the wall of the If a small vein in which the white corpuscles have arranged themselves alonj? its walls be now watched, the following phenomena will be observed. An individual corpuscle being chosen and carefully watched, a small button-like projection will be seen to rise from the outer wall of the vessel, opposite the point to which it is adhering ; this gradually increases in size till it becomes a hemispherical prominence corresponding in width to the remainder of the corpuscle within the lumen of the vein. As the external part increases, that inside the vessel is seen to diminish till the greater part comes to lie outside. It then assumes the form of a pear-shaped body attached to the vein by a stalk, which finally gives way, and the corpuscle is free outside the vessel. When the process of migration is completed, the contour of the vessel remains unchanged, no visible rupture of its coats being observable. The migrated Fig. S4.—Migration of the Leucocytes, from a small vein. w. Wall of vessel. /. Leucocyte-layer on inner side of tlie vessel wall. 1, 2, 3, and 4, Leucocytes in different stages of migration, s. Red blood corjiuscles (axial stream). corpuscle is irregular in shape, can be seen to shoot out delicate processes in various directions, which are drawn in again, and thus it moves farther and farther away from the vessel in which it formerly lay. From the close resem- blance of these changes of form to those observed in the amoeba, they have received the name of " amceboid movements." The whole process is known as migration of the white corpuscles. Fig. 84, which was drawn from life by Horsley, beautifully illustrates the process of migration. It shows the appearances in the mesentery of a frog which had been exposed for seven hours. The circulation was vigorous in the direction indicated by the arrow. At the commencement of observation there was scarcely a' leucocyte outside the vessel wall. One hour and a half after there were about three times the number represented in the drawing, the excess having been omitted for the