TEA UMA TIC ANEURISM. 47° the outer coat and sheath of the vessel. It is at first soft and compressible, but becomes harder and firmer, after a time. It consists of a distinct circum- scribed sac, formed by the yielding of the cicatrix in the external coat and sheath of the artery, no blood being effused into the surrounding tissues. The further increase takes place partly by the growth of new fibroid tissue as the sac increases, and partly by the condensation and adhesion of the sur- rounding areolar tissue and other structures, as in the first form. In Treatment of this form, if the sac be firm and well defined, we may be guided by the same principles as in aneurism arising from disease, and com- pression or proximal ligature may be employed. Should a proximal ligature be applied, the artery may be tied as near as possible to the sac as the coats of the vessel are healthy. The changes that follow the treatment will be the same as in spontaneous aneurisms (see Chap. XLIII.), the tumour gradually becoming consolidated and eventually absorbed. Should the aneurism have attained an enormous magnitude, or should it, from being circumscribed, have become diffused by the rupture of the sac, then the tumour must be laid freely open, the coagula turned out, and the artery hgatured as in the ordinary diffused aneurism. AETERIO-VENOUS WOUNDS. A wound in an artery may communicate with a corresponding one in a contiguous vein, giving rise to two distinct forms of disease—Aneurismal Varix and Varicose Aneurism. These preternatural communications, which were first described by W. Hunter, were formerly common, as a consequence of the puncture of the brachial artery in venesection ; but they have been met with in every part of the body in which an artery and vein lie in close juxta- position, having followed wounds of the subclavian, radial, carotid, temporal, iliac, femoral, popliteal, and tibial arteries. The two forms of communica- tion between arteries and veins differ so completely in their nature, symptoms, effects, and treatment, that separate consideration of each is required. ANEURiSMAii Varix results when, a contiguous artery and vein having been perforated, adhesion takes place between the two vessels at the seat of injury, the communication between them continuing pervious, and a portion of the arterial blood being projected directly into the vein at each beat of the heart. Opposite to the aperture of communication between the two vessels, which is always rounded and smooth, the vein will be found to be dilated into a fusiform pouch, with thickened coats. The veins of the part generally are considerably enlarged, somewhat nodulated, tortuous, and thickened. The artery above the wound is dilated; below, it has been described by different authors as contracted or dilated. In a case of aneurismal varix of the thigh recorded by Davies-Colley, the artery, as far as it was seen below the opening during the operation, was thin-walled and dilated. It is possible that the distal portion of the artery is at first contracted owing to a certain quantity of the arterial blood finding its way into the veins, and the dilatation may be a late phenomenon, as it seems to have been observed chiefly in cases of long standing. It is probably a compensatory change to allow of a sufficient flow of blood to the limb beyond the varix, in spite of the diminished blood- pressure resulting from the leakage of the artery into the veins. The pulse in the dilated vessels is weaker than natural. The thickening of the waU of