SPECIAL DISLOCATIONS. of the most skilful Surgeon. The line of practice to be adopted must depend in a great measure on the seat of fracture. If this be below the middle of the thigh, the limb should be put up tightly in splints, and an attempt made under chloroform to reduce the dislocation in the ordinary Avay, by manipula- tion or by pulleys aiDplied over the splints. If the fracture be high up, near or at the neck, the patient should be put under chloroform, and an attempt should then be made by pressure on the dislocated head and manipulation to replace it. It is possible that this might be effected, as in similar injuries of the humerus, with comparatively little trouble. Should reduction in this way not be practicable, we may adopt the plan successfully employed by Badley, who, in a lad of eighteen, with dislocation on the dorsum ilii and fracture of the displaced bone, allowed union of the fracture to take place, and then, at the end of five weeks, effected reduction. Simultaneous Dislocation of both Hips, in different directions, or of one hip with fracture of the opposite thigh-bone, has been met with in some rare instances. Spontaneous Dislocation from distension of the joint is almost exclusively met with in the hip. lu most cases it has occurred in children during an attack of acute rheumatism or typhoid fever. The patient having necessarily been confined to bed, and usually very ill, the accident has frequently been over- looked until he tried to walk some two or three weeks, or perhaps longer, after the dislocation occurred. In all recorded cases the head of the bone has been displaced backwards and upwards. The treatment of these cases is to attempt to reduce the dislocation by the ordinary means. If these fail, a very useful limb will usually be obtained by passive motion and the applica- tion of a weight-extension apparatus at night. If this fails, and the limb remains much adducted and useless, after a year or two the position of the limb may be greatly improved by excising the head of the bone, an operation which has been performed with excellent results by Eawdon of Liverpool, and Adams of London. There seems no reason, however, to adopt this somewhat severe proceeding tih it is quite evident that a useful limb cannot be obtained without it. In a case of this kind in University College Hospital, a large ex- travasation of blood followed the attempted reduction, which finally suppurated. The incision to evacuate the pus exposed the head of the bone, which was ac- cordingly removed, and the patient, a girl aged about twelve, made an excellent recovery with a useful limb, upon which she could bear the whole weight of her body. Congenital Dislocation of the hip is by no means rare ; it occurs most frequently in girls, and may affect either one hip or both. The dislocation is almost invariably on the dorsum ilii, though other varieties have been met with. When it is double, the deformity, being symmetrical, is seldom recog- nized till the child begins to walk. The signs of the affection are in most cases clearly marked. The situation of the heads of the bones behind their natural position causes the pelvis when the patient is erect to be tilted for- wards, carrying with it the last lumbar vertebra ; to compensate for this there is a curve backwards in the upper lumbar and lower dorsal vertebrae. Thus the lumbar spine forms a very extreme curve, with its convexity forwards (lordosis) ; the trochanter is approximated to the anterior superior spine of the ilium, and the head of the bone may be seen on the dorsum ilii ; the thigh seems shortened and is more or less adducted, and the toes may be straight or