SPECIAL FRACTURES. 628 to allow the fragments to be brought together a day or so befoi-e this. ^ A much more efficient mode of getting rid of the fluid and allowing immediate apposition of the fragments is aspiration of the joint. This mode of treat- ment was adopted in 1872 by Dubrueil, but a case of suppuration of the joint followed by death raised a prejudice against it. The accident in this case was probably due to inoculation of the joint with septic matter by means of a dirty needle. In the hands of Volkmann, Max Schede, and Heath, who have strongly recommended this treatment, no evil consequences have ever followed. In order to prevent accidents, the needle must be soaked for ten minutes in a 1 in 20 solution of carbolic acid before being used. When the fluid has been removed or absorbed, the fragments must in some way be kept in sufficiently close apposition for firm ligamentous union to take place. The means adopted to effect this are numerous, and may be classified thus :—1, Position ; 2, Special 8phnts or Apparatus ; 8, the plaster of Paris Bandage ; and 4, Operative Measures. 1. Position.—The upper fragment, which is retracted by the extensor muscles, must be drawn down so as to be approximated to the lower one, which is fixed by the ligamentum patella. In order to do this, the leg must be fully extended and the thigh flexed at the hip to relax the rectus femoris. This may be done by placing the patient in a semi-recumbent position and elevating the leg considerably. Whatever apparatus may be subsequently applied, the position of the limb must also be attended to. 2. Special Splints and Apparatus.—The simplest mode of treatment is the application of a back splint with a foot-piece. It must extend upwards to the fold of the nates, and be fixed by bandages, leaving the knee exposed. Two rectangular pieces of gutta-percha measuring about two inches from above downwards, and at least one-third of the circumference of the limb in width, are then moulded to the knee, a deep semilunar notch being cut out of each, so that they may accurately fit the upper and lower borders of the