INJURIES OF THE THROAT. 840 have been immersed in water, and are apparently drowned, which appear to be well adapted for the treatment of the less severe forms of asphyxia, or rather cases of syncope from fright and immersion in cold water. These consist, after the nose and mouth have been cleared of mucus, in the applica- tion of heat by means of a bath at about the temperature of 100° Fahr. until the natural warmth is restored ; in the employment of brisk friction ; and in passing ammonia to and fro under the nostrils. It is evident that these measures can have no direct influence upon the heart and lungs, but can only act as general stimuli to the system, equalizing the circulation if it be still going on ; and, by determining the flow of blood to the surface, tending to remove those congestions that are the consequences not so much of the asphyxia as of the sojourn of the body for several minutes in cold water ; they would therefore be of especial service during the colder seasons of the year. A hot bath may also, by the shock it gives, excite the reflex respiratory move- ments. With the view of doing this with a greater degree of certainty, cold water should be sprinkled or dashed upon the face at the time when the body is immersed in the hot bath, as in this way a most powerful exciting influence can be communicated to the respiratory muscles, and the flrst object of treat- ment in all cases of axphyxia—the re-establishment of respiration—would more rapidly and effectually be accomplished ; deep gaspings ensuing, by which the air would be sucked into the remote ramifications of the air-cells, aerating the blood that had accumulated in the pulmonary vessels, and enabling it to find its way to the left cavities of the heart, and thus to excite that organ to increased activity. These means, then, are useful in those cases of asphyxia in which the suflerer has been but a short time submersed, and in which the heart is still acting and the respiratory movements have either begun of their own accord on the patient being removed from the water, or in which they are capable of being excited by the shock of a hot bath, aided by the dashing of cold water on the face. At the same time the lungs may be filled with pure air, by compressing the chest and abdomen, so as to expel the vitiated air, and then allowing them to recover their usual dimensions by the natural resiliency of their parietes. A small quantity of air will, in this way, be sucked in each time the chest is allowed to expand, and thus the re-establishment of the natural process of respiration may be greatly hastened. This simple mode of restoring the vital actions should never be omitted, as it is not attended with the least danger, and does not in any way interfere with the other measures employed. Marshall Hah has recommended that the patient be turned prone, so that the tongue may hang forwards, and the larynx thus be opened ; and that respiration be then set up by gentle pressure along the back, and by turning the patient on his side at regular intervals. This position is very valuable in draining away the water from the bronchial tubes, \\'hich is very necessary in cases of drowning before any attempt is made to introduce air into the lungs. If, by these means, we succeed in rapidly restoring the proper action of the respiratory movements, it will be necessary merely to pay attention to the after-treatment. Should we, however, fiiil in restoring respiration, we should have recourse to other and more active measures. In the more severe cases of asphyxia, the most direct and efficient means that Ave possess for the re-establishment of the circulation is Artificial Respiration, which should be resorted to without delay. The whole value of artificial respiration, however, depends upon the way in which it is