792 INJURIES OF THE SPINE. of the centres for the diflFerent muscles in the grey matter of the anterior cornua may also be looked upon as probably agreeing with that above given. The important bearing of these considerations upon the diagnosis of the position and extent of a hgemorrhage into the cervical region of the spinal cord is obvious, and is exemplified by many of the cases recorded by Thorburn. If the centre for any particular muscle be actually destroyed by the haemor- rhage, that muscle will be permanently paralysed, will undergo atrophy, and exhibit the electrical reaction of degeneration. If the damage be slighter complete recovery may take place. In some cases the muscles supplied from the most damaged area are paralysed, whilst those supplied from higher and lower levels may be afiPected by irritative spasm ; as in a case recorded by Thorburn in which the triceps and latissimus were paralysed, whilst the biceps and subscapularis (supplied above the lesion) and the flexors of the hand and fingers (supplied below the lesion) were spasmodically contracted. Ross has shewn that the sensory nerves supplying the upper limb, coming from the fifth cervical to the first dorsal nerve inclusive, supply the limb in numerical order from the radial to the ulnar side. Hence, as Thorburn points out, the higher the damage extends in the cord the further Avill the anaesthesia extend from the ulnar towards the radial side of the limb. In a case of fracture of the dorsal spine, recently in University College Hospital, the first evidences of the invasion of the cervical enlargement by the ascending myelitis were paresis of the intrinsic muscles of the hand and impairment of sensation along its ulnar border. The remarks above made concerning the effects of haemorrhage into the cervical part of the cord can be more or less applied to those cases in which the lumbar enlargement is the seat of the lesion. These cases are, however, much rarer, and the arrangement of the lumbar and sacral roots at their origin renders them less liable than the cervical roots to separate damage. The exact relations of a small haemorrhage may, how- ever, be in some cases determined by reference to the following table, founded upon cases collected by Thorburn :— Sartorius. Adductors of thigh. Flexors of thigh. Extensors of knee. Abductors of thigh. Hamstring muscles. Calf muscles. Glutei. Peronei. Extensors of ankle. Intrinsic muscles of foot. Perineal muscles. Bladder and rectum - First and second sacral nerves. Fifth lumbar nerve. Third lumbar nerve. Fourth lumbar nerve. Third sacral nerve. Fourth sacral nerve. The relation of the sensory distribution of the nerve-roots from the last dorsal to the coccygeal may be enumerated from above down as follows : Upper part of buttock, groin and scrotum, outer side, front and inner side of