TETANUS. covered and 09 died during the first day ; 1 recovered and 83 died on the second day ; 49 died on the third ; 31 on the fourth ; 22 on the fifth ; 19 on the sixth ; 14 on the seventh ; and 7 on the eighth day. Thus of the acute cases 2, evidently slight in character, recovered ; 294 died before the end of the eighth day; and in 203, or more than half, the disease did not exceed three days fn duration. From the ninth to the nineteenth day inclusive, 36 died and 6 recovered ; from the twentieth to the twenty-seventh inclusive, 7 died and 7 recovered ; and C survived beyond the twenty-seventh day and finally recovered. The longest period during which the disease lasted was forty-nine days. These interesting statistics confirm the view that the more chronic the disease becomes the better is the chance of recovery ; indeed, if the patient survive the tenth day, the prospect of a favourable issue to the case is materially increased. As a general rule, the danger is in the ratio of the acuteness of the attack, both as to severity and also as to rapidity of invasion after injury. Rose has described a variety, which he called Cephalic Tetanus, resulting from wounds of the head, but more especially of the face. The most marked features of this form of the disease are facial paralysis on the same side as the injury, and marked pharyngeal and laryngeal spasm. On account of the latter symptoms the disease bears some resemblance to rabies, and it has therefore been called " hydrophobic tetanus," Pathology.—Reference has already been made (p. 989) to the evidence that tetanus is produced by the action of a specific virus—the bacillus tetani. It is a fact of much importance that in cases following a wound the bacillus is not found in the blood, and further that it increases only to a very limited extent in the tissues of the damaged part. It thus seemed probable that the symptoms of the disease were produced by a powerful poison absorbed into the blood froni the focus of inoculation, and actino- like strychnine upon the nervous system, especially the medulla and the uppe?part of the spinal cord. Vaillard and Vincent shewed that by filtering a pure culture of the bacillus they could obtain a liquid free from the organism itself but which had the power of producing a typical f;ital tetanus if inocu- lated into rabbits, guinea-pigs or mice. On the other hand, these observers found that inoculation of the bacillus purified from its products did not cause tetanus, and that under these circumstances the organism did not multiply at the seat of inoculation. When, however, earth containing the tetanus bacillus is inoculated, the organism multiplies locally and the absorption of the chemical products causes the typical symptoms. Yaillard and Vincent suggest that the difference is probably to be explained by the fact that m the latter case a mixed infection occurs, and that thus the tissues are in some way prepared for the o-rowth of the specific organism by the other organisms which simul- taneously enter them. Brieger has described four separate toxic substances which he obtained from cultures of the bacillus ; the most important of these he called tetanin and tetano-toxine. It seems probable that the essential poison may be an albuminous body, allied to the soluble ferments. Considerable success has attended the endeavours which have recently been made'to produce immunity against tetanus in susceptible animals. Tizzoni and Cattani administered gradually increasing doses of a pure culture of the tetanus bacillus to dogs and horses until they could resist a large dose of the most virulent poison. The serum of the immunised animal was found to