TREATMENT OF PENETRATING WOUND OF ABDOMEN. 883 movement of the intestine and thus preventing extravasation from any wound of the bowel which may be present. Travers showed experimentally—and his investigations have been confirmed by subsequent observations on the human subject—that wounds of the intestines are closed by lymph that is thrown out, not only from the contiguous peritoneal surfaces of the part actually injured, but from that of neighbour- ing coils ; so that the aperture in the gut becomes permanently glued and attached to the structures in its vicinity. In order that this process should take place, it is necessary that the movements of the bowels should be arrested until the adhesions have become firm enough to prevent extravasation of fffices. The patient must be kept perfectly quiet in bed, and no nourishment given but iced milk, or milk and soda-water, and some cold beef-tea or essence of meat, during the first three days. The bowels should not be opened by aperient medicine, lest abdominal irritation be set up, but oleaginous enemata may be administered at the end of a week or ten days. If the symptoms of extravasation of feculent matter into the abdomen pre- sent themselves, an attempt must be made to facilitate its escape externally. The dressing must be removed, and, should the lips of the wound have already become adherent to one another, they should be carefully separated. Should an immediate escape of feculent matter take place, a drainage-tube should be inserted to ensure a ready exit for the discharges. In those cases in which the wound is situated in the loin the gut may be wounded without implication of the peritoneum, as in lumbar colotomy. In these recovery commonly takes place with the formation of a fsecal fistula. In the early stages it may be necessary to enlarge the opening to prevent burrow- ing of matter in the loose tissue around the gut. When a portion of intestine or of omentum has protruded, it should be carefully cleaned with an antiseptic lotion and replaced as speedily as possible, before strangulation has occurred, which may occasion gangrene. If the protruding bowel be wounded it "must be treated in the manner presently to be described. Experience has shown that carbolic acid lotion "(l in 40), or perchloride of mercury (1 in 2000), or dilute tincture of iodine (5ij to Oj) exerts no injurious influence on the bowel. In replacing the protruded gut, the abdominal muscles shou d be relaxed oy bending the thighs upon the abdomen and raising the shoulders, when the Surgeon may gradually push back the protrusion by steady pressure upon it; he must not, however, employ any force, nor any rou<.h handlmg of the exposed parts ; but if their return cannot readily be effected owmg to the constriction of the neck of the protrusion, the aperture through which they have escaped must be enlarged in a direction upwards, by means of a probe-pomted bistoury, or a hernia-knife guided by a flat director In replacing the protruded parts, whether by the aid of incision or not, care must be taken that they are fairly put back into the cavity of the abdomen and no pushed up into the sheath of the rectus, or into the subseroufSarta lying before the peritoneum ; an accident that would be fatal by allowing the constriction of the neck of the protrusion to continue unrelieved The C ^!on. r °"^^°^7;^^^f \' ^"^^^^d to remain in the immediate neigh! bourhood of the wound, to which it will contract adhesions ; and through which Its contents may escape, in the event of any sloughing takin. place After the gut has been returned, the external wound must be closed by'suSire *