lo GENERAL REMARKS ON OPERATIONS. ferments in decomposition ; thirdly, fiom the presence of dried particles of the discharges from wounds or sores : and, lastly, by the contagia of specific infective processes, whether general or local. The gaseous products of decomposition, consisting of sulphuretted hydrogen, sulphide of ammonium, free ammonia, carburetted hydrogen, carbonic acid, and many others undoubtedly tend to aggravate the symptoms produced by the accumulation of the products of respiration ; but it is impossible to separate the effects produced by the former from those of the latter, with which they must ahiiost necessarily be complicated in a hospital ward. Parkes states that the putrefyiug animal matter which frequently accumulates about camps during war foi'ms one of the principal causes of diarrhoea and dysentery ; but it is only in military practice in which large numbers of wounded must occasionally be packed closely together and their wounds neglected for want of sufficient surgical assistance, that putrid discharges could accumulate to such an extent as to develop these diseases. Secondly, the air of a ward containing many foul wounds has been shown to contain a great excess of organic matter, but it is impossible to separate the effects produced by it from those of ibul air generally. Thirdly, microscopic examination has demonstrated the presence of dried pus cells in the air of surgical wards in addition to the epithelium always met with in inhabited rooms. It has been supposed by some that these might possibly act as the material of contagion ; that they may be the bearers of contagion cannot re^^sonably be doubted. Lastly, the air of surgical wards is apt to be contaminated by the contagia of specific infective processes, such as hospital gangrene, erysipelas, pyaemia, &c. The exact nature of the contagium in all these diseases is not yet definitely ascertained. This much is certain, that the poison in all is par- ticulate ; it is never gaseous. Its activity can be destroyed by those chemical substances that we class as antiseptics. In the majority of cases the specific infective process commences in a wound, the discharges of which are in a putrid state ; and those methods of treatment which are best calculated to prevent putrefaction also serve best to prevent the occurrence of infective processes, either local or general. It may now be said to be practically proved that all these unhealthy spreading inflammations are accompanied by the presence of microscopic organisms in the discharges, and often in the lymph spaces near the wound ; and the view is now universally accepted that these micro-organisms are directly or indirectly the cause of the unhealthy processes, and that infection is brough't about by the actual transference of some of these living particles from one patient to another. In the human subject erysipelas has been definitively proved to be caused by the invasion of the lymph-spaces of the skin by a specific fungus. Koch has shown that diseases closely resembling gangrenous erysipelas, septic infection, and pyaemia, as they occur in the human subject, can be artificially produced in animals ; that each disease is accompanied by the presence of a distinct form of micro-organism, and that it can be transmitted from one animal to another by means of infinitesimal (quantities of the blood or exudation fluids containing the characteristic organism. That the organisms or their spores retain their vitality after being dried has been clearly proved with regard to the somewhat analogous disease of anthrax in cattle. This disease is due to a rod-shaped organism, the bacillus anthracis, of such size that its life-