TREATMENT OF CANCER: EXCISION. J079 the operation. Kiister states that in 26 per cent, of his cases no recurrence had taken place three years after the removal of the breast. In determining as to the advisabilityof operating in cases of cancer, several ques- tions of great importance present themselves to the consideration of the Surgeon. He has first to consider whether the operation is likely to rid his patient com- pletely of the disease ; or, in the event of its not doing so, whether life may not be prolonged by the removal of the cancerous tumour ; or, lastly, whether the patient's sufferings may not be much lessened by the removal of the local affection, although there be no prospect of really prolonging life. The two following questions will therefore present themselves to the Surgeon in considering this subject :— 1. Can cancer be cured, or, rather, completely extirpated from the system by excision ? That in some cases a cancerous tumour may be removed wdth every expec- tation of the patient being completely freed from the disease, cannot, I think, be doubted. Velpeau stated that he had perfectly cured patients by the removal of cancerous tumours—at least, that no return had taken place for 12, 15, or 20 years after extirpation. The evidence of Brodie on this point is extremely valuable. Writing in 1846, that eminent Surgeon says : "So long ago as 1832,1 removed a breast affected with a scirrhous tumour, and the lady is still in good health—at least, she was so last year. Since the operation she has married, and had children. Last year I was called to see a lady on account of another complaint, on whom I performed the operation thirteen years ago, and found that she continued free from the old disease ; and, very lately, I have heard of another lady whose scirrhous breast I removed six years ago, and who continues well." The opinion of Fergusson is also very positive on this point, and he speaks in a tone with which I perfectly agree. He says : " Nevertheless, as excision gives the only chance of security—a point on which most parties seem to agree—an operation should always be resorted to, provided the knife can be carried beyond the supposed limits of the disease ; and, moreover, I deem it one of the duties of the practitioner to urge the patient to submit to such a proceeding." The results obtained by Banks and Kiister still further illustrate the possibility of occasionally eradicating the disease by operation. In squamous and columnar cancers the prospects of cure are very much greater if the case be taken in time. 2. If cancer cannot be actually cured by excision, may not life be prolonged and health improved by an opei-ation ? I am decidedly of opinion that this is possible ; and that, though a patient may at last be carried off by some of the recurrent forms of cancerous disease, health may be improved, life may be prolonged, and much suffering may be spared, by a timely operation. It may often be observed that, after the cancer has been removed, the digestion becomes stronger and the patient gains flesh ; the colour of the complexion returns, and the spirits greatly improve, the system being relieved from a source of local irritation, and the mind from a cause of disquietude that has undermined the general health of the patient, I think that the introductioa of anaesthetic agents into operative surgery has very materially affected the bearings of this important question. So long as an operation was a source of great pain, and of much consequent anxiety and dread, a Surgeon might very properly hesitate to subject his patient to ■severe suffering with so doubtful a result ; but now that a patient can be