SPEC I A L DISLOCA TIONS. 668 to measure the length of the arm. Having recognized this tubercle, the fingers may be run along the spine, and any fracture here would be easily detected if not concealed by extravasated blood, as is usually the case in fracture of the scapula. Having found the two sides symmetrical so far, the Surgeon now places his hand flat on the shoulder on each side, with the fore- fingers on the acromion, and presses the three other fingers firmly in under the process, by which he will at once ascertain whether the head of the bone is in its place or not, the hollow under the acromion being very clearly marked when there is a dislocation. After this the middle finger on each side should be placed on the tip of the coracoid process, wliich projects sharply forwards about an inch below the clavicle, while the ring finger is pushed into the hollow be- tween the coracoid process and the head of the humerus ; by this means a sub- coracoid dislocation is recognized by the approximation of the head of the bone to the process ; the forefinger, feeling on the inner side of the coracoid process on each side, would at once recognize the difference caused by the presence of the head in a subclavicular dislocation. In a subglenoid disloca- tion the head of the bone may be felt somewhat indistinctly below and external to the coracoid process. In a subspinous dislocation the prominence of the head will be found just beneath and internal to the acromial angle before mentioned. If by this examination all dislocations of the clavicle, acromion, and humerus, and all fractures of the clavicle are excluded, the Surgeon must next carefully examine the head of the humerus, both from the axilla, and by the finger and thumb grasping the bone through the deltoid. Increased width or a projecting angle of bone may thus be felt which would indicate an impacted fracture. In fracture of the surgical neck the end of the upper fragment can be recognized both from the axilla and below the tip of the coracoid process. Fracture of the great tuberosity is always complicated with partial or complete dislocation, and would be recognized only by the presence of the signs of dislocation with crepitus and difficulty of keeping the joint in position after reduction. Having thus carefully examined by manipulation he may proceed to measurement. This is done by flexing the elbow to a right angle and measuring from the acromial angle to the olecranon. Thei'e is only one injury in which there is marked lengthening—the subglenoid dislocation ; in the subcoracoid dislocation there is usually a very little shortening, but slight lengthening is also said to occur when the head of the bone lies rather lower than usual. In fracture of the surgical neck there is great shortening —an inch or more : in impacted fracture the shortening is very slight, seldom over half an inch. In injuries of the clavicle there is no shortening. Measure- ments should next be taken from the tip of the acromion to the middle line in front; there will be shortening in all fractures of the clavicle (except that between the ligaments) and in all dislocations of the acromion and clavicle. In other injuries the length is unaltered. Finally the arm must be examined by passive moremenl. In all dislocations of the humerus it will be found impossible to place the hand on the opposite shoulder with the elbow touching the front of the chest. In unimpacted fractures the movement is accom- panied by great pain and crepitus. In fracture of the clavicle between the ligaments the crepitus may be a mere click felt on raising the arm over the head. If after thorough examination nothing can be detected, and yet the patient be suffering pain with inabihty to move the joint, the deltoid may be examined, and a tender spot may be found. If at the same time all