CASEA TION—CALCIFIC A TION—SCLEROSIS. 2 2 5 placing the surroundino- tissues till they form a mass, often of considerable size, as in some forms of chronic inflammation of the synovial membranes of joints ; in these masses of cells new vessels are formed, but the vascularisation of the new growth is always more or less imperfect, so that degenerative changes early set in for want of sufficient supply of nutriment. Thus, in chronic tuberculous inflammation of joints, we may find, replacing the synovial membrane, a soft pulpy mass of tissue, perhaps an inch in thickoess. The layer of this, in nearest relation to the vessels of the surrounding liealthy structures, is moderately supplied with new vessels, and presents the ordinary appearances of healthy granulation-tissue; next to this is a layer containing few vessels, and lastly, we find a layer in which the cells have perished from want of blood supply. If they are still recognisable as cells, they are withered and shrunken and filled with fat-granules ; but usually tliey are in part at least reduced to a granular mass, in which no individual elements are any longer to be seen. This change is known as " caseation^ The fatty layer may soften and break down into a fluid, which somewhat resembles pus in appearance, but on micro- scopic examination is found to contain few, if any, pus-cells. The collection of fluid thus formed is a chronic or cold abscess. Another fate that may befall the accumulations of cells formed as a conse- quence of chronic inflammation is, that after undergoing complete fatty degeneration, the mass so formed may become dry and cheesy by the absorp- tion of its fluids The dry cheesy masses thus formed may remain in this state for an indefinite period, but at any time they may soften from causes as yet but imperfectly understood. In the process of softening, the cheesy matter undergoes chemical changes which give it irritating properties; and, as the result of this, inflammation of a more acute character with suppuration may be set up, leading to ulceration in the tissues surrounding it, or to the formation of an abscess which finds its way to the surface, and thus the caseous matter may be eliminated from the body. Another change, the reverse of softening, may take place, when the mass is of small size ; it may shrink and dry up more completely, and lime-salts may be deposited in it, forming a chalky concretion, which remains permanently unchangeable and harmless. Chronic inflammation, with caseation of the inflammatory products often followed by softening, are of frequent occurrence in lymphatic glands, bones, and the subcutaneous tissue ; calcification is occa- sionally met with in bone, and is very common in the lymphatic glands. Both processes are very frequently the result of tubercle, but are by no means exclusively caused by it. Both caseation and calcification are met with in chronic endarteritis ; in the syphilitic gumma a fatty degeneration closely resembling the caseation of tubercle occurs ; typical calcification is met with in the chronic inflammatory tissue surrounding a hydatid cyst or enclosing a trichina spiralis, and many other examples might be given. Chronic inflammation gives rise to yet another change, differing essentially from those already described, viz. to an overgrowth of the connective-tissue of the affected part, or fibrous hyperjDlasia. In many organs and tissues the new fibrous tissue causes an induration to which the term " sclerosis" is applied. This forms the most marked feature of many forms of chronic inflammation, as in chronic interstitial inflammation of glandular oro-ans. chronic osteitis and periostitis, chronic arteritis, and chronic inflammatory affections of the skin. Many of these affections are so far removed frorii