CONTUSIONS OF THE EYEBALL. 819 cornea with a convex lens held with the thumb and index finger of the left hand, the lids being steadied and held gently apart with the other finger of the same hand. The best instrument is a fine needle such as is used for the discission of cataract membranes, as this causes less injury to the corneal epithelium than the ordinary " spud." The patient is directed to look with both eyes at some fixed object, and the foreign body is removed by inserting the point of the needle beneath its edge and gently lifting it out of its bed. Should no foreign body be found on the cornea, the patient should be directed to look downwards whilst the upper lid is everted over a probe. The foreign body most usually adheres to the lid about an eighth of an inch from the margin. Some castor oil or simple ointment should be put between the hds and the eye kept bandaged for a day. If much irritation has already been produced it is advisable to use atropine drops once or twice. Burns by acid, caustic alkahes, lime, and molten metal are amongst the most disastrous injuries to which the conjunctiva is liable. The ultimate damage to the edge is often much greater than would seem probable imme- diately after the injury. A fresh burn of the cornea often appears only as a clear slightly depressed area interfering little with vision, whilst the resulting leucoma may be so dense as to render the eye practically useless. Burns of the conjunctiva may lead to extensive adhesion of the lids to the globe— syrnbUplmron. The immediate treatment of an eye injured by escharotics should be to alleviate the pain and orbicular spasm by the use of a 2 per cent, solution of cocaine, and after carefully removing all solid particles, to wash out the conjunctival sac. The chemical action of an acid or alkali may be arrested by the use of a weak neutralizing solution if the case be seen immediately after the accident. After washing out the conjunctival sac, a few drops of castor oil, or better, some simple ointment with lanolin as a basis, should be put inside the lids to lessen the friction of the raw surfaces on one another. Opium in some form will probably be needed at night, as the pain is always severe. A pad of absorbent wool should be kept lightly applied over the eye with a bandage. Frequent irrigation with warm boric lotion and the use of a simple ointment will be required. Any attempt to prevent the formation of adhesions between the globe and lids by breakiuo- them down frequently is quite futile, and only delays the healing. When cicatrization is complete, much may often be done by plastic operations to remedy the deformity produced by cicatrices. Contusions of the Eyeball.—A severe blow upon the eye, as by a racket ball or the cork of a soda-water bottle, may, without injuring the outer tunics, cause serious damage to the deeper structures. Temporary paralysis of the sphincter muscle of the iris may cause a dilated inactive pupil, whilst partial or complete paralysis of the ciliary muscle may be evidenced by loss of power of accommodation for near vision. The iris may be torn away from some part of its peripheral attachment, leaving a spindle-shaped gap, or it may be fissured radially at its pupillary margin. Hemorrhage may take place into the anterior chamber, the vitreous, or the retina. Haemorrhage into the anterior chamber {hyphcema) is often, but not always, associated with rupture of the iris ; the blood may come from the ciliary processes, and finding its way through the pupil, settles in the lower part of the anterior chamber Absorption of the elfused blood usually occurs rapidly. Hsemorrhage into the vitreous may be so profuse as to cause immediate blindness. If the pupil be