ii6 SPECIAL AMPUTATIONS. knife passed round the under surface of the bone, and the joint opened by the toe being forcibly drawn outwards, and its ligamentous connections divided. The middle metatarsal bones, when diseased, do not admit of separate removal so as to leave a useful foot. Amputation of the Metatarsus.—When the metatarsus and anterior part of the foot are diseased or injured so as to require removal, the amputa- tion may be eflected by one of two methods ; viz., 1. By making a long flap from the sole and a short flap from the dorsum, and then sawing across the metatarsus as a whole above the seat of injury or disease ; or, 2. By disarticu- lating the metatarsus from the tarsus. The first operation—that of sawing through the metatarsus—is sometimes called Lisfranc's; but in reality it was practised and described by Hey long before Lisfranc's time. By " Key's Amputation " is usually meant the dis- articulation of the metatarsus from the tarsus, and the formation of a flap from the anterior part of the sole of the foot. But by reference to Hey's works ("Practical Observations," London, 1814, pp. 550, 553 and 554), it will be found that he describes three different operations, only one of which agrees with this. Thus it would appear that in his first case Hey sawed across the metatarsal bones after having made the flap. In the second case, he dissected out all the metatarsal bones, and then made a flap from the sole; and in the third, he flrst made the sole-flap, and then, having dissected out the four smaller metatarsal bones, sawed across the internal cuneiform ; thus combining the two methods of cutting and sawing. In order to avoid any possibility of error, it is better to discard the terms Hey's and Lisfranc's operation, and to describe these proceedings as "^amputa- tion through the metatarsus," and the " tarso-metatarsal amputation." The wliole of the Metatarsus may be removed from the tarsus by making a curved incision in the sole of the foot, reaching to the roots of the toes, one horn of which commences at the tubercle of the fifth metatarsal bone, whilst the other terminates at that of the first, or one inch in front of the tubercle of the scaphoid. The flap thus marked out is carefully raised, taking skin and fat only for the first inch, and after that all the soft parts down'^to the bone. On the left side the direction of the incision is reversed. A small flap is then made on the dorsum of the foot and the articulations are exposed. These must then be opened with some care, as they are very irregular (Fig. 57) ; the second metatarsal bone being sunk between the inner and^outer cuneiform bones, and the articulation of the fifth with the cuboid being very oblique. The line of the articulation is best found by forcing downwards the anterior part of the foot, while the point of the knife is drawn across the line of the joints. As the articulations are touched they gape slightly, but they are prevented from opening fully by the very strong inter- osseous ligament w^hich passes between the outer side of the internal cunei- form and the base of the second metatarsal bone. This can be divided only by forcing the knife upwards between the two bones, taking care while so doing not to wound the base of the sole flap with the point. As soon as this ligament is divided, the whole Hue of joints readily breaks open, and dis- articulation is performed without further difficulty. This operation is seldom practised, disease being rarely limited to the metatarsal bones, but usually implicating the joints as well. Disarticulation from the tarsus is, morepver,