900 INJURIES OF THE ABDOMEN AND PELVIS. boric acid lotion must be given twice daily. It is as a rule unnecessary to resort to the use of the catheter, provided that the parts be thoroughly cleaned and dried as often as they become soiled. The only dressing required is a small pad of antiseptic gauze or wool which should be changed frequently. The sutures may be left in position for a week or ten days. The remote operation is undertaken for the cure of those cases in which healing has occurred without approximation of the parts by the immediate method above described. Of the very numerous operations which have been devised for this purpose, one of the simplest and most efficient is that recommended by Lawson Tait. The basis of the principle upon which Tait's operation is performed is that the thin white hue of the cicatrix extends transversely to the axis of the rent, which was of course at right angles to the plane of the perinseum. The scheme of the operation " is to restore the old rent and unite it at right angles to its representative cicatrix—that is, at right angles to the plane of the perinseum." No tissue is removed, " and therefore if the operation fails the parts simply return to their abnormal state, not to one which is more unlikely to be remedied." The steps of the operation are briefly as follows, and are described almost in Tait's own words. The folds of the buttocks being held firmly apart so that the cicatrix is put on the stretch, it is divided with scissors from end to end. The incision is about three eighths of an inch deep and forms two flaps, a rectal and a vaginal. From each end of the incision it is carried forwards into the tissue of the labium for about an inch, and again backwards beside the rectum for about a third of an inch. The vaginal flap is held forwards and the rectal flap back- wards, so that the raw surface assumes a somewhat quadrilateral shape. Silk- worm-gut sutures are employed and are passed with a stout-handled and well- curved needle. Each suture is entered at a point about an eighth of an inch within the lateral margin of the wound, and emerges at the corresponding point on the opposite side. The needle is buried deeply in the tissues except at the upper angle of the wound where it appears on the surface. When a sufficient number of stitches have been passed they are tied, and thus the edges of the wound are drawn together in such a way that the resulting cicatrix is antero-posterior. Tait does not recommend the use of separate rectal sutures, but should the Surgeon think it advisable to use them, they may be inserted in the way described in the immediate operation. The sutures can be left in position for three or four weeks, and the rectum and vagina are washed out daily. The bowels should be opened at the end of a week by an aperient and a simple oil enema. The same remarks apply to the dressing of the wound and the use of the catheter as after the immediate operation.