556 FRACTURES. tried. If these fail, or if the hgemorrhage be more coi3ious, the Surgeon should freely enlarge the woand and endeavour to expose the artery at the bleeding point, and apply a ligature to the vessel above and below the seat of injury. Owing to the displacement of the parts and the infiltration of the tissues with blood, it may be impossible to find the injured vessel. Under these circumstances the search should not be prolonged to such an extent as materially to increase the disorganisation of the hmb, but amputation should be performed. Secondary hcmiorrhaga occurring in the course of treatment of a compound fracture of the lower extremity is very rare ; if slight, it may be arrested by elevation and pressure. Should these simple measures fail, the Surgeon must be guided by the condition of the wound. If this be favourable it should be enlarged, and an attempt made to ligature the vessel at the bleeding point. If this should not succeed, or if the septic condition of the wound render the attempt impossible, the main artery of the limb should be tied at a higher level. Thus in many cases ligature of the superficial femoral has been success- fully adopted in cases of secondary haemorrhage complicating a compound fracture of the leg. Amputation should be delayed until after the consecutive employment and failure of other methods. Pearce Gould has recorded a case of compound fracture of the leg, complicated by secondary heemorrhage from the anterior tibial artery on the 25th day, in which he successfully ligatured both ends of the vessel through a free incision. 5. Comminntion or Splintering of the Broken Bone is always a serious comphcation, but if drainage can be established and decomposition prevented, it is robbed of most of its dangers. Should the wound l^ecome septic, exten- sive suppuration will set in ; the splinters, if completely or nearly detached, will lose their vitahty, and not only produce much irritation, but, if numerous, will, on their removal or separation, leave the member shortened and per- manently deformed. The treatment of such cases will depend on the seat of the injury and the extent of the comminution. Compound and comminuted fractures of the femur may, except when occurring in the upper third, generally be looked upon as cases for immediate amputation (see p. 358) ; the only other exceptions being when the comminution is trifling, the splinters large and lying in the axis of the bone, and the subject young. In the arm, forearm, and hand, and in the leg, provided the knee and ankle-joints be not involved, much may be done in the way of removing splinters of detached bone, and sawing off smoothly the rugged ends of the main fragments. The larger attached and " secondary " pieces should be left, as they will throw out callus, and become buttresses of support to the broken bone (see p. 355). If a considerable quantity of splintered bone have been extracted from a limb, care must be taken that in putting up the fracture too complete extension is not maintained, lest a gap be left, which cannot be filled up by new bone, and a weakened limb result. It is better to place the bones in proper apposition, and to let the patient recover with a shortened but strong and otherwise useful limb. 6. In the case of a bad Compound Fracture requiring Amputation low down in a Limb, with, a Simple Fractux'e high up, should the amputation be performed above the compound and below the simple fracture, or above both ? The answer to this must depend on the condition of the limb between the fractures. Suppose that there be a badly comminuted and com-