WOUNDS OF THE SPINAL CORD: SYMPTOMS. 805 bladder from without either by means of the catheter or by direct extension up the paralysed urethra, which cannot perfectly empty itself of urine and mucus during the act of micturition as in a state of health. The decomposing urine soon sets up severe cystitis. The first eflFect of this is that, owing to the irritation of the sensory nerves, the act of automatic micturition is repeated at very short intervals till it amounts to almost constant dribbling. The urine becomes very foul, and is mixed with an abundant secretion of mucus and often some blood. Finally, it may lead to ulceration of the bladder, followed by septic poisoning by absorption from the raw surfaces ; or the mischief may extend to the kidneys and terminate fatally by septic nephritis. Later in the case the bladder often becomes contracted, and constant dribbling of urine follows. In the early stages of these injuries to the cord, the penis will usually be observed to be in a state of semi-erection. Patients who have met with injuries of this portion of the spinal cord may live on for many months, or even for a year or two, in a cachectic state ; death then occurs usually from the formation of bed-sores, or from the effects of the diseased condition of the bladder. 2. AVhen the cord is divided in the Upper Dorsal Region, about the level of the third dorsal vertebra, we have not only the train of symptoms that has just been mentioned as characteristic of this injury lower down, but respi- ration also is interfered with in consequence of paralysis of the greater portion of the expiratory muscles. The intercostal muscles, and those con- stituting the abdominal wall, no longer acting, the imperfect expiration is effected solely by the elasticity of the walls of the chest; and the purely muscular expiratory movements, such as sneezing and coughing, cannot be accomplished. In these cases, during inspiration, which is effected chiefly by the diaphragm, the ribs are depressed instead of being expanded and raised ; and the abdominal wall, which is soft and flaccid, is protruded far beyond its normal limits. In consequence of the impediment to respiration the blood is not properly arterialized ; and hypostatic pneumonia often causes death in two or three weeks. 3. When the injury is situated in the Lower Cervical Region, not only do all the preceding symptoms occur, but there is paralysis of the upper extremities as well ; and, inspiration being entirely diaphragmatic, the circulation is speedily affected, the lungs become congested and cedematous, and the countenance suffused and purplish. If the cord have been crushed or divided immediately above the brachial plexus, there will be complete paralysis of the whole of the upper extremities; but if the injury be lower, the paralysis of the upper limbs maybe only partial, those muscles which have their nerve origin above the lesion more or less escaping (see p. 791) There is this remarkable fact connected with injuries of the lower portion* of the cervical spinal cord, that the temperature frequently presents a marked devia- tion from the normal standard. In some cases it rises very considerably in fact to a higher point than has been noticed in any other surgical affection Brodie found in one case that the thermometer marked 111° F. But in other cases again the temperature has been found greatly reduced, even to 81° or 82° F. No explanation of these extraordinary differences has as yet been discovered. In cases of injury of the cord in this situation, the patient being unable to expel mucus from his lungs, usually dies from asphvxia in from forty-eight hours to a week.