830 INJURIES OF THE THROAT. windpipe. The head must be kept in a flexed position by the use of tapes, as described on p. 827. In order to lessen the liability to inflammation of the lungs, the patieut should be put into a room, the temperature of which is raised to about 70° Fahr. A piece of hghtly folded gauze, acting as a filter, should be laid over the wound if this has been left open, and as soon as the cut surfaces begin to granulate, the edges of the wound may be brought into apposition by strips of plaster, and a compress if necessary. During the treatment, the principal danger proceeds from inflammatory affections of the chest ; these must accordingly be counteracted by the temperature in which the patient is placed, and by making every effort to prevent as far as possible the accumu- lation of decomposing discharges about the wound, for which purpose iodoform is most useful. It must be remembered that the mental depression, and the bodily exhaustion from loss of blood, that are common in these cases, do not allow of any lowering treatment. The administration of food always requires much attention. As a general rule, the patient should be kept on a nourishing diet, with a mode- rate allowance of stimulants. If, as not uncommonly happens, the food- passage be opeiied in consequence of the wound extending into the mouth, the pharynx, or the cesophngus, it is of course impossible for the patient to swallow, and the administration of nourishment becomes very difficult. It is best accomplished by means of a gum-elastic catheter passed through the mouth into the gullet or stomach. This is easier than passing the instrument through the nose, and much better than introducing it through the wound. In this way a pint or more of the strongest beef-tea or soup, mixed with two or three eggs, and having an ounce or two of brandy added to it, should be injected regularly night and morning, until the patient is able to swallow. In those cases in which the wound is above the larynx, there is occasional danger of the supervention of oedema of the glottis ; should this occur, tracheotomy may be necessary. As consequences of wounds of the throat, we occasionally find stricture of the trachea, or aerial fistula. If the vocal cords have been injured, loss of voice may follow. Aerial Fistula may sometimes form owing to the skin doubling in and becoming adherent to the edges of the wound in the air-tube, and most fre- quently occurs when the cut is in the thyro-hyoid space ; adhesion taking place between the inverted integuments and the os hyoides above, and the surface of the thyroid cartilage below. The same may occur in the crico- thyroid space, and indeed at any part of the larynx that has been opened. When this happens, the fistula tends to remain patent. In these circum- stances, I have found the following operation successful. The edges of the fistulous opening having been freely pared, and the knife passed under them for some distance, so as to detach them from the subjacent parts, a vertical incision is made through the lower hp of the opening, so as to split it downwards. Two points of suture are then inserted into each side of the horizontal incisions, bringing their edges into contact, lut ihe vertical cut is left free for discharges and mucus to drain through, and for the expired air to escape, lest emphysema occur. Unless this outlet be afforded, the fluids will burst through the sutures, and thus destroy union of the edges.