632 SPECIAL FRACTURES. performed with strict antiseptic precautions, and as means of ordinary treat- ment are open to the same objections as tlie open methods. After-EfFects of Fracture of the Patella.—Stiffness of the knee often remains to a very inconvenient degree after the treatment of a fractured patella. It is usually remedied by friction and manipulation. Thomas asserts that it is better left entirely to Nature, and states that he has seen it take two years before useful mobility returned. But should it not yield to these minor means, an apparatus consisting- of a thigh-and-leg piece of stiff leather, united by angularly hinged lateral iron rods, and having an india-rubber "accumulator" adapted behind, should be worn. The continued traction of the "accumulator " will gradually flex the knee. But, as the knee becomes bent, the close union that may have appeared to exist between the fragments gradually yields, and they often gape more or less widely, much to the disappointment of both Surgeon and patient, the ligamentous band stretching like a piece of india- rubber. This cannot be helped ; there is the alternative between a straight and stiff knee with close union, or a flexible and mobile one with gaping of the fragments. After the knee is flexible, lateral hinged splints may be worn without the elastic strap. The limb on recovery is usually perfectly strong, and good for any exercise except jumping. In Simple Comminuted Fractures of the Patella, the result of direct blows or kicks, the fragments are not much separated, and union takes place readily by bone. In these cases, after the inflammation, which usually is rather acute, has subsided, the starched bandage may be applied, and the knee and fragments thus both kept immovable. Compound and Comminuted Fractures of the Patella, especially if occasioned by bullet-wounds, and opening the knee-joint, are always most serious injuries. Under strict antiseptic treatment, however, the limb can usually be saved. The wound should, if necessary, be enlarged, and any loose fragments of bone removed ; if the size and shape of the fragments admit of it, and if there is any tendency to separation, they should be drilled and united by wire sutures. The cavity of the joint should then be syringed out with some efiicient antiseptic solution. A drainage-tube must then be inserted on the outer side of the joint. This is best done by passing into the wound a pair of sinus-forceps, or the finger, if the opening is large enough, and making- it project at the lowest possible point on the outer side of the joint ; it may then be cut down upon and the tube passed. The wound must be dressed with some efficient form of antiseptic dressing and absolute rest maintained. A case of this kind in University College Hospital, which was complicated by a fi'acture of the thigh about the middle on the same side, progressed under carbolic-gauze dressing exactly like a simple fracture. It was caused by a fall of about thirty feet, the patient coming down upon the bent knee. If the Surgeon has not at hand the means of efficiently carrying out this treatment, as must sometimes necessarily be the case in military practice, immediate amputation would be the safest plan to adopt. Necrosis of the Patella as the result of fracture is rare. In one such case which was under my care at the Hospital, the patient, a middle-aged man, had met with an ordinary transverse fracture of the patella, which united by ligament; two years after the accident, and without any fresh injury, he came to the Hospital, with necrosis of the outer half of the upper fragment, which was completly detached, and lying in a cavity shut oft' from the joint. I cut