479 WOUNDS OF THE BRACHIAL ARTERY. aud lacerable, with perhaps a Avide funnel-shaped aperture leading into the sac, which will be closely incorporated with the neighbouring parts. But, indeed, the treatment of this form of circumscribed traumatic aneurism by the ligature of the artery on the proximal side of the sac has been found to be attended with remarkable success. In eight recorded cases in which this operation was performed, not one fatal result was noted. In all, the aneurism arose from stabs or gunshot wound?, and had existed for various periods, ranging from two wrecks to four years. In four of the cases the artery was ligatured above, and in four below the clavicle: and in one case of each category there was suppuration of the sac. The particular point at which the artery should be ligatured must depend upon the condition of the tumour. If this be of large size, or arise from the upper part of the axillary artery above or immediately below the pectoralis minor muscle, there is no choice but to deligate the vessel above the clavicle. Should, however, the principal increase in the tumour take place in a direction downwards and forwards under the great pectoral muscle, the portion of the artery immediately below the clavicle not being covered by the sac, the question w^ould arise whether this part might not be selected for the apph- cation of the ligature ; and as the results of both operations have hitherto been equally favourable, this must rather be determined by the peculiarities in each case than on more general grounds. Most Surgeons, I think, would prefer ligaturing the artery above the clavicle, as being a simpler proceeding than tying it below that bone; the latter procedure, moreover, has the disadvantage of bringing the scalpel into very close proximity with the sac, which, were it to stretch upwards under the pectoralis minor to a greater extent than could be discernible externally, might possibly be opened by the knife, as has happened even in operating above the clavicle. Compression of the artery on the distal side of the tumour succeeded in curing the disease in a case that was under Goldsmith of Vermont. Brachial Artery.—The hsemorrhage from Wounds of the Brachial Arteiry should be arrested by ligature on each side of the aperture. This vessel may be punctured in venesection, an accident which was formerly of frequent occurrence when blood-letting was practised by professed phlebotomists ; an abundant escape of blood wall then occur while the thumb is still on the vein. Should the condition of the patient permit, and the necessary instruments and assistance be at hand, the Surgeon should expose the artery and apply a ligature above and below the wound, at the same time tying the wounded vein. Frequently, however, this treatment will be impracticable, and all that can be done will be to apply a graduated compress. If the patient recover from the disease for which he was bled and an aneurism form, it may l)e operated on at a later time. In the Circumscribed Traumatic Aneurism at the bend of the arm, following a wound of the brachial artery, we have the usual soft or semi-solid pulsating tumour, wliich can readily be emptied by pressure, and is accom- panied by more or less bruit. This disease nnay be treated in one of three ways: 1, by compression upon or above the tumour; 2, by ligaturing the artery leading to it; or 3, by cutting through the sac, and deligating the vessel on each side of the aperture in it. Compression has been successfully carried out by means of a graduated compress on the tumour, and a ring-tourniquet on the artery higher up.