GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. 344 CHAPTER X. GUN-8H0T WOUNDS. Gun-shot wounds, though comparatively rare in civil practice in this country, are yet sufficiently frequent to render an acquaintance with them indispensable to the general Surgeon. To the military Surgeon the study of them is necessarily one of the greatest importance ; and to him I would specially recommend the perusal of the works of Longmore, Stromeyer, Esmarch, and Fischer, who have had unusual opportunities of studying these injuries on the field of battle. The works of Guthrie, Hennen, and Larrey, whose experience was gained in the wars in the early part of the present century, are well worthy of study, and much that is interesting will be found also in the writings of Ambroise Pare, Wiseman, and John Hunter. In the following observations I shall confine myself to such a general discussion of the subject as may be useful to the civil Surgeon. Gun-shot injuries constitute a species of contused and lacerated wounds, often partaking also of the nature of puiictured wounds in the disproportion between the subcutaneous mischief and the external aperture. They are characterized in many cases by the extensive injury inflicted on the tissues, both superficial and deep, in consequence of which the wounds may prove immediately or rapidly fatal. If the sufiferer survive the immediate effects of the injury, acute inflammation Avith much pain and tension, deep-seated suppuration, profuse discharge, and other serious and very protracted after- consequences, are apt to supervene. These peculiarities have at different times been attributed to the parts being burnt by the ball, to the poisonous nature of projectiles, to the generation of electricity in the bullet during its passage through the air, or by its friction against the barrel. All these opinions, however, have been shown to be erroneous ; and every peculiarity of these injuries can be accounted for by the bluntness of the missile, the force with which it is driven, and by the insufficient exit for the decomposing discharges that necessarily accumulate in the track of the bullet, unless septic processes can be prevented by the efficient use of antiseptics. John Bell has pithily remarked, " there is a peculiarity, but no mystery, in gun-shot wounds." Characters.—Gun-shot wounds vary greatly according to the nature of the Projectiles, the force with which they are driven, and the direction in which they strike. Nature and Force of Projectile.—Injuries of a serious character may be inflicted by weapons clmrged only iviiJi ijowder. These may arise from the mere concussion of the explosion ; thus a pistol charged with powder, and discharged with the muzzle resting against the chest of a man, has been known to kill by concussing the heart. In other cases, a portion of the un- exploded powder may be driven into the skin by that which is exploded behind it. In this way, very disfiguring marks are sometimes made on the face by the powder lodging in the skin. The force of the explosion will sometimes