TREATMENT OF GANGRENE. 911 are severed. As the ulceration extends across the limb, the largest arteries and veins are cut through by it, without the occurrence of hEemorrhage, owing to the thrombosis, which blocks them from the line of separation to the nearest large collateral branch above it. The period required for the detachment of gangrenous parts varies according to their extent. Small sloughs may be detached in a few days, whilst many weeks are required for the separation of a limb. The action is most rapid in soft vascular tissues and in young subjects. After the separation of the gangrenous part, a more or less irregular ulcerated surface is left, which, if not too extensive, and if the patient's reparative powers are in a favourable state, will cicatrize by the same process as ordinary ulcers. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis is readily made when gangrene is fully deve- loped ; but in the early stages, before it is positively declared, it is not always easy to determine its existence. The ecchymosis and discoloration of a bruise, the collapse and lividity that result from cold, or the dark purple hne occasioned by long-continued congestion, may readily be confounded with im- pending gangrene. In these cases of doubt, the Surgeon should not be in too great a hurry to pronounce an unfavourable opinion, and still less to act upon it ; for not uncommonly parts of the body which have to all appearance lost their vitality, may, under proper treatment, regain it. Prognosis.—The prognosis as to the part itself is always bad ; though occasionally, when gangrene has not been fully established, partial recovery may unexpectedly take place. So far as the Hfe of the patient is concerned, much will depend on the cause of the affection, and on the age and strength of the individual ; at advanced periods of life, and in a feeble state of system, the result is always unfavourable. Also whilst the gangrene is spreading, the prognosis is bad, as it is impossible to say where the morbid process may stop ; but when a " line of demarcation " has formed, indicating the possession of a certain vigour of constitution, the principal danger is over, and the result will depend on the strength of the patient, and the support that can be given during the processes of separation and of repair. Treatment.—As gangrene proceeds from a great variety of causes, it is evident that no one plan of treatment can be universally applied ; and it becomes necessary to modify our therapeutical and operative measures, not only according to the cause of the disease, but also with reference to the constitu- tion of the patient, and to the stage in which we meet with the gano-rene ; and, indeed, it often requires great experience to accommodate the treatnient to the varying phases of the disease. The Constitutional Treatment of gangrene is of the highest importance, more especially in the spontaneous forms of the affection. It has three principal aims : 1. To remove the cause if possible, and thus to arrest the gangrene. 2. To supjjort the powers of the system during the process of the separation of the dead tissues; and 3. To lessen the irritability of the nervous system. 1. In attempting to remove the constitutional cause we must bear in mind that constitutional conditions most commonly act only as predisposing causes of gangrene, the death of the part being determined by some local affection The constitutional conditions which predispose to gangrene, such as want of food, diabetes, Bright's disease, fevers, feebleness of the heart's action or general arterial degeneration, are all associated with debility. Depressino-