CONSTITUTIONAL EFFECTS OF HAEMORRHAGE. 409 betvveeE the wound and the heart, as of a ligature upon the vessel ; if the position of the part be such as to favour the gravitation of blood towards the wound ; or if the muscles of the limb be made to contract—the force of the flow of blood will be increased. When an Artery is wounded, the blood that escapes is of a bright scarlet colour. It flows in jets synchronous with the contractions of the left ven- tricle ; between the jets tlie flow does not cease, but the column of blood falls in height. In the great majority of cases the jet comes only from the proximal aperture, dark blood issuing from the distal opening in a continuous and trickling stream ; but in some situations a jet of blood of arterial character may issue from the distal as well as from the proximal end of the cut vessel, as in AYOunds of the palmar and plantar arches, or of the arteries of the forearm. As the blood flows, the jet lessens in height, in consequence of the weakening of the heart's action. The height and force of the jet in all cases depend greatly on the size of the vessel ; thus the jet from the femoral artery is stronger than that from a muscular branch of the thigh. When a small arterial branch is wounded near its origin from the main trunk, the jet will always be forcible and free ; so also the proximity to the heart will influence materially the force with which the blood is propelled from the wound in the vessel. Extravasation.—When the blood is not poured out on the surface, but escapes from a wounded vessel into the areolar tissue of a part, the substance of organs, or internal cavities, it is termed an Extravasation. In these cases there are not the ordinary local signs of an external haemorrhage ; but other local phenomena, snoh as swelling, duhiess on percussion, displacement of organs or parts, discoloration of the skin and subjacent areolar tissue, indicate that blood is being poured out subcutaneously ; and we judge of the quantity of the blood that has escaped, not only by the extent of these local phenomena, but by the general effect produced upon the system by its loss. CcmsTiTUTiOKAL EFFECTS OF HEMORRHAGE.—Thesc depend upon the quantity of blood lost, on the rapidity with which it is poured out, and on the state of the patient's constitution. When a large quantity of blood is suddenly lost, as when a main artery is cut across or an aneurism bursts, the patient may die forthwith ; he falls down m a state of syncope, with a pale cold surface and lividity about the lips and eyes, gasps a few times, sighs, is very restless, and suffers convulsive move- ments of the limbs before he expires. If the quantity lost be not so great as to produce death, though still very considerable, the patient becomes faint and sick, with coldness and pallor of the surface, profuse perspiration, great restlessness and agitation, thirst, noises in the ears, and failure or complete loss of sight. Although the surface of the body is colder than natural, the patient often complains of feeling hot, and throws off the bed-clothes The respiration is deep and sighing, and one of the most distressing symptoms is a sensation of want of breath. If the quantity lost, though considerable, be not so great as this, or be spread over a greater interval of time, so that the patient IS enabled to rally between the recurrences of the hc^morrhage, a state of auEemia will be induced, characterized by pallor of the skin and of the mucous membranes, palpitation of the heart, rushing noises in the head, a tendency ^0 syncope when m the erect position, oedema of the extremities, and general