TREATMENT OF TUBERCULOSIS. 1^99 development of tuberculous disease in those who present the external signs of the scrofulous diathesis, or who have an hereditary tendency to it. 1 is or the utmost consequence, and by proper attention to it, I have no hesitation m saying, the development of local disease, even when there is hereditary piedis- position. may be stopped; and the child of strumous parents, presentmg perhaps the features indicative of the diathesis, may pass through life without the disease having an opportunity of declaring itself. In order to accomplish this, however, the preventive plan of treatment must be commenced early, and continued uninterruptedly for a considerable time, even for years. The preventive treatment of scrofula and tubercle may be said general terms to consist in close and continuous attention to hygienic rules. The diet must be specially attended to; nourishing food, but of the lightest quality, beino- given. A great error is often committed in overloadmg the stomach with^nore or with heavier food than it can digest, under the impression that strong food is necessary to give the patient strength. In consequence of this error, the irritability of the mucous membrane is kept up, nutrition is imper- fectly performed, the surplus food is thrown off in the shape of lithates, or other products of mal-assimilation, and health and strength, which are the results of perfect nutrition, become impaired rather than improved. The use of stimulants, whether wine or beer, should be very sparing, and the milder and weaker should be preferred to the heavier and stronger kinds of malt liquor; the bowels must be kept regular with the simplest aperients; the clothing should be warm, and must cover the whole of the surface ; and the patient°should live in well-ventilated rooms. He should be allowed sufficient exercise in the open air, not carried to the point of fatigue, and should, if his circumstances permit, have change of air from time to time, alternating a sea with an inland climate. Bathing also, whether in sea or river, with the habitual use of the tepid or cold sponge-bath, and friction of the surface with horse-hair gloves or a rough towel, so as to keep the skin in healthy action, should be regularly practised. In carrying out this general plan of treatment, it must be borne in mind that though the health and strength of a delicate and weakly child can be improved up to a certain point, it can never, by any means, be rendered as robust and vigorous as a child of good congenital stamina who had been equally well cared for. The Curative Treatment is General and Local. The general treatment should, like the preventive, be specially directed to the improvement of the nutrition, and through it to the augmentation of the constitutional vigour of the patient; all those hygienic means that have just been alluded to being continuously carried out. The more strictly medical treatment of scrofula consists in the administration of tonics and alteratives with the view .of improving the patient's constitutional powers. Before they are administered, however, it is always necessary to see that the digestive organs are in a healthy condition. Scrofula is a consequence of malnutrition; and unless we see that digestion, the first stage of the nutri- tive process, is properly accomplished, all other means will be useless. When the tongue is covered with a white, thick, creamy fur, and has elongated papillse and red edges, neither purgatives nor tonics can be largely adminis- tered. In these circumstances the patient should be confined to the mildest possible diet, which must principally consist of milk, boiled fish, white meats, and light pudding, no stimulant of any kind being allowed except a small