TUMOURS. io62 Still it is highly probable that there is a tendency in the tissues of certain individuals to favour the development of these cancerous growths, ori primarily in some local irritation, whether this be traumatic or functional. Such a constitutional state, whether hereditary or acquired, is necessary to constitute a fitting soil for the cancerous element, in which to form and to develop. The stronger the tendency the more readily will cancer grow in such individuals, and the more rapid and vigorous will be the growth. This constitutional state does not develop a local cancer ; it simply favours its development. 4. The geograjihical distribution has been already considered at p. ]057. It cannot be said that this has much bearing upon the question. The influences ]-esulting from race, soil, climate, &c,, are concerned in the development of many local diseases, such as simple bronchocele, elephantiasis of the scrotum, fibroma in the ears of negroes and the like, none of which are supposed to be due to the presence of a morbid material in the blood. We have no definite knowledge to guide us to any conclusion with regard to the effect of these influences on the development of cancer ; and, in its absence, it is just as easy to suppose that these causes act locally on certain glands or epithelial surfaces as to imagine that they give rise to the development of some unknown poison in the blood to which the origin of the cancerous tumour is due. Having thus described the cancer in general, we are in a position to consider more in detail the special varieties. 1. G-LANDULAR Carcixoma, the cells of which belong to the type of glandu- lar or spheroidal epithehum, may arise in any parts in which glandular epithelium is normally present, such as the breast, salivary glands, liver, pancreas, prostate, kidney, and many other parts. Two chief varieties are met with :—1. Scirrhus or hard cancer, in which the stroma is very abundant and firm. 2. Encephaloid or soft cancer, in which the stroma is scanty and the cells abundant. No sharp distinction can be drawn between these two forms ; a tumour which one Surgeon would call a rapidly growing scirrhus of the breast, another might describe as an encephaloid. A third variety of glandular cancer arises from colloid degeneration of the cells of either scirrhus or encephaloid, and this is known as colloid cancer, which will be described separately. The glandular cancers yield on scraping or pressure a milky fluid, termed the Cancer juke, in which cells and granules are found in varying proportions. The granules are mostly fatty, and are the result of fatty degeneration of the cells of the tumour. This milky juice, it must be observed, is not absolutely characteristic of cancer. It is yielded by the lymphadenomata and by all the sarcomata, provided that at least twenty-four hours elapse after their removal before they are examined and that decomposirion has commenced. The Cells (Fig. 388) are extremely variable in shape and size. They may be round, caudate, and even fusiform. Many varieties of form are usually found in the same tumour, but occasionally great uniformity prevails. The size may vary from ^Voo inch to ^ inch. The nuclei are oval and highly refracting, often placed eccentrically ; they are of considerable size and frequently double, while in some cases five or six may be found in the same cell. They contain bright shining nucleoli. The size of the cells is not indicative of the variety of the cancer. Thus, in some scirrhous tumours the cell may be small, and in others large, and the same may be said of encephaloid. The distinction between