INJURIES OF THE SPINE. 8o4 times, however, the sacral alone is affected. When the injury affects the sacral plexus only, all the muscles below the knee, the flexors of the leg, the rotators, abductors, and extensors of the thigh are paralyzed ; but the extensors of the leg and the flexors and adductors retain their power. The muscles of the peringeum, the sphincter ani, and the bladder are also paralyzed. Sensation is lost in the gluteal region, the back of the thigh, the outer side of the leg and foot, the genital organs, and the perinaeum. When the lumbar plexus is also affected, the whole lower limb is deprived of sensation and motion, and there is some loss of sensation about the lower part of the abdomen in the part supplied by the ilio-hypogastric, but the abdominal muscles retain their power of contraction. In some cases we find complete paralysis of the parts supplied by the sacral plexus, and irregular paralysis and loss of sensation in those supplied by the lumbar plexus. This is due to injury of that part of the cord from which the sacral plexus arises, with damage to some of the lumbar nerves which lie by the side of it, before they leave the vertebral canal. In an injury completely paralysing the sacral plexus, there is always relaxation of the sphincter ani, with consequent incontinence of flatus and, to a great extent, of faeces. In these cases the feeces are brought down into the rectum by the peristaltic action of the intestines, which is not suspended, being under the control of the sympathetic system, which communicates with the cord at a much higher level. The power of voluntary micturition and the sensation of fulness of the bladder are of course abolished. The act of micturition is supposed to be controlled by three centres in the lumbar region of the cord : an automatic centre maintaining the contraction of the sphincter, a motor centre in connection with the muscular coat of the bladder, and a sensory centre receiving the afferent nerves from the mucous membrane. These are in communication with the brain and with each other. In the normal act of micturition the sensation of fulness of the bladder is conveyed to the brain, from which an efferent impulse is sent to the motor centres, which inhibits the action of the automatic centre controlling the sphincter and stimulates the motor centre connected with the muscular coat of the bladder. In an injury of the cord it is possible that these centres may be destroyed. Tlie bladder then becomes an inert bag, and the urine will dribble from it as soon as it has accumulated in sufficient quantity to overcome the mechanical resistance at the neck of the bladder and along the urethra. When the injury is at a higher level the urine is retained during the period of shock, but as this passes off the bladder usually empties itself periodically without the patient being conscious of what has occurred. This is due to the communication between the centres controlHng micturition. As soon as the bladder reaches a certain degree of distension the centre controlling the sphincter is inhibited in its action, and that connected with the muscular coat is stimulated through the direct communications between these and the sensory centre. In these cases, therefore, the patient would not die from rupture of the bladder if no catheter were passed, but he would be constantly wet from the involuntary escape of urine, and thus the danger of fatal bed- sores would arise. A catheter is, therefore, usually passed at regular intervals, and as a consequence of this it often happens that after the first few days the urine becomes ammoniacal in odour and alkaline in reaction, frbm the formation of ammonium carbonate from the urea. This fermentation is believed always to be due to the introduction of noicro-organisms into the