ULCERATION, 276 one-eighth of an inch. Uniform pressure is secured with a bandage, and the dressing must be changed at least daily. Boric acid lint, wetted with the lotion, may be applied to foul sores in the same way ; when the sore becomes perfectly healthy and free from decompo- sition, its surface may be protected from the direct action of the antiseptic by covering it with the green oiled silk dipped in the lotion before being applied; over this the boric acid lint may be placed either wet or dry to absorb the discharge. Another excellent application to a healthy ulcer is the boric acid ointment spread on thin muslin, the whole being dipped in the lotion to make it apply itself smoothly before being put on the sore : over this may be placed a pad of salicylic wool to catch the discharge, the whole being secured by a bandage. Carbolic acid solution (2 per cent.) has the great disadvantage of being irritating when first appUed, and, as the acid becomes rapidly volatilised, it soon becomes inefficient. If, from any reason, it may be considered desirable to dress the sore less frequently, a more lasting dressing may be applied thus : wash the sore and the surrounding skin well with a solution of carbolic acid (1 in 40) ; put on a piece of the protective green oiled silk, completely covering the raw surface, and then apply the carbolic gauze dressing, as described in the Treatment of Wounds (Chap. IX.). If economy be of consequence, one layer of gauze may be applied to keep the leg clean, over this maybe placed a thick pad of carded oaknm, and the whole covered by a common bandage. If the carbolic acid gauze irritate the skin, its place may be taken by eucalyptus gauze, or the part may be enveloped in a sheet of iodoform wool, salicylic wool or some absorbent mercurial dressing. By any of these modes of treatment it is possible to get the ulcer into so clean a state, and so far to diminish its discharge, that it shall not be necessary to change the dressing more than once a week. It will be observed that the object of these modes of dressing is to protect the sore from every possible source of irritation, including not only the products of putrefaction, but also the antiseptic agent which is employed to prevent decomposition. Sometimes, however, as has already been stated the healing process is retarded or arrested in consequence of the extent of' the ulcer. In such cases, the transplantation of cuticle will, by aiFordino- centres of cicatrisation, expedite the cure. Whatever mode of treatment be adopted, if the ulcer be on the leg, rest in bed with elevation of the limb has more influence than any other condition in hastening the cure. Skin-Grafting.—The fact that freshly separated parts if immediately re- applied to a raw surface may contract adhesions to it and retain their vitality was demonstrated long ago. Hunter showed that teeth could be successfully transplanted, and that the spurs of a young cock could be "made to grow on his comb ; " Walther that the button of bone removed by a trephine, if reinserted will contract fresh adhesions, and many Surgeons had recorded cases of ad- hesion of freshly separated portions of the nose or chin. But little practical use was made of these observations till Reverdin suggested in 18(19 that transplanted cuticle might be used to hasten the cicatrisation of granulatino- surfaces. * The gj'owth of new epithelium over the surface of a sore takes place from the epithelial cells at its margin ; and Reverdin showed that by planting small