FRACTURES. 568 Injuries to nerves seem to have but little effect on uniou, perfect repair of fractures commonly taking place in paralyzed limbs. Experimental investi- gations on animals have shown that division of the nerves leading to the injured limb does not interfere with the union of a fracture. Imperfect rest during treatment is no doubt a very conmion and important cause of ununited fracture. The best evidence of this is the fact that a very large proportion of all ununited fractures met with in hospital practice are in patients who have been treated on board ship or in remote parts of the country where it has been impossible to procure proper attention or skilled treatment. In cases of compound fracture the disturbance during the dressings may be a cause of non-union. In a large number of cases, however, the most careful investigation on the part of the Surgeon will ftiil to discover the cause of the failure of union. In the Treatment of Ununited Fracture the cmstitutional measures are of the first importance. If callus have not been formed, or if, after formation, it have been absorbed under the influence of a cachectic state of the system, the improvement of the patient's health, at the same time that the fracture is put up again firmly so that the ends of the bone are brought into close appo- sition, may bring about perfect union. In some instances of ununited fracture or delayed union in syphilitic subjects, union speedily takes place after the administration of mercury or iodide of potassium, according to the stage of the constitutional affection. I had under my care a man with ununited fracture of the femur from absorption of the callus four montlis after the occurrence of the injury, under the influence of incipient phthisis and debility induced by want of food ; perfect consolidation was brought about by giving him cod-liver oil and good diet, Avith rest in bed and a starched bandage to the limb. If there be no very evident cause for the want of union, it will occa- sionally suffice to put up the fracture firmly in leather or gutta-percha splints, or in a starched or plaster of Paris bandage, and then to allow the patient to move about upon crutches, so that his general health may not suffer, at the same time that a tonic plan of treatment is followed. I have seen several cases in which the want of union appeared to have resulted from too long confinement of the patient to his bed, and the consequent impairment of his health, consolidation taking place when a sounder hygienic system was en- forced. This simple plan can, however, be useful only if a short time—at most some months—has elapsed since the occurrence of the injury. In some cases, the empirical administration of mercury is attended with success. In a case of ununited fracture of the humerus, fifteen weeks after the occurrence of the injury, under Listen, union was obtained within a month by putting up the limb in splints, and salivating the patient. When the want of union arises from malignant disease, nothing can be done. Together with appropriate constitutional treatment, suitable tocal means must be employed to secure steady coaptation of the fragments. In the upper extremity, this may usually be done by means of splints of an ordinary kind. In the leg, the starched or plaster of Paris bandage will be found especially ser^kdceable. Before j)utthig up the limb in the plaster or starched bandage, it is a good plan to rut the end of the dones forcil)ly together, the patient, if necessary, being under the influence of an anEesthetic. In this way a certain degree of inflammation may be set up, which may be followed by a fresh formation of callus.