CONSTITUTIONAL TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION. 219 may even be reduced. It is always desirable to produce the necessary effect ^^ itli the least possible loss of blood ; hence the blood should be taken from a lan>-e orifice, the patient sitting upright. In repeating the venesection, we must be guided by the impression that has been made upon the disease, ana by the state of the pulse. In former times, blood-letting from the temporal artery and the external jugular vein was sometimes practised; but, at tne ,>resent day, blood is scarcely ever taken from any vessel but the median basilic vein at the bend of the elbow. The operation is thus performed : the reo-ion of the vein having been carefully cleaned with some efficient antiseptic and the patient being in a sitting posture, a tape or a piece of bandage is ])ound round the arm about midway between the shoulder and the elbow, with sufficient firmness to obstruct the return ol' blood through the veins, and yet not to interfere with the flow through the artery. When the limb below the bandage is fully distended with blood, the operator selects the most prominent vein at ihe bend of the elbow, which will almost invariably be the median basilic, and compresses it with his thumb Moiv the point at which it is intended to open it; this serves the double purpose of steadying the vein and preventing a premature escape of blood. He then takes the lancet, or any other small sharp-pointed cutting instrument if a lancet be not at hand, and holding it by the blade between his forefinger and thumb, while he steadies his hand by resting the other fingers on the arm of the patient, he divides the skin and opens the vessel by a single incision about one-third of an inch m length, carried obliquely across the vein and dividing its anterior wall. He the'n takes a graduated vessel, and, holding it in such a position as to catch the blood, he removes his thumb from the vein, and allows the proper amount to escape. During the operation the patient should hold some round body in his hand, which he can grasp firmly at intervals ; by this means the blood from the deep veins is driven out from amongst the muscles into the median l)y the communicating branch which enters it just before its bifurcation. As soon as a sufficient quantity of blood is drawn, the constricting band on the arm is relaxed : an antiseptic dressing of some kind is apphed over the wound and secured by a few turns of a figure-of-8 bandage. The only accident that can happen during the operation is a wound of the brachial artery, which usually lies immediately beneath the median basilic vein near the point selected for bleeding. This is avoided by holding the blade of the lancet short and firmly, and supporting the back of the three inner fingers on the patient's arm ; while by a movement of extension of the wrist, the point of the instrument is made to move in a segment of a circle, and so to open the prominent vein without any risk of penetrating more deeply than is intended. If from inadvertence the patient be bled in the recumbent position, a greater quantity of blood may be removed than is intended before the effect on the pulse is produced. The only complication to be feared after the operation is septic inflammation of the vein, and although this is very rare it is sufficiently frequent to necessitate the careful use Of antiseptics. Bleeding from the external jugular vein should never be performed, as it is accompanied by the danger of entrance of air, and the effect produced differs in no respect from that of bleeding from the arm. In inflammations of the head and chest a good effect may often be produced by diverting the blood as much as possible to tlte lower extremities by placing