TREATMENT OF GUJ-SHOT WOUNDS, 351 of fractured bone ; and from the same cause it may arise at any period until all detached bone is separated and the wound firmly cicatrized. Chisholm, ot the American Confederate army, mentions a case of death from secondary h^emorr- hao-e on the 328th day after a oun-shot fracture of the uppei- third ot the thi°o-h, owino- to a wound of the femoral artery by a detached sequestrum. Independently of this danger from secondary haemorrhage, the patient, if his limb be saved, may have to undergo long and tedious processes of exfoliation of dead bone, and to run the risk of intercurrent attacks of erysipelas, hospital gangrene, and pyaemia. Although a bullet wound in the vast majority of cases follows the course above described, inflammation and profuse suppuration are not inevitable results. Middleton Michel, of Charlestown, U.S.A., relates many cases of gun- shot wounds, inflicted by the Minie rifle bullet, which healed without suppura- tion even when the bones were injured ; and union by first intention has occurred in wounds made by the Lee-Metford bullet. Such cases are sufficient evidence that the destruction of tissue caused directly by the action of the bullet is not so extensive as was at one time supposed, and that, could perfect drainage be combined with prevention of decomposition, gun-shot wounds would be robbed of half their dangers. There is every reason to believe that warfare in modern times is fully as destructive to hfe as it was formerly, if not much more so; not in the propor- tion of the killed to the number of combatants engaged, but in relation to the recoveries among the wounded. This at first sight appears remarkable, when we consider the great advances that have been made in surgical treatment and in sanitary arrangements. But unfortunately the means by wdiich these great advances have been brought about arc seldom at the command of the military Surgeon. A very large proportion of gun-shot wounds must occur under cir- cumstances which render antiseptic treatment uncertain or impossible ; whilst the enormous number of men engaged has yielded so large a number of sick and wounded that, after the first few weeks, the sanitary arrangements have hitherto broken down under the pressure, and secondary septic diseases have made the most frightful ravages. Moreover, the advance in surgical treat- ment has up to the present time been more than neutralized by the more deadly nature of the injuries. Treatment.—The slighter and superficial gun-shot injuries generally require merely to be treated on the ordinary principles that guide us in the management of contusions and lacerations generally. When they affect the head, chest, or abdomen, they present so many circumstances of special im- portance, that we must defer the consideration of them until we treat of injuries of those regions. In all cases of gun-shot wounds, certain immediale aitentions are necessary in order to place the sufferer in some degree of comfort and safety until moi'e definite treatment can be adopted. It is impossible on the field to carry out antiseptic treatment with the same certainty as in a general hospital, but a great deal can be done to avoid unnecessary contamination of the wound. The fate of the soldier is truly, as Nussbaum has said, in the hands of the Surgeon who first attends him. If primary antiseptic treatment is at once used, he will have an infinitely better chance than by any other method. It is generally believed that unless a portion of clothing or some other foreign body is carried in by the bullet, the wound may be regarded as aseptic