CHEMICAL ANTISEPTICS-SALICYLIC ACID. 207 Carbolic acid cannot be applied cither to the unbroken skin or to a raw- surface without a certain quantity being absorbed. As a rule this gives rise to no unpleasant symptoms ; but, if the surface be very large or the patient be pccuharly intolerant of the acid, symptoms of carbolic poisoning may arise. In every case in which a carbolic acid dressing of any kind is applied, it or its derivatives can be detected in the urine by proper tests : and if a surface of any size is covered by the dressing or a large wound is washed out with the lotion, the urine frequently undergoes a marked change. In the mildest cases it is passed clear, but after standing for some time gradually assumes an olive- green tint; in the more severe cases it is passed dark in colour, and on stand- fug becomes almost black. If no other symptoms are present this_ need give rise to no anxiety. In cases in which the graver symptoms of poisoning are present, the sulphates disappear completely from the urine. The most marked feature of carbolic acid poisoning by absorption from a wound is severe and uncontrollable vomiting; if the dose has been very large, collapse speedily sets in, with insensibility of the pupil, twitching of the muscles, a rapid feeble pulse, and a subnormal temperature. Albumen is said to appear in the urine. In other cases elevation of temperature has been noted, with vomiting followed by insensibility and death. With the exception of a few recorded cases, which must be attributed to an idiosyncrasy on the part of the patient, dangerous symptoms have occurred only when the carbolic lotion has found its way into some cavity as tbe rectum, peritoneum or pleura, or when large abscess-cavities have been washed out with the lotion, or when it has been forced into the spaces of the areolar tissue in attempts to disinfect deep wounds or com- pound fractures. The treatment consists in immediately removing all carbolic acid dressings and substituting some other antiseptic. The patient must be supported by stimulants, especially hypodermic injections of ether; and friction of the surface should be employed. Ice may be given to allay th(.' vomiting. Baumann has recommended the administration of sulphate of soda in small doses frequently repeated, with the hope of converting the carbolic acid into the non-poisonous sulpho-carbolate. This treatment was suggested by the disappearance of the sulphates from the urine, which is possibly due to their having been consumed in that way ; the graver symptoms supervening when they are exhausted and free carbolic acid becomes present in the blood. 'I'he drug can do no harm and should always be tried. Carbolic acid has now been more than twenty-five years before the profession as an antiseptic, and has derived great importance from being the agent first selected by Lister for his antiseptic system of treating wounds. In spite of the efforts of Lister himself and other Surgeons to find some substitute which shall be free from the inconveniences attending the use of carbolic acid, it still holds its place as one of the most generally useful and eflRcient of all antiseptics. It has no injurious effect on steel, and consequently it is used for disinfecting surgical instruments even by those Surgeons who employ some other substance for cleaning their hands and washing out or irrigating wounds. Salicylic Acid is a derivative of carbolic acid, possessing no toxic pro- perties. It requires at least 300 parts of cold water to dissolve it, and is in this form a ks.s certain antiseptic, though less irritating, than carbolic acid. The preparations used in surgery are salicylic wool, saUcylic j'uie, and salicylir silk. The jute is recommended by Thiersch as being more absorbent; the