445 ACUPRESSURE. or later, caused the use of the temporary ligature to be discontinued iii surgical practice even by those who had at one time most strongly advocated it. 10. Acupressure.—Bv Acupressure is meant the occlusion of an artery by the pressure of a needle in such a way as to arrest the circulation through it or the hEemorrhage from it. This method of treatment was introduced into surgical practice by the late Sir James Simpson as a substitute for the ligature. Acupressure may be applied in several different ways ; but there are four principal methods. The first method is explained by Figs. 142 and 148. The needle is passed through the cutaneous surface of the flap until its point projects on the raw surface, a little to one side of and above the orifice of the bleeding artery. The latter is then bridged over and compressed by the needle, which re-enters the surface of the wound on the other side of the vessel, and again passes outwards through the skin. The degree of pressure required effectually to close an artery is certainly much less than Surgeons generally imagine; and in the above proceeding it can be regulated by the acuteness of the angle at which the needle is introduced and again passed out—the cutaneous and other structures of the flap serving as the resisting medium against which the needle compresses the arterial tube. The second method of acupressure consists in taking a short sewing needle' l-'ig. 144.-Acuprossure. Second Mc'thod. Fig. 145.—Acupre.ssure. Tliird Method. with a piece of twisted iron wire attached, for the purpose of withdrawing it when necessary. This is dipped down into the soft tissues on one side of the artery ; then bridged over the vessel; then dipped down again into the soft structures on the other side of the vessel (Fig. 144). In doing this care must be taken to press the end of the needle down upon the bleeding trunk or tube of the artery Avith sufficient force. The third method consists in compressing the artery between the needle passed below it and a loop of fine iron wire passed over it. The needle is