INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 768 fractured, but not depressed. On the side opposite to the bruise and fracture, a coagulum, weighing nearly four ounces and compressing the brain, lay between the dura mater and the bone. In such a case, it is evident that the history can alone afford a clue to its true nature. Even when the head has been injured, the diagnosis is not always easy. A man was admitted under my care, comatose. A fortnight previously he had been struck on the left side of the head behind the ear. He was stunned, bled freely from the left ear, but then recovered tolerably, and went about his avocations as usual until the day before his admission, when he suddenly became comatose. The respiration was stertorous, the pulse quick, and there was some heat of head ; the right pupil was natural, the left contracted. He was treated antiphlogistically, but died on the third day. On examination, a fracture on the left side of the skull was found, extending into the left internal meatus ; on the right side of the head there was a large coagulum in the subarachnoid space, with some sero- plastic exudation about it. Here vras an extravasation, the result of lacera- tion, existing without symptoms for fourteen days, and then proving rather suddenly fatal in consequence of the supervention of inflammation. A woman fell in the street whilst walking. She was taken up insensible ; was thought to have a fit ; became comatose, hemiplegic on the right side, and died the next day. After death the left parietal bone was found to be fractured, and a clot which weighed five and a half ounces was lying over the ruptured middle meningeal artery on the dura mater. The insensibility of drunlcenness may usually be distinguished from the coma resulting from injuries of the head, by the absence of local mischief, by the smell of the breath, and by the face of the drunkard being flushed and turgid, and not pale like that of a person who is suffering from the effects of a severe injury. When a drunken person has met with an injury of the head and is insensible, he should always be carefully watched, however shght the injury may appear to be, until sufficient time has elapsed for him to recover from his drunken fit, as it is impossible to say whether the stupor be the result of intoxication, or of mischief within the skull. I have known cases to be sent away from hospitals as drunk, when in reality the stupor was occasioned by depressed bone. In the stupor from 'poisoning liy opium, the condition of the pupils, which are contracted to the size of a pin's point, instead of being widely dilated as in coma from cerebral compression, will enable the Surgeon to make the diagnosis. In considering the question of the Treatment of extravasation of blood within the skull, we must, as far as possible, define the conditions in which it may be hoped that the application of the trephine may give relief. The only alternative consists in the adoption of general and local measures, having for their object the arrest of further hsemorrhage, the promotion of absorption, and the prevention of inflammation. If the sj/mptoms point with toleraUe certainty to me7iingeal extravasation Jjetween the dura mater and the lone, probably from the middle meningeal artery, the Surgeon should cut down at once upon the skull and examine the bone and trephine in the line of the fracture if one be found ; if not, in the line of the middle meningeal artery. The artery may be wounded at any part of its course within the skull, but it is very rare for the main trunk to be ruptured ; almost invariably it is the anterior branch that suffers. This branch is first directed forwards across the great wing of the sphenoid to near