I04 SPECIAL AMPUTATIONS. circularly at this point. The solt parts are now to be retracted from the bones by a process of careful dissection, or by raising the periosteum with an elevator (p. 71), for a distance equal to half the diameter of the limb at the point where the bones are to be sawn, and the bones sawn at this point. The result is, that the bones are buried in the muscles, and over all lie the light skm haps, free from any tension or tendency to displacement. There will be a dependent opening for the exit of discharges, and, when healed, the cicatrix will be wel to the palmar aspect of the bones, and consequently free from pressure, it may be found, in retracting the muscles from the bones, that the anterior interosseous artery has been cut in more than one place ; this may cause some trouble in securing it. Great care should therefore be taken to avoid the accident, by keeping the edge of the knife constantly turned towards the parts to be removed, or by usingl^he periosteal elevator. If the median and ulnar nerves are seen to be cut somewhat long, they should be pulled out with Fig. 40.—Amputation of the FoiTariu by Skin Flaps. forceps, and cut short, so as to avoid if possible their impUcation in the cicatrix near the end of the bone. Amputation at the Elbow-joiut is not very frequently performed, as the cases in which it is practicable are not common. In all cases of disease of the elbow-joint in which excision is not advisable or has failed, the lower end of the humerus must be removed, and it is only in a few cases of sarcoma and injury that the limb can be taken off at the joint. When practicable, however, amputation at the joint should be performed. The operation is easy and the long stump left is very useful. Amputation through the elbow-joint has been done by numerous methods, of which the most common have been the long anterior flap and the circular. In the operation by the Jong anterior Jiap the arm is held, by the assistant, fully extended and supinated. The Surgeon stands with his left hand to the flaps. In operating on the left arm the''incision is commenced about one inch below the point of the inner condyle, and carried straight down the inner side of the forearm for a distance equal to a diameter and a half of the limb at the elbow ; it is then carried across the front of the forearm to the outer side and upwards to a point corresponding to that at which it commenced. On the right side the direction of the incision is reversed. The flap should be broad and nearly