815 LAMINECTOMY. condition it is true—that permanent good may be expected to follow the operation. We have already seen that in some cases of fractured spine the symptoms are due to haemorrhage within the spinal canal, and that such haemorrhage may occur independently of fracture. Under these circumstances, operation may be undertaken for the relief of pressure. The same remark applies to those rare cases in which symptoms arise at a later date from the occurrence of meningitis with inflammatory effusion. Thorburn strongly advocates operation in injuries of the cauda equina, that is, injuries below the first lumbar vertebra, if spontaneous recovery have not occurred after about six weeks. From the study of some two hundred cases in which operation has been undertaken for injury of the spine, Thorburn concludes that little good is likely to result, except in the three conditions already mentioned—fractures of the spines and laminEe, intraspinal htemorrhage, and injuries of the cauda equina. The fact that recovery is rare, even when the displacement of the bones which damages the cord is momentary, will readily explain the unfavour- able results which usually follow the relief of pressure on the cord by ojiera- tion, for the cord itself has usually been damaged beyond hope of repair. The operation of laminectomy is performed as follows :—The patient is turned on to the side, or slightly on to the face. An incision, from three to five inches in length, is made over the spines, and the soft structures are separated from the spines, neural arches and articular processes with a scalpel and periosteal elevator. Additional room may be obtained by making short transverse cuts in the vertebral aponeurosis. All bleeding vessels are tied, and the free general oozing is arrested by plugging the wound with cotton wool soaked in a hot solution of perchloride of mercury (1 in 1,000). Each of the exposed spines is now tested to ascertain if any fracture exists, and any completely or partly separated bone is removed. Should a fracture be detected, one or more spines must be cut away with strong bone forceps, and the liga- menta subflava very carefully divided with a scalpel and forceps. The pin of a trephine is now applied to the surface left by removing a spine, and the lamina on each side notched. The lamina is now cut away very carefully with bone forceps, and others are similarly removed if necessary. The theca is thus exposed, and bleeding is arrested by gentle sponge pressure. If no cause of the compression be found outside the theca, the latter must be carefully opened in the middle line. In cases of fracture a bent probe or searcher may be pas-sed beneath the cord to see if any fragments lie in front of it. The theca maybe closed with fine catgut sutures; deep sutures are inserted through the muscles and skin. A small drainage tube should be placed in the superficial part of the wound for 24 hours, and the deepest part of the dressing should consist of a longitudinal pad on either side of the incision. It is scarcely necessary to insist upon the strict antiseptic precautions which must be observed in all operations upon the spinal canal ; otherwise a fatal complication may be added in the form of septic meningitis and myelitis.