MORTALITY AFTER AMPUTATION. 79 occurs iu females, more particularly in those who are hysterical or have been subject to neuralgic pains elsewhere. In these cases the general cutaneous sensibility of the stump is increased : it is the seat of convulsive jerkings or twitchings, and the pain is more or less intermittent, being increased under the influence of various emotional and constitutional causes. The treatment of this condition should be conducted on the general principles that will be fully discussed when we come to speak of neuralgia. No excision of the nerves of the stump, or even amputation higher up, is of any avail; the disease, being constitutional, will certainly return in each successive stump, until at last the shoulder or the hip may be reached without any permanent benefit to the patient. Occasionally after amputation, when healing has been accompanied by sup- puration, a condition of chronic or subacute neuritis, with sclerosis of the nerve. Is set up, which has a tendency to spread slowly but steadily upwards, finally, perhaps, leading to changes in the spinal cord itself. The symptoms and treatment are those of chronic neuritis, which will be described under Injuries of Nerves. Recurrence of the Disease for which the Amputation was per- formed is not of uncommon occurrence in strumous diseases of bones and malignant tumours. In the former case, amputation higher up may be advantageously performed ; but in the latter, it is justifiable only when there is no evidence of secondary growths in internal organs or in the lymphatic glands. Patty Degeneration of the muscles of a limb, arising from their disuse, gives rise to a peculiar appearance in the stump. During the amputation, the muscles look like pieces of yellow wax, and are firm, but no marked diminu- tion in size has taken place ; the fat deposited between the fibres having to some extent compensated for the loss of muscular tissue, so that the general size of the limb and fulness of the muscle are preserved. Union takes place in these circumstances, though somewhat slowly ; at least, this has occurred in several cases iu which I have observed this condition. In oue of these I amputated the leg for disease of the foot of nine years' standing, and in another the thigh for disease of the knee of fourteen years' standing. MORTALITY AFTE3R AMPUTATION. The general causes of death after operations have already been considered ; but we must now examine some special points connected with the relative mortality after amputations of different kinds, and the cause of the differences that exist. Before commencing, however, it would be better in order, as far as possible, to avoid ambiguity, to mention and define the chief causes of death after amputation. Shock is exhaustion of the nervous centres, the result of violent over- stimulation by the powerful aff'erent impulse which arises from the injury done to the sensory nerves, either by the knife in amputation or by the injury which rendered the operation necessary. Death usually occurs, in fatal cases, within twenty-four hours. It is aggravated by loss of blood before or during the operation. ''^ Collapse is identical with very severe shock. Secondary hmnorrhage, as a cause of death after amputations, is usually