10! AMPUTATION OF THE ARM. rectangular in form, its angles being rounded off. The flap so marked out is then raised, including only skin and fat for a short distance, and then gradually being deepened, dividing the muscles of the forearm, the brachialis anticus and the tendon of the biceps till, at its base, it reaches the front of the joint. The knife is then swept round behind the forearm, marking out a flap about half the length of that in front. This is carefully raised from over the olecranon, care being taken not to perforate the skin. Disarticulation is then performed, the joint being opened at the radio-humeral articulation. If the condition of the soft parts will not allow of this method, a simpJfi circular amputation may be performed. It is better to make the circular sweep a little obliquely, leaving the covering slightly longer on the outer side to allow for the greater retraction caused by the supinator longus. The skin and Fig. 47.—Amputation of the Ai-m. Clearing the Bone. fat are then turned up in the usual way, and the remaining soft parts divided circularly at the level of the articulation. Good stumps have also been made by flaps taken from the inner or outer side of the forearm, according to the circumstances of the case, by equal lateral flaps, and by various oval incisions, but the two methods above mentioned will be found most generally useful. Amputation of the Arm may be performed by the pure circular (p. 59), by the modified circular (p. 67), or by the flap operation (p. 61). The modifieil circular is the best, but any method will give good results provided sufficient covering be made. The covering should, as a rule, be taken equally from the two sides, as this enables the operator to saw the bone at the lowest possible point, and the utihty of the stump will to a great extent depend on its length. TlhQflap operation may be performed by lateral flaps made by transfixion from before backwards ; the bone is then well cleared by a couple of sweeps of the knife, and sawn across. In clearing tlie bone, care must be taken fairly to