INJURIES OF SOFT PARTS. 312 extravasation, a bao- of blood may be felt, fluid and fluctuating-, under the skm.^ Under ordinaiy circumstances tlie effused blood is gradually absorbed; but if it communicates >vith the air by an external wound, it will undergo putrefaction, unless special antiseptic precautions are taken to prevent this, and will excite inflammation and sujjpuration around it, the clots being discharged mixed with pus. In some cases the clot resulting from extravasated blood may ultimately be replaced by new connective tissue, and thus some permanent induration may be left. In other cases the extravasated blood mav give rise to a sanguineous tumoui-, Haematoma ; the blood, which may remain fluid for months, or even years, slowly deposits its fibrin upon the tissues in which it is lying, thus forming an imperfect cyst-wall, while the fluid contents become dark and treacly. According to some pathologists, this imperfect wall may develop into well-formed fibrous tissue, and the contents may become colourless from complete absorption of the blood pigment, and thus a definite cyst with serous contents may be formed in the site of the extra\asated blood. In some cases the contents are grumous rather than serous. In the ihird and fourth degrees of contusion, the laceration and disorganisa- tion of structures often lead to sloughing and suppuration, or to rapid gangrene of the parts, or to haemorrhage, ending in fatal syncope ; or, when the contu- sion is of an internal organ, this haemorrhage may prove fatal by taking place into the serous cavities. When the contusion is superficial, the hemorrhage is subcutaneous, and though abundant, israrelj in sufficient quantity to inffuence the heart's action. In one remarkable case, however, in Avhick a'^schoolmaster was convicted of manslaughter for beating a boy to death with a stick, and in which I was called upon to make a jwst-niortem examination, death had evidently resulted, in a great measure at least, from this cause: the subcutaneous areolar tissue of the four limbs being extensively torn away from the fascia, and uniformly filled with extravasated blood, whilst the internal organs were in an ansemic condition, even the pulmonary vessels and the cavities of the heart being emptied of blood. An extravasation of blood, when of any considerable size, is almost invariably followed by a distinct elevation of temperature, often amounting to two or three degrees. It sets in soon after the injury, and subsides by the fourth or fifth day or earlier. The fever of suppuration is more severe, sets in later, and does not subside till the pus is evacuated. Diagnosis. —This is not always easy. The more severe degrees may be mistaken for incipient gangrene, the discoloration not being very dissimilar, and the resemblance being sometimes increased by the formation of blebs upon the skin containing serous fluid more or less darkly coloured with blood; but the part, when simply contused, preserves its temperature and vitality. In some cases the extravasated blood has a hard circumscribed border of clot, and is soft in the centre, which in the scalp resembles somewhat a depression in the subjacent bone. The diagnosis of old cases of extravasation, leading to haematoma, from abscess or malignant disease, is jiot always easily njade by tactile examination alone; but the history of the case, exploration with a grooved needle, and examination of the contents of the tumour under the microscope, will always clear up any doubt that may exist. Treatment.—In the first two degrees of contusion our object should be to aiTest the haemorrhage from the ruptured vessels as speedily as possible, and