TREATMENT OF WOUNDS. 317 The healthy traumatic inflammation which results from eyery wound is very limited in extent, and consequently gives rise to such slight local symptoms that it may clinically pass unnoticed, and it has sometimes been ignored ; the term "inflammation of a wound " being applied to the process only when it extends more widely so as to cause redness, swelling, heat and pain easily recognisable by the most superficial observer. Clinically this may be conve- nient, but pathologically it is inaccurate. The process by which the plastic exudation is formed is an example of simple traumatic inflammation not spreading beyond the area injured ; the later process is a spreading inflamma- tion due to various sources of irritation which have been allowed to act on the wound after its infliction. There is no subject in Surgery which has undergone more frequent modifi- cations from the earliest periods of which we have record ~than the local treat- ment of wounds. The first, and perhaps the instinctive, method of treating n wound was to close it up at once and to exclude the air by means of a mass of cla}', of chewed leaves, or of cow's or camel's dung. The wound was further protected from the air by pouring oil into it, and putrefaction was limited by the use of wine or balsams. At a later period in the history of our art, tents of various kinds were used in order to prevent the injurious accumulation of discharges, which might decompose and putrefy. The closure of the wound and the prevention of putrefaction in its discharges by the use of spirituous and stimulating antiseptics, or by facilitating the escape of the secretions, were the means employed from the most remote antiquity. That these methods were in many cases highly successful there can be no doubt; and it is still these four great principles, the closure of the wound, the prevention of putrefaction, the facilitation of the escape of discharges, and the maintenance of perfect rest between the opposed surfaces, that guide us in the treatment of all wounds, however difli'erent may be the means by which we endeavour to caiTy them out. In the local treatment of all incised wounds there are six chief indica- tions, which will be considered in the following order : 1, the Arrest of Ha>morrhaoe; 2, the Rmwval of For oA,in Bodies; ^ the Coaptation of the Sides ofthe Uund; 4, the Provision of Perfect Draina,je ■ 5, the Mwi^itmofnce of lerjed Rest; 0, the Prevention of Decomposition of the Discharges and In fee fioii of the Wound. These we shall consider more in detail. 1. Arrest of Haemorrhage.—If bleeding be general from the surface it may be stopped by exposure to the air, by elevation of the wounded part by accurate and firm coaptation maintained by the pressure of a wcll-aDDlied bandage, and by the use of cold, heat, or other styptics. Arterial bleediiio- must be arrested by the means described in Chapter XIV In mikino- choice of a ha3mostatic, preference is to be given to that which will interfeiv least with unioii by the first intention. Thus, among styptics, hot water or cold m the shape of ice or of rags .rung out of cold water, is to be pre- ferred to others, such as the perchloride of iron, which are all more or ess caustic and irritant. Again, torsion should be employed when possible rather than other means ; and if the ligature be used, it should be of LI niatol which_can be absorbed and will not off^er any obstacle to union by re fii-:! 2. The Removal of Foreign Bodies, such as dirt, pieces of stone nnrl glass, spicula of bone, coagulated blood, &c., is best^icted by allowino-