326 INJURIES OF SOFT PARTS. pletely removed on the second day, without necessarily changing the whole dressing; often, however, they are needed for longer periods, and may be gradually shortened at successive dressings. In order to avoid the necessity of removing the dressings to shorten or remove the tubes, Neuber invented absorbable tubes made from decalcified bone. Neuber's tubes were made from pieces of ox's bone drilled, and then decalcified. Macewen, who has made extensive use of absorbable tubes, prepares them much more simply, as follows : Take the tibias and femora of a fowl, scrape them clean, and place them in a 20 per cent, solution of hydro- chloric acid till they are softened, then cut off the articular ends and clean out the medulla and endosteum ; place them again in the acid for another day, and keep them ready for use in a 10 per cent, solution of carbolic acid in glycerine. They must be perforated in the same way as the india-rubber tubes. They act perfectly well in most cases, resisting absorption for about eight days, but they may collapse and thus fail to act, and, in some cases, they are not absorbed, and give rise to irritation. For the drainage of small wounds a few strands of catgut or horsehair will be found very efficient. The wound having been closed with sutures, and drainage-tubes inserted, if necessary, the next step is to apply the antiseptic dressing. No organisms capable of setting up putrefaction or fermentative changes are supposed to have been left in an active state in the Avound, and the small quantity of the antiseptic left between its surfaces quickly disappears, being partly absorbed and partly washed away by the serous discharge, and thus there is no source of irritation acting on the raw surfaces which could disturb the process of repair. An Antiseptic Bressiug should possess the following properties : 1. It must absorb the discharges readily, and, by the action of a trustworthy anti- septic agent, prevent their decomposition. 2. It must not itself act as a source of irritation by direct contact of the chemical antiseptic with the raw surfaces. 3. The antiseptic agent must be stored in the dressing in such a form that it is not too readily dissipated. 4. It must maintain rest and apposi- tion of the surfaces. These objects may be attained by many different forms of dressing, only the more important of which can be described here. Antiseptic dressings may be divided into two classes : first, those which, being themselves moist, prevent scabbing, or in which drying is prevented by a waterproof material covering the dressing ; and, secondly, those in which the discharge is received in an absorbent material, and there allowed to dry. To this latter class belong the so-called " lasting dressings," which in many cases may be applied immediately after the infliction of the wound, and not removed, if all goes well, till healing is complete. I I. The Carbolic Gauze Dressing was invented by Lister, and was the first with which genuine aseptic results were obtained with any degree of certainty. The materials required are : 1st. The carbolic gauze. 2ndly. Some thick green oiled silk, coated with copal varnish, and covered with a thin layer of a mixture of dextrine and starch, so that when dipped in the carbolic lotion it may become uniformly wetted. This is called " protective oiled silk," or, shortly, the " protective." It is almost impermeable to carbolic acid, and is itself perfectly free from irritating properties, and thus, when applied to the wound, protects the edges from the direct action of the carbolic acid. 3rdly. Some thin waterproof sheeting, known in the trade as "hat-lining," or "pink jaconette".