398 EFFECTS OF HEAT AND COLD. have to separate and suppuration will take place, and prevention of decompo- sition consequently becomes of the first importance. The extent of the raw surface, however, and the readiness with which absorption takes place from it, render it unsafe to apply any antiseptic possessing powerful toxic properties and for this reason it is better not to use carbolic acid or perchloride of mercury. Boric acid, salicylic acid, eucalyptus oil, and creoliu, are the most powerful of the non-toxic antiseptics. Boric acid may be applied either by means of boric lint soaked in a concentrated solution of the acid and covered with oiled silk, or as ointment (p. 212) spread on strips of linen. If much slouo-hino- is expected, the former is the better plan ; if httle, the latter. The''dressing must be changed every day after suppuration has commenced. This is usuafly a verv painful process, as even the ointment adheres more or less to the raw surface. To overcome this difficulty and at the same time to cleanse the parts thoi-oughly, warm boric acid baths are of the greatest service. The patient should be immersed in the bath with the dressing on, and the latter should be carefully removed when it is thoroughly soaked. The bath should be as warm as the patient can comfortably bear, and he should remain in it for about half an hour. About ten drachms of boric acid to every o-allon of water makes an efficient antiseptic bath. If there is much dis- charge it should be absorbed by a layer of salicylic wool over the boric dressing in order to prevent putrefection as far as possible. Creolm has been us^'ed with the best results ; it may be employed as a lotion or ointment, in the strength of i to 2 per cent. Iodoform may be sprinkled on the surface if the discharge becomes foul, but caution must be used in its application, especially in children, as symptoms of poisoning (p. 212) may arise. In the absence of the necessary materials for these modes of treatment the following plan will be found comfortable to the patient, and satis- factory in its results. The whole burnt surface, whatever may be the (leo-ree of burn, should be well covered with the finest wheaten flour by means (vftn ordinary dredger. The flour should be laid on thickly, but uniformly und gradually ; it forms a soft and soothing application to the surface. If the cuticle have been abraded, the flour will form a thick crust, by admixture with the serum discharged from the broken surface. If the skin be charred, the discharge which will speedily set up around the eschar will make the flour adhere'^to the part, forming, as it were, a coating impervious to the air. The crusts thus formed should not be disturbed until they become loosened by the discharges, when they should be removed. In this mode of treatment the decomposition of the discharges is retarded and limited by the dryness of the dressing. i i ^ common remedy in iron-works and other places where burns are common is the so-called Carron-oil, composed of equal parts of linseed-oil and lime- water, to which a small quantity of spirits of turpentine is sometimes added. It is applied on lint. Whatever local application be adopted, I hold it to bo of the utmost importance in the early stages of the burn to change the dressino-s as seldom as possible ; if dry dressings are used, they should not be chano-ed until they have been loosened by the discharges. Every fresh dressing causes the patient very severe pain, produces depression, and materitiily retards the progress of the case. When the sloughs have separated, the granulating surface must be managed on ordinary principles. It is important, however, to select some form of