234 LOCAL D1SWRBA2^X'ES AND INFLAMMATION. be (|nickly drawn in lines crossing one another over the part. Paquelin's Thermo-Cautery is on tlie whole the most manageable and the cleanest form that can be nsed. The -barbarous application known as a moxa, which con- sisted of cotton or pith soaked in saltpetre and allowed to burn upon the skin, is now no longer used in tlvis country. Two counter-irritants in addition to their local action produce constitutional effects when absorbed from the surface to which they are applied—viz. Iodine and Mercury. Iodine is most commonly applied in the form of tincture; it should be painted over the inflamed part twice a day till the skin becomes a httle sore. This may be continued for weeks or months according to circumstances. It is no doubt a useful means of promoting the absorption of chronic inflam- matory products, but the powers popularly ascribed to it are certainly far greater than it really possesses. The liniment is Jess frequently used, being a much stronger preparation, one application of which will often cause vesication. The iodine or iodide of lead ointment may be applied in cases in which a some- what stronger action than that of the tincture is desired, but they are not cl(;anly applications, and are not usually to be recommended. MercTiry is applied locally in many forms to promote the absorption of the products of chronic inflammation and in the treatment of the process. One of the most common modes of applying it to chronically inflamed joints is in the form of " Scott's dressing." This consists in spreading a thin layer of the compound mercurial ointment on a piece of lint of sufficient size to sur- round the joint. Over this strapping is evenly applied so as to exert a uniform pressure. In other cases the mercurial liniment or simple mercurial ointment may be of use. John Marshall introduced an elegant preparation composed of the precipitated mercuric oxide dissolved in oleic acid. There is thus formed a definite oleate of mercury Avhich is soluble in an excess of oleic acid. A solution made in this way containing five per cent, of the oxide is a clear liquid; when the oxide is increased to twenty per cent, it forms a solid unctuous substance, melting readily at the temperature of the body. As the oleate of mercury is slightly irritating to the skin, one grain of morphia may be added to each drachm, Marshall states that his experience of the use of this preparation in all forms of chronic inflammation has been very favourable. It is cleaner, more diffusible, more readily absorbed, and more efficacious than any other mercurial application. The very fact, however, that it is so readily absorbed forbids our using it in scrofulous subjects, who always stand mercury badly. Ten to thirty drops of the oleate, melted if necessary by a very gentle heat, and applied with a camel's-hair pencil, are quite sufficient for one application. Astringents applied directly to the inflamed parts are of the greatest service in those forms of congestive or passive inflammation in which the circulation is sluggish and the capillaries loaded; they aft'ord relief in these cases by induc- ing contraction of the vessels. In order to ensure their proper action, they must be employed of sufficient strength; for if too weak they irritate, and increase rather than relieve the congested condition. The nitrate of silver is the astrin- gent that is commonly preferred; this may be applied either solid or in a solution containing from ten grains to one drachm of the salt in one ounce of distilled water, and will produce a very marked beneficial influence in conges- tive inflammation of mucous, and occasionally of cutaneous, surfaces.