SIGNS OF FRACTURE OF BASE OF SKULL. 729 bone, the ethmoid, and probably the sphenoid on that side, and a fracture of the petrous portion of the right temporal bone. 2. The Discharge of thin Watery Fluid from the interior of the skull sometimes occurs ; and, when it does, it is the most certain sign of fracture of the base that we possess. Although the occurrence of a discharge from the ear after certain injuries of the head had been observed by Van der Wiel, O'Halloran, and Dease, in the early part and middle of the last century, no attention was paid to the subject by later surgical writers ; and it appears to have been completely lost sight of until Laugier, in 1839, again^ directed the attention of Surgeons to this interesting phenomenon. Since this period, it has often been observed and attentively studied ; and the nature and sources of the discharge have been particularly investigated by Laugier, Chassaignac, Robert, Guthrie, and Prescott Hewett. The discharge usually takes place through the ear, but it may occur from the nose ; I have seen one instance of this,"and Eobert mentions another. Still more rarely it takes place from a wound in the scalp communicating with the fracture. Cases of • this kind havft been described by Hey, O'Callaghan, Robert, Hewett, and other Surgeons. One such instance was communicated to me by one of the pupils of University College, a few years ago. A boy received a wound on the back of the head, with a depressed and comminuted fracture of the skull. On the nineteenth day after the receipt of the injury, a large quantity of serous fluid began to escape through the wound, and continued to do so profusely until his death from coma four days later. This watery discharge is an exceedingly valuable though most serious sign; and Robert, who investigated the phenomenon with much closeness, stated that the cases in which it happens always terminate fatally. This, however, is an error ; for a number of cases have occurred at University College Hospital and elsewhere, in which adult patients recovered, although many ounces of fluid were discharged from the ear. It is usually associated with symptoms indicative of serious injury to the base of the brain ; but to this there are also exceptions, for I have seen it in cases of injury of the head unaccompanied by any severe cerebral symptoms. Generally it occurs in young people. Robert says that it does so invariably ; but Hewett states that in most of the instances in which he has seen it the patients were above thirty years of age. In one of my cases, the patient was fifty-eight years of age ; and in six other instances in which I have observed it, the patients were all adults. In all cases of recovery that I have witnessed, some deafness of the ear from which the discharge occurred has been left, though this does not seem to be an invariable consequence of the injury. The Quantity of fluid that is thus discharged is always very considerable, the pillow usually becoming soaked by it, which may be the first thing to attract attention to it. It is often necessary to keep a piece of sponge or a pledget of lint against the ear, in order to prevent the fluid fi'om wetting the patient as it trickles out; and, if a cup be so.placed as to collect it, an ounce or two will speedily accumulate. Laugier states that he has seen a tumblerful discharged in a short time, and as much as twenty ounces has been known to be poured out in three days. The flow is usually continuous for several days, after which it ceases. At first the fluid that is discharged is usually tinged with blood, but this soon ceases, and it then flows clear. Its physical and chemical characters are those of a perfectly clear, and watery fluid, of