ACUTE IXFLAMMATION. ^55 sation of blood. As the part swells the constriction becomes tighter, the ob- struction to the arterial flow increases, till finally the circulation is completely arrested and gangrene sets in. ACUTE INFLAMMATION. The study of the process of inflammation is one of the most important upon which the Surgeon can enter, for not only does it give him an insight into the greater part of the Science of Surgery, but the treatment of inflammation, as it affects the different tissues and organs, forms an essential part of his duties. However interesting the theory of inflammation may be, it is impossible to discuss it here otherwise than in outline ; to gain a fuller acquaintance with it the works on general pathology and the writings of those who have made it a subject of special investigation must be consulted. The scientific study of inflammation may be said to date from the publica- tion of John Hunter's celebrated " Treatise on the Blood, Inflammation and Gun-shot Abounds." His knowledge was, however, necessarily limited by his not having at command the means of observing the process in the living tissues of animals. As soon as the improvements in the microscope rendered this mode of investigation possible it was actively prosecuted in this country by C. J. B. Williams, Addison and Travers, Waller, Wharton Jones and Paget, all of whom made important additions to our knowledge. Hunter, and most of his more immediate followers, regarded inflammation as a process in which the normal acts of nutrition were, although altered and perverted, more active than in health. Paget, on the other hand, had observed and accurately described the degenerative changes to be observed in tissues affected by acute inflammation. In 1808, Lister, continuing this line of observation, arrived at the conclusion that the essential feature of the acute inflammatory process is a more or less complete suspension of functional activity in the afl'ected tissues as a con- sequence of some injurious influence acting upon them. This theory being, however, difficult to reconcile with the " Cellular Pathology " of Yirchow, in so far as that system referred to inflammation, met with but little favour till after the rediscovery by Cohnheim in 1867 of the migration of the white corpuscles of the blood from the vessels during inflammation, a process by which the appearance of new cells in an acutely inflamed area was fully accounted for, without the necessity of supposing any increased activity, either nutritive or formative, in the original tissues of the part during the early stages of the process. Burdon-Sandcrson, therefore, in 1870, defined inflammation thus : "Inflammation is the succession of changes which occurs in a living tissue when it is injured, provided that the injury is not of such a degree as at once to destroy its structure and vitality." During the last few years, MetchnikoflP, and many others who have followed him, have added much to our knowledge of the process by a comparative study of the effects of injury and disease in all forms of animal life from the amoeba upwards. In the study of inflammation it is most important to bear in mind that the process is always the result of some injurious influence acting on the living tissues, and if the cause be removed the process will cease. It is not a disease in itself ; it is in fact in most cases, if not in all, the defensive reaction of the tissues against the injurious influence acting upon them. The new cells that