1077 TREATMENT OF CANCER. The Local Means are those upon which the Surgeon justly places the chief reliance. The Palliative local Treatment consists in the use of means calculated to retard the growth of the tumour, to lessen the pain attending it, and to remove the foetor that arises if it be ulcerated. It is important to remember that the rapidity of the growth and the pain will usually be increased by anything that causes hypertemia of the part. ^11 irritating applications such as tincture of iodine must therefore be avoided; they only hasten the grow^th of the tumour and the implication of the skin. If the tumour be painful, and the skin covering it still unbroken, great relief may be obtained by the application of belladonna plasters. In some cases I have found powdered conium, spread on cotton-wadding, useful in the same way. As it is of importance to prevent, as long as possible, any breach of surface, the application of these sedative plasters and powders should be perse- vered in with the view of supporting the integument. The local apphcation of ice w'as recommended by J. Arnott; but there is no evidence to show that it is of any real service. When the tumour is ulcerated, the fcetor must be diminished by the application of weak solutions of carbolic acid, chloride of zinc, chloralum, or permanganate of potash, to which cocaine or opiates may advantageously be added with a view of lessening the pain. Thymol and menthol both prevent decomposition and allay pain. Iodoform sprinkled over the ulcerating surface will often be found to diminish both the fcetor and the pain. If the smell of the iodoform is unpleasant to the patient, an ointment may be used composed of iodoform 5j, eucalyptus oil 3], paraffin and vaseline a a Jiiss. This may be applied on a piece of muslin and the parts covered with a sheet of salicylic wool. Yon Mosetig-Moorhof has recorded cases of extensive malignant disease in which slirinkage of the growth has followed the local application of methyl-violet. A 1 in 500 solution was used and frequent injections of from 3 to 6 grammes of the solution made into the diseased tissues. The Curative Local Treatment of cancer consists in a free removal of the tumour, together with such a margin of the surrounding tissues as is likely to be already in process of invasion. Before proceeding however to consider the methods now^ usually employed for this purpose, it is necessary to say a few words regarding two methods which were formerly recommended, viz., the use of caustics, and compression. The employment of caustics for the destruction of cancers has, in all ages and countries, been resorted to by empirics, who profess to remove tumours of a malignant nature, by secret remedies, less painful and more effectual than the knife. In this country they have never enjoyed any very extended reputation; and now^ that ansesthetics have removed the pain of an operation and anti- •septic treatment has reduced its dangers to a minimum, it is very rarely that the Surgeon is justified in using them. Of the very numerous caustic substances which have been employed the following may be mentioned :—the concentrated mineral acids, especially the fuming nitric and anhydrous sulphuric acids ; caustic alkalies, especially potash and lime, either alone or in combination in the form of Vienna paste ; certain mineral salts, such as the chlorides of antimony and zinc, the acid nitrate of mercury, sulphate of zinc, and arsenious acid. At the present day caustics are occasionally useful in the treatment of certain forms of carcinoma in which the complete removal of the growth by operation is impossible. Thus in some cases of cancer of the jaws in which