MYELOID TUMOURS. 1041 described by Leberfc, and its clinical and anatomical characters have been carefully investigated by Paget, It is nearly related to the spindle-celled group of sarcomata. The most characteristic feature of myeloid tumours is the presence of large, many-nucleated masses of protoplasm—the so-called myeloid cells—somewhat resembling the cells found in the marrow of foetal bones (Figs. 379, 380). Pig. 3S0.—Constituents of a Myeloid Tumour Pig. 379.—Myeloid Sarcoma from the Lower Jaw (454 diam.). (•!54 diaiu.). The small cells ha\ e shrunk away a a'. From a fresh scraping, from the myeloid cells ; the former vary from h, c. Prom a stained section, round to spindle shape. d. Transparent nuclei from a fresh scraping. They are often of great size, sometimes y^oth or even -^^th inch in diameter, and extremely irregular in shape, having processes projecting from them in all directions. The nuclei vary from eight or ten to thirty or forty in number, and are oval in shape, with distinct and highly refracting nucleoli. These myeloid cells are imbedded in masses of spindle-shaped or roundish cells, between which there is either no intercellular substance, or merely a small quantity of homogeneous ge- latinous material. These growths are extremely vascu- lar; so much so, that the whole mass may pulsate dis- tinctly. Myeloid tumours fre- quently contain cysts, often of considerable size. On section they present a soft gelatinous Fig, 381.-Myeloid Tumour of Radius. appearance and brittle struc- ture ; they usually yield a slimy fluid on scraping, mixed with fragments of the tumour; they are of a pink colour at their growing margin, while the central parts are of an opaque yellow from fatty degeneration. The intermediate parts usually present patches of a dark maroon colour, caused by extravasation of blood. Occasionally patches of ossification may be found. Myeloid tumours grow almost exclusively from bone, and by far most frequently from the medullary cavity or cancellous tissue at the head of a long bone. They attain a large size, sometimes slowly and gradually, and at other times with very great rapidity. The growth' gradaally, causes absorption of the bone, but at the same time a new deposit takes place from the periosteum, so that the tumour VOL. I. ■ 3 X