SPLINTS. 535 A third method of overcoming muscalar action has been suggested : the division of the tendons of some of the stronger muscles inserted mto the lower fragment. This, however, can very seldom be necessary, and 1 have rarely seen any benefit result from it. Displacement due to the violence which caused the fracture is overcome at the time of reduction ; any further displacement from external causes is prevented by the treatment about to be described. ■ i, r v The return of displacement is prevented, and the proper shape of the limb maintained, by means of bandages, splints, and specM apparatus of various kinds. In applying these care should l)e taken not to exert any undue pressure on the limb. Pads and compresses of all kinds intended to force a displaced fragment into position should, if possible, be avoided; they do nothing that cannot be effected by proper position, and may occasion sloughing of the integuments over which they are applied. The Bandages used in the application of splints should be the ordinary grey calico rollers, about two or three inches in width, and eight yards in length. Special care must be taken that the turns press evenly upon every part, and that the bandage be not applied too tightly. No landage should he applied under the splints, more particularly at the flexures of joints, and care must be taken that the limb be not bent, or its position otherwise materially altered, after bandages have been apphed. A bandage under the sphnt is not only useless, but dangerous, from the risk of strangulation. No bandage should be applied to the seat of fracture. The part below may sometimes advantageously be bandaged, in order to prevent oedema ; thus, in fracture of the humerus, the forearm may be bandaged, but no turns of the roller should be brought above the elbow. This point of practice I consider most im- portant, as the appKcation of a bandage to the immediate seat of fracture causes not only great pain, but danger of gangrene. When once a fractured hmb has been put up," the less iUs disturbed the better. No good can possibly come from meddling Avith it, but a great deal of pain must necessarily result to the patient. The Surgeon should always bear in mind that, in the treatment of a fractured bone, he can do nothing to promote its union, beyond placing it in a good position. Nature solders the bone together ; and the less the Surgeon interferes the better. But it is requisite to examine the hmb from time to time, and especially about the second or third week, when bony union is commencing, in order, if necessary, to correct displacement. In the earlier stages, supervision is necessary lest the bandage be too tight ; and, if the patient complain of any pain or numbness, or if the extreme parts look- blue and feel cold, the bandage must immediately be removed ; for, though the apparatus may not have been applied tightly, swelling of the limb may come on from various causes, to such an extent as to produce strangulation and gangrene, as I have seen happen in at least three instances, in each of which the limb required amputation (Fig. IGG). It is remarkable that the whole of a limb will fall into a state of gangrene in these circumstances with but little pain, and often with very slight constitutional disturbance, the parts having their sensibility deadened by the pressure. Before applying the apparatus in a case of fracture, and as often as it is taken off, it is a good plan to sponge the limb with warm soap and water, to prevent the itching that otherwise may be very troublesome. Splints of various kinds are used in cases of fracture. Tin, wire, zinc, or