SCAPULA—SUBGORA COID. 663 The Signs of dislocation of the shoulder-joint are sufficiently obvious, vary- ing, however, according to the nature of the injury. In all cases there arc seven common signs, viz. :—1, flattening of the shoulder ; 2, hollow under the acromion ; apparent projection of this process, with hollow tension of the deltoid ; 4, presence of the head of the bone in an abnormal situation ; 5, rigidity; fi, inability to place the hand on the opposite shoulder while the elbow is made to touch the front of the chest; and 7, pain about the shoulder. The shoulder-joint is susceptible oifour principal dislocations. Of these, according to Astley Cooper, three are complete, and the fourth partial. I think, however, that on examination it will be found that the so-called p«rto/ dis- 0cation is in reaUty a complete one. The directions in which the head of the humerus may be thrown are:—1, inwards and sligklJij down/mrds beneath the coracoid process—Siibcoracoid (Fig. 240); 2, forwards and inwards beneath the clavicle—SuMavicvJar (Fig. 247) ; bacJc/vards and downwards under the spine of the scapula—Subspinous (Fig. 248); 4, doivnivards and slighilij inwards under the glenoid cavity—Subglenoid (Fig. 249). In three recorded cases the head of the bone has been dislocated upwards and forwards—Supra- coracoid. 1. Subcoracoid Dislocation.—In the case of incomplete dislocation reported by Astley Cooper, the head of the bone was found to be thrown out of the glenoid cavity, lying under the coracoid process upon the anterior part of the neck of the scapula (Fig. 246) ; the capsular muscles were not torn, but the long head of the biceps had been ruptured. The description given by Astley Cooper, and the illustrative plate in his work on Dislocations, appear to point to a form of injury of the shoulder-joint which has been specially described by the French surgeons as a variety of the dislocation downwards ; that form of displacement, indeed, which by Boyer has been described as the dislocation *' inwards," by Malgaigne as the " subcoracoid " luxation, and by Velpeau as the " subscapular" dislocation—in which the head of the humerus is placed in front of the neck of the scapula, and underneath the subscapular muscle. In this dislocation the head of the bone, instead of being thrown, as in the subglenoid, downwards and slightly inwards, is thrown inwards either directly or sliglitly downwards as well. Why Astley Cooper described this as a partial dislocation, I do not understand ; for not only was there rupture of the capsule and of tlie long tendon of the biceps, but the woodcut at page 401