WOUNDS OF THE SCALP. 1^1 the result oi drunken brawls or ac;cidents amongst the lowest classes and the heads on which they are inflicted are very often grimed with dirt and crnstcd with c^rease, while the patients are often broken down by dissipation and improper feeding. It is not surprising, therefore, that unless great care is taken in the treatment, erysipelas and other diffuse inflammations are very prone to follow these injuries. If these disturbing causes are absent scalp wounds usually heal with remarkable ease, even though the part be much bruised and lacerated, and sloughing rarely occurs, as the supply of blood is abundant and the vitality of the tissues high. The CompliccUions which may follow wounds of the scalp vary with the degree of the injury. In the first class, in which the pericranial aponeurosis is not wounded, no complications occur beyond those common to all similar injuries. In the second class, in which the pericranial aponeurosis is wounded, diffuse suppuration beneath that membrane is very prone to occur if strict asepsis be not maintained. The pericranial aponeurosis or tendon of the occipito-frontalis muscle h firmly attached to the fat and fascia superficial to it, whilst it is very loosely connected with the parts underneath. This arrangement is often of great service in protecting the skull from fracture, especially when the head is caught between two solid bodies, as, for example, the wheel of a cart and the ground ; the scalp is then torn off and the head slips away, thus escaping further injury. In suppuration occurring under the tendon of the occipito-frontalis, the pus gravitates to the most dependent parts until arrested by the attachments of the aponeurosis. These attachments are as follows :— Posteriorly, the fleshy bellies and tendon are attached to the superior curved hue of the occipital bone, and to the mastoid process along the line of insertion of the sterno-mastoid. Laterally, the aponeurosis is thin, gives origin to the attollens and attrahens aurem, and in front of the ear runs down, superficial to the temporal fascia, to be attached, like it, to the zygoma; pus gravitating in this direction, therefore, forms a bag of fluid just above the zygoma, never extending into the cheek. In front, the fleshy fibres of the muscle are blended with those of the corrugator supercilii and the orbicularis palpebrarum, while in the middle line they are continued down over the nose into those of the pyramidalis nasi; the pus under this part will therefore collect in the upper eyelids, and in a pouch over the root of the nose. When the wound is too tightly closed, either by sutures or by a pad of lint allowed to stick to it by the dried blood, the serous fluid, necessarily effused in the first few hours, forces its way into the loose areolar tissue beneath the pericranial aponeurosis. If the wound be small the fluid is usually absorbed, and healing takes place without trouble. Frequently, however, it distends the lymph-spaces and decomposes, and thus starts a spreading inflammation which may affect the whole of the subaponeurotic areolar tissue. This septic cellulitis commences usually about the third day after the injury, and terminates, as such inflammations generally do, in diffuse suppuration and sloughing of the cellular tissue. The scalp itself never sloughs, nor is the bone exposed by destruction of its periosteum. There is a general pufl'y swelling of the scalp and diffused redness, often extending over the face, and it is probable that this state of things has often been confounded with erysipelas, and has given rise to the idea that stitches in the scalp cause that disease. This condition is frequently fatal, especially in old people, unless