LACERATION OF BRAIN-SYMPTOMS AND EFFECTS. 75' abundiint extravasation the swelliDg reaches a dangerous degree. ISot only does it extend concentrically until it reaches uninjured and possibly vital parts of the brain, but the cercbro-spinal fluid becomes increased in amount by the transudation until it may give rise to fatal compression of the brain. The whole of this process is independent of true inflammation or infection from without, and is due to the anatomical arrangement of the vessels of the brain bv which the blood returns chiefly through the large veins of the pia mater Avhich arc necessarily compressed by blood extravasated between them and the bone. In these cases a narrow zone, yellowish red in colour and dotted with points of extravasation, is found around the area of laceration : beyond this as far as the swelling extends the brain substance is moist, glistening, and softer than natural, that is to say highly oedematous. Supposing the patient to have escaped these dangers, it is still possible that death ^may occur at a more remote period from softening round the injured spot. This softening is a result of the interference with the circula- tion from the injury to the vessels and the consequent hosmorrhage, and possibly of local inflammation following the injury. As the eflPect of this, the brain tissue and any inflammatory exudation that may be present undergo fatty degeneration, forming a yellowish pulpy mass, which washes away readily under a stream of water, the condition being known as yeJloiv softening. The microscope shows innumerable fatty granules and granular cells, with sometimes recognizable debris of the nerve-fibres of the wdiite matter. It is possible that recovery may take place even after softening of an area of some size, the degenerated tissue being absorbed and a smaU superficial defect left in the surface of the brain. In cases in which recovery takes place without these unhealthy changes, a small tough, opaque scar, depressed below the surface, is left in the cortex, to which the membranes become firmly adherent. In the centre of the cicatrix may be a darker patch containing crystals of haematoidin, indicating its htemorrhagic origin. If much blood have been extravasated into the subarachnoid space, it occasionally happens that, instead of being completely absorbed, it becomes decolorized and partly organized, forming a layer, often of almost leathery consistence and of dirty brownish colour, which remains permanently adherent to one or both sides of the subarachnoid space. Occa- sionally it forms a complete cyst, flattened out in the space, and containing a trace of fluid. Such cysts are usually adherent to the dura mater, but have been found loose beneath the arachnoid. Symptoms and Effects.—The symptoms and results of wound or lacera- tion of the brain vary greatly according to the nature of the accident, the seat of the injury, the age of the patient, and other conditions which cannot always be very readily determined. The ordinary symptoms of laceration of the brain are at first merely those of concussion already described (p. 748). As before stated, " concussion of the brain" is a clinical expression only, and probably in all cases in which the patient ralHes slowly, and certainly in those in which a return of consciousness is delayed over twelve hours, there is more or less bruising and laceration of the cerebral substance. If, as the patient rallies, the symptoms of concussion gradually merge into those of compression (p. 745), within twelve or eighteen hours, we may be sure that tliis is due to hemorrhage within the skull, either from a laceration of the brain or from wound of a meningeal arterv or a