INJURIES OF THE HEiiD. 75° produced by firing through an empty skull is limited more or less closely to the apertures of entry and exit. If, hoAvever, the contents of the skull be still within it, the sutures are at the same time widely torn open. This difference depends upon the so-called " hydrodynamic effect" of the bullet, viz., upon the passage of waves of increased pressure through the fluid contents of the skull at the moment when the bullet enters it. The experiments of Horsley and Kramer tend to show that in dogs these waves of pressure are of great importance in the production of sudden death from gunshot injuries of the brain. The pressure waves impinge upon the base of the brain, and by their, effect upon the medulla cause sudden arrest of respiration. In these experi- ments prolonged artificial respiration usually succeeded in resuscitatino- the apparently lifeless animal. It is probable that the sudden death which occasionally follows a severe blow on the head, as by a cricket-ball, may be susceptible of a like explanation. The Post-mortem Appearances of laceration of the brain vary with the degree of injury and the time the patient survives. In a recent case every stage may be met with, from a mere superficial bruise, marked by a few points of extravasated blood in the grey matter, which still maintains its natural form and consistence, to exl,ensive laceration and crushing, in which the grey matter, and a greater or less amount of the white, is reduced to a pulpy, disintegrated mass, mixed with clots of blood. In the cases of simple bruising' there is no extravasation of blood in the neighbourhood of the injury ; fn severe laceration clots are found superficially adhering to the injured part of the brain, and extending widely in the subarachnoid space, sometimes com- pletely covering one hemisphere with a thick layer of coagulum. Occasionally r,he extravasated blood may have forced its way into the substance of the bi-ain, and even have burst into the lateral ventricle ; but this is very rare. In lacerations due to penetrating wounds or accompanying compound frac- tures in which the dura mater is torn, if the patient survive beyond the third day, marked inflammatory changes may be found at the injured spot. In these cases the brain substance is softer than natural in the area of laceration, and is readily washed away with a stream of water. At the injured part are the remains of the extravasated blood ; round about it the brain substanoe is redder than natural. In addition to the local mischief, the whole brain usually presents the appearances indicating septic meniugo-eucephalitis ; the pia mater is gorged with blood, and infiltrated with greenish, puriform, inflamma- tory exudation, starting from the injured spot and extending more or less widely in all directions ; there is a slight excess of cerebro-spinal fluid in some cases, but in others the surface is almost dry, and the convolutions are shghtly tiattened from swelling of the brain ; the grey matter is everywhere redder than natural, the red points seen in sections of the white substance are too numerous, and the ventricles often contain an excess of fluid. In simple fractures, or in compound fractures in which asepsis has been maintained, the patient is not free from the danger of spreading mischief extending from the injured area. According to Bergmann the blood extra- vasated round the laceration is often sufficient in amount to press on the veins of the pia mater, and thus to cause a serious interference with the return of blood from the injured part. If the extravasation is small in amount there results but a limited area of (Edema which soon disappears as the blood is absorbed and the pressure removed. But in extensive lacerations with more