VARIETIES OF ACUTE SURGICAL FEVER. 199 take part in the preparation of the blood, or to eliminate from it the products of tissue-change, its composition must be materially altered ; but it is at pre- sent impossible to state with any definiteness the exact nature of the changes tiiat take place. In simple inflammations, the fluid draining away from the inflamed area contains, as before stated, an excess of the so-called fibrin- ferment, and it is possibly due to this that the amount of coagulated fibrin which can be obtained from a given quantity of blood is increased in some inflammatory affections. In inflammations accompanied by putrefaction of the discharges, the products of decomposition are added to the fluids entering the circulation by means of the lymph-stream, and with these, microscopic organisms often find their way into the blood. The bacteria which accom- pany ordinary putrefaction soon perish in healthy blood, being apparently incapable of finding nutriment amongst living tissues. In true infective inflammations, the inflammatory products which enter the blood-stream may in some cases bear with them organisms capable of multiplying amongst the living tissue and giving rise to secondary local mischief or fatal general disease. The corpuscles of the blood, both white and red, may show considerable deviation from the normal standard in number during inflammation. There is no reason to believe that in simple inflammations there is any material change in the luimber of red corpuscles ; but in infective inflammations with high fever and in those accompanied by the absorption of the products of putrefaction, there is undoubtedly a rapid destruction of the red corpuscles. In those cases they often show a tendency to aggregation in irregular clusters instead of the Avell-formed rouleaux seen in normal blood. The number of white corpuscles in the blood during inflammation has been said by Virchow, Gulliver, and others, to be increased. T. P. Gostling has mnde a series of observations on this point in the wards of University College Hos- ])ital. The corpuscles were counted by means of Gowers's hgemocytometer, 'Vhe conclusions arrived at were briefly as follow : The white corpuscles are increased in the blood in all inflammations reaching the stage of suppuration, especially if the pus is pent up in a cavity ; they arc also slightly increased in parenchymatous inflammations such as acute pueumonia. They are not increased in inflammations accompanied only by "serous or sero-fibrinous exudations." According to Virchow, the increase in the white corpnscles is due to stimulation of the lymphatic glands, through which the excessive lymph-stream passes from the area of inflammation. Varieties of Acute Surgical Tever.—Acute inflammatory fever presents an infinite variety of form ; the type which it assumes l»eing dependent, first on the nature of the pyrogenic substance the admixture of which with the blood is the cause of the disturbance ; secondly, on the previous health and strength of the patient: and thirdly, on the occurrence of certain local sjmpto'ms determined by the seat of the inflammation. These varieties in the type of the fever arrange themselves practically into two classes—l, sthenic, and 2, asthenic. The terms "sthenic" and "asthenic" are not used at the present day with reference to varieties of inflammation as they were in former times ; but for the designation of the different forms of febrile disturbance, as observed clinically, we have no better names, and it is convenient to continue to employ them. 1. Sthenic Inflammatory Fever occurs in young or middle-aged individuals