INJURIES OF SOFT PARTS. 3i6 result depends partly upon the constitution of the patient ; it is an error to suppose that success is entirely dependent on local conditions and the manage- ment of the Avound itself. In some constitutions it is impossible, under the most favourable circumstances, to obtain it. The sounder the constitution, the more readily will union by the first intention take place ; and in all cases it is favoured by the removal of all sources of irritation from tlie system, and by the adoption of a plain and nutritious diet. Repair, like all other physiological processes, is attended with an expenditure of force directly proportional to the extent of the injury to be repaired, hence a lowering plan of treatment is to be avoided, though the opposite error of overstimulation is equally to be deprecated. Before any operation, when possible, the patient should be prepared by being kept for some days upon a plain diet. He should take moderate exercise, and regular action of the bowels should be ensured. The condition of the kidneys should also be ascertained by examination of the urine. In cases of accidental Avound we must keep the patient quiet, put him on a moderate diet, and be very cautious in the administration of stimulants, as they have a great tendency to interfei-e with union by the first intention by increasing the force of the heart and exaggerating the early exudation. Local Treatment.—In the treatment of wounds the first four days form the most important period, and the fate of the wound, whether it shall heal by first intention or by the slower process of granulation, is practically determined in the first twenty-four hours. It has already been pointed out in the chapters on Inflammation and Repair that, as the necessary result of the injury done by the knife, a limited traumatic inflammation is set up, accompanied by abundant exudation of liquor sanguinis and migration of corpuscles ; the liquid exudation coagulates, the serum drains away, and the coagulated fibrin with the white corpuscles remains behind, forming the " plastic exudation " which serves as the first bond of union. This ])rocess must occur, but it should be completed within the first twenty-four hours, at the end of which time the tissues should have recovered from the damage done by the knife, exudation should cease, and the period of traumatic inflammation should beat an end. Should any fresh source of irritation be brought to bear on the surfaces of the wound the inflammation will persist, the migration and exudation will continue, pus will form instead of the desired plastic exudation, and all adhesion between the surfaces is prevented. The sources of irritation ao'ainst which we have to guard are—first, mechanical, \\z. the presence of foreign bodies, the tension from accumulation of blood-clot or discharges, and friction of the surfaces against each other; secondly, chemical, the products of putre- faction and the persistent action of powerful antiseptics ; and thirdly, specific infectire poisons, as erysipelas, hospital gangrene, some forms of pytemia and septica3mia. It is evident, therefore, that, in accordance with these principles, the following are the essential features of the treatment of a wound:—1, Arrest hEemorrhage perfectly ; 2, Remove all foreign bodies and clean the wound ; B, Bring the surfaces accurately into contact; -A, Provide perfect drainage for the serous discharge which must be poured out during the first twenty-four hours ; 5, Maintain perfect rest of the part; 6, Prevent decomposition of any discharge that may form between the surfaces, avoiding the constant action of an irritating antiseptic, and guard the patient against the chance of infec- tion from unhealthy or specific inflammations in the wounds of others.