19 GENERAL ANAESTHETICS. a means of relievino- pain during surgical operations. Experiments were made with the gas with this view, but they did not prove altogether satisfactory, and its administration was abandoned, except as a means of amusement. It is needless to do more than allude to such means as the compression of the nerves of the limb, as recommended by Moore, the employment of excessive venesection, as adopted by Wardrop, or the production of insensibility by mesmerism by Esdaile and others. These means of inducing ansesthesia were either inefficient, dangerous, or chimerical. It was not until 1844 that a serious attempt was again made to introduce insensibility by inhalation during operations : and to the Americans is undoubtedly due the honour of having established the practice of Antesthesia in Surgery. In that year Horace Wells, a dentist of Hartford, Connecticut, inhaled nitrous oxide gas with the view of rendering himself insensible during the extraction of a tooth : and, finding the experiment succeed, repeated it on several of his patients. Its success was not, however, constant; and having failed in several cases, he seems to have given up the attempt. In 184(5 Dr. Morton, a dentist, and a pupil of Wells, used the vapour of ether instead of the nitrous oxide gas ; and, having succeeded in extracting several teeth painlessly, applied to the authorities of the Massachusetts General Hospital at Boston for permission to administer it to a man from whom Dr. .1. C. Warren was about to remove a tumour of the neck. The result was most successful. The news of this great discovery was immediately sent to England, where the first public operations on patients ansesthetised by the inhalation of ether were performed at the University College Hospital by Liston, who amputated a thigh and tore out an ingrowing toe-nail without any suffering to the patient. At these operations I was present; they were performed on Dec. 22, 1846 ; and from that time the use of ansesthetics has been established in surgical practice in every civilised country. For more than a year, sulphuric ether was the only agent habitually used for inducing anaesthesia. But during the whole of this period many profes- sional men were busy with experiments on the ansesthetic influence of various other substances ; and in November, 1847, Professor Simpson, of Edinburgh, published an account of the anassthetic properties of chloroform. In this country this agent soon came to be generally employed, although ether held its ground with the American surgeons, by most of whom it has always been preferred to chloroform. The employment of Ancesthetics in Surgery is undoubtedly one of the greatest boons ever conferred upon mankind. To the patient it is invaluable in preventing the occurrence of pain, and to the Surgeon in relieving him from the distress of inflicting it. Anaesthesia is not, however, an unmixed good. Every agent by which it can be induced produces a powerful impres- sion on the system, and may entail dangerous consequences. We cannot pur- chase immunity from suffering except at the cost of a certain degree of risk There can, however, be little doubt that many of the deaths that have followed the mhalation of aneesthetics have resulted from want of knowledge or of due care on the part of the administrators. Yet, whatever precautions be taken, there is reason to fear that a f^ital result must occasionally happen. This immediate risk, which is very small, is more than counterbalanced by the im- munity from other dangers which used formerly to occur during operations. There is another question in relation to antesthetics which at one time C 2