THE TOURNIQUET AND ITS APPLICATION 45 concluded, he can remove his fingers from them, one by one, to admit of their being ligatured or twisted. This plan has, however, the disadvantage of occupying the assistant's hands at a time when they may be wanted to help the Surgeon, and it will be found more convenient if the vessels be seized in a pair of catch-forceps of the pattern recommended by Peau and Sir T. Spencer Wells (Fig, 7). These forceps have scissor handles, and the grasping extremity is roughened by rather deeply cut transverse teeth. They can be applied instantaneously, and their hold is extremely firm, and from their length and weight it is easy for the assistant to keep them out of the wound during the operation, while at the same time his fingers are free to help the operator. At the conclusion of the operation, it will frequently be found that their pressure has pei-manently arrested the blfeeding from the vessels to which they have been applied. Their action in this respect will be more fully described in the chapter on the Arrest of Haemorrhage. As a means of temporarily arresting bleeding during an operation, they have proved of the greatest possible value, especially in operations about the head and neck, and abdomen. The Tourniquet and its Application.—The older Surgeons from the time of Archigenes, a Eoman who lived in the first centuiy, bound a tight narrow band, called the "fillet," round a limb during an amputation. The fillet was intended to serve three purposes—first, to steady the muscles during the incision ; secondly, to numb the limb ; and thirdly, to arrest the flow of blood ; but it seems to have but imperfectly succeeded in producing the desired results. In 1674, Morel, a French Surgeon, improved the fillet by introducing a piece of stick beneath the band, by means of which it could be twisted up and efficiently tightened. To protect the limb from being bruised, he introduced compresses beneath the baud ; and to ensure the more complete compression of the main artery, he placed a rolled bandage along its course. Beneath the knot, to save the skin from being pinched, he placed a piece of leather or thick paper. To this apparatus, he gave the name of " tourniquet." The tourniquet in this primitive form is still useful, in the absence of any other appliance, for the temporary arrest of hBemorrhage. A round pebble, or any hard body about the size of a hen's egg, may be rolled in the middle of a pocket-handkerchief and laid over the artery, the ends of the handkerchief being knotted round the limb, and then twisted up tightly with a piece of stick. In the hands of an ignorant person, however, the pebble would be better left out, as if it were not applied in the proper place, it might serve merely to relieve the main artery from pressure. The piece of folded paper beneath the knot should never be omitted, or the agony caused by the pinching of the skin would be more than the patient could bear. The screw tourniquet which replaced Morel's imperfect apparatus, was invented by the French Surgeon Petit in 1718 ; and, although the details of its mechanism have undergone improvements, the instrument used in the present day is essentially the same (Fig. 12). It may be applied with or without a pad over the artery. If a pad be used, it is best made of a common roller, from two and a half to throe inches wide ; of this a few feet must be unrolled. The roller is then placed longitudinally on the artery, and the unrolled part carried twice round the limb so as to keep the pad in position, but care must be taken in doing this not to constrict the part sufficiently to cause venous engorgement. The tourniquet is then applied, and the band