374 POISONED WOUNDS. The symptoms are usually ushered in for two or three days (according to Perry for five or six) by some antecedent phenomena, consisting of giddiness, chills and heats, and a general feeling of discomfort, whilst often the onset is marked by great depression with irritability of temper. In some cases vesicles under the tongue have been observed. The more special symptoms never manifest themselves until the disease is fairly established : they consist essentially in violent and repeated convulsive movements of a reflex character, induced by \ arious external influences acting on the surface of the body or on the fauces, or by mental impressions ; and they speedily end in exhaustion and death. At an early stage of the disease the knee-jerks are exaggerated. The special symptoms are I'eferable to an excessive irritability of the medulla and upper part of the cord, in consequence of which the slightest afferent impulse causes a wide-s])reading and violent reflex spasm of the muscles of deglutition and respiration, and of those of the neck and sometimes of the jaw and tongue. At the same time there is considerable mental disturbance, chiefly assuming the form of excessive terror and agitation. The Excessive IrritaMUty of the Medulla and upjjer part of the Spinal Cord is shown first by the very slight nature of the afferent impulses which are sufficient to cause a reflex spasm. A blast of cold air, the rustling of the bed- clothes, the slightest touch of or movement on the skin, will bring on con- v^ulsions. As the disease advances, stimulation of the nerves of special sense produces the same effect; so that a sudden flash of light, as the reflection of the sun from a looking-glass, or a sudden noise, as the slamming of a door, will bring on a spasm. Mental impressions even may cause the same result. The noise produced by liquids being poured from one vessel to another is peculiarly distressing to the patient; and Elliotson mentions a case in which a patient with rabies was thrown into violent agitation by hearing the dresser who sat up with him void urine. The sufferings and convulsions which the patient experiences when he attempts to drink are owing to the same cause. The normal reflex contraction of the muscles of deglutition that occurs in swallowing becomes spasmodic, and spreads Avidely to other muscles, ending in a general convulsion, and the recollection of these sufferings makes him afraid to repeat the attempt; hence the fear of liquids, from which the name " hydro- phobia " is derived. In the earlier stages of the disease the spasm affects chiefly the muscles of deglutition and respiration : a catch in the breathing, resembling what often occurs when a person goes into a cold bath, is met with as one of the earliest symptoms, taking place in the midst of conversation, and before the patient's mind is directed to the nature of the disease. This catch is due to the spasmodic descent of the diaphragm, and gives rise to severe pain at the pit of the stomach, or to a feeling of suffocation. In consequence of this spasm of the diaphragm, the patient makes from time to time a loud hiccuping noise, Avhich has been likened to the bark of a dog. As the disease advances the spasms extend more widely, and increase in violence. The extraordinary muscles of respiration and those of the neck and jaw are thrown into violent spasms, and the convulsions may extend even more widely. The laryngeal muscles also become affected, and spasm of the glottis is not an uncommon mode of death. Towards the end of the case the spasms may occur without any recognizable external stimulus, but just before death they may entirely cease. From an early stage of the case there is an abundant viscid secretion from