L YMPHANGIOMA—L YMF HO MA. 1029 but often arise in yoting adult life. They are most common in tlie sub- cutaneous tissue, but have also been met with in muscles, and in the liver, ppleen, and other internal organs. The mode of origin of these tumours is doubtful. They appear sometimes to develop as a result of an injury. The symptoms and treatment of vascular tumour will be fully described in a subsequent chapter. D. Lymphangioma. Lymphatic ITaevus. Tumour composed of Lymphatic Vessels.—These excessively rare tumours are composed of a network of fine lymphatic vessels or of dilated lymphatic spaces com- municating with each other, like those of the cavernous angioma, the cavities containing lymph instead of blood. Congenital forms of lymphangioma are met with in the conditions of hypertrophy of the tongue (macro-glossia) and Fig. .309.—Nsevus (454 diam.). The Fig. 370.—Nievus (188 diani.) infiltrating fat. The endothelnim apparently almost shaded bands represent ves.sels out of focus obstnicts the lumen of the vessels the ends of some of them being shown in as the result of their contraction. transverse section. of the Hps (macro-cheilia); also in the neck and occasionally elsewhere as a multilocular cystic tumour—the cystic hygroma. This tumour is situated in the subcutaneous tissue, and also forms one variety of congenital sacral tumours. It is composed of a number of thin-walled cysts, sometimes com- ])letely closed and sometimes communicating with each other ; the separate cysts are held together by areolar tissue, in some cases containing fat. The contents are clear and serous. The walls of the cysts are lined in some cases with an endothelium like that of the lymphatics. These tumours often attain a great size in the neck and sacral region, but in other situations they are seldom very large. If their size permits, they can be removed ; other modes of treatment have not proved successful. E. Lymphadenoma. Tumour composed of Lymphatic Tissue. Lymphoma.—Lymphadcnoraata are composed of tissue exactly resemblino^ that of the follicles of the lymphatic glands, lymphoid or lymphatic tissue the so-called " adenoid tissue" of His ; but to avoid confusion, the term "adenoid" should never be used in connection with this structure, but reserved for tissues resembling those of the secreting glands. Lymphoid tissue (Figs. 371 372) jg characterized by a dehcate reticulate stroma, in the meshes of which are