SAWII^G THE BONE. 7^ to facilitate the retraction of the soft parts and the exposure of the joint at which disarticulation is to be performed. The oval form is given by rounding off the angles formed by the junction of the longitudinal with the circular incision. When the longitudinal incision is continued for some distance above the commencement of the true oval part, the operation is frequently spoken of as amputation by the " racket-shaped incision." _ _ Sawing the Bone.—In aU methods of amputating, as soon as the incisions have been made through the soft parts, the bones must be cleared for the application of the saw. While doing this the soft parts must be firmly retracted by the assistant or by the Surgeon himself, if he stands so as to take his own flaps. For the purpose of retraction the hands are usually sufficient, though some Surgeons still use retractors made of pieces of stout calico or linen. The retractor must be about 2 inches wider than the diameter of the limb and about 8 feet long. If there is only one bone, one end must be torn into two tails. The retractor is soaked in an antiseptic lotion, and the two tails of the divided end are then passed one on each side of the bone and slightly crossed on each other. The assistant then, taking the two tails m one hand and the undivided end in the other, pulls them forcibly upwards. If there are two bones, the divided end must be torn into three tails, the middle one of which is passed between the bones. Ketractors are of use only in circular or combined flap and circular amputations. In the pure flap operations they are unnecessary for retraction of the soft parts, but they are still of use in protecting the muscles from the teeth of the saw and in keeping the surfaces free from the bone-dust : for the laceration of the deep muscles by the saw and the imbedding of bone-dust in their substance may interfere seriously with union. If a retractor be used, the final clearing of the bone is completed after it has been applied. The older Surgeons cleaned the bone by scraping the periosteum up with the back of the knife. Most modern operators content themselves with stripping the muscles from the bone as high as may be necessary, and finally dividing the periosteum at the point at which the bone is to be sawn by a firm circular sweep of the knife from heel to point, first round the under surface of the bone, and then round the upper surface in the opposite direction. If there be two bones, care must be taken in clearing them in this way not to direct the edge of the knife upwards in the interosseous space higher than the line to which the saw is to be applied, lest any artery be cut where, on account of its retraction, it will be difficult to secure. Those, however, who are willing to sacrifice a little elegance and rapidity will find an undoubted advantage in carefully raising the periosteum with the muscles in retracting the soft parts. This is easily done by a periosteal elevator, so as to leave a tube of periosteum which will cover the end of the bone when the stump is closed, or may be previously brought over the end of the bone and secured in that position by a few catgut stitches. The advantages gained by thus saving the periosteum are not very evident if all goes well and the stump heals by first intention, but should suppuration occur and the bone protrude, it will be found that the end is completely covered by the periosteum, which becomes firmly adherent to it after four or five days. The medullary canal being in this way closed, the danger of septic osteomyelitis, necrosis and pyaemia, is greatly diminished. In cases healing without suppuration a rounded end to the bone seems to be formed at an earlier period than when the periosteum is not saved, and in the