INFECTIVE DISEASES OF WOUNDS 93^ this the free administration of quinine and stimul/ints greatly con- tributed. The Constitutional Treatment consists in as nourishing a diet as the patient will take, with a liberal supply of stimulants ; and these may be increased by the addition of the brandy-and-egg mixture, or of ammonia, in proportion as depression comes on. From five to seven grains of the sulphate of quinine should be given every four or six hours, with a full dose of opium at bed-time, and more frequently if there be much pain and irritation. SPREADING TRAUMATIC OR EMPHYSEMATOUS GANGRENE. Spreading Traumatic Gangrene, Emphysematous Gangrene, or the gangrene foadroyante of Maisonneuve, is a most acute and fatal form of infective inflammation usually following contused or lacerated wounds, particu- larly w^hcn complicated with fractures or when opening a joint. Causes.—The causes of the disease are not certainly known. The cases occur sporadically and there is no evidence of infection from case to case. It is met with at all ages. On examina- tion of the affected tissues, rod-shaped organisms — bacteria — are found in great abundance, and these are doubt- less connected with the rapid formation of offensive gas in the gangrenous parts which forms so characteristic a feature of the disease. They have also been found in the blood, probably not in an active state, but being merely acciden- tally present. In the great majority of cases the wound from which the gangrene has originated has not only been lacerated but has had mud or dirt, especially street mud, ground into it. This is known to contain rod-shaped organisms, both bacilli and bacteria, capable of setting up various unhealthy local and general processes if inoculated on animals, and it is very probable that this is the source of infection in cases of emphysematous gangrene. The conditions favourable for the development of the disease are the presence of the lacerated wound opening a cavity such as a joint or communicating with a crushed bone. It is especially liable to occur if the wound be injudiciously closed by sutures without proper drainage or antiseptic precautions. It is most common after contused or lacerated wounds of the foot with con- siderable subcutaneous extravasation ; it also occasionally follows similar injuries of the hand. Symptoms.—Spreading gangrene always sets in before suppuration is established, usually on the second or third day. At first the symptoms appear to be merely those of ordinary septic inflammation, the result of pent-up decomposing discharges. There is febrile disturbance of the septic type, with pain and swelling in the wound, and a blush of redness extending for some distance on each side of it. The true nature of the affection, however, speedily becomes apparent. The wounded limb at the seat of injury swells, becomes dusky-red, and is the seat of a deep-seated, burning pain. The Fig. 340.—Bacteria cultivated on a potato from a case of empliyseniatous gangrene.