VARIETIES OF INFLAMMATION. 187 optic nerve to the commissure. Gonorrlioeal iuflammation of the testicle is in like manner now usually regarded as a direct extension of the inflammation by means of the vas deferens. Herpes zoster is an inflammation of the skin arising from no known external cause, and usually limited to tiie area supplied by a single sensory nerve or nerve-root. lu this case we can scarcely doubt that the cause, whatever it may be, acts in some way through the nerve. Although it is difficult to prove that the nerves take, ordinarily, any active part in the causation of inflammation, there is no doubt they exert an important influence on its progress by their controlling influence on the circulation. Irritation of a sensory nerve is known to cause dilatation of the vessels in the whole area supplied by the nerve; and the painful stretching of the nerves in inflammatory swelling, by causing such a dilatation, increases the blood pressure in the inflamed part, and consequently augments the exudation and aggravates the tension. Varieties of Inflammation.—John Hunter divided inflammation first into two kinds, viz. the healthy and the unhealthy. "The healthy," he says, "probably consists only of one kind, not being divisible but into its different stages." " The unhealthy admits of vast variety," " according to the kind of health in the constitution or part." He also divided inflammation according to its effects into " the adhesive, the suppurative, and the ulcerative." The term " adhesive inflammation " has for nearly one hundred years occupied so important a place in surgical language, that it will be better here briefly to define it. Adhesive iuflammation is the result of an irritant acting tem])orarily with such a degree of severity as to cause exudation of almost pure blood-plasma and migration of the corpuscles, with coagulation of the fibrin in or on the injured tissues. At the same time, the damage done by the irritant must not be of such severity as to cause the death of any appreciable amount of tissue; nor must it continue to act after it has produced the degree of impaired vitality in the vessels necessary to cause the exudation. To take an example : the damage done by the passage of a sharp knife through healthy living tissues is sufficient to develop in the area acted upon the stage of inflammation characterised by retardation of the blood-stream, exudation of a coagulable fluid and migration of white corpuscles. The exudation coagulates on the injured surface and in the spaces of the injured tissue, the fibrin and the white corpuscles remain, forming what is known as " inflammatory lymph," and the serum partly drains away externally and partly returns by the lymphatics to the circulation. This inflammatory lymph is the material of adhesion in adhesive inflammation, and if two surfaces covered with it are brought in contact, they adhere to each other. The knife can of course act only while cutting the tissues ; the moment the cut is made the cause ceases, the effect only remaining. If no new cause of irritation comes into play (such as the friction of the surfaces on each other, or the presence of foreign bodies, or chemical irritants as putrid matter, persistently-acting, powerftd anti- septics, &c.) the effect gradually subsides, the injured tissues recover their vitality, exudation ceases, the coagulated inflammatory lymph remaining glues the surfaces to each other, and adhesive inflammation is said to have taken place. Should some psrsistent source of irritation, such as one of those above-mentioned, be brought into play in the wound, the exudation does not cease so long as the cause of irritation is acting ; consequently, such "inflam- matory lymph " as may have been formed by the coagulation of the exudation,