559 COMPOUND FRACTURE: TREATMENT. scabbing, tlic Surgeon iniist then be guided by the same principles as in the treatment of any other open wound. The objects in view are, 1. To clean the wound thoroughly ; 2. To provide good drainage ; 3. To prevent decomposi- tion of the discharges and infection of the wound ; and 4, To maintain perfect rest. It is better in all cases, whatever mode of dressing it is intended to adopt, to syringe the wound out rvith some antiseptic solution, as by this means any dirt which may have been forced into the wound at the time of the accident, or have adhered to the bone if it have been protruded, may be washed out. The best solutions for the purpose are carbohc acid and water (1 to 20) ; solution of pcrchloride of mercury (1 in 1000) ; tincture of iodine and water (1 to 80) ; or chloride of zinc (20 grs. to an ounce). The skin round the wound must also be cleaned with the same solution. In syringing out the wound, a glass syringe with a piece of stiff india-rubber tubing on the nozzle should be used. This will penetrate all parts of the wound and yet is not rigid enough to force its way amongst sound tissues. The lotion must be allowed to flow out freely, so as to avoid injecting the surrounding lymph- spaces with the irritating or poisonous antiseptic. In many compound fractures the air gets sucked in by the movements of the limb, and can be felt crepitating in the subcutaneous tissue for some distance on each side of the wound. In these cases it is not necessary to force the solution as far as the air has gone, as the latter seems to deposit its dust close to the wound, where it can easily be reached by the disinfectant. If the wound is many hours old or very dirty, it is well to put into it some iodoform in crystal to ensure a more permanent disinfecting action. Having cleaned the wound thoroughly, provision must he made for efficient drainage. In many cases the wound is lai'ge enough to allow of perfect drainage ; if not, it may be enlarged, but it is scarcely ever justifiable, however large the wound may be, to insert stitches. If the skin is much undermined, a counter-opening may often be made with advantage, and a drainage-tube inserted. The prevention of decomposition of tite discharges and infection of the tuonndiB carried out by one of the methods of dressing already described in the Chapter on Wounds. In most cases the Surgeon will adopt that method of antiseptic dressing which he commonly uses for wounds in general. The mere fact that the wound is connected with a broken bone docs not necessitate any special mode of treatment. The carbolic gauze di-essing gave excellent results, but for reasons already given it has been largely replaced by the sal-alembroth and double cyanide gauzes, which possess the great advantage in the treatment of compound fractures that the first di-essing can often be left undisturbed for many days or even weeks. For the same reason the dry absorbent dressings, such as iodoform- wool, salicylic wool, su})limate wood-wool, etc. give excellent results. In applying the dressing the gauze or wool should be wrapped smoothly round the limb in sheets so arranged that the dressing can be opened when it requires changing, while the limb is lying well supported and in a comfortable position. Thus in the case of a fracture of the leg treated by Cline's lateral splints^ the edge of the dressing should be under the internal splint, so that it can be opened without disturbing the fracture while the leg lies on the outer splint The dressings must be held in position by the splints ; no bandage must be put on under the splints, as it is impossible to do this without disturbing the ends of the bone. In some cases the abundance of the serous discharo-e