970 SEPTICAEMIA AND PYjEMIA. A recent wound with decomposing discharges, or a deep cavity with pent-up putrid pus in it, are conditions essentially similar to those obtained by inject- ing a syringeful of a putrid fluid beneath the skin of an animal. Causes op Septicemia and Pyemia.—Simple septic poisoning may occur whenever a sufficient quantity of decomposing blood, serum or pus is collected in a wound or cavity of the body. Putrefaction, as before pointed out, will occur in such collections of fluid under all ordinary conditions to which a patient is exposed either in hospital or private practice. Septic poisoning affects a patient debilitated by want of proper food and bad hygienic con- ditions more severely than one placed in better circumstances ; beyond this, however, the surroundings of the patient exercise but little influence on its occurrence. The causes of the process are to be looked for in the wound itself, and septic poisoning may always be prevented by efficient drainage and antiseptic treatment. The genuine infective processes will on the other hand rarely develop m spite of the presence of decomposing matter in the wound except when the patient is placed under unfavourable hygienic conditions. The experiments already described, in which septic infection and pyaemia have been induced artificially by the injection of putrid fluids beneath the skin of an animal, show that the presence of decomposing matter is an important element in the causation of these diseases. Clinical experience has fully confirmed this fact. Pysemia has been practically banished from many hospitals in which it was formerly a frequent cause of death merely by the adoption of antiseptic methods of treating wounds—ventilation, cubic space, and other conditions surrounding the patient being unchanged. On the other hand, a strict attention to the laws of hygiene has been almost equally successful in preventing these diseases even when the Surgeons have not adopted any special mode of anti- septic treatment. These diseases are predisposed to by all conditions, either before or after operations or injuries, that tend to impair the health, and to lower the strength, such as constant want of. fresh air, overcrowding, abuse of alcohol, and in- sufficient or improper food. Of all these causes, overcrowding is undoubtedly the most frequent and the most fatal; more particularly is this injurious, if many patients are suffering from suppurating wounds. That pyasmia is the result of the faulty hygienic conditions just alluded to, viz., want of pure air, overcrowding, and insufficient and unwholesome diet, is evident from the fact of its being most destructive where these causes of disease prevail, as amongst the poorer classes of all large and densely peopled towns ; while in the purer air of country districts, or in private practice amongst the wealthier classes, it is rarely met with. It is one of those causes of death after operations that might and ought to be prevented ; and wherever it is fi-equent, we may be sure not only that proper attention is not being paid to cleanliness and the prevention of decomposition in the treatment of the wounds, but that either the constitutions of the patients are peculiarly deteriorated, or else that the hygienic conditions to which they are exposed after the injury or operation are more than usually faulty. That it may be prevented has been abundantly proved by the experience gained in the Franco-G-erman war of 1870. The fact, which had previously been well known to all scientific Surgeons, was' then established beyond all possibility of cavil, that the danger of pyfBmia increased, ccderis paribus, in proportion as the hygiene was faulty