TREATMENT OF GANGRENE FOLLOWIN(; LIGATURE. 463 bad been tied ; and Hodgson witnessed the same result when the operatif)n was performed at an inclement season of the year. The mcautioiis application of heM may occasion mortification, by over- stimulating the returning circulation of the limb, especially about the period when the rising temperature indicates distension of the capillary vessels. In this way the application of hot bricks and bottles to the feet has given rise to sloughing ; and Liston was compelled to amputate the thigh after ligature of the femoral artery, for gangrene induced by fomenting the Hmb with hot water. The application of a bandage, even though very cautiously made, is apt to induce gangrene. I have seen this happen when a roller was applied to the leg after ligature of the femoral artery, with the view of removing oedema. Character.—The gangrene from ligature of an artery is almost invariably of the moist kind, as it u-sually arises from diminished vis a tergo and conse- ([uent stagnation of blood. The limb first becomes oedematous ; vesications then form ; and the skin assumes a purplish or greenish-black tint, rapidly extending up to the seat of operation. In some cases, though they are rare, simple mummification of the limb comes on ; the skin assuming a dull yellowish-white hue, mottled by streaks that correspond to the veins, and becoming dry, horny, and shrivelled, about the extensor tendons of the instep. Treatment.—Much may be done with the view of preventing gangrene. Thus, the limb should be slightly elevated, wrapped up loosely in cotton- wadding, and laid on its outer side after the o^ieration. If the weather be cold, hot-water bottles may be put into the bed, but not in contact with the limh. Should there be any appearance of stagnation of venous blood, the plan recommended by Guthrie of employing continuous and methodical friction in a direction upwards for twenty-four hours, so as to keep the superficial veins emptied, may be practised. When mortification has fairly set in, amputation of the limb should be per- formed at once as the only chance of saving life, in all those cases in which the patient's constitutional powers are sufficiently strong to enable him to bear the shock of the operation. The limb should be removed at the seat of the original wound, or opposite the point at which the artery has been tied. In those cases, however, in which the gangrene follows injury of the femoral artery just below Poupart's ligament, Guthrie advises that the amputation should be done below the knee, where the gangrene usually stops. If the gangrene spread, with oedema or serous infiltration of the Hmb, the amputation should be done high up—at the shoulder-joint, or in the upper third of the thigh. In these cases a large number of vessels usually require ligature, having been enlarged by the collateral circulation.