IS CANCEB CONSTITUTIONAL OR LOCAL? 1059 they are nourished. But if by blood-disease be meant a disease in which the blood actually contains the elements of cancer, as in gout it contains uric acid circulating through the body and capable of deposit in some favourable locality, this hypothesis is certainly untenable. There is no evidence either chemical or microscopic to support such a theory, and every phenomenon that occurs in connexion with cancer may be explained without it. But though the doctrine of cancer being a blood-disease is^ untenable in this sense, the same cannot be said of the theory that it is a constitutional affection. The doctrine of the constitutional origin of cancer cannot be more clearly expressed than in the words of Paget:—" Cancers are manifestations of certain specific and morbid states of the blood; and in them are incorporated peculiar morbid materials which accumulate in the blood, and which their growth may tend to increase." " The existence of the morbid material in the blood, whether in the rudimental or in the effective state, constitutes the general predisposi- tion to cancer; it is that which is by some called the predisposing cause of cancer. The morbid material is the essential constituent of the cancerous diathesis or constitution ; and when its existence produces some manifest im- pairment of the general health, independently of the cancerous growth, it makes the primary cancerous cachexia." For the local manifestation of this constitutional disease, the part where it is developed must be put into a favour- able condition by irritation, injury, or other similar cause. The blood-disease and the local conditions may compensate each other; thus, with an intense cancerous diathesis, tumours may be formed in such a way and in such numbers as to be apparently independent of local conditions ; while in cases ^vhere the constitutional element exists in a low degree, a long continuance of irritation may be required to bring out its local manifestations". Paget believes that by this theory of compensation the opposing views as to the local or con- stitutional origin of cancer may be reconciled. l. The theory that cancer is of local origin appears to be more generally adopted. The arguments on which it is based may be summed up as follows, and they are certainly sufficient to account for all the phenomena of cancer ; and many of these phenomena do not admit of explanation on any other theory. 1. Cancerous tumours spring up in individuals who have always enjoyed perfect health, and who are to all appearance perfectly well at the time of the occurrence of the disease. As in these cases there is no evidence whatever of constitutional affection of any kind, it would be a begging of the whole ques- tion to assert that the existence of the local tumour must of itself be taken as an indication of a constitutional cancerous tendency. 2. Such primary tumours are almost invariably single. Primary cancer very rarely occurs at the same time at different seats of election—as the mamma, pylorus, and rectum, as would be the case were it constitutional. 3. Cancers are not unfrequently the result of some local injury or irritation This is a matter of daily observation in the lip, the tongue, the female breast, &c. 4. The general health does not suffer until the glands have become implicated, or ulceration has taken place, when signs of cachexy may set in In many cases of cancer, especially of tb.e mamma, the health continues excellent for many mouths—a year or two even after the disease has declared Itself, and so long as it continues to be confined to its primary seat. It is not 3 Y 2