TRAUMATIC NEURITIS: SYMPTOMS AND TREATMENT. 497 fibres themselves may exhibit degenerative changes. In chronic inflammation we find an overgrowth of the connective tissue of the epineurium and perineurium ; whilst in the later stages the areolar tissue in the fasciculi becomes affected, and degeneration of the nerve fibres occurs. These changes are well seen in Fig. 155, ii'om a case in which Sands and Seguin, of New York, excised the cords of the brachial plexus. The changes of chronic traumatic neuritis tend slowly to ascend the nerve, and may even extend to the cord and give rise to sclerosis. Symptoms.—The symptoms of traumatic neuritis are intense pain and tenderness in the line of the affected nerve. Sensation is variously modified in the parts supplied by the nerve ; there may be numbness, or tingling, or anaesthesia ; in other cases there may be intense neuralgic pain. Occasionally there are spasms, but more commonly there is weakness or paralysis of some of the muscles supplied. Poore has shown that in a considerable proportion of the cases which have come under his care for loss of writing-power, tender- ness has been found in the course of some one or more of the nerves of the arm, and on tracing the history, the origin of the affection was frequently found to be a strain or other injury. In one case recorded by him, the whole brachial plexus in the axilla became intensely tender after a violent strain of the shoulder. The patient's sufferings were very great, and nothing gave him much relief. At last, after prolonged rest, the symptoms subsided, and it was then found that the serratus magnus was paralysed. Finally, this also recovered. In hysterical patients the symptoms are often greatly exaggerated. Treatment.—In the early and painful stage of the disease, electricity aggravates tlie mischief. The tender nerves should be freely blistered, and the affected limb kept at perfect rest. When the symptoms are less intense a long strip of capsicum plaster applied along the line of the nerve gives much relief. If any constitutional condition such as gout, rheumatism, or syphilis can be detected, it must be treated by appropriate means. These cases are always chronic, often lasting many months before the symptoms disappear. In others, all milder means having failed, surgical operations of various kinds hav« been undertaken for the rehef of the patient. These operations are of three kinds :—1. Excision of the bulbous ends of the nerves in cases of neuritis following amputation ; 2. Division or excision of a portion of the affected nerve ; and 3. Nerve-stretching. 1. Excision of the Bulbous Ends of the WTerves.—This has been undertaken usually under the impression that the bulbous end was the seat of the mischief. In some cases no doubt a painful stump is due to implication of the end of the nerve in the cicatrix, and then relief is given by the operation. If however the symptoms are due to true chronic ascending neuritis, this operation, although occasionally giving relief .for a short time, is never productive of a cure. i. Division or excision of portions of the Nerve.—The smaller nerves of the limbs have repeatedly been divided or partially excised, in cases of persistent traumatic neuralgia. The larger neiwous'trunks, snch as the median, nmsculo-spiral, and ulnar, have been treated in the same way in the upper limb ; and the external popliteal, and even the sciatic nerve in the lower limb, has been partially excised as a last resource in extreme cases. These operations have in some cases effected a permanent cure, in others they have been followed by only temporary relief.