THE IODIDES IN THE TREATMENT OF SYPHILIS. 114S cannot tolerate the drug by the mouth, mercury may conveniently be ad- ministered by fumigation. This plan of treatment, which has been especially recommended by Langston Parker and H. Lee, consists of a combination of vapour-bathing and of mercurial fumigation. The baths may also be associated with appropriate internal treatment. Fumigation is thus carried out: the patient is seated naked on a wood-bottomed chair and is covered with a cloak made of some thick woollen material reaching to the floor and fastened round the neck. It is fitted with a cane hoop to keep it from touching the body. A lamp consisting of a circular trough to contain about one ounce of water, and a central plate for the mercurial preparation, is used for producing the vapour. The water must be made to boil thoroughly before the mercury is put on the plate. It is then immediately put under the chair, and thus the patient's body will be steamed for a minute or two before the mercury begins to volatilize. The best form of apparatus is that known as Lee's lamp, but in the absence of all special apparatus fumigation can very easily be carried out by means of two spirit lamps and two metal vessels, one for the water and one for the mercury, the patient being covered with a thick blanket. Various forms of mercury have been used, but the two best seem to be the bisulphuret as recommended by Langston Parker, in doses of from one to two drachms at each bath, and calomel, which has been extensively used by Henry Lee in doses of from twenty to thirty grains. Whatever form of apparatus be used, after about twenty minutes, when the whole of the mercury will have been volatilized, the patient gets into bed wearing the cloak or blanket. He must not be left alone during the bath, as he may become faint. If perspiration does not begin at once, a little weak hot tea may be given to encourage it. 7. General management of a patient during a course of mercury.—Regular hours, sufficient exercise in the open air, abundant simple food, and the avoid- ance of alcoholic or other excesses are of eqaal importance in the management of a case of syphilis as the administration of mercury. While the patient is under the influence of mercury the skin should be kept in a healthy state by baths. In summer there is no objection to a morning cold bath, but in winter some warm water should be added to prevent a chill. The patient should wear flannel next his skin both in summer and winter. A chill during a course of mercury may cause a violent attack of diarrhoea, sometimes accompanied by much griping pain and vomiting. The diet should be plain, and anything likely to irritate the bowels, as excess of fresh fi'uit, green vegetables, or made dishes, should be avoided. Beer should be prohibited, as it is apt to cause purging. Claret is perhaps the best alcoholic drink that can be taken. All these things must, however, be left, to a certain extent, to the common sense and experience of the patient. Exercise is of the greatest value, but should not be carried to the extent of fatigue. Other Drugs used in the Treatment of Syphilis.—In the primary and early secondary stages of syphilis no drug but mercury can be said to exert any real influence on the disease ; but in the later secondary and tertiary stages the prej)arations of iodine produce efi'ects not less clearly marked. Iodine is supposed to be a specific in a minor degree to mercury. It has also been proved that in patients who have undergone a course of mercurial treatment iodine liberates the mercury which may have become stored up in the body, the mercury re-appearing in the urine and other secretions on the administration of the drug. The effects of iodine are not, however, due to