TREATMENT OF PRIMARY ARTERIAL JIJ^MORRIIAGE. 449 As the special vessels ultimatelj destined to take the place of that which has been obliterated enlarge, the general vascular dilatation of the limb subsides and the circulation is practically restored to its normal condition. J)uring the enlargement of the vessels, much pain is often experienced, owing to the pressure of the dilated vessels upon neighbouring nerves. Jones pointed out the curious circumstance that, occasionally when two anastomosing branches approach one another, they split, before inosculating, into two or three ramuscuU, which by uniting form a circle of anastomoses. Besides this kind of collateral circulation, Maunoir, Porta, and Stilling have noticed vessels running directly between the extremities of the obliterated trunk, forming species of arterial shoots, springing from the stump of the artery (Fig. 147). Changes that take place in the Trunk.—As a rule it is completely obliterated above and below the point to which the ligatui-e has been applied as far as the next important collateral branch (Figs. 148, 149). Beyond this, on the distal side, it is pervious and receives the blood poured into it through the different anastomosing channels. Porta and Stilling have shown that, after a time, a small tortuous central canal uniting the two parts of the vessel which are still patent, may be developed down the centre of the fibrous cord representing the obliterated portion of the artery. In cases in which an absorbable ligature has been used and in which conse- quently the external coat has not been divided, complete restoration of the lumen of the vessel seems to be an occasional occurrence (see p. 442). The collateral circulation is occasionally not sufficiently free to preserve the vitality of the parts supplied by it; as a consequence of this, gangrene results, or the limb may become weak or atrophied. This condition may be met with in old people, from calcification and rigidity of the arterial system ; or it may happen as the result of an extensive transverse wound of the limb dividing many of the anastomosing vessels. Copious hasmorrhage by weakening the action of the heart may render it unable to overcome the increased resistance offered by the collateral circulation through which the blood has to pass, and thus the circulation may be arrested and gangrene follow. It more rarely happens that we find too great freedom of the anastomoses, so as to lead to a failure of the purposes for which the ligature has been applied, by the rapid admission of blood into the distal side of the vessel, thus perhaps occasioning secondary hsemorrhage. Principles of Treatment of Primary Arterial Hemorrhage.— The principles of treatment of wounded arteries are the same whether the Surgeon adopt ligature, torsion, or acupressure. Having invariably used the ligature myself, I have here spoken of tying only, but the reader must remember that the same principles apply to all other means of arresting arterial hsemorrhage. The doctrine of the treatment of primary heemorrhage from wounded arteries is comprised in three great principles: I.That no operation ouqfii to he performed on a ivonnded artery unless it Needs " (Guthrie) ; 2. To expose the vessel, if it he hleeding, at the 'wounded -part, and to tie it there ; and 3. To apply a tvjature to hoth ends, if it be completely divided, or to the distal as ivell as the proximal side of the ivound, if it he merely punctured. These principles of treatment were distinctly laid down by John Bell; but, although that great Surgeon inculcated these rules of practice with great force, VOL. I. G G