1097 PREDISPOSING CAUSES: LOCAL. be weak aud irritable. This condition, which I believe to be invariably asso- ciated with the scrofulous diathesis, and the importance of which was pointed out by Sir James Clark, must be regarded as one of the most essential condi- tions connected with scrofula, and as tending greatly to that impairment of nutrition which is so frequent in this state. This gastric irritabihty is especially characterized by the tongue, even in young children, being habitu- ally coated towards the root with a thick white fur, through which elongated papillEe project,constituting the "pipped" or "strawberry" tongue^; the edges and tip, as well as the lips, being usually of a bright red colour. This state of the tongue is aggravated by stimulants, high living, and the habitual use of purgatives. In the fair varieties the bowels are usually somewhat loose, but in the dark forms of struma there is a torpid condition of the intestinal canal. In all cases the action of the heart is feeble, and there is a tendency to coldness, and often to clamminess of the extremities. The Herediiari/ Nature of tuberculosis is well known to the public and to the profession ; for although the scrofulous diathesis is not commonly con- genital, yet the tendency to it is, and it often manifests itself at an early period. In other words it seems probable that tuberculosis itself is not in- herited, but only that " abnormal vulnerability " of the tissues which renders them peculiarly liable to tuberculous diseases. A most powerful occasioning cause of the scrofulous diathesis and of tuberculous disease, and that which in most civilized countries is likewise the most frequent, is malnutrition arising from an habitual disregard of hygienic laws : either from insufficiency of nourishment, or the administration of improper food, in the poorer classes ; or from overfeeding, and overstimula- tion of the digestive organs, amongst the children of the wealthier orders of society, inducing chronic irritation of the mucous membrane of the stomach and interference with the digestive powers, and consequently with nutrition. The influence of food that is innutritious in quality or insufficient in quantity? was shown by Phillips, in his excellent Treatise on Scrofula^ to be the most immediate cause of the diathesis ; and, when conjoined with the injurious efPects of a confined and impure atmosphere, it may be considered as sufficient to occasion it in those cases in which no predisposition to it exists, and greatly to develop any hereditary tendency to it in the system. It is to the con- joined influence of agencies such as these that we must attribute the prevalence of tuberculous diseases amongst the lower orders both of town and of rural populations. Tuberculous affections of various kinds are often called into activity by the cleMlity induced b// j^evious diseases, such as measles, scarlatina, whooping- cough, &c. Excluding affections of the lungs, tuberculous diseases usually develop at an early age, though seldom before the child has reached its second year. They are most common about the period of the second dentition, and it is comparatively rare to meet with them for the first time after the ages of twenty-five or thirty-five. Sex does not appear materially to influence the disease. Local Predisposing Causes.—Although certain constitutional conditions arc of great importance as predisposing causes of tuberculosis, yet cases of tuber- culous disease are very frequently met with in patients who present none of them. Under these conditions the diminished resisting power of the tissues is local and not general, and as common causes of such local diminished