I50 LOCAL DLSTURBAKCES AND INFLAMMATION. and the ancemia of the brain with insensibility, which occurs in the con- dition known as concnssion after a blow on the head. In the affection known as Raynaud's disease, a vaso-motor spasm occurs in symmetrical areas, most commonly the fingers, toes or ears, causing complete anemia of the part, sometimes of such duration as to end in gangrene. Local anemia of one part may also result from hypersemia of another, as the amount of blood in the body is not nearly sufficient to distend all the vessels fully. An example of this is the faintness, from anaemia of the brain, which results from immersing the body in a hot bath, by which the whole of the cutaneous vessels become Avidely dilated, thus more or less draining the internal parts. In whatever way temporary local ansemia is produced, it ceases as soon as the cause is removed, and is replaced by liypergemia, varying in intensity with the duration and degree of the previous ansemia. Familiar examples of this are : the red glow that succeeds Avhen the fingers recover after having been " dead " with cold, and the blush and oozing of blood that follow the removal of the tourniquet in blood- less methods of operating. ACTIVE LOCAL HYPEREMIA, ACTIVE CONGESTION, DETERMINATION OF BLOOD OR FLUXION. Active Congestion is an increased flow of blood to a part, owing to a dilatation of the arteries from relaxation of their muscular coat. Determi- nation of blood is often very transitory, and frequently occurs as a normal process when, for temporary purposes, an increased supply of blood is called for by a particular organ. Causes.—An increased local supply of blood is intimately associated with most surgical processes. The separation of dead parts, the repair of wounds and the healing of ulcers cannot take place Avithout it. EA^ery vascular tissue is susceptible of it; and in active processes in non-vascular tissues it occurs in the nearest vessels. The Surgeon often excites it intentionally as one of the most efficient of his therapeutic means. Under some circumstances, therefore, it can scarcely be considered a morbid condition. It is, however, frequently associated Avith disease, forming as it does an essential part of all inflammatory processes. Hyperemia ahvays follows temporary ansemia of a part, as from cold or pressure, and the contraction of the vessels that occurs on stimulation of the sympathetic is likewise followed after a longer or shorter interval by relaxa- tion with.actiA-e congestion. Arterial dilatation is often reflex: thus the irritation of a sensory nerve usually causes immediate dilatation of the vessels in the area supplied by it. Another marked example of reflex hypersemia is the engorgement of the kidney that often follows operations upon the urethra, and may terminate fatally. An irritant applied directly to a part may cause dilatation of the vessels in two ways: first, in a reflex manner by acting on the sensory nerves of the part; and, secondly, by acting injuriously on the arteries themselves, and paralysing their muscular coats. Thus, a blister when first applied causes redness l)y acting on the sensory nerves ; but after it has been on some time, its action extends sufficiently deeply to exert a directly injurious influence on the vessels themselves. This latter condition is a part of true inflammation. Hypersemia always accompanies the exercise of function; it occurs in glands during secretion, in muscles during exertion, &c. To this class of causes may also be referred the various forms of normal determination,