722 mUUmUS OF THE HEAD. opposite to that which has been struck has received the name of Fracture by Contrecoup. Fracture "by Contrecoup has been described by some Surgeons as of Frequent occurrence, Avhilst it has been denied by others. Aran laid down as an absohite rule that all fissured fractures without exception start from the point in the skull to which the violence has been applied. Every hospital Surgeon must, however, occasionally have met with fissures, especially in the thin parts of the base of the skull, which could not be traced to the point in the vault which directly received the injury, though such cases are undoubtedly rare. Moreover, it must not be concluded at once that such fissures are the result of contrecoup. A man may receive a violent blow on the frontal bone, wounding the scalp, and the fracture may be found in the occipital region. In such a case, it often happens that the fissure was really caused by a blow on the back of the head received in falling. In other cases in which the patient falls directly on the vertex and fractures the base of the skull, the fracture is often caused by the weight of the body communicated through the vertebral column to the condyles of the occipital bone. It has been shown experimentally by C. Beh, Bruns, and Felizet, that the skull possesses a con- siderable degree of elasticity, and that when a violent force, such as a blow acting on a considerable extent of the surface, or powerful pressure is applied to it, it undergoes an alteration in shape not merely at the point struck, but as a whole. There is a shortening of the diameter corresponding to the direc- tion of the force, with lengthening of the other diameters. Thus, a force- applied to the vertex tends to shorten the vertical diameter, and to cause a corresponding lengthening of the autero-posterior and transverse diameters. A skull in this way squeezed out of shape may yield at the weakest part, anil a fissure may thus be formed at a point remote from that to which the force- was applied, although much more commonly the blow determines the starting point of the fissure. That the fissures in a fractured skull may actually gape at the moment, and close again as soon as the force ceases to act, is occa- sionally proved by the presence of foreign bodies tightly grasped in them.. Thus, hairs have been found firmly held in the crack, and Hoffmann records a case in which a fold of dura mater was nipped in a fissured fracture. The rending force thus exerted by the compression of the skull in one direction and its elongation in another, explains more readily than any other theory the distance to which a fissure often extends, and the way in which it frequently follows for a certain distance along the line of a suture, entering the solid bone again when the suture comes to an end, and also the fact that a foramen, e^'en the foramen magnum, offers no impediment to the extension of the fracture. In certain cases the thin orbital plates of the frontal bone have been found to be fissured after violent blows on the back of the head, and in these it has been suggested that the fractures resulted from the impact of the brain sub- stance driven against the bone by the force of the blow. If all these different forms of fracture be excluded, but little is left that needs the theory of contrccowp for its explanation. Although, therefore, Aran's rule, that all fissures radiate from the point struck, is not absolutely accurate, yet it is so nearly true that it forms the best guide we have to the course of a fracture. Thus, if we have clear evidence that a man has received a blow on the parietal eminence and he has profuse bleeding from the nose, we may reasonably conclude that the fracture roughly