892 INJURIES OF THE ABDOMEN AND PELVIS. and hard, often assumiug a wiry, incompressible character. The tempera- ture is at first high, reaching often 103^ or 10-4° Fahr. ; but in septic cases it usually falls rapidly before death, and may even become subnormal. There is great anxiety of countenance, and before death the extremities become cold, and the patient dies with the signs of collapse. This diffuse traumatic peri- tonitis will set in and run its course with great rapidity. In a case in Uni- versity College Hospital already alluded to, of bullet-wound in the abdomen, the patient lived twenty-four hours. Two or three pints of serous effusion with much puriform fluid Avere found ; and great reddening of the whole of the visceral, and much of the parietal, peritoneum had ensued. In another case of rupture of the ileum, the consecutive peritonitis proved fatal in about thirty hours after the accident. This extreme rapidity in its course and fatal termination is due to the rapid absorption of the unhealthy inflammatory products, in septic cases aggravated by the presence of the products of putre- faction ; in fact many of these cases form the most marked instances of this form of blood-poisoning. The rapidity of the fatal termination is due to the great extent of the absorbing surface, and the large dose of the poison that is thus taken up in a very short time. Treatment of Traumatic Peritonitis.—In the treatment of this com- plication, we must be guided by the character of the inflammation. If the peritonitis be localized, leeches may be applied over the tender part of the abdomen, followed by hot fomentations, and opium must be administered in moderate doses. Operative interference should be avoided, unless there be evidence that suppuration has occurred, in which case the abscess should be opened and drained. Great care must be taken not to break down the adhe- sions by which the abscess is surrounded, lest general peritonitis be the result. The occurrence of diffuse peritonitis after an abdominal injury is usually an indication for immediate laparotomy, and the same treatment should be followed, even though the peritonitis has occurred after an operation for wound of the intestine or stomach. The chances of recovery under these circumstances are remote, but success has followed the closure of a wound of the bowel even when peritonitis was already present. The peritoneal cavity should be carefully flushed, and free drainage provided for by a tube passed down into the pelvis. Aperients should be strictly avoided, and opium given in doses sufficient to allay pain. In these cases nourishment must be given in a fluid form only^ and the administration of stimulants will often be required. INJUEIES OF THE PELVIC VISCERA. Bladdee.—Rupture of the Bladder, from blows upon the abdomen, is not a very unfrequent occurrence. It can scarcely happen when the organ is empty, as it then lies under cover of the pubes. But when the bladder is dis- tended, and thinned proportionately to its distension, it may very readily be ruptured, even by slight degrees of external violence, as by one man rolhng over another in a drunken scufile, or by a person running against a post, or faUing out of bed. When the bladder is ruptured by a blow on the abdominal wall, the rent takes place almost invariably through that portion of it which is covered by peritoneum, which is the least supported as well as the thinnest part of the