io66 TUMOURS, large accumulation of cells. It is this shrinking oi. the growth that drags in the nipple in scirrhus of the breast. On examining a scirrhous cancer micro- scopically, it will be found to be surrounded everywhere by a zone of small round cells infiltrating the surrounding parts, penetrating between fat cells or muscular fibres, and extending along bands of connective tissue. A little nearer the centre the alveolar arrangement becomes apparent, and groups of rounded or irregular cells, with large oval nuclei, are found imbedded in spaces in a stroma of coarse fibrous tissue (Fig. 389). These spaces communicate with each other like those of a sponge. The stroma and cells here usually form about equal parts of the growth. The stroma shows signs of active growth, having spindle cells scattered here and there through it, sometimes in abun- dance. A little nearer the centre we find that the stroma has become more dense, the spindle cells being replaced by elongated tailed cells, with scarcely any protoplasm around the nucleus (Fig. 391). The cells of the cancer are here beginning to degenerate, the nuclei becoming hidden by clouds of fat granules, and a similar change may also be apparent in the stroma. Towards the centre the fatty cells disappear, and only a few granules mark where they were ; the stroma becomes dense and hard, and even the nuclei before men- tioned are difficult to recognize. The above is a description of the ordinary scirrhus of moderately slow growth. In more vigorously growing specimens the degeneration is delayed, the cica- trization is less perfect, and the relative proportion of the cells is greater. It is not always easy to determine the exact mode of growth in scirrhous cancer, as the young spheroidal the small round cells infiltrating the Fig. 391.—ScirrhiTS of Breast (188 diam.). Miuli cicatrized ; tlie stroma bears a large proportion to the cells, which are small and granular. In a fuliy cicatrized si)ecimen there would be similar alveolar spaces containing only granular debris. resemble epithelium cells closely tissues at the growing margin. In the softer and more diffused forms, however, it is often possible to observe the earliest changes in the acini. It will then be seen that the morbid process does not start from a single acinus. Many acini lying near each other may show various stages of overgrowth of the epithelium. As first the new cells are contained within the distended membrana propria of the acinus, but as the process advances, they burst beyond its limits, and penetrate among the surrounding tissues. In the harder tumours of slower growth this often cannot be recognized, as the area of the gland affected is smaller, and by the time it comes under observation the acini have disappeared, and columns of cells only are found extending into the surrounding tissues. Soft Glandular Carcinoma. Encephaloid.—As before stated, this is not separable from scirrhus. The greater part of the tumours which were formerly classed as encephaloid cancers are now included under the sarco- mata. A glandular cancer growing with such rapidity, and of such softness