4i8 ARREST OF ARTERIAL HAEMORRHAGE. surfaces of a wound. The thrombus is replaced bj fibrous tissue, but not converted into it. In addition to the vascular channels which form in the thrombus in connection with the vasa vasorum, others are described by 0. Weber as communicating with the lumen of the vessel where the surface of the.thrombus is in contact with the circulating blood. This view has been confirmed by Thoma, Ballance and Edmunds, and others. It is probable that when restoration of the channel of an artery takes place after it has been tied in its continuity with an absorbable ligature—an accident that has occurred more than once—the first channel of communication from above the ligature to below may be by means of the new vessels formed in the thrombus during organisation, and that by the subsequent dilatation of these with absorption of the new tissue round them the lumen may be completely restored ; whilst in other cases channels form between the thrombus and the wall of the vessel. The internal changes taking place in the closure of a wounded artery occur first at the injured extremity of the vessel, the complete closure and obliteration not taking place as high as the next branch till many weeks after the actual divided end is closed, and sometimes not occurring at all. During the early period, the upper part of the internal clot serves the important function of breaking the force of the wave of blood and thus giving the necessary rest to the point at which repair is going on. In order that healthy closnre of the vessel may take place it is essential that there shall be an absence of undue irritation at the cut end. If the end of the artery is exposed to direct contact with decomposing blood-clot or discharges, inflammation and exudation will continue, and, instead of the firm new tissue seahng the divided end of the artery, excessively soft granulation-tissue or merely puriform exuda- tion may be formed : and as under these conditions the external support, as before stated, is also wanting, the safety of the patient depends merely on the adhesion of the blood-clot higher up, and secondary hasmorrhage is very likely to occur. A large ligature soaked in septic matter or a decomposing piece of catgut in contact with the injured part of the artery acts as an irritant, pro- longs exudation, and softens the reparative material. On the other hand, carbolised catgut or silk in an aseptic condition seems to cause little or no irritation beyond that necessarily resulting from the mechanical violence used in its application. The changes that have just been described are those which take place in the proximal end of the artery. In the distal end, occlusion is eft'ected by pro- cesses essentially similar, but the retraction and contraction of the vessel are not so complete and extensive, and the coagulum is usually smaller both inside and outside ; in some cases, indeed, the internal coagulum is deficient. Lister explains this difference as being due to the absence in the distal end of the disturbing influence of the blood-stream which favours the spread of the coagulum in the proximal end. The less perfect closure of the distal end may, as Guthrie suggests, be the cause of the more frequent occurrence of hasmorrhage from it. Arrest of H.iimorrhage from a Punctured or Partially Divided Artery is effected in a somewhat different manner from that which has just been described, the difference consisting in the changes that go on in the neighbourhood of the wound. If the wound in the soft parts covering the artery be of small size and oblique in direction, so that the blood does not