48 GENERAL REMARKS ON OPERATIONS. The middle of the tube is then placed in the perinseum, and the lower end of the bandage turned up over it. The ends of the tube are next brought forwards forcibly, crossed on the pubes, and afterwards carried round the pelvis, passing on each side mid-way between the trochanter and the crest of the ilium. The two parts of the bandage are then tied together, thus attaching the loop of the tube surrounding the scrotum to the part whicli passes behind ; any slipping of the tube during the operation is thus rendered impossible (Fig. 11). Bloodless Methods.—Various devices have been employed to diminish the loss of blood during operations on the extremities, and at the same time to get rid of the blood which otherwise fills the wound, and more or less conceals the steps of the operation, even when a tourniquet has been applied. The oldest of these is bandaging the limb firmly up to the level at which the tourniquet' is applied, befoi-e tightening the screw. This is not very effi- cient, especially when a pad is placed over the main artery beneath the band of the tourniquet. Lister has shown that the limb may be rendered blood- less by simply elevating it as high as possible for about one minute, and then rapidly applying an elastic band or a screw tourniquet without a pad. To hasten the emptying of the blood-vessels the limb may be rubbed firmly in the direction of the circulation (Fig. 12). By experiment he has further shown that this is brought about not only by the emptying of the veins, but by the contrac- tion of the arteries whicli occurs when the limb is placed in the elevated position. Esmarch has ob- tained the same result by applying an elastic band- age spirally from the distal extremity of the limb upwards to the point at which the tourniquet or elastic band is apphed (Fig. 13). On removing the elastic bandage from below the tourniquet, the limb will be found to be absolutely bloodless, even the bones very frequently yielding no blood on being cut. With the exception of the elasticity of the skin and the retraction of the muscles, the operation now resembles one on a dead body. In this state, all vessels of any size can be seen and tied before the tourniquet is removed. The anfEmia thus induced is followed on removing the tourniquet by hyper- £emia, corresponding in intensity to the time that the limb has been kept bloodless, and very free oozing consequently sets in, which often takes some time to arrest by means of cold and exposure to the air. Thus it may happen that the patient loses as much blood as if Esmarch's method had not been employed. Esmarch, however, subsequently adopted a plan by which most operations on the extremities can be rendered actually bloodless. He first secures every vessel visible on the surface of the wound, and then, having put in the drainage-tubes and introduced the sutures, he applies a dressing com- Fiff 12 —Lister's Method.