702 SPECIAL DISLOCATIONS. extension made downwards and backwards. After this has been continued for a suiiicient time, an assistant lifts the head of the bone by means of a towel over the brim of the acetabulum (Fig. 287). Fig. 287.—Reduction ot Pubic Dislocation by Extension. The head of the thigh-bone may also be throwji under the anterior inferior spinous process, constituting the Subspinous Dislocation of Bigelow, There is shortening of the limb, which is everted, but less abducted or advanced than in the dislocation on the pubes. The head of the bone can be felt in its new situa- tion. One peculiarity of this dislocation is that in some of the recorded cases the patient has been able to walk immediately after the accident. Bigelow explains this by the position of the Y-ligament over the upper part of the neck of the femur (Fig. 288). Reduction of the dislocation is accomplished in the same way as in the pubic form. In the dislocations above described the Y-liga- ment remains entire. Bigelow describes also Supraspinous dislocation with or without rupture of the outer branch of the ligament. In this dislocation the head of the bone leaves the socket on the outer side of the ilio-femoral ligament. If this be not ruptured, the dislocation is called by him anterior oblique: in it, the thigh lies across the upper part of the corresponding Fig. 28S.—Subspinous Dislocation. t . ^ T i ii - iii •,• The Y-iiganient is stretched limb, and IS lirmly locked m that position, with S^%i"sVTieathiJ (Kge^ow") much shortening and some eversion. Reduction may be effected by extension of the limb and increased circumduction across the symphysis, with a little eversion if necessary to dislodge the head of the bone. By inward rotation, the head of the bone is thrown on the dorsum. In the true supraspinous dislocalion, the outer branch of the Y-ligament is ruptured ; the limb is shortened and everted. In a case related by Cummins, the limb was shortened three inches. Reduction may be effected by circum- duction inwards and eversion, by which the dislocation is rendered dorsal, and may then be reduced as already directed.