1035 ADENOMA—SARCOMA. growths. When simple and with well marked papilte, they might perhaps be more properly spoken of as papillomata, and they were consequently mentioned under that class. When showing the well marked malignancy so common to these growths, they are classed with carcinomata, either under the name of columnar epithelioma, columnar carcinoma, or adenoid cancer. They will therefore, be more fully described hereafter. In the skin a tubular adenoma is occasionally met with arising from the sweat-glands. It forms a flattened elevation, arising about one-tenth of an inch above the level of the surrounding parts, and somewhat coarse on the surface. A section shows it to be composed of closely packed tubular glands exactly resembling those of the normal sweat-glands. These growths are very rare. They may ulcerate in the ^entre after reaching a certain size and by invading the surrounding parts show a local malignancy, but they never give rise to secondary growths. The Biacemose or Acinous Adenomata resemble in structure more or less perfectly a racemose gland, and are always found in connection with such organs (Figs. 374, 375). They are composed of rounded or irregular spaces lined with a peculiar small epithelium, somewhat square or rounded in form, and frequently many layers deep. The spaces communicate with each other, either directly or by means of duct-like channels. The acini, which are more or less widely separated, are bound together by fibrous tissue, bearing vessels, and containing cells varying in shape and number. In the most typical forms the cells are merely such as are seen in ordinary connective tissue ; but if the tumour be growing rapidly, large numbers of small round or oval cells are found (Fig. 375). Sometimes the tissue between the acini may be composed entirely of spindle cells, in fact, may have the structure of a spindle-celled sarcoma ; the tumour is then often spoken of as an adeno- sarcoma. Sometimes tissue resembling that of a myxoma may be found. Very frequently the acini become dilated into cysts, varying in size from a pin's head to a walnut, or larger; this forms the so-called cysto-sarcoma of :he mamma. Not unfrequently in such cases cauliflow^er-like intra-cystic growths, similar in structure to the rest of the tumour, may be found project- ing into the cysts. These tumours are most frequent in the mamma, but they are sometimes seen in connection with the parotid, and have been recorded as growing from the racemose glands of the soft palate, from the lachrymal gland,, and from the sebaceous glands of the skin. In the parotid they are often mixed with myxoma and enchondroma. They are rounded or oval in shape, perfectly circumscribed, and surrounded by a fibrous capsule. They are hard and elastic, occasionally presenting points of fluctuation when containing large cysts. They are always non-malignant, and there is no reason to believe that they ever assume a carcinomatous character. Their clinical features and treatment will be fully discussed in the chapters on the diseases of the organs in which they occur. IV. TUMOURS COMPOSED OF TISSUE WHICH IS EITHER PURELY EM- BRYONIC, OR IS UNDERGOINa ONE OF THE PRIMARY MODIFICATIONS SEEN IN THE DEVELOPMENT OP ADULT CONNECTIVE TISSUE:— S .A. ^ O O I\£ A. 7 .A.. The large group of tumours classed under the name of Sarcomata includes many which were, till comparatively recently, known by a variety of other