RADIUS: COLLES'S FRACTURE. 599 the back of the carpus (Fig. 197); ^-n^diately underneath aspect of the wrist, opposite the auuular ligament there is a ^''^^'^f conflued to the radial side of the limb ; a little ^'b"™ ' °'"Lrf the lower part of the anterior aspect of the f«>-'«™-"7-%':;""*;"^^ prominence, not nearly so large, however, as the one on the dor al aspect 1 he hand Is abducted and rotated outwards, so that its axis f ^Md nrot^ the forearm ; the inner border being somewhat convex, and the styloid process 198.—Fracture of Lower End of Radius : Back View. Pis, Fig. 197.—Fracture of Lower End of Radius : Side View. of the nlna projecting sharply under the skin (Fig. 198). The radial side of theAvrist is, on the contrary, somewhat concave and shortened. The pain is very severe, and is greatly increased by moving the hand, especially by making any attempt at supination. The hand is perfectly useless, the patient being unable to support it. All power of rotation is lost, the patient moving the whole of the arm from the shoulder, and thus apparently, but not really, pronating and supinating it. Crepitus can readily be felt when the fracture is unimpacted or comminuted ; but when it is impacted, the most careful examination fails to elicit it. Simultaneous fracture of the radias on both sides of the body is a rare occurrence. The Cause of the Deformity has been the subject of much discussion, owing to the rarity of opportunities of dissecting recent fractures of this kind. Surgeons are now agreed, however, that the dorsal prominence is due to the lower fragment, carrying the carpus with it, being displaced backwards and upwards ; whilst that on the palmar aspect is due to the projection forwards of the lower end of the upper fragment, which is thrown into a state of pronation. The pronation of the uf)per fragment is evidently due to the pronatores quad- ratus and radii teres ; but to what is the displacement of the lower fragment due ? Is it to the peculiar manner in which the two fragments are locked into one another ? or is it due to muscular action ? Some years ago I had an opportunity of dissecting the limb of a woman who died from other causes in University College Hospital twelve days after meeting with this accident. On examining the left arm, which presented all the signs of this injury in a marked degree, and from which Fig. li}8 was taken, a transverse fracture of the radius was found about an inch above its articular surface. The lower fragment was split into three portions, between which the upper fragment was firmly impacted to the depth of more than half an inch. The three portions into which the lower fragment was split were of very unequal size ; the two