292 THE PROCESS OF REFATR, The process of union bv first intention is disturbed by any cause which prolongs the intiamniation, or makes it assume a spreading or infective character. Under these circumstances the transudation of liquor sanguinis and the migration of the wiiite corpuscles will continue, and instead of the thin layer of dry firm plastic exudation, composed merely of living corpuscles entangled in the meshes of the coagulated fibrin, there will be a soft exudation, excessive in quantity, the more superficial layers of which will soften and break down into pus, a fluid layer thus being interposed between the surfaces of the Avound, effectually preventing primary union. Amongst the causes which lead to persistence of inflammation in a wound and consequent suppuration, the following may be mentioned as the most common :— 1. The nature of the injury : a blunt or jagged weapon may so damage the tissues as to cause actual death of a layer of some thickness, which must be separated by a process of ulceration (see p. 272). 2. The tissues themselves may be feeble either from general or from local causes, and consequently possess a diminished power of resisting injury and of rallying from its effects. 0. The raw surfaces may be constantly rubbed against each other if the wounded part be not kept at perfect rest, and the mechanical irritation from this cause is quite sufficient to maintain the process of inflammation. 4. If proper provision be not made for the escape of the serum that neces- sarily flows from the freshly wounded surface, the cavity of the wound becomes distended by it, and not only are the surfaces separated fi'om each other, but they are exposed to the irritation of tension. While this is acting the inflammatory process cannot subside, but the exudation will continue and intensify the evil, the cavity of the wound coming to resemble that of an acute abscess. Tension from tight stitches causes a similar persistence of the inflammatory process. 5. If in such an undrained wound the causes of decomposition are present, putrefaction of the serous fluid speedily sets in, and the irritating products of decomposition, pent up as they are in contact with the raw surface at some degree of pressure, soak away into the lymph-spaces of the surroundiug tissues, and thus cause a spreading inflammation which may extend to a considerable distance beyond the area actually injured by the instrument which inflicted the wound. The firm plastic exudation that is left unitiug the surfaces of a well-drained wound being composed almost entirely of living cells is not liable to putrefaction, and any of the ordinary micro-organisms which may come in contact with it are powerless to produce any evil effect. It need hardly be pointed out that unless decomposable matter, either in the form of excessive blood-clot or pent-up serum, is present in the wound, no decomposition will take place. 6. The persistence of the inflammation may be due to the presence of a foreign body in the wound. A foreign body may act either from being itself irritating, mechanically or chemically, or from being porous in character, and thus absorbing serum, which afterwards decomposes. On the other hand, smooth non-absorbent bodies, such as metals, or soft absorbent substances, as unwaxed silk, under successful antiseptic treatment may become enclosed in a healing wound without causing the formation of pus. 7. Lastly, union by first intention is necessarily prevented by the inocula-