VENEREAL DISEASES. often progressive mental disturbance. The fits are often of a very violent character, and followed by coma. But dangerous as these attacks may become, there is always a prospect of cure by proper treatment, although in some cases the fits may persist even after there is every reason to believe that the syphilitic growth which originated them has been absorbed. In other cases ag-ain, the mental powers undergo gradual deterioration, delusions manifest themselves, and the patient falls into a state of semi-imbecility. There is no more pitiable object to be seen than a man, young or in the prime of life, suffering from syphilitic disease of the nervous centres— .'iflected by ptosis, with one eye staring and immovable or squinting, the face distorted, the lip dropped and saliva dribbling, defective in his articulation, straddling and insecure in his walk, dragging one leg behind him, at times the victim of the most severe epileptic paroxysms, often covered with rupial sores —he is truly a fit object for commiseration rather than reproach. Syphilitic disease of the Spinal Cord.—The most common syphilitic lesions of the cord are chronic meningitis and the development of gummata, which arise most frequently in the membranes, but sometimes originate in the substance of the cord itself. The gummata are usually small, rarely exceeding half an inch in diameter, though Wilks has recorded a case in which the tumour reached the size of a large filbert. Most commonly only one gumma IS met with, but cases have been described in which numerous small tumours the size of millet-seeds were present. When the disease assumes the form of meningitis, there is usually considerable thickening of the dura mater, but the other membranes also may suffer, and the superficial parts of the cord be implicated. The roots of the nerves are compressed as they pass through the thickened membranes. The disease may be widely diffused, but is more com- monly limited in extent, the region of the lumbar enlargement being specially prone to be affected. Syphilis may also be the cause of disseminated chronic myelitis, leading to sclerosis, and Gowers has brought forward a large amount of evidence to show that locomotor ataxy (sclerosis of the posterior columns) may have its origin in this way ; about one-half of the cases of this disease occur in patients who have suffered from constitutional syphilis. The Symptoms of syphilitic disease of the cord come on gradually. There is pain either in the back opposite the seat of disease, or referred to the parts supplied by the nerves arising from the affected portion of the cord. Various affections of sensation are commonly met with ; there may be numb- ness, tingling or " pins and needles," or localized spots of hypersesthesia or fm^sthesia. Paralysis of one limb or a part of a limb, or complete paraplegia, may form a prominent symptom. Wasting occurs only in those muscles which are paralysed in consequence of damage to the part of the cord from which their nervous supply is derived, or of pressure on the roots of the nerves. Thus, although there may be complete paraplegia, the wasting may affect only certain groups of muscles. The reflex function of the cord is abolished in the diseased part, but lower down it may be increased ; thus in disease in the dorsal region there may be exaggerated reflex movements in the lower limbs. Rigidity of muscles is common, spasm comparatively rare. When the paralysis is unilateral, the modifications of sensation will be on the same side as those of motion when the roots of the nerves are affected, but on the opposite side when the condition is due to the growth of a localized tumour,