424 ARREST OF ARTERIAL BMMORRUAGE. is necessary to ensure the safe plugging of the wounded artery by an adherent clot. The experience of acupressure has shown us that in a small artery—and it is, of course, only to small arteries that pressure is applied as a means of arresting hremorrhagc—about twelve hours is a sufficient time to ensure the closure of the vessel. A graduated compress should, therefore, not he kejjtfrmhj applied for more than twelve hours; at the end of that time the bandages should be removed and loosely reapplied without disturbing the compress, which will be sticking to the part, after which the patient must be kept very quiet with the limb raised if the wound be in one of the extremities. The inflammation or sloughing produced by excessive and prolonged pressure is the cause of the frequency with which arrest of bleeding by pressure is followed by secondary haemorrhage. In employing pressure, it must be borne in mind also that, if appUed accurately to the mouth of the bleeding vessel, the actual force required to stop the ftoiv of Uood is very small In the palmar arch, for instance, less than a quarter of an ounce accurately applied would close the mouth of the artery. 6. Forcible Flexion, as a means of arresting hemorrhage from the arteries of the limbs, has in recent years been advocated by Heath of Newcastle, Adelmann of Dorpat, and others. Its application is founded on the fact, specially pointed out in 1843 by Formey, that flexion of the arm at the elbow-joint weakens or arrests the pulsation at the wrist. Malgaigne, Yidal, Fleury, Fry, and some other Surgeons, have reported cases in which the plan Avas employed successfully ; but until lately the method has attracted httle attention. Heath, from a number of experiments made by him in the Newcastle Infirmary, has found that flexion of the arm at the elbow, or of the leg at the knee, diminishes or arrests the pulse in the arteries beyond. In this respect he confirms the observations of Hyrtl and others ; but he finds also that in the arm the process is greatly aided by placing a piece of hnt or a handkerchief rolled up in the bend of the elbow ; and m the lower limb, by bending the thigh on the abdomen at the same time that the leg is bent at the knee. Where flexion acts successfully as a means of hjemostasis, as it is reported to have done in several cases—especially in wounds of the palmar arteries and the vessels of the forearm—it probably does so by weakening the current of blood, so as to favour the closure of the arterial wound m the manner described in speaking of the Natural Arrest of Hgemorrhage. The apparent simplicity and safety (when carefully applied) of flexion render it worthy of further trial in cases of injury of the arieries of the forearm and hand or of the leg and foot. A roll of lint or other soft material having been placed in the flexure of the joint, the limb should be bent until it is perceived that the hLemorrhage is arrested, and should then be maintained in position by means of a handkerchief or bandage. Care must of course be taken not to exercise too great compression, by which gangrene might be produced. The flexion should be kept up till the Surgeon, by careful examination, is satisfied that there is no further risk of haemorrhage. 7. Torsion of Cut Arteries for the arrest of haemorrhage is mentioned by Gralen • but the practice seems to have been forgotten until about 1828. It was revived in France by Amussat, Velpeau, and Thierry ; and in Germany by Fricke but notwithstanding the efi'orts made to force it on the attention of Suro-eons, it was gradually abandoned, even by its strongest advocates.