WOUND OF THE BLADDER. 893 viscus. Hence there is extravasation of urine and blood into the abdominal cavity. When the bladder is wounded by gunshot or other injury, such as by falling on a spike, which penetrates the perinteum or rectam, or by a splinter of a fractured pelvis, those anterior and inferior parts of the organ which lie outside the peritoneum may be perforated, and thus intraperitoneal extravasation may not occur. In any case the shock following rupture of the bladder is usually great; but the secondary consequences will of course depend on the situation of the rupture or wound. If the laceration have occurred in those portions of the viscus that are invested by peritoneum, the urine wiU at once escape into the pelvic and abdominal cavities, and speedily occasion death by causing intense inflammation. If, on the other hand, that portion of the organ has been ruptured which is uncovered by the peritoneum, the urine may infiltrate the areolar tissue between this membrane and the abdo- minal wall, and, diffusing widely, produce destructive sloughing of the tissues. In these cases life may be prolonged for some days, when the patient commonly sinks from absorption of septic matter from the gangrenous tissues. The danger of a wound of the bladder is due to the eflPusion of continually increasing quantities of urine. It is in exact proportion to the difficulty that the extravasated urine has in finding an exit. Hence an open wound of the bladder is by no means so dangerous as a subcutaneous rupture. Many patients have recovered whose bladders have been perforated and traversed by bullets, for the urine finds a free exit through the apertures, and consequently does not tend to extravasate. Gluthrie relates several cases of this kind ; and Thomson saw fourteen cases after the battle of Waterloo, in a fair way of recovery. In the American War, out of one hundred and eighty-three reported cases of gunshot wound of the bladder, eighty-seven patients survived, "though a large majority sufiered from grave disabilities, and many from distressing infirmities, which resulted fatally in a few cases after years of sufifering." Thus, although we may look upon this accident as of the gravest character, yet it is by no means necessarily fatal. Probably in most of those who recovered, the wound did not implicate the peritoneum. Symptoms.—The situation of the injury in the hypogastric region, the supervention of collapse followed by intense burning pain in the abdomen and pelvis, with inability to pass urine, or, if any have escaped from the urethra its being tinged with blood, are usually sufficient to point to the nature of the accident. If, in addition, it be found on introducing a catheter that the bladder is contracted and empty, or that but a small quantity of bloody urine escapes, not in a uniform stream, but rising and falling with the movements of the abdominal muscles, the Surgeon may be sure that this organ has been ruptured. In the case of gunshot injury, the escape of urine which generally takes place through the track of the bullet will afford incontestable evidence of the mischief that has been produced. When the bladder is ruptured through that portion which is covered by peritoneum, the urine escapes into the abdominal or pelvic cavity; there, however, it does not at first diffuse very widely—remaining, under the influ- ence of gravity, chiefly in the pelvic cavity, with the small intestines floating above it. This localized extravasation may be emptied by the catheter through the rent in the bladder, hence the escape of urine is not incompatible with rupture of the bladder. This important practical point is well illustrated by the following case. A man w^s admitted into the Hospital under my care,