TUMOURS. lOOO and to lose the characteristics of the form in which it originated. Thus, in rapidly growing cancers of the tongue or rectum, the squamous or columnar cells may almost lose their special form. This reversion to the primitive type is not uncommon in the secondary tumours. In place, the deviation is most marked in the true cancers, in which we see epithelium penetrating deeply beneath the surface into parts where no such structure is normally present. The following may be looked upon as the chief clinical and pathological characteristics of a malignant growth. The tumour, often at first circum- scribed with a defined outline, soon invades the surrounding parts, and thus becomes fixed, moving, when manipulated, with the parts in which it lies, not in them. The rate of growth is, as a rule, rapid, but varies considerably. The vitality of the new tissue is usually low, and while its circumfei-cnce is actively extending its central parts commonly undergo degenerative clianges. When it reaches the surface it speedily sloughs, or ulcerates, giving rise to profuse discharge often offensive in character, and not unfrequently to abundant hsemorrhage. As its circumference continues to invade neighbouring parts a progressive destruction of the surrounding tissue takes place. At a variable period secondary growths make their appearance in different parts of the body. In the true cancers these appear first in the lymphatic glands, in some forms never going beyond these, in others subsequently extending to the viscera. In malignant connective-tissue tumours the glands often escape, the dis- semination of the elements of the tumour taking place only through the blood-vessels, and the secondary growths appearing first in the viscera. When these have developed they serve as new foci for the dissemination of the disease, and usually assume\i more active character than the primary affection. The patient now shows signs of serious modifications of nutrition. The body wastes, the skin becomes snllow, the digestive powers become impaired and anaemia supervenes ; in short the patient develops the so-called cancerous cachexia. Most malignant tumours cause pain as they invade the surrounding parts, and, as a rule, they are more vascular than simple growths, and thus o-ive rise to serious haemorrhage when ulceration takes place. After removal they very commonly return locally, having infected the surrounding parts beyond the area removed. In other cases the patient escapes local recurrence, but perishes from the secondary growths. A malignant tumour if left to nature is inevitably fatal, irom the exhaustion of the discharges or hemorrhage, from implication of vital organs, or from the disturbance of health induced by the secondary tumours. Malignant growths are more commonly hereditary than simple tumours. The question of the local or constitutional origin of malignant growths will be discussed with cancers. The term ''cancerous'' was at one time used as synonymous with malignani, but as our knowledge of the structure of tumours has increased, the large <n-oup of sarcomata has been separated from true cancers or carcinomata, and thus, though all cancerous tumours are malignant, all malignant tumours are IV t cancers. It is in this group of sarcomata that we find that less accurate (orrespondence between histological structure and clinical malignancy which gave rise to the use of the term "semi-malignant." Paget, for instance, observed that tumours apparently similar in structure may run a very different course in different individuals, in some being in every way innocent, and in others malignant. Thus a tumour, composed purely of spindle-shaped cells, may in