LOCALIZATION OF CEREBRAL INJURY. 755 primary or secondary mischief, a distinct group of muscles is paralysed, the term "monoplegia" is applied to the condition; when a similar group is thrown into spasm, it is spoken of as " monospasm." Thus, if the upper limb alone is affected it would be described as brachial monoplegia, or monospasm, as the case might be. If a patient receive a blow upon the head, and, on his recovering consciousness, it is found that a localized paralysis is present, we conclude that there exists a laceration of some severity in the cortical centre corresponding to the muscles implicated. If almost immediately after the injury there is a distinct spasm, affecting a localized group of muscles, we conclude that hasmorrhage is going on from the lacerated brain substance, and irritating or breaking down the tissue of the centre corresponding to the affected muscles; if the monospasm extends, first affecting the whole side of the body and finally both sides, so that the attacks assume the form of true epileptic fits, it is probable that the extravasated blood is extending over the surface of the brain and irritating more or less widely the whole motor area. As shown by the experiments before mentioned, howe^-er, it is not necessary for both sides of the brain to be injured in order to produce a general spasm ; a violent irritation at one spot only is sufficient. Consequently it is possible that such convulsions might be caused by ha3morrhage breaking down the brain tissue in a limited area. The convulsions in these cases usually assume a regular course ; the fit commences by twitching of that part, which, in the intervals of the fits, is most clearly paralysed. Thus, in an injury in which the centre of the right side of the face is chiefly affected, and in which facial paralysis is well marked, the fit commences by twitching of the right side of the face, then the head is turned forcibly to that side, then the right arm enters into the spasm, then the right leg, after which the left leg, left arm and left side of the face are affected in the order mentioned. During the spasm the muscles of respiration become fixed, the face becomes livid, and^he patient froths at the mouth as in a genuine epileptic fit. The attacks of convulsions often occur in rapid succession, and after each the paralysis may be found to have extended ; the return to the normal state between the fits may become less and less perfect, and finally coma may set in. In such a case if coma is complete withm twenty-four hours of the accident hajmorrhage from a laceration might be diagnosed with tolerable certainty, and the question of trephining might arise, the site of the operation being determined not by the situation of any external wound or bruise, but by the indications of cortica lesion furnished by the paralyses and spasms. It may happen, however, that the convulsions may not come on till the third, fourth or fifth day They arc then in some cases of compound fracture due to septic meningitis extendino- over the motor area In cases without an open wound convulsions at this period are due to inflammatory hyperaemia or spreading ojdema from inter- ference with the circulation in the injured area (p. 750), extending round the injured spot. In favourable cases this frequently subsides, and the patient recovers ; but in others it goes on to such an extent as seriously to damage the bram substance, the convulsions increase in intensity and are repeated more frequently, the return to the normal state between the fits becomes less and less perfect, and finally coma sets in and death occurs. If the laceration be situated near, but not in the motor area, there may be no paralysis till after the convulsions, and the paralysis may then gradually extend after each con- vulsion, indicating the gradual spread of the mischief into the region of the 3 C 2