152 LOCAL DISTURBANCES AND LNFLAMMATLON. tions in the limbs driving the blood along the veins in the direction deter- mined by the arrangement of the valves. Extreme weakness of the heart's action is a common cause of passive congestion, its propulsive power not being sufficient to overcome the normal resistance in the capillaries, which conse- quently become gorged with blood. Thus we see congestion of the extremi- ties in exhausting fevers, and the same condition readily occurs in old people. The diminution of the aspiratory force of respiration seldom play? an impor- tant part in the causation of passive congestion, but it no doubt aids in the production of those passive congestions of the viscera so commonly met with in patients dying gradually of exhausting diseases. The coldness and conges- tion of paralysed limbs furnish a good example of passive hypera^mia due to failure of the third force above mentioned. Passive congestion from this cause however more commonly arises from incompetence of the valves of the veins—a condition met with in all cases of varicose dilatation. When the valves are no longer competent, pressure upon a part of a vein will drive the contained blood backwards towards the capillaries, almost as readily as forwards towards the heart. 2. Increased resistance to the flow of blood {a) through the reins is the most common cause and produces the most typical form of passive congestion. The cause of obstruction may be inside or outside the vein, the former being such conditions as pressure of tumours, or of faeces on the pelvic veins, partial strangulation (as in hernia), &c.; and the latter, coagulation of blood in the vein, with or without inflammation of its coats, as in white leg after labour. {!)) Increased resistance in the cajnllaries and smaller veins of such a kind as to give rise to congestion is met with as a consequence of altered vital relations between the walls of the vessels and the contained blood, of such a kind that the corpusc^.es show an unnatural tendency to adhere and thus retard the blood-stream. This is an essential feature of inflammation, and will be described with that process. • (c) Increased resistance in the arteries is a common cause of passive hypersemia. Thus, in old people, the arteries of the legs are frequently narrowed by degenerative changes in their coats to such an extent that, although allowing suflicient blood to pass to fill the vessels beyond, the force of the heart is almost completely expended before the blood reaches the veins, and thus partial stagnation, with accumulation in the capillaries, takes place. The most extreme congestion is also met with when a small terminal artery, le. one whose branches have no anastomosis with neighbouring arteries, suddenly becomes plugged by an embolon; that is to say, by a solid body, such as a clot Avashed into it by the blood-stream. As an immediate effect of the obliteration of the vessel the area supplied by it becomes more or less completely bloodless, but before long it is found to be gorged with blood. This process of hemorrhagic infarction, as it is termed, occurs in the lung, spleen, and kidney. According to Cohnheim, the blood which distends the vessels in the congested area enters by regurgitation from the surrounding capillaries and veins. These infarcts are always found in the superficial parts of the affected organs, and Litton, in opposition to Cohnheim's view, maintains that the blood finds its way into the ansemic area from the small arteries of the pleura in the lung, or of the capsule in the spleen or kidney, and not by regurgitation from surrounding vessels. A somewhat similar condition of intense passive congestion is very frequently