LOCAL DISTURBANCES AND INFLAMMATION. 172 tion. This is especially apt to occur when the circulation is feeble from partial obliteration, as the arteries from disease. It is also seen in frost-bite. Here the part is practically bloodless while frozen, but on being thawed becomes at once flooded with blood. If the tissues have been damaged to the degree necessary to give rise to inflammatory exudation, the pressure of the exudate, combined Avitli the increased resistance from the retarded flow in the vessels, arrests the circulation, and the part w^hich at first seemed likely to recover may become gangrenous (see Chapter XXX). From the above description of the process of inflammation, it will be seen that the essential features are the retarded flow in the vessels, and the exudation of cells and plasma. The simple hypertemia that occurs as the result of milder degrees of irritation cannot be looked upon as constituting a part of the true inflammation ; and, on the other hand, when the stage of stasis is reached, inflammation must soon be brought to an end by the death of the affected part, unless the circulation be restored by the subsidence of the process. The process of acute inflammation is identical in all cases ; it may vary in degree, in extent, and in termination according to the nature of the cause, and the vitality of the tissues on which the cause is acting, but the process is always the same. When, therefore, varieties of inflammation are spoken of, it must be borne in mind that the variations do not depend on diiferences in the essential nature of the process, in so far as the changes within the vessels and the exudation are concerned, but are the result of variations in the cause, and in the degree to which the vessels and other tissues are damaged by it. Causes of Inflammation.—The causes of inflammation, like those of all other morbid processes, may be divided into predisposing and exciting. The Predisposing causes may briefly be said to include every condition that tends to lower the vitality of the tissues, and thus to render them less able to resist external injurious influences. We now know that by far the most important of all external injurious influences causing inflammation is the invasion of the tissues by pathogenic micro-organisms, and it is a universal law throughout the animal and vegetable kingdom that feeble individuals most easily fall a prey to parasites of all kinds. The conditions necessary for healthy nutrition, and consequently for a high degree of vitality, are an abundant supply of healthy blood, connexion with a healthy nervous centre, periodical rest from functional activity, and at the same time a normal exercise of function. The influences disturbing these conditions may be Local or General. Local Predisposing Causes.—The local conditions which interfere with the quantity of blood supplied to a part, have already been discussed under Local AnEemia and Congestion. In Passive Congestion, it will be remembered that, although the part habitually contains an excess of blood, there is a diminished interchange, and, consequently, the actual quantity supplied is less than natural. Both these local disturbances of circulation interfere with healthy nutrition, lower the vitality of the affected part, and thus render it prone to inflame from slight causes. Loss of connexion ivitli a itealthy nerve-centre maybe the result of destruction of the nerve-centre itself, or of injury to the nerves leading from the centre to the affected part. The best illustration of the effect of this condition is seen in contrasting paralysis of a limb from cerebral haemorrhage, and paralysis