TREATMENT OF PUNCTURED FRACTURE OF SKULL. 741 adapted to the uneven surface of the skull by means of a cell of glazier's putty. Treatment of Punctured Fracture.—In all cases, as before stated, in which there is but slight injury of the external table, with considerable splintering and depression of the inner one, or when there is a narrow and deep depression of the bone, the trephine must be applied on different prin- ciples from those that guide us in its use in ordinary depressed fractures. In the punctured fracture it is applied, not to remove symptoms of compression which, in all probability, do not exist; but with the view of preventing the inflammation which will to a certainty be set up if the splinters of the inner table and pent-up decomposing discharges be allowed to continue irritating the membranes and brain. Hence it is a rule in surgery, in all cases of punctured fracture, to apply the trephine at once. In these cases a trephine with a large crown should be used, and the circle of injured bone itself must be sawn away (Fig. 303), Should, however, the use of the trephine have been delayed in these cases until inflammation has been set up, the instrument may still be applied with advantage. Many years ago a boy was admitted into University College Hospital, on the sixteenth Pig. 303.—Trephined circle day after having been struck on the side of the head by 'Zt NaM's'ze.^'''"" a large nail, which projected from a door that fell upon him. No symptoms of any kind had occurred until the eleventh day after the accident, when he became dull and lost his appetite ; on the sixteenth day, that of his admission, he had suddenly become drowsy and delirious, but answered rationally when spoken to, and complained of pain in the head. The pupils were dilated, the skin hot, and the pulse quick. On examination, a small round aperture, from which some fetid pus exuded, was discovered on the right parietal eminence. On introducing a probe, which the hole just admitted, some rough bone could be felt. S. Cooper immediately trephined the boy, removing a circle of bone including the small aperture. The inner table corresponding to this was found splintered to some extent, and the dura mater was thickened and inflamed; but the patient recovered without a bad symptom. Linear Cuts, as by sabre or hatchet, into the skull, penetrating the outer table, are apt to splinter the inner one, in the same way as occurs in a "punctured " fracture, to which they bear a close analogy. They require the same preventive trephining that is needed in the true punctured fracture, having for its object the removal of splinters and spicula, which would probably produce fatal meningitis if left. The Ultimate Results of Fracture of the Skull in those who recover will more or less closely resemble the conditions described at p. 721, as the consequences of contusion of the cranium without fracture. Epilepsy was very i requent in the American war cases ; partial or complete loss of vision was also one of the common sequences of such injuries. When deafness occurred, it was generally connected with impairment of other special senses, and often of the mental faculties. When a depressed fracture of the skull is complicated with a Fracture or other Injury of the Spinal Column, it is sometimes difficult to know which symptoms are due to the one accident, and which to the other. In