826 INJURIES OF THE THROAT. CHAPTEK XXYII. —«— INJURIES OF THE THROAT. ASPHYXIA. INJURIES Oy THE LARYNX AND TRACHEA. Fracture of the Cartilages of the Larynx.—The cartilages of the larynx may be broken and displaced by violent .blows or by a squeeze, the fracture in some cases taking place transversely, in others longitudinally. Digital examination will at once detect the nature of the injury. There is superficial extravasation of blood, with pain and difficulty in breathing, speaking, and swallowing. In some cases there is spitting of blood with cough. Fracture of the larynx is an extremely dangerous injury. Durham has collected 69 cases of which 53 died. The great danger is from asphyxia, which may occur immediately as a direct consequence of the displacement due to the fracture, or may come on at a later period as the result of in- llammatory swelling. In some cases, simple concussion of the larynx without fracture has been known to prove fatal, apparently from shock. Should symptoms of serious dyspnoea appear, tracheotomy must be performed without delay; if not, attention to position and support of the injured parts will suffice. Wounds of the Throat.—These are of great frequency and importance, implicating, as they do, some of the most important organs in the body. They may be divided into three categories :— 1. Those that do not extend into the Air- or Food-passages. 2. Those that implicate the Air-passage, with or without injury of the QSsophagus. 3. Those that are accompanied by injury of the Spinal Cord. These injuries are most commonly suicidal, and may be inflicted with every variety of cutting instrument; except where the spinal cord is injured, which must, in cases of suicide, be the result of gunshot wound, and is neces- sarily fatal. Though incised, they are often jagged, and partake somewhat of the character of lacerated wounds, with great gaping of the edges. 1. Wounds not extending into the Air- or Pood-passages.—In these there is very free and even fatal hiemorrhage, and this sometimes though none of the larger arterial or venous trunks have been divided ; the blood flowing abundantly from the venous plexuses or from the thyroid body when the wound is low down. If the larger arteries be wounded, as the carotid and its primary branches, the heemorrhage may be so abundant as to cause almost instantaneous death. Another source of danger in these cases proceeds from the admission of air into the veins of the so-called " dangerous region" of the neck. For this a free wound is by no means necessary, as is proved by a remarkable case that occurred some years ago near London, in which the introduction of a seton into the fore part of the neck was followed by death from this cause.