SURGICAL FEVER—SEPTIC FEVER. 195 lieart and the pulmonary artery, may be found in the presence of an excess of free fibrin-ferment. The fever produced by the entrance into the circula- tion of the products of healthy inflammation is the only form to which the term " inflammatory " can properly be applied ; but practically, in a very large proportion of cases, the pure inflammatory fever is complicated by a dis- turbance resulting from the admixture of the products of putrefaction or of specific infective processes with those of the simple inflammation. In fact the products of decomposition are amongst the most powerful of all pyrogenic sub- stances, and we have already seen that locally they are amongst the most potent causes of inflammation. The products of putrefaction of animal substances are so varied and uncertain in their chemical composition that it is better not to attempt to specify them. This much, however, may be said to be proved, that, in the case of ordinary putrefaction, the chemical products, and not the microscopic organisms which invariably accompany the process, are the real exciters both of the local inflammation and of the febrile disturbance. The organisms of simple putrefaction, as before stated, can live only on dead matter ; and, if they happen to enter the circulation, they speedily perish, unlike the true parasitic or pathogenic organisms which accompany many infective processes and grow and flourish in the hving tissues or blood. The effect pro- duced by the absorption of the products of putrefaction is, therefore, propor- tional to the dose ; the poison has no power of multiplying in the system and, if the dose be not too great, it is speedily eliminated without serious consequences. If the dose be excessive, it gives rise to a train of symptoms which will be described in the chapter on septicaemia. The products of putrefaction are absorbed with great readiness from a raw surface or the charred surface left by a burn ; but it is said that the ease with which they are taken up is greatly diminished by the application of some chemical caustics, especially chloride of zinc. Healthy granulation-tissue forms an efticient barrier to absorption under ordinary conditions (presumably from its possessmg no lymphatics) ; but at slight degrees of pressure the pyrogenic substance passes readily through it. Thus in a large wound, such as an amputation, if there is perfect drainage and no decomposition, the febrile disturbance is very slight and of brief duration, ceasing by the third day at the latest; if there is decomposition of the discharges the fever is higher, and reaches its maximum by the third day, subsiding gradually as the granulations spring up and form a barrier against further absoi-ption ; if with decomposition there is insufficient drainage and the wound be of sufficient size, the patient may receive such a dose of the products of putrefaction as to die poisoned—a condition which will be de- scribed in the chapter on Septicaemia. If after the granulations have sprung up and fever has ceased, an accumulation of putrid matter takes place in the cavity of the wound, and there is such a want of drainage that the fluid is pent up at some degree of pressure, the fever and local inflammation will return ; but should the drainage be made perfect, they will again cease. It is the fever due to these two causes—the products of destructive tissue-change and exudation in simple inflammation, and the pyrogenic products of putre- faction in septic inflammations—that is commonly spoken of as " surgical or traumatic fever ; " but these terms should properly be limited to the^forraer of these conditions as being a fever inseparable from any large wound or injury, even when subcutaneous, and the term "septic fever" should be employed for the latter. o 2