SPONTANEOUS DISLOCATIONS. 655 Paralylic Dislocafions. which are most commoii in the hip and shoulder, the head of the bone slips out without any very marked sign of disease about the joint, and certainly without auv previous destruction of it. In another class, to which Volkmann has given the name of Dislocations from Distension, the capsule is stretched and weakened by effusion of fluid within it. These are occasionally the result of acute suppuration within the joint, the capsule becoming softened and giving way at its weakest point, and the head of the bone escaping through tlie aperture. In these circumstances there would be high fever and intense pain, relieved when the capsule gives way. In other cases the fluid that distends the joint is serous in character ; these may be acute, but are more commonly chronic. The ligaments then become gradually stretched till they are no longer capable of maintaining the articular surfaces in position. Thus Stanley records a case in which the capsule of the hip was found to be five inches in length, and Hutton another in which the round ligament measured four inches. In such extreme cases as these, the dis- location may take place without rupture of the capsule. The symptoms usually noted have been obscure rheumatic or neuralgic pains, lasting for some time, in the joint previous to dislocation. It may, however, occur suddenly, without any pain, the deformity of the limb first attracting attention. Such dislocations occasionally occur during an attack of acute rheumatism or one of the acute specific fevers. The condition is almost confined to the hip, but other joints may be affected, and sometimes more than one. Thus, some time ago there was a case in University College Hospital, in which both shoulders and hips were dislocated simultaneously. Lastly, there is a variety known as Recurrent Dislocations, in which the joint, having been dislocated and reduced, the muscular and ligamentous structures ha\e become so weakened that ever afterwards the bone slips out of place on the application of slight force, or at will on the patient throwing the muscles of the limb into action. These dislocations are most common in the shoulder. They may be due to incomplete repair of the capsule, or to fi-acture with displacement of the edge of the glenoid cavity in the shoulder, or acetabulum in the hip. Joessel has described a case in which after death the cause was found to be rupture of the supraspinatus and infraspinatus muscles, which had become retracted under the acromion without forming new adhesions to the head. The Treatment of spontaneous dislocations is not very satisfactory. In many reduction cannot be accomplished ; while in others it may be effected readily enough, but the bone cannot be fixed in the joint. In a case of spontaneous dislocation of the hip, without any apparent disease of the joint, occurring in a young woman, I readily effected reduction by the pulleys, three weeks after the occurrence of the displacement. The limb was then fixed with the long splint, and maintained at a proper length for two or three weeks ; when, in consequence of a severe bronchitic attack, it became neces- sary to remove the apparatus, and the displacement speedily returned. Whilst convalescent from this attack, the patient fell and fractured the displaced femur in its upper third, thus rendering it impossible to replace the bone. In another case of spontaneous dislocation of the knee, occurring in the same painless manner, the joint could not be replaced, and permanent deformity was left. After reduction in similar cases, a splint or a starched bandage should be worn for a considerable length of time, so as to give the liga-