553 COMPOUND FRACTURES: UKIOK. have become denuded of their periosteum, or detached sphnters, undergo necrosis. In many cases also the external wound is too small to allow of efficient drainage, and consequently the pent-up septic matter burrows widely in the intermuscular spaces of the limb. If, therefore, the decomposition of the discharges cannot in some way be prevented, a compound fracture is not only far more tedious in its cure 'than a simple fracture, but hifinitely more dangerous. It has to unite by a slow process of granulation instead of the more speedy mode of union already described as occurring in simple fractures. The chief dangers of a compound fracture, however, arise from the decomposi- tion of the discharges. During the first week there may be severe septic fever ; the stages of grannlation and suppuration are often attended with profuse discharge of pus from the original wound and from abscesses forming amongst the surrounding muscles, maintained for a long time by exfoliation from the ends of the fractured bone. The patient may thus be worn out by the prolonged suppuration and the persistent absorption of the products of putre- faction ; or the wound may become the seat of some infective process, and death may occur from septicaemia, pyeemia or erysipelas. In other cases the septic inflammation may spread to the medulla of the bone, causing diffuse osteomyelitis, followed by extensive necrosis, a condition fre(iuently terminating in pyisinia. Thus a compound fracture leads not unft-equently to the eventual loss \)f life or limb. Besides these dangers, which may be looked upon as indirect, the violence that occasions a compound fracture often shatters the limb to such an extent as to lead to the immediate supervention of traumatic gangrene, to the loss of life by haemorrhage, or to the certain and speedy dis- organization of the limb, as the consequence of the subsequent inflam- mation. Union of Compound Fracture.—If the superficial wound heal by the first intention, or if the evil effects of decomposition of the discharges can be prevented, a compound may unite in exactly the same way as a simple fracture. Under other circumstances union takes place more slowly by granulation, just as in wounds of the soft parts healing by the second inten- tion. If the injury of the soft parts be but slight and the drainage good, the first process is an abundant inflammatory exudation from the vessels of the injured tissues. This coagulates, the serum draining away partly by the open wound and partly by the lymphatics, and the fibrin, entangling the white corpuscles in the meshes of its coagulum, forms a layer of plastic exuda- tion which covers the injured soft parts and closes the intermuscular spaces. The exudation is very abundant round the bone, and the swollen and infiltrated periosteum, fused with the neighbouring tissues, soon forms a soft mass surrounding the broken ends, as in a simple fracture. Similar changes occur in the medulla. Then follow the formation of new vessels and the development of granulation-tissue ; the wound slowly closes up from the bottom, the broken ends becoming by degrees completely imbedded in the growing granulation-tissue. Finally, ossification takes place. This commences in contact with the bone on each side in the granulation-tissue at the point furthest from the seat of fracture. It occurs without the previous formation of cartilage, even in the lower animals, or at any rate with the development of merely a few irregular islets. The intercellular substance increases in quantity, the cells assume the angular forms of osteoblasts, and then follow the deposit of Hme-salts and the development of true bone. The