386 POISONED WOUNDS. become enlarged and tender. Inflamed lymphatic vessels, with hard knots opposite the valves, may also be present. At a period after invasion varying from two days to a week or more, a characteristic eruptmi makes its appear- ance, ^rhis consists at first of red spots like flea-bites, which soon assume the form of elevated yellowish tubercles situated in the structure of the true skin or immediately beneath it. From their shot-like feel they may at first resemble the early stajre of small-pox pustules, but they are not umbihcated and are more deeply situated, as shown by Boyd. They soon soften, forming minute abscesses in the cutis vera, the contents of which are at first hgemor- rhagic. They then burst, leaving small yellowish ulcers discharging a thm purulent fluid. Together with these there may also be a vesicular eruption. There soon sets in an offensive discharge from the nose, at first watery, but afterwards puriform, and the lymphatic glands under the jaw enlarge. Fmal y, subcutaneous abscesses form in various parts, which may be accompanied by hfemorrhages into the muscles and intermuscular tissue ; pneumonia or pleurisy may occur before death. Abscesses may be found in internal organs, as the "liver or lungs. The final stages resemble pyaemia in many respects. Throughout the case the constitutional symptoms are of the gravest kind. There are great depression, high fever, delirium, and rapid emaciation. In some exceptional cases the disease may run a very chronic course. Diagnosis.—The disease may resemble rheumatism before the eruption appears, but the appearance of the latter soon clears up the case. The erup- tion as before stated, somewhat resembles that of small-pox, but the general symptoms of this disease are wanting. The history of the association of the patient with glandered horses is an important element m the diao-nosis. As a means of diagnosis in doubtful cases occurring among horses the° subcutaneous injection of an extract prepared from pure cultures of the bacillus of glanders has been employed. This so-called " mallem " causes a rapid rise of temperature to the extent of two or three degrees m glandered horses, whilst the effect upon the temperature of a healthy animal is insignificant. Pathology.—The post-mortem appearances are much the same as those observed in the horse. There are the usual signs of grave blood-poisoning- early decomposition, excessive blood-staining of the vessels and tissues, and subserous petechise. Scattered points of suppuration are found throughout the body, and sometimes extensive haBmorrhage into the muscles. The lungs are usually more or less consolidated from pneumonia, and contain yellow nodules, softening in the centre, like the so-called pysemic abscesses. The microscopic characters of the lesions are the same, whether they occur in the skin or the respiratory tract. A small nodule of granulation-tissue forms and increases in size. The central part soon undergoes fatty degeneration and softening, and an ulcer is formed by the giving way of the skin or mucous membrane over it. , , , , . In 1882 Schiitz and Loffler, two of the assistants m Koch s laboratory i Berlin, discovered the presence of a bacillus of a definite form in all the parts affected with the specific processes of glanders. This bacillus was cultivated for four generations out of the body in the serum of horse's blood, and finally inoculated on two healthy horses. Both animals speedily died with all the symptoms of glanders. The bacillus is very smah, about the size of that of tubercle. Further observations have conclusively proved that the bacillus mallei is the actual virus of the disease, as the bacillus anthracis is of anthrax.