LOCAL DISTURBANCES AND INFLAMMATION. 200 of healthy constitution. It is the form usually assumed by the fever that results from the absorption of a moderate quantity of the chemical products of putrefaction from a large wouud during- the first week after its infliction, and it is also often seen in acute inflammations of important organs, or during the formation of acute abscesses. The stage of invasion is slightly marked : there is chilliness or shivering with a feeling of general illness ; but these symptoms may be so transient as to escape observation. In the majority of cases it is not until the constitu- tional disturbance is fully developed that it attracts attention. The skin is . hot, and there is a rise in the temperature of the body of from 2° to 5'' Fahr. The evening temperature is one or two degrees higher than that observed in the morning. There is a feeling of general languor, and the head is often heavy and hot. The pulse is full, bounding or thrilling, and quickened to thirty or forty beats in the minute above its normal rate. The character of the pulse varies with the part afiected and with the cause of the fever. In ordinary traumatic fever, when it assumes the sthenic form, in the formation of acute abscesses, and in the early stages of many specific inflammatory fevers, as erysipelas, the pulse is full and bounding ; in inflammation of glandular structures, as the testis or mamma, it is compressible though full; in acute inflammation of serous membranes, as in pleurisy, peritonitis, or meningitis, it is small, compressible and wiry. The secretions are arrested or diminished in quantity, the tongue is coated with a white fur, and the mouth clammy, usually with much thirst; the bowels are confined, and the skin dry. The urine is scanty and high-coloured. In surgical cases the fever commonly terminates gradually, by lysis, but it may cease suddenly by crisis if the local cause can be removed. The tongue becomes clean, the pulse lessens in frequency and in strength, the secretions become more free, the thirst diminishes, and strength and appetite return. This favourable termination can occur in most surgical cases only by the removal of the cause of the fever, as by the opening of an acute abscess, the removal of septic matter by drainage, or the growth of healthy granulations preventing its further absorption. Should the cause persist, the fever may terminate in death, either by exhaustion or by the supervention of some visceral compHcation, as pneumonia ; or the sthenic form may gradually merge into the type that is characterised by debility. 2. Asthenic Inflammatory Fever occurs in^those individuals whose constitu- tions are broken down by privation, dissipation, or by any of the general depressing causes of disease, as grief, anxiety, long residence in a vitiated atmosphere, or old age. In constitutions such as these, frequently met with in all classes, but especially amongst the poorer residents in large towns, in- flammatory fever almost invariably assumes this type. The cause of the fever, however, in many cases, determines the type quite as much as the constitu- tional state of the patient. When it is due to a large dose of the products of putrefaction rapidly absorbed it is asthenic from the first, or rapidly becomes so. The same form is met with in almost all true cases of infective blood- poisoning from wounds ; that is to say, in those cases in which the poison M hich enters the system is not merely the chemical products of putrefaction, but a ferment-like substance capable of multiplying in the living body, as in acute septic infection, pyaemia and malignant pustule. In all spreading gangrenous inflammations the fever assumes the same form ; and in ery-