GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. 35° remote are^ bruised and damag-ed to siicli an extent that if exposed to any turther irritation, as tension or tlie jM-esence of putrid matter, thev readily perish The bones, if they he in the track of the bullet, are splintered and hssured, and the fragments are displaced and driven into the surrounding soft parts At the same time the blood finds but an imperfect exit from the wound, and the intermuscular planes of a limb and any cavity that may be opened become distended. The exudation from the injured soft parts, that necessarily follows immediately on the injury, still further distends the part with putrescible fluid. As the nature of the external wound usually renders ic almost impossible for it to heal by first intention, the whole of this decom- posable matter is freely in communication with the external air, and organisms contained m the atmospheric dust find admission from without. Thisls often rendered even more certain by pieces of clothing and other forci<m bodies being lodged deeply in the track of the bullet. By the third dav, therefore we have developed in a gun-shot wound, unless special means are taken to prevent it, one of the most dangerous conditions to which a patient can be exposed—a large accumulation of putrid matter, deeply situated, with a totallv msufficieut exit for the discharges. If a bone be broken, or a joint or one o> the natural cavities of the body be opened, the condition is so much the worse The bullet damages only the parts it touches ; the extension of the inflammation beyond these parts is entirely due to pent-up and putrid discharo-es The extent of tissue actually killed by the contact of the ball is comparatively limited ; the wide-spread sloughing that may follow a gun-shot wound is due to the irritation of tension and of the chemical products of putrefactive and pyogenic organisms. The ordinary course of a gun-shot wound is as follows :—As soon as the patient has rallied from the shock the temperature begins to rise. By the second day the inflammation, consequent upon the irritation of putrid matter and the tension caused by the abundant exudation from the injured tissue^! begin to manifest themselves. The pain which, at the moment of inflictioii may have been but slight, becomes extremely acute, owing principally to the great tension. By the third day suppuration sets in, often most profuse and extensive, not only in the track of the ball, but widely diffused throuo-h the neighbouring parts. The discharges are oflPensi^^e from putrefaction, and find a very imperfect exit by the comparatively narrow openings of the wound Consequently the patient suffers severely from the absorption of septic matter' the fever being very high and the constitutional disturbance very great • in fact, many die about this time from septic ]wisoiiing. Should a more readv exit be established for the discharges, the fever subsides by about the tenth day, as granulations spring up and limit the absorption of the products of putrefaction. A period of great danger in gun-shot wounds is that durin<.- which the sloughs separate, usually from the sixth to the twentieth day \t this period Secondary Hsemorrhage is very apt to come on after *sli4t exertion. Baudens states that this occurrence is most likely to happen on the sixth day. This may be suddenly fatal, and is always more dangerous than the primary hemorrhage, not only on account of the difficulty of arresting it but because the patient has already been weakened by septic inflammation 'sup puration, and fever. Secondary hgemorrhage may occur from causes 'other than the separation of the sloughs and the consequent opening up of a contused or mflamed artery. It may take place from an artery wounded by a spiculum