3i8 INJURIES OF SOFT PARTS. a stream of water, to which some efficient antiseptic, as carboh'c acid, corrosive sublimate, or iodine has been added, to fall upon the part from a sponge or irrigator, all rough handling of the wounded tissue being avoided as much as possible. Sharp and angular bits embedded amongst the tissues should be removed with forceps. Above all, this cleansing of the wound is to be done thoroughly, and once for all ; a comparatively insignificant body, if over- looked at this time, may efiectually prevent adhesion, whilst disturbance of the wound after it has been once closed destroys the layer of plastic exudation which ought to form the early bond of union. " 3. The next and most important indication to fulfil, is the Coaptation of the Opposed Surfaces as accurately as possible. As a general rule, the sides should not be brought together until all haemorrhage has ceased ; if, however, there is but slight oozing, this mny be arrested by their approximation, and the pressure thus exercised on the bleeding vessels. The surfaces should be gently brought together so as thorcnghly to exclude all air and superfluous moisture from the deeper portions of' the wound, the skin-margin being the last to be adjusted ; due attention should at the same time be paid to relaxing the parts by position, so that there may be no gaping of the lips nor tension on the sides of the wound. For the purpose of keeping all in position, sutures, plasters, and landages are employed. Sutures are the best means we have of bringing the edges of a wound in close apposition, but if drainage be not carefully attended to they may favour bagging, by causing superficial union, whilst the deeper parts still gape. A suture is in itself almost unirritatiug, but it can become irritating in two ways- first, by being applied too tightly, or by becoming tight in consequence of swelling, and thus causing tension ; and, secondly, by absorbing the products of putrefaction, and thus acting as a chemical irritant. The first condition is common to all sutures, of whatever material they may be made ; the second can be avoided by the use of metallic or other non-absorbent substances, and by efficient antiseptic treatment of the wound. The chief non-absorbent materials employed are well-annealed silver wire of various degrees of stout- ness, silkworm-gut, and horsehair. In cases treated antiseptically silk is largely used for sutures ; it should be that known as dentists' or twisted silk, and should not be waxed. It may be thoroughly sterilised by boiling for half an hour, and should then be kept ready for use in carbolic acid solution (1 in 20). Silkworm-gut and horsehair are excellent materials for sutures, and are readily made aseptic by immersion for a few minutes in carbolic lotion (1 in 20) ; they are especially useful in plastic operations on the face. Pine chromicised catgut has the great advantage of not requiring to be taken out, as the deep part of the stitch becomes absorbed if it is protected from decomposition. A non-absorbent suture should always be used in cases where much discharge is expected or where the antiseptic method cannot be em- ployed ; thus silver wire is the best suture for the operation of cleft palate. The thickness of the suture will vary with the purpose for which it is used ; thus for the support of large flaps in an amputation the suture must be thick,' whereas for the accurate adjustment of the skin in a wound or plastic operation about the face the finest sutures are employed. Needles of every variety are used ; they may be straight or variously curved, and it is some- times convenient to have them set in a handle with the eye near the point,