1015 HYDATID CYSTS. common of these is the hydatid cyst, which, although somewhat rare in this country, is extremely common in Australia. The parasite is met with in its fully developed state only in the wolf and dog. It is a small tapeworm about \ inch in length, the taenia echinococcus, consisting of four segments or pro- glottides, the last of which is the largest, and contains the ova. The latter usually find their way into the human subject in water or in food contaminated by the excrement of the dog. On entering the human intestine, the small embryo contained in the egg is set free, and by means of a boring apparatus with which it is provided, penetrates the wall of the gut. It is then carried by the blood-stream to some distant part, in which it develops into a cyst or hydatid. The hydatid cyst is composed of an outer cuticular layer and an inner granular lining composed of cells, muscular fibres, and a water vascular system. The contents of the cyst consist of a clear fluid of very low specific gravity, usually not over 1007, and containing either no albumen or the faintest possible trace, with a considerable quantity of sodium chloride. The cyst-wall to the naked eye appears as a delicate, semi-transparent, elastic membrane not unlike the white of a hard-boiled plover's egg. It is seldom more than one-eighth of an inch in thickness, and can be seen by the naked eye to be laminated, and a still finer lamination is recognized under the microscope. On the inner surface of this membrane the tffinia heads or scolices are formed by a develop- ment from the living tissue lining the cyst. The head is a small round dot, just recognisable to the naked eye, and about inch in diameter, [t is provided with four suckers and a ring of hook- lets, which are generally seen retracted into the mid- dle of the head (Fig. 357). If the hydatid perishes, these heads break up, but the booklets being indestructible, can usually be detected in the fluid. The cyst may be single, but very commonly f,>. 357.-T,«nia hoad fro.n Hy- daughter cysts" are formed from the wall of the f'^tw cyst. (2sodiain.) a single 7^ 1. 1 1 liooklet IS shown more higlily parent cyst, and become free m the cavity nuxgnified. (S4odiam.) or outside it. The parasite is not capable of further development in man, and it is only by a migration in some way again to the dog or wolf that it can reach the stage of the fully developed t^nia. The size to which the cyst may attain is sometimes enormous, as much as five pints of fluid having often been removed. The irritation set up by the cyst causes a development of fibrous tissue in the structures surrounding it, which usually assumes the form of a tolerably distinct membrane or pseudo-cyst. This is of course continuous with the tissues in which the parasite is lying, and cannot be removed. The cyst belonging to the parasite itself is usualfy loosely attached, and can be peeled ofi" without difficulty. Hydatid cysts are found in almost all parts of the body. They are most common in the liver, and occur in other organs in the following order of frequency :—lungs, muscles and subcutaneous tissue, kidneys, pelvis, nervous centres, bones and breast. The parasite not uncommonly perishes. When this occurs, the pseudo-cyst surrounding it may become calcified, and the cyst itself seems to break up in the fluid. In this way all danger is removed, but the tumour remains. In other cases suppuration takes place round the hydatid. The migrating cells penetrate the wall of the parasite, and the whole cavity becomes filled with a