MICEO-ORGANISAIS AND INFECTIVE INFLAMMATION. 185 without antiseptics, be crowded together, as in the case of the wounded after a battle, even if it be in a building which has never before been used for such a purpose, infective processes are certain to manifest themselves. How it is that infective processes characterised by the presence of a specific virus capable of transference from one individual to another, make their appearance under unfavourable hygienic conditions is still far from being fully understood. It has yet to be determined whether each form of infective inflammation is due to a specific organism constantly present in the air or in water and ready to attack the patient when the unhealthy surroundings to which he is exposed, or other causes of mal-nutrition, such as prolonged wound-fever, or constitutional disease have reduced his strength so far as to make it possible for the parasitic fungi to invade his body ; or whether simple, non-pathogenic organisms may, by growing in the discharge of a wound rendered unhealthy by putrefaction, develop a virulence they did not before possess, and so become capable of invading the living tissues. Koch and other observers have shown that, how- ever the organisms may acquire their virulent properties, and whatever may be their origin, when a characteristic organism has been found associated with a distinct form of infective inflammation, it can be transferred from animal to animal by inoculation and even cultivated artificially in proper media outside the body ; and that, generation after generation, it reproduces itself in the same form, and when inoculated produces the same variety of infective process. It has also been shown by Pasteur and many others that the virulence of an organism may be so reduced as almost to be lost by cultivating it in unsuitable media, or under unfavourable conditions, or by passing it through animals little susceptible to its influence, and that by opposite means its full potency may be restored to it. This fact certainly favours the second theory as to the development of pathogenic fungi. When a specific organism has once found its way into a hospital ward, it is evident that, unless wounds be specially protected, infection of one from another may easily occur through the air, the danger being diminished pro- portionally to the separation of the patients and the freedom of admission of pure air. The poison can also undoubtedly be carried from one wound to another by dirty instruments, or sponges, or by the Surgeon's hands or clothes. Many pathogenic organisms, besides being inoculable externally, can undoubtedly enter the blood-stream by the lungs or alimentary canal, and reach the local seat of inflammation from within. Microscopic organisms are found in all acute abscesses and in many infective inflammations in which there is no open wound ; and we must, therefore, admit that they have found their way in by the lungs or alimentary canal. We have before seen that this mode of entrance cannot be admitted in the case of the ordinary bacteria of decomposition ; it is equally certain that it cannot be denied in the case of the organisms of infective inflammations. Experience, however, teaches us that It IS not by any means common in local injuries; for the total absence of organisms from a wound can be assured, almost with certainty, by means calculated to protect it from external contamination only. _ Lastly, it remains to be discussed, what is the relation of ordinary putrefac- tion to the development of infective inflammations ? Ordinary putrefaction acts both generally and locally. The invasion of the hvmg tissues by an infective process may be regarded as a struggle between