1042 TUMOURS. Fig. 382.—Mj-eloid Tumour of the Metacarpal Bones of the Index and Middle Fingers. Successful Removal of those Bones and Fingers. is enclosed in a thin bony shell, which, on pressure, yields the peculiar sensation known as " egg-shell crackling." On reaching a cartilage-covered surface it pushes the cartilage before it, but rarely if ever perforates it. On examina- tion of such a tumour after removal, a bony plate will frequently be found separating it from the medullary canal. In other cases it may extend a long distance, infiltrating the medulla. Myeloid tumours are most common at the lower end of the femur, the upper end of the tibia, and the upper end of the humerus. They also, when growing from the jaw-bones, form one variety of epulis. I have removed them from the lower end of the radius, and from the metacarpal bones (Figs. 381, 382). In the majority of cases they may be safely removed without the prospect of recurrence, but occasionally they return after re- moval. The true myeloid rarely, if ever, gives rise to secondary deposits in the lymphatic glands or internal organs. Myeloid tumours are said to have been seen in the parotid region and the mamma, but this is doubtful. Ossifying and Osteoid Sarco- mata.—These tumours were formerly classed amongst the cancers, under the name of " osteoid cancer." Almost any form of sarcoma may undergo ossification. Thus round-celled, spindle-celled, and myeloid sarcomata may occasionally show abundant formation of bone. The development of bone in these growths seems to give rise to no radical change in their nature. They still show the same tendency to unlimited growth and sometimes the same liability to recur locally or to give rise to secondary deposits in distant parts. The secondary deposits develop bone like the original growth. The bony parts of these tumours usually present the appearances of true bone, but somewhat irregular in structure. Occa- sionally tumours growing from bone are met with, which present the structure of the growing tissue found beneath the periosteum in inflammation or in normal growth; that is to say, small round or polygonal cells (osteoblasts), with single nuclei, separated by a small amount of homogeneous or fibrillated in- tercellular substance. These are arranged in a layer on laminae of newly formed bone. Sometimes the whole growth may resemble a mass of callus. These osteoid sarcomata, as they have been termed, form under the periosteum, and the bone beneath is often thickened, so that the medullary canal may be obliterated. They show a considerable tendency to local recurrence after removal. In rare cases, ossifying sarcomata are found unconnected with pre-existing bone. The Chondrifying Sarcoma or Chondro-Sarcoma.—These tumours Avere formerly classed with chondromata, and were regarded as mahgnant cartilaginous tumours. Microscopic examination, however, shows that their growing margin is distinctly sarcomatous, composed most commonly of spindle- shaped or round cells. These become separated by a homogeneous ground- substance forming the matrix of the cartilage, the cells remaining as cartilage cells. Irregular patches of ossification may be scattered through the growth. These tumours are not circumscribed, the sarcoma tissue invariably invading