TUMOURS. older geological formations, towards the sources of rivers, and in dry well- drained districts. He points out, on tlie other hand, that the sites of the great cancer fields of England are the tertiary formations and the alluvial districts ; that cancer surrounds the course of the great rivers after their full formation, when they are passing through valleys and low-lying lands liable to floods and to the consequent accumulation of alluvial deposits. These districts are also the most densely populated. Hence it may be inferred that density of population favours the production of cancer, and that wherever social organization is highly developed, there cancer becomes proportionately rife. But this view is not quite borne out by statistics. Thus we find that the development of cancer does not depend on mere population, as the mortality from cancer in Norwich and Great Yarmouth, comparatively small towns, is to that in such great centres of population as Liverpool and Manchester as 141 to 84, or nearly double ; that in Philadelphia it is to that in the much larger city of New York as 15 to 7, or more than double ; while in Marylebone it is very far higher than in the capital of Pennsylvania. In these conclu- sions we must not, however, omit to take into account the increased tendency to hereditary transmission amongst a comparatively settled population, such as that of the east of England. It is interesting to note that not only are certain areas especially favourable to the development of cancer, but that evidence is not wanting to show that the same may be true even of individual houses. Law Webb has related how in a small village in Shropshire are " two houses under one roof, wdth a drain system and water supply common to both." In one house a man died of cancer of the rectum, and a married couple who next occupied the house died, the man of cancer of the stomach and his wife of cancer of the breast. Mean- while a woman had died in the other house of cancer of the breast. Subse- quently the first house was occupied by three maiden ladies, one of whom died of cancer of the uterus and another of cancer of the breast. Is Cancer a Disease of Constitutional or of Local Origin? This question has led to much discussion among pathologists, and there are at least three theories with regard to it:—a. Cancer is a blood-disease. K It is purely local in its origin, c. If local in its origin, it can be developed only in a constitution that is fitted in some way for its formation. We will consider these views separately ; and in so doing I may observe that it will be extremely difficult, if not impossible, to separate the two questions as to the origin and development of cancer from one another ; for, however essentially distinct and separate they may be, they blend in such a discussion as this in an almost inextricable manner. a. The doctrine that cancer is a blood-disease has been made to include two distinct propositions : the first that the blood itself is charged with the poison of cancer which is ready to burst forth in any part of the body on the applica- tion of the necessary local irritation ; the second, that " blood-disease " and "constitutional disease" are synonymous terms. This latter is undoubtedly an error. It is quite possible to hold the view that the tissues are imbued with a cancerous tendency, without having recourse to the hypothesis that they derive this from the blood. The germinal membrane of the chick, as was pointed out by Gull, takes on changes antecedently to the formation of the blood ; and so we may take it as possible that the tissues of the body may inherently possess morbid proclivities, independently of the blood by which