393 BURXS. no cicatrix results in these cases, yet discoloration of the integument is often left. If the cuticle be not removed, the inflammation speedily subsides and is fohowed by desquamation. In the third degree the whole of the cuticle is destroyed, with a portion of the true skin, but the cutis vera is not entirely destroyed. This is a most important point, as it materially influences the character of the resulting- cicatrix. The thin layer of the true skin remaining contains sweat-glands, hair-follicles and elastic tissue—structures which are not reproduced if once destroyed. Moreover, round each hair, in the ducts of the sweat-glands and in the hollows between the papillse, epithelium is left uninjured, from which new cells can start growing. The tips of the papillse have their epithelium completely destroyed, and consequently become covered with granulation- tissue, so that the whole surface assumes a vivid red tint and suppurates freely. It is, however, covered with epithelium with marvellous rapidity, owing to the innumerable points from which the new cells start growing. It scarcely contracts in healing, and the scar that results is elastic and contains all the elements of normal skin. Owing to the exposure of the nerve-endings in the papillae this form of burn is intensely painful. In the fourth degree there is destruction of the skin through its whole thickness, so that the subcutaneous tissue is reached. The eschar separates by ulceration from the surrounding parts, and a large granulating sore is left which can become covered by epithelium only from its edges. Consequently the healing is slow and attended with long-continued suppuration and great contraction. The resulting cicatrix is, therefore, much smaller than the original raw surface, and is devoid of glands, hair, and elastic tissue ; at first it is thin, red, or purplish, glazed, often in the form of bands or bridles, and is apt to occasion great deformity by the cohesion of parts, as of the fingers or by contraction, as at the elbow, and the side of the neck and face, or by the closure of apertures, as of the nostrils. Most severe burns reach the fourth degree in some part at least of their extent. In practice it is not easy to distinguish between the third and fourth degrees until the sloughs begin to separate, but when the skin is hard and parchment-like and brownish-yellow in colour, the burn has probably reached the higher degree. In the/if Ih and sixth degrees the destructive influence of the burn penetrates to a greater or less depth into the muscles, bones, or joints. In the fifth degree, the more superficial muscular structures are implicated ; in the sixtli degree the whole thickness of the limb is destroyed and charred. These various degrees are usually found associated to a greater or less extent • indeed, in the more severe cases, the first three or four degrees are almost invariably met with together. The scars of burns have been credited with some peculiar power of contrac- tion, but there is no reason to believe that the granulation-tissue formed to repair a loss of tissue presents any differences corresponding to the particular injury which caused the mischief. Burns are the injuries in which the laro-est granulating sores are met with ; and, as we have before seen, contraction is an essential part of healing, and the amount is directly proportional to the size of the sore and the looseness of the parts. This process of contraction continues for many months after the sore has l)ecome covered with epithelium, giving rise frequently to the most distressing deformities, sometimes rendering a limb