ACCIDENTS IN BEDUCTION OF QLD DISLOCATIONS. 6.51 used, as adhesions and contractions have to be stretched .^nd .torn asunder. This is effected by the multiplying pulleys and by manipulation under chloro- form. In employing the necessary force, care must be taken to protect the skin from abrasion, or even laceration, by the use of vret flannel bandages or wash-leather. The force exerted by the pulleys must be considerable ; but it should be accompanied by iree rotatory manipulations and movements of the head of the bone, so as to loosen it from its adhesions ; and reduction will usually be effected in this way rather than by forcible traction alone. Angesthesia is of inestimable service in these cases ; and it is by its means that the Surgeon has been enabled to extend materially the limit of possible reduction. But, in the reduction of old dislocations, anjBsthetics do not give exactly the same kind of help as in those of recent date. In a recent dislocation one great obstacle is muscular contraction ; and, by relaxing this, anesthetics enable the Surgeon to replace the bone at once without difficulty. In old dislocations the obstacles, as has just been stated, consist in various pathological changes that have taken place around and in the displaced bones. These conditions cannot be influenced by anaesthesia ; and hence, except as a means of producing insensibility to pain and prevent- ing instinctive or voluntary muscular resistance, chloroform will not aid the Surgeon. It must be borne in mind that the reduction of old dislocations is a work not only of very considerable difficulty, but also of danger. If several months have elapsed, the obstacles arising from the pathological changes already mentioned w'ill usually be so obstinate as to render the reduction impossible without the employment of a dangerous amount of force ; and in many cases they will prevent reduction, whatever force be employed. The Accidents that may occur during attempts to reduce old dislocations, whether successful or not, are the following:—1. Laceration of the skin by the constriction and pressure of the bands to Avhich the pulleys are attached. 2. Laceration of muscles : thus the pectoral has been torn through in attempt- ing reduction of old dislocation of the shoulder. ;'>. The development of inflammation and suppuration around the dislocation, by the violence to which the soft parts have been subjected. From this cause death has several times resulted in attempts at reducing old hip dislocations. 4. Extensive extravasa- tion of blood from the rupture of small vessels in the lacerated soft parts, giving rise to wide-spread ecchyraosis. 5. Laceration of one of the larger veins. A patient of Froj'icp's died from this cause, after rupture of the axillary vein in an attempt to reduce an old dislocation of the shoulder. G. Laceration of an artery, with subcutaneous arterial extravasation. This serious accident has happened at least twenty times in attempted reduction oi" old dislocations of the shoulder. The brachial artery has also been torn in attempted reduction of a dislocated elbow. 7. Laceration of neighbouring nerves. Those of the axillary plexus have been torn in attempted reduction of dislocation of the shoulder, and the median in that of the elbow. Flaubert has recorded a case in wdiich the four lower nerves entering into the brachial plexus were torn away from the cord. The patient, a woman 70 years of age, died eighteeen days afterwards, with paralysis of both arms and of the leg on the same side as the injury. 8. Fracture of the dislocated bone. This serious accident has usually happened when the Surgeon, after the employment