PASSIVE CONGESTION. such as erection, or the enlargement of the mammary vessels during pregnancy. Lastly, anaemia of one part may be associated with hyperaBmia of another, contraction of the arteries in the one causing a reflex dilatation of the vessels of the other. Thus exposure of the surface to cold may cause hypersemia of the lungs, intestines, or kidneys. Symptoms.—The symptoms of determination of blood, as seen in an external part, are those that we should expect to result from an increased quantity of blood rushing with increased velocity through the affected textures. They are as follows : Redness of a bright scarlet hue, swelling or rather fulness of the part from tui-gescence of the vessels, heat appreciable to the Surgeon's hand as well as to the patient's own sensations, a feeling of tension and throbbing, with an increase in the quantity of the secretions of the part. Effects.—The effects of simple hypergemia can rarely be studied uncom- plicated by other conditions. It may, however, be broadly stated, that so long as the walls of the vessel are healthy, mere increased flow of blood causes no evil consequences in the affected area. In all cases in which it is the result of local irritation, it is complicated by a greater or less degree of true inflamma- tion. In cases of hypersemia from pressure upon the sympathetic in the neck, there is some fulness of the face but no actual oedema, and in many cases profuse sweating of the atiected side of the face occui's. It gives rise to no tendency to capillary htemorrhage, provided the vessels are healthy : but long- continued or frequently repeated determination of blood causes permanent dilatation of the capillaries and some thickening of their walls. In glandular organs active hypergemia causes an excessive flow of secretion. Thus constantly repeated hypersemia of the genital organs from the sexual impulses of youth not uncommonly give rise to a slight increase in the secretion of the prostate and urethra which is often a cause of needless and morbid anxiety. Occa- sionally it may cause hypertrophy ; thus, the skin may assume a warty appear- ance from hypertrophy of its papillse in the hypergemic ai-ea round an ulcer, and sometimes there may be an excessive growth of hair from the same cause. PASSIVE CONGESTION. Passive Congestion or Passive Hyperaemia plays an important part in pathology ; it gi\-es rise to serious structural changes, and acts as a powerful predisposing cause of inflammation. It consists hi accumulation of blood in the affected part from interference with its free return towards the heart. The blood in the affected area is not only greatly increased in quantity, but it circulates languidly, and, from its prolonged stay in the capillaries, it becomes more completely deoxidised than natural, and is consequently of a darker colour. The arteries are, at most, of their normal size, or even may be contracted, while the veins and capillaries are distended. When the circula- tion in the congested part becomes completely arrested, stagnation is said to occur. Causes,—The causes of passive hyperaemia may be grouped under the following heads :—1. Diminution or loss of any of the natural forces engaged in maintaining the circulation; 2. Abnormal resistance, a, in the veins, in the capillaries, and c, in the arteries ; 8, The force of gravity. 1. The three great forces concerned in maintaining the circulation are, the force of the heart, the aspiratory force of respiration, and muscular contrac-