909 GANGRENE AFTER INFLAMMATION. vitality of the tissues upon which it is acting. Thus, to take an example, a mustard plaster if applied for a short time on a healthy part causes simple inflammation without destruction of tissue ; if it be of sufficient strength and be kept on a longer time, it will cause death of the skin upon which it is acting. Supposing it, however, to be applied to the skin of a part, the vitality of which is lowered either by constitutional causes of mal-mitrition, such as diabetes or Bright's disease, or from local interference with nutrition, or from degeneration of the arteries, sloughing may result. It has also been pointed out that an irritant of sufficient intensity causes arrest of the circula- tion, by stasis, in the vessels of the part upon which it acts, and that this con- dition, unless relieved, must terminate in gangrene. Lastly, all acute inflam- mations are attended with migration of leucocytes, with abundant coagulable exudation, which distends the lymph-spaces, and presses on the vessels of the inflamed part, thus still further impeding the circulation through it. In gangrene as a termination of inflammation there are thus three causes involved : first, the direct injury done to the tissues, including the walls of the vessels, by the irritant which causes the process ; secondly, obstruction to the circulation from within by stasis ; and thirdly, obstruction from without by the pressure of the inflammatory exudation. The relative part taken by these diflFerent causes varies in different forms of gangrenous inflammation. In some the irritant that causes the process is so powerful in its action, or as it is more commonly expressed in clinical lan- guage, the intensity of the inflammation is so great as to kill the part almost directly, however healthy its texture or sound the constitution of the patient may be. More commonly, however, it is not so much the actual as the relative intensity of the inflammation that destroys the part ; there being some debility, local or constitutional, by which the resisting power is lessened. Thus gangrene arises especially in persons whose tissues have degenerated in consequence of old age, defective food, or habitual intemperance. It is remarkable to observe what slight injuries will induce gangrenous inflamma- tion under these circumstances. The nature of the tissue also exercises considerable influence : thus areolar tissue and fascise slough more readily than the skin or muscles, whilst the proper tissue of glands is seldom affected. As a rule, the least vascular tissues slough most readily. The pressure of the exudation exerts a marked influence in many forms of spreading gangrenous inflammation of the areolar tissue. Thus in phlegmonous erysipelas free incisions may avert the danger of sloughing of the skin and subcutaneous tissue by relieving tension and allowing a ready exit for the inflammatory exudation. Gangrene may form the termination of inflammation arising from simple mechanical, physical, or chemical irritants. It is then localized, and has little tendency to spread beyond the area directly injured. It is much more frequently met with as a characteristic feature of certain forms of infective inflammation, as in phlegmonous erysipelas, sloughing phagedsena, hospital gangrene, spreading gangrene, cancrum oris, or malignant pustule. The special features of infective inflammations have been already pointed out (p. 183 et seq.). In the gangrenous forms of infective inflammation, death of the tissues may be due directly to the intensity of the virus, as in hospital gangrene, in which the parts are destroyed as if by the action of a powerful caustic ; or to the disturbance of the circulation by the extent and abundance