578 SPECIAL FRACTURES. FKACTURES OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. Fractures of the upper extremity may occur from direct or from indirect violence. "When from direct violence any portion of any bone from the tips of the fingers to the trunk may be broken. But indirect violence is the more common cause ; and the seat of the fracture depends on the way in which the violence is directed. The Clavicle is more frequently broken than any other bone in the body, except the radius. For this there are three reasons. First, it is exposed to the influence of direct violence ; secondly, it receives all shocks transmitted through the shoulder in a horizontal direction to the trunk ; and, thirdly, being the only direct osseous support of the upper extremity, it receives by transmission through the scapula every shock that is communicated to the hand when the arm is extended. Notwithstanding its exposed position, it is comparatively seldom broken by direct injury. The great majority of the fractures occur from indirect violence, such as ftills on the shoulder and on the hand. This bone would be more frequently broken than it is, were it not that it resembles two segments of a circle looking in opposite directions, so as to form an S-shape which admirably enables it to withstand indirect violence. The clavicle is occasionally fractured by muscular action—more particularly from the swing of the arm, as in a back-handed blow. When the accident occurs from this cause, it is usually about the middle of the bone, and on the right side. Compound fracture of the clavicle can occur only from bullet-wounds, or some similar severe and direct injury inflicted upon the bone. Fractures from direct violence are usually transverse, and often com- minuted ; from indirect violence they are obhque. The latter are attended with much greater deformity than the former. Fractures of this bone in infants and "young children are usually transverse ; sometimes the bone is merely bent, or is fractured on one side only. The injury is usually occasioned by falling out of bed. Such accidents are frequently overlooked by careless nurses ; but the child's crying whenever the arm is moved directs attention to the part, and the Surgeon then finds some deformity, with a node-like swelling about the middle of the bone. Both clavicles are occasionally, though rarely, fractured. In one such case, which was under my care, the patient, a young man of 20. had twelve ribs broken as well, in a railway accident, notwithstanding which he made an excellent recovery. Complications.—In simple oblique fracture of the clavicle, there is rarely any serious complication. But when the fracture is the result of direct violence, the same force that breaks the bone may injure subjacent parts of importance. The subclavian vein may be compressed or wounded, or the brachial plexus of nerves may be compressed or torn ; the first rib may be broken by the crushing violence, and the pleura wounded. In a case recorded by Bowlby partial rupture of the subclavian artery occurred (p. 407). The clavicle may be fractured at any point between its acromial and sternal ends. 1. Most frequently the Great Convexity is broken ; the bone bending here when pressed upon from its extremity, the curve becoming increased, and at last giving way. This fracture may arise from direct violence, but usually is the result of falls on the hand or shoulder. 2. It may be fractured