SURGICAL TREATMENT OF ARTERIAL ILEMORRIIAGE. 419 escape with too great facility, it will be found that the temporary arrest of the haemorrhage takes place by an extravasation of blood, occurring between the artery arni its sheath, by which the relations between the wound and the aperture in the sheath are altered. The direct effect of the injury is to cause some contraction of the muscular coat of the vessel, and thus the blood finds its way readily between the sheath and the external coat, and the stratum of coagulated blood extends for some distance within the sheath, above and below the wound, opposite to which it is thicker than elsewhere. Coagulum may likewise be formed in the tissues of the part outside the sheath, by which the tendency to the escape of blood is further lessened. The permanent closure of the puncture is eflFected by processes analogous to those which take place in repair of other tissues. If the wound be small and Avell closed by an external coagulum, and if the force of the heart be not too great, the opening may be closed without complete obliteration of the artery. A small layer of clot may form internally, adhering to the wound in the inner coat, and in this the process of organisation takes place. Thus a small fibrous cicatrix is formed in the wall of the vessel. More commonly the clot gradually increases in size, till the lumen of the vessel is filled up opposite the wound, and then the subsequent changes described above as occurring when an artery is divided take place, and the vessel is permanently obliterated and converted at the seat of obstruction into a fibrous cord. In order that the wound in the artery should unite without obliterating the cavity of the vessel, it is necessary that it be below a certain size ; but this size will vary according to the direc- tion of the wound. If this be longitudinal or shghtly oblique, it will be more likely to unite in this way than if transverse. Guthrie states that, in an artery of the size of the temporal, a small longitudinal wound may sometimes heal without obliteration of the vessel, though this very rarely happens in larger arteries. If a large vessel, such as the "femoral, be opened longitudinally to the extent of one-fourth of its circumference, there is no proof that the wound can heal without obliteration of the cavity of the artery ; but when a longi- tudinal wound in a large artery is very small, little more than a puncture, closure may possibly take place simply by its cicatrisation ; the artery, how- ever, always continues weak at this point, and may eventually become aneurismal. _ If an artery of the second or third magnitude, as the axillary or femoral, be divided to one-fourth or more of its circumference, either fatal hemorrhage or the formation of a traumatic aneurism will take place, according to the''size and more or less direct character of the external wound. SURGICAL TREATMENT OF ARTERIAL HAEMORRHAGE. The object of the Surgeon, in any measures that he may adopt for the sup- in-ession of arterial hemorrhage, should be to imitate or assist the natural processes, or to excite analogous ones. The danger from arterial hemorrhage, and the steps that should be taken to meet it vary accordnig to the size of the vessel. In all circumstances the burgeon should bear in mind the excellent advice given by Guthrie never to fear bleeding from any artery on which he can lay his finger, digital pressure readily controlling bleeding from the largest vessel, provided it 'can be fairlv •applied; or the cut end of the artery may be seized between the fino-er and E E 2