ARREST OF ARTERIAL HAEMORRHAGE. 4i6 and becomes more adherent to the inner coat of the artery. For the first twenty-four hours or more the ordinary process of exudation with migration of the white corpuscles takes place, both from the vasa vasorum of the injured artery and from the vessels in the sheath. By the second day therefore we find that the base of the internal coagulum and the external coagulum in the sheath have become paler in colour from infiltration with migrated leucocytes ; and exactly opposite the divided end of the artery there may be a small nodule of colourless plastic exudation, composed entirely of small round cells held together by coagulated fibrin. This change therefore corresponds to that which has already been described as occurring in the early stages of union of wounds by first intention, the only difference being in the presence of the great excess of blood-clot. By the end of the first twenty-four or thirty-six hours, if all goes well, the process of the traumatic inflammation and the accompanying exudation resulting from the wound should have ceased, and we then have a firm mass of plastic exudation plugging the mouth of the artery and surrounding its cut extremity externally, and the processes of genuine repair now set in. Outside the vessel these consist merely of the vascularization of the " plastic exudation," the absorption of the blood-clot, and the gradual development of cicatricial fibrous tissue, as already described (p. 288 et seq.). It is evident that if these processes go on undis- turbed bv further inflammation and exudation, the orifice of the wounded vessel is from the first surrounded externally by a firm substance—first, blood- clot ; secondly, plastic exudation or " coagulable lymph ;" thirdly, firm vascular granulation-tissue ; and, lastly, fibrous scar tissue. The artery is therefore sealed externally as well as internally, and these external changes are of equal importance with those about to be described as occur- ring inside the vessel. If inflammation and suppuration take place in the wound from any cause, more especially if decomposition of the discharges sets in with breaking down of the external coagulum, thus causing the presence of septic matter in immediate contact with the end of the wounded artery, the injured vessel is no longer supported externally, and the safety of the patient will wholly depend upon the changes occurring within the vessel. "We have already seen that soon after its formation the base of the internal coagulum becomes infiltrated with exudation from the vessels of the injured coats of the artery, and consequently becomes paler in tint than the rest of the clot. The internal coagulum gradually extends further from the injured part of the vessel till, as a rule, it reaches the nearest branch above. The next change observed in the clot is that it shrinks slightly. The artery also contracts, firmly embracing the coagulum. The clot now becomes firmly adherent in every part to the inner coat till some diSiculty may be experienced in separating it. The contracted vessel usually assumes a conical shape ; but in some cases I have seen the contraction commence suddenly, the narrowed part being perfectly cyhndrical for about an inch. The next change observable is the decolorization of ihc dot. This commences at the part which is in contact with the injured end of the vessel and gradually extends upwards. The red corpuscles in the clot break up and are absorbed, leaving a firm fibrinous plug closely adherent to the inner coat of the artery. This process of decolorization is accompanied by still further shrinking of the clot. It is usually completed in about a week. The ultimate changes