443 LIGATURE WITHOUT DIVISION OF COATS. one year after, he found the greater part of the h'gature absorbed, but a small abscess had formed around the knot. Glutton has recorded a case in which the noose of the ligature was discharged from an abscess six weeks after ligature of the external iliac. Boyd had the opportunity of examining a similar ligature applied to the carotid thirty-five days before death, the wound having healed by first intention. The silk was found perfectly un- changed, surrounded by a mass of small round cells with some giant-cells, lu another case, recorded by Horsley, a silk ligature was found unchanged after seven weeks. The connective tissue formed a strong fibrous capsule round it, but presented here and there signs of chronic inflammation. The results of experiments on animals by Spiegelberg and Waldeyer, and Tillmanns, agree in every respect with those just mentioned. It appears, therefore, that a silk ligature may, with proper antiseptic pre- cautions, be safely applied and left in the wound, with a good prospect of its being encapsuled in fibrous tissue and ultimately absorbed. Tendon Ligatures.—Long tendons dried and afterwards carboUsed have also been used as ligatures. Girdlestone of Melbourne has successfully made use of the long tendons from the tail of the kangaroo. These form excellent and most reliable ligatures, and their use has been especially advocated by 1 )ent and Delepine ; they are uniform in structure, and undergo absorption very slowly. Ligature of Arteries without Dividing the Inner and Middle Coats.—In the apphcation of the catgut or silk ligature, it is the object of the Surgeon, as before stated, to tie sufficiently tightly to cut through the inner and middle coats of the artery, and by the compression of the outer coat to turn their divided edges upwards and downwards into the lumen of the vessel. Alexander Monro, B. Bell, Scarpa, and many other Surgeons at the end of the last century and the beginning of this, advocated a more gentle application of the ligature, so as merely to compress the coats to the degree necessary to obstruct the flow of blood, under the impression that the patient's safety was increased by doing less damage to the artery. The observations of Jones, and the experience of all Surgeons, however, proved almost beyond a doubt that if the ligature was to cut through the artery and come away, the safety of the patient depended chiefly on the employment of the finest possible ligatures, tightly tied, so as to cut the inner and middle coats cleanly and completely, and turn them up into the lumen of the vessel in such a way as to plug it almost as thoroughly as in torsion. Broad ligatures loosely tied excited much suppuration round the artery, cut through (piickly, and were frequently followed by secondary hEemorrhage. The idea, however, that a vessel can be safely tied without injuring its coats was revived in connection with the absorbable ligatures now in use. Lister at first suggested that the catgut ligature might be applied in this w'ay, but experience seemed to show^ that its early absorption rendered the obliteration of the vessel uncertain unless the inner and middle coats were cut. R. Barwell has, however, introduced a variety of ligature prepared from the middle coat of the aorta of the ox, which he has successfully applied in a considerable number of cases without injuring the coats of the artery. The Ox-aorta Ligature is prepared by separating the outer coat and cutting the middle coat spirally into a long rilibon. This is stretched, by hanging to it a weight of from one to three pounds, according to the breadth of the ligature, and allowed to dry. Ten minutes before being