TUMOURS. I054 persons who have suffered much from grief or anxiety of mind for years before the development of the mab'gnant disease, that, although the doctrine is incapable of proof, I cannot but look upon it as probable that the cancer was the result of the antecedent long-continued mental dis- quietude. We know, by every-day experience, that funcLional derangement of the abdominal and pelvic organs of the most inveterate character may be occasioned by mental disturbance ; and it appears to me not improbable, that such functional derangement may at last lead to perversion of nutrition, terminating in malignant growth in such organs, as the uterus, the liver or the stomach, as are more readily influenced by the condition of the patient's mind. Sex.—The influence of sex is well marked, not only in the absolute frequency of cancer, but in its occurrence in organs that are special to each sex. Cancer is absolutely far more frequently met with in women that in men, simply because cancers of the uterus and mamma constitute by far the largest pro- portion of these diseases, being infinitely more common than cancers of the male organs. But when we come to cancers of organs that are common to both sexes, as the tongue, the lip, the intestinal tract, &c., we shall, I think, find that they are more frequent in men than in women ; the difference, how- ever, not being sufficient to counterbalance the preponderance in the female reproductive organs. Von Winiwarter states, that in Billroth's hospital and private practice from 1867 to 187G, 278 cases of cancer of the skin and mucous membrane of the face and mouth came under observation. Of these 226 were men, and 52 women. Exciting Causes.—The nature of the essential cause of carcinoma is not known. It is, however, certain that direct external violence, and more especially long-continued irritation of a part, often stand in some important relation to the development of the disease. A blow on, or other injury of a part, often appears to be the direct deter- mining cause of the development of a primary cancer. Scirrhus of the mamma is commonly attributed by the sufferer to the infliction of an injury. Long-continued irritation of a part also may cause a cancer to develop. This IS a matter of every-day observation in the development of cancer of the tongue from the persistent irritation of a broken or jagged tooth, or the production of cancer of the hp by the constant use of an unprotected clay-pipe. But, perhaps, the most rrarked instance is that of the cancer of the scrotum in chimney-sweeps, developed by the irritation of the soot lodged in the rugge of the part. Butlin brings forward three reasons for believing that in this case the soot itself is really the determining cause of the tumour : first, that in two recorded cases cancer has occurred on the hand in persons habitually handling soot ; secondly, that other equally dirty trades do not cause it; and thirdly, that a warty condition of the skin is often met with in parts with which the soot comes in contact. Workers with coal-tar, and crude paraffin also show some liability to the same disease. Local irritation is more likely to produce cancer if it be applied to a part that has already been for some time the seat of structural epithelial change. Thus, in a common wart, mole, or cicatrix, cancerous growths are very apt to develop under the influence of persistent irritation. Every part of the body in which epithelium (as distinguished from endo- thelium) is naturally present is liable to become the seat of cancer. But