ANTISEPTIC TREATMENT OF WOUNDS. 331 septic. The salicylic and iodoform wools have been extensively used at University College Hospital during the last few years with the most satis- factory results, the wounds frequently healing under a single dressing. In operations in which a prolonged discharge of small amount may be expected, as in those for carious bone, it is often convenient to apply a piece of protective oiled silk over the wound to prevent scabbing, which might hinder the escape of any pus or serous fluid. Carded Oakum, Tenax or Marine Lint, is a cheap antiseptic dressing, but it is not adapted for direct application to a wound, as it is too irritating. It may, however, be applied over one of the absorbent dressings above men- tioned in order to economise the more expensive material. Iodoform Treatment of Wounds was first introduced in Vienna in Billroth's wards, and has been much used there, according to Mosetig v. Moorhof, with the most satisfactory results. It is thus carried out. In the case of an operation the instruments may be disinfected with carbolic acid, and the sponges washed in some weak antiseptic solution, but this is not regarded as essential. The bleeding is arrested by catgut ligatures or torsion, and the wound cleaned. The raw surftices are then freely dusted with finely powdered iodoform, drainage-tubes are inserted, and sutures applied in the usual way. The external dressing is composed of any absorbent material, such as gauze, wool, moss, &c., which may be impregnated with iodoform; but for prevention of sepsis reliance is placed rather on the iodoform in the wound than on that in the dressing. The advantages claimed for this treatment are, that it relieves pain by the anodyne action of the iodoform, that it is simple and efficient, and that the portable nature of the antiseptic makes it applicable in military surgery and in country practice. On the other hand, the antiseptic properties of iodoform have been denied ; it has been said to fail entirely in the prevention of erysipelas, and to be liable when used in this way to give rise to iodoform poisoning. That iodoform does possess powerful antiseptic properties can hardly be doubted. In open wounds with loss of substance which cannot be treated by the methods before described, such as those left after removal of the tongue or after operations on the anus and rectum, its effect in preventing putrefaction is undoubted, and there is no more efficient antiseptic application. In excision of the tongue its use has reduced the death-rate to less than half of what it was. In such cases it is invaluable; but in clean wounds which can be accurately brought to- gether, the iodoform can only be regarded as a foreign body, the introduction of which is not necessary. If not used in too great quantity, however, it does not interfere with primary union. Mosetig v. Moorhof states that he has very rarely observed any symptoms of poisoning. When it does occur he asserts that it is almost invariably due to one of three causes : First, to the simul- taneous use of carbolic acid, which he believes interferes with the elimination of the iodoform by the kidney ; secondly, to the use of excessive quantities, especially in fat subjects, iodoform being soluble in fats; and thirdly, to the presence of kidney disease or fatty heart. That it fails in the prevention of erysipelas is probably true. Its unpleasant smell is also no slight disadvan- tage. Taking everything into consideration, it may be said that the iodoform dressing is a reliable method of treating wounds, and in many cases is the most convenient that can be adopted. The methods of treatment here recommended are all of established utility,