SEPTIC POISONING. 971 and as wounded patients were closely crowded, so that the atmosphere surrounding them became contaminated by foetid exhalations from the decom- posing discharges of suppurating wounds. It was found that, in the great mass of the wounded, pygemia was developed among those who were aggregated within the walls of hospitals or regular buildings, such as churches, barns, school-houses, and conservatories, which, though clean and airy, did not admit of thorough ventilation ; while it was far less common among wounded soldiers of exactly the same class who were treated in hastily constructed open and draughty huts. SEPa?IC-ffiMIA. The two forms of disease known as septicaemia, septic poisoning, and septic infection, are not always to be clearly distinguished from each other in surgical practice, partly because the symptoms of the two affections closely resemble each other and partly because the true infective process is frequently complicated or preceded by the non-infective. They are suflBciently distinct, however, to justify a separate description. Septic Poisoning, Septic Intoxication, or, as it has sometimes been called, Sapraemia, is the general affection produced by the absorption of a sufficient dose of the chemical products of putrefaction to endanger life. The milder effects of the same poison are classed as septic traumatic fever. Such a division as this is unscientific, and will no doubt before long be done away with, but at the present time to speak of the milder forms of septic wound- fever as septicaemia would only increase the confusion already existing. For septic j)oisoning to take place it is necessary that there should be a considerable quantity of decomposing matter so situated that absorption of the poison can readily take place. The conditions under which it is most likely to occur, therefore, are large and irregular wounds, such as those resulting from compound fractures of the bones of a limb ; hollow wounds, such as those left by the removal of tumours ; wounds of joints ; wounds involving the pleura and peritoneum, and large abscesses opening externally by an insufficient aperture. Perfect drainage of injuries of this kind so far Hmits the quantity of septic matter as to render acute septic poisoning almost impossible. Absorption takes place most readily from recent wounds,and serous or synovial cavities. When suppuration has set in absorption takes place much less readily, as healthy granulations take up the poison with difficulty, unless the septic matter is pent up in contact with them at some degree of pressure. The symptoms of acute septic poisoning are the following. On the second day after the injury or operation the temperature rises considerably reaching from 103° P. to 104° P., or even higher. The skin is dry, and feels hot to the hand. There may be a chill or even a severe rigor, but this is by no means constant. The patient feels very ill, there is complete loss of appetite, with headache, a quick pulse, and a dry furred tongue. Delirium usually sets in at night, and occasionally is violent. By the third day after the injury some disturbance of the alimentary tract sets in. Vomiting is common, but diarrhoea is not frequent. In very acute cases the symptoms of collapse quickly come on. The pulse is rapid, feeble, and irregular the tongue brown and dry, and the lips covered with sordes ; the temperature