VENEREAL DISEASES. 11 12 Tu women, chancres are most commonly situated on the external organs of generation, usually just inside the fourchette or labia minora, very rarely indeed on the lining membrane of the vagina, but sometimes on the cervix or os uteri ; hence it is impossible ever to pronounce a woman free from chancre without examining these parts by means of the speculum. When situated upon the external organs, they are not unfrequently concealed between the rugae of the mucous membrane. In these cases, their presence may sometimes be detected by the labia being swollen and oedematous from the irritation they produce ; oedema of one labium only is especially suggestive of the existence of a sore. Chancres may also form on other parts where they have been accidentally or purposely inoculated. Thus in 1839 I saw in Ricord's wards, a man, labouring under eczema of the legs, in whom the cutaneous disease had been converted into a series of immense chancres by accidental inoculation from a sore on the penis. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of chancre is usually not difficult, the peculiar character of the sore enabling the Surgeon to recognize it in all its forms. In some instances, however, it is by no means easy to say positively whether an ulcer on the penis be chancrous or not. It is especially difficult to distinguish some forms of excoriated chancre from herpes on the prepuce or glans, or from those slight excoriations that many men habitually contract after a somewhat impure connexion ; so, also, the wound resulting from a ruptured frgenum often presents a suspicious appearance. Herpes of the prepuce is recognized by the closely-set crop of small vesicles with some redness round them. Herpes may become inoculated with the poison of a chancre. Pustules then quickly form in the place of the vesicles, and burst, leaving a number of small sores which soon coalesce. A simple excoriation, or the wound from a ruptured frtenum, can only be distinguished from a chancre by watching the sore for a few days ; it is better, however, not to wait till the characteristic appearances show themselves, but to treat every doubtful case as a soft chancre. When the prepuce is in a state of inflam- matory phimosis, it is always extremely difficult to determine without slitting up the foreskin whether there be chancres under it, or whether the discharge be due to simple balano-posthitis or gonorrhoea. Sometimes, however, the inflam- matoiy induration round the sores can be felt through the swollen foreskin. The diagnosis of the simple non-infecting chancre from the primary syphilitic sore will be described with the latter affection. Treatment of Non-infecting or Soft Chancres.—Until the simple non-infecting chancre was clearly distinguished from the true syphilitic sore much difference of opinion and practice prevailed. It is now, however, fully recognized that the simple chancre, being a local disease, and occurring in (he great majority of cases in persons otherwise in perfect health, requires no special constitutional treatment. The gangrenous and phagedsenic forms, on the other hand, being often accompanied by serious constitutional disturbance, or depending partly on a debilitated state of health, require constitutional treatment as well as local. Local Treatment.—This has for its object the destruction of the specific character of the sore. With a view of modifying the specific character of the sore, there is no application so efficacious as iodoform. It will usually cure a simple soft