FROST-BITE. 403 IS passing, or with elecfcro-motors. The constitutional symptoms produced are those of shock, which may prove instantly fatal, without any signs of external injury. In other cases, even though the shock has been severe, recovery has followed the employment of artificial respiration and the administration of stimulants. Extensive burns of the clothes and the surface of the body may be produced' by lightning ; the skin is scorched in broad bands or in narrow lines arranged in an arborescent manner. Fractures of the bones have rarely been recorded. In cases followed by recovery severe pains in the limbs may persist for several days after the injury ; and, in several cases recently described in detail by Surg.-Capt. Trask, two still complained of a sense of weakness in the limbs nearly three months afterwards. The post-mortem appearances after death from lightning stroke are not characteristic. Rigor mortis is usually well marked ; the blood may coagulate imperfectly. The surface of the brain and its membranes are often congested. FEOST-BITi:. When the body has been exposed to severe or long-continued cold, we find, as m the case of burns, that local and constitutional effects are produced Local Influence of Cold.—This is manifested chiefly on the extremities of the body, as the nose, ears, chin, hands, and feet, where the circulation is less active than m the more central parts. It occurs to an injurious deo-ree chiefly m very young or aged persons, or in those whose constitutions have been depressed by want of the necessaries of life. In such persons frost-bite and the resulting gangrene are as much due to the feeble vitality of the extremities as to the low temperature to which they are exposed The extreme parts of the body, as the feet, more especially the toes necessarily suffer most frequently, in many cases from long exposure to wet at low temperatures rather than to dry cold. The fingers, the tip of the nose and chm, and the prominences of the cheeks, are especially apt to suffer from dry cold, more particularly when its effects are much increased by high wind • lor It IS a well-known fact that extremely low temperatures are borne with impunity so long as the air is calm, as, happily, it commonly is in these rr "1 ' ^P^'^""^-^ ^--^ the body is so rapidly carried off, that sudden congelation of exposed parts may ensue. It lemarkable how some parts escape. Thus the eyeball is never, co my know- ledge, frozen so long as life remains, and yet it might be sup 30sed [harthe aqueous humour at least would easily congeal. The eyelids, alsr^l as ti y are, commonly escape frost-bite. ' The first effect of cold is to cause a contraction of all the iuvoluntirv muscular fibres of the part acted on. The small arteries of the skin Tec So so much narrowed that the circulation through the part is completZariXl I becomes somewhat shrunken and of a dead white colour. In tMs L^^^^^^^^^^^^ p el H T'f '^-^^^^ «fro n if D D 2