440 ARREST. OF ARTERIAL HjEMORRHAGE. supported by pebbles at a short distance above the bottom, to afford space for water that slowly subsides to accumulate in and keep it from coming into contact with the hanks of gut which are placed loosely in the upper part of the vessel. The process of preparation goes on best in a cool place, and should be continued/or two months at least; and the gut goes on improving for an unhmited time if retained in the same oil." Excellent i-esults were obtained with the gut prepared in this way, but the length of time required before it was fit for use formed a serious objection to the process. Lister therefore undertook a series of experiments with various reagents in the hope of finding some equally efficient and more rapid method. Among the substances with which he experimented, chromic acid was found to give the best results ; but if this is used alone or too strong, the gut becomes over-prepared and as unabsorbable as a wire ligature. The method of pre- paration finally adopted was the following : Dissolve one part of chromic acid in 4,000 parts of distilled water, and add to the solution 200 parts of pure carbohc acid or absolute pheuol. Place in the solution a quantity of catgut equal in weight to the carbohc acid : the gut must not be in loose hanks, but wound round some solid body to prevent its untwisting while soaking. If too much gut be added, it will be under-prepared and soften in the wound ; if too little, there is a danger of its becoming over-prepared and unabsorbable. At the end of forty-eight hours the preparation is complete, and the gut may be removed and dried. Another mode of preparing the gut is as follows : Take five parts by weight of catgut (wound as above on some solid body) and immerse for twelve hours in chromic acid 1 part and distilled water J 00 parts ; transfer after removing the excess of lic^uid with a cloth into 100 parts of sulphurous acid (B. P.) ; in twelve hours take it out and dry it. As soon as it is dry, it is to be placed in a 1 to 5 solution of carbolic acid in oil, and it is then fit for use ; or it may be kept dry and put in a 1 in 20 watery solution for a quarter of an hour before it is used. Max Schede of Hamburg has used catgut prepared with perchloride ot mercury with perfectly satisfactory results. The catgut is wound on a glass reel and placed in a 1 per cent, solution of corrosive sublimate. The thinner sorts remain in six hours, the thicker twelve. The catgut is then removed and placed for twelve hours in absolute alcohol, when it is ready for use. It is kept till required in the alcohol. The fate of a prepared catgut ligature in a wound has been the subject of much discussion. The examination of ligatures apphed in animals, and of pieces of gut used as sutures and ligatures in the human subject, has, however, tolerably clearly proved that, provided all goes well, the following changes occur. Within a short time of its application the carbolic acid or other soluble antiseptic it contains diffuses out of it and the catgut then becomes a perfectly unirritating thread of fibrous tissue, and has no tendency to excite inflamma- tion in its neighbourhood. It may, however, become irritating if, after losing its carbolic acid, it decomposes or becomes soaked in decomposing discharges. In this state it presents no advantage over an ordinary silk or hemp ligature ; in fact it is less safe, as by its premature softening it may leave the external coat unsupported before repair has sufficiently advanced internally. If preserved from decomposition by the antiseptic treatment, it becomes buried and absorbed in the granulation-tissue developed in the process of repair of