TUMOURS. io8o freed by a painless procedure from a source of great and constant annoyance and suffering, the Surgeon may feel himself justified in thus affording him a few months or years of comparative ease, though he may be fully aware that, at the expiration of that time, the affection may return, and will then certainly prove fatal. Even under these circumstances, the patient's condition may be much improved; for the recurrent is frequently less distress- ing than the primary disease ; since, as it often takes place in internal organs, it is not attended with the same amount of local pain and distress. In discussing the propriety of operating in a case of cancer the Surgeon can, however, have httle to do with general or abstract considerations. It will serve him little, in coming to a conclusion as to the line of practice that he should adopt, to refer to the statistics of the gross results of operations, or to general comparisons between the results of cases that are not operated upon and those that are. The whole question narrows itself to the point, as to what can best be done in order to prolong the life or relieve the suffering of the particular individual whose case is being considered. In order to come to some definite conclusion on this, it is necessary to classify the different cases of cancer, and to arrange them under the heads of those in which no operation is justifiable ; those in which the result of any such procedure would be very doubbful ; and those in which an operation is attended with a fair prospect of success. Most of the following rules apply equally to true cancers and the malignant sarcomata formerly classed as such. In no case should any operation be undertaken till the liver has been examined by percussion and palpation and found free from disease. If there are no symptoms such as cough, pleuritic pain, or hasmoptysis, it is probable that a secondary tumour in the lungs, even if present, would be too small to be recognized by any method of physical examination. Still it is always safer to examine the chest also. I have seen a case in which a Surgeon removed the upper jaw for a tumour which turned out to be a secondary scirrhus, when by palpation of the abdomen the primary tumour of the pancreas and secondary nodules in the liver could easily have been felt. I know also of another case in which the eyeball was removed for a melanotic sarcoma, when the liver was studded with secondary growths which could readily have been felt through the abdominal walls. In such cases operation is clearly improper. The urine should also in every case be examined for albumen and sugar. Another error which the Surgeon must endeavour to avoid is that of mis- taking a secondary carcinomatous deposit for the primary tumour. It sometimes happens that the primary tumour is small and so situated that it escapes the notice of the patient and the Surgeon, whilst one of the secondary deposits may present itself as a large and conspicuous growth. Thus 1 have known a case in which amputation was performed at the shoulder for a tumour of the upper end of the humerus which was believed to be a primary sarcoma of the bone. The microscope, however, revealed its carcinomatous nature, and subsequent examination showed that the tumour was secondary to a small carcinoma of the cervix uteri which had caused no definite local symptoms. 1. Cases not proper for Operation.—{a) It is a rule in surgery which should never be deviated from, that no operation should ever be undertaken for the removal of a malignant growth, unless the w^hole of the tumour and the tissues infiltrated by it can be completely removed. It is necessary to remove