692 SPECIAL DISLOCATIONS. consequently tlie neck of the femur being more or less firmly fixed, the head moves upwards as the limb is extended till it comes to lie above the muscle in the position shown in Fig. 272, the obturator internus now lying in front of the neck of the bone and passing over it, thus limiting the displacement upwards. The injury to surrounding muscles is very various. Billard d'Angers found the gluteus maximus and medius lacerated and the gemelli torn, probably from the strain they had been subjected to by the position of the obturator. MacCarthy found the gluteus maximus not torn, but the bursa between it and the vastus externus was ruptured and filled with blood. The sheath of the great sciatic nerve was also distended with blood, and the nerve fibres separated from one another. The posterior fibres of the gluteus minimus were torn and the areolar tissue beneath the muscle fihed with blood. The quadratus femoris muscle was torn completely in two, and the uppermost fibres of the abductor magnus, and some fibres of the gemelli and obturator Fij,'. SVL—Pelvis and Head of tlie Femur with obtui-atoi- internus in natural im- sitiun. (Bigelow.) Fig. 272. —IVlvis and Head of Femur showing disloeaticin liehiw the tendon <if the obturator, with secondary dis- placement of tlie head upwards, and almormal poKiti(m of the obturator internus. (Bigelow.) internus muscles, were lacerated. The capsule was perfect in front and above, but torn at the most posterior part. The ligamentum teres had been torn off close to the femoral attachment. The accompanying drawing (Fig. 278) is from a case which was admitted into University Coliege Hospital. The patient died from other injuries a few^ hours after admission. The dislocation was reduced without the slightest difficulty by manipulation and showed no tendency to slip out again, though the man was very restless before death. The dislocation was easily reproduced after the limb had been dissected and rigor mortis had passed ofi". A con- siderable extravasation of blood was found beneath the gluteus maximus. The only muscle torn was the gemellus inferior, the upper border of the quadratus was shghtly bruised, and the lower border of the gluteus minimus was also marked by a little extravasated blood, apparently from the pressure of the head of the bone in its abnormal position, and there was extravasated blood in the sheath of the gi-eat sciatic nerve. A small fragment had been chipped from the margin of the acetabulum, but was firmly fixed by the capsule.