336 INJURIES OF SOFT PARTS. of vitality. Thus, if such a wound be tightly seAvn up, the tension of the stitches will inevitably cause sloughing in the whole doubtful area. The irritation of decomposing discharges is another most potent cause of extension of the area of death, and in fact, it is in such wounds, much more than in clean-cut incisions, that the immense benefit of some form of antiseptic treatment is most clearly recognised. In primary amputations for contused and lacerated wounds it frequently happens that the incisions pass through this doubtful area, and the extra injury thus done determines the death of the part, even though, at the time, it may have appeared to be uninjured. The chief danger to be apprehended in wounds of this description is the supervention of Gangrene, which may occur in one of three ways 1. In some cases the violence done to the part is so great as directly to kill its whole substance. Thus, if a limb be crushed to pulp by machinery, or by the passage of a heavy waggon over it, the part may speedily become gangrenous. This is a local traumatic mortification, evincing no disposition to spread beyond the part injured, but being bounded by a line of demarcation along vv'hich it will separate. It is not always easy to distinguish this direct form of gangrene from such discoloration and disorganisation of a limb as are still compatible with hfe. In all cases of doubt the Surgeon must wait, and a very short time—a few hours—will be sufficient to declare whether the vitality of the part can be maintained or not. In cases of great doubt an incision might be made into the part, and the true state of things thus ascertained ; but this should not be done if it can possibly be avoided, and if undertaken the most rigid antiseptic treatment should be adopted, as the decomposition of the extravasated blood in the tissues of the bruised part would inevitably extinguish such vitality as remained. In many cases it is a good plan to disinfect the part carefully, dress it antiseptically, and wait for the line of demarcation between the dead and living parts to form before undertakino- any operation. 2. The injury may damage the great vessels of a limb to such an extent as to interrupt the circulation ; gangrene being thus induced in the parts supplied by them. This form of gangrene we shall have occasion to treat of when speaking of Injuries of the Arteries. 3. The true " spreading gangrene," the most fatal variety of mortification, is most commonly the result of contused or lacerated wounds. This is a most acute infective inflammation, terminating rapidly in gangrene, and will be described with the other infective processes occurring in wounds. Treatment of Contused and Lacerated Wounds.—In the treatment of the slighter form of these injuries, we must bear in mind the occurrence of the two distinct periods : 1, that of the separation of the sloughs ; and 2, that of granulation. There is also in all injuries of this description a special tendency to the occurrence of erysipelas and allied diseases. Care must be taken to clean the parts thoroughly from foreign bodies that are frequently impacted or ground into them. However contused and torn a flap of skin may be, it should never be removed, provided it maintain any attachment to the neighbouring tissues, but should be replaced on the chance of its vitahty being preserved. If it live, as it will often do, especially about the scalp and face, under apparently the most discouraging circumstances much will be gained ; if it slough, no harm can result from the attempt to preserve it. There are cases on record in which parts that have been even