INJURIES OF THE CHEST. 854 increasing diilness on percussion in this situation, with absence of respiratory- murmur and of vocal fremitus. In the upper and anterior part of the hmg air continues to enter, but as the pressure increases and the lung becomes more completely collapsed, the vesicular murmur will be lost, and the breath-sounds become tubular in character. An ecchymosis of the loins described by Valentin, and noticed by Larrey and others, occasioned by the filtration of blood through the wound or rent in the pleura costalis into the areolar tissue of the chest, has been looked upon by some Surgeons as pathognomonic of hasmothorax ; its importance, how- ever, is secondary to that of the auscultatory signs, as in many cases it has not been met with, and in others of non-penetrating wounds of the chest it has occurred. 2. Emphysema, or the infiltration of air into the areolar tissue of the body, and Pneumothorax, or the accumulation of air in the cavity of the pleura, are occasional complications of a wounded lung. Emphysema of a limited character without pneumothorax is a very common complication of superficial wounds of the lung from simple fracture of the ribs, and is of no importance. In such cases the two layers of the pleura remain closely applied to each other and the air passes through these without filling the pleural cavity. More extensive emphysema is almost always associated with air in the pleural cavity. These accidents occur more commonly when the ex- ternal wound is small and obhque than when it is large and direct, and often happen in those cases in which the lung is punctured by a fractured rib, with- out there being any external wound. The mechanism of traumatic emphy- sema in such cases is as follows. The two layers of the pleura, being punc- tured and torn, and the lung wounded, a quantity of air is sucked into the pleural sac at every inspiration, either through the external wound, or, if none exist, from a hole in the lung, thus giving rise to pneumothorax. At each expiration, the air that thus accumulates in the pleural sac, being compressed by the descent of the walls of the chest, is pumped into the areolar tissue around the edges of the wound ; and if this be oblique and valvular, or if no external wound exist, the air being unable to escape wholly through it, finds its way at each succeeding respiration further into the large areolar planes, first about the trunk and neck, and eventually, perhaps, into those of the body generally. Under no circumstances .can any air find its way back into the bronchial tubes, for although a wound in the lung allows air to pass readily in the direction of the pleura, it ofi'ers a valve-like resistance to its passage in the opposite direction. Though this is the way in which the most marked cases of emphysema occur, it fnay be occasioned otherwise. Thus, for instance, I once had under my care a woman who had extensive emphyseiiia of the areolar tissue of the trunk from fractured ribs, but without any pneumothorax, the lung having been wounded at a spot where it was attached to the walls of the chest by old adhesions, and the air having passed through them into the areolar tissue of the body, without first entering the cavity of the pleura. I have also seen extensive emphysema occasioned by the apex of the lung being wounded by the fragments of a comminuted clavicle. Hilton has described another form of traumatic emphysema that arises without any external wound. The air passes along the root of the lung into the middle, and thence into the superior mediastinum ; running up along the great vessels and the oesophagus, it passes into the neck between the layers of cervical fascia which enter the thorax