877 TREATMENT OF ABDOMINAL INJURY. times be thought advisable to make an exploratory incision if the shock persist and the seat of the supposed internal injury be suggested by local pain and tenderness. An operation should certainly be performed if the injury be followed by symptoms of peritonitis. Huptures of the stomach and intestine must be treated on the same lines as those laid down for the treatment of perforating wounds (p. 881) ; whilst, a segment of hopelessly bruised intestine may be treated by resection. Croft has collected 14 cases in which laparotomy was performed for rupture of the intestine ; of these 13 ended fatally. In the successful case, under his own care, the operation was performed lb\ hours after the accident; there was a » small rupture near the end of the jejunum, with fsecal extravasation and commencing peritonitis. The damaged piece of bowel was excised and the ends adjusted with Lembert's sutures. In a second case under the same Surgeon a rupture of the ileum was treated by the formation of an artificial anus ; death occurred four weeks later after a secondary operation for the cure of the artificial anus. Rupture of the liver has been successfully treated by suturing the rent in the organ, or, if this be impossible, by temporarily plugging the wound with strips of antiseptic gauze. The haemorrhage from a ruptured spleen is so profuse, as usually to be rapidly fatal; if practicable the ruptured organ should be excised. In the statistics compiled by MacCormac, Croft, and Morton of Philadelphia, are 20 cases in which laparotomy was performed for supposed rupture or contusion of the abdominal viscera without external wound. Of these only two recovered : one a case of rupture of the intestine under the care of Croft and already referred to ; the other a case of extensive intraperitoneal haemor- rhage in which a branch of the pancreatico-duodenal artery was ligatured by McBurney. In 12 of the fatal cases the intestine was ruptured, and in 2 contused ; in 2 cases the spleen was ruptured, in one of which the organ was excised ; in one case there was rupture of the liver, and in one of the gall- bladder. The operation has, therefore, not as yet been attended with much success ; but Croft's case, and the experience derived from stabs and gunshot wounds treated in the same way shows that in the case of a rupture" of tlie small intestine it does give a chance of life. In ruptures of the solid viscera it is doubtful if much success is likely to attend operative interference. The great mortality of these injuries, if untreated, must however be borne in mind ; thus Chavasse, quoted by MacCormac, estimates the mortahty of rupture of the intestine without external wound at 96 per cent., whilst Edler o-ives the mortahty of rupture of the hver as 85*8 per cent., and of the spleen^ as 86-7 per cent. The great difficulty in all these cases lies in making the diagnosis sulh- ciently early to be of any use. If it be delayed until septic peritonitis has set in, there is little hope for the patient, but even here laparotomy and drainao-e give the only conceivable chance of life. ° In cases in which there are no indications for operation, the Surgeon must endeavour to induce reaction from shock by the means described in Chapter VIII. Opium may be administered freely and nourishment should be given entirely by the rectum. By these means the intestines are kept as completely at rest as possible, and recovery follows in some cases which at first seem hopeless. In cases of internal haemorrhage, the intravenous injec- tion of salt solution may be of service (p. 4:12).