382 POISONED WOUNDS. especially in the lower auimals, shows the greatest change; it is swollen, black in colour, soft, sometimes almost diffluent ; the mucous membrane of the stomach and intestines is frequently redder than natural, and may be marked by patches of haemorrhage. The lungs are usually gorged with blood, especially at their bases. Locally it is found that the eschar is hard and dry, and penetrates deeply into the subcutaneous tissue, but not beyond. The neighbouring lymphatic glands are enlarged and redder than natural. Microscopic examination of the local lesion, of the blood and of the viscera shows everywhere the presence of a microscopic organism of con- siderable size—bacillus anthracis (Fiu'. 118). This organism was dis- covered'by Pollender as long ago as 184i), but its complete life-history and its definite relation to splenic fever have been more recently worked out by Davaine, Chauveau, and Pasteur in Fra,nce, Koch in Germany, Klein, Ewart and Greenfield in this country, and a multitude of other observers. The bacillus anthracis is a rod- shaped organism, varying in length from -2 g^oo to T2V0 of an inch, and of an average breadth of about Twoo- "Thus in human blood the length of the bacilli may reach between two and three times the diameter of a red corpuscle, and theii' width to about one-quarter of its thickness. The organism is abund- antly present in the diseased skin and in the blood in " malignant pustule " in man. In the affected skin it shows a marked predilection for the most superficial parts of the papillary layer of the cutis immedi- ately beneath the rete Malpighii, as shown by Barker in a case which occurred in University College Hospital. By cultivating it in suitable fluids out of the body its mode of growth can be observed. It multiplies when o-rowing actively by increasing in length till it reaches a certain size, and then dividing by fission at or near its middle. When growing in this way the fila- ment remains homogeneous in structure throughout; it is easily destroyed by exposure to a moderate degree of heat, and by carbolic acid and all other chemical antiseptics. The length of the filament as compared to its breadth varies consider- ably according to the medium in which it is cultivated. When grown on solid media (nutrient gelatine, agar-agar, or potato), with free access of air, spore- formation takes i)lace, and the same will happen in fluid media if the organism for any reason floats on the surface. The spores appear as minute highly refracting dots, in the protoplasm of the bacillus. After they have formed the organism may break up, leaving only the spores, surrounded by a little jelly- like material; or the spores may be quite free, or still situated in very short seo-ments of the original rods. It has been proved by experiment that under