38o POIiiONED WOUNDS. It. All sources of external irritation, Avhether physical or mental, should be removed. The patient should be placed in a darkened and quiet room, and I not subjected to the intrusive curiosity of strangers ; and the bed should be surrounded by curtains or screens, so as to prevent the disturbing influence even of a draught of cold air blowing on the surface. Cndoroform may be ad- ministered by inhalation, or chloral maybe injected subcutaneonsly in'jO to grain doses every second or third hour, in order to calm the violence of the spasms and to procure sleep, but care must be taken not to push it too far lest coma result. In a case lately in University College Hospital the patient experienced great relief from having the fauces occasionally brushed with a solution of cocaine. The hot air or vapour bath often aUbrds great temporary relief, and diminishes in a marked manner the violence of the spasms. The subcutaneous injection of curare has been strongly recommended, and doubtful cases of cure by its means have been reported. The dose is from ith to ^th of a grain every third hour. Mercury pushed to saliva- tion was formerly recommended both as a preventive and a curative treatment. Andry (1779) relates numerous cases, apparently authentic, in which it seems to have been of use. Tracheotomy has been recommended in order to avert death by spasm of the glottis. But what possible good can result from preventing death by this cause when it is impending from another ? Lastly, the Surgeon must bear in mind that he has to treat an exhausting disease! and that he must consequently support the patient by wine, beef-tea, and such' nourishment as can be taken. MALIGNANT PUSTULE. Malignant pustule or charbon is the name commonly given to the affection produced by the inoculation, on the cutaneous surface in man, of the virus of the disease of cattle known as splenic fever or anthrax. Splenic fever is fortunately rare amongst animals in this country, while in France and some parts of Germany it occurs with considerable frequency amongst horned cattle, horses, and sheep. Malignant pustule is consequently also rare here, being met with chiefly amongst workers in foreign hides or wools ; on the Continent it 18 common also amongst butchers. The virus has now been clearly proved to be a large, easily recognisable microscopic organism, the bacillus anthracis. It may find entrance into the body by the lungs or intestines in the form of dust, and then it gives rise to a general disease running a rapid and fatal course without the formation of an external centre of inflammation. This attection. which is known as " woqlsorters' disease," was brought prominently into notice by the occurrence of several fatal cases at Bradford amongst workmen engaged in sorting Persian and Bokliarau wools. Malignant pustule assumes an importance quite out of proportion to the frequency of its occurrence ; first, because of the necessity of recognising it early for its successful treat- ment ; and secondly, because it forms a type of a true infective process, both local and general, -and its exact pathology is better understood than that of most other diseases of the same kind. Symptoms.—The first symptom of malignant pustule is the formation of a small angry red pimple on some exposed part of the body—either the face, hands, or arms. The patient may be conscious of having scratched or pricked