184 LOCAL DISTURBANCES AND INFLAMMATION. process. Before it can be accepted as proved that any organism is the actual cause of a specific form of inflammation or infective process, the following conditions laid down by Koch must be fulfilled : 1. In every case of the disease in question submitted to examination a micro-organism possessing morphological characters sufficiently definite for its recognition must be found in the aft'ected tissues or the blood. 2. The micro-organism must be cultivated out of the body in a suitable medium in such a manner as to prevent its accidental contamination by any other organism. The cultivation must be carried on to many generations by successively inoculating fresh portions of the cultivating medium with the growth, until it may be assumed that no trace remains of the blood or other animal matter with which the first culture was necessarily contaminated. 3. The pure culture of the organism must then be inoculated in an animal susceptible to the disease in question, with the result of producing the specific affection. 4. Lastly, the characteristic organism must again be found in the tissues or blood of the animal in which the disease has been artificially induced. All these conditions have been fulfilled in a large number of diseases of animals, such as anthrax, glanders, swine-plague, spreading gangrene in mice, &c, &c. In three diseases the two last conditions have been fulfilled in the human subject. Fehleisen has successfully inoculated the micrococcus of erysipelas, Bokai that of gonorrhoea, and Grarre the staphylococcus of boils. On the other hand, in some undoubtedly infective inflammations, as, for example, syphilis and soft chancres, no specific organism has yet been definitely proved to be the actual cause. The action of the pathogenic fungi, the mode of invasion of the body, and the resistance off'ered to their attacks, will again be referred to in the chapter on infective diseases in general. Admitting to the fullest possible extent the influence of pathogenic fungi in the causation of infective processes in wounds and elsewhere, experience teaches us that the hygienic surroundings of the patient exert an influence of the greatest importance in their development. Putrefaction is, as we all know, a process quite independent of hygienic conditions : a dead body will become putrid in the fresh air of the country just as surely as in a crowded city, and in the same way pent-up discharges will putrefy in a palace as certainly as in the foulest dwelling of the poor. Under the best hygienic conditions, if putrid discharges accumulate in a wound or in the cavity of an opened abscess, local inflammation and suppura- tion are excited, and union of the wound or closing of the abscess-cavity is delayed. The local and constitutional disturbance will, however, be less than when the patient is exposed to bad hygienic conditions ; for the tissues being better nourished and of higher vitality, will sufl'er less from the irrita- tion of the septic matter, and the septic poison entering the system will be more readily eliminated. True infective processes in wounds are rare, even when the discharges are decomposing, unless at the same time the patient is exposed to unhealthy surroundings. In private practice erysipelas was uncommon, pyiemia was rarely met with, and hospital gangrene unknown, even when no special means were adopted to prevent decomposition of the discharges. If, however, a number of patients whose wounds are treated