288 THE PROCESS OF REPAIR. exudation'' is perhaps most conveniently applied, is spoken of also as ''coagulahh lymph;' ''inflammatory lymph;' or ''lymph." After the process has continued for some time, the serum, which was at first almost as red as pure blood, becomes almost colourless, and diminishes greatly in quantity. The two flaps, being now covered by the adhesive plastic exudation or lymph, adhere to each other readily with a certain degree of firmness if brought together, and thus a temporary union is obtained, which provides for the perfect rest and apposition necessary for the permanent growing-together of the opposed surfaces. The cessation of the exudation occurs as soon as the damaged tissues recover their full vitality. The plastic exudation, just like a blood-clot, becomes gradually firmer as the serum drains completely away from it. The blood-clot and any shreds of tissue which have been killed by the injury are taken up by " phagocyte " cells, the nature of which has been discussed in the chapter on Inflammation. This process of temporary union should be complete at the end of from twelve to twenty-four hours, the time varying with the size of the wound and the amount of damage done to the tissues in its infliction or in its treatment. If the surface of the wound be washed over with some strong antiseptic solution, such as carbolic acid lotion (1 in 20) or chloride of zinc (20 gr. to 1 oz.), both the quantity and the duration of the exudation will be increased ; but even then it should practically cease at the end of twenty- four hours. In large irregular Avounds in which it is impossible to obtain perfect apposition a small quantity of serous discharge will continue to escape from the surfaces not in contact, a condition which must necessarily occur in all surfaces in the living body not provided Avith an impermeable epithelial covering. A Avound in Avhich union by first intention is taking place, if removed at the end of twenty-four hours and examined by microscopic sections, presents the folloAving appearances : The vessels on each side, if they have not emptied themselves after the specimen Avas removed, are seen to be distended with blood, and their actual divided extremities to be filled with small clots. Outside the vessels a few Avandering cells are recognisable, increasing in number as the actual wound is approached. The original cells of the part show no change. Between the surfaces of the Avound, the plastic exudation glueino- them together is seen as a closely packed mass of small round cells (leucocytes) between Avhich the coagulated fibrin is not recognisable, as it is concealed by the cells. Here and there are groups of red corpuscles or small patches of blood-clot, varying in amount according to the degree of perfection Avitli which the capillary hemorrhage was arrested before the surfaces of the wound Avere brought into apposition. The next step in the process is the development of ncAv blood-vessels, which penetrate the plastic exudation and finally communicate with similar ones from the opposite side of the Avound. Small lateral dilatations, or pouches appear at some points on the Avails of the nearest old vessels ; these grow out into the plastic mass, bend towards each other, coalesce, and thus form loops. These loops gi\-e rise to secondary vascular buds, which follow the same course of development, and thus theA^ascularisation of the plastic exudation is completed. These buds are not formed by mere stretching of the Avail of the A^essel ; thcv are true groAvths from its protoplasm. It is not certain by Avhat means the two buds are guided toAvards each other until they meet and unite, but it is not improbable that they follow the processes of a branching cell. This process of