941 ERYSIPELAS: CAUSES. blood-vessels or blood. Hiller states that if the blood be examined numerous white corpuscles in a state of degeneration are found, having become converted into masses of highly refracting granules. Busk has described the occurrence of phigs of such corpuscles in the capillaries of the lung, and Bastian has observed a similar condition in the brain. In phlegmonous erysipelas and in diffuse cellulitis a micrococcus is also found^—the Streptococcus pyogenes — which has already been described on p. 244. Much discussion has taken place as to the possible identity of these two organisms — the Streptococcus erysipelatosus and the Streptococcus pyogenes. In their microscopic characters and in their behaviour in artificial cultivations the two =^-^- -P"'^'T.i^!^'''?nnS^^ . . iiionous Erysipelas, coiitaiiniig organisms are practically indistmguishable. Tlie the streptococcus pyogenes, results of inoculation experiments have been somewhat contradictory ; thus while several observers have obtained similar results with the two organisms, others have found that the Strep- tococcus erysipelatosus constantly causes a spreading inflammation of the skin, but that the Streptococcus pyogenes causes marked inflammatory swelling with a tendency to suppuration. Baumgarten and others who believe that the organisms are identical suggest that the clinical differences between cutaneous erysipelas and the suppurative processes are dependent upon the varying virulence of the organism, the mode of infection and the idiosyncrasy of the patient. On the whole it seems probable that the two organisms, although morphologically alike, are not the same. Watson Cheyne, who inclines to this view, suggests that cases in which cutaneous erysipelas and suppuration are associated may be the result of mixed infection. It is an important fact to guide us in the prevention of these diseases that the organisms are killed in 45 seconds by a 1 in 30 solution of carbolic acid, or in 15 seconds by a 1 in 1000 solution of corrosive sublimate. Cutaneous Erysipelas is undoubtedly contagious, and instances have repeatedly fallen under my own observation, in which erysipelas, often unfortunately fatal, has been communicated to the servants, nurses, or relatives of patients affected by it. A remarkable proof of the contagious nature of erysipelas occurred in the winter of 1851, in one of my wards at University College Hospital. The Hospital had been free from any cases of the kind foj- a considerable time, when, on the 15th of January, at about noon, a man was admitted under my care with gangrenous erysipelas of the legs, and placed in Brundrett Ward. On my visit two hours after his admission, I ordered him to be removed to a separate room, and directed that the chlorides should be freely used in the ward from which he had been taken. Notwithstanding these precautions, two days after this, a patient, from whom a necrosed portion of ilium had been removed a few weeks previously, and who was lying in the bed adjoining that in which the patient with erysipelas had been temporarily placed, was seized with erysipelas, of which he speedily died. The disease then spread to almost every case in the ward, and proved fatal to several patients who had recently been operated upon. Phlegmonous erysipelas and diffuse cellulitis on the other hand do not spread by infection if a case be admitted into a general ward ; nevertheless, on