494 INJURIES OF NERVES, MUSCLES, AND TENDONS, the terminal branches and upwards along- the trunk of the affected nerve. Pathology.—If a nerve be completely divided its two ends retract very slightly; not more than a sixteenth of an inch. In cases which have been examined at a later period, the separation has been found to have increased to about a third or half an inch, or even more. Deyeneration sets in in the peripheral end about four days after it has been cut off from its communication with the nerve-centres. The nuclei of the primitive sheath of Schwann proliferate. The medullary sheath undergoes segmentation, then breaks up mto irregular globules and finally disappears entirely in about a month. The axis-cylinder degenerates at a later period, but after some weeks it also breaks up aud disappears. The nerve then consists merely of the shrunken sheath of Schwann, containing some granular protoplasm and nuclei, and the con- nective tissue of the fibrous sheath. In the central end degeneration extends only a very short distance from the injury, and commences at a later period. Within a few weeks of the injuiy the proximal end will always be found to have become more or less distinctly bulbous, the bulb being composed of fibrous tissue in which many new nerve fibres are commonly found. Bowlby states that the regeneration of the distal end may occur without union of the divided nerve, but Ranvier believes this takes place only when there are free communications between the fibres of neighbouring nerves and those of the divided nerve. In a case lately in University College Hospital the state of the nerves confirmed this latter view : three years after division the distal end of the ulnar, which has but few communications with any other nerve, showed no signs of regeneration, while that of the median which communicates freely with the radial, which was not divided, contained multitudes of tubules with healthy medullary sheaths. When the ends of the divided nerve are brought in contact directly after division it has been asserted that immediate union may occur. It is difficult in any other way to explain the fact that in some exceptional cases sensation has commenced to return in the parts supplied by the divided nerve within twenty-four hours of the approximation of the ends by suture. Under ordinary circumstances the first step is the formation of a bond of union between the two ends composed of a dehcate spindle-cell tissue. By what process the new nerve-tubules are developed in this mass of young connective tissue is stiU doubtful. Cornil and Ranvier assert that a growth takes place from the axis-cylinders of the proximal end which penetrate the new tissue and communicate with the lower end, becoming subsequently clothed with the medullary sheath. Before the nerve can resume its functions, the whole peripheral part, which has, as before stated, undergone degeneration' must be regenerated. The regeneration of the degenerated tubules is believed to take place from the nuclei of the sheath of Schwann, which remain even in the atrophied nerve after the medullary sheath and axis-cylinder are gone. These multiply and join with each other to form the new axis-cylinder, which subsequently becomes surrounded by the medullary sheath. The process of regeneration is said to proceed gradually down the nerve from the injured spot. The restoration of a divided nerve is in most cases slow, and is often not complete for from three months to a year. The period at which signs of returning function have manifested themselves varies much. In some rare cases sensation has commenced to return in fi*om twenty-four hours to six days, in others not for many months.