6ii MODES OF MEASUREMENT. displaced in any direction, a corresponding change in its relation to this line will ensue. This mode of measurement is, however, open to the fallacy that abduction raises the trochanter above the Hne, and adduction brings it below it. Bryant's Ilio-femoral Rectangle (Fig. 209, a, d, c) is formed by placing the patient in the recumbent position ; then, draAving a line (a, b) irom the anterior superior spine of the ilium across the outer surface of the hip vertically to the horizontal plane, and a second line (c, d) from the summit of the trochanter upwards at right angles to the first line. In all cases in which the neck of the femur is shortened or the head of the bone displaced upwards, as in some dislocations, the test line (o, d) will be found in measurement to be shorter than on the sound side. In this method there is the same fallacy as m Nelaton's—that abduction and adduction of a healthy limb alter the len^^th of the test line. ^ Another method of measurement has been recommended by Giraud-Teulon which, although somewhat complicated, appears to be free from all source of error. It is founded upon the fact that the middle of N^laton's line corre- sponds to the centre of the acetabulum. Any shortening of the femur by fracture, or any dislocation, will necessarily alter the distance between the ^wer end of the femur and this point. The measurement is thus carried out 1 ind the distance from the anterior superior spinous process to the tuberosity of the ischmm, and from the same point to the inner condyle, and from the tuberosity to the inner condyle. Then draw a triangle on a sheet of paper the three sides of which are equal to these three measurements ; find the middle point of the hue corresponding to the measurement between the Uiberosity and the spine, and from that draw a line to the apex of the triano-le ihis line corresponds to the distance of the inner condyle from the centre''of the acetabulum, and must be contrasted with a similar hne obtained by measurement of the sound side. This mode of measurement is most useful in cases of dislocation and disease in which abduction or adduction with flexion IS often met with. Whatever mode of measurement is adopted, the Surgeon must never nec^lect to examine and compare the two sides carefully and simultaneously, with one hand on each hip. ^' E R 2