GEOGRAPHICAL msTRmUTlOJS' OF CANCER. lo^j Walker describe round bodies in the epitlieliuin cells, Varying from O'OOl/x'iCb- 0"04/x in diameter. A central nucleus, which stains deeply with certain dyes, is surrounded by a layer of protoplasm, sometimes radially striated, the whole being- enclosed by a capsule. Reproduction, usually by division, has been described, the process commencing with the division of the nucleus. Buffer and Walker have almost constantly been able to demonstrate the bodies in question in the large numbers of carcinomata which they have examined, and they appear to be present in greatest abundance at the spreading margin of the tumour. Although the parasitic nature of these bodies seems highly probable, it must be remembered that certain other conditions of epithelium cells may present appearances not altogether dissimilar. Thus Virchow long ago called attention to the fact that as the result of the division of a cancer cell one of the resulting cells may remain included within the other, a process called by him endogenous division. Again, very misleading appearances may be presented by the transverse section of an epithelium cell into which an adjacent cell has become partially invagiuated, as well as by cells which have undergone colloid and other degenerations. The greatest caution is indeed necessary before deciding that bodies of various kinds included within cancer cells are really parasitic. Lastly, it must be remembered that even supposing the presence of true parasitic protozoa in cancer cells be definitively established, their causal relation to the disease cannot be proved until they have been suc- cessfully cultivated outside the body, and by inoculation have reproduced a carcinomatous growth. The important share which chronic irritation so often takes in the development of carcinoma in a cutaneous or mucous surface suggests that, even if cancer be a micro-parasitic disease, the specific virus will fail to act unless the part to which it is applied be prepared for it by a course of long-continued irritation. The Geographical Distribution of Cancer is a most important element in the problem of its origin, and by a closer study of it than has hitherto been made, I believe that much light may be thrown on this. Cancer appears to be a disease favoured by the aggregation of individuals under the influence of an advanced civilization ; it seems to be much more common in civilized countries than amongst savage tribes. The dwellers in large towns also seem more prone to cancer than those who live in thinly populated districts. Cancer is rare in the frigid zone. The Esquimaux in the Western, and the Hamoieds and other migratory tribes in the Eastern hemisphere, are to a large extent exempt from it. It is rare in the tropics generally, but McLeod, of Calcutta, informs me that it is far from uncommon in India. Cancer is certainly more common in Europe than in any other part of the civilized world In some parts of the United States of America and in China also it appears to'be of frequent occurrence, whilst in South America, in Africa (except Eo-ypt) and in the greater part of Asia, it is not common. ° ' Haviland, who has investigated the tables of mortality of this country with regard to the distribution of cancer in Great Britain, concludes that geolooical formation, soil, and resulting endemic conditions exercise a marked^nfluence on the development of the disease. He finds, with regard to Eno-knd that cancer is most common in the western and north-western parts of the kingdom, including Wales ; and that generally throughout the more elevated midland and southern districts it is not common. It is less frequent on the 3 T