TREATMENT OF LACERATED URETHRA. 897 been torn, the hsemorrhage from these may be very great, a pint or more of blood being thus rapidly lost, in addition to great accumulations in the perinseum and scrotum, distending these parts with coagula. In consequence of the interruption in the continuity of the canal and the compression or plugging of the torn part by coagula of extravasated blood, the urine cannot be voided and the bladder gradually fills. If the patient attempt to empty it, only a few drops will issue from the urethral orifice ; but he will be seized with severe burning, smarting pain in the perinaeum, and the ulti- mate evils of the injury will be greatly aggravated, for, wherever the urine penetrates, sloughing of areolar tissue will rapidly ensue. There is this great difference between extravasation of urine from ruptured bladder and from lacerated urethra : in the former case the urine escapes involuntarily from the injured organ ; in the latter, no urine will escape from the torn urethra, unless by a voluntary expulsive effort on the part of the patient. The sufferings of the patient are speedily increased by retention of urine and the distress occasioned by distension of the bladder; and the necessity for relief thus becomes urgent, lest by an involuntary spasmodic effort the urine be pumped widely into the already broken-down areolar tissue of the perinseum. The pathology and symptoms of extravasation of urine are fully described in the Chapter on Stricture of the Urethra. (See Yol. II.) The ultimate results of a lacerated urethra are no less serious than the immediate effects. If the floor only of the urethra have been lacerated, leaving the upper part of the wall of the canal intact, the continuity of the urethra will not be lost, but a permanent traumatic stricture of the worst kind will ensue. If the urethra have been completely torn across, or slough as a result of the injury, obliteration of a portion of the canal may take place, and an incurable urinary fistula will be left in the perinseum. The Treatment consists in the early introduction of a catheter into the bladder. If this can be done before the patient has made an attempt to pass his urine, much of the immediate danger of the case may be averted, by the prevention of urinary infiltration. The catheter, which should be an elastic one, must not be too small; as a rule. No. 8, English scale, will be found the most convenient size. A catheter coud6 will often pass most readily, as the point is kept towards the roof of the canal which usually is uninjured. If this do not enter readily, an English gum-elastic catheter on a stylet bent to a proper form, various angles and curves being tried one after another, will often be successfully passed. No force must on any account be used ; there is no resisting stricture to overcome ; the passage is free enough if the right wny in be found. When a catheter has been passed it must be left in for a week, or longer if it causes no irritation. It should not be plugged, but should have an india-rubber tube attached, so that the urine may readily escape. If any hardness, throbbing, or other sign of irritation occur in the perineeum, a free incision should be made into the part, so as to afford a ready outlet for any urine that may have been effused. If the Surgeon find it impossible to introduce a catheter into the bladder, he should pass a grooved staff as far as it will go, and then, putting the patient in the lithotomy position, make a free incision in the middle line of the perineum on to the end of the instrument. The seat of the laceration is freely exposed by holding apart the edges of the wound with retractors, clearing