534 FRACTURES. must then be put in the best position possible, and firmly supported by sphnts rather tightly applied. When everything is ready the injured limb must be confided to the charge of one assistant only. If two attempt to hold a leg, one by the foot and the other by the knee, they may cause the very mischief it is intended to prevent. Conway, of New York, has succeeded in preventing the severe pain of reduction by means of cocaine. In a case of fractured radius he injected hypodermically miii. of a 4 per cent, sterilized solution of cocaine between the broken ends, and a few minutes later mxiv., part deeply and part superficially. Immediately after the last injection he applied a tourniquet above the elbow. In five minutes the limb couid be manipulated without pain. The anesthesia lasted for half an hour while the tourniquet was on, but disappeared in fifteen minutes after its removal. Prevention of Return of Displacement.—After reduction has been accomplished, means must be taken to prevent the return of the displacement. We have aheady seen that the three great causes of displacement in a fracture are, external violence, the weight of the limb, and the contraction of the muscles. In the upper limb the weight is supported during the treatment of the fracture when necessary by slings or bandages. In the lower limb the chief displacement due to the weight of the Kmb is rotation outwards ; this is prevented by lateral splints. The displacements due to muscular action are far the most troublesome, and in many cases it is exceedingly difficult, for the first few days, to keep the ends of the bone in position, in consequence of spasmodic contractions of the muscles, or of restlessness of the patient. About this, however, the Surgeon need not be anxious, as no union takes place for the first week or ten days ; at the end of that time the muscles will have lost their irritability, and the patient have become accustomed to his circumstances, sc. that with patience, and by varying the apparatus and the position of the limb from time to time, good apposition may be obtained. The displacements due to muscular action are overcome chiefly in two ^ycly6 which may be used together or separately—relaxation and extension. The principle of relaxation, first laid down by Pott, consists merely in placing the limb in such a position as to relax the chief disturbing muscles. There is no doubt it is of the greatest value in the treatment of the majority of broken bones. Extension consists in applying an apparatus by which the lower fragment is pulled in the direction opposite to that in which the muscles are displacing it. In order to apply it efficiently, counter-extension must be made upon some part of the body above the fracture. Extension is usually made by the Surgeon pulling forcibly on the lower fragment, the apparatus being used merely to retain the limb in the position in which he has placed it; in some cases, however, elastic extension is applied during the subsequent treatment by means of india-rubber. Considering the power of the muscles, it is evident that in many parts it would be impossible to apply sufficient force to overcome the displacement to which they give rise. It seems, how- ever, that long-continued and steady extension gradually tires out the muscles until they yield to it. Extension should therefore be constant. It is most useful in longitudinal displacement, but it also aids the reduction of angular deformity. As types of the application of these two principles, the treatment of fracture of the thigh by the double inclined plane, and by the long splint, may be referred to.