943 ERYSIPELAS: CAUSES. Persons whose nervous systems are habitually depressed, the semi-idiotic and idiotic for instance, are very prone to inflammations of an erysipelatous form. A person who has once suffered from erysipelas is said to be more liable to the disease. Fehleisen states that his inoculation experiments showed that after an attack of cutaneous erysipelas there is a short period of immunity, lasting a few weeks or months. 2. Extrinsic Causes.—Amongst the circumstances that surround the patient and that favour the production of this disease, the season of the year and atmospheric changes exercise a marked influence. Erysipelas is usually supposed to be more frequent in the spring and autumn, and the experience at University College Hospital tends to confirm this idea. Thus we find that during the yearsl871 to 1890,471 cases of erysipelas were treated in the Hospital, including those admitted for the disease and those affected by it while under- going treatment for other affections. Of these, 126 occurred during the cold months of December, January, and February ; 129 during March, April and May ; 74 during the hot months of June, July, and August ; and 142 during September, October, and November. It has frequently been asserted that erysipelas often breaks out on the setting in of cold easterly winds or on sudden atmospheric changes. Observations were made during one year (1872) at University College Hospital with the view of testing the truth of this assertion ; but, as they were not continued after that year, the time over which they extend is not sufficient to exclude the influence of chance. As far as they; went, however, they tended to show that mild damp weather, with westerly winds, is a more powerful predisposing cause of erysipelas and alhed conditions than cold dry weather with easterly winds, which is exactly the reverse of the generally received opinion. The subject is one of great interest, and is well worthy of further investigation. Erysipelas often becomes epidemic as the result of peculiar, but at present unexplained, conditions of the atmosphere. Thus at University College Hospital the number of cases occurring during the four years 1871 to 1874 was as follows : in 1871, 29 ; in 1872, 29 ; in 1873, 26 ; in 1874, 67. And not only was it at University College Hospital that this excess of erysipelas was noticed, but every similar institution in London suffered in the same way. It will usually be found that, when erysipelas is very abundant among the in-patients of a hospital, similar cases present themselves for treatment in the out-patient department; and at the same time it is generally noticed that phlebitis of varicose veins, epidemic catarrh, acute tonsilitis, and other allied affections prevail. Epidemic erysipelas may vary in its type. Thus the epidemic of 1874 was chiefly of the cutaneous variety, and was accompanied by comparatively shght tendency to gangrene or sloughing; while that of 1872, in Edinburgh, was of a violent phlegmonous type, usually attacking the subcutaneous tissue and leading to extensive diffuse sloughing and suppuration. The great predisposing cause of erysipelas is, however, to be sought for and will be found in a ivant of aiteniion to hygie^iic conditions. It is one of the penalties inflicted by nature on those who neglect those prime requisites of health—temperance and cleanliness—or who are incapable of obtaining good food and pure air. Were the laws of hygiene obeyed as they should^ b(% erysipelas and the alhed difi*use inflammations would rarely be met with iti surgical practice. Overcroivding of hospitals, and ivant ofp-oper ventilation m wards and rooms, are fertile sources of erysipelas, and of the allied processes.