I 236 LOCAL DISTURBANCES AND INFLAMMATION. mucous membranes there is an exaggerated formation of mucus during catarrh, and this increased secretion forms the most marked cHnical feature of the milder form of the affection. In more intense catarrhal inflammations, or purulent catarrh, the vessels of the corium of the mucous membrane are widely dilated and the flow through them is retarded; liquid exudation is more copious, and the white corpuscles migrate abundantly. The leucocytes, which thus leave the vessels, wander amongst and through the epithelium-cells, the natural cohesion of which is somewhat loosened, and escape on the surface, forming with the liquid exuda- tion a purulent discharge. The discharge in such a case, if examined micro- scopically, will be found to contain—numerous amoeboid cells, presenting the usual appearance of white blood-corpuscles; ordinary pus-cells, round and granular, with the tripartite nucleus; and epithelium-cells, some fully developed and corresponding in form to that natural to the affected membrane, some of rounded form, young and imperfectly developed, and others containing a. large transparent globule of mucus. A microscopic examination of a section of the membrane shows that, in spite of the abundant discharge of pus, there is no raw surface; everywhere it is covered by epithelium. The wandering cells can be seen in the corium round the vessels and immediately beneath the epithelium. Some of the epithelium-cells will be found to contain within them several bodies identical with pus-corpuscles. These were supposed by Rindfieisch to show that the pus in purulent catarrh was formed by endogenous cell formation from the epithelium-cells. Later observations, however, have tended to prove that these apparent mother-cells are in reality dead or dying epithelium-cells, which have been penetrated by wandering leucocytes. Wan- dering leucocytes are also found penetrating between the individual epithelium- cells. In some forms of catarrhal inflammation, as, for example, in gonorrhoea, the micro-organisms which cause the process are found in the epitliehum and pus-cells. Although in purulent catarrhal inflammation there need be no ulceration, the above description shows how readily one process may be converted into the other. The adhesion of the epithelium-cells to each other, and to the corium, is always loosened in the more severe forms of catarrh ; should the loosely adherent epithelial layer be accidentally removed by violence from without, or separated by exaggerated cell-migration beneath, a small ulcer will be the result. Varieties of Catarrh.—Catarrh, like other forms of inflammation, may be acute or chronic. The chronic form is very frequently associated with passive hypersemia of the part affected. It may also be sim;ple, as in bronchitis, or infective, as in purulent ophthalmia or gonorrhoea. The thick muco- purulent secretion that forms on the surface of a mucous membrane during a simple catarrh frequently serves as a nidus for the growth of microscopic organisms, and the fermentative changes these set up give rise to products which may prolong the irritation and cause it to spread almost indefinitely. Symptoms.—Redness of the affected surface, with slight swelling and an abundant secretion varying from a pure serous to a thick muco-purulent fluid, form the most marked clinical features of a catarrhal inflammation. The heat is usually moderate, and pain is not a marked symptom except in the more acute forms, as in purulent ophthalmia. The constitutional symptoms vary with the acuteness of the process and the part affected. As a rule, only the most acute forms of catarrh give rise to any elevation of temperature. The I