9i6 MORTIFICATION, OR GANGRENE. The administration of opium in these cases, as originally recommended by Pott, has received the sanction of almost every practical Surgeon. Brodie s opinion on this point is especially valuable ; he says, " If I am not greatly mistaken, the result of a particular case Avill very much depend on this— whether opium does or does not agree with the patient." From two to four grains of opium may be administered in divided doses in the course of twenty- four hours ; the quantity being increased as the system becomes accustomed to its effects. If, however, it disturb the stomach and occasion headache, not- withstanding the use of aperients, as will often happen when there is febrile disturbance in persons of a full habit of body, it must be discontinued. Ihe pain in the foot, which is often very severe during the progress of the disease, usually ceases when the mortification is complete; before this, it is but little influenced by sedatives, whether constitutionally or locally applied. It may be stated generally that in those cases in which there is much fever, in which the tongue is loaded, the pulse quick, and the skin hot, in which the spread of the grangrene is preceded by a red angry blush, with much pam and heat, moderate diet and mild tonics will be most useful; whilst on the other hand, when it is simply a shrivelling of the toes and feet, without any preced- ing local inflammation, or febrile disturbance, a decided tonic or stimulating plan will succeed best. If the gangrene be limited to one or more of the toes the local treatment should consist in maintaining the temperature of the part and endeavourmg to prevent putrefaction of the dead tissues. This is best done by surrounding the part in a sheet of antiseptic wool, which need not be changed more than once or twice a week. Should the gangrene be of the moist variety the dead part may be painted with carbohc acid and glycerine (1 in 5), or some such powerful antiseptic, before being covered with wool. When the soft parts have been separated, the bone may be cut through and the sore dressed with some antiseptic lotion or stimulating ointment. If however the gangrene be more extensive and involve the foot much danger inevitably attends the separation of the dead parts. To avoid this amputation may in suitable cases be performed without waiting for the formation of a hue of demarcation. This practice has been successfully adopted by Garlike, James of Exeter, Jonathan Hutchinson, and others, and certainly is a justifiable proceeding in well selected cases in which the health is otherwise o-ood, the constitution tolerably sound, and the gangrene so extensive as to make' it very doubtful if the patient would survive the process of natural separation of the dead parts. In gangrene of the foot the amputation should be done immediately above the knee, as if performed lower down there would be great danger of sloughing of the flaps. The circular method should always be adopted, as it makes the smallest wound, and avoids the danger of sloughing attending a flap operation. A convenient mode of amputation in such cases has been described on p. 138. The operation must be performed with strict antiseptic precautions, and some form of lasting antiseptic dressing will be found most convenient in the after-treatment. Amputation should not be undertaken merely to give a patient a " last chance," when he is already dying of exhaustion or septic poisoning, as when performed under these circumstances it has usually been fatal within twenty-four hours. In diabetic gangrene the administration of opium or codeia and the exclusion of starchy and saccharine matter from the diet may in some cases arrest the f