LOCAL SLGXS OF INFLAMMATION: 189 tlie substance of the affected tissues, and which, consequently, extends more or less widely beyond the area first affected. The simple traumatic inflammation resulting from the action of a sharp knife on the tissues is the best example of simple localised inflammation. The effect is accurately limited to the area injured, and unless some new cause be introduced the process cannot extend. Should the discharges become putrid, the inflammation will extend as far as the chemical products soak into the surrounding tissues, but no further (p. 182). There is no infection, and the process is still local, though extending more widely from the point of original injury; but should the wound become infected by a pathogenic organism, a true spreading or infective inflammation is developed, the limits of which it is impossible to predict (p. 183). Inflammation is also divided into acute and chronic, according to its intensity and duration. The symptoms, terminatious and effects that have already been described are those which characterise the more acute and ordinary forms of the process. Chronic inflammation will be described in a subsequent part of this chapter. So-called catarrhal inflammation will also be described separately. Phlegmonous is a term applied to an acute inflammation in which the cardinal symptoms—redness, swelling, heat and pain—are well marked. Inflammations of organs are also divided into interstitial and parenchyma- tous. By the former term is meant that the process is either limited to or most marked in the interstitial fibrous tissue of the organ; by the latterthat the special structures, as the epithelium of glands, are implicated in the morbid process. Croupous inflammation is a term applied to the process when it "is accompanied by a firmly coagulated fibrinous exudation, either on the surface of a membrane or in the spaces of its tissue. The Local Signs of Inflammation may be referred to five heads • viz 1. Alteration in Colour; 2. Alteration in Size; ?>. Modification of Seyisation- 4:. Increase of Temperature ; and 5. Modification of Function of the'Part Affected The first four of these, redness, swelling, heat and pain {Rubor et Tumor cum Calore et Dolore: Celsus), have been described from time immemorial as the cardinal symptoms of inflammation. Certain of these conditions may occur separately, or two or more may be associated together without the existence of inflammation, but it is the peculiar grouping together of them all that most distmctly characterises this pathological condition. The relative intensity of these changes vanes greatly, according to the tissue which is the seat of the inflammation ; thus, in mucous membranes and in the skin, the alteration in colour IS most marked ; in areolar tissue, the change in size always attracts special attention ; and when a fibrous tissue is inflamed, its sensibility becomes greatly increased. It must not be forgotten, however, that one or another of these signs may be absent, especially pain and heat. 1. Alteration of Colour is one of the earliest and most striking sio-ns of inflammation ; parts that are naturally perfectly pale, as the coniunctrva assuming the most vivid red colour when inflamed. The redness is due to the dilatation of the vessels and the accumulation of red corpuscles and in very acute inflammations, partly to the escape of the red corpuscles from the vessels. The redness of acute inflammation varies with the intensity of the process^ Where there is merely determination of blood it disappeais completely and readily on pressure with the finger, returning again with the