VEXEREAL DISEASES. 1124 There are very good reasons for believing that the disease does not pass from the father to the child without also implicating the mother. In the first place, this/acnlty is shared by no other contagions disease. No father can give his offspring small-pox, thongh the mother frequently communicates that disease to her f(ctus. In the next place, it is well known, as Colles of Dublin long ago pointed out, that a congenitally syphilitic child never locally infects its mother, though it will transmit its disease readily to a wet-nurse ; this apparent exemption of the mother being due to the fact that she has been already infected. Again, the symptoms of syphilis are often exceedingly mild in women, and are constantly overlooked. Hence, in the present state of our knowledge, it is safer to conclude that the father infects the mother, and that she transmits her disease to the oflPspring. Kicord, however, states that a mother, pregnant with a syphilitic foetus, the offspring of a father labouring under constitutional disease, can be infected through it without herself having had primary syphilis; and Jonathan Hutchinson has advanced a considerable amount of evidence in support of this doctrine, which, nevertheless, fails to carry conviction to my mind that such communication ever takes place. Duration of Transmissive Power in the Parents.—This question is one of great importance as bearing on the question of marriage of persons who have suffered from syphilis. There can be no doubt that the power to transmit the disease lasts during the whole time that the secondary manifesta- tions are present. There is equally strong evidence for believing that during the tertiary stage the parent does not infect his offspring. I know instances of men who had contracted syphilis before marriage, and had been imperfectly cured, and had for many years (ten, fifteen, or even twenty) occasionally suffered from outbreaks of cutaneous syphilides, gummata, and other varieties of the advanced form of the disease, and yet have been the parents of per- fectly healthy children, and have never infected their wives. Cases have, however, been recorded in which the wife and her offspring have been affected after very long periods, extending even to ten or twelve years, even when no evident signs of the disease were present in the parents ; and. on the other hand, marriage two years after infection has frequently been followed by the production of healthy children. When, therefore, the question is put to the Surgeon, When may a patient marry who has suffered from constitutional syphilis ? it is by no means always easy to give a direct and immediate answer. In answering, the Surgeon must be very cautious ; he must bear in mind that the health and happiness of a woman and the future of a family are often dependent on his reply ; and that, should he give his consent to the union and evil consequences follow, the whole responsibility will be thrown upon him. It may be stated generally in the first place, that if any of the local svmptoms of syphilis are developing themselves, the affected person should not marry, whatever time has elapsed since the commencement of the attack. As a general rule, even if all local symptoms have disappeared, it is advisable not to marry till three years after the commencement of the disease. If, however, there are reasons which make it difficult to delay so long, the Suro-eon may give his consent to the patient's marrying two years after the time of infection, provided he have shown no distinct symptoms of active syphihs in the preceding twelve months. Marriage under two years is most frequently followed by the production of diseased children, and should never