876 INJURIES OF THE ABDOMEN AND PELVIS. infiltration with gas, abdominal emphysema is distinguished by the cause, and by the absence of diffuse inflammation of the areolar tissue. Tliere can be Httle doubt that more or less extensive bruising of the intestine occurs in many cases of abdominal contusion which end in recovery- It occasionally happens, however, that the damage to the wall of the bowel is followed by sloughing. As the result of the separation of the slough the intestinal contents may escape into the peritoneal cavity, with the production of symptoms similar to those which occur when the gut is ruptured at the time of the injury. If, however, the affected portion of bowel become surrounded by adhesions the extravasation and consequent suppuration may be localized. Under these circumstances the abscess, if left untreated, may slowly point in the abdominal wall, and after it has burst a fgecal fistula may remain. Macewen has recorded the case of a boy in whom fatal perforation of the bowel occurred forty-seven days after he had been run over the abdomen. It thus behoves the Surgeon to be very careful in his treatment and guarded in his prognosis of every case of abdominal injury, and not to assert too hastily that the patient is out of danger. In considering the question of the Treatment of a case of severe abdominal contusion the Surgeon has to choose between the adoption of expectant methods and the performance of an exploratory laparotomy. Every case must by judged upon its own merits, and the universal adoption of either line of treatment in all cases can only lead to disastrous results. The Surgeon who persistently avoids operative interference will be rewarded by finding conditions post mortem which a timely operation might have remedied ; whilst on the other hand it is certain that the last chance of life will be taken from many patients, if the shock of an abdominal section be added to«^that of the injury itself. The presence of severe shock is suggestive of serious damage to one or more of the viscera, but reference has already been made to cases of death from this cause in which no gross visceral lesion has been found. Moreover, it is just in these cases that the dangerous condition of the patient, with cold extremities and flickering pulse, forbids operation, and it may be stated broadly that expectant treatment should be adopted if the only evidence of visceral lesion is the severity of the shock. The same rule must be followed even though there be vomiting and localized or general abdominal pain. What then are the circumstances under which immediate laparotomy is indicated ? First, if the general symptoms of internal hEemorrhage be present, with, it may be, the signs of an extensive effusion of blood into the peritoneal cavity, the Surgeon should open the abdomen, in the hope of arresting the bleeding from a ruptured liver or spleen, and for the removal of such blood as has already been effused. Secondly, if the occurrence of repeated bloody vomiting, with feeble pulse and the other signs of profound shock suggest rupture of the stomach. Thirdly, if the presence of free gas in the peritoneum, with general tympanites obscuring the hepatic dulness, indicates rupture of the bowel. Such a condition is necessarily fatal unless the opening in the bowel be closed, and the peritoneal cavity efficiently cleaned. Lastly, the signs of rupture of the urinary bladder are an indication for immediate laparotomy (p. 8D4). In certain cases of abdominal contusion operation may subsequently be required although there may have been no indication for its performance at the time of the injury. Thus it may at