GENERAL REMARKS ON OPERATIONS. 42 incisions is the scalpel. This should be set on a smooth ebony handle, which is less slippery than ivory or steel when wetted with blood, and admits greater delicacy of touch ; it should be hght in the blade, nearly straight- backed, and slightly bellied in the cutting edge. The heel should be as wide as the widest part of the blade, and there should be no constriction where it joins the handle. When very free and extensive incisions are required, as in the removal of large tumours, a Liston's bistoury, of proper size and shape, is a very convenient instrument (Fig. 3). For a subcutaneous incision, a very small narrow-bladed knife is required. The ordinary scalpel is held in two ways : first, like a pen (Fig. 4) ; secondly, Fig. 4.—Scalpel held like a pen. like a dinner-knife (Fig. 5). The former position is that universally adopted in dissecting the dead body, and the habit of always holding the knife in this way is one of the first faults which a student commencing operative surgery has to correct. In dissection, also, the student habitually turns his knife from Fig. 5.—Scalpel held lilvc a diuiier-lvnife. the deep parts towards the skin, so that any slip of the knife may not injure the subcutaneous structures which it is his object to preserve. In raising flaps in the living body, the reverse must be the rule, as, if the skin and subcu- taneous tissues are scored by the knife, the flap will certainly slough. Every teacher of operative surgery has experienced how difficult it is to correct this most dangerous habit in young operators. In making an ordinary incision from without inwards, as in the removal of a tumour, or in cutting down upon an artery in its continuity, the skin must be put gently on the stretch, and the knife entered perpendicularly (Fig. 3), so as fairly to penetrate the subcutaneous fat ; the handle may then be lowered, so that the incision is continued with the belly of the knife. This may be done by drawing the knife steadily along, if the edge is good and the tissues are not particularly resistent ; more often, however, a slight rapid sawing movement is required. In bringing