402 EFFECTS OF HEAT AND COLD. the month (A). The two flaps thus marked out are fi-eely and deeply dissected up. The alveolar border of the middle portion is then freshened. The lateral flaps (Fig. 120, C A) are now raised, united by sutures in the mesial line, and supported as on a base by the middle flap, to which they are also attached by a few points of suture, leaving a triangular even surface (C C) to granulate. In addition to the division of the cicatrix, James, of Exeter, in these cases very successfully employed a screw-collar, by which the chin can be loosened from the sternum, and gradual extension of the cicatrix effected. In some cases of burns of the arm in which the sore will not heal, or m which the tense scar renders the limb useless, improvement may be obtained by shortening the limb. Thus, Syme in one case excised the elbow for a burn of the back of the arm which could not be got to heal, and m this way a very useful though shortened limb remained. A portion of the humerus may be removed in the same way, and the ends of the fragments wired together. , Warty Cicatrices.—The cicatrices of burns, especially on the neck anrt chest, occasionally become after a time projecting, red, and glazed, as if composed of a mass of fungating granulations, smoothed down and thinly skinned over. This condition resembles keloid in appearance, and has been met with chiefly in children ; but I have several times seen it in adults, especially in women who had been badly burnt by their dresses taking fire. In these cases I observed, what I have noted in other similar mstances in children, that the warty cicatrices were the seat of the most intolerable itching, which no external application seemed to relieve. I have, however, seen the pruritus mitigated by the administration of large doses of liquor potassje. If small and narrow, these cicatrices may be dissected out ; if large, they cannot be removed without risk of much haemorrhage, for, although fibroid, they are very vascular. <• i • u -p i The scars of burns or scalds form the most common seat of this false keloid. The cause of this peculiar outgrowth is altogether unknown. It may in some cases, perhaps, be owing to want of care in checking the luxuriance of the granulations ; but in other cases it occurs though every attention is paid to the healing of the wound. The cicatrix of a burn may become the seat of a malignant growth many years afterwards. I have removed a large epithelioma from the cicatrix of a burn, on the forearm of a woman, seventy years after the infliction of the injury, which happened when she was three or four years of age. Primary Amputation may be required if the burn have destroyed the whole thickness of a limb ; the part should then be removed at once, at the most convenient point above the seat of injury. This operation may be required also at a later period, if, on the separation of the eschars, it be found that a large joint has been opened, and is suppurating ; or if the disorganisa- tion of the limb be so great as to exhaust the powers of the patient in the efforts at repair. Great caution, however, should be employed in determining on the propriety of primary amputation when the burn has extended, though in a minor degree, to other parts of the body, lest the powers of the patient be insufiicient for the double call that will thus be made upon them. ( Electric Stroke.—Death from hghtning stroke is not a very unfrequcnt occurrence, and since the introduction of electric lighting several deaths have occurred from accidental contact with wires through which a powerful current I