SUPPURATION AND ABSCESS. 266 • of these irritating fluids, and at the same time, if thej are discontinued, the signs of putrefaction soon return. Callender pointed out that this is in many cases due to the irregularity of the cavity and the impossibility of making the antiseptic reach e\-ery part of it, and he therefore recommended that the fluid should be pumped in at some degree of pressure, so as completely to distend the sac. After this has been done, some antiseptic dressing may be applied. The injection must be done under an anassthetic, so as completely to relax the parts round the abscess. This treatment has been followed by very good results. The solution Callender used was the 1 in 20 carbolic lotion diluted with half its bulk of hot water. A A'ery dilute solution of iodine has also been used with good results. Chloride of zinc, 40 grains to the ounce of water, has been employed for the same purpose ; but it is a dangerous remedy, as in that strength it is powerfully caustic and can be safely applied only with a sponge as above described. In injecting an abscess-cavity Avith any anti- septic solution, great care must be taken not to use too much force, or the sac may be ruptured and the fluid difTased in the areolar tissue, an accident which might be fatal, especially if the stronger antiseptics were being used. Another plan recommended, is to introduce iodoform into the cavity by means of a brush, or on the end of the drainage-tube, or by injecting it as an emulsion with glycerine and water. It must not be forgotten, however, that iodoform dissolves very slowly and adheres to the wall of the abscess, so that if some is introduced daily, it may accumulate until a quantity is present sufficient to give rise to symptoms of poisoning. A case of this kind occurred in University College Hospital, which nearly proved fatal before the cause of the strange symptoms from which the patient suffered was discovered and removed. Excision of the wdiole abscess wall, when such treatment is possible, is undoubtedly the best mode of curing many chronic abscesses. In the chronic mammary abscess the removal of the thick fibrous wall greatly hastens the cure. In tuberculous abscesses the same treatment is often possible, as in those connected with joints and superficial bones. The removal of the sac of the abscess is most easily done by careful dissection with forceps and scalpel or scissors, the part being made bloodless by Esmarch's method. The bleeding is easily arrested by^pressure and elevation of the limb. Constitutional Treatment of Suppuration.—With the view of pre- venting the occurrence of suppuration, the Surgeon must be careful to maintain the powers of the system, and not to reduce the patient too much, even if the inflammation be of an acute character at the outset. Suppuration is a con- dition of debility, and is especiafly predisposed to by any previously existing enfeebled state of the system, or by malnutrition. Another reason for the avoidance of the early employment of debilitating means is tbat, if suppuration once be established, the drain on the system may eventually be so considerable as to require all the patient's powers to enable him to bear up against it. AVhile the abscess is discharging, nourishing, tonic, and even stimulating treatment will be required in proportion to the amount of debility that is induced. Amongst the most useful medicinal agents are mineral and vegetable tonics, the mineral acids, and cod-liver oil in the more chronic stages. Atten- tion to hygienic conditions, with change of air, and residence at the sea-side, are also valuable. Should hectic come on, the same general tonic plan must be adopted, while we have recourse to means adapted to meet the local