M.IUIUES OF MUSCLES AND TENDONS. 503 These ruptures most commonly occur in middle-aged or elderly men, who have lost the elasticity of youth, though their physical strength is unimpaired. At the moment of rupture, the patient usually experiences a sudden shock, as if he had received a blow, and sometimes hears a snap. He becomes unabl<; to use the injured limb, and at the part where the rupture has occurred he finds a hollow or pit, produced by the retraction of the ends of the torn muscle, the belly of which contracts into a hard lump. These accidents, though troublesome, are seldom serious. The tendo Achillis, the quadriceps extensor of the thigh, the triceps of the arm, the biceps, the deltoid, the rectus abdominis, are the tendons and muscles that most commonly give way, the relative frequency being indicated by the order in which they are here placed. Muscles and tendons may be cut across accidentally or purposely in almost any part of the body. In these injuries there is always a considerable amount of gaping of the wound, owing to the retraction of both ends, if a muscle be divided, and of the muscular end only, if a muscle be separated from its tendon or the tendon cut across. Union.—The mode of union of these injuries has been well described by Paget. When a tendon is cut across, the space between the ends is imme- diately filled by a blood-clot. Exudation rapidly follows from the vascular sheath and areolar tissue in the neighbourhood ; the clot is penetrated by the wandering cells, and is soon decolorized and absorbed, till on the third day its place is occupied by a soft greyish-pink mass, extending also into the sheath and surroundin"- the cut ends of the tendon. This mass will be found to be composed of small round cells, with a homogeneous intercellular substance, mixed with which may here and there be seen some remains of the blood clot. New vessels penetrate it from without, and it afterwards undergoes the ordinary changes observed in the development of granulation-tissue into fibrous tissue. By experiments upon animals, Paget showed that by about the fourth or fifth day the bond of union has become more defined in outline, and forms a distinct cordlike mass between the ends of the tendon, and the microscope shows that the cells have lengthened out and become spindle-shaped, so that the tissue appears fibrillated ; in the course of two or three more days it becomes tough and filamentous ; after this the tissue gradually perfects itself, until it closely resembles normal tendon, though for some time it remains dull white and more cicatricial in appearance. The strength of this bond of union is mar- vellously great ; Paget found that the tendo Achillis of a rabbit, six days after its division, required a weight of 20 lbs. to rupture it. In ten days the break- ing weight was oG lbs. Divided muscles unite in the same way as tendons but less quickly, and by a fibrous cicatrix; Weber, Gussenbauer and others have, however, recorded observations which tend to show that, under favour- able conditions, gradual regeneration of muscular tissue may take place in the scar. Treatment.—The principle of treatment in these cases when the injury is subcutaneous is extremely simple : it consists in relaxing the muscles by position, so as to approximate the divided ends ; and in maintaining the limb in this position for a sufficient length of time for union to take place. If muscular relaxation be not attended to, the uniting bond will be elongated and weak, and perhaps altogether inefficient. Stiffness and weakness are often left for many months after union has taken place ; very commonly,