LOCAL CONTAGLOUS ULCER: VARIETIES. 1109 distempers, that it is pity to discountenance them" (Wiseman: "Several Chirurgical Treatises. Of Lues Venerea," London, 1676). The soft chancre usually commences with a small excoriation, which appears to have been directly inoculated with the specific poison. In other_ cases, though more rarely, it may be seen at first in the shape of a small vesicle or pustule, which speedily breaks, leaving an ulcer of a specific character m its site. Very generally, however, this pustule escapes observation, and the disease is presented in the first instance as an ulcer. The chancrous ulcer seldom makes its appearance until three to five days after connexion. In some cases, however, I have observed it, evidently from the infection of a fissure or crack, on the day following impure intercourse ; and in rare instances, its appearance may be delayed a few days longer than the time which has been mentioned. The progress of a chancre that has been artificially inoculated on any part of the cutaneous surface is as follows, and its study will serve to elucidate what takes place in other circumstances. During the first twenty-four hours after the introduction of the specific pus into the skin on the point of a lancet, we find that some inflammation is set up around the puncture, which becomes hot, red, and itchy. About the third or fourth day, a pointed pustule is produced, which is at first deep-set, but becomes on the following day more superficial, with some depression in the centre, resembling rather closely a small-pox pustule. On the fifth day the pustule bursts ; and on the sixth it has usually dried, forming a small round scab, which conies off, leaving an ulcer which presents the typical characters of a true chancre, being circular and depressed, with an irregular " worm-eaten " surface of a foul greyish colour, which cannot be cleansed, sharp-cut edges, a base slightly indurated by inflammation, and an angry-looking red areola around it. Such induration as may be present is not sharply defined, but fades away into the surrounding healthy tissues. This is the typical chancre, and these are the appearances that every true venereal non-syphilitic sore on the skin will present about the fifth or sixth day after inoculation ; from this time it may diverge more or less completely Irom these characters, but will yet, if inoculated at any time during the poisonous stage, produce an ulcer that will run the specific course up to the same period, after which it may in its turn again deviate into one or other of the unusual forms that chancres occasionally assume. Varieties.—These have been described under various denominations by the numerous writers on these affections. The following classification will include them all : —1, the Simple or Soft Chancre, or Chancrous Excoriation ; 2, the Sloughing Chancre ; and 3, the Phagedsenic Chancre. The particular form of the sore is in each case determined by its situation, and the constitu- tion of the patient or that of the individual furnishing the contagion. 1. Simple or Soft Chancre, or Chancrous Excoriation, is the most common form of the disease. It consists of one or more small sores, somewhat circular in shape, of a very shallow character, resembling rather an abrasion, with sharp-cut edges, sometimes slightly undermined, and having an irregular, spongy surface, of a tawny greyish or yellowish colour, with a narrow red areola around the edge ; it is in many cases attended with much heat and itching. These sores are usually seated on the cleft under the corona glandis, or about the glans, the whole of which may be studded with them. In fact, one peculiarity of this chancre is its tendency to multiplication on the con-