SUPPUBATION AND ABSCESS. 250 largely due to the entrance into the blood-stream of the various chemical products of the growth of the micro-organisms which are causing the formation of pus. In acute intlamniations the occurrence of suppuration is usually marked by an increase of fever, sometimes accompanied by a rigor, but far more commonly only by slight chills. The temperature rises considerably above normal, reaching 108° F. or 1U4° F. The evening temperature is as a rule about one degree above that of the morning. This high temperature remains unchanged in a case of simple acute abscess till the pus is discharged either artificially or naturally. It then falls rapidly, and if the cavity be completely drained, soon reaches the normal degree. When the abscesses are merely a part of the general process of blood-poisoning, repeated rigors occur, and although opening the abscesses may relieve the patient, it seldoms brings the temperature to a normal point. When suppuration occurs in a recent wound or compound fracture, the fever which precedes it is due in the majority of cases to absorption of septic matter from the raw surfaces ; consequently, as granulations spring up and cover them and present an efficient barrier to the entrance of the products of decomposition into the circulation, the fever falls, and this usually occurs coincidently with the full establishment of a thick healthy purulent discharge. In chronic suppuration from a surface there is no elevation of temperature, and the same may be the case in a well-drained cavity, but some fever is sure to appear in the latter case should any accumulation be allowed to take place. In chronic abscesses, especially in those due to tubercle, the fever is slight, but almost invariably careful observation with the thermometer will show some slight elevation of temperature. It may not be more than a degree above the normal standard, and that in the evening only, but when present for any length of time it is an important aid in diagnosis. In chronic suppuration from cavities the condition known as hectic is often established, or cdhumenoid degeneraimi of the liver, spleen, and kidneys may set in. Hectic is a fever of long duration, always accompanied by progressive emaciation and loss of power. The pulse, which is quick, small and compres- sible, rises from ten to twenty beats above its normal standard; the tongue becomes red at the edges and tip; the cheeks are often flushed, and the eyes glistening, with dilated pupils; all these symptoms have a tendency to exacer- bation after meals and towards evening. Profuse sweating and copious diarrhoea are common, and these discharges often alternate with one another, melting the patient away, as it were, and hence are termed colliquative. The debility gradually increasing, the patient rapidly wastes, and at last dies from sheer exhaustion, the conjoined result of fever, malnutrition, and wasting discharges. The nature of hectic fever is a subject on which there has been much difference of opinion. It does not occur unless there is a chronic discharge of pus from the system, and it was formerly supposed to be due in some way to the exhausting effects of the loss of albumen and the other constituents of pus. There can be no doubt, however, that in most, if not in all, surgical cases hectic is in reality chronic poisoning from the absorption of the chemical products of putrefaction, or some other fermentative change going on in the pus. No hectic occurs so long as an abscess, however large, continues