CONCUSSION OF BRAIN. 743 muscles. A blow on the top of the head may, however, produce as its chief effect small hjemorrhages about the base of the brain, especially in the medulla. The experiments of Duret, and more recently those of Miles, of Edinburgh, indicate that this damage to the base of the brain is produced by waves of cerebro-spinal fluid impinging upon it, and the latter observer suggests that the condition of cerebral antemia is caused by reflex stimulation of the bulb. We have already seen that, in fatal cases, minute hgemorrhages into the brain substance are frequently found, and it has been suggested that multiple capillary hfemorrhages may be the cause of the symptoms in cases ending in recovery. It seems, however, more hkely that such ha3morrhage8 are the result of sudden disturbances in the cerebro-spinal fluid, rather than that they are themselves the cause of the symptoms. The Signs of concussion vary according to the severity of the injury to the brain. In the slighter cases, the patient may merely feel giddy and confused for a few minutes. In others, consciousness is not affected, but the patient feels faint and weak, and is unable to stand. In the more severe form—in that degree, indeed, which usually accompanies any severe injury of the head—the surface of the body becomes cold and pale ; the temperature falls to 97° F., or even to 9G° F., if the accident has occurred in cold weather ; the sufferer is motionless and insensible, or answers only when spoken to in a loud voice, relapsing again into speedy insensibility, or rather semi-consciousness ; the pulse is feeble ; the respiration is slow and shallow ; the pupils are usually contracted, but may be dilated, and generally respond to the action of light, and the sphincters are usually relaxed ; the limbs are flaccid, and muscular power is impaired or lost. After this condition, which is the first stage of concussion, has lasted for a few minutes or hours, according to the severity of the shock, the second stage comes on ; the circulation gradually re-esta,blishing itself, the pulse becoming fuller, and the surface warmer. As reaction becomes fully established, the temperature rises slightly above the normal standard, the degree of elevation being in proportion to the severity of the concussion. In slight cases the thermometer will rise to 99° F. or 99*5° F., while after more severe injuries it may reach 100° F., beyond which point it seldom passes in cases of simple concussion. About this time the patient very commonly vomits ; probably as a consequence of cerebral hyperemia following the anaemia which exists during profound concussion. After vomiting, the sufferer quickly rallies. In the more severe cases, the symptoms that have just been described are so strongly marked that the patient appears to be moribund—prostration of all nervous and physical power being complete, the surface being cold and clammy, as in death, the eyes glassy, the pupils either contracted or widely dilated, the pulse scarcely perceptible and intermittent. In this state the patient may lie for hours, recovery being slow and the con- cussion merging into some other and perhaps more serious affection of the nervous centres ; or, indeed, in some cases, speedily terminating in death, apparently by failure of the heart's action or arrest of respiration. But it may truly be said that every case of concussion in which unconsciousness, though but momentary, has been produced, is a most serious one. The Terminations of concussion are various. We have already seen that in most cases this affection speedily gives way to complete recovery ; although slight headache, some degree of giddiness, confusion of thought, and inaptitude for mental occupation, may last for a few days before the mental powers are