759 PROGNOSIS OF CEREBRAL INJURY. O'Callaghan has recorded tlie remarkable case of an officer who lived about peven years with the breech of a fowling-piece, weighing three ounces, lodged in his forehead ; the right hemisphere of the brain resting on the flat part, from which it was separated only by false membrane. Guthrie records two cases in which, although a ball had lodged in the brain, the patients appa- rently recovered. Both, however, died suddenly when drunk within a year after having received the wound. In one, who lived almost exactly a year, the bullet was found in a sort of cyst lying in the corpus callosum ; in the other, who lived only a few months, it was lodged deeply in a cyst in the occipital lobe. The Diagnosis of Cerebral Iiaceration varies much in difficulty, for, as before stated, the special symptoms indicative of laceration may be masked by those of compression or septic meningo-encephalitis. A caref'al considera- tion of the history and all the features of the case will, however, usually enable the Surgeon to come to a conclusion as to the presence of laceration ; long continued insensibility without profound coma, convulsions, irregular and localized paralysis and spasms, are amongst the most important signs. Cerebral irritation may be looked upon as always indicating laceration. Some confusion may occasionally arise from the fact that the paralysis or convulsions resulting fi-om a cerebral lesion are always manifested on the side of the body opposite to that on which the injury to the brain exists ; but not necessarily opposite to that on which the blow has been inflicted on the head, for the injury to the brain may, by counter-stroke, be in that cerebral hemisphere which is opposite to the side of the head that has been struck. Thus, if a person struck on the right side of the head sustain a rupture of the middle meningeal artery, and have extravasation of blood on the right hemisphere of the brain, he may have hemiplegia on the left side, and vice versa. But, if the blow that is inflicted on the right side gave rise to extravasation by counter- stroke on the left side of the head, the paralysis would develope itself on the side that had been struck. So it is with convulsive movements ; they will occur in the arms and legs, on the side opposite to that on which the brain has been injured, whether that injury be on the side struck from direct violence, or on the opposite side from counter-stroke. In this way the hemi- plegia may occur on one side, and the convulsions on the other. A man was struck a violent blow on the right temple. He was seized with hemiplegia and facial paralysis on the left side, and with convulsive movements of the riffht side of the face, the right arm and leg. He died a few days after the injury. On examination, we found a fissure of the right parietal bone, lacera- tion of the middle meningeal artery, and a large clot pressing on the right side of the brain : hence the hemiplegia on the left side of the body. There was laceration of the middle lobe of the brain on the If^t side : hence the convulsive movements of the right side of the face, body, and limbs. The Prognosis in wounds of the brain varies greatly according to the part that is injured, the nature of the injury, and the age of the patient. The danger is greatest and most immediate in injuries which affect the base of the brain, the pons, crura cerebri or medulla ; it is least when the upper and anterior part of the hemispheres is the seat of lesion. Lacerations with open wounds, or compound fractures of the skull, or with penetration of a foreign body, are necessarily much more dangerous than those unaccompanied by such complications. Age has a very marked influence on the prognosis; the