532 FRACTURES. and to attend to the general health of the patient on ordinary principles. Nature unites the bone. In no way can the Surgeon accelerate the process or improve upon it,, but by meddlesome treatment he may retard and disturb it. Constitutional Treatment in Simple Fractures requires but a very few words of explanation. As a rule, the general habits of Hfe should be interfered with as little as possible. In uncomplicated fractures of the upper extremities, more especially in the young, rest in bed is rarely necessary. The patient may be allowed to move about with the limb supported by proper apparatus. In fractures of the lower extremities, with few exceptions, confinement to bed, during part of the treatment at least, is unavoidable. In these cases the diet may be reduced, and aperients will usually be required during the first week or ten days. After this the usual habits of life may be resumed. In old persons the shock of the accident, the enforced confinement to bed and the sudden interruption of the ordinary habits of life, are apt to exercise an injurious and sometimes a fatal effect. In these cases there are two dangers to be feared, viz., hypostatic congestion of the lungs and the formation of bed-sores. Both are avoided by propping the patient up in bed, the use of water or air cushions, and change of posture as far as practicable. It is necessary to se^ that the bed is smooth and firm, without creases ; that all crumbs be swept away daily; and that scrupulous attention be paid to cleanliness after the use of the bed-pan. Good diet and a fair allowance of stimulants are needed in these cases. The early use of the starched or plaster- of-Paris bandage is of great service in enabling the patient to get up sooner than would otherwise be possible. In all cases of simple fracture of the lower extremities, the sooner the patient is got up and about on crutches the better. Some patients speedily learn to use these instruments, others never get accustomed to their use. In the latter case, a wheel-chair should be substituted for them. Surgical Treatment of Simple Practure.—The object of the Surgeon is not only to obtain a sound and strong limb, but one that presents little or no deformity. In order to accomplish this, the broken ends of the bone must be brought into as perfect apposition as possiljle, and the recurrence of dis- placement must be prevented. It frequently happens that a Surgeon is called to a case of fracture, immediately after the accident before the patient has been moved, and without being informed of the nature of the case. It is then his duty to see that the moving of the patient is done as far as possible painlessly and without increasing the injury to the soft parts by needless movement of the limb. For this purpose temporary splints may be applied outside the patient's clothes, and secured, in the absence of bandages, by pocket- handkerchiefs tied round the limb. A couple of walking-sticks or umbrellas, or the handle of a broom, may thus be applied to the thigh or leg ; or a splint cut from the cover of a book to the arm. Newspapers folded several times till they form a mass of suflficient stiffness make excellent temporary splints. If the patient has already been moved and is upon a bed, the limb must be placed in such a position as to give the greatest general relaxation of the muscles. Thus the lower limb must be flexed and placed on its outer side with a thin pillow under the knee. In fractures of the apper hmb the arm should lie on a pillow by the side with the elbow flexed. The patient is thus made as comfortable as possible, while the necessary preparations are being