I90 LOCAL DLSTURBANCES AND INFLAMMATION. greatest possible rapidity tlie moment the finger is removed. When the circulation is retarded, the redness disappears and returns more slowly, and a few red spots may remain unaltered by pressure. These are either points at which the process has reached the stage of stasis, or at which red corpuscles have escaped from the distended capillaries into the surrounding tissues. The tint of the redness varies also according to the activity of the circulation through the inflamed area. When the flow through the vessel is free and rapid, the inflamed surface assumes a bright scarlet tint ; but where there is a tendency to stagnation, either from the feeble state of the patient's circula- tion, or from the inflammation having approached the stage of stasis, the colour becomes a dull purple. The change from bright red to dusky purple is well seen in phlegmonous erysipelas, when the circulation through the inflamed skin becomes impeded, and gangrene is threatening. After acute inflammation it is frequently weeks or even months before the vessels regain their normal tone, and until this has taken place, a certain degree of redness will remain. Redness is not, however, a constant appearance in inflammation. In non- vascular parts it occurs in the nearest vascular tissues, and not in the part actually suffering from inflammation. In inflammation of the iris the dilated vessels are concealed by the pigment, and the change of tint is from the natural brownish or bluish colour to a greyish or greenish, in consequence of a yellow tinge given to the aqueous humour by the serous exudation into it. The redness of inflammation disappears more or less completely after death. Where there has been escape of the coloured corpuscles red spots remain, giving rise to the appearance known as " punctiform redness." In septicemia, pygemia, and malignant forms of the acute specific diseases, the red corpuscles break up in the blood before death, staining the serum and the lining mem- brane of the heart and great vessels. A similar staining always takes place after decomposition has set in. .It is perfectly uniform, without spots or branching lines, and must be carefully distinguished from the redness of inflammation. Increased redness develops also in the most dependent parts after death from gravitation of blood before coagulation. Thus a coil of intestine hanging down in the cavity of the pelvis may become redder than the rest of the gut, and may be wrongly thought to be inflamed. 2. Alteration in size.—The swelling of inflamed tissues is due to the increased afflux of blood and to the exudation from the vessels. The swelling varies greatly in different localities. It is greatest in loose textures, and least in those which are firm and dense. Thus, for instance, in inflammation of the areolar tissue of the scrotum, the swelling is much greater than in inflammation of the testis. Inflammation of the conjunctiva occasions great swelling, that of the sclerotic but little. In dense hard structures, such as bone and ligament, there is, of course, very little sw^elling. If inflammation become chronic, the swelling may terminate in permanent hypertrophy or thickening, as will hereafter be described. So much of the swelling as is due to hypergemia disappears after death ; that resulting from exudation remains unchanged, and is an important post- mortem sign of inflammation. 3. Modification of SensiTbility.—There is in inflammation always more or less pain, which is owing partly to increased sensibility of the nerves, possibly to the afflux of blood, but chiefly to the pressure and stretching exercised on their terminal branches by the dilated blood-vessels, and by the inflam-