INJUMIES OF BLOOJJ-VESSELS. After excessive loss of blood the patient; may gradually rally, and, as the vital fluid is reproduced in his system, he may recover without any bad effects ; or he may fall into a state of anaemia, which may perhaps never be completely recovered from, and may be associated with various forms of local debility and disturbance of functions. After very abundant loss of blood, the pulse often assumes a character which has been termed the " hgemorrhagic pulse." Its frequency is greatly increased, the wave of the pulse, as felt at the wrist, is much larger than natural, and dicrotism is usually very marked, the coats of the artery being relaxed from want of tone, and the vessel imperfectly filled. At the same time there may be some slight elevation of temperature. The rallying power is greater in young adults than in old people, and greater in women than in men. Children bear loss of blood badly—a very small haemorrhage may induce fatal syncope in infants. In advanced life blood is slowly reproduced ; and a great loss, whether by accident or in an operation, is seldom completely recovered from, and predisposes to the development of secondary diseases of various kinds. As has already been stated at p. 15, it is in this way that excessive loss of blood at an operation, as for stone in an aged man, may indirectly prove fatal. Arterial htemorrhage is, as a rule, more dangerous than venous, as the loss of blood is more rapid and sudden, and the effect produced is proportionally greater. The body of a person who has died from the effects of hfemorrhage presents a peculiarly blanched, semi-transparent, waxen look; the lips, al^ of the nose, and finger-nails, have a somewhat livid appearance, contrasting strongly with the clear, yellowish-white hue of the general surface. Treatment.—The General Treatment of haemorrhage is sufficiently simple. After the flow of blood has been arrested by proper local means, such as will hereafter be described, the effects of its loss are usually speedily recovered from under the influence of rest and good nourishment. In some cases, however, the health becomes permanently impaired, and a state of chronic anaemia is induced, which, notwithstanding the administration of preparations of iron, may continue through life. When the loss of blood is considerable, it may be necessary to have recourse to immediate measures in order to prevent the syncope from being fatal. With this view the patient should be laid recumbent, with the head low and the limbs raised ; pressure may be exercised upon the abdominal aorta or the main arteries of the limbs, or Esmarch's elastic bandage and tourniquet may be applied, so as to confine the blood as much as possible to the head and trunk, and thos maintain a good supply to the brain and lungs. If death appear imminent as happens in some cases of flooding, recourse may be had to transfusion of blood or other fluids ; the influence of this, in restoring the faihng powers of the heart and nervous system, is immediate and most strik- ing, and its value has been sufficiently proved by the observations of many surgeons and obstetricians. Operation of Transfusion.—Although there is reason to believe that Transfusion of Blood was not unknown to the ancients, and the method by which it could be performed was distinctly described by Libavius in 1615, little was done in the matter until Sir Christopher Wren, in 1657, proposed and practised the operation of injecting medicated liquids into the veins of anim^als. Transfusion was first performed on man in France, by Denis and Etnmerez, on June 15, 16G7. In November of the same year, it was done