GENERAL REMARKS ON OPERATIONS. 2 with that of Surgery. There cannot always he fresh fields for conquest by the knife. There must be portions of the human frame that will e\er remain sacred from its intrusion—at least, in the Surgeon's hand. When we reflect that every large artery in the body up to the aorta itself has been hgatured, that each of the six large articulations and many of the bones have'been resected, that amputation at the shoulder or hip is a matter of ordinary occurrence, that tumours have been excised from every region of the body, that the laiynx, the spleen, the kidney, the pregnant uterus, and even portions of the liver, stomach and brain have been successfully removed, we can scarcely doubt that the limits of Surgery have been nearly reached. It is possible that they may even have been occasionally exceeded, for some of the operations recently performed for the removal of important organs have been far fi'om successful, and it has yet to be determined whether they are surgical triumphs or mere operative audacities. The Surgeon of the future can scarcely hope to invent new operations ; he must be content to modify and peifect those that have been devised by the genius and skih of his predecessors. But if the mechanical Art of Surgery has attained to so high a degree of perfection that we can scarcely hope for much further progress in that direction, the case is widely different with the Science. Here truly, so far from having approached the limits of our subject, we are but as yet on the threshold. ^ For whether we regard the science of Surgery in its relation to the essential nature, the pathology and the diagnosis of surgical diseases and injuries, or whether we consider it in reference to all those circumstances which, independently of the mechanical skill of the operator, influence for good or for ill the results of his procedures, we have a field before us the extent of which it is difficult yet to estimate. Until a comparatively recent period, although the results of minor opera- tions were generally satisfactory, the success attending those graver procedures, by which the life of the patient is directly imperilled, bore no relation to the perfection in the execution of the operation. At this time the highly polished Art of Surgery far outshone its Science. The rapid advance of scientific knowledge, however, during the last quarter of a century, has not been without its influence on the Art of Surgery. The history of Surgery is characterised by great discoveries, forming landmarks which stand out prominently as starting-points from which new departures have been taken in its Art. Such were the revival of the use of the ligature in the sixteenth century, the dis- covery of the circulation of the blood, the invention of the tourniquet in the seventeenth, and the introduction of the Hunterian operation for Aneurism in the eighteenth. The nineteenth century will ever be conspicuous as that in which the inestimable boon of Anaesthetics was conferred upon mankind ; by means of them not only has pain in Surgery been abolished, but the extent of its operative department immensely enlarged, for they enable the Surgeon to perform, and the patient to undergo procedures, the agony of which would otherwise have been beyond the power of human endurance. Of no less importance has been the discovery of the relation of micro-organisms to putrefaction and to infective diseases. The so-called " germ-theory of putre- faction " was first established as a scientific truth by the researches of Pasteur, but it is undoubtedly to Lister that Surgery owes the application of this theory to practice. The scientific employment of antiseptics as introduced by