SPONTANEOUS FRACTURES. 5^9 occnrring in the upper limb are of the clavicle ; and in the lower limb, fracture of the shaft of the femur by indirect violence is of extremely common occurrence. Sex indirectly influences the liability to fracture, men being more frequently exposed to the causes of this injury than women. In women, the bones that are most commonly fractured are the clavicle, the radius, the tibia,^ and the neck of the femur ; in men, the shafts of the long bones, the cranium, and the pelvis. From statistical tables of fractures of the upper limb given by Elower, it appears that below five years of age the liability of the two sexes to fracture is equal. After five, the males steadily increase in liabihty up to middle hfe. After forty-five, the number of fractures of the upper limb in females exceeds that in males, in consequence of the extreme frequency of fracture of the lower end of the radius in women above middle life. Side of the Body.—From the statistics of Gurlt, Middeldorpf, Lente and others, it would appear that fractures occur with about equal frequency on the two sides of the body. Time of Year—The popular supposition that the bones are more brittle in winter, and hence break more readily than at other seasons, is altogether a mistake ; though fractures may be common at this period of the year, from falls being more frequent during frosty weather. Spontaneous Fractures are those which happen without any very distinct cause, or under the influence of violence that would usually be insufficient to produce such an injury. They arise from various pathological conditions, amongst which the following are the chief. Atrophy of Bone occurs naturally in old age, and is, as before stated, a powerful predisposing cause of fracture ; but mere senile atrophy seldom reaches such a degree as to lead to spontaneous fracture. In the same way atrophy from want of use may render the bone brittle, so that a very small force may break it, as we occasionally see in at- tempted reduction of old dislocations. A much more important form of atrophy is that which accompanies certain forms of disease of the central nervous system, especially general paralysis of the insane. Bruns has collected the records of sixty cases of spontaneous fracture occurring in the insane, and amongst these were many instances of multiple fractures. In some of these cases the bones were found to be greatly atrophied, and in one they were easily cut with a knife. General paralysis is not unfrequently complicated by violent maniacal attacks, and in the necessary restraint at these times it has happened that one or more of the patient's bones have been broken although no undue force has been employed. These cases have more than once given rise to charges of cruelty or manslaughter against the keepers in lunatic asylums. Spontaneous fractures occnrring in locomotor ataxy have been described by Charcot, Weir Mitchell and others. These, like the joint affections of this disease, appear usually to occur in the early stage, before the development of ataxic symptoms. Mollities ossium is, as will be seen when that disease is described, often associated with spontaneous fracture. Rickets is more often a cause of bending or partial fracture under considerable violence, but cannot be said to be a cause of true spontaneous fracture. Scurry was said by the older writers to cause a general weakness of the bones, but later observations have not con- firmed this. In children it is said to predispose to separation of the epiphyses. Constitutional Sy^Mis was formerly believed in some cases to cause a general