DISLOCATIONS. 650 partly on the kind of joint that has been dislocated, partly on the particular variety of dislocation that has occurred. Thus, as a general rule, greater freedom of movement and greater utility of limb will be found in old-stauding dislocations of ball-and-socket than of hinge joints. But in ball-and-socket joints some dislocations will, if left unreduced, be attended with less evil consequences to the patient than others. Thus, in the suhglenoid dislocation of the shoulder and the dislocation backwards below the obturator tendon or " sciahc" of the hip, the limb will recover itself to a greater extent than iji the other forms affecting these joints. Treatment.—In cases of very old and irremediable unreduced dislocation, much may be done by means of regularly conducted passive movements to increase the mobility of the part, and by means of friction and warm douches to relieve the painful stiffness. In cases not so old, but in which some time has elapsed since the occurrence of the dislocation, two questions always present themselves to the Surgeon :—1. Is it possible to replace the dislocated bone ? 2. Is it desirable or prudent to attempt reduction ? The possibility of reducing the dislocation will depend partly upon the joint that is dislocated and the nature and extent of the dislocation, but chiefly on the length of time during which the bone has been out of place. Dislocations of the ball-and-socket joints generally can be reduced at a much later period than those of the hinge joints ; those of the shoulder can be reduced after a longer lapse of time than those of the hip. The subglenoid dislocation of the shoulder and that of the hip on the dorsum ilii are capable of reduction at a later period than the other luxations of the same joints. The latest period at which reduction is possible has been variously estimated by different Surgeons. Astley Cooper gives three months for the shoulder and eight weeks for the hip. As a general statement, this was no doubt tolerably correct at the time when it was made, although reduction had been effected at later periods than those given by Cooper. Thus Breschet reduced a dislocation of the hip at the 78th day, and Travers at the fifth month. But we may now go far beyond this as the limit oipossible reduction. Brodhurst has reduced the shoulder on the 175th day; Smith (U.S.) in one case at the seventh month, in another at ten months and a half ; Sedillot one at a year ; Black- man of Cincinnati, a dislocation of the femur on the dorsum ilii, at six months ; Dnpierris of Havana, one at over six months, in a boy, and this without, chloroform ; and R. W. Smith, after nine months had elapsed. The obstacles to the reduction of old-standing dislocations are rather pathological than physiological and anatomical as in the case of recent displacements. They are of several distinct kinds :—1. The powerful tonic contraction of the shortened and displaced muscles ; 2. the organic changes that have taken place in the muscles partly from the contraction of the cicatricial tissue formed in the repair of the lacerations which occurred at the time of the injury, and partly from the shortening that has taken place to adapt the muscles to the altered relation of the head of the bone ; 3. ad- hesions that form between the lacerated capsule and the muscles and the displaced head of the bone ; 4. lastly, as a more remote effect, pathological changes in the articulating surfaces themselves, by which their shape becomes altered and the socket shallowed, contracted, and perhaps ultimately obliterated. In order to overcome these obstacles a considerable amount of force must be