THE PROCESS OF REPAIR. 290 the cells into spindle-shaped "fibroblasts," which arc arranged in lines chiefly parallel to the vessels. Fibrillation now occurs between the cells, many of which disappear, until only a few flattened ones remain amongst the bundles of fibres. At the same time, a gradual obliteration of the abundant vessels of the granulation-tissue occurs, and thus finally the surfaces of the original wound are firmly united by a thin layer of dense cicatricial fibrous tissue. Scar-tissue differs from healthy areolar tissue in being more dense, in con- taining no lymphatics, and in the absence of yellow elastic fibres. It is this that gives a scar its rigidity and want of elasticity. Very old scars are said to become gradually more closely like normal fibrous tissue, and even to develop yellow elastic tissue. Two chief views are held regarding the origin of those cells of the granula- tion-tissue from which the new connective-tissue cells are formed : 1st. That they are developed directly from the migrating leucocytes. 2nd. That they ne Pig. 98.—A cicatrix, three weeks old after union by tlie first intention; ne, normal ejiithelium ; e, new epitlielium covering the scar ; .sc. young fibrous tissue containing elongated cells parallel to th« vessels ; v, a vein; gl, a sweat gland; /, fat. The tissues on each side of the scar contain numerous leucocytes. are formed by multiplication of the original cells of the part, which commence to divide as soon as the temporary damage done them by the injury has ceased. The difficulties in the way of the observer are great ; the migration of leucocytes more or less obscures the original cells of the part, and a con- nective-tissue cell in process of multiplication assumes the form of a group of small cells closely resembling leucocytes. Senftleben has shown that in the cornea a loss of substance may be obtained without inflammation, and that, under these circumstances, the corneal corpuscles may be seen to take a direct part in the process of repair. Ziegler has shown that connective-tissue can develop in a small capillary glass • chamber placed beneath the skin of a dog, and he believed that the tissue was formed from migrated leucocytes which were found filling the chamber soon after its insertion. Sherrington and Ballance have experimented on the same lines as Ziegler. With full antiseptic precautions, they placed small glass chambers in the peritoneal cavity or subcutaneous tissue of rabbits and guinea-pigs, and examined the contents microscopically after periods