SECOXDARY H.EMORRUA(JE. 455 clean an artery perfectly, even when using an absorbable ligature. Secondary haaiuorrhage may result from sloughing of the vessel, if, in the j^rocess of cleaning it for passing the ligature, it be too widely separated from the sheath. ;1 Causes dependent upon the miatomkal conditions of the artery at the point ligaticred.—The rush of Mood through a neighbourinij trunh or collateral branch immediately above the ligature has been considered likely to interfere with the formation of the internal coagulum ; but too much importance should not be attached to this, for Porter tied the carotid successfully within one-eighth of an inch of the brachio-cephalio artery ; Bellingham ligatured the external ihac close to its origin ; and Aston Key, the subclavian in the vicinity of a large branch, without secondary hagmorrhage ensuing. But although the ligature may be safely applied near a branch on its proximal side, I think that the presence of a collateral branch in close proximity to the distal side of the ligature—more especially if it be one that serves to carry on the anastomosing circulation—will be found to have a decided tendency to prevent the occlusion of the distal end of the artery, and thus to favour the occurrence of secondary haemorrhage. Bleeding, resembling true secondary haemorrhage, may occasionally take place some days after the artery is tied, when the collateral circulation is fully established, if the Surgeon have neglected to secure the distal as well as the proximal end. 4. Pathological conditions of the coats of the artery.—Chronic endarteritis and calcification of the arterial wall were very important elements in the causation of secondary hajmorrhage after the use of the irritating separable ligature ; the process of repair was interfered with and the ligature separated prematurely. The danger is much less with aseptic absorbable ligatures, especially if they be tied with division of the inner and middle coats. Fatal secondary htemorrhage has occurred from a large artery, such as the femoral, in consequence of a small atheromatous or calcareous patch having given way immediately above the ligature a day or two after its application. 5, Unhealthy processes occurring in the wound.—The extreme rarity of secondary haemorrhage after operations at the present day is undoubtedly due to the use of aseptic absorbable ligatures, and the prevention of unhealthy changes in the wound. By these means, and by the use of torsion, favourable i-esults are now obtained, even though many of the other predisposing causes of secondary hemorrhage be present. The occurrence of suppuration around the injured part of the artery necessarily interferes with that healthy process of repair by which the haamorrhage is permanently arrested. Severe secondary hemorrhage may occur, especially after gun-shot wounds, as the result of sloughing of the wall of an artery which was bruised, but not actually torn, by the injury. Phenomena.—The occurrence of secondary haemori-hage is usually some- what gradual, and not without warning. The blood does not burst forth in a sudden gush, but appears at first in small quantity, oozing out of the wound and staining the dressings ; it may then cease to flow for a time, probably from the opening in the artery becoming plugged by a piece of clot, but it breaks out again in the course of a few hours, welling up freely in the wound, and either exhausting the patient by repeated losses, or else debilitating him so that he falls a victim to some secondary disease, such as pneumonia, ei-ysi-