357 TREATMENT OF GUK-SIIOT WOUNDS. the solid form and occupies little space ; it is one of the most powerful of all antiseptics, and the Surgeon himself or his assistants can by means of it easily convert any absorbent substance into an efficient antiseptic dressing, which, when applied, may be left undisturbed as a lasting dressing in a large proportion of cases. The use of iodoform is strongly advocated by some Surgeons, but it is doubtful whether it would prove as efficient as the perchloride of mercury m the prevention of the effects of the unavoidable overcrowding which follows a battle. In order to limit the inflammation, it was in former times a common practice with military Surgeons, and still is so with the French, to enlarge by incision the wound made by the ball, with the view of providing a better exit for discharges and preventing tension. John Hunter, who regarded the inflam- mation and sloughing that occur in gun-shot wounds as dependent solely on the contused nature of the wound, maintained that this practice only super- added another injury to the one already inflicted by the bullet; and following his precepts, British Surgeons have employed the knife in the early stages of gun-shot wounds only for the purpose of facilitating the ligature of bleeding vessels, or the extraction of foreign bodies. In the more advanced stages, however, free incisions, which should be made in the direction of the axis of the limb, are commonly required in order to lessen inflammatory tension, to prevent the extension of sloughing, and to favour the escape of discharge. At the present time, however, when the necessity of perfect drainage is so fully understood, it becomes a question whether it would not be better practice to enlarge the wound when it is evidently too small to give a perfectly free exit to the discharges. Such a line of practice undoubtedly facilitates the antiseptic treatment, when union by scabbing is not obtained, as it renders the cleaning of the wound more easy, and for this reason it was adopted by Volkmann in the cases before alluded to. If the Surgeon is unable to adopt any antiseptic dressing, the best mode of lessening inflammation in a gun-shot wound in the early stages, and more especially in hot climates, is cold irrigation, or if possible the application of dry cold by means of ice in india-rubber bags, conjoined with drainage and rest. As suppuration comes on, warm applications must be substituted for the cold, so as to hasten the formation of matter and the separation of the sloughs, whilst disinfectants should be freely used to the whole cavity of the wound. All bagging and burrowing of matter must be carefully guarded against by position, pressure, drainage, and counter-openings. Free incisions may also now be required. These should not be delayed too long. They may be required for three purposes : first, to relieve the tension resulting from infiltration of the limb by inflammatory efl'usions ; secondly, to open up purulent collections and give exit to the decomposing discharges, and thus to relieve the constitutional disturbance dependent upon the absorption of the chemical productions of putrefaction ; and thirdly, to extract splinters of bone, portions of clothing, and other foreign bodies that could not be removed in the first instance. When the inflammation is very acute and will not yield to the measures just enumerated, it has been recommended to compress or tie the main artery leading to the part; there can be no harm in trying the former, but the latter is not justifiable. At the period of the loosening and separation of the sloughs, there is always especial danger of the