FRACTURES. 548 evidently prevent the establishment of the collateral circulation, gangrene is inevitable, nnless this can be relieved. If the fracture is from indirect violence, and the soft parts are but little contused, an attempt might be made to relieve the pressure by free incision and evacuation of the blood clot, if this can be done with efficient antiseptic precautions. If decomposition occurred the septic inflammation and swelling would almost inevitably so far interfere with the circulation as to cause gangrene, and necessitate amputation under very unfavourable circumstances. If, therefore, there is any doubt about preventing putrefaction, or if the soft parts are much bruised, as in a fracture by direct violence, or if after an attempt to save the limb gangrene has set in, amputation above the seat of injury is our only resource. If the artery be only partially ruptured or be torn across and not closed, the hsemorrhage will continue subcutaneously. In the great majority of cases this leads to the formation of a so-called diffused traumatic aneurism. The symptoms consist in the rapid formation of a uniform elastic tense swelling, in which there may be obscure pulsation, though this is often wanting. On laying the hand on the sweUing a thrill may be perceptible. According to V. Wahl, a bruit will be heard in all cases in which the artery is merely punctured or partially divided, but it is wanting when the vessel is completely torn across. There is cessation of pulsation in the artery with coldness and numbness of the limb beyond the injury. Some blood usually finds its way into the limb by the collateral vessels even if the main artery, as the femoral or brachial, be wounded, but the pressure of the extravasated blood hinders the venous return and the limb soon becomes of a dusky purple colour. There is always severe tensive pain, sometimes throbbing. If it be one of the tibial arteries that is wounded the swelling may cease to increase, the circulation in the arteries of the foot may return after a day or two, and the coldness and numbness may diminish, but such a result is rare. If it be the popliteal that is injured, no such amelioration will take place, but the arterial extravasation in the ham will increase, the circulation will become more and more impeded, and gangrene will result. Much less commonly the traumatic aneurism may develop slowly from eight days to a month after the accident and then it assumes the circumscribed form. In these cases the wound has probably been very small, or possibly the external coat may not have been torn at the time of the accident but has yielded subsequently. In the treatment of subcutaneous arterial extravasation complicating fracture the Surgeon has three alternatives. 1. The case may be treated as one of open arterial wound, the tumour laid open, and the vessel ligatured at the seat of injury. The objections to this treatment are, that a large cavity is opened, which, if it suppurate, will give rise to the most serious constitutional disturbance, the fracture being rendered a compound one of the worst kind, complicated by the great extravasation of blood amongst the surrounding parts. Securing the artery is, moreover, under any circumstances extremely difficult, and even uncertain. In the present day the dangers of suppuration and sloughing following in the cavity may be greatly reduced, if not abolished, by the employment of some efficient mode of antiseptic treatment, and the exposure of the artery can be facilitated by the bloodless method of operating. If the means of treatment at the command of the Surgeon are such that he may hope effectually to prevent the injurious consequences of exposing the fracture to the air, there is no reason why he