INJURIES OF SOFT PARTS 342 Amongst the varieties of punctured wounds that are most commonly met with in ordinary practice are those which are occasioned by needles penetrating into, and breaking oif in the body. These accidents occur chiefly in the fingers and feet, and about the nates ; and, though trivial, are often extremely troublesome, both to the Surgeon and to the patient. When the Surgeon is called shortly after tlie occurrence of the accident, he must endeavour to remove the fragment left behind, by cutting down upon it. In doing this he will be guided by the situation of the puncture, and by the seat of the pain, and sometimes by feeling the point projecting under the skin. In many cases this is a sufficiently simple proceeding ; in others, however, a deep and trouble- some dissection may be required, especially when the fragment of needle gets into or under the sheath of a tendon. I have had occasion to undertake somewhat troublesome dissections for the removal of needles ; in one case between the biceps tendon and the brachial artery, and in another in close proximity to the ulnar artery in the wrist. For-the purpose of extracting needles, thorns, splinters of wood, and other foreign bodies of small size and pointed shape lying in narrow wonnds, forceps with very fine but strong and Fig. 102.—Indian Arrow penetratiiii^ temporal bone. Medical Departiiieiit, United States Army. well-serrated points will be found useful. One of the most dangerous situations for a needle to penetrate is the anterior part of the knee-joint, lodging in the head of the tibia or in the patella, and breaking off short. In such cases the fragment should be dissected out at once, the strictest antiseptic precautions being adopted to pre^^ent inflammation of the joint. The limb must then be fixed on a splint. I have known the most acute suppuration of the knee ensue in consequence of a portion of needle having been allowed to remain embedded in the joint. The patient's hfe was in imminent peril, but recovery ultimately took plaoe with ankylosis of the joint. The movements of the part in which the needle is lodged tend to make it travel in the direction of its point, and consequently in many cases if it has been lodged for some days the Surgeon will fail in his endeavours to extract it. Unless, therefore, the indications of its presence be very clear, I think the wiser course would be to leave it undisturbed, and to trust to nature for its expulsion, as it can seldom be found when sought for, and, indeed, may not exist, although supposed to be present. The following plan of ascertaining whether a portion of needle be really impacted has been suggested by Marshall,