FRACTURES OF METACARPUS AND FINGERS. 603 Pig. 204.—Pistol-Splint. bone. The arm must then cally, the head of the sphnfc should be fixed to the back of the hand Gentle extension should then be made, and the hand bent to the ulnar side by raising the straight portion of the splint to the horizontal position, so as to make it lie against the back of the forearm, where it should be held, while another straight splint, extending from the elbow to the lowei- end of the , upper fragment, is placed on the front of the forearm. Both splints should then be fixed by means of a roller, care being taken to have the anterior splint well padded along the radial border, so as to counteract the tendency to pronation of this part of the be placed in a sling. The pistol-splint should be worn for a fortnight or three weeks. At the end of this time a gauntlet of gutta-percha, or other plastic material, may be moulded to the wristband worn instead of the spKnt. All apparatus should be discon- tinued at the end of five weeks in the adult, a week or two earlier in children. The fracture unites in the course of a month or five weeks. After the first week it is well, especially in elderly people, to leave the fingers fi-ee, and to encourage movement of them, lest that painful stiffness result which is so common a sequela of the accident. Passive motion of the wrist-joint may, however, often be commenced, with great advantage to the patient, before the union of the fracture. If the hand and fingers be kept fixed on the splint until the fracture is fully united, very troublesome and painful stiffness will result. It is fre(inently fully three months before this is so far diminished, even by the use of friction and douches, as to enable the patient to use the fingers, the stifthess of the wrist being often due to the extension of a fissure into the joint. Gordon's splint is represented in Fig. 205. The lower end of the dorsal splint, and the process of the palmar spUnt which fits the ulnar border of the Fig. 205.—Gordon's Splint. hand, are curved forwards, so as to remedy the backward displacement of the lower fragment. The bevelled portion attached to the palmar splint is intended to fix the upper fragment. Fractures of the Metacarpus and Fingers are of so simple a character as scarcely to call for detailed remarks. There is only one accident to a meta- carpal bone that can lead to any difficulty in diagnosis. This is the case in