249 SYMPTOMS OF SUPPURATION. migration takes place from the vessels beneath ; if a stronger irritant be applied, as, for example, carbolic acid water (1 in 40) or sulphate of zinc (two grains to one ounce of water), or a 1 per cent, emulsion of creolin, the discharge will become thick pus. Suppose now that a still stronger irritant be applied, as a solution of carbolic acid (1 in 20), or the discharge be allow^ed to become putrid, the discharge of pus continues and the granulations become soft and swollen from exudation of blood-plasma into their substance. If a stronger irritant still be applied, as a spirituous solution of carbolic acid, the superficial cells perish, forming a slough, and the migration of leucocytes towards the surface is arrested, and all discharge of pus consequently ceases. Can simple Septic Orijcmisms—Saprophytes—give rise to Suppuration ?— It has already been stated that various ptomaines, cadaverin, putrescin, &c., have been proved to be capable of causing the formation of pus without the presence of living organisms. It seems almost certain, therefore, that the products of putrefaction are capable of causing suppuration, and this view is confirmed by clinical experience. If an abscess be opened, and putrefaction of the discharges be prevented, the discharge of pus ceases almost immediately, but if putrefaction take place suppuration continues, the discharge being very abundant. It seems impossible to doubt that the chemical products of putre- faction here act as pyogenic agents. The Accessory Causes of Suppuration.—That the formation of pus is promoted and increased by anything that irritates the tissues seems beyond question. Every practical Surgeon knows that in a suppurating joint movement increases the discharge. Tension, though probably not in itself capable of causing sup- puration, is, by the damaging influence it exerts on the surrounding tissues, one of the chief causes of the persistence of suppuration in an unopened abscess. It probably diminishes the power of resistance of the tissues to the invasion of the pyogenic organisms. In spreading suppurations such as phlegmonous inflammations, free incisions, relieving tension, frequently arrest the progress of the disease at once. The organisms are still present, but the resistance of the tissues is increased by the relief of tension. Any constitutional condition which weakens the patient also predisposes to suppuration. The Duration of suppuration necessarily varies greatly. In wounds which fail to heal by primary union, pus usually appears about the third day, but it may be delayed beyond that time. When once established it continues as long as the cause persists ; thus an ulcer of the leg or a sinus leading to diseased bone, or a chronically inflamed mucous membrane, may discharge pus for many years. Symptoms of Suppuration.—These are local and constitutional, and necessarily differ according as the process is deep or superficial, acute or chronic. _ The Local Symptoms of subcutaneous suppuration giving rise to the forma- tion of an abscess will be described further on (p. 252). In chronic superficial suppuration from a granulating sore, the discharge of pus is practically the only symptom. _ The Co7istitutional Symptoms of suppuration also vary greatly, according to circumstances. The formation of an acute abscess of any kind is always accompanied by fever. The nature of inflammatory fever and its probable causes have been already discussed (p. 193). In acute suppuration the fever is