SPECIAL AMPUTATIONS. I lO of it, must be adopted. Larrey commenced his operation by a vertical incision down to the bone, about two inches in length, starting from immediately below the acromion process. He then had the wound held open by an assistant, and passed the knife round the bone in front, inclining its point downwards so as to bring it out in the axilla at its lower border close to the insertion of the pectoralis major and in front of the axillary artery ; a flap was then cut by transfixion, and the pectoralis major divided. The knife was then passed behind the bone and brought out in the axilla, posterior to the vessels, and a second flap cut including \he insertion of the latissimus dorsi. These flaps were turned off the humerus by a few touches of the knife, and held on one side by an assistant while the joint was opened and disarticulated. The knife was then made to glide to the axillary side of the bone, and carried downwards with its edge towards the humerus till the assistant could grasp the artery ; finally, the axillary vessels and the remaining skin were divided " at the level of the inferior angles of the two flaps." The result was a somewhat irregular oval amputation. In Larrey's Memoirs there is a figure showing that the flaps were cut by transfixion. The most important modification of this method is that of Spence, which is specially adapted for gun-shot wounds of the upper end of the humerus. It consists in making the vertical incision farther forwards, commencing it just external to and below the tip of the coracoid process, as in excision of the shoulder- . joint, and carrying it downwards to the level of the insertion of the deltoid. The incision ought to expose the tendon of the long head of the biceps lying parallel to it. This may be turned on one side, and the joint opened and examined ; and if from the state of the parts it be still con- sidered necessary to amputate, the operation is completed by making an oval incision through the skin from the end of the original cut, taking care not to go so deeply on the inner side as to wound the vessels. The outer flap is then dis- sected up, so as to enable the Surgeon to get his knife iiiternal to the head of the bone between it and the axillary artery (F.g. 51) The assistant lollows the knife with his hands, and grasps the vessels, and the operation is finished by dividing the axillary vessels, and the tissues left uncut at the mner side. In this mode of operating much loss of blood may be saved by securmg the vessels cut in the first part of the operation before opemng the joint and m-oceeding to the division of the tissues at the inner side of the arm. ^ Of these operations, Spence's method is best whenever it is practicable In tumours of the head of the bone the flap method by dissection is not suitable, as it is often necessary to remove a great part of the deltoid. In gun-shot or shell wounds the Surgeon is often obliged to do a more or less irregular opera- ion owing to the injury to the soft parts. The transfixion methods are never to be recommended, unless for some reason rapidity of performance is desirable. Fi« o2 —Stuiup after Amputation at the SliouliAer-.ioint.