ENTRANCE OF AIR INTO VEINS. 486 CHAPTER XVII. ENTRANCE OF AIR INTO VEINS. The Entrance of Air into a Wounded Yein, though a rare accident, is one of great interest to the practical Surgeon, as it occurs chiefly in the course of operations. It was first observed in tlie year 1818, in a case in which the internal jugular vein was opened during the removal of a large tumour from the right shoulder by Beauchesne, and the subject was afterwards fully investigated by a Commission of the French Academy, by Magendie, Amussat, Oormack, and others. Results op Experiments on Animals.—As cases of entry of air into the veins occur comparatively seldom in man, it is necessary to study the phenomena accompanying it on the lower animals. The experiments of Morgagni, Valsalva, Bichat, and Nysten long ago demonstrated the fact that the forcible introduction of air into the circulation would kill an animal. Death in these cases appears to be dependent partly on the quantity of ah- injected, and partly on the rapidity with which it is thrown in. Bichat supposed that a single bubble wwild kill with the rapidity of lightning ; but this is erroneous. I have on several occasions injected two or three cubic inches of air into the jugular vein of a dog, without producing death, though much distress resulted. The rapidity with which the air is throAvn in exercises a considerable influence upon the result: if quickly, a small quantity may kill; if slowly and gradually, a large quantity may be injected without destroying life, the blood apparently absorbing the gas. In experiments I have observed the following phenomena in cases where death was produced. On exposing the internal jugular vein low in the neck, and puncturing it at a place where the flux and reflux of the blood are plainly discernible, there is perceived in the first inspiratory effort made by the animal after the wound, a peculiar lapping or gurgling, hissing sound ; the nature of the sound depending partly on the size and situation of the opening in the vessel. At the same time, a few bubbles of air are seen to be mixed with blood at the orifice in the vein. The entrance of the air is immediately foUow^ed by a struggle, during the deep inspirations of wdiich, fresh quantities of air gain admittance, the entrance of each portion being attended by the pecuhar sound above described. On listening now to the action of the heart, a loud churning noise Avill be heard with the ventricular systole ; and the hand applied to the chest will feel at the same time a peculiar bubbling, thrilling, or rasping sensation, occasioned by the air and blood being whipped together amongst the columni^ carneee and chordjc tendineae. As the introduction of air con- tinues, the circulation becomes gradually more languid ; the heart's action, however, being fully as forcible as natural, if not more so. The animal soon becomes unable to stand ; if placed upon its feet, it rolls over on one side.