749 LACERATION OF BRAIN. plications of these accidents. The extent of injury inflicted upon the cerebral substance has wide limits, from slight laceration without exposure, to denudation of the brain, disintegration, and escape of large portions of its substance. Causes.—Injury to the brain may be occasioned in various ways, ihe simplest form is, perhaps, that which is frequently met with in undepressed fracture of the skull and sometimes happens without fracture, from simple concussion or commotion. Under these circumstances the laceration of the cerebral substance occurs in most cases on the side of the head opposite to that on which the violence is applied, usually at a point exactly opposite to that struck ; much less frequently it is found immediately beneath the part of the skull which received the blow. Laceration of the brain is the commonest cause of death in simple fracture of the skull, the fracture itself when not compound being no more dangerous than a similar injury of any other bone. It is attended with extravasation of blood proportional to the amount of injury done to the brain tissue, and in severe cases this is sufficient to give rise to symptoms of compression which mask any special signs of cerebral laceration. The regions of the brain most commonly injured are the anterior parts of the frontal and temporo-sphenoidal lobes. This is due partly to the irregu- larity of the surfaces of the bones against which these lobes lie, but much more to the fact that the posterior and postero-lateral parts of the skull and the vertex are the most exposed to injury from falls and blows. Thus when a person shps suddenly in frosty weather and strikes the back of his head on the pavement, there may be no external sign of serious injury, nor any fracture of the skull ; yet laceration of the anterior portions of the cerebral hemispheres frequently occurs at the point exactly opposite to that struck. The explanation of this fact—that the chief laceration is opposite the point struck—is that the blow starts a wave in the soft cerebral substance which breaks against the bone on the other side. In very rare cases it is possible to trace the course of this wave by hgemorrhages in the cerebral substance in its track. Thus not long ago a case occurred in University College Hospital in which a man received a blow from a fall on the left side of the forehead. He lived ten days, and at the post-mortem examination a bruise of the brain was found in the frontal lobe at the point which first received the violence, and exactly opposite this on the right occipital lobe was another brnise ; in a straight line between the two bruises was a hgemorrhage into the right optic thalamus. Very sudden and violent blows, such as non-penetrating bullet- wounds, usually lacerate the brain immediately beneath the part of the skull struck, and some of the most typical cases of localized cortical injuries of the brain are consequently to be found in the records of military surgery. The brain and its membranes are often lacerated by the sJiarp spicula of a depressed fracture, which may penetrate to a considerable depth in its substance. And, lastly, the injury may be occasioned by foreign lodies, such as bullets, traversing or lodging in the head ; by sabre or axe wounds, or by stals and punctures through the inner portions of the skull, especially the orbital plate of the frontal bone. In this way a piece of stick, a tobacco-pipe, the point of a knife, or a scissor-blade, may puncture the anterior part of the brain. The eflPects produced by the passage of a bullet through the head require short consideration. The experiments of Kocher have shown that the injury