PUBIC, OF FEMUlt 7°! chief agent in preventing flexion ; the gemelli are stretched or torn, and the quadratus femoris has also been fonnd to be ruptured. In one case related by Astley Cooper, Poupart's ligament was torn up, and in another the pectineus and adductors were torn ; but whether this was done by the dislocation or by the direct injury that occasioned it is uncertain. Symptomsdislocation upwards on the Pubic Bone presents very unequivocal signs. The hip is flattened; the head of the bone can be distinctly felt lying in its new situation above Poupart's ligament, to the outer side of the femoral vessels, where it may be made to roll by rotating the limb. The thigh and knee are slightly flexed, rotated outwards, and abducted ; the Fig. 2S5.—Pubic; Dislocation. Fig.'_'S('>.—Pubic Dislocation. Head of Hone in (Bigelow.) Groin suspeudcd by Y-ligaiiient. (Bigclow.) limb, which is separated from its fellow, is shortened to the extent of an inch (Figs. 285, 286). The Reduction by Manipulation can be effected by traction and rotation, or by rotation alone. The former is eflfected by drawino- the limb downwards, and at the same time raising it up so as to flex it gradually on the abdomen as the head of the femur becomes disentangled from its position. It may then be rotated inwards, and the head of the bone thus directed towards the acetabulum. By rotation.—Bigelow recommends it to be thus accomplished : semi-flex the thigh so as to relax the ilio-femoral ligament and to bring the head down from the pubes ; then abduct and rotate inwards to disengage it completely ; lastly, while rotating inw^ards and drawing on the thigh, carry the knee inwards and downwards to its place by the side of its fellow. With regard to the Reduction by Extension, Astley Cooper advises that the patient should lie upon his back with his legs widely separated ; and that, counter-extension being then made by a girth carried between the perinteum and the injured thigh, and fixed to a staple in front of and above the body, the pulleys should be fixed upon the lower part of the thigh, and the