TREATMEi^T OF CARBUNCLE. 923 it should be done with antiseptic precautions. The surrounding skin should be washed with carbolic lotion, and as soon as the incision has been made an antiseptic dressing should be applied. At subsequent dressings the surface must be irrigated with some antiseptic- lotion. Iodoform sprinkled on the sore is often most useful. Poultices should be avoided as tending to encoui-age putrefaction. If warmth and moisture are required, a thick layer of boric acid lint wetted with a concentrated solution of boric acid or salicylic wool moistened with warm water, will be found the most con- venient application; or if these be not at hand, the carbuncle may be covered with some lint soaked in carbolic oil (1 in 10), or terebene and oil, or some other antiseptic dressing, over which a fomentation may be applied. As the sloughs loosen, they should be separated; and the granulating surface which is left, and which will usually be found to be sluggish in healing, should be dressed with some of the more stimulating ointments, such as those of elemi, resin, or balsam of Peru. Facial Carbuncle.—Under this name has been described by Ludlow, T. Smith and others, a somewhat rare form of gangrenous inflammation of the face. It appears first as a pustule or vesicle on the lip—according to Smith, most commonly on the upper lip. It is surrounded by a red blush, and the tissues beneath are swollen and oedematous. The swelling spreads rapidly, often involving a great part of one side of the face ; in a few days its edge is less clearly defined, and the swollen tissues are more oedematous and less brawny than in a common carbuncle. Suppuration takes place after two or three days, in patches scattered through the swollen tissues. The skin in the central part becomes dusky in colour, and the subcutaneous tissue breaks down into soft shreddy sloughs soaked in pus. The constitutional symptoms are of the gravest kind; there is considerable elevation of temperature at first, with dry tongue and great prostration. Should the patient survive to the period of sloughing and suppuration, death may take place from pysemia or septicemia. Embolic pysemia is very common following septic thrombosis of the large veins on the side of the face. In rare cases the disease may commence about the nose and extend to the eyelids. It may then be fatal by septic thrombosis extending backwards by the ophthalmic vein to the cavernous sinus. In this condition there is great swelling of the eyelids, and pus may form deeply in the orbit. It is speedily fatal from meningitis or pyemia. The exact relation of this affection to true carbuncle is doubtful. T. Smith believes it to differ only in the greater acuteness and intensity of the process, but I do not think it can be considered a carbuncular inflammation. Its whole course and the appearance of the mflamed part rather indicate its alliance to phlegmonous erysipelas. Death ensues usually in from forty-eight hours to five or six days after invasion. It is a very grave, but not a hopeless affection. Diagnosis.—The disease somewhat resembles malignant pustule with which It has often been confounded. The black slough surrounded by vesicles which IS so characteristic of the latter disease, is, however, wanting in facial carbuncle. Moreover, in malignant pustule the slough is dry, while in facial carbuncle it is soaked in pus. Treatment.—Abundance of liquid nourishment and stimulants are re- quired, and Paget recommends the administration of quinine in large doses Locally, incisions seem to have been of but little use ; the application of hot