FRACTURES. 53° first chang-e observed is an enlargement of the Haversian canals. This is effected by the growth of new cells within the canal. These, according to some pathologists, are migratory white corpuscles, but according to others, cells developed from the medullary tissue in the Haversian canals. Be this as it may, the bony wall of the canal is absorbed before the new cells. As soon as the opposing fragments are put at perfect rest the new cells sprout out from the canals on each side and fill the space. Ossification then proceeds in the new tissue thus formed, but without the previous formation of cartilage. The absorption of the provisional callus forms the final stage of repair of a fracture. At first the porous callus becomes more compact, harder, and less vascular, and as the change takes place, it becomes more intimately connected with the old bone Avhich it now closely resembles in structure. This hardening is most marked in the deeper layers in contact with the old bone, and as it takes place absorption goes on in the part next the periosteum, which at the same time becomes smooth and even. In the medullary canal the new bone becomes more and more cancellous in its structure, and finally there may be complete restoration of the medullary canal, though this is undoubtedly rare. The absorption of the callus is never complete, some thickening permanently remaining at the seat of fracture, however perfect the apposition and rest may have been. Any irregular points of bone, that may have been projecting after the union, become gradually absorbed and rounded oflP. These final processes are not completed for a year or more after the fracture has been united. The microscope shews that the agents by which the absorption of the provisional callus is brought about are large multinucleated cells, known as osteoclasts, which apply themselves to the surface of the bone, and produce pits or hollows upon it known as " Howship's lacuna." Thus, it will be seen that the process is analogous in every way to repair of a wound by the first intention. First there is the exudation resulting from the simple traumatic inflammation, the effect of the mechanical violence; then follows the development of a vascular tissue, composed of indifferent embryonic cells or granulation-tissue ; this develops into the form of connective tissue natural to the part ; and finally the obliteration of vessels and consolidation of the cicatricial tissue occur, as in the formation of a scar in the soft parts. One point with regard to the blood-clot should be remembered, as it might be of importance in medico-legal enquiries. Although it completely disappears from the immediate neighbourhood of the fracture at an early period, layers of dark coagulum may often be found beneath the superficial fascia for four weeks or more after the accident. The process above described, although essentially the same in man, differs much in its details. It is slower, and the formation of callus is as a rule less abundant. If the fracture be well treated, it may in fact be almost wanting, union apparently taking place by the direct, or almost direct, formation of the definitive or intermediate callus. Histologically, the most important difference is that in man, as a rule, the formation of cartilage does not occur. It has, however, been met with in the union of bones in children, and it is always found in a uniting rib, but even here it is seldom pure, the ground-substance being usually fibrous. Possibly the formation of cartilage in the rib may be due to the impossibility of fixing the injured bone, owino- to the movements of respiration. In animals, the purest cartilage is