CAEJiOLLSED CATGUT LIUATUliE. 44 £ the wound. In properly prepared catgut the absorption proceeds solely from the surface, the ligature swelling and softening but little. If such a ligature be examined when partially absorbed, it will be found that the surface has lost its smooth outline, being eaten out into hollows, which are filled with cells having the appearance of leucocytes. Occasionally a few larger, many- nucleated cells are met with. In an imperfectly prepared ligature the cells can be seen penetrating deeply into the substance of the gut between the bundles of fibrous tissue. Fig. 141 represents the surface of a piece of car- bolised catgut -in. in thickness, used as a deep stitch in a wound treated antiseptically, and healed by the first intention. It was removed at the end of six days, and was still tough and strong, being only superficially destroyed, about one-fifteenth of its thickness having disappeared. The gut was prepared by the old process, without chromic acid, and had been in carbolic oil for about three years. A portion of the same hank had been successfully used to ligature the femoral artery in a case of popliteal aneurism. Finally, as has been shown by Lister, the ligature completely disappears, a little ring of new fibrous tissue being developed round the vessel in its place. Thus the artery is not cut through, the continuity of the external coat remaining uninterrupted. The inner and middle coats are as a rule cut ^=^s^ra.6'^:^^-^^^»-m^m■,^ ' - through m the application of the liga- - ture ; but should it be thought advis- . |l able not to do this, as in the case of \ - ■ ^: some of the larger arteries, it can be r:"^: g_ avoided by using the thickest obtain- c able sut, and employing less force in ui.-Absorption <,f <-at«ut ligatm-e six r . . r J C5 jljjyg j„ j^ij aseptic wouiul. hJurlace ot catgut its application. is splitting uji. Lencof.ytes cover it ami wander ™, « .1 , i. T J. 1 into the fissures. /. leucocytes; c. eatgnt The use of the catgut ligature has libres. not, however, been limited to wounds treated antiseptically, and good results have been obtained in cases treated by other methods. In these cases the fate of the ligature is less certain. If it becomes buried in the coagulable exudation which unites the surfaces of a well- drained and perfectly rested wound in the first few hours, it is protected from decomposition, and then follows the course above described. If it should become bathed in septic discharges it softens rapidly, and the knot is usually thrown oflP like a small slough, or the ligature may break up and disappear altogether. The changes that occur within the artery after the appliciation of a catgut ligature do not differ, so far as is known, from those following aiiy other mode of arresting arterial haemorrhage. The use of the catgut ligature has not been altogether unattended with accidents. These have been due in most cases to premature softening of the gut or to slipping of the Icnot. The premature softening is due to imperfect preparation. The older method of preparing carbolised catgut occupied at least two months, and even then it was occasionally under-prepared. This accident has been less frequent since the employment of the new form of catgut prepared by means of chromic acid. The slipping of the knot is sometimes due to the gut being too rigid to tie closely ; such gut should never