454 ARREST OF ARTERIAL HAEMORRHAGE. unfavourable to the closure of a wounded artery, and consequently act as pre- disposing causes of secondary hemorrhage. lu some cases of sqiiimmia and in pycemia the blood is found to coagulate imperfectly, and in these the internal coagulum may be more or less completely wanting, thus exposing the feeble granuiation-tissue, closing the vessel, to the direct impulse of blood from the heart. In such cases, even if a clot of blood does form at first, it is liable to disintegrate and to be washed away. In some cases secondary htemorrhage appears to be in part due to the fordUe and edited action of Ike heart during the early stages of trawimtic fever. The patient is restless, and the pulse quick and bounding. In such circum- stances if the bleeding be not too profuse, it sometimes appears to give relief to the symptoms. Chronic Bright's disease, with increased arterial tension and hypertrophy of the heart, sometimes acts as a predisposing cause of secondary hasmorrhage, which is also more likely to occur in plethoric subjects, than in those of a more spare habit. Local Causes.—These may be thus divided :— 1. Causes dependent on the Ligature.—K silk or hemp ligature applied in such a way as to cut through the arterial coats and to come away from the wound, necessarily excited inflammation, reaching the stage of suppuration, and maintained the process till it had cut through the vessel by ulceration. The extent of the inflammation depended to some degree upon the size of the ligature. If it were very fine and well waxed so as to be almost non-absorbent the inflammation was accurately limited to the parts in contact with the thread. If, however, it were thick and soaked in decomposing discharges, the inflamma- tion extended more widely and interfered with the proper development of the granulation-tissue closing the divided inner and middle coats ; consequently, as soon as the process of ulceration had perforated the external coat, heemorrhage occurred. It had long been recognized that the finer the ligature, the more safely did it occlude the vessel, provided it were of sufficient strength to divide the inner and middle coats when tightened. The thicker the ligature, the more irritation it caused, and the more speedily it ulcerated through the external coat of the artery. . . If the ligature be absorbable it should, as before stated, give rise to no suppuration in its immediate neighbourhood. It may, however, prove irri- tatino-, if it be improperly prepared, or if it be allowed to come m contact with decomposing discharges. Some of the absorbable ligatures also present the danger of premature softening, in consequence of which the support of the constricted external coat is taken away from the soft new tissue closing the vessel, before it is sufficiently strong to resist the blood-pressure withm the artery. 2 Causes dependent on the mode of application of the ligature.—If the artery were insufficiently cleaned, and other structures, as pieces of muscle or a neigh- bouring nerve, were included in a non-absorbable ligature, the vessel was seldom safely occluded ; first, because its coats were not properly divided, and secondly, because of the more extensive sloughing and ulceration resulting from the inclusion of so large a mass in the noose of the ligature. With absorbable ligatures the dangers arising from imperfect cleaning are much less as the ligature does not separate by ulcerating through the mass included in its noose -"but no Surgeon would on this account relax his endeavours to