ULCERATION. 270 CHAPTER VI. ULCERATION. Ulceration is a progTessive destruction of the tissues, in which the soKd parts seem to melt away into a liquid discharge without the separation of visible portions of dead tissue. The meaning of the term will be made more clear by a few examples. If a piece of skin be killed, as by a caustic, or by mechanical violence, there is at first no solution of continuity, the dead tissue is everywhere continuous with the hving ; but within a few hours the phenomena of inflammation manifest themselves in the surrounding living tissues, thus imperfectly marking out the limits of the part that is killed. By about the second or third day the line between the dead and living becomes more clearly defined, the cuticle at the margin of the living part becomes loose, and is raised by fluid beneath it, and at last comes away, exposing a narrow raw surface discharging pus ; the living tissues which lie in immediate contact with the dead then seem gradually to melt away into the purulent discharge till a complete solution of continuity is established, the dead part, or "slough," being loosened and finally cast off. This process, by which a slough is separated from the parts beneath, takes place entirely at the expense of the living tissues ; it is spoken of as ulceration, and the sore left is called a simple ulcer. The effect produced by the inoculation of the poison of a soft chancre forms another excellent example of ulceration. Within twenty-four hours of the inoculation a small inflamed spot appears, with redness, swelling and itching: by the third day the cuticle is raised by a drop of pus ; when the thin epidermis is removed a small red sore is seen, from which pus exudes : this slowly extends, the discharge being purulent, and at no time do any visible portions of dead tissue come away with it; the surrounding tissues show the ordinary signs of inflammation. Such a sore is a specific ulcer, the irritant which causes it being a specific poison. A third form of ulceration, differing essentially from the two preceding, is seen in the later stages of the growth of malignant tumours. Thus an epithehoma commences as a small hard growth, which infiltrates the surround- in o- tissues. By the pressure of the growth which forces its way into the interstices of the structures which it. is invading, the original tissues become absorbed, and the cancer-tissue comes to occupy their place. When the o-rowth reaches a certain size its central parts degenerate, soften and break down, and a loss of substance takes place. As the disease progresses the surrounding tissue becomes invaded and destroyed by the cancerous growth, which in its turn breaks down and melts away superficially. Thus the most extensive destruction may take place. This process is described as ulceration, although here there may be no true inflammation, and the resulting sore is called a malignant ulcer. All these forms of ulceration have one feature in common : the original