MALIGNANT PUSTULE. 38^ himself at the point at which the pimple appears, or he may rightly or wrongly attribute it to the bite or sting of an insect. The pimple is accompanied by intense itching, and after some hours a vesicle forms on its summit, which is burst by the patient's scratching it. There now forms a distinct indurated patch, which rapidly extends ; at first it is grey in colour, but by the end of the second day the central part is black. The skin in the neighbourhood becomes red and swollen, and round the edge of the black patch a ring ot ' vesicles is formed. The individual vesicles are about the size of mustard- • seeds. There now follows considerable swelling of the surrounding parts with , enlargement of the neighbouring lymphatic glands, and if the pustule is seated I on the arm, red lines mny run up towards the axilla. The rate of progress varies considerably, but by the fifth or sixth day the black eschar may attain I the size of a florin, and the surrounding swelling may affect the whole side of t the face or the greater part of the arm. Beyond the itching there is but little pain. The constitutional symptoms are not severe at first, but by the fourth or fifth day the temperature rises to 101° or 102°, the pulse becomes quick and irregular, the tongue dry, and the patient suffers from headaclie and a feeling of general severe illness. There may be dyspnoea or fainting, diarrhoea, and occasionally delirium. If no treatment be adopted, the case most frequently terminates fatally in less than a week from its commencement. The whole process may, however, remain local and cease of itself, the redness subsiding, the slough'separating, and the resulting granulating sore healing Avith considerable disfigurement. This favourable termination is, however, very rare. In some exceptional cases, the result of the inoculation may be a widely diffused oedema without the formation of a distinct localized inflammation. This form is rapidly fatal. If the patient survive beyond three or four days, eschars and pustules'may form in the swollen part. This form has been de- scribed by the French writers under the name of " malignant oademar The internal form—" ivoolsorters' disease,'' or, as it has been called, a^itJira- cmnia—belongs rather to the Physician than to the Surgeon. The disease begins with a great sense of illness—sometimes with a rigor—vomiting, and headache, followed by high fever, marked dyspnoea, and coldness of the extremities ; usually fatal collapse rapidly ensues. It may assume a pulmonary form, in which the sym])toms resemble acute pneumonia or bronchitis ; or an intestinal form, in which vomiting and purging are marked features. The whole illness may last less than two days, or may be prolonged to four or five. A\'oolsorters' disease is extremely fatal. The diagnosis of malignant pustule is not difficult when the characteristic features are well developed. The black eschar, surrounded by vesicles, around which again is a bright red zone, and the wide-spreading oedema are charac- teristic. If there is any uncertainty, microscopic examination of the blood or inflammatory exudation will clear up the doubt. Pathology.—After death from malignant pustule, the body presents the appearances usually met with in cases of malignant blood-poisoning. Rigor mortis is of short duration and feebly marked, there being frequently early decomposition and marked posf-mortpm staining of the tissues. The blood is dark in colour, and imperfectly coagulated, and minute extravasations of blood are found beneath the serous and mucous membranes throughout the body. There is swelling of most of the abdominal viscera, but the spleen,