SPECIAL FRACTURES. 582 this a sufficient number of turns of a plaster of Paris bandage securely fixes the limb to the side of the chest. The plaster bandages should be carried circularly around the arm and the chest, and obliquely over the flexed elbow, the forearm and the opposite shoulder. Finally, when all is. firm, the board is slipped down from under the bandages. This method, which will be found especially useful when there is unusual difficulty in maintaining the parts in apposition, depends for its success upon the well-known fact that the deformity of a fractured clavicle is often best reduced by placing the patient in bed with a narrow pillow beneath the spine, Sayre's Treatment by Adhesive Plaster.—Lewis A. Sayre of New York recommends the following mode of treatment, which has been found to act extremely well. Two strips of plaster, spread on strong calico or moleskin, are to be cut, each about three and a half inches wide or less, according to the size of the patient. One of these is to be long enough to encircle the arm, and afterwards to pass one and a half times round the body. A loop in this is first passed round the arm immediately below the axillary Fig. 1S.3.—Strap drawing back Shoulder. Fig. 1S4.—Strap raising Shoulder. border. The non-adhesive side of the plaster must be towards the skin, and the loop must be secured by stitches. It must be quite loose, so that there shall be no risk of compressing the vessels. When this has been made fast, the elbow must be drawn well hacJcwards, and the strip of plaster is carried firmly round the body and its end brought up and secured as in the figure. A few stitches may be inserted to render its hold more secure (Fig. 183). The second strip must be of sufficient length to pass from the sound shoulder, obliquely round the chest beneath the elbow of the injured side, and to overlap for some six or eight inches. A slit must be cut in it for the olecranon. Before applying this the elbow must be raised and at the same time drawn well forwards and inwards, when the shoulder will be thrown backwards and outwards, the first strip of plaster acting as a fulcrum. In most instances this will place the fragments in good position, but in each individual case the Surgeon must endeavour to adjust the limb in such a way as best to relieve the deformity, and he may find that this is sometimes most satisfactorily accomphshed by keeping the elbow in the mid-axillary fine, or even directing it slightly backwards. The position must be maintained by