730 INJURIES OF THE HEAD. low specific gravity (1007-8), containing a considerable quantity of chloride of sodium, with a little albumose in solution, and traces of a substance, known as pyrocatecliin, which, like sugar, reduces copper salts. The fluid is not coagulable by heat or nitric acid. The Source of this Discharge has been the subject of much speculation, but the characters of the fluid, and the large quantity in which it sometimes escapes, prove it to be undoubtedly the cerebro-spinal fluid. Laugier's theory that the discharge consists of the serum of the blood filtered through a crack in the bone has nothing to support it. The large quantity of the fluid, and above all the fact that it occasionally escapes from the nose, demonstrate the fallacy of the view that it is furnished by the internal ear. In order that the fluid be discharged, the membranes of the brain must have been torn opposite the outlet by which it is poured forth, in such a way as to open up the subarachnoid space. This has actually been ascertained to be the case, by carefully conducted dissections. When it is discharged through the ear, the laceration, as Berard has remarked, must have extended through the prolongation of the arachnoid which surrounds the auditory nerve in the internal auditory canal. When it is poured out through the nose, the fracture has probably extended through the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, and laid open the arachnoid surrounding the filaments of the olfactory nerve. The diagnostic value of Avatery discharge from the ear varies, according to Prescott Hewett, with its relation to the haemorrhage which may occur. He divides cases of watery discharge from the ear after injuries of the head into three classes. In the first class, the discharge is watery from the first, and abundant, being preceded by little or no blood, and beginning immediately after the accident. This is undoubtedly cerebro-spinal fluid, which escapes through a fracture of the petrous bone implicating the internal auditory canal. In the second class, there is copious and prolonged bleeding from the ear, followed by the watery discharge. Here, too, there is fracture of the petrous bone ; but its exact situation is uncertain. In these cases, the diagnosis will rest upon the prolonged hsemorrhage, rather than on the watery discharge. In the third class, there is but little bleeding after the injury, and the watery discharge, which is variable in quantity, varies also in the time of its appear- ance. In these cases the diagnosis must remain doubtful. Hewett mentions two cases which occurred at St. G-eorge's Hospital in which a copious watery discharge flowed from the ear. In neither of these was any fracture of the petrous portion of the temporal bone found after death. In one the membrana tympani was ruptured, and the cavity of the tympanum was " intensely vascular ;" in the other, " the discharge was connected with a fracture of the lower jaw just below the condyle : the lower fragment had perforated the wall of the meatus auditorius." The facial nerve may be so injured by a fracture of the petrous portion of the temporal bone as to become paralysed at the time of the accident. But more frequently paralysis of this nerve does not come on until a later period, about the second or third week after the injury, and disappears after lasting about a month. This transient facial paralysis, accompanying some fractures of the base of the skull, has been attributed by Marshall to the pressure of inflammatory exudation, which gradually becomes absorbed as the fracture unites, and thus the compression of the nerve is removed after a time. Treatment.—In the treatment of fracture of the base of the skull it must