648 DISLOCATIONS. cation is often readily reduced ; but if it does not yield at once, the direction should be changed, while the traction is kept up, to that which relaxes to the fullest extent the untorn ligaments or bands of the capsule. This will in most cases correspond to the position of the limb at the time of the accident. The head of the bone is thus made to pass along the same track which it has torn for itself in being dislocated, and thus is replaced without the infliction of any additional violence on the surrounding tissues. The question whether the extending force should be applied to the bone that is actually displaced, or to the further end of the limb, has been much dis- cussed, and appears to have received more attention than it deserves. It is true that, by applying the extending force to the displaced bone itself, the Surgeon has greater command over its move- ments, with less chance of injury to the inter- vening bones; whilst, by applying the extending force to the lower part of the extremity, he has the advantage of a longer lever for the reduction of the head of the bone. This lever, however, it must be remembered, is in many cases a broken one ; and it cannot be made to act if the bone has to be replaced in the direction of flexion of the joints that exist in its course. For this reason, we find that some dislocations are best reduced by applying traction to the bone itself that is displaced, as in luxations of the femur and of the bones of the forearm ; whilst, in other cases, as in the dislocations of the humerus, most advantage is gained by applying the ex- tending force to the end of the Kmb. But I look upon these points as of comparatively little con- sequence ; believing that, when the patient is Fig. 242.-ciove-Hitch. jjot anaesthetized, the muscles of the limb them- selves efiect the reduction, without the necessity of the Surgeon employing any very powerful lever-like action of the bone ; and that, when the patient is paralyzed by chloroform, the bone is in most cases readily replaced by the simple movements impressed directly upon it, or even upon its articular end, by the hands of the Surgeon. The force required in effecting the reduction of recent dislocations is often very considerable. So great is the resistance offered, that in some cases the dislocated bone has given way. I am acquainted with cases in which the humerus and the neck of the femur have been broken in attempting the reduction of recent dislocations. This accident does not always appear to have been the result of any unskilful employment of force, but in some cases seems to have occurred from natural weakness of bone. We know that " spon- taneous " fractures take place from muscular action, often of a very slight kind ; and we can easily understand that, if a bone that would be liable to such ready fracture happened to be dislocated, it would almost of necessity give way under the influence of the force required to replace it. Manipulation of the limb—that is, impressing upon it certain movements of extension and flexion, of adduction, abduction, and rotation—is, whenever possible, the best mode of reducing a dislocation. The movements impressed