642 SPECIAL FRACTURES. malleolus was depressed ; there was a deep hollow below this. The os calcis was apparently turned somewhat towards the inner side of the foot. The sole was arched, the skin much wrinkled, and the great toe forcibly flexed. There was a deep transverse furrow in front of the ankle-joint. Seeing the hopelessness of reduction, or rather the impossibility of maintaining the displaced fragment in position, I enlarged the opening through which it showed itself, and then, seizing it with strong forceps, twisted it out, dividing the ligamentous connexions. The case was then treated as one of compound dislocation of the ankle-joint. About a month after the accident, the patient died of pyaemia ; and it was then found that the anterior portion of the astragalus had been splintered into seven fragments, which Fig. 24i.-connni>n,te.i Fnicture of Astragalus. Were retained in place by the pressure of Displacement backwards. surrouuding parts. No othcr bonc of the tarsus was injured, nor was the malle- olar arch fractured. Of this splintering of the anterior fragment, there was no evidence during life ; nor was there any reason to suspect it, as there was neither crepitus nor displacement. The extent of the fracture showed the immense force with which the malleolar arch had been driven downwards on the astragalus by the weight of the patient's body. The only similar case with which I am acquainted is one recorded by Morris. In this the displaced fragment did not occasion a wound of the integument. It was excised owing to the impossibility of reducing it; but caries of the remaining part of the asti-agalus and other tarsal bones, rendered amputation of the foot necessary. The other tarsal bones are very rarely fractured, except in crushes or gun- shot injuries of the foot. I have seen the Scaphoid fractured in the case of a man who fell down the shaft of a lift at an hotel, about 60 feet deep, receiving fatal injuries to the chest and spine. He appeared to have alighted, in the first instance, on the right foot, the os calcis of which was extensively fractured, and the scaphoid broken across without displacement, the astragalus being uninjured. In all cases of fracture of the tarsal bones, whether simple or compound, with so much displacement as to render reduction difficult and its maintenance- impossible, the best course to be pursued is to cut down upon and remove the displaced fragment. Fracture of the Metatarsal Bones usually occurs from direct violence,, as by the passage of the wheel of a cart or railway carriage over the foot„ and is then attended Avith so much laceration and bruising of the soft parts as not unfrequently to render amputation necessary. I have in one instance known the three outer metatarsal bones broken by a person jumping from a height. But most commonly their elasticity saves them, and the ankle- joint gives way in such an accident. There is but little, if any, displacement in these cases ; and unless the soft parts be so damaged as to require amputation, the support of a starched or plaster bandage is usually all the treatment that is necessary.