794 IN'JUMIES OF THE SPIFE. General Nervous Shock. Traumatic Neurasthenia.—Two separate factors frequently act together in the production of the varied symptoms which may result from an injury to the spine : first, the physical injury itself which mechanically damages to a more or less marked degree the vertebral column or the parts contained within it; and, secondly, the severe fright which is an important element in many spinal injuries, especially such as are produced m railway accidents with all their attendant horrors. The effects of the physical agent have already been briefly considered under the separate headings of concussion of the spinal cord, sprain of the spinal column, and intraspinal hsemorrhage. The effects of this physical injury, although often most complex, can, however, be explained on an anatomical basis and are directly related in their severity and persistence to the nature and amount of the actual damage produced. The symptoms now about to be considered belong to an entirely different category and present this remark- able feature, that they are often altogether out of proportion to the amount of l3odily damage sustained and cannot be satisfactorily explained by any direct injury to the spinal cord. In Chapter VIII. it has been pointed out how large a share the psychical effect of an injury may take in the production of the shock which more or less immediately follows it, so much so indeed that death may actually be caused in this way without the occurrence of any bodily damage whatever. If this be true of immediate shock, it is no less so of those more remote and persistent symptoms which frequently follow an injury to the back, and which from their frequent occurrence after railway accidents have been spoken of collectively under the name of " railway spine." The symptoms which are given in detail below w^ere formerly spoken of as secondary effects of spinal concussion, but in the light of more recent observa- tions on the subject of " functional " affections of the nervous system, it seems necessary to modify this view as to their nature and to class them together as the result of "general nervous shock" or " traumatic neurasthenia," convenient terms largely used by writers on this subject, and probably expressing accurately their true nature. The injury itself and the fright or mental shock accompanying it have together so seriously disturbed the healthy working of the whole nervous system—cerebro-spinal and sympathetic—that months or even years may elapse before complete recovery follows. Symptoms.—Fvom the above remarks it will be gathered that the symptoms of general nervous shock are indicative of a condition of more or less pro- nounced exhaustion of the whole nervons system—the "neurasthenia" of modern writers. The immediate shock produced by the accident may be slight or absent, and it is not until some hours or days have elapsed that the patient becomes gradually aware that something is wrong with him. In other cases, after the first and immediate effects of the accident have passed off, there is a period of comparative ease, and of remission of the symptoms, during which the patient imagines that he will speedily regain his health and strength. This period may last for many weeks, possibly for two or three months. Although there is often this long interval between the time of the occurrence of the accident and the supervention of the more dis- tressing symptoms, it will be found, on close inquiry, that there has never hemi an interval of complete restoration to health. The patient's friends remark that *' he is not the man he was." He has lost bodily energy, mental capacity, and