HYGIENIC CONDITIONS. 13 hospitals, but equally in private dwellings. The fact has often been observed in military practice, and the Franco-German War bpought it into strong rehef —that those wounded fare best who are treated in open huts or teiits, whilst, those who are placed in the apparently more favourable conditions afforded by regular houses become decimated by those scourges of military surgical practice, pyiemia and. hospital gangrene. It is the difference in the hygienic arrangements in hospitals that, more than any other condition, influences the varying rate of mortality in different institutions ; and it is obvious that, cceteris paribus, iho&e patients will have the best prospect of recovery who are most scrupulously attended to in this respect; that no cases of operation should be placed in ill-ventilated wards, or in those that contain more than a 'certain percentage of patients suffering from wounds or sores, the discharges from which are unavoidably foul ; and that the performance of operations in close and ill-ventilated rooms, or in houses situated in over-crowded neigh- bourhoods, should, as far as possible, be avoided. The faulty hygienic conditions that are still too frequently met with in hospitals, are alike a cruelty to the patient and an injustice to the Surgeon. The cruelty to the patient consists not only in exposing him to an increased chance of death— or,.as it is commonly called, "to a higher rate of mortality" from septic diseases that are preventable, and that are the direct outcome of the defective hygienic arrangements of the institution—but in subjecting him to a prolonged and imperfect convalescence ; either or both of which conditions may be taken as the measure of the neglect of sanitary arrangements in a hospital. . * But want of attention to sanitary hospital arrangement is equally an injus- tice to the Surgeon. His reputation suffers by an increased rate of mortality amongst his patients from causes which, though preventable, are altogether beyond his control ; an undue harden of anxiety, responsibility, and care is .thrown upon him by the necessity under which he lies of waging a constant warfare against septic hospital influences. • Attention to hospital hygiene is by no means of so modern a date as many appear to suppose. The Surgeons of. the- last century paid great attention to it, and their success was proportionately great. Thus Alanson's success in ainputations has never been surpassed, and rarely, if ever, equalled even with the aid of antiseptics and of every modern appliance. "Writing in 1782 ("Alansbn on Amputation and the After-treatment,''. London, 1782), he says (Preface, p. 15), that he amputated in thirty-five .-.eases, such as promiscuously occurred in the Liverpool Infirmary, without the toss of a single patient. The symptomatic fever was slight, and there was not an instance of secondary liasmorrhage in the whole series. Alanson was a sanitary reformer in his day ; and had his instructions been followed, thousands of lives would have been saved which have since his time been wantonly sacrificed by the neglect«of hygienic measures. His advice is so practical that it deserves the attentive study of the modern Surgeon. He says : " The air in which the case is to be conducted is a point worthy of your greatest attention : if possible, the room should be spacious, and in an open, wholesome situation. It is well known that in hospitals which are situated in populous towns and are much crowded, the salutary influence of the air is so altered, that compound fractures and other important surgical cases prove peculiarly fatal, and that such frac- tures may almost certainly be cured in the country." . " The operation of amputation done in the country, as above described, will