SPECIAL AMPUTATIONS. 98 the tapering form of the hand (Fig. 35). This may be done either with the bone-forceps or Avith a small saw. The saw has the advantage of making a smoother section and of leaving no splinters. If the bone be cut directly across, an ugly and inconvenient square protuberance, liable to constant injury, will be left. When, however, the patient's employment is one in which great strength and breadth of hand are required, and where appearance is of little consequence, the head of the bone should not be removed. In amputating the little finger, with the head of the metacarpal bone, the incision must be commenced at the inner side of the hand, at a point corre- sponding to the middle of the shaft of the bone, and carried straight down- wards to a point opposite the head, from which the oval must be begun. The flaps so formed are most conveniently held out of the way by an assistant with a pair of blnnt hooks during the division of the bone. This must be sawn Fig. 39 Amputation of Right Thumb and Metacari)al Bone by Transfixion. Cutting the Palmar Flap. obliquely, as in the case of the index finger. As in the index finger, the head should be left in the hand of a working man. The after-treatment of these cases is extremely simple. The hand should be put upon a splint, the wound covered with some antiseptic dressing, and the ends of the fingers, with small pieces of hnt interposed, tied together by means of a tape, care being taken, however, that they do not overlap. The shaft of the metacarpal bone that is left will gradually atrophy, and thus a very shapely hand will eventually be left (Figs. 36, 37, 38). In disease or injury of the Thumb as little as possible should be removed by amputation ; for, if even but a very short stump of the metacarpal bone bo left, it will serve as a useful opponent for the other fingers. Amputation of the Thumb with its Metacarpal Bone is an operation which can very rarely be required. In cases of injury the Surgeon must use all his ingenuity to save even the smallest part of the bone, or if any doubt exists as to how much can be saved, the hand should be dressed antiseptically and left to nature, a stump being fashioned later on, after the dead parts have separated. By this means more can be saved in many cases than at first