ARTIFICIAL RESPIRATION. 841 employed. Inflation from the mouth of an assistant into the nostrils or mouth of the sufferer is not very effectual, as air once respired is not well fitted for the rekindling of the few sparks of life that may be left, but it is in many instances the readiest and indeed the only mode by which respiration can be set up, especially if water or other fluids have found their way into the mouth. The bellows, if properly constructed for artificial inflation, so that the quantity of air injected may be measured, are no doubt very useful; and if furnished with Leroy's trachea-pipes, or, what is better, with nostril tubes, may safely be employed. About fifteen cubic inches of air may be introduced at each stroke of the bellows, and these should be worked ten or a dozen times in a minute. The lungs should be emptied by compression of the chest before beginning to inflate, and, after each inflation, by compressing the chest and abdomen ; but care must also be taken not to employ much force, lest the air-cells be ruptured. Richardson has devised a pocket-bellows for artificial respiration, consisting of two elastic hand-bellows with a single tube for Pig. :i-20.—Silvester's Metliod—fuspiratidii. introduction into the nostril. A very efficient mode of introducing pure air into the Inngs, especially in children and young persons, is, by the elastic expansion of the walls of the chest. This may be effected by alternately compressing the chest and abdomen with the hand, and then removing the pressure so as to enable the thorax to expand by the natural resiliency of its parietes, and thus, each time it expands, to allow a certain quantity of air to be sucked into the bronchi. A much more efficient method, however, is that recommended by Silvester, and adopted by the Royal Humane Society. It is carried out in the following way. The patient is laid on a flat surface on his back, with the head and shoulders slightly raised on a pillow. The tongue should be drawn out and held forwards. The arms are then to be grasped fust above the elbows, and to be drawn gently and steadily upwards above the head and pulled upon slightly, so as to drag on the great pectoral muscles (Fig. 320). In this position they are kept for two seconds : they are then to be brought downwards, and to be pressed for two seconds firmly against the sides of the