630 SPECIAL FRACTURES. taken, the union, which at first appeared very close, will gradually yield until in the course of a few months the fragment may be separated by several inches. Thomas maintains that the common cause of failure is insufficient duration of the treatment. He advises that the knee should not be flexed for nine months, and that the patient during the whole of this time should wear a caliper knee- splint. The stiffness that necessarily results from such prolonged rest will, he asserts, always pass off spontaneously, and never requires forcible flexion or other violent means to get rid of it. 4. Operative Procedures.—The foregoing methods of treatment are rarely, if ever, followed by osseous union in cases of fracture by muscular action. Various operative procedures have therefore been suggested in order to maintain more accurate apposition of the fragments, and thus obtain union by bone. The simplest of these is by the use of the instrument known as llaJgaigne's hoohs:' It consists of a pair of sharp double hooks, which, being fixed into the two fragments, can be drawn together by means of a screw. It undoubtedly is a most efficient means of approximating the fragments, but it does not necessarily ensure bony union. This mode of treatment was at one time almost abandoned, owing to the pain, irritation, and occasional suppura- tion that fohowed its use. By ordinary antiseptic measures these can be prevented, and consequently the use of the hooks has been revived by some Surgeons. A bloodless modification of this treatment has been suggested, in which the hooks are inserted into the pieces of gutta-percha before described (p. 628). instead of into the bone. Exposing the bone by a longitudinal incision, and uniting the fragments by a Avire suture, was suggested by Severini, and was first practised in America by Rhea Barton some sixty years aRO. The operation was re- peated by Cooper and others, but as two cases out of five terminated fatally, it was very properly aban- doned. With the introduction of antiseptic surgery it was again sug- gested as a mode of treatment by Lister, and was first performed in this country by Cameron, of Olasgow, and has subsequently been repeated in a large number of cases. Lister recom- mends that the wire should be cut short and the ends hammered down, the wound being allowed to heal over it (Fig. 231). Passive motion is to be commenced at the end of the second week. In some cases drainage must be provided during the first few days, by a small incision at the most dependent part of the outer side of the joint, through wliich a tube may be inserted. A great many most excellent results have been obtained by this treatment, recovery being rapid, union taking place either by bone or by very firm fibrous tissue, and the movement of the joint being unimpaired ; Init on the other hand there have been at least five deaths since the re-introduction of the operation, and in other cases suppuration, resulting in ankylosis, has Ibllowed, and in one at least the patient has had to submit to amputation. It must not be forgotten that under ordinary treatment properly carried out excellent Fig. 231.—Wire Suture applied to Fractured Patella (vertical section).