SPECIAL FRACTURES. 6io the external rotators, and thus still more prevent their influencing the position of the hmb. Inversion of the foot in cases of intracapsular fracture has sometimes been noticed. I have seen two instances ; Smith, Stanley, and other Surgeons, have also recorded cases. This deviation from the usual symptoms of this injury has been attributed by some to the cervical reflection of the capsule not having been torn through at its inner side, but that, as Stanley observes, while it may prevent eversion, cannot occasion inversion ; by others it has been attributed to the fact of the lower fragment in these cases being found always in front of the upper one. This circumstance, which is much insisted on by R. W. Smith, appears to me to be rather the result than the cause of the inver- sion ; for any traction inwards of the lower fragment by the adductor muscles of the thigh would have a tendency to draw the upper end of this fragment to the anterior, or in other words, the inner side of the upper one. I am rather disposed to think that this inversion is owing, in some cases at least, to the external rotators being paralysed by the violence they receive from the injury that occasions the fracture, and that thus the adductors, acting without antagonists, draw the thigh, and with it the leg, inwards. In both the cases that came under my observation, and in some of those that have been pub- lished, the fracture resulted from severe direct injury to the hip, and was not occasioned by the patient jarring his foot, or by any direct violence operating at the end of the limb. The Shortening is at first seldom more than from half an inch to an inch; it cannot, indeed, very well exceed the width of the neck of the bone, as the capsule is usually not torn through. After the fracture has existed some time, the capsule of the joint may yield, allowing greater separation between the fragments, and then it may amount to two, or even two and a half, inches. It not uncommonly happens that the shortening, which is at first but very slight, about half an inch, suddenly increases to an inch or more ; this is accounted for on the supposition that the cervical reflection of the capsule, which had not at first been completely ruptured, at last gives way entirely ; or it may be owing to the fragments which were originally interlocked becoming separated. It is in those cases in which there is but shght separation of the fragments, and consequently little shortening, that the other signs of fracture are not very strongly marked, and that the patient preserves some power over the movements of the limb. The ordinary method of measuring the limb is to apply one end of the tape to the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, and the other to the inner malleolus. The two limbs must be put as accurately as possible in the same position, as flexion and extension will considerably alter the distance between these points. Two other methods have been recommended for more accurately determining the position of the trochanter, both of Avhich are of great diagnostic value in injuries, whether fractures or dislocations, of the hip. The first is known as Nekton's line ; the second, as Bryant's ilio- femoral rectangle. Nelaton's Diagnostic Line (Fig. 209 A, a) consists of a line drawn from the anterior superior spine of the ilium to the most prominent part of the tuber ischii. The importance of this line is, that when the head of the femur is in its normal situation, the line touches the summit of the trochanter when the thigh is raised to a right angle with it. If the trochanter be-