389 DISi^ECTIOX AND POST-MORTEM WOUNDS. inoculation the punctured part becomes painful, hot, and throbbing ; at the end of about forty-eight hours a small drop of pus is seen raising the cuticle. If this be punctured, a small superficial sore is seen beneath, and the pain is at once relieved. If the sore be now properly dressed it heals without trouble, but if not, a small scab forms, the pus accumulates beneath it, the pain and throbbing return, and are again relieved by removing the scab. This may be repeated several times. There is neither glandular swelling nor constitu- tional disturbance. Suppuration in the liair-follicles and the formation of boils is an occasional result of the action of putrid fluids on the unbroken skin of the hands. Suppuration of the matrix of the nait arises from inoculation of a fissure at the side of the nail. The root of the nail is softened and loosened by the suppuration beneath it. The condition is often very chronic, and the nail usually separates when recovery takes place. A somewhat rare afl'ection resulting from the frequent and prolonged contact with putrid matter is the so-called dissecting-porter''s ivart or anatomical tubercle. It is always seated on the knuckles or back of the hand. It consists of a warty thickening of the skin without ulceration. The surface may be moist, and the discharge if allowed to dry may form crusts ; in other cases it may be scaly on the surface. The enlarged papillae are closely set, and the diseased condition tends slowly to spread. In the case of one of the dissecting-porters at University College who suffered from this aftection, the patch measured about one inch and a half in diameter. It was cauterised without much effect, and was finally cured after many months' treatment by keeping it constantly moist, so as to prevent the formation of crusts on the surface, and by the prolonged application of equal parts of extract of bella- donna and glycerine. The investigations of Riehl and Paltauf and others tend to show that, in some cases at least, this affection is tuberculous in nature. The infective processes that arise from dissection-wounds assume two forms. In the milder form the punctured part becomes painful, hot, and throbbing, in from twelve to twenty-four hours after the injury ; the finger becomes red and swollen, the lymphatics of the arm are perhaps affected, and the glands in the axilla become enlarged. There is general febrile disturbance, ushered in by rigors, a feeling of depression, and often intense headache ; suppuration takes place about the puncture, and also, perhaps, in the inflamed glands, the case presenting the ordinary characters of whitlow with inflammation of the lymphatic vessels and glands. In the more severe fonn of dissection-wound, the patient is seized, about twelve or eighteen hours after the puncture, with rigors and depression of the nervous system ; the countenance becomes anxious, the pulse quick, and there is high fever. On examining the finger, a pustule, or vesicle, with an inflamed areola, may be observed in the situation of the puncture ; from this a few red lines may be seen extending up towards the arm-pit, where there may be swelling and tension. In the worst cases, however, the signs at the seat of inoculation may be either wanting or scarcely recognizable. Suppuration, accompanied by much pain, takes place in the pectoral and axillary regions ; it is usually diffuse, the pus being mixed with shreds and sloughs. The general symptoms gradually assume an asthenic type ; the tongue becomes brown, sordes accumulate about the hps and gums, low dehrium sets in with a rapid feeble pulse, and death