AMPUTATIONS. 6o incision was introduced by the French Surgeon, Louis, in 1768. He noticed that, in makinir the circular incision through the muscles, the retraction of the superficial layers was greater than that of those near the bone, in order, therefore, to obtain a higher and more level division of the muscles, he divided the superficial layers with the skin and fat, and having drawn them forcibly upwards, cut the remaining muscle with a second sweep of the knife. A linen retractor was appUed between the first and second incisions, and in order to allow the muscles to retract to the fullest possible extent, Louis was inclined to abandon the tourniquet and to trust to digital compression of the main arterial trunk. So far Surgeons had advanced little beyond the operation of Celsus ; in fact, it is doubtful whether in amputation by the double incision, as performed at this time, the bone was better covered than in that by the Roman Surgeons, who raised the soft parts very freely before sawing. The first Fig. 21.—Amputation of Ann by the Circular Method. Coiiiiiienccineiit of first incision. attempt to diminish the size of the raw surface left after amputation was made by Samuel Sharp about 1750. He passed two broad ribbon-like ligatures, each composed of eight well-waxed threads, through the edges of the wound about three-quarters of an inch from the margin of the skin, and drawing them tolerably tight, tied them in a bow-knot. It was soon found, however, that the tension thus caused produced such an amount of pain and fever that the plan was abandoned almost as soon as it was recommended. Between 1770 and 1780 the great fact became recognised that the only way to obtain speedy healing of a stump is to provide sufficient covering to enable the edges of the skin to be brought together over the end of the bone, so as to meet easily without tension. This led to the invention of the mode of operating known as amputation lij the triple incision, which Avas introduced into practice almost simultaneously by Benjamin Bell, of Edinburgh, WiUiam