A CTimMYCOSJS: SYMPTOMS. 1105 degeneration and the result of thickening of the outer sheath by which the threads are surrounded. If this view be correct, as indeed seems probable, the organism is more correctly classed with the Schizomycetes or fission fungi. Bostrom was the first observer who succeeded in cultivating the organism on artificial culture media, and it is interesting that he used the central network of the fungus and not the clubs, from which to obtain his cultivations. Nutrient agar-agar, blood-serum, and white of egg have been successfully used as culture media, and the disease has been reproduced in calves and rabbits by inoculation with the pure cultivation of the fungus obtained from a case of actinomycosis in man. Although the disease is common in cattle there is little evidence from recorded cases in man to show that infection occurs directly from them. There is, however, some reason for believing that cereals, and more especially barley, form the usual habitat of the fungus outside the body, and it seems likely that this may be the source from which infection usually occurs. The mode of entrance of the actinomyces into the body is variable ; it pro- bably occurs usually through some breach of continuity of the mucous membrane of the gum or mouth, or by some diseased point such as a carious tooth, or possibly, in some cases, an inflamed tonsil. More rarely, infection occurs through the respiratory tract, or through accidental wounds. Symptoms in Animals.—In cattle the disease most commonly manifests itself as a local affection of the jaws or tongue. In the lower jaw it attacks first the cancellous tissue, destroying the bone, and reaching the surface in such a way that it was formerly mistaken for some form of sarcoma ; this form of the disease is popularly known as a "wen" or " osteo-sarcoma.'" The affection of the tongue has received the name " wooden tongue ; " whilst the so-called " scirrhous cord " in the ox or horse may be the result of inocu- lation of the spermatic cord at the time of castration. Generalization of the disease may occur. Symptoms in Man.—The cases that come under the care of the Surgeon commence most commonly as a hard swelling, often painless, attached either to the lower jaw or near it in the submaxillary region. The tumour slowly increases and new centres may appear near it.* After some weeks or months it becomes adherent to the skin, softens and bursts, discharging unhealthy curdy pus, in which the yellowish fungoid masses may be recognised. A sinus is then lefc leading to an unhealthy cavity. When it commences in the upper jaw the sinuses may perforate the cheek. If it spreads backwards towards the spine and pharynx a deep prevertebral abscess may form which may reach down to the mediastinum, and openings may form at the side of the neck leading to deep sinuses. There may be severe fever after the abscesses have opened. The disease has been known to invade the spine, causing caries ot the vertebrge. Other forms of actinomycosis in man have been recorded. Thus in several cases the lung or pleura has been primarily affected, the disease sometimes coming to the surface through the chest-wall, and in other instances extending through the diaphragm into the liver. In a case under the care of Douglas Powell and Godlee at the Brompton Hospital, the disease presented the physi- cal signs and symptoms of an empyema. Exploration, however, showed that the right pleura contained a degenerated semi-solid material containing the VOL. I. 4 3