684 SPECIAL DISLOCATIONS. Fig. 2(54.—Dislocation of the Proximal Phalanx of the Thumb. phalangeal articulation of the thumb is convex backwards ; in this dislocation it becomes convex towards the palmar aspect and angularly concave behind. The head of the metacarpal bone can be felt and seen projecting on the palmar aspect of the thumb. The proximal phalanx stands up as it were upon the back of this bone, but the articular surface of the phalanx cannot be felt, owing to its being in contact with the posterior part of the metacarpal bone just above its neck. The phalangeal articulation is always semiflexed. This dislocation of the proximal phalanx of the thumb has, owing to the difficulty of its reduction, attracted more attention from Surgeons than it would at first sight appear to deserve. In some cases the dislocation has proved irreducible, notwithstanding the employment of as much force as it was safe to use, and the Surgeon has been obliged to have recourse to operative inter- ference in order to replace the head of the bone. The obstacle to the reduction of this small bone has been attributed to different caases. Thus, Hey supposed that it was owing to the constriction of the neck of the bone between the lateral ligaments of the joint, and Dupuytren entertained a similar opinion. The folding in of the anterior ligament of the joint, and the interposition of a sesamoid bone between the articulating surfaces, have also been regarded as giving rise to this peculiar difficulty in reduction. The more probable explanation, how- ever, appears to be that the narrow neck of the metacarpal bone becomes constricted by the two tendinous attachments of the short flexor of the thumb, which must be carried back over its broader head, together with the displaced phalanx ; the head of the metacarpal bone being grasped between the tendons and the torn capsule of the joint, like a stud between the sides of a button- hole. The observations of Vidal, Malgaigne, and Ballingall point to this as the cause of the great difficulty in reduction that is often met with. Reduction.—^Although, as has been said, great difficulty in reduction is often met with, it would be a great error to suppose that it always exists. On the contrary, very many of these dislocations are most readily reduced by simple traction and manipulation. Should any difficulty be experienced, the following plan will usually succeed. The hand and metacarpal bone being fixed by an assistant, the Surgeon bends back the thumb, so as to bring the phalanx to a right angle with the metacarpal bone on which it is displaced. He now employs traction in the axis of the displaced portion of the thumb, keeping the metacarpal bone well pressed down into the palm. Havin g thus unlocked the phalangeal articular surface from the back of that bone, he draws it well forwards, and, when it is opposite the head of the metacarpal bone, bends it down into the palm. In this way I have reduced a dislocation of the phalanx backwards between five and six weeks after its occurrence. Simple traction in the straight direction, however forcible, and even when aided by the pulleys, will do little, if any, good in the reduction of this dislocation, as the only effect is to draw the slit in the capsule and the two