25 ADMINISTRATION OF CHLOROFORM. Administration of Ether by the Rectum, which was suggested and practised by PirogofF so long ago as 1847, has lately been advocated by Molliere, Wanscher, and others, as a means of giving that antesthetic when it is impossible to administer it by inhalation, as in operations on the jaw or tongue. The bowel should be cleaned out by a purge and an enema before the operation. The ether is placed in a bottle, connected by means of an india-rubber tube with a cannula, which is inserted into the rectum. The bottle is then gently heated in warm water. Care must be taken that^ no ether enters the bowel in the liquid form, as it would cause intolerable irritation. The general effects are the same as in administration by inhalation, and the dangers are also identical, with one exception. This method of administra- tion is said not to cause the profuse secretion of mucus which is often so embarrassing during inhalation of ether. On the other hand, during adminis- tration it may give rise to considerable distension of the abdomen, and it is not uncommonly followed by diarrhoea. In a case of fibrous polypus of the nose in which ether was administered in this way for Marcus Beck by Dudley Buxton, the boy was kept most comfortably under the anassthetic for one hour and a hali". During the following night he passed two small loose motions containino- much blood and mucus and innumerable columnar epithehum cells. No further unpleasant symptoms followed. The diarrhoea has, however, been known to be fatal in at least one case. Recovery is some- times slow, and may be hastened by passing a long tube up the bowel as soon as the operation is finished. It is a question still to be determined Avhether this method is of any practical value. It might be serviceable in some cases of chest and lung surgery, in which there is reason to avoid the risk of a cardiac depressant such as chloroform, and in which great danger may be anticipated from the excessive secretion of mucus accompanying the inhalation of ether. Administration of Chloroform.—Chloroform should be kept in a well- stoppered bottle protected from light, otherwise it may undergo decomposition with the formation of free chlorine and hydrochloric acid, both of which are apt to irritate the lungs. Pure chloroform is neutral in reaction ; its specific gravity is l*-t97. Distilled water shaken up with it, and allowed to separate by standing should not give a precipitate with nitrate of silver. Chloroform may be administered either on lint or on a handkerchief or through an inhaler of some kind. The following is the way in which it may most safely be given without any special apparatus. The face should first be greased with cold cream or oil to prevent any accidental blistering of the skin. About a drachm of chloroform is then poured upon a piece of lint about four inches square, and four layers thick ; this is held at a distance of about three inches from the nose of the patient, so as to permit a very free admixture of air with the first few inhalations of the vapour. After the lapse of about half a minute, the lint is brought nearer to the patient's nose, to within a distance of perhaps an inch, never being allowed to touch. At the same time a porous towel, not doul)led, is lightly laid over the face of the patient and the hand of the operator, so as to limit the escape of the chloroform-vapour, but not to prevent the admission of air. During the whole time, it is the duty of the administrator to keep his hand on the temporal pulse, to watch the breathing, and occasionally to examine the pupils of the patient. The method just described has beeu shown by experience to be one of the