460 ARREST OF ARTERIAL HAEMORRHAGE. tioiis in the upper part of the thig-h a ligature should be applied to the common femoral or the external iliac just above Poupart's ligament. Ligature of the artery at a higher level must also be tried under similar circumstances in all amputations in the upper limb and in amputations in the lower part of the thigh. In such cases, also after amputation of the foot, I have successfully tied the posterior tibial just above the malleolus. Should this not succeed in arresting the bleeding, or be followed by gangrene, reamputa- iion is the last resource. In the case of secondary haeraoiThage fi'om a leg stump below the knee in which the first method of treatment has failed, no good is likely to follow the application of a ligature to the femoral. This either fails to arrest the bleeding or produces gangrene, and thus necessitates reamputation at a higher level than would otherwise be necessary. 2. When the haemorrhage occurs after ligature of an Artery in its Continuity, whether for injury or disease, if the vessel be situated in the irunlc, as the subclavian, or one of the iliacs, there is nothing to be done but to apply pressure ; and in the great majority of these cases the patient will die exhausted by repeated hagmorrhage. In employing pressure a graduated compress should be firmly applied. If this cannot be done, prolonged digital compression in the wound might possibly arrest the bleeding. In a case of ligature of the innominate, Smythe, of New Orleans, arrested the bleeding by pushing a piece of muslin into the wound and filling the pouch thus formed with shot. When the artery is situated in one of the limbs, if the bleeding has been very slight in amount, pressure may be applied over the point from which the blood proceeds, but if the bleeding has been copious, and more especially if pressure has failed after one trial, more efficient procedures must be employed. If it be one of the arteries of the uppei' extremity the wound should be opened up and an attempt made to expose the vessel thoroughly. If it has been completely divided by the ligature, the bleeding end only need be tied, but if the hgemorrhage proceeds from an opening formed by ulceration opposite the knot of the ligature, the vessel should be tied above and below the hole in its coats. Should this fail or not be practicable, the artery must be dehgated at a higher point than that at which it had previously been tied ; should the haemorrhage continue, or recur, amputation is the only resource left. In the loiuer extremitij, the treatment of secondary haemorrhage occurring after ligature is surrounded with difficulty. Here I believe it to be useless to tie the artery at a higher point than that to which the ligature has already been applied, as gangrene is very apt to follow this double hgature : at least, in the two or three cases that I have seen in which recourse has been had to this practice, and in all the reported cases with which I am acquainted, mortifica- tion of the limb has ensued. The treatment should vary according as we have the femoral artery or one of the tibials to deal with. If the hemorrhage proceed from the femoral, I should be disposed to cut down on the bleeding part of the vessel, treating it as a wounded artery, and applying a ligature above and below the part already deligated ; this operation would, however, necessarily be attended with difficulty. Should it be impracticable, or should the haemorrhage recur after it has been done, we should best consult the safety