842 INJURIES OF THE THROAT. chest (Fig. 321) ; afc the same time an assistant may compress the lower ribs and push up the hver and diaphragm. These movements are to be repeated deliberate]}- about fifteen times in the minute, until natural efforts at respira- tion are induced, when they are to be discontinued and the ordinary means to promote circulation and warmth employed. The quantity of air introduced need not be large ; for, by the law of the diffusion of gases, if oxygen be introduced only into the larger divisions of the bronchi, it will rapidly find its way into the ultimate ramifications of these tubes. This last means of inflation has the additional advantage of closely resembling the natural process of respiration, which is one of expansion from without inwards, and not, as Avhen the mouth or bellows are used, of pressure from within outwards. In the one case the lungs are, as it were, drawn outwards, the air merely rushing in to fill up the vacuum that would otherwise be produced within the thorax, by the expansion of its parietes; in the other they are forcibly jiressed up from within, and hence there is a danger of rupture of the air-cells. Care must be taken not to use too much violence in compressing the chest. I have Fig. 321.—Silvester's Method—E.xpiration, known a case in which the sternum and several ribs were broken in an old man during the employment of this method. Laborde has recently re- commended rhythmic tractions of the tongue at the rate of fifteen to twenty times a minute, as an efficient means of exciting respiratory movements. It is by no means certain, however, that the method acts in any other way than in removing the blockage of the pharynx by the tongue, which falls back in the supine position. In case a battery be at hand, faradization of the phrenic nerve forms a valuable adjunct to the method of artificial respiration. It is thus carried out. It must first be ascertained that the current is of sufficient strength to cause vigorous contraction of the muscles of the ball of the Surgeon's thumb. The person in charge of the battery should stand on the right side of the patient and press one rheophore well down on the phrenic nerve at the outer border of the sterno-mastoid, where the nerve lies on the scalenus anticus, and, while the person in charge of the Silvester method of artificial respiration raises the arms he should press the other rheophore on