SPECIAL AMPUTATIONS. 136 by the drcular and modified circular operations. Amputation just above the knee was formerly most often performed by equal lateral flaps cut by trans- fixion. The fleshy flaps of uniform thickness thus obtained were supposed to form a better covering than the thinner structures in front. But the lateral flaps have the disadvantage of leaving the scar over the bone, and they are ditticult to keep in position, and consequently few Surgeons now adopt this method. In other parts of the thigh lateral flaps cannot be conveniently made, as the end of the bone is apt to be drawn up into the angle of the wound, and to project between the flaps, which fall away behind it. _ In ampu- tation in the lower or middle third, a tourniquet may be applied high on the limb ; but when the operation is done in the upper third, there is no space for the application of this instrument, so the haemorrhage must be arrested by the application of the india-rubber bandage as described on p. 47, by the aortic tourniquet, or by an assistant compressing the artery as it passes over the brim of the pelvis (Fig. 19, p. 53). In whatever situation the Surgeon Fig. 77.—Amputation of the Lower Third of the Thigh by Lateral Flap,'! amputates, he must be careful to carry the knife so as not to split the femoral artery or vein. Amputation above the Knee by Lateral Flaps, or Vermale's Opera- tion, is thus performed : The outer flap should always be made first. The point of the knife, being entered in the middle of the thigh, about three inches above the upper border of the patella, is carried close round the bone and brought out through the centre of the ham ; the flap is then cut down- wards and outwards ; the knife, being entered again in the upper angle of the incision is carried close round the bone to its inner side, and the inner flap made by a sweeping cut (Fig. 77). Unless the blade be kept in contact with the bone in this situation, the femoral artery is very apt to be split. The flaps being then retracted, the bone is cleared by two sweeps of the kmfe, and sawn about four inches above its articular surface. In all amputations of the thigh by the Antero-Posterior Flap method, more or less trouble is apt to arise from the posterior flap being displaced upwards by the divided flexor muscles, which, owing to their great length, retract ior a very considerable distance. Even when the covering may at first have seemed abundant the edges of the wound may separate, leaving a