679 REDUCTION OF DISLOCATED ELBOW. The mode of Reduction in dislocations of the elbow-joinfc varies according as the ulna is displaced or not. When the ulna is dislocated, in whatever direction it may be thrown, and whether the radius be displaced at the same time or not, the great obstacle to reduction is the hitching of the processes of the bone against the articular end of the humerus. If either the olecranon or the coronoid process be fractured, this entanglement cannot take place, and the joint then readily slips into its position, though it is very difficult to maintain it there. The reduction of the displaced ulna, when uncomplicated by fracture, may be eflPected, as Astley Cooper recommended, by bending the arm over the knee. The patient being seated on a chair, the Surgeon rests one foot upon the seat, and, placing the knee in the bend of the injured elbow, grasps the forearm with both hands (Fig. 260) ; fixing the arm, he presses the knee firmly against the inner aspect of the forearm, so as to disengage the ulna from the lower end of the humerus, and at the same time he bends or pushes the forearm into proper position, into which, indeed, it has a tendency to return owing to the action of its own muscles, as soon as the opposing osseous surfaces are separated. In a case of backward dislocation of both bones, under the care of W. G. Spencer, of the Westminster Hospital, the protrusion of the end of the humerus through a rent in the anterior ligament rendered reduction without operative interference impossible. In dislocations of the radius, all that is required is to fix the upper arm, and then, employing extension from the wrist, to straighten the arm well ; when, by bending the elbow at right angles, the head of the radius may be pressed into a proper position. After reduction has been effected, the limb should be put up in an angular splint, the hand being kept semiprone. If the radius have been displaced, a pad may be applied over its head, so as to prevent a return of the displace- ment, which is very apt to occur when the orbicular ligament is torn. In the case of dislocation of the vsi^\m for wards, reduction is best maintained by keeping the arm in the flexed position, and thus relaxing the biceps which tends to draw the bone forward when the elbow is extended. The inflammation which usually results must be treated by the application of evaporating lotions. When it has subsided, passive motion may be commenced, and frictions and douches employed, so as to remove the stiffness that is apt to be left about the joint. In those cases in which the dislocation is complicated with fracture of some part of the articular ends, and in which the diagnosis of the precise nature of the injury, owing to the swelling or other car,se?, has not been very clearly Fig. 2(50.—Dislocation of tlie Elbow : Reduction.