CLASSIFICATION OF TUMOURS. TOOI one case show no tendency to vecnr after removal, or to affect distant parts ; whilst in another it may run a malignant course both locally and generally. The tumour would necessarily in both cases be classed under the same name m an anatomical classification. A careful investigation of the growing edge in the two cases would probably show that in the one case the tumour was growing m a capsule of areolar tissue, and in the other that this was wanting, and the new growth was distinctly invading the surrounding parts. Of the causes of this great difference in apparently similar growths we know nothing. In the cartilaginous tumours, which are sometimes given as typical examples of this uncertainty, the similarity of the malignant and simple forms is more apparent than real. In the malignant forms the cartilage will be found to be developed from a surrounding zone of embryonic tissue infiltrating the neighbouring structures. In the simple form the new cartilage is merely covered with a perichondrium, as in the normal cartilage of a growing bone. The former is a chondrifying sarcoma, the latter a true chondroma. Even in undoubtedly malignant growths, as in carcinomata, we find the degree of malignancy very various in diflerent cases without our being in any way able to account for it, either by the structure of the growth or by any peculiarity in the patient. Thus one man may die from secondary disease of the glands after a primary cancer in the tongue no bigger than a split pea, and another may show no glandular infection when half the tongue is destroyed. In other cases the malignancy may be from beginning to end local. This is the case in the disease known as rodent cancer. Some sar- comata recur locally, but after repeated removal the tendency may disappear and the patient eventually recover. Innocent and malignant tumours are occasionally met with in the same person, four or five different kinds of growth even occurring in one individual. I have seen in one patient a carcinoma of the breast, an enchondromatous tumour of the leg, and an atheromatous cyst on the back, with scrofulous glands in the neck. New formations of different types may be found even in the same mass; thus, encephaloid carcinoma and spindle-celled sarcoma have been found together in the testis. This, however, must not be taken as any evidence of the possibility of the conversion of one into the other, but rather as the result of a departure in different directions from the normal mode of growth. There is indeed no proof that a non-malignant can be converted into a malignant tumour of a different type ; a fibrous tumour may take on rapid growth and assume the characters of a malignant sarcoma, but there is no evidence that it can ever be changed into a carcinoma. A malignant tumour may, however, appear on the site of a non-malignant growth that has been removed : thus I have seen a scirrhous nodule grow in the cicatrix left after the removal of a cystic sarcoma of the breast. Warts and moles may exist for years without causing trouble, but at last may rapidly grow and develop either into malignant sarcomata or squamous carcinomata. A classification founded upon an anatomical basis not only enables the observer to comprehend the precise relation which any particular growth under observation bears to others that resemble it, but leads him to trace the origin of the new formation from the pre-existing structures of the part in which it occurs, thus forming the first step towards a knowledge of the etiology of the disease. Tumours are said to be heterologous or homologous, according as they present a greater or less deviation from the normal condition