698 SPECIAL DISLOCATIONS. Dislocations of the head of the femur directly backwards with fracture of the brim of the acetabulum may occur when a hea\7 weight falls on the back of a person who is kneeling. In this case the pelvis is driven down violently on the femur, which is fixed against the ground at its lower end. The impact of the blow drives the posterior part of the brim of the acetabulum against the head of the femur, and this is thrust through the capsule at its posterior part. It is, perhaps, rather the pelvis that is thrust forwards than the femur backwards, but the result is the displacement of the head of the bone, which is lodged directly behind the cotyloid cavity. 2. Dislocations Downwards or Thyroid Dislocations—Caz^scs.—This dislocation appears to be occasioned by the limb being suddenly and violently abducted, as by falls with the legs widely separated ; in consequence of which the head of the bone is tilted against the inner side of the capsule, and, rupturing this, is thrown on the thyroid foramen. Pathological Anatomi/.—The head of the bone escapes by a laceration of the inner side of the capsnle where it is thin and membranous. The ilio- femoral ligament is untorn, and holds the root of the neck up while the head descends, and passes somewhat inwards, consequently the femur is flexed and abducted. The round ligament is torn. The pectinens and adductor brevis muscles have been found to be lacerated in this injury. Sijmpioms.—The hip is flattened, and the prominence of the trochanter completely absent, or indeed replaced by a depression. The limb is lengthened by about two inches, advanced before the other, and considerably abducted (Fig. 280). The knee is bent and incapable of extension ; the foot usually points forwards, but is sometimes slightly everted and widely separated from its fellow. When the patient stands, the body is bent forwards, partly to accommodate the pelvis to the flexed position of the limb dependent on the ilio-femoral ligament, and partly on account of the tension of the psoas and iliacus muscles ; in a thin person the bone may be felt in its new situation. Fig. 280.—Thyroid Dislocation. (Bigelow.) Fig. 281.--Reduction by Mnnipidation in Thyroid Dislocation. Rotation and Circumduction In- wards of Head of Femur. (Bigelow.)