VENEREAL DISEASES. I i6o applied to bone. Both patients recovered well from the operation ; but one of them, a female, died two years afterwards of epilepsy, consequent on syphilitic gummata of the dura mater. Both in acquired and in hereditary syphilis the bones of the fingers and toes are sometimes attacked, giving rise to the condition known as sTjphilitic daciijlitis. It most commonly assumes the form of gummatous periostitis, often followed by softening of the new tissue and necrosis of the phalanx. The affected bones are much enlarged. From the foregoing description it will be seen that the diseases of bones due to syphilis are all modifications of the same process which characterizes the disease elsewhere in its tertiary stage, namely an overgrowth of the con- nective tissue. The new tissue accumulates in some places in such masses as to form a distinct tumour, the gumma, which being imperfectly supplied with blood tends to degenerate. The node and the uncomphcated sclerosis of bone form the simplest stage of the process ; the formation of gummata is the next advance ; necrosis is an accident due to exaggeration of the sclerosis, or to exposure of the bone from softening of the gummata, and caries results also from the latter condition. It is not surprising, therefore, that we meet with these various effects combined in every possible way ; the gumma is always surrounded by periostitis with or without the formation of new bone, caries and necrosis occur mixed together, and new growth and destruction may go on side by side. The Constitutional TreoAment of syphilitic diseases of the bones is that already recommended for the tertiary stage of the disease. Mercury is ad- missible only if the patient is otherwise in good health. Usually the iodides of potassium or sodium give the desired relief when administered in sufficiently large doses. Locally the treatment varies with the form assumed by the disease. The simple node usually requires no local treatment. If it is very chronic and painful, blisters will almost always give relief. If these fail and the case proves very intractable, and especially if there is considerable formation of new bone, I have found the greatest advantage result from cutting down upon the enlarged, thickened, and tender bone, and by means of a Hey's saw making a deep cut into it about one and a half or two inches in length parallel to its axis, and down to the medullary canal. By this opera- tion the tension is at once relieved, and the pain effectually and permanently removed. In syphilitic necrosis the necrosed bone should be separated as it becomes loose ; the local irritation depending on its presence then subsides. When the bone has fallen into a carious state, the unhealthy surface should be thoroughly scraped with a sharp spoon, and the cavity dressed with iodoform or iodide of starch ointment. Syphilitic disease of Joints is not of very frequent occurrence. Pains in the joints are not uncommon during the very earliest stages, before the appearance of the eruptions ; and during the secondary stage some slight synovitis has occasionally been observed, apparently due to the disease, but these conditions are of no great importance. Jonathan Hutchinson, Jun., has paid much attention to this subject, and has collected many recorded cases of joint disease in tertiary syphilis. Any of the larger joints may be affected, but the knees are most frequently diseased. Gummata may form in the synovial membrane, capsule, or sur- rounding structures, whilst in other cases the synovial membrane undergoes