719 TREATMENT OF SCALP WOUNDS. diploe, but is more frequently met with independently of this. The pus may be situated immediately beneath the injured bone superficial to the dura mater, on the surface of the brain beneath the dura mater, or more deeply in the cerebral substance. The symptoms and treatment of this complication will be more conveniently considered with intracranial suppuration in general (p. 774 et seq.) Treatment of Scalp Wounds.—From what has already been said it will be evident, that in cases of wound of the scalp not complicated by injury to the brain, the essentials of treatment are to avoid retention of the discharges and to prevent their putrefaction. In all cases the parts around the wound must be shaved for a sufficient distance. The wound may then be plugged with a piece of sponge soaked in some efficient antiseptic fluid, carbolic acid lotion (1 in 20), or perchloride of mercury (1 in 1,000) being the best, while the scalp around it and the remaining hair are washed with hot water and soap, or sponged with a weak solution of ammonia, and afterwards thoroughly soaked in the antiseptic fluid. If there be arterial hsemorrhage it may, if slight in amount, be arrested by the pressure of the dressing, the firm bone beneath affbrding excellent counter-pressure. Should the bleeding be more free, the vessels must be secured by ligature or torsion. In doing this some trouble may be caused by the density of the tissues in which the vessels are lying. Should other means fail, or not be at hand, a pin may be passed beneath the artery, and compression made over it by a figure-of-8 suture. The scalp having been cleaned, and the bleeding stopped, the wound itself may again be thoroughly cleansed with the antiseptic lotion and its edges brought together. In doing this, strapping should not be used. It seldom adheres well on the S3alp, and tends to shut in the discharges. In small wounds, as the rigid tissues of the scalp have little tendency to gape, the mere pressure of the dressing will bring the edges in contact. In larger wounds, silk, horse-hair, or silver-wire sutures may be inserted. The use of sutures has been deprecated by many Surgeons in injuries of the scalp, as tending to favour erysipelas ; undoubtedly, much mischief will arise if the wound be stitched up too closely aud septic matter accumulate in it, and in small wounds sutures are generally unnecessary, but in extensive lacerations they cannot be dispensed with. In the majority of cases, dry dressings will be found most efficient. The wound may be sprinkled with iodoform, and a large pad of iodoform wool, salicylic wool or silk, sal alembroth gauze or wool, or some other dry absorbent antiseptic preparation, may be applied, and secured with a bandage, so to exert a moderately firm elastic pressure and to retain the separated parts in apposition and at perfect lest, while at the same time the accumulation of discharo-es is prevented. Drainage-tubes are seldom required if too many stitches be not put in. Such a dressing may frequently be left untouched for a week or ten (lays, at the end of which time union will be perfect. The indications for removing it earlier are a smell of putrefaction, a rise of temperature, pain or a puffy swelling of the scalp beyond the dressing. The patient should' be freely purged, and kept at rest on a rather low diet; any cerebral symptoms that occur being treated in accordance with the principles laid down in discussing traumatic affections of the brain. In this way, union will very probably take place through the greater portion of the injured surface • should it not do so, however, or should any part slough, granulations spring- up, and repair goes on with surprising rapidity.