891 DIFFUSE PERITONITIS: SYMPTOMS. toneum be exposed to irritation, the liquid exudation is rapidly absorbed by the healthy part of the membrane, so that the cavity is kept dry and free from putrescible matter. In rabbits it was found that a considerable quantity of simple water, or even of fluids containing septic bacteria, could be injected into the peritoneal cavity without evil results following, the fluids being rapidly absorbed and carried into the blood-stream. If, however, the quantity injected was greater than could be thus rapidly disposed of, septic peritonitis invariably followed. It seems probable, therefore, that the occurrence of septic peritonitis after wounds opening the cavity of the abdomen, whether in surgical operations or in accidents, depends to a great extent upon the amount of putrescible matter in the cavity. If from a wound of some con- siderable vessel a large quantity of blood is extravasated, or if in consequence of local irritation, as from a wound or rupture of the gut with or without slight fgecal extravasation, the amount of inflammatory effusion is greater than the uninjured part of the peritoneum can rapidly absorb, the putre- factive ferment finds material upon which it can act, and decomposition and septic peritonitis follow. With a clean peritoneal cavity and little exudation the patient escapes. In injul-ies of the liver, peritonitis may result from the escape of bile into the cavity of the abdomen without decomposition taking place. In a case of diffuse peritonitis the post-mortem examination shows excess of fluid which, in the earlier stages, is found chiefly in the most dependent parts, the cavity of the pelvis and the flanks. The intestines are reddened, and the coils are distended. In the earliest stage the peritoneal surface has lost its natural gloss to some extent, and feels greasy. When the inflammation is further advanced, lymph is found on the gut, and especially in the angles between two contiguous coils. If two coils be separated, they will be found paler in colour from mutual pressure at the points which have been in contact, and marked by a darker red line where they separate. The intestines are very slightly adherent to each other. In the most dependent parts of the cavity is a large quantity of turbid serum, mixed with shreds of coagulated exudation, or the fluid may assume the form of thin pus. It is usually very offensive, and is excessively dangerous if inoculated, giving rise to the worst forms of dissecting-wound. Gas from the intestines is also frequently met with in the abdominal cavity. The Symptoms of Diffuse Peritonitis are pain and tenderness, at first most marked in the neighbourhood of the injury, but gradually extending to the whole abdomen, and aggravated by occasional stabbing pains. This is followed by tympanitic distension of the abdomen, from paralysis of the muscular coat of the gut, and also in some cases partly from the escape of flatus into the peritoneal cavity. The patient suffers great distress ; he lies on his back with his knees drawn up to relax the abdominal muscles, and the slightest pressure causes intense agony. Occasionally, respiration is seriously interfered with by the distension of the abdomen. Vomiting is an early symp- tom ; the contents of the stomach are brought up without straining, seeming to pump out almost without effort. As the effusion increases, there will be dulness in the flanks, shifting its position as the patient is moved, and tym- panitic resonance in front. As the case advances, the vomited matter becomes dark from admixture of blood from the congested mucous membrane. Hiccup may be a troublesome symptom. The pulse is at first small, quick*