DURATION OF SYPHILIS. 1137 not be doubted. The severity of the course of syphilis is, I beheve, materially lessened by a mercurial course, if that course be properly conducted. The question as to there being any connexion between the naiure^ of the Ijrimary sore and the character of the consecutive constitutional affection has been much discussed, and very different opinions have been expressed. The generally received opinion at the present time is, that no safe conclusions as to the future course of the disease can be drawn from the appearance of the primary sore. Tertiary symptoms are, in fact, frequently met with in patients who have not a trace of a scar left by the primary sore, and sometimes even in those in whom the initial manifestation has been so slight as to escape notice. The character of the secondary symptoms seems to give a much more valuable indication of the probable course of the disease. A copious early squamous or papular eruption is believed to indicate a quick course, terminating at an early period. Those cases in which the skin disease persists long and frequently relapses have been observed to suffer but rarely from visceral affections. It is a remarkable fact, noted by Lancereaux, Berkeley Hill, and Wilks, that a large proportion of those who suffer from visceral syphilis have passed through a very mild secondary stage, often so wanting in symptoms as to be scarcely recognizable. This fact is particularly noticeable in tertiary syphiloma of the nervous system. It must not be concluded, however, from these facts that severe tertiary symptoms must necessarily follow a mild secondary stage. In the great majority of cases a mild secondary stage, when it occurs, forms the end of the disease. Berkeley Hill states, that marked general glandular enlargement is a bad sign, being usually accompanied by anasmia and debility. As a probable explanation of at least some cases in which severe tertiary symptoms follow a slightly marked primary and secondary stage, it must be remembered that such cases are very likely to have been imperfectly treated. This explanation is undoubtedly true of some cases in which a patient with tertiary symptoms is altogether unaware of ever having had a primary sore. Death from syjjhilis, directly, during its secondary stage, is practically un- known. The disease kills more often by its tertiary manifestations, such as the development of gummata in the central nervous system or liver. Gowers is of the opinion that locomotor ataxy is most common in patients who have suffered from constitutional syphilis.' Many aneurisms are believed to be due to syphilitic changes in the vessels. The proportion of cases, however, in which syphilis even indirectly shortens life is so small that it is not considered necessary to make any addition to the premium charged for life insurance be- cause a patient has passed through an attack of syphilis, unless some definite tertiary symptoms are present. Duration of Syphilis.—It is extremely difficult to say when syphihs can be eradicated from the system ; and indeed it is a question whether it may not impress the constitution in a peculiar way, modifying certain processes during the rest of life, as we know to be the case in other specific diseases, such as cow-pox or scarlet fever. Certain it is that, if neglected or improperly treated, it may affect the system for an indefinite time, declaring its existence by exciting and modifying various local inflammations years after the original absorptio of the poison. It is tolerably clear thata person who has once had the usual course of syphilis very rarely has it a second time, though he contract a fresh chancre. Exceptions to this rule are, however, occasionally VOL. I. 4