X CONTENTS. Chapter III.—Special Amputations. PACK Amputations op the Upper Limb—Fingers—Metacarpn-Phalangeul Articulations —Thumb — Metacarpal Bones—Wrist — Forearm —Arm — Shoulder-Joint — By Transfixion—Lisfranc".s Method—Spence's Method—Larrey's Oval Method— Amputation of Arm with Scapula and part of Chxvicle—General Kesults of Amputations of the Upper Limb 93—112 Amputations of the Lower Limb—Toes—Metatarso-Phalangeal Articulations— Amputation of Great Toe—Anatomical Guides in the Foot—Metatarsal Bone of Great Toe—of Little Toe—Amputation of Metatarsus—Hey's Operation—Ampu- tation through Tarsus—Chopart s Operation—Tripier's Modification of Chopart's Amputation—Subastragalar Amputation—Syme's Disarticulation at the Ankle- Joint—Pirogofi's Amputation—Results of Amputations of Foot—Amputation of Leg—Flap Amputation—Circular Operation—Kesults—Amputation through Knee-Joint—By Anterior and Posterior Flaps—By Lateral Flaps : Smith's Method—Amputation through Condyles : Garden's and Lister's Operations— Kesults of Amputation through Knec-Joint or Condyles—Amputation of Thigh —Vermale's Operation—Amputation of Thigh by Antero-posterior Flaps—Com- bination Method—Through Trochanters—Results of Amputation of Thigh— Amputation at Hip-.foint—By combined Circular and External Vertical Incisions —Antero-posterior Flaps—Oval Amputation—Kesults .... 112—147 Chapter IV.—Local Disturbances of Circulation and Inflammation. Regulation of the Local Supply of Blood 148—149 Local Anemia 149—1.50 Active Local HyPEEiEMiA, Active Congestion, Determination of Blood, OR Fluxion—Active Congestion—Causes—Symptoms—Effects . . . I.'jO—151 Passive Congestion—Causes—Effects—Symptoms—Treatment . . . 151—154 Strangulation 154 Acute Inflammation—History—Microscopic Changes in : Active Hypenemia —Stasis—Oscillation—Thrombosis—Migration of the White Corpuscles—Inflam- matory Lymph—Migrated Corpuscles in tiie Tissues—Effect of Inflammation on the Tissues—Micro- and Macro-Phagocytes.—Mode of Termination : Reso- lution—Suppuration—Ulceration—Gangrene. — Causes of Inflammation : Predisposing — Exciting. — Irritants : Mechanical — Physical — CUicmical — Products of Putrefaction.—SCHIZOMTCETES—Micrococci—Bacteria—Bacilli-- Spirilla.—Organised Irritants.—Functional Irritation.—Nervous Irri- tants—Varieties of Inflammation—Local Signs.—Inflammatory Fever— Symptoms of Fever in general—Varieties of Acute Surgical Fever.—Irritative Fever .... 155---201 Treatment of Acute Inflammation—Preventive Treatment : Antiseptics— Cold—Rest—Curative Treatment—Local Treatment—Ckmstitutional Treatment —Treatment of Inflammatory Fever : Sthenic and Asthenic . . . 201—223 Chronic Inflammation—Pathology—Causes—Local Signs—Constitutional Symp- toms—Treatment, Constitutional and Local 223—235 Catarrhal Inflammation—Pathology—Purulent ("atarrh—Varieties —Symptoms —Treatment 235—237 Chapter Y.—Suppuration and Abscess. Suppuration—Formation of an Acute Abscess—Characters of Pus—Microscopic Characters—Diagnosis of Pus from other Fluids—Relation of Micro-Organisms to Suppuration—Duration—Symptoms—Hectic—Alhumenoid or Amyloid De- generation 238—