FRACTURES. 526 for the subsidence of the swelling before the diagnosis is finally made. It is far better to put up an unbroken limb than to neglect to put it up if fractured. The existence of a fracture Avhen compound, and more particularly if comminuted, is usually readily determined. Here, the great mobility, the protrusion of fragments or splinters, and the easily produced crepitus will seldom allow the Surgeon to be in error. Should any doubt exist, the intro- duction of the finger into the wound will enable him to determine with certainty, not only the existence, but the condition and extent, of the fracture; but on no account must a probe or metal instrument of any kind be used, or a simple fracture complicated with a wound may accidentally be made com- pound; nor should the finger ever he introduced withoid first thoroughly purifying the hand with some efficient antiseptic solution. Nevertheless, with all the assist- ance that may thus be afforded, the existence of a compound and comminuted fracture may be unsus- pected for many days even after the most careful examination. Of this important fact, which may have weighty medico-legal bearings, the following case is a good illustration. A young man was shot with a wooden ramrod through the left hand and shoulder, by the accidental explosion of his gun whilst he was loading it. The ramrod struck the humerus three inches below the shoulder-joint, on its fore part. It was splintered against the bone, the frag- ments passing on each side, and mostly escaping through two apertures pos- teriorly ; some passing to the inner side between the large vessels and the bone, the others to the outer side between it and the deltoid. The patient was brought to the Hospital, where I saw him a few hours after the injury, and, enlarging the wounds, extracted a number of splinters of the ramrod from around the bone. The limb was carefully examined, not only by me, but by several other Surgeons present, to determine whether the bone had been fractured, or the joint injured, but nf> sio-n of fracture was detected. The limb was laid on a pillow, and irrigation employed. Septic cellulitis set in, followed by extensive and deep suppuration in the limb. On examining this, with the view of giving a free exit to the discharges, eight days after the accident, angular displacement and crepitus were for the first time found, and it became evident that the humerus was the seat of a comminuted fracture. The patient died of pyaemia ; and after death the bone presented the appearance shown in Fig. KiO, a long splinter having been detached in a longitudinal direction, a b, and the shaft broken across at c. It appeared proliable that the blow of the ramrod had fractured the bone longitudinally, detaching the large splinter, which had become Fig. IGO.—Commi- nuted Fi'ticture of the Humerus without dis- placement. Fig. 161.—Fractured tibia from a dog on the tentli day. Sliowiug the external antl internal provisional callus.