940 ERYSIPELAS. The statistics of University College Hospital give the following results, showing the relative frequency of these ailections. During a period of ten years 19G cases were admitted under the care of the Surgeons or arose in the surgical wards. Of these 14:8 were cutaneous, 24 cellulo-cutaneous or phleg- monous, and 24 cellular (or cellulitis). To these may be added P>6 cases of so- called idiopathic cutaneous erysipelas admitted under the care of the Physicians, making a total of 184 cases of the cutaneous form out of 232, or nearly 80 per cent. Causes.—The causes of erysipelatous inflammations are : first, the essential cause, the virus or contagium ; and secondly, the p-edisposimj causes, which may be divided into those that are intrinsic to the patient, including such local or constitutional conditions as predispose him to receive the virus, and those that are extrinsic, such as the meteorological and hygienic con- ditions to which he is exposed before he is attacked by the disease. Tlic extrinsic causes may act by favouring the development of the virus out of the body or its transmission from one individual to another, or by impairing the health of the patient and thus rendering him more ready to receive the poison. 1. The Essential Cause. —It has been proved to demonstration that cutaneous erysipelas is the result of the growth of a micrococcus in the lymph- atic spaces of the skin. The organism occurs most commonly in pairs or chains, and is known as the Streptococcus erysipelatosus. Fehleisen first succeeded in cultivating these organisms on gelatine and coagulated serum. A small piece of the afiected «j skin was removed and placed on the prepared . gelatine ; after a short time the white film, which * \ the microscope showed to ])e composed of micro- cocci, spread over the surface of the gelatine. A small speck of this was then planted on another gelatine surface and again the film formed. This process was repeated many times, in one instance ^ to thirty generations, until it might reasonably be supposed that any chemical poison which might on gelatine.) theoretically have been adhering to the original organisms taken from the skin was perfectly eliminated. The fungi were then inoculated on rabbits, and gave rise to a spreading inflammation, exactly resembling cutaneous erysipelas. Afterwards similar inoculations were made on eight patients in cases of cancer, sarcoma, and lupus, with the view of exerting the reputed curative action of erysipelas on these affections. Seven out of the eight patients, after a period of incubation of from fifteen to sixty hours, were afiected by genuine erysipelas, with all the characteristic local and constitutional symptoms. In the one case in which the inoculation failed, the patient had recently recovered from a spontaneous attack of the disease. At the Congress of German Surgeons in 1883, Fehleisen exhibited a patient in whom genuine cutaneous erysipelas had been produced by the inoculation of micrococci which were thirty generations removed from the original organisms obtained from the skin, the cultivation having been continued on gelatine from August, 1882, to April, 1883. According to Koch and Fehleisen, the micrococci are not found in the