CHEMICAL ANTISEPTICS—CARBOLIC ACID. 205 wound directly from without in the same way as the non-pathogciiic organisms. Local means calculated to exclude or destroy micro-organisms will prevent putrefaction almost with certainty. The same means will also prevent the o-reat majority of infective inflammations. The association of putrefaction with the specific infective inflammations is so close that the two subjects cannot be dealt with separately in so far as local treatment is concerned, and here, therefore, we need deal only with the prevention of putrefaction. The prevention of putrefaction may be carried out by the exclusion of any one of the essential conditions for the process (p. 177). The first of these is the presence of dead organic matter. It is our object, therefore, by drainage of wounds and abscesses, either entirely to remove the putrescible matter or to reduce it to so small a quantity that the effects of its putrefaction will be insignificant. The next three conditions, the presence of oxygen, water, and a certain degree of temperature, cannot be excluded from any abscess, wound, or cavity of the body ; but the discharges flowing from these may be either received in some absorbent material or allowed to dry in the air, and thus their decomposition may be prevented ; and it will be seen, in the treatment of wounds, that these methods are often adopted. The last condition of putrefaction is the presence of the organised ferment; and the destruction or exclusion of this forms the essential feature of those modes of treating wounds, abscesses, or ulcers, which aim at the prevention of the inflammation which results from the irritation of the chemical products of putrefaction. The simplest mode of exclusion of the organisms floating in the air is hj filtration. It has been shown by experiment that the air filtered through j3ure cotton-wool is incapable of giving rise to putrefaction or other fermentative changes ; but this mode of preventing decomposition and infection, although often forming an accessory to other means, can scarcely ever be employed alone in surgery. Septic organisms are much more commonly carried by water or by solid bodies, as the Surgeon's hands or instruments, and consequently our chief reliance has to be placed on chemical antiseptics—that is to say, on chemical substances capable of destroying the vitality of minute vegetable fimgi. It must not be forgotten, however, that all chemical antiseptics are in themselves irritants ; and in using them care must be taken to protect the tissues as far as possible from their direct action, otherwise they may act as causes of inflammation although preventing putrefaction. As we shall have frequently to refer to the use of antiseptics in the treatment of abscesses, ulcers, and wounds, it will be most convenient here to mention the chief substances at present employed, with their properties and peculiarities. Antiseptics vary much in their power, in the irritation they give rise to, and in their eflfects if absorbed ; these points will therefore be alluded to. It may be stated that no antiseptic vapour, of which any practical use can be made in surgery, has yet been discovered. Carbolic Acid is, perhaps, still the most extensively used of aU anti- septics, though by no means the most powerful. In surgery the purest acid only should be used, the form known as absolute phenol being the best. The impure acid, such as is used for disinfecting drains, is more difficult of solution in water, and its smell is very offensive. The pure crystalhsed acid may be made permanently to assume the form of a dense oily liquid by the addition of about J^th of its bulk of water, but true solution does not take place till the proportion of water is about 19 to 1 of the acid, thus forming the 1 in 20