THE OPERATION OF TREPHINING. 783 The instruments required in the operation of trephining are a scalpel and periosteal elevator, the trephine and elevator, Hey's saw, a chisel and mallet, bone-forceps, a strong- pair of dissecting forceps, and several pairs of forci- pressure forceps. In operations involving an extensive removal of bone, a circular saw, driven by an electro-motor, may prove of service. As a preliminary step the head must be completely shaved and cleaned in the way described on p. 719. If the operation is not one of emergency the scalp should be covered with lint soaked in carbolic lotion (1 in 20), over which must be placed a layer of oiled silk. This must be apphed for 12 hours before the operation and changed about every hour. If the patient is sensible an auEesthetic must be administered. If the operation is being undertaken for the removal of a portion of the brain or a tumour, Victor Horsley, who has so highly distinguished himself in this branch of surgery, advises the use of chloroform, and that a hypodermic injection of a quarter of a grain of morphia should be previously given, as this not only makes it possible to produce the desired effect with a smaller Fig. 310.—Treiihinc. Fig. 311.--Trei)liiuc-cut at edge of fracture. amount of the anaesthetic, but Schiifer and he have demonstrated experimen- tally that it tends to cause a contraction of the arterioles of the brain, and thus to diminish h£emorrhage. The bone should be exposed by a free incision, any wound that may exist at the time being utilized. If the scalp is unbroken a curved incision exposing the bone by a single flap will be found more convenient than a T-shaped or crucial incision such as is often recommended. The periosteum must be raised in the flap with the periosteal elevator. The bone being exposed it may not be necessary to apply any saw in some cases of depressed fractures. In others a cut may be made with a Hey's saw between two branches of a fracture. In cases in which the bone is not broken the trephine must be used. This should have a well-tempered crown, serrated half-way up its exterior ; the teeth should be short and broad ; the centre-pin must not project more than about one-sixteenth of an inch, and care must be taken that the screw which fixes it is in good working order. The centre pin may advantageously be fixed to a solid plug which can be removed when necessary, and the trouble of the screw avoided (Fig. 310). The trephine