I020 TUMOURS. elephantiasis of these parts, from which they may be distinguished by the fact that they are Hmited and circumscribed masses, and not mere outgrowths. Paget observes that, when occurring about the genital organs, they are found in young w'omen and in old men. They occur only in adults who otherwise are in good health, and grow quickly, forming soft, elastic, rounded, and smooth tumours ; they are not attended with any pain. After removal they are found to possess a thin capsule, to be of a yellowish colour, and to contain a large quantity of infiltrated serous fluid, which may be squeezed out abundantly, and coagulates on standing. This fluid may be so abundant as to give rise to distinct fluctuation. Thus, I once removed a soft fibroma from amongst the short muscles of the thumb, which had previously been treated unsuccessfully by puncture, under the impression that it was cystic in nature. Under the microscope these tumours display a beautifully delicate network of white fibrous tissue, arranged in undulating filaments and fibrous bands, in the midst of which stellate, spindle-shaped, oval or round cells are found. These cells are similar to those normally found in fully developed or growing fibrous tissue. They vary in abundance, but never exceed the fibrous tissue in amount. The cells are rendered more apparent by the addition of acetic acid. These tumours sometimes appear to grow rapidly, when, in reality, the increase in size is due to a rapid increase of the fluid, and not to a new deposit of a solid character in the tumour. As these tumours are perfectly innocent, no hesitation need be felt about their removal. 2. Pirm Fibromata—Fibroid or Desmoid Tumours.—These tumours are met with in various situations, the most common of which are the bones and periosteum, the subcutaneous connective tissue, and in connection with nerves. In the uterus, " fibroid " tumours are exceedingly common, but in this situation they contain not only fibrous tissue, but also a variable amount of non-striated muscular fibre. Amongst the best known examples of firm fibromata may be enumerated the simple or fibrous epulis, the fibrous tumours of the antrum or lower jaw, the fibrous polypus of the nose, the ordinary or false neuroma, and the painful subcutaneous tubercle. Fibrous tumours are also seen in the neck, especially in the parotid region. In shape these tumours are irregularly oval or rounded; they are smooth, painless, and, except when growing from bone, freely movable ; they increase slowly, but may attain an enormous size, equal to that of a cocoa-nut or water-melon. Liston removed one from the neck, which is in the Museum of the College of Surgeons, that weighed twelve pounds ; they have, how- ever, been found weighing as much as seventy pounds. They are almost invariably single ; they are excessively firm and hard, but yield slightly on pressure, in this differing from bony tumours. When cut into, they present a white glistening fibrous structure, often showing, to the naked eye, bundles of interlacing fibres. Sometimes the fibres show a concentric arrange- ment (Fig. ;560) ; an appearance which, according to Billroth, is due to the fibrous formation taking place around nerves and vessels. On microscopic examination, pure fibromata are found to be composed of interlacing bundles of white fibrous tissue, scattered amongst which are cells, few^ in number, and spindle-shaped, stellate, or oval in form (Fig. 361). These are often rendered apparent only by the addition of acetic acid. In most cases the vessels are not abundant, but frequently these tumours can be shown by injection to be very vascular. Sometimes coarse cavernous spaces may be