TUMOURS. 1022 although this term would be more properly limited to these tumours in which newly formed nerve-filaments are found. They form rounded tumours, over which the fibres of the nerve are stretched ; they are frequently multiple, sometimes extremely numerous, very hard and dense, and almost invariably painless, and not affecting the function of the nerve upon which they grow. They are more movable in a direction transverse to the course of the nerve upon which they are seated than in any other, when the limb is put in such a position as to tighten the nerve ; a symptom which is of some importance in their diagnosis. Painful SuTjcutaneous Tubercle is a peculiar form of fibroma, found beneath the skin, usually of one of the extremities, but very rarely of the trunk. It is seldom more than half an inch in diameter, and is so small as scarcely to cause a prominence on the surface; yet it gives rise to pain of the most agonizing character, usually called forth by some slight touch or pressure, and then lasting perhaps for an hour or more. These tumours are not neuromata ; at any rate, no connexion has as yet been traced between them and nerve-filaments. They are far more frequent in females than in males. Fibromata of Glands are rare, being almost confined to the mamma. The Treatment of fibromata is in some cases merely palliative ; but when they are so situated as to admit of removal, as in the neck, lower jaw, antrum, mamma, or subcutaneous tissue, they should always be extirpated. Tumours closely resembling fibromata in naked-eye appearance and in con- sistence have been known to recur after removal with a great tendency to ulceration, sloughing, and hsemorrhage. They may even give rise to secondary deposits in internal organs. These tumours will always be found on micro- scopic examination to present the signs of one of the forms of sarcoma to be described hereafter. Pure fibromata are invariably benign. c. Enchondroma — Chondroma — Cartilaginous Tumours.— These tumours form an exceedingly interesting group, being of comparatively frequent occurrence, and sometimes attaining a large size. In structure, a chondroma closely resembles normal hyaline cartilage. The cells vary much in size and shape. In the most typical form they are large {-^^ to inch), round, oval, or polygonal in shape, contain a single large nucleus and nucleolus, and are sometimes enclosed in a capsule as in normal cartilage. Occasionally the cells are found to be irregular in shape and branched, the processes of one cell communicating with those of another, as in a myxoma. This form resembles the cartilage normally found only in the cuttle-fish. The matrix may be hyaline, as in normal foetal or articular car- tilage, or may contain a few fibres. It varies much in density, occasionally being so soft as to give the tumour a false feeling of fluctuation. This softness is usually found in the more rapidly growing varieties. The tumour may consist of a single mass of cartilage, or may be composed of innumerable lobules, bound together by vascular bands of fibrous tissue. It is this vascularity that oftens forms the most striking difference between normal cartilage and enchon- droma. Its surface may be covered by a distinct fibrous layer, sharply limiting it from the surrounding tissues, or the mass of cartilage may be surrounded by a vascular zone of embryonic tissue, sometimes composed of round, and sometimes of spindle-shaped cells, which may infiltrate and invade the sur- rounding structures. It is this variety, which is more properly classed as a