VENEREAL DISEASES. specifics, 7 suffered only from a single eruption on the skin, and after that showed no further signs of the disease : in 53 the disease lasted from ten to eleven months, Avith eruption on the skin and mucous membranes, occurring irregularly with repeated relapses ; 2i) suffered from severe cutaneous erup- tions, periostitis, iritis, &c., the average duration of the disease being twenty months ; and in 4 only did the disease assume a grave form with early appear- ance of tertiary symptoms. Berkeley Hill considers that these statistics form a valuable index of the natural course of syphilis. The Circumstances influencing the Progress of the disease are chiefly the following :— Age.—Other things being equal, the disease runs the mildest course in young adults. Infants suffer more severeh% and after middle life syphilis is very apt to prove intractable. According to some authorities, it is practically incurable if contracted after forty, the patient being constantly troubled by relapses for the remainder of his life. Sex.—Females are apt to suffer severely, because, owing to the more concealed situation of the primary sore, they often do not come under treatment till the secondary symptoms are fully developed. Pregnancy usually aggravates the course of the disease. Personal Habits and Stirroimdings have a considerable influence on the course of syphilis. The disease is seen in its worst forms amongst those who suffer from insufficient food, clothing and washing, and are addicted to i Jcoholic excesses. In a young adult of sound constitution, who leads a healthy and steady life, with plenty of out-door exercise, syphihs is very rarely followed by any of its graver consequences, and usually ceases to give rise to any symptoms in about one year. The state of the patienVs health also determines to a great extent the kind of attack he will undergo. In scrofulous subjects the disease usually runs a severe course, and tertiary ulcerations are very prone to occur. In gouty subjects the skin eruptions are very apt to relapse, and periostitis is common. Rheumatism also is said to render the patient prone to inflammations of bones and to iritis during the progress of syphilis. Chronic renal disease is always a most serious complication, partly no doubt because patients so affected do not bear the mercurial treatment well. After the symptoms of the disease have subsided, they may again be called into activity by any cause which seriously impairs the general health. It is remarkable for how long a time the syphilitic poison will lie dormant in the constitution without producing any local manifestation of its existence, until this is developed under the influence of a broken state of health. I have had under my care an extremely severe case of constitutional syphilis, in which twelve years elapsed after the occurrence of the primary disease, during the whole of which time no secondary affection was observed until the patient's health gave way from other causes. I have also had under my care an officer, in whom a very severe form of constitutional syphilis occurred, for the first time, after salivation for hepatic disease, five years after the primary sore had been contracted—no constitutional manifestation having attracted the patient's attention in the meanwhile. Not only does a state of ill- health hasten the occurrence of secondary syphilis, but neglect or indifference to its existence may keep it up indefinitely. ■ That the treatment of the primary sore exercises considerable influence can-