SPECIAL TUBERCULOUS DISEASES. T093 The Tuberculous Ulcer is usually characterized the following features : The floor of the ulcer is yellow and granular, the base is slightly indurated, and the edges raised and often undermined. It tends to spread slowly by progressive infection of surrounding tissues. In surgical practice we meet with such ulcers in the skin, bladder, rectum, tongue, and larynx. In these the progress of the disease is often hastened by the decomposition of the discharges from the sore. Constitutional Symptoms of Tuberculous Diseases.—Local tuber- culous diseases are not necessarily accompanied by any recognizable con- stitutional symptoms, even though many different local centres of tubercle exist. When, however, tubercle exists in a considerable local mass, as in the kidney or testicle, or in a diseased joint, and more especially when it is com- mencing to sofcen, careful thermometric observations will almost always show some elevation of temperature, especially at night. This may not be great, perhaps not up to 100° F., but if it is persistent, it is very grave evidence of softening tubercle. The consideration of the symptoms of general tuberculosis belongs rather to Medicine than to Surgery. When visceral tuber- culosis occurs as a secondary consequence of a local tuberculous disease it most commonly appears in the form of ordinary pulmonary phthisis, and runs the usual chronic course. Progressive emaciation, evening elevation of temperature and night sweats, which cannot be accounted for by prolonged suppuration from the local seat of disease, always lead to a grave apprehension that general tuberculosis is taking place. In cases of acute general tuberculosis following a local tuberculous disease, such as are occasionally met with in joint disease and more often in tuber- culous testicle, there is marked febrile disturbance, the thermometer reaching often 108° F. or 104° F., without, at first, definite afl'ection of any orgnn. The symptoms may then closely resemble typhoid fever, or if there is an open wound, may be mistaken for septicEemia. Before long, usually not later than the second week, symptoms either of acute pulmonary phthisis, tuberculous meningitis, or some other definite tuberculous affection, make their appearance. Special Tuberculous Diseases,—The only certain evidence that a disease is tuberculous is the presence of the bacillus tuberculosis in the diseased tissues, proved either by direct microscopic observation, by cultivation, or by inocula- tion. The general course of the disease, the invasion of the tissues by a chronic inflammatory new growth, incapable of higher development, and tending always to caseation, and the occasional termination in general or pulmonary tuberculosis, are secondary proofs, but cannot be considered cou- clusive in the absence of the demonstration of the bacillus. The follow ing surgical diseases have been proved more or less conclusively to be tuberculous : {a.) Skin and subcutaneous tissue : lupus, and subcutaneous scrofulous abscess ; (5.) Mucous membranes : tuberculous ulceration of tongue, pharynx, palate, and larynx ; some cases of scrofulous ozasna and fistula in ano '; (c.) Lymphatic glands: many cases of strumous enlargement and scrofulous abscess ; {d.) Genito-uriuary organs : scrofulous kidney^ strumous testicle, and some forms of ulceration of the bladder, and scrofulous disease of the prostate and vesiculas seminales ; (e.) Bones and joints ; all cases of white swelling, or fungous disease ; many of chronic synovitis ; almost all, if not all, cases of caries, not evidently traumatic, septic, or syphilitic ; chronic abscess of bone.