MECHANICAL IRRITANTS. 175 inflammation ; and a red hot iron would, of course, give rise to immediate death of the part it touched. The effect produced by an irritant will depend first, upon the intensity of the irritant and secondly, upon tlie poivers of resistance of the tissues on which it acts : thus, in the feeble tissues of a limb the arteries of which are so diseased as to bring the supply of blood below the normnl standard, inflam.mation is readily induced by slight causes. It has already been stated that insufficient supply of blood acts as a powerful predisposing cause of inflammation ; the complete arrest of the circulation, if continued for a sufficient length of time, acts as a direct exciting cause. This was shown by Cohnheim in his well-known experiments on the tongue of the frog and on the ear of the rabbit. If the ear of the rabbifc be emptied of blood, and a temporary ligature applied at its base, the effect produced is proportional to the time during which the ear is kept bloodless ; if this be a few hours only, temporary hypertemia alone results, with perhaps sMght swelhng ; if about twelve hours, the ear becomes greatly swollen, there is retarded flow in the vessels Avith abundant inflammatory exudation, and the tissues become infil- trated with migrating white blood-corpuscles ; if the ear be kept bloodless till its vitality is lost, the blood cannot enter it, the corpuscles imme- diately choking the vessels and blocking them as in inflammatory stasis, so that any flow is impossible. Thus any degree of inflammation can bo produced at will by varying the time during which the ear is kept bloodless. Cohnheim showed also that after the ear has been bloodless for a time suffi- cient in some degree to lower its vitality, slight injuries cause a higher degree of inflammation than in a healthy ear. This experiment is sometimes unin- tentionally performed on the human subject. Some years ago a patient came under my care, whose whole arm had been accidentally rendered bloodless by the application of an apparatus for the treatment of fracture of the clavicle. At first, when the bandages Avere removed, the limb seemed hopelessly dead ; but after a short time it was evident that, although its vitality was reduced to the lowest possible degree, it was not absolutely destroyed, for the blood began slowly to find its way even to the finger-tips, but with this all the phenomena of acute inflammation were developed. The limb became swollen, red and tense to such an extent that the circulation became again arrested by the pressure of the exudation, and gangrene set in, necessitating amputation at the shoulder-joint. On making incisions into the amputated limb, a most abundant inflammatory exudation, like thin pus, streamed from the sub- cutaneous tissues and muscles. The same phenomena are observed in strangu- lated hernia. It is a well-known fact that in complete strangulation, even when the gut has been cut off from the circulation for many hours, no inflam- matory exudation is found on its surface when the sac is opened in the operation ; but should the patient die shortly after reduction, the gut is found to be covered with a thick layer of inflammatory exudation. Here, as in the rabbit's ear, the phenomena of inflammation do not manifest themselves till the circulation is re-established in the strangulated part. Irritants, that is to say, injurious influences acting as causes of inflamma- tion, may be divided into six groups : Mechanical, Physical, Chemical, Organised, Functional, and Nervous. 1. Mechanical Irritants may be thus subdivided :—(a) Direct mechanical violence, as in wounds, bruises, fractures of bones, &c. (b) Moremmt, which is a frequent cause of persistence of inflammation, as in inflamed joints, but is