3 GENERAL EE MARKS ON OPERATIONS. liim, and modified subsequently by himself and numerous otlier Surgeons, has probably saved more Hves tlian any single discovery since vaccination. How- ever the details of the Antisepidc Metliod may be varied in the course of time, the principle which underlies it and on which its details are founded cannot change, for it is based upon facts now beyond dispute. The principle may be briefly described as follows. The vast majority of unhealthy inflammations in wounds and the constitutional affections which arise from them, are due to the presence of microscopic organisms which have gained admission directly from without. These organisms may enter the wound from the air, but are more commonly carried by water, or by the Surgeon's hands or instruments. Experimental investigation has shown that they are destroyed by numerous chemical substances known as antiseptics. The antiseptic method of treat- ment consists, therefore, in pre\'enting the entrance of these organisms by the use of antiseptic solutions, for washing the wound, or sponges ; in disinfecting with similar solutions all instruments and the Surgeon's hands, and the wound itself, if it have been exposed to infection, as must necessarily be the case in all accidental injuries. The wound being thus freed from all living organisms, is protected from subsequent infection by the application of' a dressing impregnated with some antiseptic substance. It is an important feature of the Antiseptic Method, that after the wound has been once disinfected, the antiseptic shall not be allowed to come in contact with the raw surface, as all chemical antiseptics are more or less powerfully irritating. This distinguishes the true Antiseptic Method from the old-fashioned plan of using disinfectants. The object of the Antiseptic Method is absolutely to prevent putrefaction or infection, and at the same time to irritate the raw surfaces of the wound as little as possible by the antiseptic. In every detail of practice the Surgeon must be guided by the theory. Antiseptics have been used in Surgery from time immemorial, but the results obtained were unsatisfactory till their employment was directed by more accurate knowledge of the causes of putrefaction and of infection. Their scientific use has revolutionised modern Surgery, and has done almost as much to extend the field of operative surgery as the introduction of AuEesthetics. A scarcely less noticeable feature of this epoch has been the application of the rules of hygiene to the construction and management of hospitals by which the general health of the patients has been much benefited and the mortality reduced. Success in the results is, after all, the thing to aim at, and no amount of manual dexterity can compensate for its want. Manual dexterity is necessarily of the first advantage in the performance of any operation, and the Surgeon should diligently endeavour to acquire the art of using his instruments with neatness and certainty ; but it would be a fatal error to suppose that this is the only or indeed the chief requirement on the part of an operator. Manual dex^terity must not be mistaken for surgical skill; and, desirable as it may be to be able to remove a limb, or to cut out a stone, with rapidity,-important in a word, as it is to become a dexterous operator—it is of far greater import- ance to become a successful Surgeon. The object of every operation is the removal of some condition that either threatens life, or interferes with the comfort or utility of existence ; and the more safely as well as certainly a Surgeon can accomplish this object, the better will he do his duty to his patients, and the more successful will he be in his practice. Success then, in B 2