MODIFICATION- OF SENSIBILITY IN INFLAMMATION. 191 matory exudation. In inflammation due to chemical irritants, such as the products of putrefaction, it is probably in part due to the direct action of the irritant on the nerve endings. That the pressure of the dilated blood-vessels really is a cause of the pain in inflammation is shown by the relief derived from the elevation of an inflamed part. In inflammation of the testicle this is especially marked, as the veins leading from that gland are valveless, and in the erect position the weight of a column of blood, two feet or more in length, acts upon the vessels and tends to increase the intra-vascular pressure. We frequently find, there- fore, that the patient is altogether free from pain while lying flat on his back ; but the moment he rises into the erect position the characteristic sickening, aching, and throbbing sensations return. In inflammation of organs of special sense, instead of actual pain there may be some alteration in the special nervous sensibility of the diseased organ. When the eye is inflamed, subjective flashes of light may be seen ; when the ear is diseased, there may be noises of various kinds. In inflammation of the bladder, there is a constant desire to expel urine ; and in inflammation of the rectum, there are frequent attempts at deftecation. Pain is one of the most prominent symptoms of inflammation, and its existence serves a useful purpose by preventing the patient from using or moving the inflamed part. The intensity of the pain depends more upon the structure affected than on the violence of the inflammation, being, as a rule, greater in proportion as the tissue affected is incapable of yielding to the pres- sure exercised on it by the dilated vessels and the inflammatory exudation. Hence, in general, the severity of the pain is in inverse ratio to the swell- ing of the part. Thus, the pain of inflamed bone or fibrous tissue is excessive ; that of areolar tissue trifling, and in erysipelas of the scalp most pain is experi- enced in the ears. In some forms of inflammation pain can scarcely be said to be present; thus, in septic peritonitis there may be little or none. The character of pain varies according to the seat of inflammation. When mucous membranes suffer, it is often of an itching or burning character, as in conjunctivitis; when the serous membranes of the chest or abdomen are at- tacked, it is lancinating or stabbing ; it is aching in osteitis ; throbbing when pus is about to form ; sickening when the testis is affected. Inflammatory pain is always increased by pressure ; when it is produced principally by pressure, the part is said to be tmder. This tenderness is of great service from a dia- gnostic point of view ; it may be elicited by direct pressure upon the part, as by squeezmg an inflamed testis, or by pressing two surfaces together, as in an inflamed joint. In inflammatory pain, especially of osseous and fibrous tissues, there is very commonly nocturnal exacerbation. It is important to bear in mind that the pain in inflammation is often referred to other parts supplied by the same nerve as that implicated in the inflamed area. These reflected pains are usually referred to the terminal branches of the nerve. Thus, in hip disease, in which the branch of the obturator to the joint is implicated, the pain is often referred to the inner side of the knee, where the terminal branches of that nerve communicate with the internal cutaneous and saphenous nerves. In deep-seated inflammation of the eye the patient often sufi'ers excruciating pain along the branches of the fifth nerve over the whole side of the head and face. These reflected pains are often of the greatest importance in the diagnosis of deep-seated inflammations