SPECIAL FRACTURES, 6o8 connection with this accident is, that it commonly happens from very sHght degrees of violence, indeed almost spontaneously. Thus, the jarring of the foot in missing a step in going downstairs, catching the toes under the carpet, tripping upon a stone, or entangling the foot in turning in bed, are sometimes sufficient to occasion it. Cause.—The occurrence of this fracture in old age is owing indirectly to the changes in structure, shape, and position of the head and neck of the femur with advancing years. The cancellous structure becomes expanded, the spaces large and loaded with soft fat. The compact structure becomes thinned, and proportionately weakened, especially about the middle and under pai't of the neck, which, appearing to yield to the weight of the body, is shortened ; and the angle between the neck and the shaft is generally said to become lessened, although the investigations of Humphry throw considerable doubt on this „. , , , „ , Limb in Intracapsular Fig. 20,.—Intracapsular Fracture of the Fracture of tlie Neck of Neck of the Femur. the Thi;ih-Bone. belief. In consequence of these changes it becomes less able to bear any sudden shock, and snaps under the influence of very slight degrees of violence. When it breaks, the capsule may remain uninjured, but the prolongation of it which invests the neck of the bone is usually torn. In some cases, however, this cervical reflection is not rfiptured, the lower portion especially often re- maining for some time untorn, but at last giving way under the influence of the movements of the limb, or from inflammatory softening. The fragments are almost always so separated that the fractured surfaces are not in apposition; the upper end of the lower fragment is drawn above and behind the head of the bone, and at the same time is twisted so that its broken surface looks forwards. The head remains in the acetabulum, attached by the ligamentum teres, and sometimes preserving a connection with the lower frag- ment, through the medium of some untorn portions of the fibrous membrane investing the neck. E. W. Smith has observed that in some instances the two