INJURIES OF THE CHEST. 862 these writers, whenever this rises and the cough or hgemopfcysis returns, recourse should be had to the lancet. In the Crimean campaign, Macleod states that " those cases did best in which early, active, and repeated bleed- ings were had recourse to." In the official Report of the Medical and Surgical History of the War in the Crimea, venesection is advocated with equal decision as a means of arresting hfcmoptysis. The writer states : " When hasmoptysis to any considerable or dangerous extent is present, venesection for the rapid induction of syncope seems not only allowable, but seems to afford the only chance of safety, and may even require to be repeated." However paradoxical or even irrational it might at first sight appear to endeavour to restrain one haemorrhage by establishing another, yet the practice seemed established as the result of experience; and its good effects could be explained by the sudden induction of syncope giving time for the sealing up of the pulmonary vessels by coagulation of blood within them. But although this was the practice up to a comparatively recent period, the views of military Surgeons on this point seem now to have undergone a complete change; and the experience derived from the great Civil War in America and from the Maori war in New Zealand, has led to the promulgation of different doctrines and the adoption of a different line of practice. In the American war, venesection appears to have been generally abandoned, while reliance was placed on rest, cold, and opium foi' the arrest of hemorrhage ; and this practice is said to have been generally satisfactory. In New Zealand, Mouat states that bleed- ing was almost entirely discarded. Longmore says that, if the patient should survive, the loss of blood by venesection seems to interrupt the reparative measures adopted by nature. If extravasation of blood into the pleura be going on, its further effusion must, if possible, be arrested by the same means. Should the heemor- rhage continue notwithstanding the employment of the means indicated, Guthrie advises that the wound should be closed, so that the blood which flows into the pleural sac may, by accumulating in this, compress the lung, and thus arrest the further escape of blood from the wounded vessels ; the patient at the same time should be made to lie on the injured side, in order to increase the pressure exercised upon the wounded organ. When the bleeding has been checked in this way, the blood must be removed as early as possible from the pleural sac ; for, if it be allowed to remain, it will in most cases decompose, the putrefactive ferment having found its way in before the wound was closed. Death then may take place from absorption of the products of putrefaction, or should the patient escape this, suppurative pleurisy inevitably follows. To prevent this, the pleura must be tapped with a large aspirator-needle on the fourth or fifth day, or earlier if the temperature be very high. Should it be found that the blood is free from putrefaction, the extravasation is best removed by repeated aspirations, care being taken not to remove too much at one time, lest by causing a forcible expansion of the lung the htemorrhage may be started again. If the fluid withdrawn is decomposiug, a free opening must be made either from the original wound, or at the most convenient spot, and a large drainage-tube inserted. The after-treatment will be the same as for septic empyema. During the American war various drugs were made use of, with the intention of aiding the arrest of hemorrhage, amongst them being tartarated antimony, aconite, gallic and tannic acids, and acetate of lead ; bat their effects do not