FRACTURES IN THE VICINITY OF KNEE-JOINT. 623 limb be treated in splints, and an endeavour made to save it, disarticulation at the hip-joint in such cases being almost invariably fatal. When a compouud fracture of the thio-h-bone occurs from one of the common accidents of civil life, even if it be comminuted, the Kne of practice is not so defined. The course which the Surgeon adopDs must be influenced bj the extent of injury done to the soft parts, more particularly to the main blood- vessels of the limb. If the integuments and muscles be extensively torn and lacerated, or if there be reason to believe that the femoral vessels have suf- fered, amputation must be performed. But if the wound be but small, made by the perforation of the bone rather than by the violence which occasioned the fracture, and if the vessels be uninjured, an attempt must be made to save the hmb, which should be put up in Thomas's hip-splint, or in the long bracketed splint, and treated with the strictest attention to drainage and to the prevention of decomposition. In cases of compound fracture, where the wound is in the posterior and outer part of the limb, I have found a long thigh-splint, bracketed opposite the seat of injury, the most convenient appar- atus, enabling the hmb to be kept of a proper length, and the wound to be dressed at the same time. The treatment of the complication of a ivound of the maiti artery, femoral or popliteal, with and by a fracture of the thigh-bone, will vary according as the injury is compound or simple. Such an accident, complicating a compound fracture, would probably be a case for immediate amputation. If the fracture be simple, and a diffused traumatic aneurism form in the ham or lower part of the thigh, we must treat the latter in accordance with the principles laid down at p. 548. In discussing the treatment of these accidents, in which the question of Fig. 219.—Diagram to Illustrate tlie Displacement which follows Transverse Fracture of the Femur just above the Condyles, ij, gastrocnemius ; o.;/i, adductor magnus ; n, artery ; r, vein. amputation of the thigh is raised, I cannot too strongly state my conviction that, unavoidable as it undoubtedly is in some cases, as the only alternative left to the Surgeon, this operation, when practised primarily for compoimd fractures of the thigh-hone, is one of the most fatal in surgery, and should accordingly not be too hastily resolved upon. 3. Fractures in the Vicinity of the Knee-joint.—The lower end of the thigh-bone may be broken across transversely, immediately above the condyles, and occasionally this may be complicated by a vertical fissure separating the condyles from each other, and extending into the knee-joint. In other cases, the fracture extends through one of the condyles, detaching it