ARREST OF ARTERIAL HEMORRHAGE. 448 artery, met with in the disscctino'-room of University College, a tortuous vessel, about the size of a crow-quill, and measuring, when straightened out, nine inches in length, was found passing from the internal mammary in the third intercostal space to the external mammary branch of the axillary. Occasionally a number of such arteries may form an interlacement. The anastomosing arteries that carry on the circulation are, as a rule, easily dissected out in a well-injected subject in the dissecting-room, and^ at one time it was supposed that it was not safe to tie a large artery except in those situations in which such easily demonstrable anastomoses exist. Thus, for instance, after the ligature of the common carotid, the supply of blood is ultimately conveyed by the inosculations between the superior and inferior thyroid arteries and by the vertebral. When the subclavian is tied the circu- Fig. 147.—Atiastoiiiosiiig Cir- culation in Sartorius iiiul Pectinetis of Dog, three months after Ligatnre of Femoral. (After Porta.) Fig. 148.—Direct Anasto- mosing Vessels of Right Carotid of Goat, five months after Ligature. (After Porta.) Fig. 149.—Change in the Trunk after Ligature ; Avith Anasto- mosing Vessel. lation of the upper extremity is carried on by the anastomosis of the posterior scapular and suprascapular from the thyroid axis, with the acromio-thoracic Mud subscapular of the axillary, of the branches of the internal mammary and intercostal arteries with the external mammary of the axillary, and of the superior intercostal of the subclavian with the superior thoracic of the axillarv ; and when the external ihac is tied, the blood is conveyed to the lower limb by the inosculations between the internal mammary aud lumbar arteries and the epigastric and circumflex ilii, and by those between the obturator, gluteal, and sciatic arteries, and the circumflex branches of the profunda femoris. It has however, repeatedly been shown that the ordinary muscular and subcutaneous vessels of the part are amply sufficient to carry on the circula- tion, even when no anastomosing arteries can be demonstrated by dissection.