• OBSTACLES TO REDUCTION. 645 always much stretched and more or less extensively torn, the capsule of the joint suffering- especially. This is almost invariably torn by the pressure of the head of the bone in dislocation of ball-and-socket joints; m those of hinge-joints, it may escape. The situation of the slit in the capsule is of great importance in reference to reduction. It commonly occurs in the shoulder towards the attachment around the glenoid cavity ; in the hip, as Busch has pointed out, at the acetabular margin. In many cases, the muscles and tendons in the immediate neighbourhood are lacerated as well as displaced, and the vessels and nerves compressed. The skin is commonly stretched, and sometimes ruptured, when the dislocation becomes compound. If the disloca- tion be simple, and if reduction be speedily effected, the injuries are soon repaired ; and although a good deal of stiffness may continue, the functions of the joint are not, in general, permanently interfered with. If the dislocation be left unreduced, important changes take place within and around the joint, in the bony structures, the ligaments, capsule, and muscles. The changes in the bony structures are very slow, differing in this respect materially in ordinary traumatic dislocations from what takes place in a joint that has been dislocated as the result of disease. If the articulation be of the ball-and-socket kind, as the shoulder or hip, the cavity undergoes very gradual changes in outline and depth ; its circumference becomes contracted, less regular, more angular, and the hollow eventually becomes shallower. These changes are so slow in the adult that a year or more will elapse before they have gone on to such a degree as to prevent the displaced head of the bone from being put back. In children and young people they are more rapid and complete, and the cavity fills up with dense fibrous tissue. In the hinge-joints, the articular ends of the displaced bones become altered in shape—flattened or angular, with the osseous projections less strongly marked. The cartilage is gradually absorbed, and the bone smoothed. The ligaments are shortened and wasted; and a false joint forms around the articular end of the bone in its new situation. In some cases, the bone upon which the dislocated head rests becomes depressed into a shallow cup-shaped cavity, so as to receive it ; in others the depression is formed by the elevation of a rim of callus upon the adjacent bone ; and in both instances the areolar tissue in the neighbour- hood becomes consohdated into a fibrous capsule surrounding and fixing the bone in its new situation, and usually permitting but a limited degree of motion. The soft structures that have been lacerated at the time of the dis- location become matted together by cicatricial fibrous tissues ; the muscles shorten, aud at last undergo fatty degeneration if the position of the limb is such that it is incapable of movement. The neighbouring vessels and nerves may become attached to the new joint, or their sheaths become incorporated with the altered structures in contact with them. Treatment.—In the treatment of dislocations, the first and principal indi- cation is to replace the bone in its normal situation as speedily as possible. In doing this, the Surgeon has two great difficulties to overcome : 1, the contraction of the muscles of the part ; and, 2, the resistance arising from the anatomical structure of the joint and the laceration of the capsule. 1. One great obstacle to reduction in most dislocations is the tonic con- traction of the muscles inserted into or below the displaced bones ; and in the reduction of the dislocation the Surgeon's efforts are partly directed to over- come this. The amount of resistance due to muscular contraction may be