54 GENERAL REMARKS ON OPERATIONS. at the same titoe, steady the foot, and hold it in a convenient position for the Surgeon. The limb .being hent at a right angle, the assistant puts the patient s knee in his axilla ; he then grasps the limb firmly with one hand above the ankle, and with -the finger, and thumb compresses the vessels. The posterior tibial is to be compressed with the tips of the fingers one finger's breadth behind the internal malleolus, and the anterior tibial with the thumb in front of the ankle at a point exactly midway between the two malleoli, that is to say, a little to the outer side of the middle line. CONSTITUTIONAL EFFECTS OF OPEEATIONS. Every operation of any importance is followed by a certain degree oi shock as indicated bv a low temperature and a small and frequent pulse. As the shock passes off the temperature usually rises slightly above the normal point, the pulse becomes fuller and there is some thirst. This traumakc fever, it moderate and confined within certain limits, can scarcely be looked upon as a morbid condition; and unless it is kept up by some unhealthy state ot the wound, by the presence of decomposing matter, or by pent-up discharges, it completely subsides by the third day. If the thermometer remain below 100° F. no anxiety need be felt on this score. The Local Treatment of Operation-Wounds differs in no respect from that of accidental wounds, and will be treated of in the chapter on the treat- ment of such injuries. The Constitutional After-Treatment of operations demands as mucn attention on the part of the Surgeon as the management of the wound itself. Immediately after the operation, and before the effects of the ansesthetic have passed off; the patient should be comfortably arranged in bed, with the clothes supported by a cradle, or other contrivance, away from the part implicated. When the patient has fully recovered from the ansesthetic, if he is m much pain a hypodermic injection of morphia or a dose of laudanum may be given, but this should be avoided if possible, as it may cause vomiting. The patient should always be kept perfectly quiet. The Diet after the Operation must depend upon the constitutional condition of the patient, his previous habits, his age, and upon the severity of the operation, and the septic or aseptic state of the wound. _ As a o-eneral rule it is unwise to hurry the reaction after an operation by the administration of stimulants. A slow reaction gives more time for the perfect closure of the smaller vessels which have not been tied, and thus diminishes the chance of intermediate haemorrhage. It is only m dangerously severe shock that stimulants are required. After minor operations the patient, if otherwise healthy, may be allowed his ordinary diet somewhat dimmished in nuanticy and without stimulants. In more severe operations the Surgeon must be o-uided by the course taken by the wound and by the temperature. Durin«- the first two or three days there is usually some shght elevation of temperature, and the appetite is impaired by the antesthetic and the sudden confinement to bed. During this period the patient will seldom care for solid food and he should be restricted to farinaceous slops, beef-tea, soups, and liirht puddino-s, without stimulants. If the wound runs an aseptic course, the temperature will usually fall to normal by the third day ; the appetite then returns, and the patient may be allowed to resume his ordinary diet.