I044 TUMOURS. Plexiform Sarcoma or Cylindroma.—A rare form of tumour has been described by Billroth, Sattler, and others, undei' this name. It consists of small cells of a polygonal form arranged in cylinders communicating with each other in a plexiform manner, between which is a varying quantity of hyaline, or hnely fibrillar connective tissue. Knob-like projections or globe-like masses of the cells are also met with. The individual cells are in immediate contact with each other, without any apparent intercellular substance. The peculiar appearances are supposed to be due to a hyaline or mucoid degeneration of the walls of the vessels and the neighbouring cells of the tumour. The remaining cells are squeezed together, and thus assume the form of columns of polygonal cells. Great doubt exists, however, as to the exact mode of origin of these growths. At first sight a microscopic section of a plexiform sarcoma closely resembles that of an epithelioma, but a careful examination with a higher power shows its true nature. The tumours seldom reach any great size. They are soft and gelatinous, and of a dirty white colour. They are most commonly met with in the brain, the orbit, and some- times in the salivary glands. Butlin has recorded a case in which the tumour formed in the popliteal space. It recurred after removal, and its true nature was shown by the fact that the recurrent growths assumed the form of the ordi- nary round-celled sarcoma. Melanotic sarcoma is usually of the spindle-celled variety, but frequently con- tains large numbers of round or oval, intermixed with the fusiform, cells (Fig. 384). The spindle cells are of large size, and there is no fibrous stroma between them. More rarely it presents the structure of an alveolar sarcoma. The pigment is seen as brownish granular matter in the interior of a certain number of the cells, the rest remaining colourless. The proportion of coloured cells varies in different specimens. In the secondary tumours, it has been shown by Godlee that the new cells follow the lines of the vessels. These tumours are usually sharply circumscribed, both to the naked eye and the microscope. They are soft, sometimes almost pulpy, round or oval in shape, and vary in colour from dark brown to the most intense black. They arise especially from structures in which pigment naturally exists, namely, the skin (Fig. 884) and choroid coat of the eye (Fig. 38G). They appear, however, occasionally to arise primarily in the lymphatic glands, and primary melanotic sarcoma of the liver has been recorded. They are of rapid growth, and occur usually in middle life. Melanotic sarcoma is one of the most malignant of all Fig. 384.—Melanotic Sarcoma coininencing in tlic PaiMlUv of the Skin (Malignant Mole). (40 cliani.) a. Superficial epidermis. h. Deeper layers of Epidermis, which is deficient to the right of the drawing. c. Prolongation of the Eiiidermis into the centre of the growth. d. Sarcoma tissue, chiefly non - pigmented but with scattered melanotic patches. e. Connective tissue round the tumour infiltrated with small round cells. /. Surrounding connective tissue with vessels.