INJURIES OF MUSCLES AND TENDONS. 501 of the patient. Nerve-stretching seems, therefore, in these cases to be very successful, and as it is practically free from danger it should always be adopted when milder means have failed. INJURIES OF MUSCLES AND TENDONS. Contusions.—Muscles are fi-equently bruised by violent blows or falls, a few fibres being often ruptured. The chief signs of this injury are a sense of inability to use the muscles, and great pain on attempting to do so. There is tenderness on pressure over the bruised spot, but passive movements do not cause pain so long as they do not put the injured fibres on the stretch. By careful attention to these points, it is easy to distinguish these injuries from fractures of neighbouring bones, which they sometimes resemble—especially in the neighbourhood of the shoulder-joint. Sprains or Strains of muscular parts, without rupture of fibres, are of very common occurrence, especially about the shoulder, the hip, and the loins, and are accompanied by much pain and stiffness, and by inability to move the part. When they occur in rheumatic subjects, these injuries not uncommonly give rise to severe and persistent symptoms ; painful atrophy, rigidity, or local paralysis of the injured muscle being induced in some cases. It is then often difficult to determine how much is due to the direct strain of the muscle, and how much to chronic neuritis resulting from a simultaneous strain of the nerves. When complete atrophy of a muscle preceded by much pain follows a strain, it is probable that the nerves have been implicated in the injury. In the Treatment of these accidents, when recent, it will be found that kneading or rubbing the part with a stimulating embrocation gives rehef, but, if the pain be severe, the application of hot fomentations with rest is more effectual. In the later stages, blisters applied to the points at which the pain is most severely felt are often beneficial. If the injury occur in persons of a rheumatic diathesis, the effects are much more severe and persistent than in those who ai-e otherwise constituted. In such persons, douches, frictions, and passive motion will, after a time, be necessary, together with proper constitutional treatment. In strumous subjects, a sprain may lead to the development of very serious inflammations. Muscles that have been s])rained sometimes undergo a species of rigid atrophy, with much impairment of motion of the limb or joint. In such cases, frictions', douches, and above all, electricity, will be found useful. Rupture of the Sheath.—It oc(;asionally happens that the sheath is ruptured, so that the belly of the muscle forms a kind of hernial protrusion through the aperture. This usually happens with the biceps, or the extensors of the fingers or the rectus femoris. Dislocation or Displacement of Muscles or Tendons.—The long slender muscles of the forearm, and the complicated ones of tlie back with their innumerable tendons and belhes, and all tendons lying in grooves in bones, are liable to be displaced by some sudden and unusual movement. The accident is popularly spoken of as a " rick." The characteristic features of the accident are, that during some forcible movement the patient feels a sudden severe pain, localized to a single spot, and at the same time finds himself unable to execute certain movements. The Surgeon in the majority