438 ARREST OF ARTERIAL HuEMORRllACE. duced into practice iu conuection with the antiseptic treatment of wounds, the vast majority of Surgeons made use of liijatures ichich were removed from the ivound after having cut tliromjh the artery li/ a process of ulceration. The material commonly employed with this object was either "dentist's silk" or compressed whipcord well waxed. The ligature was waxed for three reasons : first, to ]nake it more easy to tie when the operator's hands were slippery with blood ; secondly, to prevent the danger of the knot slipping after it had been tied ; and thirdly, to render it as far as possible non-absorbent, and thus to prevent its taking up septic matter, and becoming needlessly irritating. In the absence of antiseptic precautions, however, this last object was but imperfectly attained. The ligature always became impregnated with the products of putrefaction, and thus acting like a seton produced a suppurating track in its course. Inflammation and suppuration were thus kept up until the ligature separated and the source of irritation was removed. Thus no true repair could take place outside the ligatured vessel till after the removal of the ligature. In the vast majority of cases, however, the processes of repair going on inside the vessel were sufficient to close it safely ; and thus haemor- rhage on the separation of the ligature was of comparatively rare occurrence. As has already been stated, the period at which the process of ulceration through the external coat was completed varied with the size of the artery and the thickness of the ligature. Malgaigne pointed out that the size of the liga- ture also exercised a marked influence on the time at which it came away ; the thicker the ligature the greater the irritation it excited, and the sooner was the process of ulceration through the vessel completed. The finest thread possible, provided it was of sufficient strength, was used, as thereby the danger of premature separation was to a great extent avoided, while at the same time the inner and middle coats were more cleanly divided. In some rare cases, as, for example, when the coats of the artery were softened by inflammation, a thicker ligature was used for fear of cutting through the external coat. If it were intended to remove the ligature, one end was cut short and the other brought out of the wound at the most convenient part. Both ends of the ligature on the main artery in an amputation were left, and knotted together as a distinguishing mark. After the first four days the ligatures on the smaller vessels were gently pulled to see if they were loose. The ligature on the main artery was not touched till after the tenth day in the arm, and the fourteenth in the lower limb. Ligatures are scarcely ever applied in this way at the present time, but it may, of course, happen to the Surgeon to be placed in circumstances in which prepared absorbable ligatures may not be at his command. 2. Ligatures tvhich become enclosed in the ivound during the process of healing, and remain 2Ji'rmanentJg encapsuled or become absorbed. Wire Ligatures have been used with this intention in America. The idea originated with Physick and Levert of Alabama, who performed several experiments with threads of gold, silver, platinum, and lead. They found that with these the arteries of animals could be successfully tied, and that, the material of the ligature being unirritating, no evil from suppuration ensued. When the ends of the ligature were cut off close to the vessel, it was found that the small metallic noose became embedded in a cellular capsule. For some reason this means fell into disuse, until it was revived by Marion Sims. At his suo o-estion I tried it in several cases of amputation and other surgical