WOUJDS OF SPECIAL BLOOD-VESSELS. 482 Still, if all other means fail, the Surgeon must fall back on the graduated compress, which, if well and firmly applied, will often succeed in arresting the bleeding. The proper mode of putting on this compress is as follows :—A tourniquet having been placed on the brachial artery, the whole hand and the wound must be thoroughly cleansed with 1 in 20 carbolic acid lotion. A wooden splint is then to be put on the back of the hand and the lower part of the forearm. The pad must be thickened at its lower end so as sHghtly to flex the fingers, thus relaxing the palmar fascia. A firm well-made graduated compress of antiseptic gauze or boric lint is now to be applied accurately witli the apex downwards to the wound, and securely bandaged against it by a separate bandage. The patient should then be put to bed with the hand elevated. At the end of twelve to eighteen hours the bandage maybe carefully removed without disturbing the splint or the compress, and re-applied with just sufficient force to keep the compress in position sticking to the wound without pressing strongly enough to empty the tissues beneath of blood. The patient should be kept for two days in the recumbent position with the hand elevated. It is sometimes recommended that the circulation through the limb should be controlled by a ring-tourniquet, apphed on that artery above the wrist which appears most to correspond with the arch wounded, or better still, on the brachial itself; or the elbow may l)e forcibly flexed, and the fore- arm bandaged to the arm in this position, so that the hand rests upon the shoulder. These precautions are, however, unnecessary, if the compress is properly apphed; but they may sometimes be made use of with advantage after the bandage has been relaxed. The compress, after pressure has been relaxed, may be left undisturbed for five or six days, unless there be redness, swelling, and pain, indicating the formation of pus beneath it, when the sooner it is taken off the better. Should the wound be found healing and looking well, there need be no fear of further haemorrhage; but should the palm be sloughy and infiltrated, there will be a considerable risk of the bleeding recurring. Under these circum- stances, it is useless again to resort to compression, and other means must be employed. Should an ineffectual attempt have been made to arrest the primary haemor- rhage, or should the case not be seen until several days have elapsed, when secondary haemorrhage has occurred, and the palm has become infiltrated and swollen, pressure can no longer be borne upon the seat of injury, and it may be almost impracticable to endeavour to search for the injured vessel in the midst of sloughy and infiltrated tissues. By applying a tourniquet to the arm, and carefully enlarging the wound and scraping away the sloughy tissue with a sharp spoon, the bleeding vessel has, however, been ligatured success- fully in some cases. Failing this, it is necessary to deviate from the ordinary rule of practice, and the operation of proximal ligature may be performed. The Surgeon may either tie both arteries above the wrist, or at once deligate the brachial. Both methods of treatment have their advocates. I prefer the simultaneous ligature of the two arteries of the forearm, just above the wrist, where they are superficial and very easily reached. In several cases under my care, the radial and ulnar, imme- diately above the hand, have been tied at the same time with complete success, and I have never seen a case in Avhich this operation has failed ; but should haemorrhage occur after it, as might happen in the case of an enlarged