930 INFECTIVE DISEASES OF WOUNDS. extreme rarity in cases treated in pure air and in the isolation of a private house. On the other hand, it has been estabhshed incontestably that if the cubic capacity of a ward be taken, and the rate of ventilation through it determined, a Surgeon may with certainty foretell how many suppurating wounds it will require, in the absence of antiseptic treatment, to generate infec- tive disease in it. . . Thus, although in the prevention of these diseases the use of antiseptics must take the first place as attacking the evil at its source, a strict attention to the laws of hygiene as regards cubic space, ventilation, and general cleanh- ness, is also necessary to exclude those accessory conditions that favour its development. By these means combined all this group of diseases can be prevented ; their occurrence is the result in almost all cases of some definite error in the treatment of the wound, or of some infringement of sanitary rules. They are not accidental; they are preventable and ought to be prevented. Should a case arise, our knowledge of the nature of the diseases shows clearly how they may be carried from one individual to another, and efficient means to prevent their spread should at once be adopted. The whole subject of the relation of these diseases to general hygienic conditions has already been dis- cussed (pp. 7 et seq.), and need not be further considered here. The view is steadily gaining ground that the local and constitutional symptoms produced in septic and infective processes are the result of the action of chemical products developed during the growth of the micro-organisms. In the investigation of the nature of these chemical products much valuable work has recently been done and is still in progress. The most important fact, which may be taken as definitively established, is that in certain instances, the 'injection into the body of an animal of a culture of a pathogenic organism, from which the organism itself has been separated by filtration or destroyed by the action of heat, is still followed by the typical symptoms of the disease. This was first demonstrated by Pasteur in 1880, in connexion with chicken cholera ; the symptoms of the disease followed the injection of the sterilized products of the bacillus. In the consideration of Tetanus in the next chapter it will be seen that the characteristic symptoms of the disease can be produced by the injection of the " toxines" obtained from a pure cultivation of the tetanus bacillus. It may further be mentioned that paralysis has been produced in animals by the chemical products of the bacillus of diphtheria ; coma, swelling of the spleen, etc., by those of the bacillus anthracis ; and fatal septic intoxication by a definite chemical body obtained from putrefying blood. The chemical products themselves belong to two chief classes : first, basic substances, which seem to be closely allied to alkaloids in their chemical com- position ; and secondly, toxic albumins, especially albumoses. The relation of these chemical substances elaborated by the growth of pathogenic micro-organisms to the production of acquired immunity is one of great interest, but can only very briefly be referred to here. Pasteur supposed that immunity conferred by a previous attack of an infective disease resulted from the exhaustion of some nutritive material necessary for the growth of the ■ micro-organism. Chauveau, on the other hand, held that it resulted from the retention in the blood of certain products produced by the organism and inimical to its own growth. ^ ^ At the present day two chief views are held on this important subject.