359 AMPUTATION IN GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. at the back of the thigh be carried away, although the vessels and bone be leit uninjured, the case is one for amputation. It may be stated generally (though, doubtless, there are exceptions to this, as to all general rules in surgery) that in the case of a compound fracture of the tower third of the femur occasioned by gun-shot, amputation is the safer practice, unless the patient is likely to be placed in exceptionally favourable circumstances after the wound and the Surgeon has at his command all the means necessary for efficient antiseptic treatment. The mortality, however, after amputation for gun-shot injury of the upjjer two-thirds of the thigh, is so great that many Surgeons have abandoned the operation in these cases, and professional opinion is unsettled as to the course that should be pursued. In the Schleswig-Hoistein war of 1849, it became a question with many of the German and Danish Surgeons whether this operation should be continued, or whether the patient would not have a better chance if the injury was treated on ordinary principles as a compound fracture. At the siege of Sebastopol, the mortality after amputation in the upper third of the thigh was so great in the Russian Army that the Surgeons abandoned the operation. On the other hand, it is stated in the Report of Black Sea Fleet, that to attempt to save the limb in any case of gun-shot fracture of the thigh was to endanger the patient's life. In the Crimea, according to Macleod, a bad compound fracture of the thigh from gun-shot was synonymous with death. This was partly owing to the bad health of the troops, and partly to the terrible effects of conical balls. Macleod states that, although he made every inquiry, he could hear of only three cases in which recovery had, in the Crimea, followed a compound fracture of the upper third of the thigh-bone without amputation. But, exceptional as were such recoveries, he states that they were not so rare as after amputation for similar injuries; as indeed was proved by the fact that not one patient recovered after amputation at the hip-joint. Hutin, the Surgeon to the Invalides in Paris, was able to discover twenty-four cases of recovery after compound fracture above the middle of the thigh, but no case of recovery after amputation for injury of the same part. In the Britisli army in the Crimea, the amputations in the upper third of the thigh, which must have been for compound fractures low down in the bone, were fatal in the ratio of 86 per cent.; of those in the middle, probably for injuries of the lower articular end and knee, GO per cent, died; whilst of those in the lower third, which must have been for injuries of the knee and leg, the mortality was reduced to 50 per cent. The conclusions at which Macleod arrives, after a careful inquiry into this question, are so important, that I give them in his own words. He says: " Under circumstances of war similar to those which occurred in the East, we ought to try to save compound comminuted fractures of the thigh when situated in the upper third ; but immediate amputation should be had recourse to in the case of a like accident occurring in the middle and lower thirds." [n the civil war in America, the opinions of Surgeons appear to ha-\'e been divided; and the conclusion arrived at seems to have been that, provided the large vessels and nerves were not injured, and the circumstances in which the patient was placed as to conveyance not too unfavourable, the chance of recovery would be equal whether amputation were performed or an attempt made to save the limb. But even in these circumstances Hamilton states that, although his experience in that great war has led him to the conclusion