1092 TUBFAiCCLOSIS. of an inch in breadth, which on microscopic examination is found to be com- posed of tubercle nodules, so closely packed as to be practically continuous. (See Fio-ure of Tuberculous Testicle, A^ol. 11.) This is termed fireij infiltration. Beyond this dotted grey granulations miiy be seen in the otherwise healthy tissues. Before it reaches any considerable size the grey granulation undergoes fatty degeneration. It becomes opaque in its centre, yellowish-white in colour, and more friable in structure, and is then termed Yet low Tubercle. By the process of invasion of the surrounding tissues by the tuberculous growth, followed by fatty degeneration and caseation, large cheesy masses may be formed. These commonly reach the size of a pigeon's egg, and are often larger. Thus a lymphatic gland by gradual tuberculous invasion and destruction of its normal tissue, followed by fatty degeneration, may be converted into a yellow cheesy mass, closely surrounded by the stretched capsule. The kidney in like manner may be converted into a huge cheesy mass bigger than a foetal head. Caseated tubercle is soft and brittle, so that it can easily be removed from the cavity in which it is lying, by means of a sharp f^poon. This, as will be subsequently seen, distinguishes it from a softening syphilitic gumma, which is leathery and tough. The fate of these large caseous masses varies. They may either dry up and become firm and be encapsuled, or they may calcify or soften. The particular change that a mass of yellow tubercle undergoes seems to depend in part at least on the situation of the disease. Thus calcification is common in the bones and lymphatic glands, but is rarely, if ever, met with in the skin, testicle, kidney, or synovial membranes. Encapsulation by fibroid tissue is common in the lymphatic glands, and is occasionally met with in the kidney ; softening is the rule in the skin, testicle, kidney, and synovial membranes, and is very common in the lymphatic glands. By the progressive development of tuberculous tissue with the inflammatory changes around it, the normal appearance of the aftected part becomes entirely lost, and it is converted into a soft pulpy mass of Tuberculous Granulation Tissue. In this the grey or yellow tubercles can often be recognized with the naked eye. When tubercle softens it breaks down into a thick curdy fluid. The process is always accompanied by more or less inflammation of the surrounding parts, accompanied in most cases by the formation of pus, and we have thus formed the Tuberculous Abscess. This is the most common form of chronic abscess. It may form a large collection of fluid—sometimes, as in the psoas abscess, reaching an enormous size. The fluid it contains is commonly thin and curdy, and contains much granular matter and but few recognizable pus cells. In more acute cases the pus may more closely resemble that of an acute abscess. The wall of the abscess may be composed of a thin layer of caseating tubercle. This is the case in tuberculous abscesses of the kidney, testicle, or skin. In the larger abscesses, such as a psoas abscess, it may be in part formed merely by condensed fibrous tissue not actually tuberculous. Bacilli can scarcely ever be demonstrated in the pus of these abscesses by microscopic examination or direct cultivation, but that their spores are present can be shown by inoculation experiments. In superficial tuberculous diseases, after softening of the tubercle and discharge of the softened cheesy matter, an ulcer is often left.