SEPTIC TRAUMATIC FEVER. 307 blood-clot possesses powerful pyrogenic properties which they attribute to the fibrin-ferment, which it always contains in considerable quantities in a free state. If the ferment be injected in large quantity, other symptoms are developed resembling septicsemia, and often associated with coagulation of blood in the heart or cardiac thrombosis. Clinical experience seems to confirm this view. Large subcutaneous extravasations of blood are usually accompanied by very marked febrile disturbance, and the same has been observed in the transfusion of defibrinated blood. In a large wound, when the drainage is imperfect and an accumulation of aseptic serous discharge takes place, very distinct elevation of temperature is the common result. It is very possible that the application of strong antiseptic fluids to the raw surface of a wound, by increasing the exudation during the first few hours, may slightly add to the fever in some cases, and want of rest or the accumulation of blood-clot in the cavity of a wound may produce a similar effect. Septic Traumatic Fever is due to the absorption of the chemical products of putrefaction from the surface of a wound. Until granulations, which offer an efficient barrier to the passage of septic products, have sprung up, the raw surface left by a wouud absorbs these with the greatest readiness.' It has been shown by experiment that salts, such as potassium ferrocyanide, are taken up with great rapidity, and can be detected in the urine within a very short time after their application to a raw surface ; the rapidity of absorption is scarcely if at all less from a surface which has been cauterised with a hot iron but the application of a strong solution of chloride of zinc materially retards' or even prevents, the entrance of the salts into the circulation. The presence of septic matter m a wound, in addition to the constitutional disturbance it directly gives rise to, always causes more or less local inflammation, the products of which no doubt aid in setting up the fever. The severity of septic traumatic fever is proportional to the dose of the chemical products of putrefaction which enters the circulation; consequently it will vary directly with the amount of septic matter present and the size of the wound. If the decomposing matter be pent up at some degree of pressure, the rapidity of absorption will be increased. .Should the dose be sufficient, the patient may die rapidlv from the direct toxic effects of the chemical products of putrefaction, a condition which W.1 be described as one of the forms of septicaemia. Between this and septic traumatic fever the difference is only one of degree. Guided by these facts, the prevention of septic traumatic fever can in most cases be successfully accomplished : first, by perfect drainage of the wound, by which the amouni of decomposable matter IS reduced to a minimum; and secondly, by the employment of those modes of dressing which will prevent the decomposit on surfact " ' " unavoidably remain in contact with^he Should septic fever occur it commences on the second day, and reaches wifh 1 '• ^V^^''- about the same height th the usual evening rise and morning fall, till the ninth or tenth Z bv w^iich time granulations have sprung up throughout the wound aiJ'the P eTt r^t H^^^ Wtelyaccorlg to h erfection of the drainage. During the fever the pulse is generally frequent .1 proportion to the temperature, the disturbance of appetite is creat therP often delirium, especially at night, and rapid loss of fleT Tile dectL of the X 2