TUMOURS. I024 fingers (Fiirs. 304, 305). It is rare, in this situation, to find only one bone or phalanx affected ; the tumours are almost invariably multiple. They form hard or elastic rounded knobs, seldom larger than a walnut or a pigeon's egg. Large chondromata are most commonly met with in or upon the head of the tibia or the condyles of the femur, forming in these situations rapidly increasing growths of considerable magnitude. Chondromata are found also on the ribs and the bones of the pelvis, in the intermuscular spaces of the neck, thigh, and leg, in connection with the sheaths of tendons, and occasionally in glands ; but in this last situation they are seldom, if ever, pure, being mixed with myxoma, adenoma, or sarcoma, and when in the testicle, occasionally with carcinoma. It is a curious fact, that chondromata never arise in connexion with pre-existing cartilage. When connected with the bones, chondroma may spring from the periosteum, gradually enveloping, absorbing, and eventually destroying the osseous structures, though at first not incorporated with them. It has then been distinguished as " perichondroma." This is its usual mode of origin Fig. 3(34.—Large Encliondronia of Index Finger. Fig. 365.—Ordinary Encliondroma of Finger. when occurring in the lemur or tibia ; but when seated on the short bones, especially on the metacarpus and phalanges, it commonly springs from the medullary canal, which becomes expanded by gradual absorption of the com- pact tissue, with a constant growth of new bone beneath the periosteum. Thus the tumour remains long covered by a thin shell of bone. Finally the growth perforates its bony covering at one side, and then advances more rapidly in that direction. These tumours occur in childhood or young adult life. They never assume a malignant form, nor do they ossify. Calcification is common, and mucous softening occasionally, but rarely, takes places in their interior, leading to ulceration of the skin. The Treatment consists either in excision of the tumour, or in amputation of the afPected part. Excision may be practised when the tumour is seated in the parotid region, or is otherwise unconnected with bone. When forming part of the osseous structures, it cannot well be got rid of without the removal by amputation of the bone which it implicates. AYhen it occurs in the hand, removal of the afiected fingers and metacarpal bones, to an extent proportioned to the amount of the disease, will be required ; but it should be remembered that in this situation enchondromata are always perfectly innocent, and con- sequently the operation should not be performed if the finger be useful to the patient, unless he is willing to sacrifice a useful finger to get rid of an unsightly deformity.