BOILS. 9i8 exact ratio of the iies^ligenco or care of the nurse. It is not so much the actual severity of the pressure that occasions a bed-sore, as moderate long- continued pressure applied to a part congested by position in a patient enfeebled by disease. If means be not taken to relieve the part from the injurious compression to which it is subjected, and more especially if it be allowed to become irritated by the contact of f<£ces or urine, the subcutaneous areolar tissue corresponding to the inflamed patch will be converted, with the skin covering it, into a tough greyish slough, from under which a thin ichorous pus exudes. This slough may extend by a process of undermining of the integuments covering it ; and on its separation extensive mischief will be disclosed, the fascia and muscles being exposed, or the bones even laid bare, and soon becoming roughened and carious. In some cases even the inferior aperture of the spinal canal may be laid open, and death result from septic meningitis. In other cases, the patient is worn out by discharge and irrita- tion, or succumbs to pyaemia or septicaemia. Treatment.—This is in a great measure preventive. When a patient is likely to be confined to bed for many weeks, especially by exhausting disease, steps should be taken by proper arrangement of the pillows, and by the use of a water-bed or cushions, to prevent pressure from being injuriously exercised upon any one part. If the patient be unable to move himself his position should be changed by the nurse at regular intervals. At the same time, cleanliness and dryness should be carefully provided for by proper nursing, by the use of a draw-sheet, and by furnishing the bedstead with the necessary arrangements for using the bed-pan, &c. The back should be periodically examined by the Surgeon himself. The skin on the exposed parts may be protected by the application of collodion or soap-plaster spread upon wash- leather or amadou, or isinglass on felt ; or, what is better, it may be strengthened by being washed with spirits of wine. In some cases much benefit is derived from frictions of brandy and glycerine in equal parts. If the skin has become reddened it should be painted with a solution of nitrate of silver, of gr, v, to ^j. If the skin have become chafed, the removal of pressure is imperative, and the abrasion may be washed over with collodion. If a sore have formed it may be dressed with boric acid ointment, or balsam of Peru, spread upon lint. In some cases the prone couch may occasionally be advantageously substituted for the ordinary bed previously employed. When sloughs have formed, their separation must be facilitated by the use of moist antiseptic dressings, as boric acid lint and lotion, and the ulcers that are left should be treated on ordinary principles, the utmost attention being paid to cleanhness by the use of anti- septic lotions ; but no dressing that the Surgeon can apply will cause these ulcers to clean, and still less to heal, unless pressure be removed and the patient's general health improve, when they will speedily cicatrize under the most simple treatment. BOILS. A Boil or Furuncle is a localized inflammation affecting the skin and subcutaneous tissue terminating in the formation of a small conical slough of areolar tissue called the core, around which suppuration takes place, the dead tissue being finally separated and discharged by an opening through the skin.