TUMOURS. I002 of the tissues from which they spring. These terms are essentially relative ; aud it is only to instances at the extreme ends of the series that either term can be definitely applied. At the same time it must be borne in mind that Virchow's law holds good even, for the most heterologous growths ; this law states, that " the same types of anatomical structures exist in new formations as are found in the body generally," and he thereby denies the possibility of the occurrence of a true heteroplasia, and the existence in new formations ot specific elements differing from any normal cells in the body. The more heterologous the growth—that is, the greater the departure from the normal structure of the part in which it occurs—the more malignant, as a rule, will it be ; whilst the reverse, with some exceptions, is true of homologous formations. In classifying tumours according to their anatomical structure, they arc divided primarily into four chief groups. First, those composed of one of the forms of connective tissue ; secondly, those composed of tissue resembling one of the higher tissues of the body ; thirdly, those composed of embryonic tissue, either pure or developing into connective tissue ; and fourthly, those in which epithelium forms the essential part of the growth. Cystic tumours are classed by themselves, forming a fifth group. General Characters of Typical Tissues.—Before proceeding to consider the individual growths, it will be desirable to describe briefly the essential features presented by the structures upon which the types of some of the classes are founded. First as to connective tissue :—This exists throughout the body, present- ing many varieties of form adapted to the special functions of the part in which it appears. It consists essentially of an intercellular substance, homo- geneous, hyaline or fibrillated, in which are imbedded cells having an oval, caudate, fusiform, or branched form, and usually presenting a distinct central nucleus and nucleolus. In addition to these, in fibrous or areolar tissue, wandering cells, with amoeboid movements, are normally present. These are regarded as white corpuscles, which have migrated from the vessels. The fixed connective-tissue corpuscle was looked upon by Virchow and his followers as the starting-point from which are derived the various cell-structures, entering into the formation of all tumours. Other pathologists have believed that connective-tissue tumours might arise by the growth and development of leucocytes which have migrated into the affected part. At the present time, whatever part may be ascribed to leucocytes in the formation of new tissue as a consequence of inflammation, they are not supposed to take any share in the growth of tumours of the connective tissue type. The following are the chief forms of connective tissue : areolar tissue, adipose tissue, white fibrous tissue, yellow elastic tissue, bone, and cartilage. Mucous tissue must also be included under the same type. It is met with as the Whartonian jelly of the umbilical cord, and in the adult only as the vitreous humour of the eye. The simplest form of embryonic tissue is composed of small round cells about the size of white blood corpuscles, connected with each other by a small quantity of homogeneous intercellular substance. The cell consists merely of a small mass of protoplasm with a nucleus in the centre, which may be somewhat difficult to distinguish. The vessels in such tissue are abundant, and extremely thin-walled, like those of granulations. The modifications