29 DEATH FROM CULOKOFORM. death by paralysing the respiratory centre if administered in a sufficient dose, and for a sufficient time, and the same is doubtless true in man. According to the committee of the Eoyal Medical and Chirurgical Society (1864), if the proportion of chloroform vapour to air does not exceed 4i per cent, respiration will always be arrested before the action of the heart ceases. The recent Hyderabad Commission, after a prolonged and most ably conducted investiga- tion, reported, however, that chloroform given in any dose and in any way invariably arrests respiration first. In fact, they doubt whether sudden death ever occurs from the direct action of the chloroform upon the heart or cardiac centres. Against this we must put the fact that previous observers had succeeded, or thought they had succeeded, in causing primary arrest of the heart's action, and that large numbers of apparently authentic cases are on record in which the pulse has ceased before the breathing, or both have ceased simultaneously in the human subject. The question is nob yet satisfactorily settled, but this much may be said to be certain, that an overdose of chloroform kills as a rule by arresting respiration first, and only exceptionally by primarily acting on the heart. 2. It is perhaps possible that through careless adminis- tration, especially with an inhaler, sufficient air may not be admitted to maintain the respiratory function. 3. Sir Joseph Lister describes the pro- duction of asphyxia from spasmodic closure of the upper opening of the larynx, the folds of mucous membrane above the apices of the arytgenoid cartilages being carried forwards till they are in contact with the base of the epiglottis, which remains erect and unchanged in position. This theory was founded on observations of the larynx during the production of that peculiar laryngeal stertor which usually precedes the stoppage of the respiration. On pulling the tongue forcibly forward, the aryteenoid cartilages were seen to be drawn back- ward, and the opening of the larynx made free again ; and this seemed to be due to reflex action and not to the mere mechanical act of drawiner the tongue forwards. This is quite possible during ansesthesia, as the reflex functions of deglutition and respiration are not affected by chloroform as administered for a surgical operation. The closure of the glottis giving rise to this peculiar crowing stertor has been with more probability ascribed to paralysis of the abductors of the cords ; but against this it may be argued that it frequently occurs before the patient is very deeply under the influence of the anaesthetic. However it may be caused, the obstruction to the respiration may pass unnoticed till the pulse stops, as the heaving of the chest may go on for some time after air has ceased to enter ; the only signs of the state of the patient being the gradually increasing lividity of the face, and the fact that no air is entering or coming out, which can be ascertained by feeling with the hand over the mouth. Lister is of opinion that many of the deaths from chloroform, in which the heart has been said to stop first, were cases of this kind. He insists on the necessity of pulling the tongue forcibly forwards with forceps, and not merely drawing it out in front of the teeth, if the spasm is not im- mediately relieved by the simpler process recommended by Clover of pulling the chin strongly upwards. 4, Asphyxia may also be caused by the impaction of half-digested food in the larynx during vomiting, and false teeth have also been known to slip into the larynx during the administration of chloroform, and the same accident has happened with the gag used in dental operations. In death from Syncojie the patient becomes pale and faint ; the pulse beats in a flickering manner and then ceases, though respiration may continue for