198 LOCAL DISTURBANCES AND INFLAMMATION. diminished or lost. In almost all high febrile conditions there is dryness of the shin; for, althongh in fever there is an increased ehmination of water, this takes place chiefly by the lungs. The mucous membrane of the alimentary canal also secretes'less than natural, and to this cause are due the dry tonyue, the accumulations on the teeth and lips or sordes, and the constipation so commonly met with in fever. In all febrile conditions there is a feeling of lassitude or weariness, and a marked disinclination to bodily or mental exertion. Headache is a common symptom. In the earlier stages of very acute febrile disturbance, there may be delirium of a violent form : in tlie later stages, when the strength is becoming exhausted, wandering or muttering delirium is common. The patient's sleep is disturbed, he is restless at night, and delirium is more often met with at that time than during the day. Fever is said to termi?iafe by Lysis, when the symptoms gradually subside: and by Crisis, when the fall of temperature is sudden. In the latter case, it is often accompanied by a " critical evacuation;' as a free flow of urine con- taining a large quantity of lithates, a profuse perspiration, or a watery dis- charge from the bowels. Severe fever of any kind always leaves the patient weak and ana3mic, in consequence of an excessive destruction of the red corpuscles. In the most extreme forms of septic fever, this takes place to such an extent that the plasma becomes stained during life by the colouring matter of the disinte- i>-rating corpuscles. The urine in all febrile conditions is scanty and high-coloured. It contains an excess of urea and urates, and often a deficiency of chlorides. Albumen is frequently met with in all forms of fever. The blood in inflammatory fever doubtless undergoes important changes, but their exact nature is still imperfectly understood. In the days when venesection was a regular part of the treatment of every febrile condition, much attention was paid to the blood that was drawn. It w^as noticed that in many acute inflammatory affections the blood coagulates slowly, and—partly from this cause and partly from the rapid running together of the corpuscles into dense masses, which sink quickly—an upper colourless layer of coagulated fibrin free from red corpuscles is left at the top of the clot when it is allowed to form quietly in a deep vessel. The tough layer of yellowish fibrin thus formed received the name of the " huffy coatr The absence of corpuscles allows the contraction in the colourless part of the clot to be much more complete than elsewhere, and its upper surface consequently is depressed in the centre, being "cupi)ed;' as it is termed. The "buff and cup" were formerly much used as guides in estimating the intensity of the inflammation : it has, however, been shown that the buff may occur in other conditions of the system, as in plethora, or pregnancy, or after exercise, without the occurrence of inflammation. The cupped shape of the clot is in some degree dependent on the shape of the vessel into which the blood is received, being most marked when it is deep. n • The changes that occur in the plasma are due chiefly to the admixture therewith of the products of inflammation taken up from tJie affected part by the lymphatics and blood-vessels : and it is evident therefore that they must vary considerably according to the nature and intensity of the local process. If the inflammation affects some important organ, the function of which is to