432 ARREST OF ARTERIAL HAEMORRHAGE. but should seek solely the first rallying-point ; then the second^; then the third, if there is one'; and so on, till he reaches the vessel." Thus in the operation of ligature of the carotid, the first rallying-point is the inner edge of the sterno-mastoid, and until that is made clear, nothing else should occupy the operator's mind ; the second point is the upper border of the anterior belly of the omo-hyoid, and it is not till this is found and drawn downwards, that the artery itself need be thought of. During the deeper dissection the wound must be held open with blunt hooks or copper spatulas, and this duty should if possible be entrusted to a single assistant. If two undertake it, one is sure to pull more strongly than the other, and thus disturb the relation of the superficial wound to the deeper parts. Having reached the sheath, the next step of the operation consists in exposing^the artery, and is one of great delicacy. The object of the operator is to open the sheath in such a way that the needle can be passed between it and the external coat, and at the same time to separate the artery from its sheath for as short a distance as possible. Separation of an artery from its sheath cuts off the blood-supply of its coats, as this is derived from the vasa vasorum which ramify in the sheath ; if, therefore, the artery be separated extensively, the isolated part will slough. At the same time, it is very impor- tant that the artery be really separated cleanly from the sheath, as if this is done a smaUer amount of tissue is included in the ligature, and the division of the inner and middle coats is more perfectly effected. Perfect cleaning of the artery, moreover, greatly facilitates the passage of the needle. If we cut an artery through, it retracts within its sheath, leaving that attached to the surrounding parts. This clearly shows that the sheath is more adherent to the surrounding parts than to the external coat, and that the loosest tissue, through which the needle will pass most readily, is that between the sheath and the outer coat. In fact, if the artery be properly cleaned, it is very unlikely that any accident will happen in passing the needle. It must not be forgotten that some of the larger arteries are enclosed in a sheath derived from the fascia of the part, and it is important not to confound this with the true sheath. Thus, the carotid artery is enclosed in the sheath of cervical fascia common to it, the jugular vein, and the pneumogastric nerve, and in this case the operator will have to open the true sheath of the artery after having exposed it by opening the common sheath. The sheath of an artery may usually be recognised by the small vessels that can be seen ramify- ino- in it, while the external coat is almost white, like the conjunctiva and the sclerotic of the eye respectively. Syme's rule in cleaning an artery, " to dissect down till the ' white coat of the vessel' comes into view," is founded upon this fact. The sheath is opened by pinching it up with the forceps and applying the knife horizontally (Fig. 132). The point should never be used, nor the blade turned downwards against the artery, as an incautious movement cr the mere pulsation of the vessel might cause it to be wounded. If the white coat of the artery does not come into view at once, it will be because the sheath is not completely divided, and the operator must then pinch it up again in exactly the same place, and again cut the areolar tissue seized in the forceps. The appearance of the white external coat, and the exceedingly loose areolar tissue which comes into view, show him when he has completely opened the sheath. He then catches hold of the edge of the opening he has made, and, putting it