CAUSES OF GANGRENE. (c.) Obstruction to the Return of Venous Blood from a imrt.—This seldom forms the sole cause of gangrene, even when important veins are occluded by thrombosis or pressure. As an accessory cause, it frequently aids in the production of gangrene, when the main artery is obstructed at the same time. {d.) Diminished Vis a Tergo from extreme icealmess of the hearfs action.— This is a powerful accessory cause when there is any obstruction either to the arterial flow or to the venous return. It may result from extreme debility from fever or from starvation. The gangrene that accompanies ergot-poison- ing is supposed to be due partly to relaxation of the veins by which a large quantity of blood is withdrawn from the circulation, and partly to weakness of the heart's action. G-reat loss of blood may in the same way aid in producing gangrene. 2. Causes acting directly on the Tissues:— (a.) Traumatic Causes.—The production of gangrene by mechanical violence, heat and cold, and caustic fluids has already been fully discussed, and needs no further notice here. {b.) Causes giving rise to acute inflammation.—Any acute inflammation as already pointed out in the chapter on inflammation, may terminate in gangrene, if the irritant which causes it is of sufficient intensity or the tissues upon which it acts are of abnormally low vitality. In certain forms of specific infective inflammation gangrene forms the principal characteristic of the process, as in hospital gangrene, cancrum oris, carbuncle, malignant pustule, and spreading traumatic gangrene. Amongst the causes, some are Constitutional, others Local, in their action. Those forms of gaugrene are said to be constitutional which arise from obstruc- tion of the circulation in consequence of disease of the heart and vessels. The constitutional state also frequently forms an important predisposing cause of gangrene in cases in which the immediate cause is local. Bright's disease and diabetes are amongst the most frequent conditions which act in this way. Those varieties of gangrene are local which arise from injuries of all kinds, whether applied to the part itself, or to the main artery leading to it, by its ligature or wound. The forms of gangrene which arise from traumatic causes, have already been described in previous chapters (see pp. 336, 404, 461) ; while those that are due to obstructed circulation to or through a part, or that take the form of specific disease, are left for consideration here. Gangrene from Arrest of the Supply op Arterial Blood.—Whenever a part of the body is deprived of its proper supply of blood, mortification may ensue. Most commonly when the principal trunk of an artery is obstructed, the collateral circulation is sufficient to maintain the vitality of the part; but' should this be interfered with, gangrene results. Indeed, the sudden loss of I large quantity of blood from the system may occasion the death of some of those parts in which the circulation is naturallv most languid. Thus Brodie relates the case of a drunken man, who, being bled to an inordinate extent was seized with gangrene of both feet. * Obstruction to the flow of blood through the arteries may be occasioned by two primary sets of causes :~a, from injury or operation, as wound or ligature of the mam trunk ; J, from disease, as by thrombosis and embolism or by calcification, and subsequent occlusion of the vessel. Gangrene from arterial