964 ERYSIPELAS. may be made to the ulnar side of the middle line. It must be carried care- fully down to the tendons of the superficial flexor, which here have some fleshy fibres attached to them. The tendons and bellies of the muscles must then be separated with blunt hooks and the handle of the scalpel, and the pus will be found in the space between them and the deep flexor, or between the latter and the pronator quadratus. In Fig. 344 it is seen how the common sheath sends a prolongation inwards between the front of the styloid process of the ulna and the tendon of the flexor carpi uhiaris. Here also the sheath may easily be opened by an incision carried vertically upwards from a point midway between the pisiform bone and the styloid process of the ulna. If the thumb has been the starting point, the pus may be in a separate sheath to the outer side ; the incision must therefore be made, if possible, along the inner side of the flexor carpf radialis. This has the disadvantage of being close to the median nerve, which may be irritated by the drainage-tube, but if the incision be made on the outer side of the tendon, the radial artery is endangered. After these openings have been made the sheaths should be syringed out with perchloride of mercury (1 in 1,000) and drainage-tubes inserted. If the pus bursts beyond the limits of the synovial membrane and burrows upwards between the deep and superficial muscles, it can be reached only from the inner side of the arm by a free incision along the outer border of the flexor carpi ulnaris, as the radial origin of the flexor sublimis comes in the way on the other side. (See ligature of Ulnar Artery in the middle of the arm, Chap. XLIV., "Vol. II.) In the after-treatment of these cases some efficient antiseptic dressing should be applied, and much relief is afforded by hot boric acid baths. A contracted and useless hand may be left ; or in spite of all that can be done, the wrist-joint may be destroyed and amputation become necessary. The only hope of saving a useful hand lies in very free and early incisions, and the use of drainage-tubes and antiseptics in the sub- sequent treatment. If the hand is put upon a splint, the fingers must be slightly flexed, so that if adhesions form, it may be possible to break them down by forced extension. Senile Teno-Synovitis.—There is a form of acute suppurative inflamma- tion of the fingers and hand sometimes extending to the wrist-joint, which occurs in old people of feeble constitution. It usually arises from some trivial irritation or infection, and runs its course of disorganization with rapidity. It appears to be a disease of the hand due mainly to senile degeneration, in this respect resembling the gangrgena senilis of the foot, but differing in its more acute character and suppurative tendency. The joints of the fingers, metacarpus and carpus, become disorganized and the bones necrose. This disease requires an active tonic and nutritive treatment. The affected parts should not be too much soddened by wet .applications. Amputation, partial or complete, may at last be required.