52S FRACTURES. at the point of fracture, are more or less extensively lacerated ; the periosteum is as a rule completely torn through, and separated from the broken ends for a short distance on one or both sides, leaving a ragged edge. In some cases the periosteum on one side may be intact, and it is said to have been found un- torn even in complete fractures. As a rule it remains uninjured over a simple fissure. Blood will be found extravasated also in the medullary canal mixed up with the fat. Tlie Period of Inflammation and Exudation.—The first changes observed after the injury are the ordinary signs of inflammation—hyperasmia, swelling, and abundant exudation. This affects the whole of the injured soft parts, so that by the third or fourth day the fracture will be found to be surrounded by a greyish-red, soft mass, not sharply defined, but infiltrating the neighbouring tissues ; the torn ends of the muscles are pale in colour from the exudation between the fibres ; the areolar tissue is no longer clearly recognizable, its spaces being filled by the coagulated inflammatory exudation ; the outer layer of the periosteum is in like manner swollen and scarcely recognizable, and the inner layer is so soft and swollen as to be almost gelatinous ; the whole membrane can be stripped from the bone with unnatural ease for some distance from the seat of fracture. In the midst of the exudation, patches of unaltered blood-clot will still be seen, but a great part of the extravasation in the immediate neighbourhood of the fracture will have already been partly discoloured. Microscopic examination at this stage shows the usual appearances of in- flammation ; the vessels are distended with blood, and all the spaces of the tissues are filled with wandering white corpuscles, either closely in contact with each other, or separated by a small quantity of homogeneous or fibrinous intercellular substance. In the medulla the fat has disappeared from the immediate neighbourhood of the injury, and its place is taken by an exudation similar to that lying externally. The growth of tJie soft provisio)ial callus.—During this stage the excess of the inflammatory exudation and the remainder of the blood-clot in the neigh- bourhood of the injury are absorbed, and there is gradually developed round the ends of the broken bone a fusiform mass, holding them together with some degree of firmness. At first this is soft, almost jelly-like, and homogeneous in appearance, and the ends of the torn periosteum become lost in it. This soft provisional callus presents under the microscope the ordinary appearances of granulation tissue, but close to the bone many cells are found of larger size than the rest, and having one or more nuclei surrounded by a finely granular protoplasm. These osteoblasts are usually oval or spindle-shaped, or sometimes angular in form. They play, as we shall see, a most important part in the process of repair, and probably take their origin in the deeper layers of the swollen periosteum. The callus next increases in density, and the superficial part undergoes the ordinary changes of the conversion of granulation tissue into fibrous tissue, thus forming the fibrous part of the new periosteum covering the callus. The changes which occur in the deeper parts of the provisional callus differ ac- cording to its situation. They are thus described by Bruns. In the part most distant from the line of the fracture, lime salts are deposited in the form of fine trabeculae in the intercellular ground-subsbancs. These trabecute