6i8 SPECIAL FRACTURES. as the result of the disease, some thickenino- of the trochanter, with rouy-h gratiDg, almost like true crepitus, on moving the joint. Here, however, the history of the case, the fact of the shortening not being of recent occurrence, the possible affection of other joints, the character of the grating and the absence of acute pain with it, will be sufficient to establish the nature of the injury. The diagnosis of these injuries from dislocations will be considered in a subsequent chapter. Occasionally the fracture extends through, the trochanter major and upper part of the shaft without implicating the neck of the bone. Here there is shortening by about three-fourths of an inch, or an inch, with mucli eversion, and crepitus is readily felt. This fracture, which unites firmly by bone, must be treated in the same way as the last. Compound Fractures of the neck of the Thigh-bone can occur only from bullet wounds. In these cases the choice h'es between amputation at the hip-joint, resection of the injured portion of bone, or treating the case as an ordinary compound fracture. The choice of the Surgeon, for reasons stated at p. 359, lies between the latter two alternatives, which alone afford a reason- able hope of safety to the patient. Fracture of the Trochanter Major, by which this process is broken off from the rest of the bone, is described by x^stley Cooper, Aston Key, and Nelaton as always being the result of direct violence. It may be single or comminuted. The fragment is usually drawn upwards and backwards, rarely forwards ; and more rarely it remains fixed by fibrous bands in its normal place. The symptoms are separation between the fragments, and crepitus, which is most readily obtained by flexing and abducting the thigh and rotating it outwards, at the same time that the fragments are firmly pressed together. There is no shortening of the limb. The exact nature of the injury is often concealed by the swelling from extravasated blood. It is very rare without accompanying fracture of the neck. In children the epiphysis of the trochanter has been known to be separated by direct violence. 2. Fractures of the shaft of the Thigh-bone are of very common occurrence, especially in children, forming, according to Bruns, one-quarter of all fractures in children under ten. They steadily decrease in frequency with age. Excluding those implicating the neck, one-third of all fractures of the femur occur under 10, and about the same between 10 and 30. In adults they are always obhque, unless they are the result of direct violence ; in children, especially when the child is very young, the fracture is more often transverse or nearly so. The most common seat of fracture from indirect violence is the middle third, and the obliquity is such that the sharp point of the upper fragment is directed forwards and outwards. The Signs are well marked. There is shortening, usually to a considerable extent, with eversion of the limb, crepitus readily produced, and much swelling from the approximation of the attachments of the muscles. The lower frag- ment is always drawn upwards, and somewhat to the inner side of the upper, and is rotated outwards. When the fi-acture is at or above the mJddle of the thigh, there is a great tendency to angular deformity, in consequence of the projection forwards of the lower end of the upper fragment. In all cases there is this forward projection, and in most an outward displacement, or abduction, as well of the upper fragment. But in some very rare cases, it is drawn inwards as well as forwards.