INJURIES OF THE SPINE. 796 button his dress, cannot feel the difiPerence between different textures, as cloth and velvet. He loses the sense of weight, and cannot tell, for instance, whether a sovereign or a shilling is balanced on his finger. Speech is rarely affected. The general muscular power is often much impaired, especially in the lower limbs, and thus the gait of the patient becomes altered. He walks more or less unsteadily, generally uses a stick, or, if deprived of that, is apt to lay his hand on any article of furniture that is near to him, for the purpose of steadying himself. He keeps his feet somewhat apart, so as to increase the basis of support, and consequently walks in a straddling manner. As one leg is often weaker than the other, he totters somewhat, and raises the foot but slightly off the ground, so that the heel is apt to touch. He seldom drags the toe ; but, as he walks flat-footed as it were on one side, the heel drags. This peculiar straddling, tottering, unsteady gait, with the spine rigid, the head erect, and looking straight forwards, gives the patient the aspect of a man who walks blindfolded. The patient cannot generally stand equally well on either foot. One leg usually gives way immediately under him if he attempt to stand on it. He often cannot raise himself on his toes, or stand on them, without immedi- ately tottering forwards. His power of walking is always very limited, seldom exceeding half a mile or a mile at the utmost. He cannot ride, even if much in the habit of doing so before the accident. There is usually considerable difficulty in going up and down stairs—more in going down than up. The patient is obliged to support himself by holding on to the balusters, and often brings both feet together on the same step. The loss of motor power in the hand is best tested by the force of the patient's grasp. This may be roughly estimated by telling him to squeeze the Surgeon's fingers, first with one hand and then with the other, or more accur- ately by means of the dynamometer, which shows on an index the precise amount of pressure exercised in grasping. It maybe added that the electrical excitability of the muscles is not lost, and that their nutrition only suffers as the result of want of exercise and the general wasting of the body. Modification or dimiiiution of sensation in the limbs is one of the most marked phenomena in these cases. In many instances the sensibility is a good deal augmented, especially in the earlier stages. The patient complains of shooting pains down the limbs, like stabs, darts, or electric shocks. The surface of the skin is sometimes oversensitive in places on the back ; or, in various parts of the limbs, hot, burning: sensations are experienced. After a time these sensations give place to various others, which are very differently described by patients. Tingling, a feehng of "pins and needles," a heavy sensation as if the limb were asleep, creeping sensations down the back and along the nerves, and formication, are all commonly complained of. These sensations are often confined to one nerve in a limb, as the ulnar or the musculo-spiral. Numbness, more or less complete, may exist independently of, or be associated with, all these various modifications of sensation. It maybe con- fined to a part of a limb, may influence the whole of it, or may extend to several limbs. Its degree and extent are best tested by Brown-Sequard's sesthesiometer. Coldness of one of the extremities, dependent upon loss of nervous power and defective nutrition, is often perceptible to the touch, and may be determined by the thermometer ; but in many cases the sensation 'of coldness is far greater to the patient than it is to the Surgeon's hand, and not unfrequently no appreciable difference in the temperature of two limbs can be determined