LOCAL CONTAGIOUS ULCER: TREATMENT. iii3 chancre in a week or ten days. The crystalline, and not the precipitated, iodoform should be used, as the latter sometimes causes irritation. It is applied by simply dusting a small quantity of the powder on the sore twice a day, and afterwards covering it with a piece of cotton-wool, either simple or impregnated with iodoform. At each dressing the sore must be caretully washed with tepid water. The only objection to this treatment is the powertul smell of the drag. If the pure iodoform is used, it is better to apply it before dressing in the morning and after undressing at night, to avoid any chance of its falhng upon the clothes. Berkeley Hill recommended the use of " lodo- carbon paste," composed of iodoform in fine powder, 5j ; wood charcoal, 5ij ; glycerine of starch, 5ij ; glycerine, 5j ; oil of lavender, mxx ; or a solution ot iodoform in eucalyptus oil: iodoform, S'ss ; oil of eucalyptus, 3] olive oil, 3 V. The smell of iodoform may also be lessened by the addition of coumarine, obtained from the Tonquin bean in the proportion of 1 in 50, or of finely-ground coffee 1 in 3. lodol, which has no unpleasant smell, may be used instead of iodoform, but it is very expensive ; it should_ be lightly dusted over the sore, and then a piece of thin lint soaked in lead lotion applied. If however the odour of iodoform is not a very great objection, there is nothing so efficient as the pure crystals. The treatment of simple soft sores with strong caustics is not to be recom- mended. In some cases, hoAvever, in which the sore begins to spread rapidly, with a tendency to become phagedsenic, Eicord's paste may be very useful. This consists oif sulphuric acid and powdered charcoal mixed so as to form a thick paste. The sore should be washed and a layer of the paste applied with a match. The serous discharge should be absorbed by a dry wool dressing, and on about the third day the slough will usually separate in a hot bath, a healthy surface being left. This treatment is, however, very rarely required. If the healing sore be weak and fungating, an astringent lotion, such as the following, will be found most useful : ^ Tannin, gr. xx ; Tinct, lavandulae comp. 5ij ; Vini rubri, 31 v. Or a solution of sulphate of copper may be applied, and the sore touched from time to time with nitrate of silver. In using lotions to any form of chancre, care should always be taken to keep a piece of lint soaked in the fluid constantly applied between the prepuce and the glans, and, in women, between the labia; for, unless this be done, the contact of the inflamed mucous surfaces with one another will tend to keep up the ulceration. These are the means that are generally most useful in Simple Chancres. In some cases, however, inflammation of the sore, or peculiarities in its situation, demand modifications of the treatment. If there be much inflammation about the sore and the prepuce, this must first be subdued by the application of wet dressing, or of lead and spirit lotion. "When this is removed, if the sore have not lost its specific character, iodoform should be applied in the usual way. Should there be phimosis with discharge of pus from under the tightened prepuce, this must be slit up, so as to expose the subjacent chancres. It is better at the same time to complete the operation of circumcision by removing the foreskin with the knife or scissors after it has been slit up along its dorsal aspect. Otherwise when it heals an inconvenient pendulous flap of skin will be left, requiring subsequent removal. In order to avoid infection of the raw surface from the chancre, the operation may be thus performed. The fore-