FY.EMIA: COMPLICATIONS. 979 recognized by irregularity of the surface of the liver in the superficial part in the epigastrium and by tenderness on pressure. Jaundice often forms a marked symptom. In some cases, especially when the disease is secondary to dysenteric ulceration of the intestine, the abscess is single and of considerable size. Secondary abscesses are not uncommon in the spleen, where they can only occasionally be recognized by tenderness and pain in the splenic region. They are also met with in the kidney, less commonly in the brain, and, in rare cases, in the parotid gland, the prostate, and testes. Inflammations of the serous membranes in pyaemia are usually secondary to abscesses of the viscera, but they are occasionally met with independently. There is usually abundant effusion, which rapidly becomes purulent. The pleura is most commonly affected, the peritoneum least frequently. The symptoms of these serous inflammations as a rule present nothing peculiar except in the rapidity with which effusion takes place. The joints are frequently affected, especially the knees and shoulders; whilst not unfrequently the sterno-clavicular joints are involved. They become rapidly filled with a thin yellowish purulent liquid. This is usually indicated by intense pain, often cutaneous or superficial, with fluctuation and swelling in the joint. Often, however, large accumulations of pus form suddenly in joints, without having been preceded by pain or any other sign of mischief; in these cases the interior of the joint, though filled with pus, remains tolerably healthy, there being no erosion of cartilage or destruction of ligament, but merely some inflammatory injection of the synovial membrane. When the pus is infiltrated into the areolar tissues aud muscles of the limbs and trunk, it forms diffuse collections of a thin serous matter commonly mixed with shreds of the areolar membrane of the part, having no boundary. These collections are met with in the axilla, down the flank and about the back, in the iliac fossa, thigh or calf, and may either be confined to the subcutaneous, or extend to the deep intermuscular, areolar planes in these regions ; or they may form even in the muscular substance itself, being diffused between the fasciculi, which are softened and disintegrated. Most commonly the presence of these collections is indicated by patches of cutaneous redness, and by a doughy, oedematous, and boggy state of the superjacent integuments. Some- times superficial patches of redness with some ojdema appear in different parts of the body, afterwards subsiding without the formation of pus, giving rise to one form of the condition known as " erratic erysipelas." Amongst the rarer complications of pjsemia is acute suppuration of the eye- ball, or metastatic panophthalmitis. All the structures of the globe are affected. Virchow has shown that it is due to the lodgment of infective emboli in the vessels of the eye. Litten and Leube have observed retinal h^emoiThage in many cases of puerperal pysemia. In some cases they appeared to be the result of embolism, but in others this seemed doubtful. Plugs of micrococci have been observed in the retinal vessels after death. These conditions are met with only in very grave cases, and usually indicate the approach of death. The ophthalmoscope may therefore sometimes furnish valuable evidence both of the nature of the disease and of its probable termination. The progress of the disease is usually from bad to worse, sometimes rapidly, but at other times not uninterruptedly so, there being remissions and apparent^ though not real, improvement. The patient rapidly wastes, the body becoming- shrunken, the muscles soft, and the skin grey or sallow, loose and pendulous^; 3 R 2