832 INJURIES OF THE THROAT. also usually pain about the episternal notch. The symptoms then gradually subside, but any movement on the part of the patient brings them on again with renewed violence. All these symptoms are most severe if the foreign body remain in the larynx; the voice being then croupy, irregular in tone, oi- altogether lost. If it be lodged elsewhere, as often as it is coughed up and strikes against the interior of the larynx, an intense feehng of suffocation is produced ; and if it happen to become impacted there, sudden death may result, even though it be not of sufficient size to block up the air-passage, apparently by the spasm that is induced. Many years ago I saw a boy die before tracheotomy could be performed, in consequence of a flat piece of walnut-shell that had entered the trachea being suddenly coughed up, and becoming impacted in one of the ventricles of'the larynx. The symptoms, during this period, are much less severe wlien the foreign body is in the trachea or bronchi. When there is a suspicion that the foreign body is lodged in the larynx, a laryngoscopic examination should be made, when it may, perhaps, if large—as a plate with false teeth—be seen between the vocal cords. Small bodies also have several times been detected in this way lodging in one of the ventricles of the larynx. 2. Symptoms of Irritation.—When the foreign body has passed into the air-passage, and the immediate effects produced by its introduction have subsided, another set of symptoms, dependent on the irritation produced by it, is met with ; and it is during the occurrence of these that the patient is most generally brought under the Surgeon's observation. The General Symptoms consist of occasional fits of spasmodic cough accompanied by much difficulty of breathing, a feeling of suffocation, and an appearance of urgent distress in the countenance. These attacks do not occur when the patient is tranquil, but come on whenever the foreign body is coughed up so as to strike the larynx, and the upper and more sensitive parts of the. air-passage. In children the spasmodic cough caused by the presence in the air-passages of a small irritating body, such as a blade of grass, has been mistaken for whoopiiig cough. As a general rule, the distress is less the lower the substance is lodged ; the sensibility of the lower portion of the trachea and that of the bronchi being much less acute than that of the larynx and of the upper part of the trachea. In consequence of the irritation, there is usually abundant expectoration of fi'othy mucus. These symptoms often remit for a time, more particularly if the foreign body become fixed. In some cases, indeed, there appears to be so little distress some days after the accident, that considerable doubt may exist whether any foreign body really be lodged in the air-passage or in the lungs; and much valuable time is often lost by the indisposition of the Surgeon to adopt active measures. The Physical Sigfus depend necessarily upon the situation of the foreign body. If this be loose and floating, it may be heard, on applying the ear to the chest, moving up and down, and occasionally striking against the side of the trachea. If it be fixed, it will necessarily give rise to a certain degree of obstruction to the admission of the air beyond it, perhaps occasioning sibilant or sonorous rhonchi during either inspiration or expiration or both. If it be impacted in the larynx, the voice will be hoarse and croupy, and there will be a loud rough sound in respiration, with much spasmodic cough and distress in breathing. If the foreign body be impacted in one bronchus, the physical