from tuberculous disease, the injection of O'Ol cubic centimetre (1 c.c. of the TREATMENT OF TUBERCULOSIS: TUBERCULIN, iioi as the preparations of harl and of sarsapariUa, I need say nothing- further than that they may often be usefully administered in fulfilling ordinary therapeutic indications. Ringer recommends the sulj)hide of calcium as extremely valuable in scrofulous and tuberculous glands, and in chronic strumous sores and abscesses. He uses it in a solution which has much the strength of Harrogate Waters. Thus, he directs a grain of the sulphide of calcium to be dissolved in a half pint of water, and of this a teaspoonful is taken every hour. As this mode of administration is seldom practicable, the drug may be given in small doses from three to six times a day. The best form is in pihiles con- taining from one quarter to half a grain. If these cannot be obtained, the finely powdered sulphide may be kept in a closely stoppered bottle, and enough just to cover the point of a pen-knife taken in a wine-glass of water. It can- not be made up in any mixture, as it rapidly decomposes in contact with water, giving off sulphuretted hydrogen. Under its influence, the glands, it is said, either return to the normal state or hasten on to suppuration, and chronic abscesses either dry up or are speedily brought forward and their contents discharged, a healthy healing sore being left. Tuberculin.—In 1890, Robert Koch published certain results which he had obtained as the outcome of a long series of investigations made with the object of conferring immunity against inoculation with the tubercle bacillus and of arresting tuberculous disease. It will be possible here only very briefly to describe the chief steps by which Koch arrived at the discovery of a treatment of tuberculosis which, although it has so far been disappointing in practical utihty, must be looked upon as a triumph of experimental research. If a guinea-pig be inoculated subcutaneously with a pure cultivation of the bacillus tuberculosis, a hard nodule forms at the seat of inoculation in about ten or fourteen days ; this caseates, softens, and forms an ulcer which does not heal. If in such a guinea-pig a second inoculation be made about six weeks after the first, when tuberculosis is fully developed, the local phenomena are different ; in a few days a small slough forms and separates, leaving a sore which quickly heals, without infecting tiie lymphatic glands. Koch next found that inocula- tion of a pure cultivation, in which the bacilli themselves had been destroyed by prolonged cold or heat, acted in a similar manner. Pure cultivations killed in this way caused little or no general disturbance in healthy guinea-pigs, bub only local suppurations. Tuberculous guinea-pigs were, however, killed by very small quantities ; whilst, on the other hand, if extremely minute quantities were used, the ulcers at the primary seat of inoculation could be made to heal, the glands to diminish in size, and the disease, if not too far advanced, to become arrested. The next step in the series of experiments consisted in completely sepa- rating the dead bacilli from the cultivation, and thus preventing the suppuration which was otherwise produced at the seat of inoculation. Finally, Koch found that the active principle, whatever be its nature, by which these effects are pro- duced could be obtained by making a glycerine extract of pure cultivations of the bacillus. The glycerine extract, which is known as "tuberculin." is a brownish, slightly viscid fluid which contains about one per cent, of the active principle ; it is usually diluted with 100 parts of distilled water, to which a i per cent, of phenol is added to preserve the fluid. The injections are made beneath the skin of the back by means of a modified Pravaz's hypodermic syringe, which is best rendered aseptic by absolute alcohol. In a healthy adult, or one free