WOUNDS OF THE KIDNEY. 889 and great care must be taken in thoroughly purifying the peritoneal cavity. This is best done by repeated sponging, aided perhaps by flushing with water sterilized by boiling or with boric acid lotion. Finally, the wound in the abdominal wall is closed with silk sutures passed through its whole thickness. In the after-treatment, care must be taken, by attention to the position of the patient, and by the free administration of opium, to keep the bowel as quiet as possible ; the urine should be drawn off twice in the twenty-four hours, and no purgative whatever administered, lest, by the excitation of peristaltic action, adhesion be disturbed, and extravasation take place. After the lapse of eight or ten days an enema may be thrown up, and repeated from time to time. No food should be allowed for the first three days, during which time ice and barley-water should be freely taken ; after this, beef-tea, and light food that leaves no solid residue, may be given. It is of great importance that no solid food should be administered for at least two or three weeks after the occurrence of the injury. In a case of knife-wound of the intestine which was under my care, the patient, who was progressing very favourably, and eventually recovered, nearly lost her life by eating the pulp of an orange on the tenth day. In the treatment of extensively wounded intestine, the only alternative open to the Surgeon is to fix the edges of the opening in the gut to the margins of the external wound in the skin, in the hope of an artificial anus being formed, which may possibly afterwards be closed, either by the contraction of the wound or by operation at a later period. This method should, however, never be adopted when resection and suture are possible, as should the patient escape the danger of peritonitis, the operation for the subsequent cure of the artificial anus is necessarily a serious one. Wounds of the Kidney.—These may be caused by stabs or bullet-wounds in the lumbar region. The symptoms characteristic of this injury are the same as in rupture (p. 873), with the addition of the open wound, from which urine may escape. The experience of operations for the removal of stones from the kidney has taught us that a simple wound of that organ is not accompanied by any very serious danger if proper drainage be provided. In deep stabs in the loin, implicating the kidney, the best practice would be to enlarge the wound so as to expose the gland. If it be so injured that it is not likely to heal, or if there be htemorrhage which threatens life, the kidney may be removed (see Nephrectomy). If it is but slightly wounded, a drainage-tube may be inserted, and the wound treated as after nephrotomy (see Nephrotomy). Gunshot wounds of the kidney are usually complicated by injuries of other viscera and wounds of the peritoneum, and in these but little can be done. Enlargino- the wound if it be in the loin, and providing good drainage, would give the patient the best chance of life. CrsTS IN THE Abdomen after Injury.—Large collections of fluid are occasionally met with in the abdomen as a remote consequence of injury, not connected with the kidney. These seem to be, in some cases at least, formed by imperfectly absorbed extravasations of blood enclosed in a space formed by adhesions amongst the surrounding viscera. In one case under Marshall in University College Hospital the injury had been in the region of the spleen, and some months after more than a pint of darkly-stained fluid was removed from a cyst filling the left side of the abdomen. The cavity was drained, and the patient, a girl aged about 12, recovered.