500 INJURIES OF NERVES, MUSCLES, AND TENDONS. insensible without abolishing the power of the nerve to transmit sensory and motor impulses through its proper tubules. The secondart/ efferis of nerve-streiching are the same as those of other injuries of nerves.' If force sufficient to disintegrate the medullary sheath and to interrupt the conductivity of the nerve is used, the degenerative changes already described as occurring after section of a nerve take place. The Operation of Nerve-Stretching.—The nerve is exposed by an incision parallel to its course, unless this would needlessly damage neigh- bouring parts. It must be separated cleanly from the fat and areolar tissue surrounding it for a sufficient distance, and then raised from its bed with a blunt hook or with the fore-finger. If the nerve be of sufficient size it is seized between the finger and thumb and steady traction made upon it, as much as possible in the direction of its course. It should be stretched both centri- fugally and centripetally, and the traction should be maintained for about five minutes in each direction. In the case of a small nerve, such as one^ of the branches of the fifth or the facial, two hooks are passed beneath, which are then separated from each other with sufficient force thoroughly to stretch the trunk without actually tearing it across. The force to be used necessarily varies with the size of the nerve. The sciatic may safely be stretched with a force of thirty pounds, which is about as much as can be exerted when grasping the nerve between the finger and thumb. In a fresh dead body the head may be raised by a hook under the facial nerve without tearing it across, but a smaller degree of force must be used in operating on the living body. The Surgeon must use his judgment in the force he employs in stretching the various nerves. The after-treatment of the wound presents nothing peculiar, but every effort should be made to secure union by the first intention, otherwise the operation may serve as a starting-point for neuritis. Bloodless nerve-stretching has been suggested in the case of the sciatic. This is done by flexing the thigh upon the abdomen while the knee is bent. The leg is then gradually but forciby extended. In this position the sciatic nerve is thoroughly put on the stretch. Physiological Effects of Nerve-Stretching.—It may at once be stated that the effect of stretching a small nerve on a blunt hook, even if only a moderate degree of force be used, is completely to interrupt its physiological continuity, abolishing sensation or voluntary motion or both, according to the nature of the nerve, in the parts supplied by it. In the case of a larger nerve stretched between the finger and thumb, a slight stretching seems to increase its conducting power to sensory and motor impulses of all kinds. A stronger pull impairs the function of the sensory fibres, causing numbness, or even complete ansesthesia, and if still more force be used motor paralysis may be induced. There is no conclusive evidence that nerve-stretching, however forcible, produces any mechanical or functional effect on the nerve-centres. Results.—Nerve-stretching has been employed in a great variety of diseases besides cases of true neuritis, and these will be referred to in subsequent chapters. Marshall gives a table of 512 cases, collected fi-om various sources. In 154 of these the operation was performed for neuralgia of the upper or lower limb, and were probably cases of true nerve-stretching without inter- ruption of the physiological continuity of the nerve. In 108 the operation resulted in a cure, in 26 it gave rise to permanent improvement, in 11 to temporary relief, and in 9 it failed, and one of these terminated in the death