690 SPECIAL DISLOCATIONS. mentaries" for 1775. He describes two cases, one of dislocation on the foramen ovale in a man ; the other a dislocation of the dorsum ilii in a boy. In the first case the pulleys had been used ineffectually several times, when the " lacque " shpping, their use was discontinued. Mr. Anderson says : " I was convinced that attempting the reduction in the common method, with the thigh extended, was improper, as the muscles were put upon the stretch, the action of which is perhaps sufficient to overcome any extension we can employ. But by bringing the thigh to near a right angle with the trunk, by which the muscles would be greatly relaxed, I imagined the reduction might more readil}" take place, and with much less extension. I raised the thigh to alout a right angle ivith the trunk, and, with my right hand at the ham, laid hold of the thigh, and made what extension I could. At the same time that I did this, with my left hand at the head and inside of the thigh, I pressed it towards the acetabulum, while my right gave the femur a little circular turn, so as to bring the rotula inwards to its natural situation, and at the second attempt it went in with a snap." In the second case, the reduction was not attempted till the eighteenth day after the accident. The patient was laid across the bed, and the thigh raised so as to form an acute anglemth the trunk. In this situation, the knee of the dislocated limb lay considerably over the sound thigh. " Con- siderable extension was then made; with my left hand I laid hold of the middle of the leg which I brought inwards. By this the femur made a circular turn, which directed its head towards the acetaWlum, into which it went with a sensible noise " (pp. 426—428). The method was, however, first distinctly advocated by Nathan Smith, in 1831, and extended by Reid, of Rochester (U.S.A.), in 1851 ; but it was not until the publication of Bigelow's work that the scientific principles of manipulation were fully laid down. At the present time no Surgeon would resort to extension by means of pulleys in a recent dislocation of the hip with- out having first attempted reduction by manipulation. In those of old stand- ing, extension by means of the pulley is still required, as by manipulation sufficient force cannot be exerted to overcome those secondary causes of resist- ance that become developed in such cases. After-Treatment.—The fact of the reduction being accomplished is ascer- tained by comparing the bony points of the limb with those of the opposite side, and seeing if they corrqgpond. The patient should be kept in bed for three weeks. During the first fortnight the limb is fixed on a long splint, after which passive movement is practised. I shall describe both methods of reduction in connection with each of the principal forms of dislocation of the hip. 1. Dorsal Dislocations, or Dislocation Upwards and Backwards.— Causes.—The dorsal dislocations are occasioned by violence acting upon the limb while flexed and slightly adducted, or according to some authorities, ab- ducted : as when a person is struck on the back with a heavy weight whilst kneeling, or is thrown forwards, or falls whilst carrying a heavy load upon his shoulders, when the upper and posterior part of the joint receives the whole strain. Thus, in a case under my care in University College Hospital, it was caused by a heavy weight falHng from a crane upon a man's back as he was kneeling on one knee and reaching down to put a ticket on the side of a railway-truck. In another case it was caused by the patient's falling between the carriage and platform in a railway station in such a way that he lay on his