411 TRANSFUSION. in this coiinfciy by Lower and King. In the early experiments, tlie blood of sheep and calves was used. The most extravagant ideas were formed as to the utility of transfusion. It was supposed to be capable of caring diseases by^ substituting the blood of a healthy animal for that of a diseased person, of removing insanity by the injection of the blood of animals of a gentle and docile character into the veins of a maniac, and of pi'olonging life indefinitely. These pretensions led to a scientific controversy of the most violent kind ; and, some deaths having occurred from the practice, partly in consequence of the rude and imperfect instruments used, transfusion was prohibited in France, ;ind fell into disrepute in England. Although the subject was occasionally revived, little attention was paid to it until 1824, when transfusion was again practised by Blundeli, who wisely restricted its employment to those cases, chiefly occurring in obstetric practice, in which, in consequence of sudden and profuse haemorrhage, the patient is threatened with fatal syncope. The transfusion of defibrinated blood was recommended by Panum, of Copenhagen, in 18G3 as a means of diminishing the risk of the introduction of clots into the circulation. According to Bergmann the febrile disturbance which may follow is due to the excess of fibrin ferment set free during coagulation. The danger of the transfusion of the blood of the lower animals was recognised early in this century. Experiments have shewn that the corpuscles break up rapidly, and that hEeniaturia and extensive capillary embolism may result. As a means of preventing the occurrence of embolism, it has l)een suggested that a mixture of blood and 5 per cent, solution of phos- phate of sodium should be used instead of pure blood. (The transfusion of blood was founded on the belief that death from hsemorrhage resulted from a loss of red corpuscles and hasmoglobin, Goltz, however, shewed the fallacy of this view and recognized the important fact that the fatal result is consequent upon an extensive loss of fluid from the vascular system, and thus it became evident that the transfusion of blood, with all its dangers and difficulties, could be replaced by the injection of a sufficient quantity of any suitable fluid, such as a simple saline solution. The present news on this subject were fully expressed by Dr. William Hunter in his lectures at the Royal College of Surgeons in 1889. They are as follows :— first, that the immediate source of danger from sudden loss of blood is the rapid fall of blood pressure ; secondly, that the value possessed by transfused blood is almost solely physical and dependent upon its volume ; and lastly, that all the advantages of transfused blood can be more readily and safely obtained by the use of simple saline solution. Transfusion is best adapted to extensive and sudden losses of blood from small wounds of large vessels, or from secondary haemorrhage. It has also proved of the greatest value in obstetric practice. Transfusion after serious surgical operations, such as the removal of large vascular tumours, amputation at the hip, and the like, has seldom proved of material service. The cause of death in such cases is severe shock and not mere loss of blood. The intravenous injection of saline solutions in such cases does, however, seem worthy of further trial, and recently Mayo Robson has recorded two instances in which severe shock following operations not attended wnth much loss of blood was successfully treated by the intravenous injection of three or four pints of simple saline solution. If transfusion be determined on, it should not be