TREATMENT OF FRACTURED CLAVICLE. 583 the application of the second strip of plaster, which passes f 1^^^^!^ f the sound shoulder across the back to beneath the elbow, and thence ov he forearm and hand to the sound shoulder again, as m Fig. 184 ^ .nally a calico bandage is passed alternately round the chest and arm, and obliquely beneath the forearm and over the opposite shoulder. Treatment by the Pad in the Axilla.-In this method a hick wedge- shaped pad in the axilla is used as a fulcrum to bnng the shoulder into the desLd position. The method has given good results, but it has one seriou drawback, viz., the risk of the production of gangrene by the undue pressure of the pad on the vessels of the limb. This can hardly occur if the Suigeon sees the case frequently and observes the state of the circulation m the fino-ers. But, unfortunately, patients do not always present themselves wheTi told to do so, and thus three or four days may pass without the case being seen. During this time gangrene may have set in unaccompanied by any pain, the hmb being numbed by the pressure on the brachial plexus m the axilla More than one such case has occurred, and as excellent results can be obtained by other methods without this danger, the treatment by the hard pad in the axilla had better be abandoned. _ Treatment by the figure-of-8 Bandage.—This consists m drawing the shoulders forcibly backwards by a bandage passing beneath the arm-pits, over the shoulders, and crossing in the middle line of the back. The arm is then supported in a sling. However carefully the axilte be padded, the treatment is extremely irksome to the patient and cannot be recommended. A modification of this method, recommended by Syme, and known as the treatment hj the three handler chiefs, may sometimes be useful as an immediate application! A large handkerchief, folded diagonally till it is about one inch and a half wide, is placed round each shoulder so that it shall lie in front in the hollow between the coracoid process and the head of the humerus. The two ends are secured by a single turn behind the shoulder, and then twisted together so as to form a single cord. These cords are then knotted firmly together in the middle line, while the shoulders are forcibly pulled backwards ; a folded towel must be put along the spine to prevent the knot hurting the patient. The third handkerchief is then put on as a sling firmly supporting the elbow. In children, in whom these fractures often occur, there is frequently a diffi- culty in keeping the bandages properly applied ; in these circumstances the starched apparatus will be found very useful, care being taken to re-apply it as often as it becomes loose, lest deformity result. In young children, especially if the fracture be of the " greenstick " variety, it is often unneces- sary to do more than fix the arm to the side and raise the elbow with a fiannel bandage. Fractured clavicles occurring in females, to whom any irregularity of union in this situation would be very annoying, are best treated by keeping the patient lying flat on her back in bed, with the arm fixed to the side, for the first two or three weeks. By this plan, which is as old as the days of Hippocrates, I have seen better results produced than by any other. When hoth clavicles are broken, the patient should be kept in bed, with the arms fixed to the side, or in some cases both limbs may be fixed by means of plaster of Paris applied in the manner already described. In Comminuted Fracture of the Clavicle, it must always be remembered