192 LOCAL DISTURBANCES AND INFLAMMATION. 4. The Temperature of an external part of the body Avhen inflamed rises above its normal standard, but not above that of the blood in the left ventricle. In inflammation of internal organs, the temperature rises only as the general heat of the body is elevated by the inflammatory fever. John Hunter originally pointed out this fact : he found, in a case of hydrocele, that a thermometer inserted into the tunica vaginalis stood at 92° F. before inflammation had been excited in the sac, and at 98'75° F. after it had been set up. The conclusion to be drawn from these facts is, that the local increase of temperature in inflam- mation, when it occurs, is due to the flow of a larger quantity of blood through the part and not to a development of beat in the part itself, dependent on increased tissue-change. This view has been confirmed by the most recent observations, carried out with the greatest exactitude by the thermo-electric apparatus. The opposite view has been maintained by J. 8imon, 0. Weber and others. The facts that a thermo-electric apparatus has been found necessary to measure the variations in heat, and that observers of the greatest eminence have held opposite views, are sufficient to show that, even supposing heat to be developed locally in inflammation, it cannot be in sufficient quantity to have any appreciable effect on the general temperature of the body or on the local processes in the inflamed part. To the patient, however, there appears to be a real rise of temperature ; as Travers truly remarks, " the nerves measure the sensation and not the degree of heat." In many cases the sensation of the patient is i-hat of burning in the part, although the actual rise in temperature may be but trifling. This is owing to the exalted sensibility of the nerves. 5. Modification of Function invariably occurs in inflammation, and furnishes important local symptoms. The FuncMonal Aciirifij of an organ is decreased or abolished during acute inflammation. As an acute inflammation is always the result of some injurious influence which lowers the vitality of the affected part, it is evident that this must be the case. The condition is exaggerated in some cases by the pain, the disordered circulation, and the pressure from exudation. An inflamed muscle is impaired in its power of contraction, and an inflamed gland either ceases to secrete or yields a secre- tion altered in composition by the admixture of products of inflammation. The natural use of a part is often interfered with ; thus the bladder can contain no urine, the eye can bear no light, nor can a joint be moved, when inflamed. The normal processes of nutrition are either modified or arrested ; hence softening, degeneration, or even death of the affected tissues, arc common accompaniments of inflammation. Constitutional Symptoms.—The severity of the constitutional symptoms will depend on the intensity, the extent, and the nature of the inflammation, on the previous state of the patient's health, and on the vital importance of the part affected. Thus a moderate degree of inflammation in a part of no vital importance, as the skin, and occasioned by an external cause, as an abrasion, gives rise to no appreciable constitutional disturbance ; but if the part affected be of great importance, as the larynx or the kidney, the general symptoms are proportionally severe. The nature of the inflammation and of its cause exerts more influence than any other condition in the constitutional effects. Simple traumatic inflammation gives rise to symptoms of slight severity and short duration ; while septic and infective inflammations often prove fatal by the disturbance they cause in the system rather than by their local effects.