SPECIAL FRACTURES. 588 in a of the limb to the extent of from three-quarters to one inch ; but the most remarkable sign is the prominence formed by the upper end of the shaft of the humerus, which projects under the integuments, and can readily be felt under the coracoid process, when the elbow is pushed upwards and rotated. The axis of the bone also is directed obliquely upwards and inwards towards this point. In consequence of the irritation of the nerves of the brachial plexus by this fragment, which is often very sharp and angular, a good deal of pain is complained of in the arm and fingers. This sign, however, is rarely met with in children, when the epiphysis is separated from the shaft, owing to the greater smoothness of the fractured surfaces. There is often very great extravasation of blood in this fracture, owing to laceration of branches of the circumflex arteries. Impacted Fracture of the Surgical Neck of the Humerus has been especially treated of by R. W. Smith. In this injury, the upper fragment being penetrated by the lower, the continuity of the bone and its firmness are great measure preserved ; hence the usual signs of fracture, such as mobility, displacement, and crepitus, are not readily obtainable, and indeed the signs of this injury are chiefly negative. Thus, there is impairment of motion, with slight de- formity about the joint and ujjper part of the arm ; and occasionally crepitus is obtainable, with difficulty, by firmly grasping the head of the bone whilst the elbow is rotated. There is, as a rule, slight shortening, amount- ing to less than half an inch. In patients under twenty years of age separation of the epiphysis from the shaft may occur, and care must be taken not to confound this accident with a dislocation. In children under puberty dislocation of the head of the humerus scarcely ever occurs. In the fracture, the head can be felt in the glenoid cavity ; but above all the broad end of the shaft, for the line of separation is transverse, may be felt drawn up under the coracoid process, and cannot be mistaken. Treatment of Fractures of the Neck of the Humerus.—If there be much swelling from contusion, evaporating lotions should be applied for a few days. A small pad may then be placed in the axilla, and the arm bandaged to the side whilst the elbow is drawn slightly forwards, so as to throw the upper end of the shaft backwards and outwards towards the head of the humerus. This position of the elbow applies chiefly to ft'acture of the surgical neck. The hand and wrist only are now supported in a narrow sling, which allows the weight of the arm to counteract the displacement upwards. The whole is then steadied by a carefully-fitted poroplastic shoulder-cap (Fig. 186). In the management of some of these fractures, I have found a very con- venient apparatus in a leather splint about two feet long by six inches broad, bent upon itself in the middle, so that one half of it may be applied length- wise to the chest, and the other half to the inside of the arm ; the angle formed by the bend, which should be somewhat obtuse, is well pressed up into Fig. 1S6.—Apparatus for Fracture of the Neck of the Humerus.