442 ARREST OF ARTERIAL HAEMORRHAGE. l»e used. Well-prepared gut will tic as closely as silk of the same thickness. When applied to an artery in its contiuuity, the catgut ligature has in some cases failed to obliterate the vessel. Thus, in a case under the care of Christopher Heath, at University College Hos])ital, the femoral became ])ervious shortly after the operation, necessitating the application of a second ligature at a lower point. In a case recorded by T. Smith, of St. Bartholomew's Hospital, not only did the ligature fail to obliterate the artery, but a traumatic aneuiism formed at the point at which it had been applied. McCarthy has also recorded a case in which the artery became pervious shortly after the operation. In these cases the ligature failed to accomplish the purpose for wliich it was applied. It is most probable that in all it was due to premature softening of the gut. Treves also has recorded a case in which after 108 days the carotid artery was found to be patent but narrowed at the seat of ligature by a kind of perforated diaphragm. In a case at University College Hospital, in which the right carotid was tied below the omo-hyoid for an aneurism opposite the larynx, the vessel, w^hen the man died of an aortic aneurism one year after, was found to be obliterated from the aneurism to the innominate. Its coats were continuous, the seat of ligature being recognisable only by some cicatricial tissue adherent to the external coat. It seems possible, therefore, that as the continuity of the external coat is not destroyed, restoration of the lumen of the vessel may take place occasionally even after occlusion lasting a considerable time. In the vast majority of cases, however, in which the catgut ligature has been employed, the vessel has been permanently and safely obliterated. Carbolised Silk,—The slight degree of uncertainty that has attended the use of catgut, the occasional premature disappearance of the ligature and restoration of the lumen of the vessel, have led some Surgeons to employ fine silk, that known as "Chinese twist" being the best. Silk being an animal substance, and from its softness being unlikely to irritate mechanically, there seems no reason why, if it can be prevented from becoming impregnated with the irritating products of putrefaction, it should not lie harmlessly amongst the tissues, and finally become absorbed or encapsuled. That such has been the case has been abundantly proved by the experience derived from those cases of ovariotomy in which the pedicle has been secured with silk and returned into the cavity of the abdomen. In order that silk may be used with safety and certainty, it must in the first place be rendered aseptic. This is most efficiently done by boiling it for some time in water, and afterwards placing it for twenty-four hours in a 1 in 20 solution of carbolic acid, or in a 1 in 500 solution of corrosive sublimate. It must on no account be waxed, as this makes it incapable of being absorbed. A silk ligature thus prepared will in the great majority of cases give rise to no irritation or suppuration in its neighbourhood. If, however, it should from any cause become exposed to decomposing matter, it will absorb the products of putrefac- tion, and will then be cast ofi" and discharged from the wound by suppuration. The fate of a silk ligature when left amongst the living tissues has been experimentally investigated by Lister, Spiegelberg and Waldeyer, Tillmanns, and others. Lister found an aseptic silk ligature applied to the carotid of a liorse unchanged at the end of six weeks and embedded in firm fibrous tissue. In a case in which he applied a similar ligature to the external iliac artery in the human subject, when he had the opportunity of examining the parts