II72 VENEREAL DISEASES. The lymphatic glands show no special morbid conditions resulting from inherited syphilis. Affections of the Viscera in congenital syphilis are by no means uncommon. They assume the same forms as in the adult, namely, general fibroid induration of the affected organ and the formation of gummata, the former condition being the more common. The spleen in syphilitic children is in most cases somewhat enlarged and hard. The liver is affected next in order of frequency. Syphilitic disease of the lung is met with only in children born dead, or dying soon after birth. The testicles occasionally present a uniform, smooth, hard, painless en- largement, affecting the body of the gland, and corresponding in every respect to the same disease in the adult. The nervous system is less commonly affected, but gummata are occasion- ally met with in the brain. Evidence of Congenital Syphilis in later childhood or adult life.— The taint of congenital syphilis may manifest itself after the period of infancy by various chronic inflammations of bone, by diseases of the eye, and occasion- ally of the viscera ; and as these present, as a rule, no very definite signs of their origin, it is important to remember the points by which the nature of the case may be established. In the history we must inquire for miscarriages before the birth of the patient, for signs of syphilis in previous children born alive, and for symptoms of the disease in the parents, such as prolonged sore throat, eruptions on the skin, loss of hair, and pains in the bones. With regard to the patient, we must ask the period at which birth took place ; the appearance at birth, whether fat or thin ; the occurrence of snuffles and sores on the bottom. In examining the patient, we must look for stunted growth ; a flat or ill-developed bridge to the nose ; and radiating scars at the angles of the mouth. The forehead must be examined for bosses in the region of the anterior fontanelle, and the humerus, femur, and tibia should be searched for thickenings or want of symmetry in the two sides. The eye also should be examined for interstitial keratitis, and the teeth for the appearances already described. All these signs are seldom present together, but enough to enable the Surgeon to come to a correct conclusion will always be found in any case in which the disease has been sufficiently severe to affect the patient after early childhood. Prognosis.—If the child is born with signs of syphilis, it usually dies. Emaciation increases, and death takes place either directly from the disease or in consequence of some complication, as diarrhoea, bronchitis, or pneumonia. If the child is born apparently fat and well, the prognosis depends much on the period at which the symptoms appear ; the later the appearance, the better the prognosis. Most cases recover in which the symptoms do not manifest themselves till after the end of the first month. Treatment.—The occurrence of syphilis in.the infant may \)q prevented by putting the infected mother on a mercurial course as soon as her pregnancy is ascertained ; this indeed may be necessary in order to prevent miscarriage, but should be done cautiously, and by inunction rather than by mercury administered by the mouth. Should repeated miscarriages have occurred, as che consequence of constitutional syphilis, one or other, or both of the parents, if both are at fault, should be put upon a mercurial course ; and thus the recurrence of this accident may be prevented. The Curative Treatment as regards the child is extremely simple. It