894 INJURIES OF THE ABDOMEN AND PELVIS. who had suifered rupture of the upper and posterior wall of the bladder by tailing down stairs ; when admitted he was profoundly collapsed and semi- unconscious. The abdomen was swollen, tender, tympanitic in front, dull in the flanks. On passing a catheter the bladder was found to be empty and contracted; but witli a little gentle manipulation the point of the instrument could be passed through the laceration in the posterior wall of the bladder, and a large quantity of clear urine was drawn off. For two days the patient seemed to be doing well. The catheter was taken out to be cleaned, could not be introduced afterwards, little urine escaped, and the patient died of peritonitis. In another case under my care, the jiatient lived ten days, the bladder being kept drained. Keen suggests injection of filtered air or hydrogen : if no rupture exists a tense tympanitic tumour will rise above the pubes ; whilst if the bladder is ruptured the air will escape into the peritoneal cavity. As an additional means of diagnosis in a case where rupture of the bladder is suspected, it has been recommended to inject it with boric acid lotion ; if the bladder be intact it will be felt to become gradually distended and the total quantity of fluid injected will return through the catheter. When the rupture does not implicate the peritoneum the most important point in the Treatment consists in drainage of the organ, in order to prevent extravasation of urine. This is best effected by means of a full-sized catheter, tied in and connected to a long india-rubber tube passing into a basin of carbolic acid lotion. Should this not be efficient, free drainage must be ensured by suprapubic or perineal cystotomy. When the peritoneum is implicated, drainage by a catheter or cystotomy is much less hopeful, and although cases have recovered when treated in this way, the results have not been sufficiently satisfactory to justify us in relying upon them. Abdominal section and suture of the rent in the bladder hold out a far better prospect of success. Kei-r of Washington has collected 29 cases in which this operation has been performed up to the middle of 1893. In 23 of these the wound in the bladder was closed by sutures ; of these 9 recovered. Of the four successful cases in this country, two were treated by MacCormac, one by Holmes and one by Walsham. In two earlier cases under Heath and Willetfc the sutures gave way and death occurred from, peritonitis. In 6 cases no sutures were introduced. Of these 3 recovered, but in one it was not certain that the peritoneum was wounded ; in one of these cases a large drainage tube was inserted into the peritoneum, and in one a stellate rent in the bladder was packed with iodoform gauze and a drain placed on either side of it. Of the 3 fatal cases two were treated by drainage and in one the rupture was not detected at the operation. The post-morlem examination showed a puncture not implicating the serous coat, made by a fragment of a fractured pelvis. Thus of the 29 cases in which laparotomy was performed 12 recovered—a much higher rate of success than has been obtained by any other means. The best operation is undoubtedly complete suture. The stitches should include the serous and muscular coats only, and must extend beyond the wound at each end to prevent leakage. The perfection of the suturing may be tested by moderately distending the bladder with boric acid solution. If the cavity of the pelvis can be thoroughly cleaned, and the rent is perfectly closed, no drainage of the abdominal cavity is necessary. If, however, there is much peri-