VENEREAL DISEASES. The pupil is dimiuisliecl iu size and irregular in shape, usually angular towards the nasal side, and small yellowish or brownish nodules of lymph may be seen on the surface of the iris. If the case be left to itself, or be improperly treated, it may advance to disorganization of the globe, and to permanent loss of sight. The retina often becomes affected, and incurable blindness results. The Treatment consists in local depletion by means of cupping and leeches to the temples, and the administration of mercury and opium internally, at the same time that atropine drops are put frequently into the eye. Most commonly, as the mouth becomes afi'ected by the mercurial, the ey(i will clear, the lymph becoming absorbed, and the pupil regaining its normal shape and colour. In some cases, however, a chronic inflammation continues : here the best effects result from the administration of small doses of perchloride of mercury, with repeated blistering to the temples ; and, in a later stage, soda and bark may advantageously be given. 5. Syphilitic Diseases of the Bones. —The bones are liable to suffer both in the secondary and the tertiary stages of syphilis. In the secondary stage aching pains in the bones are not uncommon. They are worse at night, and may be unaccompanied by any recognizable change of structure. The characteristic bone diseases of syphilis are usually delayed till the tertiary stage, some two years or more after infection. By some Surgeons the graver forms are said to be the result of the administration of mercury, rather than of the syphilis for which the drug is given. This doctrine I believe to be entirely without foundation. That they are met with in syphilitic cases in which no mercury has been given, there can be no doubt. I have had under my care patients with extensive disease of the cranium and of the clavicle, whose syphihs had been treated throughout on the non-mercurial plan. One patient especially, a soldier from whom I removed portions of the cranium and of the clavicle for necrosis accompanying constitutional syphilis, had been treated in a military hospital without mercury. I have never seen or heard of mercury producing necrosis in any bones, except those of the jaws, when given for diseases other than syphilis. No doubt diseases of the bones are especially apt to occur Avhen the patient's constitution has been broken down by any means ; and an improperly conducted mercurial FiK. 405.—Syphilitic Periostitis of Tibia, resulting ill thefonnation of a Fusiform Node.