INJURIES OF BONES AND JOINTS. case of sprain, and will be fully considered in the chapter on Diseases of Joints. 5. In severe sprains of joints, more especially of the knee, ankle, and shoulder, it often happens that there is a slight displacement of the articular surfaces. This may be directly occasioned by the violence that sprains the joint, or it may be secondary, coming on at a later period, owing to the con- strained position in which the injured articulation has been kept for some length of time. If allowed to remain, it seriously interferes with the free mobility of the joint. In order that this be maintained, the most accurate co- aptation of the articular surfaces is necessary. If there be the very slightest deviation from the accuracy of this " fit," they become locked in movement, and all motion becomes painful. This is especially the case in the hinge- joints, as the knee and elbow. In the ball and socket joints, more especially in the shoulder, the head of the humerus is apt to be thrown very slightly forwards on to the edge of the glenoid cavity, where it becomes fixed, all movements of the joint being exquisitely painful. In all these cases of slight displacement connected with sprains that do not amount to dislocation, but where there is only a very shght want of true coaptation between the articular surfaces, the patient should be put under anaesthesia, and the joint " wrenched," so as to replace the bones and restore freedom and ease of movement. So also, at a later period, when after a severe sprain, a stiff, painful, and possibly slightly distorted joint is left, no time should be lost in " wrenching " it. By this means, adhesions at this stage are broken down, and the proper " fit" of the bones restored. By neglecting this very simple treatment and leaving the joint but partially and only painfully mobile, the Surgeon is much discredited, and the patient drifting into the hands of the "bone-setter," has his limb " wTcnched " into utility and ease by a most simple manoeuvre. Wounds of Joints.—A joint is known to be wounded w^hen synovia escapes from the aperture or when the interior of the articulation is exposed. If there be any doubt as to the wound having penetrated the synovial mem- brane, no attempt should be made to ascertain this by probing, as in this way the very thing that is to be feared may be brought about by the Surgeon. If the wound be of sufficient size a careful and gentle examination may safely be made with the finger, after the hands have been carefully washed and dis- infected. In all doubtful cases the wound must be treated as one of the joint, and the question whether it penetrated or not wall often be cleared up by the symptoms that supervene. Pathology.—In no class of injuries are the effects of the admission of air and of the consequent decomposition of the discharges more marked than in wounds of joints. The most extensive subcutaneous injuries of joints are recovered from, as a rule, without a serious symptom. Thus a simple disloca- tion of a large joint, although accompanied by laceration of the capsule, tearing of neighbouring muscles, and abundant extravasation of blood, is almost invariably recovered from with but little pain or inflammation, and with perfect restoration of mobility. On the other hand, a small incised wound, such as might be made by a stab with a pocket-knife, may be followed by the most severe constitutional symptoms and the most acute destructive inflammation of the joint, or, as it is called, Traumatic Septic Arthritis. The reason of this is not difficult to find. A joint consists in