452 ARREST OF ARTERIAL HEMORRHAGE. operation a tourniquet should be applied if the wounded vessel is in one of the limbs. A screw tourniquet will usually be found most convenient, as it can be relaxed in order to guide the Surgeon to the wound when the vessel is exposed, and again tightened with little loss of time. It is more effectual and certain than digital compression by an Assistant. It will often be found a great assistance to the Surgeon if the limb be rendered bloodless by Esmarch s method before commencing the operation. While this is being done the haemorrhage must be arrested by digital compression at the most convenient point above the wound. When the wound is in such a situation that a tourniquet cannot be applied, digital compression by an assistant must necessarily be relied on. Hgemorrhage having been temporarily arrested by one of the above means, a large probe should be passed to the bottom of the wound ; and, taking this as the centre, a free incision should be made in such a direction as will best lay open the cavity with the least injury to the muscles and other soft parts. After turning out any coagula contained in the wound, and clearing it as well as possible, the injured vessel must be sought for. The situation of this may sometimes be ascertained at once by the gaping of the cut in its coats ; but, in many cases, it is necessary to relax the pressure upon the artery, so as to allow a jet of blood to escape, and thus indicate the position of the aperture. If the vessel be only partially divided it must be cleaned in the way already described when treating of ligature of arteries in their continuity, and a ligature passed by means of an aneurism needle above and below the wound. When these are tied it is safer to divide the vessel completely at the site of the wound. If the vessel has been com- pletely cut across, each end must be found and drawn forward with the artery forceps and tied as in an open wound. This operation is not always so easy in practice as it seems in description. The artery, if completely divided, retracts considerably, and it is often difficult to find the ends in the midst of the areolar tissue infiltrated and stained with blood. Under these circum- stances a portion of the sheath thickened by adherent coagulum may be mistaken for the artery. The proximal end is most commonly found with little difficulty by allowing a jet of blood to escape from it. The distal end may not be bleeding at the time of the operation, though blood would probably escape from it as soon as the anastomosing circulation became estabhshed. It can then only be found by a careful search guided by accurate anatomical knowledge. The artery is usually reached most easily by enlarging the original wound in the parts superficial to it, but Gruthrie advises that, in those cases in which the wound passes indirectly to the principal artery from the back or outside of the limb, the Surgeon instead of following the track of the wound, shall cut down on the vessel where it lies nearest the surface ; then, on passing a probe through the wound, the spot at which the artery has probably been injured will be pointed out, and the ligature must then be applied in the way usual in cases of primary haemorrhage. ACCIDENTS AFTEK ARTERIAL OCCLUSION BY SURGICAL MEANS, The accidents that may follow the arrest of primary haemorrhage from a wounded artery are Intermediate or Reactionary Hjemorrhage, Secondary or Recurrent Hgemorrhage, and Gangrene of the Limb..