CHANGES IN VESSELS AND SURROUNDING PARTS. 159 adhere to each other or to the walls of the vessels through which they are flowing ; on the other hand, both red and white corpuscles show a very con- siderable degree of adhesiveness when removed from the body. In sticking to each other and to the walls of the vessels, they are therefore behaving in the living body as if they were in contact witli dead matter ; and the conclusion derived fi'om this is, that in the healthy living tissues there are forces at work, of the nature of which we are ignorant, which counteract the natural adhesiveness of the corpuscles ; but that when the vitality of a part is lowered by damage of any kind, this power is diminished or lost, according to the degi-ee of injury the tissues have suflPered, and consequently the natural adhesiveness of the corpuscles comes into play, causing increased resistance to the flow through the vessels and a corresponding degree of retardation of the blood-stream. The accumulation of the white corpuscles is explained by the fact that they possess a greater degree of adhesiveness than the red ; their form also favours their adhesion to the sides of the vessels. That the change is not in the corpuscles themselves, nor in the plasma, is shown by the fact that, if an irritant be applied to a very small area, so that a corpuscle can be watched through it, it will be seen that the adhesiveness shows itself only while the corpuscle is in the affected area ; the moment it passes beyond it, it moves freely on as before. That the retardation of the flow is not the cause of the adhesion of the corpuscles is shown by the fact that, if a ligature be placed tightly round the limb of the frog so as to arrest circulation entirely, no adhesion of the corpuscles to each other or to the vessels is observed till the tissues begin to lose their vitality—a condition which, in the frog, will not come on for twenty-four hours. Cohnheim attributes all the phenomena of inflammation in the first place to molecular changes, accompanied by loss of vitality, in the walls of the vessels ; and probably in many cases of inflammation in which the source of irritation is carried to the part by the vessels their walls suffer first. No doubt also, if the vessels could escape in the case of a local injury, such as the application of mustard to the web of a frog's foot, the vascular phenomena of inflammation could not occur. But it is impos- sible, even in imagination, to separate the tissues from the capillaries in vas- cular parts ; and whether the source of damage comes from without or from within the vessels, if it is of sufficient power to cause inflammation, the sur- rounding tissues practically must suffer with the vessels. In the experiments on the frog's foot, Lister showed that the movements of the pigment in the branched cells ceased whenever the flow in the vessels was retarded, proving that they suffered equally with the vessels from the effects of the irritant. Having thus traced the changes that can be readily observed in the circula- tion of an inflamed part, we must now turn our attention to the processes observed in the surrounding tissues and in the walls of the vessels themselves. For this purpose the web of the frog's foot is not well suited • the mesentery of the frog or the tongue of the toad is more convenient for observation. Supposing the mesentery to have been exposed and prepared for examination, the first effect observed will be the dilatation of the vessels • but if proper precautions be taken, the vitality of the part will not for two or more houi's be sufficiently lowered by simple exposure to the air to cause retardation ot the flow. By the application of an irritant, it might be induced instan- taneously, but this would needlessly confuse the experiment. As soon as re- tardation sets m, the accumulation of corpuscles takes place as before described