INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 746 which is met with in injuries of the head, differs very remarkably from both the preceding. The patient presents symptoms neither of concussion nor compression, nor is there any combination of the phenomena characterizing these two states ; but the symptoms are altogether peculiar. For convenience of description, they may be divided into two groups, the lodily and the menial. The Bodily Symptoms are as follows. The attitude of the patient is peculiar and most characteristic:—he lies on one side and is curled up in a state of general flexion. The body is bent forwards, the knees are drawn up on the abdomen, the legs bent, the arms flexed, and the hands drawn in. He does not lie motionless, but is I'estless, and often, when irritated, tosses himself about. But, however restless he may be, he never stretches himself out nor assumes the supine position, but invariably reverts to the attitude of flexion. The eyelids are firmly closed, and he resists violently every eflPort made to open them ; if this be effected, the pupils will be found to be contracted. The surface is pale and cool, or even cold. There is no heat of head. The pulse is small, feeble, and slow, seldom above 70. The sphincters are not usually aflfected, and the patient will pass urine, when the bladder requires to be emptied ; there may, however, though rarely, be retention. The Mental State is equally peculiar. Irritability of mind is the prevail- ing characteristic. The patient is unconscious, takes no heed of what passes, unless called to in a loud tone of voice, when he shows signs of irritability of temper or frowns, turns away hastily, mutters indistinctly, and grinds his teeth. It appears as if the temper, as much as or more than the intellect, were affected in this condition. He sleeps without stertor. The course taken by these symptoms is as follows. After a period varying from one week to three, the pulse improves in tone, the temperature of the body increases, the tendency to flexion subsides, and the patient lies stretched out. The mental state also changes. Irritability gives way to f.-itnity; there is less manifestation of temper, but more weakness of mind. Eecovery is slow, but, though delayed, may at length be perfect; although in these, as in all other cases of cerebral disturbance, ulterior consequences may be manifested. This form of cerebral disturbance may, from the peculiar irritability that characterizes it, be with propriety termed cerehral irriiaiion. The symptoms chat have just been described usually follow blows upon the temple, or forehead, or occiput, and are probably due to superficial lacerations of the frontal lobes of the brain. Treatment.—The treatment of these various conditions is often difficult owing to the fact that they seldom occur in practice with that amount of distinctness and particularity by which alone their characters can be conveyed in description, but are associated together in such a way that the exact state of the patient cannot so i-eadily be made out. It would be useless to attempt to describe the shades and modifications of treatment required in the manage- ment of the different groupings of these various forms of trauraaLic cerebral disturbance. We must, therefore, content ourselves with describing the treatment of each state broadly and separately, and leave the consideration of the varieties that commonly present themselves in practice to the discretion of the Surgeon.