334 INJURIES OF SOFT PARTS. is usually but little haemorrhag-e, and the pain is of an aching or dull character. They differ from incised wounds in the fact that a distinct layer of tissue injured by the instrument which inflicted the wound is actually killed, and, if of any thickness, must be separated and thrown off, as a slough, before union can take place. No sharp line can, however, be drawn between the different kinds of wounds. Some wounds, which from the mode of infliction and their appearance would be classed as contused, are in reality capable of uniting by first intention, the layer of dead tissue being either microscopic or wanting. This is especially the case in vascular parts, such as the scalp and face. In other cases, a wound apparently similar may slough for a considerable distance on each side. In consequence of the sloughy state of their lips and sides, the majority of contused and lacerated ivounds miite hy the second intention. Contused and lacerated wounds present peculiarities according to the mode of their infliction. When they are produced by the bite of a large animal, the part injured becomes very painful, and inflames extensively ; the wound bein,g lacerated, much contused, and often penetrating deeply. It sloughs in consequence of the pressure to which it has been subjected, and of the shaking and tearing of the part by the animal. When inflicted by the tusk or horn of an animal, the wound is extensively lacerated rather than contused, and often partakes of the nature of a punctured wound. When a part of the body is torn off, the wound presents peculiar characters: which differ, however, according as the separation is effected at the part struck or seized, or at a distance from it. In the first case—as when an arm is caught in a machine of any kind and crushed or torn off—the stump presents a ragged surface, the skin being stripped away higher than the other parts, the tendons hanging out, and the bellies of the muscles that are torn across being swollen, protruding, and apparently constricted by the lacerated integu- ment. A most important condition in such wounds is the state of the vessels; these are separated lower down than the other parts, for, being elastic, they elcngate and pull out before they give way. There may be no hjemorrhage, because the inner and middle coats of the artery, breaking off short, retract and contract to a small aperture, and allow the external coat to be di-agged doAvn and twisted over them, in such a way as to offer a complete barrier'to the escape of blood. The bone is crushed off at the end of the conical stump, of which it forms the apex, and is often split up to the next joint above. Occasionally, Avhen parts are pulled off, they are separated at a distance from the point seized. Thus, fingers that have been torn off by machinery have their extensor and flexor tendons separated higher up, at their junction with the belly of the muscle, and not at the part seized ; the tendon being drawn out of its sheath, and hanging on to the separated end in a ribbon-like manner. This peculiar tearing away of the tendon from its attachment to the muscle and not across the line of laceration of the limb, was described by several writers in the Memoirs of the Academy of Surgery of Paris in the middle of the last century, and the accompanying figures, 100, 101, taken from Morand's paper, illustrate well this very singular injury. In railway accidents, when a train has passed over a limb without completely separating it, the muscles may be found detached from their origins.