TREATMENT OF CONTUSED AND LACERATED WOUNDS. 339 1. If a limb have been torn off by machinery, carried away by a cannon shot, or cnt off by the passage of a rail way-train over it, the irregular and conical stump should be amputated. 2. If the whole thickness of a limb—the soft parts and the bones—be thoroughly disorganised and crushed, it must be removed. 3. If the soft parts be extensively stripped from the bones, though these be entire, so much sloughing will ensue as to leave a useless limb, and amputation should be perfoimed. It is in these cases that it is often especially difficult to estimate the amount of injury that cannot be recovered from, this depending much upon the age and constitution of the patient. In such cases the life may be lost in trying to save the limb. I have more than once had reason to regret having attempted to save limbs injured in this way; and I believe that, if the skin of the lower extremity be extensively torn clown and the muscles much lacerated, so as to slough away, there is but little chance for the patient —unless he be young, and of a remarkably sound constitution—except in amputation. In the upper extremity it is different; there, recovery may take place under the most adverse circumstances. In all parts the dangers of attempting to save a limb have been greatly lessened by the antiseptic treat- ment. If decomposition of the sloughing tissues can be prevented, there will be little fever and but slight local inflammation, and the risk of pysemia and erysipelas or other infective processes is scarcely appreciable. Supposing the attempt to save a useful limb to fail, if the antiseptic treatment is successful the chances of recovery are in no way impaired by the delay in amputating. 4. So also, if the knee be largely opened, with laceration of the soft parts and perhaps fracture of the contiguous bones, the limb must be amputated. Corresponding injuries of the ankle, shoulder, and elbow joints may, as has already been stated, admit of resection rather than amputation. In these cases also, the antiseptic treatment is an important aid in saving a limb, for if decomposition can be prevented, the mere fact that a joint is opened adds but little to the gravity of the case. o. Bad crushes of the foot have a great tendency to run into gangrene, and hence require amputation. In the hand, on the contrary, very extensive injuries are often recovered from without this operation being necessary; and in many cases partial resection may be substituted for it. 6. In those cases in which a large artery, as the femoral, is lacerated at the same time that the soft parts are extensively injured, and the bone fractured, amputation is required in order to prevent the occurrence of gangrene. In the more local form of traumatic gangrene, in which the disease is confined to the part directly crushed and injured, no good can come of delay, and amputation should be performed as soon as mojfification has declared itself; and the limb must be removed at a sufficient distance from the seat of mischief. When the mortification results indirectly from injury of the vessels, the limb should also be immediately removed in a line with the wound, unless this be too hio-h up • then the most favourable point must be chosen, as will hereafter be explained' Amputation m these circumstances is by no means a very unfavourable opera- tion (and It IS one that I have several times successfully performed), provided It be done sufficiently early, before the constitution becomes poisoned by the absorption of septic matters from the gangrenous tissues. It is scarcely neces- sary to warn the Surgeon to be certain of the existence of gangrene before he z 2