193 INFLAMMATORY FEVER. Inflammatory or Symptomatic Fever.—The constitutional disturbance in inflammation always assumes the form of fever. Inflammatory fever is a consequence of the local affection. It is thus clearly distinguished from the so-called essential fevers, in which the febrile condition either occurs without any local inflammation or pi-ecedes the local afl'ection by a distinct interval, as in the acute specific diseases. The one essential symptom of all forms of fever is elevation of the temperature of the body, or pyrexia ; without this, fever cannot be said to be present. In health, a balance is maintained between heat-production (thermo-genesis) and heat-loss (thcrmo-lysis), and thus the constant normal temperature is maintained (thermo-taxis). Heat-production takes place chiefly in the muscles and large glandular organs ; heat-loss takes place chiefly by radiation and evaporation of water from the skin (70 to 80 per cent.), and by evaporation from the lungs, and warming the air respired (15 to IG per cent.). Both the production and the discharge of heat are under the control of nerve-centres, the exact situation of which is not determined, bnt they probably lie above the medulla. Heat-regulation must necessarily also be controlled by nerve- centres. All these centres must also be in some way associated with the vaso-motor centres, as variations in the circulation, in the heat-producing and heat-discharging organs, accompany all variations in heat-production and loss. In fever these various mechanisms are deranged in such a way as to cause an elevation of the bodily temperature, but the heat-regulation, though deranged, is not abolished. The normal morning fall and evening rise persist in almost all febrile conditions, but the variations are greater. Another evidence of the derangement of the heat-regulating mechanism is that external changes of temperature, especially cold, produce a much greater variation in the bodily heat than in health. It is evident that an elevation of the bodily temperature would result from increased heat-production without a compensating increase of heat-discharge, or from diminished dischai'ge, production remaining the same; and many other combinations may be imagined. There have consequently been many theories of fever, which it is impossible to discuss here, but the following facts may be given as generally agreed upon at the present time. In fever there is an increased production of heat, not merely a diminished loss. The actual amount of heat produced may or may not be greater than might occur in the same individual in health, on full diet and in active exer- cise, but it is always out of proportion to the conditions under which the patient is placed as to diet and exercise during the febrile state. That increased heat-production takes place is proved by the evidence of excessive tissue-change, such as the disappcfu-ance of fat, the wasting of the muscles, the increased excretion of urea and carbonic acid, and by calorimetric observations on animals in which the febrile state has been artificially induced. There is also a considerable increase in the loss of water by the lungs, and often from the skin. In some conditions, such as the rigor following°operations on the genito-urinary organs, the contraction of the cutaneous vessels may act as one of the causes of the elevation of temperature by diminishing the loss of heat from the skin ; but this is merely an accident and not an essential feature of fever The increased production of heat takes place throughout the body, beino^ most active in muscles and glandular viscera. It is certainly not developed to any appreciable extent in the inflamed area, for, as before stated, the latest VOL. r.