263 TREATMENT OF CHRONIC ABSCESSES. through the substance of the muscle into the cavity of the abscess, and along- the groove of this a slender pair of dressing-forceps is passed : when it reaches the abscess the blades are opened up, the muscular fibres separated, and free exit given to the pus. The opening thus made must be maintained by the insertion of a drainage-tube, or the patient's condition will be but little improved, as the muscular fibres come together again as soon as the dressing- forceps arc removed, and proper drainage being thus rendered impossible, the pus will soon re-accumulate, and may decompose and give rise to septic poisoning. After the opening has been made the cavity left eventually fills up either by the coalescence of the sides or by granulating from the bottom. If from the situation of the opening the cavity does not drain properly but becomes partly filled again with pus, a fresh incision, termed a " counter-opening," may require to be made in the most dependent part. The treatment of the abscess from the time it is opened till the cavity is closed, is best carried out by the application of some efficient absorbent anti- septic dressing. Any of those mentioned in the preceding Chapter and in that on the Treatment of Wounds may be used. In cases of acute diffuse suppuration in which it may be wished to continue the application of warmth and moisture after the incision has been made, fomentations of boric acid lint or of salicylic wool will be found most useful. In situations in which it is difficult to apply an efficient antiseptic dressing, as at the margin of the anus, the introduction of a small quantity of iodoform into the cavity will usually act as an efficient antiseptic. Linseed-meal poultices should never be used after an abscess has been opened or has burst. They encourage putrefaction and suppuration, and often l)Ccome extremely foul wheu soaked in pus. Treatment of Chronic Abscesses.—Chronic abscesses may be treated by Tapping or Aspiration ; by Aspiration followed by injection of some anti- septic fluid, with or without previous washing out of the sac ; by Incision, flushing, and scraping, followed by the injection of iodoform and immediate closure of the wound ; by Incision and drainage ; and, lastly, by Excision of the sac. Simple Tapjmifj or Asplralion seldom eflTects a cure, but may occasionally be adopted as a palliative treatment in very large chronic abscesses, especially when the patient is dying from tuberculous or other chronic disease, or the Surgeon is temporarily placed in circumstances which make more efficient treatment impossible. One tapping will often delay the bursting of the abscess, with its attendant dangers, for many weeks. Tapping is best done by means of the aspirator, the method of using which has already been described (p. 258). A large needle should be used^as the pus IS often too thick to flow through a small one, and even then the operation often fails owing to the presence of curdy matter, which chokes the needle. If any pus has entered the syringe, the needle may sometimes be cleared by forcino- some back through the needle, but if it becomes choked again at once some other method of treatment must be adopted. If the pus comes freely through the needle, the aspiration should be continued as long as it flows, or until it becomes darkly stained with blood. During the aspiration the needle should kept perfectly steady, to avoid any needless damage to the wall of the abscess, and all squeezing should be avoided, as the pressure of the atmosphere