1096 TUBERCULOSIS. tyrapani. It frequently leads to destruction of the ossicles and permanent deafness. The mucous membrane of the genito-uritiary organs also is readily affected with purulent catarrh, often arising from very slight causes and very permanent. Such discharges are of common occurrence in female children, and have frequently given rise to unfounded charges of criminal assault. The lympliatic glands are peculiarly prone to be affected, and the enlargement can almost always be traced to some irritation of the part from which they receive their lymph supply. These various strumous inflammations undoubtedly render the part affected peculiarly liable to become tuberculous. As an instance may be mentioned the very common cases of tuberculous disease of the lymphatic glands of the neck occurring in strumous children. Here it may fairly be supposed that the unhealthy condition of the mucous membrane of the throat favours the entrance of the bacillus tuberculosis, which, reaching the already inflamed lymphatic gland, finds the soil ready prepared for its growth. A reference to the list of surgical tuberculous diseases given on p. 1098, will show that many affections previously spoken of as strumous or scrofulous have been definitively proved to be actually tuberculous. The terms " scro- fulous" and "tuberculous" are not indeed synonymous. A patient may be scrofulous and yet suffer from no actual disease ; he cannot be tuberculous, unless his body is actually invaded by the bacillus. Signs of the Scrofulous Diathesis.—The existence of the scrofulous diathesis is often marked by the presence of a peculiar temperament. The Scrofulous Temperament assumes two distinct forms, the fair and Dlie dark ; and each of these presents two varieties, the fine and the coarse. The most common is that which occurs in persons with fair, soft, and transparent skin, having clear blue eyes with large pupils, light hair, tapering fiugers, and fine white teeth ; whose beauty indeed is often great, especially in early life, being dependent rather on roundness of outline than on grace of form ; and whose growth is rapid and precocious. In these individuals the affections are strong, and the procreative power considerable ; the mental activity is also great, and is usually characterized by much delicacy and softness of feeling, and vivacity of intellect. Indeed, it would appear that, in such persons as these, the nutritive, procreative, and mental powers are rapidly and energetically developed in early life, but become proportionately early exhausted. In another variety of the fair scrofulous temperament, we find a coarse skin, short and rounded features, light grey eyes, crisp and curling sandy hair, a short and somewhat ungainly stature, and clubbed fingers ; but not uncommonly, as in the former variety, great and early mental activity, and occasionally much muscular strength. In the dark form of the scrofulous temperament, we usually find a somewhat heavy, sullen, and forbidding appearance ; a dark, coarse, sallow, or greasy-' looking skin ; short, thick, and harsh curly hair ; a small stature, but often a powerful and strong-limbed frame ; with a certain degree of torpor or languor of the mental faculties, though the powers of the intellect are sometimes re- markably developed. The other dark strumous temperament is characterized by clear dark eyes, fine hair, a sallow skin, and by a mental and physical organization that closely resembles the first described variety of the fair strumous diathesis. In all these varieties of temperament, the digestive organs will be found to