537 THE STARCHED BANDAGE. injured limb; ifc is not intended to exert any pressure—in fact if applied in such a way as to do so, it is a dangerous application. The Starched Bandage.—The following is the mode of applymg this ap- paratus which I have found to answer well. The whole hmb is enveloped m a layer of cotton-wool, thickest along and over the osseous prominences; this, being elastic, accommodates itself to the subsequent diminution in size of the limb, and keeps up more equable pressure. Over the cotton-wool are laid splints of thick, coarse pasteboard properly shaped to fit the limb, and then softened in hot water. The pasteboard should be doubled and torn down, not cut, as in this wav the edges are not left sharp. If great strength be not required, as in children, or in some fractures of the upper extremity, a few strips of brown paper, well starched, may be substituted for the pasteboard. A bandage saturated with thick starch is now firmly applied ; and lastly, this is covered with another dry roller, the inner sides of the turns of which may be starched as it is laid on. The bandages must be applied with sufficient force to compress the mass of cotton-wool surrounding the Hmb. There is no danger of constriction if enough wool be used. No bandage must on any account be applied beneath the pasteboard splints. Both the pasteboard splints and the starched bandage Fig. l(i'2.—Seutin'.s Pliers. should always include the joints immediately above and below the fracture, so that complete immobility of the fragments may be secured. During the application of this apparatus, extension must be kept up by an assistant, so as to hold the fracture in position ; and, until the starch is thoroughly dried— which usually takes from thirty to fifty hours—a wooden spUnt may, if necessary, be applied to the limb. The drying of the starch may be hastened by the application of hot bottles. After the bandages have become quite dry, the patient may be allowed to move about on crutches, taking care, of course, to keep the injured limb well slung up, and not to bear upon it, or to jar it against the ground (Fig. 164). In the course of about three or four days after its application, as the swelhng caused by the fracture subsides, the apparatus will usually be found to have loosened somewhat. In these circum- stances, it must be cut up with Seutin's pliers, such as are represented in Fig. 162, or French vine-dresser's scissors, which are perhaps more durable. This section must be made up the front of the limb, care being taken not to injure the skin in so doing. If the fracture be so far consolidated that the limb can be handled without fear of displacing the fragments, the splint may be completely removed, and its edges pared, about three-quarters of an inch being taken from each. The cotton-wool is then cleaned out from its inside, a fresh layer is wrapped round the limb, and the apparatus re-applied by means of an unstarched roller or tapes. If the fracture be too recent to allow of this, the edges must be pared without removing the splint from the limb,