INJURIES OF THE CHEST. 864 becoming en^-eloped in a cyst, and so remaining- for years, without producing irritation. In this way, Hennen states, a bullet has been lodged in the chest for upwards of twenty years ; and Vidal mentions the case of a man who lived for fifteen years with the broken end of a foil in his chest, which, after death, was found sticking in the Tertebra), and stretching across to one of the ribs. The Treatment of Emphysema and Pneimothorax consists of little in addition to what is called for by the wounded lung. In many cases, indeed, the air becomes absorbed in three or four days without the necessity for any local interference. If, however, the pneumothorax interfere with respiration by pressure on the opposite lung, the external wound, if any exist, must be freely opened, and punctures may be necessary to give exit to the air in the areolar tissue. If no wound exists the pleura must be tapped as for fluid, and, if necessary, the cannula must be left in. I doubt whether emphysema alone can ever prove fatal. Hernia of the Lun&, or Pneumocele.—This is an extremely rare con- dition. It consists in the protrusion of a portion of lung at some part of the thoracic wall. The hernia may occur through a perforating wound of the chest, beneath the cicatrix after the wound has healed, and in rare cases without any external wound. The protrusion of a portion of the lung through a wound of the chest is most likely to occur when the pleura is freely opened but the lung itself not injured. It has been seen more often in wounds of the front of the chest than in those behind, and especially in wounds situated over one border of the lung. Malgaigne has ascribed the occurrence of the hernia to air forcibly driven from the sound lung into that of the injured side, during a violent expiratory effort with closed glottis. Peyrot points out that if the lung itself be so much wounded that bronchial tubes are opened, the air thus driven into the lung will readily escape into the pleural cavity, and thus the necessary conditions for the production of a hernia are absent. If the wound be free the protruded lung may return on pressure or during inspiration. If left unreturned, it soon becomes livid and gangrenous ; in these circum- stances it may be removed by the knife or ligature. As an instance of hernia of the lung beneath a cicatrix I may briefly relate a case which I saw in 18;^9 in Velpeau's wards at La Charite, A man twenty-nine years of age, left-handed, received in a duel a sword- wound at the inner side of, and a little below the left nipple ; he lost a considerable quantity of blood, but did not spit up any. The wound healed in about a fortnight, shortly after which he noticed the tumour, for which he was admitted three months and a half after the receipt of the injury. On examination, an indurated cicatrix about half an inch in length was found a little below, and to the inner side of, the left nipple. On expiring or cough- ing, a soft tumour of about the size of an egg appeared immediately underneath the cicatrix, which it raised up ; it subsided under pressure, or when the patient ceased to expire or to cough; and its protrusion could be prevented bv pressing the finger firmly on the part where it appeared, when a depression was felt in the intercostal muscles. If the fingers were slid obliquely over the tumour, it yielded a fine and distinct crepitation, exactly resembling that pro- duced by compressing a healthy lung, and the spongy feel of the organ could be recognized. On applying the ear, a fine crackling and rubbing sound was distinctly perceived ; the tumour was resonant on percussion. The portion of