io86. TUBERCULOSIS. A CTINOMYCOSIS. CHAPTER XXXY. TUBERCULOSIS. ACTIXOIHYCOSIS. a?UBERCULOSIS. Tuberculosis is an infective disease resulting from the invasion of the tissues by a specific micro-organism—the bacillus tuberculosis. The disease is characterized by the formation of chronic inflammatory tissue—the so-called tuberculous tissue—in the affected part ; the nature of the disease can as a rule be recognized with more or less certainty by the naked-eye and microscopic characters of the lesions, but only with absolute certainty by the demonstration of the specific micro-organism. Tuberculosis is met with both as a local and a general affection. The Surgeon is chiefly concerned with the different varieties of local tuberculosis; and in his treatment he endeavours to arrest the disease before it has extended beyond his reach. General tuberculosis on the other hand is associated with the widespread development of tuberculous deposits throughout the body, and is of interest to the Surgeon chiefly as a not unfrequent fatal termination of the local forms of the disease. In the con- sideration of this important subject it will be convenient first to describe the typical microscopic changes presented by tuberculous tissue, and, in the next place, the naked-eye appearances to which they give rise. Microscopic Characters of Tuberculous Tissue.—The structure which has generally been regarded as the essential element of the tuberculous lesion is the so-called tubercle, a small rounded nodule just visible to the naked eye. Watson Cheyne, who may justly be considered the greatest authority on the subject in this country, has however clearly shown that this view is erroneous, and that in many instances of undoubtedly tuberculous disease no " tubercles " are present. Two distinct forms of tuberculous tissue are indeed met with— the nodular form, which is characterized by the presence of discrete tubercles or " tubercle-systems " (Fig. 400), and the infiltrating form, in which no such separate tubercles exist. The " tubercle " which is characteristic of the nodular form of tuberculous tissue is described by Cheyne as " a microscopic nodule, generally round or oval in shape, composed of a central portion made up of epitheKoid cells, and sometimes giant cells, surrounded by a layer consisting of cells of inflammatory origin, or of more completely formed fibrous tissue." The " giant cell" is usually the most striking feature of the tubercle, but it is not invariably present. It is a large, many-nucleated cell, with more or less well marked branching processes (Fig. 401). The nuclei are most commonly arranged round the outer border of the cell, or may be collected together at one end ; they are large and clearly defined, of oval form, and con- tain one or two nucleoli. The protoplasm is coarsely granular, and often vacuolated. Around the giant cell is a zone composed of " epithelioid cells." These cells are so named from their resemblance to young squamous