220 LOCAL DISTUEBANCES AND INFLAMMATION. them in hot water or by the application of elastic bandages in such a way as to engorge the limbs with blood. e must in all cases endeavour to set the secretions free^ and in this way to clear the blood of the morbid products accumulated in it. If we can obtain a copious bilious evacuation from the bowels or an abundant acid perspiration from the skin, or a copious discharge of urine, we shall diminish the constitu- tional disturbance and mitigate, if not cut short, the local process. With th ese objects in view, purgatives, diaphoretics, and diuretics are to be administered. Purgatives, by causing dilatation of the vessels of the alimentary canal, reduce the blood-pressure in other parts, and this effect is still further increased by the diminution they cause in the general mass of the circulating fluid. Moreover, they clear the intestinal canal, and thus favour digestion and assi- milation of food. From the frequency with which diarrhoea is associated with unhealthy inflammatory processes, it seems probable that the intestinal tract forms an important channel for the elimination of the products of such inflammations from the blood, and the necessity of maintaining a proper action of the bowels would thus be explained. Experience teaches us also that in inflammatory affections constipation always aggravates the elevation of temperature, and a brisk purgative will often bring it down one or two degrees. This is especially the case with children. Purgatives should, there- loie, always be given early, except in some special cases of acute inflammation of the abdominal organs. In general, it will be found most advantageous to administer a mercurial, followed by a brisk saline purge ; and this should be repeated Irom time to time during the progress of the case. Dinretics and Biaphoretics are of much use when fever forms a marked feature of the case, and they should then be administered frequently during the day. Free perspiration lowers the temperature by increasing'the loss of heat from the surface of the body and the dilatation of the cutaneous vessels tends to diminish the blood-pressure in internal parts. Both the skin and the kidneys also take an important part in the elimination of the products of the increased tissue-change which forms an essential feature in the febrile process ; and, unless both perlbrm their functions properly, these products may accu- mulate to a dangerous extent. The diaphoretics and diuretics most commonly used are citrate of potash, acetate of ammonia and nitrate of potash. Anlimonij in small and repeated doses was formerly much used partly with the intention of reducing the force of the heart's action and partly to induce sweating, when the skin was hot and dry. It may be given in the form of antimonial wine conjoined with the salines above mentioned, or as James's powder combined with Dover's powder, but if it be pushed too far, so as to induce nausea, it may seriously depress action of the heart, and consequently its effects must always be carefully watched. Aconite in small doses frequently repeated—one minim of the tincture every half hour for four hours and then every hour—exercises a most marked influence on simple inflammatory fever with high temperature, but with no visceral complications. It lowers the force and frequency of the pulse and produces speedy and copious sweating, to the infinite relief of the patient. Mercury was formerly much used, especially in acute inflammations of serous and fibrous membranes, not as a purgative but as an alterative, pushed to a point just short of affecting the gums. It is not now given