HYGIENIC CONDITIONS. 7 emergency, without previously examining the urine both for albumen and sugar. The contammaiion of the patienCs system lij Malignant Disease must always prevent our operating; as, if this has taken place, the disease cannot be completely removed. And, lastly, no operation, save for the purpose of rescuing the patient from impending death, should ever be performed Avhilst he is labouring under Py(cmia, SpptiaBmia, Erysipelas, Phlehilis, or any Diffuse Inflammation; and even during the epidemic prevalence of these affections, operations that are not of immediate necessity should be postponed until a more favourable season, 2. The Hygienic Conditions to which a patient is exposed both before and after an operation, will most materially influence its results. These con- ditions are of two kinds :—1. As regards the diet of the patient, and 2. As concerns his exposure to a vitiated atmosphere contaminated by the emana- tions from the sick and wounded, such as is commonly met with in the wards of an over-crowded or ill-constructed hospital.* The proper regulation of the patient's Diet before and after an operation is of great consequence. On this point it is impossible to lay down any very definite rule, as much depends not only on the patient's previous habits of life, but on the nature of the operation itself ; and, as this subject will be discussed at the end of the Chapter, it need not detain us here. It is not often, hovs^ever, that in civil practice the insufficient quantity or the bad quality of the patient's food, with which he is supplied after the loerformance, influences materially the result of an operation. But in military and naval practice in time of war the case is far different. The soldier or the sailor on active service is often exposed to serious injuries that necessitate important operations at a time when he has already been weakened by scurvy, dysentery, or some similar affection, resulting from the deficient quantity and the unwholesome character of his food. After the operation his only available nutriment may be of the coarsest character, possibly salted, and imperfectly cooked. In such circumstances, and in the absence of efficient antiseptic treatment which must often be unavoidable in war, wounds do not heal, or they assume a peculiar gangrenous character ; and the patient dies from septicfemia or pyemia, or from profuse diarrhoea with ulceration of the intestines. The mortality of operations becomes enormously increased ; and thousands of deaths which have occuri-ed in wars between the most civilised nations and the best appointed armies have been due to these causes. The Hygienic Conditions to which the patient is subjected after an operation will necessarily vary greatly according to the locality in and the circumstances under which it is performed—whether it is done in a private house, where the patient may be isolated, freed from the chance of all contamination, and surrounded by every sanitary precaution ; or in a hospital, where he may be exposed to emanations, possibly of a septic and infectious character, from other patients, where the building may be impregnated by the exhalations from generations of sick and injured, and where sanitary measures may be neutralised by the conditions generated by a vast assemblage of sick under one roof. Then, again, the circumstances in which a patient is placed after an operation for an accident of civil life are necessai-ily very different from those >■ I would refer the reader who wishes to study this very iiiii><)rt:uit subject uiorc deeply to my LcHures ow Ilonintahsm and the Co.mes of Dei'.tli afkr 'hmmtiom." Longmans, 1S74. J^"»i/t»