66 AMPUTATIONS. point out the importance of so arranging- the covering that the force of gravity shall aid, and not oppose, tlie escape of discharges. In exceptional cases, as in some of the amputations in the foot, the advantages of the flap taken from the heel or sole in providing a covering upon which the patient can bear his Avhole weight are sufficient to counterbalance the difficulty of drainage that sometimes is met with in these operations. If the covering be taken chiefly from the front of the limb, it is evident that not only will gravity aid in draining the wound, but also that it will tend to keep the longer flap in its position. If the covering be taken chiefly from behind, as in the transfixion-amputation in the leg, the tendency 'of the heavy muscular flap to fall backwards can be counteracted only by fixing it to the anterior by sutures or strapping ; tension of the short flap is produced and it may slough over the bone ; any insufficiency in external support allows the posterior flap to fall away, fluids bag in the gap, and speedy union is impossible. 4. That these advantages are to be gained with the smallest POSSIBLE SACRIFICE OF THE LENGTH OF THE LIMB.—Experience has shown conclusively that the danger of an amputation increases as the point at which the bone is sawn approachesthe trauk. It is evident that the bone can be sawn at the lowest possible point if the covering is taken equally from the two sides. To take as an example a limb the antero-posterior diameter of which is six inches, and which consequently requires nine inches at least of covering to form a good stump, and supposing the nature of the case makes it impossible to obtain covering from a point lower than the end of the bone to be sawn through, if it is to be taken equally from the two sides, the bone would be sawn four-and-a-half inches above its lower end ; if fi-om one side only, nine inches. If, however, the anterior flap was five-and-a-half inches long and the posterior three-and-a-half, the advantages of a dependent opening and a scar removed from pressure could be obtained with the sacrifice of only one inch more bone than if the flaps had been of equal length. The Surgeon will therefore adhere to the rule of taking the covering as equally as possible from the two sides of the limb only as far as is consistent with tlie other essentials of a good amputation, a dependent opening for drainage, and a scar away from the bone. A longer stump is more easily fitted with an artificial limb and gives the patient greater control over it. These essential features of a good amputation being agreed upon, the questions of the best material of which to form the covering, and the bes't way of raising it, remain to be considered. All Surgeons are now agreed that too much muscle in a flap is an unmiti- gated evil. The objections to muscular flaps are, that they are heavy, and consequently liable to be easily displaced ; that, supposing any voluntary move- ment or involuntary jerking or twitching of the limb to occur, the surfaces of the flaps are moved upon each other, and primary union is thus prevented, and that this is especially likely to happen if the sharp edge of the sawn bone is in direct contact with a muscular flap bent over its end ; that muscular flaps retract to a considerable extent after the operation, and continue to shrink for some time, thus causing a greater tendency to protrusion of the bone ; and lastly, that as in the end the muscle completely wastes away, the idea that a muscular flap forms a better cushion than one composed only of the skin and subcutaneous fat is erroneous. None of these objections can be raised to a covering composed solely of the cutaneous and subcutaneous tissues, but, on