CONTAGION OF 8YFIIILIS. 112 I diseases and syphilis are equally included iti the group of general infective pro- cesses, Hutchinson's views may be said to be generally accepted. Origin of Syphilis.—It would be altogether foreign to the scope of this work were I to enter iuto the very carious and interesting question as to the origin of syphilis, a subject that admits of much dispute, and which has been keenly argued. The disease first attracted public attention in Europe towards the end of the tifteenth century, in consequence of a virulent outbreak which occurred amongst the troops of Charles VI11. of France, during the siege of Naples in 141)4:. At the time it was undoubtedly considered a new disease, and many of the writers of the period believed it to have been introduced from the newly-discovered continent of America. There is, however, no trustworthy evidence to support this theory. A careful study of the ancient medical writers has led many authorities to the belief that syphilis existed in their time, though the definite relation of the various secondary and tertiary phenomena to the primary sore was not recognized. If it existed previously to the great outbreak in Europe in 1493 and 1494, it is probable that it was in a mild or modified form, different from what we now observe, and that about that time it suddenly assumed greater intensity, all its symptoms being aggravated in a remarkable manner, and presenting characters which had not previously been alluded to, but which have often been reproduced in modern times ; as, for instance, in those severe forms that were observed in the British armies during the Peninsular war, and, according to Larrey, among the French troops during Napoleon's German campaigns. CoNTAGiox OF SYPHILIS.—Syphilis is communicable, 1st, hy the direct inoculation of any fluid containing the specific virus ; and 2ndly, from parents to their offspring. 1. Direct Inoculation.—In discussing this question, it is necessary to consider first what fluids or secretions of a syphilitic subject contain the virus, and secondly, the various ways in which the virus may be communicated from one individual to another. That the discharge from the primary sore, whether it be thick and purulent, or simjDly serous, is inoculable, is too well known to require further notice. The contagiousness of the discharges from secondary syphilitic sores has also been demonstrated by numerous experiments. The thin secretion from mucous tubercles of the vagina, anus, and mouth has frequently been shown to be capable of causing infection. The blood itself, in more than one instance, has been inoculated with success. Professor Pellizzari, of Florence, inoculated a young Surgeon, Dr. Bargioni, on the 0th of February, IHGO, with blood taken from the vein of a woman sutt'ering from syphilitic eruptions. The site of the inoculation, which was carefully protected by a watch-glass cover, remained (luiet for twenty-five days : then a papule developed, which in forty-four days became an ulcer with hard base. On the sixty-fifth day after inoculation, a roseola broke out on the trunk. Some uncertainty still exists as to whether the natural secretions of syphi- litic persons are contagious of themselves, or become so by admixture with the blood or the discharge of local syphilitic affections. The saliva, the milk, and the semen have been inoculated on healthy individuals with almost invariably negative results. So far, therefore, it may be said to be proved beyond a doubt that the discharges from all secondary syphilitic affections, and the blood of patients suffering from active syphilis, contain the specific virus, but