MORTIFICATION, OR GANGRENE. 910 of the exudation, as in phlegmonous erysipelas, in which, if free vent be pro- vided and tension relieved by incision, the death of the tissue may be pro- vented. Some forms of gangrenous inflammation are intensely contagious, as liospital gangrene ; others, as malignant pustule, are communicable solely by inoculation ; and others again, as cancrum oris, although having the characters of an infective inflammation, are not capable of being carried from one patient to another. Gangrene consequent on inflammation is of the moist or acute kind, being always"connected with a retention of blood in the part affected. We may regard it as impending in a part that has become inflamed from injury or other cause, if we find that the redness becomes of a dusky or purpHsh hue ; that bullEe filled with dark fluid rise upon the surface ; that the swelling, at first hard, tense, and brawny, becomes of a pulpy or doughy character ; that the pain is of a dull, heavy, or burning kind ; and that the temperature of the part, at first greatly increased, gradually sinks. We know that gangrene has taken place when there is a total loss of the sensibility of the part, even to pricking or pinching ; that the motion of the part itself ceases ; that its colour changes to a peculiar mottled, purplish-red, or greenish-black hue, unlike anything else in the body ; and that the temperature falls to a level with that of the surrounding air. There is likewise an extremely offensive odour evolved differing from that of ordinary post-mortem decomposition. The Constitutional Sijmptoms are always those of fever, with marked depres- sion, often assuming the character of septic poisoning. Aekest of GrANGEENE.—Certain forms of gangrene consequent upon in- fective inflammatory processes have a tendency to extend indefinitely until the tissues is accomplished has been fully described in the chapter on Ulceration (see p. 271). The dead parts are not thrown off merely by disintegration, but by a vital process, that of ulceration, occurring in the living tissues. The line of ulceration is termed the line of separation, and extends along the extreme margin of the living tissues (Fig. 338). This process of separation, commencing at the edge of the slough, slowly extends downwards to the whole depth of the gangrene ; if this affect the entire thickness of the limb, the ulceration will find its way completely across it. If the slough be more superficial, the ulceration extends beneath it, and detaches it gradually. The line of separation is usually obhque, the soft parts being first divided, and the hard tissues then ulcerated through, until the ligamentous or osseous structures, which are slowly acted upon. Fig. 338.—Senile Gangrene of Foot: Line of Separation. patient succumbs to the disease. In all forms of spontaneous gangrene, and in that due to direct injury to the tissues, the progress of the mortification is in most cases arrested, and the dead parts are separated from the living. When the gangrene reaches a part of which the vitality is too great to be destroyed by the operation of the ,causes which have produced death in the tissues beyond, a line of demarcation is formed. The process by which the separation of the dead from the living