INJURIES OF THE CHEST. 848 CHAPTER XXYIII. INJURIES OF THE CHEST. Wounds of the Chest-Walls are not of such frequent occurrence now as in the days of dueUing. The soft tissues may, however, be contused, torn, or cut. The thoracic muscles, especially the pectorals, are sometimes ruptured bj? force applied to the arms when abducted or raised above the head. The great pectoral muscle has been torn in a boy who attempted to drop from hand to hand three rungs of a ladder at a time. Extravasation of blood, and even inflammation and suppuration, may result from such injury. Subpectoral abscess may occur from injury of the pectoral muscles, or of the areolar tissue beneath them, or it may form without any apparent cause. The pus must be evacuated early. This may be done by making an incision through the skin and then tearing through the fibres of the muscles, after the manner recom- mended by Hilton for the emptying of submuscular or deep-seated abscesses. Wounds of the chest derive their principal interest and importance from the accompanying injury of the lungs, heart, or larger blood-vessels. When the soft parietes alone are wounded, the injury differs in nothing from similar lesions in other parts of the body ; except that it is usually slower in healing, in consequence of the want of rest caused by the movements of respiration. This is especially the case when the muscular parietes are furrowed by bullets. If the Surgeon be in doubt whether the cavity of the chest have been pene- trated or not, he may endeavour to ascertain this point by careful examination with the finger, but he should never introduce a probe ; it is better for him to wait and to be guided in his opinion by the symptoms that manifest them- selves, rather than, by probing the wound, to run the risk of converting it into what he dreads—a penetrating wound of the chest. FEACTURES OF THE BONES OF THE CHEST. Fracture of the Ribs and Costal Cartilages.—These injuries may occur in two ways : 1st, from direct violence, the part that is struck being driven in towards the thoracic cavity, and thus broken ; 2nd, from indirect violence, the lore part of the chest being forcibly compressed, so that the rib is bent outward, and snaps. When the injury is the result of direct violence, and the broken fragments are forced in, the pleura, lung, liver, or diaphragm, may be wounded, thus giving rise to the most serious and fatal consequences, such as hemorrhage, emphysema, and inflammation of the parts injured. When it is occasioned by indirect violence, as the fracture takes place in an outward direction, the thoracic organs may be contused, but they are not likely to be punctured by the fragments. In some rare cases, the ribs have been known to be broken by the violent contraction of the abdominal muscles during labour.