MECHANISM OF COLLES'S FRACTURE. 6oi Fig. 201. — Fracture of Lower Fuel of Radius : Di.splaceinent of Lower Fragment. at the back of the forearm immediately above the carpus, and the concavity along: the outer line of the radius. ■, , l fiSt if, as sometimes happens, the hand be forcibly pronated at the moment when it touches the ground, then the shock, which is received prmcipally on the ball of the thumb and the radial side of the wrist, impmges m a direction obhquely from before backwards, and fi-om without inwards, as well as trom below upwards, and thus has a tendency, as soon as the bone is broken, to rotate the lower fragment on its own axis, and to tilt the articular surface somcvvhat upwards and outwards. As the upper frag- ment descends, its posterior surface of compact tissue is forced into the cancellous structure of the lower fragment until the two posterior portions of compact tissue come into contact ; and thus the upper line of compact tissue is driven into the lower fragment, to an extent corre- sponding to the degree with which the fragment is rotated upwards and backwards. If the bone be brittle, or the force be continued after this amount of impaction has taken place, the lower fragment will be sphntered. The prominence of the styloid process of the ulna in this case is the result of the shortening of the radial side of the wrist and hand, consequent upon the impaction. When the fracture is unimpacted, or when it is comminuted without impac- tion, I agree with R. W. Smith that the displacement of the lower fi-agment is the result of muscular action alone. This I have had an opportunity of observing in the following case. A man, 64 years of age, fell from a height of twenty-five feet, breaking the left radius just above the wrist, and at the same time receiving such serious injuries of the pelvis and abdomen, that he died in an hour after admission into the Hospital. On dissecting the arm about twenty-four hours after death, I found that the radius was fractured trans- versely about half an inch above its lower end, and that the lower fragment was completely comminuted. The wrist, whicli presented all the signs of this fracture in a marked, but not an extreme degree, could not be restored to its normal shape by any amount of traction. On exposing the muscles of the limb, it was found that the supinator longus was attached to the lower, and the pronator quadratus to the upper fragment ; the latter muscle being slightly lacerated at its lower part. The upper fragment was strongly pronated. The main obstacle to redaction was found to exist in the two radial extensors of the wrist, the tendons of which Avere excessively tense ; next to these, the special extensors of the thumb presented most tension, and then the supinator longus, which was far less tense than either of the other sets of muscles, but especially than the radial extensors, the tendons of which were strongly defined. On dividing these tendons, and on pressing the lower end of the upper fragment outwards, reduction was easily effected. Here the Fig. 202.—A section of the bone from which Fig. 201 was taken, sliowing the impac- tion of the comjiact tissue of the po.s- terior aspect of the Upper Fragment into tlie cancellous tissue of the Lower.