ACQUIRED SYPHILIS: TERTIARY STAGE. 1133 transparent material of considerable firmness lying in the natural situations of the connective tissue and following the lines of the vessels. In the testicle the septa may thus be increased to half a line or more in thickness. In the later stages, when the active process has ceased, dense cicatricial bands of fibrous tissue may pass through the organ ia various directions leading to puckered scars on the surface. The process is painless, and the performance of the natural function of the organ is diminished in proportion to the destruction of its proper structure by the pressure of the new growth. The microscopic appearances presented. by organs thus aflfectcd are those of chronic interstitial infiammation. The interstitial connective tissue, sometimes throughout the aftected organ, sometimes in bands or patches, is found to be infiltrated with small round cells, between which is a delicate stroma, usually finely fibrillated. Vessels of new formation are abundantly present in the new^ tissue. The growth seems to commence round the vessels and to infiltrate along their course. At a later stage it becomes developed into dense fibroid tissue, and at the same time undergoes considerable contraction, which may lead to deformity and puckering of the affected organ. The normal structures of the part are pressed upon by the growth, and may degenerate and be completely absorbed in parts. The original vessels show the changes just described, and are fi-equently obliterated. This process manifests itself in bone by a gradual enlargement extending over a considerable area, and accompanied by a great increase in density of the structure (sclerosis of bone). The Haversian canals are narrowed, and in many are completely obliterated, and thus from want of blood-supply death of a portion of bone may take place (syphilitic necrosis). The bones of the skull furnish some of the best specimens of this change. The most characteristic pathological product of tertiary syphilis is the Gumma, or, as it is sometimes called, the si/philonia or syphilitic granuloma. A gumma commences by a localized process essentially similar to the diffuse form just describedj'namely, an infiltration of the connective tissue of the affected part with small round cells. These cells may be in part migrated white cor- puscles, and in part formed by proliferation of the original connective tissue corpuscles. It is impossible to say to what extent they owe their origin to these two sources. Small multinucleated cells are often present. New^ vessels are formed amongst the cells, and thus a tissue is developed having the characters of granulation tissue. This continues to increase in quantity till the special structure of the part, such as epithelium in a gland, striated fibres in muscle, fat cells in adipose tissue, or the compact tissue of bone, disappear in the affected area, being destroyed and absorbed in consequence of the pressure of the invading growth. Thus a nodule is formed, composed of small round cells, between which is an intercellular substance, small in amount and usually distinctly fibrillated, so as to give the new tissue considerable tough- ness. The gumma in this stage is abundantly vascular. The new" tissue exceeds in bulk that which it has replaced, and thus forms a distinct tumour. It increases by a progressive infiltration of the surrounding structures, and not, as in tubercle, by the formation of new nodules which coalesce with that first formed. The growth continues till the gumma may reach the size of a walnut ; but long before this—in fact, soon after the gumma becomes recognizable—degenerative changes have taken place in its structure. These arise, not, as in tubercle, from the absence of vessels in the new tissue, but, as