INFECTIVE PROCESSES. 927 perties when growing in a suitable medium, such as the discharges of an unhealthy wound are assumed to be. Evidence is, however, wanting to prove this. The more generally received opinion is that the specific infective processes are each due to a special form of organism, and that putrefaction serves only as a predisposing cause of infection : first by exciting inflammation and suppuration, and thus providing a suitable medium—the inflammatory exudation or pus—in which the pathogenic organisms may develop ; and secondly, by lowering the vitality of the tissues, in consequence of which they are more readily invaded by the pathogenic or parasitic fungi. However this may be, the practical fact remains that the prevention of ]:)utrefaction is also the most certain means of preventing infection. The mode of entrance of the virus has already been discussed (p. 181). In infective processes attacking wounds there is no doubt that in the great majority of cases, so great in fact that we may almost say in all cases, the virus enters the wound directly from without, and the surest means of preven- tion are those directed to protect the wound from external influences. The local and general aftections consequent upon septic processes in or infection of wounds may be thus briefly classified :— I. The EflFects of Putrefaction.—True Septic Processes.—The poison is generated solely in dead matter, and is associated with the presence of bacteria, bacilli, and micrococci of various forms. a. Local.—Septic inftammation and suppuration dependent on the local irritation caused by the chemical products of putrefiiction. It is a non-infec- tive process (p. 182). 1). General.—A febrile affection dependent upon the absorption of the chemical products of putrefaction from the wound. It is a non-infective process, and varies in intensity with the dose of the poison. If the dose be small and the period during which absorption lasts be short, the resulting affection is known as Septic Traumatic Fever (p. 307) ; if the dose be smaS and absorption continue for months, it gives rise to Hectic Fever (p. 250). If the dose be very large and rapidly absorbed it may be speedily fataf, the affection then forming one variety of septicasmia—;S'^?/;^/c Foisoning~oT Septic Intoxication, or as it is sometimes called Saprcemia. IL Infective Processes. 1. Local Processes leading to a Spreading Destruction of the Affected Tissues. a. Wound-diphtheria.—This name has been applied by the Germans to a superficial infective process usually attacking granulating sores. The surface becomes covered with an opaque tough membranous layer, beneath which pro- gressive destruction of the granulations takes place. There is febrile dis turbance, but no specific constitutional affection accompanyino- it. It is con- tagious, and is associated with the growth of micrococci. ^ /y. Hospital Gangrene.—A rapidly spreading gangrenous inflammation attacking recent or granulating wounds. The gangrene follows closely on the inflammation, the dead tissues forming a pulpy adherent slouo-h There is febrile disturbance, but no specific infection of the whole system It is associated with the growth of micrococci, and is intensely contao-ious c Spreading Traumatic Gangrene—An acute rapidly spi-eading inflam- mation tenmnating in death of the affected tissues. The inflammation extends a considerable distance beyond the dead tissues, and the gangrenous process is