793 TRAUMATIC NEURASTHENIA. "fa onset 3C ,5c 2D 3D .6Cj ID 5D 101) 12D 111) 3L 51/ and tingling in the limbs, paraplegia with spasm, irregular paralysis of the limb muscles, girdle pain, and affections of the sphincters. In the case of a lady who was severely shaken in a railway collision, and who died paraplegic six weeks later, Gowers found indications of subacute myelitis throughout the dorsal region. Acute meningitis following obscure spinal injuries is also very rare. It was, however, at one time supposed that chronic meningo-myelitis was a common cause of those complex symptoms which may gradually develop after this class of injuries, and which will be considered below. The cerebral characters of many such symptoms were explained by supposing that the chronic inflammation had slowly extended from the membranes of the spinal cord to those of the brain. The subject is one of extreme interest, but it must suffice here to say that the view above expressed was founded on very scanty pathological information, and that Surgeons are now generally agreed that chronic diffuse meningo-myelitis very rarely results from injury. It seems, however, certain that in some cases an injury to the spine is an important factor in the causation of some of the definite system diseases of the cord ; thus locomotor ataxy, following such injury, has been recorded by Gee, Barbour, and others. 91], thigh, fi-ont and inner side of leg, lower part of buttock, back of thigh, le^ and foot, perinc^um and anus, and lastly, skin from coccyx to anus. J^y carefully noting the distribution of the anesthesia and the muscular paralysis, the injury may be referred to one or more nerve-roots, or to that part ot tnc cord from which they take origin. In cases in which we have evidence of damage to certain nerve-roots the level of the lesion in its rela- tion to the spines of the vertebrjB may vary within certain limits. The varying relations of the root origins of the nerves to the spines of the vertebrte are represented in the accompanying diagram (Fig. 312), prepared by Professor R. W. Reid of Aberdeen, to whom I am much indebted for permission to repro- duce it. The right hand column represents the vertebrffi, and each nerve is represented by a shaded block. Meningitis and Myelitis.—The occurrence of suhacute myelitis after an injury to the spine is very rare. It may possibly result from the concussion to which the spinal cord has been subjected, but it seems more probable that the inflammation in such cases is due to capillary extravasations into the cord. The symptoms produced are much like those of haemor- rhage, but the difference consists in the time of their amongst them may be mentioned spinal pain Fi.Li. 312.—Diagram sliow- iiig the. varying relations of the origins of the Spinal Nerves to the Si)ines of the Vertebrae (Rei<I).