SEPTIC mil A AND FF^EMIA. 967 faction on a filter, washed them in distilled water, and then injected them into animals, and also into his own body, without producing any evil effect. That the bacteria had not been injured was shown by control experiments in which their power of growing and causing putrefaction in organic solutions was demonstrated. Those experiments may, therefore, be said to show that in the process of putrefaction a complex substance is formed which possesses intensely toxic properties, in small doses giving rise to severe febrile disturbance, in large doses causing a fatal illness accompanied by definite symptoms. The affection thus produced in its most intense form is spoken of as septicaemia, but to avoid confusion is better termed septic poisoning. The effect produced by a smaller dose forms, as has already been pointed out, one form of so-called traumatic fever. The injection of putrid animal fluids into the subcutaneous tissue or blood-stream is not, however, in all cases followed merely by poisoning from the chemical products of putrefaction. Under certain conditions a true infective process ensues, as was first pointed out by Davaine. Perhaps the best example of this process is furnished by the experiments of Robert Koch, in which putrid fluids, such as blood or meat-infusion, were injected into house mice beneath the skin of the back. If the quantity used was sufiicieut the animals died with all the symptoms of septic poisoning in four or five hours. When one drop only was injected about two-thirds of the mice recovered without any serious symptoms, but in the remaining third, after twenty-four hours of apparent health, a definite illness set in which invariably terminated fatally in from forty to sixty hours after inoculation. The first symptom was a dulness of the eye, with increased secretion from the conjunc- tiva ; the animal became languid, ceased to eat, and finally sat still with its back bent and its legs drawn under it. Its respirations gradually became slower and death came on almost imperceptibly. On examining it after death some local inflammation, with serous exudation, was found at the seat of inoculation, but the internal organs showed no marked change beyond some swelling of the spleen. If the point of a knife was dipped in the blood, or in the exudation at the seat of inoculation, and a mere scratch was then made with it on the ear or tail of another mouse, death invariably followed with the same symptoms and in about the same time, and thus the disease might be transmitted indeflnitely from animal to animal. A drop of the blood from an infected mouse placed on a glass slide, dried, stained with methyl-violet, and mounted in Canada balsam, was found to contain vast numbers of very delicate bacilli, about -^Vo of an inch long, and one-eighth of their length in breadth. Many of these were seen to have penetrated into the substance of the white corpuscles, and apparently to have multiplied within them. An attempt was made to transmit the disease to animals of other species, but without success. Even the field mouse, though apparently so nearly allied to the house mouse, was found to be incapable of receiving the poison. A general infective process was induced by Davaine in a similar way in rabbits by the inoculation of putrid fluids ; but the organism found in the blood in that case was a micrococcus not a bacillus. Both Davaine and Koch found that the infective process was more certainly induced by fluids in an early stage of decomposition.