INJURIES OF SOFT PARTS. 320 The Jhiiton-Suture is sometimes used as a deep supporting stitcli where there is much gaping of a large wound. It consists of a thick silver wire penetrating deeply through the subcutaneous tissue and passing through the skin from one inch and a half to two inches on each side of the wound. Each end of the wire is passed through an oval piece of sheet lead perforated with a hole in its centre ; on the button are pj'ojecting wings round which the wire can be twisted after it has been brought through the hole. The two buttons are drawn together and maintained in position bj twisting the wire round the wings in such a way as to bring the edges of the wound in^sufficient apposition to allow of the finer stitches being inserted without undue tension. The button diffuses the pressure over the whole area upon which it presses, and thus a considerable degree of traction may be applied without causing sloughing. It is especially useful after the excision of malignant tumours with a portion of skin. The twisted or figure-of-8 suture is frequently used in cases of hare-lip, and occasionally in other plastic operations. A slender soft iron pin, with a steel point, is introduced through each lip of the wound, at a distance of about half an inch from the margins ; and whilst the edges are held in contact, a piece of silk twist is passed in a figure-of-8 round the pin, care being taken not to draw it too tight, nor to compress the soft parts between the needle and the thread, lest sloughing ensue. The projecting ends of the pin are now cut off with pliers, and the skin beneath them protected with plaster. The pin takes the tension off the suture, so that it is less likely to cut its way out than the interrupted suture. It should be withdrawn in about forty- eight hours. In closHig extensive wounds involving the division of muscular planes, it is often advisable to bring the separate layers into apposition by buried sutures of silk or catgut. These must be very carefully sterilised, and are left in situ. Plasters arc very rarely employed as a means of bringing the edges of a freshly-made wound into contact. They are, however, sometimes very useful for supporting the tissues on either side of a wound and thus ensuring more perfect rest, and may advantageously be used to prevent the wide separation of the edges of a wound, in which union by first intention has failed \o take place. Eesin, soap, and isinglass plasters all possess peculiar properties, fitting them for. use in particular cases. The American rubber-plaster, which adheres with great tenacity without being either wetted or warmed, will be found very convenient. It will not stick to a wet surface, but if once applied is not easily loosened by discharges, as it is a waterproof material. Strapping used in an antiseptic dressing should be previously dipped in a basin containing a pint-and-a-lialf of boiling water in which an ounce of carbolic acid has been dissolved. All superfluous hair having been removed, and the surface dried, each strip should be laid down evenly between the points of suture when these have been used, so as to compress each side of the wound equally. In removing the plaster both ends should be raised at the same time towards the wound, and the strip should then be taken off without either lip of the wound being unduly dragged upon. The strips should be allowed to remain undisturbed as long as possible, and each one replaced before the next is removed. When the edges of the wound have been brought together, nothino- main-