GANGRENE FOLLOWING LIGATURE. 461 of the patient by amputating on a level with or above the ligature. Althougli this is an extreme measure, it is infinitely preferable to allowing hm to run the risk of the supervention of gangrene, which will reqmre removal ot the limb under less favourable conditions. If the secondary haemorrhage proceed from one of the tibials, it would be all but useless to adopt either of the preceding alternatives. If we ligatured the superficial femoral, the bleeding- would not be permanently controlled, or, if it were, gangrene of the limb would in all probability set in. There are very few cases on record in which this practice has been adopted without mortification occurring. In a few rare instances, however, ligature of the popliteal has, in such circmn- stances, succeeded ; but it has also fi-equently failed, rendering secondary amputation necessary ; so its success is a mere matter of chance. The depth at which the tibials are situated is so great, that it would be hopeless to search for one of these vessels and attempt its deligation at the bottom of a deep, sloughy, infiltrated and inflamed wound. In such circumstances, therefore, I think we should amputate the leg above the seat of wound. This is truly u severe measure ; but the only alternative that has, to my knowledge, ever succeeded, is ligature of the popliteal ; and as that, as already stated, has frequently failed, I think that, as a rule, we should best consult the safety of the patient by the removal of the Hmb at once. If the haemorrhage occur from a wounded artery to which ligatures have already been apphed above and below the seat of the wound, the same treat- ment must be adopted as in those cases in which the bleeding takes place from a vessel tied in its continuity. Hemorrhage from arteries opened by ulceration or sloughing must be treated on the same principles as in other forms of secondary haemorrhage. If the loss of blood has been abundant we must not wait for a recurrence of the haemorrhage before seeking for the bleeding point, and the ligature should, if possible, be applied above and below the opening in the artery ; proximal ligature at a distance being justifiable only when this is impossible, or an attempt to carry it out has failed. Gangrene following Ligature.—After the ligature of the main artery of a limb, the collateral circulation is, under all ordinary circumstances, sufficient to maintain the vitahty of the parts supplied, by the deligated vessel. In some cases, however, it happens that the condition of the circulation in the parts below the ligature is not compatible with their life. The Period of Swpervenlion of gangrene of the limb extends over the first three or four weeks after the ligature of the vessel. It seldom sets in before the third day, but most frequently happens before the tenth. Causes.—The causes influencing the occurrence of gangrene in this way are the Age of the Patient, the Seat of the Operation, and various Conditions in which the limb may afterwards be placed. The influence of afje is not, however, so marked as might a priori be supposed ; for, although there can be no doubt tliat thei-e is less accommo- dating power in the arterial system at an advanced period of life to varying quantities of blood, and that there would be greater difficulty in main- taining the vitality of a limb after ligature of its artery in a man of sixty than in one of twenty-five, yet I find that, of thirty cases in which gangrene of the lower extremity followed the ligature either of the external iliac or femoral arteries, the average age of the patient was thirty-five years, as nearly as