675 ELBOW—BOTH BONES. causes ; viz., to compress the subclavian, lay open the sac, turn out coagula, and tie the torn artery at the seat of injury. In one case, the dislocation being of twenty days' standing and the patient a woman 26 years old, Froriep states that reduction was followed by sudden and extensive tumefaction of the axilla, syncope, and death in an hour and a half. K post-mortem examination disclosed laceration of the axillary vein. No mention is made of any internal injury to account for death. Rupture of the vein has occurred in at least two other cases. Injury to the arillary nerves during reduction, leading to paralysis of the arm, has also beeu described. A case of this kind is mentioned by Billroth as having occurred in a patient under his care at Zurich. The dislocation was of nine months' standing, and had been attended with, partial paralysis of the arm and some muscular atrophy. The reduction was followed by total paralysis, which Billroth attributes to laceration of the axillary nerves in con- sequence of their having become adherent to the bone. In the case recorded by Flaubert four of the nerves were torn from their attachments to the cord. Besides these accidents, other evil consequences have occasionally followed prolonged attempts at reducing old dislocations of the humerus, such as sudden death from syncope, and exhaustion. Guerin's remarkable case of avulsion of the limb at the elbow has been already mentioned (see p, 652), In the event of the Surgeon being unsuccessful in his attempts at reduction, he must endeavour, by means of frictions and passive motion, to restore, as far as practicable, the utility of the limb. Forcible attempts to break down adhesion should, however, be avoided lest the axillary vessels be lacerated. In cases of old standing, in which symptoms of pressure on the large Vessels and nerves are present, Billroth recommends excision of the head of the bone. This has been done successfully by Langenbeck, MacCormac and Sheild, in cases of paralysis from pressure. Dislocations of the Elbow are very common. According to Kronlein they form 27 per cent, of all dislocations. They occur with special frequency in children : thus, out of 94 cases of dislocation of both bones backwards collected by Kronlein, 22 occurred in children under 10 years of age, and 44 between the ages of 10 and 20. Dislocations of the elbow are most commonly caused by indirect violence, chiefly falls on the hand complicated by a twist of the joint. In other cases they may be the result of direct violence, in con- sequence of which much swelling speedily sets in, the signs are obscured, and the diagnosis is rendered proportionately difficult; more especially when the dislocation happens to be complicated with fracture of the articular ends of the bones. In these cases, indeed, it is only by an accurate acquaint- ance with the normal relations of the osseous points, and by a comparison between those of opposite sides, that the Surgeon can detect the true nature of the injury. The Varieties of dislocation of the elbow-joint are very numerous, either both bones of the forearm or only one being displaced. J. Both Bones.—The most common dislocation is that in which both bones are thrown Backwards, without fracture of the coronoid process. In rare cases, however, this process may be broken off. This injury is readily recognized by the projection backwards of the olecranon, carrying with it tlift tendon of the triceps, on each side of which there is a distinct hollow. The articular end of the humerus can also be felt projecting in front of the'elbow