495 TREATMENT OF NERVE INJURY. Treatment of Injuries causing Interruption of the Condugtinc Power of a Nerve.—The treatment of these injuries may be divided mto two parts : 1st, the Local treatment of the Injured nerve, and "indly, the Treat- ment of the Paralj/sed part. 1. the Local Treatment.—In cases of suUutaneous injurij nothing should be done, for it may be taken for granted that, although the nerve may be completely paralysed, its continuity is not destroyed. On dissecting limbs amputated for the most severe railway or machinery accidents, the nerves are almost invariably found untorn in the midst of the crushed tissues. To cut down, therefore, in a subcutaneous injury with the intention of suturing the nerve would be a grievous error. When the function of the nerve is abolished by pressure, the cause of pressure must be removed if possible, as by the cure of an aneurism, the excision of a tumour, or the reduction of a dislocation. When the cause of the paralysis is the implication of the nerve in a cicatrix or in the callus of a fracture, nothing should be done locally until, after waiting many months, it becomes evident that nature will not effect a cure. It will very rarely be found necessary in such cases to adopt any operative plan of treatment, the symptoms disappearing as the scar becomes looser with age, or as the provisional callus of the fracture is absorbed. Warren, however, reheved a case of neuralgia resulting from implication of a nerve in cicatricial tissue by dissecting it out without dividing or otherwise injuring it. Primary Suture.—In cases of division of a nerve in an open ivound no doubt exists as to the proper line of treatment: the two ends of the nerve should be found and carefully secured to each other by fine sutures. The best material for suture is very fine chromic catgut. Silk, which would not be absorbed for many weeks, might cause irritation and possibly severe neuralgia. The needle should be a common round sewing needle, which, if necessary, can be bent into a curve in the flame of a spirit-lamp and hardened again by being dipped in cold water; the ordinary fiat surgical needle, with its cutting edges, need- lessly damages the nerve. The end of the nerve should not be pinched with the forceps, as this may prevent rapid union. The sutures should be passed completely through the nerve, not through the sheath only, as this ensures better approximation of the ends. Three or four sutures having being applied, according to the size of the nerve, the wound must be closed and treated by some antiseptic method if possible ; suppuration being usually fatal to success. The limb must be put in such a position as completely to relax the nerve. In a large proportion of the cases union will be obtained, with restoration of function. The prognosis after primary nerve suture is good, but the period at which restoration of function may be expected varies greatly. Reference has already been made to these exceptional cases in which a rapid return of function has suggested the occurrence of primary union. BowllDy concludes from the con- sideration of a large number of cases that recovery may occur after weeks, months, or years ; he finds that improvement usually begins within a year, but that a case cannot be looked upon as quite hopeless until the lapse of two or three years. Secondary suture may be undertaken if the primary operation has failed, or if no attempt was made to suture the nerve at the time of the injury. The operation is performed by freely exposing the nerve after rendering the limb bloodless. Its proximal extremity can sometimes be found by its bulbous