p 982 SEPTICJEMIA AND PYjEMIA. rhagk infarcts If this were due to the lodgment of an unirritating embolus, the extravasated blood and the tissues which have been deprived of their blood- supply would gradually be absorbed, leaving a depressed cicatrix in the lung tissue. In pysemia, however, the embolus is infective and intensely irritating ; consequently the vessel in which it is lodged sloughs, and the mischief extending to the surrrounding tissues, the whole infarct softens and breaks down, ihe products of this process soaking away into the surrounding lung tissue cause inflammation, with exudation into the air-vesicles identical in its pathological appearances with ordinary croupous pneumonia. Occasionally all these conditions may be recognized in one infarct. On making a section through it a grey or yellowish fluid may be seen in the centre ; it is not pus, being produced by gangrenous softening of the central parts of the infarct. Romid this is a zone of pulmonary apoplexy ; then follows a paler solid area, having the ordinary appearances of pneumonic consolidation, and round this again a zone of hypersemia, in which the vesicles still contain air. As the area of softening extends, the cavity becomes a true abscess, containing pus mixed with the debris of the tissues of the lung, and the wedge-shaped form is then lost. The size of these abscesses varies greatly, from less than that of a pea to two or three inches in diameter. The pleurisy which accom- panies, and in most cases results from, the formation of the abscesses is often very severe. The pleural surface is thickly covered with patches of inflamma- tory lymph, whilst quantities of deeply coloured turbid fluid are usually collected into the pleural sac. Sometimes, though rarely, small collections ot pus are found scattered through the substance of the organ without affecting its pleural surface, or giving rise to any of the wedge-shaped masses above described. The Liver frequently presents no abnormal appearances, even m severe cases, where the lungs have suff-ered most markedly ; in others, again, it is the seat of many abscesses, which often attain a very large size. These have much the same character, both as to form and position, as those m the l^ngs and are usually surrounded by a zone of haemorrhage and congestion. When, however, they occur without any deposits in the lungs preceding them, they may appear as simple collections of pus, having a more or less branched arrano-ement. The form of pysemic abscess does not appear to be the result of arterial embolism. In cases in which the general blood-poisomng is more marked than the local effects, the liver is found to be swollen, its structure is soft and more friable than usual, and its colour uniform and muddy. The epithelium is found on microscopic examination to be excessively granular. ^ n ^ l ^ The Spleen is usually large, soft, very friable, and often of an almost pulpy consistence. Infarcts unconnected with the pysemic state are frequently met with in this organ ; metastatic abscesses are not, however, very common. The Kidneys are almost invariably swollen and soft; the epithelium cloudy, excessively granular, and often choking the tubules in irregular masses. They are very frequently congested, and sometimes the seat of abscesses presenting the same varieties as those found in other parts. The Intestines rarely sufffer, but abscesses may be found in the submucous or subserous areolar tissue. Local peritonitis not unfrequently follows the for- mation of hepatic abscesses, and may become very severe. Of the other organs the Brain is most commonly aff'ected. Diffuse suppura-