ACQUIEEl) SYPniLlS: INDOLENT BUBO. 1129 set down as malignant; on which supposition amputation of the finger has been proposed and practised. I have seen at least four cases in which this extreme measure has been proposed, but in which, by a timely discovery of the true nature of the affection, the finger was saved. ^ In the earlier stages a chancre on the finger is likely to be mistaken for a whitlow. Variations in the Sore as the result of Irritation.—As the result of irritation, the normal serous discharge of a hard chancre becomes purulent. If the irritation be more severe, and especially if inefficient caustics, as nitrate of silver, have been applied, the surrounding tissues become infiltrated and swollen so as to obscure the characteristic sharply defined edge of the indura- tion. In such cases it is often impossible to make a diagnosis until the inflammation has been subdued by proper treatment. Hard sores rarely if ever assume a sloughing form. Phagedasnic ulceration is, however, not uncommon (see p. 1110). Prognosis from the Appearance of the Primary Sore.—Every patient who has the initial manifestation is already suffering from constitutional syphilis, and nothing can prevent the development of secondary symptoms. These may be so slight as to be scarcely noticeable, or so severe as to endanger life. Much induration is often thought to precede a severe course of syphihs, and possibly this may be true ; but the most severe symptoms have also followed small superficial sores, so that it is not safe to draw any conclusion from the appearance of the initial manifestation. Course of the Indurated Sore.—If unmodified by treatment, the initial manifestation tends slowly to disappear, the surrounding induration melting away and the sore healing, a scar being left behind, which is more or less marked, according to the extent and depth of the ulceration that has accom- panied the process. The simple desquamating papule may leave no recog- nizable scar. The length of time Avhich may elapse before spontaneous disappearance of the induration takes place is uncertain, but it is rarely, if ever, under two months. Indolent Enlargement of the Lymphatic Glands.^—The so-called indolent bitbo is the next change to follow induration at the seat of inoculation. The time at which this follows the appearance of the initial manifestation is variously stated at from seven to eleven days. Most commonly the glands are found already enlarged when the patient first presents himself, and form a most important element in the diagnosis. One gland enlarges first and several follow ; the glands are painless, or only very slightly tender, and the hardness is such that they are often described as feeling like bullets. The skin over them is unaltered, and the individual glands can be clearly distinguished, even when they form together a considerable mass, there being no doughy swelling about them as in the acute suppurating bubo. In rare cases, if the sore be irritated so that it is suppurating freely, or if the patient have unwisely taken violent exercise, as dancing, riding, and the like, suppura- tion may follow, and an abscess form around the glands. The pus from such an abscess, however, is never auto-inoculable like that from the virulent bubo following a soft chancre. If the point of contagion be situated near the middle line, at the frffinum for instance, the glands in both groins are often enlarged. Enlargement of Dorsal Lymphatics of Penis.—Simultaneously with the occurrence of glandular enlargement some induration and thickening of