119 TlilPIER-CHOPART AMPUTATION. instance, I have found fii-ni osseous ankylosis in the articulations, requiring- the use of the saw for the separation of the anterior part of the foot. When this complication occurs, the tarsus should be treated as a whole, and sawn through, irrespective of articulations, behind the limits of the disease. The result of this operation is extremely favourable, the patient, by the aid of a properly constructed boot, being able to walk, and even dance, with very little appearance of lameness. In some cases the heel is drawn up by the muscles of the calf, and the end of the stump is made to point down in such a way that the patient is rendered lame by walking on the anterior sharp edge of the calcaneum. Yerneuil states that he has observed, in a number of cases, that the heel is drawn up only in amputations for disease, and that it occurs really before the operation and not after. He has never noticed it in a primary amputation. This condition is best removed by division of the tendo Achillis. Tripier's Modification of Chopart's Amputation.—In order to prevent the tilting downwards of the extremity of the stump Tripier has suggested sawing off the under part of the os calcis so as to present a flat surface for the patient to bear upon. In his operation the incision is commenced at the outer border of the tendo Achillis at the level of the tip of the external malleolus and carried downwards and forwards in a curve with the convexity downwards, passing about a finger's breadth above the base of the metatarsal bone of the fifth toe and ending at the inner side of the tendon of the extensor proprius hallucis over the articulation between the astragalus and the scaphoid. From this point the plantar incision is commenced, passing at first downwards over the scaphoid and internal cuneiform bones to the level of the articulation between that bone and the first metatarsal, then downwards and inwards in a curve to the sole of the foot and across to the base of the fifth metatarsal bone, from which it is carried upwards to join the first incision. (Fig. 63, t.) These incisions must extend to the bones. The flaps are then raised so as to expose the medio-tarsal joint at which disarticulation is performed. The soft parts are then raised from the under surface and sides of the os calcis with a periosteal elevator until a long narrow saw can be applied to the inner side of the bone immediately below the sustentaculum tali. (Fig. G2, t.) The lower and poste- rior part of the os calcis is then sawn off by a transverse cut so as to leave a flat level surface upon which the patient may rest. The angle left between the articular surface of the cuboid and the saw cut may be rounded off. The operations just described are adapted to cases of disease, as it is important not to leave a part oi the affected bones behind, and their removal IS made more certain by operating through the lines of the articulations. In amputations for injury, however, it has been recommended by Mayor of Lausanne, and others, to treat the foot as a whole, ignoring articulations. On this plan, a sufficient covering is turned up, encroaching on the foot as little as the nature of the injury will allow. When sufficient covering has been obtamed, the saw is applied to the tarsus or metatarsus, as the case may be, saving as much of the foot as possible. There is no doubt that excellent results are obtained by this method, every half-inch of the foot that can be saved adding to its utility. Sometimes the exact limits of the injury are difficult to ascertain with accuracy immediately after the accident. In such cases any loose or crushed fragments may be removed, and the foot placed for a quarter of an hour in a