TREATMENT OF SECONDARY HAEMORRHAGE. 457 .:he wound open up so that the main vessels can be seen beatinc? forcibly, the danger of the patient is great. He should then be carefully watched, the diet may be lowered, and the artery compressed digitally at the most convenient spot above the wound. Treatment of Secondary Arterial Hemorrhage.—In this we are guided by two definite rules to which there are few exceptions : 1. Tluit even 1f the Immorrhage have ceased spontaneously, operative interference is necessary to prevent its return; and, 2. That the mea)is of arresting the hcBmorrhage should, if possilde, he applied at the Heeding point. These principles are now almost universally recognised, and form tlie only safe guide in the treatment of this most anxious complication. 1. That even if the haemorrhage have ceased spontaneously, opera- tive interference is necessary to prevent its return.—This rule, it will be observed, is the reverse of that by which we are guided in primary haemorrhage. It is founded on our knowledge of the phenomena of secondary haemorrhage as described on p. 455. After the first outbreak, even though the bleeding may cease for a time, it is almost certain to recur. When a repetition of secondary hasmorrhage has taken place, the patient's condition becomes most critical ; the efforts of nature can no longer be relied on to arrest the bleeding, and the fatal gush may recur at any moment. In no circumstances are more coolness and more surgical knowledge required, than in adopting a decisive and immediate line of action in a case of secondary hcemorrhage. There is no time for delay, no time for consultation, none for reference to books; the Surgeon must act at once on his own responsibility. The only exception to this first rule is when the haemorrhage occurs a few days after the operation, and is very small in quantity, amounting to no more than a slight oozing. Under these circumstances, elevation of the part, the application of cold and moderately firm bandaging over a cotton-wool or other elastic dressing, so as to press the surfaces of the wound against each other, will sometimes arrest the bleeding. If the oozing continue, however, more efficient means must be adopted without delay. 2. That the means of arresting haemorrhage should, if possible, be applied at the bleeding-point.—This rule is the same as that for dealing with primary hasmorrhage. The following are the chief reasons upon which it is founded. First, until the wound is opened up it is impossible to say from what vessel the bleeding proceeds. Thus after amputation of the thigh it may come from branches of the profunda or from the superficial femoral. In some cases it may happen that no large vessel is bleeding, the hemorrhage proceeding from the soft granulation-tissue hning an unhealthy cavity. In 18G6 a man was admitted into University College Hospital under my care on account of very serious secondary hsemorrhage from a gun-shot wound on the inner side of the arm, exactly in the line of the brachial artery, from which it was supposed to proceed. The wound was freely enlarged and a foul cavity was exposed lined with soft unhealthy granulation-tissue, but no large vessel was found to be bleeding. The cavity was cleaned out and the bleeding did not recur. Twenty years afterwards 'the man was admitted for auotlier accident, and the brachial artery could then be seen running close to the scar and evidently uninjured. Secondly.—li the main trunk be tied at a