TREATMENT OF VARICOSE ANEURISM. 473 the aneurismal tumour lying between the artery and the vein continues to increase in size, and to become hardened by the deposit of himinated fibrin. If left to itself, it would continue to enlarge until sloughing of the integuments covering it occurred, followed by fatal hemorrhage. In some cases, the aperture of communication between the vein and sac becomes closed, and the tumour is converted into a simple circumscribed traumatic aneurism. Treatment.—The treatment of this disease must be conducted on different principles from those that have been laid down as required in the ordinary circumscribed traumatic aneurism ; the difl'crence depending upon the fact, that in the varicose aneurism there is a double aperture in the sac, and there- fore the occlusion -of the sac by laminated fibrin is not so easily brought about. Digital Compression applied simultaneously to the artery above the tumour, and to the orifice leading from the sac into the vein, has met with an amount of success justifying its adoption before proceeding to more serious measures. Vanzetti cured a varicose aneurism of the brachial artery in this way in six hours, and Franzolini another after sixty days compression at irregular intervals. In Fischer's tables are twelve cases of varicose aneurism, nine of which were cured by digital compression. Should digital compression fail, the sac must be laid open, and the artery tied on each side of the opening into it, a procedure which may be attended with some difficulty unless the Surgeon bear in mind the pathological anatomy of the parts. The limb may be made bloodless, so that the Surgeon may see clearly what he is doing. The dilated vein is then exposed and opened, if possible, on the side furthest removed from the artery. On the side adherent to the aneurism an aperture will be seen in the wall of the opened vein. If it cannot be found, the tourniquet must be relaxed, when the flow of arterial blood will reveal its situation, and the limb may then again be made bloodless. If an attempt be made to find the artery immediately below this aperture, the Surgeon will be disappointed, for the sac of the circumscribed aneurism intervenes between the two vessels. That this aperture leads into the sac, and not into the artery, may readily be ascertained by introducing a probe, which will be found to be capable of being carried in various directions altogether out of the course of the artery. In order to expose this vessel properly, a probe- pointed bistoury must be introduced into this opening, and the sac of the false aneurism slit up to its full extent, the coagula turned out, and the punc- ture in the artery sought for, the tourniquet, if necessary, being again relaxed for a moment. When the opening in the artery is found, a probe or small bougie must be passed into it to distend the vessel, which must Ijc thoroughly cleaned and tied above and below the wound.