AMPUTATION OF THE FOREARM. 103 In Amputation of the Forearm as long a stump should be left as possible, so as to give the patient more power over an artificial limb. The operation may be done by equal dorsal and palmar flaps. In a muscular limb each flap must be well rounded and equal in length to the antero-posterior diameter of the limb at the point at which the bones are sawn, as the palmar flap especially has a great tendency to retract. In amputating the right fore- arm, the Surgeon stands above the arm, so as to have his left hand to the dorsal flap, which he will have to raise by dissection. The hand being pronated, the incision for the dorsal flap is commenced at the palmar aspect of the radius, is carried forward for the necessary distance parallel to this bone, and then across the back of the arm in a slightly curved line, until it reaches the palmar aspect of the ulna ; it then passes along this until it reaches a point opposite to that at which it has commenced, and the flap thus made is dissected back. Care must be taken that this flap is wide enough at its free extremity ; it should in fact be a rectangular flap with its corners rounded off. The palmar flap is next made by transfixion (Fig. 45). As soon as it is cut, the bones are cleared by a couple of sweeps of the knife, and the inter- osseous membrane is divided ; the bones, being of nearly equal size, are then sawn together. The vessels are cut long and will be found on each side of the palmar flap at the free end. In operating on the left side of the body, the Surgeon stands below the arm, with his left hand, as before, to the flaps, and the incision is commenced from the ulnar side. This is the easiest, but by no means the best method of amputating the forearm, for when the palmar flap is cut by transfixion considerable inconvenience is caused by the protrusion of the mass of tendons and muscles included in it. To avoid this, both flaps may be raised by dissection. It is advisable to make the dorsal flap longer than the palmar, so that the line of the cicatrix may fall well away from the ends of the bones. The operation may be thus performed (Fig. 46). The Surgeon, standing so as to take the flaps in his left hand, and holding the arm with its dorsal surface upwards, enters the knife at the palmar edge of the bone furthest from him. He then marks out a flap from the dorsal surface, equal in length to two-thirds of the antero-posterior diameter of the limb at the point where it is intended to saw the bones. The flap must be sufficientlv broad, and rounded at its corners. After raising this, taking only the skin and fat, a flap similar in shape, but half the length, is raised from the palmar surface. This flap must be marked out by drawing the knife under the limb while It IS still m the pronated position, but the forearm must be supinated while It IS being dissected up. The knife is now firmly swept round the limb at the level of the angle of the flaps (Fig. 46), so as to divide the muscles Fis. 45.- -Ami>utation of the Forearm, of tlie Anterior Flap. Transfixion