776 INJURIES OF THE HEAD. coma. In some cases the puflpy swelling of the scalp already referred to may be observed. In determining the probable position of the abscess the Surgeon may be assisted by the seat of the injury and by the presence of certain localizing symptoms. The abscess is usually found beneath the seat of injury, and the earlier it occurs the greater is the probability of this being its position. If however the abscess is situated in the region o': the cortical motor centres the affection of these, with gradually spreading paralysis of the opposite side, may serve as a valuable means of localization. As early as 1876 Macewen success- fully diagnosed the position of a cerebral abscess by the symptoms produced. A boy, eleven years of age, manifested symptoms of intracranial suppuration after a scalp wound in the left frontal region. On the twenty-sixth day a convulsion occurred, beginning in the right side of the face and spreading to the right arm and leg. This was followed by aphasia of one hour's duration, and right hemiplegia, which remained pronounced for several hours. A diagnosis was made of "abscess in the immediate vicinity of Broca's lobe, situated between the speech centre and the internal capsule." The parents of the boy refused to permit operation, but the diagnosis was confirmed by i^ost- mortem trephining. In one recorded case the position of the abscess in the occipital lobe was recognised by the presence of hemianopsia. In the frontal lobes especially, a large abscess may exist without localizing symptoms. The presence of optic neuritis is of no value in determining the position of a suspected abscess, nor does the absence of optic neuritis negative the diagnosis of abscess if the other symptoms be well marked. Symptoms of lepto-meningitis may result from the extension of the abscess to the surface of the brain and the infection of the membranes ; whilst the sudden onset of complete coma with weak pulse and respiration, dilated pupils, and muscular rigidities may be due to the bursting of the abscess into one of the lateral ventricles. Diagnosis.—The acute form can rarely be distinguished from ordinary septic meningitis without an abscess. The chronic or subacute form can be diagnosed only by attention to the symptoms above given. It may, in many cases, somewhat resemble pygemia, also a not uncommon complication of scalp wounds exposing the bone. Pygemia can usually be recognised by the repeti- tion of the rigors, the characteristic temperature, the absence of any signs of pressure on the brain, and the occurrence of local suppurations in other parts of the body. Cerebral abscesses, either single or multiple, may occur as a consequence of pysemic infection from any unhealthy wound, and conversely a case of cerebral abscess may be complicated by pyaemia secondary to it. In these cases accurate diagnosis is impossible. The Prognosis of all cases of intracranial suppuration is almost hopeless if untreated. The only form in which recovery may occur without surgical interference is that in which acute suppuration occurs beneath a compound fracture with loss of bone. In these cases the pus may discharge itself through the wound and recovery may follow. Treatment.—The preventive treatment of intracranial suppuration con- sists in efficient antiseptic treatment of any wound of the head. If this fails, exit must be given to the pus in some way, or the patient will die. In cases