949 CUTANEOUS ERYSIPELAS: TREATMENT. bin, on the removal of which the disease will cease. Scrupulons attention to cleanliness on the part of nurses and dressers should also be enforced, and the latter should not be allowed to go straight from the dead-house to the ward without previously washing their hands in some disinfectant or antiseptic solu- tion. When erysipelas has already occurred, its further spread may be prevented by isolating- the affected patients, and at once taking active measures to purify •the ward from which they have been removed. The Curative Treatment of cutaneous erysipelas must always be con- ducted with reference to the depressing character of the disease. The apparent intensity of the local inflammation in some cases must not lead the Surgeon into the fatal error of employing any so-called antiphlogistic treatment. The treatment required is essentially of a tonic and stimulating character. The principal medicinal remedies consist of bark, quinine, iron, and ammonia. If there be much thirst, these remedies may be given in an effervescent form ; but in any case they should be administered in frequent doses. If medicines are not well borne, the stomach rejecting them, I have seen the best possible results follow the free administration of the ibrandy-and-egg mixture. During the progress of the disease, simple purgatives must be given from time to time. Tincture of the perchloride of iron, originally recom- mended by Hamilton Bell in small and repeated doses, is now often given in large doses, forty minims every four hours, as recommended by Eussell Reynolds and others. It is supposed to exert a specific influence on the disease, and is certainly useful. The Local Treatment is of equal importance with the constitutional. In- numerable modes of treatment have been recommended by different Surgeons, but all are agreed that the first essential is to keep the inflamed part warm. Cold lotions should never under any circumstances be employed ; they lessen the vitality of the tissues, and may thus cause local sloughing. In slight cases the part should be covered with flour or starch powder dusted over it, and wi-apped in cotton-wool. In the more severe forms, warm applications assiduously continued, especially hot boric acid fomentations applied by means of flannels or spongio-piline, afford the greatest possible relief. The surface may at the same time be covered with a paint composed of equal parts of glycerine and extract of belladonna. I have seen astringent application?, such as a strong solution of nitrate of silver, extensively employed in former ears, but not with any very marked success. At University College Hospital the treatment recommended by Valette of Lyons has been tried with very good results. A 30 per cent, solution of perchloride of iron is prepared ; forty minims of this solution may be given internally with a little syrup or glycerine and water every two or three hours, and externally the pure solution is applied to the inflamed area. This must be done thoroughly,\he solution being rubbed in with a piece of lint or cotton-wool. If necessary the grease must be removed from the surface of the skin by washing with soap and warm water before the lotion is applied. The application is repeated twice a day as long as It IS necessary. Wolfler has recommended a mechanical treatment which consists m applying firm pressure with strapping around the edge of the eruption. This is supposed to prevent its spread by the compression of the lymph spaces. Koch found the following salve useful in ten cases: Creoliu one part, iodoform 4 parts, lanolin 10 parts. The local abstraction of blood and serum from the inflamed part, by the