ryo LOCAL DISTURBANCES AND INFLAMMATION. inflammation in the higher animals, bnt possibly the giant cells found in many forms of chronic iuflammation may have their origin in this way. The observations of Ballance and Sherrington, which will again be referred to in the Chapter on Wounds, confirm the above views. They showed that during the sta(>-e of traumatic inflammation resulting from a wound leucocytes '111 (small phagocytes) appeared only in the injured area, and it was not till the inflammation had subsided, some eighteen hours after the infliction of the wound, that the large mobile cells (large phagocytes) made their appearance. The functions of tliese larger cells are as follows. First, they complete the scavenging process which the leucocytes had commenced. The evidence of this is that they are frequently found enclosing in their substance fragments of tissue, red corpuscles, and micro-organisms, either dead or alive ; and lastly the leucocytes, having performed their allotted duty, become as it were foreign bodies. Secondly, there seems to be no reason to doubt that these larger cells, derived from the original tissue of the part, are the active elements of repair in those cases in which the inflammatory process has been associated with actual destruction of tissue. As before stated, the latest observations tend more and more conclusively to prove that the migrated leucocytes take no part in the formation of new tissue. The sequence of events in acute inflammation not accompanied by the formation of pus would therefore seem to be this :—The original cause of the process, the irritant, damages the tissues, temporarily suspending their vital activity, and possibly actually killing portions here and there. While the tissues are in this inert state they are invaded by the migrating leucocytes which, under favourable circumstances, proceed to remove any dead tissues, and perform the other functions above described. As the tissues recover, the original cell elements proliferate, and the cells thus formed also acting as phagocytes, complete the scavenging of the damaged area, consuming such migrated leucocytes as have not wandered away by the lymphatics, and then undertake the repair of the damaged tissues if necessary. This process of recovery from inflammation, and restoration of the tissues to their normal condition without apparent change, is described as the termination of inflammation by resolution with restitutio ad integrum. The formation of scar-tissue in the place of any of the original tissues that may have perished will be described more fully in the Chapter on Repair. Should the damage be more extensive, and of such severity that a small portion of the tissue is directly killed or injured to such a degree that the pressure of the accumulating cells and liquid exudation extinguishes such traces of vitality as may be left in it, it is evident that the simple process of resolution is impossible. The same will be the case when the cause of the inflammation is of a more persistent character, especially when the tissues are invaded by certain micro-organisms to be described in the Chapter on Suppuration. Under these circumstances, the exudation from the vessels and the migration of the leucocytes continue in the inflamed area until the leucocytes become heaped up and packed together amongst the damaged tissues, which now show signs of degeneration. The fibres of the connective tissue become swollen and softened, and finally disappear amongst the leucocytes ; fat cells lose their contents, and in like manner are lost amongst the invading cells ; mnscular fibres lose their striation and become granular ; the migrating cells penetrate within the sarcolemma, and the original tissue disappears before them ; the