TUMOURS. 1078 Lhe disease is found to have extended too far to allow of its complete excision, caustics may with advantage be applied when the accessible part of the growth has been removed. For this purpose the most efficient material is a paste containing one part of chloride of zinc to four parts of flour, moistened with a little water, to which one-twentieth part of extract of opium may be added to diminish pain. Again, in certain forms of f ungating carcinoma of the cervix uteri temporary relief may be afforded by freely scraping the growth and then applying a strong solution of chloride of zinc. Compression is a plan that was at one time greatly extolled and at another much depreciated, and may now be said to be of merely historical interest. It was fully tried at the Middlesex Hospital, by Young, more than sixty years ago, and unfavourably reported upon by Charles Bell at that time ; it consequently fell into disuse in this country, but was revived by Recamier in France, and employed largely by him. Although he pubHshed a favourable account of tliis practice, it made but little progress amongst French surgeons ; the only one who seems to have used it to any extent being Tanchou, who employed a peculiar topical medication conjoined with it. In this country the practice fell into complete oblivion, until J. Arnott invented a mode of employing pressure by means of an elastic air-cushion ; after which time it was often employed, but with no real success as a means of cure. I have employed all the different plans, but have never found permanent advantage from any of them. That indurated masses in the mamma have disappeared under this treatment cannot be denied. Walshe records such a case in his Treatise on Cancer, but the well known difficulty of diagnosing a chronically inflamed lobule, which would probably be absorbed under pressure, from a small cancer, makes these few isolated cases of no value when we contrast them with the large number of failures in undoubtedly cancerous growths. Excision.—With regard to the question of removing cancers by the knife, a difference of opinion necessarily exists between the constitutionalists and the locaKsts, the former holding the view that however completely the primary disease be removed recurrence is almost inevitable, and the latter, that if the Surgeon can only get the case early enough and remove the diseased parts sufficiently widely a cure may be effected. That recurrence after removal is the rule cannot be denied. Astley Cooper stated that in only nine or ten cases out of a hundred did the disease not return in three years ; Benjamin Brodie found that it generally proved fatal in two or three years after the operation, and Paget has expressed the same opinion. Since angesthetics have made it possible to spend a longer time over the operation, and antiseptic treatment has removed the fear of large wounds, many Surgeons have advocated a more free removal of the affected parts than was formerly practicable. Thus Kiister, Kocher, and Mitchell Banks have advised that whenever it is practicable the nearest lymphatic glands should be removed with the primary growth. Operating in this way on mammary cancers with very free removal of the skin and extirpation of the axillary glands, Mitchell Banks has obtained excellent results. Out of forty-six cases operated on by him, ten patients were alive and free from recurrence at different periods, varying from two to ten years, after the operation, and in five more no recurrence had taken place from one to two years after