INDOLENT OR CALLOUS ULCER. 279 a weak solution of the sulphate of copper. Red wash is prepared according- to the following formula : Sulphate of zinc, sixteen grams ; compound tincture of lavender, two drachms ; water, eight ounces. It will be found a most useful application. The granulations may also be touched from time to time with nitrate of silver. Creolin will be found a useful application m some cases (p. 210). Indolent or Callous Ulcer.—This is always very chronic. It is situated usually on the outer side of the lower extremity, between the ankle and the calf, and it most frequently occurs in men about the middle period of life. The surrounding shin is congested, and usually presents the appearances indicative of long-continued passive hypersemia, beiug frequently darkly pigmented and always indurated. The induration affects the subcutaneous areolar tissue, which is solid and brawny, and firmly fixed to the subjacent fascia, or in some cases even to the bone. There is a total loss of elasticity, both in the skin and in the subcutaneous tissue. The epidermis is often scaly and desquamates in large flakes. In many cases the cause of the mischief will be found to be varicose veins, which have given rise to chronic congestion of the skin. The edges of the sore are often u-regular ; they are hard, elevated considerably above the surface of the sore, and sink abruptly into it. The surface is either smooth and covered with a yellowish layer, or irregular and formed in parts of pale, feeble granulations. The hase is hard, and firmly fixed to the subjacent fascia or bone. The discharge is thin and serous. There is no pain attending this ulcer, and its surface, which often attains a very large size, may usually be touched without the patient feeling it. It is always slow to heal, for contraction forms an essential part of the healing of a sore, and the rigidity of the surrounding tissue renders this almost impossible. Treatment.—The principle of treatment here is to soften the surrounding tissues and depress the edges of the sore by promoting absorption of chronic inflammatory products with which they are infiltrated. When this is accom- plished, contraction becomes possible, and healing will progress. This is best effected by pressure. A very efficient plan of treatment is as follows : The surface of the ulcer may first be rubbed with nitrate of silver, after which three or four layers of boric acid lint dipped in hot solution of boric acid and covered with oiled silk and cotton-wool should be applied and changed every four hours. After forty-eight hours of this treatment the sore will be perfectly clean, and may then be strapped on the plan recommended by Baynton. The best plaster for this purpose is the emplastrum sajmiis, to which some of the emplastrum resincB is added to make it sufficiently adhesive ; this, spread upon calico, should be cut into strips sixteen or eighteen inches in length, and about an inch and a half in width ; the strips are dipped in hot carbolic or boric acid lotion and applied wet ; the centre of the strip should then be laid smoothly on the side of the limb opposite to the sore, and the ends, being brought forward, are to be crossed obliquely over it. Strip after strip must be applied in this way, until the limb is covered for a distance of a couple of inches above and below the ulcer. If the sore be near the ankle, this joint should be included in the strapping. Each strip of plaster should be applied with an equal degree of pressure, which may often be considerable, and it should cover at least one-third of the preceding strip.