995 TREATMENT OF TETANUS. possess the remarkable properties of destroying the tetanus poison outside the body, and in some instances of conferring immunity on other susceptible animals. These properties were supposed to be due to an albuminous body— tetanus antitoxine "—contained in the serum. Several cases have now been recorded in which injections of such serum appears to have arrested the disease in man after the onset of the first symptoms. In some of these cases, however, the disease was of the more chronic form, and we have already seen that in these the liope of recovery is much greater than in the acute form. The Fost-mortem Appearances to the naked eye are, apart from the local injury, most commonly those of a perfectly healthy body. Should the patient have died of asphyxia during a spasm, the distension of the right side of the heart, the engorgement of the lungs and the general venous congestion characteristic of that condition are present. The microscope has shown evidences of inflammation in the nerves passing from the wound, and the theory that the disease is the result of an ascending neuritis was at one time suggested. In the majority of cases the changes in the nerve trunks are probably not more marked than those found in the immediate neighbourhood of any suppurating wound. In rare instances however more extensive neuritis has been met with, and Gowers suggests that this may possibly be of some importance in explaining those cases in which the spasms start from the seat of the injury. The microscopic changes in the spinal cord in cases of tetanus have been studied by Lockhart Clarke, Dickinson, and CliflFord Allbutt. Lockhart Clarke, in at least six cases, observed lesions of structure in the spinal cord, consisting (jf disintegration and softening of a portion of the grey substance of the cord, which appeared in certain parts to be in a state of solution. The fluid thus formed was in some parts granular, holding in suspension the fragments and particles of the disintegrated tissue, but in many places it was perfectly pellucid. He considers this due to hypergemia of the cord, accompanied by exudation and disintegration. Dickinson has described intense hypersemia with a structureless exudation poured out around the vessels in many parts of the grey matter, breaking down the surrounding tissue. He also observed some hemorrhages in the white columns. These observations have been confirmed by Clifford Allbutt, but the exact significance of the changes observed is still uncertain. Treatment.—The treatment of tetanus is local and constitutional. The Local Treatment has for its object to bring the wound into as healthy a state as possible, and to remove every source of irritation from it. In the light of our present knowledge of the nature of the disease the indications would seem to be—first, to lay open the wound to the full extent ; secondly, freely to excise the tissues surrounding it; and thirdly, to apply some powerful antiseptic agent such as pure carbolic acid or chloride of zinc (40 grains to the ounce). Amputation has been recommended and has been followed by recovery in some of the more chronic forms of the disease, yet milder local means have sufficed equally well, and in the majority of cases it has had no effect; hence so severe an operation can scarcely be recommended for general adoption Nerve section and nerve stretching have been practised in the belief that an ascending neuritis played an important part in the causation of the disease As with every other of the score of remedies, local and constitutional, that have been employed for tetanus, recoveries have taken place after the