DISLOCATIONS. of extension, has attempted to put in force transverse movements of the bone, or has used tlie bone as a lever ; it has given way, usually high up near the head, at other times in the shaft. It is probable that in most cases this has been predisposed to by the bone having become weakened by want of use. It has occurred several times in the humerus, and at least twelve times in the femur, in attempts at reducing old dislocations of these bones. In most of the recorded cases the bone has readily united, and the condition of the patient has not been materially, if at all, influenced for the worse, except that reduction of the dislocation has necessarily been rendered impossible. I). Neighbouring bones, such as the ribs and the glenoid cavity, have been Jractured in the endeavour to reduce dislocation of the shoulder, and the acetabulum in attempted reduction of a luxated hip. 10. The limb has .•ictually been torn oiT. This remarkable accident happened to Guerin of Paris, in attempting the reduction, without pulleys but merely by the traction of four assistants, of a dislocation of the shoulder of three months' standing, in a woman G3 years of age, the limb being suddenly torn olf at the elbow. The patient died on the twelfth day ; and on examination, the bones were found porous, and the muscular and other soft structures pulpy, the limb having evidently lost its natural strength and elasticity. The occurrence of these various accidents and injuries, in the attempted reduction of old dislocations, cannot always be justly attributed to the employ- ment of an improper amount of force by the Surgeon. The liability to them must rather be looked upon as a necessary accompaniment of attempts at putting back into its place a bone which has been dislocated, and left unreduced for many weeks or months. During this period the bone usually contracts adhesions of a very dense kind to the parts amongst which it lies ; and, as it cannot be replaced in its articular cavity until these adhesions have been torn or broken through, it is easy to understand how, in the attempt to do this, neighbouring soft parts, vessels, or nerves may give way, or the bone itself may yield to the force that must be applied to it in order to lift it out of its new bed. The liability to the occurrence of these accidents should make the Surgeon very cautious how he recommends an attempt to reduce old-standing disloca- tions. If after a time the new joint have become tolerably mobile and be not painful, it may be better to leave the bone unreduced, rather than expose the patient to great risk, with a slender prospect of eventual success. If the unreduced dislocation give rise to stiffness and pain, much may be done by passive motion, frictions, and douches, to improve the patient's condition. The Subcutaneous Section of muscles, tendons, and bands of adhesions in the neighbourhood of the dislocated joint, was proposed by Dielfenbach as a means of facilitating reduction in old-standing cases ; and he has related an instance in which, by these means, a shoulder that had been dislocated for two years was reduced. In many cases in which this plan has been tried, the success has not been commensurate with the expectations founded on it ; and in other instances, of which I have seen two or three, the operation has been followed by sloughing and other serious evils, while it has not been attended with any benefit in facilitating reduction. Lister and others have successfully reduced old dislocations of the shoulder by exposing the head of the humerus and dividing the structures which prevented its replacement. Compound Dislocation is one of the most serious injuries to which a limb