946 ERYSIPELAS. The duration of an attack of cutaneous erysipelas is very uncertain ; it may last from three days to three weeks, and relapses by which it may be prolonged to a month or more are very common. Pathology .-After death the red tint fades, leaving the skm of a yellowish tint ; if it be cut into, it is found to contain an excess ot serous fluid ihe internal organs present nothing that is characteristic. As m all diseases accompanied by high fever and general blood-poisoning, the epithelium of the kidneys and liver is found in a state of .cloudy swelhng, and the spleen is m some cases enlarged. The lungs are usually congested. Sometimes m^x\^^ post- mortem staining of the blood-vessels and organs is found very soon after death, and occasionally small petechias are scattered beneath the serous membranes. If the most advanced edge of the spreading margin be examined micro- scopically, the lymph-spaces of the cutis are found to contain numerous streptococci, as was first pointed out by Lukomsky and v. Reckhnghausem These may be packed so closely as to form an opaque granular mass, but if they are less crowded together they can be seen to form pairs or (From a photograph liy Koch.) Chains (see p. 244). The zone in which they can be recognized easily is very narrow as they are soon hidden by numerous migrating leucocytes which fill the spaces of the fibrous tissue, and accumulate round the vessels and m the lymph-spaces. No micrococci can be found when the rash is receding, nor m those parts over which it has passed. The theory of the disease founded on the^e observations is that the micro-organisms invade the healthy tissues and bv their presence or by the chemical products of their growth, excite inflam- mation with migration of the colourless corpuscles. The organisms are then destroyed by the migrated corpuscles, and thus are present only in the """^Two'viwrhave been held concerning the essential nature of cutaneous Prvsinelas First, that it is a general specific disease, of which the rash is merelv a local manifestation, the wound serving merely as the determining S)int at which the eruption shall appear ; and, secondly, that it is a local fnfective inflammation and that the fever and other constitutional symptoms are entirely secondary. The arguments in favour of the first view are briefly follows 1 Like'(5ther acute specific diseases it occurs m epidemics. 2. In