HOT WATER—STYPTICS. not interfered with. If the wound is being treated antiseptically, a hot solu- tion of carbohc acid (1 in 40), or two teaspoonfuls of tincture of iodine added to a pint of water, may be used instead of the simple hot water. Care must be taken in employing this method of arresting hasmorrhage, that the water used be sufficiently hot, otherwise the effect will be merely to increase the bleeding. Some very interesting observations by Milne Murray have clearly shown the superiority of hot water to ■ cold in inducing contraction of involuntary muscular fibre. They may be briefly summarised as follows : After the appli- cation of cold, there is a very distinct latent period, and contraction develops slowly, while hot water at a temperature of 110° F. to 120° F. gives rise to almost immediate contraction rapidly developed. Successive applications of cold induce contraction only after a period of rest, and the contractions become diminished in efficiency ; successive applications of heat, on the other hand, are followed by immediate contraction, and the efficiency of the con- traction is increased rather than diminished. Continuous application of cold produces rapid exhaustion, the muscular fibre becoming completely relaxed and failing to respond, while heat induces a high degree of contraction, broken by periods of partial relaxation followed again by contraction. In Murray's experiments the uterus of the rabbit was chiefly used, but there is no doubt the results may be apphed equally to the muscular tissue of arteries. 8. Styptics are substances which cause contraction of the vessels and coagulate the albumen of the blood, thus increasing the rapidity of formation and the firmness of the coagulum. They are used principally in oozing from spongy parts, or in bleeding from cavities or organs to which other applications cannot readily be made. The great objection to their employment in some wounds is their tendency to modify injuriously the character of the surface and to prevent union by the first intention. The most useful styptics are the solution of perchloride of iron, spirits of turpentine, and gallic or tannic acid ; the application of alum, or touching a bleeding part with a pointed stick of the nitrate of silver, is also serviceable. Of all these, the solution of the per- chloride of iron is that most commonly used, and it is undoubtedly a most powerful haBmostatic, but it acts very injuriously on the wouud. The black hard clot it forms with the blood is very efficient in arresting the bleeding, but is slow to come away and delays healing. Turpentine is a most valuable styptic. It was formerly much used, and is now too much neglected. It is antiseptic and does little damage to the surfaces of the wound. It should always be tried when possible before using the perchloride of iron. In some cases tincture of haraamelis (5j. or 5ij. to 33.) will be found an efficient haemostatic. In order to apply any styptic effectually, the tvouncl should he thorouyhly cleanad, and all coayula removed. A piece of lint or absorbent cotton-wool, or a sponge squeezed as dry as possible, is then firmly pressed on the bleeding spot by an assistant, or by the Surgeon with his left hand, while another piece of lint or cotton-wool is soaked in the styptic solution, and then squeezed nearly dry. The piece of dry lint or sponge is rapidly removed from the wound with the left hand, and the styptic instantaneously applied with the right before the surface has had time to get wet with blood. It may then be maintained in position by the pressure of the finger or of a pad and bandage. When the haemorrhage is from a cavity and the actual bleedino- point cannot be seen, the styptic solution may be injected by means of a