855 WOUNDS OF THE LUNG: COMPLICATIONS. in front of the great vessels and behind the oesophagus respectively. From these the carotid and subclavian vessels, with their nerves, derive sheaths, so the air now runs along these structures into the limbs and neck. The air which escapes from a wound of the lung is, as before stated, thoroughly filtered, and has no tendency to give rise to putrefaction of the extravasated blood or inflammatory effusions in the parts about the wound, and in the vast majority of cases of simple fracture of the ribs, complicated by a slight wound of the lung and subcutaneous emphysema, no suppuration follows the accident. I have, however, seen extensive suppuration in the areolar tissue, so that the broken parts of the fractured ribs lay bathed in pus, when the emphysema was the result of puncture of the lung by the broken rib, without any wound in the skin. The Symptoms of Emphysema are very distinct. There is a pufFy diffused swelling, pale in colour, and crackling when pressed upon, at first confined to the neighbourhood of the W'Ound, if there be one externally ; if not, making its appearance opposite the fractured ribs, and gradually extending over the upper part of the trunk and neck. To these parts it is usually limited ; in some cases, however, wdiich are happily rare, the swelling becomes more general, the body being blown up to an enormous size, the features effaced, movement of the limbs interfered wdth, respiration arrested, and suffocation consequently induced ; after death, air has been found in all the tissues, even under the serous coverings of the abdominal organs. The rapidity with which the emphysema diffuses itself wdll depend largely upon the nature of the opening in the chest-wall, whether valvular or direct, and upon whether the patient coughs or not—coughing, if violent, causing very rapid and extensive infiltration of air over the. body. I have seen in such a case the scrotum blown up to the size of a cocoa-nut five minutes after the chest had been punctured. In traumatic pneiimotJiorax the auscultatory phenomena are very distinctly marked ; there is a diminution or complete absence of the respiratory murmur and of vocal fremitus on the affected side, with loud tympanitic resonance on percussion, displacement of viscera, and considerable distress in breathing. If the pressure in the pleura becomes very great, respiration may be completely arrested by pressure on the opposite lung. 3. Fneumouia.—Every wound of the lung is necessarily followed by a localised traumatic inflammation, limited to the parts actually injured. The inflammatory exudation fills the air-vesicles, and thus ca.uses a consoli- dation of the lung at the injured spot. This is a necessary stage in the process of repair, and in subcutaneous injuries has little or no tendency to spread. In cases complicated by the admission of unpurified air from without, decom- position of the extravasated blood and inflammatory effusion frequently occur, and the presence of the irritating products of putrefaction in the track of the wound may lead to an extension of the inflammation, with suppuration, and occasionally gangrene of a portion of the lung. More commonly the lung collapses, in consequence of the pressure of blood and inflammatory effusion in the pleura, and at the jmst-mortem examination, if the patient should die, the consolidation of the lung is found to extend scarcely beyond the parts actually injured by the missile or weapon by which the wound was inflicted. The comparative rarity of spreading pneumonia in,cases of gunshot wound of the lung is specially commented on in the Reports of the Civil War in America, and was noted also by Kiebs and Socin in the Franco-German War of 1870.