ANTISEPTIC TREATMENT OF WOUNDS. 325 assistants, Lister invented, the plan of operating nncler a spray of carbolic acid. The spray may be produced by a Richardson's ether-spray-apparatus filled with a solution of carbolic acid in water (1 in 4(t), but the steam-spray-pro- clucer is much more convenient and certain. The vessel for the carbolic acid must be filled with the 1 in 20 solution, which when mixed with tlie steam is reduced to about 1 in 30. The spray is undoubtedly a most efficient means of irrigation, but its routine use was founded upon an exaggerated idea of the part played by the air in contaminating wounds, and the uniformly good results obtained without employing it have led Lister to abandon its use. Furthermore, there are many positive objections to the use of the spray. It is inconvenient during the operation, wetting the Surgeon and obscuring his view, more especially if he is obliged to wear spectacles, which become quickly clouded by it; it may sometimes, in long operations, give him unpleasant symptoms of carbolic-acid poisoning, such as a general sense of illness, pain in the back, or even hajmaturia ; it may depress the patient and add to' shock by chilling the surface ; and, lastly, the spray-apparatus is costly, difficult to keep in order, and inconveniently cumbersome to carry about in private practice. During an operation it is convenient to have at hand a piece of linen rag soaked in an antiseptic solution, or, as it was termed by Lister, " a guard " with which to cover the whole wound during any temporary interruption in the operation, or any part of it upon which the operator is not engaged. The blankets over the parts around the surface exposed for the operation should be covered with mackintosh-sheeting, and over this towels wrung out in a 1 in 40 solution of carbolic acid should be spread, and the Surgeon should have within reach a basin of the lotion in which he can dip his hands at intervals. In cases in which the operation-wound is complicated by the presence of old sinuses, such as are met with in many cases of joint-disease, these must be scraped out with a sharp spoon, and afterwards sponged Avith a solution of chloride of zinc (40 grains to 1 ounce). If the sinuses be numerous it is, perhaps, safer to wash the whole wound out with chloride of zinc lotion, the good effects of which were pointed out by Campbell De Morgan many years ago. Sinuses should not be injected before the operation, as there is some danger of rupturing their walls, and if the lotion sliould thus be injected into the cellular tissue the most extensive sloughing may result. Reference has already been made to the important (question of the drainage of wounds. It has been seen that the serous exudation can no doubt be much reduced by the uniform elastic pressure of a large cotton-wool dressing ; and by perfect apposition of the surfaces no cavity can exist in the wound'for the accumulation of discharges. This much-desired result cannot, however, be obtained with certainty, and more uniform success will be obtained by the'use of drainage-tubes. It must also be remembered that the antiseptic applied to the raw surface increases the serous discharge during the first twenty-four hours. India-rubber tubes are, as a rule, the best, prepared and inserted in the same way as in the treatment of abscess (p. 261). One or more must be introduced in the very bottom of the wound, and the edges of the skin may then be brought together as closely as possible, a continuous suture beino- used if the Surgeon prefer it. The tubes must vary in size and number Avith the extent and nature of the wound, and must be brought to the surface at the most convenient and dependent parts. The tubes can in many cases be com-