319 SUTURES. instead of in the ordinary position. For silver sutures a special form of needle is used, having grooves to receive the wire when doubled back after passing through the eye. The modes of applying sutures are various ; but the one most commonly employed in all cases involving the integument is the interrupted, which consists of the introduction of as many siugle stitches as may be necessary to close the opening. The distance between the stitches must be determined by the amount of tension and by the necessities of drainage. If there is even moderate tension, it is better to insert a few sutures of a thicker material, or ''sutures of support," extending deeply into the subcutaneous tissue, the needle being made to pierce the skin an inch or more from the edge of the wound. These sutures are first tightened to such an extent as just to approximate the lips of the wound, which may afterwards be brought more accurately into contact by finer stitches or " sutures of apposition " (Fig. 27). If ample provision is made for drainage by the use of tubes the edges of the wound may be brought very closely in contact, otherwise in large wounds there should not be less than one inch between the stitches. When, as in some plastic operations, one edge of the wound is at a higher level than the other, if it is desired to depress the higher edge, the stitch must be so passed that it shall include a larger piece of the lower : if to raise the lower edge, the chief hold must be on the higher. In longitudinal wounds, the first stitch should be inserted in the centre ; but, if there be any angles, as must be the case after crucial incisions, the extremities should be first closed. The fastening is effected in the case of silk by tying a reef-knot, and in that of wire, by tying a half knot and then crossing the two ends over each other, by which two small hooks are made which hold very firmly ; in both instances, the ends are cut off short. The knot or twist must not lie over the line of incision, but on one or other side of it. The time that the sutures should be allowed to remain must depend greatly on the nature and progress of the wound. A septic silk stitch must be removed in from two to three days ; an aseptic silk or a silver suture may be left in as long as it serves any useful purpose, provided it is causing no irritation. A tight stitch necessarily causes irritation ; in from twenty-four to forty-eight hours it will be surrounded by a blush of redness extending an inch or more from the edge of the wound, and by the third day it will have commenced to cut its way out by ulceration. When this occurs, no good purpose can be served in most cases by retaining it, and it should at once be removed. All deep stitches should as a rule be removed not later than the third day. In withdrawing sutures, the knot or twist should be raised by forceps, and the thread diN ided on one side of it; gentle traction on the knot, the forefinger of the other hand being placed close to the point of exit in the skin, to prevent disturbance of the newly formed granulation-tissue, will then suffice to di-aw the suture out. When wire has been used, the bend in it should be straightened as much as possible before pulling it out. In the continuous suture, or glover's stitch, the thread is carried on from stitch to stitch, instead of being detached from the needle, and fastened off as in the interrupted suture. Silk is most conveniently employed. The chief disadvantage of this form of suture is, that, if one stitch cuts through, the others may become relaxed. It is, however, often used for the closure of large wounds, after the insertion of a few deep interrupted sutures of support.