244 mPPURATION AND ABSCESS. may thus be disseminated through the body, giving rise to one form of pysemia. Their presence has been demonstrated in pustules and boils upon the skin, in subcutaneous acute abscesses, in empyema, acute suppuration of joints, in acute necrosis of bone, and in suppurating wounds. They have been found in the air, especially of hospital wards, and in dirty water, and they are amongst the numerous organisms met with on the healthy skin. In about 10 per cent, of all acute suppurations, another micrococcus, the Streptococcus pyofjenes, is met with. It is so called from the fact that the separate cells tend to arrange themselves in chains usually of from four to ten or more links, but with them separate cells or two together are also found. This organism exactly resembles in every respect that found in cutaneous erysipelas—the streptococcus eri/sipelatis—Sind the question of their identity will be discussed in the chapter on Erysipelas. It grows on gelatine at ordinary temperatures, forming small punctiform colonies ; but it does not liquefy the gelatine. It generates no gas in its growth, and is aerobic or anaerobic according to circumstances. The streptococcus is met with in diffuse sup- purations, such as that occurring in phlegmonous erysipelas. It tends to spread Avidely by the lymph sjDaces, and has no tendency to invade Fig. 91.-PUS containing the Strep- ^hc vcsscls, but it may cutcr the blood through tococcns pyogenes. fchc blood-strcam, and is met with in some cases of pyaemia, especially those following labour or operations on the urinary organs. Chain-shaped micrococci are very commonly present in foul urine and in putrid fluids generally, but their identity with the streptococcus has not been proved. Streptococci and staphylococci are found together in about 5 per cent, of all suppurations. The staphylococci and streptococci account for about 91 per cent, of all acute subcutaneous suppurations. The following are the most important of the other organisms that have been met with :— The Micrococcus cereus, an organism without regular arrangement of its individual cells, forming, when cultivated on gelatine, a waxlike layer, has been described by Passet, but its pyogenic properties are doubtful. The Micrococcus pyogenes tenuis, a very small organism without regular arrangement, first discovered by Rosen bach in a somewhat chronic abscess. The Micrococcus ietragenes, very commonly found in human sputa, especially in cases of phthisis with cavities in the lung. It has also been met with in subcutaneous abscesses and gum-boils. It derives its name from its tendency to divide into four cells, which become surrounded by a gelatinous, transparent envelope. The Bacillus pyogenes foctidus is a very short rod-shaped organism, the length of which is about double its breadth. It can be cultivated on gelatine, which it does not liquefy, and produces foul-smelling gases in its growth. It has been found in foul-smelling abscesses near the rectum, in the brain, and in the gums. The Pneumo-bacillus of Friedldnder, an organism found in some cases of