914 MORTIFICATION, OR GANGRENE. | ligature of the artery higher up the limb, or amputation Avhen practicable, might be required. Parts that are quite dead, but that do not readily separate, such as tendons, ligaments, and bones, may be cut through, and thus many weeks or months saved in their separation. It may occasionally be necessary in domg this to encroach on the living tissues; this should be done as carefully and as sparingly as possible, for reasons already stated. The line of separation should be dressed with some mild antiseptic lotion or ointment, in order to keep the surface clean and to prevent the absorption of septic discharges. If slouirhs do not readily separate, the balsam of Peru, either pure or diluted with yolk of egg, or very dilute nitric acid and opiate lotions are useful applications. After the separation of the sloughs, the ulcerated surface must be treated on general principles. Having thus briefly considered the treatment ,of gangrene m general, it remains to indicate certain special points in the treatment of the most im- portant varieties. The question of Amputation in cases of gangrene of the limbs is of great importance to the practical Surgeon, and requires our attention. In the treatment of local gangrene, such as that following severe injury, it is a general rule to amputate before the occurrence of the line of demarcation. There are, however, two exceptions to this rule ; viz., gangrene from frost- bite and that from severe burns. In these injuries it is better to wait for the formation of the line of separation, and then to fashion the stump just above it as the circumstances of the case may require. The rule of early amputation also applies to cases of gangrene resulting from wound or ligature of an artery. The question of amputation in those forms of gangrene consequent on specific infeciwe processes, as phlegmonous erysipelas, spreading traumatic cnin^rene, or hospital gangrene, will be fully considered with those diseases. Such operations often give the only chance of hfe, but their results are on the whole very unfavourable, the patient usually sinking from a recurrence of the disease in the stump, or from the constitutional disturbance that had previously set in. . •, . • -J. In spontaneous gangrene from disease of the arteries, it was until recently a golden rule in Surgery never to amputate until the line ot separation had formed, and not indeed until the ulceration had extended so deeply into the tissues that there was no chance of the gangrene overleaping the barrier This rule, which was founded on the fact that it may be impos- sible in such cases to determine to what height in the limb the gangrene will spread was justified by the excellent results often obtained. In following this plan of treatment means must be taken to maintain the patient's strength by the administration of tonics, nourishing food, &c., during the process ot separation As soon as all the soft parts, except the hgaments, have been ulcerated through, the mortified part should be separated by cutting through the remaining osseous, ligamentous, or tendinous structures, and then means should be taken to fashion the stump that has been formed by nature. In some cases this will be sufficiently regular to serve every useful purpose after it has cicatrized. In most instances, however, the stump is more irreo-ular and unsightly (of which Fig. 339 is a good illustration): and theloones protrude to such an extent that it is necessary, m order to give the patient a useful hmb, to amputate through the face of the stump, or