AMPUTATIONS AND DISARTICULATIONS. 57 CHAPTER II. AMPUTATIONS AND DISARTICULATIONS. The term Amputation means the separation of a part of the body. It is most commonly applied to the removal of a limb, but sometimes also to that of other parts, as the breast or penis. The frequency of amputation of the limbs has much lessened of late years ; less severe modes of treatment being now followed in many cases of diseased joint and of compound fracture. Still amputations are among the most frequent operations in surgery, and will continue to be so as long as the human body is liable to severe mutilations, to gangrene of the limbs, and to incurable diseases of the bones and joints. It has been somewhat the fashion to decry amputation, and to speak of this operation as an opprobrium to surgery. "Any blockhead," says Kirkland, " can amputate a leg." Yet I cannot admit that the removal of a limb is an operation of less merit than any other, when adopted after all other means have failed, in curing the diseased part, or in saving the patient's life from danger. Surely, it is rather a subject of just pride than the reverse that the Surgeon is able to save the whole of the body by sacrificing a useless limb. It is true, of course, that no amputation should be undertaken except as a last resource and after due consideration; for, as John Woodall quaintly says, " it is no small presumption to dismember the image of God." In the performance of an amputation, also, much dexterity may be displayed ; and there is great scope for skill in the constitutional treat- ment of the patient both before and after the operation. Amputations may be required for Injury or for Disease. If performed for injury within the first few hours after the accident before traumatic or septic fever has set in, the amputation is t^rm^di Primary; if during the high febrile disturbance which accompanies septic inflammation and suppuration for the first eight or ten days, it is termed Intermediate; if after the subsidence of the fever. Secondary. Most commonly the term " intermediate " is not used, and all amputations for injury performed after the first twenty-four hours are classed as secondary. The amputation of a limb is generally performed through the continuity of a bone ; when done at a joint, it is called a Disarticulation. History.—Amputation for diseases of joints and bones, or for the imme- diate effect of injury, is an operation of comparatively recent date ; for the older Surgeons, with few exceptions, undertook the removal of a limb for gangrene only. So much was this the case, that in the works of many of the older writers the only mention of amputation is in the treatment of gangrene. In the works of Hippocrates (about 400 B.C.) in the book on Articulations, the following is the treatment recommended in gangrene :—" Those parts of the body which are below the boundaries of the blackening are to be removed at the joint, as soon as they are fairly dead and have lost their sensibility; care being taken not to wound any living part." Such a performance can