488 ENTRANCE OF AIR INTO VEINS. to the large vessels in and near the thoracic cavity, being limited by the collapse of the coats of the veins at a little distance from this. If the veins were rigid tubes, it would extend throughout the body; but as they are not, it ceases where the coats collapse. The root of the neck and the axilla where the venous flux and reflux are perceptible have, therefore, been termed the dangerous region." In certain circumstances, however, air may sponta- neously gain admission at points beyond this. It is well known that what is called by the French Surgeons the " canaliza- tion "of a vein, or its conversion into a rigid uncollapsing tube, is the con- dition which is most favourable to the entry of air. Indeed, except in the so-called " dangerous region," this accident cannot occur unless these vessels be canalized, or, in other words, prevented from collapsing. Canalization may be brought about in a variety of ways. Either the cut vein may be surrounded by indurated tissue, which keeps it open like a hepatic vein ; or its coats may have been thickened by inflammation to such a degree as to prevent theii' falling together when divided. Then, again, some of the veins at the root of the neck, especially the external jugular, have such intimate connections with the cervical fascia that their sides may be held apart when they are cut across. The contractions of the platysma and other muscles of the neck may likewise have a similar effect. In removing a tumour, also, from the lower part of the neck or axilla, the traction exercised upon its pedicle may cause a vein to become temporarily canalized; especially if the section be incomplete and in a transverse direction, when the wound will be rendered open and gaping by the traction upon it. This patency of the incision in the vein is apt to be in- creased by the position that is necessarily given to the head and arm, in all operations of any magnitude about the axilla and neck. Lastly, the introduc- tion of air into a vein will be favoured by the vessel being divided in the angle of a wound, the vein being made open-mouthed and gaping when the flaps that form the angle are lifted up. In all cases in which air has entered the veins during operations these vessels were in one or other of the above-mentioned conditions. Thus, in Beauchesne's case, air was introduced in consequence of incomplete division of the external jugular, immediately above the right subclavian, whilst in a state of tension, during the removal of a portion of the clavicle. In a case that occurred to Dupuytren, a large vein connected with a tumour and communi- cating with the jugular was cut whilst the tumour was being forcibly drawn up. The vein was found to be adherent to the sides of a groove in the growth, so that it remained gaping when cut. In a case related by Delpech, there was thickening of the coats of the axillary vein, causing it to gape like an artery. Ulrick saw the accident occur in consequence of the incomplete division of the internal jugular vein, which was implicated in a tumour in the neck. A similar case happened to Mirault of Angers, the internal jugular being divided to half its circumference. A case occurred to Warren, in which the air entered by the subscapular vein, the coats of which were healthy, but in a state of tension in consequence of the position of the arm ; and another, in which the same accident happened from the division of a small transverse branch of communication between the external and internal jugular, whilst in a state of tension. Mott, whilst removing a tumour of the parotid gland, opened the facial vein, which was in a state of tension in consequence of the position of the patient's head, when air was introduced. Begin also relates a