922 CARBUNCLE. I carbuncle occur in a debilitated person, the tincture of the perchloride of iron in small and frequent doses, with a moderate allowance of alcoholic stimulants and a good diet, will be necessary. If the patient be diabetic, opium must be freely administered, unless chronic bronchitis or albumen in the urine should contra-indicate it. If the carbuncle occur in a person of advanced years addicted to high living, and possibly not temperate in habits, the ordinary treatment of inflammation of a sloughing character must be adopted. The bowels having been freely cleared out, ammonia and bark, or quinine, must be given. Alcohohc stimulants may be more freely administered. But they must be administered medicinally in measured quantities, and at in- tervals of longer or shorter duration according to the need of the patient as determined by his pulse and temperature. Port-wine used to be the favourite remedy. It is considered less necessary at the present day than it was a gene- ration or two back, and brandy or whiskey with milk or eggs is commonly substituted for it. But whatever stimulant be given, too much care cannot be taken in regulating its doses and times of administration, which must not be left to the discretion of the non-medical attendant. In addition to stimu- lants, good and abundant nourishment should be given ; meat, if the patient can digest it; if not, soups, such as strong beef-tea, essence of meat, or turtle-soup. Local Treatment.—In the very early stage the progress of a carbuncle may be arrested by destroying it with a pointed stick of potassa cum calce. If the carbuncle have attained a somewhat larger size, though still small, it may be covered with a piece of soap-plaster spread on leather, having a hole cut in the centre, through which the pus and sloughy matters may be discharged. When the carbuncle is of still larger size the question will arise whether it should be incised or not. Some Surgeons uniformly adopt incisions ; others, with equal constancy, reject them. I think that the exclusive adoption of either method is erroneous, and that the most successful treatment consists in allow- ing the question of early incision to be determined by the amount of tension existing in and around the carbuncle. Should the parts be soft, relaxed, and comparatively painless, an incision is not necessary ; but, on the other hand if the tension be considerable, the pain great, and the constitutional dis- turbance dependent on both proportionately intense, nothing gives such immediate relief, local and constitutional, as early and free incision. The crucial incision which has been largely employed is sometimes convenient, but often presents no advantages over a single straight one. The bleeding may be free, and as the patient is seldom in a state to lose blood it must at once be restrained by dry cotton-wool and pressure. Hueter advises that if the patient is strong enough to stand the necessary loss of blood, and if the carbuncle be not too large, the whole slough should be scraped or dissected away at the time the incision is made. The cavity thus left should be well scrubbed out with some powerful antiseptic lotion and dressed antiseptically. In this way extension is arrested and the fever due to the presence of the slough immediately subdued. Should incision of the carbuncle not have been performed early, it may become necessary at a later period, in order to prevent the confinement of the pus and sloughs. Pysemia is so frequent a cause of death in bad cases of carbuncle, that it becomes very important to prevent putrefaction in the sloughs, if possible. If an incision be made before the skin has given Avay,