SPECIAL FRACTURES. 634 readily applied and keep the bones in good apposition. These may be kept on for the first few days till all swelling has subsided, when they may be replaced by the starched or plaster bandages. In fracture of the leg, indeed, the starched bandage, the Bavarian, or Croft's splint, is especially applicable. The starched bandage should be applied as follows. The limb having been well covered with wadding, a strong soaked jjasteboard splint, four inches broad, and long enough to extend from above the knee to six or eight inches beyond the heel, should be applied to the back of the leg. The projecting terminal piece is now to be turned up along the sole of the foot, and two lateral strips adapted, one to each side of the limb. Over this the starched bandage, single or double according to the size of the limb, must be tightly applied. After it is dry, about the end of the second day, it must be cut up and re-adjusted, and the patient may then walk on crutches with the limb slung in front of him. ArnoJcVs splint is another apparatus frequently used. It consists of a back splint of tinned iron with a foot-piece extending from just above the knee to the foot. Two wooden side splints are then applied and the whole slung in a cradle. Alclntyre's sjjlint (Fig. 288) may be found of service in the earlier periods, if there be much ecchymosis or extravasation, as it keeps the limb in an easy position, and allows the ready application of evaporating Fig. 2::i3.—Mclntyre's Splint. lotions. In applying this splint the angle at which the knee is fixed must be that at which the projection of the lower end of the upper fragment of the tibia seems least marked. The foot must be covered with a flannel sock, well sewn on, from the heel of which a tape passes by which the foot can be slung up to a screw in the foot-piece. After extension has been made I prefer to pass a few turns of a roller through the extension slits on each side, so as to close the space above the heel, and thus prevent the foot falling backwards if the sus- pension by the sock and tape should yield. The splint, as originally designed, was screwed to a block, but it will be found to give much more perfect rest if the whole apparatus is swung in a Salter's cradle (Fig. 284). In some cases of fracture of the bones of the leg Mclntyre's apparatus is not applicable. This is more particularly the case when the fracture is very oblique, from above downwards, and from before backwards ; in these circumstances, the fragments cannot be brought into good position so long as the limb is kept extended and resting on its posterior surface ; the bones riding considerably, and one or other of the fractured ends often pressing upon the skin in such a way as to threaten ulceration. In these cases division of the tendo Achillis has been recommended, with the view of removing the influence of muscular contraction. This appears to me, however, an unnecessary procedure, and cer-