MORTIFICATION, OR GANGRENE. 9o8 the fingers, and sometimes the toes. The premonitory symptoms are that the fingers readily become " dead," often from very shght exposure to cold, and are slow in recovering. In the more advanced conditions the fingers become of a livid colour, cold and insensitive, but intensely painful, a con- dition described by Raynaud under the name of "local asphyxia." This may pass ofi" after a few hours, and the circulation may be restored, or a bleb may form at the end of one or more of the fingers, beneath which a slough is found when the cuticle is removed, or in extreme cases the whole ungual phalanx may become mummified. The corresponding fingers of the opposite hand may be aflfected simultaneously or at a later period. The aflPection is most common in women between 18 and 30. It resembles severe chilblains in some respects, but difiers in the intensity of the pain, the character of the gangrene, and the age of the patient. In some recorded cases there has been a history of ague ; it is occasionally associated with paroxysmal haemo- globinuria. It is supposed to be due to vaso-motor disturbance consequent upon central mischief situated in the cord ; but its pathology is uncertain. Gangrene from Venous Obstruction.—Obstruction to the veins by pressure or thrombosis is scarcely ever the sole cause of gangrene ; but if at the same time the main artery is occluded, as when it and the vein are com- pressed together, or when the femoral vein is wounded accidentally at the time when the artery is ligatured, mortification is especially apt to take place. Gangrene from this cause is always of the moist kind, attended with much oedema, discoloration, and rapid putrefaction of the part. Gangrene from arrest of the Circulation by Strangulation.—A part is often purposely strangled by a Surgeon in operative procedures ; or its circulation may in this way be arrested as the result of certain accidents or diseased conditions. (See p. 313.) In either case, the strangulation acts by stopping more or less completely the whole of the circulation through the part. If the strangulation be sufficiently severe, it may kill the tissues out- right : for instance, when a naevus or a pile is tied, all flow of blood to or from the part is suddenly arrested, and its vitality is destroyed, the tissues that have been strangled shrivelHng and separating by ulceration along the line of ligature. When the strangulation is not so severe as this, great con- gestion ensues, consequent on the amount of blood sent into the part being greater than can escape by the veins, which are more afiected by the con- stricting force than the arteries; the part strangled becomes dark and con- gested, and effusion takes place into its tissue. If it be a superficial part, blebs arise on the skin. As the part swells the compression of the vessels becomes more powerful, till finally the flow through the arteries is arrested as well as that through the veins ; the circulation is completely stopped, and thus sloughing arises. All this we find in the constricted gut in a strangulated hernia. Gangrene as a termination of Inflammation.—It has already been pointed out (see the chapter on Inflammation) that all the causes of inflam- mation are agents which tend to lower the vitality of the parts upon which they act, and that, if acting with sufficient intensity, they bring the process of inflammation to an end by killing the tissues upon which they are exerting their influence. The efi"ect produced by an irritant is dependent: first, on the intensity of the irritant itself; secondly, in many cases on the duration of its action; and thirdly, on the power of resistance, or in other words, on the