DIET AFTER OPERATIONS. 55 limiting himself to plain dishes, and restricting the quantity while he is taking no exercise. Stimulants are not needed in such cases, but if the" patient is in the habit of taking them with his meals he may be allowed to do so, the quantity being limited. Xo stimulants should be allowed between meals. In cases in which the wound runs a septic course, with abundant suppura- tion and high fever, a very diiferent diet may be necessary. Solid food cannot be taken under these circumstances, and if swallowed would not be digested. Strong beef-tea, thickened with the white of an egg or a small quantity of arrow-root, good soups, milk, milk and egg, milk and arrow-root, and other fluid foods can alone be taken, and in order to supply the necessary fresh vegetable element in the diet the patient may be allowed to quench his thirst with still lemonade. It is not my intention to enter upon the question of the use and abuse of alcohol as an article of diet; as a medicinal agent in severe surgical cases there can be no doubt of its utility. It can be used in three ways. In mild cases, without severe fever, it may promote the enjoyment of food and good digestion in those accustomed to its use. For this purpose good wine or well-brewed beer may be taken wdth meals, that stimulant being given to which the patient is accustomed in a state of health. In old and weakly people its administration in a dose sufficient to cause some increased force and frequency in the heart's action is most useful in preventing hypo- static congestion of the lungs and stagnation of blood in the extremities ; conditions which not unfrequently play an important part in the causation of death. For this purpose a glass of one of the stronger wines or an ounce of good brandy or whisky may be given two or three times a day. .Lastly, alcohol may be made to act as a food. It is not a true food, as there is no mechanism for storing it in the body, and if given in any but the smallest doses a large proportion comes off unaltered by the breath and in the urine, but if administered in very frequently repeated small doses it is completely consumed, coming off as carbonic acid and water, a process w^hich is necessarily accompanied by a liberation of force in the body. It may often be given in this way at a time when the patient is incapable of taking or digesting any ordinary food, and is at the same time rapidly consuming his own tissues, as during severe septic fever. Uiven in this manner it diminishes tissue waste, and may maintain the patient's strength till the crisis of the fever is passed or the cause removed, or the effects of shock or loss of blood rallied from. By dilating the vessels of the skin it also aids in reducing the temperature. When stimulants are given with this intention, the dose should not exceed 1 drachm of proof spirit. It must be given at regular intervals, the frequency varying with the state of the patient. It may be necessary to administer it every ten minutes. The spirit must be of the best quality, and if really good brandy or whisky cannot be obtained rectified spirit diluted with water should be used. In less critical conditions the stimulant may be given with licpiid food at frequent intervals. I have seen many patients saved by the free administra- tion of brandy and wine with eggs and beef-tea from an early period after the operation. In all this the Surgeon must be guided by the patient's pulse, tongue, and temperature, and nothing requires greater judgment than the administration of stimulants according to these particulars. Nothing can show greater want of judgment than indiscriminate " pouring in of brandy," often to the exclusion of food, under the idea that " alcohol gives strength."