FRACTURES. 520 brittleness of the osseous system, but there is no evidence in proof of this ; in every case in which syphilis is a cause of spontaneous fracture some definite local disease, as caries, necrosis, or a gumma, is met with. In the same way the " cancerous cachexia,'''' apart from the development of a secondary tumour in the bone, never causes spontaneous fracture. A sarcoma growing in or on a bone, or pressing on it when springing from a neighbouring structure, may so weaken it as to cause it to give way. Hyclaiid cysts of lone are extremely rare in this country, but a few cases have been recorded in which they were a cause of spontaneous fracture. Necrosis, caries and abscess of lone have all been known to give rise to fi-acture, but such a complication is very uncommon. Some rare cases have been described in which there is a hereditarij tendency to fracture of the bones, transmitted from father to son, without any other recog- nisable constitutional defect. Thus Greenish records a case in which the grandfather had had several bones broken ; of his three sons and two daughters, the youngest son and the two daughters escaped without fractures; the eldest son, who had one bone broken, had two children, the eldest of whom had thirteen, and the younger two, fractures ; the second son, who had two fractures, had five children, who suffered respectively four, four, eight, four, and three broken bones. Lastly, certain cases are met with in which no clear causes can be found : thus fracture of the femur has more than once been met with in young men apparently quite healthy, from the sudden and violent contraction of the thigh muscles, as for instance in pulling off or drawing on a boot, and I have known a gentleman a little over fifty, apparently in perfect health, break his thigh with a loud snap whilst turning in bed. In cases of spontaneous fracture union rarely takes place, or not without much difficulty. Varieties.—Fractures present important varieties as to their Nature and their Direction. Nature.—Fractures are divided first into three classes. Simple, Compound and Complicated. A fracture is said to be Simple when it is not accompanied by an open wound communicating directly with the seat of fracture. When the soft parts are torn through, so that the fracture communicates by a wound with the surface of the body, it is said to be Compound. A fracture may be rendered compound in three ways : 3. Through laceration of the soft parts by the same injury that breaks the bone, as by a bullet in traversing a limb. 2. By the protrusion of one of the fragments through the integuments. This necessarily most frequently happens when the fragments are sharp and pointed, and the coverings thin, as in fracture of the tibia, and may be occasioned by muscular contraction, by some incautious movement on the part of the patient, or by roughness on the part of those lifting or carrying him. 3. By the sloughing of bruised tissues or by the gradual ulceration of a projecting fragment through the skin. It is important to distinguish between fractures that are primarily com- pound, that is, that are compound from the first, and those in which a wound leading to the broken bone forms some time after the accident, as the result of inflammation, suppuration, and sloughing, or fi'om other causes. When the fracture becomes compound secondarily, the danger is greatly lessened, on account of the reparative tissue that has formed at the seat of the injury having closed the medullary canal in such a way that septic osteomyelitis is not likely to occur. The blood-clot and the early exudation are also to a great