TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATORY FEVER. 221 in this way in acnfce inflammation. As a purgative its value cannot be over- rated, -i L f Opium is of essential service in allaying the pain and irritability that otcen accompany inflammation, especially in many affections of the bones and joints. Dover's powder is of especial value in this respect, and alone or combined with James's powder, forms one of the most powerful diaphoretics we possess. Treatment of Inflammatory Fever.—The treatment of fever in surgical and medical cases is entirely different. The fever in the vast majority of surgical cases is due to the entrance into the blood-stream of some pyrogemc substance derived from a local source ; such as an unhealthy Avound, an un- opened abscess, &c. In the treatment of the fever in such cases it is the duty of the Surgeon to seek the source of the pyrogenic material and to cut off the supply, as "by opening the abscess, cleaning the foul wound or cavity, &c. In medicine unfortunately the physician is as a rule unable to do this, and con- sequently lias to fall back on drugs, a practice which the Surgeon should only adopt as a last resource. The treatment of fever must necessarily vary with the type it assumes, whether it is sthenic or asthenic (p. 199). In all forms the patient must be put to bed and kept warm and quiet. The diet must be light but nutritious ; beef-tea, veal, mutton, or chicken broth, bread and farinaceous puddings being the chief constituents. During high fever the patient has no appetite for solid food, nor could he digest it, but eggs and milk can often be taken. The eggs must be raw or very hghtly boiled, and may be beaten up with the beef- tea or milk. Milk should always be boiled, and it will be found in many cases very useful to add a very small quantity of arrow-root, which makes the curd less lumpy in the stomach and more easy of digestion. The thirst from which the patient suffers is often best relieved by lemon-juice and soda-water with little or no sugar, or by dilute phosphoric acid in the proportion of about one drachm to one pint of water sipped occasionally, or aromatic sulphuric acid in about the same dose. The patient's mouth should always be carefully cleaned several times a day with an antiseptic fluid of some kind, such as peppermint water, spirits of juniper largely diluted with water, boric acid lotion, Condy's fluid. &c. The foul mouth in fever is one of the patient's greatest sources of discomfort. In order to keep the skin clean and active the body should be daily washed with warm water, only a small part being exposed at one time, so as to avoid cold. If the fever assume the sthenic form, with a full and bounding pulse and a high temperature with headache, and possibly delirium, as a rule no alcohol is required, although sometimes it may help in reducing the tem])erature and promoting sleep. The patient's bowels must be kept open and diaphoretics administered as already described. It is in these cases that specific drugs may be used, supposing the Surgeon cannot arrest the fever by cutting off the supply of the pyrogenic substance entering the blood-stream. The antipyretics most commonly employed are quinine in large doses, salicylate of soda, and the various coal-tar derivatives known as antipyrin, antifebrin, and phenacetin. Of these, quinine and salicylate of soda have been credited with some power of destroying, or at least inhibiting, the growth of micro-organisms in the body, but the evidence as to this is not satisfactory. All except quinine are extremely depressing drugs, causing profuse perspiration, and must be administered with