LOCAL DISTURBANCES AND INFLAMMATION. becomes softened by the coufcinuous flow from the vessels, and infiltrated by innumerable migrating corpuscles till it breaks up and flows away as pus, and " suppurative inflammation " is said to have been developed. At the same tmie that this is taking place, the tissues which form the surfaces of the wound, being unable in consequence of the presence of the irritant to return to their normal state of vitality, become infiltrated by innumerable wandering cells which fill all the spaces and press upon the original tissues, finally absorbing them and occupying their place; thus the surface of the wound becomes converted into a layer of closely packed leucocytes, the superficial cells of which are continually degenerating, becoming loosened, and floating away in the discharge as pus-cells. Beneath this layer the original cells of the tissue begin to prohferate, being protected by it from the direct action of the irritant, and thus we get a new tissue developed from the old, in which new vessels develop, forming granulation tissue, the superficial cells of which, when they become exposed to the irritant, break down, and take part in the formation of pus. If, in consequence of a higher degree of irritation, the new growth from the original cells is very limited or altogether absent, and thus destruc- tion exceeds formation, the process gradually extends into surrounding tissues; a new layer becomes infiltrated by migrating cells, pressed upon and absorbed, and its place occupied by the crowded leucocytes, which in their turn break down and are thrown off, and thus a progressive destruction of tissue takes place. This process is called ulceration; or, in the language of Hunter, ulcerative inflammation " is said to be occurring. If the irritation be still more severe, the migrating cells may perish before they have formed a distinct layer; and, instead of the process just described, in which the original tissues are first replaced by the leucocytes, which then break down and melt away as pus, the tissues may themselves undergo direct disintegra- tion, and the products of this change will form part of the discharge, which under these circumstances will contain shreds of the broken-down tissues and be less rich in leucocytes, or, in other words, in pus-cells. Thus in rapid ulceration the discharge may be scarcely puriform, but composed of serous fluid with the debris of the perishing tissues. Lastly, if the irritation be still more intense and rapid in its action, or the original vitality of the affected part so low that it is incapable of resisting even mild injurious influences, the death of the original tissue will take place with such rapidity that the dead mass will be visible to the naked eye, forming a slough, and the process is then spoken of as gangrenous inflammation. Thus there is no sharp line to be drawn anywhere between simple adhesive and gangrenous inflam- mation. One form merges into another, and the effect produced is proportional to the degree of irritation and to the power of the tissues to resist the injurious action of the irritant. Inflammations are also frequently divided, according to their real or supposed causes, into Traumatic, Avhen arising from injury, Strumous, Rheumatic, Gouty, Syphilitic, &c. Finally, when the cause cannot be discovered, they are often called Idiopathic. Perhnps, however, the most important distinction is into Simple localised inflammations and Spreading inflammations. The simple localised in- flammations are due to causes which act usually only on a limited area and in a temporary manner. A spreading inflammation is one in which the cause is of such a nature as to be continuously developed either in contact with or in