784 INJURIES OF THE HEAD. with the pin protruded, is now to be firmly applied until its teeth touch the skull; it is then worked with rather a sharp, light and quick movement, the pressure being exercised as the hand is carried from left to right. The centre-pin must be withdrawn or removed as soon as a good groove is formed by the crown, lest it perforate the skull first and injure the dura mater. In this way the outer table of the skull is quickly divided, and the diploe cut into (Fig. 3.11) ; the detritus which now rises by the crown of the trephine is soft and bloody, instead of being dry, as it is whilst the outer table is being sawn. The teeth of the trephine must be frequently freed from sawdust with a sponge. As the instrument approaches the dura mater, the sawing must be conducted more warily, and must every now and then be interrupted in order that the Surgeon may examine, with the flat end of a probe, the depth that has been reached, care being taken that this is uniform throughout the circle. The Surgeon now makes each turn very lightly, and now and then tries with a slight to-and-fro movement whether the circle of bone is loose. As soon as it is, he withdraws it in the crown of the trephine, or raises the bone by means of the elevator. The trephine used should always be one inch or more iii diameter, except in those cases in which it is only required to remove a small piece of bone to insert the elevator under a depressed fi-agment. In operations on the brain substance a single trephine-aperture is not nearly large enough. The opening may be enlarged by making another trephine-aperture and removing the bone between the two with a chisel, or by marking out a deep groove with the Key's saw and cutting the bone away with strong bone-forceps. If it is necessary to open the dura mater this is best done by an incision following the Hue of the opening in the bone, but about one-eighth of an inch away from it, so that the flap can be replaced and retained by catgut sutures if necessary. Any vessels that bleed must be tied with fine catgut. In operating for tumours or cicatrices the dura mater may be adherent to the portion of the brain to be removed, and it may then be necessary to cut it away. On opening the dura mater the brain must be examined. A marked tendency to bulge into the opening is observed in abscess and in tumour of the brain, and its pulsation may be feeble or indistinct, or even wanting. The colour is often changed, and the membranes abnormally adherent to it. If a tumour is present an unnatural sense of resistance may be readily perceptible. Portions of the brain may be removed by means of a common scalpel; or a blunt knife, like a tenotome in form, made of soft iron which can be bent to any form, will be found a very useful instrument. The bleeding is at first very free, but soon ceases on gentle pressure with a sponge. When the operation is complete, if the nature of the case admits of it, after the dura mater has been laid down, the bone which has been removed may be cut into small pieces, as recommended by Macewen, and planted about on the surface, where it will often adhere and help to close the opening with new bone. The flap of the scalp should then be laid down and very accurately adjusted with sutures. Drainage may be provided for by means of a small tube, but Horsley states that if one inch of the wound be left open at the most dependent part, no tube will be required, and primary union of the whole