MICRO- AND MACRO-PHAGOCYTES. sta(?es, from whatever cause, and in whatever tissue it may arise, is always characterised histologically by essentially the same phenomena : a passive or deo-eneratins: condition of the original tissues with an abundant infiltration of new cells, which are white corpuscles migrated from the vessels, and possibly, the descendants of such corpuscles formed by division of the parent-cells after leaving the vessel. The extent to which the process of cell-infiltration is carried depends upon the degree of damage done to the tissues by the irritant which has caused the inflammation. Supposing the damage done to be of a slight and temporary character, the tissues speedily recover from the condition of lowered vitality into which they have been thrown, the vessels recovering with the other parts- The circulation, therefore, returns to its normal state, and the exudation of plasma and migration of leucocytes nv cease. The liquid exudation drains away and such leucocytes as have found their way amongst the tissues find their way back by the lymphatics, or are absorbed by larger cells which may now appear on the scene. These larger cells also are motile and possess the properties of phagocytes, and from their size have been called macro- phages or large phagocytes to dis- tinguish them from the smaller cells already described, which have received the name of microphages or small phagocytes. The words microphages and macrophages are untranslated French, and not adapted to the English language. It is better to use the terms micro- and macro-phagocytes or large and small phagocytes. These larger cells are supposed to be formed by proliferation of the original cells of the part as they recover from the damage done to them by the irritant. It has before been pointed out that the same cause which, acting intensely, will cause the phenomena of inflammation, may in a milder form act as a stimulus to the tissues, causing increased nutritive activity and proliferation, just as the same chemical substance in a high degree of concentration arrests the movements of amoeboid cells, while in a lower degree it stimulates their activity. It will be seen later on that, in chronic inflammations due to irritants of low intensity, cells of this type are abundantly present in all stages of the process. The sources of these larger phagocytes are supposed to be the connective-tissue corpuscles and the endothefial cells of the vessels and lymphatics. It is possible that some of the larger cells may be formed by fusion of the smaller. The observations of Metchnikofl' have clearly shown that this process occurs in many of the lower invertebrata when resisting the invasion of foreign organisms. Nothing of the kind appears to take place in acute Fig. 86.—/. Fascia, cedcinatous and slightly infil trated with leucocytes, a. Arteriole, v. Venule. \). Perimysium infiltrated \vit,li leucocytes, v. Nerve, ni. Muscular Fibres, cut across.