DIAGNOSIS OF FRACTURE. 525 are widely separated. It must not be confoimded with the crepitation that occurs from other causes, as from emphysema. The effusion of serous fluid into the sheaths of the tendons gives rise to a peculiar crackling sensation, easily distinguished from the rough grating of a fracture. There is a species of false crepitus also experienced sometimes in injuries of joints, consisting ot a snap or click rather than of true grating, which is sometimes mistaken by inexperienced practitioners for true crepitus of broken bone. The roughened surfaces of a joint in the later stages of chronic rheumatic arthritis, will, how^ever, give rise to a grating which it is very difficult to distinguish from that of a broken bone. As a rule it is finer and more regular than the crepitus of a fracture. In some cases in which the mobihty cannot be clearly felt, the patient will complain of pain at the seat of fracture when an attempt is made to find it, or when a distant part of the bone is pressed on. This is often a very useful means of diagnosis in fractures of the fibula and ribs. It will thus be seen that no one of these three signs alone is absolutely to be rehed upon, and a combination of at least two of them is usually required to determine whether fracture exists. In ascertaining the existence of a fracture, the Surgeon should make the necessary manipulations with the utmost gentle- ness, but yet effectually, so that no uncertainty may be allowed to remain as to the seat and nature of the injury, more especially when it occurs in the vicinity of a joint. The increased mobility may be ascertained by fixing the upper fragment and rotating the lower portion of the limb ; the crepitus by drawing down the lower fragment, so as to bring the rough surfaces into apposition, and then grasping the limb at the seat of fracture with one hand, and rotating it gently with the other. The displacement must be ascertained by measuring the limb carefully in the way that has been directed, and by comparing the injured with the sound side. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of a simple fracture is usually made without difficulty by the co-existence of displacement, abnormal mobility, and crepitus. There are, however, two conditions that may render the detection of a simple fracture difficult. The first is, when only one of two or several contiguous bones is broken ; the other, when the fragments are impacted. When only one bone is broken in a situation where there are two or more, as in the leg, forearm, metacarpus or metatarsus, very close and careful manipulation of the injured bone may be required. The Surgeon must run his finger carefully over the most projecting ridge, feeling for slight inequality or swelling at one part, or perhaps he may elicit taint crepitus on freely and deeply moving the bone at the seat of suspected fracture ; or, failing this, severe pain may be caused in the line of the bone by forcing its two extremities towards each other, or by applying force in such a way as to bend it. In the case of impaction the diagnosis is even more difficult. Here no crepitus, and no preternatural mobility, can be found, and the Surgeon must be led to his diagnosis by the recognition of the characteristic displacement of the particular fracture, as, for instance, the deformity of the wrist in impacted fracture of the lower end of the radius. The difficulties of diagnosis are necessarily most seriously increased if there be much extravasation of blood ; or, when the fracture is through an articular end, if there should be much effusion into the neighbouring joint. In cases of doubt it is wiser to put up the limb as if there were a fracture, and to wait