998 TUMOURS. CHAPTER XXXIY. TUMOUKS. It is extremely difficult to give a short definition of the word Tumour, which shall cover all we mean by it and not extend beyond. According to Hunter, a tumour is "a circumscribed substance produced by disease, and (lifiFerent in its nature and consistence from the surrounding parts." Cornil and Ranvier define a tumour as a "mass composed of a tissue of new formation (a neoplasm) having a tendency to persist and to increase," and Liicke as " an increase in size from the growth of new tissue, which comes to no physiological termination." A tumour increases in size by an inherent force of its own, of the nature of which we are ignorant; and this is irrespective of the growth of tlie rest of the body, though the new tissue of which it is formed is developed by the same processes as those observed in normal growth. Although a tumour may closely resemble in structure the part in which it is growing, it can always be recognized by the naked eye if a section be carried through it, either by some slight diff"erence in texture, or by its forming a clearly defined mass isolated from the surrounding structures. A tumour is distinguished from simple hypertrophy by the isolation of the growth and by the marked alteration in the form of the part to which it gives rise. In simple hypertrophy the new tissue is continuous with the old, identical with it in structure, and the general form of the part is maintained. Thus, if the great toe be uniformly enlarged in all its parts while maintaining the general form natural to it, the condition is termed hypertrophy, but a small outgrowth of bone from the ungual phalanx is a tumour. Inflammatory new growth is dis- tinguished from a tumour by the fact that it takes place under the influence of some definite cause of irritation, and ceases at once if this be removed ; the products of the inflammatory process are then absorbed more or less com- pletely, any residue becoming developed into connective tissue. A tumour grows indefinitely, maintaining its original type of structure whatever size it may attain to, and is not dependent upon any evident source of irritation ; in fact, should such arise, the tumour itself becomes inflamed. An inflammatory process is as a rule conservative in character, being concerned in some cases in repair of injury, in others in elimination of a virus, or the extrusion of a foreign body ; the growth of a tumour serves no such purpose. Classification of Tumours.—The only complete classification of tumours adopted at the present time is founded on their anatomical structure, but in addition to this, other less perfect divisions are employed for clinical purposes. Hurgeons have long divided tumours into two great classes, the simple or non-maHgnant and the malignant. As a rule, this division corresponds accurately with that founded on the histological structure, and from micro- scopic examination of a tumour we can say with certainty whether it is simple or malignant. Thus some tumours, as the cancers, are always malignant, and others uniformly benign, as a fatty tumour. In others there may be some