RABIES: PALLIATIVE TREATMENT. 379 fifth day, 0, G ; sixth day, 5 ; seventh day, 5 ; eighth day, 4 ; ^"^Jh day 3 ; tenth day, 5 ; eleventh day, 5 ; twelfth day, 4; thirteenth day, 4 ; foiutcenth day, 3 ; fifteenth day, 3. , , The " intensive " treatment is adopted in wolf-bites and the more severe cases of bites from undoubtedly rabid dogs. In these cases the injections are continued during twenty-one days, whilst the early injections are moie numerous, so that a cord dried for six days is used on the third. No abscesses or other local troubles beyond a little tenderness and redness have m any case followed the injections. , That the treatment is not infallible Pasteur himself acknowledges ; how fallible it is can scarcely yet be determined. From 188G to 1892 inclusive, 12 744 persons underwent the antirabic treatment at the Pasteur Institute ; ot these 112 died, showing a mortality of 0-88 per cent. These cases are arranged in three classes : first, those bitten by animals proved by experiment to be rabid ; secondly, those bitten by animals certified to be rabid by veterinary Suro-eons : thirdly, those bitten by animals suspected of rabies. Of the total number treated, 10,298 had been bitten by animals proved or certified to be rabid ; 95 of these died, giving a mortality of 0-92 per cent. Excluding those cases which have proved fatal from rabies during the treatment or withm fifteen davs of its termination, only 72 deaths have occurred m the 14,430 cases treated up to the end of 1893 ; this gives a mortahty of only 0'50 per cent. This must be compared with the mortality of 15 per cent, which follows the bites of rabid animals treated by other methods. It can thus hardly be denied that the treatment has been productive of a great saving of life. In a considerable number of other institutions founded for the purpose of carrying out Pasteur's treatment the results have been equally satisfactory. No cases are on record proving that death has resulted from the treatment, and it is probable that those few instances in which paralysis ending fatally occurred during the " intensive " treatment were cases of " paralytic rabies." A committee, composed of Sir H. Roscoe, Dr. Burdon-Sanderson, Sir James Paget, Sir Joseph Lister, Dr. Lauder Brunton, Dr. Quain, Dr. Fleming, and Mr. Victor Horsley, was nominated by the President of the Local Government Board in 1886 to inquire into Pasteur's treatment, and after a most exhaustive investigation, as a part of which Horsley repeated the experiments on animals, the committee reported in 1887, fully confirming Pasteur's conclusions on every important point. The treatment can of course be carried out only in institutions established for the purpose, as it is necessary to keep a large number of rabid rabbits constantly in stock, for if from any cause the intensified virus as developed in the rabbits died out it would take some months to.develop it again by a fresh series of inoculations starting from a rabid dog. The treatment may be commenced at any time before the invasion of the disease, but the chances are of necessity very seriously diminished after a fortnight from the date of the bite. Palliative Treatment.—After the disease has once set in, nothing can be done but to pallicde symijioms and prolong life. Every possible remedy that the ingenuity of man could devise, from warm water to viper- and ticuna-poison, has been tried and found utterly useless. But, although no treatment hitherto tried has been successful in curing this horrible disease, much may be done to mitigate the suiferiugs caused by