FRACTURE OF PATELLA: TREATMENT. 627 Fig. ■}■>■,.- ••'ractured Pa- tella : Side \ ievv of limb, straiKlit. ^ i-HS. — Fracture of Patella. Sepai-ation between P'ragments iuereased by bending the Knee. joint with fluid that prevents their early approximation ; and thirdly, to the shreds of the torn fibrous expansion from the vasti which hang down between the fragments. Lastly, in the normal state, when the limb is extended, only a small portion of the nnder sarface of the patella is in direct contact with the hones beneath. When the bone is broken, the npper and lower borders sink down on the bone in such a way that even if the fragments can s. be made to meet posteriorly a gap is left in front. In fractnres by direct violence, the expansion covering the bone not being torn, 6he fragments remain in close apposition, and osseous union readily occurs. In the majority of cases of transverse fracture, the frag- / ments remain separated by an interval varying from one-fourth of an inch to an inch ; but in some instances the gap is much greater, amounting even to four or fi ve inches. When the sepa- ration does not exceed an inch and a half, the gap is usually filled up by ligamentous tissue, uniting the frag- ments firmly. In some of the cases, however, in which the separation between the fragments does not exceed this distance, and in most of those in which.it extends beyond it, W. Adams has found that the fracture is not united by any newly-formed fibrous tissue, but that the fragments are bound together simply by the thickened fascia which passes over the patella, with whicli is incorporated the bursa patellse. Adams finds that the aponeurotic structure thus uniting the fragments may be arranged in difi'erent ways. Thus it may be adherent to the anterior periosteal surface of both fragments ; or the connecting aponeurosis may be reflected over, and be adherent to, both the fractured surfaces ; or, lastly, (and this is the most frequent arrangement,) the connecting aponeurosis may pass from the periosteal surface of the upper fragment to the fractured surface of the lower one, to which it becomes firmly united. In the majority of cases, when united by aponeurotic tissue the fragments gape somewhat towards the skin, coming more nearly in contact posteriorly. Thus it would appear that a patella fractured transversely may unite HI two ways : most frequently by the intervention of thickened aponeu- rotic structure, and next, by a ligamentous or fibrous union. Of ;U specimens m the London museums, examined by Adams, it was found that in 15 aponeu- rotic union had taken place, in 12 ligamentous union, and in the remain ing 4 the kind of union could not be determined. The aponeurotic union always leaves a weakened limb and an unprotected joint ; for in conse (juence of the separation of the fragments, and the folding in of the fiiscia the fingers can be thrust in between the articular surfaces of the knee ' ■ 7?^^"^"^*;"^^' ^'''^ ^'^^ treatment of fractured patella is to o-efc rid of the fluid distending the joint ; for until this is done it is iinpossible'in most cases to bring the fragments into close apposition. Under the influence ol rest and the apphcation of evaporating lotions, the fluid will usualIv be absorbed under a week, and in most cases it will have sufficiently diminished s s 2