SPECIAL DISLOCATIONS. 662 retained ia position by being attached to a strap passed round the opposite axilla. Even if the displacement continue irremediable, a very useful arm will still be left, though somewhat limited in its upward movements. The outer end of the clavicle has been dislocated under the Acromion by the application of direct violence to the end of the bone. This form of displacement is extremely rare ; several instances have, however, been recorded. The diagnosis is easily made and the treatment must be conducted in the same way as that of fractured clavicle. The acromial end of the clavicle is said to have been displaced underneath the Coracoid Process; but it is possible that the diagnosis was erroneous, as on anatomical grounds such a displacement seems hardly possible. Simultaneous Dislocation of both ends of the Clavicle is very rare, only four cases having been recorded. Dislocation of the Scapula.—Under this name has been described a very remarkable kind of displace- ''%av£iro';;tr Ac?o,nion*'''' ment of the Lower Anr/le and Dorsal Border of the scapula which is occasionally met with, in consequence of which it projects at a considerable angle from the trunk, giving a winged appearance to the back. This displacement has been attributed to the bone slip- ping away from under the latissimus dorsi muscle; but it is probable that, in the majority of cases at least, it has really been due to paralysis of the serratus mag- nus. Paralysis of the muscle is easily recognized : the projection of the scapula is most marked when the arm is put forwards at right angles to the trunk ; if both arms are put in this position it will be found that the patient can push the sound arm forwards about two inches further than the other, the scapular movement being wanting on the paralysed side ; in some cases there has been difficulty in raising the arm above the head ; expansion of the chest is less perfect on the afiected side, and if the patient is thin it can be seen that the digitations of the muscle are feebly marked. In a case of this kind recorded by G. V. Poore, in which the paralysis followed chronic neuritis of the brachial plexus, the result of a strain, the patient gradually recovered under electrical treatment. I have seen some benefit derived in such cases from the endermic application of strychnine on a blistered surface, and afterwards from support by means of a properly constructed apparatus. Dislocations of the Shoulder-joint occur far more frequently than those of any other articulation. The reason of this is to be found in the shallowness of the glenoid cavity, the large size and rounded shape of the head of the humerus, and the weakness of the hgaments ; but, above all, in the extent and force of the movements to which the joint is subjected. These displace- ments indeed would be much more frequent even than they are, were it not for the protection afforded to the joint by the osseous and ligamentous arch formed by the coracoid process and acromion with their hgaments, the great strength of the capsular muscles and their close connection with the joint, and the support given by the tendon of the long head of the biceps ; but the principal obstacle to dislocation is the mobility of the scapula, enabling all movements communicated to the hand and arm to react upon that bone.