IKJURIES OF THE CHEST. 856 The simple localized traumatic inflammation consequent on an injury causes but slight constitutional disturbance, and it is only in exceptional cases that it could give rise to definite physical signs. There may be a little fine crepita- tion, and possibly recognizaljle dulness ; but more commonly the physical signs are obscured by hemorrhage into the lung substance, and into the cavity of the pleura. The rusty sputa are more the consequence of the hjemorrhage into the air-vesicles than of inflammatory hyper^emia. Should spreading septic inflammation set in, the constitutional symptoms are much more grave, very high fever being caused by absorption of the products of putrefaction, the tem- perature reaching 104° F. or 105° F. It may then occasionally be possible to recognize the ordinary signs of pneumonia—hurried respiration, fine crepitation, dulness on percussion, increased vocal fremitus, tubular or bronchial breath- ing, and increased vocal resonance,—but far more commonly all these signs are wanting in consequence of the simultaneous inflammation of the pleura, with efi'usion into its cavity. The pneumonia that occurs as a conseqaence of injury difi'ers essentially from acute croupous imeumonia. The disease has of course no fixed locality, starting as it does from the wound, and it has much less tendency to spread. Moreover it occurs most frequently in a collapsed or partially collapsed Inng, and consequently there is not the same distension of the air-vesicles with inflammatory exudation. It is a most dangerous complication but not a hopeless one. If free drainage be provided from the pleura, the misciiief may cease to spread, granulations may spring up, and the wound in the lung may gradually close. Foreign bodies are frequently carried into the substance of the lung in gun- shot wounds of the chest. If these are metallic, they may become encysted ; if non-metallic, as pieces of clothing, they more commonly give rise to suppu- ration ; and should the patient recover, they may ultimately find their way into the bronchi, and be coughed up. 4. Pleurisy and Empyema.—Whenever the pleura is wounded, whether it be by a fractured rib or by a direct open wound, and whether the lung be injured or not, localized traumatic inflammation necessarily results, and. the first stage in the repair of the injury in the serous membrane is adhesion of the two opposed surfaces by means of the inflammatory exudation. Afterwards firm fibrous adhesions are formed between the parietal and the visceral pleura at the injured spot, thus to a certain extent obliterating the serous sac. Sub- cutaneous injuries of the pleura, such as are made by the ends of a broken rib, rarely give rise to any serious trouble. The inflammation remains strictly limited to the injured spot, and shows little tendency to spread. Even when the physical signs have shown that some amount of blood has been extrava- sated into the cavity of the pleura, the inflammation rarely reaches the stage of suppuration unless there is an external wound. If there is an external wound, the condition is always one of considerable danger. The cavity of the pleura is partly filled with extravasated. blood and inflammatory exudation, that is to saj^, with putrescible matter, to which the air has free access through the external wound ; at the same time, in most cases, the drainage by the wound is very imperfect. Decomposition naturally follows, and the decomposing matter sets up the most intense inflammation of the pleura, rapidly reaching the stage of suppuration. The lodgment of a foreign body in the pleural cavity or an unhealthy constitutional condition of the patient necessarily favours the formation of pus in the pleura. In wounds of