INJUBIES OF THE HEAD. 734 Most commonly when the inner table is thus fractured or depressed the outer table is fissured. The accompanying cuts (Figs. 297, 298), taken from photo- graphs of a preparation in the Army Medical Museum, Washington, represent a case of extensive gunshot fracture with depression of the inner table of the left parietal bone without fracture of the external table. The patient was struck obliquely on the side of the head by a musket-ball, which inflicted a scalp- wound. There was no sign of cerebral disturbance until two days after the injury, when symptoms of compression set in. The skull was carefully examined through the wound for fracture ; none could be found. The symptoms of coma increased and proved fatal on the tenth day, when the inner table of the left parietal bone was found extensively starred and depressed (Fig. 298), without any fracture of the outer table (Fig. 297). There was a wound of the dura mater and an abscess in the cerebral hemisphere —in fact, all the appearances and sequences of an ordinary "punctured fracture." This case demonstrates clearly the possibility of extensive fracture with depression of the inner table, whilst the outer remains unbroken. The Symptoms of a depressed fracture of the skull are of two kinds : those that are dependent upon the injury to the bone, and those that result from the concomitant compression or laceration of the brain. When the scalp is not wounded, the depression may sometimes be felt ; but very commonly it is masked by extravasation of blood about it. In all cases of doubt, ivhen symptoms of compression of the Irain exist (p. 745), an incision should be made through the scalp at the seat of injury, and the state of the skull examined. When there is a wound in the scalp communicating with the frac- ture, the Surgeon detects at once the existence of depression and comminution by examining the bone with his finger through the wound. When the fragments that are depressed are impacted and firmly locked together, so as to form an unyielding mass, symptoms of compression of the brain, to a more or less marked degree, may result. But if the fracture be very extensive, and the fragments, though somewhat depressed, lie loose, and if they be yielding and do not exercise a continuous pressure on the brain, it occasionally happens that the symptoms of compression are entirely wanting, and no cerebral dis- turbance comes on for some days, even though the injury be very extensive. A man twenty-four years of age was admitted into University College Hospital, having been struck on the forehead by the sharp edge of a quoit. The frontal bone was extensively comminuted, twelve fragments being removed, and the dura mater being exposed to a considerable extent; yet no bad symptoms occurred until the ninth day, when inflammation of the brain and its mem- branes set in, and he speedily died. In other cases again, more especially in children and young persons, in whom the bones are soft and yielding, fracture with depression may exist to a considerable extent, without any symptom of compression being produced, the patient living with a portion of his skull permanently beaten in. I have several times seen persons in after-life with large flat depressions of the skull, the result of injuries sustained in childhood, who presented no signs of cerebral disturbance. It is rare, however, to meet with a recent case of depressed fracture in the adult without signs of compression of the brain. But, though rare, it is not impossible ; and Green mentions a case of a man whose skull was depressed to the extent of the bowl of a dessert-spoon, without any symptoms of compression.