TREATMENT OF ACUTE ABSCESSES. 261 out of a hot solution of carbolic acid (1 in 20) to disinfect the surrounding- skin. The incision may be made with an abscess-bistoury, a Syme's sickle- shaped knife or a scalpel. It should be made either at the point where fluctuation is most distinct, or at the most dependent part, so as to prevent subsequent bagging of the matter. The bistoury should be held short, and introduced perpendicularly. If the depth to be reached be considerable, the blade of the bistoury should be half turned round after its introduction, when the pus wells up by its side if the abscess have been reached, the point at the same time being felt to move freely in the cavity of the abscess. The incision must then be continued for a moderate extent in the direction of the natural folds of the skin of the part if possible, and always parallel to the course of the chief vessels. The heahng of the abscess cavity without further suppuration is certainly facilitated by cleaning it out. This should not be done with any sharp scraping instrument lest unnecessary injuiy be done to the surrounding parts softened by inflammation. The cleaning is best effected by means of a piece of sponge, moistened with a solution of corrosive sublimate (1 in 500). A moderate degree of force may be used in order to remove the superficial layers of the wall of the cavity. The cavity must then be dried by the repeated introduction of fresh pieces of sponge squeezed as dry as possible. This scrubbing the wall of an acute abscess necessarily causes some bleeding, and in large abscesses, or in those in very vascular organs, it is often wiser to omit it, but when it can be done without causing loss of blood, it certainly seems to promote rapid healing. Any bleeding that may occur from the wall of the cavity is very easily arrested by elevation and pressure. No antiseptic seems to arrest suppuration better than the strong perchloride solution (1 in 500), but this must only be used with a sponge, and all excess afterwards removed lest it cause poisoning. If it be thought inadvisable to sponge out the cavity, it may be freely irrigated with some antiseptic solution. The introduction of a small quantity of iodoform is often useful in checking further suppuration. The abscess cavity having been opened, and cleaned if possible, it is usually necessary to make provision for some future discharge. If this be not done, the hps of the wound tend to stick to each other, and the cavity may become quickly distended with fresh fluid. In small abscesses which have been freely opened the introduction of a small piece of lint soaked in some antiseptic lotion for a few hours will suffice, but if the abscess be deeply seated or of large size a drainage tube sliould be inserted. Tents made of plugs of lint and metal drainage tubes were frequently used by the old Surgeons in the treatment of suppurating wounds and deep-seated abscesses, but the methodical use of Drainage-tuhes was introduced into modern surgical practice by Chassaignac in 1855. The tubes should he made of red mdia-rubber, which is the most durable, and should have holes cut in them at regular intervals. They should be kept in a solution of carbolic acid (1 m_ 20) for at least 24 hours before being used, to render them thorouo-hly aseptic. They must correspond in size to the capacity of the cavity they are mtenc ed to drain ; not so much because a small tube could not carry off all the fluid that escapes, but because the larger tubes are less likely to get accidentally Choked, and the larger the cavity, the more serious would be the consequences ot such an accident. A couple of threads, about 2 inches in length, must be attached one to each side of the superficial end of the tube. These lie upon the skm beneath the dressing when the-tube has been inserted, and prevent its