MIGRATION OF LEUCOCYTES. i6i vessel, are consecutive forms assumed by one corpuscle which was watched through the wall of the small vein. The outlines of the red corpuscles are indicated for the sake of clearness, but the current was too rapid during life to admit of their being seen as drawn. As long ago as 1841, C. J. B. Wilhams pointed out the fact that the white corpuscles are present in augmented numbers in the vessels of an inflamed part ; but it was Addison, who, in the same year, first described their migration from the vessels. This observation was confirmed by Augustus Waller in 1846 ; but its importance was not recognised even by those who had observed it, and it-was in fact generally doubted, till Cohnheim in 1867, published an accurate account of the process, and pointed out its bearing on the pathology of inflammation. As a result of this process of migration of the corpuscles, the tissues of an inflamed part soon become crowded with wandering leucocytes, which may accumulate in such numbers as to conceal the normal structures more or less completely. As the inflammatory process becomes more intense, red cor- puscles also leave the vessels, finding their way out chiefly from the capillaries, in the same way as has already been described as occurring in mechanical hyperjemia. The number that escape will depend very much on the degree of obstruction caused by the choking of the capillaries by adherent cor- puscles. The migrating cells were at one time supposed to find their way out by natural openings or " stomata," which were believed to exist in the walls of the capillaries between the single layer of endothelial cells, of which these vessels are composed. Although no definite openings are now supposed to exist, yet it is probable that the migrating corpuscles do pass out between the cells, the natural adhesion of which to each other is lessened by those changes in the vascular walls which form an essential part of the inflammatory process. The force that causes the escape of the corpuscles differs in the case of the red and white respectively. The red are forced out by the intra- vascular pressure only, being themselves entirely passive. The white cor- puscles make their way out by their own amosboid movements, aided by the pressure within the vessels. The latter force is doubtless of o-reat importance, for ligature of the main artery leading to the inflamed \rea diminishes or even arrests the process of migration. The observations of Leber, Metchnikoff, and many others have lately tended to show that the passage of the corpuscles from the vessels and their subsequent move- ments in the tissues are very largely influenced by the various chemical substances which may be present in the fluids of the inflamed part These substances are in a very great proportion of all acute inflammations the products of the growth of the micro-organisms which are the immediate cause of the process. Much evidence has been brought forward to prove that the pro- toplasm of the leucocyte is influenced by some substances in such a way as not only to stimulate its movements but to determine them in such a direction that the corpuscle moves towards the attractive substance Other substances produce the opposite effect and repel the corpuscles. This action of chemical substances upon motile cells of all kinds, whether animal or vegetable, has received the name of chemiotaxis, the process of attraction beino- called positive and that of repulsion negative, chemiotaxis. The extreme advocates of the theory of chemiotaxis are inclined to look upon it as the sole cause of migration and to maintain that the corpuscles only leave the vessels VOL. I. M