324 . INJURIES OF SOFT PARTS. rubber tubing on its nozzle. The tubing is stiflP enough to penetrate any existing cavity, but not so stiflP as to force a way for "itself. Care must be taken, m injecting the wound, not to squeeze the lips together so as to cause high pressure in its cavity, for the lymph-spaces in the neighbourhood may become injected with the solution, and unpleasant inflammation may follow. The whole of the parts which will be covered by the dressing should be well washed with the solution. If the Avound be on" the hand or foot, great care must be taken to clean the nails and between the digits. If the wound is on the head or any other hairy part, the hair must be cut away and the skin shaved. Then, protecting the wound as far as possible, the surrounding skin must be cleaned with soap and hot water or with a weak solution of ammonia and then well washed with the antiseptic solution. In the case of an operation, the skin is first cleansed Avith soap and hot water, and, if it be unusually greasy, turpentine or ether may be used. Car- bolic lotion (1 in 20) is now freely applied around the seat of the intended incision ; this is far preferable to mercurial lotions, which run off greasy skin without thoroughly wetting it. The part should, if possible, be wrapped in a towel wrung out in the 1 in 40 solution for at least half an hour before the operation. This being done, it is necessary to prevent the entrance of organisms into the wound during the operation. The possible sources of contamination are the Surgeon's hands, the instruments, the sponges, the ligatures, and, lastly, the air. The hands of the Surgeon and his assistants must first be carefully washed in soap and water, with a free use of the nail-brush, and afterwards thoroughly dipped in the ] in 40 solution ; and the dipping must be repeated whenever the hands have been exposed to the air unprotected by the lotion. The insiruments should be placed in a bath of 1 in 20 carbolic lotion, which may be diluted to 1 in 40 at the commencement of the operation by the addi- tion of an equal quantity of boiled water. Each instrument when done with should be at once replaced in the lotion. Instruments are now frequently sterilised by means of heat. This can most conveniently be done by boiling them in water for at least a quarter of an hour before placing them in the carbolic solution ; or they may be exposed to a dry heat of 120°—140° C. for an hour in a specially-constructed stove, or better to the action of super- heated steam. To allow of these methods of disinfection, instruments are now made of metal only, and as far as possible in one piece. After an operation all instruments must be thoroughly scrubbed with soap and water and care- fully dried. In private practice sterilisation by boiling can be easily carried out. The Sponges must be prepared as before described (p. 40), and must be freshly squeezed out in 1 in 40 solution when handed to the assistant. The ligatures should be composed of either silk or catgut prepared as described in Chapter XIV.; or the haemorrhage may be arrested by forci-pressure and torsion, and the use of ligatures entirely avoided. The risk of contamination of a wound by organisms floating in the air was at one time undoubtedly exaggerated ; it can be obviated by wetting the surface of the wound with the antiseptic lotion at intervals during the opera- tion and well Avashiiig it out at the end. As a mode of irrigating not only the wound but the surrounding air, and the hands of the Surgeon and his