484 WOUNDS OF SPECIAL BLOOD-VESSELS. comes on as a consequence of the free anastomoses in this situation, render the rule of applying a Hgature on each side of the wound peculiarly stringent in all such cases. Secondary hsemorrhage and gangrene of the limb are the great sources of danger here. When gangrene is imminent, or has come on, ampu- tation is necessarily the sole resource. With regard to secondary hasmorrhage supervening after ligature of the artery ai the seat of injury, there is, I think, no safe course but removal of the limb. Where the artery has been tied higher up, as, for instance, when the external iliac has been ligatured for recent wounds or traumatic aneurisms in the groin or upper part of the thigh, the haemorrhage appears to have returned, or gangrene to have supervened in all cases. This fact was remarkably illustrated in the Crimean War. Thus, Macleod states that the French in one hospital at Constantinople ligatured the femoral at a distance from the wound for secondary haemorrhage seven times, and that all the cases failed. If the traumatic aneurism have assumed a cimmsarihed character, it must be treated on the principles laid down for this form of the disease, the supply- ing artery being ligatured above the tumour : and cases are not wanting in proof of the success of this practice. It occasionally, though rarely, happens that a Varicose Aneurism is formed in the groin or upper part of the thigh, as the result of wound of the artery and vein in this situation. It usually presents the ordinary characters of this disease, but some peculiarities have occasionally been met with. Thus, in a case related by Horner, there was a wavy motion in the femoral vein on the uninjured side, arising from the blood in the wounded vessel communicating a thrill upwards to that contained in the vena cava. In a case related by Mor- rison, it is stated that a tumour, as large as the human uterus at the third month of pregnancy, communicated with the injured vein. The Treatmejit of this disease is exceedingly unsatisfactory. Of four case."^ in which the external iliac artery was tied, a fatal termination occurred in every instance; two of the patients dying of gangrene of the limb, and the remaining two of secondary haemorrhage and consecutive pneumonia. It was consequently proposed by G-uthrie that the tumour be laid open, and the artery secured above and below the aperture in it. As. this plan has never been fairly put into practice, it would perhaps be useless to speculate on the chances of success likely to attend it.' The danger of a fatal gush of blood on laying open the sac, which in former times would have made most Surgeons hesitate to venture on such an operation, has now been completely obviated by the use of the aorta-compressor. Vessels of the Leg and Foot.—Deep stabs, cuts, and gunshot wounds of the leg may be followed by profuse hsemorrhage from a wounded artery. It may not always be easy to determine with accuracy which of the arteries is wounded: whether it be one of the tibials, the peroneal, or only large muscular branches. This is more especially the case when, in consequence of fracture, a pulsating extravasation of blood forms in the calf. When there is an open wound, the direction taken by it will probably enable the Surgeon to solve the question. In the Treatment of arterial bleeding from the leg, the Surgeon may, especially if it be not very profuse, try to arrest it by compress, bandage, and position. Should these measures fail, recourse must be had to operation. When the Posterior Tibial Artery is wounded, there is no reason to