NECK OF FEMUR: SIGNS. 609 fragments become interlocked or as it were dovetailed into one another, in con- sequence of the line of fracture being irregular and dentated. Signs.—These are, alteration in the shape of the hip, crepitus, pain at the seat of injury and inability to move the limb, with shortening and eversion of it. These we must consider separately, as important modifications of each are sometimes noticed. From the indirect and slight nature of the violence which caused the injury there are no signs of superficial bruising over the hip. The Alteration in the Shape of the Hip is evidenced by flattening of the part. The trochanter is not so prominent as usual, and is approximated to the crest of the ilium ; and, on rotating the limb, it is felt to I'oll under the hand in a smaller circle than on the sound side. In the sound limb, the tro- chanter describes the segment of a circle having a radius equal to the length of the head and neck of the bone ; on the injured side, the circle has a radius equal only to the length of that portion of the neck that still remains attached to the shaft of the bone. During this examination crepitus will usually be felt, though this occasionally is very indistinct and even absent, more especially if the limb be not well drawn down so as to bring the fractured surfaces into apposition; and great pain is produced by any movement of, or pressure upon, the joint. The Attitude of the Limb is so peculiar, as in general to indicate at once what has happened. There is a striking appearance of helplessness about it. As the patient is lying on his back, it is everted, with the knee semi-'flexed ; the patient's attempts to lift it up are ineffectual, and he at last ends by rais- ing it with the toe of the opposite foot, or with his hands. In the upright position the injured limb hangs uselessly, with the toes pointing downwards, and the heel raised and pointing to the inner ankle of the sound side (Fig. 208). In some cases, however, the patient can lift the limb somewhat, but with much exertion, from the couch on which he is lying; or can even manage to walk a few paces, or to stand for a few minutes upon it, with much pain and difficulty. This is owing either to the cervical reflection of the capsule being untorn, or else to the fragments having become impacted ; and it usually •occurs in those cases in which the other and more characteristic signs of this fracture are not well marked. Eversion of the limb is an almost invariable symptom, and is most marked in those cases in which the shortening is most considerable. This eversion has usually been attributed to the action of the external rotator muscles, which are inserted into the upper end of the lower fragment. But I cannot consider this as the principal cause; for, not only is it very difficult to understand how these muscles can rotate the limb outwards after their centre of motion has been destroyed by the fracture of the neck of the femur, their action being rather in a direction backwards than rotatory under these circumstances ; but we find that the limb falls into an everted position in those cases in which, the fracture being in the shaft and altogether below the insertions of these muscles, no influence can be exercised by them on the lower fragment. I look upon eversion in cases of fractured thigh as being simply the natural attitude into which the limb falls when left to itself. Even when the bone is unbroken, eversion takes place spontaneously whenever muscular action is relaxed, as during sleep, in paralysis, or in the dead body ; and in the injured limb, in which there is, as it were, a suspension of muscular action, it will occur equally. Indeed, the shortening that takes place will specially tend to relax