884 INJURIES OF THE ABDOMEN AND PELVIS. If the protrusion be inflamed, it must equally be replaced without delay ; but should the intestine have become gangrenous from continued constriction and exposure, the Surgeon will have the choice between two lines of treatment:— excision of the gangrenous portion of intestine, or the formation of an artificial anus to be cured subsequently by a secondary operation. If any diiftculty be found in returning a mass of protruded omentum it may be ligatured in one or more pieces with carboUzed catgut or silk, and cut off, after which the stump can easily be passed into the abdominal cavity. If the protruded omentum be gangrenous, it must be excised on a level with the peritoneum, to the aperture in which that portion lying within the abdomen will have contracted adhesions. Treatment of Wounded Bowel.—In most cases of wound of the stomach or intestine by stabs of the abdomen it will be found possible to close the wound with sutures. In some cases of gunshot wound, however, and some- times when the intestine is ruptured by a contusion of the abdomen, the nature of the injury renders this simple treatment impossible. Under these circumstances excision of the damaged segment of bowel and suture of the two ends have been successfully practised. For the successful suture of a wound of the bowel it is essential that the Fi". 3-22.—Application of Lembert's Suture ° to Wounded Bowel. Fig. 323.—Lembert's Suture. «, serous h, muscular; and c, mucous coat. I serous surfaces be brought well into contact. It is almost needless to observe that no union can possibly take place between two mucous surfaces, or between a serous and a mucous surface. Leakage after suture is most apt to occur from the extremities of the wound, and whatever form of suture isemployed, it must be commenced and finished well beyond the ends of the opening. Oarbolized or chromic catgut and very fine carbolized silk are the materials usually employed, and it is very possible that these may be absorbed without ulceratino- into the gut if they are applied so as not to include the mucous membrane. Very fine silk is generally preferred as being more manageable, and tyino- more accurately. The sutures should be introduced by means of fine round sewing needles. The ordinary flat surgical needle cuts the gut to such an extent that the sutures may fail to hold. With the view of stitching together the serous surfaces, much mgenuity has been displayed, and many devices have been practised. The mode of