INTRASPIXAL HAEMORRHAGE: SYMPTOMS. 791 in the cervical region causes pain in the neck and arms, and according to (lowers, "dysphagia, interference with respiration,and dilatation of the pupils may be added to the other paralytic symptoms ;" in the dorsal region a girdle pain may encircle the chest or abdomen ; in the lumbar region there will be pain and paralysis of the lower limbs, affection of the sphincters, and diminu- tion of the tendon-reflexes. In more than one recorded case of meningeal haemorrhage symptoms of ascending paralysis have resulted from the accumu- lation of blood in the spinal canal around the cord. The symptoms of hcemorrhage into iJte spinal cord are well marked from the first. The paralysis is usually not preceded by those irritation symptoms which so often occur as the result of meningeal haemorrhage. If the lesion be extensive the effects may be the same as those which will subsequently be seen to follow complete or partial transverse lesions of the cord. Cases occur, however, in which, as the result of localized hsemorrhage into the grey matter, the conducting power of the cord is but little interfered with, but in which, if the cervical or lumbar enlargement be affected, varying forms of paralysis and loss of sensation may result. In the case of the cervical enlargement much has been done to indicate the mode of representation of the muscles of the upper limbs in the cord. The root origin of the muscular nerves has been investigated experimentally in monkeys by Ferrier and Yeo ; by the method of dissection by HeiTingham ; and clinically by Gowers, Thorburn and others, Thorburn especially has studied the subject in connexion with hasmorrhage into the substance of the cervical enlargement of the cord as the result of injury. He is thus led to arrange the muscles of the upper limb in the following order according to their root supply :— Supraspinatus and infraspinatus. ) ,,, • . Teres minor (?). ^ 4th cervical nerve. ■ ( Biceps. 1 Brachialis anticus. Deltoid. I Supinator longus. ( Supinator brevis (?). Subscapularis. Pronators. Teres Major. Latissimus dorsi. Pectorahs major. \ Triceps. ( Serratus magnus. Extensors of the wrist. 7th cervical nerve. Flexors of the wrist. 8th cervical nerve. Interossei. ] Other intrinsic muscles of the hand. ] ^''''^^ This table must be looked upon as merely indicating the general plan of arrangement and not the details of the nerve supply of each muscle, which in every case probably is related to more than one nerve-root. The arrangement 5th cervical nerve. 6 th cervical nerve.