VENEREAL DISEASES. II50 eruptions occurriug in the early stages of the disease arc best treated by the administration of mercury according to the rules already given. The tuber- cular eruptions and the squamous forms, when occurring after the first year, can often be relieved by iodide of potassium, especially if the patient has been treated with mercury in the earlier period. Donovan's solution is often of the greatest possible value, the disease rapidly disappearing under its use. The same plan is required in the management of syphilitic boils. In the pustular forms, syphilitic rupia and ecthyma, as the constitution is commonly shattered, a tonic plan of treatment is required in the first instance ; after which the perchloride of mercury with tincture and decoction of cinchona, or sarsaparilla should be steadily administered. In these cases also much benefit will be derived from mercurial fumigation. In most cases no local ireatment is required for the squamous or papular eruptions, but should they occur on the face the patient is often anxious to hasten their disappearance. For this purpose dilute white precipitate oint- ment, or calomel made into a cream with olive-oil and lard, may be applied. Marshall recommends the application of a 10 per cent, solution of oleate of mercury with some morphia added. In all ^dceraUng syphilides iodoform, either applied pure or made into an ointment with vaseline, will be found most useful. In deep ulcerations iodide of starch ointment often produces a good effect. If these fail, yellow wash or perchloride of mercury in the «trength of two grains to the ounce, diluted with water if it cause too much pain, will often arrest the spread of the ulceration and hasten its healing. If nothing else succeeds it may be necessary to cauterize the surface with fuming nitric acid or the acid nitrate of mercury. In syphilitic alopecia the internal administration of mercury has most influence in arresting the loss of hair ; at the same time dilute white precipitate ointment may be rubbed into the scalp at night or a stimulating lotion applied. B. Hih recommended the following :— R. Tincture of Cantharides, Solution of Ammonia, aa 3SS.; Spirit of Rosemary, 3i.; Glycerine, gss.; Rose water to Bviij. In syphilitic onychia the nail should be removed and iodoform applied. Black wash or yellow wash is sometimes useful. In ulcerations hetiveen the toes dilute white precipitate ointment, with a small quantity of extract of belladonna added, is useful, or the following dusting powder may be applied :—Calomel, 5j. ; oxide of zinc, 5j. ; starch, ,5ij. 2. Mucous Tubercles and Condylomata.—Mucous tubercles are flat patches, seldom more than half an inch in diameter, slightly elevated, soft, and papillary on the surface (Fig. 404). They are situated in moist parts of the body, very commonly on muco-cutaneous surfaces, as the anus, labia, and angles of the mouth ; they are also frequently met with on mucous surfaces, as on the tongue, tonsils, palate, and larynx, and exactly similar growths are found in any part of the skin that is kept moist by the natural secretions, and not properly cleaned, as between the scrotum and the thigh, in the fold of the groin in fat people, and between the toes. They are moistened by a good deal of mucous secretion when seated on mucous membranes, or by perspira- tion when on the skin. In the mouth and throat they are usually small and not so distinctly elevated, but rather like a thickened and opaque condition of the mucous membrane in these situations. At the anus they sometimes attain a considerable size, so as to project a quarter to half an inch above the surface, and it is then that they are commonly termed condylomata. They are frequently