957 ERYSIPELAS OF THE SCROTUM. and on the density of the cervical fascia, beneath which the inflammatory products are pent up at a high degree of tension. The disease may commence ^vithout evident cause after exposure to cold, and is said occasionally to have appeared in an epidemic form ; it may arise also from extension from the lymphatic glands in scarlet fever, or may follow wounds or other injuries. In other cases it is connected with a diseased tooth, most commonly with a necrosed fang. It may occur at any age ; in adults, according to Furneaux Jordan, it most frequently occurs in those addicted to excessive drinking. It commences as a brawny inflammatory swelling at the fore part of the neck, or near the angle of the jaw, surrounding the submaxillary gland, or more rarely the parotid. It rapidly spreads towards the chin, extending to the opposite side, and after- wards down the neck over the larynx. The tongue is pushed upwards, and the hardened tissue can be felt in the floor of the mouth on each side of it ; the movements of the jaw are interfered with, and deglutition becomes difficult. Sometimes there is great swelling of the tongue from pressure on the lingual veins. When gangrene of the areolar tissue sets in, the swelling softens and becomes boggy ; the mucous membrane may give way, and a foul discharge may come from the mouth. If unrelieved by treatment it is extremely fatal; death may occur from blood-poisoning or from suffocation, the disease spreading to the root of the epiglottis, and producing oedema glottidis. The Treatment consists in making a free incision in the mesial line, from the chin to the os hyoides, through the infiltrated parts, from which, if it be made sufficiently early, a thin dark serum, but no pus will be seen to exude. The incision must be carried to a depth of two inches or more towards the base of the tongue, keeping carefully to the middle line, until the whole of the brawny infiltration has been divided. If the swelling has commenced at one side and has not reached the middle line, whenever it is possible the incision should still be kept in the same situation, as lateral incisions are accompanied by great danger of hiemorrhage which it would be very difficult to arrest. If the condition be connected with a diseased tooth, a small cavity will often be found at a considerable depth, containing horribly foetid matter, and at the bottom of this, bare bone may be felt on the inner aspect of the jaw. In spite of this, recovery usually occurs without the separation of dead bone. Erysipelas of the Scrotum—the "inflammatory oedema" so well described by Listen—is of frequent occurrence, as the result of wounds, ulcers, and other sources of irritation in this neighbourhood. The scrotum swells to a laro-e size, being uniformly red, but with a semi-transparent glossy appearance, Dittin"- readily on pressure, and feeling somewhat soft and doughy between the fino-ers • the integuments of the penis are also greatly swollen and oedematous and sometimes the inflammation extends to the areolar tissue of the cord. The chief characteristic of this form of erysipelas is its tendency to run into slouo-h without any previous brawny or tense condition of the parts ; the dart^os becoming so distended with the inflammatory exudation that the circulation through it is arrested. When an incision is made into it in this state it scarcely bleeds, and the sides of the wound present a yellowish-white o-elati- nous appearance. The Treatment consists in making a free incision about four inches in length on each side of the septum, taking care not to go so deeply as to wound the testes ; the part must then be supported on a pillow, and well fomented. If this incision be not made at once, a great part or even tlie