641 FOOT—ASTRA GALUS. rest and position alone are necessary. Compound fractures of the tarsal or metatarsal bones, attended with much bruising and laceration, usually require partial removal of the foot, disarticulation at the ankle-joint, or amputation in the lower third of the leg, according to the extent and severity of the injury. The Os Calcis may be broken by direct violence, as when a person jump- ing from a height alights forcibly on his heel, and thus fractures the bone. In this way the bone may be simply broken across in front of the ligaments without displacement. I have, however, seen both calcanea shattered to pieces, in the case of a lady, who falling from a window on the third storey, alighted on her heels. In some rare cases, by the powerful contraction of the muscles of the calf, the posterior part of the os calcis is torn away from the rest of the bone. Signs.—When the os calcis is broken through at the posterior part behind the insertion of the lateral ligaments, the detached fragment will be drawn up by the action of the calf muscles. But when the fracture occurs across the body of the bone, no displacement can take place, owing to the lateral and interos- seous ligaments keeping the posterior fragment in position. In the first form of fracture, che pain, swelling, flattening of the heel, and prominence of the malleoli, indicate the nature of the injury, even though crepitus be wanting. In the second variety, the mobility of the fragment, and its jjrojection posteriorly owing to the action of the muscles of the calf, point to the existence of the fracture, which is confirmed by the occurrence of crepitus. In the Treatment of these injuries, keeping the part fixed by means of bandages and splints, with due attention to the relaxation of the muscles attached to the tendo Achillis, by flexing the leg and extending the foot, is all that can be done. In the separation of a small fragment by muscular action, union will probably take place by fibrous tissue, but in other cases by bone. The Astragalus alone is rarely broken. Ten cases of this injury have been collected by Monahan : in nine the fracture occurred from falls from a height on the foot; in one only from direct violence. I have seen two cases of fracture of the astragalus without implication of the other tarsal bones. In one case it was the result of direct violence; a cart-wheel passing over the foot occasioned a fracture of the astragalus through its neck. There was no material displacement, but the line of fracture could readily be felt, and crepitus was very distinctly elicited on flexing and extending the foot. No better treatment can be adopted in such a case than the starched or plaster bandage. In the other case the fracture was the result of indirect violence, the patient, a man about 30 years of age, falling from a height of about eight yards, and alighting on his feet. Here the fracture was evidently occasioned by the malleolar arch being forcibly driven downwards on the foot, so that the astragalus was broken transversely just in front of the surface that articulates with the tibia—the line of fracture running obliquely downwards and back- wards, so that the whole of the upper and posterior part of the bone was detached. This large fragment was driven outwards and backwards, so as to lie between the fibula and the tendo Achillis, lacerating the skin to the extent of about one inch longitudinally, and projecting through the opening thus made. The foot presented a singular degree of deformity, which is represented in Fig. 241. The outer malleolus projected greatly ; and immediately behind this the displaced fragment could be felt and seen partially protruding through the rent in the skin. The inner