FRACTURES. 536 thin sheet-iron, wood, leatlier, " poroplastic felt," and guttapercha, are the materials usually employed. Gooch's splint, -which is made of narrow strips of wood glued upon a sheet of coarse calico, is very useful in many cases, and narrow rods of soft iron surrounded by thick india-rubber tubing, or thick telegraph wire is often very convenient. For some kinds of fracture, special, and often very complicated apparatus, is very generally used ; but the Surgeon should never confine himself to one material, or to one exclusive mode of treating these injuries, as in difiPerent cases special advantages may be obtained from different kinds of splints. In applying leather, guttapercha, paste-board and poroplastic splints, a pattern should first be made of paper, of the proper size and shape, by which the splint is cut out; the material must then be softened by being well soaked in hot water, or in the case of poroplastic splints by dry heat or steam, and moulded on to the part whilst soft ; as soon as it has taken the proper shape, it should, if guttapercha be used, be hardened by being plunged into cold water ; paste-board or leather must be allowed to dry on the limb, and poroplastic felt will harden as it cools. The edges may then be feathered, the corners rounded and the interior lined with wash-leather or lint. These splints have the advantage of great durability, cleanliness, and lightness. When a flat splint is used, not moulded to the part, it should be wider than the limb so that the limb may lie on the splint, and not the splint upon the limb. Whether flat or moulded to the part it should securely fix the two joints connected with the fractured bone ; if the thigh, the hip and knee ; if the leg, the knee and ankle. The splints must be smoothly covered with pads, which should overlap the edges. It is impossible to keep the fragments perfectly immobile, and in close and accurate apposition, unless these very important points be attended to. Special Apparatus should be employed as little as possible in the treatment of fractures. It is scarcely ever necessary in simple fractures, and is far more cumbersome and costly than the means above indicated, which are all that can be required. I have no hesitation in saying that a Surgeon of ordinary ingenuity and mechanical skill may be fully prepared to deal successfully with every fracture which he can be called upon to treat, by having at hand a smooth deal plank half an inch in thickness, and a sheet of guttapercha, undressed sole-leather, paste-board, "poroplastic material," perforated zinc, or thin sheet-iron, to cut into splints as required. To the means above described, some kind of rigid apparatus, moulded to the limb, forms an invaluable addition. .Although various plans for stiffening and fixing bandages in cases of fracture had previously been employed, it was not till about forty years ago that their full value became recognized, chiefly through the practice and writings of Baron Seutin. Since that time a variety of substances, such as gum and chalk, glue, paraffin, tripolith, and water-glass, have been recommended for the purpose of stiffening bandages, but the two which are practically most useful and have longest maintained their reputation, are the starched bandage and the plaster of Paris bandage. These represent two different types of fixed apparatus. The starched bandage is applied over a mass of cotton-wool, which is firmly compressed during the application of the apparatus, and thus exerts a gentle uniform elastic pressure, holding the fragments in position. The plaster of Paris bandage takes an actual cast of the