WOUNDS OF THE LUNG: COMPLICATIONS. 857 the pleural cavity which follow this course, the effused fluid is at first serum, with some flakes of lymph floating in it, and it is generally mixed with blood from the wounded lung. The effusion takes place very rapidly, so as to half fill one side of the chest in two or three days. By about the third day it becomes turbid, and before the end of a week it assumes the character of pus. The discharge from the wound is often abundant, offensive, and extremely irritating to the skin. The constitutional symptoms are most severe, the tempera- ture rising to 104° F. or 105° F. The patient may die during the first week from absorption of the products of putrefaction. Should he survive till suppuration is fully established, the intensity of the symptoms subsides, the cavity may gradually close, and recovery take place ; or death may ensue from hectic or exhaustion from prolonged suppuration. The presence of fluid in the pleura may be recognized by the physical signs ; dulness on percussion and absence of respiratory murmur at the lower and posterior parts of the chest, up to a level which has a gradual tendency to ascend, and which varies according as the patient is upright or recumbent ; vocal fremitus is abolished over the fluid, and vocal resonance is mufiled. At the border of the fluid there is occasionally gegophony. In cases in which there is no external wound, or in which it has been closed, the whole side of the chest may be filled with fluid. There is then complete absence of all breath and voice sounds and of vocal fremitus, with increase of size on measurement, bulging of the intercostal spaces, and compression of the lung against the spine ; and, if the left pleura be filled, displacement of the heart towards the right side—if the right pleura, descent of the liver below its normal level, and displacement of the heart to the left. When the pleuritic effusion and extravasation reach such a degree as this, there is necessarily great dyspnoea, and death will usually speedily ensue. If there be air as well as fluid in the cavity of the pleura, it can be recognized by the combination of the signs of pneumothorax at the upper part of the chest, with those of fluid at the lower. Occasionally distinct splashing sounds may be produced by gently shaking the patient. If it is desired to ascertain the nature of the fluid in the pleural cavity, a small quantity may be drawn off' by means of an exploring syringe. Collapse of the Lung.—In wounds of the chest, as soon as air is admitted to the cavity of the pleura the atmospheric pressure on the surface of the lung and within the air-vesicles becomes equal and it would naturally be supposed that the lung would at once collapse by virtue of its own elasticity. This, however, is not always the case. The chest may be largely opened and yet no collapse may take place. This seems most probably to be due to the adhesion of the two smooth moist pleural surfaces to each other. When collapse of the lung occurs early it is often due to air entering the pleura during inspiration, either from the lung or from without, and in consequence of the valve-like action of the wounded lung, or an oblique external wound, being unable to escape during expiration ; consequently, as the chest-walls descend, the lung is squeezed by the compressed air. This may be repeated at each respiration till no further collapse of the lung is possible. In the later stages it may be due to compression by blood or by inflammatory effusion. The possible complications of wounds of the lung having been described, we are now in a position to consider the different varieties of these injuries.