954 CELLULITIS. fomentations of boric lint. If suppuration and sloughing have taken place, as indicated by a boggy feel of the parts, free incisions should immediately be made in order to let out pus and sloughs. After this, the skin will often be found to be greatly undermined, blue, and thin, with matter bagging in the more dependent parts ; if so, egress must be made for it by free counter- openings, and drainage-tubes inserted if required. During the after-treatment, frequent dressing is necessary to prevent an accumulation of pus, and the sloughs must be removed as they separate. Care should be taken not to destroy any of the vascular connections of the skin with adjacent parts ; but, in order to get proper cicatrization, it will often be found necessary to lay open sinuses, or to divide bridges of unhealthy and blue integument stretching across chasms left by the removal of the gangrenous areolar tissue. If the loss of substance be great, the cicatrix that forms may be weak, imperfect, or so contracted as to occasion great deformity of the limb. In other cases, again, the diseased state of the bones and joints may be such as ultimately to call for amputation, either in consequence of the local deformity and annoyance, or in order to free the constitution from a source of hectic and irritation. In all circumstances, the pa,tient's health will usually continue in a feeble and shattered state for a considerable time after recovery, requiring change of air, great attention to habits of life and a nourishing diet. 3. Cellular Erysipelas, or as it is more often termed Diffuse luflam- matiou of the Cellular Tissue or Cellulitis, is an acute local infective process originating in the inoculation of a virus either in a wound or by a small puncture or scratch. Diffuse cellulitis may arise as a consequence of ordinary injuries, but it is especially apt to follow those in which there has been any inoculation of animal poisons, as from dissection-wounds, the stings of insects, and the bites of venomous reptiles. The diversity of its origin, however, and the different course assumed by different cases would lead us to suppose that the virus in cellulitis is not always necessarily the same. The disease resembles erysipelas in the diffuse character of the inflammation, and it arises under circumstances similar to those in which erysipelas is observed to oi'iginate. In some cases the constitutional symptoms present nothing peculiar, being merely those of acute inflammatory fever ; in others, especially those arising from the inoculation of the poison of a dead body, the phenomena may be those of acute septicEemia. The term " cellular erysipelas " or " diffuse cellu- litis " must, therefore, be regarded as a clinical expression for an acute infective inflammation, spreading by the lymphatics and lymph-spaces of the areolar tissue, and not as implying a definite specific disease, such as simple cutaneous erysipelas undoubtedly is. Local Signs.—The local signs will vary with the part affected. If it is the subcutaneous tissue of a limb, great swelling, tension and pain are present, and the part feels brawny in some parts, ioedematousi in others. The skin is slightly reddened in patches, has a mottled appearance, and may in extreme cases follow the same course as phlegmonous erysipelas, running into blackish sloughs. This form in fact differs from phlegmonous erysipelas only in the affection of the skin being entirely secondary to that of the subcutane- ous tissue. The extent to which the disease may spread varies greatly ; when once it has set in, it frequently runs rapidly up the whole limb, extending also to the sides of the trunk. In other cases, especially in the form that follows dissection-wounds, the