VARIETIES OF TETANUS. 993 the fifth, by the seventh, and by the spinal accessory. These nerves appear to be alone affected ; the sensory division of the fifth is never influenced throughout the disease. The spasm may be confined to the muscles supplied by these nerves, as is the case in trismus ; but it soon spreads to those supplied by the spinal nerves. The first symptoms usually consist in a feeling of stiff- ness or soreness about the jaws and throat, the patient being unable to open his mouth widely, to take food or drink, the muscles about the temples, jaw, and neck feeh'ng stiff and rigid; this condition has gained for the disease the popular name of lock-jaw. As the affection advances, the countenance assumes a peculiar expression of pain and anguish, the features are fixed or convulsed from time to time, and the angles of the mouth drawn up, constituting the appearance called the risiis sardonicus. When fairly set in, the disease is marked by spasms of the voluntary muscles of the most violent character, with much pain and only partial remissions. The pain is of that kind that attends ordinary cramp in the muscles, as of the legs, and is usually very severe. The spasms are often jerking, the patient being suddenly thrown up or twisted on one side ; the breath is drawn with a loud sobbing catch from spasm of the diaphragm, and from the same cause violent pain is usually experienced in the epigastric region, darting across to the spiue. The muscles of the trunk are usually affected next in order of frequency to those of the head and neck, the body bemg bent backwards so as to form a complete arch {Opisthotonos) ; more rarely it is drawn forwards {Emprosthotonos) ; and still less frequently to one side [Fteurost/iotonos). In some cases the body becomes perfectly rigid, like a piece of wood, the belly being drawn in, and the chest expanded. It'is said that in severe cases the spasms have been so violent that muscles have been ruptured, teeth broken, and the tongue lacerated. In the numerous cases of tetanus that I have unfortunately witnessed, I have rarely seen any effects of this kind produced ; the spasms, indeed, being in general not very violent, though continuous and very painful. The only muscles that 1 have seen torn have been the recti of the abdomen. In very exceptional cases the spasms begin in the muscles of the part in which the wound is situated. The intellectual faculties are not disturbed, and the mind continues clear to the last. Cases of tetanus occasionally prove fatal without any elevation of temperature, but in most instances there are great heat of surface profuse sweats, and quickness of pulse ; not so much from any febrile disturbance a. apparently from the violence of the muscular contractions. In most cases this symptom is peculiarly marked, especially towards the end of the case when the temperature may rapidly rise to extraordinary heights. Thus Wunderlich has recorded a case in which it reached 112-55 Fahr. immediately before death. It may rise a few tenths of a degree higher after death in these cases The prolongation of life appears to depend greatly upon the intensity of the convulsive movements : the more severe these are, the sooner does death result The fatal termination most commonly occurs from exhaustion consequent on the frequency of the tetanic spasms ; much more rarely from asphyxia durin.- a convulsiou. ^ ^^^^i^j^ fatal in the course of a few hours, but usually lasting for three or four days Poland states that at Guy's Hospital 51 per cent, of the cases were fata before the fifth day after invasion. In the American War, out of 358 cases I re' VOL. I. ' ;5 s