999 NON-MALIGNANCY AND MALIGNANCY. doubt if the fully developed portion of the growth only be examined. Thus some cartilaginous tumours are as simple as a fatty tumour, and others as malignant as a cancer. These have been termed semi-malignant, but the name is not a good one. In the example above mentioned, the malignant cartilaginous tumours and the simple will be found to bear no resemblance to each other if carefully examined at their growing margins. The JTon-Malignant, Innocent, or Benign Tumours are strictly local growths, and are rarely conuecfced with auy lici-editary peculiarity. They resemble more or less completely the normal textures of the part in which they grow. They usually, though not invariably, grow slowly, are more or less distinctly circumscribed, being often enclosed in a loose capsule of connective tissue, and have no tendency to involve neighbouring structures ; any change that they induce in contiguous parts consists simply in displacement or atrophy from pressure. They are usually single, but not unfrequently multiple, developing either simultaneously or successively ; but if in the latter mode, without any connection with preceding growths. If completely removed by operation, they do not return ; but if left to the ordinary processes of nature, they slowly attain a great size, and at last the central parts degenerate or necrose, or if the tumour be superficial, the skin covering it ulcerates, and the mass inflames and sloughs. In some cases, after reaching a considerable size, they may remain stationary. Malignant Tumours differ widely from those just described. The essential feature of malignancy is that the growth is not surrounded by any hmiting capsule, but invades the structures amongst which it is growing, destroying them and occupying their place. The effect of the growth may not go beyond this, and the tumour would then be said to be merely locally malignant. In most malignant tumours, however, the effects are not merely local. Sooner or later the cell-elements of the tumour are carried through the lymphatics or the blood-vessels to distant parts, and there estabhsh growths of the same nature as the primary tumour. The tumour is then said to possess general as well as local malignancy. A primary malignant tumour usually more or less closely resembles in structure the tissue in which it commenced. Thus, the essential feature of true cancers is the presence of epithehum in the new growth, and the form met with is always that normal to the part in which the tumour originated, as for instance, squamous in the tongue, columnar in the rectum, and spheroidal in the breast. In no malignant tumour does epithelium arise except from pre-existing epithelium. The malignant connective tissue tumours (sarcomata) show the same tendency. When they contain any fully developed connective tissue it is usually that normal to the part in which they are growing, as bone or cartilage in bone, or fibrous tissue in skin or fascia. Although, therefore, the structures composing malignant tumours are not, as was at one time supposed, foreign to the body, they deviate from the normal condition, so to speak, in time and place. The tissue of which the growth is composed is more or less approximated to the embryonic type normal to the part. Thus the malignant connective-tissue tumours are composed of embryonic tissue, sometimes pure, but more commonly showing a tendency towards development into the type normal to the part in which the tumour is growing. This is less marked in the true cancers which are, as a rule, com- posed of fully developed tissues, but even in these we often see the epithehum showing a tendency to return to the primitive rounded cell with a large nucleus,