666 SPECIAL DISLOCATION. and carried slightly backwards. If the head of the bone cannot be felt in the axilla, its presence there may be ascertained, as Cooper directs, by raising the elbow, when it at once becomes perceptible. On lookiug at the patient from the front it will be seen that the lower border of the pectoralis major, forming the anterior axillary fold, lies lower than on the opposite side, and if the circumference of the shoulder be measured by a tape passed under the arm, it will be found to be greater on the injured side (Fig. 253). The dislocation of the humerus, to which the term Partial is usually applied, is that which was described by Sodeu in 1841, in which the long tendon of the biceps is displaced from its groove or ruptured, and the head of the bone is thrown upwards and forwards towards the coracoid process, but not out of the glenoid cavity. It is to this form of displacement also that Callaway seems dis- posed to confine the term partial. Le Gros Clark has published an account of a case in which there was partial dislocation of the head of the humerus behind and below the acromion. In this partial dislocation the signs do not appear to be very evident. In Soden's case there was slight flattening of the outer and pos- terior parts of the joint, and the head of the bone appeared to be drawn higher up in the glenoid cavity than usual. Great pain was induced by any movement of the biceps muscle ; and, on attempting any overhead motions, the head of the bone became locked by the acromion. Subluxation of the head of the humerus forwards occasionally occurs as a consequence of falls upon the hand or elbow. The injury produces all the signs of the subcoracoid dislocations, but in a minor degree. The head of the humerus lies on the edge of the glenoid cavity. It can easily be replaced, but as readily slips out again, and consequently the accident is very apt to lead to permanent weakness of the shoulder-joint. The treatment consists in its reduction, and the retention of the bead of the bone in its place by a carefully moulded leather shoulder-cap, fitted with a truss spring and pad to press the head of the humerus against the glenoid surface. Causes.—Dislocations of the shoulder-joint are in almost all cases the result of falls upon the hand or elbow ; the particular variety of dislocation depend- ing upon the direction of the shock communicated to the arm, and the position of the hmb at the time of receiving it. On this account we almost invariably find the displacement in a direction inwards. When a person saves himself in falling with his arms widely stretched out, the head of the humerus is driven with all the force of a long lever against the lower and inner portion of the capsule, which, being ruptured in this its weakest part, allows the bone to be thrown upon or to the inside of the axillary border of the scapula, and thus into the axilla. When the patient falls upon his elbow, the inner part of the joint is still acted on; but, the leverage not being so great, the head of the bone is thrown upwards or forwards under the clavicle. This dislocation is often also the result of direct violence applied to the shoulder. The dislo- cation backwards can take place only if the arm receive the shock at the time