33-' INJURIES OF SOFT PARTS. but numberless others have been tried and abandoned, or are at present being- tested ; and probably we have not yet discovered either the best antiseptic or the best mode of dressing. The tendency of the present time is in f^ivour of some of the forms of lasting absorbent dressing impregnated with some efficient antiseptic. The Surgeon should make himself familiar with various methods, of treatment, and employ that which seems most suitable to the case. It can rarely happen in civil practice that he is so situated as not to be able to adopt some efficient antiseptic treatment provided that he has mastered the principles upon which that treatment is founded. Inflammation of Incised Wounds.—As before pointed out, a certain degree of inflammation is a necessary part of the healing of a wound by first intention. This should, however, be strictly limited to the tissues actually injured by the instrument which produced the wound, and should be very temporary in character. The simple traumatic inflammation, although patho- logically of such great importance, is clinically so slightly marked by symptoms that it is frequently ignored; and when we say that a wound IS "inflamed," we mean that some cause of inflammation other than the original injury has been introduced, which is causing the process to extend beyond the area actually injured by the cutting instrument. The causes of such inflammation have already been so fully discussed that we need only recapitulate them. They are predisposing and direct. The predisposing causes are the same as those of inflammation in general (see p. 172). The most important of these for wounds are: chronic alcoholism, insufficient and improper food, Bright's disease and diabetes, scurvy, &c., and local mal- nutrition from disease of the arteries. The direct causes are mechanical, as friction from want of rest, tension from tight stitches or from insufficient drainage, or pressure fi-om tight bandaging; chemical, as the persistent contact with the raw surface of an irritating antiseptic or the products of putrefaction; and lastly, the true infective poisons, as those of erysipelas, pyaemia, hospital gangrene, &c. In the vast majority of cases in which a wound " inflames," the immediate cause is the presence of putrid discharges with insufficient drainage. When a wound becomes " inflamed," the natural slight swelling and redness of the lips become exaggerated and extend further from the edges than they should, and instead of tending to subside after the first twenty-four hours, continue to extend to the third day or even later. The serous discharge,' instead of ceasing on the second day, continues to flow and may increase con- siderably in quantity, and gradually by the third or fourth day assumes a distinctly puriform character. Instead of the perfect painlessness of a healthy wound, there is throbbing tensive pain with acute tenderness. The tempera- ture rises to 101°—104° F. according to the size of the wound and the cause of the inflammation. In all cases the thermometer gives timely warning of the approach of this traumatic fever. The use of this instrument in surgical practice is attended with great advantage, as it often furnishes the eariiest indication of the onset of some of the more serious sequelge of wounds. The other symptoms of fever, hot skin, quick pulse, thirst, &c., are also present. In these circumstances all chance of union by the first intention is of course at an end ; some or all of the sutures should immediately be removed to facilitate drainage and relieve tension, and strips of plaster may be used for support only and not for the purpose of maintaining contact of the surfaces in the hope of