LOCAL AN.EMIA. 149 generally. Tims an emotional stimulus may cause dilatation of the vessels of the face, as in blushing ; or pallor, as in fear. Stimulation of a sensory nerve, especially if prolonged and severe, causes dilatation of the vessels in the area supplied by it. Still more violent afferent impulses may lead to a general relaxation of the vessels throughout the body by temporarily paralysing the general vaso-motor centre, and this is supposed to form an important element in the condition known as shock after injury. This brief sketch of the mechanism by which the circulation is regulated generally and locally is sufficient to show how complex the processes are by which local aueemia and hyperemia are induced, and how impossible it is, in the present state of our knowledge, fully to explain all these variations in the supply of blood. The local circulation is also influenced to a great degree by the condition of the heart. Any disease impairing its force predisposes to passive congestion or ansemia of distant parts of the body. The Local disturbances of the circulation are of three kinds : Local Anemia ; Active Hyperi^mia, Active Congestion, Fluxion or Determination of Blood ; and Passive Hypersemia or Passive Congestion. LOCAL ANEMIA. Local Anaemia may be complete and permanent, as in obliteration of the arteries leading to a part by coagula, by disease of their coats, by pressure from without, or from a wound. Complete aneemia may result also from diffused pressure acting on the capillaries. This condition necessarily leads to the death of the part, and will be considered when treating of gangrene. Anaemia may also be incomplete and permanent from the same causes acting in a less degree. Whenever from any cause the arteries leading to a part are permanently diminished in calibre, the amount of blood circulating through the area supplied by them must be diminished, and the tissues suffer in pro- portion to the diminution. Such a condition is very common in old people from degenerative changes in the arteries. Under such circumstances the nutrition is impaired. If the part be external, as, for example, a limb, it is colder than natural; the growth of the epithelium is imperfect, and the surface is often dry and scaly ; the nails are brittle and grow slowly ; the muscles are weak and are liable to irregular painful contractions or cramp. The power of resistance to external injuries is lessened : a slight degree of cold causes gangrene; wounds tend to slough ; ulceration occurs readily^in the skin from superficial abrasions ; and inflammation arises from causes which would fail to produce it in a healthy part, as the feeble tissues are unable to offer sufficient resistance to invading pathogenic organisms or to withstand the irritating effects of the products of putrefaction. Permanent local anjemia acts therefore as a most important predisposing cause of inflammation. Temporary local anemia may be produced intentionally by the Surgeon as in the bloodless method of operating already described, or by pressure applied to arrest bleeding. Direct stimulation of the muscular coat of the artery, as by mechanical violence or cold or a certain degree of heat may cause a temporary anjemia. The same condition may result from reflex causes. As familiar examples of temporary local antemia, we may take the dead-white colour of fingers or toes from exposure to cold