SEPTICEMIA AND PY.EMIA. 965 CHAPTER XXXIII. SEPTICAEMIA AND PY^.MIA. TETANUS. Definitions.—The terms "septic£emia" and "pjEemia" have been used with different meanings by different authors, and before proceeding to discuss the affections to which they are applied, it is necessary to define the sense in which they will be used here. The term Septicaemia is applied to a constitutional disorder produced by the entrance into the blood-stream of a poison generated in a wound the discharges of which are undergoing putrefaction or fermentative changes. The resulting process is not accompanied by the formation of secondary centres of inflammation or suppuration. Experiments on animals have shown that two distinct forms of disease may arise from the entrance of putrid matter mto the blood-stream. First, an acute general affection, not infective in character, resulting from the admixture of the chemical products of putreftic- tion with the blood; the poison does not increase in the system, and its effects are proportional to the dose. Secondly, a true infective process, dependent on a specific virus, which multiplies in the body like that of an acute specific fever, so that its effects are not proportional to the original dose. The former of these conditions has received the name of septic poisoning or septic intoxication, the latter that of septic infection. By some authors the infec- tive form of septicemia has been described under the name of pyfemia simplex. Pyaemia is a general infective process consequent upon the dissemination throughout the body, by the blood-stream, of a pyogenic virus derived from a local focus of suppuration. It is accompanied by the formation of secondary centres of suppuration disseminated throughout the body. The name " pytemia " was originally derived from the theory that the condition was due to the entrance of pus into the blood-stream, and, although this theory is no longer regarded as true, the word has come to have so definite a clinical significance that It would be inconvenient to change it. Pyaemia almost invariably arises in connexion with wounds the discharges of which are in a putrid condition and consequently it is frequently complicated with septic poisoning. It may arise also from wounds or sores which have previously been attacked by cutaneous erysipelas, diffuse cellulitis, or hospital gangrene. It is evident therefore, that in actual practice these various secondary diseases often become more or less confused together, giving rise to forms apparently intermediate between the different affections, which have led to much confusion with regard to them. ^ Experimental Investigations into the Nature of Septicemia and Pyemia.—The first experiments on this subject were made by Gaspard in the early part of this century and first published in 1822, since which time investigations have been almost continuously carried on up to the present time by Virchow Panum, 0. Weber, Billroth, v. Bergmann, Burdon Sanderson Chauveau, Koch, Hueter, Klebs, and many others. The literature of the