INJURIES OF THE SPINE. 8o6 When the division of the spinal cord takes place above the Origin of the Phrenic Nerves opposite to or above the third cervical vertebra, instanta- neous death results from the paralysis of the diaphragm, as well as of the rest of the respiratory muscles, inducing sudden asphyxia. It necessarily happens in partial division of the cord that the symptoms fire less clearly marked. In many of these cases resulting from fracture or dislocation, the symptoms due to actual injury of the cord are complicated with those of pressure on one or more nerves in the intervertebral foramina. When this occurs there is often pain in the line of the nerve, and, if it be in the dorsal region, a sensation like a painful girdle round the waist. The most definite of these injuries are met with in partial division of the cord by a stab. In these cases it has occasionally happened that the weapon has divided one of the lateral halves of the cord. Under these circumstances the parts on the same side of the body below the seat of the lesion are paralysed ; this neces- sarily follows from the fact that the motor fibres have their decussation chiefly in the medulla, although to a minor extent in the cord. BroAvn-Sequard was one of the first to lay down the rule that in such cases sensation is lost on the side opposite to the section, and that hyperaesthesia exists on the paralysed side. This distribution of the anaesthesia was explained by the then generally accepted view that the decussation of the sensory fibres took place along the whole length of the cord. At the present day, however, there is an increasing tendency towards the belief that the chief decussation of the sensory fibres takes place in the bulb, and that sensory impulses are carried up the cord chiefly on the same side as that upon which the posterior roots enter. This view is supported by the recent experiments of Mott and of Horsley and Gotch, and is not altogether without clinical evidence in its favour. It thus appears that there is good reason to believe that the condition following hemisection of the cord is not so clearly defined as was formerly supposed, and detailed investigation of these unusual cases must prove of the greatest value. FRACTURE AND FBACTURE-DISLOCATION OF THE SPINE. Fracture of the spine may occur without displacement, and very rarely dislocation occurs without fracture, but in the large majority of cases the two conditions are associated and a Fracture-dislocation is the result. This injury may occur either by the application of direct violence, or by a violent twist or bend of the body forwards. Direct violence, as a blow, fall, or gunshot injury, may of course fracture the spine at any part and almost to any extent, in some cases merely detaching a spinous pi-ocess, in others splintering and comminuting several vertebrae and lacerating or dividing the spinal cord. Fracture of the spine from a violent but forcible bend of the body forwards occurs chiefly in the cervical region. It is usually produced by a person falling from a height on the head, the body being bent forcibly forward so as to drive the chin against the sternum. This accident often happens in falls from horseback, or in taking a " header " into shallow water. In some cases it has occurred from a person sitting on the top of a vehicle having his head forcibly bent down whilst passing under an archway. In these accidents there is usually extensive rupture of the spinal ligaments with displacement of the bones, as well as fracture. In some cases of even very extensive fracture there may be no appreciable