TREATMENT OF WOUNDED JOINTS. 513 siderable anxiety to the Surgeon, but if by the third day the symptoms begin to subside, and especially if there be no marked rise of temperature, he may confidently look forward to a speedy recovery. Shoukl septic arthritis super- vene, the-joint within a few hours of the infliction of the injury, swells, becomes hot and painful, and throbs. The pain steadily increases, becoming tensive and excessively severe. If the aperture be large, synovia freely escapes, which soon becomes mixed with inflammatory products. If it be small, httle more than a puncture, the joint swells and fills with pus, which will either escape through the original wound or find an outlet for itself, bursting through the capsule and burrowing widely beneath the fascia of the limb before reaching the surface. The swelling at first assumes the outline of the synovial membrane, but as soon as the inflammation has extended to the ligaments it becomes globular or oval. The skin over the joint becomes red and oedematous. The limb is instinctively placed in a position of semiflexion. There are startings in the limb, worse at night, waking the patient should he fall asleep. The pain becomes agonizing should the joint be moved in the slightest degree. The constitutional disturbance becomes very severe, the temperature often rising as high as 105° Fahr. The pulse is rapid and bounding, the tongue dry, the face flushed, and there is fi'equently delirium at night. The patient may succumb at this stage from the intensity of the septic fever. In other cases he may be early attacked by septicaemia or pyasmia. If the patient survive this acute period, abscesses form around the articula- tion, and the discharge from these, as well as from the joint, with the chronic poisoning from absorption of the products of putrefaction, may graduafly prove fatal by exhaustion. Should this danger be passed through and the patient eventually survive, it will be with an ankylosed limb, the utility of which is gi'eatly impaired. Treatment of Wounded Joints.—The first point to be determined must be whether amputation or resection should be performed, or an attempt made to save the injured joint. If the joint have been extensively laid open, with much contusion and laceration, complicated, perhaps, with dislocation or with fracture and splintering of the bones, no attempt to save the joint is likely to succeed. In these unfavourable circumstances, however, in the upper extre- mity, and even in the ankle, the limb may not unfrequently be preserved. If the bones be comminuted, the removal of splinters and resection of the articular ends may advantageously be practised in many cases, more particu- larly if the patient be young and sound in constitution and the soft parts not too extensively damaged. But, if these be largely lacerated and widely contused, or if the patient be aged or broken in health, amputation is imperatively called for. This is especially the case when the knee is injured; extensive lacerations of the joint, if complicated with dislocation, or with comminution of the bones, being cases for immediate amputation. In all other cases an attempt should be made to save the joint. The prog- nosis in cases of wounded joints has been greatly improved, and the treatment simplified, by the employment of antiseptics and drainage. Indeed the surgery of joint wounds has been completely revolutionised, and cases that formerly would have been at once submitted to amputation are now saved Avithout difficulty. This applies not only to incised wounds but equally to those of a lacerated character or that are complicated even with fracture of the articular ends. VOL. I. L L