ioo6 TUMOURS. epithelium of the same character as that naturally lining the cavity from which it has originated. The contents may still resemble the natural secretion, but more commonly they are altered by degeneration and inspissation, or by exudation from the wall of the cyst. Retention cysts may be divided into three groups : (u.) Atheromatous cysts ; Mucous cysts ; and (y.) Cysts from the dilatation of large ducts. The first two groups are spoken of as " follicular cysts." («.) Atheromatous Cysts are those arising in connection with the sebaceons glands of the skin. They are usually situated upon the scalp, face, neck, or back; sometimes, however, they occur elsewhere—thus I have re- moved a very large one from the fore part of a girl's arm, and others from the labia and groin. Their size varies from that of a pin's head to an orange : the smallest occur on the eyelids, the largest on the shoulders and scalp. Fig. 3.00.—Contents of Atheromatous Cyst (4.54 diam.), Fig. 351.—Wall of Atlieromatous Cyst (188 diam.) a. Epithelial cells showing various degrees of fatty aa. Epillielial lining, the sui)erficial cells degeneration. swollen and fatty. h. The .«anie with calcareous degeneration. a'. A tiake ol fatty cells peeling otf. c. Crystals of eholesterine. hh. Fibi ous CHiisiile. d. Oleaginous and fatty particles. c. Surrounding connective tissue. Atheromatous cysts are often very numerous, especially, about the head. Most frequently they form in women about the middle period of life ; they are smooth, round, or oval, usually adherent to the skin at one spot but movable over the deeper structures, either semi-fluctuating or elastic, though sometimes solid to the touch. In some parts where the sebaceous follicles are large, as on the back, a small black point can often be detected on the surface of the tumour, through which an aperture may be found. leading into its interior, and allowing the expulsion of its contents. A sebaceous tumour consists of a cyst-wall and contents. The cyst-wall is composed of dense white fibrous tissue, having elongated connective-tissue corpuscles scattered through it. It is connected to the surrounding parts by loose areolar tissue, containing yellow elastic fibres in some abundance. The thickness of the wall varies greatly. When the cyst is situated on the hairy scalp it is always tough and thick, while in all other situations it is much thinner. Immediately in contact with the inner surface of the cyst-wall, a layer of actively growing