322 IXJURIES OF SOFT PARTS. Tlie Occlusion Methods had for their object the exclusion of air from the wound, but the means adopted to obtain this result necessarily shut in the discharg-es, and thus tension, followed by inflammation and suppuration, com- monly occurred. There is no real analogy between this mode of treatment and the process of scabbing, in which the discharge drains away and dries to form the scab. The application of an occlusive dressing can only be justified in the treatment of a small clean cut, and many wounds which might have healed without trouble, if properly treated, have been rendered serious by the bit of sticking-plaster" applied in a chemist's shop. Collodion is the only material commonly employed in the present day as an occlusive dressing ; in applying it the edges of the wound must be carefully held together and the skin around it thoroughly dried. Styptic Colloid has the further advantage of being hsemostatic and antiseptic. ^ The Open Treatment consisted in the application of no dressing of any kind. Wounds so treated often ran a> perfectly aseptic course, but the result could not be relied upon. Rest was obtained with some degree of perfection, and the drainage was often good, but, if the discharges were too copious to allow them to dry, decomposition with suppuration almost necessarily followed. The Simple Water Dressing advocated by Listen was a mode of treat- ment extensively adopted until less than thirty years ago. This method differed from the open treatment only in that the wound was covered with lint, which was kept constantly moistened with water. The discharges were thus prevented from drying, and putrefaction was encouraged. I have, however, seen many large wounds such as those of amputations, or after excision of the breast, heal almost by the first intention, without any suppuration except along the track of the ligatures. The Dry Lint Dressing was used by Syme and many others before the introduction of antiseptic treatment. It consisted of a pad of dry lint placed on each side of the wound, so as gently to press the surfaces together without interfering with the exit of discharge. Over these was placed another piece of lint about three layers thick, and the whole was surrounded with a bandao-e. This was left untouched for three or four days, by which time it was usually soaked with the discharges and had become more or less offensive from decom- position. This mode of treatment secured rest, apposition, and drainage, and perhaps delayed decomposition by drying the discharges to some extent. Very good results were often obtained by it, but suppuration, followed by pyaemia, was no uncommon occurrence. The Cotton-Wool Dressing was introduced by A. Guerin, of Paris. In this mode of treatment, the wound having been cleaned and its edges carefully approximated, and if necessary a drainage-tube inserted, the whole part is enveloped in a huge mass of cotton-wool, a foot or more in thickness. Over this a bandage is forcibly applied, so as to compress the wool to about half its previous thickness. The dressing is then left undisturbed for a fortnight or three weeks. The temperature is carefully watched during this period, and should there be any considerable rise after the third day the dressing must be removed at once. Severe pain would be another indication for looking at the wound. The principle of the dressing is this : accurate coaptation of the surfaces and the most perfect rest are obtained by the uniform elastic pressure of the cotton-wool ; the early exudation is much diminished in quantity, partly