CEREBRAL ABSCESS. 775 of the dura mater, and is not unfrequently a precursor of septic meningitis or cerebral abscess. The symptoms of this condition are in many respects similar to those resulting from suppuration in other situations within the skull. They were fii'st described by Percival Pott. There is heat of head with throbbing carotids and flushed face. These symptoms are accompanied by elevation of temperature, headache, intolerance of light and noise, and drowsiness. . Delirium and vomiting are occasionally observed. During the continuance of these symptoms fits of shivering or actual rigors may occur. If the scalp wound be still open, as is commonly the case, it is found dry, whilst the pericranium is separated from the bone, and the latter is yellowish brown and dry, or in a condition of necrosis. If however the wound be closed or scabbed over, the scar and surrounding scalp will be found to be raised into a soft oedematous swelling—Pott's ^'pvffy tumour.^' h. lutrameningeal Abscess is merely an exaggeration of the septic meningitis already described. It may be the result of the extension of an abscess between the bone and the dura mater, or on the other hand it may com- plicate an abscess in the brain substance. Occasionally it is met with as a result of pyaemia arising from some other injury complicating that of the brain. The symptoms are those of acute septic meningitis already described (p. 772), and the diagnosis of the localized abscess can rarely be made. c. Cerebral Abscess is met with in an acute or chronic form. In the acute form the abscess usually forms close to the surface of the brain at the point of injury. It is often accompanied by suppuration in one or both of the other situations already mentioned, the symptoms of which may com- pletely mask those due to the cerebral abscess itself. A chronic or subacute abscess is almost exclusively met with after wounds of the scalp exposing the bone, with or without fracture of one or both tables. It has been said to occur after simple blows not wounding the scalp, but the evidence of this is not very satisfactory. The abscess is seated deeply beneath the cortex somewhere in the lobe of the brain corresponding to the part of the skull injured. There is no evidence that it is in any way due to bruise or laceration of the brain substance, as this always affects the cortex and not the white matter. These abscesses are exactly analogous to those which are not uncommonly met with as a consequence of chronic suppurative inflammation of the middle ear. The exact mode of formation is somewhat uncertain, but it is believed to be due to a limited septic thrombosis and phlebitis extending from the injured spot into the brain substance. The Symptoms of cerebral abscess necessarily vary according to whether it occurs as an acute form situated near the surface of the brain at the seat of injury, or as a chronic form deeply seated in the white matter. In the former case the early symptoms are likely to be those already described as following suppuration between the bone and the dura mater, and indeed this condition is often present. Drowsiness is followed by insensibility, deepening into coma. In the more chronic form, which may occur after a long interval, the symptoms are exactly similar to those produced by the cerebral abscess following chronic suppuration of the middle ear (Vol. IL, Chap. LV.). Among them may especially be mentioned headache, vomiting, slow and full pulse, subnormal temperature, optic neuritis, and drowsiness "deepening into