INJURIES OF THE THROAT. 844 Surgeons are apt to imagine. As has already been stated in the chapter on Burns, death often takes place, in cases where buildings are on fire, i'rom poisoniufj by the respiration of carbonic oxide. According to Leblanc, it is thi s gas that is the poisonous agent given of? in the fumes of charcoal. The effect of the respiration of carbonic oxide gas is to deprive the red corpuscles of their power to carry oxygen, and death takes place rather from the want of oxygen than from the poisonous action of carbonic oxide itself. The inhalation of oxygen is of service in such cases; but it must be borne in mind that death is generally very rapid. In cases of Hanging, deach seldom results from pure asphyxia, but is usually the consequence, to a certain degree at least, of apoplexy, and possibly of simultaneous injury of the spinal cord. In these cases, bleeding from the jugular vein may be combined with artificial respiration. rf there should be a difficulty in setting up artificial respiration through the mouth or nose, as is more especially likely to happen when the patient has been suffocated by breathing noxious gases, or in cases of hanging, tracheotomy or laryngotomy should at once be performed, and the lungs inflated through the opening thus made in the neck. INJURIES OF THE PHARYNX AND CESOPHAQUS. Wounds of the (Esophagus are met with chiefly in cases of cut-throat, in which, as already stated, they occasion much difficulty by interfering with deglutition. Rupture of the Oesophagus during vomiting is a very rare accident, of which a few cases have been recorded. The patient hiis in almost every case been an habitual drunkard, and the accident has occurred after a debauch or over-eating. The rupture always occurs near the cardiac orifice, and may extend into the stomach. In a case recorded by Adams the contents of the stomach passed into the left pleura. The symptoms are sudden severe pain, and a sense of impending death and collapse. Emphysema of the mediastinum extending into the root of the neck has been observed. Death has in most cases followed in less than twenty-four hours ; but Meyer has recorded a case in which the patient survived fifty hours, and Fitz one in which death did not occur till the eighth day. Foreign Bodies not uncommonly become impacted in the pharynx and oesophagus, and may produce great inconvenience by their size or shape. If large, as a lump of meat, the substance may lodge in the lower part of the pharynx and occlude the orifice of the glottis, thus at once suffocating the patient. If of smaller size, as a gold plate with false teeth or a coin, it may lodge at the lower end of the pharynx where it is narrowed by the projection of the larynx backwards. Any flat body, such as a coin, if it lodge in this situation, will almost invariably lie with its surfaces looking backwards and forwards. If the foreign body be arrested beyond this point, it will usually be near the termination of the oesophagus. When it is small or pointed, as a fish-bone, pin, or bristle, it may become entangled in the folds of mucous membrane that stretch from the root of the tongue to the epiglottis, or that lie along the sides of the pharynx. In some cases it may even perforate these, penetrating the substance of the larynx, and thus producing intense local irritation, cough, dyspnoea, and suffocation. The foreign body, by transfixing