895 WOUNDS OF GENITAL ORGANS. tonifcis, a drainage tube should be inserted. The bladder must not be allowed to become distended after the operation, but it is not advisable to tie in a catheter on account of the risk of cystitis. Foreign Bodies, such as pieces of catheters, tobacco-pipes, pencils, &c., are occasionally met with in the male urinary organs, having been introduced through the urethra. In some cases they are soon spontaneously expelled. If left in the bladder they become encrusted with phosphates and thus often become the nuclei of large and irregularly-shaped calculi; hence it is absolutely necessary to remove them speedily. This may occasionally be done by fortu- nately seizing the foreign body with a small lithotrite or urethral forceps at one end, and withdrawing it in the direction of its long axis. But if this procedure be unsuccessful, it must be cut out. This is most safely done by suprapubic cystotomy. Bullets, pieces of clothing, &c., are occasionally lodged in the bladder, in gun- shot wounds of that organ. These speedily become encrusted with phosphatic deposits, and, giving rise to the symptoms of stone in the bladder, require to be I'emoved by cystotomy, an operation that has proved very successful in these cases, evidently in consequence of the healthy condition of the urinary organs. Dixon has collected from various works the details of 15 cases, in which balls, that had either primarily entered the bladder, or had found their way into this organ by abscess or ulceration after having been lodged in the neighbourhood, were extracted by operation. In 10 of these the result was successful; in the remaining 5 no record is made of the termina- tion. In the Surgical Plistory of the American War, 21 cases are recorded in which lithotomy was performed for the extraction of foreign bodies, or traumatic calculi. Of these three died, the result in one case is unknown, and the rest recovered. In 13 cases the missile itself was removed from the bladder; in 3, a splinter of bone formed the nucleus ; in one the stone had formed round a, piece of cloth, and in another on a curl of hair from the pubes ; in the remaining cases soft organic matter of doubtful nature formed the nucleus. Arrow-heads have also been met with in the bladder. There is, in the Army Medical Museum at Washington, a remarkable specimen of an Indian arrow- head which formed the nucleus of a large phosphatic calculus. In the female also, various foreign bodies are occasionally passed up the urethra, and slipping from the fingers, are lost in the bladder. Hair-pins, bougies, pencils, penholders, and a vast variety of similar objects have here been met with. As a rule they may easily be extracted through the urethra, which should be expanded by a proper dilator. Wounds of the Organs of Generation in the male may be accidental, occasioned by sharp instruments or gunshot, or may be self-inflicted. When involving only the integuments, they present nothing peculiar and do not differ from similar wounds in other situations, except in the great reparative power that the scrotal and penile coverings possess. Even when the whole of the skin of the part has been torn away, the organ is speedily re-covered. In one curious case under my care, in which a jealous wife had unsuccessfully attempted to cut off her husband's penis with a carving-knife, the organ, which had had the whole of its integuments torn off from the root forwards, quicklv became covered with a new integument, which speedily assumed the supple character natural to the skin of these parts.