FOREIGN BODIES IN AIR-PASSAGES: PROGNOSIS. 833 signs will vary according to circumstances. If it be angular or perforated a peculiar whistling noise may be heard as the air passes over or through it. A piece of broken tracheotomy tube has been known to become im- pacted in one bronchus without the production of any abnormal physical signs, the position of the foreign body being unsuspected until the occurrence of signs of inflammation in the affected lung. If the foreign body completely obstructs the bronchus, the respiratory murmur will be wanting on the side on which it is lodged. As a rule the obstruction is somewhat valvular in character, allowing a little air to be forced out during expiration but none to enter in inspiration, and extreme collapse of the affected lung may thus arise. There will then be absolute dulness on percussion, with deficiency on measure- ment and a want of expansion during inspiration. In other cases in which the form of the foreign body is such as not to obstruct the bronchus, the physical signs will be much less marked. If one of the subdivisions of either bronchus be occupied by the foreign body, the entrance of air will be pre- vented in the corresponding lobe of that lung, though it enter freely every other part of the chest. 3. Inflaiumatiou.—After a foreign body has been lodged for a day or two, iiiflammcition of the hroncM or lungs is apt to be set up ; in some cases, however, this occurs only after a considerable time has elapsed, or, perhaps, not at all— much depending, of course, on the shape and character of the irritant. In some cases an acute destructive inflammation of the lung occurs and proves fatal in a few weeks. If the foreign body completely obstruct one bronchus, the corresponding lung gradually becomes collapsed ; and after a time abscesses form in it, apparently in consequence of the retention of the natural secretion in the smaller bronchi and air-vesicles. This condition of bronchi- ectasis usually proves fatal eventually either by the supervention of albumenoid disease or of acute inflammation of the lung. Godlee points out that unilateral bronchiectasis in a child is suggestive of the presence of a foreign body. In some cases a cavity forms in the substance of the lung around the foreign body, whence purulent matter is continually expectorated. Death in such cases may result after many months, or a year or two, from tuberculous phthisis. In very rare cases a foreign body has spontaneously escaped from the lung through an abscess pointing in the chest wall. Should any of the above-mentioned changes have occurred in the lung, the expulsion of the foreign body is by no means necessarily followed by a cure. Prognosis.—This depends more upon the nature of the foreign body and its size than on any other circumstance. If it be rough, angular, and hard, there is necessarily much more risk than if it be soluble in, or capable of disintegration by, the mucus of the air-passage. So long as the foreign body is allowed to remain, the patient is in imminent danger, either from immediate and sudden suffocation, or from inflammation at a more remote period. The danger depends greatly upon the length of time during which the body is allowed to lodge. Of G2 cases which I collected in 1850 (4 of which had fallen under my own observation), I found the time that the foreign body was allowed to remain in, and the result of the case, stated in -4!) instances. VOL. I.