WHITLOW. 961 long and tedious suppuration. In other cases the pus burrows into the pulp of the finger, and the condition then merges into the second variety to be described immediately. Treatment.—As soon as the patient complains of acute pain and tenderness, and redness and swelling are evident in the finger, an attempt should be made to find the exact locality of the pus by pressing on the finger with some blunt instrument such as the point of a pencil. If an acutely tender spot be found the finger must be soaked in hot water to soften the cuticle, which must then be carefully shaved away with a very sharp knife. In this way a small drop of pus may often be let out from between the epidermis and the cutis, and the whole trouble nipped in the bud. A little wet boric acid lint may then be applied and the finger soon heals. If it have extended beneath the nail the loosened portion must be cut away with scissors to give a free exit to the pus, or in extreme cases the whole nail must be removed. A little iodoform, may be dusted on the surface, and a boric lint dressing applied. The strong lead lotion (p. 216) is often very useful in these cases. 2. Paronychia Cellulosa or Subcutaneous Whitlow may arise, as above stated, from an extension of the variety just described. In other cases it is caused by punctured wounds of the finger, especially when made with dirty instruments, and occasionally it arises without evident cause. In it the pus is diffused through the fat and areolar tissue forming the pulp of the finger. It runs the ordinary course of cellulitis elsewhere. The ungual phalanx becomes swollen, tense, red, and most acutely tender. The redness may soon extend to the whole finger, red lines of inflamed lymphatics may be seen running up the arm, and the axillary glands may become swollen and tender. If unrelieved by treatment, the pus, being unable to point through the thick cuticle of the finger, especially in the horny hands of working men, becomes diffused through the whole pulp. The areolar tissue sloughs, and as in this situation it is intimately connected with the periosteum of the ungual phalanx, this also perishes and the bone necroses. If still left unrelieved it most commonly raises the cuticle, and finally this gives way and exposes a sloughing opening in the cutis, through which, if a probe be passed, the bare ungual phalanx may be felt. In some cases, before the pus finds exit externally, it may have extended into the sheath of the flexor tendons or the distal joint of the finger. Treatment.—In this form also an attempt must be made to find the pus early by shaving away the cuticle, as at first it is often very limited in amount and superficial. If this fails and the symptoms are not very acute, the finger must be thickly coated with glycerine and belladonna, and wrapped in a few layers of hot wet lint, over which must be placed some gutta-percha tissue made into a cot by sealing its edges with chloroform. The finger must then be wrapped in cotton-wool and the hand elevated. Under this treatment the inflammation may subside without suppuration. Soaking the hand at intervals in hot water gives great relief. If, in spite of this, the symptoms become more marked, a longitudinal incision must be made in the middle line of the pulp of the finger. It must be remembered that the tense swollen pulp gives a sensation exactly resembling fluctuation, for which it may readily be ^mis- taken. After the pus is evacuated the wound should be treated by some antiseptic dressing, and usually heals quickly. 3. Paronychia Osseosa or Periosteal Whitlow is a rare form in which the inflammation commences deeply in the pulp in immediate contact with VOL. I. 3