425 TOESION. Torsion has never come into general use, and has certainly been too much neglected, even in this country, ^vhere it has been more commonly adopted than elsewhere. It may be practised in various ways. Amussat recommended that the artery be drawn out for about half an inch with one pair of forceps ; that it then be seized close to the tissues with another forceps, and that the end then be twisted ofP (Fig. 125). This plan was applicable only to the larger arteries, which could be cleanly isolated from the surrounding tissues. Thierry simply seized the artery and twisted it in the direction ot its axis, and this plan is undoubtedly most effectual, as the second pair ot forceps prevents the inner and middle coats from being properly turned up into the lumen of the vessel. Velpeau and Fricke advised that the end be Fig. 125.—Torsion of Brachial Artery. not taken oflF, but merely twisted, from four to eight times, according to the size of the vessel. The former plan is termed "free torsion," the latter "limited torsion." In seizing the artery it is particularly important, as Dupuytren pointed out, that the whole vessel be grasped by the forceps, and that care be taken not to introduce one blade into the open end of the vessel, and thus twist only half of it. Haemorrhage from the largest vessels may be effectually stopped by torsion. Amussat and Velpeau repeatedly used it to close the femoral, brachial, ulnar, and radial arteries in amputations of the thigh, arm, and forearm ; and more recently Cooper Forster and Bryant at Guy's Hospital, and Calleuder at St. Bartholomew's, have used it success- fully as the only means of arresting arterial hasmorrhage after operations. Their experience shows that, to say the least, torsion is as safe as any othei" mode of occluding a wounded artery. In order to apply torsion saccessfally, a strong pair of forceps, with accurately jfitting serratures, must be used (Fig, 126), and the width of the blades should vary with the size of the artery to be twisted. In applying