1005 EXUDATION AND RETENTION CYSTS. wall, and filled with fluid or semi-solid matter. The wall of a cyst is lined by epithelium or endothelium, or has no definite lining, according to its origin. The accurate classification of cysts is difficult, because conditions which are pathologically similar are clinically spoken of as cysts in some parts of the body and not in others. The method usually adopted is that in which they arc divided according to their mode of origin, as follows :— 1. Cysts arising from the distension of pre-existing spaces. 2. Cysts of new formation. 3. Congenital cvsts. 4. Parasitic cysts. 1. Cysts arising from the distension op pre-existing spaces.— These are subdivided into : {a.) Exudation cysts ; and (&.) Eetention cysts. (a.) Exudation Cysts arise from chronic exudation into cavities which are not provided with excretory ducts, as, for instance, the bursas, which often attain a considerable size in these circumstances. Strictly speaking, chronic synovitis, with " dropsy of the joint," hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis, and spina bifida, should be included in this class, but clinically these affections are never spoken of as cysts. A form of exudation cyst is sometimes met with in co"nnection with serous and synovial membranes, which arises from a hernial projection of the membrane with subsequent constriction and obliteration of the neck of the protrusion, so that a separate cyst is formed. Some of the cysts met with in the popliteal space, and some of those formed in connection with the sheaths of tendons, or ganglia, are supposed to be formed in this way. Similar cysts are occasionally met with in one of the situations of abdominal hernia, which are evidently formed by the obliteration of the neck of the sac of the peritoneum, with subsequent exudation into the closed cavity. In cysts formed in connection with synovial membranes or bursEe, opaque, white, or yellowish bodies, resembling melon seeds in size and form, are not uufrequently met with. Sometimes these are attached to the cyst-wall by n narrow pedicle, but more often they are free. They are supposed to arise in three ways : first, as an outgrowth from the cyst-wall; secondly, by changes taking place in extravasated blood ; and lastly, from a fibrinous exudation from the wall of the cyst. The presence of blood-crystals, which has been recognized in some cases, proves that they occasionally arise in the second way. The symptoms and treatment of these affections are described with diseases of burssB (see Vol. II.). One form of cystw disease of the ovary may be placed under this head, as it arises from dilatation of the Graafian follicles. The cysts are usually nume- rous, but do not individually reach any very great size. They contain a serous fluid, and ova have been recognized within them, thus proving their origin. {h.)—Retention Cysts arise from an obstruction to the escape of some natural secretion, in consequence of which the acini, or tubules, of the gland become expanded, or the duct becomes dilated to such an extent as to form a distinct cyst. The process by which the cyst is formed is not one of simple dilatation ; it is accompanied by a new growth of fibroid tissue, resulting from the irritation caused by the tension of the retained secretion, so that in almost all cases the wall of the fully developed cyst is many times thicker than the structure from which it originated. If the cyst springs from a duct, the walls of which contain involuntary muscular fibre, this will be found to have disappeared, the new tissue being purely fibrous. The cyst-wall is lined with