STRANGULATION OF FARTS. u afterwards ■ to promote tlic absorption of the extravasated blood. For the first purpose cold applications are of es]iecial service. Ice may be applied in severe cases, but its use must not be continued too long-, lest it lead to slough- ing of the bruised tissues. In slight cases a lotion comiDOsed of one, part of spirits of wine to eight or ten of water may be constantly applied. After all hemorrhage has ceased, cold is of little use in promoting absorption, and the part may be w-rapped in cotton-wool or hot fomentations may be applied. Leeches should not be applied to a bruised part : they cannot remove the blood that has already been extravasated, and they often set np irritation, which leads to suppuration. A bag of blood, however soft and fluctuating it may feel, should not be opened so long as there is any chance of its being absorbed. If once it be punctured and unpurified air or water be allowed to enter, suppuration mny be set up in it. The fluid blood may, however, in such case be safely removed l)y means of the aspirator, a large needle bein^ used, and the puncture being closed Avitli collodion. If signs of inflammation . occur, the parts becoming red, hot, and throbbing, free incisions should at once be made with antiseptic precautions. In the third and fourth degrees of contusion, it is often useless to attempt to save the life of the injured part; but, if this is attempted, much may be clone to prevent the fever and suppuration that sometimes attend the separa- tion of the sloughs. The skin, being in such cases unbroken, must be washed with a solution of carbolic acid (1 in 20), or perchloride of mercury (1 in oOU), after which an antiseptic dressing may be applied, beneath which the sloughs will separate with scarcely any febrile disturbance, and but httle suppuration. Disorganising contusions of the most severe kind ma,v be recovered from provuM there be no eHernal wound, even though the soft structures of the limb or part be extensively crushed, the bones comminuted, and the joints opened. It is not the subcutaneous lacerations and disorganisations that are to be dreaded; so long as the main blood-vessels of the part injured are intact these may be recovered from. The admission of air, bearing with it the causes of decomposition, into the interior of a badly injured limb constitutes the great danger. If this can be avoided there is little fear of undue inflam- mation being excited; but if impure air or water be admitted to the lacerated tissues, putrefaction followed by suppuration and sloughing may be set up and the safety of the patient thus seriously imperilled. In'such cases as these amputation is usually the sole resource, unless the progress of the mischief can De arrested by elTicient antiseptic treatment. The diflPerence between the effects of a sultcutaneous laceration and one accompanied by open wound is well exemplified in the cases of a " simple " and a -compomid - dislocation. In the former case, although the ligaments and capsular muscles are extensively torn, often with great extravasation of blood repair takes place without any serious trouble; whilst in a compound dis- ocation, in which air has been admitted and has given rise to puti^efaction of the extravasated blood and the inflammatory exudation, the most extensive Tehriosr ^ '''''^ J*'^"^' ^'■'^b, or life is in great danger of Contusions of internal organs are always very serious, and require special treatment, according to the part that is affected and the extent of its iniurv Strangulation of Parts.-Strangulation may be sudden and complete as