VENEREAL DISEASES. I I 20 is required before any conclusions for or against the fungoid origin of syphilis can be drawn from these observations. Syphilis is divided into acquired and hereditary or congenital, and there is sufficient difference between these two forms to justify their being described separately. Syphilis runs a course tolerably definite in its main phenomena, but vary- ing in duration and detail. It is divided into various stages, which, although perhaps not capable in all cases of being sharply separated from each other, are sufficiently distinct to be used as a means of classifying the manifestations of the disease. The first stage is the period of incubation, extending from the inoculation to the appearance of the local signs of the disease at the seat of infection. The second, or Primary Stage, includes the appearance of the characteristic initial manifestation, the indurated sore, accompanied by indolent enlargement of the nearest group of lymphatic glands. The third includes the period during which the so-called Secondary Symptoms make their appearance. These consist of more or less symmetrical eruptions on the skin and mucous membranes, ulceration of the tonsils, condy- lomata, periostitis, iritis, loss of hair, &c. The fourth stage, or Tertiary Syphilis, includes the more remote effects of the disease, such as the formation of gummata, deep unsymmetrical ulcera- tion of the skin or mucous membranes, and various deep-seated visceral affec- tions. Only a comparatively small proportion of those infected suffer from tertiary symptoms. Between the secondary and tertiary stages an interval of perfect health may intervene, perhaps interrupted by occasional recurrences of the secondary symptoms. During the intervals of health, the syphilis is said to be ''latenty The duration of these various stages is uncertain. According to Berkeley Hill, the period of incubation in thirty-seven trustworthy cases of experimental inoculation collected from various sources, varied from ten to forty-six days, the average being twenty-four. The most common periods were twenty-five and twenty-eight days. The duration of the primary symp- toms depends very much on treatment, but it seldom extends beyond a month or six weeks. The secondary symptoms commence from tAvo to three months after inoculation, and last from a few weeks to a year. The period of develop- ment, and the duration of the tertiary symptoms, are too indefinite to be stated with any approach to accuracy. Symptoms classed as tertiary may appear immediately after the secondary signs, or may prove fatal after many years of apparent health. One attack of syphiHs, as a rule, confers upon the patient subsequent immunity from the primary or secondary forms of the disease. Second attacks are, however, not unknown, but they are not more frequent than in small-pox or measles. When the patient has the misfortune to suffer a second time, the symptoms are never so severe as in the first attack. From a consideration of the course of the disease as above described, with its periods of incubation, and of invasion, its sequelae, and the immunity it confers from a second attack, Jonathan Hutchinson long ago pointed out its analogy to the specific fevers. He regarded the disease as a specific fever of a very chi onic nature and irregular course. As at the present time the acute specific