SUPPURATION AND ABSCESS. 264 is quite sufficient to force the fluid into the vacuum in the aspirator. lu withdrawing the needle, care should be taken to maintain a vacuum in it, lest a tract of pus be left which might hinder the closure of the puncture. In the absence of the aspirator, the abscess may be tapped with a trochar and cannula, carefully purified with carbolic acid or by heat before being used. The instrument should be introduced obhquely between the skin and the abscess, and then made to dip down into the sac. In order to prevent the entrance of air, firm and even pressure should be made over the sac till the trochar is withdrawn. As a further precaution, a funnel-shaped piece of linen rag, soaked in carbolic oil or some other antiseptic fluid, may be fixed to the outer end of the cannula, and allowed to hang down while the pus is escaping. This allows the pus to flow freely out, but presents a valve-like obstruction to the entrance of air. After either aspiration or tapping with a trochar, some cotton-wool soaked in collodion, or a piece of plaster, must be placed over the puncture. In order to avoid the entrance of air, which might cause putrefaction and fatal blood poisoning in the case of a large chronic abscess, Abernethy recom- mended letting the pus out by a valvular ojiening, made by drawing the skni to one side and then passing a bistoury directly into the sac. A director was then introduced along the bistoury, and as much pus allowed to escape as would flow readily away. On Avithdrawing the probe the skin returned to its natural position, so that the opening in the sac and that in the skin no longer corresponded to each other. The small wound was then closed by lint or strapping, and often healed by the first intention. This method would only be practised in the present day in the absence of the aspirator or trochar. Tapping, folloived hy the injection of an antiseptic or stimulating fluid, such as carbohc acid or dilute solutions of iodine, is a mode of treatment which met with but little success until Billroth suggested the use of an emulsion of iodo- form and glycerine (1 part to 10 by weight). The sac of the abscess is emptied as completely as possible by means of the aspirator, and then through the needle a varying amount of the emulsion is injected. In Billroth's cases the quantity used varied from 1 to 3 ounces. The needle is then withdrawn, and the opening closed with collodion. Of 20 cases treated in this way by Billroth, 18 were cured, although several were undoubtedly connected with diseased bone. In some cases it has been necessary to repeat the operation several times. If the abscess is on the point of bursting, the treatment is not likely to succeed, as an opening most commonly forms at the seat of puncture. This method of treatment may be advantageously modified by flushing out the abscess cavity, after the withdrawal of the pus, with water sterilised by heat, or by the addition of perchloride of mercury in the proportion of 1 to 4000. By this means the caseous matter is broken up and more efficiently removed. Free incision, followed by thorough flushing and scraping of the cavity, icith immediate closure of the ivoimd, is a more efficient method of treatment than that last described, as in this way the caseous material which is often present in large quantity is more completely removed. The sharp spoons " intro- duced^by Volkmann (Fig. 96) are of great service in scraping away the unhealthy granulation tissue which lines the abscess-cavity ; whilst in large irregular cavities this can most efficiently be done by using a spoon with a holfow stem, through which a stream of sterilised water flows, as suggested by