TRAUMATIC NEURASTHENIA: SYMPTOMS. 795 business aptitude. He looks ill and worn ; often becomes irritable and is easily fatigued. He still believes that he has suffered no serious or per- manent hurt, and so long as he is at rest, he will feel tolerably well; but any attempt at ordinary exertion of body or mind brings back all those feelings or indications of nervous prostration and irritation characteristic of these injuries. After a lapse of several months—from three to six—the patient will find that he is slowly but steadily becoming worse, and he then, perhaps for the first time, becomes aware of the serious and deep-seated injury that his nervous system has sustained. The (mmienance is usually pallid, sometimes even livid, and has a peculiarly careworn, expressionless look—the patient generally looking much older than he really is, or than he did before the accident. I have, however, seen instances of flushing of the face, apparently due to disturbance of the vaso-motor action of the sympathetic. The thoughts are confused. The patient cannot concentrate his ideas so as to pursue a connected line of reasoning ; he attempts to read, but is obliged to lay aside the book or paper after a few minutes. All business aptitude is lost ; partly from impairment of memory, partly from confusion of thought and inability to concentrate ideas for a sufficient length of time. The temper is often changed for the worse, the patient being fretful, irritable, and in some way—difficult perhaps to define, but easily appreciated by those around him—altered in character. The sleep is disturbed, restless and breken. The patient wakes up in sudden alarm ; he dreams much, and his dreams are distressing and horrible. The head is usually of its natural temperature, but sometimes hot. The patient complains of various uneasy sensations in it ; of pain, tension, weight, or throbbing ; of giddiness ; of a confused or strained feeling in it ; and fre- quently of loud and incessant noises, described as roaring, rushing, ringing, singing, sawing, rumbling, or thundering. These noises vary in intensity at difierent periods of the day ; but, if once they occur, they are never entirely absent, and are a source of great distress. Headache is a very common symptom ; it is often occipital and is increased by the slightest mental effort. The organs of special sense usually become more or less seriously affected, being sometimes oversensitive and irritable, whilst at others their functions are impaired or perverted. In many cases we find a combination of all these conditions in the same organ. Accommodative asthenopia is a common evidence of the general want of muscular tone. The ciliary muscle is unable to meet the demands made upon it for near vision, and hence reading, sewing, &c. become difficult or impossible. This form of asthenopia is especially pro- nounced in those who are already slightly hypermetropic or presbyopic. Photophobia is not uncommon. The pupil may be dilated and its movements sluggish. The condition of the optic disc in cases of spinal injury is sepa- rately considered on page 800. The hearing may be variously afiPected. Not only does the patient commonly complain of the noises in the head and ears that have already been described, but the ears, like the eyes, may be oversensitive or too dull. One ear is frequently oversensitive, whilst the other is less acute than it was before the accident. Loud and sudden noises are peculiarly distressing to these patients. Taste and smell are sometimes, but more rarely, perverted. The sense of touch is impaired. The patient caunot pick up a pin, cannot