617 NECK OF FEMUR—DIAGNOSIS. The Diagnosis of the different forms of fracture of the neck of the thigh- bone from one another, and from other injuries occurring in the vicinity of the hip-joint, is a matter of considerable importance, and often of no shght difficulty. Between the unimpacted intracapsular and the ordinary extracapsular fractures there can be no difficulty in diagnosis ; all the signs of the latter being much more strongly marked than those of the former injury, as may be seen^by the annexed table, the difference of age and the degree of violence required to break the bone being also important elements in the diagnosis. Diagnosis Miveen unimpacted Intra- and Extra-capsular Fractures of the Neclc of the Thigh-hone. Intmcaimdar. ^ Extracainular. \. Cause .eeiierally slight and indirect, such ] 1. Cause usnally severe and direct violence, as catching the foot in the carpet or ! such as falling from a height or a blow slipping off the kerb-stone. on the hip. 2. Force usually applied longitudinally or obliqueW. ;J. Age, rarely below fifty ; most commonly in feeble aged persons. 4. Pain and constitutional disturbance slight. Force usually applied transversely. 3. Age, usually below fifty ; chiefly in vigorous adults. 4. Pain and constitutional disturbance usually considerable. No apparent injury to soft parts about | 5. Considerable extravasation, ecchymosis^ hip. and signs of direct injury to hip. Crepitus often obscure. Shorteiung, at first, usually not more than one inch. 6. C)'epitus very readily felt. 7. Shortening at least two inches or more. The distinction between intracapsular fracture and the impacted fracture of the neck is also easy. In the former case the crepitus can be obtained by extending and rotating the limb, the eversion is more marked, and the injury occurs usually from indirect violence ; in the latter, traction cannot restore the limb to its proper length, crepitus is wanting, and the fracture is always the result of direct violence apphed to the trochanter. In impacted fractures of the neck of the femur it is, as a rule, impossible to determine whether the injury is within or without the capsule. The separa- tion of the head and the impaction of the neck into it occur only in old people, and, judging from the few recorded cases, the shortening and eversion are slight. Fracture of the root of the neck wdth impaction into the trochanter occurs at all ages after middle life. Its symptoms vary from scarcely appreciable displacement to extreme eversion with one inch of shortening. Should the trochanter have been fissured oi- splintered, this may be ascertained on careful examination, and the nature of the injury could then be recognised with certainty. Severe contusions of the hip are sometimes followed by eversion of the limb Avith inability to move it, so that at first sight it might be supposed that the bone was broken. In these cases, however, the absence of shortening and crepitus will always establish the diagnosis. But though no immediate and sudden shortening can occur without fracture, these contusions may be followed at a remote period by shortening of the limb from atrophic changes in the head and neck of the femur. When the injured hip-joint has been the seat of chronic rheumatic arthritis, and the limb is already somewhat shortened by the changes that occur in the head and neck of the femur in this disease, the difficulty of diagnosis becomes great ; especially as there may also be.