FRACTURES. 564 the case, this may be done readily enough ; but if the displacement be longi- tudinal, and much time have elapsed since the occurrence of the injury, it will be difficult, if not impossible, to remove the deformity. The bending or breaking of the callus is best done under chloroform ; the fracture being then l)ut up again, speedy and perfect consoHdation will ensue. In this way I have several times remedied a faulty position in fractured bones, although from six to ten weeks had elapsed from the occurrence of the injury. Should the consolidation of the fracture be too firm to admit of this, subcutaneous osteotomy hj Adams's narrow-bladed saw may be employed in some cases with advantage. I have thus divided the fibula into a badly-set Pott's fracture, where the bone had united at an angle pointing inwards, and thus throwing the outer edge of the foot upwards. In other cases again, it may be necessary to expose the bone at the seat of fracture by an incision, and to straighten it by simple division with a saw or chisel, oi- by the removal of a wedge. A bone w^hich does not appear to have been very skilfully set, and which presents a certain amount of deformity Avhen tlie splints are removed, may gradually regain its proper shape. This it does by the muscles of the limb moulding the callus, whilst still somewhat soft and yielding, into a proper shape. The callus may be quite strong enough to bear the weight and to maintain the length of the limb in its full integrity after the removal of all apparatus, and yet be sufficiently yielding to become slowly and gradually shaped by the action of the muscles of the limb when they are left untrammelled by bandages. But it more commonly happens that a limb which, when taken out of the splints at the proper period, appears to be straight and of good length, gradually yields under the weight of the body and the strain of the muscles : so that, at the end of a few weeks, most unsightly deformity occurs. In these cases the Surgeon is often unduly blamed : and to his unskilfulness is attributed that displacement which, in reality, is due to the faulty character of the callus. It must be remembered that there is every degree of firmness of the callus, from that which is of normal consistence to that which is quite unable to support the weight of the limb or body and which yields more or less quickly under the pressure to which it is subjected. Delayed Union.—Occasionally, more particularly in cases of fracture of the femur, tibia, and humerus, the union between the fragments is delwjecl several weeks beyond the usual period. This arises, in the majority of cases, from constitutional debility rather than from local causes. Several cases of delayed union have been recorded in which repair readily took place after the administration of mercury ; indeed, in syphilitic subjects the constitutional taint should always be treated. A not unfrequent cause of delayed union is " meddling " with the fracDure, changing the apparatus, removing splints or frequently testing the solidity. When it is found at the expiration of six or ei"-ht weeks after the occurrence of simple fracture that the callus is still Yielding, the general health should be improved by tonics, change of air, &c., and tlie limb securely put up in starched or plaster of Paris bandages. Indeed, I beheve that delayed union is much less likely to occur in patients who have from the first been treated by the starched bandage, and allowed to move about, than in those who have been confined to bed or rather to the house in the ordinary way. Dumreicher recommends in these cases to constrict the limb for a short time above the fracture to such an extent as to