SQUAMOUS ^CAWINOMA. cess of undero-oing colloid degeneration (Fig. 394). A globule of colioid'matter first appears pushing the nucleus to one side ; afterwards the nucleus under- goes a similar degeneration ; and finally the cell bursts and disappears, leaving behind it only a few granules. True colloid cancer is merely a degeneration of scirrhus or encephaloid. Many other tumours have been described in former times as colloid, amongst which may be mentioned many myxoniata, oedematous soft fibromata, and some glandular tumours which had undergone colloid degeneration. Diagnosis of Glandular Carcinoma.—In the diagnosis of a cancer the age of the patient is an important consideration, such tumours being very rare before oO. Too much importance must not be attached to an hereditary history of cancer, or it may lead us into error. A most important sign of cancer is that the tumour forms part of the structure it is invading. It may be tolerably clearly defined in outline, but it is not separable from the sur- rounding tissue. It early becomes adherent to the skin when occurring in a superficial part. In the later stages the adhesion is evident, but at first it can be recognized only by pinching up the skin widely with the finger and thumb when it will be seen to dimple slightly at the part over the tumour. Both these signs, the implication of the surrounding structures and the dimpling of the skin may, however, also be present in chronic inflammation with fibroid induration. The diagnosis of the different forms of cancer is not always easily made. Scirrhus, when not widely infiltrating, may very readily be confounded with fibrous tumours and adenomata, or with chronic inflammatory induration of a part ; in many of these cases, indeed, the diagnosis cannot be made correctly until after examination by incision. In other cases, however, the rugged feel, the lancinating pains, the implication of the lymphatic glands, or the aft'ection of the general health, will commonly serve to establish the diagnosis. When ulceration has taken place, the previous condition of the tumour, the general character of the sore, and the microscopic examination of the debris, may serve to denote its true character. Encephaloid may be confounded with abscess, cysts, erectile and sanguineous tumours, and with the various soft varieties of sarcoma. In these cases care- ful palpation, the existence of elasticity without fluctuation, and the presence of the large and tortuous veins ramifying over the surface of the mass, may establish its true character. When it is fungating, it may be confounded with the sprouting intracystic growths that sometimes spring from the interior of a cystic tumour or with a soft sarcoma. Here, however, the history of the case and the contamination of neighbouring lymphatics, will show the true nature of the affection. In all cases in which there is doubt as to the nature of the growth an incision should be made into it, if it is a case fit for removal by operation, and, if necessary, a slice should be removed and examined with the naked eye, or a scraping of it, or a section cut after freezing, may be put under the micro- scope. It is much better to do this than to lose valuable time by waiting till the symptoms become more definite. 2. Squamous Carcixoma, on Squamous Epithelioma.—Squamous epithe- lioma, or as it has been called " epithelioma," " epithelial cancer," or " cancroid," was at one time considered to be distinct from true " cancer." There is uothino- however, to justify such a distinction. The term epithelial cancer or " epithe-