1 ii8 VENEREAL DISEASES. glands of the groin, perhaps with matting together of the surrounding areolar tissue ; and this induration may continue for years, or even for the remainder of life. The Treatment of bubo consists, in the first instance, in endeavouring to prevent the occurrence of suppuration ; and should pus form, in letting it out. The Preventive Treatment of bubo consists in perfect rest of the part, and the application of leeches and of cold lead lotions. In reference to the applica- tion of leeches, there is a practical point that requires attention—viz., that the leech-bites may become infected by the chancrous pus, and thus converted into a number of new chancres. This accident is best guarded against by covering the bites with collodion and plaster. If there be much pain, and if the skin be already reddened, hot fomenta- tions, and the application of equal parts of extract of belladonna and glycerine, will offer the best chance of arresting the progress of the i nflammation. If the bubo be indolent, with but little tendency to suppuration, the applica- tion of blisters or tincture of iodine may be of service. Berkeley Hill states th^t steady pressure by means of a pad of cotton-wool and an elastic bandage may sometimes produce absorption. The application of lint soaked in a lead lotion containing about two drachms of the solution of the subacetate and one ounce of spirit to half a pint of water has been said to promote resolution. If, notwithstanding our endeavours to prevent suppuration, matter form within or around the gland, as evinced by the swelling becoming soft, boggy, and inflamed, a free opening should made. This should, as a rule, be parallel to Poupart's ligament, but if a vertical incision would lay the cavity open more perfectly, there is no objection to adopting it. The incision should be made early, before the surrounding skin has been undermined and thinned. If this should have happened it may be necessary to cut it away with scissors, before healing will take place. After the bubo has been opened it should be dressed from the bottom, either with salicylic or iodoform wool or lint soaked in carbolic oil (1 in 10), or some such simple application. If the cavity presents a chancrous appearance, being irregular and sloughy, with elevated and angry red edges, it should be treated by the free application of iodoform in the same way as for the original sore. If on opening the bubo a gland can be seen projecting into the cavity, attached only by one side to the wall of the abscess, this is best scooped out either with the finger-nail or the handle of the scalpel, otherwise it is apt to keep up the suppuration and delay healing. Sometimes, even after the bubo has been opened, the pus may burrow in various directions. Such cases are best treated by laying open the sinuses freely to the very end with a probe-pointed bistoury. Zeissl opens the bubo by a number of small punctures with a tenotomy knife, after which lint soaked in lead lotion (Liquor Plumb. Subacetatis, 5SS., Esctified Spirit, 5 j, water, to 0 j), may be kept constantly applied. By this means he says that scarring can of ten be avoided. Should sloughing or phagedgenic ulceration commence in an open bubo, extensive destruction of tissue may ensue, and even fatal haemorrhage from the femoral artery has been known to occur. The sore must be treated in the same way as the sloughing or phagedeeuic chancre. The application of nitric