240 SUPPURATION AND ABSCESS. but instead of the discharge being given off superficially as in an ordinal^ ulcer, it accumulates in the abscess-cavity ; an abscess is in fact a cavity enclosed by an ulcer. The zone of tissue in which the process of spreading is taking place was in former times spoken of as the " pyogenic membrane ;" but it is evident that there is nothing to which the term " membrane " could properly be applied ; the " pyogenic zone " would be a more correct term if any such is necessary. In this pyogenic zone the vessels are dilated and the tissues softened, so that in opening an abscess blood may flow freely from the engorged vessels round the cavity ; but it must not be concluded from this that the abscess-cavity is surrounded by a zone of tissue in which new vessels have been formed. During the spreading stage of an abscess, it is destruction of vessels, not new formation, that is taking place ; the new formation occurs only during repair, after the pus has been let out. The method in which pus is formed on mucous surfaces in purulent catarrh has been described with that process. That all the pus-cells in acute suppuration are derived from the white corpuscles may now be regarded as an established fact. The proof of this is derived partly from the direct observation of the formation of pus, as it has already been described, and partly from the experiments of Cohnheim, Yon Recklinghausen, and others. These observers injected aniline blue or cinnabar into the blood-stream of the animal to be experimented on. It had before been shoAvn that when solid matter in a state of extremely fine division is injected into the blood-stream, the white corpuscles pick up the particles in the same way as an amoeba takes its food ; and the dark-coloured particles of aniline blue or cinnabar are easily recognised in their substance. A frog having been prepared by the injection of the colouring matter, inflammation of sufficient intensity to cause suppuration was excited ; and it was found that, whether it was in a vascular part or in a non-vascular, as the cornea, the pus-cells contained particles of the substance which had been injected. Lastly, there is the negative observation, that in acute inflammations the original cells of the affected part undergo no change so long as they can be observed ; that is to say, before they are concealed by the crowds of migrating leucocytes. In the case of chronic suppuration from the surface of a healing ulcer the purulent fluid must contain many of the superficial granulation-cells which have perished and been cast off. These, as we shall see in the Chapter on Eepair, are probably derived from the original cells of the affected part, and are practically indistinguishable from pus-cells derived from migrated coi-puscles. This may, however, be regarded rather as an accident than as a part of true suppuration. Characters of Pus.—The pus from an acute abscess is an opaque, creamy fluid, thick, smooth, and slightly viscid, of a yellowish-white colour, with in some cases a greenish tinge ; it has a faint odour and an alkaline reaction. Its specific gravity is from 1030 to 1040. Its chemical constitution varies slightly in different cases. It contains from 85 to 00 per cent, of water. Dried pus contains on an average about G7 per cent, of proteids, chiefly identical with those found in white blood corpuscles, 14 per cent, of fatty matter, half of which is lecithin ; about 7 per cent, of cholesterin, and 10 of extractives, and 2 per cent, of salts. The chief inorganic constituents are sodium chloride, calcium, magnesium, and ferric phosphates ; calcium phos-