507 CONTUSlOiyS OF JOINTS. CHAPTEK XIX. INJURIES OF BONES ANJ) JOINTS. INJURIESS OF BONES. A BONE may be bruised, bent, cnt, or fractured. Bruising of the Bone and Periosteum is usually of no great moment, but where the bone is but thinly covered, as at the shin or elbow, it may give rise to troublesome symptoms from inflammation of the periosteum, especially in gouty or syphilitic subjects. If the contusion be severe, the vitality of a layer of the bone may be destroyed, as happens sometimes from the graze or contusion of a bullet; whilst in certain cases a bruise of the bone is followed by acute suppuration beneath the periosteum or by tuberculous disease. In old people, the contusion of a bone may be followed by atrophy and shortening, as happens in the neck of the femur. In the Treatment of bruised bone, immediate relief may be afforded, by leeches, fomentations, or the application of warm lead and opium lotion. At a later period, and more especially if the pain be severe at night, iodide of potassium may be useful. In gouty subjects colchicum with salines wall usually give relief. There is a very troublesome condition following a graze of the shin, with bruise of the periosteum and tibia, in which the slight abrasion does not heal readily, and the periosteum becomes thickened and pulpy. In these cases, rest of the limb, the application of lead lotion, the support of a bandage, and the administration of the iodide with bark, will be found to afford great relief. The consequences of bruise will be cousidered when we come to speak of necrosis. Bending of Bone may occur in two conditions, viz, without or with fracture. Bending without fracture is met wMth in very young subjects, before the completion of ossification. When it takes place in adult life, it is the result of some structural change, by which the natural firmness of the osseous tissue is diminished. The bending most commonly occurs in the long or slender bones, especially the clavicle, the radius and the femur, but sometimes is met with in the flat bones, or those of the skull, in which depression takes place from a blow without fracture having occurred. In many cases of bending both of long and of fiat bones, there is partial fracture on the convex side—the " green-stick fracture " (see p. 521). The Treatment is simple : the Surgeon gradually straighteus the bone, by applying a splint on its concave side, towards which the bone is pressed by a bandage and a pad apphed upon its greatest convexity. Fractures will be described in the two following chapters. INJURIES OF JOINTS. Contusions.—.loints are often contused by kicks, falls, or blows, so as to be severely injured, giving rise to much pain, and consecutive inflammation of