io88 TUBERCULOSIS. The giant cells of tubercle present certain peculiarities which usually make it possible to identify them with some degree of certainty. There are four forms of multinuclear cells from which they have to be distinguished : first, those of simple chronic inflammation ; secondly, those of syphilitic growths ; thirdly, the large cells found in the destructive processes in bone (osteoclasts); and, fourthly, the many-nucleated cells of a myeloid tumour. From the first and second they may commonly be distinguished by their greater size and by the processes extending from them into surrounding parts. Osteoclasts are smaller, have no processes, and lie in immediate contact with the bone, fihing a hollow in its substance (Howship's lacuna), while a tuberculous giant cell is always surrounded by leucocytes. In myeloid cells the masses often reach a great size and the protoplasm is less granular. The great distinctive feature however is in the arrangement of the nuclei. In all forms of giant cell, except the tuberculous, the nuclei are scattered more or less uniformly through the protoplasm ; in the tuberculous they are gathered together either at the circumference or at one end or at both with their long axes directed more or less uniformly towards the centre of the cell. The observations of Villemin, AYilson Fox, Cohnheim, and many others, had shown clearly that tubercle is an infective process, but the whole subject was involved in great obscurity till in 1882 Koch, by a new method of staining, discovered in the tuberculous tissue a specific microscopic organism to which he gave the name of bacillus tuberculosis. It is a non-motile, rod-shaped fungus with a shght longitudinal curve, and about , r^ .■ ;v;; ., cqual lu Icugth to one-third of the diameter of a red blood-corpuscle, and its breadth is about one- 4 c -: ,^ fifth of its length. Clear bright dots are often seen in it which there is every reason to believe are spores.* The bacilli are found in the giant- ^ _ cells, and in or among the epithehoid cells. In 1. 'Z" slowly growing tubercle the organisms are very few in number and almost exclusively contained '® in the giant cells, sometimes only one in each. Under these circumstances it is evident that the baciUi can be discovered only with great diffi- Fig. 402.-Tub«-cle BaciUi in a ^^^^^^ ^^^^^^^ ^^^^ ^^^^-^^ IhrOUgh the giaut Cell happens to hit the exact situation of the organism, and to be parallel to its long axis, it may appear that none is present. In more acute processes the cell may be crowded with bacilH (Fig. 402), and they may burst beyond its limits extending amongst the surrounding epithelioid and lymphoid cells. Koch has demonstrated the curious fact that the nuclei -of the giant cell lie as far removed from the bacillus as possible, so that the idea involuntarily arises in the mind that there must be some kind of antagonism between them and the parasite. The proof that the bacillus is the actual virus of tubercle has been obtained in the same manner as in the case of other pathogenic organisms. Its presence has been demonstrated in the diseased tissues, first by microscopic observation, and secondly by cultivation experiments. The bacillus has been cultivated ^ For tlie details of the mode of preparation and cultivation of the bacillus of tubercle the reader is referred to Koch's pajier, translated by Boyd (Micro-organi.sius in Disease. >ew Sydenham Society, 188(i) iind to Crookshank's Bacteriologj'.