362 GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. on a four days' journey, under great difficulties from roads and weather, to the hospital at the base of operations. Of these 8 recovered M'ithout suppuration, 2 suppurated slightly, and 5 severely. Of these 5, 2 recovered without amputation, 2 after amputation, and 1 died of pyaemia. Eeyher, by the employment of Lister's gauze, either as a permanent dressing to obtain healing by scabbing, or with drainage, obtained the following results : In 18 cases which came under his care before they had been probed or examined the wound united under the dry dressing, without suppuration, in 10 ; in 6 he treated the wound by antiseptic drainage and of these 3 died ; and in 2 drainage was commenced at a later period of the case and both recovered. Thus of the 18 cases treated primarily by antiseptic dressing, 3 died, and all the survivors preserved the limb with a considerable degree of mobility in the joint. Forty cases which had been fingered " before he saw them also came under his observation. Of these 19 were treated by drainage after occlusion had failed and 18 died ; in 9 others intermediate amputation was performed, with 7 deaths ; in 12 secondary amputation was performed, with 9 deaths ; making a total of forty cases, with 34 deaths, and only one limb saved. Con- servative treatment was attempted without antiseptic di'essing in 23 cases, and of these only one finally recovered, and in that healing took place by scabbing under a dry dressing. In all cases in luhich antiseptic treatment is impossible, conservative treat- ment contrasts most unfavourably with primary amputation in the lower third of the thigh. When amputation is determined on, the operation requires to be performed early, not because the apparent injury may be very severe, or the mutilation of the limb so great as obviously and imperatively"^to call for im- mediate amputation, but because experience has shown that, unless the limb be removed at an early period, after-consequences of the most serious and fatal character will to a certainty ensue. Extensive suppuration of the joint, deep and large abscesses burrowing among the muscles of the thigh, and con- sequent exhaustion of the patient by hectic, or his destruction by pvfemia, are the conditions that amputation alone, performed at an early stage,"^ can avert. This necessity for early amputation in penetrating bullet-wouiids'of the knee- joint, when antiseptic treatment is impossible, is recognised by all modern military Surgeons. Guthrie and Larrey in the French wars, Esmarch and Stromeyer in the Schleswig-Holstein campaign, and the Surgeons in the Crimea, all found that the attempt to save a limb so injured led to the sacrifice of the patient's Hfe. Bullet-wounds of the anlde-joint do not necessarily require amputation. If the bones be not too extensively comminuted, and more particularly if the posterior tibial artery and nerve have escaped injury, an attempt may be made to save the limb, and will probably be successful ; the injury being treated on the principles which will be described in the chapters on Fractures and on Dislocations. In such cases extraction of fragments, and excision of the splintered ends, are necessary ; and modified operations, partial excision by means of gouge, forceps, and Hey's saw, will be found more successful than the more systematic operations. Gurlt has collected 150 cases of excision of the ankle, with 94 recoveries, 51 or 34 per cent, deaths, and 5 uncertain. If the large vessels and nerves have been cut across, and the bones very exten- sively shattered, amputation will be the proper course to pursue. The shoulder, and more particularly the left shoulder, from its advanced