wo VND-DIPUTHERIA. 931 According to Metchuikoff and his followers immunity is the result of certain changes imposed upon the living cells which act as phagocytes. In the Chapter on Inflammation (pp. IGO et seq.), it has been seen that the behaviour of leucocytes towards invading micro-organisms is possibly determined by the chemical products of the latter. If these are positively chemiotactic the leucocytes are attracted and the organisms destroyed by them ; if on the other hand the chemical substances are negatively chemiotactic, the leucocytes are repelled and the micro-organisms gain the day. The same chemical product which in a susceptible animal acts negatively is supposed in the immune animal to act in a positive manner, and thus death of the invading organisms results. On the other hand, Buchner and others believe that a bacteria-killing substance exists in the blood of immune animals, and that phagocytes play only a secondary part in the process, being attracted to the organisms which are already dead. Hankin has suggested that certain substances, which he speaks of as " protective proteids," are the essential agents, and are persistently in process of formation in the-body of the immune animal. LOCAL INFECTIVE PROCESSES IN WOUNDS. WOUND-DIPHTHERIA. This name has been applied by French and German writers to an unhealthy condition assumed by granulating wounds, in which they become covered by an opaque, white, or yellowish-white membranous layer closely resembling the ftilse membrane of diphtheria. By English Surgeons it has more commonly been described as a mild form of phagedgenic ulceration. It arises invariably in connection with decomposing discharges, and is not uncommon in wounds over which urine is flowing. The granulating sore which may have been in a healthy condition up to the time of the attack, becomes dark in colour, and here and there small hj^morrhages may be noticed amongst the granulations. The healthy discharge of pus ceases, and is replaced by a very slight serous exuda- tion. Then an opaque white patch appears and soon spreads over the surface. The surrounding skin becomes reddened and slightly swollen, the edges are raised and sharply cut, and the sore may slowly spread and deepen. The opaque white layer on the surface is difficult to remove, but if a small piece be peeled off and examined microscopically it will be found to be composed of the superficial layers of the granulation cells which have perished and become finely granular, mixed with a coagulated exudation. Throughout the whole layer are abundant micrococci, singly, in chains, and in colonies. There is usually some slight febrile disturbance, and the nearest lymphatic glands are swollen. Causes.—This unhealthy process is always the consequence of local nec^lect of cleanlmess and general imperfection of hygienic arrangements. It may affect several wounds in a ward, but its contagiousness is not very clearly marked, and it frequently occurs in isolated cases. It has no relation to diphtheria. It is true that a similar unhealthy condition has been observed m wounds when the patient has been attacked by genuine diphtheria • but the constitutional condition is then entirely different.' Diphtheritic inflamma- tion in the throat does not lead to the progressive destruction of tissue 3 o 2