THE MIGRATED CORPUSCLES IN THE TISSUES. 163 which soaks beyond the area into the surrounding healthy tissues, will no longer tend to coagulate, but will drain off by the lymphatics and return to the circulation. The same will happen with any migrating corpuscles which wander beyond the area of inflammation. If the exudation is very abundant, the lymph-spaces for some distance round the centre of inflammation will be distended with fluid, and thus is produced the oedema which accompanies all acute inflammatory processes. The amount of exudation from an inflamed part is very considerable. Experiments have shown that the amount of lymph returned through the main lymphatic trunk of the thigh of a dog after in- flammation has been excited in the paw, is many times the normal quantity, about one ounce escaping for every drachm that could be collected before the inflammation had been set up. The Migrated Corpuscles in the Tissues.—We have seen in the fore- going description of the intravascular changes in inflammation that both red and white corpuscles and probably also the blood tablets may pass through the walls of the vessels into the surrounding tissues. The red corpuscles take no part in any pathological process outside the vessels. Their escape is merely an accident, and they are soon absorbed by other cells. Of the blood tablets outside the vessels we know nothing. It is now known that the blood contains more than one form of colourless corpuscle—how many is not determined. Microscopically two chief varieties are easily recognized, one having a single large round or oval nucleus sur- rounded by a comparatively small amount of protoplasm, and the other having a lobed or more commonly a completely divided nucleus consisting of three or four parts surrounded by a larger amount of protoplasm. The breaking up of the nucleus has been looked upon by many pathologists rather as a sign of degeneration than of activity, for the reason that it is always found in pus-cells which are evidently dead. It seems, however, that this explanation is erroneous, for not only are the multinucleated leucocytes abundantly present in the blood, but they form at least three quarters of the migrating cells and are the most active when they have left the vessels. Metchnikoff states that the division of the nucleus greatly fiicilitates the passage of the corpuscle through the vessel-wall. The first function of the escaped leucocytes is to talce part in the coagulation of the exuded -plasma. A certain number of the corpuscles break up, yielding the fibrin-ferment necessary for coagulation, while the rest remain entangled in the meshes of the fibrin. As before men- tioned, this forms the so-called inflammatory lymph. There can be little doubt that the corpuscles which thus break up are of a different variety from those that remain unchanged. Secondly, the migrated leucocytes move towards the damaged area, and invade it until the original tissues may be scarcely recognisable amongst the crowd of invading cells. This movement towards the damaged area has been explained by supposing that the damaged tissues bemg in a state of suspended activity, oflPer less resistance than the surroundino- healthy parts, and that the corpuscles therefore move in the direction of least resistance. On the other hand, the theory of attraction or chemiotaxis (p 161) IS now adopted by a large number of pathologists. It is quite evident that this movement towards the damaged area will be arrested, should the part be impregnated with any chemical substance which is capable of inhibiting the amoeboid corpuscles, or of destroying their vitality In considering the movements of the leucocytes, it must be remembered that M 2