io82 TUMOURS. glands in an early stage of infection is a more hopeful proceeding than in either of the forms of glandular cancer. There is no fact in Surgery more certain than this, that other things being equal, the earlier a malignani tumour is removed the Ijetter is the chance of pro- longed or permane7it relief . In the preceding pages it has been pointed out how strong is the evidence that carcinoma is primarily local, and that the glands and afterwards the viscera become infected by actual particles of the tumour transplanted to them from the original growth. Accepting this as true, it necessarily follows, as was pointed out by De Morgan, that the disease may be local and capable of complete removal up to a certain moment, and the next it may have extended beyond the reach of operative interference. We cannot possibly tell when this eventful change takes place. All we can do is to try to anticipate it by operating at the earliest possible time. Not a day should be lost after the disease is recognized. In doubtful cases it is far better not to wait till unequivocal signs of the malignant nature of the growth appear, but to cut into it, and if necessary remove a slice for examination at the earliest possible time, proceeding immediately to complete removal if it is found to be malignant. Errors will arise, do Avhat we will to prevent them, and it is far better to err by making an unnecessary incision, or even removing a mass of chronically inflamed tissue or a syphilitic gumma, than to leave a cancerous growth till its complete extirpation becomes impossible. EXCISION OF TUMOUBS. In describing the different forms of cysts, the operative procedures necessary for their removal have been adverted to. We may now conveniently consider the steps that are generally necessary for the extirpation of solid tumours from the soft parts. Tumours may be removed by the knife, by the ecraseur, by the cautery, or by ligature. Removal of Tumours by the Knife.—In the removal of tumours, the first point to be attended to is the arrangement, shape, and direction of the necessary i?icisio?is. These should not only have reference to the size of the growth, but must also be planned with due regard to subjacent parts of im- portance. As a general rule, they should be Carried in the direction of the axis of the limb or part, and parallel to the course of its principal vessels ; they must extend not only over the whole length of the tumour, but also a little beyond it at each end : no cross-cuts should be made, if they can be avoided, and this may usually be done by attention to the proper position and extent of the linear incisions. In removing a simple tumour, no skin should, as a rule, be taken away, a simple cut being made ; but if the integumental tissues be either very abundant and loose, or adherent, an elliptical portion of them may be excised together with the tumour. In other instances, again, H semilunar flap of integument may with advantage be turned up from the tumour, the surface of Avhich is then fairly exposed ; this, however, can be done only in some simple tumours, such as fatty growths. In excising malignant tumours the skin must in most cases be freely cut away. It is better to leave a healthy surface to heal by granulation, than not to take away any part of the skin which may be infected by the growth. The flaps covering the growth should be freely but cautiously dissected back, so as to