551 IMPLICATION OF JOINTS IN FRACTURES. occur, to examine for it before applying the splints, otherwise it will be over- looked till the apparatus is finally removed, and it is then impossible to say whether the paralysis is due to an injury at the time of the accident or to thi; pressure of callus. No treatment is required beyond galvanism of the paralysed muscles when the injury is merely due to bruising at the time of fracture. ^ K recovery does not take place spontaneously, and if there is reason to believe that the nerve is divided or surrounded by callus, an operation may be under- taken at a later period. Bruns mentions 30 cases in which such operations have been performed, in 20 of which the musculo-spiral was the nerve affected. In most of these it was necessary to remove the callus surrounding the ner\ e by means of a chisel. Complete restoration of function followed in 24 cases. Comminution.—However extensively a bone may be comminuted, good union Avill take place provided the fracture be simple. I have seen the lower end of the femur crushed, as if by a sledge-hammer, into a multitude of fragments; and yet excellent union resulted, the fracture being simple. In such a case as this, if there had been the smallest wound to admit air into the limb, and decomposition of the elf used blood had followed, the patient's limb, if not his life, would have been lost. It is, in fact, impossible to over-estimate the advantage of an injury of this kind being subcutaneous. A serious complication of simple fractures consists in the Implication of a Joint.—The fracture may extend into a neighbouring articulation, and thus give rise to considerable inflammation ; in strumous subjects this may lead to ultimate disorganization of the articulation, requiring excision, which I have several times had occasion to perform in these cases. But in healthy in- dividuals a large articular surface may be traversed by lines of fi'acture in several directions, without material inconvenience resulting. This we see in impacted fractures of the condyles of the femur or of the lower end of the radius. In several instances of this kind in which I have examined the limb after death, no sign of disease of the part has been manifested beyond a moderate amount of injection of the ligaments ; the fractured cartilage being united by plastic matter, and the synovia being clear and free from inflam- matory exudation. But, although union of fractures extending into articula- tions takes place readily enough, it cannot be expected that the patient will recover with as mobile a joint as if the fracture had traversed merely the shaft. In fact, in the majority of these cases, the patient will be left with a joint that is weak, stiff, and painful; and, if in the lower extremity, the limb may be unable to support the Aveight of the body for some considerable time. Possibly also, in many of these instances, an impaired joint will be left through life, as the necessary and unavoidable result of the injury, though not unfre- quently unjustly attributed to negligence and want of skill on the part of the Surgeon. Hence it is a wise precaution for the Surgeon when called to a case of fracture involving any one of the six larger articulations, viz., the shoulder, elbow, wi-ist, hip, knee, or ankle, to warn the patient that some degree of impairment of the use of the limb will probably result. In cases of simple fracture occurring in the neighbourhood of, or implicating large joints, passive motion is very commonly recommended at the end of from four to six Aveeks ; I think, however, with Vincent, that it is often apt to do more harm than good, and is seldom required, the natural action of the muscles of the part being fully sufficient to restore the movements of the articulation, Avith the assistance of friction and douches.