INJURIES OF SOFT PARTS. primary union may be interfered with and suppuration set up. Bacteria are louncl only if the dressing completely fails and putrefaction sets in. It would seem that the micrococci are less easily destroyed bv carbolic acid than the Dacteria and consequently, as the dressing begins to lose its carbolic acid, partly oy volatilisation and partly by solution in the discharges, they make their appearance. Ogston has shown that in the treatment of abscesses the develop- ment of micrococci can be prevented by more frequent dressings, and he is of opinion that the benefit deri\ ed from this is worth the extra trouble involved m dressing more frequently. It is probable that after the third day a carbolic gauze dressing becomes too weak to kill micrococci, and that by the end of a T? ^\ ^® ^'«garded as antiseptic in any sense of the word, it is doubtful if at any time it is capable of destroying the spores of a DaciiJus. In changing a carbolic acid dressing the spray mav be used by those who prefer It, but equal safety can be obtained by irrigating and by coverino- the wound with a " guard " as much as possible when the dressing is off. The carbolic gauze dressing has been shown by experieirce to give most satisfactory results, probably in every way equal to those obtained by any other method at present devised ; but it has several disadvantages. The gauze, from being impregnated with paraffin, is not so absorbent" as many otfier dressings, and if badly prepared it may cake into a hard mass, and alto- gether fail to absorb. It is not safe to use it as a lasting dressing. It occa- sionally, but rarely, irritates the skin, or causes symptoms of carbolic acid poisoning. It cannot be prepared by the Surgeon himself under ordinary circumstances, it gradually loses its virtues by keeping, and it is somewhat expensive. For these reasons it is less frequently used now than it was a few years ago, its place being taken to a very great extent by the mercurial dress- mgs, or by some form of absorbent wool. Eucalyptus Gauze (p. 211) and Thymol Gauze have been substituted tor the carbolic in cases in which the latter caused irritation or symptoms of poisoning. They are applied in the same way as the carbolic gauze, and when quite freshly prepared, may be relied upon to prevent putrefaction; but they quickly lose their virtue, owing to the great volatility of the • antiseptic. The application of various antiseptic lotions on lint is a common mode of treatment, and is often attended with very good results, but if the discharge be abundant, decomposition is very apt to occur. Carbolic acid lotion (1 in 40) may be used in this way, but it requires very frequent changing, as the acid rapidly volatilises. It is, moreover, apt to irritate the wound and to interfere with union. Boric acid lint soaked in a concentrated solution of bone acid is less irritating, but it is not a very powerful antiseptic. The addition of one-fourth part of glycerine to the lotion prevents the lint from drying, but it is rather a painful application to a raw surface. Oil containing some antiseptic in solution is one of the most ancient forms of dressing. Lint soaked in carbolic oil (1 in 10), applied so as to extend for some inches round the wound, may occasionally be useful in the absence of more convenient means, but it is not a very satisfactory dressing. It is a feeble antiseptic, and is apt to stick to the wound and become dry. It should be changed at least twice a day. Lint soaked in a mixture of one part of terebene to five parts of olive oil has given satisfactory results. All these