720 INJURIES OF THE HEAD. It frequently happens that the scalp is bruised and lacerated as well as wounded : and very commonly a large flap of integument is stripped olf the skull, and is thrown down over the face or ear. In these cases, advantage is taken of the great vitality of the scalp. However extensively lacerated this may be, however much it may be begrimed with dirt, it is a golden rule in surgery not to cut any portion of it away, but, after shaving the head and ligaturing any bleeding vessels, to clean it thoroughly, and replace the flap in its proper position. Should suppuration occur beneath tlie pericranial aponeurosis in con- sequence of the antiseptic treatment having failed, and the wound being too tightly closed, active and efficient treatment is necessary to save the patient from the dangers of septic- fBmia or pysemia. As soon as pain, with some swelling round the wound and elevation of temperature, raises a suspicion that diff'use inflammation is spreading from the wound, all dressings sbould be removed. It will frequently be found that the edges of the wound are adhering to each other ; if this be the case, they must be separated with a director, when a small quantity of thin offensive pus frequently escapes, A fomen- tation of boric acid lint or salicylic wool may then be applied, and covered over sheet of cotton wool and a bandage. This four hours. In most cases this treatment Fig. 290.—Head .-.howing Lines foi- Incisions in Diffuse CeUulitis be- neath the Pericranial Aponeurosis. with oil-silk, must - be and a changed over this about every will be successful in arresting the unhealthy inflammation, but should it fail and the cellulitis extend more widely, it will be necessary to make free incisions, reaching through the pericranial aponeurosis wherever the inflam- mation has extended. Before doing this the head must be completely shaved, without which cleanliness is impossible. It is more essential that this should be done in women even than in men, however much they may object, as their hair is longer. The incisions should be each about one inch in length, and should vary in number according to the extent of the mischief. They must be carefully planned so as to avoid the main arteries (Fig. 290). After bleeding has been arrested hot dressings must be applied as before described. Simple erysipelas after a scalp wound presents nothing special in its treatment. When the skull itself is extensively denuded in consequence of the peri- cranium being stripped off the subjacent bone together with a flap of the scalp, it does not necessarily follow that necrosis and exfoliation of the exposed bone will occur. The flap must be laid down on the denuded osseous surface, to which it may possibly contract adhesion through the medium of granulations. The treatment of intracranial suppuration will be considered later on (p. 774). INJURIES OF THE SKULL. These possess great interest, not so much from the lesion of the bone itself, as from its frequent complication with injury of the brain and its membranes.