SUBASTRAGALAR DISLOCATION 7^3 selves to the Surgeon : either at once to cut down upon the astragalus and to remove it; or to put the limb at rest on a splint, and to wait the result in some rare cases, the displaced astragalus has given rise to comparatively little inconvenience: but this can seldom be expected. If the dislocation have been in the direction forwards, the skin will usually slough and the displaced bone then will necrose and must be removed. In former times it was considered safer to leave the hone as long as possible before removal in the hope that the space between the tibia and the os calcis might have closed behind the dis- placed astragalus before it had to be taken away and that the operation would thus be reduced to a simple superficial incision. In the present day, with efficient antiseptic treatment, there is no fear of any trouble following immediate removal. If, therefore, the means for carrying out the treatment are at hand, the bone should at once be dissected out and the case treated like one of excision of the astragalus for disease. In luxation haclwanh, the bone has not hitherto to my knowledge been reduced, except in one case which occurred in University College Hospital, in which the tibia and fibula were also fractured. It is by no means improbable that subcutaneous division of the tendo Achillis may in future Fig. 28'.'.—Dissection of Foot in Componnd Dislocation of Astragalus outwards. enable the Surgeon to eflPect reduction. The result is, however, satisfactory, even though the bone be not reduced, the patient recovering with a useful foot. If the dislocation be left unreduced, the soft parts covering the bone may slough, us happened in a case recorded by R. C. Williams of Dublin, in which the bone was consequently extracted. In Compound Dislocation of the Astragalus (Fig. 289), the rule of practice must depend upon the extent of injury. If the integuments have merely been rent in consequence of the outward pressure of the displaced bone an attempt must be made to reduce the dislocation by the aid, if necessary, of the division of the tendo Achillis ; and, if this be effected, to close the wound by the first intenti(jn. If the bone be comminuted as well as dislocated, the proper practice will be to remove the loosened fragments, and to dress the wound antiseptically, allowing it to heal by granulation. If the bone be irre- ducible, it should at once be dissected out. If together with the dislocation of the astragalus, the foot be extensively crushed, amputation may be required either at the ankle-joint or at some convenient part of the leg. Subastragalar Dislocation.—In this injury, which is produced by causes similar to those occasioning dislocation of the astragalus, the calcaneum and