ACQUIRED SYPHILIS: PRIMARY SORE. 1127 usually on moist surfaces as the glans or inside of the prepuce in the male, or the labia in the female. The second form of indurated sore is that most properly described as the " true Hunterian chancre." It is surrounded by a dense mass of induration extending deeply into the tissues. It is considerably elevated above the sur- roundiug parts, and the surface is often slightly cup-shaped. Grasped between the fingers it feels almost like a piece of cartilage, the limits of the induration being clearly and sharply defined, and the surrounding tissues free from inflammation. It is usually painless, and its surface is often almost dry, there being merely a very slight serous discharge. It is most common on the glans or on the corona. Every modification may be met with between these two forms of the indurated sore. It has been maintained by Surgeons of great authority that induration at the site of inoculation may occasionally be absent. It is certainly in some rare cases so slight that it is detected with difficulty, but it is doubtful if it is ever wholly wanting. As soon as the primary sore makes its appearance, the patient acquires an immunity from re-inoculation of the poison, the discharge from an indurated sore not being inoculable on the patient himself under ordinary circumstances. If, however, the surface be irritated mechanically, by the application of irritating dressings or from want of cleanliness, to such an extent that the discharge becomes purulent, it Avill then as a rule become auto- inoculable, the resulting sore resembling a soft chancre in appearance, and not presenting the characteristic features of the hard chancre. The non- inoculability of the discharge from an inflamed hard sore has been used as a means of diagnosis between the hard and the soft chancre, but in cases in which doubt existed the sore would probably be suppurating from irritation, and consequently an error might easily arise. Number.—The primary syphilitic sore is almost invariably single. This fact is readily explained by its non-inoculability on the patient himself. Arthur Cooper states that of 103 cases of early syphilis admitted into the Male Lock. Hospital, in 91 there was only one initial lesion, 7 had two sores, and 5 had more than two. Situation.—The indurated primary ulcers of syphilis are most frequent on the genitals, but not so exclusively limited to those parts as are local venereal sores, because syphilis is communicated in various ways besides sexual intercourse. They may appear on any part of the body. Fournier found that, of 472 cases of inoculation in men, 314 were on the prepuce and glans penis, 109 on other parts of the male organ, 12 only in the mouth, 6 on the hands and fingers, and a few on the eyelids, tonsil, and navel. The Urethral Chancre is usually situated just within the orifice of the canal, and may be seen on pressing open its lips, in the form of a small sore, which occasionally creeps out upon the glans. Sometimes it is more deeply seated, so as to be out of sight ; when this is the case, a discharge, occasionally tinged with blood, appears in small quantities from the urethra ; at a little distance up the canal there will usually be felt, on grasping the organ, a circumscribed indurated spot, which is somewhat painful on pressure and after micturition. It is the presence of chancres in this canal that formerly led to the supposition of the identity of syphilis and gonorrhoea, an error which was disproved by the test of inoculation ; the discharge from urethral chancre producing the typical sore, that from gonorrhoea giving no result when in-