METHODS OF TREATING WOUNDS. 321 fcaius the perfect coaptation of the deeper parts so perfectly as the uniform elastic pressure of a mass of cotton-wool, or some similar substance, surrounded by a bandao-e evenly and firmly applied. This forjns a most important feature in some of the methods of treatiug wounds, to be described immediately, 4. The provision for Perfect Drainage.—In every wound which has been closed by sutures there is a danger that the deep pait may become distended with blood or serous exudations. Before finally closing a wound it is essential that the htemorrhage be very thoroughly arrested, and considerable time must often be spent in obtaining this result. Again, by the firm elastic pressure of a large cotton-wool dressing, the early serous exudation can' be greatly diminished, the surfaces of the wound being brought into perfect apposition, and the vessels and lymph-spaces closed early by plastic exudation. By most careful attention to these two points—thorough arrest of haemorrhage and application of uniform pressure—extensive wounds may heal throughout by first intention without any provision for drainage having been made. Such a result cannot, however, be ensured ; oozing of blood may occur after the wound is closed, and in many situations it is impossible to apply uniform pressure sufficient to iufiuence the amount of the serous exudation. Hence provision must be made for drainage in most cases, and the value of a " drainage-iuhe" cannot be overestimated as a safeguard against the ac- cumulation of decomposable fluids in the wound, which prevents the cohesion of its opposite sides, and exposes the patient to the danger of septic contamina- tion. In a wound heahng by first intention the tube has served its purpose at the end of twenty-four or forty-eight hours, and it may then be removed. Its use should never be omitted, if the wound be deep and irregular, or if there be danger of bagging under a flap. In operations the wound should, whenever possible, be made in such a direction as to facilitate drainage. ."). The Maintenance of Perfect Rest.—One important point in the management of every wound is to maintain the injured structures, as much as possible, in a state of rest. This is to be done by position, by refraining from disturbing the parts unnecessarily, and by the adoption of some mode of dressmg that requires to be changed but seldom. In some cases, Compresses of wool or gauze may be so disposed as to aid in keeping the sides in apposition ; the handcujes should be applied over them so as to exert a steady well-regulated pressure, without impeding the free circulation of blood in the part. The elastic pressure of a large mass of cotton-wool as applied in some of the forms of dressing to be described hereafter maintains rest in the hio-hest perfection. ^ In the treatment of wounds on the limbs the use of a splmt is often necessary 6. The prevention of decomposition of the discharge and of infection of the wonnd must be carried out by means founded on the principles already laid down when treating of the causes (p 172 et seo) and the prevention, (p. 204 et seq.) of inflammation. METHODS OF TREATING WOUNDS. It is impossible to make more than brief reference to those various methods employed by Surgeons in the treatment of wounds before the introduction of the antiseptic method by Lister. VOL. I.