CONTUSIONS. CHAPTEE IX. —♦— INJURIES OF SOFT PARTS. These consist of Contusions and Wounds. CONTUSIONS. A Contusion may be looked npon as a subcutaneous wound. Great disor- ganisation of the subcutaneous structures may take place, although the skin, owing to its elasticity and toughuess, remains intact. In contusions there is always extravasation of blood into the tissues to a greater or less degree. When slight, this extravasation is termed an ecchy- mosis. The blood is not shed outwardly, but accumulates under the skin in the areolar tissue, or in internal organs, presenting in the former situation the ordinary purplish-black discoloration of a bruise. The arrest of the extra- vasation is due in great measure to the coagulation of the effused blood closing the torn vessels, and in some cases to the pressure it exerts upon their walls ; thus allowing the ordinary process of repair of wounded vessels to take place. Causes.—Contusions may result from direct pressure, as when a part is forcibly squeezed ; from a direct blow, usually by a hard blunt body ; or from an indirect htoir, as when the hip-joint is contused by a person falling on his feet from a height. Comjjression of the parts injured is always necessary to produce a con- tusion. This compression may occur between the force on one side and a bone as the resisting medium on the other ; or the part injured may be compressed and contused between two forces in action—as when the hand is caught between two revolving wheels ; or between a force in action and a passive medium—as by a wheel passing over the limb and crushing it against the ground. Degrees.—The amount of extravasation of blood consequent on a contusion wdl depend upon the force causing the bruise, the vascularity of the part and to a considerable extent upon the state of health of the individual. In persons out of health, with soft tissues, bruising very readily occurs. Contusions are of various degrees : they may be arranged as follows :—1, of the Skin only 2, with Extravasation into the Areolar Tissue; 3, with Subcutaneous Laceration of the Soft Parts; and 4, with Subcutaneous Disorganisa- tion of the Soft and Hard Parts. In first degree, t\iQ blood is effused merely into the skin, producino- ecchymosis or bruise ; the colour of which varies at different periods from purphsh-red to greenish-brown, this variation being dependent upon changes that take place in the pigment as the blood undergoes absorption In the semid degree, the extravasated blood distends the spaces of the areolar tissue, and there coagulates, forming a doughy swelling. In other cases in which the areolar tissue is torn either by the injury or by the