DIAGNOSIS OF SUBCUTANEOUS HJEMORRHAGE. 465 and no doubt such cases had better be described as "subcutaneous arterial hgemorrhages," but' no sharp line can be drawn between them and the less ])erfectly circumscribed traumatic aneurisms. Svhcvtaneous arterial Immorrhage is indicated by tiie formation of a soft semi-fluctuating tumour often of very considerable size. If the opening- be free and in a large artery the swelling increases rapidly, accompanied by the most intense tearing and throbbing pain, which may be at once relieved by jn-essure on the main trunk leading to the injured part. With this, in extreme cases, there may be the constitutional symptoms of loss of blood (p. 4(i9). At first the skin covering the part is of natural colour, but as the pressure increases it may become congested and dusky. If the vessel be large there will at first be distinct pulsation in the tumour occasionally accompanied by a thrill and a distinct bruit, but these signs as a rule disappear as the tension of the distended parts becomes greater and the extravasated blood begins to coagulate. For this reason, unless the case is seen very early the diagnosis is often extremely difficult. If the heemorrhage be from a small vessel or from a small punctured wound of a large vessel, and the surrounding parts be not lax, the swelling caused by the extravasation, after reaching a certain size somewhat rapidly, will increase more slowly so that some days may pass before a high degree of tension is developed. In whatever way arising, as soon as the tension becomes marked the pressure of the extravasated blood arrests the return of blood through the veins accompanying the artery, and in this way great cedema of the parts below the injury may be caused. Before much extravasation has taken place pulsation may be felt in the artery below the seat of injury unless the vessel be completely torn across or ex- tensively injured, but most commonly this ceases when the pressure from extravasation becomes great. As soon as the extravasation reaches a sufficient size the tension it exerts on the surrounding tissues gives rise to all the phenomena of inflammation. The skin covering the swelKng becomes hot, red, and (Edematous. The red colour is often modified by the pigment from the extravasated red corpuscles, the various tints commonly seen in a bruise being mingled with the florid red of acute inflammation. Tenderness and acute throbbing pain are also present, and the temperature may rise to three or four degrees above the normal point ; thus this condition may very closely resemble an acute abscess, and many cases are on record in which an incision has been made into the tumour under this supposition. These cases if left alone rarely, if ever, undergo spontaneous cure. They either increase in size until the integument covering them sloughs and ruptures, or the external w^ound, which has been temporarily closed, gives way ; or else they inflame and suppurate, pointing at last, like an abscess, and, on bursting, give rise to a sudden gush of blood, which may at once', or by its rapid recurrence, prove fatal. The combined obstruction to the flow through the arteiy and the pressure on the veins may cause gangrene of the limb at an early stage of the case. In some cases the temporary boundary of clotted blood and inflammatory exudation may give way, and the loss of blood extravasated into the areolar tissue beneath the fascia of the limb may be so great as to cause death from syncope. Diagnosis.—Large subcutaneous arterial hemorrhages, if seen early, are usually recognised without difiiculty. The nature of the injury, the Vapid swelling, possibly pulsating at first, the great tension and pain, the cessation