pYjEmia: post-mortem appearances. 981 Society of London, 1870. The table is divided into two columns, A and B, A showing the frequency with which the secondary inflammation was limited to one organ or tissue, and B the number of cases in which the special part was affected in combination with others. A. B Total. Joints 12 8 20 Subcutaneous and intermuscular areolar tissue . . 4 8 12 Muscles 0 1 1 Bruises and other subcutaneous injuries ... 1 1 2 Serous membranes (> -1 10 i'ung 33 24 57 Liver 1 n 12 Spleen I 10 11 Kidneys 0 (5 6 Brain .......... 1 .'j 6 Heart, substance of 1 4 5 Endocardium 0 1 1 Parotid Gland 0 1 1 The cases of inflammation of serous membranes do not include those in which the mischief was merely secondary to abscesses in the organs they cover. The relative frequency of the affection of the different membranes was as follows : pleurisy, 4 ; meningitis, 3 ; pericarditis, 2 ; peritonitis, 1. The Heart is frequently the seat of small extravasations, which may be found either beneath the pericardial or endocardial lining, or in the muscular substance^ itself. Sometimes, though not very otfen, abscesses are found situated either in the wall or in the papillary muscles ; these are usually small collections of puriform matter, rarely much larger than a pea, and often sur- rounded by a zone of congestion or haemorrhage. The muscular substance is flabby, and the lining membrane of both the heart and the aorta is usually more or less deeply stained by imbibition of the colouring matter of the blood. Pericarditis may occur independently or in connection with metastatic abscesses in the heart, or may be secondary to the inflammation of the pleura. Occa- sionally diffuse acute inflammation of the muscular structure of the heart is found, without any distinct abscess having been formed. The Lungs are much congested, especially at the posterior bases, where the tissue is friable ; sometimes this congestion passes into true pneumonia. The most important condition present in pyemia is the existence of metastatic abscesses, which may vary much in number and size. These are usually found scattered over the surface, and are most common in the upper part of the lower lobes, and the interlobular fissure. Their position is indicated by induration and a slight elevation, to be felt on passing the hand over the surface of the lung. It occasionally happens that all stages of development ot the " secondary abscesses " may be observed in the same lung. The earliest stage is merely the effect of embolism. A small terminal artery having been obhterated by an embolus, the wedge-shaped portion of lung it supplies becomes intensely engorged with blood by regurgitation from the surrounding parts or from the vessels of the pleura ; the walls of the vessels soften and htemorrhao-e into the lung tissue and air-vesicles takes place. The portion of the luno- tissue then presents the ordinary appearance of so-called pulmonary apoplexy*- It IS dark red on section, like damson-cheese, airless and solid, but breakino' down readily on pressure. The consolidated portion is spoken of as a " hmmor-