CANCRUM ORIS. fomentations, followed by antiseptic dressings when sloughing has taken place, is all that can be done in most cases. CANCRUM ORIS, OR NOMA. Cancrum oris is a rapidly spreading gangrenous inflammation attacking the inside of the cheek, most frequently between the second and sixth years of life. It is met with usually in ill-fed, sickly children who have been living under bad hygienic conditions. It commonly occurs during convalescence from some acute specific fever, most frequently measles ; or after the incautious administration of mercury during a weak state of the system. Symptoms.—One of the cheeks becomes red, swollen, brawny, tense, and shining, being excessively hard. It is often difficult to open the mouth ; but if the Surgeon can gain a view of its inside, he will see a deep and excavated foul ulcer opposite to the centre of the external swelling, covered with a brown pulpy slough. The gums are turgid, dark and ulcerated; the sahva is mixed with putrescent matters. By the second day a dark purple spot appears in the middle of the red external swelling over which the epithelium separates and the skin quickly becomes gangrenous. The sloughing extends rapidly, until by the third or fourth day a large gangrenous cavity is formed, opening exLernally through the cheek and internally laying bare the alveolar borders of the jaw. The child suffers little, and, as the disease advances, it commonly becomes drowsy, and at last dies comatose, usually within a week. This affection is most fatal. RilHet and Barthez state that not more than one case in twenty recovers. Should recovery take place, a large portion of the cheek may be lost, opening the mouth half way back to the ear, or a dense cicatricial band may form between the jaws, making it impossible to open the mouth. Pathology.—The exact cause of the ulceration is still uncertain. In the ulcerative stomatitis of calves, which in many respects closely resembles cancrum oris, Lingard and Batt have found the hue of junction of the necrotic and healthy tissues occupied by a " mass of bacilli having the appearance of a dense phalanx advancing upon the healthy tissues." These were cultivated out of the body, and found capable of causing a spreading necrosis when inoculated on other animals. In one case of cancrum oris which he had the opportunity of examining, Lingard found similar organisms with the same arrangement. Treatment.—The child must be put under chloroform, and the sloughing mass deeply cauterized. The sloughs should be scraped or scrubbed away before the caustic is appHed. Nitric acid is usually recommended in these cases. The actual cautery may also be used, especially when the cheek is already perforated. If the slough appears on the surface externally, it may be cut away before applying the caustic. After cauterization the mouth should be syringed out with diluted Condy's fluid, and the ulcerating surface dusted with iodoform. The strength must be supported with beef-tea, wine, and ammonia. If recovery take place, some plastic operation may be necessary at a later period, in order either to close the gap in the cheek or to enable the child to open its mouth.