478 WOUNDS OF SPECIAL BLOOD-VESSELS. Distinction must be clearly made between the diffused and circumscribed forms of traumatic aneurism of the axilla. In the diffused variety there is subcutaneous arterial extravasation, forming more or less rapidly a tumour of considerable size. The swelling presents none of the characteristic signs of an aneurism, and can be distinguished from an ordinary extravasation by the loss of the pulse at the wrist and the cedema of the arm. Some of these arterial extravasations in the axilla tend to diffuse themselves with great rapidity, extending under the pectoral muscles, and even up around the shoulder. In all these cases there is great danger of suppuration and sloughing of the tissues into which the blood is extravasated, and gangrene of the limb itself may result. In the circumscrihed form, on the other hand, the swelling developes slowly, and presents the usual signs of aneurism, such as thrill and pulsation. Under these circumstances the disease may get well spontaneously, as happened in cases recorded by Yan Swieten, Sabatier, and Hodgson. In other instances again, the disease has remained stationary for years, or has undergone con- solidation under medical treatment. It cannot, however, be considered sound practice to leave a circumscribed traumatic aneurism of this artery without surgical interference, after the ordinary dietetic and hygienic plans of treat- ment have failed, for it may at any time become rapidly diffused, or inflame and suppurate. The Treatment of traumatic axillary aneurism must depend on whether it be diffused or circumscribed. In subcutaneous arterial extravasation—the so-called diffused traumatic aneurism—the plan of treatment recommended so strongly by Guthrie must always be followed, viz., to open up the axilla, turn out the coagula, and ligature the wounded artery. The treatment is the same whether the extrava- sation result from a punctured wound or a subcutaneous rupture of the vessel. The operation consists in compressing the subclavian above the clavicle, either by the pressure of the finger from the surface, or, as was done by Syme in his case, by previously making an incision over it, through Avhich it could be more readily commanded; then laying the tumour open by a free incision through the anterior fold of the axilla and the pectoral muscles, turning out the coagula, and seeking for and ligaturing both ends of the artery; for it must be remem- bered that the distal extremity of the torn vessel will probably bleed freely, owing to the open anastomoses round the shoulder. Should secondary haemorrhage or gangrene follow the operation, amputation at the shoulder is the only plan that holds out a chance of life to the patient. The result of departing from this first principle of the treatment of diffused traumatic aneurism is well shown by three recorded cases in which the sub- clavian artery was tied for extravasation following subcutaneous rupture of the axillary artery. Two of the patients died of gangrene and secondary hsemorrhage, and in the successful case, secondary hjemorrhage occurred, gangrene of the arm threatened, and life was saved only by amputation at the shoulder-joint. In the treatment of the circumscrihed variety the same principle cannot guide us as in the management of the diffuse extravasation, for not only is the circumscribed aneurism provided with a sac, but the vessel at the point injured will very probably be found to have undergone changes that render it little able to bear the application of the hgature. It will be softened, thickened.