873 RUPTURE OF THE KIDNEY. region of the liver continued up to the time at which he left the Hospital, nearly two months after the accident. In this case the long and severe collapse, the seat of pain and injury, the peritonitis, the bilious vomitings, and the white stools, all pointed to serious injury of the liver ; and rapid intra-abdominal extravasation could be accounted for only by rupture of that organ. If the Spleen has been lacerated, there will be severe shock, accompanied by signs of internal hsemorrhage ; coldness and pallor of the surface, a small and feeble pulse, anxiety of countenance, and great depression of the vital powers, with pain at the seat of injury, and dulness on percussion from extra- vasated blood. These symptoms usually terminate rapidly in death. Rupture of the spleen is specially liable to occur from slight blows when that organ is enlarged as the result of exposure to a malarious climate. If the Kidneys are injured, there will often be a frequent desire to pass urine, and that fluid will be tinged with blood, often to a considerable extent. If the ureter become plugged by a clot there may be severe renal colic, the pain shooting down to the testicle and thigh. Sometimes the bladder becomes distended with coagulated blood. After the discharge of blood ceases, the urine will become albuminous, and may continue so for a great length of time. On examining such albuminous urine under the microscope, it will generally be found to contain a few blood-corpuscles, and possibly some tube-casts, which at first, perhaps, contain blood-corpuscles, and later on become granular. Pus and mucus, with epithehum-cells from the pelvis of the kidney, and occasionally renal epithelium, may be met with later on, showing the existence of inflammation in the kidney. It is an important practical fact, so far as my experience goes, that albumen never appears in the urine as the result of renal injury, unless it has been preceded by blood. The absence of blood from the urine must not, however, be taken as an indication that the kidney is mot injured : it may be so disorganized as to be totally incapable of secreting, or the ureter being torn across no bloody urine finds its way into the bladder. A man was admitted into the Hospital under my care for a bufier injury of the back ; he passed urine untinged with blood, but after death his right kidney was found completely smashed by the blow, and there was an extensive extravasation of blood in the fat around it; here it was evident that the disorganisation was so sudden and complete that no urine could find its way into the bladder. In another case, in consequence of a fall from a window, an elderly man died in the course of an hour, having struck his back and sustained several fractures of the limbs. The left kidney was ruptured in a starred manner, with extensive extravasation of blood into the tissues around it, but there was not a tinge of blood in the urine which was retained in the bladder. Eupture of the kidney is by no means necessarily fatal. Patients have lived after exhibiting all the signs of it—the passing of bloody urine, and the presence of circumscribed peritonitis ; and, when death has occurred at a later period, cicatrices have been detected in the organ. A patient was admitted under my care into University College Hospital for a severe blow upon the back from the bufi'er of a railway carriage, followed by hjematuria and other symptoms of renal injury ; on his death from pneumonia nine weeks after the accident, an extravasation of blood, with the marks of recent cicatrization, was found in the left kidney.