COLLATERAL CIRCULATION. 447 vessels are pliant and elastic, readily accoramodating themselves to the in- creased quantity of blood that they are required to convey. As age advances, the vascular system becomes less elastic, and there is a greater difficulty in the establishment of the collateral circulation. The anastomosing vessels which serve this purpose are invariably furnished by arteries contiguous to that which is ligatured, and come off from the same side of the body. Thus, for instance, after ligature of the superficial femoral, it is by the profunda artery that the supply of blood is carried to the lower extremity. Thus also, when the common carotid is li^gaturecl, the circulation to the parts it supplies is not maintained through the medium of the opposite carotid, although the inosculations between the ultimate branches of the two vessels are so free upon the throat, and the face, and within the cranium ; but it is by means of the inferior thyroid and vertebral arteries (branches of the subclavian on the same side), which become greatly enlarged, that the supply of blood is kept up to the parts on the outside as well as in the inside of the cranium. The supply of blood that is sent to a limb, after deligation of the main trunk, is at first but small in quantity ; being merely sufficient for the main- tenance of its vitaHty,but not enough for the continuance of the usual function of the part. Hence, although the life of a limb may be preserved after the ligature of its artery, it becomes cold, and the patient is often unable to move it for some time, the muscles appearing to be completely paralysed ; in a few hours, however, the supply of blood increases, until it reaches its usual standard, when the normal vigour of the part returns. By the end of twenty- four hours the limb will be found to be redder than natural, and the tempera- ture often rises one or two degrees beyond that of the opposite limb, whilst a great sensation of heat is experienced in it by the patient. This period of increased heat may last a week or more. The re-establishment of the blood-supply to the limb after obliteration of the main trunk is accomplished chiefly by changes taking place in the Anas- tomosing Arteries. Almost immediately after the ligature is tightened they become dilated to their extreme capacity. This is due in a very slight degree to the increased tension caused by the sudden obliteration of the main trunk, for that is equally felt throughout the whole body, except the part supplied by the ligatured artery. It is chiefly the result of relaxation of the muscular coat. This relaxation is probably a reflex phenomenon consequent upon the want of blood in the parts beyond the point of obliteration of the artery. We have already seen that a similar dilatation of the vessels occurs when a limb has been rendered bloodless for a short time by an Esmarch's bandage. The dilatation is not limited to the anastomosing vessels which are directly con- cerned in carrying the blood from above to below the ligature, but alfects the whole arterial system of the limb. It is this that causes the increased redness a few hours after the ligature has been applied. The resistance to the flow of blood is necessarily reduced to the smallest possible degree by this general vascular dilatation, and this to some extent compensates for the increased resistance which necessarily results from the blood having to be driven through a number of small anastomosing arteries, instead of through a single main trunk. The preliminary dilatation is followed by a permanent enlargement of the anastomosing arteries, which increase both in diameter and in length, and thus assume a tortuous or waved form. Thus in a case of spontaneous obliteration of the first part of the axillary