629 FRACTURE OF PATELLA: TREATMENT. which has broken bone. These are applied above and below the patella, and approxi- mated and held in position bj broad strips of plaster long enough to embrace the limb and the back splint to which they must be fixed. They are applied obliquely in such a way as to steady the lower fragment and to di-aw the upper downwards towards it. Care must be taken that the pieces of gutta-percha do not press on the upper and lower portions of the patella, lest the fragments be tilted, so that though they are in contact posteriorly they are separated by a considerable interval in front. If gutta-percha be not at hand, pads of hnt cut to the same form must be applied beneath the straps. A figure-of-8 bandage may be applied round the limb and splint together. In the place of the gutta-percha and straps of plaster, an apparatus consisting of two broad bands of leather, buckled above and below the knee and united by longitudinal straps, which can be shortened at pleasure, has been employed. H. 0. Thomas, of Liverpool, recommended a plan of treatment given excellent results, and has the great advantage of not confining the patient to bed for more than a few days. A Thomas's bed knee-splint (see Diseases of the Knee-Joint), which need not accurately fit the patient provided it be of sufficient length, should at once be applied. The leg is to be retained in position by the usual extension apparatus of adhesive plaster, the ends of the strips being fixed round the bottom of the splint. " To the bandages which secure the extension-plaster round the leg is sewn a piece of elastic webbing with adhesive material spread upon half its length ; this being thus fixed below is stretched over the fractured patella and attached by adhesion to the skin of the thigh above the upper fragment of the patella, which it thus con- stantly draws gently down and exercises also very slight surface pressure over both fragments, pressing them into the space between the condyles of the femur and head of the tibia." The bandages are now applied over the thigh and leg, and a support arranged, either of leather or adhesi\-e plaster, behind the pophteal space, sufficiently tight to hinder any backward strain on the knee-joint. As soon as it can be made, a walking " cahper " knee-splint with a boot must be fitted to the patient ; after which he can leave his bed and move about during the remainder of the treatment. 3. Plaster of Paris and Starched Bandage.—The immediate application of a plaster of Paris bandage after aspiration of the joint has been strongly- advocated by Christopher Heath, who has obtained excellent results by this mode of treatment. I have frequently employed the starched bandage without aspiration of the joint, and have in this way obtained very close union without confining the patient to bed after the third day. A back splint of pasteboard is required to fix the knee, and a good pad of lint with a figure-of-8 bandage should be applied above and below tlie fracture. The action of the pad is much increased by drawing it down and fixing it by two broad strips of plaster. With any of the foregoing modes of treatment the apparatus must be applied for at least eight weeks, and after its removal some rigid appliance, such as a firm leather splint or a Thomas's caliper splint, must be fitted to the limb and worn for a further period of some weeks or months. If this precaution be not Fig, 230. — Thomas's Knee - splint, ap- plied for Fractiireil Patella.