FRACTURES OF SCAPULA. S^S head, so as to touch the crown, owing to some of the fibres of the deltoid having lost their points of attachment; and it may be determmed by the existence in a minor degree of some of the preceding signs, which prevent the accident from being confounded with paralysis of the deltoid from con- tusion ; and especially by the tip being felt to be detached But as has already been stated, this may be a congenital defect, to which perhaps attention has been directed only when the shoulder has been bruised or otherwise injured. , , The Treatment consists in raising the elbow so as to take oli the weight of the hmb, and to push up the acromion by the head of the humerus. If the extremity only be broken off in front of the acromio-clavicular articula- tion, a pad may be placed between the elbow and the side m order to direct the arm somewhat upwards and inwards, and the limb must be fixed in this position by a bandage and sling. Should the fractare have taken place at or behind the line of the clavicular ai-ticulation, the treatment must be the same as that for fractured clavicle. When the base of this process is broken across, there is not much separation between the fragments, and union usually takes place by bone. When the apex is detached, fibroid or ligamentous union generally occurs, the fragments being widely separated. 3. The Coracoid Process is but seldom broken, there being not more than ten or twelve unequivocal cases on record. It can rarely happen except by very direct violence. There is in the Museum of University College a recent preparation showing a fracture of the base of this process, implicating the glenoid cavity, and complicated with ft-acture across the base of the acromion ; and another specimen, from a subject in the dissecting-room, showing a fracture through the middle of the process united by a fibrous band three- quarters of an inch in length. In spite of the attachment of such powerful muscles as the pectoralis minor, biceps, and coraco-brachialis, the displace- ment is not great as the process is kept in position by the coraco-clavicular ligaments. The only Treatment that can be adopted is to put the arm in a sling and fix it to the side. 4. Fracture of the Neck of the Scapula immediately behind the glenoid cavity is a rare injury. Its existence has been doubted ; A. Cooper and South have stated that cases so described are, in reality, fractures of the upper end of the humerus. A case, however, recorded by Spence puts the occasional occur- rence of the injury beyond doubt. A man was brought into the Edinburgh Infirmary, who had fallen on his shoulder while intoxicated. There was faUing of the limb towards the axilla, with projection of the acromion and flattening of the deltoid ; and crepitus was felt. The contour of the shoulder was restored by drawing the arm from the side and raising the limb. The man died some days afterwards from meningitis, the result of an injury to the head received during the fall. On examining the shoulder, " the fracture was found to pass obliquely from below upwards and forwards, commencing about half-an-inch behind the origin of the long head of the triceps, and separating the neck and four-fifths of the lower part of the glenoid cavity from the scapula. The long head of the biceps and the whole of the glenoid ligament had also been torn from the upper fragment of the glenoid cavity, and carried along with the displaced portion." In fracture through the neck of the scapula, the coracoid process would necessarily follow the glenoid cavity, being