WOUNDS OF THE PALATE AND PHARYNX. 825 ligature, or by torsion. The raw surface should then be well dusted with iodoform. These wounds often assume a sloughy appearance for a few days ; they then clean up, and granulate healthily. It is useless to bring the edges together by sutures, which readily cut out. If, however, a large portion of the tip be nearly detached, it must be supported in this way ; but the sutures, which should be of silkworm-gut or silver wire, must be thick and passed deeply. Pieces of tobacco-pipe are occasionally driven into and broken off in the substance of the tongue, and they either give rise to very free haemorrhage, or the wound may close and heal over the foreign body, the existence of which may not be known to the patient. In a case of this kind, in which a man complained of much pain and stiffness in the tongue, with difficulty in degluti- tion, I found a hard swelling towards the base of the organ ; on cutting down upon this I extracted three inches of the stem of a clay pipe, which had been lodged there for several months. The Palate and the Pharynx are sometimes lacerated by gunshot injuries of the mouth; or the wound may result from something that the patient happens to have between his lips being driven forcibly backwards into his mouth. Thus, a tobacco-pipe may, by a blow on the face, be driven deeply into the substance of the tonsil, or perhaps into the pharynx, wounding and lodging behind the arches of the palate ; it generally breaks off short, and the fragment that is left in gives rise to an abscess, and perhaps to ulceration of vessels, and fatal secondary haemorrhage. In a case that was under my care some time ago, the soft palate was nearly detached from the palate bones by a deep transverse wound, caused by the end of a spoon having been forcibly driven into the mouth ; good union took place eventually, the parts having been stitched together by a few points of suture. In some rare cases the internal carotid has been wounded from inside the mouth.