WHITLOW. 960 stimulants. A few hours after the engorged tissues have been unloaded by scarification, the fauces, pharynx and upper part of the larynx should be well sponged out with a strong solution of the nitrate of silver (sixty grains to an ounce), which must be applied freely. If, notwithstanding the employment of these measures, the dyspnoea increase, the face becoming pale, livid, and bedewed with a clammy perspiration, it will be necessary to open the windpipe to save the patient from sulfocation. In doing this I prefer laryngotomy, for reasons that will be mentioned when I come to speak of the Diseases of and Operations on the Air-passages. In order, however, that this operation may be successful, it must not be too long delayed, and should not be looked upon as a last resource. If it be done in time (and time in these cases is most precious, owing to' the rapid progress of the disease), the patient's life may probably be saved ; but if it be deferred too long, congestion of the lungs will come on, and the patient will sink from slow asphyxia, even though air be at last freely admitted. If the patient survive to the stage of sloughing we must rely upon general support, with gargles of chlorate of potash, and bark. Erysipelas of the Serous Membranes was formerly supposed to be of common occurrence, all those cases of diffuse inflammation which are now regarded as of septic origin being at one time classed as erysipelatous. It is highly probable that some cases of diffuse meningitis and peritonitis follow- ing injuries of the head and abdomen are truly erysipelatous and dependent upon a specific virus ; but in by far the greater proportion of these cases the inflammation is due to the diffusion of decomposing discharges over the surface of the serous membrane. WHITLOW, PARONYCHIA OR PANARITIUM. Whitlow or Farouychia is a diffuse inflammation of the finger which is, perhaps, most conveniently described in this place as in many cases of essen- tially the same character as cellulitis. It occasionally occurs in epidemics ; the constitutional disturbance attending it is often very severe for an affection apparently so shght, and assumes the same character of speedy depression that we observe in the erysipelatous group of diseases. In many cases, as the in- flammation spreads beyond the finger in which it commenced to the back of the hand, it assumes a distinctly erysipelatous character. In others, however, it is evidently not specific, and results from the inoculation of ordinary septic matter, the subsequent effects being dependent on the anatomical structure of the parts affected. Four forms of whitlow are commonly described :— 1. In paronychia ungualis or Sub-epithelial Whitlow, the affection is limited to the ungual phalanx of the finger. It commences as the result of a prick or some other slight injury, or from the inoculation of septic matter into a fissure or edge of the nail. At first there is redness, most commonly at one side of the nail, with some swelling and the most acute tenderness. The inflammation soon reaches the stage of suppuration, and a drop of pus is formed raising the epithelium. The thick epithelium of the finger confines the pus which, not being able to escape superficially, burrows more deeply. If it be in close contact with the matrix of the nail it may extend into this. The nail then becomes partly raised by pus from the matrix, and may separate after