CAUSES OF FRACTURE. 517 CHAPTER XX. FRACTUKES. A Fracture may be defined as a sudden and violent solution of continuity in a bone ; but by the term " fracture" it is convenient to describe other lesions, which, strictly speaking, are not comprised in the definition. The displacement of an epiphysis from the shaft of a bone is not really a fracture but a separation; as is also the displacement of a costal cartilage from a rib. Causes.—Fractures are almost invariably the result of local causes, but the liability to their occurrence is modified by certain predisposing circum- stances. Local Causes.—Fractures may be the result of external violence, or muscular action. External violence may be applied in two ways : directly or indirectly. The worst forms of fracture arc occasioned by direct external violence crushing and splintering the bone, as by the passage of a heavy wheel or by a gun-shot injury. The fracture always occurs at the point to which the force is applied and is often complicated with considerable mischief to the soft parts. Indirect violence may break a bone in two ways. One that is more commonly talked of than seen is by contrecoup, in which, when a blow is inflicted on one part, the shock that is communicated expends its violence on the opposite point, where the fracture consequently occurs. This form of injury has been described only in the bones of the head. (See Chap. XXIY.) In the other form the bone is broken by being snapped, as it were, between a resisting medium at one end, and the weight of the body on the other. Thus, a person jumping from a height and alighting on his feet may break his legs by their being compressed between the weight of the body above and the ground below. The long bones are those which are most frequently fractured in this way ; and the fracture occurs at the greatest convexity, or at their weakest point. When a person jumps from a carriage that is in motion, although the height of the fall be not great, yet its force is consider- able, the feet coming violently to the ground and being suddenly fixed, while the body moves with the same velocity as that with which it was being carried onwards in the vehicle. Hence, fi-actures received in this way are usually severe, and often compound or comminuted. Muscular action is not an unfrequent cause of fracture of bones into which powerful muscles are inserted ; especially the patella, the olecranon process of the ulna and some of the bony prominences, such as the acromion, which are broken in the same way that a tendon is ruptured—by the violent contraction of the muscles attached to them tearing them asunder. It is not often that the long bones are so fractured ; but the humerus has been broken by a person striking at but not hitting another, or by suddenly throwing out