135 AMPUTATION AT THE KNEE: B.ESULTS. the subcutaneous tissue; and, dividing the hamstrings as soon as they are exposed, and bending the knee, he finds no difficulty in reaching the upper border of the patelhi. He then sinks the knife through the insertion of the quadriceps extensor (Fig. 76), and, having cleared the bone immediately above the articular cartilage and holding the limb horizontally, he applies the saw vertically, and at the same time transversely, to the axis of the limb (not of the bone) so as to ensure a horizontal surface for the patient to rest on." When the soft parts are much thickened, as in disease of the knee-joint, the leg may be removed by dividing the ligamentura patellte and opening the joint as early as possible. After this the condyles of the femur can usually be protruded and sawn oflp without difficulty, and the patella removed last of all. If there is still difficulty in protruding the femur an incision may be carried upwards on the outer side as fiir as may be necessary. The advantage of this operation is that, if it be carefully performed, the chance of sloughing is reduced to a mini- mum. The pouches of the synovial membrane of the knee must be carefully drained as before described. 3. Amputation through the condyles by the long posterior flap should never be performed, unless under exceptional circumstances no other flaps can be obtained. There is a point of practice that I have found useful in these amputations : viz. to round off with the saw the sharp edge left on the condyle after the removal of its cartilaginous surface, as otherwise this may press injuriously upon the flap. These amputations present four great advantages over those higher up : 1. As the medullary canal is not opened, the risk of septic osteomyelitis and consequent pytemia is diminished. 2. The limb being removed at a greater dis- tance from the trunk, the shock will be less and the rate of mortality diminished. 3. The patient is provided with a long thigh-stump, which gives increased leverage in using an artificial Mmb. 4. When the amputation is practised with the long anterior flap containing the patella, or taking the skin from over it, the end of the stump will be protected by the tough integument naturally situated in front of the knee, which will admit of pressure being made upon it without fear of excoriation : the cicatrix being drawn up behind the end. of the stump, and altogether away from its surface. Results of Amputation through the Knee-joint or Condyles of the Femur.—So far as life is concerned, these operations have been successful. In the American Civil War, of 132 cases, 64 died, giving a mortality of 48-4 per cent. Of these 49 were primary amputations ; the deaths among which were 16, or 32-6 per cent. Brinton gives 62 cases of amputation through the knee for disease, with 14 deaths, or 22*6 per cent. Max Schede gives the results of amputation through the knee-joint in civil practice as follows : for injury, 314 cases, 103 deaths, or 32-8 per cent.; for disease, 123 cases, 30 deaths, or 24-4 per cent. ; through the condyles', for injury, 111 cases, 40 deaths, or 36*1 per cent. ; for disease, 60 cases, 15 deaths, or 25 per cent. ; Gritti's operation for injury, 25 cases, 4 deaths, or 16 per cent. ; for disease, 19 cases, 5 deaths, or 26-3 per cent. Amputations of the Tm(m are commonly required both for accident and for disease. As a rule the operation is most efficiently performed by the antero-posterior flap method, the covering being raised by dissection, not by transfixion. Excellent results may also be obtained in all parts of the thio-h