SPECIAL FRACTURES. 6o2 displacement was evidently due to two causes. The upper fragment was tovcibly pronated by the action of its special pronators ; and the hand, with the lower fragment attached, was drawn upwards and backwards by the radial extensors of the wrist. There was no impaction or interlockino- of frao-- ments but perfect mobility, and hence muscular action was enabled to come into play. In another case which I have since dissected, the muscles chiefly at fault were the radial extensors ; next to these the extensors of the thumb ; the supinator longus being but slightly if at all contracted. Besides this injury, R. W. Smith has described a fracture of the lower end of the radius from falls upon the back of the hand, in which the inferior fragment is displaced forwards. In these cases the character of the deformity indicates the nature of the injury. It can readily be reduced by traction. In another variety of fracture in this situation, the lower end of the radius and that of the ulna are broken off, resembling very closely dislocation of the wrist backwards. But the existence of grating, the ready reduction of the swelling, and the attachment of the styloid processes of the radius and of the ulna to the carpus, with which they move, will be sufficient to establish the diagnosis. In the Treatment of the ordinary fracture of the radius near the wrist, numerous methods are employed by different Surgeons. In all cases the deformity must be reduced, if possible, by extension and counter-extension, and if there be impaction, considerable force may be required to disentangle the fragments and remove the dorsal prominence. Whatever splint be used, prolonged fixation of the wrist and fingers must be avoided. Carr's splint will be found most efficient in overcoming the deformity, and comfortable to the patient (Fig. 203). It consists of a narrow splint slightly hollowed out to fit the radius, obliquely across tlie end of which is a cylinder of wood about four inches long by half an inch in diameter. This is thinly padded with folded lint and applied to the forearm in such a way that the cylinder corresponds to the metacarpo- phalangeal articulations. The displacement must be reduced and the hand well drawn towards the ulnar side as the splint is applied. The fingers are now bent down so as to make them firmly grasp the cylinder of wood. A short splint, about two inches wide, is then placed on the back of the fore- arm, and both are secured by strapping and bandage. The bandage may at first be applied so as to keep the fingers in the flexed position, grasping the cylinder, but after the first week it must not extend beyond the carpo- metacarpal articulation, the fingers being left perfectly fi-ee to move. By the use of this apparatus the tendency to stiffness of the fingers is greatly diminished. ^ FistoI-spHnL—This consists of a wooden splint of the shape represented in Fig. 204. It should be carefully padded, the padding being made thicker opposite the lower fragment, and then, with the straight portion held verti- Fig. 203.—Can's Splint.