i64 LOCAL DISTURBANCES AND INFLAMMATION. the flow of lymph is from the iuflamed area, while the movement of the cor- puscles is towards it, a fact which gives considerable support to the attraction theory. When the migrated cells have thus infiltrated the area which has been injured by the noxious agent that has caused the inflammation, it is generally accepted as a fact that under favourable circumstances they penetrate and consume any portions of tissue which may have been actually killed, thus as it were scavenging the injured area, and preparing the way for repair. The least complicated example of this is seen in the simple traumatic inflam- mation that occurs in a healthy incised wound during the first few hours after its infliction. Here the leucocytes have but little to do and are undis- turbed by the presence of micro-organisms and their products. The great majority of acute inflammations are, however, caused by the invasion of the affected part by micro-organisms and by the soaking of their chemical products into the surrounding tissues. Under these circumstances the leucocytes invading the affected area are found to have taken the organisms into their substance just as they do cinnabar and other foreign bodies in the blood. About this fact there is no difference of opinion, but the explanation of it has given rise to much discussion, and may still be said to be a subject of dispute. On the one hand, Metchnikoff and his followers regard the leucocytes as the defenders of the body from the attacks of the invading microbes. They explain the process of inflammation thus. Supposing a micro-organism to have effected a lodgment in the tissues of an animal, certain chemical substances are produced by its growth which become diffused in the surrounding tissues. In some cases these products are of such a nature as to arrest the movements of the leucocytes, or even to repel them (negative chemiotaxis), and under these circumstances no migration takes place, and the invasion of the micro- organism goes on undisturbed, leading frequently to the death of the animal. In'' other cases the products of the growth of the micro-organism exert an attractive influence on the white corpuscles (positive chemiotaxis), and thus cause abundant migration and infiltration of the affected area with leucocytes. The leucocytes on arriving at the affected area seize on the invading organisms, taking them into their substance, as an amoeba does its prey, and destroying them by a process of intracellular digestion, thus bringing the process of invasion to an end, and curing the disease. Again, it is maintained that the products of the growth of the invading organism when diluted at some distance from the centre of invasion, attract the leucocytes by positive chemiotaxis. The migrating corpuscles moving towards the centre of in- fection are gradually exposed to a more intense action of the chemical substance, and their movements are arrested and finally they perish, becoming pus-cells. . . This process of eating up dead tissues or invading organisms has received the name of phagocijtosis, and the cells possessing the power of so doing are called phagjcyles. It will be seen subsequently that many other cells can act as phagocytes besides the white corpuscles, but in all probabihty during the acute stage of inflammation, when the original tissues of this part are suffering from the damage done by the cause of this process, the leucocytes are the only cells capable of actively exerting their phagocytic properties. Metchnikoff regards the process of phagocytosis as the essence of mflamma-