8o8 INJURIES OF THE SPINE. as I found in dissecting a case of fracture of the sixth cervical vertebra under my care, to the fractured bone compressing and irritating the nerve that issues from the vertebral notch opposite the seat of injury. When the cord is implicated, the symptoms will vary according to the seat of the injury and the extent of the damage. For a detailed account of the symptoms presented by injuries of the different portions of the cord, the reader is referred to the sections on " Intraspinal Haemorrhage" (p. 789) and " Wounds of the Spinal Cord " (p. 802). If the spine be fractured by indirect violence, as by the head being forcibly bent down on to the chest as the patient is driving under an archway, and a fracture be thus occasioned through the lower cervical or upper dorsal portion of the column, we shall find that the cord being lacerated, and com- pressed transversely in one part only, the ordinary symptoms of division of the cord at that part will be presented, the patient being paralysed below the seat of injury (see p. 791). In a large proportion of cases of fracture of the spine, there is such displace- ment of the bone as to compress the whole thickness of the cord, and thus to occasion complete paralysis of motion and sensation in the parts below the seat of injury. This paralysis resembles that which arises from simple division of the cord, but is followed by greater impairment of nutrition, as shown in wasting, cachexy, and a tendency to sloughing. The reason of this difference is, that in fracture the cord is not simply compressed or divided, but is con- tinuously irritated by the edges of broken bone, and thus not only becomes incapable of healing, but is kept in a state of chronic irritation and inflamma- tion. If the fracture be above the origin of the phrenic nerve, respiration will be arrested and the patient will die instantaneously. Prognosis.—The danger from fracture of the spine depends on the amount of injury sustained by the cord, and the situation of the injury. Thus, if there is no displacement of the broken vertebra or injury to the cord, union will take place, and the patient recover perfectly ; but fractures of the spine through the bodies of the vertebrae, with displacement and compression of the cord, are most commonly fatal. When the fracture occurs in the middle or lower dorsal regions, so that the lower portion only of the cord is injured, the patient may live for many years, even though the cord is completely severed and the spinal canal obliterated by the displacement, and by the new bone formed in the process of repair. There is a specimen in University College Museum which well illustrates this fact (Fig. 318). The patient was a man who, at the age of thirty-two, fell fifty feet from a tree. He sustained a fracture of the spine, with the unusual dis- placement of the upper fi'agment backwards. The fracture became firmly consolidated, and he lived for nine and a-half years, completely paralysed below the middle of his body. There was no sloughing of the hips or back, and the vesication caused by blisters, which were for some reason applied to the paralysed parts, healed without difficulty. After repeated attacks of cystitis, inflammation spread to the kidney, and he died of septic pyelo-nephritis. The specimen shows ossification of the dura mater below the seat of fracture. Even when the injury is in the cervical region, recovery may take place, although the case may appear most unpromising. I have known at least four cases in which recovery has occurred after fracture of the lower cervical vertebrae, with paralysis more or less complete from the neck downwards. In