820 INJURIES OF THE FACE AND ADJACENT PARTS. dilated and light focussed on to the eye with a convex glass, a red mass is seen behind the lens, whilst on ophthalmoscopic examination there is found to be complete absence of the normal red fundus reflex. If the amount of elfused blood be small, it will be recognized with the ophthalmoscope as fine webs floating in the vitreous. Blood elfused into the vitreous is usually absorbed slowly, and some permanent opacity may result. Hsemorrhages into the retina are, as a rule, multiple, and rarely of large size ; they usually disappear quickly. Dislocation of the lens may follow a blow on the eye, as the result of tearing of the suspensory ligament, the amount of displacement varying with the extent of the rupture of the ligament. In the slighter cases in which one edge of the lens is tilted forwards, the nature of the injury is recognized by the pushing forwards of the iris at this spot, whilst in its opposite part the iris is tremulous on account of the loss of the support of the lens ; pendulum- like oscillations of the lens may be observed when the head is moved. Complete displacement of the lens may occur, forwards into the anterior chamber, or backwards into the vitreous ; in the latter case the whole iris is tremulous, when the eye is sharply moved from side to side. After complete displacement, the lens may remain clear for a long period, but more often it sooner or later becomes opaque. Dislocation of the lens forwards is especially likely to be followed by acute glaucoma. If the case can be kept under observation, it is probably better not to attempt to remove the dislocated lens so long as the eye remains quiet, but if the eye becomes painful and injected, or if the tension rises, the removal of the lens must be attempted. The operation may be very difficult, especially if the lens lie in the vitreous ; it should be performed only in case of necessity, and excision of the globe is often ultimately required. Concussion cataract is an occasional result of a blow on the eye, not accom- panied by a penetrating wound, and not causing dislocation of the lens. The condition has been shown, in some cases at least, to be due to rupture of the posterior part of the lens capsule. Detachment of the retina may result from hemorrhage between the retina and the choroid. More frequently it comes on slowly after an interval of some weeks, and is then probably due to shrinkage of the vitreous. The treatment of this condition is very unsatisfactory. Perfect rest in bed for some weeks with both eyes bandaged is sometimes followed by improvement, but this is rarely permanent. Rupture of the choroid is accompanied by haemorrhage into the vitreous, and it is only after the vitreous has cleared that the nature of the injury can be recognized by ophthalmoscopic examination. The clefts in the choroid are then seen as white lines over which the retinal vessels pass. They are generally near the optic disc, and arranged concentrically to it. The •prognosis as regards useful vision is not good. Rupture of the Globe is most common in aged people in whom the sclerotic is rigid, and usually results from a severe blow, as with the closed fist. The rupture is most common at the thinnest part of the sclerotic, that is, about four millimetres from the corneal margin. Through the opening any or all of the contents of the globe may escape, and total disorganization of the eye is an almost constant result. Should the conjunctiva remain intact, the lens or iris may escape into the subconjunctival tissue, and the prospect is