SQUAMOUS CARCINOMA: PROGRESS AND STRUCTURE, ion papilla of great size may form on the surface of the growth before ulceration takes place! This is especially marked in caucer of the penis, in which the papillae are sometimes half an inch in length. In the bladder epithelioma may assume a villous form. When ulceration takes place the destruction of tissue slowly spreads, impHcating every structure at its circumference. Such an ulcer attacks not only the soft parts, but may extend into a neighbouring bone, penetrating deeply into its structure and eroding it. In a case under my care, in which the ulceration started from a gland secondarily affected after removal of an epithelioma of the lip, the greater part of the symphysis of the jaw was destroyed and the whole floor of the mouth eaten away till the tongue hung out below on the skin of the neck. Epithelioma of the eyelids may invade and destroy the eyeball, and Avhen arising from the mucous mem- brane of the nose it may form one variety of the so-called malignant polypus. I have seen an epithelioma as large as a small orange, developing in this situation and passing into the orbit and to the cheek. Epithehoma of the scrotum, if left unrelieved by treatment, will at last extend to and implicate the testicle. After an epithelioma has lasted a certain time secondary growths appear iu the nearest lymphatic glands. This takes place with varying rapidity in different cases. It was pointed out by Henry Arnott that the implication of the glands takes place most rapidly when the primary growth is situated in soft, vascular parts much exposed to movement. Thus it takes place much more readily in epithelioma of the tongue, than in the same disease of the skin of the trunk. The affected glands increase in size steadily, but not usually very rapidly, and after a time fresh glands become infected. When they reach the surface they adhere to the skin, the central parts soften and become diffluent, and finally the skin gives way and a ragged, foul cavity is exposed, discharging a thin, blood-stained fluid, which tends to become extremely offensive. Squamous carcinoma differs from glandular carcinoma in one important respect: it has but little tendency to extend beyond the lymphatic glands, and to appear in the viscera or distant parts. It does so, however, with sufficient frequency to show that the absence of secondary tumours in the viscera is not an essential feature of the tumour. Epithelioma most commonly occurs in otherwise healthy subjects. Even after the glands have become affected the general health may be but little impaired for some time ; but sooner or later the patient begins to lose flesh and the so-called " cancerous cachexia " makes its appearance. Epichelioma may prove fatal by the progress of the local disease, and by its external ulceration ; by its affecting a part essential to life, as the oesophagus or larynx ; by pressure of enlarged glands on important parts; and by the in- duction of constitutional cachexy and malnutrition with gradual exhaustion. Structure.—On microscopic examination, a squamous carcinoma will be found to be composed of masses of cells of the type of scaly epithelium, form- FiL'. 3'J5.- -!S<niaiui)us Carcinoma of Lower Lip. Male : about 21.