7i6 INJURIES OF THE HEAD. this may be removed by means of the aspirator. Contusions of the scalp ia young women have been followed by severe neuralgic pains in the part struck which are extremely rebellious to treatment; but in tAvo cases which I have seen, after lasting for a long time, they gradually disappeared. In such cases, incisions down to the bone are said to have been beneficial. Cephalhematoma.—It occasionally happens that bloody tumours of the scalp form in newly-born children, either from contusion of the head in consequence of the pressure to which it is subjected in" its passage ; or from l)ruising by obstetric instruments. These tumours, which are often large and lluctuatiug, are termed cephalhsematomata. They may occur in two situations, either between the aponeurotic siruciures of the scalp and the periosteum, or let ween this membrane and the bone. The Subaponeurotic Cephalhaematoma is by far the most common variety. It usually forms a large, soft, fluctuating tumour, situated upon one of the parietal eminences, and having a somewhat indurated circumference. The tumour will usually subside in a few days under the use of a simple evaporating lotion. The Subperiosteal or Subpericranial Cephalhseiuatoma is an injury of somewhat rare occurrence. It appears as a fluctuating tumour, almost invariably seated on one parietal bone, most commonly the right, without dis- coloration of the scalp, but with a hard elevated circle around it, and a soft depressed centre, almost giving the sensation of a hole in the cranium. Pressure, however, gives rise to no cerebral symptoms, and enables the Surgeon to feel the bone at the bottom of the depression. These tumours are usually small, seldom more than two inches in diameter, and it occasionally happens that they are multiple. It is worthy of note, however, that each tumour is always confined to a separate bone, never passing beyond the sutures, where the adhesions between the periosteum and the bone are strongest. This affection is most frequently met with in children born in first confine- ments, and owing to the greater size of the head it is more common in boys than in girls ; according to Bouchard, in the proportion of thirty-four to nine. Pathology.—In this affection the periosteum is separated from the bone by an extravasation of blood, and both are covered with decolorised clot, but are otherwise healthy; the fluid in the centre is the sernm from the coagulated blood. The hard circle surrounding the depression is formed by a deposit of osseous tissue in the angle formed by the raised periosteum and the bone beneath. This deposit is effected in such a way that, on a transverse section being made, the inner wall is found nearly perpendicular, whilst the outer slopes down upon the cranium, thus giving a crateriform appearance to the margin of the tumour. Treatment.—In the majority of cases the blood is slowly absorbed and no treatment is required. If, however, absorption do not occur, aspiration will usually effect a cure. IF it fails, the swelling must be punctured and a fine drainage-tube insei'ted with proper antiseptic precautions. If suppuration occurs, there is some risk of necrosis of the bone and intracranial mischief. Wounds of the Scalp are often followed by serious consequences. They are divided into three classes—first, those not penetrating to the pericranial aponeurosis ; secondly, those opening up the loose areolar tissue beneath that membrane without exposing the bone ; and thirdly, those extending through the periosteum and denuding the bone. Scalp wounds are very common as