AFERTUEES OF ENTRY AND EXIT, 347 and thus occasion four apertures; and cases have been recorded in which five wounds even have been made in the same person by one bullet. The direction of the openings is often of importance from a medico-legal as well as from a surgical point of view. Thus, Sir Astley Cooper, by attend- ing to this point in a case of murder, ascertained that the fatal shot must have been fired by a left-handed man ; and this led to the detection of the criminal. These apertures, though usually opposite to one another when a ball passes right through a part, are - not always so, the bullet being deflected by the bones, or by the elasticity of the skin, so that the two aper- tures do not correspond. Thus a spherical bullet has been known to strike a I'ib and then to be deflected, runniug under the skin to the opposite side of the body ; again, striking one temple, a bullet has been carried under the scalp to the other side of the head, where it has passed out ; thus it might appear that important cavities had been penetrated, when in reality they had not been wounded. The Apertures of Entry and of Exit, made by a bullet, deserve atten- tive consideration. With the roiind-hiillel projected at a comparatively low velocity, the difference in the two apertures was usually very obvious, and is well shewn in Figs. 107 and 1 OS. The aper- ture of entry was small, cir- cular in shape, less than the diameter of the ball in l^readth, die edges being inverted and ecchymosed. The aperture of exit was commonly large, some- what everted, and irregular, admitting two or even three fingers freely. Of the various explanations which have been suggested for these differences in the cha- racter of the apertures, that given by Gruthrie is undoubt- edly the most important. The loss of momentum sustained by the bullet as it traverses the tissues is viewed l)y Guthrie as the chief factor in determining the character of the aperture of exit, and it is obvious that the loss of momentum will vary according to the velocity of the bullet at the moment when it enters the tissues, and according to the resistance wdth which it meets. It must also be remembered that the aperture of entry is made solely by the bullet, whilst the aperture of exit is made by it, plus the debris that it carries along with it ; and further that the skin at the point scruck is supported by the tissues beneath it, whereas at the place of exit, the skin is unsupported. This is exactly what happens if we drive a nail through a board. If supported by another piece of wood, the apertures on the two sides are even and of the same size. If unsupported, the aperture on the distant side—that of exit, in fact—will be splintered, irregular in shape, and larger than that of entry. Via. 107.—Gun-shot Wmiii \liei tuie of Entry. Fig. lO.s.—Guii-sliot Woniid. Aperture of Exit.