498 INJURIES OF NERVES, MUSCLES, AND TENDONS. Sands, of New York, removed a section of the Avhole brachial plexus close to the exit of the nerves from the spinal column. This was done in a lad aged eighteen, whose right arm had been seriously injured in firing a salute. The arm was amputated, but the patient suffered the most agonizing torture from chronic nerve-lesion high up in the limb. So great were his sufferings that he became uncontrollable in his actions, and, although perfectly sane, gave way to fits of the most intense excitement. The operation consisted in making an incision along the outer border of the right sterno-mastoid, and a transverse one following the line of the clavicle. The J-shaped flap was turned up, the carotid sheath and its contents carried to one side, and the brachial plexus fibres iiicrea.se(l. , i, ^ i • o' Small a'^'re^ation of fibres, separated from others by overgrowth of endoiieurnim. //. Hypertrophied perineurium and epinenrium. Sheaths of fasciculi no longer distinct. V. Dilated blood-vessels surrounded by altered connective tissue. , , , , . , (/. Yellow granular pigment lying in areolar tissue, mostly in neighbourhood ot vessels. exposed. Pieces fully a quarter of an inch in length were cut out from the four lower cervical and first dorsal nerves, and from one of these Fig. 155 was taken. Considerable relief from suffering followed the operation. 3. Nerve-stretching.—This operation was introduced b^ Nussbaum as a mode of treating intense neuralgia following injury. In a case of this kind affecting the arm, and resulting from gunshot injury, he cut down and stretched the ulnar nerve, then the nerves surrounding the brachial artery, and lastly, the brachial plexus itself. The result was a perfect cure. Since then the operation has been extensively practised. Under the name of " nerve-stretching " two distinct operations are included. In operating on the larger trunks the nerve is exposed, cleanly isolated for an inch or more, and forcibly stretched either by passing the finger beneath it,