PASSIVE CONGESTION: EFFECTS AND SYMPTOMS. 153 met with by the Surgeon in undermined portions of skin which have been deprived of their direct arterial supply by destruction of the subcutaneous tissue, as in phlegmonous erysipelas or superficial strumous abscesses. The blue undermined skin thus produced may hover between life and death for months, delaying healing indefinitely, and at last requiring destruction before a cure can be obtained, 3. The force of gravity plays an important part in many cases as a cause of passive congestion, especially in the pelvic viscera, the veins of w'hich are unprovided with valves. Its eifects are, however, even more marked in the leg when, as the result of disease, the valves have become incompetent. Under these circumstances the increased pressure leads to dilatation of the veins and capillaries, and consequently retards the flow of blood through them. This condition is termed hypostatic congestion. The most familiar examples are congestion of the legs from continued standing, and of the posterior part of the lungs of those who have been long confined to a recumbent position. Any of the above causes may act singly or in combination with others. Effects.—These are of much surgical importance. The first change that usually takes place is transudation of the more watery constituents of the blood into the surrounding tissues. Hence the spaces of the areolar tissue are distended by the effused fluid, giving rise to the condition knoAvn as cudema. If the turgidity of the vessels be great, and especially if their walls be unhealthy, rupture will occur, and haemorrhage from the surface or into the substance of the part will ensue. Observations made on the frog's foot after ligature of the main vein show, however, that in moderately intense conges- tion, the red corpuscles pass through the walls of the capillaries into the sur- rounding tissues, without any apparent rupture, by a process of diapedesis. This may occur with the passage of very few white corpuscles provided the vessels are healthy. The red corpuscles that thus escape from the vessels break up and are absorbed, but some of the altered blood-pigment remains behind and causes the grey pigmentation of mucous membranes or the brown colouring of the skin, which is so characteristic of repeated or long-continued congestion. Induration from the growth of fibroid tissue, chiefly around the distended vessels, is an almost constant effect of repeated or long-continued passive congestion. But although the affected part may be increased in bulk, the normal tissue is atrophied from the pressure of the new growth. Perhaps the best illustration of this process is afforded by the nutmeg liver that is frequently found associated with obstructive disease of the heart. It may be said briefly that the two most marked post-mortem signs of prolonged or repeated passive congestion are pigmentation and induration. The most important effect, however, of passive hyperemia is the lowering of the vitality of the affected part, rendering it prone to inflame or ulcerate from shght causes. In congestion, although the part contains a great excess of blood at any given time, this is not changed with sufficient frequency, and consequently the amount that circulates is really less than natural. Symptoms.—Passive congestion of an external part may be readily recognised by the changes it induces in the colour, the size, the feel, the temperature, and the functions of the part. The colour ranges'from dark red to bluish purple, but if the affected part has been exposed frequently to pre-