712 SPECIAL BISLOCA TIOXS. outwards or intvards, very seldom directly to the front ; but I do not think there is any evidence to show that comi^lete lateral dislocation of this bone can occur irrespective of displacement forwards; the so-called lateral disloca- tions being displacements of the bone forwards, with twists to one or the other side. Tlie dislocation forwards, with lateral inclination, may be either complete or incomplete. When it is complete, the bone is thrown out of its bed on the calcaneum, and separated from its connections with the malleolar arch above and the scaphoid anteriorly, being forced in front of the tarsus, and lying upon the scaphoid and cuneiform bones. When the dislocation is incomplete, the head is separated from the scaphoid, and is thrown up on it, or on the external cuneiform or cuboid bones, the body of the astragalus main- taining its connections with the malleolar arch and os calcis. I agree with those who describe the displacement forwards and outwards as ran'e common than that forwards and in wards. . In either case the displaced bone forms a distinct tumour upon the instep, in the outline of Avhich the form of the astragalus can be distinctly made out. Over this, the skin is so tightly drawn as often to appear to be on the point of bursting. When the bone is thrown somewhat inwards, the foot is turned outwards, and the internal malleolus projects distinctly. When the astragalus is thrown outwards, displacement of the foot inwards, with great projection of the lower end of the fibula, takes place. In some cases, fracture of the neck of the astragalus is combined with these dislocations ; and not uncommonly the luxation is compound from the first, or speedily becomes so if left unreduced, in consequence of the sloughing of the skin Avhich covers the anterior surface of the bone, the exposed portion of which undergoes necrosis. The dislocation Backwards, into the hollow between the tendo Achillis and the tibia, is rare, there being, according to Hamilton, but twenty recorded cases. This form is, I believe, always complete, and in the majority of cases there is displacement of the bone inwards, as well as backwards. Treatment.—The reduction of the dislocation/onrarfl's, whether attended with lateral displacement or not, varies greatly in facility; in some instances being elfected with the greatest possible ease, in others being attended with almost insurmountable difficulties. This difference depends, I think, on whether the dislocation is complete or not. When the astragalus is not completely thrown from under the arch formed by the bones of the leg, a portion of it being still entangled between their articular surfaces and that of the calcaneum, it may usually be readily reduced by relaxing the muscles of the calf, and pushing the bone back into its proper position. But when the astragalus is completely dislocated, the upper surface of the calcaneum is drawn up under the arch of the malleoli by all the strength of the muscles that pass from the leg to be in- serted into the foot. In these circumstances, in order that reduction may take place, it is necessary first of all to separate the articular surfaces to such an extent as to admit of the astragalus being pushed back into its socket; this is almost impossible, owing to the great perpendicular thickness of this bone, to the extent to which it is consequently necessary to draw down the foot, and to the little purchase that can be obtained on it. In such cases, reduction has been greatly facilitated by the division of the tendo Achillis, by which simple operation the whole strain of the muscles of the calf is taken off. If reduction be still impracticable, and the bone continue irreducible on the dorsum of the foot, what should be done ? Tn-o courses present them-