CONDITIONS I NFL UENCING THE SUCCESS OF OPERA TIONS. 5 operation most dexterously performed, owing to some constitutional condition that predisposes to diffuse inflammations ; whilst another may possibly make the most remarkable and rapid recovery after he has been mutilated with but little skill. Independently of actual organic disease of the viscera, of which I shall hereafter speak, there are certain conditions of the nervous system, the circulation, and the general physical state that exercise an injurious infitience. Thus, persons of an irritable and anxious mind do not bear operations so well as those of a more tranquil mental constitution. Those also of a feeble and irritable habit of body, especially nervous and hysterical women, with but little strength of circulation, cannot bear up against severe surgical pro- cedures, and are apt to become depressed and to sink Avithout rallying. Persons who arc overloaded with fat are not good subjects for surgical opera- tions. In them the circulation is usually feeble ; the wound heals slowly, and is apt to slough ; and general or local infective processes readily occur. Short of actual structural disease of important organs, as the lungs, heart, or kidneys, I know no condition more unfavourable to success after operations than premature or excessive obesity. Operations on very old people, if severe and attended by much shock, are commonly fatal; amputations after the age of seventy are rarely successful. Patients with a high temperature should never be operated on except for the relief of the condition causing the fever, such as the accumulation of pus, or rapidly spreading gangrenous inflammation, or in one of those four great surgical emergencies that under all circumstances demand immediate opera- tion : viz. : 1, dangerous hgemorrhage ; 2, impending asphyxia ; 3, strangu- lated hernia and intestinal obstruction ; and 4, over-distended bladder. The urgency of these conditions, which may be termed the four classes of primary surgical urgency, overrides all other considerations. An individual with a constitution unimpaired by excesses of any kind, whose habits have been temperate, whose diet has been sufficient and of good quality, whose mind has never been over-strained by the anxieties of business or the labours of a professional life, and whose existence has been spent in rural occupations and in the pure air of the country, is necessarily placed in a far more favourable position to bear the eflFects of any mutilation, whether it be the result of accident, or inflicted by the Surgeon's knife, than the man whose physical powers are worn out by active and unceasing business avoca- tions or professional work, whose nervous system is exhausted by his anxious labours ; and infinitely more so than the poor inhabitant of a large and densely peopled town, who has from earliest childhood inhaled an impure and foetid atmosphere, whose scanty diet has consisted of the refuse of the shops, or the semi-decomposed off^al of the stalls, and whose nervous system has been irritated and at the same time exhausted in the daily struggle for a precarious livelihood, or over-stimulated by habitual excesses in strong drinks. Though individuals with such diff"erent antecedents be placed under exactly the same hygienic circumstances a/to- the performance of an operation, yet the results will probably be very dissimilar, influenced as they must be by their past rather than by their present condition. Besides the general state of the patient's health, the Condition of Important Organs must be taken into consideration before an operation is decided on The state of the Heart should be carefully looked to. Valvular disease if early or slight, need not be an obstacle to most operations, even to those' of