UNION BY SECOND INTENTION. 297 A typically healthy granulating surface presents the following ^1?;^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ features The separate granulations are about the size of f mustaid seeds; they are uniform in size, and of a florid red colour; they n stand a smart blow without bleeding, and, being dcA'Oid of nerves, are P^^^^^^^^^^^^^ from sensibility. The surface of the sore is very slightly depressed below that of the surrounding skin. The base of the sore is soft Ihe edges shehe gradually down into the surface, and, if healing is taking place, the ne^^ .rowing epithelium can be seen spreading over the surface of the granula- tions and giving rise to three zones of different colour. Most internally is a dark red line, darker than the neighbouring granulations. This is clue to .some slightly increased vascularity beneath the growing epithelium, and to the presence of a very thin layer of perfectly transparent new epithelium- cells covering the granulation-tissue. That this is so can be shown by care- fully drying the surface and watching it for a few seconds; the uncovered cn-anulations become moist again almost immediately, while the red line Remains dry. Outside the red line is a blue line, resulting from the presence of a thicker layer of epithelium, seen through which the red granulations assume a bluish tint. Outside this again is an opaque white line, m whicb the new epithelium has been formed in sufficient quantity to be opaque when sodden by the discharges. The discharge varies with the mode of dressing. If some slightlv irritant lotion or dressing be applied, thick creamy pus is poured out from the surface ; if some non-irritating dressing be applied, thin serous fluid flows away, made more or less turbid by the presence of a few pus-cells. A granulating sore may present a perfectly healthy appear- ance with both conditions of discharge, but it will usually be found that the red line of new growing epithelium is much wider in those cases m which the dressing is least irritating, as under other conditions many of the young epithelium-cells perish and'mingle with the pus-cells in the discharge. The constitutional symptoms that attend union by the second intention will vary much. The separation of a slough will in all cases be attended with some febrile disturbance if the dead tissue be allowed to putrefy; by antiseptic treat- ment, however, this may be entirely prevented, and union by the second intention may be accompanied by as little constitutional disturbance as that by the first intention. In cases in which no antiseptic precautions are observed, the febrile disturbance due to the absorption of the products of putre- faction commences on the second day after the injury, and reaches its maximum by the third or fourth. By this time the lymph-spaces are becoming filled with the plastic exudation, and absorption is consequently limited. AVhen the slough is separated and the granulation surface is formed—that is to say, by about the sixth to the tenth day—the fever disappears, as healthy granula- tions, being devoid of lymphatics, form a barrier to the absorption of septic matter unless it is pent up at some degree of pressure. The changes taking place in a cicatrix do not cease with its formation. In most cases the contraction of the scar does not attain its maximum until long after the completion of superficial cicatrisation, and this may occasion great puckering and deformity. The amount of contraction of a scar is dependent solely on the size of- the original raw surface and on the laxity of the tissue in which it is seated. There is no evidence to justify the assertion so commonly made, that the scars resulting from sores produced by acid caustics and burns contract more than those following the action of alkaline caustics