5o8 INJURIES OF BONES AND JOINTS. the capsule, synovial membrane, or other stnictures entering into their forma- tion. As a result of contusion the joiut may be suddenly distended with blood—haemarthrosis. The blood so effused, mixed as it always is with much synovia, undergoes absorption after a time, without leading to any incon- venience. The Treatment should consist of the application of a splint to ensure complete rest. An evaporating lotion or an ice-bag may be applied over the joint. Should the amount of effusion be very considerable, the tension and pain may be at once relieved by removing the blood by means of the aspirator. The needle must be washed through several times with a 1 in 20 solution of carbolic acid before being inserted, and care must be taken to keep it perfectly steady while it is in the joint. In some cases a bursa, situated in the neighbourhood of a joint, is seriously bruised, and becomes inflamed: in consequence of which suppuration may follow. When this takes place, free incision into the inflamed part, with antiseptic treatment, will afford speedy and effectual relief Sprains.—When a joint is twisted violently so that its ligaments are either much stretched or partially torn across, though there be no displacement of the osseous surfaces, it is said to be sjirained. These injuries are exceedingly painful and troublesome in their consequences. They most frequently occur at the wrist, knee, and ankle. The pain is very severe, and often sickening. Its intensity is very remarkable in view of the low degree of sensibility possessed by ligaments in the normal state. They may be cut without pain, but if stretched in a longitudinal direction or twisted, pain of the most intense character is at once set up—a wise provision of Nature guarding against articular displacements. At the time of the sprain a certain amount of blood is effused into the articular cavity and the surrounding tissues, in consequence of which the limb in a few days becomes discoloured for some distance above and below the joint. The sprain is rapidly followed by swelling and inflammation of the joint and investing tissues, often very chronic and tedious. As the inflammation subsides, stiffness and pain in using the part continue for a considerable length of time, and are in some cases followed by a kind of rigidity and wasting of the limb. In individuals of a rheumatic or gouty habit of body, the inflammation of the joint consequent on the sprain is often most tedious and chronic, and will yield only to appropriate constitutional treatment, whilst in strumous subjects tuberculous disease of the joint may follow. Treatment,—If the sprain be slight, rubbing the part with a stimulating embrocation, and giving it the support of strapping or a bandage, are all that need be done. But if it be at all severe, more active measures must be had recourse to. These must vary according to the condition of the joint when the Surgeon sees the patient; but they are all based on the principle of securing perfect rest and subduing inflammation. In the vast majority of these injuries all that is necessary is to keep the part at rest for two weeks. The amount of discoloration that often follows a sprain is sufficient evidence of the extent of the laceration of the ligaments that has taken place. For the repair of this, rest is as necessary as for the healing of an open wound or the union of a broken bone. As a rule, however, unless the Surgeon makes it impossible, the patient, finding that he can still use the joint, although with some pain, continues to do so. This is the I'eason that sprains are so often