1039 SPINDLE-CELLED SARCOMA. by preference in fibrous structures, as fascias, skin, or tendons ; they may occur in intermuscular spaces, or occasionally in the sheaths of nerves. Thus I have amputated a leg for a large tumour of this kind seated on the posterior tibial nerve. Though these tumours are usually distinctly circumscribed and sometimes encapsuled, and run a perfectly innocent course, in many cases they show an extraordinary tendency to local recurrence after removal; but it is rare for them to give rise to secondary deposits in internal organs. Paget described these growths under the name of recurrent fibroid tumours, and related several instances of them. One was a tumour of the upper part of the leg, which between 1846 and the end of 1848 had been removed five times, and reappeared for the sixth time after the last operation, when, as it had become large and ulcerated, amputation was deemed advisable ; this procedure, however, was followed by death. The examination of the third tumour pre- ^ sented "very narrow, elongated, caudate, and oat-shaped nucleated cells, many of which had long and subdivided terminal processes ; " in the tumour last re- moved, the cells were generally filled with minute shining molecules, as if fatty degeneration had taken place. In another tumour of the shoulder had been removed, and returned four times between May, 1848, and December, 1849, reappearing in the following year for the fifth time ; it, however, after a time became statiouary, and many years afterwards the patient, but for the presence of the tumour, might be considered a strong and healthy man. Paget also relates a case in which, between 1839 and 1851, Syme removed a tumour of this kind five times from the upper part of the chest ; a sixth recurrence was followed by death. He refers also to a case by Gluge, in which a similar tumour was five times removed from the scapula, its sixth reappearance being followed by death. The most interesting of all is a case by Maclagan, in which four removals were performed in the course of thirty- six years, twenty-three years intervening between the second and third removals, and eleven between the third and fourth. The recurrent tumours appear to be more malignant in the later than in the earlier recurrences, becoming more painful, rapidly degenerating, and giving rise to an ulcerating fungus, which eventually proves fatal by exhaustion and hEemorrhage. The cells will then be found to have become larger, and the intercellular substance softer and devoid of fibrillation ; and, in fact, they merge into the large-celled form of spindle-celled sarcoma. This is clearly shown by a case which occurred under my care at University College Hospital. A tumour as large as a full- sized turnip was removed from the shoulder of a middle-aged man, and Avas found to be sHghtly connected with the spine of the scapula. On examination it presented all the characters of a spindle-celled sarcoma, consisting almost entirely of densely packed fusiform cells, with oval or oat-shaped nuclei. A small mass reappeared before the wound had completely healed, and on exami- nation presented a much larger proportion of oval cells and spindle cells, now having double nuclei. It recurred a second time, and now but few well formed spindle cells were found, but the tumour was chiefly composed of oval and flask-shaped cells, or rather masses of protoplasm, in which numerous nuclei were imbedded. A portion of the spine of the scapula, removed with the tumour, showed that the growth had sprung from the cancellous tissue. Large-spi7uUe-cetled sarcomata, formerly often spoken of as fibro-plastic tumours, are much softer than the variety last described. They are usually of a pinkish colour, frequently stained dark-red in parts from extravasations