PATHOLOGY OF AXTHRAX. 383 proper conditions these spores grow iuto the fully-developed bacilli—that they are really genuine germs of the fungus. From their extremely small size it is evident that if dried they could without difficulty be transported from one place to another as dust in the air, and it is, in fact, these dried spores that serve as the poison both in malignant pustule and woolsorters' disease as seen in this country. Wurtz and Lodge have cultivated the bacillus from the dust of a rag-warehouse in Bradford, in which a worker had contracted puhnonary anthrax. The power of resistance of the spores to injurious influences is so great as to render the task of disinfection after splenic fever undoubtedly difficult. The experiments of Robert Koch have shown that blood containing spores of the bacillus may be dried, and even allowed to putrefy in drying, and kept afterwards for years without losing its virulence. The spores may be exposed to a moist heat of 212° F. for a very short time, or to a dry heat for a longer period, without injury. Alcohol, glycerine, watery solutions of carbolic acid (1 to 20), sahcylic acid, thymol, and weak solutions of perman- ganate of potash are eqnally powerless to destroy their vitality. On the other hand, freshly prepared chlorine-water, bromine (2 per cent, solution), iodine, perchloride of mercury (1 in 5000 in water), or permanganate of potash (5 per cent, in water), destroy their vitality. This extraordinary resisting power is fortunately shown only by spores, and as far as we know the ordinary bacteria of putrefaction and all micrococci, whether septic or pathogenic, multiply only by fission, and are, like the bacillus when not in the spore-bearing stage, readily destroyed by heat and chemical antiseptics. That the organism is the actual cause of the disease is proved by the fact that when the bacillus is in the spore-bearing stage it may be washed with distilled water, alcohol, and ether, and then dried, and after all this, if inoculated, it is capable of producing splenic fever in the animal experi- mented on. After inoculation it produces its local effects probably by setting up chemical changes of a fermentative character in the fluids of the part, giving rise to intensely irritating products, which, by a process analogous to cauterisation, cause inflammation, and, soaking into the surrounding lymph- spaces, give rise to the spreading oedema and inflammation beyond the area in which the organisms are actually growing. When the bacilli get into the blood and grow widely throughout the body, they are supposed to act partly by causing mechanical obstruction of the capillaries, and partly by robbing the blood of its oxygen ; for, like all fungi, they absorb oxygen during their growth. This would account for the dys])noea and cyanosis usually met with before death from malignant pustule. Pasteur, from numerous experiments, came to the conclusion that if the bacilli are cultivated in a fluid medium at a temperature of from ]07-G° F. to 109-4° F., they do not form spores, and if grown in this way for about twenty days they become less virulent, or, as it is termed, the virus'is attenuated. In this state if inoculated on a sheep they give rise to & modified form of splenic fever which is not fatal, and Pasteur affirms that after recovery from this the animal may be inoculated with the most intense virus with impunity. The analogy between this process and vaccination gave a peculiar interest to Pasteur's observations, and numerous observers have repeated his experiments with the result of generally confirming his statements that the virus may be attenuated by various means, and that if inoculated in this form it produces a power of resisting the infection of splenic fever, lasting from nine