597 FRACTURES OF THE FOREARM. deformity and some shortening. If one bone only, commonly the ulna, be fractured, more attention will be required in establishino^ the precise nature ol the injury. In the Treatment of fractures at or below the middle of the forearm, the position midway between pronation and supination should be chosen, as this gives the greatest natural iuterval between the two bones, and brings the lower fragment into a position corresponding to that of the upper (Fig. 195). A fi-actured forearm is usually put up while the patient is seated, with the arm raised to the level of his head and the elbow bent at a right angle. In this position the bones are midway between pronation and supination^ when the thumb points towards the face. Plain wooden splints are apphed to the palmar and dorsal surfaces of the forearm. They must be equal in breadth to the greatest transverse measurement of the limb, so that the bandages may not press on the soft parts between the edges of the splints, and thus ap- Fi". 195.—Preparation showing Anatomical Relations of Fracture of Radius below the Insertion tif the " Pronator rarlii teres, b, biceps; s.l, supinator longus ; s.h, supinator brevis ; p.q, pronator quad- ratus; ii.t, pronator teres ; i.l, interosseous ligament; o.l, orbicular ligament. proximate the broken bones. If the bones be put up in an improper position or sfjueezed together, a mass of callus may unite them across the interosseous space, and thus prevent pronation and supination (Fig. 196). The splints must be evenly padded, and in applying them care must be taken that they are held perfectly parallel. If the fracture of the radius be situated above the insertion of the pronator radii teres the upper fragment is supiuated, and therefore during the treatment the hand must also be kept supinated so that the lower fragment is brought into a corresponding position. With the arm hanging by the side and the elbow flexed at a right angle, the palm of the hand will be directed upwards, and this position is best maintained by the application of a palmar splint to the forearm and a dorsal rectangular splint to the arm and forearm. The splints should always be removed and the limb examined without dis- turbing the fracture at the end of every second day for the first week, as the pressure of the pad between the bones is apt to cause sloughing without any pain or other sign of mischief. In such cases the slough may extend to the flexor muscles, and the median and ulnar nerves may become paralysed by pressure. When the slough separates, the flexor muscles may be exposed and become involved in the scar in healing, thus leading to forced flexion and