TUBERCULOSIS. 1098 resistance may be mentioned previous simple inflammation and damage by slight external injury. Thus in many cases of tuberculous joint disease the history clearly points to a sprain or other injury as the starting-point of the disease. The local effect produced by tuberculous infection varies very greatly under different circumstances. It has been pointed out in the Chapter on Inflam- mation that the effect of an irritant varies, first, with the intensity of the irritant itself; secondly, with the resisting power of the tissues, and thirdly, with the presence or absence of accessory sources of irritation. The variation in the local effect of the viras is, perhaps, best illustrated by tuberculous disease of the synovial membrane of the knee. In tolerably healthy adults a fcAV tubercle nodules may form in a limited part of the membrane and there give rise to a chronic inflammatory growth of fibrous tissue around them, the mischief remainiug strictly limited and its nature being ascertainable only by the microscopic evidence of a few atrophied nodules in the mass of fibroid tissue. In children we more commonly find the disease extending rapidly ; imphcating the whole membrane and giving rise to the formation of a mass of soft, pulpy, vascular granulation tissue, scattered through which are numerous non-vascular tubercle nodules which are the centres of irritation which have caused the growth. If such a joint be now put at rest and every accessory source of irritation removed, and the child be well fed and removed to pure air so that the resisting power of the tissues is increased, we find the vascular granulation tissue developing into firm fibroid tissue which encloses the tubercle nodules, and thus recovery takes place. If, on the other hand, the child be neglected and the joint moved, we find the tubercle invading the granulation tissue and replacing it and finally degenerating and softening and thus giving rise to a chronic abscess. If such a joint be opened and decomposition follows, it is possible that the irritation of the septic matter may cause rapid sloughing of all the tuberculous tissue and thus bring the specific disease to an end ; but the reverse may occur. The resistance of the tissues may be still further impaired by the irritation of the septic products, and the invasion of the bones by the bacillus may be hastened. If these facts be borne in mind it is not difficult to understand how the presence of tubercle may be associated with all varieties of the inflammatory process, chronic fibroid growth, exuberant formation of granulation tissue, suppuration, ulceration, or even sloughing. The part played by the constitutional and local predisposing causes varies in different cases. In some diseased joints rest alone is quickly followed by cure; in others local treatment has no effect and the invasion of the bacillus continues unchecked. Senile Tuberculosis.—Middle-aged and elderly people are occasionally attacked by tuberculous diseases. The individuals so affected have usually suffered from similar disease in their youth, or have come of scrofulous famihes. But the disease has apparently been cured, and they may have enjoyed good health and led active lives for a long series of years. Under the influence of depressing physical or mental causes, or as the result of debility consequent on some serious illness, typical symptoms of tubercle will manifest themselves in the soft parts, the joints, and the bones. The disease may run an acute course, and the patient will die of tuberculosis of some of the organs. Treatment.—Preventive Treatment is that intended to prevent the