TUBERCULOSIS. I I02 diluted solution) causes slight pains in the limbs and transient fatigue, with occasionally a slight elevation of temperature. The same dose administered to an adult suflering from any tuberculous disease causes a marked general and local reaction. The general reaction, which usually begins four or five hours after the injection, consists usually of a rigor with a rapid rise of temperature, sometimes reaching ]U5°—106° F., with pain in the limbs, coughing, great fatigue and often vomiting. The local reaction, which has been most closely studied in cases of lupus, consists in swelhng and redness of the affected area, with serous exudation which dries, forming scabs ; the neighbouring lymphatic glands often become swollen and tender. These changes, which only affect the living tuberculous tissue, slowly subside, and repeated injections are usually required before the tuberculous tissue is destroyed and no further local reaction is produced. The first dose should be smah, such as 0*006 c.c, and the strength may be gradually increased to the maximum (0"01 c.c.) ; the dose must also be regulated according to the probable amount of tuberculous tissue and its situation. As to the probable mode of action of tuberculin, one fact alone seems certain—that it destroys the livnig tuberculous tissue and not the tubercle bacilli themselves. It has been suggested by Koch that the fluid contains some extremely irritating substance, which, added to that already produced by the bacilli in the diseased tissues, is sufficient to cause their destruction by a pro- cess of coagulation necrosis. The eagerness with which this remedy has been put to the test in every form of tuberculous tissue is altogether without parallel in the history of medical science, but it must be allowed that the experience thus gained does not lead us to hope that the remedy in its present form is likely to be of more than very limited utility. As a means of diagnosis tuberculin may be of service in cases the tuberculous nature of which is suspected ; the question being decided by the occurrence of reaction if tubercle be present. Watson Cheyne has especially studied the effects of the treatment in surgical cases. In the treatment of tuberculous diseases of bones and joints he thinks tuberculin may be of use after operation as a means of aiding the prompt healing of the wound, whilst it may enable the Surgeon to perform less severe and radical operations than he might otherwise do. The best results have been obtained in severe cases of lupus by combining tuberculin with other methods of treatment. Lastly, it may be mentioned that William Hunter has separated three active ingredients from tuberculin—albumoses, alkaloidal sub- stances, and extractives. Hunter has further shown that it is possible by dia- Ivsis to separate the albumoses, which exert the remedial action, from the non-albuminous bodies, which possess the fever-producing properties. It is interesting to note that Liebreich has recorded certain beneficial results in tuberculous cases by the injection of a salt of cantharidin, the active principle of cantharides. In the small doses employed marked serous exudation occurred in the tuberculous tissue, but not from the capillaries of healthy tissues. The Local Treatment of scrofulous affections is generally that of chronic in- flammation (p. 221) et seq.). Should chronic suppuration occur it must be treated as already described (p. 263). Chronic thickenings left after scrofulous in- flammations may be removed by means of lotions containing the iodide of potassium, or the carbonate of potash, applied by means of lint covered with oiled silk ; a drachm of each of the salts, with an ounce of spirits of wine to eleven ounces of water, makes an excellent application, which appears often to