VARIETIES OF FRACTURE. extent absorbed and the intermuscular spaces around sealed by coagulated inflammatory exudation or granulation-tissue, and thus deep burrowing of septic matter in the limb is not likely to take place, and the danger of septic absorption or pysemia is greatly diminished. A fracture is said to be Complicated when the injury to the bone is con- joined with some other condition which is perhaps of more importance than the mere fracture, and often greatly influences the result of the case. Thus, a fracture may be complicated with injury of an important internal organ—as of the brain, lung, or bladder—usually inflicted by one of the fragments. _ A fracture may also be complicated mth the wound of one of the principal arteries, especially in the leg, where the tibial vessels lie in close contact with the bone, and are sometimes toi-n by the broken ends. In other cases again, the fracture is associated with injury of a joint or with dislocation. Fractures are also divided into the Single Fracture, where the bone is merely broken across, spht, or fissured; the Comminuted (Fig. 158), where the bone is broken into several fragments at one place ; the Impacted, where one fragment is wedged into another, the com- pact tissue being driven into the cancellous ; and the Multiple, where there are more fractures than one, either in different bones or in different parts of the same bone. Besides these varieties of fi-acturc, it occasionally happens that a bone is only cracked, or partially broken. This especially occurs in the bending of bones in children, in which cases the fracture may be Partial or Incomplete, merely extending across the convexity of the curve made by the bone. This is commonly called the green-sficJr " fracture. Direction.—The direction assumed by fractures varies greatly, and depends materially on the cause of the injury, as well as upon the bone that is ft-actured. The line of fr-acture may run through a bone in three different directions : either transversely, oilif/iceli/, or longitudinally to its axis. The Transverse Fracture, when met with in the shaft of a long bone, is usually the result of direct violence, and may therefore be accompanied by considerable injury to the soft parts. In this situation it is always more or less toothed and irregular. It is more commonly met with at the articular ends of the long bones, as at the lower end of the radius, the upper end of the humerus or the neck of the femur, and it is then almost invariably caused by indi- rect violence. In children it often occurs between the epiphyses and the shaft of a long bone. In the patella transverse fracture is the common form met with as a result of violent muscular action, while in the vertebras and sternum it is usually produced by indirect violence. In the long bones a transverse fracture unites readily and with but little displacement. The Oblique Fracture commonly occurs from indirect violence ; the breaking force being applied to the ends, and not across the shaft. It often runs a long way, sometimes nearly half the length of the shaft of a bone, and is more dangerous than the transverse, owing to the obliquity of the fracture causing the ends of the bone to be sharply pointed (Fig. 159), and thus 158. Fracture made shot. Coinraiiiuteil by gun-