ULCERATION. 272 taken place a surface is left covered superficially by a uniform layer of closely packed cells derived from the white corpuscles which have migrated from the vessels. Such a surface is a simple ulcer. The dead tissue which acted as a foreign body being removed, if no further source of irritation be present, the surrounding tissues recover from their impaired vitality, the inflammation subsides, migration ceases, and the process of repair commences. This process will be described in the next chapter with repair in general. {See Union by the Second Intention). Ulceration, as it occurs from the inoculation of a specific poison, as in the example of the soft chancre before given, differs in no respect from that just described, except that at no time is there a visible piece of dead tissue cast off, and that the irritant which causes the process is developed persistently in the discharges, and, unless it be in some way destroyed, may continue to maintain the destructive process almost indefinitely. It is evident that if the irritating virus developed in the sore is of sufficient intensity, it may cause death of the tissues before the process of absorption of the original structures and substitu- tion of a mass of leucocytes for them has had time to be completed. It is under these circumstances that ulceration merges into spreading gangrene, the tissues no longer appearing to melt away in the liquid discharges, but remain- ing as a soft, partially disintegrated slough on the surface of the sore. The process of formation of an ulcer in skin which has long suffered from chronic inflammation has been well described by Billroth. " Let us suppose," he says, " that we have a chronic inflammation of the skin of the leg, say on the anterior surface of its lower third. The skin is traversed by dilated vessels, hence it is redder than normal; it is swollen, partly from serous, partly from plastic infiltration: and it is sensitive to pressure. Wandering cells are infiltrated, especially in the superficial parts of the cutis : this renders the papillae longer and more succulent; the development of the ceUs of the rete Malpighii also becomes more plentiful, and its superficial layers do not pass into the normal horny state; the connective tissue of the papillary layer is softer, and becomes partly gelatinous. Now, sHght friction at any point sufiices to remove the soft, thin, horny layer of the epidermis. This exposes the cell-layer of the rete Malpighii; new irritation is set up, and the result is a suppurating surface, whose upper layer consists of wandering cells, the lower of greatly degenerated and enlarged cutaneous papillae. If at this stage the part were kept at perfect rest, and protected from further irritation, the epi- dermis would be gradually regenerated, and the still superficial ulcer would cicatrise. But usually the shght superficial wound is too little noticed, it is exposed to new irritations of various kinds; there are suppuration and mole- cular destruction of the exposed inflamed tissue, then of the papillas, and the result is a loss of substance which gradually grows deeper and wider : the ulcer is fully formed." Causes. The conditions essential to ulceration are:—1. An irritant acting on a limited portion of the living tissues with sufficient intensity to cause the stao-e of retarded flow in the vessels with abundant migration of leucocytes, culminating in stasis and death in the parts most directly acted on. 2. A persistent action of the irritant for a sufficient time. We have before seen, in the Chapter on Inflammation and Suppuration, that the effect produced on a living tissue by an irritant depends partly on the intensity of the irritant itself, and partly on the power of resistance of the