DISLOCATIONS OF THE KNEE. 707 much effusion into tiie joint, requires the same treatment as a fractured patella. Dislocations of the Knee.—This joint, owing- to the breadth of its articular surfaces, and the great strength of its ligaments, is seldom dislocated. AVhen such an accident happens, it usually arises from falls from a great height, or by the patient jumping from a carriage in motion. The tibia may be displaced in four directions : io either side, forwards or lackivards. Besides these displacements, the joint is subject to a partial luxation, dependent upon displacement of one or both semilunar cartilages. 1. The Lateral dislocations of the tibia are the most common. They are always incomplete, and are usually accompanied by a certain degree of rotation of the limb outwards. These displacements may be either External or Internal. In the first, the outer condyle of the femur rests upon the inner articular surface of the tibia ; in the other, the inner condyle is placed upon the outer articular surface. In either case, the knee is slightly flexed; there is a marked sulcus in the situation of the ligamentum patellse, and the deformity of the joint at once indicates the nature of the displacement. In these cases deduction is always easy ; indeed, it is occasionally effected by the unaided efforts of the patient or by a bystander. It may be accom- pHshed by flexing the thigh upon the abdomen, then extending the leg, and, at the same time, rotating the leg at the knee. 2. The dislocation Backwards may be complete or incomplete. When it is complete, the posterior ligament of the joint and the posterior crucial ligament are torn, the muscles of the ham are stretched, the limb is shortened to the extent of an inch and a half or two inches, and is semiflexed ; the head of the tibia can be felt in the ham, and there is a dee transverse depression in front of the joint immediately below the patella. 3. The dislocation of the tibia Forwards is of more frequent occurrence than the last. In it, the lower end of the femur projects into the ham, com- pressing the vessels occasionally to such an extent as to arrest the circulation through the leg, lacerating the ligaments, and stretching the muscles in this situation. The tibia projects forwards, its head forming a considerable prommence on the anterior part of the knee, with a deep depression imme- diately above the patella, which is rendered more evident bv the relaxation of the extensors of the thigh ; the leg is usually rotated som"ewhat inwards or outwards, and there is shortening to the extent of about two inches. These antero-posterior dislocations ai'e very commonly incomplete. When this IS the case, they present the same symptoms, but in a less marked degree as those which characterize the complete displacements. ' In the Treatment of these dislocations, extension should be made from the ankle whilst the thigh is fixed in a semiflexed position. When the leo- has been drawn down sufficiently, proper manipulation will bring the bones'' into position ; splints must then be applied and the joint kept at rest for two or three weeks, at the end of which time passive motion may be commenced Complications.-Dislocations of the knee-joint are more liable to serious eomphcations than those of any other articulation. Not only are the lio-aments torn, and the muscks injured, but stretching, and perhaps laceration" of the popliteal vessels followed by gangrene of the limb, may occur ; or the injurv may be followed by destructive inflammation of the joint Compound Dislocation of the Knee-joint is* one "of the most sorions