ENTRANCE OF AIR INTO VEINS: TREATMENT. 489 case in which air entered in consequence of the puncture of the internal jugnhir vein whilst he was removing a tumour from the neck. These cases show clearly what the Surgeon should particularly guard against in the removal of tumours about the neck and axilla ; viz., incomplete division of the veins, and the employment of forcible traction on the diseased mass at the moment of using the scalpel. In removing tumours from the neck and axilla, it is in many cases impossible to avoid drawing them forcibly upwards or forwards, in order to get at their deeper attachments ; but if this be necessary the chest sliould,'for reasons that will immediately be pointed out, be tightly compressed, so tliat no deep inspirations may be made at the moment that the knife is being used, or before a divided or wounded vein can be effectually secured. Preventive Treatment.—In the pre-aniesthetic days, this accident was of more common occurrence than it is now. When a patient was under the ' knife, the respirations were generally shallow and restrained, the breath being held, whilst every now and then there was a deep gasping inspiration ; at which moment, if a vein were opened in which the pulse were perceptible, or which was canalized, air was necessarily sucked in, in quantity and force proportioned to the depth of the inspiration. In these circumstances, it was recommended that the chest and abdomen should be so tightly bandaged with broad flannel rollers as to prevent the deep gasping inspirations, and to keep the breathing as shallow as possible, consistently with the comfort of the patient. I have often found that the entrance of air into the veins of a dog could be arrested by compressing the chest of the animal, so as to limit the respiratory movements; but that, as soon as a deep inspiratory effect was made, on the compression being removed, a rush of air took place into the vessel. When such precautions were taken, therefore, during an operation about the root of the neck, the Surgeon had to be careful not to remove the com- pression until the operation was completed, and the wound dressed; for if this precaution was not attended to, the patient would, most probably, on the bandage being loosened, have made a deep inspiration, and air might have been sucked in at the very moment when ah appeared safe. It is now rarely possible to adopt these precautionary measures, for the danger from ' applying such constriction during the administration of an ansestbetic would be greater than the risk of entrance of air, but I have allowed this description of them to remain partly on historic grounds and partly because circumstances might even now arise in which they might be necessary. In the removal of cancerous glands or other tumours fi'om the axilla, it is sometimes possible to compress the vein, between the heart and the place of operation. Curative Treatment.—Different plans have been recommended for the treatment of those cases in which air has gained admittance into a vein ; but, from the very fatal nature of this accident, it does not appear that much benefit has resulted from any of them : the recovery of the patient, in some of the cases, appearing to be due rather to the quantity of air that was introduced being insufhcient to cause death, than to any effort on the part of the Surgeon. The suggestion of Amussat and Blandin, to empty the heart of the mixture of blood and air by suction through a tube passed into the wound in the vein, or into an opening made into the right jugidar, can hardly be considered within the range of practical Surgery. The (iompression of the