INJURIES OF THE HEAD. actively and efficiently treated ; death occumug either from septic poisoning, pyaemia, or exhaustion. It IS important to make the diagnosis between erysipelas of the scalp and diffuse suppuration beneath the pericranial aponeurosis, as the treatment of the two conditions is very different. In erysipelas there is a characteristic invasion (see Chap. XXXII.) ; the redness and swelling, when they appear on the face, can be seen to have a sharply defined margin, and they speedilv extend beyond the limits of the pericranial aponeurosis, reaching to the cheeks or mouth, and very commonly involving the pinna of the ear. The lymphatic glands at the upper part of the neck are swollen and tender. In diffuse celluhtis leneath the aijoneurosis, the swelling does not go beyond the limits of that membrane ; the blush that may extend beyond is of small extent, and has a diff'used margin ; the pinna of the ear is not affected, and the lymphatic glands are not swollen. In the first and second classes of scalp wounds there is no special tendency to cerebral comphcations of any kind when the brain is not injured by the same violence that inflicts the wound. In the third class of scalp wounds in which the bone is exposed, and perhaps denuded for some extent, healing as a rule takes place readily enough if drainage is maintained and asepsis secured. Should a part of the injured scalp be torn away or slough, and a portion of the skull be exposed, exfoHation of the outer table, though probable, does not necessarily occur ; for in many cases granulations will spring up on the exposed bone, which still receives vascular supply from the diploe, and thus healing will take place. If decomposition of the discharges and suppuration occur in a wound laying bare the bone, the patient is exposed to various dangers beyond diffuse suppuration beneath the aponeurosis. The bare bone, being bathed in septic pus, is not unlikely to necrose. Should this happen, the dead portion separates in most cases without further evil consequences, but until this has taken place the patient can never be considered out of danger. The complica- tions to which he is liable are caused by the septic matter penetrating the dead outer table and affecting deeper parts. In this way a diffuse septic inflamma- tion may be set up in the diploe (septic osteomyelitis), and should this happen death from septicasmia or pyaemia is almost inevitable. After death in such a case, on chiselHng away the outer table, the diploe will be found to be soaked in offensive pus, and the large veins that lie in it will be seen to contain softening thrombi, portions of which have been washed on into the blood stream and given rise to abscesses in the lungs or other viscer.i. All forms of pyaemia and septicemia are met with in these cases, and the symptoms differ in no respect from those which occur in blood-poisoning from other wounds. (See Chapter XXXIII.) The older writers on Surgery had noted and had marvelled at the strange phenomenon of hepatic abscesses following slight head injuries, but had generally overk)oked the occurrence of secondary deposits in other organs and structures. There is, however, no reason to believe that hepatic abscesses are more common in pja3mia after head injuries than in that arising from any other injury. In eighteen cases Prescott Hewett found the lungs studded with abscesses in thirteen, and the liver in three ; and of these three, in one case only was the liver alone affected. The second great complication of scalp wounds exposing the bone is intra- cranial siqjpuration. It may occur with diffuse septic inflammation of the