781 TRAUMATIC EPILEPSY. nection with the affected centre. The fit is frequently preceded by pecuhar sensations in the part first affected by the spasm, and is often followed by transient paresis of the parts which are the seat of the convulsions, ihere is usually no loss of consciousness. It is obviously only in cases of epilepsy believed to be of the focal variety that any benefit can be expected from operative interference. The Surgeon must if possible observe for himself the exact character of the attacks, and must bear in mind that ordinary epilepsy and hystero-epilepsy may manifest themselves for the first time after an injury to the head. Traumatic epilepsy has been said to arise from the following causes :— 1st, from a neuralgic cicatrix on the scalp—the starting point of reflex convulsions ; 2nd, from chronic osteitis of the part of the skull struck giving rise to thickening and induration in the bone ; 3rd, from depression of bone, fracture of the inner table or the formation of osseous stalactites pressing on the surface of the brain in the motor area ; 4th, from chronic thickening of the dura mater ; 5th, from cystic collections of fluid in the membranes ; and Gth, from scars or other lesions in the area of the cortical motor centres. The cysts which have in many cases been found in the membranes, usually beneath the arachnoid, probably owe their origin to hemorrhages produced by the injury, and the same explanation must be given of the cysts which have more than once been opened in the brain substance itself. In some cases no pathological appearances could be detected at the time of the operation, although it is remarkable that in some of these relief followed. In the Treatment of traumatic epilepsy operative interference may be resorted to after the ordinary constitutional means have failed. If it seems to be due merely to a painful cicatrix in the scalp, we may follow Bryant's advice and dissect it up without removing any of the subjacent bone. The practice of trephining in these cases is a very ancient one. The older Surgeons often employed it, and Cline cured a patient whose epilepsy was found to be occasioned by an osseous projection from the inner table, and whose last fit was on the operating table before the elevation of the disc of affected bone. The practice fell into disuse until revived by Lucas-Championniere, West, and others. Operative interference for epilepsy was formerly limited to removing a portion of bone in the scar of a previous injury, the Surgeon hesitating to perform any operation on the brain itself. At the present day, however, if the Surgeon find no cause of irritation in the bone itself, he may proceed to open the dura mater with strict antiseptic precautions. The bulging of the dura and its imperfect pulsation may already have indicated the presence of a collection of clear fluid beneath it which may be evacuated. It has been mentioned above that the epilepsy may be the result of scarring of the cortical brain substance. Under these conditions the prospects of a cure are not so good, but in the hands of Victor Horsley and others success has followed the removal of the scar with the brain substance around it. The details of the operation are the same as in removal of tumours of the brain, and will be described with the operation of trephining. In one of Horsley's first cases of this kind, the patient, a man of 22, had an old depressed fracture of the skull, giving rise to fits beginning in the right leg. During the thirteen days previous to the operation he had 2,870 fits. On exposing the brain, a scar involving the hinder end of the superior frontal sulcus and the membranes