ANTISEPTIC TREATMENT OF WOUNDS. 327 The dressing may be applied with or without the spray. If the spray be not used the wound should be covered with a piece of linen rag, moistened with carbolic acid lotion (1 in 40), while the dressing is being prepared. This rag is commonly termed a " guard." The dressing should be applied thus: a small piece of the "protective" dipped in the carbolic lotion is first applied to the wound, with a hole cut through it corresponding to the mouth of the drainage-tube. Over this is placed a double layer of gauze, dipped in the carbolic lotion and squeezed as dry as possible. This has beeu found to give additional safety, as the carbolic gauze often picks up pieces of dirt which are not disinfected by it in its dry state. Over the wet gauze are applied several dry layers, either smooth or crumpled up according to the form of the part. The quantity of this must be proportional to the amount of discharge that is expected to flow from the cavity. It must be arranged so as to fill up any natural hollows or irregulari- ties of the part, so that the bandages may lie smoothly and evenly over it. The superficial dressing is then applied. This is composed of eight layers of carbolic gauze, between the two most superficial of which is placed a piece of "hat-lining." The object of this is to diffuse the discharge evenly through- out the whole dressing, and to prevent its soaking through at once opposite the wound. If no " hat-lining " is available, of course any other waterproof material will act equally well. The dressing, which must extend at least six or eight inches on each side of the opening, and furthest in that direction in which the discharge is expected to drain, is secured in its position by a bandage made of the antiseptic gauze, great care being taken to secure the edges. Lastly, elastic webbing from one inch to two inches in width according to circumstances, must be applied in such a Avay as to keep the edges of the dressing constantly in contact with the skin during any movement of the patient. In the case of a dressing on a limb, a single turn secured by a pin at the upper and lower end of the gauze is all that is required. In other situations the Surgeon must exercise his ingenuity in applying it in such a manner as to fasten the edges of the dressing securely on the part. It must, of course, not be applied so tightly in any case as to interfere with the circula- tion. The introduction of a few turns of elastic webbing in the application of the dressing is an important element in the success of the treatment. The gauze dressing thus applied acts antiscptically in two ways : 1st, mechanically, by filtering any air that may pass through it, and thus ex- cluding dust ; and 2ndly, chemically, by slowly yielding up to the decomposable fluids which soak into it a sufficient quantity of carbolic acid to prevent putre- taction. Rest of the wound is favoured by the slight rigidity of the eight layers of gauze, by the gentle pressure of the bandage, and by the comparative infrequency of the dressings. A carbolic gauze dressing must be changed at the end of the first twenty- four hours, or sometimes even before this if the discharge be very abundant. After this it must be carefully watched, and if any discharge appear at its edge it must again be changed. The carbolic acid being very volatile at the temperature of the body, the dressing gradually loses its antiseptic properties. About the third day, although the ordinary signs of putrefiiction arc absent, Watson Cheyne has shown that micrococci may make their appearance, and that their presence may be accompanied by some fermentative changes in the discharges which render them sour and somewhat irritating, and in this way