492 INJURIES OF NERVES, MUSCLES, AND TENDONS. Rupture or Laceration.—Healthy nerves are rarely torn across except in the most severe injuries, such as compound dislocations and compound fractures. AVhen paralysis or loss of sensation follows a subcutaneous injury, it is due to contusion, and possibly to rupture of some of the fibres, but the continuity of the nerve is scarcely ever completely interrupted. Puncture.—If a nerve be punctured, the parts below the puncture become the seat of tingling, shooting, and burning pains, and the neuralgic condition may travel upwards along the nervous trunk. Thus, I have more than once seen a puncture of one of the digital branches of the ulnar nerve produce a kind of painful paralysis of its trunk, rendering the arm nearly useless. I have seen the same effects occur in the median nerve from a needle puncture of the finger. It occasionally happens, in venesection at the bend of the arm, that a branch of the internal cutaneous nerve is pricked, and that very persistent neuralgia occurs in consequence. Division.—Primary Effects.—When a nerve is completely cut across, or its conducting power is in any way abolished, whether by contusion, compres- sion, or laceration, paralysis of sensation or motion, or both, according as the nerve is sensory, motor, or mixed, occurs in all the parts surplied by it. The vaso-motor paralysis that arises from the division of the nerve at first causes hyperemia, with some elevation of temperature, which only lasts foi- a few days and then gradually subsides till in a week or two the part becomes passively congested and colder than natural. The patient complains of numbness or deadness in the parts supplied by it, and sensibility of every kind is lost; but various anomalous painful sensations of a burning, tickling, tingling, or creeping kind are complained of. These sensations often give the idea of increased heat of the part to the patient, and are compared by him to the effect that would be produced by molten lead or boiling water running through it. When the nerve is partially divided, or bruised as well as severed, as in cases of gunshot injury, neuralgia in the parts supplied by it beyond, and sometimes also in those above, the seat of injury, is associated with the paralytic symptoms. The Secondary Effects of division differ according to the nature of the nerve. The section of a purely motor nerve, such as the facial, causes complete paralysis, with subsequent wasting and degeneration of the muscles supplied by it, but the nutrition of the superficial structures is not affected. The changes in the muscles in these cases are of great importance. From the moment the nerve is divided, all voluntary power is of course lost. The conductivity of the nerve is rapidly abolished ; it begins to be lowered at the middle of the first week, and at the end of the second week stimulation of the lower end of the divided nerve with the constant or interrupted current fails to cause any muscular contraction. Direct excitation of the muscle shews that during the first two weeks after the nerve section the irritability to the voltaic and faradic currents are both lowered. The faradic excitability now entirely disappears, whilst at the same time the contractions produced by the constant current become excessive and remain so for several months, after which the excitability falls and disappears altogether in a year or more. These reactions are most useful guides in diagnosis, prognosis, and treatment. As the muscles become flabby and wasted, deformities of various kinds may ensue, from the unopposed action of