EELATION OF MICRO-ORGANISMS TO SUPPURATION. 243 interest attaching to the subject is so great, that it may be well here briefly to describe the process. The reagents required are, a solution of methyl-violet (cue of the aniline dyes), of the strength of half a grain to one ounce of distilled water, carefully filtered, and some pure Canada balsam, which has been heated to drive off its volatile oil. The method of observation is as follows : Spread the pus on a glass cover-slip in the thinnest possible layer, and dry it carefully over a spirit-lamp, taking care not to overheat it; dip a clean glass rod in the methyl-violet solution, and spread a thin film of the dye over the dried layer of pus ; after from thirty to sixty seconds, wash the dye off carefully with a gentle stream of distilled water. A darkly-stained film should remain behind, which must be again dried over the spirit-lamp ; then while the cover-slip is still warm, put on it a drop of the Canada balsam, rendered fluid by heat, and place it quickly on a glass slide which is also slightly warmed ; squeeze it gently down, and when cold it is ready for examination. The micrococci are distinguished from other granules by their definite round form and uniform size, and by their arrangement in groups or chains. They, moreover, take the dye readily, while fatty and albuminoid granules remain uncoloured. Blood or urine may be examined by the same process. There are, of course, many other methods of staining and preparing organ- isms, but the above will be found practically efficient for the ordinary pyogenic organisms. The Chief Micro-organisms con- nected ivith Acute Suppuration.—In about 70 per cent, of all acute sub- cutaneous suppurations the organism present is a micrococcus (see p. 178) belongi ng to the group 8taj)hylococcus, so named from the separate cells being heaped together in irregular masses resembling a bunch of grapes (Fig. 90). Staphylococci grow well at ordinary temperatures on nutrient gelatine, agar-agar and potatoes. When grown on gelatine they gradually liquefy it, and at the same time a slightly sour smell is given off. They generate no gas in their growth, and can either derive the oxygen from the air or from the tissues or fluids in which they maybe growing in the body, that is to say, they can be aerobic or anaerobic, according to circumstances. Two chief varieties are commonly met with, Staphylococcus pyogenes aureus and alj)us. They are only distinguished by their growth on the various culti- vating media, the aureus forming colonies of a golden-yellow colour, and the albus forming opaque white patches. The two forms are frequently found together in the same abscess, and are probably mere varieties of the same species. In rare cases another variety forming lemon-coloured colonies has been met with, and has received the name of Staphylococcus pyogenes citreus. The staphylococci give rise to localised suppurations, and show no tendency to diffuse themselves widely by the lymph spaces. On the other hand, they fre- quently penetrate the small vessels of the part in which they are growing, and R 2