INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 744 completely re-established. In these it is probable that no coarse lesion of the brain substance has taken place. In other cases, the concussion may rapidly terminate in death, and in these it will always be found that distinct contusion or laceration of the brain substance has occurred. Between these conditions there are several intermediate states. Thus, recovery may be complete, but a permanently irritable state of brain may be left; the patient, though capable of the ordinary duties of life, becoming readily excited by shght excesses in diet or in the use of stimulants, or by mental emotion, though not of an inordinate intensity. Individuals thus afl'ected, suffering from a preter- naturally irritable brain, sometimes die suddenly in the course of a few months, or a year or two, after the receipt of the injury. In other cases the patient's recovery is incomplete. He remains for a long time unable properly to follow his usual occupation or to mix in the ordinary business of life. In such cases there is frequently a certain degree of impair- ment of mental power ; the memory failing either generally or in certain important points, as with reference to dates, persons, places, or language. The speech is perhaps indistinct and stuttering. Impairment of vision is a very common consequence of these injuries. Asthenopia, with perhaps squinting or paralysis of the eyelid, may be left. The hearing may be impaired, or noises of various kinds set up in the ears. Epileptiform con- vulsions occasionally occur; sometimes, as the patient is recovering consciousness, he may be seized with a severe fit; but more commonly the convulsions do not come on as a primary consequence, but rather as a remote secondary result of the brain injury. There may be diminution or loss of muscular and of virile power, especially, as Hennen observes, when the injury has been inflicted upon the back of the head ; and Holberton has noticed that, when the medulla oblongata has been injured, the pulse may continue preternaturally slow—an observation which I have had several opportunities of confirming. The symptoms here enumerated are spoken of collectively as "general nervous shock," or "traumatic neurasthenia," and are evidence of a more or less marked condition of nervous depression resulting from the injury. The condition will be further considered in connection with injuries of the spine, which are often followed by similar symptoms. In some of these cases the symptoms of concussion are but slight; perhaps even none are apparent, and the sufferer congratulates himself on his escape ; but gradually impair- ment of nervous power, manifesting itself in one or other of the ways just mentioned, comes on, and the health continues broken through life. In other cases, again, the symptoms of concussion may gradually terminate in those of compression ; and not unfrequently reaction is followed by some inflammatory mischief when the concussion has been accompanied by laceration or contusion of the brain. Hippocrates truly observed that no injury of the head is too trivial to be despised, or too serious to be despaired of. 2. Compression of the Beain.—This is a common condition in injuries of the head, arising from a great variety of causes :—from the pressure of a portion of bone, of extravasated blood, of inflammatory exudation, or of pus formed within the skull, or from a foreign body lodged there. In considering the Pathology of compression of the brain, it is of the greatest importance to distinguish clearly between the local effects of a com- pressing body on the part of the brain upon which it lies, and the effects of a general rise of intracranial pressure. We are here concerned only with the