SPECIAL AMPUTATIONS. I20 bath of 1 iu 20 carbolic acid lotion. It may then be dressed antiseptically, and the amputation deferred till the exact limits of the injury can be clearly ascertained. This line of practice was followed in two cases in University College Hospital. In one, the foot, which seemed at first hopelessly crushed, completely recovered ; in the other it also recovered, with the exception of the great toe, which was amputated at the end of the second week. The Subastragalar Amputation is seldom practised in this country, but seems to be more commonly adopted in France. In it the whole foot is removed except the astragalus. Several methods have been recommended for amputation in this situation, of which the following recommended by Nelaton is perhaps the simplest. In operating on the right foot, the lucision is commenced about three-quarters of an inch below the external malleolus, in front of the insertion of the tendo Achillis, and carried, at first forwards Fig. 61.—Subastragalar Amputation, c, Tendo Acliillis ; h, Tntero.sseous Ligament for a short distance, and then in a curved direction downwards to the sole of the foot, so as to pass just behind the base of the fifth metatarsal bone. It then crosses the sole, and is brought up to the inner side of the foot, termi- nating about half an inch anterior to the tubercle of the scaphoid. The extremities of this line are then joined by a curved incision across the dorsum of the foot, reaching downwards to the lower edge of the scaphoid. The soft parts are then raised from the bone on the outer side, sufficiently to reach the tendo Achillis, which is to be divided (Fig. 61, a). On pushing the finger into the wound the upper surface of the os calcis, and the line of its articula- tion with the astragalus can now be felt. The point of the knife is next to be thrust into the articulation, and the interosseous ligament divided (Fig. 61, V), while the foot is wrenched forcibly inwards. Care must be taken not to injure the ligaments between the os calcis and the cuboid, or all power over the former bone would be lost. When the interosseous ligament