'912 MORTIFICATION, OR GANGRENE. remedies must therefore be avoided even in the inflammatory forms of the affection. Inflammatory fever, however high it may be in the early stages, rapidly gives way, after gangrene has set in, to symptoms of an asthenic type. It is only before the occarrence and during the spread of gangrene, that the use of lowering remedies could possibly be suggested ; for, when once gangrene has ceased to extend, however high the fever may have been that accompanied its progress, all the powers of the constitution will be required to maintain the process of separation of the sloughs, if they be extensive and deep. Venesec- tion is never required in any form of gangrenous inflammation. In the forms of gangrene consequent upon specific infective inflammation, however acute the" symptoms may be, depletion is never necessary. It would only render the tissues less able to withstand the eff'ects of the specific irritant which is causing the process. In all inflammatory forms of gangrene the diet should be light but nutritious ; and the patient should be put to bed, with the affected part elevated, and in many cases a brisk purgative at the com- mencement of the treatment enables him to take his food better. As the disease advances mild tonics may be given, and in the later periods, when the constitutional symptoms become asthenic, stimulants should be administered. The best stimulants are wine or porter, according to the patient's habits of life ; and these should be given in combination with nourishment, so as not merely to raise the pulse, but to produce a more permanent tonic influence on the system generally. If much depression occur, the medicinal stimulants, especially ether, ammonia, and camphor, are of material service. The only tonics that are of much value here are the preparations of cinchona bark and some of the vegetable bitters, as gentian and cascarilla; and though the specific virtues that were formerly attributed to them can no longer be accorded, yet when they do not irritate the stomach, they are of unquestionable service in combating the asthenic symptoms, and improving the digestive powers. In these cases I look upon cinchona bark, in combination with chlorate of potash and ammonia, as of undoubted value. As a great part of the constitutional disturbance in most cases is due to the absorption of the products of putrefaction from the dead tissues, much can be done to relieve the symptoms by the efficient local use of antiseptics. 2 After the proper employment of means calculated to remove the consti- tutional cause of the gangrene, the system must he supported agamst the debili- tating influences that accompany the process of ulceration and of suppuration necessary for the separation of the mortified parts. During this period, there is less fever but more debility, and stronger tonics and stimulants can be borne ; but we should be careful not to overstimulate the patient. On this point it is extremely difficult to lay down any precise rule ; every possible variety as to the quantity and quality of food and stimulant being required by different individuals. The safest guides are the state of the pulse and tongue ; if they improve, the means employed agree. At the same time hygienic measures should be carefully attended to ; cleanliness and free ventilation, with the abundant use of disinfectants, are of the first importance. S The third indication, that of lessening the irritability of the system which always supervenes, and which is partly owing to the severity of the pain, and partly to the shaken and depressed state of the nervous system, is best carried