IiVJUJiJi:^ OF AKTERIES. and the canal of the vessel restored. At the time when venesection was commonly practised, a patient was often bled many times from the same vein (luring the course of his life without its becoming occluded. 2. Septic and spreadhifi inflmnmation of Veins Avill be described when we come to speak of the various forms of venous thrombosis and phlebitis ; and the Entrance of Air into Veins will be discussed in a subsequent chapter. INJURIES OF ARTERIES. Arteries may be bruised, torn, punctured, or cut. Contusion.—A slight bruise of an artery is not attended with any bad con- sequences ; but, if the contusion be sufficiently severe to damage the coats, the artery may become plugged with an adherent clot, and finally occluded. This clot may be deposited gradually, so that the obstruction of the vessel may not be com.plete till some days after the accident. Thus, a patient was admitted into University College Hospital under Mr. Quain, with a contused wound in the axilla, received in falling upon some iron railings ; no change cook place in the circulation of the arm for two days, when pulsation in the radial artery ceased, the injured vessel having evidently become plugged by a clot. Rupture and Laceration.—An artery may be torn either partially or completely across. When Partial Rupture occurs, only the internal and middle coats give way, the toughness of the external coat preventing its laceration. This accident is especially apt to occur in consequence of blows or strains upon diseased or weakened vessels, and may possibly lay the foundation for dissecting and other aneurisms. In other cases, the ruptured portion of the coats becomes turned down into the inside of the vessel, and, acting as a valve, prevents the further progress of the blood through it ; more commonly the partially ruptured vessel becomes blocked by a clot adherent to the injured spot. Occlusion of an artery in this way may give rise to gangrene, but as a rule the collateral circulation is sufficient to main- tain the vitality of the parts beyond, the obstruction. Bowlby has recorded a remarkable case of partial rupture of the subclavian artery resulting from a i'racture of the clavicle. The inner and middle coats were cleanly divided at ihe junction of the first and second parts of the artery, and after being separated from the outer coat in the second part, were driven by the blood- stream into the third part so as completely to occlude it. A condition of partial rupture may occur in wounds from blunt instruments. Thus, a case occurred at the London Hospital, in which a suicidal wound of the throat had exposed the carotid artery. After death, it was found that the inner and middle coats of the vessel had been divided by the pressure of the knife, wliich was blunt, but that the external coat had been left entire ; and under this was a dissecting aneurism. The Complete Rupture of an artery may occur either in an open wound ov under the integuments. When an artery is torn across in an open wound, as in the avulsion of a limb by machinery, or by a cannon-shot, there is usually but little hemorrhage, even from arteries of the magnitude of the axillary or the femoral, and though the vessel hang out of the wound, pulsating to its very end. The absence of bleeding is owing to the internal and middle coats, which are fragile, breaking off short and contracting