GEXERAL REMARKS ON OPERATIONS. 32 apparatus, with a closely-fitting face-piece, to cover the mouth and nose, must be used. The gas is supphed for use compressed in iron bottles. The bottle is connected with the face-piece by a tube, in the middle of which is an india- rubber bag, difiPerently placed in different instruments. The principle of all is, however, the same, viz., that after the face-piece has been firmly a]3plied, the bag is distended with gas by turning the stop-cock connected with the iron bottle. The patient then breathes tlie gas from the bag. In some instru- ments, by an arraugemcnt of \-alves, the expired gas passes into the air, fresh nitrous oxide being supplied for inspiration. In others the patient breathes backwards and forwards into the bag, inhaling the same gas several times. The former method is preferable, although necessarily causing an increased con- sumption of gas. In the latter method some gas is lost by escaping from under the face-piece, and its place is supplied by allowing a fresh stream to flow in from the iron bottle. Nitrous oxide is an irrespirable gas, and as no air is mixed with it, the effects produced are, to a great extent, those of asphyxia. It differs, however, from the asphyxia produced by obstruction of the air- passages in this, that the elimination of carbonic acid gas continues to a certain extent, so that although the blood ceases to receive oxygen it does not become overcharged with carbonic acid, and consequently a few breaths of fi-esh air remove all traces of the temporary asphyxia. The process of anges- thesia by nitrous oxide is not, however, asphyxia and nothing else ; a certain proportion of the gas is absorbed, and exerts an influence resembling that of other anaesthetics on the nervous centres. Experiments on animals have shown that, like ether, it always stops respiration before arresting the action of the heart. In the administration of laughing gas the following symptoms are observed. After a time, varying from a few seconds to half a minute, according to the fi-eedom with which the patient inhales the gas, a slight lividity of the face is noticed, and a choking sensation may be felt. In less than one minute, as a rule, this lividity becomes extremely marked, the vessels of the face are injected, there is often some twitching of the eyes and limbs, and the breathing is deeper than natural. At this stage sensation and reflex movements are abolished, and a momentary operation may be per- formed. Sometimes the patient is conscious that something has been done although he feels no pain, and his ideas are confused. If the operation be more than momentary, the administration of the gas must be continued a few seconds longer. The face then becomes livid, the eyes protrude, the pupils dilate, and the whole appearance of the patient is alarming to an inexperienced bystander. The pulse becomes unsteady, and the respira- tion slow and stertorous. This is the extreme point to which the administrM- tion can be carried, for, as before stated, the gas is irrespirable, and if ad- ministered for a sufficient length of time, must necessarily be fatal. Even Avhen carried to this extreme point, however, a few breaths of fresh air suffice to restore the patient perfectly. Occasionahy there is some excite- ment as recovery takes place, but this soon passes off". Yomiting is very rare. During the period of insensibility, and the excitement following it, the patient is very apt to dream ; and consequently it is extremely unwise for a medical man to administer laughing gas, or in fact any angesthetic, to a female patient except in the presence of a third person, as charges of criminal assault have been made under these circumstances, very possibly in perfect good faith on the part of the patient.