UNION BY SECOND INTENTION. 295 exposed to a persistent source of irritation in consequence of which the exuda- tion continues ; the migrating cells accumulate on the surface, forming a layer of considerable thickness, and infiltrate the tissues beneath, destroying and taking the place of the superficial parts which have suffered most severely from the injury and the subsequent sources of irritation. The superficial cells of the layer thus formed being exposed necessarily to injurious influ- ences, such as the contact of ibreign bodies, the irritation of antiseptic dressings, or of decomposing discharges, &c., perish, become granular, lose their adhesion to each other and float away as pus-cells in the serous dis- charge. In the pus that is thus formed on the surface of the sore, some freshly migrated white corpuscles still manifesting the characteristic amoeboid movements will always be found. While this process of pus-formation is taking place on the surface, development of new vessels, by the process already described under union by first intention, is taking place in the layers beneath, and at the same time there is an active cell-growth which more than com- pensates for any loss that may be taking place from the surface in the forma- tion of pus, and the loss of substance which resulted from the original injury is gradually repaired. We have thus developed an actively growing layer of granulation-tissue, that is to say, of a tissue composed of small round cells adhering to each other by a homogeneous intercellular substance, and tra- versed by an abundant system of thin-walled capillary vessels. In a superficial granulating sore the vessels form loops the convex sides of which are directed towards the surface (Fig. 99). The same differences of opinion exist as to the origin of the cells which appear in the process of healing by second intention that have already been pointed out as existing with regard to the same process in union by the first intention. In whatever way, however, the cells are formed, this much is certain, that " granulation-tissue" is a true tissue, resembling embryonic tissue in its power of growth, by which it fills up the gap left by the loss of substance or formed by the gaping of the surfaces of a wound in which union by first intention has failed. Like any other tissue, " granulation-tissue " is capable of suffering from inflammation if exposed to injurious influences. If removed from every source of irritation, the circulation 18 as active through the new vessels as it is in those of the original tissues, transudation is not in excess of the requirements of nutrition, and few, if any^ of the corpuscular elements of the blood escape through the vascular walls! The growth takes place by the division of the cells of the granulation-tissue, and not by the addition of migrating corpuscles from the vessels. If the tissue be exposed to injurious influences which lower its vitality, exudation takes place, making the granulations swollen, soft or even cedematous, and multitudes of migrating cells find their way to the surface and float away with the serum as pus, mixed with the superficial granulation-cells which have perished and left their adhesion to each other. Thus, when on a raw surface a healthy layer of granulation-tissue is formed, it is theoretically possible that the surface may discharge no pus, only a small quantity of serous fluid escaping owing to the want of an impermeable epithelial covering. In order that this may occur, the dehcate cells of which its surface is composed must be pro- tected from every possible source of irritation, whether physical, mechanical or chemical Such a condition it is practically scarcely possible to obtain, but experience of modern methods of dressing has shown that by proper treatment the quantity of pus and the number of corpuscles it contains may be greatly