622 SPECIAL FRACTURES. second week (Fig. ir,4). The points to be particularly attended to are, that the hinder pasteboard splint be very strong, at the upper part especially, and that the spica be well and firmly applied, so that the hip and the whole of the pelvis may be immovably fixed. 5. The fracture may be treated by simply relaxing the muscles of the limb. This IS effected by laying it upon its outer side, flexing the thigh to nearly a right angle with the body, and the leg upon the thigh, and supporting the limb in this position by an angular wooden or leather splint, extending from the hip to the knee or outer ankle, and by a short inside thigh-splint. This position I have occasionally adopted in fractures about a couple of inches below the trochanters, in which there is a great tendency to the projection outwards of the lower end of the upper fragment, and I have found these cases turn out better in this way than on any other plan of treatment. If there is much shortening a weight-extension apparatus may be applied by means of strapping fixed to the lower part of the thigh. In fractures of the femur in children, it is often difficult to maintain good position, owing to the restlessness of the patient. In such cases Hamilton recommends that a long splint be applied to the sound thigh as well as to the broken one. The two splints are connected at the bottom by a transverse bar (Fig. 218), and some short splints must be put round the thigh to fix the broken bone. I can speak from experience of the very great advantages of this method in young children. The child can be taken up and turned over with the splint without disturbing the fracture in the slightest degree. Another excellent plan is that recommended by Bryant of applying-fi back- splint from the heel to the nates and short splints on the sides and front of the thigh, strapping by means of which extension can be made havino- been previously fixed to the leg. Both limbs are then slung up to a cradle, so as to keep them at right angles to the body. By this means the bandages 'are kept out of the way of the evacuations passed into the bed, and the welf'ht of the body acts as a constant counter-extending force. The Treatment of Compound and Comminuted Fracture of the Thigh-bone will vary according as the injury arises from gunshot, or is an accident of civil life. In the former case, for reasons stated at p. 358, am.puta- tion should at once be performed if the fracture be below the upper third of the bone. When the upper third is splintered, the result of amputation is so very unsatisfactory that the patient may have a better prospect of recovery if the