STIKGS OF INSECTS. 367 CHAPTER XI. POISONED WOUNDS. Two classes of poisons may gain access to a wound : first, the non-infective, which have no power of increasing in the living body, and, secondly, those which possess true infective properties and multiply in the tissues or in the blood. In the former class the effect is proportional to the dose, in the latter it is not; in the former the effect begins to manifest itself immediately, in the latter there is sometimes a period of incubation, during which no symptoms indicate the presence of the poison. Both classes may act locally or generally. "When the non-infective poisons produce grave general symptoms, this is due either to the quantity introduced or to the intensity of the virus. The most important of the non-infective poisons are the venom of various insects, the poison of snakes, and the chemical products of putrefaction. Amongst the most important of the true infective poisons are the virus of rabies, of glanders, of malignant pustule, and of certain unhealthy processes in the living human body. STINGS OF INSECTS. Stings of Insects, as of bees, wasps, mosquitoes, gnats, &c., though painful, seldom produce any serious results ; yet occasionally they prove fatal, by serving as a starting-point for erysipelas in some unhealthy constitutions, or by giving rise to intense irritation from the multiplicity of the stings, as when bees swarm upon and sting a person ; or they may be dangerous in con- sequence of the nature of the part that is stung, as the eye, or the interior of the mouth, or the pharynx, as has happened from swallowing a bee in a piece of honeycomb. Mosquito-bites are peculiarly irritating, and when numerous poison the blood, producing nervous depression and great febrile irritation The venom of a mosquito is very powerful, weight for weight probably more so than that of the most venomous snakes. The bites of some insects, as scorpions, or the tarantula in Italy, give rise to serious and even fatal dis- turbance. A peculiar train of nervous phenomena is said to follow the bite of the tarantula, hence called " tarantismus ;" a condition that is generally stated to be peculiarly influenced by music, though this has been denied by Gozzo. Treatment.—In the treatment of stings of insects the application of cool- ing lotions or of a cold poultice, or rubbing the part with olive oil, will be found useful. In some cases, more especially in mosquito-bites, or the stings of bees or wasps, touching the part stung with strong liquor ammonias or potassse gives relief, if done at once. In the case of stings from wasps or bees, it should be ascertained that the sting has not been left in the wound. If so it must be extracted, and the alkali applied.