566 FEACTUJiJ'JS. occasionally met with. The surfaces in contact become hardened and eburnated, bony outo-rowtlis may form aroand the ends of the fragments, and pedunculated fibrous outgrowths have been found attached to the mner surface of the capsule. All forms of non-union of fracture are undoubtedly rare. I have very seldom met with it in my own practice. The cases that have been under my care have almost all been sent up from various parts of the counti-y. ^' e probably exaggerate the frequency of non-union, if we say that it occurs m the proportion of one in a thousand cases of fracture of the limbs. Causes.~The causes of ununited fracture are consiilutional and local. Constitutional Causes.—The constitutional causes that, independently of local conditions, lead to non-union of a fractured bone, are often very obscure, and in many cases none can be detected. Mere debility, independently of some definite constitutional disease, mhU not lead to want of union. In fact, in weakly children, fi-actures will unite with great readiness, or if union be delayed for a short time it will, on the impro\ einent of the health, readily take place. The debility induced by the acute specific diseases seems in a few recorded cases to have been a cause of non-union, and an attack of acute pneumonia has had the same effect. Syphilis does not seem to influence the progress of a fracture during the primary and secondary stages of the disease, and it is probable that when it is a cause of non-union the bone was afiectcd before it was broken. Scurvy always has an injurious influence on fractures, causing delay in union, if not complete want of repair, and the older writers assert that in severe cases fractures repaired many years before may become disunited. There is no evidence that cancer has any influence in delaying union, if the fracture be not actually due to a secondary growth in the bone. In spontaneous fractures, from whatever cause, union seldom takes place readily, and often fails altogether. Preynancy is said to have a tendency to interfere with the proper union of a fracture ; this, however, I consider doubtful, as I have seen a considerable number of cases of fi'acture in pregnant women, which united in the ordinary time. Billroth and Bruns liave made similar observations. Age.—Y^WmQ of union in fractures is very rare in children, and when it occurs in them is seldom remediable, unless it be the result of neglect or of improper mechanical treatment. It is more common at the earlier adult and middle ages. Advanced age appears to exercise no adverse influence on the repair of'fractures. I have on two occasions, in my own practice, known very firm consolidation of a fracture of the shaft of the femur to take place in women of ninety years of age. The Local Causes are various and important. Some hones are much more liaUe than others to non-union of fractures. The patella seldom unites by bone in transverse fracture, and fibrous union is common in the lower jaw. Bruns has collected 1274 cases of ununited fracture of the long bones of the limbs with the following results :—409 occurred in the leg, :37() in the arm, 337 in the thigh, and i52 in the forearm. Eelatively non-union is most common in the humerus and femur, as the following statistics prove. Of all recent fractures lo'o per cent, occur in the humerus, but 29-5 per cent, of all ununited fractures are met with in that bone ; the femur yields 13-2 per cent, of all fractures, and 20-4 of ununited fractures ; the bones of the leg yield 32-1 per cent, of all fractures, and 32-1 per cent, of ununited frac-