WOUNDS OF SPECIAL BLOOD-YESSELS. 48o Great care must be taken not to induce sloughing- of the tissues over the tumour by too forcible pressure. The limb should be carefully bandaged and maintained in the semi-flexed position. Should this plan not succeed, we must be guided by the conditions of the case. If the tumour be of recent origin, soft and compressible, or, though of longer duration, large, with a thin sac, and in danger of becoming diffused, it should be treated by direct incision, and the arteiy deligated on each side of the wound. Should the tumour be small, or of but moderate size, and the sac be tolerably thick and firm, it has been recommended to treat it by deligation of the brachial artery, either in the middle of the arm, or, as Anel did with success, immediately above the tumour. This mode of treatment is not, however, certainly followed by cure owing to the freedom of the anastomoses about the elbow. I have known it to fail in a case in which the sac was large and thin, the pulsations returning in a few days and the tumour continuing to enlarge. It is better, therefore, in all cases, if pressure fails, at once to have recourse to incision of the sac. AYith efficient antiseptic treatment the operation is not more dangerous than ligature at a distance. Varicose Aneurism, at the bend of the arm, presents the ordinary characters of the disease. Occasionally, though rarely, it would appear that the aperture of communication between the aneurismal sac and the vein becomes closed, and thus the varicose is converted into the ordinary circum- scribed traumatic aneurism. The Treatmetit of this affection must be conducted on different principles from that of the ordinary circumscribed variety ; for whatever be the density of the sac, it is never, as has already been explained (p. 472), a perfect one, having always an opening into the vein which would prevent its proper closure by the deposit of laminated fibrin. Of four cases related by Sabatier, which were treated by Anel's operation, amputation became necessary in two ; and, in the other cases, the operation by incision of the sac was required before a cure could be effected. The sac must therefore be laid open, and the vessel tied on each side of it in the way that has been recommended in the treat- ment of varicose aneurism, and with the caution there laid down. If the varicose aneurism be converted, after a few days, into the circumscribed form, by the aperture into the vein becoming occluded, the treatment above recom- mended should be adopted. In Anetirismal Varix of the arm, a roller and compress are all that can be required. Vessels of the Forearm and Palm.—Wounds of the Arteries of the Torearm are very commonly caused by pieces of glass or earthenware, or by knives. In every case the bleeding point must be cut down upon, and both ends of the vessel tied. This rule is peculiarly imperative in this situation, on account of the freedom of the anastomoses through the palmar arches. In many of these cases the bleeding is at first very free, but, being arrested by pressure, does not break out again until eight or ten days have elapsed; when, the arm being much infiltrated with blood, inflamed, and swollen, double ligature of the vessel at the seat of injury has to be practised under somewhat difficult and unfavourable circumstances. Traumatic Aneurism of the Radial and Ulnar Arteries usually assum-es the circumscribed form, owdng to the pressure employed at the time of injury confining the extravasation. If it be small and recent, and situated