CARBUNCLE. 920 plethoric, and the system loaded, purgatives, salines, and liquor potassse will be appropriate. In the one case an abundant nourishing diet, in the other case a spare and simple one, with avoidance of stimulants, will be required. Change of air is often very beneficial. In some cases empirical means are of service. Thus, when the disease is associated with pompholyx, or preceded by painful vesicles, arsenic may be of benefit. In other instances, yeast or charcoal has been advantageously given. Einger strongly recommends the administration of sulphide of calcium both for preventing the formation of fresh boils and hastening the separation of the slough in those that have already appeared. A tenth of a grain may be given hourly or a third of a grain four times a day. The Local Treatment is simple. When the boil is in its earliest stage, if a hair can be seen projecting through the pimple, it should be pulled out with forceps. The development may in some cases be arrested also by touching it with nitrate of silver, or with a saturated solution of perchloride of mercury. When the boil is evidently forming the red area around it should be painted with equal parts of glycerine and belladonna. This usually relieves the pain and protects the skin from the irritation of the poultices or other applications. Hot, moist applications must then be employed; four layers of wet boric acid lint covered with oiled silk and cotton-wool, or a linseed meal poultice well greased on the surface, forms the best application. Poultices, however, in many cases irritate the surrounding skin, and encourage the formation of a fresh crop of boils. Nothing will be found to give so much relief or to hasten suppuration more than the application of a sponge squeezed out of water, as hot as the patient can bear it, and changed every few minutes. If the patient is confined to the house, he can carry out this treatment himself for several hours during the day. Most commonly a boil may be allowed to break, but the Surgeon may in some cases find it necessary to incise it Avhen it is large, and does not appear disposed to break of itself. CAEBUNCLE. A Carbuncle is a specific spreading inflarnmation of the subcutaneous areolar tissue, implicating the skin and terminating in death of the affected tissues, with the formation of a pulpy greyish or ash-coloured slough. Whether it commences in the deep layers of the true skin—possibly in the sebaceous glands, or in the subcutaneous areolar tissue—has not been definitively determined. Signs.—A carbuncle begins as a flat or very slightly conical inflammatory swelling of the skin, the base of which is hard, and the edges clearly defined ; it is of a dusky-red colour and is accompanied from the first by a burning, stinging, heavy, or throbbing pain in the part, out of proportion to the apparent gravity of the disease. The inflamed base steadily enlarges and im- plicates the subcutaneous tissue more deeply, forming a flat, slightly elevated, hard, circumscribed swelling, gradually becoming doughy as sloughing sets in. As it increases in size, the swelling maintains its flattened circular or oval shape, and the skin covering it assumes a purple or brownish-red tint. Vesicles form on it at several points, which speedily become pustular and burst, exposing openings beneath in the cutis, through which the ash-grey sloughs appear, and from which unhealthy purulent discharge scantily issues. The openings in