547 COMPLICA TED FRA CTUBES. The shortening of a limb in a growing child after fracture may also be due to its necessary confinement in splints, and to the inaction causing interference with its growth, or to implication of an epiphysial cartilage, and not to the fracture having been inaccurately adjusted. Complicated Fiiactures.—Fractures may be complicated with various important local conditions. Extravasation of blood into the limb, from a wound of some large vessel, may go on to so great an extent as to occasion strangulation of the tissues ; if not checked by position and cold applications, it may give rise to gangrene, and demand amputation. In other cases, again, the soft parts in the vicinity of the fracture may be contused to such a degree that they rapidly run into slough, thus rendering it compound ; or a wound may exist, not communicating with the broken bone, but requiring much modification of treatment, and special adaptation of apparatus. One of the most serious complications is Injury of the Main Artery of the limb opposite the seat of fracture. This is, however, far less common than might be supposed. Excluding complete smashes of the limb, Bruns, with considerable labour, has collected 87 cases, G3 in simple and 24 in compound fractures. The accident is far more common in the lower than in the upper limb, 68 of the cases occurring in the former and 19 in the latter. Amongst the cases were 24 of injury of the popliteal artery, 21 of the anterior tibial, lo of the posterior tibial, 9 of the brachial, 8 of the axillary, 4 of the femoral. Amongst the other arteries rarely injured are the subclavian in fracture of the clavicle, the sciatic in fracture of the pelvis, the peroneal and the nutritive artery of the tibia. In 08 cases the exact nature of the injury is mentioned. In 24 the artery was completely ruptured, in about half the cases by the same violence that caused the fracture ; in 26 the artery was partially divided ; in 7 it was contused and subsequently occluded by thrombosis ; and in 11 it was compressed or nipped by the fragments. The symptoms will depend on the nature of the injury. If the vessel is merely compressed or contused there will be no extravasation of blood, and the nature of the injury is indicated by loss of pulsation in the branches beyond the injured point and coldness of the limb. If the artery is completely torn across it com- monly soon ceases to bleed, being closed in the way already described (p. 407), but before this occurs a considerable amount of blood may have been poured out subcutaneously. The symptoms in such a case would be great distension of the hmb, ceasing to increase after a short time, with absence of pulsation beyond the injured point. The chief danger in these cases is the supervention of gangrene, a termination more likely to follow when the fracture is the result of direct violence crushing the soft parts as well as the bone, than when the artery has been injured by the displaced fragments in a fracture by indirect violence, the surrounding tissues being but little contused. 'J'he treatment in these cases will depend on the nature of the injury. If the artery is merely compressed by a displaced fragment, reduction of the fracture may restore the circulation. If it is occluded, with little or no extravasation and but slight bruising of the soft parts, so as to justifv a hope that the collateral vessels are not greatly injured or pressed upon, an'attempt should be made to save the limb. It should be placed in the best possible position and warmly wrapped m cotton-wool. Splints and bandages must as far as possible be avoided, lest the collateral circulation be interfered with l)y their pressure If there has been great extravasation of blood, the pressure of which would