REDUCTION OF OLD DISLOCATIONS OF FEMUR. 703 Everted Dorsal Dislocation may occur when, in dislocation on the dorsum, the outer branch of the Y-Hgament is broken ; the integrity of this portion being necessary for the inversion of tlie limb. Irregular Dislocations of the head of the thigh-bone occur when the Y-hgament is wholly ruptured. The displacement may take place in any of the above-described directions ; but the characters are inconstant. Reduction of old Dislocations of the Hip-Joint is attended not only with great difficulty, but with no small amount of danger. The probabihty of effecting reduction rapidly decreases with the length of time that the bone has been left unreduced, and more rapidly in some dislocations than in others. Thus it is easier to reduce an old dislocation on the dorsum ilii than one below the tendon of the obturator internus. Dislocation of the head of the thigh- bone on the dorsum of the ilium may usually be reduced without any great difficulty, up to the end of the first fortnight. After that time the difficulty increases considerably ; and, alth'ough reduction has frequently been effected in these cases up to the sixth or eighth week, yet it has also not unfrequently failed, notwithstanding repeated attempts. After two months have elapsed, the reduction is a work not only of great uncertainty, but also of no slight danger from risk of suppuration in the soft parts, or fracture of the femur. But cases have been reported, and are referred to at p. 650, in which these dislocations have been reduced at a much later period, even as late as six or nine months. The method of manipulation should be employed with complete anaesthesia, and if this fail extension must be tried. In a case recently in University College Hospital under the care of Christopher Heath, a dorsal dis- location was successfully reduced by manipulation on the lOGth day. The success which has followed operative interference in the reduction of old dislo- cations of the shoulder would seem to warrant the application of the same treatment in the case of the hip, should manipulation and extension fail. If the bone be left permanently unreduced, it will in time acquire considerable mobility, more particularly in the lower dorsal dislocation, the patient walking readily with a shortened but otherwise useful limb. Should the limb be useless from great adduction and flexion, relief might be given bv subcu- taneous section of the neck, which would restore parallelism of the limb. In the case of a thyroid dislocation which had been unreduced for twenty months, W. MacOormac restored the utihty of the limb by excising the head of the bone. In the attempt to reduce old dislocations of the hip-joint the soft parts have been extensively lacerated in some cases ; in others fatal inflammation around the joint has ensued ; and, in twelve cases with which I am acquainted, the thigh-bone was fractured. This accident has happened to Surgeons of the highest eminence. In most of these cases the bone gave way at its neck or below the trochanters ; the dislocation was of course left unreduced, but the patients recovered without difficulty, the fracture being treated in the usual way. The cause of the fracture appears usually to have been the employment of force in a transverse or rotatory manner, after extension had been kept up for some considerable time. There is no proof that undue violence was used in any of these cases. It is probable that in some the femur had become atrophied and weakened by disuse of the limb, thus readily snapping. The Complication of Fracture of the Femur with Dislocation of the Hip-Joint occasions a very serious state of things that may baffle the eff'orts