47 THE ELASTIC BANDAGE. In certain regions special plans have to be adopted in the application of the elastic tourniquet. In excisions or amputations of the shoulder, the india-rubber tube must be very forcibly stretched and applied round the shoulder, the lower part of the' turn being high in the axilla, so as to compress the artery against the neck of the scapula, and the upper part as far as possible internal to the end of the clavicle and the aci-omion process. To prevent its slipping, a piece of bandage should be put beneath it both in frout and behind at the time it is applied, by means of which an assistant may hold it in position (Fig. 8). In operating upon the upper part of the thigh, the india-rubber tube must be of sufficient length to go round the limb and the pelvis. The middle of the tube is to be applied to the front of the thigh immediately below the groin ; the two ends are then to be carried forcibly round and brought up to the front again, where they cross, and are after\vards passed round the pelvis immediately below the crest of the ilium (Fig. 9). In amputation at the hip- joint, a long piece of bandage must be laid upon the middle of the groin in the line of the limb, and a similar piece behind, over which the tube is to be applied, so that by pulling on the ends of the bandage any slippmg of the band may be prevented during the operation The middle of the tube is to be placed in the peringeum, and the ends pulled forcibly outwards and crossed as high above the trochanter as possible, and afterwards carried round the pelvis immediately below the crest of the ilium (Fig. 10), If the bandage is applied with sufficient force, it is unneces- sary to put a pad over the Fig. 9.—Esmarcli's Tourniquet applied to Thigh. Fig 10.—Arrest of Hemorrhage in Oporations on the Hip-joint. Tlie dotted line is tlie incision lor the oval amputation at the hip-joint. Fig. 11.—Esinarch's Band applied for Operations on tlie Penis or Scrotum. artery. In Fig 10 the patient is lying on his side with the right thio-h flexed m the position for an oval amputation at the hip-joint In operations upon the penis or scrotum, a piece of bandage should be laid along the spme behind and brought forward to the scrotum in front!