HUMERUS: SEPABATIOK OF LOWER EPIPHYSIS. 59^ banda<-e being stitched to the padding. The arm is now placed against the splint with the forearm flexed across the front of the chest. The deformity having been reduced by extension a flannel binder is applied around the chest and limb, and over all a sufficient number of turns of a plaster of Fans bandage. On account of swelling it may be inadvisable to apply the plaster for a few days, during which time the limb is kept in position by bandages onlv. Another useful method consists in the appHcation of an internal rectangular poroplastic splint to the arm and forearm, and a poroplastic shoulder cap reaching downwards as low as the external condyle. These are bandaged to the forearm and arm, and then the whole limb is bandaged to the chest. The upper end of the internal splint may be turned down a short dis- tance along the inner wall of the axilla, as suggested by Bilton Pollard, by which means the splint can be more securely fixed in position by a spica shoulder bandage (Fig. 1S7). In cases where there is unusual difficulty in reducing the deformity a weight extension may be attached to the elbow, or the patient may be kept in bed for a while and extension obtained from a long splint applied to the side of the trunk. The Period of Union in Fractures of the Humerus is about five weeks, and the patient should have regained the use of his arm at the end of the seventh week. ?y. Fractures in the Vicinity of the Elbow-joint may occur through any of the osseous prominences in that situation. They are very commonly complicated with dislocation, with severe contusion and injury of the joint, or perhaps with comminution of the bones, and considerable laceration of the soft parts covering them. In most cases swelling speedily comes on, tending to obscure the nature of the injury. They may be classified as—Separation of the Lower Epiphysis of the Humerus ; Transverse Fracture of the Lower End of the Bone ; Fracture of either Condyle ; and to these may be added Fracture of the Olecranon. In examining a supposed fracture about the elbow-joint, the Surgeon should stand in front of the patient, who must have both elbows exposed, and should carefully compare the injured with the sound side. To do this he should flex the patient's elbows to a right angle and let the upper part of each forearm lie on the palm of his hand, while he places his thumb upon the outer condyle, his index finger on the olecranon, and his middle finger on the inner condyle. He thus readily judges whether these three points of bone are in their normal relation to one another. He should then pass the thumb or finger of each hand simultaneously over the bony points on the two sides and carefully contrast them. An assistant may, if necessary, pronate and supinate the hands. Separation of the Lower Epiphysis of the Humerus, before its ossifi- cation with the shaft is complete, is a frequent accident in children ; the frag- ment being carried backwards, with the bones of the forearm connected with it, so as to cause considerable deformity posteriorly. In this accident the trochlea, the capitellum, and the condyles are broken off from the shaft. The detached articular end of the bone is carried backwards with the foreaim by the action of the triceps muscle. The detached fragment may readily be replaced ; but as soon as it is left to itself, it again slips out of its position. As this happens without bony crepitus, owing to the fracture being between cartilaginous surfaces, although there may be a pecuhar soft crackling, the