AMPUTATION IN GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. 36S and other Surgeons of repute, expressed similar vieAvs ; and Bilgaer, the Surgeon-in-chief to the armies of Frederick the Great, went to the absurd length of condemning amputation entirely. These extreme opinions neces- sarily occasioned a reaction ; and the experience gained m the wars ot the French Revolution and of the Empire enabled Surgeons to settle this question definitively. It was more particularly through the observations of John Bell, Larrey, Thomson, Guthrie, S. Cooper, and Hennen, that the necessity of having recourse to immediate amputation in all cases of gun-shot injury requiring this operation became fully recognised, and the truth of Wiseman s teaching was re-established. It is to be hoped that the advance of antiseptic surgery will enable the Surgeon to carry out conservative treatment to a much greater extent than has up to the present time been possible. When antiseptic treatment is impossible the rule of performing primary amputation in all doubtful cases must still be followed. Sir Charles Bell has thus graphically described the results of the attempts to save such cases before the days of antiseptic surgery :—" In twelve hours the inflammation, pain, and tension of the whole limb, the inflamed countenance, the brilliant eye, the sleepless and restless condition, declare the impression the injury is making on the limb and on the constitutional powers. In six days, the limb from the groin to the toe, or from the shoulder to the finger, is swollen to half the size of the body ; a violent phlegmonous inflammation pervades the whole ; serous effusion has taken place in the whole limb ; and abscesses are forming in the great beds of cellular texture throughout the whole extent of the extremity. In three months, if the patient have laboured through the agony, the bones are carious ; the abscesses are interminable sinuses ; the limb is undermined and everywhere unsound ; and the constitutional strength ebbs to the lowest degree." If we appeal to statistics, we shall find that of 300 secondary amputations reported by Faure, after the battle of Fontenoy, only 30 were successful ; whereas Larrey saved three-fourths of his primary amputations in the Napo- leonic wars. In the Peninsular war, the loss after secondary amputations of the upper extremity was, compared to that following primary operations of the same kind, as twelve to one ; and in the case of the lower extremity, the loss after secondary amputation was three times as great as after primary. During the siege of Sebastopol, among 80,000 wounded Russians there were 3,000 amputations. Of the primary amputations of the upper extremity, leg, Hnd foot, about one-half, and of the lower and middle third of the thigh, about one-third, recovered; but of all the secondary amputations more than two-thirds died. In the American Civil War there were recorded 17,208 major amputa- tions of limbs (excluding those at the hip and shoulder). Of these, 11,630 were primary, with a death-rate of 32"1 per cent.; 3,905 were performed between the third and thirtieth days with a death-rate of 44*5 per cent., and 1,640 were performed after the thirtieth day with a death-rate of 33*3 per cent. These figures clearly show that if the limb cannot be saved, primary amputation gives the patient the best chance. But how soon after the infliction of the injury should it be practised ? It is the opinion of some Surgeons that there is often an interval between the infliction of the injury and the supervention of the shock to the system, in which the limb may most advantageously be removed. Should the depression