134 SPECIAL AMPUTATIONS. posterior flap the covering is frequently insufficient. The operation is there- fore usually performed as follows : The finger and thumb of the left hand are placed on the two condyloid eminences of the femur, which serve as guides for the starting-points of the incision. A long anterior flap is then marked out, well rounded in shape, and reaching as low as the tubercle of the tibia. This is dissected up either with or without the patella. In cases in which the Surgeon is hesitating between excision and amputation, the joint may be examined before proceeding lurther and the operation determined on. AVhen the anterior flap has been raised, the knife is passed behind the femur, and a posterior flap, equal in length to the anterior, is cut from within outwards This flap contains the hamstring tendons, and usually a part of the n^is^^es ot the calf, and it consequently retracts considerably after being cut. The flaps beino- held back, the knife is swept round immediately above the cartilage- covered surfaces, and the saw carried through the bases of the condyles paral el to the articular surface of the femur, that is to say, somewhat obliquely to the Fig. Vti.-Ainriitation tlirougli the Condyles by iiiodiHed circular method. axis of the shaft, the inner side being left a httle longer than the outer. Gritti, an Itahan Surgeon, has recommended that the patella should be left m the flap, and its cartilaginous surface sawn off so as to form a raw bony surface to be applied to the cut end of the femur. Sir William Stokes has modified Gritti s method by dividing the femur half an inch above the condyles instead ot through them, thus making the sawn surface of the femur more equal m size to that of the patella, and diminishing the risk of the latter being drawn for- wards and upwards off the end of the shaft. 2 Lister has recommended an amputation by a modified circular method, which is thus performed : " The Surgeon first cuts transversely across the front of the limb, from side to side, at the level of the tubercle of the tibia, and ioins the horns of this incision by carrying the knife at an angle of forty-five deo-rees to the axis of the leg through the skin and fat. The limb being elevated he dissects up the posterior skin flap, and then proceeds to raise the rino- of inteo-ument as in a circular operation, taking due care to avoid scoring