384 POISONED WOUNDS. months to a year. The attenuation of the virus may be brought about in various ways. Thus Klein states that the blood of a sheep dead of anthrax will invariably cause death if inoculated on a sheep, but if the disease be communicated to a white mouse the blood of that animal, although teeming with bacilli, only causes a transitory illness in a sheep, and leaves it, for a time, protected against the virulent form of the disease. Klein has also shown that the virus may be attenuated by being acted on by very dilute solutions of perchloride of mercury, and that if inoculated in this form on sheep it will produce a modified form of the disease which will protect them from virulent anthrax. It has also been shown by J. T. Cash that the rabbit, which is an animal very easily infected with anthrax, may be protected from the action of the most intense virus by preparing it for some days before by the hypodermic administration of perchloride of mercury in as large doses as it can bear. One other point may be briefly noticed. Sidney Martin has shown that the bacillus anthracis produces by its growth in artificial culture media, and in the living body certain definite chemical products. These are albumoses—anthrax proto- and deutero-albumose—and a basic body, provisionally called an alkaloid. In small doses the albumoses produce fever, and in large doses local oedema and coma. The basic body on the other hand, produces, even in small doses, coma ending in death, and often enlargement of the spleen. These observations are obviously of the greatest importance; but the exact relation of the chemical products to the production of immunity is still uncertain. Martin has, however, shown that Pasteur's vaccine contains both the albumoses and the basic body, whilst Hankin believes that immunity can be produced by the albumoses alone. It is needless to point out the important bearing of these observations upon numerous questions of pathology and therapeutics, such as infection in general, vaccination, modification of diseases by passing through different animals, changes in form of micro-organisms according to the medium in which they are grown, disinfection, antiseptics, and the influence of mercury on-infective processes, &c. The whole subject of anthrax and the bacillus anthracis is one that will well repay the time spent in a thorough study of it. It is impossible to make here more than a passing allusion to the work that has been done. The Trcalment of mahgnant pustule must be energetic and active ; no half measures are likely to be successful. The whole indurated area of the skin should be removed with the knife, and to the raw surface thus left some powerful antiseptic.should be apphed ; perhaps the best would be a strong solution of iodine, which has been shown by Koch to be capable of destroying even the spores of the bacillus. In London, malignant pustule has been most frequently seen at Gruy's Hospital, as the chief part of the hide trade is carried on in the neighbourhood of that institution ; during a period of ten years seventeen cases came under the care of the Surgeons. The treatment by excision was employed in fifteen cases, and of these all but two recovered. The favourite application after excision was chloride of zinc, either in a strong solution or as a paste. Davies-Colley, who reported these cases in the Transactions of the Medical and Chirurgical Society for 1882, states that " it is very important to remember that, even after the swelling has extended to a considerable distance, and the adjacent o-hnds have been^affected, and after well-marked symptoms of blood-poisoning