WOUNDS OF THE AXILLARY ARTERY. All Axillary Artery.—In Open Wounds of the Axillary Artery and its Branches, the rule of practice is to expose the bleeding- vessel and tie it on each side of the wound. The branches of the artery are so numerous that there must always be some uncertainty, in a case of punctured wound, whether the main trunk or a branch is injured, even when the direction of the wound and the abundance of the bleeding would suggest the former. This doubt can be cleared up only by exposing the bleeding point, and in order to do this efficiently, it may sometimes be necessary to divide both the pectoral muscles across the line of their fibres. In secondary hsemorrhage, the state of the parts may be such as to make it very difficult to expose the artery cleanly in the wound, and the temptation to apply a proximal ligature under these circumstances is very strong, but this should never be done before a thorough attempt has been made to tie the vessel at the bleeding point, by freely opening up the wound and enlarging it, if necessary. The anastomoses between the branches of the subclavian and the axillary are so free that ligature of the third part of the subclavian is extremely likely to fail. Ligature of the first part of the axillary artery would, in a case of secondary htemorrhage, be just as difficult as exposing the bleeding point, and could be done after division of the pectoralis major and minor, should it be impossible to secure the vessel at the wounded point. In a case of secondary ha^mon-hage, the ligature of the first part of the axillary by a curved incision below the clavicle, as described in Chap. XLIV., Vol. II., would be most difficult; as the axilla would probably be filled with extravasated blood, and the parts matted together by the inflammation and suppuration which caused the failure in the repair of the artery. In all cases of secondarv haBmovrhage, it would be safer to expose the artery by an incision in the line of the vessel dividing the pectoral muscles. The subclavian must be tied above the clavicle only as a last resource. The operation has been attended with success enough to justify its adoption should other means fail. Of 15 cases in which it has been performed for haamorrhage from wounds in the axilla or from stumps, I find that 9 were cured and 6 died. Traumatic Aneurism in the Axilla may arise from gunshot wounds oi- stabs, or in some cases from subcutaneous rupture of the vessel. In the lattei- case the patient while straining his arm in a raised position feels a sudden snap, which is rapidly followed by a large extravasation of blood in the axilla forming the so-called diffused traumatic aneurism. ' There are more than 40 cases on record in which axillary aneurism has followed an injury to the vessel occurring during the reduction of a disloca- tion. In only a few of these has the dislocation been recent. Amono-st these is one recorded by Warren in which the vessel was ruptured in conseq'^ience of the Surgeon using his foot in the axilla as a fulcrum, but without takino- off his boot. In the great majority of cases the dislocation has been of^old- standing, and considerable force has been used. Gibson has related three cases of rupture of the artery in the attempt to reduce such cases by the pulleys. Pelletan mentions a case in which the rapid swelling followino- the I'upture of the artery was mistaken for emphysema from fi-actured ribs An incision was made into it and the patient bled to death. These cases show the necessity for great caution in the use of powerful extending force in the reduction of old dislocations, when adhesions may have formed'' between the artery and the head of the bone.