8ii DISLOCATIONS OF THE SPINE. Fig. H15—Apparatus for Fracture tif the Spiue. castor-oil or turpentine enemata. A nourishing diet must be administered and perfect rest in one position enjoined. In this way life may be maintained for a considerable length of time, and bony union of the fracture may take place, though the patient may not recover from the paralysis, and may die eventually from the effects of the injury. But in some cases a much more satisfactory result is obtained ; the patient gradually gains power in the paralysed parts. Much assistance will then be iifforded by making hira wear, as soon as the fracture is sufficiently consohdated, the apparatus shewn in Fig. 315; consisting of a firm pelvic band, with a strong iron rod shaped to the spine, and running as high as the vertex, having padded transverse arms to support the head and shoulders, and the whole attached to a stout leather case moulded to the back and shoulders. If not applied primarily the plaster of Paris jacket will always be found of great service in the later stages of the case. Dislocations of the Spine.—On looking at the arrangement of the articular surfaces of the vertebrje, the very limited motion of which they are susceptible, aud the way in which they are closely knit together by strong hgaments and short and powerful muscles, it is obvious that dislocations of these bones must be excessively rare. So seldom, indeed, do they occur that their existence has been denied by many Surgeons. Yet there are several instances on record which prove that such accidents may happen. The cases that have been met with have usually been associated with partial frac- ture, but this complication is not necessary. In all, the displacement was incomplete ; and, indeed, a complete dislocation cannot occur. Fracture may occur anywhere in the spine, but dislocation without, or with very slight, fracture is met with only in certain situations. Dislocation of the spiue may occur in the following parts :—1. Between the occiput and atlas. This is very rare. 2. Between the atlas and axis. This, though rare, is much less so than the preceding, and may occur with or Avithout fracture of the odontoid process ; when the odontoid process is broken, death at once ensues. 3. Dis- location between the second and third cervical vertebrse is very rare—as rare as dislocation between the atlas and axis. 4. Dislocation generally happens somewhere between the fifth and seventh cervical vertebree. Dislocation without fracture can scarcely occur in the dorsal region, and there is no recorded case of a pure dislocation in the lumbar region. In Fig. 316 we have an example of dislocation of the fifth from the sixth cervical vertebra, with the separation only of a scale of bone which was adherent to the intervertebral fibro-cartilage. The patient had fallen on his head from a van and died of asphyxia in twenty-four hours. The spine may be so seriously injured that dislocation is at any moment imminent, and yet the patient may live for some days before the displacement, by which the cord is compressed, occurs. A man was admitted into University College Hospital, who had been crushed by falling between the platform and a train in motion. Amongst other severe injuries he had paralysis of the circumflex and musculo-spiral nerves of the left arm, but no hypercesthesia On the third day, whilst being moved in bed, his head fell to one side, and he