VENEREAL DISEASES. often on the scrotum and penis, even occurring on the glans. They also frequently appear on the palms and soles, where deep fissures and cracks are met with. In moist parts, as in the folds of the groin in fat people, at the margm of the anus or between the toes, they become more elevated and merge gradually into the "mucous tubercle " or flat condyloma to be described hereafter. About the lips the squamous syphilide gives rise to deep and troublesome fissures. It differs from psoriasis in its showing a preference for the softer and moister parts of the skin, whereas psoriasis is most abundant on the drier parts, as on the back of the elbow or the front of the knee. The scales also are less abundant. Squamous syphilide forms the most common eruption, after the roseola, during the first year of syphilis. It is often associated with ulceration of the tonsils and iritis, and not uncommonly with periostitis. ^ Papular Syphilide, or SijpJdIitic Uclien, consists of small hard elevations, at first red, but afterwards becoming dusky or brownish. There is some slight branny desquamation on the surface. They are most common on the forehead and shoulders, and last about three weeks before fading. A rare eruption is the Follicular syphilide in which small papules form around the hairs. ^ The Vesicular syphihde is of very rare occurrence. The vesicles vary in size from a pin's head to a pea. They soon dry, and when the scales so formed separate a coppery red patch is left beneath. In one case which fell under my observation, the rash appeared in the form of clusters of small pointed vesicles, which on drying left grey or brownish crusts and coppery marks. Many varieties have been described and named according to the non-syphihtic skin affections they resemble, as eczematous, herpetiform, varioliform, and vari- celliform. Pustular syphilides occur somewhat rarely in the early stages, but are more common later on. The early pustular syphilide commences as a small vesicle which soon becomes pustular. It then dries into a crust, which falls off, leaving an elevated coppery spot beneath. It is merely an aggravation of the vesicular eruption, and leaves no ulceration or scar behind it. Larger pustules forming slowly with a dusky-red or coppery areola are met with in cachectic subjects, forming the eruption known as syphilitic ecthyma. The pustules dry, leaving a dark flat scab, which after a time falls off, leaving an ulcer which heals slowly. Ecthyma is most common on the limbs. In the late secondary or in the tertiary stage in debilitated subjects, the affection known as rupia is not uncommon. It seldom occurs before the end of the first year, and may be met with as long as the syphilitic taint persists. Rupia commences as a bleb which rapidly becomes converted into a large pustule, surrounded by a wide brown or coppery areola. It soon dries into a circular dark brown or even black scab. Beneath this ulceration takes place, and the crust increases in thickness from the drying of the discharge, while at the same time it extends at its circumference ; it thus comes to assume a conical form, and somewhat resembles a limpet-shell in appearance. After its separation a troublesome ulcer of a circular shape, often with a somewhat foul surface, is left, which may continue to spread slowly. This disease may appear on the face, but is especially common on the extremities. It is always indicative of grave constitutional debility. Syphilitic Tubercles commonly occur as an advanced or tertiary symptom ; they are in fact gummata of the cutis vera. They appear as hard, smooth