33° INJURIES OF SOFT PARTS. shape are applied, so as to press the surfaces closely together, and over all a large cushion firmly secured by a bandage, which has also been disinfected with the sublimate solution. The early discharge washes the mercury out of the spun-glass, and then forms with it a collodion-like covering to the wound. The dressing is now allowed to dry, and if all goes well it is not moved till the seventh day, Avhen the drainage-tube is removed. A second dressing is then applied, and left on till the wound is healed. If no drainage-tube has been inserted, one dressing only is required. According to Schede, this dressing very rarely irritates the skin. In impregnating cotton-wool he adds 1 part in ]() of glycerine to the mercurial solution. This increases the absorbing power of the wool. The results of this dressing have been very satisfactory. The antiseptic used is of sufficient strength to destroy not only the ordinary bacteria of putrefaction but also the spores of bacilli. SuUimate Wood-ivool is applied in the same way as the moss. The material is sold ready prepared. It is very absorbent and elastic, and makes an excel- lent dressing. The Sal Alembroth Gauze and Wool (p. 209), introduced by Lister, have been largely used, and with good results in most cases. The gauze is elastic in mass and very absorbent. The dressing is thus applied : A piece of the gauze about four layers thick is dipped in a 1 in 2000 solution of perchloride. This washes out the sal alembroth, and leaves the gauze aseptic and quite free from irritating properties. This piece of gauze squeezed as dry as possible is applied next the wound. Over this a mass of the gauze some ten or twenty layers thick is applied, and over that again the wool. The whole is secured by a bandage. The wool, containing 2 per cent, of the salt, might irritate the skin if applied directly to it. The chief fault of the dressing is that it will not deal satisfactorily with large quantities of discharge. Owing to the great solubility of the sal alembroth it is readily washed away, and thus the dressing may fail as an antiseptic. If the discharge is small in amount and dries in the dressing, the result is all that can be desired. The Double Cyanide Gauze (p. 200) has proved to be a most efficient dressing. It appears very rarely to produce irritation, and as the salt is very little soluble in the serous discharges, the dressing retains its antiseptic properties, even though the exudation be abundant. Lister recommends that the gauze should be sprinkled in bulk with 1 in 20 carbolic lotion, and kept Avrapped in a sheet of hat-lining: the double salt being a powerful inhibitory agent, but only a feeble germicide, it is desirable in this way to destroy any organisms which may have gained access to the dry material. The thickness of gauze which is applied next the wound should be thoroughly wrung out in 1 in 20 carbolic solution ; over this a mass of gauze treated as above described is placed, and over this again the salicylic or sal alembroth wool. Lister has found a cream made by moistening the dry cyanide powder with 1 in 20 carbolic acid solution very useful as an application to the skin around operation wounds situated in the neighbourhood of the anus, and in other positions where contamination of the wound from the surrounding parts is likely to occur. Salicylic Wool, Salicylic Jute and Tow, Salicylic Silk, Iodoform Wool, are all applied in the same way as Gruerin's cotton-wool dressing (p. 322), from which they differ only in the presence of the chemical anti-