ERYSIPELAS. 952 is principally met with in old people, or in persons of a dropsical tendency, in whom it occurs especially about the leg's, scrotum, or labia, sometimes giving- rise to permanent and solid enlargement. Diagnosis.—Phlegmonous erysipelas is easily recognized by the charac- teristic symptoms just described, when arising from some slight superficial injury or spontaneously ; but if it should happen to complicate a deep wound or compound fracture, it is easily conlbunded with simple septic inflammation consequent upon pent-up decomposing discharges or blood. In all probability a very large proportion of the cases formerly described under the name of erysipelas were in reality simple septic inflammations not of a specific charactei-. The so-called phlegmonous erysipelas of the scalp following a wound is, for example, almost invariably the result of the burrowing of putrid discharges beneath the pericranial aponeurosis. From sjjreading gangrene it is distinguished by its slower progress and the absence of foetid gases in the sloughs before the skin gives way. Prognosis.—The prognosis in phlegmonous erysipelas is always grave. Of twenty-lbur cases admitted into University College Hospital seven died. It is especially dangerous if it afiect the head or parts in which the areolar tissue is abundant and lax, as the scrotum or orbit. Much also will depend upon the promptness with which efficient treatment is begun and the means adopted to prevent septic poisoning from putrefaction of the sloughs. The disease is most dangerous at either of the extremes of life. If the constitution be sound, very extensive mischief may be recovered from ; if, on the other hand, it be depressed or broken by want of the necessaries of life, by fatigue, over-exertion, or indulgence in stimulants, a very slight amount of disease may prove fatal. The most dangerous complication, and one which when it exists almost precludes the hope of recovery, is chronic disease of the Iddneys, either in the form of the granular contracted, or of the large white, kidney. I have never seen any patient labouring under these diseases, and attacked with phlegmonous erysipelas, escape with hfe ; the sloughing and suppuration running on unchecked by any treatment that could be adopted. Pathology.—The disease is a local infective process caused by the presence of the streptococcus pyogenes (p. 244), which is found in the whole afPected area and not merely at the advancing margin. The first elfect is an abundant coagulable exudation which distends the lymph-spaces to the greatest possible extent. Unless relieved by treatment, the exudation softens, migration continues and the spaces become filled with pus ; then partly as the result of the pressure of the exudation, and partly from the direct irritation of the acrid chemical products of the process, the whole affected connective tissue perishes. The inflammation is believed to be caused by the irritating products to which the micro-organisms give rise in the fluids of the part by a process analogous to fermentation. These products soak into the surrounding lymph- spaces and excite further exudation in which the organisms spread. By incisions into the part the exudation is drained away instead of soaking into the surrounding parts, and thus the spread of the organisms is checked, while at the same time tension being relieved one great source of irritation is removed, and the tissues may thus escape death. The viscera present nothing special. There will be the signs of septicemia (see Septicaemia), or pjgemia (see Pyaemia), should either of these affections have been the immediate cause of death.