68o SPECIAL DISLOCATIONS. made out, the joint should J be placed in as good a position as possible, by a process of traction, flexion, and moulding, so as to bring the osseous points into proper bearing with one another, and angular splints must then be applied. At the end of three weeks passive motion may be commenced, lest permanent rigidity, which is very apt to supervene, come on. Compound Dislocations of the Elbow are always serious injuries, although by the employment of a rigorous antiseptic treatment their gravity may be much lessened. By these means a useful joint may usuahy be saved, Avhen the soft parts are not too extensively lacerated, without any operative interference. In other cases the Surgeon may have to decide between resection of the articular ends and amputation of the arm. In this the Surgeon will be guided by the considerations stated at p. 594, in reference to compound fracture of this joint. Eecovery with a very useful limb has been recorded even after compound dislocation of the elbow, complicated with rupture of the brachial artery. Old-standing Dislocations of the Elbow are reduced with much diffi- culty in all cases in which the ulna is completely displaced ; this is owing rather to the interlocking of the irregular articular surfaces and to the formation of adhesions in the torn capsule and around the displaced bones, than to muscular contraction. The tendon of the triceps, and even that of the biceps, have been divided in order to facilitate reduction, but in those cases in which I have done this or seen it done, no good has resulted. As a general rule, I believe that it will be found extremely difficult, even under angesthesia and with the aid of the pulleys, to reduce an ulna that has been completely dislocated for more than a month, although successful cases of many months' standing have been recorded. When the ulna is only partially dislocated, even though the radius be completely displaced, reduction may be effected without much difficulty at a much later period—it is said, as late as two years after the accident; here, however, the difficulty is not to eff'ect but to maintain the reduction, as the bone has a constant tendency to slip forwards and outwards. Provided a dislocated elbow can be so far reduced as to allow the forearai to be bent at a right angle, a useful arm will be left. Dislocation of the Lower End of the Kadius, or, as it is sometimes termed. Dislocation of the Lower End of the Ulna, may take place either in a forward or a backward direction. The signs of the displacement are very evident, the lower end of the ulna forming a sharp projection under the skin. This dislocation has also been met with occasionally as a complication of fracture of the radius either at its lower end or in the shaft. In a case recorded by Godlee the radius was fractured very obliquely at the junction of the lower and middle thirds. The lower end of the ulna was torn away from its attachments and was projecting beneath the skin on the front of the carpus, the flexor carpi ulnaris having slipped completely behind it. The injury was caused by a violent fall backwards, the patient's hands being put out behind him to save himself. It was found impossible to replace the limb in proper position, even under an anaesthetic, and the lower end of the displaced ulna, including the lesser sigmoid cavity, was removed through an incision made over it. After this the fractured radius and the displaced hand were easily restored to their normal position. The patient recovered with a most useful hand. E. M. Moore, of Rochester, New York, has removed the lower end of the ulna