PHLEGMONOUS ERYSIPELAS: SYMPTOMS. 951 incision be now made, the areolar tissue will be found loaded with an opalescent semi-fluid exudation, distending its lymph-spaces but not flowing from the wound ; the retention of this fluid gives a gelatinous appearance to the sides of the incision. If the alteration in structure have advanced to a stage beyond this, the areolar tissue will be found to have been converted into dense masses of slough, bathed in thin ichorous pus ; these sloughs have not inaptly been compared in appearance to masses of decomposed tow, or wet chamois leather. Whilst these changes are going on below the surface, the skin becomes dusky, and assumes a marbled appearance, rapidly changing into black sloughs, and being undermined by large quantities of broken-up areolar tissue and of ill-conditioned pus, without any appearance of pointing, however extensive the subcutaneous mischief may be. These destructive changes expose muscles, fasciae, and blood-vessels, and may induce necrosis of the bone, or suppuration of the joints. They occur most readily in those parts of the body that possess the lowest degree of vitality, and hence are more common in the legs than in the scalp. As soon as the skin gives way, unless some means be taken to prevent it, the sloughs undergo ordinary offensive putrefaction, and the products of this process cause local aggravation of the inflammation and the constitutional symptoms of septic poisoning. If the patient recover, there will be a tedious cicatrization of the deep cavities that are left ; or considerable oedema, often of a solid character—a kind of false hypertrophy of the part—which may continue for some considerable time. In other cases, there may be such extensive local destruction of the soft tissues, with exposure and death of the bones or suppuration of the joints, that amputation of the limb may be required to save the patient's life. No opera- tion of this kind, however, should ever be practised for phlegmonous erysipelas, unless the disease be strictly localized, and show no further tendency to spread ; nor until the fever has subsided, except such as is of a hectic character and dependent on the septic suppuration. During the progress of these local changes, the Constitutional Stjinptoms undergo corresponding modifications. At first of an active inflammatory character, the fever, when suppuration and sloughing have set in, often suddenly becomes asthenic. Although in some cases there is at first no diminution in the severity of the symptoms, the constitution gradually gives way after the patient has struggled for a few days against the exhausting influences of the disease, and death speedily supervenes. If the patient survive the stage of sloughing, pyaemia, septiciemia or hectic from pro- fuse discharge may carry him" off. If recovery eventually take place, it may be with a constitution impaired and shattered for years. The immediate danger is always greatest when the head is affected. The remote danger from the effects of suppuration of areolar tissue, necrosis of bones, and inflammation of the joints, is greatest when the lower extremities are the seat of the disease. A variety of the cehulo-cutaneous erysipelas has been described a,s (Edema- tous Erysipelas. By this is meant not merely the effusion into the areolar tissue which occurs in all the varieties of the disease, but a pecuhar form, specially marked by oedema of the areolar tissue, with less inflammation of the skin than usual. There is great swelling, which pits deeply on pressure, with little pain or tension, and but moderate redness of the skin ; the constitu- tional symptoms are less marked than in the other varieties of the disease ; it