772 INJURIES OF THE HEAD. a frequent cause of death after fracture of the base of the skull. In these cases the septic matter doubtless finds its way through the dura mater by means of the lymphatics, for Schwalbe has shown that fluids injected between the dura mater and the bone pass readily into the subdural space. In cases of scalp wound, with exposure of the bone, meningitis may be set up as a consequence of necrosis or diffuse inflammation of the diploe (p. 718), or according to Schwalbe it may occur even without this, as he showed that fluids injected between the pericranium and the bone, especially in the neighbourhood of the sagittal suture, found their way by the lymphatics to the outer surface of the dura mater. In other cases the meningitis has been a consequence of septic thrombosis of the sinuses of the dura mater which has subsequently extended to the veins of the pia mater. Lastly, the septic matter may find its way along a nerve to the membranes, as in some cases of wound of the orbit and in fracture of the base of the skull with exposure or rupture of the facial or auditory nerve. Period of Invasion.—Septic meningitis, following compound fractures of the skull, usually manifests itself on the second or third day, when the septic processes are well established in the wound. In cases in which the bone is exposed without fracture it may occur at any time until the wound is healed, but it is most common during the second and third weeks after the injury. In the rare cases in which it is said to have followed simple laceration without external wound it has usually been the result of drunkenness or exposure before the injury to the brain was soundly healed. Patliological Changes.—After death we usually find on raising the dura mater that the brain is somewhat swollen, its convolutions being more or less flattened. The surface is generally dry, though there is frequently an excess of fluid in the ventricles. The characteristic feature of meningitis is the presence of greenish-yellow lymph, often almost purulent in character, lying partly in the subdural space and partly in the meshes of the pia mater. It is most abundant in the neighbourhood of the injury. The pia mater is intensely injected, and the sinuses are distended with blood. The cerebral substance is always affected with the membranes covering it, and there- fore this condition is sometimes spoken of as meningo-encephalitis. The brain substance, when cut into, exhibits an increase iu the number of red points ; the grey matter is darker than natural, and often distinctly reddish in tint. If there is a laceration of the brain, the cerebral substance round it is usually softened, washing away with unnatural readiness under a stream of water. The Symptoms usually commence within forty-eight hours of the inflic- tion of the injury. The patient, if he is conscious at the time, complains of severe, constant, and increasing pain in his head ; the scalp is hot, the carotids beat forcibly, the pupils are contracted, the eyes intolerant of light and the ears of noise ; the pulse is full, vibrating, and bounding ; aud wakefulnesi?, with delirium, commonly of a violent character, speedily comes on. All the symptoms of severe pyrexia set in at the same time. The temperature rises rapidly, usually reaching 103° F., or more, by the third diiy. Under proper treatment, this condition may gradually subside until the health is re-established, but more commonly the symptoms of inflammation merge into those of compression—the delirium being replaced partly or