INJURIES OF BONES AND JOINTS. and united by the first intention ; and the track of the ball must almost inevitably suppurate. The bones are also usually splintered, and foreign bodies of various kinds are introduced into the articulation, hence the most extensive and fatal mischief commonly ensues. In a case of traumatic septic arthritis, if we have the opportunity of exam - ining the joint, the appearances will vary with the time after the infliction of the injury. At the end of from twenty-four to forty-eight hours the synovial membrane will be found intensely red and injected, its surface lustreless, its fringes swollen ; and the cavity will contain a quantity of turbid fluid still retaining some of the characters of synovia, but thinner than natural, in which microscopic examination would probably reveal the presence of micro- organisms. Later on, at the end of a week or ten days, the synovial membrane will have lost its characteristic appearance, being concealed by granulation-tissue, the surface of which is entirely or in part covered by a thin grey sloughing layer. The cartilages have lost their natural lustre and smoothness, their surfaces are yellowish in colour, and partial erosion will have commenced at the points at which the opposing articular surfaces have been in contact. The ligaments are swollen and softened, and the tissues surrounding the joint oedematous and infiltrated with inflammatory products. Such fluid as the joint contains will be thick pus. In the more advanced stages of the disease, when the joint has been suppurating perhaps for many weeks or even months, it will be found that it is difficult to recognize the synovial membrane, ligaments and capsule, all being lost in the mass of inflammatory products infiltrating their structures, giving them a uniform semi-transparent appearance. The cartilages are perforated in their central parts ; at the circumference they have almost the appearance and feel of wet leather. The bones are exposed and are ulcerating superficially, the surface being rough and of a dark-red colour. Occasionally in the latest stages, if tolerable rest has been kept up in the treatment, granulations may have sprung up from the bony surfaces and have coalesced, and there may be some actual osseous union of the opposed surfaces. If recovery does take place in such a case it is eifected by complete bony union between the opposing surfaces and gradual absorption of the inflammatory products and develop- ment of dense cicatricial tissue around the site of the joint. Microscopic examination shows nothing but the ordinary signs of inflammation in the various structures entering into the composition of the joint. Symptoms and Effects.—The severity of the wound of a joint depends chiefly on the size of the articulation and the nature of the wound, but is also materially influenced by the age and health of the patient. Small sub- cutaneous wounds, such as are inflicted in the removal of loose cartilages, may usually be made with perfect safety, if proper antiseptic precautions be taken and the instruments be perfectly clean. But with joints laid open as the result of accidents, everything depends on the prevention of septic arthritis by the establishment of good drainage and the exclusion of the causes of decomposition. This latter condition may be difficult from the presence of dirt or foreign bodies in the cavity of the joint. If the patient escapes the dangers of septic arthritis and the wound unites by the first intention, there is usually some effusion into its cavity, with heat and pain, which subside in a few days, leaving the articulation weak, tender, and stiff for some considerable time. This period of swelling is one of con-