176 LOCAL DLSTURBANCES AND INFLAMMATION. seldom an exciting cause of the original mischief, {c) Friction^ as in blisters on the feet and hands, {d) Tension. Tension acts both as a primary and a secondary cause of inflammation ; a tight stitch, pent-up discharges in a wound, or obstruction of the duct of a gland, are all familiar examples of ten- sion acting primarily as a cause of inflammation. As a secondary cause it comes into play very frequently to a greater or lesser degree, causing a persistence of the process till it is in some way relieved. The pressure of the exudation prevents the return of vitality in the parts injured by the primary cause of the inflammation, and thus delays or prevents recovery. In the treatment of inflammation we shall see that many of the means adopted have for their object the prevention of tension and pressure from excessive exudation. In an acute abscess the tension produced by the fluid takes an important part in maintaining the process of suppuration, which subsides more or less completely as soon as the pus is let out. 2. Physical.—Under this heading are included heat, cold and electricity. The effects of the two first are too familiar to require further explanation. Electricity acts as a cause of inflammation only when it gives rise to decom- position of the tissues by electrolysis. In gout the local inflammation is probably usually determined by some slight injury, but the actual cause is the excess of uric acid in the blood, and urate of soda is deposited in the affected part. We have here an example of an acute inflammation caused by a chemical substance formed in the body itself. It has been shown by Gautier and others that alkaloidal substances, to which he gave the name of leucomaines, are formed by the decomposition of albuminous bodies during the normal metabolic processes taking place in the tissues. These bodies are poisonous, like the ptomaines formed in putrefaction, and it is possible, though there is no evidence to prove it, that the local formation and accumulation of such substances may be the cause of some inflammations apparently arising spontaneously. 3. Chemical.—All strong acids and alkalies and innumerable salts, such as corrosive sublimate, chloride of zinc, &c., act as irritants when applied to the tissues. Numerous natural products of the vegetable kingdom, such as croton oil, mustard, &c., and some animalp^oducts, such as cantharides and the poison of various venomous reptiles and insects, act more or less powerfully as exciting causes of inflammation. The most important, however, of all the class of irritants in surgical practice are the chemical products of the fermentative processes set up by the growth of micro-organisms in various albuminous fluids. These processes may be divided into two great classes, first, the simple septic processes or ordinary putrefaction, in which the micro-organisms grow only in dead matter, such as serous fluids accumulated in a wound or portions of dead tissue, the effect on the living tissues being caused by the chemical products of putrefaction becom- ing diffused in them; and secondly, those more complicated processes in which the micro-organisms invade the living tissues and act as genuine parasites. It was to the irritation caused by the micro-organisms and their products that the inflammation and suppuration which formerly accompanied almost all large wounds were due, and the modern improvement in surgery is almost entirely due to our more accurate knowledge of the conditions under which micro-organisms can develop, and the means by which their growth can be prevented. It is necessary, therefore, here briefly to consider the nature and