3o6 CONSTITUTIONAL EFFECTS OF INJURY. aseptic course, and that occurring as a consequence of the absorption of the products of putrefaction from a septic wound. The term " traumatic " may conveniently be retained to indicate the fact that the fever is directly or indi- rectly the result of an injury, and we may then speak of Aseptic or Simple Traumatic Fever, and Septic Traumatic Fever. The fever that accompanies a true infective process, either general or local, as in pyaemia or erysipelas, has never been included under traumatic fever. Aseptic Traumatic Fever, or, as it has been called, " reactionary fever,''' commences as soon as the symptoms of shock disappear. As the patient rallies the temperature rises from the subnormal point to which it had fallen, passes the normal and gradually rises from one to two degrees above it. In the majority of cases it reaches its highest point on the second day, and falls again to normal by the end of the third or fourth day, but it may be prolonged to the sixth or seventh. The highest point is seldom above 101° F. The constitutional disturbance is slight, the patient himself often being unconscious of any feeling of illness. In the case of an open wound, if decomposition of the discharges occurs, the simple traumatic fever is more or less masked by the septic fever which commences on the second or third day, and consequently it is best studied in simple fi-actures and other subcutaneous injuries. Some im- portant observations illustrating the course of simple traumatic fever have been made by Victor Horsley in cases of simple fractures of the larger bones of the limbs. In 168 such cases he found a distinct febrile disturbance in 91 per cent. In most a rapid rise occurred in the first few hours after the injury, the temperature reaching !)9"5° F. to 100° F. The rise then continued more slowly, the maximum—varying from 100° F. to 101° F.—being reached in from twenty-four to forty-eight hours. The temperature in most cases then gradually fell, reaching the normal point before the end of the seventh day. The exact cause of this febrile disturbance is not yet distinctly known. Lucas-Championniere is of opinion that we must look for it in the nervous system, while Bergmann and others believe it to be due to the local develop- ment of some substance possessing pyrogenic properties which is taken up from the injured part either by the blood-vessels or lymphatics. (See also p. 194.) That a febrile disturbance may be of purely nervous origin seems probable when we consider that which follows concussion of the brain, when there is no reason to suspect any actual laceration, that is to say, when the insensibility is of short duration and the recovery complete. In such cases it will usually be found that the thermometer rises to about 100° F., and falls again to the normal point within twenty-four or forty-eight hours of the injury. There is, how- ever, no evidence to show that a prolonged febrile disturbance can be induced by such stimulation of the sensory nerves as occurs in a wound or other injury. On the other hand, we know that severe pain tends to lower, not to elevate, the temperature. It seems more probable that in the -\ ast majority of cases, at least, simple traumatic fever is produced by absorption of some pyrogenic substance from the injured area, and we have abundant evidence that such substances are formed. It has been shown by Billroth and others that the fresh aseptic serous discharge from a recent wound, injected into the subcutaneous tissue or vessels of an animal, causes febrile disturbance. Kohler, Edelberg, Berg- mann, and others, have also shown that the expressed serum from a fresh