SYMPTOMi< OF aUK-SHOT WOUNDS. 349 cases, however, the sufferer is not aware that he is shot till he is told of it. I have known a person, shot in the leg by a pistol-ball, unaware that he was wounded till told that his leg was bleeding. This is especially apt to happen when the mind is actively engaged, as in the heat of battle. Hennen has known a limb carried off or smashed to pieces by a cannon-shot, without the sufferer beiug conscious of it. Macleod relates the case of an officer who, m the Crimea, had both legs carried away, and who was not aware of the injury till he tried to rise. Heine records a case in which a soldier ran a thorn into his foot at the same time that he received a flesh wound in the arm; he began to pull out the thorn and did not notice the arm wound until a comrade called his attention to the blood. . In gun-shot injuries, Shock is always very marked when parts ot import- ance, as the head, chest and abdomen, or large joints, as the knee, are opened : and its severity is indicative of the amount of mischief inflicted. Thus, if a . bullet appear to have traversed the chest, but in reality has been deflected under the skin, the comparative absence of shock will serve, to a certain extent, to prove that visceral mischief has not been inflicted. In some cases the shock alone appears sufficient to kill ; thus, a man shot by a pistol- bullet, which traversed the distended stomach, died in a few seconds from shock^ there being no bleeding of importance, or other discernible cause of immediate death ^Taylor). In some cases, however, that are mortal, the symptoms of shock are but slight. The Primary Hemorrhage from gun-shot wounds varies according to the situation of the injury and the size of the vessels injured ; coiteris paribus, these wounds bleed less than other injuries. When the fleshy parts of a limb are perforated by a bullet, the haemorrhage is often very trifling, the vessels divided being small, and contused rather than cut across. But, though it may be stated as a general rule that gun-shot wounds do not bleed much, yet when a large artery, as the carotid, iliac, or femoral, is torn across, violent and rapidly fatal hemorrhage will occur—the vessel bleeding as freely as if divided with the knife. Bullet-wounds of the large and deep arteries of the chest and abdomen are almost immediately fatal from haemorrhage. The greater number of those who die on the fleld of battle perish from this cause. It has often been observed that arteries escape, though lying apparently in the direct track of a ball. In such cases, however, though primary haemorrhage do not occur, the liability to secondary haemorrhage is great, in consequence of the artery, which has been contused by the passage of the bullet, sloughing at a later period. The liability to primary hemorrhage would appear to be much greater in Avounds produced by bullets of very high velocity which cut through the vessels, rather than merely contuse them. This was indeed the experience of the Chilian War of 1892, in which the Mannlicher rifle was used. If the whole of a limb be torn away by a cannon-shot, the arteries of the jagged stump do not bleed, for the same reasons that those of a limb torn away by machinery do not; viz., the contraction and retraction of the ruptured internal and middle coats, and the twisting of the fibrous external coat over them. Grun-shot wounds, under ordinary circumstances Inflame, with much Swelling, Infiltration, and Tension. That this should be the case is not surprising when we consider the nature of the wound and the mode of its infliction. The tissues through which the bullet passes are violently contused, the parts actually touched by the projectile are killed, and those a little more