THE PROCESS OF REPAIR. 285 CHAPTER VII. THE PROCESS OF REPAIR. Having, in the preceding chapters, described certain pathological con- ditions in which interference with normal nutrition and destruction of tissue form the most prominent features, we have now to give a summary of the processes by which repair takes place. It will be most convenient to consider repair, first, as it is seen m the union of a simple wound, the surfaces of which can be brought accurately in contact with each other ; and secondly, as it takes place in wounds in which the loss of substance renders this impossible, or in which the injury is_ such that an adherent portion of dead tissue must be cast off before any repair can take place. Five different modes of repau- of incised wounds have been described : 1. Immediate union or direct growing together of the opposed surfaces. 2. Union by primary adhesion, through the medium of a coagulable exudation from the opposed surflices. 3. Scabbing, in which one of the above processes occurs beneath a scab formed of the dried discharges. 4. By granulation, in which granulation-tissue springs up from the bottom and sides of the wound, and eventually becomes covered by an epithelial layer ; and 5. By secondary adhesion, in which two granulating surfaces, being placed in contact, grow together. The first two of these methods of repair are included under the term " union by the first intention," and are confined to incised and punctured wounds. The third is in reality merely an accidental condition attending union by the first intention. The last two may occur in incised wounds if union by first intention fail, and are the only means by which contused and lacerated wounds, with some rare exceptions, have been known to heal. 1, Immediate Union.—The direct growing together of opposite surfaces, "without any intervening substance, such as blood or lymph," was first described by James Macartney, of Dublin, in 1838. He was led to the opinion that such a process occurred by the observation of cases in which all the coarser signs of inflammation, redness, swelling, heat, and pain, with exudation, were wanting. John Hunter had believed that the bond of union in such cases was the extravasated blood. He thus described the process as he believed it to occur : " The mouths of the vessels are soon shut, either by inosculation, or their own power of contraction," " and if there should be any superfluous extravasated blood, we know that it will be afterwards absorbed. The blood being alive, this uniting medium becomes immediately a part of our- selves, and the parts not being offended by it, no irritation is produced. The red particles are absorbed, and nothing but the coagulating lymph is retained, which, being the true living bond of union, afterwards becomes vascular."