733 FRACTURE OF INNER TABLE OF SKULL. ment be a blunt body, such as a bullet, it drives before it fragments of the first table it passes through, and thus the aperture of exit is made by the ball plus these fragments, and the blow being more diffused splinters the second table more widely ; lastly, the first table penetrated is well supported by the second, w hile the second, supposing it to be the inner, has only the imperfect support of the soft brain. That this last is an important cause we may see from the familiar illustration of driving a nail through a board. If the board is unsupported on its under side the nail will probably carry before it large splinters from that surface as it passes through the wood. But if the same board is supported on a block of wood and the nail driven through, then the aperture of exit will be as small as that of entry. It occasionally happens as the result of sabre or hatchet cuts on the head that a longitudinal incised fracture occurs, in which the outer table is merely notched, whilst the inner one is splintered along the whole line of the blow. This is in point of fact an elongated punctured fracture, and the wide area of splintering of the inner table is due to the same cause as when a nail is driven in. In other casee, Fig. 297.—External Table Sliglitly Depi-fissud. Fig. 298.—Internal Table Depressed and Fissureil. again, a portion of the skull is completely sliced off, hanging down in a flap of the scalp, and exposing the brain or its membranes. A special and very important kind of punctured and depressed fracture is that in which, by the thrust of a stick, umbrella, or other blunt-ended body into the orbit, the orbital plate of the frontal bone, or the cribriform lamella of the ethmoid, is perforated, and the dura mater or brain wounded. In such cases there is sometimes no obvious external wound, the stick having passed u]) under the upper eyelid ; and it is conceivable that the same result might be produced even by a thrust up the nostril. Death results either from wound of the cavernous sinus and intracranial extravasation of blood, or from septic meningo-encephalitis following the wound of the dura mater and brain. It is very important to observe that the inner table may le very extensively fissured and depressed, without any fracture of the outer table. Of this remarkable injury twenty cases are recorded as having happened in the American civil war. One recovered, the diagnosis being made by finding the splintered inner table in a sequestrum which was removed. The rest died of intracranial mischief, and the diagnosis was not made during life.