FRACTURES. 544 detain us here ; but those that are more special and pecahar to fractures require consideration. Crutch, palsy of the hands and arms may occur as the result of compres- sion of the brachial nerves against the pad of the crutch. The whole plexus, or only one of its component nerves, as the musculo-spiral or ulnar, may be affected. The remedy is obvious : it consists in the discontinuance of the use of the crutch, and if need be, the employment of electricity to the palsied muscles. Spasm of the Muscles of the Limb, owing to the irritation produced by the fragments, is often severe so long as the fracture is left unreduced ; but usually ceases after reduction, and the maintenance of the fracture in proper position. If the spasm be dependent upon nervous causes, full doses of opium will not unfrequently affbrd relief. In some cases it is of a perma- nent character, producing considerable displacement of the fragments. In these circumstances, division of the tendons has been recommended ; but this practice appears to be an unnecessarily severe one, and may certainly most commonly be avoided by attention to the other plans of treatment which have been suggested. (Edema of a broken limb may occur from several causes, viz., over-tight bandaging, dependent position, pressure of extravasated blood, venous throm- bosis or inflammatory eff'usion. It is of no great moment in itself, but may be of consequence as indicative of approaching gangrene. Relief may usually be afforded by loosening the bandages, and elevating the limb. The oedema, which is often very persistent after the cure of the fracture, is best relieved by diligent friction, douching, bandaging, and attention to position. Considerable Extravasation of Blood is frequently met with in cases of simple fracture, causing great swelling and tension. The blood is in most cases readily absorbed ; and the Surgeon should never be tempted by any feeling of fluctuation to open it, as he would thereby convert the simple into a compound fracture. In some of the cases of extensive extravasation, the limb appears to relieve itself of the serous portion of the blood effused, by the formation of large bulla3 or blebs, which may be punctured, or else allowed to burst and subside, without any material inconvenience. This extravasation very rarely, indeed, runs into abscess ; if it do, it must of course be opened, and treated upon antiseptic principles. If deeply effused it may lead to gan- grene, by the compression which it exercises on the vessels. Splint sores are easily produced if an imperfectly padded splint be allowed to exert undue pressure upon a superficial bony point, such as the internal condyle of the humerus or either malleolus. Under these circumstances sloughing of the skin may be caused with remarkably little pain. This trouble- some complication can usually be avoided by a careful arrangement of pads around any bony prominences covered by the splint ; when once formed, the resulting sore must be treated on general principles. Gangrene not directly due to injury of the main vessels of the limb occurring as a complication of simple fracture, is a most serious mischance, and one as to which it is dilRcult for the Surgeon to exonerate himself from blame. But he is not always in fault. It may arise from causes residing in the limb. It may be contributed to by the negligence of the patient in not drawing the Surgeon's attention to early symptoms, after having been duly