2 28 LOCAL DISTURBANCES AND INFLAMMATION. In such a case as this the predisposing cause, and the secondary causes, play by far the most important part, and the exciting cause that started the process may be so slight as almost to escape notice. In many cases the nature or quantity of iuflamniatory products serves partly as a cause of the persistence of the process. Thus in the case of inflammation of the synovial or serous membranes, the tension caused by the effusion of fluid is sufficient to maintain the inflammatory process long after the original cause of mischief has been removed. In other cases, in which formation of new tissue is an important element in the process, the feebleness of the new growth, its imperfect development, or its insufficient vascularisation make it unable to withstand slidit sources of irritation ; and thus causes which would be harm- less to healthy tissues perpetuate the inflammatory process in the new growth ; or the new tissue may perish and, acting as a foreign body, excite inflammation in the tissues in contact with it. In the chronic infective inflammations the essential cause is a specific virus. In tubercle it has been proved to be a specific organism—the tubercle bacillus. But granting this, it must not be forgotten that numerous accessory causes play a most important part in the development of tuberculous diseases. Here- ditary tendency, bad hygienic surroundings, bad feeding, impaired health from other diseases as measles or whooping-cough, and local damage, may all act as predisposing causes, and not only is the development of the disease determined by these causes, but the course it follows is influenced in no less degree. Whether the chronic inflammatory process set up by the presence of the bacillus remains local or becomes general, whether it causes fibrous hyperplasia, caseation and softening with chronic suppuration, or whether its progress is rapid or slow, does not depend upon any variation in the essential cause, the bacillus, but in the accessory causes, such as the degree of rest given to the afiPected part, the general health and the hygienic surroundings. In syphilis the nature of the poison is not known. In the early stages the virus itself seems to be the essential cause of the chronic inflammatory pro- cesses which form the pathological features of the disease, but after this stage has subsided there seems sometimes to be left behind an impairment of the constitution in which chronic inflammatory processes are readily induced, but in which there is no evidence of the presence of a virus communicable to another individual. Thus syphilis may be both a predisposing, and a determining cause of chronic inflammation. Local Signs.—The modifications of colour, size, sensation, function and temperature, described as attendant on acute inflammation, are present also in chronic inflammation ; difiering, however, in origin and in degree, and often in order and combination. The colour is not always changed, unless the part affected be very superficial; and the redness is rather of the dull than of the bright hue, not depending on the rapid transmission of an increased quantity of bright blood, but rather on a congestive condition. The affected tissue may become permanently discoloured by the escape of large numbers of red blood- corpuscles, which break up and are imperfectly absorbed, leaving the pigment behind. The -pain is not often spontaneously acute, but partakes generally of the character of tenderness, being elicited only by pressure : sometimes, how- ever, the pain is very severe. The increase of iempcrature is usually wanting, and is never great. Sivelling is an early and most important sign in chronic inflammation. It depends less on the enlargement of the vessels than on the