352 GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. immediately after its infliction, infection occurring most commonly as a con- sequence of the introduction of an unpurified finger or probe. It is therefore now laid down as a rule that no examination of the wound should be made and no operation undertaken, except for the arrest of haemorrhage or imme- diate preservation of life, until the patient has been removed to a field- hospital in the rear, where antiseptic treatment can be efficiently carried out. On the field the treatment should as far as possible be limited to the applica- tion of a pad of some absorbent antiseptic material, secured by a triangular handkerchief or a bandage. This first dressing is in most armies carried by the soldier as part of his kit. In the British army the field dressing is sewn into a pocket on the inside of the skirt of the jacket. It consists of a compress of charpie between layers of gauze, a separate piece of gauze, and a gauze bandage. These are rendered antiseptic with 1 in 1,000 solution of corrosive sublimate. The dressing is wrapped in thin mackintosh and sewn in an outer cloth covering. A tablet of perchloride of mercury and salt (p. 208) might be added, sufficient to make a pint of 1 in 500 lotion, with which the skin might be washed before applying the pad, provided water could be obtained. Under treatment similar to this gun-shot wounds have not unfrequently healed by scabbing, even when impli- cating bone or joints, although so fortunate a result cannot be relied upon. Iodoform can hardly be carried in any form as a " first dressing " owing to its unpleasant smell, but enough to dust the apertures of entry and exit of many wounds could easily be carried by the Surgeon on the field, and by this means asepticity might possibly be rendered more certain. All ideas of syringing out the wound with an antiseptic and the insertion of drainao-e-tubes on the field are now abandoned as impracticable. If a bone or joint be injured, the limb must be placed on a splint of some kind, extemporized from such material as may be at hand. A bayonet forms a useful splint for the leg, arm, or forearm ; and for the thigh a rifle may be applied to the outer side of the limb with the stock against the side of the body. If there be abundant venous hsemorrhage, the limb should be raised ; and if this do not arrest the bleeding, a compress should be used. If the hemorr- hage be arterial, a tourniquet must be applied. So, also, a tourniquet should be employed if there be rapid dripping of blood. If a limb be smashed, or torn away, a tourniquet should be applied to the stump, which must be covered up with wet cloths. The pressure of the tourniquet will not only arrest haemorrhage, but will stay that spasmodic quivering of the muscles which is so painful to the suiferer. If the head or neck be wounded, the wound must be treated as above described, and hemorrhage, whether venous or arterial, should be arrested by pressure with the fingers. If the chest be shot through, the patient should be laid on the injured side, and cold employed. If emphysema occur, or if air pass freely through the wound, a body-bandage must be tightly applied. If the abdomen be wounded, the patient should be laid on the injured side, if the aperture be lateral: if it be central, on his back, with the knees bent over a log or knapsack, or other support. If the intestine protrude, it must be washed and returned at once. In addition to those immediate attentions which may be bestowed upon sufferers from gun-shot wounds before they are sent to the hospital for more