329 ASTISEFTIC TREATMENT OF WOUNDS. modes of treatment involve somewhat frequent dressing, and consequently some degree of disturbance of the wound. . II. The antiseptic dressings belonging to the second group are very numerous. They have the following points in common : First, the material used is more or less elastic, and is applied in large quantity, and secured by a bandage with some firmness, so as to exert a uniform pressure on the wound. This is the principle of Guerin's cotton-wool dressing already described (p. 322). Secondly, it is absorbent—the more so the better—so that the discharges shall diffuse themselves widely through it. Thirdly, it is impregnated with some efficient chemical antiseptic, which, becoming dissolved in the discharges, prevents their putrefaction. Fourthly, the dressing is not covered with any waterproof material, free evaporation being encouraged, so that the discharges, becoming dry, may thus certainly be prevented from decomposing, and the wound may heal as under a scab. Fifthly, if the object of the dressing is attained, and the discharges are complecely absorbed and dried, the dressing is not changed until the wound is healed, unless it is necessary to do so in order to remove a drainage-tube or to take out deep stitches, provided that the patient is free from pain, and that the temperature remains at or near the normal standard. If the discharge be very abundaut, so as to soak through the dressing, it of course becomes necessary to take it off and to reapply it, as under such circumstances the chemical antiseptic would be washed out, and decomposition would follow. These dressings, by the uniform pressure they exert on the wound, ensure perfect coaptation of the surfaces, and tend to limit the exudation and facili- tate drainage. They maintain the most perfect rest and avoid the disturbance of fi-equent dressing. They efficiently prevent putrefaction and infection, first by the chemical antiseptic they contain, secondly by drying the discharges, and thirdly by filtering the dust from any air that may circulate through them. Dressings impregnated with Perchloride of Mercury are now very extensively employed, both in Europe and America. Any absorbent substance may in this way be made into an antiseptic dressing ; sawdust, ashes, sand, wood-wool (p. 20'J), cotton-wool, linen rags, peat, moss, tow, jute, and many other substances have thus been made use of. This is indeed one of the greatest advantages of this form of dressing, and one which makes it specially apphcable to military surgery. The antiseptic can be carried in the solid form, occupies but little space, and the Surgeon can seldom be placed in such a position that he cannot find some absorbent material with which to make his dressing. A good example of this form of dressing is that adopted by Max Scliede in the Hamburg Hospital. The material he uses is dried moss (sphagnum). This is picked over to free it from foreign matter, and then soaked for some hours in a solution of perchloride of mercury (1 in 500). It is then taken out and squeezed as dry as possible, and put into bags made of coarse muslin or gauze, which have been similarly treated. The bags are of all shapes and sizes, and about one inch in thickness. The cushions thus made are kept ready for use in a box lined with glass, and are not allowed to become quite dry. The wound having beeu closed and the drainage-tubes inserted, it is first covered with a thin layer of spun-glass, taken freshly from a 1 in 1000 solution of perchloride of mercury. Over this cushions of proper size and