596 SPECIAL FRACTURES. Avards beyond the straight line, owing to loss of the resistance of the olecranon against the fossa at the back of the humerus. In order to facilitate the ap- proximation of the fragments, Lauenstein recommends puncture of the joint with antiseptic precautions and evacu<^tion of the blood and serum. The fluid could be more safely removed with the aspirator, and the treatment certainly deserves further trial. As a rule, union takes place by firm fibrous tissue, but bony union has sometimes been obtained. Should the union be so loose as to render the arm useless, it has been recommended to cut down on the seat of fracture, freshen the bony surfaces, and apply a wire suture as in the treatment of ununited fractures elsewhere. In order to do this without the risk of suppuration, the strictest antiseptic precautions must be observed. The operation has been successfully performed by Lister, MacCormac, and others ; but the cases in which such an operation could be required are rare. Period of Union.—A simple fracture of the olecranon is usually united with sufficient firmness to allow of the splint being abandoned in froni four to five weeks, after which passive movement must be carefully carried out to get rid of the stifiiiess of the joint. In Compound Fracture of the Olecranon, the joint must be syringed out with an antiseptic solution, and treated by some form of antiseptic dress- ing. The fragment should be fixed to the ulna by wire sutures, care being taken to provide drainage from the joint on each side of it. In cases in which suppuration has taken place, and where there is a probability of ankylosis, the semi-flexed would be preferable to the straight position. If destruction of the joint follow, excision may be necessary. Fracture of the Coronoid Process of the Ulna has been supposed by many Surgeons to be a common complication, and, indeed, a cause of dislo- cation of the ulna backwards. There is every reason, however, to believe that this is an error, and that, in point of fact, it is one of the rarest accidents—at least, if we judge by the small number of recorded cases or of preserved speci- mens of this injury. Hamilton states that there are but eight cases on record in which there was reason to believe that this accident had occurred ; that in not one of these cases were the symptoms unequivocal ; and that in none did dissection afford an opportunity of demonstrating this fracture. There are but four preparations in existence, according to Hamilton, illustrative of this injury, and all these are doubtful. In the cases in which this accident has been supposed to have occurred, the injury has arisen from falls on the palm of the hand, by which the ulna has been driven backwards, and the coronoid process, striking against the lower end of the humerus, splintered off. In a case related by Liston, the injury is said to have been produced by muscular action in a boy, who, hanging for a length of time by his hands from a high wall, fell to the ground, and was supposed to have sustained this fracture. Whether the fracture actually occurred is doubtful ; and, if it did, it is still more doubtful whether it was occasioned by the contraction of the brachialis auticus muscle, or by the violence of the fall. In the present uncertain state of our knowledge, I forbear to speak of the supposed symptoms of this accident. If it were suspected, the proper ti-eat- ment would consist in placing the limb in angular splints. 2. Fractures of the Forearm are very common, and both bones are usually broken. The deformity varies much, but there is often marked angular