ing a larger size than an orange. At times it is painless, at others painful, generally aching, sometimes with much radiating and shooting pain through it. These sensations vary according to the part affected, and to the sensibility of the individual; the pains are especially severe after the tumour has been handled, and at night are of a lanciuating, neuralgic character. The tumour may thus continue in a chronic state for a considerable length of time, slowly increasing, gradually extending its deeper prolongations, and implicat- ing the more superficial parts. In some cases, more particularly in elderly people, scirrhus gives rise to atrophy of the organ in which it is seated, causing wrinkling and puckering of the surrounding skin, which becomes adherent to the tumour ; and the cancer may thus continue in a very, chronic state. The ulceration takes place usually by the skin becoming adherent at one point to the tumour, either by dimpling in, being as it were drawn down towards it, or else by being pushed forwards, stretched, and implicated in one of its more prominent masses ; it then becomes dusky and livid red, somewhat glazed, and covered by a fine vascular net-work. Softening occurs at one point, where a crack or fissure forms ; a clear drop of gummy fluid exudes from this, and dries in a small scab upon the surface ; this is followed by a somewhat bloody discharge of a thick and glutinous character ; and the small patch of skin from which it issues, becoming undermined, speedily sloughs away, leaving a circular ulcer. This gradually enlarges, becoming ragged and sloughy, with craggy everted edges, having irregular masses arising from its surface, and discharging a foetid sanious pus. The pain increases greatly; and, the lymphatic glajids becoming involved, catihexy is fully developed, and the patient is destroyed by it or by the secondary visceral deposits. In old people, ulceration of scirrhous cancers often assumes an extremely chronic character, the growth in them not having the same vitality as in the young. The ulcer in these cases is flat, sloughy, of a greyish- green colour, hard and rugged, with puckered edges, and much wrinkling of the surrounding skin, and exhaling the usual foetid odour. In younger persons, and especially in stout women with florid complexions, the disease usually makes rapid progress. So also, if inflammation be accidentally set up in the neighbouring tissues, cancerous infiltration rapidly takes place in them. Occasionally, but very rarely, scirrhous masses slough out, leaving a large ragged cavity, which may even cicatrize ; and thus a spontaneous cure has been said to occur, but this is doubtful. The cancerous infiltration extends to a considerable distance around the tumour into integument which to the naked eye appears quite healthy. In such tissue, however, the micro- scope may reveal unequivocal evidence of the existence of cancer cells diffused through it. Wherever the small-celled infiltration can be recognized, which surrounds a cancerous growth like a halo, and gradually shades off in the sur- rounding healthy textures, the tissues must be regarded as infected. It is of great importance in determining the question of operation to bear this in mind, and not to act on the supposition of the tumour being abruptly defined. The secondary growths in scirrhous cancer form first in the lymphatic glands in almost every case ; later on they may occur in the Ijver, lungs, bones, and other parts. In the lungs and liver.they are frequently much softer than the primary grmvth, so that in som,e .cases they.might .more properly.be.termed