WOUNDS OF THROAT IMPLICATING AIR PASSAGES. 827 Wounds of the internal jugular vein are necessarily very dangerous. There is not only the ordinary risk of primary hasmorrhage from a vessel of such large size, but the special danger of the introduction of air into it; should these evils be safely passed, the secondary ones of recurrent haemorrhage, diffuse inflammation, and pyaemia, may still have to be encountered. Ligature of the vessel above and below the wound in it, exactly as if it were an artery that had been opened, is the only course that can safely be pursued, unless the opening be merely a puncture, when it may be picked up and tied without occluding the lumen of the vessel. In one case, I saw and heard air enter the vein as it was being raised for the passage of the ligature, but the patient made a quick recovery. The large nerves, such as the vagus and phrenic, can scarcely, in a suicidal wound, be divided without fatal injury to the neighbouring vessels, but they may be injured by stabs or gunshot wounds. The division of the nerves on one side only, or even of one of them, may be fatal in man, by interfering with the proper performance of the respii-atory act. In a case with which I am acquainted, in which the phrenic nerve was divided during ligature of the sub- clavian artery, death resulted in a few days from congestion of the lungs. Sadler has however recorded a case of division of one pneumogastric in a punctured wound in which recovery took place without serious symptoms. In the Treatment of wounds of the neck of this category, the principal points to be attended to are, in the first place, the arrest of htemorrhage by the ligature of all bleeding vessels, whether arterial or venous ; and, secondly, bringing together the lips of the wound. This is best done by the use of sutures and by position. A recent clean-cut wound of the throat of this class may as a rule be safely closed with sutures, and thus primary union obtained. If the wound is transverse, the head should be fixed, with the chin almost touching the sternum, and retained in this posture by tapes passing from a nightcap to a piece of bandage fixed round the chest. I have had under my care one case in which, owing to the projection and mobility of the larynx, the wound did not unite, a large and deep gap being left, which required a series of plastic operations in order to cfiect its closure. 2. Wounds implicating the Air-passage.—Wound of the air-passage is common, aud is I'cvealed in suicidal attempts by the air being heard and seen to bubble in and out of the wound during respiration. These wounds vary much in extent, from a small puncture with the point of a penknife to a cut extending completely across the throat, and even notching the vertebrae. They are frequently complicated with injuries of the larger vessels and nerves, and sometimes with wound of the oesophagus. Most commonly the cut is made high up in the neck ; for the suicide, thinking that it is the opening into the air-passage that destroys life, draws the razor across that part of the throat where this is most prominent and easily reached ; and thus, through not wounding the larger vessels, which are saved by the projection of the larynx, he frequently fails in accomplishing his object. These wounds occur in four situations : above the Hyoid Bone ; in the Thyro-hyoid Space ; through the Larynx ; and through the Trachea. The wound may be made above the Hyoid Bone, the cut extending into the mouth and wounding the root of the tongue. A wound in this situation is usually attended with much hfemorrhage ; and there is great trouble in feeding the patient, as the power of swallowing is completely lost.