FRACTURES. 570 repetitions. The effect is a good deal of local swelling and irritation. The limb should be put up as for recent fracture, and a cure may be expected in from four to six weeks. The Subcutaneous injection of irritating fluids has been practised in a considerable number of cases with a fair measure of success. Tincture of iodine has been most frequently used, about 1;5 to 30 minims being injected between the broken ends if possible. Bruns has collected 11 cases of this treat- ment, 7 of which were successful. It seems to be quite free from danger. Dieffenbach proposed to excite the requisite degree of irritation by driving, with a mallet, three or four conical ivory pegs into holes bored by means of a drill into the ends of the fractured bone, which are exposed for this purpose. The holes may be bored with the Archimedean drill (Fig. 161)), but a common bradawl will do just as well. The soft parts are then to be laid down, and after a few weeks the pegs, which have loosened in conse- quence of the absorption of the surrounding bone, and also partly of the pegs themselves, should be taken out. It is not necessary to attempt to pin together the ends of the broken bone, but merely to introduce the pegs into Fig. 160.—Aroliimcdeiin Drill for jjerforating Bone. the extremities of both fragments near to the seat of fracture. I have practised this operation with success in several instances of ununited fracture of the humerus. Bruns has collected 180 cases of this operation, of which 71 were successful, 55 failed, amputation was performed in 1, and 3 died. The operation was most successful in the leg, two-thirds of the cases being cured, while in the arm almost exactly half failed. In the femur, 10 out of 11) were cured, G failed, 1 was amputated, and 2 died. 2. The operation of Removing the False Joint is the last expedient when simpler means have failed. This was formerly extremely dangerous, and cannot now be regarded as anything but serious, especially when the femur is the bone to be operated on. By the proper use of antiseptics, however, and good drainage and rest, the operation may be robbed of most of its dangers. Bruns has collected 440 cases, the results of which were as follows:—Arm 187, cured 98, improved 3, failed 78, died 5, unknown 8 ; forearm 65, cured 42, improved 1, failed 17, died 1, unknown 4 ; thigh 98, cured 50, improved 2, failed 25, died 19, unknown 2 ; leg 90, cured 47, failed 36, died 4, unknown 3. Probably a large number of the deaths were from causes which we now regard as preventible. The operation is thus performed : The false joint is freely exposed by an incision so placed as to do the least possible injury to the sur- rounding soft parts. The periosteum is then carefully raised by means of a periosteal elevator from the part it is intended to remove. To facilitate the