809 FRACTURE OF THE SPIFF: TREATMENT one of these the neck was broken by a fall in kangaroo-hunting, and th(3 patient, who was young and active, after being paralysed for eleven months, made a fair though not complete recovery—some paralysis, with wasting, of the extensors of the hands being left. When death takes place, it may occur in three different ways. It happens primarily as the immediate result of the injury, in all those cases in which the fracture is above the origin of the phrenic nerve. It occurs secondarily and indirectly, at a more or less remote period, as the result of changes in the body dependent on permanent sepai'ation of the parts below the injury from the nervous centres above. At the seat of injury, compression, or crushing, inflammation is necessarily developed ; thence it may spread along the mem- branes, giving rise to efl'usion into the canal, and into the cord itself, causing softening. It is, doubtless, by the gradual extension upwards of this secondary inflammatory softening that death is ultimately occasioned in many cases. Thus, an injury in the cervical region, which was not immediately fatal, may ultimately prove so by the mischief extending to the origins of the phrenic nerves, and so arresting respiration. Many ako perish from bed- sores, and a very large pj-oportion of cases prove fatal from pyelo-nephritis secondary to cystitis, with decomposition of the urine. The Treatment is simple enough when the patient escapes without impli- cation of the cord. It is evident that in such cases no attempt at reduction should be made, lest by dislodgment of the fragments the cord be injured The patient must be placed flat upon his back, and the strictest possible rest inamtamed. Konig of Gottingen has recommended, in cases of fracture in the dorsal or lumbar region without damage to the cord, that Sayre's plaster of Pans jacket should be applied as early as possible. He has himself applied It on the fourth day, and Berkeley Hill at the end of thirty hours In these cases the patient was suspended by the arm-pits, and at the same time sup ported by assistants, care being taken not to lift him sufficiently hio-h to rai«e