DIVISION SECOND SUKGICAL INJURIES. CHAPTER VIII. CONSTITUTIONAL EFFECTS OF INJURY. Every injury of sufficient severity causes constitutional as well as local effects, which may be immediate or remote. The more immediate constitutional effects consist of shock, sometimes followed by ti-aumatic fever and delirium : the more remote are of two kinds—those affecting the nervous system, as traumatic hysteria; and those affecting the body generally through the medium of the wound, as pygemia, septicemia, tetanus. The remarks made at p. 4- in reference to the conditions that influence the results of operations are equally applicable to those forms of surgical injury which are the result of accident, and to these I would refer the reader. SHOCK. The term " shock " is somewhat loosely apphed to any disturbance of the functions of the nervous system immediately following severe injuries not necessarily involving the nervous centres themselves. Three chief forms arc described : 1. Shock with marked cardiac inhibition; 2. Shock with general exhaustion of the nervous centres, or, as it has been termed, torpid shock ; and 3. Shock with excitement, or erethitic shock. 1. Shock with marked Cardiac Inhibition.—In this form the dis- turbance of the action of the heart is the chief or only symptom. At the moment of injury the beats of the heart become slower and less forcible than natural, and in extreme cases may be altogether arrested. It may happen that the arrest is final, and sudden death results, though this rarely, if ever, occurs if the heart be healthy. Under ordinary circumstances the short period of inhibition is followed by a few more forcible and I'apid beats, after which the normal action returns. The patient is conscious of a momentary confusion and giddiness, there is marked pallor and a catch in the breath, followed by a brief period of tumultuous action of the heart ; or, if the shock be more severe, he may faint, owing to the deficient supply of blood to the brain during the period of cardiac inhibition. Experimental physiology has taught us that the phenomena above described