SHOCK: CAUSES. by the splanchnic nerves, but there seems to be nothing to justify such an assumption. General vaso-motor paresis combined with feeble action of the heart would necessarily cause accumulation of blood in the large veins of the abdominal viscera, and probably also in those of the flaccid muscles. The wide diffusion of the exhausting effects of an intense afferent impulse is also in accordance with the results of experiment. A very feeble stimulus applied to a nervous centre acts on that centre only, but more powerful stimulation is always found to diffuse itself widely to neighbouring parts. Thus, if a cortical motor centre in the brain be exposed and stimulated by a very feeble electric current, movement is produced in the limited group of muscles corresponding to that centre, whilst a stronger current causes a general convulsion affecting the whole body. The anaemia of the nervous centres aggravates the shock and delays the recovery of the exhausted centres. In fatal cases, it is probably the immediate cause of death. It is necessarily increased by loss of blood. Causes.—The most serious forms of shock are those that arise from gun- shot wounds and railway collisions. The severe and deeply penetrating character of the injuries in the one case, and the suddenness of their occur- rence, with the terror inspired by them, in the other, explain the severity of their effects on the nervous system. Shock is partly due to mental, partly to physical causes. Its severity and continuance are thus materially influenced by the mental condition of the patient, and by the degree and nature of his injury. In persons of a very timid character, or of great nervous susceptibility, and in those who are liable to the occurrence of syncope—more especially in females —a very trivial injury may produce an extreme degree of shock ; indeed, the mere apprehension of injury may, without the occurrence of any physical lesion, give rise to all the phenomena of shock. Thus, Yerneuil mentions a case in which sudden death occurred whilst the incision for an intended tracheotomy was being marked with the back of the knife. The state of mind at the time of the receipt of the injury influences its effects on the nervous system. If the patient be anxiously watching for the infliction of a wound, as waiting for the first incision in a surgical operation, all the attention is concentrated upon the coming pain ; it is severely felt, and the consequent shock is great. If, on the other hand, the attention be diverted, and the mind in a state of intense excitement, as in the hour of battle, a severe injury may be inflicted, and the patient be unconscious of it, feeling no pain, and experiencing no shock, perhaps not knowing that he is wounded till he sees his own blood. The severity or shock is in a great measure proportionate to the degree of pain attendant upon an injury, and, as sensibility to pain varies greatly in different individuals, so will the attendant shock be greater in some than in others. The sensibility of individuals varies much, and is greatly dependent on occupation, sex, and temperament. Men who live hardy outdoor lives are less sensitive to pain than those who follow occupations of an opposite kind. The higher man rises iu the scale of civilisation, the more acute does his sensibility to pain appear to become, or possibly the less he is able to bear it. A savage probably suffers less than a civilised man from any given injury, and hence may display more apparent fortitude. An hysterical woman probably does not suffer more than one with a more healthy nervous system, but she complains more loudly, for she has her feelings less