360 G UN-SHO T WO UNDS. that ill the upper third Hfe is least hazarded by an attempt to save the limb, in the middle third conservatism and amputation afford an equal chance, whilst in the lower third of the thigh the chances are in favour of amputation. This is a conclusion very similar to that arrived at by the British Surgeons. When an attempt is made to save the limb, the skin should be cleaned on the field of battle, if possible, with some strong antiseptic, and the limb enveloped in a large mass of some absorbent antiseptic dressing, over which a plaster-of- Paris bandage should be applied as soon as the patient reaches the field hospital. This dressing may be left untouched, unless some special circum- stances require its removal, for some days until the patient reaches the hospital in which the further treatment is to be carried out. In some rare cases healing will take place under a dry scab. If at the end of four days the patient is suffering no pain and is free from fever this fortunate result may be looked for; in other cases the primary dressing should be removed about that time, and during its further progress the case must be treated by extension and counter-extension, and the free use of antiseptics, and the limb may be securely fixed in a plaster-of-Paris apparatus with a window opposite the wound. 8. In gun-shot fractures of the tones of the leg, amputation becomes necessary if the tibial arteries be injured, or if the knee or ankle-joint be badly wounded. If the injury be in the middle of the leg, at a distance from these joints, and provided there be not longitudinal fissuring of the bone leading into them, much may be done to save the limb, by the extraction of splinters and the removal of sharp and angular fragments of bone, the limb being put up in the plaster-of-Paris apparatus. In such cases, the patient may recover with a shortened, but otherwise useful, limb. 4. Gun-shot wounds of the foot, if perforating and splintering the tarsus, may commonly be saved by antiseptic treatment, but if this be not possible they require amputation, either at or above the ankle. Those of the hand are of special interest from their fi-equency, in consequence of the bursting of guns, or of powder-flask explosions. In these cases, however extensive the injury may be that is inflicted upon the hand—fingers being blown away, the thumb thrown back, and the metacarpal bones splintered—we must endeavour, if possible, to save a portion of it, if it be only one or two fingers; and, owing to the great reparative power possessed by the hand, we shall often, in the worst-looking cases, be able to accomplish this. If the thumb, with one finger as an opponent, can be preserved, it will be of more service to the patient than any artificial contrivance, however ingeniously made. 5. It may happen that amputation becomes necessary in the later stages of gan-shot injury, in consequence of mortification. In these circumstances it must be practised without delay, and without waiting for the line of separation. If, in consequence of long-continued suffering and discharge, the patient's health become greatly deteriorated, and the limb remain a useless appendage, amputation will at last be imperative. ^ 6. Grun-shot injuries of joints are necessarily most serious and fatal—the danger depending on the size and complexity of the articulation, rather than on the extent of the injury. "Wounds of any of the three large joints of the lower extremity are especially dangerous ; those of the upper extremity are more commonly re(;overed from. The fact of a joint being wounded is gene-