DIAGFOSIS OF INJUlilES ABOUT SHOULDER. 667 when it is stretched across the chest. As this is an unusual position for any injury to be received in, this dislocation is proportionately rare. An obstacle to this displacement may also be found in the greater strength of the outer portion of the capsule of the joint, as compared with the inner. Relative Frequency.—Astley Cooper states that the dislocation " into the axilla " is the most fi-equent form of accident. This opinion is confii-med by most English Surgeons. But Malgaigne, and more recently Flower, have expressed the opinion that the subcoracoid is the most common form. Flower found that of forty-one specimens in the London museums, thirty-one were undoubtedly subcoracoid, and that of fifty recent cases of which he had cognizance, forty-four were of this form. Next in order of frequency comes the subglenoid, and then the subclavicular, which is rare. I believe the sub- clavicular to be an exaggerated degree of tlie subcoracoid ; the continuance of the same force which has thrown the head of the bone to the inner side of the coracoid process carrying it upwards and inwards under the clavicle. The displacement of the head of the bone under the spine of the scapula is so rare that Astley Cooper met with only two cases of it. Diagnosis of Injuries about the Shoulder.—In all cases of injury to the shoulder the patient should be stripped so as to show both shoulders in order that the two sides may be compared. Little can be learnt from the history, as different forms of injury may arise from apparently similar accidents. The attitude of the patient is often characteristic ; in all disloca- tions the elbow is separated from the body and the patient leans towards the injured side, so as to allow the limb to hang perpendicularly in its new axis ; in fractures the elbow is close to the side and the arm hangs powerless. In fractured clavicle the patient inclines the head to the injured side and supports the weight of the arm by holding the elbow in the other hand. The power of moving the arm remains to some extent in all dislocations, in impacted fractures of the neck of the humerus, and in fractures of the clavicle between the hgaments ; but it is entirely lost in unimpacted fractures of the neck of the humerus and in fractures of the clavicle about the middle, or is accompanied by so much pain that the patient cannot be persuaded to attempt it. Having ascertained this much, the Surgeon should stand behind the patient and place his hands over his shoulders in such a way that the tips of the forefingers rest on the sterno-clavicular articulation and the thumbs on the spines of the scapulae. By comparing the two sterno-clavicular articulations he will at once recognize any dislocation or fracture of the sternal end of the clavicle. He then moves his fingers outwards along the clavicles until he finds the prominence that always marks the acromio-clavicular articulation on each side. In doing this he will recognize any fracture of the clavicle, and by comparing the acromio-clavicular articulations would detect any dislocation of that joint. The only injury that would escape detection in this way might be the fracture of the clavicle between the coraco-clavicular ligaments. Tender- ness would, however, be found which might draw attention to the seat of injury as the fingers passed over it. The fingers are now to be passed round the acromion, carefully comparing it with that on the injured side, by which a fracture of its tip will be detected. At the posterior part of the acromion process near its root is always a small tubercle of bone, which is called the acromial angle. It serves to guide the Surgeon in placing his hands symmetrically on the shoulders, and is also an excellent point from which