>ST^7i.S' AND PUNCTURED WOUNDS. 341 When deep, they are of a most dangerons character—wounding blood-vessels, traversing the great cavities, and injuring the contained viscera. A punctured wound is extremely difficult to drain, the external orifice being very small in proportion to the area of the surface. Thus, if a narrow weapon half an inch in width were thrust into the thigh for a depth of six inches, the area of the two surfaces of the wound would be six square inches, while the external opening would be only half an inch in length. The small external opening is easily choked by a clot of blood, and is frequently injudiciously closed by the Surgeon. The whole track becomes distended with the blood or serous exuda- tion, and unless means are taken to prevent it, decomposition sets in, followed by inflammation and suppuration extending deeply into the injured part. In consequence of this, (combined with the insufficient exit for the discharges, the pus may burrow deeply, large collections of septic matter may form, and severe constitutional disturbance is the necessary result. Teeatment.—In the treatment of punctured wounds, the principal points are to arrest the hfemorrhage, and to facilitate union. The haemorrhage must be arrested by pressure properly applied by means of compresses or pads, so as to approximate the sides of the puncture ; by the application of cold ; or by cutting down on the injured vessel if it be a large one, and ligaturing above and below the perforation in it. In many cases of severe punctured wound suppuration and union by second intention will take place in consequence of the great difficulty in drainage. In order to obtain early union, the cavity should be washed out with carbolic acid lotion (1 in 40) or some other antiseptic, by means of an india-rubber tube on the end of a syringe. Care must be taken that there is plenty of room for the fluid injected to flow out rapidly, otherwise the spaces of the areolar tissue will become widely distended with the antiseptic solution ; all superfluous lotion is then squeezed out, and a drainage-tube inserted deeply into the wound. This may be considerably shortened after twenty-four hours, and gradually diminished day by day till it can be safely removed. The external application should be one of the forms of absorbent antiseptic dressing. On no account should a punctured wound be closed by collodion or any other occlusive application. The small size of the external opening is apt to make the Surgeon forget the real extent of the injury. As the tube is shortened, the coalescence of the sides of the wdund may be encouraged by properly applied compresses and bandages. The deep inflammation that so often follows these wounds is due solely to insufficient drainage and decompo- sition, and no treatment but the prevention of these conditions will exclude it. In former days, when duels with the small sword were of frequent occurrence, persons called "suckers," who were often the drummers of a regiment, were employed to attend the wounded combatants. Their treatment, which was conducted with a certain degree of mystery, consisted in sucking the wound till all blood ceased to flow, and then applying a pellet of chewed paper or a piece of wet linen to the orifice; in this way it would appear that many sword- thrusts traversing the limbs were healed in a few days. The process of suction cleared the wound thoroughly of all blood, and, drawing the sides into close apposition, placed the parts in the most favourable condition possible for union by primary adhesion. This practice might, perhaps, in many cases be advantageously imitated in the present day by means of a cupping-glass and syringe.