FRACTURE OF HYOID BOJE. 577 Fig. 170.—Thoma.s's .second mode of uniting Fracture of the Lower Jaw by Twisted and Coiled Wire. Fig. ISO.—Form of the Coil of Wire. very considerable difficulty in bringing the fragments into anything like good position, without the aid of some special apparatus. In such cases a cast should be taken of the teeth in gutta-percha, while the fragments are held in accurate position, and from this a metal plate should be modelled, fitted to the teeth, and attached to Lonsdale's clamp or to a stem, and fixed to a horseshoe- shaped splint placed under the jaw, so as to keep the whole steady and solid. Some cases in which there is unusual difficulty in maintaining apposition, especially if the fracture be double, may be treated by wiring the fragments, as ad- vocated by H. 0. Thomas. The bone is drilled on each side of the fracture, and the fragments fixed by means of tliick pHant silver wire. Thomas found that the ordi- nary cross-twist did not hold ; he therefore coiled the wire at each side (Figs. 177, 179). lu order to facilitate this ope- ration, he devised a set of instruments, comprising a tubular needle to return the wire, and a key for coiling it (Fig. 178). Union generally takes place perfectly in fractures of the jaw, though it is somewhat slow at first, and the fragments continue mobile for some weeks. The cure is often delayed by the separation of necrosed fragments. If there should be any offensive discharge the patient must wash out his mouth with Condy's fluid and water, after which iodoform must be sprinkled on the wound. In Fractures of the Body of the Lower Jaw by Gunshot Injury there is great comminution and splintering of the bone, followed by copious fetid discharge, which necessitates the free use of disinfectants, and especially of iodoform. In extreme cases the wound may be enlarged and the splinters removed, but no formal excision of any part of the bone should be under- taken. Fracture of the Hyoid Bone is of rare occurrence ; and, though usually the result of direct violence, as a forcible grasp, it has been known to occur from muscular action. The fracture most commonly occurs at the junction of the body and great cornu. The fragments form a sharp salient angle: there is much pain and irritation, increased by speaking and deglutition. There is salivation from interference with the movements of the tongue and cough ; and considerable difficulty in breathing may be present. Reduction is accomplished by pressing the fragments into position, either externally or by passing the finger into the mouth. Should one piece of the bone be driven much in, it may possibly require to be drawn forwards with a tenaculum. The neck should then be fixed with a stiff pasteboard collar to prevent displacement. VOL. I. p p