CIRCUMSCRIBED TRAUMATIC ANEURISM. 467 above the clavicle through which an assistant may introduce his finger and so directly compress the vessel as recommended by Syme. In the case of the iliac arteries, the common femoral or the gluteal, the circulation may be arrested by compression of the aorta. If the artery can be commanded, the diffused aneurism may be at once laid open ; but if not, the Surgeon must make a small aperture in the most prominent part of the tumour, and intro- duce one or two fingers of the left hand so as to plug the wound he has made, and prevent the escape of blood, at the same time feeling for the opening in the artery, which may be recognised by the stream of warm blood issuing from it. Pressing his finger well upon this, and having ascertained that he controls the vessel, he can freely slit open the cavity, and clear the clots and blood thoroughly out of it. Second Stage.—The Surgeon will now have exposed the deep part of the cavity. If the artery be commanded by a tourniquet, he carefully searches for the opening in the vessel, and if he cannot at once detect it, he may allow a jet of blood to escape. Having found the opening he can proceed to clean the artery. This may best be done by passing a steel probe, or, what is better, a full-sized bougie or sound, into the open wound in the artery so to distend the vessel, dissecting down on each side of this through the wall of the cavity formed by the extravasation, and then passing the ligature in the usual way. If the vessel be so near the centre of the circulation that it cannot be efficiently commanded, the difficulties become far greater. Under these circumstances the Surgeon must, if possible, replace the finger with which he is closing the wound in the artery by that of an assistant, so that he may have both hands free to clean the vessel. The change must be made rapidly to avoid loss of blood. If, howevei-, he cannot do this he must, while keeping the fore- finger of his left hand firmly pressed on the opening in the vessel, endeavour, by scratching through the tissues about it, to expose the artery sufficiently to make a dip with the needle around it, and thus to secure it. This part of the operation is by far the most difficult, on account of the infiltration of the parts and the thickening of the structures preventing the artery from being readily distinguished and easily cleared. The application of a ligature to the distal end of the vessel, if it be com- pletely divided, is especially difficult. Should it not be practicable to clean it thoroughly it may, perhaps, be seized in forcipressure-forceps and ligatured, or if the thread cannot be passed round the forceps these may be left on for a few days and then carefully removed. If the bleeding orifice cannot be seized in any way the application of the actual cautery, oi- pressure by means of a sponge tent or graduated compress, will be found the best means of arrestino^ the hjfimorrhage, but under such circumstances, wherever possible, amimtation is better practice. This operation must be performed with strict antiseptic precautions lest decomposition of the coagulated blood infiltrating the surroundino- tissues should occur and give rise to difi'use suppuration, with high septic fever followed possibly by premature destruction or separation of the lio-ature and secondary hemorrhage. If these evils can be prevented the operation is robbed of half its dangers and may be undertaken with much less hesitation not only m the diffused extravasation from a wounded artery, but also in the circumscribed traumatic aneurism about to be described. Circumscribed Traumatic Aneurism differs from the diffused in H H 2