TUMOURS. Small portions of tumour were gradually and completely absorbed, whilst larger portions became surrounded by an inflammatory capsule and underwent coagulation necrosis. Some success has, however, attended the many attempts which have been made to transmit cancer experimentally from one animal to another of the same species. Hanau of Zurich transplanted fragments of a squamous carcinoma of the vulva of a rat beneath the skin of the scrotum ol' two other rats. In one case the experiment was followed by the development of cancerous nodules along the line of one vas deferens and in the omentum ; in the other case a mass of growth formed in connexion with one epididymis. It must, however, be allowed that the successful transmission of cancer by transplantation cannot be looked upon as any proof of its infective nature, but only, as Shattock has pointed out, as an example of successful grafting. The attempts which have been made to obtain artificial cultivations of living organisms from fresh carcinomatous tumours have almost uniformly failed to give any positive result. Ballance and Shattock have transferred fragments of fresh cancer into various solid and fluid cultivating media, which were kept for long periods at about the body temperature. In almost every instance no growth of micro-organisms occurred, the cultivating medium and the fragment of growth within it remaining sterile, and in some cases un- changed in appearance for several years. Little importance can be attached to the fact that in one or two experiments a growth of micrococci took place in solidified human blood-serum. In 1887 Scheuerlen stated that he had suc- ceeded in obtaining an artificial cultivation of a bacillus from cancerous tumours, but the observation was afterwards proved by Baumgarten and others to be erroneous. Microscopic examination has altogether failed to demonstrate the constant presence of any vegetable micro-organism in carcinomata, and indeed it is at the present time thought probable that the micro-parasite of cancer, if such exists, is more probably of the nature of a protozoon. This theory has been to a large degree suggested by the study of a very common and often fatal disease in rabbits, in which a marked proliferation of the epithelium of the bile-ducts is the most constant lesion. In an animal dead of the disease in question the liver is found more or less extensively infiltrated by small greyish- white tumours, varying in size from a pin's head to a pea. The microscope shows that the appearances are due to changes in the bile-ducts, which are dilated and occupied by branching papillary growths covered with proliferating epithelium. The disease is produced by a protozoon—the coccidium oviforme of Leuckart—which gains access to the body by the alimentary canal. The encysted form is found in large numbers as oval bodies (psorosperms) in and between the epithelium cells of the growths in the bile-ducts, whilst it is believed that a certain stage of development is passed outside the body. Darier and Wickham in France, and Bowlby and Hutchinson in this country, have described psorosperms in the epithelium cells in cases of Paget's disease of the nipple, an affection which certainly stands in an important relation to carcinoma of the'breast (see Chapter LX., Vol. II.). It is, however, by no means certain that the bodies in question are really parasitic in nature. Of the many obser- vers who in the last few years have described parasitic protozoa in the cells of carcinoma may be especially mentioned Malassez, Russell, Soudakewitch, and Buffer and Walker; the researches of the last-named observers have been confirmed by Galloway, and extended by Buffer and Plimmer. Buffer and