546 FRACTURES. with which the blood returns iiiicler it. A question of great medico-legal importance occasionally arises in connection with gangrene of the limb after simple fracture. It is this—Is the gangrene owing to over-tight, and con- sequently negligent, bandaging by the Surgeon, or to passive strangulation by inflammatory sweUing of the limb under bandages not originally too tightly applied ? The diagnosis of the two conditions on which the answer is depen- dent is as follows : 1. When a bandage has originally been too tightly applied, the patient will suffer severely for several hours, the pain being felt immediately after the application of the apparatus. On loosening the bandage, the pain ceases. When removed, if gangrene have set in, the skin will be found pale where the roller has been applied—the limb being compressed and small at this part, and marked with imprints at the edges of the turns of the bandage— whilst it is greatly swollen and congested at the fingers or toes beyond the bandage ; these paj-ts being also cold, purple, and vesicated. 2. When the strangulation occurs from inflammatory swelling of the limb, the whole member is equally swollen ; it is red and blue, hot in parts, cold and sphacelated in others. It never becomes uniformly gangrenous, but deep infiltrating abscess and localised sphacelus form. Treahne?it.—When a bandage or apparatus appears to be exerting painful or dangerous pressure, it must at once be removed. Should the circulation of the limb have been interfered with, fiiction with oil in an upward direction should be employed. If gangrene have unhappily already occurred, the treatment will depend on the cause, and on the condition of the limb. If it be the result of self- strangulation of the limb, by swelling under the bandage, and if the parts be found to be red, swollen, and infiltrated, free incisions should be made, and some efficient antiseptic dressing applied. If, notwithstanding this, suppura- tion follows, with deep infiltration of the cellular tissue, and sloughing of the skin and muscles, the choice lies between amputation and the preservation of a limb that will be withered, contracted, and useless. If the gangrene be the result of direct strangulation by an over-tight bandage, as in Fig. 166, there is no resource left but amputation above the seat of constriction. After a fracture has united, the limb will sometimes be found to be shortened. This may of course be due to unskilful management on the part of the Surgeon, to want of proper coaptation of the fragments, or to the patient being allowed to bear on the limb whilst the callus is still soft and pliable. But it may have existed before the accident, and be natural to the patient and in no way a consequence of the accident. Inequality in the length of the corresponding limbs on opposite sides of the body, independently of any accident or disease, is not very unfrequently met with. It may exist to a considerable extent without the patient being aware of it. I have several times found the spinal curvature of young adults to be due to one lower extremity being from | to f of an inch shorter than the other, thus causing obliquity of the pelvis. It is usually the right limb that is the longer, but in some cases the left is not only longer but also larger. Of 512 boys examined by Morton, of Philadelphia, appreciable differences between the two limbs were found in 271 cases, from | of an inch in 1)1, to as much as If inch in one. The bearing of these facts on the cause of shortening of limbs after the treatment of fractures, and the question of malpraxis, is evident.