INTRASPINAL HjEMORRHAGE. 789 are thus seen further to resemble each other in the complete and rapid recovery which in the large majority of cases follows; should this result not ensue, the Surgeon must look for some other cause for the persistence of the symptoms. Sprain of the Spinal Column.—A large number of cases of spinal injury are included under the general term "sprain ;" and, as we shall see, the symptoms produced are often so marked that the Surgeon may easily be misled into the belief that the spinal cord itself has been damaged. The actual injury produced undoubtedly varies greatly in different cases ; in the slighter forms of sprain, muscles and ligaments are more or less damaged by the sudden stretching to which they are subjected ; whilst in the more severe forms these structures are torn in varying degrees, and at times it is probable that the vertebra may be wrenched apart without remaining permanently displaced. Synovitis of one or m.ore of the articulations of the vertebrae has also been suggested as a likely occurrence. Not less varied than the actual results produced are the causes which may occasion a sprain of the spine ; blows, falls on the back, wrenches and twists of the part, or even the lifting of a heavy weight may be mentioned as likely causes of this injury. In an uncomplicated sprain the spinal column itself or the structures attached to it alone suffer, but it will easily be understood that in the more severe cases the symptoms thus produced will be complicated by others which indicate that the spinal cord or the nerve-roots have been damaged by bruising and hjemoiThage. The Symptoms of a sprain of the back are usually sufficiently obvious and profoundly impress the patient, who is naturally apt to estimate the severity of the injury which he has suffered by the amount of pain which he feels. Localized pain in the spine is, in fact, the most prominent symptom ; it may immediately follow the injury, or may be first felt some hours afterwards. The pain is often accompanied by marked local tenderness on firm pressure, and in some cases by superficial bruising. The slightest movement intensifies the suffering, and stiffness of the spine is the result. In addition to the definite localized pain which is the direct result of the sprain, widespread cutaneous hyperaesthesia over a large part of the back may supervene, and the Surgeon must be careful not to confuse this with referred pains due to irritation of the nerve-roots. Herbert Page, who has paid special attention to this class of spinal injuries, has shown how such cases may not unfrequently be associated with a condition of " pseudo-paralysis." The pain may be so severe, especially in sprains of the lumbar region, that the patient dreads to perform even the slightest movement of the lower limbs ; and, for the same reason,^ he avoids those straining efforts which are essential for the acts of micturition and defecation, and thus actual retention of urine and obstinate constipation may be the results. The patient will very naturally imagine that he is the subject of true paralysis, and the Surgeon must beware lest he fall into the same error. In considering the important question of treatment it will be seen how essential it is that the true nature of this pseudo-palsy be thoroughly recognized, and that exercise, and not prolonged rest in bed be enforced as the best means of producing a cure. ' Intraspinal haemorrhage.—It will be seen in the subsequent considera- tion of fractures of the spine that the effusion of blood within the spinal canal plays an important part in the production of the symptoms. The cases now under consideration are those in which a similar intraspinal hemorrhage