PENETRATING WOUNDS OF THE EYEBALL. 821 slightly more favourable as the interior of the eye is not opened to the air. In the large majority of cases immediate enucleation of the globe is the only treatment. If the rupture be subconjunctival, the case is rather less hopeless, but excision may be required if the eye become shrunken or irritable. It the lens be lying under the conjunctiva, no attempt should be made to remove it until the wound in the sclerotic is firmly healed, and in some cases it causes no discomfort, and may be left to undergo slow absorption. Penetrating Wounds of the eye-ball are all dangerous to sight, but their severity varies with the size and position of the wound, and the implication of deep structures, and is much increased by the retention of a foreign body and the introduction of septic matter into the interior of the globe. If the wound be large, escape of the contents and htemorrhage into the eye may render the case scarcely more favourable than one of rupture. A small wound also may be rendered very serious on account of its position. The " dangerous area " is a zone about a quarter of an inch in width behind the corneal margin. This area corresponds to the position of the ciliary body, and wounds of the latter are especially liable to be followed by shrinkage of the globe or by sympathetic ophthalmia. The simplest form of penetrating vs^ound is one in which the cornea only is involved, and which heals without further complication after the escape of the aqueous. More often the iris becomes entangled in the wound. "When such a case is seen within a few hours of the accident and the iris appears to be uninjnred, an attempt should be made to replace it with a fine probe. The eye should first be bathed with a weak solution of perchloride of mercury (1 in ;3,000), and the previous use of eserine for half an hour will aid reduction by putting traction on the iris and retaining it in position when reduced. If some days have elapsed since the accident no attempt should be made to reduce the prolapsed iris. The latter must then be gently drawn out with fine forceps to free it from its adhesion to the corneal wound and cut off with scissors. Wound of the iris considerably increases the gravity of the injury, for it almost necessarily involves wound of the lens, with resulting swelling and opacity of the latter. The severity of a penetrating wound may be much increased by the retention of a foreign body in the eye, an accident especially frequent among fitters, riveters, and other workers in metal. Careful examination of the eye should be made as soon as possible after the injury, before the occur- rence of iritis or opacity of the lens has perhaps rendered examination difficult. After having carefully examined the iris for a wound, the pupil should be dilated with atropine. The relation of the corneal wound to that in the iris or lens may serve to indicate the direction which the foreign body has taken. The vitreous and the fundus must be successively investi- gated with the ophthalmoscope. The lower part of the vitreous should be examined with great care, whilst the presence of a retinal haemorrhage may indicate the position at which the foreign body has struck the back of the globe. The chemical properties of any substance retained within the eye will in some measure determine the amount of irritation which it causes. Metals are^ less likely to be tolerated than inert substances, such as glass or stone, whilst an eye containing a fragment of copper has an even worse prospect than one containing a piece of iron of the same size, the salts of the former