ARREST OF ARTERIAL H/EMORRHAGE. 45° Surgeons appear to have been led away by the erroneous idea of applying the Hunterian principles in the treatment of aneurism of that of wounded arteries, until Guthrie, by his practice and precepts, and by bringing an o\erwhelming mass of proof to bear on this important question, recalled the attention of "the Profession to the proper and rational treatment of wounded arteries. 1. That no operation ought to be performed on a wounded artery unless it bleeds.—If by the time the Surgeon sees the patient, bleeding has ceased, however furious it may have been, and however probable it may appear from the situation of the wound that a large artery has been injured, no operation should be undertaken. The patient should be placed in bed, the wound should be dressed and a tourniquet applied loosely round the limb, ready to be tightened at once should the bleeding again occur. He should be constantly watched by some competent person for the next twenty-four oi" forty-eight hours. If, before the Surgeon sees the case, bleeding supposed to come from a large vessel has been arrested by pressure, he should at once relax all pressure and remove the pads, as it is not safe to trust to compression for the arrest of hemorrhage from a vessel of any magnitude. If, on doing this, bleeding occurs, he must be guided in his treatment by the two following rules. If no hsemorrhage appears, he must follow the directions just given. The reason for this rule is that a small artery, especially when wounded near its parent trunk, may for a time pour forth such an amount of blood as to make it appear as if the main trunk itself was implicated, and yet may safely be closed by the processes of natural arrest already described. A man was brought to the University College Hospital with a deep stab in the groin, directly in the course of the external iliac artery ; a very large quantity of arterial blood had been lost, but the haimorrhage was arrested on his admission by the application of pressure, &c. From the great and sudden loss of blood it was supposed that the external iliac had been punctured, but it was not thought advisable to perform any operation unless hasmorrhage recurred. The bleeding did not return, and the wound healed without any further trouble. This rule, as will subsequently be shown, does not apply to secondary haemorrhage, nor to bleeding from vessels opened by ulceration or sloughing. 2. To expose the vessel at the wounded part and to tie it there. —The principal reason for this rule is, that a ligature of the main trunk at a distance above the wound stops only the direct supply of blood to the limb, but does not interfere with the indirect or anastomosing circulation, by which means the blood readily passes into that portion of the vessel which is beyond the ligature, and may, if the anastomosis be very free, continue to escape from the divided artery. Thus, though bright arterial blood may no longer jet from the Avound, a continuous stream of the same colour, or of a darker tint if it has become partially deoxygenated in its passage through the anastomosing channels, will continue to well out. This may come from the proximal or the distal end, or from both, but most commonly from the distal end only. If the anastomosis is less free, ligature at a distance on the proximal side may temporarily arrest the hsemorrhage by the formation of a clot at the seat of the wound, but as the anastomosing circulation becomes fully established and the blood-pressure increases, the clot is forced out and haemorrhage recommences. Thus, if a Surgeon endeavours to arrest the flow of blood from a wound of the ulnar artery near the palm by a ligature applied to the brachial in the middle