ii68 VENEREAL DISEASES. The Eruptions on the Skin are usually most abundant on the nates, scrotum, and the soles of the feet; hence in examining a child supposed to be syphilitic these parts should always be looked at first. In moist situations tlie eruptions most frequently assume the form of smooth, flat mucous tubercles, varying in size from a pea to a threepenny-piece ; they are slightly elevated, and covered with a slimy whitish secretion. Cracks or fissures are common at the anus as well as at the mouth. In the drier parts the eruption is often described as squamous, though it is not really scaly, but composed of smooth flat patches of a coppery red colour. These patches are often well-marked on the soles of the feet, and are followed by peeling of the cuticle. A diffuse erythematous eruption is perhaps the most common, and may be difficult to distinguish from the simple intertrigo which is so common in infants about the nates as the result of irritation of urine, &c. The syphilitic eruption, however, often spreads to the calves and soles and upwards on to the back, and the rash is more uniform and confluent than is usually seen in the simple intertrigo. Paputar eruptions are not common. The lullcus eruption, or so-called syphilitic pemphigus, is less common than those first mentioned, yet I have frequently seen it in syphilitic children. It appears in the form of vesicles which enlarge into bullte about the size of a split pea, with a dusky coppery areola; they dry into brown scales or scabs, and commonly occur simul- taneously with mucous tubercles in other parts of the body. The eruption is almost invariably present on the soles and palms ; it appears early, and may be present at birth. The prognosis in all cases of bullous syphilide is very grave. The eruption has to be distinguished from the simple pemphigus which occurs in non-syphihtic children ; this is probably a septic rash, and, unhke the bullous syphilide, never appears on the soles of the feet, A pustular eruption is also occasionally met with. The pustules dry early, leaving a black scab, beneath which ulceration may take place. It is met with only in very feeble children. Subcutaneous gummaia are met with occasionally in inherited syphilis, but seldom before the second year. The Hair very commonly is thin, and is often lost from the posterior and lateral aspects of the head. The Nails are seldom affected, but may be brittle and grow irregularly. When we consider the influence exercised by the syphilitic poison upon the skin and its appendages, the hair and nails, we should a priori have expected that the teeth, being developed from the same embryonic layer, would par- ticipate in the morbid processes induced by it in the allied structures. The fact of their doing so does not, however, appear to have attracted the notice of any observer, until Hutchinson directed the attention of the profession to this very interesting subject, and pointed out the destructive and special effect produced upon the teeth by inherited syphihs. This injurious influence manifests itself both in the temporary and in the permanent teeth ; but it is characteristic only in the permanent set. It must not, however, be sup- posed that in all cases of infantile syphihs the teeth are affected ; indeed, in many instances they are not, and it has been particularly pointed out by Hutchinson that it is only when there have been attacks of syphilitic stomatitis, that we are to expect to meet with these abnormalities in the teeth. The teriiporarij teeth of syphihtic infants are cut early, are of bad colour,