123 DISARTICULATION AT THE ANKLE. that 110 buttou-hole apertures be made through the heel flap. This may easily be avoided when the soft structures are thickened and infiltrated by inflammatory products : but, if the operation be required for injury, great care is required iu digging out the heel, the integuments of tlie posterior part of the OS calcis being very thin and adherent to the bone. It is also of importance that the first incision should be (Figs. 62, 63) distinctly inclined backwards towards the heel, and not forwards into the sole of the foot. Uuless this be done, a large cup-shaped flap will be left, in which blood and discharges may accumulate, and retard healing. If union takes place by the second intention, bagging of discharges in the flap must be prevented by uniform elastic pressure and bandaging. The tendency to sloughing occurs chiefly in primary amputations. It has frequently been stated that it is necessary, in order to ensure the vitality of the flap, to cut the posterior tibial artery "as long as possible," and it is this as much as anything that has led to the production of the large cup-shaped flaps which are so difficult to dissect off" the OS calcis, and which so often slough. An examination of the vascular Fig. 66.—Line of Incisiou for Pivogoff's Operation—moclifiecl by Oblique Section of the Os Calcis. supply will show that the posterior tibial artery may be cut close to the base of the flap, without interfering with the chief vessels supplying it. The distribution of vessels to the part is as follows. On the outer side, the peroneal artery, after giving off the anterior peroneal, is continued along the posterior aspect of the fibula to the outer side of the os calcis. On the inner side a branch of considerable size arises from the posterior tibial artery, about one inch above the ankle-joint, and passes down to the inner side of the OS calcis, running behind the inner malleolus and accompanying the cutaneous nerve from the posterior tibial to the heel. There is thus a trunk on each side running down to the heel behind the malleolus, and these two com- municate freely with each other, superficially over the cutaneous surface of the tendo Achillis, and deeply between the tendon and the ankle-joint; and . they terminate by anastomosing by long loops on the under surface of the posterior part of the os calcis. It is upon these anastomosing loops that the vitality of the flap depends ; and as they lie much nearer the bone than the skin it is evident that, unless the knife be kept hard upon the bone durino-