SYPHILIS. 1T19 acid is occasionally necessary. If there be any signs of syphilis the cautious udministration of mercury may be required. During the treatment of a suppurating bubo the patient should, if possible, be kept at rest till the sore is superficial. Movement greatly delays healing, and in some cases a splint is required to fix the thigh. Venereal Warts.—Warts occur frequently round or on the scar of a chancre, independently of any constitutional affection, but merely from simple continued irritation of the muco-cutaneous surfaces. They differ in no respect from those which frequently follow gonorrhoea. They commonly occur on the prepuce or glans, and are especially apt to be situated in the angle between these parts ; they are of a red colour, very vascular, and, if left without inter- ference, may increase immensely in size and number, distending the prepuce, and giving a clubbed appearance to the penis ; there is then always phimosis, and the tension of the prepuce may be such that ulceration may take place in it, allowing a protrusion of these growths through an aperture in its side. These warts are occasionally met with on the labia, forming large, irregular, cauliflower-looking masses. The Treatment consists in the early stage when the warts are small, in the application of salicylic collodion (p. 1033), under which they usually quickly disappear ; or they may be carefully painted with the strong liquor plumbi, or with liquor sodii ethylatis. When they have reached a larger size the prepuce must be laid open unless the warts are so small that the glans can be readily exposed by drawing the foreskin back. The warts may then be pared off with scissors, and the part from which they grow touched with nitrate of silver. Even after this they are very apt to recur, especially under a long, moist foreskin. In such a case careful atten- tion to cleanliness and the use of a powder of oxide of zinc and starch or the application of an ointment composed of vaseline, with about one-tenth part of extract of belladonna added to it, will usually cure the tendency to recurrence; If these measures fail, circumcision may be necessary. In women, warts must be treated in the same way ; but if they are of great size, Paquelin's cautery or the galvano-cautery should be used in removing them, to avoid loss of blood. II.—SYPHILIS. Syphilis is a specific disease, or general infective process, resulting from the inoculation of a virus, which multiplies in the system till the whole body is infected. It is communicated by the direct contact of the blood, secretions, or discharges of a person suffering from syphilis with an abraded surface of a healthy individual, and under certain circumstances it is also transmitted from syphiHtic parents to their oflPspring. It is therefore contagious, but not infectious. The exact nature of the virus is not known. Klebs, Birch-Hirschfeld, and some others, have described a special microscopic organism of an oval form, or nearly approaching a short rod in shape, which they believe to be in some way connected with syphilis. Birch-Hirschfeld observed it in gummata, and in a flat condyloma, but failed to detect it in the blood of a patient suffering from active syphilis. Lustgarten has described a bacillus somewhat resembhng that of tubercle as being constantly present in the primary and secondary leston of syphilis, but his observations have not yet been fully confirmed. More evidence