415 NATURAL ARREST OF HAEMORRHAGE. on. By the conjoined operation of these causes a coagulum is formed, which, though lying within the sheath, is outside the artery, and extends beyond it: and is hence termed the external coagulum. It is usually somewhat cylin- drical, and often looks like a continuation .of the vessel, being at first per- forated by a hollow track, througli which the stream of blood continues to flow. As it increases in size, the track becomes closed by the concentric deposit of ' coagulum. The hollow track leading from the surface of the coagulum to the wound in the artery, has been especially described and dwelt upon by Amussat. This coagulum acts mechanically by blocking up the end of the artery, and thus constitutes the first barrier to the hsemorrhage. Simultaneous with the changes that have just been described is the con- traction of the cut artery which commences immediately after its division, and may of itself be sufficient to close a small vessel. Thus, during an operation, we may often see the mouth of an artery whicli, when first cut, spouted out a stream of blood as large as a straw, gradually diminish in size until it ceases to bleed, owing simply to this contraction. In a larger artery this process is not sufficient completely to close the vessel, but merely gives its cut end a conical shape and greatly diminishes the aperture in the artery. The next change that takes place is the formation of the internal coagu- lum. As the open end of the artery becomes obstructed by its own contraction I and by the formation of the external coagulum, the blood is propelled with more and more difficulty through it, escaping in a small and feeble stream, and at last becoming completely stationary. Coagulation then takes place within the artery, and the clot that is formed in this situation plays a prominent part in the permanent closure of the vessel. The internal coagulum is conical in form, the base being firmly adherent to the injured coats of the artery at the margin of the aperture and the apex extending upwards. It has no point of attachment except by its base, the apex and sides being perfectly free ; at first it consists merely of ordinary blood-clot, but later on, as wall be seen hereafter, it undergoes important changes. The importance of the internal coagulum as a temporary means of arresting haemorrhage, though great, has, I think, been overestimated. In tact it is not formed until the flow of blood has been arrested by the contraction of the artery and the formation of the external clot ; and in some cases the proximity of a collateral branch to the cut end of the vessel appears, by preventing the stagnation of the blood, to prevent its formation altogether. When it is formed, it is useful in acting as a damper to break the force of the wave of blood against the cut end of the vessel. The contraction of the artery, being due to the fiction of the muscular coat, must necessarily cease before long,Nvhen relaxa- tion of the muscular fibre-cells takes place ; but by this time the vessel is surrounded externally by a coagulum between the sheath and the external coat. This clot having been moulded to the artery in its contracted state prevents the dilatation that would otherwise occur. After the hemorrhage from the cut artery has been arrested temporarily by the means that haAc been indicated, the process of permanent occlusion commences. Permanent Closure of a cut artery is effected by processes analogous to those which have already been described as occurring in the union of wounds in the Chapter on the Process of Repair (p. 286 et seq.). During the first few hours after the arrest of the bleeding, the internal coagulum contracts slightly