1125 ACQUIRED SYPHILIS: INCUBATION. be consented to unless the attack has been of a very slight charactei- and no symptoms have been observed for a year. Progress of Acquired Syphilis. First Stage. Period of Incuba- tion.—The elfects of contagion are not immediately manifested. The time that intervenes between inoculation and activity of the poison is called the incubation period. It may be occupied in three ways. If the vehicle containing- the virus be of a non-irritating character, the broken surface heals, and all trace of the inoculation disappears until the incubation is completed ; or, as the vehicle of the virus is often pus or discharge of an irritating kind, it may cause immediate inflammation at the point of inoculation. This irritation subsides in a short time, and the part then remains quiet until the incubation is complete, when the syphilitic poison betrays its presence by characteristic phenomena. An experiment of Vidal's illustrates this. He inoculated the matter of a pustular syphilitic eruption on the arm of a medical student, which produced a pustule in a couple of days ; this healed over in about a fortnight, and the experiment was supposed to have failed until the thirty-fifth day ; a papule then developed, which subsequently ulcerated, and general syphilis followed in due course. If the syphilitic virus be carried in the pus of a local contagious chancre, the time of incubation is often occupied by the course of a chancre, which may or may not have healed over when the syphilitic poison produces its characteristic efiect. This series of events—first a suppurating contagious sore, and then induration forming in the base of the sore, or in its scar if the sore have already healed—is perhaps almost as common as the inoculation of syphilis unaccompanied by immediate local irritation ; but the two morbid processes have no connection with each othei', and are only accidentally co-existent. The length of this time of inactivity varies in diflPerent persons ; it is commonly twenty-five days. The shortest known period before the poison began to reveal its presence has been ten days, and the longest forty-six days. The most important question with regard to this stage of the disease is, how long does the poison remain localized at the seat of inoculation before enteriug the circulation ? N"o certain answer can be given to this question, but it is probable that the period between inoculation and general infection is very short. Berkeley Hill records a case in which he freely destroyed the surface of the wound left by a rupture of the freenum about twelve hours after infection, but in spite of this general syphilis followed. Ricord, who at one time believed that destruction of the seat of inoculation Avithin five days would prevent the general disease, afterwards completely abandoned this view, and came to the conclusion that destruction of the seat of infection is useless. Experiments on the inoculation of vaccine lymph on the human subject, and the virus of glanders on horses, have shown that the time that elapses between the local introduction of the virus and its entrance into the circulation is very short. In glanders, the excision of the seat of inoculation one minute after the poison was inserted failed to arrest the development of the disease. Those cases, therefore, in which general syphilis is reported to have been cured by excision of the primary sore, cannot be accepted without further evidence. Second Stage. Appearance of the Initial Manifestation or Primary Sore.—When the period of incubation is past, a peculiar chronic inflammatory process, accompanied by the growth of new tissue, takes place in the seat of inoculation beneath the epithelium, if that be intact, or in the