1033 a bluish-black colour. In these the papilla may not be evident to the naked eye, the spaces between being filled up with epithelium, but the papillary structure is readily demonstrated by the microscope. In Condylomata and Mucous Tubercles the enlarged papillae are soft, and contain a great abundance of small round cells, giving evidence of their rapid growth. They occur about the anus and in the perineum and folds of the nates, as well as occasionally in the larynx and fauces. They are always dependent on a syphilitic taint. When situated on the mucous membranes, they are often pointed, somewhat pendulous, nodulated on the surface, very vascular, and bleed readily when touched ; but when they occur on a muco- cutaneous surface, they are flattened, expanded, solt, and white, constituting the true condylomata or mucous tubercles. Some forms of polypi are properly classed amongst papillomata. Thus the simple polypus of the rectum may be a soft papilloma bearing columnar epi- thelium. In some rare cases, the epithelium has been found to be scaly. The papillje may branch again and again, the pedicle being comparatively small. It is difficult, however, to draw any accurate line between such papillomata and the columnar carcinoma to be described hereafter. Villous tumours of the bladder, formerly described as " villous cancer," are also papillomata. These tumours are composed of long delicate processes floating freely in the cavity of the bladder. They each consist of a dilated capillary loop, surrounded by an almost homogeneous connective tissue, con- taining a few scattered round or oval cells, and covered with an epithelium of an irregular shape, often resembling spindle cells in form, and similar to that naturally lining the bladder. This epithelium is very difficult to find, as it soon separates by maceration in the urine after death. The base from which the villi grow is composed merely of fibroid tissue tunnelled in all directions by dilated vessels. These tumours, if left unrelieved, invariably terminate latally from the abundant haemorrhage to which they give rise, and the interference with the escape of urine from the bladder ; but they never give rise to secondary growths nor invade surrounding structures, and are conse- quently non-malignant. They will be more fully described under diseases of the bladder. The general principles of Treatment of these affections consist in their removal by excision, ligature, or caustics, according to their size, situation, and attachments. Excision is usually preferable when they are of large size. If they are seated on a mucous surface, and are pedunculated, the ligature is the safest means of removal. In many cases Paquelin's cautery will be found very useful in removing large papillary growths. Small warty growths on the skin or on a muco-cutaneous surface can usually be cured without difficulty by the application of salicylic collodion. (Salicylic acid, gr. 100, flexible collodion [f strength], one ounce.) Extract of Indian hemp is sometimes added to this to prevent pain, and the preparation is then known by the name of " Solvine." (Salicylic acid, 60 grains, extract of Indian hemp, 8 grains, and flexible collodion [f strength], one ounce.) If the cuticle be very thick the wart may be cured by the application of a saturated solution of potassa f usa in water. The term " polypus " may conveniently be defined here. It is purely clinical, and has no pathological meaning. It merely means a tumour growing from the mucous surface lining a cavity, having a distinct peduncle and a