202 LOCAL DISTURBANCES AND INFLAMMATION. ill its treatment. Still our knowledge is not yet sufficiently perfect for theory alone to direct our practice, and we must on no account neglect those modes of treatment which have been shown by experience tc be of use. Before describing in detail the means adopted in sui'gical practice for the prevention and cure of inflammation, it will be well briefly to point out the indications furnished us by pathology. 1. Inflammation is the result of an hi jury done to the living tissues, of sufficient seventy to lower the vitality of the affected part, but not actually to kill it. Our first object, therefore, in the prevention of inflammation, is to liroted ilm tissues from all sources of irritaiion and, failing this, to remove tJie orii/inal irrifa?it as qiiickh/ as possible, and to prevent the introduction of fresh causes of irritation. Under this head arc included :—the removal of foreign bodies ; the avoid- ance of irritating applications : the prevention of tension, by drainage of wounds and suitable position of injured parts ; the rehef of tension, as by early opening of abscesses, or by incisions to allow of the escape of inflammatory exudation ; and the prevention of decomposition in the discharges of wounds and abscesses, and the exclusion of specific infective poisons, such as that of erysipelas, or the like. 2. All irritants lower the vitality of the tissues upon which they act, and if of sufficient intensity, cause death of the part. The degree of damage done is proportional, first, to the intensity of the irritation, and, secondly, to the vitahty, or, in other words, to the power of resistance of the tissues. In the prevention of inflammation, or in the limitation of the process, our first object must be to do everything in our power, both by general and local means, to promote the healthy nutrition of the tissues. Under this head come :—attention to diet ; avoidance of alcoholic excess; regulation of the action of the bowels, skin and kidneys ; the treatment of constitutional conditions, such as gout, rheumatism, and syphilis. Locally the chief objects to be kept in view are—to preserve a normal state of the circulation by removing causes of congestion, or local anajmia, as by the excision of tumours pressing on vessels, the cure of varicose veins, and the relief of the distended capillaries by uniform elastic pressure ; by elevation of the part, or the removal of strangulation ; to maintain a normal temperature; and to avoid over-work of the part, as excessive use of the eye or larynx. When the inflammatory process is established, the vitality of the part is lowered, and our main objects are—to avoid further depression, which might extinguish such life as remains ; to encourage the return of vitality by the maintenance of a normal temperature and by the regulation of the disturbed circulation by such means as we have at our command ; and to ensure as far as possiljle both functional and mechanical rest of the inflamed part. Inflamed parts are less able to withstand the effects of lieat and cold, of chemical irritants, or mechaliical violence. Thus, the application of cold or of powerful antiseptic solutions (all of which are more or less irritating), or the necessary injury of a surgical operation, may, in an inflamed part, intensify the process, and even cause sloughing. ?), The essential phenomena of inflammation are : first, the dilatation of the arteries with increased blood-pressure in the area supplied by the dilated vessels ; secondly, the exudation through their damaged walls, which, other things 'being equal, will be proportional to the degree of intravascular I