726 INJURIES OF THE HEAD. pharynx, and all those implicating the sphenoidal sinus and the cribriform plate of the ethmoid are compound fractures, and are exposed to all the accidents to which those injuries are liable. A good example of the way in which such injuries may prove fatal occurred in a case under my care in 1872. The patient was a woman, aged twenty-seven, who fell from a first-floor window into the street below. She received a violent blow on the face, fracturing the upper and lower jaws, the zygomatic arches, and the nasal bones. She soon recovered consciousness, and showed no signs of serious cerebral injury. However, on the second day symptoms of meningitis set in, and on the third day she died comatose. The post-mortem examination showed the usual signs of septic meningitis, and the source of the mischief was found to be a small puncture of the dura mater made by a triangular fragment of the thin bony roof of the sphenoidal sinus which had become displaced vertically, opening up the sinus below by tearing the mucous membrane. The fragment was isolated by the branches of a fissured fracture which extended backwards from the frontal bone, but at no other part was the dura mater injured. The brain showed superficial bruises in the frontal lobes. Fractures of the Base, though very frequently fatal, are not invariably so. Not only does it occasionally happen that patients with all the signs of fracture of the base of the skull make a complete recovery, but in the different Museums specimens illustrative of repair after this accident may be met with. Thus, in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons, there is the skull of a person who lived two years after a fracture of this kind. Signs.— Fracture of the base of the skull is very commonly suspected when Fig. -iilS.—Fracture of Base of Skull proving fatal by injury to Medulla. symptoms indicative of serious injury to the brain speedily follow a severe blow upon the head. Those parts of the nervous centres that are most im- portant to life are more liable to injury in this than in other fractures of the skull; the same violence that occasions the fracture injuring the contiguous portions of brain, or lacerating some of the large venous sinuses at the bnse of the skull, and thus giving rise to abundant intracranial extravasation of blood. The patient whose skull is represented in Fig. 293 died from injury to the medulla oblongata and haemorrhage into its substance ; a result which can hardly be wondered at, when the splintered condition of the margin of the foramen magnum is taken in consideration. There was no other serious injury to the brain. After a short period of unconsciousness, the patient became noisy and talkative, and was somewhat troublesome on his way to the hospital, but almost immediately after admission, his respiration and pulse began to fail, and he died in half an hour or less from the time of the accident.