TRAUMATIC SEPTIC ARTHRITIS. 5" most cases of an irregular cavity, capable of very considerable distension and very difficult to drain perfectly. A wound causes an eifusion into the cavity, first (.f blood and, almost immediately after, of synovia, mixed with serous exudation from the vessels of the synovial membrane. The whole cavity thus becomes distended more or less tensely, according to the amount of drainage allowed by the wound, with putrescible matter, and this is brought into direct contact with the air by means of the external opening. The causes of decomposition thus being admitted, in the great majority of cases putrefaction follows, and the whole synovial membrane and the surfaces of the cartilages become bathed in septic fluid. As the result of this the most acute inflammation is set up, rapidly reaching the stage of suppuration. This soon extends to the ligaments, which become "softened and yield, allowing the articular surfaces to become displaced; at the same time abscesses form outside the joint, either from perforation of the capsule or by extension of the inflammation through it : these may burrow widely beneath the muscles surrounding the joint. Within the joint the cartilages perish, in consequence of the irritation to which they are exposed; they become loosened from the subjacent bone, and by a process rather of maceration and friction than of true ulceration they become worn away at those points at which the articular surfaces have been most continu- ously in contact; the hone beneath is thus exposed, and from the combined irritation of the pressure of the opposed surfaces, a certain amount of friction, and the contact of the septic discharges, ulceration spreads rapidly into it. Thus the whole articulation becomes completely disorganized. This process is necessarily accompanied by very high fever. There is no surface in the body fi'om which absorption takes place more rapidly than from the synovial membrane of a joint ; as soon, therefore, as it becomes bathed in septic matter severe fever is developed, its intensity corresponding with the size of the joint and the extent of surface from which absorption is taking place. When the interior of the joint becomes covered by granulation-tissue, which presents a more or less efficient barrier to further absorption—that is to say, by about the eighth or tenth day—the fever subsides. Before this, however, the patient may perish from septic poisoning, or the case may become com- plicated by some infective process, as septic infection or pyasmia. The serious consequences, therefore, that follow wounds of joints may be traced entirely to the following causes : the accumulation of blood and serous effusion in the cavity of the joint, and the decomposition of the discharges, aggravated in some cases by want of rest and by the unhealthy constitutional condition of the patient and the bad hygienic surroundings in which he may be placed. There are two ways, however, in which, without any special treatment, a wounded joint may escape the destructive processes above described: first, if the wound be very small and the instrument inflicting it perfectly clean, union of the external opening may take place by first intention, and the after-progress of the case may be the same as in a subcutaneous injury; secondly, if the wound be very large, so as to give perfect drainage to the cavity and thus to prevent the retention within it of decomposable matter, recovery may take place with comparatively little local inflammation or con- stitutional disturbance. It is a medium-sized wound, one too large or too contused to heal by the first intention and too small efficiently to drain the joint, that is the most dangerous. Wounds of joints, resulting from gun-shot injury, are necessarily the worst. In these, the aperture can rarely be closed