42 8 ARREST OF ARTERIAL HAEMORRHAGE. later Roman Surgeons, and is frequently mentioned by Celsus. With the decline of Surgery duriug the dark ages it fell almost completely into disuse, giving way to such barbarous and inefficient means as the employment of the actual cautery, the performance of operations with red-hot knives, or the application of boiling pitch or molten lead to the freshly-cut surface. It seems, however, never to have been altogether abandoned. Almost every surgical writer of any importance from the time of Celsus to the sixteenth century mentions the ligature, and most recommend its use in accidental w^ounds of large vessels. It was only in amputations that the rule was absolute to use the cautery, and this, as Pare tells us, was "not only to stay the flux of blood, but chiefly to correct the malignity or gangrenous putrefaction which might spoil the neighbouring parts," To what extent the ligature was used before the sixteenth century it is difficult to determine, but that it was a recognised mode of treatment of haemor- rhage is clear. In 1552 Ambroise Pare, Surgeon to the King of France, first practised the appli- cation of the hgature to the divided vessels in amputations, and advocated its use under all possible circumstances as the safest and most painless method of arresting arterial hemor- rhage. But so slowdy did the ligature make way, that Sharpe, Surgeon to Guy's Hospital, writing in 17G1, two centuries after its reintro- duction by Pare, found it necessary, in his well- known work, entitled " A Critical Enquiry into the Present State of Surgery," formally to advo- cate its employment for the arrest of hsemorrhage from wounded arteries, in preference to styptics or the cautery, on the ground that " it was not as yet universally practised amongst Surgeons residing in the more distant counties of our kingdom." What, it may be asked, was the reason that it took two centuries to promulgate the use of this simple and most efficacious means for the arrest of hemor- rhage ? The reason simply was, that Surgeons w^ere totally ignorant of the means employed by Nature for the occlusion of arteries ; that they conse- quently did not know how to apply a ligature to these vessels, or what kind of ligature should be used ; and that, in their anxiety to avoid the occurrence of secondary hgemorrhage, and to make all safe, they fell into the very errors they would have endeavoured to avoid, had they been acquainted with the nature of the processes by which the closure of the artery and the separation of the ligature are effected. Between twenty and thirty years after the time at which Sharpe wrote, Hunter introduced that great improvement in the surgical treatment of aneurism—the deligation of the artery at a distance from the sac, and in a healthy part of its course ; but this great advance in the treatment of a most formidable disease was but coldly received, and ran some risk of being lost to the world in consequence of the iU-success that attended the earlier operations. In Hunter's first operation, four ligatures were used, each of w4\ich was Fig. 128.—Forcipressure forceps.