MENINGEAL HEMORRHAGE: DIAGNOSIS. 7^7 Exiravasation of blood into the membranes may occur with little or no bruising of the brain substance itself. The amount of blood extravasated may be considerable, so that a layer of varying thickness is found over a large part of one or both hemispheres, whilst the remainder gravitates towards the base. Under these circumstances the symptoms of compression may speedily develope, and are not preceded by that distinct interval of consciousness w'hich is so common in cases of hasmorrhage outside the dura mater. But on the other hand the development of coma is likely to be less rapid than is the case when the blood is derived from lacerated brain substance. Localized extravasation of blood into the membranes is not necessarily accompanied by the symptoms of general compression. If it occur over the motor areas the irritation produced by its pressure on the brain is likely to result in con- vulsions followed by paralysis, the distribution of which may serve as an indication of the seat of the lesion. The extravasation of blood dependent on laceration of a portion of the brain may be termed Cerelral Extravasation. It is far more common than the other forms: in it the patient never recovers consciousness after having been stunned, the symptoms of concussion speedily passing into those of compression. In these cases the paralysis is commonly incomplete, often hemiplegic, and is associated with twitching of the limbs or convulsive movements of the body generally, and much restlessness with incoherent muttering : the pupils are sometimes contracted, sometimes dilated, and occasionally squinting is observed. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of these forms of extravasation is important, as it is in the extra-dural variety especially that operative procedure is likely to be attended with success. It can, however, be made wdth any degree of cer- tainty only when the typical symptom of the interval of consciousness is present. When the different forms occur together accurate diagnosis becomes almost impossible. If the interval of consciousness is absent, the protrusion of the eye with dilatation of the pupil on the same side as the injury, the fulness in one temporal region and the difference of temperature in the two axillee, may indicate the nature of the case. In doubtful cases the Surgeon should cut down on the skull in the region of the meningeal artery and examine for fracture. The diagnosis between the compression from extravasation and that from dep-essed hone or inflammatory effusions within the slcidl is easily made. In the case of depressed fracture, the symptoms of compression continue uninter- ruptedly from the very first, and proper examination of the skull will always lead to the detection of the injured bone. When inflammatory effusions exercise undue pressure upon the brain, the signs of compression come on at a later period and are preceded by symptoms of cerebral inflammation, accompanied by a good deal of pyrexia, quick pulse and hot skin. From apoptexjj, the diagnosis is not always easily made, more particularly when there is no evidence that the head has been injured. I could give nume- rous instances of this. The following will suffice :—A man was brought to University College Hospital in a state of profound coma, in which condition he had been found lying in the street. There was no evidence of injury about the head beyond a bruise, which had probably been received when he fell. The case, which was supposed to be one of apoplexy, and was treated accordingly, proved fatal in a few hours. On examination after death the skull was found