NECK OF THIGir-BONE: INTRACAPSULAR. 607 may occur from falls backwards, or from direct blows on the part, the tip being- bent forcibly forwards. The displacement forwards is maintained by the action of the coccygei. The pain in these cases is excessively severe, owmg to the bruising of the ligamentous and tendinous expansions that cover the bone, it is greatly increased in sitting and walking, and in defc^cation, or m any violent expiratory effort, as sneezing or coughing. It is sometimes removed on reducing the displaced fragments by pressure through the rectum, but it may continue for months or years. South relates the case of a gentleman who broke his coccyx by sitting on the edge of a snuff-box, and who suffered such severe pain, that he was obhged to wear a pad on the tuberosity of each ischium, in order that the coccyx might be free from pressure when he sat. Under the term Coccydynia, J. Y, Simpson described a painful affec- tion of the coccyx and its neighbouring structures, which occurs chiefly in women, commonly as the result.of injury, and is often very severe and per- sistent, so as to prevent the patient from sitting, or even walking with comfort. The pain closely resembles that occasioned by fissure or ulcer of the rectum. It usually arises from a blow on the part, but appears sometimes to originate independently of external violence. In some cases the coccyx may be in its normal position, but in others the whole bone is found to have been displaced, and to be bent forwards almost at right angles to the sacrum. It can be felt projecting into the rectum, and is maintained in its abnormal position chiefly by the action of the coccygei. This condition is in fact rather a dislocation than a fracture. The bone can easily be forced into its normal position with the finger in the rectum, but the displacement returns as soon as the pressure is removed. The Treatment recommended by Simpson consists in the free sub- cutaneous division, by means of a tenotome, of the muscular and tendinous structures connected with the coccyx. The section is made first on one side, then on the other, and finally around the tip, so as completely to isolate the bone. I have often performed this operation, and have as often as not been disappointed in the results. When it succeeds the good effects are immediate. When it fails the bone may be removed by a longitudinal incision over itB middle, exposing its posterior surface. This operation is free from danger, and may give relief, but is not certain in its results. Fractures of the Thigh-Bone may occur in the Upper Articular End of the bone, in its Shaft, or in its Lower End. In these different situations, every possible variety of fracture is met with. 1. Fractures of the Pelvic End of the Bone may be divided into those that occur through the NecJc Within the Capsule of the joint, those that occur Outside the Capsule, and those that implicate the Trochanters alone. Intracapsular Fracture of the Neck of the Thigh-bone may be either simple, the bone being merely broken across ; or impacted, the lower portion of bone being driven into the upper fragment. This intracapsular fracture may almost be looked upon as an injury peculiar to advanced life, being but seldom met Avith in persons under fifty. Thus Astley Cooper states that, of 251 cases with which he met in the course of his practice, only two were in persons below this age. It may, however, happen at an early period of life ; Stanley has recorded the case of a lad of eighteen who met with this injury, and Hamilton has described it as occurring in a girl aged sixteen and in a man aged twenty-five. A remarkable circumstance in