DISLOCATIONS OF OLD STANDING. 649 on limbs are guided by the anatomical relations of the parts concerned m the dislocation, and have for their object to relax nntorn ligaments and parts ot the capsale which are rendered tense by the abnormal position of the head ot the bone ; to bring the head of the bone opposite the rent in the capsule ; and sometimes, by using the attachment of the untorn ligament as a fulcrum and the limb as a lever,' to force the head into the socket. In other cases the par- ticular movement may have for its object to dislodge a process of bone from another against which it has hitched, or to relax the chief muscles which hold the bone out of its place. When the patient is anaesthetized, and all muscular resistance has thus been removed, any remaining difficulty in efiecting reduc- tion must be due to purely mechanical causes dependent on the disarrange- ment of the bones and ligaments, and under the older methods of treatment, where much force was employed by pulleys or other similar contrivances, these were often torn through. But, since the introduction of manipulation, the Surgeon eflTects the reduction by a far less degree of force, replacing the bone on simple mechanical principles, by relaxing the ligaments and disen- tangUng the bones from one another. The situation and extent of the laceration of the capsule of the joint are also of great importance as offering an obstacle to reduction, in some cases constricting the neck of the bone, in others having one lip of the sht pressing against the bone in such a way as to resist all efforts to move it. An extreme degree of force is required to tear through and thus overcome obstructions of this kind ; but they may readily be relaxed and slipped aside by skilful manipulation and attention to the position of the limb. Manipulation has been especially useful in dislocation of the hip, shoulder, and knee, and the details of the process will be described with the special dislocations of these joints. After-Treatment.—After the dislocation has been reduced, the limb must be kept firmly fixed and at rest by proper bandages or splints for from one to three weeks, so as to allow proper union to take place in the torn capsule and neighbouring structures. If this is not done the joint may be permanently weakened and be liable to a recurrence of displacement from very slight causes. Any consecutive inflammation may often be prevented by the continuous application of cold ; and, if set up, must be treated by local antiphlogistic measures. The fixation of the joint must not be maintained for too long a time, lest adhesions, often of a painful character, form. These may be avoided by passive motion. If they have formed, they may readily be broken down by the manipulations commonly employed in such cases by " bone- setters," who, fixing the joint by pressure of the thumb on the painful spot, in a manner well described by W. Hood, impart sudden and forcible move- ment to the limb, by which adventitious bands are ruptured. Dislocations of Old Standing.—If a dislocation have been left unre- duced for some weeks or months, changes, which have already been described, take place in and around the displaced articular structures, the double effect of which is to render the replacement of the bones in their normal position more and more difficult as time goes on, and to lead to the formation of anew though imperfect articulation at the seat of the displaced bone. "When a dislocation has been left unreduced for a considerable length of time, as for years, the amount of utility in the limb will depend