595 FRACTURE OF THE OLECRANON. failed, it is better to follow the ordinary rule of removing- all the articular surfaces even if only one is injured, as in these cases the cartilages have often necrosed from the irritation of the septic discharges, and would seriously delay the cure. When primary resection is determined on, the sooner the operation is done the better ; when a secondary operation is necessary, after septic inflammation has followed the accident, the Surgeon must wait till the septic fever begins to subside, and suppuration is fully established, and then he should do it with as little delay as possible, lest hectic or pyaemia supervene. The operation as performed differs in no material respect from the same operation for disease of the articulation, which will be described in Chapter XLIX. In primary excision great care must be taken to save the periosteum as much as possible, otherwise a flail-like joint may result. In secon- dary operations, as the periosteum is loosened by the inflammation, it usually is saved without difficulty. Fractures of the Forearm.—1. The only fracture of the bones of the forearm that commonly occurs in the vicinity of the elhoiv-joint, is that of the Olecranon; this happens most commonly from falls upon the elbow, but it may occur from muscular action. Bardenhauer and Konig describe fracture of the olecranon by indirect violence from forced over-extension of the elbow in falls on the hand. The displacement is some- times considerable, the detached fragment being drawn upwards by the triceps muscle. Frequently, however, when the ligamentous expansion from the tendon of this muscle to the fascia of the forearm is not torn through, there is but little separation of the frag- ments. There is always effusion of blood into the joint, which necessarily prevents the close approximation of the fragments. In the majority of cases, as the injury takes place irom direct violence, there is much swelling about the joint ; and not uufrequently the fracture is comminuted or compound. Fi". 193.—Fracture of Olecranon. Fig. 104.—Apparatus for Fractured Olocrauon. The Treatment is best conducted by moderately straightening the arm, and maintaining it in that position by means of a well-padded light wooden splint laid along its fore part. But, although the arm shouLl be kept nearly straight, it should not be quite extended. The best and most easy position in which to put it up is that into which the arm naturally falls when hanging by the side ; in this there will be seen to be slight flexion at the elbow (Fig. 194). If the forearm be too rigidly extended on the arm, it may be carried back- Q Q 2