ACTIVE HYPER.EMIA. 157 normal phenomena just described will be disturbed proportionately to the potency of the irritant employed, or, in other words, to the degree of injury done to the tissues, provided that the injury is not sufficient to cause the immediate death of the tissues. The immediate effect is, in most cases, a dilatation of the arteries, with an increased flow of blood to the area injured. This is spoken of as determination of blood to the part,—active hypereemia,—active congestion—or fluxion. Some irritants, such as ammonia or mechanical violence, cause contraction which precedes the dilata- tion, but this is always of brief continuance and of but little importance. The widening of the artery allows a greater quantity of blood to flow into the capillaries, which consequently become dilated in their turn. Many which in the contracted state contained no corpuscles, and were consequently invisible, now become apparent as the increased blood stream enters them, and thus new vessels seem to start into existence. The flow through the capillaries is at the same time accelerated. After a short time the dilatation extends to the vein. It would seem at first sight that dilatations of the channels through which the blood is flowing would lead to a slackening of the current rather than to increased rapidity of flow ; and so it would, if the dilatation occurred equally in arteries, capillaries and veins,—but this is not the case. The small arteries are capable of very great variations in size, sometimes contracting almost to obliteration and again expanding to many times their ordinary calibre. The capillaries, on the other hand, are capable of pro- portionally much less dilatation, and such widening as does take place is purely passive and a consequence of the increased pressure caused by the relaxation of the arteries. The artery in a dilated state will admit to the capillaries it supplies many times the quantity of blood it allows to pass when contracted, but the combined sectional area of the capillaries is increased only by a fi-actional part. It is evident, therefore, that the rapidity of the flow must be increased. The cause of the arterial dilatation is twofold. It has been shown by experiment that irritation of a sensory nerve causes dilatation of the arteries in the whole area supplied by that nerve. This is a purely reflex phenomenon. Part therefore of the dilatation is due to this cause, and is not accurately limited to the area injured. In the damaged area itself, however, the dilatatioii is chiefly due to the direct effect produced upon the vessels of the part by the injury that has caused the disturbance ; here the muscular tissue of the small arteries is paralysed. That this is so is further shown by the fact that the degree of the dilatation is fixed and uniform, all those variations before men- tioned as occurring in health being absent. If the irritant applied to the web of the frog's foot be more powerful, it will be difficult to observe either the stage of contraction, supposing it to occur, or the stage of dilatation with increased rapidity of flow, for before the microscope can be brought to bear on the web the circulation will have undergone a third change. The vessel will be dilated as widely as possible, but the flow of blood, instead of being increased in rapidity, will be retarded or even arrested. In order to observe the development of this state of the circulation with greater accuracy the mesentery of the frog may be made use of, and no furtlier irritation than exposure to the air should be applied. In a mesentery, properly prepared and protected from needless sources of irritation, the retardation of the blood-stream may be delayed for many hours. Coinci-