RABIES: PATHOLOGY. 375 the mouth and fauces, which the patient finds great difficulty in expectorating, often trying to pull it out ^Yith the fingers ; and children may in this Avay scratch and tear the skin of the lips and nose. One of the earliest symptoms, and one of the most persistent, is extreme Mental Agitatwn and Terror, a vague sense of dread and horror at the im- pending fate. Spectral illusions sometimes occur, the patient supposing himself to be surrounded by animals, by horrid forms, by gaping, ghastly, and grinning countenances, or by flies or wasps. The iirst symptom in the Duke of Eichmond's case was that he fancied some poplar-trees opposite his bedroom- window to be men looking in. These delusions may alternate with fits of dehrium, terror, and frenzy. In these it is said that the patient barks like a dog, and endeavours to bite ; but this is a popular error—the " bark " is merely the catch in breathing, and the attempt to bite is nothing but move- ments of the tongue and mouth induced by the viscid saliva. The temperature is not usnally much over 100° F. Albumen and sugar have been found in the urine by F. A. Southam, the sugar doubtless depending on irritation of the medulla oblongata. Gamaleia, Bristowe and Horsley, and others have recorded cases of rabies in man assuming the paralytic form, which is the variety usually occurring in rabbits and occasionally in dogs—" dumb rabies." The disease then proves fatal from ascending paralysis. Duration and Termination.—The disease may prove fatal in four-and- twenty hours, or life may be prolonged for six or seven days. Death generally takes place from the second to the fourth day, and may occur from spasm of the glottis or from exhaustion. Occasionally the symptoms subside completely before death ; the increased sensibihty of the surface disappearing, the mental agitation or delusion being removed, and deglutition and respiration being quietly performed. Thus, Latham relates the case of a man labouring under this disease, who sat up quietly in bed and drank a pint of porter half an hour before he died. In these cases the pulse gradually becomes slower and slow^er, and finally ceases. This mode of death is not exhaustion, but is due to a destructive change in the cardiac centre in the medulla. Prognosis.—1 am not acquainted with any case of recovery from rabies, and, when once the first symptoms have made their appearance the disease seems to be invariably fatal. Pathology.—The appearances which are found after death in undoubted cases of rabies harmonize with the symptoms observed during life. The most definite and characteristic change is found in the lower part of the medulla, "most intense iu the hypo-glossal, glosso-pharyngeal and vagal nuclei and their neighbourhood." Gowers found the changes identical and so clearly marked, that the nature of the affection could have been recognized fi-om the j?os/-OTO?7em appearance alone in seven out of eight cases he examined. Nothing is visible to the naked eye, but the microscope shows ante-mortem clots in some of the minute vessels, and the perivascular spaces in the affected region are crowded with leucocytes. In the regions in which the disease is most advanced, the leucocytes pass beyond the lymphatic spaces and invade the tissues of the medulla, sometimes being so closely packed as to conceal the normal structures in minute spots. The only change in the nerve elements is slight granular degeneration. The appearances are, in short, those of inflammation of the affected region. These appearances w^ere well