GENERAL REMARKS OF OPERATIONS. 26 most practically useful modes of administration, and to be quite as safe as any other. A committee of the Medical and Chirurgical Society of London, which reported on tlie administration of chloroform in 1804, determined that per cent, is the maximum amount of the vapour which can safely be mixed with the air the patient inhales. Sir Joseph Lister has shown by experiment that the proportion given off from a folded piece of lint, used as above described, is far below this, and there is therefore no necessity for the use of the complicated inhalers which have sometimes been recommended. Whatever leads the administrator to rely upon anything but careful and continuous observation of the symptoms of the patient is an evil, and all inhalers have a tendency to do this. The only merit that can be claimed for any form of inhaler is that the mixture of chloroform and air given is of constant strength, whereas, when administered on lint, the vapour given off is most powerful immediately after the lint has been wetted with the anaesthetic, and gradually diminishes in strength as the administration continues. This may be obviated by the following plan, which is now recommended by Lister in the place of that which he formerly advocated. Put one corner of a stiffish towel Fig. 2.—Jimkei'.s Clilorofonn Inhaler. over the face in such a way that the point is over the chin ; opposite the fore- head gather up the towel in three or four puckers, and, if necessary, pass a pin through them ; there is thus produced a concave mask, which covers the mouth and nose tolerably accurately. By allowing a drop or two of chloroform to fall upon it from a drop-bottle every few seconds, the central part is kept constantly wet over an area of about two inches in diameter. By this means a vapour of practically constant strength can be easily administered. A useful form of inhaler in many cases is that known as Junker's (Fig. 2). In it air is blown by a bellows through a bottle to a vulcanite or flannel face-piece. The strength of the vapour inhaled depends upon the amount of air which is forced through the chloroform. Its use presents, however, no important advantage over the simpler methods of administration above described, except in operations upon the face, mouth and throat. In these the face-piece may be replaced by an elastic tube which can be passed through the nostril, so that the anaesthetic may be continuously given during the