ACCIDENTS IN REDUCTION OF DISLOCATED HUMERUS. 673 Old Unreduced Dislocations of the Head of the Humerus are not unfrequeutly met with. In the majority of these cases there is a considerable amount of pain and immobihty about the shoulder at first; but after a time the head of the humerus forms a new bed for itself, and the movements of the arm become fi'eer and less painful, so that eventually a limb, useful for all except the overhead movements, results. In cases of old dislocation of the head of the humerus, the question as to the advisabihty of attempting reduction always presents itself to the Surgeon. As a general rule this should always be cautiously attempted under chloroform, in accordance with the principles laid down at p. GoO, if only a few weeks have elapsed from the time of the accident, and then it will usually be attended with success. Reduction has been effected in many cases at much later periods than this : by Brodhurst, after twenty-five weeks had elapsed ; by Smith (U.S.), after six, seven, eight, nine, and ten months ; by Malgaigne, after eight months ; by Caron du Pillard, after six months ; and by Sedillot, after a year. By the use of the subcutaneous division of muscles, &c., Dieflfenbach is said to have succeeded in reducing a, dislocation of the shoulder after it had existed two years. In many cases, however, at a much earlier period than these, the Surgeon will fail, notwithstanding the most persevering attempts at reduction. Of the few cases in which operation has been uadertaken for the relief of unreduced dislocations of the shoulder, the most successful are two recorded by Lister, iu both of which the dislocation was bilateral. The first case was of more than nine weeks' standing. An incision was made from the coracoid process along the interval between the pectoralis major and deltoid ; the tendon of the subscapularis was divided and the soft parts were freely separated from the head and inner part of the neck of the bone with a periosteum elevator ; reduction was accomplished by manipulation and the use of pulleys, fibrous bands being divided as they were put on the stretch. The result in both shoulders was excellent. In the second case, a similar operation was performed on one side, whilst on the other side reduction was effected by removing with a chisel the articular portion of the dislocated head of the humerus. With strict antiseptic precautions the Surgeon should not hesitate to adopt this method rather than incur the risk of lacerating the axillary artery, which may be firmly adherent to the head of the bone, by forcible attempts at reduction. The Accidents that have occurred in attempts at reducing old-standing dis- locations of the head of the humerus are such as may arise either from the employment of an undue amount of force, from the separation of the head of the humerus from the adhesions which it has contracted in its new situation, or from pathological changes in the limb itself. Among the first are laceration and bruising of the skin, subcutaneous areolar tissue, and muscles, with extra- vasation of blood ; amongst the latter are fracture of the humerus, laceration of the axillary vessels and nerves, and avulsion of the limb. Fracture of the humerus has occurred in the practice of many Surgeons of eminence. The surgical neck of the bone appears usually to have given way ; and the accident has not occurred so much from forcible extension, as in carry- ing the arm across the chest so as to tilt the head of the bone into its place, when the shaft becomes exposed to fracture by pressure in a transverse direc- tion. Such an accident necessarily prevents all further attempts at reduction. VOL. I. XX