872 INJURIES OF THE ABDOMEN AND PELVIS. may be suspected if it be persistent. It has further been pointed out that the suspicion is increased if persistent shock be associated with locahsed abdominal pain and tenderness. The patient who has survived the more immediate effects of the accident is still liable to the occurrence of peritonitis, which is not necessarily the result of rupture of one of the viscera. Having thus briefly considered the chief points to be observed in a case of severe contusion of the abdomen, it remains to describe in greater detail the symptoms which result from injury of the principal abdominal viscera. If the Liver has been ruptured, pain over the region of that organ, dulness on percussion from extravasated blood, and great collapse, followed, if the patient live, by diffuse peritonitis, bilious vomiting, white stools, and jaundice, will, with sufficient precision, indicate the true nature of the injury. Bernard has further shown that contusions of the liver may be followed by the appear- ance of sugar in the urine. Eupture of the liver is by no means always speedily or even necessarily fatal. It may be, and usually is so, from extravasation of blood or of bile ; but if neither of these be largely poured out, the patient may live for some considerable time, though he may eventually succumb to peritonitis, A man was once admitted under my care into University College Hospital, who had been crushed between the buffers of two railway carriages. He was collapsed and apparently moribund, but rallied in a few hours. Two days after the accident, great pain and tenderness in the right hypo- chrondrium were complained of, and dulness on percussion was found to extend as low as the umbilicus. He became jaundiced, and there were symptoms of peritonitis; these were followed by great swelling of the abdomen, which became tympanitic ; the peritonitis continued, and symptoms of intestinal obstruction came on, the dulness increasing, with fluctuation in the flanks. He died on the sixteenth day after the accident, and on examina- tion no less than 240 ounces of bilious fluid, mixed with flakes of lymph, were found in the abdominal cavity ; the obstruction of the bowels being dependent on the pressure of this effusion, and on the matting together of the intestines by lymph. There was a large rent in the thick border of the liver, which was beginning to cicatrize. The following is an example in which recovery took place. A man, about forty years of age, fell from a scaffold to the ground. In falling, he struck violently against a beam, injuring his abdomen on the right side. He was brought to the Hospital in a state of collapse, from which he slowly rallied. There was no injury but that of the abdomen, of which he complained much, more particularly over the region of the liver, which was very tense. Peritonitis speedily set in, with gi-eat tympanitic distension of the belly, vomit- ing of bilious matter, and the passage of colourless stools. These symptoms continued many days, and the man became jaundiced. As the tympanites subsided, it was found that there was dulness on percussion in both flanks, and that the fluid, which was evidently extravasated into the peritoneal cavity, rose to a level with the umbilicus when he lay on his left side, which he did habitually. He was treated with opium, and put on a very mild unstimulating diet. He gradually but slowly recovered, the vomiting becoming less frequent, and eventually ceasing, and the fluid in the abdomen being slowly absorbed, bile at the same time appearing in the motions ; but the tenderness over the