52 GENERAL REMARKS OX OPERATIONS. thumb and nine inches long. The pad thus formed is held in the proper position by the ends of the stick, while several turns of elastic bandage are passed round the body so as to press it forcibly against the spine. After it is applied an assistant must continue to hold the pad in position by means of the stick. An objection common to this and to all other elastic appliances for compression of the aorta is, that should the patient vomit, the forcible con- traction of the abdominal muscles will lift the pad from the aorta and relax the compression. It is better, therefore, whenever possible, to use the instru- ment known as Pancoast's or Lister's Aortic Tournicjuet (Fig. 18). This consists merely of a large horse-shoe clamp, one end of which is expanded and padded so as to fit the spine, and the other receives a screw which presses down a pad of sufficient size to compress the aorta with certainty. Lister states, that from examination of a considerable number of bodies, he has found that the aorta is as often in the middle hne as to the left of the spine, and consequently it is better always to feel for the pulsation before applying the pad, taking the highest point of the crest of the ilium as the level of the bifurcation, and ignoring the umbihcus altogether. If the pad be placed exactly on the vessel, a comparatively slight degree of pressure is required to arrest the flow of the blood, but should Fig. 18.—Lister's Aorta Compressor applied, it be misplaced the Surgeon may be tempted to use an amount of force which might prove injurious to the soft parts and intestines beneath the pad. In order still further to avoid injury to these parts, it is as well to place a soft hollow sponge beneath the pad. The instrument, when properly applied, interferes but slightly, if at all, with the flow of blood through the vena cava. Compression of the common iliac may easily be carried out by the application of the aortic tourniquet over the line of the artery ; that is to say, in the upper third of a line drawn from a little to the left of the umbilicus at the level of the highest point of the crest of the ilium to a point midway between the symphysis pubis and the anterior superior iliac spine. Richard Davy, of the Westminster Hospital, has invented a plan of compressing this artery by means of a straight lever of wood introduced into the rectum, which usually answers very well. The lever should be about two feet in length, smooth and round, and shaped something like a poker. About two ounces of olive oil having been injected into the rectum, the end of the lever is introduced to such a distance that its point comes to lie over the artery in the groove i between the last lumbar vertebra and the psoas muscle. By raising the \ handle of the lever and bringing it against the opposite thigh, the artery is most efficiently compressed, the tissues of the perinaeum acting as the fulcrum. Compression of the external iliac can be carried out with certainty only immediately above the groin, as above that point it is easily pushed over the ' brim of the pelvis into such a position as to escape pressure. If it be desired i to compress it, this may be done either with the fingers or by placing a roller