950 ERYSIPELAS. plan introduced by Dobson, of rapidly making a large number of small punc- tures, from a quarter to half an inch deep, with the point of a lancet, is of great value when the tension and swelling are extreme ; a hot fomentation should be laid over the punctures. Kraske has recently employed scarification of the spreading edge. If the disease have attacked one of the limbs, the application of a bandage is occasionally necessary after the disappearance of the erysipelas, in order to remove the oedema that remains. 2. Cellulo-Cutaneous or Phlegmonous Erysipelas differs from cutan- eous erysipelas in so many respects, that it is best regarded as an entirely distinct affection. It M^as described by Dupuytren under the name of " diffuse phlegmon." It has been said to occur occasionally in an epidemic form. It rarely occurs in its worst form, except in persons who have been addicted to excessive drinking, or who are suffering from chronic renal disease. Locally, it differs from cutaneous ervsipelas in the intensity of the inflammation, which is such that it invariably "terminates, if left to itself, in diffuse suppuration and sloughing. In depth it always extends to the subcutaneous areolar tissue, and, though generally bounded by the underlying fascise, it not unfrequently impHcates these, and extends to the intermuscular areolar planes, the sheaths of the tendons, and other deep structures. There is no defined margin to the superficial redness, and the lymphatic glands are frequently unaffected. Sym]}ioms.—T\iQ inflammation may start from a wound or abrasion at an early period after its infliction, but frequently no such cause can be recog- nized. It is ushered in by the ordinary symptoms of inflammatory fever, accompanied or followed by the signs of severe inflammation in the part affected. The redness is uniform, of a deep scarlet hue, and although somewhat distinctly bounded, is not limited by a sharply defined line ; the pain is at first burning, though it may quickly assume a throbbing character ; the sweUing, at first soft, diffused, and pitting distinctly, soon increases, and becomes tense and brawny, the skin being evidently stretched to its full extent, and the part appearing to be perhaps twice its natural size. Large vesications or blebs containing sero-purulent fluid, sometimes blood-stained, appear in many cases. This condition usually continues up to the sixth or eio-hth day after the invasion of the disease, during the whole of which time the constitutional symptoms have presented the ordinary type of sthenic inflammatory fever ; about this time, however, a change commonly takes place, either for the better or for the worse. If, under the influence of proper treatment, and in a tolerably healthy constitution, the inflammation subside, resolution' takes place, with a gradual abatement of all the symptoms. If, however, as usually happens, the disease runs on to more or less sloughing or suppuration of the part, no increase of the swelling, pain, or redness takes place, but on the contrary, some diminution of these signs may occur, and thus 'gwQ rise to a deceptive appearance of amendment. The skin becomes darkly congested, and the part, instead of being tense and brawny, has a somewhat loose, soft, and boggy feel, communicating a semi-fluctuating, douo-hy sensation to the fingers. This change from a tense brawny state to a^semi-pulpy condition indicates the formation of pus and slough beneath the integument. The pus can be detected only by careful palpation ; hence the Sur'^eon must daily examine the state of the part, and neither trust to the reports of others, nor to the general appearance of the diseased structures, for a knowledge of the probable condition of the subjacent tissues. If an