MICROSCOPIC ORGANISMS IN PWEMIA. 983 tiou is occasionally met with in the parotid gland, and in rare cases abscesses have been observed in the prostate. One or more Joints are frequently found to be swollen, and on opening them a large quantity of pale yellow or thick, flaky, and puriform fluid escapes. There is congestion of the synovial fringes, with softening or destruction of the cartilage. Microscopic Appearances op Tissues and Or^^ans in PYiBMiA.— The blood in almost all cases contains a considerable excess of white, with a deficiency of red corpuscles, but this condition is by no means peculiar to or characteristic of pygemia. The red corpuscles are usually unchanged ; but, occasionally, they have been observed to run together into irregular masses instead of forming rouleaux. Microscopic organisms have frequently been observed in the blood, and these will be more fully referred to afterwards. The yellowish fluid found in the veins as the result of softening of the thrombi closely resembles pus in appearance, but on microscopic examination it is found in many cases to be composed merely of granular debris containing no true pus-cells. In other cases, as I have frequently observed, cells having the ordinary appearance of pus-cells are more or less abundantly preseut. The so-called " secondary deposits " may in an early stage in like manner be found not to contain pus, being composed merely of gangrenous tissue. In the later stages pus is always present. The epithelium of the liver and kidney is usually granular and swollen. Microscopic Organisms.—In almost all cases of pyasmia, micrococci can without difficulty be recognized in various situations. Of these, the staphylo- coccus pyogenes aureus and the streptococcus pyogenes seem to be the most important. At the seat of infection they are frequently found in large quantities in the discharges, and in the slough that so frequently covers the surface of the womid. They are always present in the fluid resulting from the softening of the thrombi in the veins. In the blood they are recognized with greater diffi- culty, and the evidence as to their presence has been very conflicting. Throughout all other parts of the body they have been observed in the purulent fluids m the secoyidarij abscesses, but their most characteristic appearance is as colonies or zoogl^eal masses blocking the smaMer arterioles or capillaries. In this form they are readily recognized in sections prepared in the ordinary way, and stamed with logwood or methyl violet. They form rounded o-ranular masses, in which it is often difficult to recognize the individual oro-anisms except at the edge of the mass. The vessel is slightly distended at the part at which they are lodging, and a coagulum is occasionally seen above and below the obstruction. Sometimes the wall of the vessel appears to have given way, and the organisms are found outside it. In most specimens no change is observed in the tissues around the vessel, but occasionally inflam- matory exudation has taken place, and the group of micrococci seems to form the centre 0 a commencing abscess. These colonies of micrococci are found in the lymphatic glands nearest to the seat of infection, in the liver heart thyroid body, and with especial frequency in the tufts of vessels in the Malpighian bodies of the kidney. The accompanying drawings (Figs 347 348 340^ copied from the Transactions of the Pathological Society of London, 1879 and from Koch's work on Infective Processes in Wounds, show very cleari; the appearances presented by the micrococci in pyjBmia.