TREATMENT OF BRAIN SYMPTOMS. 747 In the Treatment of Concussion, the first great indication is to re- estabhsh the depressed energies of the circulation and of the nervous system. In effecting this, we must be careful not to overstimulate the patient. Ihe safest practice is that which is applicable to the treatment of shock generally —to wrap the patient up warmly in blankets, to put hot bottles around him, or to employ frictions to the surface, and when he is sufficiently recovered, to allow him to swallow a small quantity of warm tea. Alcohohc stimulants of all kinds should be avoided, unless the depression be so great that reaction cannot be brought about without their agency ; but an enema contaming some ether or aromatic spirits of ammonia may be administered. When reaction has come on, steps should be taken to prevent the occurrence of inflammatory mischief. If the concussion has been slight, it may be quite sufficient to purge the patient well, and to keep him quiet on a regulated diet for a few days, directing him carefully to avoid all alcohohc stimulants and mental exertion for some time. If the concussion has been more severe, and if the symptoms of reaction have been accompanied by indications of con- tinuous cerebral disturbance, or have been followed by giddiness, headache, or confusion of thought, the safer plan will be to adopt immediate steps for the prevention of further mischief. Venesection used formerly to be extensively practised as a precautionary measure, in order to prevent undue reaction and inflammatory mischief following on head injuries. Perhaps our predecessors erred in the too frequent and liberal use of the lancet in these cases ; I believe that Surgeons of the present day are too sparing in its use. In the young and robust the best possible effects follow venesection in head injuries, to the extent of from 12 to 16 ounces. In children, leeches advantageously take the place of the lancet. The patient should be freely purged, kept on a low diet, and, above all, should remain quiet in bed for some days. Should impairment of the mental faculties or senses be left, the more prudent plan will be to have recourse to a mild antiphlogistic treatment, con- sisting of leeching, cupping, blistering, purging, and more especially a mild mercurial course, with strict avoidance of all mental and bodily stimulation. The patient must be carefully watched, and kept under proper supervision for some length of time, as serious symptoms are apt suddenly to declare themselves. In all cases of Coma from Compression the pressure must be relieved before it can be expected that the coma will subside. But, besides this great and obvious indication, which must be carried out in different ways according to the nature of the compressing cause, there are certain general considerations to be attended to, by which the patient's condition may be much relieved. Thus the bowels should be freely opened by placing a drop of croton oil, mixed with a little mucilage, in the patient's mouth, or by the use of oleaginous or terebinthinate enemata. The urine is to be drawn off twice in the twenty- four hours, the room darkened and kept quiet, and ice or an evaporating lotion applied to the head. If the breathing becomes extremely laboured and the pulse very slow and full, free venesection is often of use, but no treatment can be of any real service unless the cause of the compression be removed. The treatment of Cerebral Irritation will require to be varied in different stages of the condition. In the early stage, the treatment that I have found most successful consists in the avoidance of all active measures. Much harm