102I SPEC IA L FIBROMA TA. found. The vessels are inciinately adherent to the fibrous structure of the tumour, and consequently, being unable to contract or retract, they pour out enormous quantities of blood if opened by wound or ulceration. This is especially the case in those fibrous tumours which grow from the bones of the head or face, as in the fibrous polypi grovving from the body of the sphenoid bone. Fibromata form most commonly about middle life, and may remain stationary for years. They may, however, suder various changes. They may undergo disintegration, becoming oedematous, and softening in the centre, or at various points of the circumference ; they then break down into a semi- fluid mass, the integuments covering them inflame and slough, and pus, mixed with disorganized portions of the tumour, is poured out, leaving a large and sloughy chasm, from which fungating growths may sprout, readily bleeding on the slightest touch, and giving the sore a malignant appearance ; the patient Figs. 360, 361.—Finn tibromata (188 diani.). Fig. 360, from a small Fibroma of the foreliead, shows the circular arrangement of the fibres. Fig. 361, from a naso-pharyngeal polypus, resembles ordinary fibrous tissue. eventually falling into a cachectic condition, and becoming exhausted by the hasmorrhage and discharge. In other cases these tumours may calcify, or more rarely they undergo true ossification. In rare cases the central parts may undergo a process of softening, so as to form large cysts containing fluid of various shades of colour. Paget relates a case in which a very large cyst of this kind, formed by the hoUowing out of a fibroid tumour of the uterus, was tapped by mistake for ovarian dropsy. Some of the forms of fibroma require further mention here, though they will be mentioned again under the diseases of the organs in which they occur. Pibromata of Bone.—^These may grow in the centre of the bone, as is not unlrequently seen in the lower jaw, or beneath the periosteum. The diagnosis between these latter and the firmer varieties of sarcoma can be made only after removal. Virchow lays great stress upon the fact that periosteal fibromata do not penetrate into the structure of the bone, or show any ten- dency to infiltrate the surrounding soft parts, while the reverse is the case with the sarcomata. Fibromata of Nerves.—These are commonly spoken of as neuromata,