TREATMENT OF PENETRATING WOUND OF ABDOMEN. 881 of wound of the great intestine, which terminated favourably, usually with a temporary establishment of a fgecal fistula. The liver was wounded in 173 cases, of which sixty-two recovered. Injuries of the spleen were more fatal, only two recovering out of twenty-nine cases. In seventy-eight cases the kidney was wounded, and of these twenty-six recovered. Of the 2,599 cases in which the lesion was not specified, only 18G are reported as having recovered. It is evident, therefore, that the records of the cases in which the exact injury is specified give much too high a proportion of recoveries, the mere fact of the patient's surviving having led to a more detailed account of the injury being preserved. Treatment.—In many cases there is doubt as to whether or not the wound has actually penetrated the peritoneal cavity. Under these circumstances it is the duty of the Surgeon carefully to enlarge the wound and follow the track to its deepest part, with the object of ascertaining the presence or absence of penetration. By this means much more certain information is obtained than by the mere use of a probe, and with less risk of converting a non- penetrating wound into a penetrating one. Having in this way determined that the wound does really enter the abdominal cavity, the Surgeon should .proceed to detei-mine whether or not visceral lesion exists. If wounded bowel is protruding from the wound, the nature of the injury is obvious, but if no such protrusion exists, the presence of a wound of the stomach or intestine cannot as a rule be recognized with certainty by the symptoms. It has already been pointed out that the nature of the injury is but rai«ely evidenced by the escape of intestinal contents from the wound or the existence of the other symptoms mentioned above (p. 878). In the unusual cases in which the wound in the abdominal wall is sufficiently extensive to allow a thorough examination of the contents of the abdomen, this should be done. In simple stabs and in gunshot wounds this is impossible, and the only way of clearing up the uncertainty is to enlarge the wound, or to open the abdomen in the middle line, and to examine the abdominal viscera. This treatment may seem severe, but experience has taught us that an exploratory incision into the abdomen, if undertaken with proper precautions, is practically free from danger; and, on the other hand, if we wait till the injury to the intestine becomes evident by the commencement of septic peritonitis, the case is altogether hopeless. The advantages of the median incision over enlargement of the wound are very great. It enables the whole length of the intestines to be systematically examined, commencing from the csecum, which is usually easily recognizable, and working upwards to the duodenum. It also greatly facilitates the necessary cleaning of the abdominal cavity. In performino- the operation all the details described in Chap. LXf., Vol. II., must be strictly attended to. The method of treatmg the intestine is described on pp. 884 et sea dross many years ago expressed the opinion that in such cases " the duty of the Surgeon is to enlarge the abdominal orifice, to seek for the wounded tube, and to sew up the cut." He did not, however, anticipate much benefit from this treatment in gunshot wounds, owing to the multiplicity of the openings in the gut met with in such cases. Reference must here be made to a method introduced by Senn of Chicao-o for the detection of wounds of the stomach and intestines. He has shown that hydrogen gas injected into the rectum can be made to pass alono- the whole length of the intestinal tract as far as the stomach, from which it'' can VOL. I. 3 L