RELATION OF MICRO-ORGANISMS TO SUPPURATION. 247 fact remains that, under the influence of the pyogenic fnngi, leucocytes crowd the invaded area, and the organisms are found amongst and within the mi- grated cells. Many organisms which are intensely pathogenic are not pyogenic. For example, the bacillus anthracis, the vims of anthrax or splenic fever, when inoculated on the human subject, invades the tissues, causing gangrene in the infected area, but no pus is formed. In this case the intensity of the irritant is such that all movements of the leucocytes are arrested. In many of the experiments that have been carried out with pathogenic organisms capable of exciting local suppuration, or, under favourable circumstances, of invading the whole body, it has been found that the danger of general infection diminished with the activity of the local process. Thus, Ruffer and Walker found that, on injecting a moderate dose of a cultivation of the bacillus pyocyaneus beneath the skin of a rabbit, abundant migration took place, and the organisms were destroyed locally without any general infection, but if the leucocytes were paralysed by the injection of a sufficient dose of chloral at a distant part of the body, no migration took place, and the animal soon died with the blood teeming with bacilli. In the same way, if a cultivation of a pyogenic organism be mixed with a weak solution of carbolic acid or corrosive sublimate, which has a negative chemiotactic action, that is to say, repels the migrating cells, while at the same time it is not strong enough to kill the organism, no pus will be formed, though there may be some serous exudation, and in the absence of the local defensive reaction, general infection takes place. Having then got abundant migration and crowds of cells invading the original tissues, taking their place and consuming them where the damage is most intense, the next step is the liquefaction of the intercellular substance and the formation of fluid pus. Here again we have a doubtful point to con- sider. Does the exudation coagulate as already described in acute inflammation (p. 1(52), and then soften, or is its coagulation prevented by the presence of some chemical substance, probably peptones, developed under the influence of the micro-organism ? It has before been mentioned that pus from an acute circumscribed abscess contains no fibrinogen ; on the other hand, peptones are almost constantly present, a fact which may be used to support both theories. Most probably both processes may occur according to circumstances and the nature of the organism causing the suppuration. In the circumscribed acute abscess the lymph spaces round are iii all probability plugged with coagulated "lymph "—at least the microscopic appearances suggest this view—and this is subsequently softened by the action of the micro-organism as the suppuration advances. In the difluse suppurations, such as in phlegmonous erysipelas, it is probable that the exudation oecomes purulent without ever having coagulated In croupous pneumonia there can be no doubt that the exudation which is coagulated at first becomes softened and purulent later on. Can Suppuration tahe place in the absence of Micro-organisms ?~lt is now generally recognised as a fact that practically all pus with which the Suro-eon has to deal is directly caused by the presence of micro-organisms but'' ex- periments have clearly proved that suppuration is possible without their livino- presence. These experiments have been most frequently carried out by the introduction of glass tubes or capsules containing the substance to be tested mto the subcutaneous tissues by means of an open wound under the strictest antiseptic precautions. When the wound has healed by the first intention