154 LOCAL DISTURBANCES AND INFLAMMATION. vious attacks of congestion, it may be darkly pigmented and brown in. colour ; it is increased in size ; if the congestion is recent and acute, it is soft from oedema, and pits under the pressure of the finger ; if it is old and chronic, the tissues are indurated and brawny. The patient is conscious of a heavy, dull, aching sensation, scarcely amounting to pain, but yet attended with uneasi- ness. The temperature is never above, but often below, the normal standard, and the functions are lessened in activity. The existence of congestion in an internal organ may be ascertained by finding its size increased and its functions modified, with a sensation of weight in it. The symptoms are often, however, very obscure. Treatment.—No treatment of passive congestion can be completely suc- cessful unless the cause can be removed. The first indication consists in the removal of any source of obstruction to the return of blood from the part, as by loosening a tight bandage, or elevating a part that has been too long- dependent. If the congestion be due to the feeble action of the heart, stimulants and digitalis may be of service in relieving it. The next indication consists in lessening the quantity of blood in the congested part. The mere removal of the obstructing cause may effect this ; but the desired effect is often hastened by the direct removal of blood by scarification, or by the application of leeches. The over-distended vessels may in some cases be relieved by promoting a free secretion from the part, as by the administration of purgatives for portal congestion. In some parts, again, the judicious application of pressure by means of a bandage will prevent or relieve congestion by hmiting oedema and by compressing the dilated vessels, and so causing the blood to flow more rapidly through them, provided the pressure be not sufficiently powerfnl to interfere with the current through the arteries. With this view elastic pressure is applied to support varicose veins in the leg, and to diminish the mechanical hyperaemia of the skin that usually accompanies them. The third indication in the treatment of congestion consists in stimulating contraction of the dilated vessels by the direct application of an astringent to them ; thus w^e apply nitrate of silver to congested mucous membranes, and cold douches to many external forms of passive hyperaemia. STRANGULATION. Strangulation is the obstruction of the circulation caused by a narrow circle of pressure acting both upon the arteries and veins, as w-hen a tight bandage is applied round a Kmb. Strangulation may be at once complete, the circulation through both arteries and veins being simultaneously arrested, as by the appHcation of the tourniquet. The circulation below the band is at once arrested, but no visible changes occur in the part, nor would they do so till gangrene and decomposition commenced. In cases in which strangulation is accidental or pathological it is more commonly incomplete at first; the obstruction acts first on the veins, owing to the lower blood-pressure within them, the flow through the arteries continuing. As a consequence of this the phenomena of passive congestion appear in their most intense form ; the parts below the constriction are gorged with blood, purple or black in colour, and become cold and numb. There is great swelling, and often abundant escape of red corpuscles from the vessels, or rupture of the capillaries wnth extrava-