CHEMICAL ANTISEPTICS: IODOFORM. 211 Boric acid lint, which is prepared by dipping ordinary lint in a concentrated boiling- solution of the acid and afterwards drying it, forms a useful application to w^ounds or granulating sores; and, if moistened with warm boric acid lotion, it may be applied with great advantage iji the place of a poultice to sloughy and inflamed wounds. Boric acid ointment forms an excellent dressing for small wounds, such as those on the face, and for healthy granulating sores. It is now officinal. It should be spread on thin muslin and dipped in the boric acid lotion before being applied, after which it may be covered wdth cotton- wool and allowed to dry. It requires changing once or twice a day. Sulphurous Acid is but httle used as au antiseptic on account of its extremely unpleasant smell and its irritating properties. Eucalyptus Oil is a powerful antiseptic, having a very fragrant campho- raceous smell ; it is quite free from poisonous properties. It is practically insoluble in water, but readily dissolves in oil, paraffin, and spirit. It has been used in the form of eucalyptus gauze as a substitute for carbolic gauze in cases in which the patient showed signs of carbolic poisoning, or when the skin was irritated by the dressing, but, owing to the volatility of the oil, it soon deterio- rates at the temperature of the body, and becomes useless after about twenty- four hours. For application to granulating sores an ointment composed of 2 parts paraffin, 2 vaseline, and 1 of eucalyptus oil will be found very useful. If the sore be foul some iodoform may be added in the proportion of one drachm to the ounce. Iodine is one of the most powerful of all antiseptics. It has been recom- mended by Bryant as a lotion for washing wounds and sponges, in the strength of two drachms of the tincture to a pint of warm water; and in this strength it is an efficient antiseptic and very free from irritating properties. Iodoform is an antiseptic of undoubted power which is used very largely in surgical practice. It is an iodine compound of methyl alcohol. It is sold in two forms—the precipitated, which is an extremely fine yellow powder ; and the crystalline, composed of fine golden yellow crystals. The latter should always be used in wounds or on raw surfaces, as the finely divided particles of the precipitated form are too readily absorbed. Iodoform is insoluble in water but is readily soluble in chloroform and ether, sparingly so in alcohol, and very freely in oil. The preparations used in Surgery are the pure drug in crystals ; iodoform tvool, prepared by impregnating cotton- wool, deprived of its grease so as to render it absorbent, with 10 per cent, of the drug ; iodoform gauze containing 20 per cent, of the drug ; and iodoform ointment, made by mixing varying proportions of the crystals from one drachm upwards with one ounce of vaseline. The pure iodoform is specially applicable to wounds opening into cavities, such as those left by removal of the tongue or upper jaw. It may be sprinkled on the raw surface twice a day, and will completely prevent any unpleasant smell. The Germans have used it freely as an application directly to the raw surfaces of fresh wounds before closins' them, and it has been found not to prevent union by first intention, but its use in this way is not to be recommended, as it is a needless introduction of a foreign body. According to the ordinary modes of testing antiseptics by their power of destroying micro-organisms and their spores in laboratory experiments, iodo- form is practically useless, but no Surgeon who has experience of its efficacy in operations on the mouth or rectum will doubt that it is one of our most p 2