738 INJURIES OF THE HEAD. excellent recovery, without any symptom of intracranial mischief. I also knew a gentleman upwards of fifty years of age, who had a depression in the parietal bone as large as the bowl of a table-spoon, the result of a compound fracture caused by a fall from a horse when a lad, and from which no incon- venience resulted. The fear of septic meningitis, which formerly so frequently proved fatal after elevation or trephining, led many Surgeons to recommend an expectant plan of treatment. The military Surgeons of the early part of this century were generally in favour of delay, and cases may be found in the works of Gathrie, Ballingall, and others, in support of this practice ; and it is a remarkable circumstance that, in many of these instances in which recovery resulted in cases of depressed fracture of the skull Avhich were not subjected to operative interference, the patients were exposed to great privations, possibly during a hurried retreat, and left in circumstances apparently most unfavourable. So far as my own experience, which is necessarily drawn purely fi'om civil practice, is concerned, I can say that, with the exception of the case that has just been referred to, I do not recollect ever having seen a patient recover in whom a compound depressed fracture of the skull occurring in the adult had been left without operation. Operation of Elevating Depressed Bone.—If the scalp be already wounded, all that need be done to ascertain the nature of the fracture is to pass the finger very gently into the wound and thus examine the bone. After Fig. 290.—Bone Elevator. enlarging the wound, if necessary, any loose fragments should be picked out, and any bone that is driven below its level must be raised, and, if completely detached, removed. In order to raise these depressed portions of bone, it is in many cases necessary merely to introduce the point of an elevator (Fig. 2i)9) underneath the fragment, and, using the instrument as a lever, raise it into position. If there be not an aperture sufficiently wide for the introduction of the elevator, one may be made by sawing out an angle of bone at a convenient spot by means of a Hey's or cranial saw (Figs. 300, 301), or by clipping off a project- ing point with the bone-forceps (Fig. 302). In this way, sufficient space may usually be obtained without the necessity of applying the trephine. If, how- ever, the inner table be splintered to a considerable extent, or if there be no convenient angle that can be removed, the trephine must be apphed in such a way that at least half its circle is situated upon the edge that overhangs the depressed bone ; the Surgeon sawing out by means of this instrument a portion of the undepressed skull, in order that he may more conveniently get at the fragment. After a half circle of bone has been removed in this way, the depressed splinters may be taken out, a Hey's saw still being occasionally required before the whole can be removed. It is interesting to note that the instrument familiarly known as Hey's Saw does not appear to have been invented, though it was largely used and described, by William Hey, of Leeds. He states (" Practical Observations on Surgery," London, 1803, p. 9), that the instrument was first shown to him by Dr. Cockell, of Pontefract, and that