SYPHILIDES OF MUCOUS MEMBRANE. mistaken by the patient for piles. They consist essentially of an overgrowth of the papilliB stimulated in part by the irritation of dirt or unhealthy secre- tions. They are common in conjunction with the squamous syphihde on the drier parts of the skin, and every gradation can sometimes be traced between a scaly patch to a mucous tubercle, according to the moisture of the part in which the patch is situated. They are met with most commonly during the first six months of the disease. They differ from the venereal warts already described (p. 1119), not only in their flatter form and less marked papillary structure, but in being dependent on a constitutional disease, and not on local causes solely, such as the irritation of discharges and want of cleanliness. The discharge with which they are moistened is intensely contagious, and it is from them, when situated in the mouth, that the disease is transmitted by kissing, or by means of drinking-vessels, or pipes, and from infants to their nurses. Their Trealment must he constitutional and local. The constitutional treatment is merely that of early syphilis. When seated at the anus or on the skin, they are best treated with the dusting power above-mentioned, and the use of boric acid baths. If this does not reheve them they may be rubbed with nitrate of silver or sulphate of copper. In the mouth the application of a solution of perchloride of mercury (gr. ij. to li.), or of the sohd nitrate of silver, is the best treatment. Not being pendulous, they do not, like simple venereal warts, require to be cut off. 3. The mucous membranes of the mouth, pharynx, and larynx are commonly affected with secondary syphilitic erup- tions, which assume the form of mucous tubercles, and of the exanthematous, squamous, and ulcerating syphilides ; and in the later stages of the disease submucous gummata may form. The exanthematous affection, corresponding to the roseolous form of cutaneous syphilis, and arising from the same cause and in the same con- stitution, principally affects the palate and throat. The tubercular variety corresponds to the squamous cutaneous eruptions, and is met with chiefly as flat, hard, and elevated tubercles in the interior of the mouth, nose, and throat. The ulcerative affection of the mucous membranes assumes a variety of forms, which will immediately be described, and occurs principally in the throat and nose. The exanthematous affection of the mucous membrane is usually an early sign of constitutional syphilis, frequently showing itself a few weeks after the primary occurrence of the disease. The other varieties belong to the more advanced secondary and tertiary periods. Contractions of various mucous canals often occur as the result of syphilitic affections, the narrowing being due to firm, fibrous bands, often excessively dense in structure. These Fig. 404.—Syphilitic Condyloma, showing en- larged papillae, covered with a thick layer of epithelium.