2i6 LOCAL DISTURBANCES AND INFLAMMATION. supposed to act partly by causing contraction of the small arteries by its direct action on the vaso-motor nerves, and partly by its sedative effect on the cutaneous sensory nerves, stimulation of which, as we have before seen, causes by reflex action a dilatation of the vessels in the area irritated. It is best applied, in conjunction with Avarmth and moisture, as a paint composed of equal parts of the extract and of glycerine, which may be smeared on the inflamed part and covered with cotton-wool, or hot fomenta- tions. There is no danger of belladonna poisoning, even when large surfaces are painted with the extract and glycerine. I have frequently painted the whole arm in this way without any unpleasant effect; and the most I have ever noticed has been a little dryness of the throat after some days' use of the drug. The belladonna and glycerine must be carefully kept out of the way of children, as its taste is not unpleasant, and they are very likely to eat it by mistake for treacle. Two such cases have been admitted into University College Hospital, both of which fortunately reco\ ered. In superficial inflammations Acetate of Lead 4 grs., and laudanum ?> grs., to one ounce of water, diluted with an equal quantity of boiling water and applied hot on lint, will often be found a very useful application. Local Elood-letting is an efficient means of lessening the congestion of an inflamed part, as by it in some cases we take blood difectly from the dis- tended vessels. It does not always act, however, quite so simply as this. In no disease is the benefit of local blood-letting more marked than in acute inflammation of the middle ear, and yet in this case we draw the blood from the cutaneous vessels of the mastoid process. In acute orchitis relief is often given by puncturing the distended veins of the scrotum, which have no direct connection with the swollen gland. In these cases the relief is probably due to a reflex contraction of the arteries leading to the inflamed part. The amount of blood taken in local blood-letting is not sufficient to have any influence on the general circulation. Blood may be taken locally by punctures, scarifications^ or incisions, or by leeching or ciqjping. Punctures, scarifications, and incisions can be practised only in inflammation of the cutaneous and exposed mucous surfaces. They constitute a very efficient means of relieving the part, as not only is blood removed, but an exit is afforded for effused matters; tension is consequently materially lessened, and any tendency to sloughing diminished. There is no doubt also that in some infective inflammations they allow the fluids which are charged with the noxious products of the growth of the pathogenic organism to escape externally, instead of returning to the blood-stream, and thus materially relieve the constitutional disturbance. Punctures should be made with a fine lancet, in parallel rows over the inflamed surftice, and should not exceed a quarter of an inch in depth. Scarifications are small and short incisions. They may be made across the congested vessels, which will bleed freely, as in the relief of a chemosis of the conjunctiva. A modification of puncture is sometimes practised by opening the veins in the neighbourhood of the inflamed part at several points, as in punctui-e of the scrotal veins, for inflammation of the testis. When incisions are required they should be so arranged as to afford the greatest possible rehef to the tension whilst doing the least possible mischief to the part incised. Their length and their depth must vary