230 LOCAL DISTURBANCES AND INFLAMMATION. is of even greater importance than the local, and must of course be directed to the special condition ; as, for example, saline purgatives and colchicum for gout, salicylate of soda for rheumatism, and mercury and iodide of potassium for syphilis. Cod-liver oil, which may be regarded rather as an article of diet than a medicine, is often of the greatest value in strumous inflammations, especially in children and young people, when debilitated, emaciated or cachectic. It should always be given after meals, and when anaemia is present, it may be advantageously conjoined with the preparations of iron, such as Steel-wine, the Syrup of the Iodide of Iron, or the Compound Syrup of the Phosphate of Iron (Parrish's chemical food), or the Syrup of Iron, Quinine and Strychnine (Easton's Syrup). Mercury, given in small doses for a considerable length of time until the gums are slightly affected, is often of use, even in cases not definitely syphi- litic in origin. It seems, in some cases, to hasten the absorption of the exudation and to aid in removing thickening, or sclerosis of the affected part. It should, however, on no account be given in cachectic or strumous constitu- tions, or for tuberculous disease of any kind. The perchloride in doses of one-sixteenth to one-twelfth of a grain may be given, conjoined with iron or cinchona if the patient's general health is somewhat depressed. Iodide of potassium is an alterative and absorbent of the greatest value, especially in the chronic inflammations of fibrous or osseous tissues, or of the glands, occurring in strumous constitutions. In many cases it is of essential service after a mercurial course. Various natural sulphur waters, such as those of Harrogate in England, Aix-la-Chapelle in Germany, Aix-les-Bains in Savoy, and the baths of the Pyrenees, especially Bareges, have always enjoyed a great reputation in the treatment of chronic infianimations, whether syphihtic, rheumatic or strumous. The treatment consists in hot bathing, combined with the internal adminis- tration of the waters. In syphilitic diseases mercury is given at the same time by inunction. The sulphides of calcium and potassium, especially the former, given in small doses, have been recommended by Ringer as a substitute for the natural sulphur waters. He states that they are particularly useful in the chronic inflammations of scrofulous subjects, when there is a tendency to caseation of the inflammatory products, and slow elimination by softening and suppuration. In such conditions they hasten the process and shorten the course of the disease. Ringer recommends for a child a mixture of much the same strength as the Harrogate waters—viz. one grain of the sulphide of calcium dissolved in half a pint of water, and of this one teaspoonful may be taken hourly. In adults, in whom this mode of administering medicine is seldom possible, a pill containing one-quarter to one-third of a grain of the sulphide may be taken three times a day. Other mineral waters, taken internally or used as baths, deservedly enjoy a great reputation in the treatment of many chronic inflammatory affections, the particular bath to be recommended depending upon the consti- tutional condition which forms the predisposing cause of the disease. Thus for anfemia and general debility iron waters, such as those of Tunbridge Wells in England, the Kniebis baths in the Black Forest, or Schwalbach ; for scrofulous affections, iodine waters, such as those of Kreuznach ; for gout,