462 ARREST OF ARTERIAL HEMORRHAGE. possible the mean age at which these operations, according to Norris's Tables, are generally performed. Of these cases of gangrene two occurred in persons under twenty years of age, eleven between twenty and thirty, eight between thirty and forty, and nine above forty. The seat of ihe o'perafion influences greatly the liability to gangrene, which is much more frequent after the ligature of the arteries in the lower than in the upper extremity. Besides these predisposing causes, gangrene after ligature may be directly occasioned ))y a deficient siippli/ of arterial blood. In some cases this may arise from the collateral vessels being unable, in consequence of the rigidity of their coats, to accommodate themselves to the increased quantity of blood which they are required to transmit ; or they may be compressed in such a way by extravasation as to be materially lessened in their capacity. In other instances again, the existence of cardiac disease may interfere with the proper supply of blood to the part. Great loss of Mood, either in consequence of secondary hasmorrhage, or from any other cause, before or after the application of the ligature, is often followed by gangrene, and is almost certain to be attended by this result if a second ligature have been applied to a higher point in the lower extremity. That a diminution in the quantity of blood circulating in the system may, under the most favourable circumstances, become a cause of gangrene after the ligature of a main artery, is illustrated by the statement of Hodgson that, soon after the introduction of the Hunterian operation into Paris, it was the custom to employ repeated venesection in the cases operated on ; the conse- quence of which was, that mortification was of frequent occurrence. A more common cause of gangrene is the difficultij exjjerienced hj the venous blood in its return from the limb. This difficulty always exists even when no mechanical obstacle impedes the return, being dependent on the want of a proper vis a krgo to drive on the blood. The propulsive force of the heart, the main agent in the venous circulation, is largely expended in driving the blood through the narrow and circuitous channels of the anastomosing vessels. This difficulty to the onward passage of the venous blood may, if there exist any cause of obstruction in the larger venous trunks, be readily increased to such an extent as to arrest the circulation, and so cause the limb to mortify. This mechanical obstacle may be dependent upon the occlusion of the vein by thrombosis opposite the ligature, by its transfixion with the aneurism-needle, or by its accidental wound with the knife in exposing the artery. When such an injury, followed by inflammation, is inflicted on a vein, which, like the femoral, returns the great mass of blood from a limb, gangrene is almost inevitable. The supervention of erysipelas in the limb after the application of a ligature, though fortunately of very infrequent occurrence, is a source of considerable danger, being very apt to give rise to gangrene by the tension of the parts obstructing the anastomosing circulation. I have on two occasions seen gangrene of the fingers, from this cause, follow ligature of the vessels of the forearm. Abstraction of heat from the limb, either directly by the application of cold, or indirectly by the neglect of sufficient precautions to keep up the temperature of the part, often occasions gangrene ; thus, Astley Cooper saw mortification follow the application of cold lead lotion to a limb in which the femoral artery