540 FRACTURES. thought necessary to strengthen the apparatus at any point, this may be done by laying on strips of the plaster bandage, which must be secured by a final circular turn ; or strips of thin tin-plate, perforated zinc, or telegraph wire, maybe apphed between the layers of bandage. In an ordinary case about three layei-s of bandage will be required. Some Surgeons prefer to use cotton- wool instead of the flannel ; this however necessitates pulling the bandage, which is never a safe proceeding with plaster. Moreover, cotton-wool after a few days becomes packed together inside the plaster case, which no longer fits accurately. If a mass of cotton-wool be made to surround the limb it is better to apply either the starched bandage and paste-board splints or the silicate of soda bandage, both of which can be cut up and removed and repacked without destroying the splint. Good plaster hardens in the course of about eight minutes, and, as it dries, it forms a solid, hard, and light casing to the limb, affording excellent support to the fracture. The setting of the plaster may be retarded by the addition to it of solution of borax. Thus a solution of 1 part to 12 of the water used will retard the setting fifteen minutes ; and 1 to 8 will retard it fifty minutes, and so on. The plaster bandage possesses the advantage over the starched apparatus of being lighter and less cumbersome, and especially of hardening very quickly, so that not only can the limb be easily held in position till the plaster is firm, but the patient can be immediately moved to any distance after the setting of the fracture. The plaster of Paris bandage may be applied to any fracture after the swelling has subsided, and it may be put on immediately in all cases in which, from the nature of the injury, but little swelling is to be expected, such as fracture of the metatarsal or metacarpal bones, or fracture of one bone of the leg. If applied when the limb is swollen the splint soon becomes loose as the swelling subsides. After its application the exposed parts of the fingers or toes must be carefully watched, and if they should become blue or cold the apparatus must be at once removed. 2. Neudorfer is a strong advocate for the employment of the plaster of Paris bandage. He recommends that it should be applied immediately (on this he lays great stress), in the following way. Compresses of linen, or of lint, are dipped in plaster of Paris of the consistence of a common poultice. These are then placed longitudinally on the Hmb, first on the upper, then on the under part. A few turns of a bandage keep them in situ till the plaster is set. To prevent the contiguous edges from adhering, they are slightly greased, or a strip of greased lint is put between them. Neudorfer sometimes places pieces of thin wood, like veneer, lined with cotton-wool, next the skin ; over these the bandage, saturated with the plaster, is applied by circular turns in the usual way. 3. The method of applying the plaster apparatus, as practised in the Bavarian army during the Franco-German War, is as follows. Two pieces of flannel, twenty inches broad, are stitched together down the middle for a length equal to that of the leg ; beyond this both are cut through in the same line for the length of the foot. The flannel is placed under the limb, so that the seam reaches from the ham to the heel. The sides of the inner piece are brought together over the leg, and fixed in front, and along the. sole, by hare-lip pins (bent at a right angle, so that they may be easily extracted afterwards), and thus a closely fitting stocking is formed. The sides of the inner piece are