INJURIES OF THE THROAT. 846 the left side. The dissection must then be carried with great caution between the carotid sheath and the larynx and trachea in a direction backwards, the omo-hyoid muscle having been divided in order to aflPord room. Care must be taken in this deep dissection not to wound either of the thyroid arteries, more especially the inferior, which will be endangered by carrying the incisions too low. When the pharynx or the oesophagus has been reached, the foreign body may be felt and directly cut down upon. If it cannot be felt a sound should be passed through the mouth, and pushed forwards so that its point may cause the walls of the oesophagus to project, and thus serve as a guide to the Surgeon. This must then be cut upon, and the aperture thus made in the gullet enlarged, by means of a probe-pointed bistoury, to a sufficient size to allow the removal of the extraneous substance. The opening in the oesophagus should then be closed by catgut sutures, not including the mucous membrane, and the external wound should be left freely open to heal by granulation in case the oesophageal incision should fail to unite. The same operation is occasionally performed for stricture of the oesophagus high up, and then a tube is introduced and the wound allowed to close round it. The operation has been attended with considerable success. Agnew gives a table of 36 cases, 27 of which recovered ; 31 of these were for the removal of foreign bodies, and of these only four died. When the foreign body is impacted near the cardiac orifice and can neither be pushed down nor drawn up, Richardson, of the Massachusetts Hospital, has shown that it can be removed from below through an opening in the stomach. This operation he successfully performed on a man aged 37, who had accidentally swallowed a plate containing four false teeth eleven months before. It was impacted about two inches above the diaphragm, and was dislodged and removed after considerable manipula- tion with the index and middle fingers of the right hand, the whole of which was introduced into the stomach. The wound was closed with Lembert's suture, and the patient rapidly recovered. There was some difficulty in finding the cardiac orifice, but experiments on the dead body showed that this may be overcome by putting the small curvature on the stretch, so that it makes a straight line to the oesophageal opening. By doing this forceps can be passed with certainty into the orifice without introducing the hand. The stomach is best exposed by an incision parallel to the left costal margin. Jacobson has performed a similar operation, but was unable to dislodge a tooth-plate which was impacted 1| inch above the cardiac orifice ; whilst Bull, of New York, extracted a peach-stone which was fixed in a similar position by passing a bougie, with a sponge attached, along the oesophagus from the open- ing in the stomach and withdrawing it throagh the mouth. A hard and perfectly indigestible foreign body may pass through the oesophagus into the stomach. Should it be small, as a coin, or even angular and sharp-pointed, as a plate with artificial teeth, it will, in the great majority of cases, pass safely through the intestines, and may, therefore, be left alone. When it is thus left, the patient should take neither purgatives nor opiates. Both are injurious : the purgatives by increasing the irri- tation of the bowels and the chance of their being wounded by sharp and projecting points from the plate ; the opiates by arresting its progress. The better plan is to keep the patient in bed, perfectly quiet, and to give him an abundance of pultaceous food. By adopting this plan I have suc- ceeded in getting a gold plate, with three molar teeth and a sharp curved