FEMUR—TREATMENT OF FRACTURED SHAFT. 619 The common displacement is caused in the following way. The upper fragment is abducted chiefly by the gluteus minimus, it is rotated outwards by the external rotators attached to the trochanter and flexed by the psoas and iliacus. The lower fragment is drawn upwards chiefly by the flexor muscles of the leg aud the adductor magnus, and to a less degree by the vasti; it is drawn inwards by the adductor magnus and adductor longus if the latter muscle be attached to it. As the obliquity of the fracture, when from indirect violence, is almost invariably from below, upwards and backwards, and somewhat inwards, it is evident that as the lower fragment is drawn upwards by the muscles passing from above to below the fracture it will tend to the inner side of the limb and will tilt the upper fragment forwards and outwards. In rare cases in which the obliquity is in the opposite direction, the lower fragment may ride in front of the upper. Synovial effusion into the knee-joint is an almost constant phenomenon in fracture of the femur. It becomes evident soon after the accident and dis- appears in about a week. It is probably due to a violent strain of the articu- lation by the same violence that causes the fracture. The Treatment of fractures of the shaft of the thigh-bone may be conducted Fif;. 215.—Listoii's Long Splint. in different ways, each of which presents advantages in particular cases. Whatever treatment is adopted, and however carefully it may be carried out, the Surgeon must not be disappointed if, in the adult, a certain amount of shortening be left. This is more particularly the case where the fracture is oblique and high up ; the more transverse and the nearer the condyles the less will be the liability to shortening. In children, union may almost always be obtained without shortening. But a slight diminution in the length of the limb is in reality of no consequence, and gives rise to no inequality of gait ; the pelvis remedying this by the obhquity it assumes. It is only when the shortening exceeds half or three quarters of an inch that it is important and occasions deformity. The rotation outwards of the lower fragment, however, if not corrected by treatment, seriously cripples the patient, as it leaves the toes and the patella directed outwards, so that the movements of both the knee and the ankle are rendered almost useless in walking. 1. Extension by means of Desault's or Liston's long splint will be found a most efficient plan of treating fractures of the thigh, especially those in the middle part of the bone. The splint must be of sufficient length to extend about six inches below the sole, and nearly as high as the axilla. The long splint is now commonly used merely for extension and to fix the hip and knee-