1084 TUMOURS. strong ligature, above the apex of the growth as high up as practicable, and then to cut oflp everything below this. On the separation of the ligature, any portion of the tumour that has been included will be brought away as if it had been i-emoved by the knife. In some cases it will be found, after dividing the fascia covering the tumour, that the attachments of the growth are not so firm or deep as had previously been expected ; this is especially the case in some large tumours springing from the side of the neck and the parotid region, or in the groin. The growth may then often be removed in a great measure by separating the areolar tissue with the handle of the knife, merely dividing those portions of the deeper attachments that are peculiarly dense. If very free bleeding takes place during the operation two courses are open to the Surgeon : he may either finish the operation with the greatest possible rapidity, even perhaps cutting through outlying lobules of the growth and leaving them to be taken out after^vards, or he may arrest the bleeding as he goes on by forci-pressure forceps (p. 427) or ligature. The former plan is best if the bleeding is from multitudes of small vessels; the latter, if it proceeds from a few large trunks. In difficult dissections the parts should, when possible, be rendered bloodless. Where this is impossible the oozing is best arrested by the application of hot water (p. 420). The wound that is left after the removal of a tumour usually unites readily by first intention if properly drained and dressed by one of the antiseptic methods described in the chapter on the treatment of wounds. If imperfectly drained, and if the cavity be allowed to become filled with decomposing dis- charges, severe fever and prolonged suppuration will almost certainly result. Removal of Tumours by the Ecraseur.—The ecraseur was invented by Fig. 399.—Chassaignac's Steel Chain Ecraseur. Chassaignac. It consists of a loop of chain of fine steel or twisted wire (thick piano wire is the best), which, having been passed over the tumour or through tlie tissues to be removed, is gradually tightened by a mechanism in the stem to w^hich it is attached. In applying this instrument it is often necessary, first of all, to insulate and raise the tumour to be removed by passing a thread through or under it; and then, having applied the loop of the chain round its base, to tighten this and efi'ect the strangulation by working the handle every ten or fifteen seconds, until the mass is detached. By means of the iScraseur (Fig. 309), cancerous and other growths of con- siderable size are removed with little or no hsemorrhage, in the course of a few minutes, by a process of rapid strangulation and crushing. The resulting wound is small and puckered in, and often heals with but little trouble. If the mass to be removed be large, two or more ecraseurs may be used at the same time, the chains having been passed through the tissues by means of a needle. The action of the ecraseur differs according to the kind of instrument used. Chassaignac's original ecraseur, armed with a steel chain,