565 UNUNITED FRACTURE. cause oedema and exudation round the broken ends. Swelling below is prevented by a flannel bandage reaching nearly to the seat of fracture. Ununited Fracture.—A fracture is usually said to be ununited when the broken ends of the bone are not joined together solidly by new bone. There are three varieties of this condition :—1, IndepeMdeni Repair of the Fragments, in which there is no union of any kind ; 2, Fibrous Union, in which the fragments are bound together by firm fibrous tissne ; and, 8, False Joint or Pseudar thro sis, in which there is no union between the fractured surfaces, but a capsule of fibrous tissue forms round them resembling the ligaments of a joint. When the fragments undergo Independent Repair, the ends are rounded and the medullary canal closed by a tliin plate of bone covered by a newly formed periosteum. In some cases after a time the ends become atrophied and somewhat pointed. This form of ununited fracture may be due to the wide separation of the fragments, as after great loss of bone in a compound fracture or the interposition of soft parts between the broken ends, or from various causes no callus may form ; or the early formation of callus may have taken place, but owing to some peculiar general or local condition it may have become absorbed. In Fibrous Union the ends of the bones are united by fibrous tissue, most commonly dense and ligamentous, but sometimes loose in structure. In this condition the early soft callus has formed, but instead of undergoing the normal development into bone it has been converted into fibrous tissue. This is usually the result of insufficient rest during treatment or of faulty position of the fragments. It is the most common form of ununited fracture. In False Joint or Pseudarthrosis the two fragments ai-e bound together by dense ligamentous tissue passing from one to the other, forming a more or less perfect capsule around the broken ends (Fig. 1(17). Between the actual surfaces of the fracture there is no union. They are smoothly rounded, the medullary canal being closed by a thin plate of new bone and invested with a layer of dense fibrous tissue or fibro-cartilage. The two surfaces are more or less adapted to each other like those of a normal articulation. In the humerus or femur one end is usually concave and the other convex ; the false articula- tion thus resembles a normal ball-and-socket joint. In the forearm and leg, as lateral movement is prevented by the presence of two bones, the false articulation more closely resembles a hinge-joint. The inner surface of the capsule may be smooth, as if lined with a synovial membrane, and the cavity may be moistened with a glairy fluid resembling synovia. False joints of this kind are met with only in fractures of considerable standing, and it is probable that they are always preceded by fibrous union, and that the false joint IS gradually developed by atrophy of the fibrous tissue between the ends of the bone, and more perfect development of that surrounding them. In very old false joints changes resembhng arthritis of normal joints are