INJURIES OF THE THROAT. 828 The wound may be inflicted in the Thyro-hyoid Space, laying the pharynx open, but being altogether above the larynx. This is the most common situation for suicidal attempts. In many cases, the incision is carried so low as to shave off or partly detach the epiglottis and the folds of mucous membrane around it. In other cases, the edges of the glottis or the aryteenoid cartilages are injured, the cut extending back to the bodies of the vertebrae. Here also there is great difficulty in swallowing and great risk of the sudden super- vention of oedema of the glottis, and consequent suflFocation. When the Larynx is wounded the incision is usually transverse ; but I have seen a longitudinal cut made through the larynx, splitting the thyroid and cricoid cartilages perpendicularly. In these cases of wounded larynx, there is great danger of the blood from the superficial parts trickling into the air-passage and asphyxiating the patient, and of inflammation of the bronchi and lungs supervening at a later period. Wounds of, the Trachea are not so common as those of the larynx, from which they differ but little in the attendant dangers. The (Esophagus is seldom wounded, and such wounds still more rarely come under the care of the Surgeon, as the part can be reached only through the trachea by a deep cut, which will probably imphcate the large vessels. The oesophagus has also been wounded from within in performing the feat of " sword-swallowing." Effects.—There are various sources of danger in wounds of the neck implicating the air-passage. The hcBmorrhage, whether it proceed from any of the larger trunks, or consist of general oozing from a vascular surface, may prove fatal either directly by the amount of blood lost, or indirectly in conse- quence of the blood trickling into the air-tube, and producing suffocation. Asphyxia may supervene, either in the way already mentioned, or, when the wound has been inflicted above the larynx, from the occurrence of cedema of the glottis. It may likewise occur when the external opening is very small, and occasionally happens suddenly when the wound is nearly closed. Another source of danger is the Joss of the natural sensibility of the glottis, in consequence of which it no longer contracts on the application of a stimulus. Hence food taken in by the mouth may pass into the larynx and appear at the external wound, though neither the pharynx nor the oesophagus has been wounded. This I have observed in many cases of cut throat ; hence the presence of food in the wound cannot in all cases be considered an evidence of injury to the food passage. In some cases this may be due to wound of the superior laryngeal nerve, but it quite as frequently occurs in cases in which it is certain that this nerve is uninjured. It is then a bad sign, and is never met with until a semi-asphyxial condition has come on, by which nervous irritability is blunted, or until inflammation has been set up about the rima glottidis, giving rise to so much swelhng as to interfere with the natural action of the muscles, and to deaden the perception of the part to the contact of a foreign body. In these cases also the sensibility of the air-passage generally is much lowered, so that mucus accumulates in the bronchi, even to a dangerous extent, the patient not feeling the necessity for expectoration, and often, indeed, having much difficulty in emptying his chest; his eftbrts at clearing the bronchi being reduced to a forced expiration, as a true cough is impossible while the wound is open below the glottis. The occurrence of Ironchitis and septic hroncho-ptieumonia is a frequent