FISSURED FRACTURE OF SKULL. corresponds to a line drawn from the point struck to the cribriform plate. In a case under my care in University College Hospital the patient had received a violent blow, not causing a wound, on the right occipital region, and was bleeding freely from the left ear. Soon after admission the respiration became greatly embarrassed without any signs of general compression of the brain. Following Aran's rule, the diagnosis made was, that a fissured.fracture crossed, the foramen magnum, and that extravasated blood was pressing on the medulla oblongata ; a conclusion which was confirmed by the posf-morfem examination. Fissured Fracture.—An ordinary undepressed fracture of the skull consists in a fissure, sometimes single, at other times starred, extending often to a considerable distance through the bones, radiating sometimes across the skull, and in other cases completely detaching its upper from its lower part, or its anterior from its posterior segment. In some cases the fracture extends into one of the sutures ; and in other instances, which, however, are very rare, the sutures are separated without any fracture. A fissured fracture usually results from direct violence, but is also the only form of fracture that can be supposed to arise by mitrecoup. A fissure gives rise to no signs by which its diagnosis can be effected, and often escapes detection altogether, more particularly when the scalp covering it is not wounded ; or when so large a quantity of blood is extravasated as to render it impossible for the Surgeon to feel the subjacent bone. If, however, the scalp covering the injured bone have been wounded, the existence of a fracture may be ascertained by running the finger-nail, or the end of a probe, over the exposed surface of the bone, or by seeing a fissure which remains filled with blood after wiping the surface, or from which blood may be freely oozing. As the whole importance and danger of fracture of the skull depend, not upon the injury that the bone has sustained, but on the concomitant or secon- dary lesions of which the contents of the cranium may be the seat, no special Treatment is required for the fracture itself when simple and undepressed, the Surgeon's whole attention being directed to the injury that may have been inflicted on the brain or scalp. Should the fracture be compound the patient's head must be completely shaved and cleaned as before described (p. 719), and the wound should then be carefully cleansed with carbolic lotion (1 in 20), or perchloride of mercury (1 in 1000), and some efficient antiseptic dressing applied (p. 720). The patient's safety depends to a great extent upon the prevention of decomposition. In all fissured fi-actures there is necessarily some blood extravasated between the dura raater and the bone, as well as in the diploe, supposing the fracture to be in a part where this exists. If this extravasated blood should decompose, the patient would run all the dangers of suppuration between the dura mater and bone or septic inflammation''of the diploe. Moreover, it is always possible that the dura mater may be torn even beneath a simple fissure, though fortunately this is rare. Should this, however, have taken place, and decomposition of the discharges occur, the danger of- septic meningitis setting in is very great; and should this happen, the death of the patient is a certain consequence. Although the most important precautionary measures for guarding against inflammation of the brain and its membranes are doubtless those intended to prevent septic processes in the wound, yet other measures should on no account be neglected. The head should be shaved if this has not already been done m dressing the wound, and cold may be applied. This can easily be done 3 A 2