760 INJURIES OF THE HEAD. younger the patient the more hopeful the case, other conditions being equal. The following may be looked upon as grave symptoms : early violent convul- sions, extensive paralysis, and the rapid supervention of coma ; a very high temperature with great restlessness. The later convulsions about the fifth day, although grave, are by no means hopeless symptoms ; they become grave if they are frequently repeated, and if in the intervals there is found to be an exten- sion of any paralysis that may be present, and especially if the condition of insensibility is found to be gradually deepening after each attack. When the symptoms of intracranial suppuration set in, the case, although desperate, is not quite hopeless. Treatment.—In the treatment of injuries of the brain, little can be done after the patient has rallied from the shock, beyond attention to strict anti- phlogistic treatment, though this need not be of a very active kind. In these cases, indeed, as much as possible should be left to Nature, the Surgeon merely removing all sources of irritation and excitement from his patient, and apply- ing an antiseptic dressing when there is a wound. If any foreign body be lodged in the skull, it must of course be removed, if possible. This may be done if it be situated near the external wound, or fixed in the bone ; but if it have penetrated deeply into the substance of the brain, and have gone completely out of reach, it would perhaps be more dangerous to trephine the skull on the chance of reaching it, or in any other way to go in search of it, than to leave it where it is. Bullets should always be extracted if they can be found. On this point millitary Surgeons are agreed. If they enter the skull, and strike against and fracture the opposite side with- out escaping, should they be sought for ? I think not. Larrey and Bell, it it true, have extracted the ball on the side of the head opposite the point of entrance. But it may not be found there. In a case of suicide to which I was called some years ago, a gentleman had shot himself through the right temple ; immediately opposite the wound, on the left temple, was a raised, loose, and stellate fracture of the skull, over which the scalp was uninjured. I cut down on this and removed the fragments of bone, expecting to find the ball beneath them; but in this I was disappointed, and after death the bullet was found lying in the base of the skull, whither it had rolled. All opera- tions performed in such cases should be carried out with strict antiseptic precautions. In cases of laceration of the brain without open wound nothing is required at first beyond keeping the bowels open, applying cold to the head, and perfect quiet. Should there, however, be early convulsions or paralyses sufficiently definite to indicate the seat of the lesion, followed rapidly by coma evidently from its early occurrence due to hemorrhage from a laceration, the question of trephining over the point of injury to the brain may arise. The indica- tions for this operation are considered on page 771. When the convulsions and paralyses occur at a later period, and are suffi- ciently defined to enable the Surgeon to locahze the seat of the injury, the head should be shaved, and leeches applied over the seat of the laceration, and after this an ice-cap. If the pulse be full and hard, and the patient young, blood may also be taken from the arm. Venesection is especially likely to be of service if the symptoms be due to non-inflammatory spreading oedema (p. 750). The bowels should be freely acted on by some brisk purgative. Bromide of potassium should always be given in full doses as soon as convulsions appear.