HERNIA CEREBRI. 779 inflammatory swelling of the brain substance round the injured spot, or occa- sionally from the formation of an abscess in the hemisphere. It may, however, result from simple non-inflammatory oedema of the brain substance, and thus may occur in a perfectly aseptic wound. As the protrusion increases in size, it becomes partially strangulated by the narrrow opening through which it passes, and its size becomes increased by oedema, and by hasmorrhage and effusion into its substance. Thus the tumour increases rather rapidly, pulsates synchronously with the brain, and may shortly attain the size of a hen's egg, or become even larger (Fig. 309.) In its composition and structure it varies. In some instances it is composed chiefly of extravasated blood ; but the true fungus cerebri is composed of softened cerebral matter, often infiltrated with inflammatory exudation and blood. Softening of the brain. Fig. 30!).—Hernia Cerebri following Compound Comminuted Fracture of Tlight Parietal Bone. with red discoloration, extends for some little distance under the base of the tumour. The mental condition of the patient is in many cases not much disturbed at first, there being merely some degree of cerebral irritation. Speedily, however, stupor comes on, and death in most cases eventually occurs from encephalitis, ending in coma, consequent on the inflammatory effusion that takes place within the skull. Although the prognosis in fungus cerebri is extremely bad, it is not hopeless. In the American war seven cases of recovery are recorded. In the Italian war of 1859, Demme saw five recoveries out of twenty-one cases. Treatment.—Preventive treatment is of the greatest importance, for if the complication be once established, its cure is very uncertain. The rio-id antiseptic treatment of the wound by some efficient method is the most important preventive means at our command, for the condition is favoured by inflammatory swelling of the brain substance. Should the fungus form.