COMPOUND FRACTURE: THE QUESTION OF AMPUTATION. 555 parts and breaks tlie bone, are, as a rule, less favourable. In such cases there is often much laceration of, and extravasation mio, the soft peer is. The integuments may be stripped off, portions of the muscular bellies may pro- trude, and the planes of areolar tissue between the muscles of the limb may be torn and infiltrated with blood. Injuries of this kind occurring m the lower extremity always necessitate amputation. In the upper limb, even after very extensive injuries of this kind, the limb may often be saved, unless the bones be greatly comminuted. The danger of the operation in these cases does not depend upon the degree of injury to the soft parts and bones, but upou the proximity of the fracture to the trunk (see pp. 86 and 3G1). Am- putation of the thigh high up for fracture of the femur is very rarely followed by recovery. 3. The complication of a compound fracture with the Wound of a Large Joint is always serious, but does not in itself necessitate amputation, provided the patient be of sound constitution and be placed in such circumstances that efficient antiseptic treatment can be carried out and perfect rest and drainage maintained. If there be much crushing or splintering of the bones, with laceration of the soft parts, opei'ative interference becomes necessary. In the lower limb amputation should be performed, unless it be the hip-joint that is damaged, when there will generally be so much injury of the pelvic bones and their contained viscera as to preclude the performance of any operation. In the upper limb, if the bones are comminuted, but the soft parts not too extensively injured, excision may be substituted for amputation, especially in the shoulder or elbow-joint. This operation is usually a somewhat irregular proceeding, consisting rather in picking out the shattered fragments of bones, and sawing off projecting and sharp-pointed fragments, than in methodical excision. In children recovery without operation may often be obtained in cases that would be hopeless in the adult. Separation of an Epiphysis, with Protrusion of the End of the Shaft through the Skin, is occasionally met with in young people, and may be mistaken for a fracture implicating the joint, but in these cases, although the fracture is in close vicinity to the joint, the articulation is not affected, and careful examination will always prove its sound conditiiou. Reduction is difficult, and it is sometimes impossible to maintain it without sawing off the projecting end of the shaft. This is easily done, and union takes place readily between the epiphysis and the remainder of the shaft. In two instances in M'hich I have had to do this in lads—in one near the shoulder, in the other near the ankle—an excellent result without imj^tairment of the joint followed the operation. 4. When one of the larger Arteries of the Limb has been wounded by the violence that occasions the fracture, or has been lacerated by the broken bone itself, there may be copious arterial hasmorrhage externally, as well as extravasation into the general areolar tissue of the limlD. In such cases, whilst the patient is being examined, and preparation made for operation, dangerous loss of blood must be prevented by the application of a tourniquet. For want of this simple precaution, I have seen very large and even fatal quantities of blood gradually lost, by being allowed slowly to trickle from the wound. The treatment of this complication will depend upon the amount of haemorrhage and the size of the vessel wounded. If the vessel be small and the bleeding slight, elevation of the limb and the application of cold may be