137 AMPUTATION AT THE THIGH. wide space to heal by granulation. This tendency is aggravated by the flexed position in which the patient places the limb. The amount of covering should therefore never be less than twice the diameter of the limb at the point at which the bone is sawn. In primary amputations this may be taken equally from the front and back of the limb, and most advantageously by the combi- nation method (see below). Thus, supposing the hmb to be four inches in diameter, the anterior flap should be two inches in length, its distal half being composed of skin and fat only ; the posterior flap should be of the same length, and must be dissected up from the muscles to free it as far as possible from their influence. The remaining covering is made by retracting the soft parts circularly from the bone for two inches. In amputations for disease, if the muscles are Avasted and not likely to retract to any great extent, the anterior flap should be made longer, to ensure the scar being behind the bone. Thus, in a limb of the diameter of four inches, the anterior flap should be two-thirds of the diameter, or 2f inches ; the posterior half this, or 1^, and the soft parts must be retracted for two inches. In primary amputations, if the covering be taken equally from the back and front of the limb, and of the length given above, the scar will always be well behind the bone. In cases in which, as a consequence of disease, the knee has long been fixed in a flexed position, experience has shown that the retraction of the posterior flap is un- usually extensive, and it is wiser then to make it even longer than the anterior. If the circular (Fig. 21), or the modified circular method (Fig. 24) be adopted, the same amount of covering must be made, one diameter by raising the skin and fat, and one by retraction after circular division of the muscles. The amputation by the " combination method " is thus performed : The Surgeon, standing on the right side of the patient, enters the knife midway between the anterior and posterior surfaces of the thigh on the side opposite to himself, and marks out a rectangular flap, with its angles rounded off equal in length to two-thirds, or half the diameter of the limb, according to the circumstances mentioned above. Great care must be taken, in marking out the flap, that its base really includes half the circumference of the limb. Unless this be specially attended to, the anterior flap is very commonly cut narrower than the posterior. The knife must not be directed towards the front of the limb too soon, or the free extremity will be too narrow. Having marked out the anterior flap, the knife is to be swept roimd the back of the thigh marking out a posterior flap, either equal to the anterior, if that be half the diameter in length, or one-third of it if it be two-thirds of the diameter. The Hmb is now raised, and the posterior flap, consisting of skin and fat only, is dissected up to the angle of the flaps, so as to free it from the hamstring muscles, and thus to limit its retraction. The anterior is now raised, only skin and fat being taken for the firet inch or so, after which the Surgeon takes as much muscle as he thinks advisable (Fig. 78). The remaining mas- cular tissue is now divided circularly, the soft parts retracted for a distance of about two inches, and the bone sawn at that point. The retraction is greatly facilitated by raising the limb to a right angle with the table, as recom- mended by Spence. The bone is then sawn and the flaps brought over the end of it. If they do not meet without the shghtest tension it is better at once to retract the soft parts a little further and to remove a piece more of the bone. Amputation of the thigh may be performed by this method at any