MICROSCOPIC CHARACTERS OF FUS. 241 phate is said to be more abundant in pus coming from bone, but this is 5o,,btful—there is merely a trace of potassium. The serum separated Irom the corpuscles contains about 90 per cent, of water. Of the solid constituents over 6 per cent, are proteids ; not more than -15 per cent, lecithin and otner fats ; and about "8 per cent, salts, chiefly sodium chloride. It will be seen, therefore, that the lecithin and other fatty matters are chiefly contained in the corpuscles. Pus contains no fibrinogen, but fibrin-ferment has been shown to be present in it. The absence of fibrinogen in pus is most easily explained by supposing that the exudation from the vessels first coagulates m the zone in which the liquid pus has not yet formed, and then softens and breaks down. In addition to the above constituents, peptones and albumoses are found, formed under the influence of the micro-organisms which are constantly present in all acute suppurations. Leucin, tyrosin, and various less important substances are also often found in pus. Pus also frequently contains the specific virus of the disease with which its formation is con- nected, as in small-pox, glanders, tetanus, soft chancres, gonorrhoea, &c. The organisms specially connected with suppuration will be described later on. Many of the chemical substances found in pus have intense fever-producing (pyrogenic) powers if injected into the blood-stream. Pus presenting the above characters is termed healthy or laudable pus {pus lonum et laudabile of the old writers), but various other terms are employed to indicate difiFerent appearances : thus, when tinged with blood it is called sanious; when thin and watery, ichorous; when containing cheesy- looking flakes, curdy; and when diluted with mucus, muco-pits. Besides these, pus presents other varieties ; thus, for instance, when it is formed in the brain it is of a greenish tint, and when in the neighbourhood of the alimentary canal it has a peculiar, fetid odour. Pus is a liquid which readily putrefies when exposed to the air or mixed with water at the temperature of the body, or even if septic organisms be introduced subcutaneously, as by an aspirator-needle or trochar. Thus we occasionally see that a collection of pus which, when tapped for the first time, is free from putrefaction, becomes offensive in a few days unless proper antiseptic precautions are taken during the operation. In some rare cases the pus, soaking a dressing, assumes a distinctly blue colour from the development in it of a special form of organism, the bacillus pyocyaneus. Blue pus is never found in a freshly opened abscess. Microscopic Characters.—Pus consists of corpuscles floating in a clear fluid, the " liquor puris." In pus drawn from an acute abscess or from the surface of a healthy granulating sore, living cells, presenting amoeboid move- ments if examined on a warm plate, and dead cells which have undergone degenerative changes, are met with, the latter being the true pus-cells, and by far the more abundant. The living cells are mono-nucleated and poly- nucleated leucocytes, and have already been described {see Migration of the Leucocytes). The typical " pus-cells " are the dead or degenerating leucocytes. They are rounded in form and slightly irregular in outline, and measure about ^Vo-iiich in diameter, and their protoplasm is coarsely granular, so that the nucleus is completely concealed. By treating with dilute acetic acid the granules are to a great extent dissolved, the protoplasm becomes swollen, and the nucleus comes clearly into view. It is then seen to be composed usually of three, sometimes of four or two parts, usually devoid of nucleoli VOL. I, R