433 APPLICATION OF THE LIGATURE. ou the stretch, proceeds to clean the artery, gently separating it from its sheath by teazing through the loose areolar connections with the point of the knife, turning the back to the artery (Fig. and being careful not to expose more than is necessary, but at the same time to clean thoroughly the part to be tied. Some Surgeons, after opening the sheath, prefer to clean the artery with the point of a director, and there is no doubt that if this instrument be carefully used it can be made to do the work efficiently; but it is more difficult to clean Fig. 132.—Opening the Sheath. Fig. 138.—Cleaning the Artery. the artery thoroughly with it than with the knife. During the process of cleaning, the artery itself must on no account be seized in the forceps, and care must be taken not to wound any small branch. Should this happen, the artery must be tied on each side of the injured spot. The artery being thoroughly clean, the ligature may now be passed. Much ingenuity has been expended in devising instruments for this purpose; in the majority of cases the common aneurism-needle—well ground down, but I'ounded at its extremity—is all that is required ; but occasionally it may be advantageous to use a needle with a small curve. To pass the ligature, the edge of the opening in the sheath must be held tightly in the forceps and pulled slightly so as to put it on the stretch. The needle is then passed from the forceps (Fig. 134); as soon as its point begins to appear on the other side of the artery the operator must shift the forceps to that side, and catching hold of the edge of the opening in the sheath must draw it out of the way of the point of the needle (Fig. 135). The needle should be passed without the ligature and afterwards threaded, whenever this is possible. In very deep- seated arteries, such as the iiiacs, this is often impracticable ; it must then be passed threaded, and the loop of the hgature caught in a pair of forceps before the needle is withdrawn. The needle must always be passed/rom the most important structures in the neighbourhood: thus, when a single large vein accompanies the artery it must be passed from this ; when there is a vein on each side and a nerve ou one VOL. I. F F