TRAUMATIC FEVER. 305 position, and the injured part arranged as comfortablv as possible ; he should be wrapped up in warm blankets, hot bottles should be applied to the feet, and friction to the hands and surface: a little warm tea, wine, or spirits and water, may be administered, provided the insensibility be not complete ; if it be complete, the fluid should not be given, lest it find its way into the larynx. In these circumstances, ammonia should be applied to the nostrils, and a stimulating enema administered, or ten minims of ether may be injected iiypodermically, and repeated at inter\ als of about ten minutes if necessary until the patient begins to rally. When there is mnch pain associated with the shock, a few drops of laudanum may advantageously be given, or a quarter of a grain of morphia administered hypodermically. After all large surgical operations, a slight condition of shock is not to be regarded as an evil. I'he feeble action of the heart favours the perfect closure of the small vessels by coagula, and unwise stimulation is not an uncommon cause of hajniorrhage during the fii-st twelve hours. Operation during Shock.—Whether an operation should be performed during se^'ere shock is a question of considerable importance. As a general rule, it certainly should be deferred until reaction comes on, as the additional injury inflicted by the operation would increase the depression under which the patient is suffering. In some cases, however, the presence of a crushed hmb appears to prevent the patient from rallying, notwithstanding the admi- nistration of stimulants. In these circumstances the Surgeon would be justified in operating before reaction came on. Here the administration of ether is extremely beneficial; it acts as a stimulant to the nervous system, and prevents the pain and dread of the operation from still further depressing the patient. In long-continued shock, great care is required in ascertaining that there is no internal injury, such as laceration of one of the viscera, giving rise to the depression, but that the shock is really and solely dependent upo^ the state of the Hmb. . ^ 1 Prevention of Shock.—In cases in which an operation is likely to be accompanied by much shock, needless exposure of the body to cold must be carefully avoided, and great care taken to limit the loss of blood by the use of pressure-forceps applied to each vessel as it is divided. Ether should be used in preference to any other anaesthetic, and must be given so as to produce complete anjesthesia. Experiments on animals have shown that after the mjection of a very small dose of atropin beneath the skin it is impossible to inhibit the heart by stimulating the vagus. It has therefore been suggested hat shock might be prevented in the human subject in this way. We cannot However, expect much from this treatment, for inhibition of the heart bv the pneumogastnc probably forms but a small element in most cases of shock as it IS met with in practice. TRAUMATIC TEVER. Tlie term Traumatic Fever lias been somewhat loosely applied to any febnie disturbance which follows a wound or severe injury within he first «S has occupied the atbmtioii of numerous observers, amongst whom inav he mentioned Billroth, Bergmann, Volkmann, and Lucas-Chainpionnil . Thei m ^e'nZ'-r, h"''; r be made between the ■ever Mcuiring in subcutaneoas injuries, or in wounds following a perfectly