INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 732 have seen happen from the kick of a horse, without the inner table being splintered, or any bad consequence ensuino-. The inner table may be fractured without any apparent injury to the outer table ; and it may not only be so fractured, but a portion of it may be depressed without the outer table being injured (Figs. 297, 298). In all ordinary depressed fractures, both tables are depressed, but the internal table is splintered to a greater extent than the external one. This is especially the-case when the fracture is the result of gunshot injury, or when it has been occasioned by blows with a pointed weapon, as the end of a pick, or a large nail, or the sharp angle of a brick. In these latter fractures, which constitute the dangerous variety termed Punctured, the outer table may be merely perforated or fissured, whilst the inner is splintered into numerous fragments, for the extent of a square inch or more. This splintering of the inner lamina of the skull to a greater extent than the outer has attracted much attention, being of considerable practical moment. It is often said to be owing to its being more brittle than the external table. This, Fit?. 295.—Fracture of the SkuU from Gunshot Fig. 293.—The same, natural size. Injury from witliin : Splintering of Outer Table. however, I do not consider to be the only cause, for if the force be applied in the opposite direction, the outer table will be found to be more extensively splintered than the inner. It is seldom that we have an opportunity of examining such a case ; but, some years ago, a man was brought to' the Hospital who had dischgrged a pistol into his mouth and upwards through the brain. The bullet had perforated the palate and passed out at the upper part of the cranium, near the vertex. On examining the state of the bones, it was found that the outer table of the skull was splintered to a considerably greater extent than the inner one, showing clearly the influence of the direction of the fracturing force (Figs. 295, 296). This case led me to make further experiments on the dead body ; and I found that the outer table is always more splintered when the blow is struck from the inside of the skull outrwards. Teevan, as the result of numerous experiments by firing bullets and driving pointed bodies through the skull, came to the same conclusion that under all circumstances the aperture of exit is the larger. This elfect is pro- duced by three causes : 1st, the bullet or pointed instrument loses some of its momentum in passing through the first table with which it comes in contact, and thus does not make so clean a puncture in the second; 2nd]y, if the instru-