834 INJURIES OF THE THROAT. PERIOD OF RETENTION. NUMBER RE- DIED. OK CASES. COVERED. j - ■ — . _ i Less than 24 hours s 6 2 1 Between 24 and 48 hours 4 3 1 Between 48 hours and 1 week 13 6 7 Between 1 week and 1 month 8 4 4 Between 1 month and 3 months .... 3 3 0 Between 3 months and 1 year () 4 2 More than 1 year 7 4 3 Total 49 30 19 From this it would appear that, if the patient escaped the danger of the immediate introduction, the greatest risk occurred between the second day and the end of the first month, no fewer than 11 patients out of 21 dying during this period ; and then that the mortahty diminished until the third month, fi'om which time it again increased. The cause of death varies also according to the period at which the fatal result takes place. During the first twenty-four, and, indeed, forty-eight hours, it takes place from sudden asphyxia and convulsions. During the first few weeks it is apt to occur from inflammatory mischief within the chest; and after some months the patient will be carried off by the gradual exhaustion consequent upon the formation of abscesses in the lung. Spontaneous expulsion of the foreign body occasionally occurs, usually in a violent fit of coughing. G-ross of Philadelphia found that there are 49 cases on record, in which the body was spontaneously expelled, the patient recovering. In 37 of these, it was expelled during a fit of coughing. The period during which a foreign substance may remain in the air-passage before it is spontaneously expelled varies from a few minutes to many months or years ; in one case a piece of bone, introduced at the age of three, was not ejected until sixty years had elapsed. Tulpius relates a case in which a nut-shell was coughed up after being lodged for seven years ; and Heister one in which a ducat was thus brought up after a lapse of two years and a half \ the patients, in both instances, recovering. In other cases death may ensue, although the foreign body is coughed up ; thus Sue relates an instance in which a pigeon-bone was spat up seventeen years after its introduction, the patient, however, dying in little more than a year from marasmus. In eight of the cases collected by Gross, death followed the spontaneous expulsion. Treatment.—This accident is always very serious, and hence requires the use of prompt and energetic means in order to save the patient ; and fortunately the means at our disposal, consisting of the simple operation of opening the trachea and thus facilitating the expulsion of a foreign body, are usually highly successful. Of 60 cases in which the result was noted, I found that 37 lived, and 23 died ; but on analysing these cases more closely, it appeared that in 39 no operation was performed, the expulsion of the foreign body being effected by the efforts of nature. Of these 23 died, and 16 lived. In the remaining 21 cases, tabulated below, tracheotomy was performed ; of these 18 lived, and only 3 died, showing a remarkable success attendant on this operation.