156 LOCAL DISTURBANCES AND INFLAMMATION. invade the inflamed area are engaged in removing the portions of tissue which may have perished from the injury, or in combating the micro-organisms which may have invaded the affected area, or should the process be due to the action of a chemical irritant, the abundant exudation from the vessels tends to dilute or wash away the irritating material, and thus to bring the process to an end. Our knowledge of inflammation has been largely derived from observation of the process artificially induced in some transparent tissue of a living animal. The web of the foot and the mesentery of the frog, and the tongue of the toad have been chiefly made use of. In order to prove that the processes observed in the frog are identical with those that occur in mammals under similar cir- cumstances, the wing of the bat was used by Paget, and subsequently the mesentery of the rabbit was successfully experimented on. Lastly, Hueter, by observations made on the mucous membrane of the lip, showed that the pro- cesses in man are identical with those that occur in the lower animals. Microscopic examination of prepared specimens of inflamed human tissues also shows appearances which are readily explnined by what is seen to take place during actual observation of the process of inflammation in the frog. If the web of a frog's foot be spread out and examined with the microscope, the blood is seen to flow in a continuous stream through the small arteries, capillaries and veins. In any vessel which is of sufficient size to allow several corpuscles to pass at the same time, the red corpuscles flow in the centre of the stream, forming a yellow line, while on each side of this is a colourless zone, free from red corpuscles, known as the inert or plasmatic layer. In the inert layer is seen an occasional colourless corpuscle, passiug somewhat lazily along, with some tendency to adhere to the wall of the vessel. If from any cause the stream be slow enough to allow of the individual red corpuscles being observed, it will be seen that they show no tendency to adhere to each other or to the wall of the vessel ; although, as every one knows, when removed from the influence of the living vessels they show a remarkable degree of adhesiveness, sticking not only to each other but to every solid body with which they come in contact. The arteries show constant slight variations in calibre, which are not rhythmical, and are dependent on causes the exact nature of which is uncertain. The flow through the capillaries varies in rapidity with the state of the arteries, being more rapid when they are dilated and slower when the} are contracted. In observing the foot of the frog, there will also be seen a beautiful system of branched cells containing pigment-granules, by means of which the animal is able to change the tint of its skin. When the pigment is collected into a closely packed mass round the nucleus of the cell, the frog is pale ; when it is diff'used evenly throughout the whole cell, the animal becomes of a darker tint. These variations of tint occur under the influence of light, the frog becoming pale when exposed to bright light and dark under the opposite condition. Thus, then, in the healthy web, there are three phenomena of easy observation, which indicate the vital activity of the tissues—the want of adhesiveness of the corpuscles, the variations in the calibre of the artery and the movement of the pigment cells. There is yet another sign of health which is not to be observed with equal ease, and that is that the capillaries allow no more serum to exude through their walls than is necessary for the healthy nutrition of the surrounding tissues, and the amount is such that any excess can be readily drained away by the lymphatics. Supposing now that some irritating substa]ice be applied to the web, the