CAUSES OF UNUNITED FRACTURE. tares : the forearm per cent, of all fractures, and only 11-.) per cent, of '"'of 72' cases of ununited fracture of tlie long bones of children collected by ITArcy Power, 0 occurred in the clavicle, 7 in the humerus, 2 m the lore- arm, 12 in the femur, and 45 in the leg ; whilst statistics of fractures m children shew that of 1070 cases 227 were in the chavicle, 228 m the humerus, 828 in the forearm, 21:5 in the femur, and 74 in the leg. The nature of the fracture has an important influence. About two-tmias of all cases follow compound fractures. In these fibrous union is the most common form, trae false joint being rarely formed except m cases of simple fracture. , Want of proper apposition of the fragments maybe a cause ot non-imion, especially when they are so situated that instead of the broken surfaces being in contact, flexion or rotation of one fragment has caused the periosteal aspects to touch. Wide separation of the fragments, such as occurs in some cases ot fracture of the patella, is another cause, and in compound fractures loss of a large portion of the bone, either directly by the accident or subsequently by necrosis, is often followed by non-union. The interposition of soft parts Itetween the fragments may prevent union. Ut this I saw an interesting instance some years ago, in which want of union m a fractured femur was clue to perforation of the vastus muscle by the upper fragment, and its entanglement between the broken ends. In transverse fracture of the patella, the torn aponeurosis from the vasti that covers the bone may hang down between the broken surfaces, and thus interfere with bony union. Extreme commimUion is rarely a cause of want of union in simple fr-actures, but many cases have been recorded in which failure of union has occurred in the lower of two fractures occurring in the same bone at distant points or in the same limb in difierent bones. Interference with the vascular supply of one or both fragments is probably not an uncommon cause. For proper union to take place, it is necessary that the callus be formed from both sides of the fracture. If one fragment be so situated that sufficient blood is not sent to it for this purpose, not only want of union, but necrosis, may occur. This is exemplified in fractures of the superior articular ends of the humerus and femur. In intracapsular fracture of the anatomical neck of the humerus, the globular head, being detached from all its vascular connections, may necrose. In intracapsular fracture of the neck of the femur, the head of the bone, still retaining some vascular connection through the medium of the hgamentum teres, has suflicient blood furnished to it to prevent its death, but not enough to form callus—hence fibrous union takes place. Gueretin collected some statistics which seem to show that non-union is more common in fractures occurring in that portion of the bone from which the nutrient artery is directed. Thus in the humerus, in which the artery is directed downwards towards the elbow, ununited fracture is more common above the nutrient foramen than below, and this he attributed to a less perfect vascular supply of the upper part of the bone. A far more probable explanation of this fact is that fractures below the middle of the bone are more easily kept at perfect rest than those above. The interference with the vascular supply by the applicaiion of a bandage directly and too tightly to the limb is another possible cause of imperfect repair.