i8o LOCAL DISTURBANCES AND INFLAMMATION. nient to use the general term " products of putrefaction " than to attempt to specify any special septic poison. As a general rule, it may be stated that when gas is abundantly developed in a putrid animal substance this is due to the presence of bacteria, most micro- cocci and bacilli not giving rise to any appreciable amount of gaseous products. In ordinary fetid putrefaction one organism constantly present is the bactsnvm termo. This is a short actively-moving organism, rather oval than rodlike in shape. It requires abundant water for its growth, and is easily destroyed by drying and by all antiseptics. When micrococci alone exist in an albuminous fluid there may be a sour smell, but there is not the ordinary fetid odour of putrefaction. In the practical prevention of fermentative changes in animal fluids, as in the antiseptic treatment of wounds, it is found much easier to exclude bacteria than micrococci, as these latter seem to grow under conditions which destroy the former. It has been proved by experiment that septic or non-pathogenic organisms cannot develop amongst living tissues, and should they enter the blood-stream they speedily perish. The local and constitutional effects they produce are solely by means of the chemical products formed in the dead matter in which they are growing. That these organisms are the actual cause of putrefaction of dead animal matter, and that they are derived from pre-existing organisms of the same kind, is universally acknowledged. It is impossible here to discuss the evidence by which this has been proved. So far as our present purpose is concerned, it may be sufficient to state that putrescible fluids, such as urine, milk, or hydrocele serum, if collected in vessels which have been heated to a temperature sufficient to destroy all living organisms, and with due precautions to avoid contamination from other sources, may be kept for an indefinite time without undergoing any chemical change or developing any fungoid growths. Air may be freely admitted to them without producing any sign of putrefac- tion if it has previously been deprived by filtration of any solid particles floating in it, or if it has been submitted to a sufficiently high temperature, or to the action of some chemical substance capable of destroying the vitality of any living organism. It is evident, therefore, that putrefaction is not merely a chemical process caused by the presence of gases of the air. If a fluid or solid cultivating medium which has thus been kept unchanged for weeks, or even months, be exposed to unpurified air for a few seconds, and then again protected, no result may follow ; if for a few minutes, microscopic fungi are almost sure to make their appearance ; but it is by no means certain that the organism that appears will be one of the fission-fungi, or that the fermentation that follows will be ordinary fetid putrefaction. More commonly moulds of various kinds appear, especially if the air be dry. If the exposure be pro- longed, or the air very damp, the probability of the appearance of micrococci, bacteria or baciUi will be much greater. The conclusion drawn from this is that the spores of moulds are always floating in the air in considerable numbers, but that fission-fungi are much less abundant, although often present. The same result may be obtained by cultivating the dust of a room on nutritive gelatine or on a boiled potato. In a series of cultivations bacteria and micrococci appear occasionally, while the moulds constantly develop. By exposing fluids or other cultivating media to the air for fixed periods of time, it can be clearly shown that all forms of organisms exist much more abund-