836 INJURIES OF THE THROAT. scopic examination, and may be removed with forceps or by such other means as the ingenuity of the Surgeon may suggest. This may sometimes be done a considerable length of time after its impaction. Thus in a case recorded by Petrie of Liverpool, a coin was successfully removed with forceps after having been impacted six years in the larynx of a boy. Should it, however, not be possible to extract the foreign body through the mouth, tracheotomy must be performed, and an attempt made to dislodge it from below by means of a feather passed up into the mouth, or it may possibly be seized and brought out by the wound. Should this fail, the operation of Thyro-chondrotomy, more often, but incorrectly, called Thyrotomy, should be performed. The operation is the same as that for intralaryngeal tumours, and will be described in the Chapter on Diseases of the Throat. It is of importance that it should not be delayed, for the foreign body, more especially if rough or irregular, as a piece of bone, will shortly excite inflammation and ulceration of the mucous membrane and possibly entail permanent impairment of voice or of respiration. When the foreign body Jias passed leyond the larynx, or is not to be recog- nised by means of the laryngoscope, inversion may perhaps be tried in some cases, but, as a rule, tracheotomy ought to be performed at once. Tracheotomy is in all cases preferable to laryngotomy, as the opening can be made more freely and left open more easily, and moreover, being further removed from the glottis there is no possibility of both openings being blocked by the, foreign body if it be coughed up. The operation should be performed even though the symptoms be not urgent. There is ofcen a remission in the symptoms, a period of deceptive security, by which the Surgeon must not be put off his guard. But, it may be asked, for what purpose is the trachea opened ? Why should not the foreign body be expelled through the same aperture by which it has entered ? The opening in the trachea serves a double purpose ; it not only affords a ready and passive outlet for the expulsion of the foreign body, but serves as a second breathing aperture in the event of its escaping through the glottis. The advantage of the opening in the trachea as a ready aperture of expulsion is evident from the statistics given by Durham of 212 cases in which tracheotomy was performed for a foreign body in the air-passages. One hundred and fifty-seven recovered : in 64 of these spontaneous expulsion took place through the tracheal opening : in 35 spontaneous expulsion occurred from the mouth, and in 58 the foreign body was removed with forceps or other instruments. Fifty-five died : in 48 of these the body was retained till death, in 2 it was expelled from the mouth, and in 2 from the wound immediately after the operation, and in 3 it was removed with forceps. The reason why the foreign body usually passes out of the artificial opening instead of escaping by the glottis, is, that the sides of the former aperture are passive, whereas those of the latter are highly sensitive and contractile. Before the operation is performed, it will be found that the great obstacle to expulsion is the spasmodic contraction of the glottis, by the closure of which not only is the passage of the foreign body prevented, but respiration is impeded. Every time the foreign body is coughed up so as to touch the interior of the larynx, intense dyspnoea is produced, owing to sudden and involuntary closure of the glottis, by which respiration is entirely prevented and suffocation threatened; the expulsion of the body is consequently