TRAUMATIC ANEURISM. 464 CHAPTEE XV. TRAUMATIC ANEURISM AND ARTERIO-VENOUS WOUNDS. TRAUMATIC ANEURISM. We have hitherto discussed those Avouiids of arteries in which the blood is discharged freely from an open wound, but all cases are not so simple as these. It sometimes happens that there is a subcutaneous extravasation, forming a more or less distinct cavity, into which the blood is thrown from the wounded artery, accompanied usually by pulsation of the swelling, and occasionally by thrill and bruit. This extravasation constitutes a Traumatic Aneurism, and may arise in three ways : 1, The punctured wound leading to the injured artery may be oblique or indirect, and thus the blood may partly escape at the cutaneous opening, and partly be extravasated into the tissues around the vessel. 2, The puncture in the integuments may be closed by plaster, or a pad of lint and a bandage, and thus no blood may escape externally, although the wound in the artery remains patent, and blood is forced cut into the substance of the part, o, There may be no external wound, the artery being jjunctured or torn subcutaneously by the fragments of a fractured bone, by a violent strain, by the injury inflicted in a dislocation, or by the Surgeon in his efforts to reduce it. Two forms of aneurism are described as arisingfrom such injuries as the above: the diffused and the circumscribed. Diffused Traumatic Aneurism.—This consists of an effusion of blood from a wounded or ruptured artery, limited in extent by the resistance of the surrounding parts. In the immediate neighbourhood of the opening in the vessel there is an ill-defined cavity communicating with the artery formed by the separation of the surrounding parts by the pressure of the blood. There is no true sac, and such boundary as there may be is formed partly by coagulum, and partly by the sun-ounding fasci[e, muscles and other structures more or less matted together by inflammatory exudation. The extravasation continues to increase and to force its way amongst the tissues of the part until the resistance offered by the stretched and distended structures is equal to the pressure in the injured artery. The effects of subcutaneous arterial haemorrhage necessarily vary with the size of the artery, the nature of the wound, and the laxity of the surrounding- parts. Thus, if the axillary artery be lacerated in the attempted reduction of an old dislocation of the shoulder-joint, the axilla, the loose tissue beneath the pectoral muscles and in the root of the neck, may be tensely distended with extravasated blood in a few minutes, while in a punctured wound of a deep-seated smaller vessel, such as the posterior tibial, many hours or even days may elapse before the extreme limit of distension of the surrounding parts has been reached. Many Surgeons, with much reason, object to the use of the word "aneurism" in connection with the more rapid arterial extravasations.