CHOICE OF AN ANAESTHETIC. 35 8. As io suital)ilitij.—In the majority of cases, chloroform and ether are equally suitable, and the Surgeon must be guided then by the convenience of one or the other, and by his belief as to their relative safety. In certain cases that will be mentioned below, one is preferable to the other. Choice of an Anaesthetic.—Only the four anaasthetics in common use will be considered here : Laughing Gas, Ether, Chloroform, and the " A. C. E." mixture. The Duration of the Operation influences to some extent the choice of the ansesthetic. For all proceedings not likely to last more than one minute gas should be used, if possible. AVhen it is intended to keep the patient insensible for many hours, as in compression of the aorta for 'aneurism, chloroform is preferable, ether being inconvenient from the excessive bronchial secretion which it causes. The Age of the FatieiU is also of importance. In infants and children under seven or eight chloroform is more convenient, and is very safe. Ether, if given without an apparatus, causes more strugghng and choking, and if with an apparatus, frightens the child greatly. On the other hand, children take chloroform very well. Some administrators prefer the "A. C. E." mixture, and if the child is very young or weak it is perhaps safer. In older children and healthy adults gas and ether is the pleasantest and safest anesthetic for all major operations, and gas alone for minor operations of short duration, when these agents can be obtained. In military and country practice and in hot climates there is no doubt chloroform will continue to be the chief anaesthetic on account of its greater convenience ; in cities and large towns ether will probably soon become the chief ansesthetic on account of its greater safety. Its use is increasing both in this country and on the continent. I7i aged people ether is dangerous if they suffer at all from bronchitis and emphysema, and chloroform, which scarcely increases the bronchial secretion, is to be preferred. If the patient is very feeble, the " A. C. E." mixture may be used as being less irritating and depressing. If the lungs are perfectly healthy, ether may be used even in advanced age. The Nature of the Operation has an important influence on the choice of the an£esthetic. In operations about the face, mouth, and throat, chloroform is to be preferred, as it is more easily administered by a tube through the nose and a Junker's apparatus (Fig. 2). In brain surgery chloroform and morphia (p. 81) is always to be used, as the venous congestion that ether gives rise to would be a most serious inconvenience, and the morphia moreover diminishes bleeding by causing some degree of cerebral antemia. Chloroform is, for the same reason, to be preferred in operations about the root of the neck, such as ligature of the subclavian. In any operations about the head or neck in which a cautery is likely to be used, ether must be avoided, as its vapour is explosive. In operations upon the abdominal viscera most Surgeons prefer chloroform, as ether may fail to cause perfect relaxation, and the violent respiratory movements it often gives rise to might greatly embarrass the operator. In any Disease of the Lungs nitrous oxide should be avoided on account of the partial asphyxia induced during its administration, and chloroform or the "A. C. E." mixture is preferable to pure ether, being less irritating. The accumulation of mucus caused by ether is especially dangerous In the l> 2