RUPTURE OF INTESTINE—ABDOMINAL EMPHYSEMA. 875 and attached to a loose mesentery. When the force is applied in an oblique direction from right to left, rupture occasionally takes place at the junction of the movable jejunum with the fixed duodenum. Eupture of the duodenum may therefore occur with or without injury to the peritoneum. Eupture of the gut into the peritoneal cavity is indicated by intense pain in the belly with severe shock. Free gas in the peritoneal cavity may sometimes be recognized by tympanitic resonance in front of the liver. Peritonitis speedily sets in, with vomiting, at first bilious, but soon becomiug dark-coloured or almost black. The abdomen becomes tympanitic and tensely distended, with gradually in- creasing dulness in each flank. The belly is acutely tender, and the patient lies on his back with his knees drawn up. These injuries are extremely fatal ; in fact if the aperture in the gut be of sufficient size to allow of the escape of its contents into the peritoneal cavity, death almost inevitably results. Eupture of the third part of the duodenum behind the peritoneum is accompanied by much less clearly marked symptoms ; there are pain and tenderness, and possibly vomiting of blood. If the patient survive sufficiently long he may pass a motion blackened by altered blood. Death takes place in those cases usually from diffuse suppuration spreading in the loose sub- peritoneal tissue downwards in front of the kidneys or even to the iliac fossse, in consequence of which peritonitis with effusion is often set up. An occasional symptom of rupture of the intestine is Emphysema of the Abdomiual Wall, and subsequently of the trunk generally, from the escape of gas from the wounded intestine into the subperitoneal areolar tissue, and thence into the more superficial planes. When this takes place, the same doughy, puffy, inelastic, crepitating swelling of the subcutaneous areolar tissue, that is met with in thoracic emphysema, is observed. It usually commences in one or the other flank, and may then creep up towards the axilla, or into the anterior abdominal wall. As a diagnostic sign, this form of emphysema is valuable in those cases in which the intestines have been injured, either without any wound of the abdominal .parietes, or, if there be wound, without protrusion of the injured portion of gut. In two of the cases in which I have observed it, this con- dition was the only positive sign of intestinal injury. In one case, the third part of the duodenum had been ruptured where uncovered by peritoneum, by a buffer accident; and, in' the other the rectum and meso-rectum had been traversed by a pistol-ball. In both these cases the emphysema was extensive, the gas having passed directly into the subperitoneal areolar tissue. In other cases it may in the first instance pass into the cavity of the abdomen, and render that tympanitic, and then, as in thoracic emphysema after pneumo- thorax, escape into the areolar tissue at the edges of the wound. In a case under my observation, it occurred after tapping of the bladder through the rectum. The gas escaped, after the removal^of the cannula on the sixth day, thi'ough the small aperture in the walls of the gut into the subperitoneal areolar tissue of the pelvis, and thence, through the sciatic notches, down the posterior and outer parts of the thighs and the flanks. The diagnosis of abdominal emphysema requires to be made from thoracic emphysema, and from putrefactive infiltration of air into the areolar tissue. In the first case, this may readily be effected by the absence of any signs of thoracic injury, and by the situation of the emphysema in the posterior or lateral abdominal wall, or around the lips of a wound. From putrefactive