907 SYMMETRICAL GANGRENE. upon a diseased part of a large vessel, or in a fusiform aneurism, and vegeta- tions from the valves of the left side of the heart, are the most common sources of embolism in the systemic arteries ; but occasionally a fragment of a tumour which has penetrated the coats of a large artery may be washed away into the blood-stream and form an embolus. Gangrene from embolism is most common in the lower limb, and the bifurcation of the popliteal artery is the usual place at which the embolus lodges. If it be so small as to pass into one of the tibials, the circulation is maintained by the unobstructed artery; and gangrene does not occur. Gran- grene from embolism is, however, also met with' in the upper limb. In these cases the gangrene develops suddenly, the whole of the parts deprived of blood perishing simultaneously, there being no tendency for the mischief to spread ; pulsation ceases in the terminal branches of the obstructed artery, and intense superficial pain is felt in the limb, ceasing after about a week. The limb is at first pale, but soon undergoes the characteristic changes in colour, when decomposition commences. The gangrene is always of the dry variety. In the leg, as Billroth points out, the foot soon becomes mummified, while near the line of demarcation the parts remain more moist. The line of demarcation forms in these cases immediately below the knee. Gangrene from embolism may prove fatal from septic poisoning before any attempt can be made by nature to separate the mortified part. After death, the affected vessel is found firmly plugged by the embolus, above which is a dense coagulum reaching as high as the next branch. The accompanying drawing (Fig, 337) represents the bifur- cation of the common femoral artery occupied by a fibrinous plug, taken from a man aged 32, who died of gangrene of the left leg. In this case the patient, after recovering from rheumatic endocarditis, whilst strainino^ at stool, suddenlv felt Pig-ssr.—obstruc- . • f. II 1 1 ^^'^'^^ °^ Femoral his left leg tmgle pamiully, then become numb and cold. The Aiteiyatits Bi- circulation in it ceased, and gangrene speedily supervened, Embolus and as- which extended as high as the knee. Death followed amputa- boS."^ tion of the limb. Here there can be little doubt that the sudden supervention of gangrene was the result of obstruction to the arterial circu- lation of the lower extremity, consequent on the detachment of a vegetation from the valves of the heart, and its arrest at the bifurcation of the femoral artery. In addition to the varieties of spontaneous gangrene just described, some other rarer forms are occasionally met with. Yon Winiwarter has described a peculiar form of overgrowth of the endothelial cells of the inner coat of both arteries and veins — endarteritis and endophlebitis proliferans by which their lumen becomes obliterated. Thrombi are formed in the affected vessels, and these become organized and penetrated by new vessels, as in the closure of a ligatured artery. This affection is said to be caused bv syphilis and alcoholism, and occurs usually at an earlier age than ordinary senile gan- grene. According to Billroth the signs of imperfect blood-supply may be present for some years before gangrene takes place. When gangrene does set in, it is usually of the moist variety. Examples of gangrene of this variety are described in Chap. XLII. Kaynaud has described a rare form of symmetrical gangrene which attacks