90 AMPUTATIONS. amputations at the shoulder, 20 ; of the arm, 17 ; of the fore-arm, a ; of the thigh, (52 ; of the leg, 80 ; and of the foot, 17 ; after secondary amputations at the shoulder, GG ; of the arm, 81 ; of the fore-arm, 28 ; of the thigh, 80 ; and of the leg, 7G. IMiat is to say, for the upper extremity, the whole rate of deaths after, primary was 15, against 41 after secondary amputations ; whilst, for the lower extremity, excluding the foot, it was 4G per cent, for the primary, as against 78 for the secondary. In the American army during the Civd War. the mortality after primary amputation of the thigh was 54-13 per cent. ; and affcer secondary amputation, 74-7G. It will be noted that the primary amputations of the thigh are far less fatal than the secondary, the reverse of the relative proportions met with in civil practice. The explanation of this is probably that the shock caused by a bullet-wound is less than that following the severe crushes common in civil practice, as for example that caused by a railway accident. Primary amputations in military practice are moreover frequently done on the field of battle, and the patient is treated in a tent or in a pure house ; secondary operations are more often performed m crowded hospitals or in houses ill adapted for the purpose, which have^ been overfilled with wounded for a week or ten days after the battle. The primary amputations are in great part healed before the effects of overcrowding and accumulation of suppurating wounds become fully developed ; the secondary operations are performed just when these evils are reaching their maximum. In future wars it is to be hoped better results will be obtained by the use of antiseptics, but it is hardly to be expected that overcrowding and foul wounds can be altogether avoided ; and under these circumstances the Surgeon will do better for his patient by giving him the benefit of a primary amputation in every doubtful case, than by attempting to save the limb trusting to a secondary operation in case of failure. Summary.—On reviewing the whole subject of the causes of death after amputations, we cannot but come to the conclusion that the mortality is influenced chiefly by the success or failure in the prevention of septic processes in the discharges of the wound, and by the hygienic conditions to which the patient is subjected after the operation. The evil influences arising from exposure to an atmosphere vitiated by the emanations from the decomposing discharges of suppurating wounds, and to those various combinations of ■ conditions that are summed up under the general term ''Hospitalism;' have so important a bearing upon the death-rate after amputation, that, in order to arrive at a just estimate of the probable chances of recovery in any given case, it becomes necessary to consider not only whether the operation be done for injury or disease—whether it be primary or secondary —whether the disease be simple or malignant—whether the patient be aged or young, healthy or diseased ; but, above all, whether, after the removal of the liinb, the patient will be exposed to those conditions that result from the aggregation of the sick and the crowding together of foul suppurating wounds. . . Whatever explanation we may give of the fact, it remains certain and incontrovertible that the rate of mortality after amputation of all limbs in the large city hospitals of Great Britain up to a comparatively recent period has been at least l in 8. In those of Paris, out of 1,656 amputations, the statis- tics of which were collected by Malgaigne and Trelat (Simpson), 803 died, or neaiiv 1 in 2. The aovernment statistics collected by Bristowe and Holmes