GENERAL REMAllKS ON OPERATIONS. 20 gave rise to much discussion ; viz., Do they influence the rate of mortality after operations ? Simpson published statistics to show that the death rate was lessened by their introduction, while J. Arnott adduced figures to prove that it was materially increased ; in amputation by 12 and in lithotomy by as much as 28 per cent.* I am inclined to think that the rate of mortality was at first increased, and that this was due to two causes. First, that the Surg-eon in his anxiety to give his patient a chance of life, not unfi-equently operated by the aid of anjesthetics for diseases or injuries which would formerly have been left without an attempt at reUef, and, secondly, that the introduction of anaesthetics led at once to an enormous increase in the number of operations performed. Hence hospital wards became more crowded than formerly with severe operation cases, and in the absence of any efficient antiseptic treatment, the causes of septic diseases became much more rife, erysipelas, septicaemia, pyaemia, and hospital gangrene more frequent, and the mortality proportion- ately increased. At the present time, however, owing to the improved treatment of wounds and better sanitary arrangements the mortality after operations is certainly lower than it ever was before the days of anesthetics. Although, therefore, the statistics of modern surgery show no evidence of an increase of mortality due to the employment of anesthetics, I cannot but think that chloroform and ether do exercise a noxious influence and lessen the prospect of recovery in certain cases. In some, especially if the kidneys are diseased, the prolonged vomiting that often follows their administration may depress the patient to such an extent that he may fail to rally after the operation. In other cases the irritating vapour either of ether or chloroform may aggravate existing bronchitis to a fatal degree. Some, therefore, purchase the immunity from suffering by a lessened chance of recovery, but there is no reason to believe that this is the case with a patient who at the time of the operation is in siood health save for the local disease for the relief of which the operation is undertaken. Administration of Anesthetics.—Anaesthetics should never be given by a person unaccustomed to their use, and on whose capability the Surgeon has not full reliance ; as nothing is more embarrassing during an operation than to have any doubt about the ansesthetic being properly administered. It must not, however, be imagined that they can be safely given only by a specialist. Every student before leaving the hospital may easily make himself sufficiently acquainted with the details of their administration to enable him to give tiiem with perfect safety, provided he pays undivided attention to what he is doing and does not allow his mind to be diverted by watching the operation or by attempting to act both as anaesthetist and assistant. Ko anesthetic should ever be administered, except in cases of great emergency, to a patient who has eaten anything within three or four hours, lest it induce vomiting of the partially digested meal. On the other hand, the patient should not be exhausted by want of food, as may happen if the operation be performed early in the morning. Thus, if 1).;U) be the hour fixed, he may have a cup of strong beef-tea at G.oO. Before any anesthetic is administered, the patient should be asked if he wears false teeth, and if so, thev should be removed. ..\ny article of clothing about the neck, chest, or waist, that might cause interference with respiration or circulation must be loosened, and the patient should then be placed, if possible, in the recumbent position.