753 LOCALIZATION OF CEREBRAL INJURY. man was admitted into University College Hospital suffering fi'om an injury to the brain which caused aphasia and facial paralysis, received in a fall against some steps. In spite of the severity of the injury he did not lose con- sciousness, or, if he did, it was certainly for less than one minute. In punc- tured fractures the patient frequently walks to the hospital unconscious of having received any more serious injury than a cut head. It is not even un- common to see a patient with a wound from which broken down fragments of brain substance are protruding, and who is yet perfectly conscious and has been insensible only for a few minutes. On the other hand, when the laceration is due to a more diffused blow on the head—in those cases in fact in which it is situated on the side opposite to that struck—concussion is almost always more or less distinctly marked. In these the injury is more diffused and seldom at first capable of accurate localization, for in addition to the local injury the whole brain has been more or less violently shaken. Under such circumstances, it is not surprising that the return of consciousness is often delayed for days or even weeks. The LocalUy of the Injury. Until comparatively recently we had no means at our command by which we could with any certainty recognize the exact part of the brain which was bruised or lacerated by an accident unless the nature of the injury were such as to leave no doubt that the cerebral substance ^v^as wounded directly beneath the part of the skull to which the violence had been apphed. It was known that injuries to one side of the brain caused paralysis of the opposite side of the body and face, and that sometimes the paralyses affected merely a part of one side, and were very temporary in their character ; that in other cases extensive injuries of the brain were not accompanied by any interference with motor power ; but there was no accurate knowledge by which the seat of the injury could even approximately be determined by the symptoms. The earliest definite attempt to localize an injury in the cerebral hemispheres was made by Broca, who pointed out in 1.861 that the condition now known as aphasia, in which the patient loses the faculty of converting his ideas into articulate speech, is associated almost invariably with some definite lesion of the posterior part of the third left frontal convolution. As the result of the investigations of subsequent observers it has been clearly demonstrated that the cortical grey matter of the brain in the region of the sulcus of Rolando is the seat of various centres, which are connected with the voluntary muscular movements of the body. The means by which our know- ledge on this subject has been gained have been experimental and clinical. Excitation of certain spots in this so-called " motor area " by a weak faradic current causes definite muscular movements. Destruction of these areas on the other hand, is followed by a paralysis of the corresponding movements, although such paralysis may be more or less temporary. It appears indeed that each centre in the motor area corresponds Avith certain definite movements rather than with individual muscles. Hitzig and Ferrier showed that if the strength of the exciting current be increased the resulting movements are no longer accurately limited but extend to a whole limb or the whole side of the body; a still stronger current gives rise to a general epileptiform convulsion atiectmg the whole body and accompanied by loss of consciousness. The accompanying figure (Fig. 804) represents the principal motor areas on the outer surface of the cerebral hemisphere of the Bonnet Monkey as •determmed by Beevor and Horsley. The exact limits of the different centres VOL. I. 3 c \