430 ARREST OF ARTERIAL HAEMORRHAGE. instrument ; thus, it occasionally seized other tissues with the artery, and, occasionally, an accidental puncture having been made by it behind the part of the vessel to which the hgature was applied, ulceration and subsequent fatal hcemorrhao-e ensued, as I \ave seen in one case. The most convenient instrument for the purpose of drawing forward the artery, and one to which no objection whatever applies, is Listen's " bull-dog " forceps. These have been conveniently modified by having the blades expanded just above the points (Fig 130), so that the Hgature can be slipped over their end on to an artery that is deeply seated, as between bones or close to the interosseous membrane of the leg—a situation in which it is sometimes troublesome to tie a vessel by any other means. in applying the ligature, care must be taken that it be put well over the cut end of the artery, that it clear the points of the forceps, and that it be tied tightly in a reef-knot, which will not slip (Fig. 181). As the knot is tightened, the tips of the forefingers should be in close contact with the points of the forceps, and be pressed slightly downwards on the artery, otherwise the vessel may be dragged forwards out of its bed, or the forceps pulled off it. In Fig. I30.-Liston's " Bull-dog " Forceps, modified. Fig. I31.-Tlie Ligature, or reef-knot. some cases the bleeding point may be so situated, that the ligature is most conveniently passed round it by means of an ordinary curved needle. 2. When the artery has to be ligatured in its continuity at the injured spot for a wound which does not completely divide it, it must be exposed by as careful a dissection as the state of the parts will admit; the wound being enlarged, if necessary, in such a direction as to do the least possible injury to surrounding structures. If for any reason a Surgeon determine to apply a hgature at a distance from the seat of the disease or injury, he selects that part of the vessel which is best adapted to the operation, and guided by his anatomical knowledge exposes it in the chosen spot. The particular operations by which each of the main arteries may be exposed and tied will be described in the chapter on the treatment of Special Aneurisms ; but the general principles which guide the Surgeon in the application of a ligature to a large artery in its continuity will be given here. AYhenever it is possible, the hgature should be applied at some distance from any branch, in order that the formation of the internal coagulum may not be interfered with, either by the stream of blood leaving the main trunk immediately on the proximal side of the ligature, or by that entering it by means of the collateral circulation on the distal side. When this is impossible, it is safer to apply the ligature on the proximal side of the branch, so that a clot may be formed above it and protect the injured part of the vessel from the direct impulse of the stream of blood from the heart. In some cases, especially if