73^ IiVJUHIFS OF THE HEAD. there may be no signs of compression ; bat inflammation speedily sets in, and proves certainly fatal if the sharp spicula are not removed and good drainage provided for such discharges as may form within the cranium. In cases which are not thus relieved, the dura mater after death is found to be sloughy, and covered with a thick layer of puriform inflammatory exudation , whilst the usual evidences of meningo-encephalitis are present. Wounds of che dura mater, though dangerous, are frequently recovered from. In military practice it has often happened that, as the result of sabre cuts, portions of the skull have been sliced or split down, the subjacent membranes and the brain itself being wounded, and yet a good recovery has resulted ; and I have had several cases under my own care in which, though the dura mater has been punctured by spicula of depressed bone, and portions of brain lost, the patients have quickly recovered. In many of the cases the injury has been such as to provide efficiently for drainage of the wound without the interference of the Surgeon. The Treatment of a depressed fracture of the skull varies according to the nature of the injury—whether it is simple or compound—and according to the presence or absence of symptoms of compression of the brain. In the case of a Simple Depressed Fracture without symptoms of compression the rule of treatment still generally accepted is that recom- mended by Astley Cooper, Abernethy and Dupuytren, viz., not to interfere with it; and there are many cases on record of patients in whom this course was adopted who have recovered, the depression continuing permanent. That non- interference is the proper course to pursue in some cases, more particularly in children, there can be no doubt. I have had under my care a child in whom, in consequence of a fall, there was on one of the parietal bones a depression as large as a crown-piece, its edges being sharply defined : no signs of com- pression or of inflammation of the brain ensued, and it was consequently left without interference, the child making an excellent recovery, and continuing well. Indeed, in children, the amount of injury that may be inflicted on the brain, not only by compression, but by actual laceration, and yet be followed by recovery, is very surprising. In cases of sharply depressed fracture in the region of the cortical motor centres of the brain, although no insensibility or general paralysis may in- dicate severe compression of the brain, there may be a local paralysis of the face or of one limb, or aphasia indicating pressure on one of the cortical centres by the depressed fragments (p. 754). Under these circumstances, if the case be left to nature there is a risk of the patient's becoming epileptic or suffering from some permanent loss of power in the paralysed part. The depressed bone should therefore be exposed by an incision and elevated, and if this be done with proper antiseptic precautions the operation is practically free from danger. But even in the complete absence of symptoms the rule of non- interference is now sometimes departed from and the Surgeon proceeds to elevate the depressed fragment, hoping by so doing to save his patient from certain remote symptoms which follow depressed fractures in a small pro- portion of cases (p. 781). Should symptoms of irritation of the brain or meningitis (p. 736) develope after a few days, trephining must of course be resorted to at once. In a Simple Depressed Fracture of the Skull with Symptoms of Compression of the Brain the Surgeon should expose the depressed bone •by a free incision and elevate or remove it. It by no means follows, however,