6o6 SPECIAL FRACTURES. rim, a portion of which is detached. Ifc is probably occasioned in most instances by the head of the thigh-bone being driven forcibly against the surface of the acetabulum. Hence, when the rim is broken, it is usually the posterior part that is detached, and the head of the femur slips out upon the dorsum ilii. Fracture ^ through the floor of the acetabulum is usually complicated with such extensive comminution of the pelvic bones and serious internal injury, as to be soon followed by death. In the University College Museum is a prepara- tion of a fracture of the acetabulum, with comminution of its floor and of the ilium. Sanson and Astley Cooper have seen the bone resolved into its three primitive parts ; and in some cases the comminution has been so great that the head of the femur has been thrust into the pelvic cavity. In such extensive and grave injuries as these, the Surgeon can do little more than support the pelvis with a padded belt, and jDlace the hmb on a long splint. ^ When a portion of the rim of the acetabulum is detached, as the result of direct violence, the head of the femur will slip out upon the dorsum ilii, and the signs of one of the forms of dorsal dislocation will manifest themselves. In a case of this kind, in a muscular man aged about thirty, which was under my care, the shortening and inversion of the limb and displacement of the head of the bone towards the sciatic notch were all well marked. Traction readily effected reduction, with distinct crepitus ; but, as soon as extension was discontinued, the head of the bone slipped back into its former position. The Treatment consists in the application of the long splint with a broad padded belt, so as to secure steadiness of the head of the bone. But with every care a return of displacement will readily take place, and an unsatis- factory result can scarcely be avoided ; shortening of the limb, and consequent lameness, being almost inevitable. Fractuebs of the Sacrum are excessively rare, except as the result of gunshot injury. When occurring from other causes, such as falls, they are almost invariably associated with fracture of the pelvic bones, and then they have always been fatal. The records of surgery contain but very few obser- vations, probably not more than six or eight, of uncomplicated fracture of the sacrum arising from other causes than gunshot. I have had two cases of fracture of the sacrum under my care, both of which had a rapidly fatal issue. In one there was also fracture through the pubic bone ; in the other, the sacrum was the only bone injured. In that case, the fracture was the result of a blow on the lower part of the back from the buffer of a railway carriage. The preparation is in the University College Museum. The only other preparation with which I am acquainted is one in the Museum of the College of Surgeons. These fractures are almost invariably transverse with displacement forwards of the upper margin of the lower fragment. This was the case in both the instances under my care ; but Richerand has published a case in which the bone was split vertically in consequence of a iall on the face ; and crucial and multiple fractures of it have been described by others. The injury can necessarily arise only from severe direct violence, and is attended with much extravasation and pain, together with neuralgia along the course of the posterior sacral nerves, which' may be implicated in or irritated by the fracture. The Treatment is the same as for fractured pelvis, and con- sists in the application of a padded pelvic band. The Coccyx, though more exposed, is seldom broken. But fracture of it