GENERAL REMARKS ON OPERATIONS. 38 8. As accessory means, friction of the extremities may be employed ; a little brandy should be rubbed inside the mouth ; and cold water dashed on the face. 9. Tracheotomy or laryngotomy is necessary when the asphyxia is due to the impaction of some foreign body, as false teeth or a gag in the larynx during insensibility, or to accumulation of blood in the pharynx or trachea. It may also be of use when, owing to emphysema of the lungs and rigidity cf the chest-wall, artificial respiration cannot be efficiently carried out, but it will be necessary then to blow the air into the lungs and suck it out through the tube either by bellows or by the Surgeon's mouth. LOCAL AN-ffilSTHESIA. Local anassthesia may be induced in two ways : 1, by cold, and 2, by the use of cocaine. Cold.—The application of ice and salt, as introduced by J. Arnott, may conveniently be employed in many cases in which general anaesthesia is inadmissible or inconvenient. Local anaesthesia can be produced only in those cases in which the incisions merely implicate the skin and subcutaneous structures, as in opening abscesses, slitting up sinuses, avulsion of toe-nails, or removing small superficial tumours. For such purposes, however, it is extremely valuable. The mode of using the frigorific mixture is as follows : About a tumblerful of rough ice is put into a strong canvas bag, and finely powdered with a mallet. It is then poured out on a plate, and half its bulk of salt is quickly mixed with it by means of an ivory or wooden paper-knife. The mixture is then put into a musKn or gauze bag and applied to the part for from five to ten minutes. As soon as the skin becomes white and hard, the incisions may be made without any pain being experienced. The frozen part speedily recovers, no inconvenience resulting. The rapid evaporation of highly rectified ether has been applied by Richardson in the production of cold sufficient to freeze a part, and thus render it temporarily insensible. A fine spray-jet of ether of a low specific gravity is thrown upon the part to be anaesthetised. The skin rapidly becomes white and hard—is, in fact, frozen. This method of inducing local insensibility to pain is more exact and efficacious than that by the frigorific mixture, and is generally preferred. It is applicable in the same class of cases. The ether should be tested before it is used by pouring a little into the hollow of the hand, where, if it is of the proper quality, it will boil violently. Cocaine is an alkaloid extracted from the leaves of erythroxylon coca. Coca has been known in Europe since the discovery of Peru, the natives of which country have from time immemorial been in the habit of chewing the leaves for the purpose of allaying hunger and supporting strength during prolonged physical exertion. The alkaloid was first extracted by Niemann in 1859, and both he and Hughes Bennett, who investigated its properties in 1872, pointed out the fact that it causes numbness when applied to mucous membranes. No practical use was, however, made of this discovery till 1884, when Carl Koller, of Vienna, demonstrated that the eye could be rendered sufficiently anesthetic for the performance of almost any operation by putting a few drops of a solution of cocaine on the conjunctiva. The value of this