49 BLOODLESS METHODS. posed of antiseptic gauze surrounded by cotton-wool impregnated with salicylic acid, which is moderately firmly bandaged to the part. The limb is then placed in an elevated position, and finally the elastic tourniquet is removed. The elevated position is maintained for at least half an hour or an hour. In 12 cases of amputation and 5G excisions in Avhich this plan was tried, it suc- ceeded perfectly. In 148 operations for necrosis, it was necessary to remove the dressing on account of liajmorrhage in six cases only. Various objections besides the subsequent oozing have been raised to Esmarch's bloodless method. It has been stated that it causes sloughing of the flaps and increases the tendency to secondary haemorrhage after large amputations, by unnaturally augmenting the ])roportion of blood in the body, and so giving rise to increased arterial tension. Neither of these statements is supported by experience. A more rational objection against it is, that when the limb is infiltrated with the products of inflammation, or when perhaps clots exist in the veins, these may be driven on into the circulation by the application of the elastic bandage. Although no case of such an accident has been recorded, it would be safer when such conditions exist to empty the limb of blood by the simpler plan of elevation as before described. The same plan is also better employed in cases of cancer or sarcoma, in which the danger of Fig. 13.—Eamarch's Method. dislodging particles and driving them into the circulation would be very con- siderable. The advantages of the bloodless method of operating, however, especially in diseases of bones and joints, far outweigh any supposed dis- advantages. It is difficult to say how long complete arrest of the circulation through a limb may be maintained by the elastic band or the tourniquet without danger of gangrene. It must necessarily vary according to age. Esmarch's method has been used for about three hours without any evil result. Compression of the Main Arterial Trunk is iu the present day em- ployed only as a temporary expedient before a tourniquet can be applied, or immediately after its removal, while a few vessels before invisible are beino- secured, or in those situations in which the application of a tourniquet is impossible. It is far safer to trust to an instrument than to the hands of an assistant, however steady and strong. When the tourniquet is applied with sufficient tightness, the whole circulation through the limb is arrested ; but this can never be done by the compression of the main trunk alone, as the collateral vessels still convey blood into the limb. Then again, if the operation be unexpectedly protracted, the fingers of an assistant may tire, and the steadiness of their pressure be relaxed. For these reasons Surgeons invariably employ the tourniquet in amputations ; and even Liston, who at one period of VOL. I.