ULCERATION. vessels in the same way become obliterated by pressure and are lost in the mass of new cells. In whatever part or tissue the change may be occurring the process is essentially the same—the original tissues degenerate and dis- integrate, and their place is taken by a closely. packed crowd of migrated leucocytes. Even at this stage it is possible for the process to stop should the cause of irritation cease to act. The leucocytes would then be removed in the way above described, the new cells derived from the original tissues would occupy the space, and recovery would take place with the formation of scar-tissue in the damaged area which would remain permanently through life. Should the cause continue to act, the process wall culminate in the formation of pus or suppuration. This condition is brought about by the softening of the intercellular substance in the centre of the group of closely packed leucocytes. The migrated cells themselves are cut off from proper nutrition by their mutual pressure, and are exposed to the injurious action of the micro- organisms which are almost invariably present in all cases of acute suppura- tion, and they consequently undergo degenerative changes and finally perish. They assume a more circular form ; their protoplasm becomes filled with large highly refracting granules, some of w^hich are fatty and soluble in ether, while others are albumenoid and can be cleared up by acetic acid. When thus cleared the cell, which now receives the name of a pus-cell, is found to contain a double or triple or sometimes quadruple nucleus. This was at one time considered a sign of degeneration, but, as before stated (p. 1G8), the greater number of the migrating leucocytes in their most active stage contain a similar multiple nucleus. The fluid which separates the pus-cells is formed partly by the softening of the intercellular substance which separated the heaped up leucocytes, and partly by the liquid exudation from the surrounding inflamed tissues soaking in amongst them. With this fluid come fresh wandering leucocytes ; so that in the fluid drawn from an acute collection of pus, not only are the round dead pus-cells found, but with them many still showing faintly granular protoplasm and amoeboid movements of the white blood corpuscle. The nature of pus, and the process by which a small collection spreads and forms an abscess, will be further discussed under Suppuration and Abscess. If the process that has just been described should occur on a surface so that the pus finds a ready escape as soon as it is formed, we get another result of inflammation, which receives the name of Ulceration. The process of ulceration is, indeed, identical with that of the formation of a localised collection of pus. The original tissues are infiltrated by migrating cells which gradually destroy them and fiU the space they formerly occupied ; the new cells in their tarn degenerate on the surface and are cast off as pus-cells. This will be further considered under Ulceration. Inflammation has also been described as terminating in gangrene. This is most frequently the effect of some micro-organism invading the tissues, and giving rise in its growth to chemical products of so intensely irritating a character as to cause the death of the tissues upon which they act. At some distance from the invaded area the diluted products give rise to the phenomena of inflammation, but as the invading organisms advance the more concentrated virus kills the tissues. Another way in which the inflammatory process may end in gangrene is the arrest of the circulation by the pressure of the exuda-