396 EFFECTS OF HEAT AND COLD. the contents of the bowel have been neutralised by the bile ; thirdly, signs of active inflammation are usually wanting iu the mucous membrane surrounding the ulcer : and lastly, a similar ulceration has been recorded as occurring m a case of septicaemia not due to burn. The ulcer may rapidly proceed to perfo- ration, exposing the pancreas and possibly eroding the superior pancreatico- duodenal artery and causing fatal heemorrhage. In other cases it may open into the serous cavity of the abdomen and cause death from peritonitis. Ulceration of the duodenum is met with most frequently iu patients under ten years of age, but as extensive burns are most common in children, it may not be proportionally more frequent in them than in adults. It is said rarely to occur before the tenth day, but Caesar Hawkins met with it once in a child six years old, who died four and a half days after the burn ; and in a child nine years of age, Avho died on the fourth day, in University College Hospital, I found an ulcer in the duodenum about the size of a shilling, with sharp-cut margius. In this case the mucous membrane generally Avas inflamed. That these ulcers are not invariably fatal is evident from a case mentioned by Curhng, in which, on death occurring from other causes, eight weeks after the injury, a recent cicatrix was found in the duodenum. Ulcer of the duodenum_seldom occasions any very marked symptoms to indicate the nature of the mischief; the patient generally sinks suddenly. In some instances there is htemorrhage; though this is not an unequivocal sign, as I have several times seen bleeding from simple inflammatory congestion of the intestinal mucous membrane. Pain in the right hypochondriac region, and perhaps vomiting, may also occur In'94 consecutive examinations after death from burns, ulceration of the duodenum was ibund in only two cases. 3. The stage of Suppuration and Exhaustion continues from the second week to the close of the case. In it we frequently have symptoms of hectic, with much constitutional disturbance from the long continuance of exhausting discharges. If death occur, it is most frequently induced by inflammation of the lungs or pleura ; affections of the abdominal organs and brain being less frequent during this stage of the injury. Pyaemia is not uncommon. In 16 cases ending fatally after the second week, congestion of the brain was found in 2 ; in 6 cases there was pneumonia, and in 3 bronchitis ; the abdominal viscera were free from congestion in 13, whilst in 2 there was con- gestion of the stomach and intestines, and in 1 of the duodenum only. In no case was the duodenum ulcerated. Prognosis.—The influence of extent, degree, and situation on the prognosis of burns, has already been stated. The most fatal element in these injuries is superficial extent. It is generally believed that recovery cannot take place if one-third of the surface of the body be affected. Not only are the cutaneous nerves greatly irritated, and the nervous system generally severely affected irom the shock of an extensive burn ; but, owing to the arrest of the cutaneous secretion over a large surface of the skin, congestion of the internal organs and of the mucous membranes ensues : hence death may happen directly from this cause, or from the supervention of inflammation in the already congested parts, more particularly in the early periods of life. The degree of burn influences the prognosis unfavourably rather as far as the part itself is concerned, than as the general system is affected. The most fatal period in cases of burn is the first week afcer the accident. In 100 cases of death from