1171 INHERITED SYPHILIS: SYMPTOMS. outer table only, around the anterior fontanelle and along the line of the sagittal and interfrontal sutures. Between these bosses the sutures may at first form distinct sulci, but later on they are often bridged over, and premature union may take place. If the child dies the bosses will be found to be com- posed of soft bone, very red in tint, sometimes even of a dark maroon colour. If macerated the new bone is porous and granular in structure, and is often deeply grooved by vascular channels. There is little if any thickening of the periosteum. The anterior part of the skull may reach a third of an inch or more in thickness. The effect of these growths is to give the forehead the rounded prominent form which was pointed out by Hutchinson many years ago as being often associated with other signs of congenital syphilis in later life. Barlow and Lees have pointed out that the condition known as cranio- tdbes is also met with in syphilitic infants, although it is by no means confined to them. In this the bones of the vault of the skull become extremely thin in circumscribed patches, so as to yield to gentle firm pressure, feeling like parch- ment beneath the finger. In some spots the bony material may entirely dis- appear, leaving only a thin membrane. These spots are most common in the occipital region, Avhere the bone is exposed to direct pressure while the child is lying on its back, but they are also met with in the parietal bones. The bony growths are met with at any time during the first two years, but the irregularity they give rise to may be recognized at any age. Cranio-tabes occurs at an early period during the first year of life. Both conditions may occur in the same skull. In addition to the above diseases of the bones gummata are occasionally met with in the skull, and dactylitis, similar to that described as occurring in acquired syphilis, is not uncommon. Up to puberty chronic inflammation of various long bones, especially of the tibia, is occasionally met with in syphilitic subjects. Attention was first especially drawn to an affection of the Joints in con- genital syphilis by Glutton in 1886. It occurs usually between the ages of 8 and 15, and consists in a painless effusion into the knee-joints which is in some cases accompanied by thickening of the synovial membrane. It is not ■attended with any impairment of mobility. The synovitis is usually bilateral, although the affection rarely begins simultaneously in the two joints. It is interesting that the joint affection is frequently associated with the affection of the eyes to be next described: thus of 11 cases collected by Glutton, 10 were affected with active keratitis, and in 1 there was evidence of past mischief. Under the name of Chronic Interstitial Keratitis, Hutchinson has described a disease which he believes to be uniformly due to hereditary syphilis. It occurs between the ages of 5 and 18, but may occur much earlier, even during the first year. It consists at first of a hazy condition of the cornea, giving it the appearance of ground glass, followed by vascularization, without any tendency to ulceration. The opacity commences in the centre, and both ■eyes are usually affected. The vascularity is not confined to the surface, but Beems to pervade the whole thickness of the cornea. One eye is usually affected before the other. Under a carefully conducted course of mercurials and iodides, accompanied by tonics and good diet, the transparency of the cornea can usually be restored. Chronic affections of the Ear, leading to deafness, are not uncommon in inherited syphilis. They occur sometimes in conjunction with interstitial keratitis in the eye. Their pathology is not yet certainly known. 4 F 2