COMPLICATIONS OF CERE BE AL INJURY. 7^3 Claude Bernard has recorded some similar instances in illustration of the interesting facts pointed out by him, that in rabbits wounds or irritation of tlie central portion of the medulla, between the origins of the vagus and auditory nerves in the floor of the fourth ventricle occasion saccharine diabetes, and that in the dog artificial traumatic diabetes may be induced by fracture of the skull and injury of the brain. Jn patients already sutfering from diabetes, a blow on the head is frequently followed by fatal aggravation of the complaint. The Cerebral Nerves are occasionally injured at their roots, or torn across and detached from their connexion with the brain, in injuries of the head. These nerves may be wounded by the same violence that injures the brain, as by a bullet; or they may be detached from their connexion with the brain in laceration of the cerebral substance ; or, lastly, they may be torn across in fracture of the base of the skull, by the fissure extending across the foramen through which the nerve passes. From these causes, or from extravasation of blood into its sheath, blindness may result from injury to the optic nerve at any part of its course. Ptosis, and strabismus in different directions, according as the third, the fourth, or the sixth nerve has been injured, are also occasionally observed. But the nerves that most commonly suffer are the seventh and eighth, which are torn across in fractures of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, producing either paralysis of the face or deafness, or both together. Injury to the tenth nerve is not common, or rather it is rare for patients to survive who exhibit evidence of the lesion. I have, however, seen repeated vomiting, with palpi- tation, and a sense of suffocation continuing for months after apparent injury to the origins of the pneumogastric. In other cases, owing to lesion to the spinal accessory, spasm of the trapezius and sterno-mastoid muscles, simulating tetanus, may set in. COMPLICATIONS OF WOUNDS OF THE BRAIN AND ITS MEMBRANES. Extravasation of Blood within the Skull necessarily occurs in all injuries of the head accompanied by laceration of the brain, and in many in which the skull is fractured without wound of its contents. Indeed, when v^e reflect on the great vascularity of the parts within the skull, the large sinuses, the numerous ai-teries that ramify both within the bones and at the base of the brain, and the close vascular network extending over the surface of this organ, we can easily understand that extravasation of blood is one of the most frequent comphcations of these injuries and a common cause of death, when they terminate fatally at an early period after their infliction. Causes.—Intracranial extravasation of blood may occur, as the direct result of a fracture, in consequence of the fissure tearing across one of the meningeal arteries, or of a fragment of bone wounding a sinus. In some cases the inner table only has been fractured, the middle meningeal artery being torn in this way where it lies in a groove in the bone. When the brain is lacerated either by the broken bone or by indirect violence, the torn substance necessarily bleeds more or less abundantly. In rare cases, especially in children, extrava- sation may result from apparently trifling injuries of the head without fracture, from rupture of one of the meningeal arteries. Situations.—Extravasation may occur in four situations :—1. Between the