TT26 VENEREAL DISEASES. tissues formino- the base of the ulcer, if the inoculation has been immediately followed by the formation of a sore consequent upon the simultaneous m- troduction of the poison of the non-infecting chancre or other irritating- matter. Should such a sore have healed, the new growth commences in the scar. The new tissue may be of almost cartilaginous hardness. Microscopic examination shows it to be formed by an infiltration of the connective tissue with small round cells. AYith these larger cells containing a single nucleus are found, and not uncommonly multinuclear cells of considerable size are met with. These differ from the giant cells of tubercle in being smaller and more regular in outline. It is the formation of this growth that forms the most distinctive features of the true syphilitic sore. The simple chancre is formed by a true process of ulceration. There is destruction of tissue from the first, and such apparent increase as there may be results merely from inflammatory exudation, and the cells infiltrating the tissues are apparently all migrated white corpuscles, and show no signs of higher development. In the initial manifestation of syphilis, in addition to the small round cells, larger cells evidently undergoing development are met with. In the simple chancre there is from the first evident loss of substance ; in the hard sore there may be distinct increase of tissue even when ulceration is taking place. The new growth in the initial manifestation of syphilis is imperfectly vascularized. The walls of the small arteries and veins in the infected tissue are sometimes found to be thickened, and the lumen obstructed by a growth from the endothelium. Consequently the indurated tissue tends readily to degenerate and break down. Clinically, the initial manifestation assumes two forms,—the desquamating papule, and the indurated chancre. The desquamating papule appears at the point of inoculation as an elevated hard dark-red or copper-coloured spot distinctly elevated above the surface, with slight desquamation of the epithelium covering it. At first it is very small, but it may gradually extend till it reaches half an inch in diameter. It is dense and hard, its edges are sharply defined ; it is practically painless, causing at most a slight itching. It occurs most frequently where it is little exposed to friction or to the irritation of accumulated secretions. If irritated in any way it readily ulcerates and then becomes an indurated chancre. In fact it rarely remains as a papule to the end. From its painless nature, if ulceration does not occur, it may run its course and subside without attracting the attention of the patient. The Indurated or Hunterian Chancre - commences as a papule, or may begin as an apparently simple sore which becomes indurated when the period of incubation is past. It assumes two forms dependent on the amount of the surrounding induration. In one form the sore is superficial, and the hardness, which is clearly defined, extends but little beyond it. In this variety, the sore is the most prominent feature, and the induration may even be difficult to detect, sometimes assuming the form described by Ricord as "parchment induration." The discharge, if the sore be kept clean and free from irritation, is merely serous, and under the microscope shows granular delris with a few epithelium scales. If the surface be irritated by dirt, or the friction of clothing, or by any substance used as a dressing, it rapidly becomes purulent. The extension of the ulceration is slow and painless. The superficial sore forms the most common variety of the initial manifestation. It occurs