VENEREAL DISEASES. degeneration and softening. A subperiosteal gumma runs the ordinary course of such growths ; if unrelieved by treatment it gradually increases in size, approaches the skin superficially, and extends into the bone beneath ; finally, it softens, the skin gives way, the slough is discharged, and a deep ulcer is left, at the bottom of Avhich spongy ulcerating bone is exposed. This forms the most common variety of syphilitic caries. In the cranium the gumma may com- pletely perforate the bone,but more commonly it is associated with great sclerosis of the vault of the skull, the thickened bone being hollowed out and worm- eaten in parts corresponding to the situation of the gummata. Occasionally the gummata form on the internal aspect of the skull, and may give rise to cerebral symptoms. Gummata of bone form rounded flattened tumours, accom- panied with aching pain usually worse at night. After a time they soften, and may then resemble abscesses. However soft they may become, they must on no account be opened, as absorption may take place even after distinct fluctuation is present. Syphilitic Necrosis may arise in various ways. In the vault of the skull it is Fi<r 407 —Svpliilitic Necrosis of Frontal Bone. The sequestrum, which has completely separated, has ;i ' worm-eaten surface, tlie result of the inflammation of the bone which preceded its death. most commonly due to an exaggeration of the process of sclerosis, by which the Haversian canals become obliterated to such an extent that death of the bone follows. The sequestra thus formed are often of considerable size, some- times reaching that of the palm of the hand (Fig. iOT). They are composed of dense hard bone, much thicker than the normal skull, and always more or less worm-eaten on the surface. This appearance is due to the previous exist- ence of subperiosteal gummata which have softened and been thrown off. The skin of the scalp having been implicated in the gummata is destroyed partly by their softening and partly by subsequent ulceration, so that the surface of the sequestrum is usually bare and exposed. The process of separation is very slow, often lasting many years. Cerebral symptoms may be present, but are quite as often absent. Necrosis of the bones of the base of the skull may arise in the same way, or may result from ulceration of the mucous membrane of the nasal cavity or pharynx by which they are in many parts thinly covered. The tertiary ulcerations in the mouth and nose also may be