1030 TUMOURS. packed cells, in every way resembling the white corpuscles of the blood. The stroma is composed of fibrous tissue containing a few oval nuclei scattered through it, especially where the bands cross each other. The stroma may, in Rome cases, be increased in amount and thicker than that normally found in lymphatic glands. The vessels are abundant and in close connection with the stroma. The tumours are white or grey in colour, sometimes stained by hsemorrhages. They vary considerably in consistence ; sometimes they are soft and brain-like, and sometimes hard and tough. This difference depends upon the proportion borne by the cells to the stroma. The softer forms yield an abundant milky fluid on scraping, resembling the juice of a cancer. The lymphoid character of the cells in the fluid, however, at once shows the true nature of the growth. The development of these tumours forms the essential feature of the general affection known as " Hodgkin's disease." In this affection there is an enlargement of the lymphatic glands, accompanied in some cases by disseminated lymphoid tumours in the liver, spleen, kidneys, and Fig. 371.—Lymphadeiionia (454 diam.). Some of the cells Imve been re- moved to show the aiTanj;eiiieiit of the stroma. Fig. 372.—Lympliadeiioma (188 diam. Shows general arrangement. other organs, and occasionally in the medullary tissue of bones. To this o-eneral form of the disease, Gowers applies the name of lymphadenosis. The chief o-eneral symptom is marked and progressive anaemia. The red corpuscles of the blood are diminished in number, and the white may or may not be increased. The increase in the white corpuscles is met with chiefly in those cases in which the tumours are soft and disseminated throughout the viscera, and more especially Avhen the spleen is enlarged. The disease may occur at any age, but is most common in young adults. For the further symptoms, the reader must refer to works on medicine. Lymphadenoma comes under the care of the Surgeon only as ifc occurs in the lymphatic glands. The glands of the neck and axilla are most frequently affected. They form painless swellino-s, usually firm in consistence, and of slow growth, and are at first iudistinguishable from simple hypertrophy or chronic inflammatory enlarge- ment. The glands remain distinct till they have acquired a considerable size ; but later on they may fuse together, forming a large lobulated mass. While they remain distinct, they form no adhesions to surrounding parts, and can easily be removed; but when the growth extends beyond the capsules of the glands, it may infiltrate surrounding structures. They show no tendency to caseation, and never soften or suppurate. The skin covering