AMPUTATION BY THE CIRCULAR METHOD. 59 Hans von GersdorflF, but as the cauteiy, or some more or less impotent styptic, was still the means employed to stop the bleeding, but little real progress was made. In the middle of the sixteenth century, about 1552, Arabroise Pare, the most celebrated Surgeon of his time, extended the use of the ligature to vessels wounded in amputations, arguing that, if the ligatui'e were useful in accidental wounds and iu varices, it was equally applicable to vessels divided in amputations. Amputation, as performed by Pare, was essentially the same operation as that described by Celsus, and although the arrest of bleeding was efficiently carried out by the ligature, the loss of'blood during the operation was often considerable; for, though the " fillet" was bound tightly round the limb with the intention of diminish- ing the hBemorrhage, it seems never to have been applied with sufficient force completely to arrest the circulation. The instruments used for seizing the vessels were somewhat clumsy, and consequently the patient often lost so much blood before the ligatures were applied, that the majority of Surgeons continued for another century to prefer the cautery or some styptic. It was not until the beginning of the eighteenth century that the liga^^ure really became the only recognised mode of arresting arterial bleeding. This result was brought about partly by the discovery of the circulation of the blood by Harvey in 1628, but chiefly by the invention of a really efficient tourniquet by Morel in 1674. Surgeons now were able to perform amputations without the fear of seeing their patient die of hgemorrhagc during the operation, and from that time real improvement commenced. In 1679, Lowdham, an English Surgeon, first suggested the plan of cutting a flap which could be made to cover the divided end of the bone, so as to obtain early union without necrosis and separation of the end of the bone. Thus there came to be two distinct modes of amputating a limb, the circular and the flap method, each of which underwent gradual development and improvement. Amputation by the Circular Method.—The first improvement of the circular method of amputating, made after the invention of the tourniquet, was the introduction of what was known as the operation " hy the double incision.'''' This mode of operating was introduced into practice almost simul- taneously by Cheselden (1688—1751) of London, and J. L. Petit (1674— 1750) of Paris. In this mode of operating, the skin and fat were divided by a circular incision ; the assistant then, grasping the limb, pulled the integu- ments forcibly upwards, and the muscles were cat through to the bone by another circular sweep of the knife. The periosteum was then scraped from the bone with the back of the amputating knife for some distance upwards and the saw applied as high as possil)le. In the leg and forearm a smaller straight knife was used for cleaning the bones. This method did not aim at com- pletely covering in the bone, but it provided such an amount of covering that it was possible for the stump to heal completely by granulation, usually after separation of the protruding end of the bone. The results were not so bad as might have been expected. The first Monro, who wrote in 1736, tells us that out of ninety-nine major amputations perforra3d by himself and his colleagues in the Edinburgh Infirmary, only eight died, and none of these from the im- mediate effects of the operation. Monro secured the vessels by ligature, and dressed the raw surface of the stump with dry lint, which remained on till it was loosened by suppuration. A modification of the operation by the double