NERVOUS TRAUMATIC DELIRIUM. 309 removal of the breast, especially in those cases in which the patieut has loni>- concealed her disease, and finally with a great mental effort submitted to the operation. In the Treatment of nervous traumatic delirium, the essential points are to induce sleep and to keep up the patient's strength. The foul tongue and breath are sufficient indications of the necessity of administering a brisk purgative at the cojumencement of the treatment; in many cases no sedatives will have any effect till the purge has acted. The motions brought away by the medicine are usually excessively foul. The best sedatives are bromide of potassium, morphia, and hyoscyamus. The bromide may be given in twenty-grain doses, repeated (jvery two or three hours. Morphia may be given in quarter-grain doses, repeated at intervals of four houi-s, till one grain is reached, or till sleep is induced. The effect of the drug must be carefully watched. It is always better to administer it hypodermicaliy when possible, as in some cases it seems to be imperfectly absorbed from the disordered stomach. Hyoscyamus may be administered in half-drachm doses of the tincture, but it is less effectual than morphia. Both morphia and hyoscyamus may be given in combination with the bromide. Hydrate of chloral has also frequently been used ; but it IS not so safe a drug as those just mentioned, as an excessive dose may kill the patient suddenly. Sulphonal sometimes succeeds in inducing sleep when other drugs have failed. The Surgeon must use his judgment as to the extent to which the sedatives may be pushed. If they fail to act, it is wiser to discontinue them than to run the risk of giving a poisonous dose. Pood is even of more importance than sedatives ; so long as the patient can take an abmidant supply of good liquid nourishment there is hope of his recovery. Sohds must be avoided, as the stomach is never in a state to digest them If there be much depression, it will usually be advisable to administer some stimulant, that to which the patient has habituated himself being the best It is sometimes convenient to mix the sedative with the stimulant. If the patient be strong, there is no danger in cutting off all stimulants, even in the case of a confirmed drunkard. After sleep has been induced, the quantitv of sedatives must be lessened; but it will often be found necessary to continue them for some time, as there will be a tendency to recurrence of the delirium at night. The patient should, if possible, be put in a room by himself, and watched bv a single attendant. If he is violent, he should be at once put in a strait- waistcoat as ,t excites him much less to struggle with an inanimate object than with a couple of men. When the strait-waistcoat is firmly applied the attendant should keep out of sight as much as possible while watihino- him If the injury is a broken bone in a limb, the injured part must be fixed firm y 111 splints well padded with cotton-wool and swung from a cradle • it mus on no account be fixed to the bed, for every moventent of the pati'en These two forms of traumatic delirium, the inflammatory and the nervou. often found more or less conjoined, and in such case's the prognosTs ^ .Uways grave, as exhaustion speedily sets in ; stimulants and abiLlantTi d nourishment must then be freely administered. 'I'^wnciant tiuid