SPECIAL FRACTURES. 620 joints, the fracture being adjusted by short splints apphed to the thit:h. These are four in number : the anterior, reaching from tlie groin to the patella ; the posterior, from the folds of the nates to the upper part of the ham ; the inner, from the perinseum to just above the prominence of the inner condyle ; and the outer, from just below the trochanter to above the outer condyle. Extension is made to the lower end of the long splint by a strong bandage,, attached to a wooden " spreader" which is secured to the limb by a broad strip of plaster passing up each side of the .leg to above the knee. Counter- extension is made by a perineal band or pad (Fig. 215) attached by stout bandages to the upper end of the splint; the pad should be covered with soft flannel or wash-leather. In securing the sphnt to the side of the chest the tendency to its displace- ment forwards should be counteracted by fixing the bandage to the splint and carrying it round the chest from behind forward. Rotation of the splint must be prevented by supporting it as in Fig. 216, or by fixing a wooden cross-bar Fig. 216.—Browne's Elastic. Catcli. to its lower border. The heel also, by these means, is raised from the bed, and painful pressure upon it avoided. Various modifications of the method of applying the long splint above described are at times of service. Elastic extension from the foot may be obtained by means of the appliance contrived by Buckston Browne (Fig. 216), which consists of a stout india-rubber ring passed over the wooden "spreader" and attached to the sphnt by a brass catch, such as is used for the cords of window-blinds. By applying weight-extension to the limb, and raising slightly the foot of the bed, so that counter-extension is made by the weight of the patient's body, the perineal band which is often veiy irksome may frequently be dispensed with. A wooden "' spreader " is fixed to the limb with plaster as above described, and to this the weight-extension is applied, rotation of the long sphnt being prevented by a wooden cross-bar. The bandage employed to fix the long splint to the hmb may be replaced by a small sheet folded till it reaches from the groin to the malleoli. It is wrapped round the splint so as to get a firm hold of it, and then brought round the limb, passing under it, and secured by strong pins to the part of the sheet round the splint. 2. Thomas's knee-splint applied as for disease of the joint (see Disease of