984 SEPTICEMIA AND PYJEMIA. General Pathology.—On contrasting the symptoms and the post-mortem appearances just described with those observed in the diseases experimentally produced in animals (see p. 068), it will be seen that they closely resemble, if they are not identical, with them. In those cases in which a softening thrombus is found in a vein, and the secondary abscesses in the lungs only, the conditions are identical with those obtained by injecting putrid matter containing coarse solid particles in suspension into the veins of an animal. In other cases the disseminated abscesses, with capillary thrombosis and the distribution of colo- nies of microscopic organisms throughout the system, closely resemble the results obtained by Xoch from the injection of putrid fluids beneath the skin of a rabbit. In the human subject the conditions under which the disease arises also closely resemble those obtained experimentally in animals. The thrombosis which is so frequent a precursor of pyemia is predisposed to by all those conditions which favour thrombosis in general (see Diseases of Veins), but it is usually determined in one of two ways. In many cases an unhealthy diffuse inflammation spreads upwards from the wound in the areolar tissue surrounding the vein. This periphlebitis leads to the inflammation of the coats of the vessel followed by coagulation of the contained blood. The clot becoming impregnated with the products of the unhealthy inflammation, softens and becomes disintegrated. In other cases, the thrombus forms in the vein either in consequence of its having been divided and ligatured, or from death of the tissues from which it derives its blood, as in necrosis of bone. If under these circumstances the distal end of the thrombus becomes exposed to septic matter, as in a foul wound, the clot decomposes and disintegrates. The presence of the decom- posing clot causes inflammation of the vein, and an extension of the thrombus; the new clot in its turn decomposes, and thus the process extends up the vein almost indefinitely. In whichever way the spreading thrombosis takes place, it may continue to extend till it reaches a point at which the affected vessel joins another large trunk, when the softened fragments may be washed on into the circulation, and cause the effects already described wherever they lodge. In some rare cases the cavity of a foul abscess may open directly into a large vein by ulceration of the wnll. Kig. 348.—Colony of micrococci, from a Ivmphatic gland. (Path. Soc. Trans. 1879.)