INHERITED SYPHILIS. either in the substance of the cord or in its membranes. The symptoms may be rendered very irregular and complex by the co-existence of various lesions, such as irregular patches of chronic meningitis, or a gumma combined with meningitis, or more than one gumma in ditt'erent parts of the cord ; and this irregularity of the symptoms may be still further increased by simultaneous disease of the brain and its membranes. The age of the patient, the history of syphihs, and the irregularity of the symptoms often render the diagnosis comparatively easy. The Nerves are comparatively seldom affected, though gummata have been met with growing from the connective tissue forming their sheaths. These have been observed almost exclusively in the cranial nerves. In the Treatment of syphilitic disease of the central nervous system, if not too far advanced, there is fortunately much to be done for the patient's relief, if not complete cure. Mercury in some form, more especially the perchloride with decoction of cinchona, if not previously fully used, should have a fair trial. Iodide of potassium in gradually increasiug doses—up to fifteen or twenty grains, three times a day, if the patient can stand it—should be given at once in those cases in which the patient has already had a full couise of mercury, or in which the constitutional state does not justify the administra- tion of mercury at the time the nervous symptoms set in. Counter-irritation by means of blisters will occasionally be found useful. The epileptic con- vulsions may be relieved by bromide of potassium or of ammonium, but these must not be given to the exclusion of the iodides. Under this treatmcnb cases at first apparently hopeless may rapidly recover, but when the disease is far advanced, Avith the formation of gummata of large size, the prognosis becomes very bad. INFANTILE, CONGENITAL, OR INHERITED SYPHILIS. Chancres on the labia of the mother may possibly infect the child at birth, just as they may inoculate the hand of the accoucheur; but syphilis thus contracted by the infant is not the form of the disease that is described as Infantile Syphilis. This is a truly hereditary infection, transmitted to the infant at the time of its conception, or communicated to it through the medium of the mother during intra-uterine life, and existing as a constitu- tional affection at the time of its birth. Though we may believe that syphilis is not easily eradicated from a system into which it has once been received, and that under certain conditions it may readily be transmitted to the offsprino-, yet I think that we are still ignorant of the amount and nature of the consti- tutional affection of the parents that are necessary for the development of syphilis in their children, and that we are certainly not warranted in con- cluding that a parent who has been, or even who is actually affected by constitutional syphilis, must necessarily have a syphilitic family ; although the probability undoubtedly is that the offspring will be affected. I have had under my observation a gentleman whom I had attended for secondary syphilis, and who, contrary to my advice, married some years ago ; and, though he has since then suffered from psoriasis of the hands, mucous tubercles, fissures on the lips and tongue, and syphilitic disease of the testicle, yet his wife has borne a perfectly healthy family, not only without any syphilitic taint, but without any apparent constitutional cachexy.