SPEAII^S or JOINTiS. 509 tedious in the cure, and so frequently leave weakness or stiffness behind. If the Surgeon therefore see the patient immediately on the occurrence of the accident, or before much swelling has set in, the best plan is to envelop the joint either in a flannel bandage or in a thick layer of cotton-wool, over which a plaster-of-Paris, silicate of soda, or starched bandage is to be applied. The rigid case should be kept on for two weeks, at the end of which time the patient may cautiously use the joint. This method of treatment, which com- prises rest, perfect immobiUty, and compression of the joint, puts it into the best possible condition for the repair of the injured articular structures, and for the prevention of consecutive inflammation. Another plan of treatment is to strap up the joint very firmly with long strips of soap-plaster, but this is not so efficient a means of procuring rest. Should the patient not have been resting the joint, and should inflammation with much swelling have set in, in most cases the best treatment will be the application of a starched bandage, since a plaster-of-Paris apparatus is apt to become loose when the swelhng subsides, and it cannot be opened and refilled with cotton-wool as the starched bandage can. Should the inflammation be too acute for the immediate application of a rigid apparatus, the joint may be put on a pillow ?nd covered with a piece of linen rag, well moistened with an evaporating lotion or kept wet by means of irrigation, or covered with ice-bags. Should this not check the inflamma- tion, leeches may be freely applied; and, when the swehing has somewhat subsided, the joint should be supported with an elastic roller and plasters, a plaster or starched bandage, or leather splints. In the more advanced stages, when pain and stifihess alone are left, it should be well douched with cold water twice a day, and afterwards rubbed or kneaded with soap-liniment, until its usual strength and mobility are restored. This, however, very commonly does not occur in sprains of the knee and ankle for many weeks; a degree of painful stiffness being left. In such cases methodical massage is a most valuable treatment, and should, if possible, be carried out by a professional rubber. Incomplete Recovery of a joint after a severe sprain may arise from various causes, each of which requires appropriate treatment. The following are the chief conditions requiring attention:— 1. Adhesion ivithin the joint and in the neighhouring synovial sheaths con- sequent upon the inflammation following the sprain. In this condition the swelhng has completely subsided, but the movements of the joint are limited, iind any attempt forcibly to exceed the limits is accompanied by intense pain usually localized at one spot. This form is best treated by forcible movement under an anaesthetic. 2. Imperfect repair of the torn ligaments usually results from want of rest during the treatment. There is little or no swelling, and the movements of the joint are perfect, but there is a sense of weakness, accompanied by slight pain if any strain is thrown upon the injured ligament. This is best treated by fixing the joint for three or four weeks in a plaster-of-Paris bandage, after which an elastic support may be worn for some time. 3. The effusion may have been imperfectly alsorled.—This is especially likely to occur in gouty and rheumatic subjects. The joint presents the ordinary appearances of chronic synovitis, and must be treated for that condition. (See Synovitis.) 4. The occurrence of Tubercidous Disease.—This is a most serious sequel in a