: FORMATION OF ABSCESS. 239. clot. It is in this way that they are closed before, in common with the other cissnes, they soften and break down in the presence of the invading leucocytes, and thus hsemorrhage is prevented. In this area also, although it cannot be seen with the microscope, the plasma which has exuded from the vessels is coagulated, and with the migrated cells forms a firm substance, tue so-called inflammatory lymph, which fills and plugs the spaces of the connective tissue, and thus forms a barrier round the collection of pus, and prevents its diffusing itself amongst the tissues around. It is not possible in a section made from a preparation removed from the body to observe the state of the vessels beyond the area of stasis or thrombosis ; but if we could observe them in the living body we should see, in a spreading abscess, all the conditions already described I'i^'. ;ss.—A Microscoph; Abscess in tlu; Skin. c. Epitlielinm ; h. a Hair; r. r. Siiiall Veins suiToundod in some places by niigratins leucocytes ; p. tlic collection of i)ns ; Sweat-gland ; 7). a small Artery ; /. Fat. The Tissues round the (lollectiou of pus are dotted with leucocytes becoming more closely imckeil as the centre of sup]iiuution is approached. under Inflammation : viz. from the centre towards the circumference, stasis, oscillation, dilated vessels with retarded flow, adhesion of the corpuscles, and migration, and lastly, simple hyperasmia, — dilated vessels with increased rapidity of flow. Such a collection of pus as is above described is a micro- scopic abscess ; an acute abscess, holding half a pint, differs from it only in size. The extension of the abscess takes place by progressive destruction of tlie tissues by the same process ; and the pus is formed by successive zones of the new cells degenerating, becoming separated from each other by fluid, and falling into the cavity. In this way the collection of pus advances towards a free surface and finally discharges itself. This "pointing of the abscess," as it is termed, advances most rapidly in the direction of least resistance, probably because the migration of the leucocytes and dilatation of the vessels occur more readily on that side. The Avhole process is identical with ulceration,