TRAUMATIC HYSTERIA. 797 by the most delicate clinical thermometer, although the patient experiences a very distinct and distressing sense of coldness in one limb. The Jieari will often continue to beat in a violent or tumultuous manner for many months after the receipt of a severe nervous shock, the pulse however being feeble. This disproportion between the force of the heart's action and that of the pulse is very marked in many of these cases, and is a proof of the important part played by the sympathetic in these cases, as is farther indicated by the flushings, sensations of heat and cold and excessive sweating, which are common symptoms. The condition of the genito-urinary organs is seldom much deranged in the cases under consideration. Sometimes there is suppression of urine more or less complete for two or three days ; retention very rarely occurs except in the cases of profound shock at the time of the accident. Page draws attention to the subsequent trouble which may result if the distension of the bladder thus produced be left long unrelieved. Some weakness in the action of the bladder and inability to empty it completely may be the result of the general impairment of muscular power. The progressive development of the various symptoms that have just been enumerated often extends over a lengthened period. In the early stages, the chief complaint is a sensation of lassitude, weariness and inability for mental and physical exertion. These are followed by motor and vaso-motor disturbances, and affections of the special senses. With appropriate treatment complete recovery may usually be anticipated, but permanent impairment of nervous power may undoubtedly be the result in some cases. Page records two cases in which death occurred after symptoms of general nervous shock had persisted for several weeks ; in both cases the brain and spinal cord presented no signs of structural disease. Traumatic Hysteria.—In the last section it has been show^n how seriously the whole central nervous system may suffer as the result of an injury to the spine, being in fact left in a state of exhaustion. Other symptoms of a functional nature may however be produced which are more local in character and usually manifest themselves as definite impairments of motion and sensation ; they are by no means necessarily accompanied by the' emotional and psychical phenomena which are frequently associated with hysteria. Of late years no subject in the whole range of medical science has received more attention than that relating to the phenomena and symptoms of hysteria and the neuroses generally. Amongst the many writers upon the subject must be specially mentioned the late J. M. Charcot, to whom more than any other we are indebted for a clear recognition of the true nature of hysteria. In speaking of the occurrence of hysteria in the male sex Charcot says: One can conceive that it may be possible for a young effeminate man, after excesses disappointments, profound emotions, to present hysterical phenomena, but that a vigorous artizan, well-built, not enervated by high culture the stoker of an engine for example—should, after an accident to the train bv a collision or running off the rails/become hysterical for the same reason as a woman is what passes our imagination." Charcot farther shows that the symptoms of hysteria in the male may manifest a permanence and obstinacy in marked contrast to the instability which so often characterizes the symp- toms in the female. For the right appreciation of the class of cases now under consideration it must be assumed as definitively proved: first, that