INJURIES OF BONES AND JOINTS. described (p. 3G1). When produced by a puncture or a clean cut, antiseptic treatment and immobility will usually ensure a cure without the functions of the joint being in any way impaired. Thomas's knee-splint will be found the most convenient form of apparatus for fixing the joint. Should suppuration occur, the joint must be laid open unsparingly. The finger should be inserted at the original wound, if it be situated towards the front of the joint, and pushed down to the most dependent part of the synovial pouch; here the tip of the finger may be made to project and be cut down upon. A probe-pointed bistoury is then to be introduced and the incision extended till it reaches from the head of the tibia to the upper limit of the synovial pouch. The knife should be slanted backwards so as to facilitate drainage. The opposite side of the joint must then be treated in the same way. Even after this amputation may be necessary, and the incisions above described can be used in the operation. If the drainage is inefficient, abscesses will often form deeply, the pus bursting from the joint by the upper part of the synovial pouch, and burrowing up the thigh under the vasti, reaching sometimes as high as the trochanter before it is detected. At the time the synovial pouch gives way the relief of tension may cause a deceptive abatement in the severity of the symptoms ; but soon the limb swells up to the trochanters, becomes tense, painful, hot, and oedematous, with great constitutional disturbance and high fever, though the joint may be but little swollen, and many days will often elapse before fluctuation can be again felt in it or in the thigh. This absence of swelling in the knee itself may mislead an inexperienced practitioner. At length the abscess may approach the surface near the knee ; and, on an incision being made, an immense quantity of pus is discharged. It is the depth in the limb at which the abscess is seated that gives rise to the difficulty in its detection, the violent constitutional disturbance it occasions, and its extreme danger. I have never seen abscess form amongst the muscles of the leg as a consequence of injury of the knee-joint, unless the tibia had been fractured as well as the joint opened. For the penetration of the knee-joint by needles, see p. 342. Wounds of the EITjow and Ankle-joints, when simple, as in punctures, usually admit of closure and of being healed, leaving a sufficiently useful and mobile articulation. When they are complicated with fracture of the neigh- bouring bones, the soft parts not being too extensively injured, resection of the wounded articulations is the proper course to adopt; if there be much lacera- tion of soft parts with comminution of the bones, amputation, especially in the case of the ankle, will be required. Wounds of the Wrist-joint are peculiarly dangerous, on account of the extent and complexity of the synovial membrane that enters into its confor- mation. Should suppuration be set up, some of the carpal bones may necrose. In these circumstances, if the patient be in good health and not too old, excision of the joint will leave a very useful hand ; when excision is not practicable, amputation must be performed, if possible, by a flap taken from the palm, only the diseased articular ends of the radius and ulna being removed. In some cases the patient may recover without operation, but a stiff" and comparatively useless hand will generally be left. Dislocations will be described in Chai3ter XXII.