AMPUTATIONS. 70 method of amputation in tlie lower third of the thigh, suggested a modifica- tion by which lie hoped to obtain them with less trouble and Avithout pro- ducing so large a wound. He made no posterior flap, but compensated for it by retracting the soft parts from the bones to an extent equal to its length. The anterior flap was to be made a little longer than the diameter of the limb ; and its angles being rounded, it was allowed simply to hang over the end of the stump, without being folded upon itself as in Teale's operation. The posterior parts were divided from without inwards by a single sweep of the knife. By this method, however, the bone was sawn as high as in Teale's method, so that the gain was not very great. In 1860 Lister pointed out that the advantages of Teale's method could be obtained with considerably less sacrifice of length in the limb by taking the covering more equally from the anterior and posterior aspects. A dependent opening for the exit of the discharges, and a scar placed behind the bones may be obtained in almost all situations by making an anterior flap two-thirds of the diameter of the limb in length, and a posterior half that length, as the bone is in almost all parts situated more towards the anterior than the postei-ior aspect of the limb. In all parts of the limbs the flexors, being the muscles with the longer bellies, retract more extensively than the extensors : and, consequently, if, when the operation is finished, the fine of union of the flaps is on the flexor aspect of the bones, it is quite certain that the scar, when the stump is healed, will be in a similar position. The method of operating, therefore, recommended by Lister as best suited to the amputations of the forearm, leg, and thigh, is the following. An anterior rounded flap, equal in length to two-thirds of the antero-posterior diameter of the Hmb at the point at which the bone is to be sawn, is raised by dissection. In the lower thirds of the leg and forearm the bones form so large a proportion of the limb that, in order to make sure that the scar shall be placed behind them, it is necessary to make the length of the anterior flap equal to the diameter of the limb. In raising t^ie anterior flap the operator wih, if he think flt, try to take up some muscle at its base to thicken it and so ensure its vitality. This is to be recommended for all parts in thin or feeble subjects, and in the thigh in every patient. The flap is not, however, under any circumstances to be too fleshy and heavy. A posterior skin-flap, half the length of the anterior, is next raised. The muscles are then divided circularly and re- tracted from the bone for a distance equal to at least one quarter of the diameter of the limb ; in the thigh it is better always to retract for half a diameter. It is evident that in the leg this retraction may be rather difficult, especially in secondary amputations in wdiich the tissues are swollen and infiltrated ; but the difficulty is easily overcome by extending the in- cision upwards from the angle of the flaps, either on one or both sides of the limb, to the point at which the bones are to be saw^n. This mode of ampu- tating combines the advantages of both the circular and the flap operations : it has the light covering and absence of excessive muscle of the circular, with the accurate fit, the good drainage, and the well-placed scar of the flap method. It is in lact a combination of the flap and circular operations, and therefore sometimes is spoken of as the "combination method." Amputation by the Oval Method, which is especially adapted to removal of fingers or toes and disarticulations at the shoulder and hip, is essentially a circular amputation with a longitudinal incision made up one side of the limb.