AMPUTATION OF ARM WITH SCAPULA. Ill Amputation of the Arm with the Scapula and part of the Clavicle. —There are at least fourteen cases recorded, commencing- with Cheseldeu's in 1737, in which recovery has taken place after the whole upper limb, together with the scapula and a greater or Jess part of the clavicle, has been torn away. Such cases suggested the possibility of removing the same parts for tumours invading the bones in that region, and in injuries in which sufficient covering is not left for an ordinary amputation at the shoulder. The operation has now been performed probably in nearly one hundred cases. In 1887, Paul Berger, in a monograph on the subject, collected fifty- one cases chiefly from French literature. In 1890 Chavasse pubhshed a table of 44 cases, inchiding one of his own, in which the operation had been per- formed for the removal of large tumours. The immediate mortality from the operation has been about 1 in 5 for cases of disease, and 1 in 3 for injury. It is impossible to lay down definite rules for its performance, as the lines of incision must necessarily vary with the size and situation of the tumour or the condition of the soft parts in an injury. In all cases the first step is to expose the subclavian artery and vein, and to divide them between two ligatures. This is most easily done by removal of the middle third of the clavicle, by an incision reaching from the junction of the inner and middle thirds to near the outer end. The bone should be carefully cleaned with a periosteal elevator, and divided at the outer border of the sterno-mastoid, care being taken to protect the parts beneath while sawing. The clavicle is then raised and separated from the parts under it, and again divided close to the coraco-clavicular ligaments. The subclavius muscle and the fascia under it are then carefully divided, and the great vessels exposed and divided between two ligatures, the artery being tied before the vein to prevent congestion of the limb. If time is of great importance, the vessels may simply be clamped in forci-pressure forceps and tied after removal of the limb. The suprascapular artery and vein may also be divided and secured at this stage of the operation. The subsequent steps have been carried out in various ways, of which that recommended by P. Berger is probably the best. The patient is brought to the edge of the table so that the whole scapular region projects over it. The arm being abducted and the Surgeon standing between it and the body, an incision involving the skin and fat only is com- menced in the middle of that already made for the removal of the portion of the clavicle and carried downwards and forwards, passing just external to the coracoid process, and then over the anterior part of the deltoid to the level of the lower border of the axilla. It is then curved inwards and backwards, so as to cross the inner side of the arm at the lower limit of the axilla, passing over the pectoralis major and latissimus close near their insertions. From the posterior border of the axilla it is continued downwards and backwards to the lower angle of the scapula. This antero-inferior flap is raised for a short dis- tance, and the pectoralis major and minor are then divided, the latter close to its insertion. The scapula now falls away from the body, fully opening up the axilla, and the brachial plexus is now to be divided. The Surgeon now places himself outside the arm, which is carried across the chest, so as to expose the scapular region behind. The postero-superior flap is then cut by an incision starting from the outer end of that made for removal of the portion of the clavicle, and curved sharply downwards over the spine of the scapula, and con- tinued to the point at which the anterior incision ended over the inferior anoie.