217 LOCAL BLOOD-LETTING. according to the seat of the inflammation. Care must be taken as far as possible not to wound superficial arteries or veins of sufficient size to bleed dano-erously. . Leeches may be applied to the neighbourhood of inflamed parts, but never upon the inflamed surface itself, as their bites irritate. There are certain situations in which leeches should not be placed, as over a large subcutaneous vein, or in regions where there is much loose areolar tissue, as the scrotum or eyelids, lest troublesome htemorrhage or ecchymosis occur. So, also, they should not be applied near a specific ulcer, lest the bites become inoculated by the discharge. Should it be thought desirable to produce some constitutional eflect, the bleeding may be encouraged by poultices or fomentations after the animal has dropped ofl". In this way from half an ounce to an ounce of blood may be taken by each leech. Owing to the fact that the leech secretes a material which prevents the coagulation of the blood, the hjemorrhage, which usually ceases spontaneously soon after the leech is removed, may continue for some time, and be difficult to arrest. Continuous pressure, the application of matico, or powdered alum, may then be tried, and if these fail—as may happen in some situations where pressure cannot be conveniently applied, as on the neck and abdomen, particularly in young people—a piece of nitrate of silver scraped to a point, or a heated wire introduced into the bite, previously wiped dry, or a needle transfixing the edges of the bite with a twisted suture over and around it, may be required. Cupping may be either "wet" or "dry." Dry cupping consists in the application of the cupping-glasses to the skin without making any previous scarificatious. It is a means of causing a determination of blood to the surikce for the purpose of diminishing the flow to an internal organ. Thus in congestion of the kidneys following an operation on the urethra or bladder, dry cupping in the loins is often of use. The instruments required are a spirit lamp with a large flame, and the cupping-glasses. These are made of thick glass and are dome-shaped with smoothly-ground edges. The operation <:onsists merely in rarefying the air in the cupping-glass by means of the flame of the spirit lamp, and instantly applying the glass firmly and evenly to the skin. The intention is not to heat the glass but the air contained in it, and in fact to a great extent to replace the air by the products of combustion of the flame of the lamp. It is for this reason that a large flame completely filling the glass should be used. If the operation be properly performed the site of the glass will be marked by a bruise due to the rupture of the capillary vessels in the area included in the vacuum. In wet cnpping the glass is applied in the same way over a number of superficial incisions which are made instantaneously by the " scarificator," an instrument provided with a number of parallel knives worked by a spring and released by a trigger. The quantity of blood extracted is regulated by the size of the glass, and the flow from the superficial wound ceases the moment it is removed. Cupping cannot be employed upon the inflamed surface itself, as it would be too painful, and is chiefly applicable to internal inflammations. As the scars made by the scarificators continue through life, cupping should not be practised upon exposed surfaces. A modified form of cupping in which the vacuum is made by withdrawing a piston in a glass tube, or the artificial leech, as it is called, is not uncommonly used in ophthalmic practice.