186 LOCAL DISTURBANCES AND INFLAMMATION. the virus and the tissues, and anything that lowers the vitaHty of the latter will favour the former. The putrefying discharges irritate the parts with which they come in contact and directly lower their vitality, as is evidenced by the inflammation set up; and they thus favour the invasion of the tissues by the pathogenic bacteria. This would only be in harmony with the well- known fact common to the animal and vegetable kingdoms, that feeble individuals, or feeble parts of an individual, are most readily invaded by parasitic iungi. The contrast between a wound healing aseptically by the first inten- tion and one in which septic suppuration is taking place on the third day is very marked. In the former case, tissues in a full state of vitality are separated merely by a thin layer of plastic exudation so largely composed of living cells that it may fairly be regarded as living tissue ; in the latter, the tissues for some distance on each side are low^ered in their vitality by the irritation of the products of putrefaction, and are separated from each other bv a fluid Avhich forms one of the most suitable media for the develop- ment of any true infective virus that may find admission to it. Generally decomposition of the discharges acts in two ways : first, it depresses the patient by the fever caused by the absorption of the products of putrefaction, and thus renders him more liable to suffer from any general infective process; and secondly, it is a well-recognised fact that the emanations from putrid matter exert an injurious influence on the health of those who inhale them—in fact, the removal of pntrescible matter, or the prevention of its decomposition, forms one of the most essential features of domestic and hospital hygiene. No greater mistake could be made, however, than to imagine that with the prevention of putrelaction all necessary hygienic precautions are ended. As before pointed out (p. 9), the products of respiration foul the air and exert a depressing influence on those who breathe it to a degree that cannot be overrated; and too great attention cannot be paid to ventilation and the avoidance of overcrowding. 5. Functional Irritation.—Every tissue requires a periodic rest from functional activity for healthy nutrition, but it is very seldom that the want of such rest can act as more than a predisposing cause of inflammation. Occa- sionally, how^ever, inflammations of joints or of the eyes seem to be directly dependent on excessive exerci^-^e of function. G. Nervous Irritants.—The part played by the nervous system in the direct causation of inflammation has always been a question involved in considerable obscurity. ■ That inflammation can take place, and readily does so, in a part completely cut off irom any connection with the central nervous system has been proved by numerous experiments; in fact, such a condition has already been described as a predisposing cause of the process. The chnical phenomena usually cited as examples of inflammation arising from injurious influences transmitted to the afiected part by means of the nervous system, are the so-called sympathetic inflammations of the eye and of the testicle, and herpes zoster. It is a well-knowai fact that, when one eye is affected by destructive inflammation following a wound, unless the diseased globe be early removed, the other eye is liable also to become inflamed. The latest observations, however,, tend to prove that the inflammation in such cases in reality spreads from one eye to the other by direct extension along the