584 SPECIAL FRACTURES. that the subclavian vein may be compressed or contused. It is, therefore, of importance to avoid all means that may interfere with the return of venous blood from the arm. Hence the bandaging of the fingers, hand, and forearm should never be practised, nor the axillary pad used. The limb should be drawn back, supported in a sling, and the patient kept recumbent until union has been obtained. In comminuted simple fracture of the clavicle with vertical depression of the central portion, Annandale has removed the displaced piece of bone. Period of Union.—In adults a fractured clavicle is solidly united in four weeks. In children three weeks is sufficient, and in infants, a fortnight. Ununited fracture is very rare. A case has been recorded by A. E. Barker occurring in a boy about ten years of age. The displaced bone pressed injuri- ously on the brachial plexus, and weakened the arm. The ends were exposed and united by wire, and the boy recovered perfectly in every respect. Fractures op the Scapula.—1. Fracture of the Body of the Scapula is not very commonly met with ; and being the result of considerable direct violence, it is usually associated with serious injury to the subjacent ribs and trunk. The thick layer of muscles overlying this bone not only protects it, but limits displacement, and renders the detection of fracture difficult. The fracture usually takes place across the bone, immediately below the spine; but it may be split longitudinally or starred. The Treatment consists in placing the arm in a sling, the application of a body bandage, and support of the part with a pad, but there is always extreme difficulty in obtaining union without considerable deformity ; which, however, is of less moment here than in most other situations. Fractures in the Vicinity of the Shoulder-Joint are of common occurrence, and may take place either in the processes of the scapula or in the upper end of the humerus. Not unfrequently there is double fracture in the neighbourhood of this articulation ; thus the acromion may be broken, as well as the neck of the humerus. These complications, as well as the amount of contusion and the rapid swehing, often render the diagnosis difficult. 2. The Acromion, forming as it does the very tip of the shoulder, is more frequently broken than any other part of the scapula. But, in spite of its ex- posed situation, fracture of this process through its base is not very common ; and there is good reason to believe that many of the cases of supposed fracture iQ this situation are in reality instances of arrested union of the epiphysis. There can however be no doubt, as is proved by numerous preparations, that this fracture does occur. The Signs of this injury are obvious. When the acromion is broken off near its root, the arm hangs as a dead weight by the side, and the patient, feeling as if his limb were dropping off, supports it with the other hand. There is flattening of the shoulder, which is most marked when viewed from behind ; and the head of the humerus can be felt somewhat lower in the axilla than natural. On running the finger along the spine of the scapula, inequality in the line of the bone can be detected ; and, on raising the elbow and rotating the arm, crepitus can be felt, the rounded outline of the shoulder being restored. When the tip only of the acromion is broken olF, the nature of the injury may be suspected if the patient be unable to raise his arm to a level with his