EFFECT OF INFLAMMATION ON THE TISSUES. 167 unless the irritant act directly on the vessels surrounding the cornea no new cells appear in the damaged area, and nothing resembling proliferation of the corneal corpuscles takes place. His experiments further showed that about two days after the caustic had been applied, the corpuscles next to those which have been actually killed recover from the minor degree of injury to which they had been exposed, and commence to repair the damaged area. This is accoraphshed by spear-like processes of protoplasm which shoot out from the cells into the damaged area. A nucleus appears at the end of the process, the protoplasm surrounding it increases in quantity, and by a repeti- tion of this process the loss of substance is repaired, the dead cells being absorbed by the advancing new growth. Nothing was observed to justify the belief that the corneal corpuscles under any circumstances divide and subdivide, thus forming a group of small round cells resembling a collection of migrated leucocytes. The importance of these observations on the question of repair is evident. The observations of Senftleben have been fully confirmed by Leber in his exhaustive work on inflammation, published in 1801. Leber found that a species of aspergillus, the aspergillus fimiigatus, when inoculated on the cornea grew readily, the mycelium of the fungus forcing its ways amongst the layers of the tissue. The effects of the growth of the fungus may be briefly summed up as follows : the inoculation having been made in the centre of the cornea, by the third day the part actually invaded by the fungus is evidently dead, forming an opaque spot around the seat of inoculation, and the margin of the cornea near the sclerotic vessels is cloudy. A day or two later three zones can be recognised : in the centre is the opaque spot formed by the dead corneal tissue invaded by the fungus; round this is a clear ring; and round this again a slightly elevated, yellowish-white opaque ring sharply defined towards the clear zone before mentioned, and gradually merging into the somewhat cloudy cornea between it and the sclerotic. In the next stage the yellow ring breaks down into pus, and the dead portion of the cornea with the fungus is cast off. At the same time inflammation of the conjunctiva and of the deeper structures of the eye usually took place ; but this for the sake of clearness may be ignored. Miscroscopic examination shows the mycelium of the fungus infiltrating the corneal tissue in the opaque centre. In the transparent zone the corneal cor- puscles cannot be recognised, and are evidently dead. In the ring of infiltra- tion innumerable closely packed leucocytes conceal the corneal tissue. Leber explains the whole process thus : the fungus in its growth gives rise to an intensely irritating difi'usible chemical product which kills the tissue it directly acts on ; this causes the opaque necrotic spot in the centre. The transparent zone round the centre is also killed, but is not invaded by leucocytes, because it is impregnated by the chemical irritant in such a state of concentration as to repel the migrating cells. The chemical irritant becoming more dilute as it diffuses from the point of its production, by the time it reaches the vessels at the corneal margin damages them to the degree necessary to cause migration. Leber explains the movement of the corpuscles from the vessels towards the point of inoculation by the theory of chemiotaxis before mentioned (p. IGl). He believes that the chemical substance generated in the centre when diluted at the margin of the cornea exerts an attractive influence on the leucocytes (positive chemiotaxis) which makes them crowd towards the damaged spot, but the same substance acting more intensely as the migrating cells approach the