672 SPECIAL DISLOCATIONS. been successfullj reduced ; bnfc in employing- these powerful means, especially under the influence of chloroform, the Surgeon should always bear in mind that, unless care be taken, serious mischief, even laceration of the axillary artery, may result (pp. Gol, (;52). After a dislocation of the humerus has been reduced, the limb should be firmly fixed to the side for two weeks. It may then be put in a sling for another fortnight; and, at the end of a month, passive motion, with friction, may be employed. If inflammation occur about the joint, recourse may be had to leeches and evaporating lotions. After reduction, there is sometimes a tendency for the head of the bone to be drawn upwards and outwards under and against the acromion, owing evidently to the deltoid and coraco-brachi,alis muscles not being counter- balanced in their actions by those that have been separated from the head of the bone. Compound Dislocation of the Head of the Humerus is a rare accident. I have, however, seen two cases of it, and in two directions : down- wards—Sulglenoid, and inwards—Sulcoracoid. In both cases reduction was effected, and the patients did well. In such a case, even though the injury be extensive, it is better not to amputate if the axillary vessels and nerves be uninjured. The limb may be saved by reducing the bone at once ; and the wound should be treated according to the rules laid down in the chapter on wounds of joints. If the axillary artery be ruptured, either completely or through its inner and middle coats, obstruction to the arterial circulation of the arm will ensue, and amputation must be performed through the articu- lation. Complications.—A Simple Dislocaiion of the Head of the Humerus, ivith Rupture of the Axillarij Artery and the formation of a diffused axillary aneurism, is fortunately rare. The treatment will be discussed when treating of rupture of the artery during attempted reduction of an old dislocation. A very serious accident, and one apparently difficult to treat, consists in the complication of a Dislocation of the Humerus ivitli Fracture through the S^irgical Nech of the displaced bone. A case of this kind, to which I was called, is described at page G54. When the dislocation is complicated with a Fracture of the Shaft of the Bone, it should be reduced at once by putting the fracture up very firmly, and then attempting the reduction by one of the usual methods. In the cases to which I have ah'eady referred (p. 654), I succeeded without difficulty by means of the heel in the axilla. Congenital Dislocations of the Shoulder-joint have attracted much attention. R. W. Smith has ascertained, by jwst-mortem examination, the • existence of two varieties of this condition—the Suhcoracoid and Subacromial. In these there is wasting of the muscles of the shoulder and arm, the motions of which are extremely limited, whilst those of the scapula are preternaturally srreat. The condition of the bones is also remarkable. In a case of conoenital subacromial luxation of both shoulders there was no trace of a glenoid cavity ; but a well-formed socket existed on the outer side of the neck of the scapula, receiving the head of the humerus, which was small and distorted. These dislocations, though existing from birth, usually become more marked as age advances, and are necessarily irremediable, in consequence of the malformation of the bones and the wasting of the muscles.