SPECIAL DISLOCATIONS. 658 unreduced, the patient slowly regains some power of movement over the jaw ; he g-radually approximates the lips, and, after a time, may even be enabled to bring the lines of teeth into apposition, especially posteriorly. In the Unilateral dislocation, the axis of the lower jaw is directed towards the side opposite to that on which the displacement exists ; and the general signs are the same, but in a less marked degree, as those which are met with when both sides are dislocated. The hollow in front of the meatus on the njured side is, however, well marked, and serves to point out the seat and nature of the displacement, the diagnosis of which is not always readily made ; indeed, R. W. Smith states that he has seen attempts at reduction applied to the uninjured side. Astley Cooper described a SuWuxation of the jaw, most frequently met with in young and delicate women, in which, in consequence of the relaxation of the ligaments, the head of the bone appears to slip forwards upon the eminentia articularis, whenever the mouth is opened at all widely, as in gaping, laughing, &c. It may usually be ascertained by telling the patient to put out the tongue. The bone hitches, as it were, and prevents the mouth from being shut at once. Most commonly, the natural efforts of the patient are sufficient to return the head of the bone into the glenoid cavity with a cracking noise or even a loud snap. The Reduction of a dislocated jaw is easily effected ; it being necessary X Fig. 243.—Rfduction of Dislocated Jaw. only to push the angle of the bone downwards and backwards, and at the same time to raise the chin ; by so doing the attachment of the temporal muscle to the coronoid process acts as a fulcrum, and the condyle is brought slightly downwards so as to be disengaged from the articular eminence, when the internal pterygoid and masseter muscles will at once draw it into its proper position. The reduction is best effected by the Surgeon, standing before the patient, placing his thumbs, well protected by a thick napkin, or a few turns of a narrow bandage, on the molar teeth on each side, and then depressing the angle of the jaw forcibly, at the same time that he raises the chin by means of his^fingers spread out and placed underneath it (Fig. 243). The bone is then returned into its place with so forcible a snap that the thumbs may be severely bitten unless care be taken, or they be well protected. When one condyle only is luxated, the efforts at reduction should be applied to the injured side only. After the reduction, the four-tailed bandage should be applied, as in cases of fracture of the jaw ; and for sevei-al days the patient