AMPUTATIONS. 76 compressing the aorta with Pancoast's tourniquet. By means of this valuable instrument, I have amputated both thighs in close succession without waiting for the ligature of the arteries in that which was first removed. The object in two simultaneous amputations is to lessen the shock by throwing, as it were, that of the two operations into one. Iq doing this, however, the Surgeon must necessarily be guided by the circumstances of the case, for if the patient be very greatly depressed, the infliction of so severe an injury may extinguish life at once. Under such circumstances it is perhaps better to let the patient die in peace than to hasten his death by a hopeless operation. STUMPS. On examining the structure of a stump after one or two years have elapsed from the time of its formation, it will be found to be composed of a mass of fibrous and areolar tissue, any muscular substance which may have entered into its formation having completely disappeared. Any tendons which may have been divided will be either lost in the fibrous tissue of the scar, or will have formed new attachments to the bones. The end of the bone is rounded and the medullary canal closed by a layer of compact bone. The bone itself is often atrophied, its compact tissue being thinner, and its cancellous tissue more spongy than in the correspond- ing part on the other side. The vessels are obliterated as high as the nearest branch and converted into iibrous cords. The ends of the nerves are bulbous (Fig. 28), the bulbs being composed of fibrous tissue, Fig. ^'^''"''^ among which are great numbers of new nerve fibres twisted and rolled upon each other in all directions. The proper adaptation of Artificial Limbs is a matter of considerable consequence ; and the ingenious mechanical contrivances that are at the present day applied to stumps, leave little to be desired. The Surgeon had better leave the details of these mechanical contrivances to the instrument- maker ; but he should see that they are made hght, consistently with sufficient strength and support, and that the end of the stump is never injuriously pressed upon by them. Thus, after amputation of the thigh, the artificial limb should take its chief bearing point from the lower part of the pelvis and hip. In amputation immediately below the knee, this joint should be bent and received into the socket of the instrument; and, if the amputation be at a lower point than this, and the stump be extended into the artificial limb, its end must be protected from injurious pressure. In all amputations of the lower limb in which the Surgeon has succeeded in producing a satisfactory loose covering, not adherent to the bone, and with the scar well behind it, the patient should be encouraged to bear part of his weight, at least, directly on the end of the stump. Not only does this give increased steadiness in walking, but it is said to diminish the tendency to excessive atrophy of the soft parts which sometimes occurs in old stumps. The plan recommended by Teale of gradually accustoming the end of the stump to bear pressure will be found most satisfactory. The patient must prepare a number of circular pieces of flannel of the same diameter as the socket of the artificial limb. He first puts in a sufficient number of these to form a pad