AMPUTATION AT THE KNEE. 131 divided. The incision which marks out the flap begins in front at this same level, and ends behind at a point 1| inch lower, whence an incision passes straight round the inner side of the limb. In dissecting up the flap the muscles must be cut through obliquely, and care taken that the anterior tibial artery is left uninjured on the deep surface of the flap. Results.—The mortality after amputation of the leg was formerly very high, varying generally in diiferent hospital reports from 50 to 30 per cent., the chief causes of death being pyasmia, gangrene of the stump and exhaus- tion. The death-rate was higher in secondary than in primary operations, and fell to 23-5 per cent, in cases in which the operation was performed for disease. So far as situation is concerned, as a general rule, the nearer the knee the greater the danger. The high death-i-ate formerly prevailing has now been much reduced. In the statistics published by Max Schede (p. 83), amongst the uncomplicated cases treated antiseptically, are 19 amputations for injury and 50 for disease, with only 1 death, and that was from erysipelas, in a patient who had previously suffered more than once from the disease. Amongst the uncomplicated cases treated by Bardeleben, Billroth, and Bruns, without antiseptics, were 28 for injury, with 15 deaths, and 87 for disease, with 25 deaths ; 2-9 of the deaths were from pytemia and 7 from septicaemia. Amputation through the Knee-joint, originally recommended in the last century by Hoin, and reintroduced by Velpeau, Markoe, and Brinton, has long found favour in this country and in America. Amputation through the knee-joint may be performed in three diiferent ways : 1, with a long anterior and a short posterior flap ; 2, with lateral flaps ; 3, with a long posterior and a short anterior flap. 1. The operation by means of a Long Anterior and Short Posterior Flap is thus performed. A long square flap, rounded at the corners, is made by entering the point of a short broad-bladed amputating-knife towards the posterior part of one condyle, carrying the incision downwards in a straight line for four or five inches, then across the limb, and cutting upwards to a point on the opposite side corresponding to that of entry. The integuments and the patella are then dissected from the front of the joint (Fig. 74). The articulation is thus opened ; the ligaments are then successively^divid'ed, the hmb being forcibly bent ; and a posterior flap is formed by cutting from behind forwards, or by dissecting down behind the bones and then cuttino- backwards. The flap should be about 2^ to 3 inches long. If made shorter than tins, it is apt to retract up the back of the thigh. Indeed, in all cases there is a great tendency to this, even when the flap is of the length above given. The popliteal artery is divided, and, with the exception of the articular vessels, is the only one requiring ligature. The management of the patella is an important question ; some Suro-eons advocating its removal and others its preservation. I think that it is de cidedly better to leave it, as it forms an important protection to the end of the stump. If it be removed, the flap becomes so thinned as to incur danger of gangrene. I have practised the operation both ways, and have from my experience found it most advantageous to leave the patella. There is only one objection to this ; and that is the chance of the patella being drawn up as occasionally happens, upon the anterior part of the thigh. This is best pre J'ented by cutting across the tendinous insertion of the quadriceps extensor lurmg the operation. • ^ K 2