4 GENERAL REMARKS ON OPERATIONS. the result of an operation is the thing to aim at, and to this, dexterity and rapidity in operating are in a high degree conducive ; but the Surgeon must also be prepared to deal with complex problems, the solution of which can only be afforded by an intimate general acquaintance with the Science ot Surgery and of Medicine. The Diagnosis of the local disease, and of the extent of its connections, must be made ; lurking visceral affections must be detected and, if possible, removed. The Constitution of the patient must be prepared ; he must, as far as possible, be placed in those hygienic conditions which are most favourable to recovery ; the best time for the performance of the opei-a- tion must be seized; and, after its completion, the general health must be attended to in such a way as shall best carry the patient through the difficulties he has to encounter, and any sequels or complications that arise must be subjected to appropriate treatment. These, as well as the simple performance of the operation, are the duties of the Surgeon ; and on the manner in which they are performed, as much as, or perhaps even more than, on the mere manual dexterity displayed in the operation itself, will the fate of the patient depend. Success in Operative Surgery mainly depends on two conditions : 1. The selection of proper cases ; that is to say, of cases in which alone an operation will probably be followed by a successful result; and 2. the avoidance or the combating of those deleterious influences, hygienic and others, to which a patient may be exposed after an operation, and which may directly mar its success. . The practice of operating in notoriously hopeless cases, with the view ot giving the patient what is called a " last chance," is much to be deprecated By operating in such circumstances, especially in malignant diseases, much discredit has resulted to Surgery ; for in a great number of instances the patient's death is hastened by the procedure, which, instead of giving him a last chance, causes him only to be despatched sooner than he would otherwise have been. , . • -i. It may truly be said that a great surgical operation, m its conception, its performance, and its completion, tests the Surgeon's medical knowledge as much and in as varied a manner as it taxes his manual skill ; and that, taken as a whole, it is the highest development of the medical art. CONDITIONS INFLUENCING- THE SUCCESS OF OPEBATIONS. The circumstances that mainly influence the result of an operation, so ftir as the recovery of the patient is concerned, may be arranged under three l^gads 1 Those that are connected with the State of the Patient's General Health before and at the time of its performance ; 2. The Hygienic GondHions by which he is surrounded after it is done ; and 3. The Special Dangers connected with the operation itself. 1 \ll other circumstances being alike, the condition ot a patient that principally determines the result of an operation is the State of the General Health. Sometimes we see a patient carried off by disease supervening on some triflino- operation, (such as the removal of a small tumour,) which in itself ouo-ht in no way to endanger life, were it not that the patient's constitu- tion was" at the time of its performance in so unhealthy a state that the slicrhtest exciting cause has been sufficient to call the fatal disease into activity. So'' also it is no uncommon experience to see one patient sink after an