RABIES IN THE DOG. 371 Australia in spite of the large numbers of wild dogs that infest the country, and its introduction has so far been successfully avoided by a prolonged quarantine imposed on all dogs arriving from abroad. That rabies has m rare cases followed the bite of an animal that has shown no defiuite signs of the disease is believed to be due to the fact that the disease is not invariably fatal in dogs, and may sometimes be so mild as to escape detection. Many circumstances have been supposed to act as predisposing causes of rabies. It undoubtedly appears in epidemics, in some years being scarcely heard of, while in others it is comparatively frequent. The season seems to have some influence on its occurrence, as Eckel found it to be most common in the early spring. Want of water, sudden changes from heat to cold, bad food, and unsatisfied sexual desire, have also been assigned as causes of its development in animals. When we inquire into the operation of these alleged causes, we fail to discover any direct and positive connection between any one of them and rabies. With regard to the influence of heat and want of watei-, it would appear that in those countries in which animals are most exposed to these conditions, rabies is unknown. Thus, Mr. Donovan, who has resided and travelled for many years in Central Africa, informs me that, in the deserts of that country, where water is so scarce that man and beast often die of thirst, jackals and Avild dogs are most numerous, and yet the disease is unknown. The theory of rabies arising from ungratified sexual desire appears to be equally untenable. Having been told that no bitches were allowed in Sark, I wrote to Dr. Cockridge of that island to inquire if this were the fact, and if so, whether rabies were prevalent there. He informed me that there were no bitches in the island, and that the dogs were very numerous, but that no case of that disease had, to his knowledge, ever occurred there, and that the clergy- man, who had had thirty years' experience of the island, had never heard of a case. Dogs become rabid more frequently than bitches; thus, of a hundred and forty-one cases collected by Eckel, only fifteen occurred in bitches. Symptoms in the Dog.—The Surgeon is sometimes asked to give an opinion as to the condition of a dog that has bitten a person, and which is suspected of being mad. The following description of the symptoms of Rabies in the Dog, by ])r. Burdon Sanderson, will aid him in coining to a conclusion on these points : " The premonitory indications of rabies in a dog are derived almost entii-ely fi-om the observation of changes in its demeanour ; consequently, although they may be too trifling to be noticed by a casual observer, they are fortunately sufficiently striking to arrest the attention of any one who is about a dog, and is familiar with its habits and individual peculiarities. "A dog about to become rabid loses its natural liveliness. It mopes about as if preoccui)ied or apprehensive, and seeks to witlidraw into dark corners. From the first there is usually a foreshadowing of that most constant symptom of the disease—depraved appetite. Mad dogs devour not only filth and rubbish of every kind with avidity, but even their own excrement—often im- mediately after it has been passed. Indications of this tendency appear early, and are more than suspicious. " Along with this peculiarity of behaviour it is of equal importance to notice that an infected dog, from the first, snaps at other dogs without provocation. This snappishness in most dogs is very striking. If a dog previously known 14 B 2