SEPTICEMIA AND PYjEMIA. of potash largely (5 ij. to 5 iv. in the day), in addition to the quinine and tiori of decomposing discharges in the cavities of wounds or abscesses. This IS carried out, first by properly draining the cavity in such a way that an accumulation ot decomposable matter is impossible, and secondly by employin<- antiseptic agents in the dressing in such a way as to prevent even the slightcsl trace of putrefactive change in the discharges. It is evident that in manv T^TTf^""^ throat, rectum, and genito-urinary organs these principles cannot be fully earned out. In certain specific inflammations, as in infective endocarditis, or acute necrosis of bone, the inflammatory products possess intective properties independently of any contamination from the external air ; and it they enter the blood-stream they may give rise to embolism of distant parts with softening of the infarcts and suppuration around them i7^mia cannot, therefore, be entirely banished from surgical practice, but it can be limited to a few exceptional cases. The experience of Lister, and of an hui^-eons who have adopted the antiseptic treatment of wounds, has shown Deyoncl a doubt that m all such cases as amputations, excisions of ioints recent compound fractures, removal of tumours, and the like, pysemia can and should be entirely excluded, even in hospital practice. .Pvn I '^^^''^ ^^"^ Prevention of Pyemia consist in a sciupulous attention to those hygienic measures which have been described in the earlier chapters of this work ; and above all to a careful avoidance of overcrowding. Overcrowding is, however, a relative term. If, as must often nappen in military practice, efficient antiseptic treatment is impossible pyemia is certain to break out if but a small number of patients are accumu- lated in a limited area ; on the other hand if decomposition of the discharo-es can be prevented, a larger number may be treated in the same space without Clanger. iMo wise Surgeon would, however, on this account neglect the well- i^nown laws as to cubic space, free ventilation, and general cleanliness, relyino- solely on antiseptics to prevent contamination of the air. It has alreadv been pointed out m the early chapters of this work, that although putrid dis- charges are the most dangerous and most powerful source of contamination of the atniosphere of a surgical ward, the products of respiration and the accumulation of excreta will of themselves so vitiate the air as to impair the hea th and lower the vitality of those that breathe it ; and thus delay the nealmg of wounds and favour the development of infective diseases. A Curative Treatment of pyemia can scarcely be said to exist. It doubt- less happens that patients occasionally recover from this disease, even after the tormation of diffuse abscesses ; but such a result must be looked upon as a happy exception to its commonly fatal termination, rather than as the result of any special mode of treatment. The only treatment that holds out any hope of success appears to me to be the stimulating and tonic one, consistmo- of alcoholic stimulants, tonics, and liquid nourishment. I have certainly seeS recovery follow, in some cases, the administration of large doses of quinine • five grains being given every third or fourth hour. Among many others I may mention a very serious case of pyaemia following amputation of the arm and accompanied not only by all the symptoms of that disease in a verv marked degree but by pleuritic effusion, swelling and tenderness over one hip and secondary haemorrhage from the stump, which recovered under the tonic and stimulating plan of treatment. The quinine appears to check the rio-ors and to reduce the temperature. In some cases I have administered chlorate