FORMATION OF SCAB TISSUE. 291 varying from four hours to eighteen days. These ohservers concluded that * the hhn of connective-tissue which formed in the chamber was derived, not from the leucocytes, but from larger "plasma cells," which were also present and were presumably derived from the fixed tissue cells. The results of experiment, together with a study of the mode of repair of epithelium, may thus be said to support the view that the new tissue formed in the process of repair is derived from the original connective-tissue of the damaged parts. The exact mode of origin of the fibres of the scar-tissue is another disputed point: it is uncertain whether they are formed by a change in the proto- plasm of the cells or by a process of fibrillation in the intercellular ground substance. Sherrington and Ballance were unable to satisfy themselves on this point, but inclined to the belief that the fibres were formed in an^ intercellular substance secreted by the cells. The time occupied in the process of repair is not accurately defined. We have already seen that the formation of the "plastic exudation," or "lymph," commences immediately after the injury, and under favourable circumstances is finished by the end of the first twenty-four hours. According to Billroth, new vessels can be seen commencing to form within forty-eight hours, and by the end of a week a complete communication is established between the capillaries on each side of the wound. Early in the second week the cells have lengthened out, and the development of fibrous tissue has commenced ; and by the end of the second week the superabundant vessels have been partly obHterated, and the new tissue has assumed a considerable degree of firmness. The final obliteration of the vessels in the cicatricial tissue is a slow process, lasting many months. Until this is completed the scar remains redder than the surrounding skin, though afterwards it becomes opaque and white. It is evident that these changes can be seen on microscopic examination only in those wounds in which the surfaces have been separated from each other by an appreciable layer of plastic exudation or coagulated blood. When the apposition of the surfaces has been more perfect, the layer of uniting material may be so thin as to be scarcely recognisable, and four days after the infliction of the wound it may be almost impossible to detect any bond of union, the line of the incision being marked only by the presence of a few wandering cells and some traces of unabsorbed red corpuscles. That true union, however, in such a case has not definitely taken place at this time is shown by the care which is necessary, in preserving the specimen for micro- scopic examination, to prevent the surfaces from separating from each other. We have thus traced the development of a scar, and shown that in its formation new blood-vessels, epithelium, and fibrous tissue are developed, and as a rule these structures alone form the bond of union after division of the soft parts. In wounds of cartilage, muscle and central nervous tissue, no regeneration of the original tissues takes place, the scar being composed solely of fibrous tissue. Large vessels when completely divided are obliterated and converted into a fibrous cord as far as the nearest collateral branch. As we shall see hereafter, bone is repaired by bone, and under favourable circum- stances large nerves are completely united by normal nerve-tissue. In large scars, however, the development of new nervous tissue is very imperfect, if it occurs at all. Little is known of the formation of lymphatics in old scars; but injections show that they are wanting in granulation-tissue and young scars.