882 INJURIES OF THE ABDOMEN AND PELVIS. be withdrawn by an CEsophageal tube. If, however, the intestine be wounded, the gas fails to reach the stomach, but passes into the peritoneal cavity, and escapes from the external wound if snch be present. In one hundred cases of experimental gunshot wounds of the abdomen of dogs, the method did not fail. In six cases of gunshot wound, Senn employed the method clinically ; in two cases which recovered with expectant treatment, the absence of intestinal wound was proved by the hydrogen test. In one case in which eleven wounds of the intestine were successfully sutured, one of them would have escaped notice had not hydrogen been injected after the other wounds had been closed. The method has not proved so certain in the hands of some other Surgeons who have employed it, but it certainly seems worthy of further trial. Morton of Philadelphia has collected 79 cases in which laparotomy was per- formed for stab wounds of the abdomen ; of these 48 recovered and 31 died. This series includes 13 wounds of the stomach, with 8 recoveries ; 27 wounds of intestine, with 14 recoveries ; 7 wounds of the mesentery or omentum with 5 recoveries. In one case the spleen was excised with a fatal result. Of 6 cases of wounded liver 2 recovered, the wound being sutured in one and packed with gauze in the other. In one case an intraperitoneal wound of the bladder was successfully sutured. In 4 other cases ending fatally there was peritonitis at the time of the operation in 3, and injury to the colon in one. Of 19 cases in which no visceral injury was found 16 recovered. In one case ending in recovery the nature of the injury is not stated. Of 110 cases of gunshot wounds of the abdomen treated by laparotomy 36 recovered and 74 died. In these the intestine only was Avounded in 63, and 21 recovered ; in 5 the stomach, and 1 recovered ; in 6 the stomach and intestines with one recovery. Wounds of the liver were present in 15 instances, with six recoveries, in one of which the right kidney was excised. Four times the abdomen was laid open and no visceral wounds were discovered ; all of these recovered. In most of the remaining cases the injuries were com- plicated, and in 4 there was peritonitis at the time of operation. Miles of New Orleans has recorded a case of gunshot wound of the abdomen in which sixteen perforations of the small intestine and three wounds of the mesentery were sutured, the patient making a speedy recovery. The results of operative interference in penetrating wounds of the abdomen must on the whole be looked upon as hopeful. The mortality after gunshot wounds so treated is as high as 67 per cent. ; but in the large majority of the cases the injuries would have been almost necessarily fatal. It is iniportant also to observe that of 23 cases in which no internal injuries were found only 3 died. Although therefore it may be laid down as a general rule that penetrating wounds of the abdomen should be treated by an exploratory laparotomy, circumstances may arise in which this treatment is impracticable. Without all the means necessary for efficient antiseptic precautions it should not be undertaken in doubtful cases. The wound should be closed with sutures, prefer- ably of silver wire, and a dry absorbent dressing applied. The patient should have a full dose of opium ; about two grains of the solid opium or a hypodermic injection of the third of a grain of morphia may be given, after which the effect must be kept up by doses of half that amount, repeated every four or six hours. This serves the important purpose of arresting the peristaltic