VENEREAL DISEASES. "44 fail. They are given in doses of from yV to yV of a grain, made up into pills with sugar of milk and varnished. Calomel is never to be recommended, being too irritating. Mercury can also be administered in a mixture, if the pills do not suit. In debilitated constitutions, and in the tertiary stage of the disease, the perchloride in doses of from yV to i of a grain may be given, with compound tincture and infusion or decoction of cinchona. To this are some- times advantageously added a few grains of iodide of potassium, by which the perchloride is converted into the red iodide of mercury, which is held in solution by the excess of the potassic iodide. Plummer's pill, in five grain doses, taken tW'O or three times a day, is very useful in the syphilides. In many cases iron may advantageously be combined with mercury. For this purpose a pill having the following composition may be given three times a day : Grey powder, gr. j.; reduced iron, gr. j.; sulphate of quinine, gr. j.; powdered opium, gr. \ ; extract of gentian, gr, j. (&.) Inundion.—This may conveniently be practised when it is desired to put the patient rapidly under the influence of mercury or when the bowels are so irritable that the drug, if given by the mouth, invariably purges the patient. It is best done by rubbing a scruple to a drachm of mercurial ointment into the inside of each thigh or arm or in the axilla before going to bed. Hill recommended that the ointment should be made up with lanolin and that a drachm of olive oil should be added to each ounce of the ointment. The skin should be well washed before the mercury is rubbed in. After the inunction the patient should put on flannel clothes next his skin to encourage sweating and go to bed. In the morning he should take a hot bath. The inunction must be repeated daily till some effect is produced, and it is best not to rub the ointment into the same part on two consecutive days. It must be borne in mind that the orifices of the sweat-glands and hair-follicles become filled with the ointment; so that, should salivation commence, it is not easy at once to arrest the absorption of the mercury. During the treatment the patient should use an alum mouth-wash. The use of the hot bath every morning diminishes the risk of the absorption of an undue amount. (c.) Subcutaneous injection of mercury has been employed on the Continent by Lewin and other Surgeons, and in this country by Walker of Peterborough, Bloxam, and others. Sigmund of Vienna believed it to be most useful in those forms of the disease affecting the more superficial structures and the osseous, muscular, and fibrous tissues. Hill, who extensively tried this mode of ad- ministration, was of opinion that it should be reserved for those rare cases in which mercury cannot be taken in the more ordinary ways. The best preparation for injection is sal alembroth, the double chloride of mercury and ammonium ; one-third of a grain should be dissolved in ten drops of water and injected on every fifth day. The injections should be made into the muscles of the back or buttock. Sal alembroth injections are very rarely followed by abscess, which is not uncommon after the injection of the perchloride, red iodide, and the so-called " grey oil " (composed of mer- cury, lanolin, and olive oil), which have all been employed. Another prepara- tion which has been recommended for injection is the sozoiodolate of mercury; one-third of a grain is dissolved with two-thirds of a grain of iodide of sodium in ten minims of water. This may be given as an intramuscular injection every fifth or seventh day. (d.) Mercurial fumigation.—In some cases of syphilis in w^hich the patient