ERYSIPELAS. 939 CHAPTER XXXII. —♦— ERYSIPELAS. CELLULITIS. WHITLOW. The term "ei-ysipelas," or ''erysipelatous inflammation," is applied to a group of infective inflammatory processes afl'ecting the skin, the subcutaneous areolar tissue, intermuscular or subfascial areolar tissue, mucous membranes and submucous tissue, serous membranes and lymphatic vessels, and havmg one feature in common, the kndency to spread ivith great rapiditij lij contiiiuitij of tissue, or in other ivords, to assume a " diffuse " form. Erysipelas is due to the action of a virus, which infects the part attacked, increases in quantity in it by a process analogous to fermentation, and diffuses itself by means of the lymph-spaces and lymphatic vessels, exciting a characteristic form of inflammation as it spreads. The virus most commonly enters the body by a wound, causing a local inflammation accompanied by a definite febrile dis- turbance ; but some forms of erysipelatous inflammation arise when no apparent wound exists, and it is probable that in such cases the poison enters the system from the alimentary canal or the respiratory tract, and is carried by the blood to the spot at which the local inflammation appears. There is no evidence of a true general infection in any of the forms of erysipelas ; it is probable that the virus may be carried by the blood, but cannot multiply in it as in a true general infective process. Eiysipelatous inflammation may attack a wound of any size or of any age ; but the statistics of University College Hospital show that it most commonly arises in suppurating wounds, about two-thirds of the cases beginning after the tenth day, and very few before the fourth. The different forms of erysipelatous inflammation are most conveniently described as they afiect different tissues and organs. With this view, we may divide them primarily into External and Internal Erysipelas. External Erysipelas is that variety which affects the skin and subcu- taneous areolar tissue. The inflammatory process may affect either or both of these structures and thus erysipelas has been divided, as first suggested by Nunneley, into three forms: 1. Cutaneous; 2. Cellulo-cutaneous; 3. Cellulitis. The cellulo-cutaneous form is the Phlegmonous Erysipelas of Lawrence ; whilst the cellular variety is often spoken of as Diffuse Cellulitis. It is a fact of much importance that the cutaneous variety of erysipelas is characterized by the absence of pus formation, whilst on the other hand the cellulo-cutaneous and cellular varieties are essentially processes of diffuse suppuration. We shall indeed see shortly that there is strong clinical and pathological support for the view that cutaneous erysipelas is a specific in- flammation of the skin, and that the conditions known as cellulo-cutaneous and cellular erysipelas are quite distinct affections resulting from infection of the tissues with pyogenic organisms, and differing from each other chiefly in the exact seat of the suppuration.