FRACTURES OF THE FFLVIS. 605 side. Blood effused into the iliac fossa may extend forwards and produce dis- coloration along the line of Poupart's ligament. In examining a patient with suspected fracture of the pelvis, care should, however, be taken not to push the investigation too closely, lest injury be inflicted by the movement of the fragments. In those cases, indeed, in which the fracture does not extend completely across the pelvis, or in which it is seated in the deeper parts of the ischium, an exact diagnosis may be very difficult, and should not be attempted. Treatment.—As the great danger in fracture of the pelvis consists in the possibiHty of the urethra having been torn or the bladder wounded, the first thing to be done is to pass a gum catheter. If the urine be clear, it may be concluded that the urinary apparatus has not been injured, and the catheter may be withdrawn. If it be bloody, the catheter must be tied in, and an india-rubber tube applied by which the urine may drain away. The next thing is to keep the part perfectly quiet, so as to bring about union. With Fit;. 200.—Fracture of the Pelvis through Rami in front, and Sacro-iliac Synchondrosis behind. this view, a padded belt, or a broad flannel roller, should be tightly applied round the pelvis, the patient lying on a hard mattress, or plaster of Paris may be applied in a manner similar to that recommended for the treatment of fractured spine (p. 810). The knees may then be tied together, and a leather or gutta-percha splint moulded to the pelvis and thighs, so as to prevent all displacement of the fragments. If the urethra have been lacerated, however completely the patient may recover from the fracture, he will most certainly become eventually the subject of the most intractable form'of stricture—the traumatic. Period of Union.—Bony union usually takes place in the pelvis about the end of the sixth week. The patient must, therefore, be kept on his back with absolute immobility of the lower limbs for at least seven or eight weeks. He may then, wearing a padded belt, move about on crutches. However good the union may be, lameness is apt to result from the injury inflicted on the psoas and iliacus muscles, and those that closely bind the thigh to the pelvis, such as the pectineus, the obturators, &c. Fracture of the Aceta'bulum is an accident that can occur only as the result of very great violence directly applied to the hip. It may take place in two situations : either through the floor of the cavity, or only through the