116:; VENEREAL DISEASES. as syphilis, they care common, there can be no doubt of the fact, that when gummata are met with in internal organs, the syphilitic nature of the disease is established. The general pathological characters of the changes in the viscera and in the arteries have already been described (p. 1132). The complete description of the visceral affections belongs to Medicine rather than to Surgery, and it will be sufficient here briefly to indicate their nature. In the heart, syphilitic growths have been found on the endocardium, less frequently in the valves ; and two forms of myocarditis of syphilitic origin— one circumscribed, the other diffuse—have been described by Lancereaux. The lungs, liver, and spleen are dl liable to syphihtic growths. As a general rule, these may appear under two forms—either as gummata or as a diffuse interstitial growth, which in the liver may simulate cirrhosis, and in the lungs some of the forms of " fibroid phthisis." These syphilitic visceral diseases not unfrequently run a fatal course ; rarely, however, destroying the patient before the age of 35 (AVilks). The diagnosis of the specific nature of the affection must always be open to doubt, except in those cases in which the history of the infection has been continuous, and some of the more superficial and easily recognizable syphilitic affections are associated with the visceral forms of the disease. So far as treatment is concerned, our chief reliance must be placed on iodide of potassium, or if that fail, on the careful administration of mercury. 11. Syphilitic disease of the Mamma is of extreme rarity, and little is definitely known about it. Gummata have been described by Hennig as having been observed after death in one case. 12. There is no more distressing form of syphilitic disease than that which affects the Nervous System. The brain and spinal cord and their meninges, and the trunks of the nerves, are all liable to suffer. Syphilitic affections of the nervous system have been described as occurring during the first year after infection, but such cases are of extreme rarity ; as a rule they do not manifest themselves till after the end of the second year, and they may appear as late as the tenth, or, it is said, even the twentieth. They occur at all ages, and are not uncommon in young men. I have often seen syphilitic disease of the nervous system about the age of 25 or 30. It is the common cause of paralysis in early manhood. The development of the symptoms may follow some slight accident—a fall upon or a strain of the back, or over-exertion in walking, riding, or running. The primary disease has often been slight, the secondary symptoms trivial ; and indeed no great importance may have been attached to the venereal infection until the manifestations of iis destructive effects on the brain and cord. In other cases the patient may be suffering, at the time of the appearance of' the nervous symptoms, from se^-ere tertiary affections, such as ecthyma, rupia, serpiginous or sloughing ulceration of the throat, or painful nodes on the cranium, vertebral column, or long bones. Habitual excess in alcoholic stimulants forms a powerful predisposing cause of syphilitic disease of the nervous system. The pathological changes in the nervous system are of the same character as those in other parts of the body. They consist of chronic inflammation, with thickening of the meninges ; overgrowth and induration of the interstitial tissue of the nervous centres and nerves; the formation of gummata; and the obstructive changes in the arteries already described (p. 1132). Certain chronic