WOUA-DS OF THE LUNG: TREATMENT. 86i If there is no antiseptic lotion at hand the Surgeon should defer the exami- nation till the patient has reached the hospital. Nothing- is more certain to give rise to septic pleurisy than the introduction of a dirty finger. In Bullet ivounds of the Lung the treatment will chiefly depend upon the nature of the external wound. In a case in which one of the modern bullets has passed through the chest producing small almost clean-cut apertures, the Surgeon will probably best consult the safety of the patient by abstaining froDi all interference beyond thorough cleansing of the skin with an effi- cient antiseptic solution and the application of an antiseptic dressing. If the bullet remain in the chest, the aperture must be sufficiently enlarged to allow the introduction of the finger, purified by some antiseptic fluid. The Surgeon must not go too deeply or perseveringly in search of the foreign body, lest he excite more irritation than it would if left alone. Large wounds must be left freely open, whilst medium-sized ones may need enlarging, so as to favour the escape of any foreign body which may have been left in, or of extravasated blood or inflammatory effusions. Careful antiseptic treatment of such cases is most important, and in the absence of the necessary means for carrying this out, the patient's chance of recovery will be increased by a free provision for drainage and the application of some dry absorbent dressing. The Constitutional Treatment of wounds of the lung presents nothing peculiar. During the first few hours the chief danger is from loss of blood, and as the feeble state of the circulation during the state of shock that immediately follows the injury is favourable to the arrest of haemorrhage, the patient should not be prematurely roused by the administration of stimulants. He must be kept lying on the injured side, and have ice to suck, or a little iced milk and soda-water, or barley-water, to drink, when these are obtainable. He must be forbidden to talk, and kept at perfect rest. If no complications ensue, he must be kept on moderate diet for a few days, after which he may take such food as he is inclined for. Treatment of the Complications of Penetrating Wounds of the Lung.—Profuse hmaorrliage is a common complication in all wounds of the chest. It may occasionally come from a wounded intercostal or internal mammary artery, and must then be treated by the method described on p. 476. If the hgemorrhage come from the pulmonary tissue, the first indication is to diminish the quantity and force of the blood circulating through the lungs, and thus, by lessening the impulse of the heart and increasing the tendency of the blood to coagulate in the smaller vessels, to endeavour to arrest the hgemorrhage from these organs. If the ha3morrhage have been very abun- dant, the collapse and fainting consequent upon this may tend to induce a natural arrest of the bleeding, which thus often spontaneously ceases on the supervention of syncope. Should the hasmoptysis, however, continue or return from time to time, what should be done ? Here a very considerable discrepancy of opinion exists amougstSurgeons; the question at issue beingwhethervenesec- tion should be adopted with the view of restraining the hasmorrhage, or whether the patient should be treated by rest, low diet, ice, digitalis, and similar remedies. Up to the close of the Crimean war, the most experienced. Surgeons were unani- mous in their opinion that the patient's safety lay in free and repeated vene- section. John Bell, Hennen, and Guthrie, all concurred in urging the necessity of free venesection so as to keep down the action of the heart. Accordiuo- to