SYPHILITIC AFFECTIONS OF THE THROAT. 1153 to the ounce, and the patient should be directed to take a small quantity into the mouth and thoroughly pickle the tongue in it. Internally iodide of potassium produces most effect. If it fails, and the patient is in a state to stand it, a course of mercury may be tried. The tongue is affected also in some cases by diffuse overgrowth of its connective tissue, occarring in patches and extending deeply into its substance from the mucous surface. More commonly it is the seat of gummata. These form, as a rule, in the muscular substance of the organ, and sometimes m the fibrous septum. They form indolent tumours, gradually reaching the mucous membrane, and implicating it. They run the usual course of gummata, and when they soften and open on the surface, leave deep foul ulcers, which may be mistaken for squamous carcinoma. The diagnosis of these affections, and their treatment, will be more fally considered under the diseases of the tongue. The syphilitic diseases of the Throat are amongst the most common mani- festations of constitutional syphihs, and frequently occur early. They present three chief forms, occurring in the early secondary, the later secondary, and the tertiary stages of the disease. The early secondary eruption is a deep red exanthematous efflorescence ^ of the soft palate and pillars of the fauces, either without ulceration or with but superficial abrasion. It occurs about the period of the invasion of the roseola and requires no special treatment. In the later secondary period, corresponding to that at which the squamous and papular eruptions appear on the skin, ulceration of the tonsils is very common. It appears first as white patches and mucous tubercles, in the centre of which the ulceration com- mences. The ulcers have sharply cut edges, often somewhat undermined. Superficial mucous patches may surround the ulcer, and extend on to the soft palate and pillars of the fauces. These ulcerations give little or no pain in most cases, and never cause any serious destruction of the mucous membrane. They require the ordinary treatment of constitutional syphilis, and locally may be occasionally touched with the perchloride of mercury solution (gr. ij to l]), or with nitrate of silver. The tertiary ulcerations of the pharynx are far more serious. They seldom occur till three or more years after infection, and then only in patients in a debilitated state of health. The ulcers commence by a gummatous infiltration of the mucous membrane, similar in character to the tubercular syphilides of the skin. This breaks down, and a serpiginous ulceration starts from the affected spot, and may spread widely and rapidly. The ulcer has an irregiilai- form and a foul grey surface, and may destroy in a few weeks a great part of the pillars of the fauces or of the soft palate. When the soft palate is destroyed, there is usually considerable difficulty in swallowing, and speech becomes altered. This form of ulceration occurs sometimes simultaneously with rupia on the skin, and requires the same constitutional treatment, the use of tonics being generally indicated. Tlie best local application is a gargle, composed of corrosive sublimate, gr. iv ; hydrochloric acid, ITt viij ; and water, 5X. If the patient cannot gargle, or if the treatment has no effect, ■corrosive sublimate lotion (gr. ij to 5]) may be carefully applied with a camel's hair pencil. Dusting the surface with iodoform often has a most excellent effect. It may be used in conjunction with the perchloride lotion •or gargle. It is important to remember that gargles of the perchloride of VOL. I. 4 E