SYPHILITIC DISEASES OF BONE. 1157 course may have this result. They occur usually after the patient has passed through the whole course of the less severe syphilitic affections, such as those of the skin, mucous membrane, and throat. The affections of the bones, however, may in some cases declare themselves at the same time as the affections of the skin and mucous membranes. They occur more commonly amongst the poorer classes, especially those who are exposed to atmospheric vicissitudes, and chiefly in strumous constitutions. The diseases to which the bones are liable as a consequence of syphilis are the following :— Syphilitic Periosiitis or Node.—This consists of a localized inflammation of the periosteum, usually affecting one bone only, but sometimes many. The inflammation is accompanied by exudation into and under the membrane ; the exudation may be absorbed, and the part restored to its normal condition, but more commonly it is partly or entirely developed into new bone, and thus a permanent thickening may remain (Fig. 405). In the early stages the new bone is soft and spongy, and is sharply separated from the compact bone beneath, which, beyond some slight superficial rarefaction from enlargement of the Haversian canals, shows no sign of change. As time goes on, however, the new bone becomes more compact till at last it seems merely a part of the compact tissues which at the affected spot may be a little denser than natural. Nodes may occur on almost any of the bones ; but they are most commonly met with on the tibia, the clavicle, or the bones of the forearm. They form elongated, uniform, elastic or hard swellings, usually tender on pressure, and generally but little painful during the day ; but at night the aggravation of pain is peculiarly marked, and constitutes perhaps the most distressing symptom. They cause no redness of skin and have no tendency to suppurate. Sclerosis of Bone.—This corresponds to the diffuse overgrowth of fibroid tissue in other parts. It usually affects one of the long bones or the cranium. Tlie bones become increased in size and density. The new osseous tissue is formed on the surface from the periosteum, but does not show the i-.-^ c ,1 u 1 1 Fig. 406.—Syphilitic Sclerosis of Tibia, distinct separation rrom the old so clearly Xransvonso section sliowing Medullary noticed in the ordinary node ; the growth canf'^^"'o^t obliterated by dense new is, moreover, not limited as in a node, but widely diflused as through the whole shaft of a long bone or throughout the vault of the skull. At the same time that new bone is formed on the surface a similar change may occur internally till the medullary canal becomes gradually filled with dense new bone (Fig. 406). The symptoms of this affection are merely the steady increase in size, with obscure aching pains, worse at night. Gummata of Bo7ie.—These never occur alone, but are always associated with the periosteal node or with sclerosis of the surrounding bone. They most commonly form superficially, and are at first indistinguishable from the ordinary node ; in fact, as before pointed out, the gumma in its commencement is identical in its nature with the diffuse syphilitic overgrowth of fibroid tissue differing merely in its localization and intensity and in its tendency to fatty