944 ERYSIPELAS. Erysipelas, however, cannot be as certainly jjenerated in this way as some other unhealthy processes in wounds, such as hospital gangrene, or pyaemia. This has frequently been observed in military practice. Thus, after the battle of Sedan, although the wounded in some hospitals were almost decimated by pyjBmia, erysipelas was very rarely met with. In the American War it is stated to have occurred in ()'4 per cent, of the wounded. It generally broke out in badly ventilated hospitals, and spread rapidly from one patient to another. It was less frequent in cases treated in tents, but occasionally it made its appearance under the most favourable hygienic conditions. These facts tend to confirm the view that genuine erysipelas is due to a specific virus which is not universally present. In old hospital buildings in which the disease has frequently occurred, the poison may be constantly present, waiting only for iavourable conditions to manifest itself. Fehleisen has shown that the streptococci of cutaneous erysipelas can be cultivated at ordinary temperatures, not only in gelatine and blood-serum, but on potatoes, and it seems probable that the virus will increase readily whenever there is dead animal or vegetable matter in which it can develop. This explains the way in which the disease is not unfrequently originated in hos- pitals, by dressers going directly from the dead-house, and especially from the examination of the bodies of those who have died of diffuse inflfimmations, to the bedside of patients, without taking sufficient care to clean their hands or change their clothes. For this reason also the same instruments should never b*e used for practising operations on the dead and performing them on the living body. The apparent origin of the disease from air passing over an ash-heap on which kitchen refuse has been thrown, which has been more than once recorded, may be due to the cultivation of the specific streptococcus on decaying vegetable matter. The varieties of external erysipelatous inflammation will be separately dis- cussed in some detail. 1. Cutaneous Erysipelas is a specific spreading inflammation of the skin, accompanied by constitutional symptoms which are secondary to the local disturbance. Local Symptoms.—If there be a wound, its surface becomes dry, and the margins become slightly swollen, and the characteristic rash spreads away from them into the surrounding skin. The disease may also appear to occur idiopathically ; that is to say, it may apparently originate in the unbroken skin. Trousseau, and others, have asserted that even in these cases it always starts from some shght abrasion which has been overlooked. When arising in this way it commences most commonly at the junction of mucous membrane and skin, as at the angle of the mouth, the ala of the nose, the corner of the eye, the meatus of the ear, or the margin of the anus. In rare cases it may arise spontaneously on the limbs. I have seen it commence in the unbroken skin over an abscess. This so-called idiopathic erysipelas is the same disease as that in which the rash starts from a wound, although this has been doubted. During an outbreak of erysipelas in a surgical ward the tw^o forms may arise in different cases as the result of the same infection. The rash is of a uniform, vivid rosy-red hue, sometimes becoming dusky, and always disappearing on pressure, leaving a shghtly yellowish tint behind ; when advancing, it is characterized by a sharply-defined border slightly raised above the healthy skin, but when subsiding it fades away into the colour of the