787 INJURIES OF THE SPINE. CHAPTEK XXY. INJURIES OF THE SPINE. In no class of injuries will the diagnostic skill and powers of observation of the practical Surgeon be more severely tested than in tlie investigation of a case of injury to the spine. When we consider the mode of construction of the vertebral column with its complicated articulations and its intricate arrauge- ment of muscles, tendons and ligaments, we can only wonder that it is not more frequently injured in the ordinary movements of every-day life. And when again we consider the delicate structure of the spinal cord and of the other parts contained within the spinal canal, it is truly remarkable to what severe external forces they are frequently exposed without suffering even temporary interference with their functions. Injuries of the spine and spinal cord occur not unfrequeutly in the ordinary accidents of civil life—in blows, falls, horse and carriage accidents, injuries in gymnasiums, etc.—whilst the shock of a railway accident may produce injuries of great severity and in some respects differing from those resulting from other causes. In a railway accident several conditions are often present which tend to modify and impart a special character to the results produced. Thus we must ever bear in mind the important fact, that the symptoms presented by an individual who has met with an injury under such circumstances are often largely determined by the severe fright and nervous shock to which he has been exposed-symptoms which often cannot be explained bv any direct effect of the injury npon the spinal cord. But, again, the exact na ure of the disturbance produced by a railway collision is often peculiar A thriU or jar,-the ebranlemeiit of French writers-is transmitted throuo-h everythmg subjected to it. The carriage in which the patient is seatedls perhaps shattered into fragments, and by the same force the patient's body is thrown violent y backwards and forwards, and a sharp vibration like an electric shock passes through every part of it. Can we then marvel that after such a violent commotion strange nervous symptoms should often manifest them- !rTh /'f 1" r '^'^^ b« the same man again ? The wonderful influence of the mind over the body is rarely more dearly seen than after railway accidents ; the man is often so firmly convinced that he has been seriously injured, that symptoms of small moment are magni- fied into most serious proportions, and to this inherent dread of impendino- pandysis must often be added the mental anxiety necessarily assoS S lega. piyceedings for compensation. As the result of one or more of the above causes the symptoms produced by spinal injuries resulting from i^il^vay^acci dents are often invested vvith_somewhat peculiar character^; but the Sur^e n must remember that in their essential nature they differ in no imporCt respect from those due to similar injuries produced in other ways 'P''^"''*^ 3 E 2