TREATMENT OF DEPRESSED FRACTURE OF SKULL. 737 that this will relieve the symptoms, as the compression in almost all cases is not due solely to the depressed bone, but chiefly to extravasated blood Avithin the cranium, (See Intracranial Haemorrhage, p. 7G8.) Still the operation must to some extent relieve pressure, and may enable the Surgeon to remove the extravasated blood at the same time. In a Compound Depressed Fracture of the Skull, as a general rule, the depressed bone should immediately be elevated. If the fracture he accompanied hj symptoms of compression the indications for operative interference are obvious. In these cases it is better always to expose the dura mater either by removing some fragments, as in all probability the compression is in great part due to intracranial haamorrhage which may be between that membrane and the bone. If the dura mater should seem much distended with blood it may safely be incised with proper antiseptic pre- cautions. If the fracture he not accomp)a?iied hy symptoms of compression it is still the duty of the Surgeon, as a general rule of practice, to elevate, and remove partly or completely, the depressed fragments. The patient who is suffering from a compound depressed fracture of the skull is exposed to the dangers of intracranial suppuration, and in order to lessen the risks of this serious com- plication a free exit for discharges must be provided. This can be done only by the removal of the depressed fragments which offer a serious obstacle to the escape of the discharges, and by their irritation favour the occurrence of meningitis. The sooner elevation is done the better. Danger does not arise fi-om early operation, but from delay. I have several times trephined primarily in such circumstances as these with success, and have never had occasion to regret doing so. Indeed, there is no class of cases in which the operation of trephining is attended with such successful results as those of depressed and comminuted fracture. Even though several days have elapsed and inflam- mation has set in, the proper treatment will be to remove the depressed and splintered bone, and thus give the patient his only chance—a slender one, it is true—of recovery. A man was admitted under Listen with a long depressed fracture on the side of the head, produced by a blow from a brickbat; though no sign of compression existed, yet symptoms of cerebral inflammation were speedily set up, and Listen trephined him on the fourth day after the accident • the man, who was perfectly conscious, walking into the operating theatre A considerable splintering of the innqr table was found, the fragments of which were removed. The dura mater having been punctured by one of the spicula of bone, diffuse suppuration of the membranes of the brain set in and the patient died in a few days. In this case, however, the necessity for early trephining was clearly indicated, notwithstanding the absence of any symptom of compression. j j f Some cases of compound depressed fracture have recovered without operative mterference. I had once under my care a case which illustrated this The patient, a middle-aged man, fell on his head into an area, and had the greater part of the scalp sti-ipped off from the anterior part of the head and the vertex - on the upper part of the left parietal bone was a starred and de- pressed fracture as large as a florin. As the depression was smooth, not more than a quarter of an inch in depth, and there was no symptom of compression I di-ew the scalp forwards and left the bone untouched, the patient makin- an VOL. I. ^ 3 B