223 CIIRONIC I NFL A MM A TION. remain for ordinary food. Wlien the patient can take it, porter or stout may be given, as they contain much o-enuine food in addition to the alcohol. When the patient is recovering, alcoholic stimulants with the meals often increase the enjoyment of food and promote digestion, especially in those accustomed to their use. The asthenic type of fever, formerly so common, is not now so often met with in hospital practice. In a certain proportion of cases the constitutional state of the patient is such that any inflammatory process will certainly assume this type, but in the majority of eases the special constitutional state is secondary to an unhealthy septic or infective process going on at the seat of inflammation. By the prevention of these unhealthy processes by the modern treatment of wounds, and by the improvement of the general hygienic con- ditions of our hospitals, much has been done to prevent the occurrence of the worst form of asthenic inflammatory fever. Chronic Inflammation.—The foregoing description has referred solely to acute inflammation, and it now remains to give a brief summary of the dis- tinctive characters of the chronic form of the process. It is commonly said that chronic inflammation, although differing from the acute form in its course, symptoms and effect, is but a modification of the same process. This is no doubt true of many forms between which and the acute process no sharp line can be drawn, but a large number of pathological changes which are described as chronic inflammation differ so widely from the acute process that it is difiicult to see any point of analogy between them. In acute inflammation the original tissues are passive during the acute stage of the process, the cells infiltrating the part being all migrated leucocytes, and it is not till the tissues are recovering from the damage they have suffered that proliferation of the original cells commences. In many pathological processes classed under the heading of Chronic Inflammation new growth from the original tissues forms the sole phenomenon, and there is no evidence of migration of leucocytes at any stage. Between these two extremes every gradation is met with, and it is common to find migration of leucocytes and destruction of tissue going on side by side with proliferation and growth, and the two processes are often so intermixed that it is often impossible to determine, with any degree of certainty, the origin of a large proportion of the new cells infiltrating a chronically inflamed area. This combination of the two processes is due to the fact that chronic inflammation is the result of irritation of a low and frequently varying degree of intensity acting for a prolonged period of time, and, as has already been pointed out, the same cause which, acting intensely, may give rise to acute inflammation and even to death, acting less powerfully may stimulate the original cells of the part to proliferation and growth. In no chronic inflammatory process is there any permanent increase in the more highly differentiated structures. For example, in chronic inflammation of a gland, the glandular epithelium degenerates, while the interstitial tissue increases, and in the central nervous system the nerve-cells degenerate as the connective tissue increases. Surface epithelium such as that of the skin or mucous membrane frequently hypertrophies in chronic inflammatory processes, and in the growth of new connective tissue new vessels are often formed, but the new connective tissue as a rule becomes dense and scarlike, and compresses the higher tissues amongst which it is developed. It is always devoid of yellow elastic tissue. In all chronic inflammations any new tissue that forms