ACQUIRED SYPHILIS: PROGNOSIS. "35 the surrounding tissues, and often sending processes in various directions along the lines of the vessels for some distance. The organ in which it is sftuated is also, in many cases, the seat of general interstitial fibroid induration. From the above description it will be seen that a gumma resembles tubercle in being a new growth of the type of granulation tissue, prone to early fatty degeneration, followed often by softening and elimination by suppuration. It differs from tubercle in being vascular during the whole stage of evolution, m its capability of being absorbed or of undergoing a development in part into fibrous tissue, in the toughness of its tissue, and in the absence of the charac- teristic tubercle nodule, with its giant cell, epithelioid cells and lymphoid corpuscles. Moreover, it is not inocnlable on animals, nor has it been proved to contain any specific organism. Lustgarten has described a bacillus, but the observation requires confirmation. Clinically in those parts in which a gumma comes under the observation of the Surgeon, it forms an indolent tumour of slow growth, often accompanied by a good deal of aching pain. If superficial, it slowly approaches the cutaneous surface, the skin becomes adherent, and then dusky red. The mass softens and fluctuates distinctly, and an opening forms from which some thin unhealthy pus escapes. This gradually increases in size by ulceration in many cases, till the whole reddened skin is destroyed. The tissue of the gumma is seen as an adherent, tough slough, like a piece of wet wash-leather, which slowly separates ; the cavity becomes lined with healthy granulations, and heals without difficulty, leaving a deep cicatrix. If a bone be affected, a carious patch is left, sometimes complicated by the presence of sequestra of varying size. Small gummata, not more than one-quarter of an inch in diameter, may form in the cutis vera, and afterwards soften and run the same course as deeper and larger growths of the same kind. In this situa- tion they form the skin disease known as tuhercular sijphilide. Gummata do not necessarily cause any enlargement of the neighbouring lymphatic glands, though this may occur when softening and suppuration are taking place. Gummata will be further referred to in connexion with the organs in which they are found. Gummata have occasionally been met with in an early stage of syphilis, and some authorities have maintained that the processes concerned in the formation of a gumma differ in no essential respect from those occurring in the indura- tion round the primary sore and in the lymphatic glands. There is, however, one essential difference—the discharges from softening gummata are, so far as is known, not infective, consequently it seems probable that the specific virus of syphilis is not present in them. It has therefore been suggested that the changes in the vessels, the diffuse overgrowth of interstitial tissue of organs, and the formation of gummata, are not the direct effects of the virus, but are due to some modification of the mode of growth and nutrition of the tissues, impressed upon them by the poison while it was active in the system. The unsymmetrical character of the later eruptions would indicate that they are not dependent on an active virus circulating in the blood-stream. At present Ave have not sufficient knowledge of the nature of the virus of syphihs, or of its mode of action, to render these speculations of any real value. Prognosis.—The severity and form of the manifestations which follow con- tagion vary greatly. Diday states that in 9.3 cases treated by him without