GLANDERS IN MAN. 385 have developed themselves, the patient may be restored to health by the removal of the indurated area of skin which was primarily attacked." GLANDERS. Glanders is a virulent disease, communicable by contagion to man from the horse, ass, or mule. In spite of the intense contagiousness of the disease and the frequency with which it occurs among animals of the equine species, it is rarely met with in man. The poison of glanders gives rise to two forms of disease in the horse, one known as glanders proper and the other as farcy. Glanders in the Horse almost invariably runs a chronic course. The first symptom is a thin watery discharge from the nose, which, as the disease progresses, becomes viscid and tenacious; lastly, it becomes purulent, oflPen- sive, and mixed with blood. The inflammation extends through the whole nasal cavity and frontal sinuses, and is accompanied by ulceration. There is also marked swelling of the lymphatic glands under the jaw. The disease may exist for some time without seriously impairing the health of the animal, but gradually loss of appetite and strength, emaciation, and cough set in, and death takes place from exhaustion. Before death the disease always becomes complicated by the second form or farcy. Farcy is characterised by swelling of the lymphatic glands in various parts of the body, especially on the inside of the thighs, and under the fore leg. The lymphatic vessels leading to and from the glands become inflamed, formmg hard, tender cords with swellings opposite the valves. These form the " corded veins " and " farcy-buds " of the farriers. The swellin-s opposite the valves enlarge and become adherent to the skin, and finally ulcerate formmg foul sores. The disease may at any time become complicated with acute glanders. Acute glanders is merely a great exaggeration of all the symptoms with high fever, hurried respiration, and cough. post-mortem appearances of glanders in the horse are a dark redness and swelling of the pituitaiy membrane, with numerous small white elevations and patches, softening in the centre so as to form ulcers. A similar condition extends to the mucous membrane of the bronchi. In the lungs are numerous consolidated patches, varying in size from a millet-seed upwards, opaque vellow in colour, and softening in the centre, sometimes having the appearance of minute abscesses. With these may be patches of pneumonia. Clam-ee describes as occasionally present in the lungs large masses of a bluish-white colour and lardaceous appearance, sometimes as big as a hen's ego- Subserous petechise are common. Glanders and Farcy in Man usually occur together and run an acute course, although occasionally they may become chronic. The disease is always communicated by inoculation, usually into a scratch or other wound • but cases have been recorded in which it seemed to have been communicated through unbroken mucous membrane. The inoculation is followed bv a period of mcubation which is said to vary from two days to two weeks The invasion is marked by fever and a great sense of illness. There may be rigors, vomiting and diarrhoea. In some cases there have been such severe pains in the hmbs that the disease has been mistaken for rheumatism The^sjat^of inoculation becomes inflamed, and the nearest lymphatic glands CO