254 SUPPURATION AND ABSCESS. caseous mass is formed which very commonly softens and breaks down into a puriform fluid. We then have the chronic tuberculous abscess. The fluid contents under the microscope sho^Y few, if any, definite pus-cells. The puriform appearance is caused by fatty granules, amongst which are seen a few withered cells of irregular shape which have not yet completely disintegrated (Fig. 92). The interior aspect of the wall of the abscess is composed of a yellowish layer of caseating tuberculous tissue, and beneath this is a layer of newly-formed fibroid tissue forming the sac of the abscess. In an acute abscess it is impossible to dissect out any wall, as the cavity is surrounded by soft inflamed tissues gradually fusing with the healthy surrounding parts. In a typical chronic tuberculous abscess the fibrous sac is so defined that it can be dissected out like a cyst (Fig. 93). The increase of such an abscess as this takes place partly by the constant addition to its contents by the softening and disintegration' of the caseating layer forming the inner hning of the sac, and probably also in part by a fluid exudation from the walls. Such an abscess slowly extends and may burrow to a con- siderable distance from its original starting- point. The course it follows is determined first by the fascia beneath which it may be burrowing. As a general rule it does not perforate a fascia, as this becomes thickened by the growth of new fibrous tissue rather than thinned by ulceration or pressure. Secondly, it burrows in the spaces along which the large arteries run ; thus, a psoas abscess after following the muscle beneath the fascia to the groin comes in relation with the profunda, and follows it amongst the adductor muscles, often sending out processes along the circumflex arteries and their branches reaching to the gluteal region. The cavity is often crossed by bands containing vessels of considerable size. "When they attain a great size these abscesses are often multilocular, the different cavities being connected by • narrow channels of communication: in this way I have seen a large ■ abscess extending from the lumbar vertebrce to the iliac fossa down the thigh, the ham, and the leg, until at last it was opened by the side of the tendo Achillis, having formed five or six collections of fluid, com- municating with one another by contracted channels (Fig. 93). The fact that the pus usually advances in a downward direction apparently under the influence of gravity has given rise to the name gravitation abscesses, which . is sometimes applied to them. These abscesses do not readily point, and I their duration is often very remarkable. I have seen large chronic abscesses « in the iliac fossa and groin perfectly stationary for nearly two years. The Fig 93.—Large Psoas Abscess extending down the Thigh and Leg. I