278 ULCERATION. records a case in which, to repair great loss of skin from gangrenous erysipelas in an old man, grafts were taken from his son. The treatment was apparently saccessful, and complete healing took place, but soon afterwards spreading ulcers formed, and the whole scar was destroyed. Roseola appeared ten weeks after the first graft was appli(!d, and was followed by mucous tubercles in the mouth. The son was found to have condylomata about the anus, and had suffered eighteen months before from a hard chancre. The method of skiu-grafting recommended by Thiersch is now largely employed in the treatment of granulating surfaces. It is performed as follows : The granulations are scraped away to the firm underlying tissue, and the htemorrhage arrested by sponge-pressure. The grafts are made by cutting the thinnest possible slices with a broad, flat razor from some part of the patient's body, preferably the outer surface of the forearm or the front of the thigh. Strips measuring four inches in length and three-quarters of an inch in breadth can thus be obtained, and will live if applied to the raw surface. The grafts should be made slightly to overlap each other as well as the edges of the raw surface, and the latter, if of only moderate size, can be thus completely covered. The whole is covered with protective oiled silk, and a gauze dressing applied. The surface from which the grafts are removed is rapidly covered with epithelium, as in the healing of a burn of the third degree (see p. 393). The healing produced by Thiersch's method is per- manent, because the weak granulations are scraped away, and, for the same reason, the contraction of the cicatrix is much diminished. Operation wounds, which it is found impossible to close by suturing, can be treated in the same way; thus, Watson Cheyne has successfully used the method after excision of the breast in cases where free removal of skin was necessary, the skin grafts being placed on the surface of the pectoral muscle. True Skin-Graffcing, that is to say, the transplantation of portions of the complete thickness of the skin, has frequently been performed for the restora- tion of portions of lost skin from the face. The details of this operation as it is performed for ectropion will be found in the chapter on Plastic Surgery (Chap. LVIL). It is essential that every vestige of subcutaneous fat should be removed from the under surface of the cutis, otherwise it will almost certainly fail to unite in its new situation. Skin transplanted in this way will adhere either to a fresh raw surface or to a granulating sore, but much more readily to the former. E. C. Lucas has shown that the skin of the prepuce, being devoid of fat, makes excellent grafts for a granulating sore. In hospital practice the opportunities of obtaining the necessary material are very frequent, and may often be taken advantage of in the treatment of the large granulating sores left after burns. Weak Ulcer.—This most commonly occurs from emollient applications having been continued too long, and especially from the application of poultices. It differs from the healthy sore in that the edges want the healing line, and the surface is raised above the surrounding skin and covered by flabby semi- transparent granulations sometimes rising in exuberant, gelatinous masses above the edges of the sore. These granulations have a feeble vitaUty, and readily slough. Popularly they are spoken of as " proud flesh." The Treatment consists in keeping the part elevated and carefully bandaged, and applying an astringent dressing to the sore, such as the " red wash," or