896 INJURIES OF THE ABDOMEN AND PELVIS. When the penis is more deeply Avounded, there are two special sources of danger, viz., hEemorrhage and wound of the urethra. The htcraorrhage is usually very profuse. If it proceed from a distinct arterial trunk, such as the dorsal artery or that of a corpus cavernosum, the vessel must be ligatured. If it occur from general oozing from the vascular tissues of the penis,- it may be arrested by cold, pressure, or astringents. Pressure is best applied by passing a large catheter into the bladder, and then compressing the organ against this by means of a narrow bandage or circular strip of plaster. Injury of the genital organs by self-mutilation is occasionally met with in cases of sexual mania or melancholia. In some cases the patient has cut off one testis ; in others, the penis ; in others, again, the whole of the external sexual organs. Injuries such as these present no very special characters, and require to be treated on ordinary principles, the great point being to restrain the haemorrhage and to prevent contraction of the urethral orifice. UiiETHRA.—"Wounds of the Urethra by gunshot injury, or sharp instru- ments, is a troublesome accident, on account of the liability to the infiltration of urine and ultimately to fistula. It may be recognized by the escape of blood from the meatus, and of urine from the wound. The Treatment consists in the introduction of a catheter, which should be tied in ; and if the edges of the wound be clean cut, they may be brought together by interrupted sutures. The catheter should not be kept in longer than is necessary. After the first week, the patient can in many cases be taught to pass a soft instru- ment for himself whenever he desires to pass water. Laceration of the Urethra is immediately attended with most serious symptoms, and remotely followed by most disastrous consequences. It very frequently occurs in men employed in building, from slipping in walking across an unfinished floor, in such a way as to fall heavily astride upon one of the joists. I have seen it in a farrier, kicked in the perinEeum whilst shoeing a horse ; and it is not uncommonly met with as a consequence of injury by a fragment of bone in fracture of the rami of the pubes and ischium. In all forms of the accident it is almost invariably the membranous part of the urethra that suflFers. In a violent blow on the peringeum the urethra is forcibly driven upwards, and crushed against the pubic arch. When the laceration occurs from a fragment of bone in a fracture, it is usually in those cases in which the pelvis is forcibly compressed, and gives way both behind and in front (Fig. 206). The outer fragment is driven across the middle line in the perinaBum, and thus tears the urethra. In both these accidents the inferior layer of the triangular ligament is torn ; it is impossible that the membranous part of the urethra could be lacerated by a blow in the peringeum while it remained intact ; and in the fracture it is torn at its attachment to the pubic arch ; consequently if urine escapes from the urethra it readily finds its way into the loose areolar tissue beneath the deep layer of the superficial fascia. In these injuries the integuments are usually untorn, but deeply ecchymosed. The extravasation of blood is often considerable, extending into the scrotum, which rapidly swells up and becomes black. It may, indeed, be very serious, arising in some cases from the lacerated structures and the torn superficial or transverse arteries of the perinseum ; in other instances from the corpus spongiosum, the bulb, or the artery of the bulb. In all cases of lacerated urethra, blood will drip from the orifice; and, if the bulb and its arteries have