SPECIAL FRACTURES. 626 efforts to save himself. In consequence of these fractures being occa- sioned by muscular action, they are more frequent in men, especially abont the middle period of life, less common in women, and extremely rare in children. I have once, however, had under my care a child under ten years of ag-e who had a transverse fracture of the patella. It not unfrequently happens, when one patella has been fractured, that the unsteadiness of gait causes the opposite one to be broken by muscular action in an effort to avoid a fall. The same ])atella may be broken more than once ; in the cases that I have seen, the second fracture has always occurred in the upper fragment, a httle above the line of the original fracture. The Signs of this fracture are very evident. When it is transverse, and has been producedby muscular action, the fibrous expansion from the vasti, over the bone, is torn ; and the separation between the fragments (Figs. 224, 225), which is much increased by bending the knee (Fig. 226), and the inability to stand or to raise the injured limb, indicate what has happened. When it has been produced by direct violence, the muscles being at rest, there is little or no separation, even though the fracture be transverse, as the fragments are held together by the untorn expansion from the extensor muscles. In such cases, and when it is longitudinal or comminuted, the crepitus and mobility of the fragments point it out. Immediately on the occurrence of a fracture of the patella, the knee-joint becomes distended by effused blood, and later by inflammatory exudation. The swelling assumes the ordinary form of the distended synovial membrane. It usually subsides after a few days' rest. Mode of Union.—When the patella is fractured transversely by muscular action, it rarely, if ever, unites by bone, except as the result of some operative procedure, altliough cases have been recorded in which after simple treatment the union has been so close that there was strong reason to believe it was osseous. The failure of bony union is due—first, to the wide separation of the fragments by the action of the muscles ; secondly, to the distension of the Fig. 223.--Tibial Attacliriiciit of Anterior Crucial Ligament torn uj). Fig. '224.—Uiagi-aiu of i.iositioii of fragments in fracture of Patella. Eversion of Upper Fragment.