798 INJURIES OF THE SPINE. hysterical phenomena may be the result of an injury ; secondly, that such phenomena may occnr in men and in individuals who liave shewn' no signs of the so-called " hysterical" or neurotic" temperament ; thirdly, that the emotional symptoms of hysteria may be altogether absent; and lastly, that the symptoms may be of a remarkably obstinate and permanent character. It may here be pointed out tliat the reason for considering the subject of traumatic hysteria in this place, is that, not only does it frequently occur as the result of spinal injuries, but the local motor and sensory phenomena produced frequently closely imitate the paralyses and defects of sensation which result from gross lesions of the spinal cord and the nerve-roots. It would be beyond the scope of this work to enter into a full consideration of the highly-interesting subject of Traumatic Hysteria, and the reader who wishes for further information may consult the works of Charcot, Oppenheim, Page, Thorburn and others. It will be sufficient here to indicate the chief characters of some of the more important phenomena. Symptoms.—The condition of acute hysteria which may follow an injury to the spine, especially such as occurs in a railway accident, merely needs mention. In a chronic case the true nature of the affection is easily recognizable if it is accompanied by the emotional symptoms and " hysterical seizures " which are so common in hysteria in the female. The purely local phenomena need further consideration. 1. ifo/or.—The most common local effect is paralysis, although spasmodic contraction may occur. The paralysis may assume the monoplegic, hemiplegic or paraplegic form. It is in those cases in which one limb only is affected,''or in which paraplegia exists that difficulty may arise in distinguishing it from the paralyses due to damage to the spinal cord by haemorrhage and^bruising. It is an important fact that if the paralysis of a limb be partial the muscles affected in hysteria are usually those which are associated in their action and thus the patient is unable to perform one or more particular movements ; whereas we have already seen that in cases of organic lesion of the cord by haemorrhage or later by myelitis the paralysed muscles can be grouped according to the spinal nerve-roots by which they are supplied. Charcot also insists upon the important fact that in a case of traumatic hysteria the muscles often do not atrophy and do not exhibit the reaction of degene- ration. 2. Sejisory.—Y^Yj'mg degrees of anaisthesia are frequently associated with hysterical paralysis. The presence of hemianesthesia associated with any form of paralysis after a spinal injury may be taken as strong evidence that the paralysis is functional and not due to any gross lesion. In such cases the anaesthesia is usually more marked in the paralysed limb than elsewhere. Complete flaccid paralysis with anesthesia of one limb constitutes another type of an hysterical condition. The loss of sensation is deep and super- ficial, and the muscular sense may be totally lost. Patches of hypergesthesia are often present. The tendon-reflexes may be diminished. We thus see that a careful study of the pxtent and character of the paralysis and anesthesia may often lead to a recognition of their true nature. Amongst other conditions which may be present, and which will greatly assist in the diagnosis, may be mentioned :—Contraction of the field of vision for white hght; diminution or loss of the sense of hearing, smell or taste ; and insensibihty of the pharynx.