BURNS. 395 cases of burn proving fatal within forty-eight liours, the contents of the cranium are stated to have been congested in 15, several of which showed excess of fluid in the subarachnoid space and in the ventricles ; in 18 there was congestion of the lungs; and in 17 the abdominal viscera were more or less markedly congested, the kidneys alone being affected in 2, and the duodenum in 2 ; in one case there were "two or three small ulcers" in the third part of the duodenum. 2. The next stage, that of Reaction and Inflammation, extends from the second day to the second week. The action of the heat which causes the l)urn is momentary, and produces its full effect instantaneously. The inflam- mation which is the direct result of the heat sets in therefore at once, and if no other cause came into play it would be accurately limited to the part acted on, and begin to subside after the flrst few hours. This is, however, not the case in the majority of burns. By the end of the second day the inflammation is still increasing in intensity and extent. The burnt area is surrounded by a wide-spreading blush of redness ; swelling, heat, and pain become prominent symptoms. With these there is fever proportional to the extent of the burn. It is important to consider, therefore, what is the cause that not only main- tains but extends the inflammatory process long after the original cause has ceased to exert any influence. In burns accompanied by death of con- siderable portions of tissue, the presence of the dead matter no doubt gives rise to some irritation in its immediate neighbourhood, but the great cause of the inflammation that occurs during the first week of a bad burn is the decom- position of the adherent sloughs, and the fever that accompanies the process is in great part due to the absorption of the chemical products of putrefaction. It is during this period that a large burn becomes so horribly offensive unless special means are adopted to prevent it. Death during this stage may be connected with some inflammatory condition of the gastro-intestinal mucous membrane or of the peritoneum. The lungs are also frequently afllected, showing marked evidence of pneumonia or congestion ; cerebral att'ections are less common than in the first stage, though they may present more unequivocal e\'idence of inflammation. In 38 cases examined post-mortem during this stage, the brain and its membranes were congested in 7; the lungs were congested in 15 ; there was pneumonia in 2, bronchitis in 4, and petecbiae in 8 ; the abdominal viscera showed a generally congested state in 5, whilst in 5 the stomach and duodenum only were affected, the duodenum alone in 4, and the kidneys alone in ]. In one case there were two ulcers in the first part of the duodenum. The post- mortem appearances are, in fact, those of acute septic poisoning, possibly complicated in some cases by a true infective process. It is in this stage of burn that the very serious and rare sequela, perforating Ulcer of the Duodenum, may occur. Attention was first directed to it by Curling, who suggested that the ulceration commenced in Brimner's glands. It is far more probable that it is due to the acid contents of the intestine acting on a point in the mucous membrane in which a capillary embolism has lodged. In favour of this view are the following facts : first, the ulcer occurs most frequently at that period of the case in which the patient IS suffering from the absorption of septic matter from the sloughs in the skin, a condition in which capillary embolism is of common occurrence ; secondly,' It is usually met with in the first part of the duodenum near the pylorus before