GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. 358 supervention of consecutive haimorrhage. The patient, consequently, at this time requires to be carefully watched : if the wound be in the vicinity of a large vessel, a tourniquet should be placed loosely round the limb, so as to be screwed up at a moment's notice ; and, on the occurrence of bleeding, the artery must be ligatured, if possible, at the seat of the wound, or, if this be not practicable, in the most convenient situation above it. If this do not arrest the bleeding, recourse should be had to amputation. Serious results, such as abscesses, profuse discharges, osteomyelitis, necrosis, and the separation of splinters of bone, must be subsequently looked for in many cases ; and these results may be prolonged for many years, at last perhaps wearing out the patient if the cause of irritation be not removed. Thus General Bem required to have a bullet removed by Listen from the external condyle of his femur, nineteen years after it lodged there ; and Marshal Moncey died from the effects of a gun-shot wound, forty years after its receipt. A soldier who was wounded at the storming of the Redan died under my care in the University College Hospital, two years and a half after that event, of exhaustion resulting from a large lumbar abscess. On examina- tion it was found that the bullet, which had entered the left side of the chest, wounded the lung, traversed the diaphragm, notched the spleen, passed between the kidney and suprarenal body, and perforated the spine, was lying encapsuled on the right side of one of the vertebrse, pressing upon the right renal vessels. Its irritation, and that of the sequestra from the injured spine, produced the abscess, from the effect of which the patient died. The aperture of exit usually heals sooner than the aperture of entry, pro- bably owing to the more extensive sloughing that often takes place round the latter. II. Amputation is required in gun-shot injuries in two classes of Cases very dissimilar in character. First, in cases in which the limb is wholly or in part carried away or so shattered that there could be no doubt in the mind of any Surgeon as to the necessity for immediate amputation ; and secondly, in various cases in which a Surgeon, judging solely from the accidents of civil life, might not at first think the operation necessary. For example, in a bullet wound of the knee- joint, the apparent injury may be very slight, yet experience has shown that an attempt to save the limb under circumstances in which efficient antiseptic treatment cannot be adopted, rarely, if ever, succeeds. The following is a specification of the chief conditions in which amputation is required. We have still to learn how far the use of antiseptics will enable us to modify some of these rules; but it is probable that the military Surgeon of the future will not always have the necessary materials at his command for strict antiseptic treatment, and he must then be guided in his practice by his experience of former times, and resort to amputation in cases in which, under more favourable conditions, there might be a fair prospect of saving the hmb. 1. When the whole limb is carried off, a ragged stump merely being left: so, likewise, if the limb be completely crushed and disorganised though still left attached; or again, if the principal vessels be injured and the soft parts carried away, though the bone be intact, the limb cannot be preserved. 2. Amputation is especially necessary in some of the more serious injuries of the lower extremity. Thus, if a bullet divide the femoral vessels or the sciatic nerve, and splinter the thigh-bone; or if the sciatic nerve and soft parts