SPECIAL FRACTURES. 624 from the shaft of the bone. The readiness with which crepitus can be felt, the line of fracture made out, and the displacement removed by lateral pressure, at once determine the nature of this accident. When the femur is fractured transversely immediately above the condyles, the lower fragment is powerfully flexed by the gastrocnemius, plantaris, and popliteus muscles, causing its upper extremity to ijroject backwards into the ham, while its lower end of the upper fragment rests on its anterior surface. Thus, although the limb may apparently be extended, the knee-joint is in reality flexed. If a limb in this condition were put up on a long splint and extension made, the displacement would be increased, and non-union of the fracture would very likely result; or, if union did occur, the usefulness of the limb would be most seriously impaired. By putting the limb on a double inclined plane in a flexed position, the deformity is at once removed, and the fractured ends are brought into apposition ; or this result may be obtained by the use of Hodgen's suspen- sion splint. Bryant has recommended in these cases that the tendo Achillis should be divided, and in case the double inclined plane failed to overcome the deformity, this might be of use. The displaced lower fragment in these cases must always come into dangerous proximity to the popliteal artery. Should that vessel be wounded a diffuse traumatic aneurism may rapidly form, and must be treated on the principles laid down on page 548. In some cases though the vessel has escaped an actual wound, gangrene has occurred from pressure on the artery and vein. In others a circumscribed pophteal aneurism has formed at a later period. Fracture of the lower end of the thigh-bone communi- cating with an open wound of the knee-joint is usually a case for amputation ; but if there be no extensive commi- nution of the bone or laceration of the soft parts, an attempt may be made to save the limb, free drainage, strict antiseptic precautions, and perfect fixation being essential. Impacted Fracture of the Lower End of the ^ , , , Femur.—In these cases the shaft is always driven into the Fracture ot Lower t i i t End of Thigh-bone. lowcr fragment. 1 have had several such cases under my care. In one, the upper fragment, w'hich was very oblique, was firmly driven into the cancellous structure of the lower one (Fig. 220). In another case, the condyles of both thigh-bones were splintered into a number of fragments, amongst which the shafts were impacted. Excellent union, however, took place, the skin having been uninjured. The diagnosis is not always easy, as unnatural mobility and crepitus may both be wanting ; and in many cases, either from a fissure extending downwards or from the bruising at the time of the accident, effusion occurs into the knee-joint, which still further conceals the nature of the injury. The most characteristic feature in these cases is the shortening, and later on, as the swelling subsides, the deformity at the seat of fracture may be clearly recognised. Separation of the Lower Epiphysis of the Femur is not an uncommon accident in children. The wide surfaces are seldom completely separated, and the nature of the injury is further obscured by eff'usion into the joint; but it