TREATMENT OF UNUNITED FRACTURE. 5^9 In the case of ununited fracture of the thigh special apparatus will be required to secure complete fixity. For this purpose the limb should be put in an apparatus, consisting of an outer and an inner iron rod having hinge- joints opposite the hip and ankle, and attached above to a strong pelvic band, and below to the sole of the boot. The thigh part should be provided with well-padded splints, which maybe screwed down in opposite directions against the two fragments, so as to hold them firmly in contact. This instrument should be worn for several months ; by means of it Smith, of Philadelphia, has succeeded in curing ten out of fourteen ununited fractures in the lower extremity. One great recommendation is, that this plan of treatment is entirely devoid of danger, and enables the patient to take exercise whilst under treatment. In cases with much shortening of the hmb and over-riding of the fragments, which are especially apt to occur in the thigh, it will be necessary to employ extension of the limb as well as compression of the fragments against one another. This extension may be made by the lateral iron rods of the above-described apparatus being constructed so as to slide, by means of a rack-and-pinion or screw-mechanism, by which the limb may be gradually lengthened to any required extent (Fig. 168). When the failure of union has become very chronic, or a false joint has been formed, it will be necessary to employ operative procedure before union can be obtained. All operations that are undertaken in these cases are con- ducted on one of two principles : either, 1, to excite a tocalised traumatic in ftammatio7i in the false joint and the neighbouring tissues leading to exudation, which, as in the process of union of a recent fracture, may be followed by the development of callus ; or else, 2, hy removing the false joint altogether, to convert the case into a recent compound fracture, and to treat it as such. It can easily be understood that these operative procedures are too serious to be lightly undertaken, or to be had recourse to until other measures have failed. 1. Among the first set of operations,—those that have in view the Excitation of Inflammation,—the simplest procedure consists in the introduction of acupuncture needles, or in the subcutaneous section of the ligamentous band with a tenotome. In this way I have known union efi'ected in a patient of Listen's who had a false joint in the shaft of the femur ; though not until after the fracture had been converted into a compound one, and much danger and suffering gone through. Four years afterwards the patient was readmitted into the Hospital, under my care, with fracture of the same bone two inches lower down ; on this occasion, union took place in the usual time. Percussion of the ends of the bone has been employed in these cases by H. 0. Thomas. The method consists in protecting the skin Avith a piece of felt, and then percussing the seat of fracture forcibly with a copper mallet. The percussion may be continued under anaesthesia for several—as many as ten—minutes ; it may be required only once, or may need several Fif;. 108.- -Apparatus for Ununited Fracture of Fenuir.