DORSAL, OF FEMUR-PATHOLOGY. 691 side on the footboard with his knee against the platform and his back against the carriage. As the carriage slowly moved, his leg became flexed, and the space being insufficient, the head of the bone was pushed out of tlie socket. Bigelow states that if the femnr is flexed at right angles, and thrust directly backwards with sufficient force, the head will tend to pass between the obturator internus and the pyriformis. At an angle of forty-five degrees it may be thrust upwards and backwards above the pyriformis. Both these displacements would give rise to the symptoms of dislocation upon the dorsum ilii. In extreme flexion, or in cases complicated by forcible inward rotation, the head tends to pass out beneath the tendon of the obturator internus, and we then have the form of dorsal dislocation formerly described as into the sciatic notch. Pathological Anafomg—The capsule is ruptured below or more rarely behind, but the ilio-femoral ligament is intact in all dorsal dislocations. The liga- mentum teres is mostly torn, but not necessarily in all cases. Dupuytren and Sedillot both mention cases in which this ligament escaped without rupture. In dislocation on the dorsum ilii, the head will be found lying in a variable position on the ilium, above and behind the acetabulum. The trochanter is directed forwards, being held in that position chiefly by the unruptured external band of the ilio-femoral ligament, which is very tense. The muscles are torn to a varying degree in different cases. Astley Cooper found the gemelli, obturators and quadratus, completely torn, and the pectineus slightly torn in one case. Syme found the gluteus maximus extensively torn, with the head of the bone imbedded in it ; the gluteus minimus, the pyriformis, and the gemellus superior lacerated ; and the head of the femur lying upon the gemelli and the great sciatic nerve. MacCarthy found the deeper fibres of the gluteus maximus torn by the head of the bone, which was lying with its anterior part on the brim of the acetabulum, with the lowermost fibres of the gluteus minimus interposed, and the dimple for the ligamentum teres directed backwards and inwards. The posterior fibres of the gluteus medius were also lacerated, and the pyriformis, obturator internus, and gemelli had been completely torn from their pelvic attachments. The t[uadratu8 femoris was uninjured. The capsule had given way posteriorly ; in front and above it was intact. Although some fibres of the ligamentum teres had been ruptured, the ligament still resisted all attempts to break it. The ilio-femoral and pubo-femoral bands were uninjured, notwithstanding that the acetabulum had separated into its three component parts, the frac- ture also traversing the ilio-pectineal eminence. The lowermost fibres of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen, and some fibres of the sartorius, psoas magnus, and iliacus internus muscles were also ruptured. In all these cases it is evident that the bone had passed out above the obturator ; in the last this muscle was torn. In dislocations beloiu the tendon of the oMurator internus the position assumed by the bone is best explained by the accompanying figures taken from Bigelow's work on the Hip. Fig. 271 shows the normal position of the muscle behind the head and neck of the bone. It is evident that in a state of extreme flexion, or of moderate flexion with forcible internal rotation, the head might be made to pass out beneath the muscle. Immediately after the accident the limb is almost invariably extended either in lifting the patient or in placing him on his back. The ilio-femoral ligament being untorn, and