267 SINUS AND FISTULA. symptoms. Thus, acids are required to check the sweating, astringents to arrest the diarrhoea, and as much mild nourisliment as the patient will bear to support the strength. HEMORRHAGE INTO THE CAVITY OF AN AbSCESS is not of UnfrcqUCnt occurrence. It may arise from three sources : 1. Oozing of blood from the vascular Avail of the abscess : 2. Ulceration into a vein ; 3. Ulceration or sloughing of the coats of a neighbouring artery. . The bleeding which occurs from the abscess-wall is the most frequent, and the least important. It sometimes takes place before the abscess is opened, the pus that escapes being then found to be sanious and mixed with small coagula. More commonly it occurs after the opening of the abscess, in con- seciuence probably of the wall having lost the support of the contained pus, when the vessels in the soft tissues give way and the cavity speedily fills with blood. In these cases the hgemorrliage may be arrested by laying the cavity of the abscess freely open and turning out the coagula, when the bleeding usually ceases as soon as the interior is exposed to the cold air. Should this fail, it may be necessary to stuff the cavity with some antiseptic material as iodoform- or salicylic-wool, and to apply pressure with a bandage. When the cavity is closing, the vascular granulations which form upon its walls may bleed very freely if any pressure be accidentally brought to bear on the veins leading from the part. In this case the bleeding ceases immediately the pressure is removed. Hsemorrhage from Ulceration extending into a neighbouring Vein, is necessarily far more serious. It has usually happened from sloughy abscesses, formed in the neck as a consequence of scarlatina in strumous and unhealthy individuals, opening up the internal jugular vein. But it may arise, indepen- dently of any specific inflammation, in cachectic patients. In these distressing cases, the only treatment that can be adopted is, to plug the cavity of the abscess. In this way the fatal event may be for a time perhaps delayed ; but it is inevitable ultimately, the blood bursting forth by the sides of the plugs as these become loosened, or as the sloughing opens up the vein more widely. If the haemorrhage arise from the Ulceration of a large Artery, the case necessarily becomes one of extreme urgency. I have known this condition to occur in the neck and in the thigh ; in the neck from sloughy scarlatinal abscess implicating the carotid ; in the thigh, from the extension of ulcera- tion from abscesses and sinuses to the deep femoral. When this untoward complication of abscess occurs in the neck, the hemorrhage is usually so sudden and so profuse that the Surgeon has not time to tie the carotid before life is extinguished. A. J. Pepper has, however, recorded a case of severe hemorrhage after scarlet fever, which was repeated several times, and finally saccessfully arrested by ligature of the common carotid. The patient was a man, aged .30, and made a good recovery. In the thigh the case is not so urgent. Warnings by repeated small hismorrhages may have enabled the Surgeon to adopt means to restrain the bleeding ; and, in the case to which I allude, that of a young man, the femoral artery was tied successfully. Sinus and Fistula.—After an abscess has been opened, its cavity may not fill up completely ; but, contracting into a narrow suppurating track, it may form a canal without disposition to close, from which a small quantity of pus constantly exudes, thus constituting a Sinus or Fistula.