TREATMENT OF WOUNDED BOWEL. 885 application most frequently adopted in the present day is that recommended by Lembert. The needle is introduced about a quarter of an inch or a little more from the wound, and made to penetrate as far as the submucous tissue ; it is then brought out again about one-sixth of an inch from the edge of the cut on the same side ; on the opposite side, it is made to enter one-sixth of an inch from the edge of the cut and brought out at a quarter of an inch from it (Figs. 322, 323). The stitches must not be more than a line apart, and the whole number required must be introduced before any are tightened. One or moi-e stitches at each end must be inserted beyond the limits of the wound, otherwise leakage is inevitable. When the sutures are tightened the mucous membrane is inverted, and the serous surfaces are brought into accurate contact. This suture is easily applied in the stomach or large intestine, but from the thinness of the coats of the small intestine it is not quite so easy of application in that part. If there is any difficulty the suture may be applied in the same way, but may be made to penetrate the whole thickness of the gut on each side, as recommended by Jobert (Fig. 324). Fig. 324.—Jobert's Suture for Kg. 325.—ApplioatioTi of Gely's Suture partial division of the gut. to Wounded Bowel. The great objection to this is, that the stitches are apt to become irritating by absorbing the contents of the intestine. When the lips of the wound have been brought into apposition, the ends of the sutures should be cut short close to the knots. Gely's method of suture is sufficiently explained by the accompanying figure (Fig. 325). It undoubtedly brings the serous surfaces into good apposition, but is not so easy of apphcation as Lembert's method. All continuous sutures have the great disadvantage that if one stitch happen to cut the whole becomes loose. Various methods of suture have been devised for the union of intestine which has been completely divided, or for use in those cases in which resection of a portion of damaged bowel is necessary. The same methods are available after the removal of portions of intestine for gangrene in strangulated hernia, for adhesion to abdominal tumours, for malignant growths of the gut, &c. The damaged loop of intestine must be carefully withdrawn from the abdomen, and the incision in the abdominal wall closed with carbolized sponges. The bowel is next clamped above and below the pavt to be excised.