DISLOCATIONS OF THE ANKLE. Reduction.—This can usually be effected by flexing the joint at the same time that a strain is put upon the knee in such a direction as would tend to separate the condyle of the femur from the tibia on the affected side. A movement of rotation should then be given, outwards if the external cartdage is displaced, and inwards if the inner, and at the same time the limb may be suddenly straightened. This may sometimes be done when the muscles are off their guard, the patient's attention being directed elsewhere, but more commonly an antesthetic is required. The evidence of complete reduction consists in the restoration of the power of extending the articulation. The synovitis that usually follows this injury requires to be treated by fomentations and rest on a splint. The cartilage is not fixed again as firmly as it was before the accident, and in the great majority of cases recurrence of the displacement takes place at intervals. The best means of preventing this is to support the knee either with an elastic knee-cap or a flannel bandage firmly applied. Should reduction prove impossible, or should the displacemeut return immediately when the patient uses his limb again, it is useless to try to fix the cartilage by prolonged rest. The patient should begin to use his leg freely as soon as the synovitis has subsided, and after a time the displaced cartilage seems to accommodate itself to its new position, and may give no further trouble. In some cases, however, the patient is seriously crippled by the frequent recurrence of the dislocation and the synovitis which follows. Under these circumstances the joint may be opened and the cartilage stitched down, or, if this be impossible, the displaced portion maybe excised. Most successful results have followed this treatment in the hands of Annandale, H. W. Allino'ham and others, but no Surgeon is justified in undertaking the operation, unless it be done with full antiseptic precautions. Rupture of the Posterior Crucial Ligament is an accident that occa- sionally occurs as the result of a violent blow on the anterior aspect of the head of the tibia, such as may be received in a railway accident when the patient is thrown forwards against the opposite seat. The symptoms are at first effusion of blood and synovia into the injured joint. When this is absorbed, it will be found that the knee is weak, giving way shghtly when flexed in walking. When the patient is seated with the knee flexed to a right angle, and the foot firmly planted on the ground, if the tibia be grasped at its upper end and moved backwards and forwards, it will be found to be capable of a slight displacement backwards into the ham. The Treatment consists in supporting the knee with a properly fitted apparatus. The Head of the Fibula has occasionally, though very rarely, been displaced by direct violence. Boyer and Sanson have each recorded a case of this kind. One such case has occurred in my own practice. It happened in a gentleman about 23 years of age, who, in descending an Alpine slope covered with snow, fell with one leg bent forcibly under him, so that he came down, as it were, in a sitting posture. The head of the fibula was thrown back off the articulating surface, and remained permanently in its new situation. The limb was somewhat weakened, so that the patient could not jump, but otherwise he suflered no inconvenience. The tendon of the biceps was very tense ; and when I saw the case, some time after the accident, its traction effectually prevented all attempts at reduction. Dislocations of the Ankle occur in consequence of displacement of the astragalus from the bones of the leg, whilst it continues to preserve its normal