mo VENEREAL DISEASES. tiguous structures. lu other cases, the sores invade the frseiium, which may be perforated ; or they may occupy the mucous surface of the prepuce. The absence of induration is a marked feature of these sores ; the only exception being that the base of an inflamed sore, especially on the frgenura, may be slightly hardened. The excoriated chancres not unfrequently present somewhat varying appear- ances. In some cases their surface becomes covered with large fungous granu- lations ; hence these are termed fungatirnj sores. In other instp,nces they are very irritable, becoming exceedingly sensitive, with a tendency to spread, and having a dusky red areola around them. These chancres are very frequently attended by much general inflammation of the penis ; the organ being red and swollen from subcutaneous oedema, and usually in a state of phimosis, with much purulent discharge from between the prepuce and the glans. 2. Sloughing Chancre.—This may be looked upon as a gangrenous inflammation of a non-infecting sore. It is usually the result of want of cleanliness, and of the confinement of the specific pus under a long foreskin. It is most likely to occur in weak and debilitated subjects, but it is also met with in healthy young men. The penis becomes red, greatly swollen, and somewhat brawny, the prepuce cannot be retracted, and very ofi"ensive pus, often stained with blood, escapes from beneath it. If it be not relieved, a dusky spot soon makes its appearance on one side of the prepuce ; this rapidly extends, thick black pultaceous sloughs appear, and thus one side of the foreskin may be destroyed, or a round aperture may form in it, through which the glans projects, whilst the swollen and inflamed extremity of the prepuce hangs down behind it, giving the organ a very remarkable, and, at first sight, somewhat puzzling appearance. As soon as the pent-up dis- charges find exit in this way, the intensity of the inflammation is somewhat relieved. In other cases the whole foreskin may slough, and the glans be deeply implicated, and even the corpora cavernosa denuded. Severe heemorrhage from the dorsal artery or the artery of the freenum may take place. Not uncommonly the pus, being unable to find exit from the orifice of the swollen prepuce, bursts through the reflection of the foreskin at the corona, and burrows beneath the skin of the penis for some distance superficial to the corpora cavernosa. I have seen it extending in this way for a distance equal to the two first joints of the finger. In other cases, abscesses may form on the penis along the line of the dorsal lymphatics. Lastly, when the sore is near the frsenum, it may perforate the urethra, leaving a fistulous opening- which it may be impossible to close. After the separation of the sloughs, healthy granulations spring up, the sore loses its specific character, and cicatrization advances rapidly. 3. The Phagedsenic Chancre.—This differs from the sloughing chancre in not being evidently due to want of cleanliness. It attacks sores that can be freely exposed, as well as those that are concealed beneath a long foreskin, and if occurring in the latter condition does not show the same tendency to cease extending as soon as the retention of the discharges and inflammatory tension are relieved by slitting up the foreskin. The sore may assume the phagedsenic character from the very first, or this may be set up at some period of its course. Phagedaena aflPects both the simple chancre and the true syphi- litic sore. In fact some Surgeons, especially Jonathan Hutchinson, believe that it is invariably syphilitic, either attacking a primary syphilitic sore or a