2i8 LOCAL DISTURBANCES AND INFLAMMATION. Local blood-letting is now perhaps less used than it deserves to be. A few leeches give almost immediate relief to pain in many inflammations of the eye and middle ear and in simple inflammations of serous and synovial membranes. In acute infective inflammations they are evidently useless. They cannot arrest the growth of the micro-organisms which are causing the disease. It is therefore absurd to imagine that septic peritonitis following a wound of the abdomen can be influenced in any way by a handful of leeches drawing blood from tlie abdominal wall. Cutting off the Supply of Blood from the inflamed part by the ligature of the main artery leading to it has been adopted in some cases. Thus, in acute inflammation of a joint, the main artery of the limb has been tied— the femoral, for instance, in inflammation of the knee-joint—but by most Surgeons the remedy would be considered worse than the disease. Vanzetti recommended digital pressure on the arteries in inflammation. He has, for instance, related a case (>f severe acute inflammation of the hand, relieved by twenty-four hours' continuous pressure on the brachial arteiy. Neudorfer speaks highly of the proceeding, which he regards as surpassing all others in efficacy. It is applicable to inflammation of any part of which the artery is within reach. Constitutional Treatment of Inflammation.—In the constitutional treatment of inflammation the Surgeon has various objects in view and must be influenced in the means he adopts by the general condition of the patient. In some cases it is his object to diminish the blood-pressure, in the hope of limiting exudation, by means calculated to reduce the force of the heart's action, as by general blood-letting or by the use of certain drugs. In other cases his chief object is to reduce the fever, especially when it assumes the sthenic type (p. 199), and when the opposite condition is met with his attention is chiefly directed to supporting the strength of the patient. One of the most powerful means we possess of reducing the blood-pressure is General Blood-letting. When it was believed that acute inflammation was an active process which could be cut short by means calculated to reduce the strength of the patient, or, as it was termed, by antiphlogistic treatment, bleeding was the routine practice in all acute inflammatory diseases unless the ;ige or weakness of the patient contra-indicated it. Now that we have a better knowledge of the nature and causes of inflammation, bleeding in surgical cases is almost completely abandoned. No one believes that the invasion of a pathogenic organism or putrefaction in a wound or cavity will be controlled in any way by bleeding ; in fact, such treatment can only make the patient less able to resist the eff'ects of the organisms and their products. The only surgical conditions in which blood-letting is of any service are : first, in certain cases of simple traumatic inflammation of the brain foUowmg laceration, in which the swelling of the cerebral substance is causing dangerous symptoms (see Chap. XXIV. Laceration of the Brain) ; secondly, in some cases of injury of the chest in which, owing to interference with respiration, the right side of the heart is overloaded with blood ; thirdly, it is possibly useful in certain cases of internal hgemorihage ; and lastly, in some cases of internal aneurism. It will be observed that, only in the first of these is blood-letting used with the intention of limiting inflammatory exudation. The influence produced by blood-letting is judged of by the eff'ect on the pulse, which should become softer and less tense. The frequency is not so much affected and