140 SPECIAL AMPUTATIONS. Esmarcli's elastic cord applied in the manner described on p. 47, or by an aortic compressor. An amputating- knife of moderate length is to be chosen. The skin and subcutaneous tissues are divided circularly at the junction of the middle and lower thirds of the thigh, and after reflecting them for at least two inches, the muscles are divided circularly down to the bone. The femoral vessels and any others which can be recognized are now ligatured. A vertical incision is next made upwards along the outer side of the thigh from the circular cut to a point midway between the great trochanter and the iliac crest (Fig. 71)). The muscles, with or without the periosteum, are turned off the shaft of the femur, and the head is turned out of the acetahulum by dividing the capsule on to the neck of the bone, whilst an assistant rotates the limb according to the direction of the Surgeon. Oozing vessels may now Y\rf, 79.—Funieaiix Jordan's Amputation at the Hip-joiiit. be secured before removing the tourniquet. The raw surface is necessarily extensive, and free provision must be made for drainage. 2. Amputation at the hip by antero-posterior flaps is the easiest and most speedy method. It consists in making a large and thick anterior flap by transfixion, and a short posterior one from the gluteal region and back part of the thigh. In order to perform this operation properly, the patient's body must be brought well forward upon the edge of the table, so that the nates project beyond it, and be steadied by strong bandages. One of these must be passed between the sound thigh and the periuseum, and attached to the upper end of the table ; another should be carried across the pelvis to the lower end ; and the sound limb must be tied to the leg of the table. The Surgeon must have three assistants on whom he can rely. Assistant No. 1 takes charge of the flap, compressing the femoral vessels ; and, in the absence of the abdominal compressor, on his trustworthiness the patient's life