SHOCK AFTER AMPUTATION. 8r The circumstances which specially influence the results of amputations mny be divided into three groups :—I. Those that have reference to the con- stitutional condition of the patient; IT. The occurrence of Shock and Septic Diseases ; and III. Certain conditions special to the operation itself. I. In the first class the most important are 1, the Age; and 2, the General Health of the patient. 1. Age exercises an important influence on the result of amputations. As a general rule it may be stated that, the younger the patient, the greater the likelihood of a successful result, though very young children bear loss of blood badly. In youth there is a greater power of resisting the invasion of patho- genic organisms and of withstanding the eficcts of septic poisoning and loss of blood. The feebler tissues of old people are more readily invaded by patho- genic organisms, and suffer more severely from the irritating effects of the products of putrefaction. The introduction of Antiseptic treatment of wounds has, however, greatly reduced the dangers of amputations after middle life. Volkmann published the results of 48 cases of major amputations performed in patients above 50 years of age. He excluded from consideration all cases iti which the amputation was performed during septicemia, all double amputa- tions, and some few cases in which the patient died from causes independent of the operation. Of the 48 only 2 died : 1 of tetanus, and 1, an habitual drunkard, 60 hours after the operation. The patients' ages were, in thirty cases between 51 and 60 ; in thirteen, between 61 and 70 ; in four, between 71 and 80 ; and one patient, aged 84, recovered from an amputation at the knee. Although the exclusion of all complicated cases makes these statistics more favourable than they would otherwise have been, the results show that under the improved treatment of wounds, a fair degree of success may be obtained even in very advanced life, provided that old age is the only un- favourable condition present. 2. The General Health of the patient previous to the operation exercises a most powerful influence on the chances of recovery. The state of the kidneys, more especially, is of great importance ; for no condition tends more certainly to a fatal termination than chronic disease of those organs. The results of amputation necessarily differ widely, according as the operation is practised on the healthy inhabitant of a country district, or on the cachectic' and debilitated denizen of a large town. II, 1. The occurrence of Shock.—Out of a total of 631 amputations collected from the reports of some of the Metropolitan hospitals between 1866 and 1872, 239 deaths occurred, and of these almost exactly 10 per cent, were due to shock. Out of 80 consecutive cases at University College Hospitfd during the same period, 3 died from shock. This cause of death "is but little under the control of the Surgeon, and it can hardly be hoped that the rate of mortality due to it can ever be materially diminished.- The influence of shock is necessarily most felt in primary amputations. Indeed, its fatal results are almost confined to amputations performed within twenty-four hours of the infliction of the injury. It occurs in exact proportion to the severity of the injury, the amount of loss of blood, and the age of the patient. It is often referable rather to the injury than to the operation ; and it becomes a question whether, in many cases of hopeless smash of a limb, it might not be better to let the patient die in peace than to subject him to the repetition of a shock which he will be utterly unable to endure. This is more especially the case VOL. I.