97 AMPUTATION OF FINGERS. the starting poiut, the Surgeon's hand and the handle of the knife, during this second part of the operation, being over the back of the patient's hand. 'I'he two sides of the oval should be exactly symmetrical, and the incisions from the starting point to the web should not be straight, but slightly curved in such a way that their convexities look towards the middle line of the finger ^vhich is being removed. By a few touches of the knife the oval flap is turned back ; the flexor tendon is then divided and the articulation opened from the operator's right hand side ; finally the finger is removed by twisting it round, while the edge of the knife is pressed against the base of the first phalanx with a slight sawing movement. As a general rule, it is better not to remove the head of the metacarpal bone with the finger, as by so doing the hand is narrowed and weakened. If the head be left, a gap of some width will remain in the situation of the finger that has been amputated ; and should it be desirable for any reason to attempt to diminish this deformity, the head may be taken away in the following manner. The incision must be commenced on Figs. 3(3, 37, 38.—Results of Amputation above Metacaipo-Phalangeal Articulation in Middle, Index, and Ring Fingers. the dorsum about three-quartei's of an inch above the head of the metacarpal bone, and be carried straight downwards to a point opposite the head, where an oval incision, similar to that above described, is commenced. We thus get what is known as a " racket-shaped " incision. In removing the middle and ring fingers, it will be found more convenient to take out the head of the metacarpal bone after disarticulation. This is done by cleaning the dorsal surface and sides, taking care to keep close to the bone, and not to let the ])oint of the knife plunge into the palm, so as to wound a digital branch at a point where it could Avith difficulty be secured. The bone-forceps are then applied, in a transverse direction, immediately above the head of the bone CFig. 34). The operator then places the tip of his fore finger in the palm of the hand, so as to push the separated head slightly out of the wound, while, at the same time, he drags it downwards with his thumb placed on the cut surface of the bone. By a few touches of the point of the knife it is easily turned out, and with the slightest care all risk of wounding a digital branch is avoided'. If it be the index finger, the bone should be cut obliquely, so as to shape it to