388 POISONED WOUNDS. 2. Putrid Animal Matter is always irritating, but, as has before been pointed out, putrefaction cannot attack living tissues, and the effect produced is consequently limited to the local irritation caused by the chemical products of the process. A small puncture, which, if made with a clean knife, would heal by the first intention, may, if exposed to the irritation of putrid animal matter, inflame and suppurate, forming a small ulcer ; but, unless the general health be seriously impaired, no further trouble is likely to occur. 8. The worst forms of post-morfem wounds arise from the inoculation of the Specific Virus of some infective inflammation, such as erysipelas, pyj^mia, and septiciemia. The virus is contained in the exudation fluids from the unhealthy inflammation, and its nature has already been alluded to when discuss- ing the causes of inflammation. In cases attended with the milder forms of localised suppuration, the virus is most commonly one of the varieties of the staphylococcus pyogenes. In the more severe spreading forms the strepto- coccus pyogenes is almost invariably found. The diminution of the intensity of the poison when putrefaction sets in is supposed to be due to altered condi- tions after death, which are more favourable to the development of the ordinary bacteria of putrefaction and less favourable to the growth of the specific organisms which consequently perish. However it is to be explained, the fact is undoubted that a few hours after death, whilst apparently (piite fresh, the body is in the highest degree infective and dangerous : advanced putrefaction lessens the danger. Of all post-mortem poisons, that which is present in the fluid tilling the cavity of the abdomen in septic peritonitis, whether following parturition or operations, is by far the most noxious. I believe it to be impossible to immerse the hand in it with impunity if there should happen to be a scratch, puncture, or abraded surface of any kind on it. Inoculation most commonly occurs through an accidental wound or scratch during the post-mortem examination ; but a raw surface partly healed, or the fissures in chapped hands, or the small cracks so common at the margin of the nail, may equally serve as points of inoculation. In rare cases, infection takes place through the unbroken skin, the hair follicles seeming to serve as points of entrance. In the graphic account given by Sir James Paget of his own case, the poison is stated to have been absorbed through the unbroken cuticle of the hand immersed in pysemic effusion into the pleura. That the poisonous influence from the bodies of persons who^ have died of septic diseases is transmissible to others by contact or infection, cannot be denied ; and accoucheurs and operating Surgeons should abstain as carefully as possible from performing post-mortem examinations on patients dying of such diseases, lest the poison be carried to and excite similar morbid processes in their patients. Much of the septic disease that used formerly to prevail in hospitals was engendered in this way, and infective disease has often thus been carried out of hospitals and communicated to private patients by Surgeons neglecting hygienic precautions. Symptoms.—From what has been stated above, it would appear that there are two distinct kinds of mischief resulting from dissection wounds. First, the purely local form, proceeding from the irritation of putrid matter acting on the unbroken skin, or on a scratch or wound ; and, secondly, the true infective form, spreading widely from the point of inoculation. Of the purely local affections, the most common is the small pustule so often .««t with in the dissecting-room. About twelve to twenty-four hours after J