782 INJURIES OF THE HEAD. covering it was found and removed with the brain substance around it. The patient recovered rapidly, and has had no fits since. In some cases in which the brain presented nothing obviously abnormal that portion of the cortex has been excised stimulation of which with a weak faradic current has produced movements of the part in which the fits commenced. Eecurrence of the epilepsy after operation is in some instances no doubt due to the cicatnx which is again produced, but from the conditions present the scarring is likely to be much less marked than that following the injury itself. Putting together the statistics of Laurient, Agnew and Starr, we find a record of 2ol cases of epilepsy treated by trephining, the large majority being evidently traumatic. Of these 71 are said to have been cured, 68 improved, 41 not improved, 2 were worse after operation, and 14 died. In the remainder the result was doubtful. The operation thus holds out a chance of relief or cure in otherwise hopeless cases, but it should of course not be undertaken unless other means have failed, and the symptoms are so severe as to make the patient willing to run the inevitable dangers of the operation, and possibly to be permanently para- lysed in a portion of his body. In such a case as that described on p. 757, in which the fits occur at long intervals, and the health between them is perfect, the patient had better be content to bear the ills he has. OPERATION OF TREPHINING-. Before concluding the subject of injuries of the head, it is necessary to say a few words on the operation of Trephining, which may be required for one of the following conditions, viz. :— 1. Simple depressed fracture of the skull with symptoms of compression. 2. Simple depressed fracture of the skull in an adult without symptoms of compression, but in which the depression is deep and limited in area, and especially if situated over the motor region. 3. Compound depressed fracture of the skull, with or without symptoms of compression. 4. Punctured or incised fracture of the skull. 5. Extravasation of blood between the skull and dura mater from rupture of the middle meningeal artery. 6. Intrameningeal or cerebral extravasation of blood: {a) if definite localizing symptoms be associated with the general symptoms of compression ; (h) if the spread of the localized paralysis or convulsions suggest continuing haemorrhage ; and (c) if the localized paralysis or convulsions i-emain unchanged after many days. 7. Intracranial abscess and septic thrombosis of lateral sinus. 8. For the removal of a bullet lodged within the cranium. 1). Traumatic epilepsy. 10. Tumours of the brain : {a) for the removal of the growth ; (h) for the relief of pressure symptoms. The use of the trephine may also be required in the removal of tumours of the skull, and it has been employed in the operation of craniectomy in micro- cephahc idiots, and for the drainage of the ventricular cavities in chronic meningitis and hydrocephalus.