874 INJURIES OF THE ABDOMEN AND PELVIS. If the Ureter or Pelvis of the Kidney is ruptured the urine may iiccumulate in the loose tissue around the kidney. A large fluctuating tumour is thus gradually formed in the injured side of the abdomen, bulging in the loin and filling the interval between the iliac fossa and the ribs. The absence of acute inflammation in such cases is worthy of note, the fluid gradually becoming encysted by consolidation of the surrounding tissues. The presence of blood in the urine may or may not be detected after the accident. In one recorded case of this nature as much as six pints of urine were removed by tapping at one sitting. On examination after death, which occurred in the tenth week from the accident, a large cyst was found behind the peritoneum, communicating with the pelvis of the kidney. Two cases of this kind have occurred in University College Hospital. In the one the patient, a child aged o years, under the care of Barker, was run over by a cab. The right side was bruised, and a few small clots were passed in the urine. About three weeks later a large fluctuating tumour was found reaching from the iliac fossa to the ribs. Aspiration showed that it contained urine. As repeated aspiration failed to give any relief, a drainage tube w^as inserted, with the result of establishing a fistula. Finally, as the only means of cure, the kidney was removed. The child recovered from the operation, but died subsequently of general tuberculosis. The kidney and pelvis were found to be uninjured. The second case was under the care of Godlee, and similar treatment was successfully adopted. Another possible result of rupture of the ureter is the rapid development of hydronephrosis. In a case of this kind under the care of Pickering Pick at the Victoria Hospital for Children, the boy had fallen on the edge of a kerbstone. The accident was followed by blood in the urine and the rapid development of a tense fluid swelhng in the left loin. Urine was several times withdrawn by aspiration, and for the cure of the fistula which resulted from drainage, the dilated kidney was finally excised. It is interesting to note that in two cases apparently of this nature recorded by Groodhart, spontaneous cure gradually took place after an interval of many months. When the Stomach is ruptured the nature of the accident is usually revealed by bloody vomiting, with pain in the region of the stomach, and the most profound shock. These signs, however, do not occur in all cases. A man was admitted to the Hospital under my care, whose abdomen had been squeezed between a cart-wheel and a lamp-post; during the five hours that he lived he vomited several times, bringing up a meal which he had taken immediately before the accident. In the vomited matters there was no blood to be seen ; but after death it was found that not only the liver and spleen were ruptured, but the stomach was torn almost across near the pylorus. Rupture of the Intestine is much more common than that of the stomach. It may occur at any part, but is most commonly met with in the duodenum or at the junction of the duodenum and jejunum. The frequency with which the duodenum is ruptured is due partly to its position, and partly to its fixity. The third part of the duodenum crosses the spine in front of the second lumbar vertebra, or about one inch above the umbilicus, and thus receives no protection from the costal cartilages. In this part of its course it is uncovered by peritoneum, and is consequently fixed so firmly that it receives the full force of any violent pressure, being unaljle to slip away from beneath it, as do those parts of the intestine which are completely covered by peritoneum,