I ii6 VENEREAL DISEASES. may have healed ; for the virus of syphilis may have been introduced with that of the simple chancre, and if this have happened, induration will commence at the point of contagion, when the time of incubation has elapsed. Thus a month or six weeks should pass away after the suspicious connexion, before the Surgeon pronounces the patient safe from syphilis. Bubo.—By bubo is meant an inflammatory enlargement, frequently termi- nating in suppuration of the lymphatic glands which receive the lymph-stream from the inoculated surface. A bubo, though generally produced in the groin by absorption of irritating matter from chancres on the penis, may occur else- where—as for instance, in the axilla, in cases of chancre on the finger ; in the submaxillary region, if the disease occur on the lip. The enlargements of the inguinal or other lymphatic glands that occur in cases of venereal chancre, may be either simple or specific. In the former the irritating material may be derived from concomitant inflammation about the sore, as when balano- posthitis or phimosis is present, without the specific virus of the soft chancre reaching tlie gland. In scrofulous subjects this readily takes place. In these oases the bubo is termed sj/mjMlhetic, and the affection must be considered as simple inflammation. It may speedily subside without the formation of pus, but should suppuration take place the pus possesses no specific properties, and is not inoculable. It constitutes in fact a simple glandular abscess and presents nothing in any way peculiar. Indeed, in a very large proportion of cases of simple chancre, there is some slight enlargement with tenderness of the glands above Poupart's ligament, accompanied by some degree of stiffness and <iragging pain. The liability to irritation and inflammation of the glands in the groin is greatly increased by the patient walking about or otherwise exerting himself. But I do not think that causes such as these influence the occurrence of the other and more troublesome affection of the lymphatic glands, namely the virulent hubOy which appears to originate from direct absorption of the specific poison of the chancre ; so that we may consider with Ricord that a virulent bubo is, properly speaking, a chancre of a lymphatic gland, differing only in seat from that which is situated on the surface of the body. Eicord has observed, and I have often had an opportunity of testing the correctness of this observation, that the pus of a virulent bubo is as readily inoculable as that of an ordinary chancre. This kind of bubo, then, may be considered as a specific abscess, at first limited to the gland, but subsequently infecting the surrounding tissues. Ricord also pointed out that in some cases suppuration takes place round the affected gland without infection of the tissues by the specific pus. Thus if a virulent bubo be carefully opened a cavity is sometimes exposed in which the gland can be seen partially separated by pus from the surrounding tissues. Inocula- tions made with the pus surrounding the gland may fail, but if the incision l)e carried further into the gland itself a second cavity is found containing inoculable pus. If this condition be met with, infection may be prevented by scooping the gland out entire without opening into it. When once a gland has become virulently infected, it is probable that no treatment can prevent suppuration. Usually only one or two glands suppurate, although several may be enlarged; and very commonly the disease is confined to one groin though both may be affected, more particularly if the chancre be situated on the frsenum.