FRACTURES. 554 new bone gradually encroaches on the granulation-tissue, and the fractured ends are surrounded by it. The remaining changes are the same as those in a simple fracture. In cases in which the injury has bean more severe and in which tbe process is complicated by the presence of portions of muscle w^hich have either been directly killed by the violence which caused the fracture, or have perished from the combined effects of the injury and of the irritation of decomposing discharges, or by loose splinters, the process of union cannot take place till these are separated by ulceration from the surrounding living parts and are thrown off". In other cases in which the denuded ends of the bones perish, the process of separation may not be complete for many months after the injury. Under these circumstances the sequestra may be surrounded by a mass of new bone uniting the upper and lower fragments and perforated by openings for the discharge of pus from the granulations lining the cavity in which the dead bone lies, and thus a tolerably firm union may take place long before the wound has healed. This process necessarily, in the great majority of cases, occupies a much longer time than that which is required for the union of a simple fracture. The majority of compound fractures, how- ever, unite without the occurrence of necrosis. Question of Primary Amputation.—The first question that presents itself in a case of compound fracture is, whether the limb should be removed, or an attempt be made to save it. It is of great importance to settle this point at once ; for, if amputation be determined upon, it should be done with as little delay as possible, there being no period in the progress of the case so favourable for operation as the first twenty-four hours. That primary amputations are often fatal, especially when practised near the trunk, cannot be urged as an argument against their performance, as recourse should never be had to lyrimary amputation unless it is evident that the patient's life must in all probability be sacrificed by an attempt to save the limb. In determining the cases in which immediate amputation should be performed, much must be left to the individual judgment and experience of the Surgeon. One will attempt to save a limb which another would con- demn. But he must bear in mind that, though it is imperative to do every- thing in his power to save a limb, yet the preservation of the patient's life is the main point, and that course is the proper one which off'ers the greatest prospect of effecting this. A wise conservatism is much to be applauded, but decision in determining the expediency of amputation is equally characteristic of a good Surgeon. He must consider, not only the nature and extent of the fracture, but the age, constitution, and habits of the patient : and though he may be guided by those general rules which have already been laid down at pp. 388 and 358, when treating of amputation in contused wounds and in gunshot injuries, yet he will often show more wisdom in departing from the letter of the law in making a successful effort to save a limb, which, by strict surgical precepts, would be condemned ; or in attempting to preserve the patient's life, by sacrificing a limb that is not injured to a degree that would usually be considered to justify amputation. J. It may be laid down as a general rule to which there are few exceptions, that all compound fractures, the result of indirect A'iolence, in which the wound is made by the fragments of the broken bone, should be saved, provided the main vessels of the limb are uninjured. 2. Fractures by direct violence in which the same force injures the soft