483 WOUNDS OF THE FEMORAL ARTERY. median or interosseous artery, the Surgeon must have recourse to compression or h'gature of the brachial. Circumscribed Traumatic Aneurism in the Palm is by no means of frequent occurrence. It may. however, follow wounds of the palmar arches. In such a case as this, forcible flexion of the elbow or the application of Esmarch's bandage might be tried. If these fail it would clearly be out of the question to lay open the sac, and to search for the injured vessel in the midst of the aponeurotic and tendinous structures of the hand. It would conse- quently be necessary, either to tie the radial and ulnar arteries immediately above the wrist, or to ligature the brachial in the middle of the arm. The latter plan should be preferred ; as, were the first mode of treatment put into practice, the sac might continue to be fed by the interosseous artery, as happened in a case of Roux's, in which the patient died of haemorrhage from the palmar aneurism after ligature of both arteries of the forearm. In the case represented (Fig. ] 50) Listen successfully ligatured the brachial in the mid-arm, after compression upon it had failed to eifect a cure. V^ISSELS OF THE LOWER LIMB. Gluteal Arteey.—Traumatic Aneurisms of the Gluteal Artery are of less frequent occurrence than might a priori have been imagined, from the situation of the vessel exposing it to injury. These aneurisms may acquire an enormous size, and are often accompanied by much redness and oedema of the skin covering them. Pulsation may be indistinct or absent, and thus such cases may closely resemble large abscesses and have been more than once mistaken for them. In John Bell's celebrated case, the tumour is said to have been of " prodigious size," and to have contained eight pounds of blood. In Syme's case the tumour was as large at the base as a man's head, occupied the whole hip, and rose into a blunt cone. The Treatment that should be adopted is to compress the aorta by means of tlie aortic tourniquet; then to lay open the tumour freely, turn out its contents, and pass a ligature by means of an aneurism-needle round the short trunk of the gluteal as it emerges from the pelvis. External Iliac Artery.—Wounds of this vessel must almost invari- ably be fatal. If, however, the bleeding has been temporarily controlled by pressure, au aortic tourniquet should be applied, the wound enlai-ged and the vessel ligatured above and below the puncture. In a case of Circumscribed Traumatic Aneurism following a wound with a pocket-knife, Clutton successively ligatured the external iliac artery above and below the sac. Femoral Artery.—The heemorrhage from the Femoral Artery, Common, Superficial or Deep, when wounded is always very profuse. In all cases, ligature of the vessel at the seat of injury should be practised. If a Diffused Traumatic Aneurism have already formed, the artery should be commanded by a tourniquet or by pressure on the aorta, the sac laid open, and the bleeding vessel tied. Guthrie has collected a great number of cases, which prove incontestably that the general principles of treatment of wounded arteries must not be departed from, when the arteries of the groin or thigh are wounded. On the contrary, the facility with which in most cases the circulation is kept up, and the readiness with which secondary hjemorrhage I I 2