992 TETANUS. cold are amougst the most frequent causes of tetanus amongst the wounded. Thus Larrey states that, after the battle of Moskowa, although the number of wounded was immense, there were few cases of tetanus, the heat being very great and continuous ; whilst after Bautzen, where the wounded were left on tlie field all night exposed to severe cold, more than 100 had tetanus ; and after the battle at Dresden, when great heat was followed by much wet and cold, the wounded suffered most severely. So, after some of the Indian battles, as Chilianwallah and Ferozepore, where the wounded lay exposed to cold nights after very hot days, tetanus was of very frequent occurrence (Mac- leod). In the American Civil War tetanus does not seem to have arisen from exposure of the wounded to cold and night-air. Chisholm states that although, from the wooded nature of the country in which the battles were often fought, wounded men were not unfrequently left for two or three days on the ground, tetanus did not appear to be more frequent amongst them than in those immediately cared for. Hennen states that a draught of air, whether hot or cold, directly blowing on the patient, is the most fertile cause of tetanus. The frequency with which tetanus occurs varies much. It often happens that not one case occurs in a hospital for some years, and then several are met with in close succession or simultaneously. The frequency of the disease seems to have diminished since the introduction of the antiseptic treatment of wounds. Period of Occurrence.—Tetanus may take place at any period after the infliction of the wound that occasions it. In hot climates especially, it may occur very speedily : thus, Robinson relates the case of a negro servant in the AYest Indies, who sci'atched his finger with a broken plate, and died of tetanus in a quarter of an hour. It is very seldom, however, in temperate climates, that it supervenes before the fourth or fifth day, usually from that to the tenth day. Larrey, who had great experience of this disease during Napoleon's campaigns in Egypt, met with it most frequently between the fifth and fifteenth days after the infliction of the wound. According to the experience of the Surgeons of the Peninsular War, under whose observation manj- hundred cases came, the disease does not show itself after the twenty-second day ; but, though this may be the general rule, Gilbert Blane has related a case in which it took place as late as a month after the infliction of the wound. It has been stated that it may occur after the cicatrization of a wound is completed ; but this is doubtful. In the American War, out of 3G7 cases in which the day of appearance of the disease is noted, it followed secondary amputations in twenty-one cases during the first day after the operation ; and in six it appeared in the first twenty-four hours after the original wound. After this but few cases appeared till the fifth day, when 19 are recorded. The highest number was 37, on the eighth day, and by the fifteenth day the number fell to 6. Seven cases occurred between the 26th and 30th days, and 23 after the end of a month. Symptoms.—The invasion of the disease is sometimes preceded by a o-eneral uneasiness on the part of the patient, a feehng of illness or weakness, or a sense of impending mischief. When the disease sets in gradually, it may be somewhat difficult of recognition in its early stages ; if it come on suddenly, its nature is immediately evident. The cramps are usually first noticed in the muscles of mastication, of the face, and upper part of the neck ; and, through- out, these and the muscles of respiration are principally affected. The nervous disturbance is at first confined to the muscles supplied by the motor branch of