AMPUTATIONS. 74 not be forgotten to fit each with a couple of threads, one on each side of its orifice, to prevent its sUpping into the wound and being lost there, an accident which has frequently happened from neglecting this precaution. Dressing the Stump.—An amputation leaves an incised wound which must be treated on those principles which are fully described in Chapter IX. These may be briefly summed up thus :—1. Complete arrest of haemorrhage ; 2. Removal of all coagulum, bone-detritus, or other foreign bodies ; 3. Close and accurate coaptation of the surfaces of the wound ; 4. Efficient drainage ; 5. Perfect rest of the part; G. Asepticity of the wound. These objects may be attained by many modes of treatment, but perhaps by none more perfectly than by the absorbent antiseptic wool or gauze dressings now so commonly used. "These by their uniform elastic pressure, support the stump, keep the surfaces of the wound in accurate apposition, and greatly diminish the exuda- tion during the first twenty-four hours. They require changing infrequently, and in many cases the first dressing may be left on till the stump is practically Fig. 27.—A Stmiip showing the mode of applying Suture and drainage-tube. A drainage-tube. healed. In this way more perfect rest is given to the wound than by any other method of treatment. Some Surgeons, trusting to the elastic pressure of the dressing to diminish the exudation and to prevent its accumulation in the wound by maintaining perfect apposition of the surfaces, have given up the use of drainage tubes in all amputations through healthy tissues. It is, how- ever, wiser, as a rule, to insert one or two short tubes which may be removed, if all goes well, at the first dressing. They give a greater certainty that no fluid shall accumulate between the flaps, and do not practically retard the healing of the wound. The necessity for drainage is greater if the wound be washed with a strong solution of carbolic acid before being closed, as this antiseptic seems considerably to increase the early serous exudation. The solutions of perchloride of mercury do this to a lesser degree. The details of the application of these and other antiseptic dressings will be found in the chapter on the treatment of wounds. It must often happen, however, that the Surgeon is obliged to amputate through tissues which are already inflamed, or that he may not have at his command the materials necessary for the more perfect forms of antiseptic dressing. Under these circumstances it is essential that a proper provision be made for the escape of the discharges either by the use of drainage-tubes if they are at hand, or if they are not, by leaving a sufficient space between the