8l2 INJURIES OF THE SPINE. suddenly died. On examination after death, it was found that the second cervical vertebra, carrying the atlas and head with it, had been dislocated from the third (Fig. 817); the connecting ligaments being completely torn through on the left side, so that the head falling to one side had caused fatal compression of the cord. Dislocation of the Occipital Bone from the Atlas has been described by Lassus, Paletta, and Bouisson. In the case by Lassus death ensued in six hours, and the right vertebral artery was found to be ruptured. In Paletta's case, the patient is said to have lived for five days, but the report is so incom- plete that little value can be attached to it. Dislocation of the Atlas from the Axis is of more frequent occur- rence. It may happen with or without fracture of the odontoid process. In either case, the atlas is carried forwards and the spinal cord thus compressed. Fig. 316.—Dislocation between the Fiftli and Fig. :317.—Dislocation of the Axis from the Third Sixth Cervical Vertebra;. Cervical Vertebra. This accident is said to have been caused by a person in play lifting a child olf the ground by its head ; the combination of rotation and traction in this movement being especially likely to occasion the accident. For the same reason, it has been met with in those who have been executed by hanging. Death would probably be instantaneous in these circumstances. It has, however, been stated that, in dislocations of this kind, life has been saved by the Surgeon placing his knees against the patient's shoulders, and drawing or twisting the head into position. This, however, I cannot believe possible if the displacement has been complete, as death must be instantaneous ; the cases of supposed dislocation and reduction have probably been instances of concussion of the cord with sprain of the neck. Dislocation of any one of the five Lower Cervical Vertebrae may occur. The third vertebra is least frequently dislocated ; the fifth is more commonly displaced (Fig. 316). These injuries are usually associated with fracture ; sometimes, though rarely, they happen without this complication. In these dislocations, as in those that have already been described, the dis-