78 AMPUTATIONS. consequence of the soft parts, which have been the seat of inflammation and suppuration before the amputation, retracting during the process of healing, so as to denude the bone. In such cases as these, great retraction and contraction of the flaps may go on during cicatrisation, so that the bone may never be covered at all, but be exposed on tlie surface of an irritable ulcer ; or, if the wound does heal, the cicatrix will be unable to support the slightest pressure without becoming ulcerated. In these circumstances, the only remedy consists in laying open the stump, and cutting off about three inches of the bone. The patient, whose stump is represented in Fig. 30, was under the care of Christopher Heath. The arm had been amputated in the bush in South Africa for an accident. The protruding bone was completely covered by a thin cicatrix. In such cases as this when the patient is a young child, it is probable that the protrusion of the bone is in part due to the continued growth from the epiphysis without a corresponding increase in the soft parts. Aneurismal Enlargement of the arteries of a stump is very rare. ^ A typical case of this condition has been recorded by Charters Symonds, in which a small aneurism f of an inch in diameter, formed about two inches above the twisted end of the artery after amputation at the knee for injury. The stump healed after prolonged suppuration. Nine weeks after the operation, and two weeks after healing, the sac gave way, and the blood burst through the scar. Fig. 31.—Aneiirismal Varix in Stump. The patient recovered after ligature of the artery above and below the sac. He had suffered severely from syphilis. A communication between the divided ends of the artery and veins forming an anenrismal varix has also been occasionally observed. In one case described bv Cadge, the communication was between the posterior tibial artery and the vense comites after disarticulation at the ankle (Fig. 31). Painful and Spasmodic Stumps.—The nerves in a stump naturally becom-e somewhat bulbous (Fig. 28) ; and no material inconvenience results from this condition. But it occasionally happens that a considerable enlarge- ment forms in connection with one of them, and attains the size of a cherry or a walnut ; and, this being pressed against the end of the bone, the stump becomes the seat of intense pain of a neuralgic character, more particularly whenever it is touched, when a sensation like an electric shock is felt. In such circumstances, excision of this bulbous extremity of the nerve is necessary, and will effect a cure. Sometimes a nervous twig may become implicated in the cicatrix and be compressed by it. Here an excision of the painful part of the scar will remove the pain. Besides this form of painful stump, which may occur in the strongest and healthiest subjects, and is entirely dependent on local causes, there is another condition in which the stump becomes the seat not only of intense pain, but of continuous convulsive twitchings. This form of painful stump arises partly from constitutional causes, and most frequently