1017 LIPOMA. the benignancy of the growth will be in proportion to the perfection of the development of the tissue of which it is composed. a. Fatty jJumour or Lipoma.—These tumours occur in any part of the subcutaneous tissue, and at all ages, though they are most commonly met with about the earlier periods of middle life. In the majority of cases they appear to originate without any evident cause ; in other instances they can be distinctly traced to pressure or to some local irritation, as to that of braces or shoulder- straps over the back and shoulders. In one case I have known the disease to be hereditarily transmitted to the members of three generations of a family. Fatty growths occur under two forms, one diffused, the other circum- scribed: it is the latter variety only that is termed the Adipose or Fatty Tumour. The diffused form of fatty deposition occurs in masses about the chin or nates and may occasion much disfigurement. This form was described by Brodie under the name of " fatty outgrowth." Fatty tumours may form in all parts of the body as soft, painless, inelastic doughy swellings, usually giving rise on manipulation to a feeling closely resembling fluctuation. They grow very slowly, and are commonly oval or round in form, but frequently lobu- lated to a most extraordinary degree. They occur most frequently in the subcutaneous fat about the neck and shoulders, and are occasionally met with between muscles, in the neigh- bourhood of joints and of serous membranes and of mucous canals, sometimes in very unusual situations, where such growths would scarcely be looked for. Thus I once removed a lipoma three inches in length, and as thick as the thumb, from under the annular ligament and the palmar fascia of a young woman. A very curious circumstance connected with these tumours is that they occasionally shift their seat, slowly gliding for some distance from the original spot on which they grew ; thus, Paget relates cases in which fatty tumours shifted their position from the groin to the perinteum or the thigh. I have known one descend from the shoulder to the breast. When growing superficially, they sometimes becomes pedunculated. They may attain a farge size, but occasion inconvenience ouly by their pressure or bulk ; sometiraes^they appear in great numbers, upwards of 250 tumours of various sizes having been found in the same individual ; and C. v. Lutzau records a case in which they reached the extraordinary number of 2,43G. They rarely ulcerate, except when, havin«^ attamed a great size, they become irritated by the friction of the clothes. In these cases the tumour may be much hardened by an overgrowth of its fibrous tissue. Occasionally patches of calcification are met with. The calcareous matter sometimes forms a layer like an egg-shell, enclosing a space in which the fat is softened and apparently saponified. Pig. 358.—Fatty Tnmnm'(lSS diam.). Some, of the cells .show crystiils of fatty acids.