tumours: playing on injection a close net-work of vessels. On a section being made, it commonly presents a soft pulpy white mass, closely I'esembling cerebral sub- stance, stained and blotched with bloody patches, varying in colour from a bright red to a maroon-brown, this being dependent on blood that has been infiltrated into its substance. In other cases, its section has been compared to that of a raw potato, or a piece of boiled udder. On microscopic examination, it will be found to present a structure essentially similar to that of scirrhus, that is to say, an alveolar stroma enclosing groups of free cells of an epithelial type. The cells may in some cases be larger, but are often smaller than those usually seen in scirrhus (Fig. ol)2). They assume the same irregular forms, and have each one or more highly refracting nuclei and nucleoli. The pro- portion of the bulk of the tumour composed of cells is, however, infinitely greater in encephaloid than in scirrhus, and the vascularity of the tumour is proportionately increased. The tumour does not show the same tendency to cicatricial contraction, although fatty degeneration always occurs in the central parts. Colloid, Gelatinous, Gelatiniform or Alveolar Cancer is a variety Fig. 393.- Colloid of Oinentum (188 diaui.) Sliows the concentric rings and thfi granular masses which have taken the place of the cells ; and at one part a few cells still retain their shape. Fig. 394.—A. Colloid of Breast. Shows re- lation of cells to stroma, and the colloid material in some cases tilling the cell, in others pushing the nucleus to one side or completely surrounding it. p.. Isolated cells from the same tumour, c. Isolate<l cells from colloid of oinentum. (454 diam.) formed by the colloid degeneration of the cells of a glandular cancer, either of the scirrhous or encephaloid form, but most commonly the former. It may occur in distinct masses, often of a very large size, weighing many pounds, or may be infiltrated into the tissue of organs. As it is most frequently met with in the viscera of the abdomen, it does not so often fall under the observa- tion of the Surgeon as the other varieties of cancer. Yet it is not uncommon in the breast, where I have met with it, forming a very large tumour. Colloid cancer consists of alveolar spaces visible to the naked eye, filled with a clear semi-transparent yellowish gelatinous or honey-like material, resembhng indeed somewhat the structure of a honey-comb. The septa forming these spaces are distinctly fibrous and regular in their arrangement (Fig. 393). Some of the spaces are completely filled with colloid matter, others may show a few cells containing fat granules in the centre, surrounded by zones of granules result- ing from the degeneration of other cells. Cells again may be seen in the pro-