TUMOURS. roo4 a. Fat—Lipoma. h. Fibrous Tissue—Fibroma. c. Cartilage—Chondroma, Enchonclroma. d. Bone—Osteoma, Exostosis. e. Mucous Tissue of Umbilical Cord or Vitreous Humour—Myxoma. III. Tumours which resemble in structure more or less perfectly one of the more Complex Tissues of the body. a. Muscle—Myoma. h. Nerve—True Xeuroma. c. Blood-vessels—Angioma, Hfemangiorna, Nsevas. d. Lymphatic Vessels—Lymphangioma, Lymphatic Nasvus. e. Lymphatic Glands—Ijymphadenoma. /. Papillse of Skin or Mucous Membrane—Papilloma. g. Secreting Glands—Adenoma. IV. Tumours composed of Tissue which is either purely Embryonic, or is showing some signs of a tendency to develop into adult tissue of the Connec- tive type. Sarcomata.—These are subdivided first, according to the shape and size of the cells of which they are composed, into round-celled, oval- celled, spindle-celled, giant-celled sarcoma, &c.; and secondly, according to the development they may undergo, into fibrifying, chondrifying, ossifying sarcoma, &c. V. Tumours composed of Cells of an Epithelial Type, arranged in spaces in a vascular stroma consisting of more or less perfectly developed fibrous tissue. Carcinomata or true Cancers.—Spheroidal or Glandular, Squamous and Columnar. Etiology of Tumours.—In the great majority of cases we have not the remotest idea of the causes which have led to the growth of the tumour. Hereditary tendency has a marked influence in the growth of many forms, more especially of malignant growths. The cancers are certainly inherited in a large proportion of cases ; in simple tumours hereditary tendency is less marked, but is occasionally to be traced. Paget also makes the very interest- ing practical remark, which agrees entirely with the result of my own obser- vation, that the children of cancerous parents may be the subjects of tumours not carcinomatous in structure, but closely resembling such growths in the rapidity of their progress, their liability to ulcerate and to bleed, and their great disposition to return after removal. Local irritation or mechanical injury is undoubtedly the determining cause of the growth of the tumour in a certain proportion of cases. The effects of this cause are also most marked in malignant growths. The proportion, however, in which such a cause can be traced is very small, varying, according to different authors, from 7 to 14 per cent. Cohnheim has suggested the hypothesis that some tumours may arise from the minute portions of embryonic tissue which have persisted in an undeveloped state amongst the mature tissues ; but there is little definite evidence to support this theory. CYSTIC TUMOUBS. A Cyst is defined as a cavity of new formation, or resulting from the abnormal distension of a natural space, surrounded by a more or less distinct