INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 766 the reins, but feeling sick and giddy he left the box and lay down in the van, while his companion undertook to drive. About one hour afterwards he was found comatose. His head was shaved on admission, and on careful inspection a distinct fulness was noticed in the right temporal fossa, and on the parietal eminence of the same side was a bruise. He was trephined in the line of the artery and a large clot found and removed, but the brain failed to expand, and he died a few hours afterwards. In another case the patient fell eight or nine feet, and a quarter of an hour afterwards she came to the hospital. She was conscious, and related how the accident happened. There was a wound on the right side of the head, near the parietal eminence. She rapidly became unconscious, and two hours after the fall she was apparently dying. At tiiis time the right eyeball was protruded, and the pupil widely dilated ; the left was dilated, but less so than the right. She was trephined on the right side, and a large clot found and removed ; the symptoms of compression were relieved, but she died eighteen hours after the accident. In both cases the brain was uninjured. In some of these cases the respiration becomes greatly embarrassed, and this must always be looked upon as a grave symptom, indicating operative treatment. The mechanism of meningeal extravasation has given rise to much discussion, and the following remarks of Sir Charles Bell (" Surgical Observa- tions," London, 1816) are well worthy of attention :—" It is extraordinary that any one who has ever raised the skull-cap in dissection, and felt the strength of the universal adhesions of the dura mater to the lower surface of the bone, could for an instant believe that the arteria meningea media has power of throwing out its blood to the efiPecfc of tearing up these adhesions from the entire half of the cranium ! " He then describes the following experiment to show that the dura mater is first of all separated from the skull, and that the extravasation is consequent on that separation :—" Strike the skull of the subject with a heavy mallet : on dissecting, you find the dura mater to be shaken from the skull at the part struck. Repeat the experiment on another subject, and inject the head minutely with size-injection, and you will find a clot of the injection lying betwixt the skull and dura mater at the part struck, and having an exact resemblance to the coagulum found after violent blows on the head. I imagine this is conclusive" (pp.466—467). It is possible also that the alterations in form of the skull which accompany blows causing fracture see (p. 722) may tend to loosen the attachment of the dura mater. That the meningeal artery does, however, pour out blood with sufficient force to strip the dura mater further from the bone, when it is once loosened, can hardly be doubted, as it is difficult to conceive that that membrane can be shaken from the base of the skull by a blow on the parietal eminence ; and yet meningeal extravasation often extends as far as the cavernous sinus. It must not be forgotten that when once a cavity is formed, the blood forced in acts on the principle of the hydraulic press. Taking the pressure in the artery to be about two pounds to the square inch, when four square inches of dura mater are separated we have a force of eight pounds pressing against it; when it is separated for three inches in each direction the pressure equals eighteen pounds. To resist this we have only the adhesion of the dura mater and the blood-pressure in the capillaries of the brain substance. It is not surprising, therefore, that the force exerted by the escaping blood produces such marked elfects.