MORTIFICATION, OB GAFGREFE. obstruction varies materially in its symptoms, prognosis, and treatment, according as it arises ii'om one or other of these causes. When the obstruc- tion in the arteries is very complete, the gangrene will be of the dry kind; but if some blood still finds its way into the part, and if there is at the same time an impediment to the return of blood through the veins, the disease will partake more or less of the characters of the moist variety. {a.) A limb gangrenous in consequence of the Ligature or Wound of its Main Artery, without any other injury to the vascular system, becomes cold, feels heavy, and loses its sensibility ; at the same time it assumes a dull tallowy white colour, mottled with greyish or brownish streaks. This state of things is met with chiefly in the lower extremity. In a short time the pallid colour is lost, the part becoming brown or blackish ; the integuments of the foot become semi-transparent and horny-looking where they are stretched over the tendons of the instep, and the part presents a shrivelled appearance. This form of gangrene may invade the whole of the lower limb, but most commonly is limited to the foot, stopping either just above the ankle, or if not there, immediately below the knee, as Guthrie has observed ; the arrest taking place in one or other of these two spots, on account of the greater freedom of the collateral circulation here than in other parts of the limb. If any of the large venous trunks become obsbructed or otherwise implicated, so that the return of blood through them is interfered with at the same time that the supply by the arteries is arrested, the limb generally assumes a greenish-blue colour, and rapidly runs into putrefaction. In some of these cases it happens that sloughs of the integument and subcutaneous areolar tissue form, although the hmb generally preserves its vitality. The treatment of these forms of gangrene, which are strictly local, is described in the chapter on the Arrest of Arterial Haemorrhage. (J.) Gangrene may occur from the arrest of the circulation throagh an artery as the result of disease of the coats of the vessel. This is the variety that is commonly called spontaneous. Spontaneous gangrene is termed Senile when it occurs in old people in consequence of the arteries becoming rigid and their calibre narrowed by Atheroma or Calcification of their Coats. The pathology of these affections of the arteries will be more fully discussed in the chapter on Diseases of the Blood-vessels in Volume II. It is sufficient here to state that these changes render the arteries unable to maintain the proper circulation of blood through the limb, and further from the roughening of the inner coat predispose them to thrombosis, that is to say, to the deposit of fibrin by which the vessel may become completely obhterated. The want of a due supply of arterial blood in these cases is owing not only to the diseased state of the arteries, but also in a great measure to the weak propulsive power of the heart, and the consequent feebleness of the circulation especially through the lower limbs. When the circulation is so far interrupted as to lower the nutrition of the limb, the following premonitory symptoms are observed. The patient complains of a sensation of weight in the limb, with coldness, itching, and tingling in the foot, and cramps in the calf. The circulation of the part is habitually defective, the pulsation of the tibials being scarcely perceptible. In some cases cutaneous ulcerations ensue. These symptoms commonly exist for a considerable length of time before gangrene actually comes on, and should always be looked upon with anxiety in old people.