COCAINE POISONING. 39 method was at once recognised, and at the present time cocaine has to a great extent replaced general anaesthetics in ophthalmic sargery. Its nse was soon extended to other mucous membranes, and subsequently, by means of hypo- dermic injections, to the skin and subcutaneous tissue. Cocaine is most commonly used in the form of a solution of the hydro- chlorate in distilled water. The solution should be sterilized by boiling, and kept in a carefully stoppered bottle, otherwise fungoid gTOwths are apt to develop in it. Cocaine can be kept in 1 grain powders which may be dissolved in 10 minims or more of water when required for use. The water must be previously boiled if the solution is to be injected hypodermically. Cocaine causes a contraction of the small arteries of the part to which it is applied, and thus greatly diminishes the bleeding during an operation, such as removal of a polypus from the nose. Mode of Employment.—For the eye ; two or three drops of a 4 per cent, solution are di-opped upon the conjunctiva. This is repeated in from three to five minutes, and after about the third application the conjunctiva will be found to be insensible when touched with the finger. The anaesthesia extends to the deeper structures of the eye, so that the operation for cataract or an iridectomy can be performed without appreciable pain. The anaesthesia is accompanied by dilatation of the papil. For the mouth or throat.—A 10 or 20 per cent, solution is applied by means of a camel's hair pencil or by a spray apparatus. The anaesthesia commences in about three minutes, and if the apphcation be repeated at intervals becomes complete in from ten to twenty minutes. It passes off in from half to three-quarters of an hour. For the urethra a 10 per cent, solution is best. It may be injected either directly with a syringe or by means of a catheter to the deeper parts or into the bladder. Its effects are not very certain, as it is difficult to apply it thoroughly to the whole length of the canal, and in the bladder it is apt to be diluted by the urine or prevented from coming in close contact with the mucous membrane by a layer of mucus. For the removal of small tumours or other minor operations on the skin or subcutaneous tissue it must be applied by hypodermic injection. From 4 to 5 minims of a 4 per cent, solution must be injected at several points in the area which it is desired to render anaesthetic. Anaesthesia is complete in ft-om two to five mirmtes. This can be ascertained by gently pinching the part with a pair of forceps. It commonly lasts from ten to fifteen minutes. If sensation returns during the operation a few drops of the solution may be poured into the wound, and after a couple of mi mites' delay the performance may be continued. If the operation is upon one of the limbs, the duration of the anaesthesia may be greatly prolonged by the application of a tourniquet after one or two minutes have been allowed for the diffusion of the solution. The same effect may be produced, less perfectly, in other parts by surrounding the anaesthetic area with a ring of wood or metal and pressing it firmly down so as to limit the diffusion of the solution. Cocaine Poisoning.—Several cases have been recorded in which unpleasant and sometimes even alarming symptoms have followed the use of cocaine. The dose in these cases has been very variable, in some little more than a grain of the hydrochlorate. The most common of these effects have been temporary giddiness and nausea, with a sense of oppression on the chest and