SPECIAL FRACTURES. 592 injury is apt to be mistaken for dislocation of the forearm backwards, which is also common in young subjects. Transverse Fracture of the Lower End of the Humerus, just above the condyles, occurs occasionally in adults. The displacement backwards of the forearm and lower fragment, the pain, and crepitus, indicate the nature of the accident. Fracture of either Condyle of the Humerus may arise from blows and falls on the elbow. There is considerable pain about the seat of the injury, but usually not much displacement; unless, as shown in Pig. 188, there be a trans- verse fracture of both condyles, constituting what may be termed the T-shaped fracture of the lower epiphysis of the humerus. Crepitus, however, may readily be felt by rotating the radius, if it be the external condyle that is injured ; or by flexing and pronating the forearm, if it be the internal condyle that has been detached. The Treatment of all these injuries must be conducted on very similar principles. The swelling, which rapidly supervenes, usually requires the Fig. 188.—T-shaped Fractare of Fig. ISO.—Angular Splint applied to front of Limb. Lower Epipliysis of Humerus. apphcation of cold lotions, or of irrigation ; the arm being flexed, and sup- ported in an easy position on a proper splint. After the subsidence of the swelling, the fractured bone, whatever be the precise nature of the injury, is best maintained in position by being put in an angular splint applied to the anterior aspect of the limb (Fig. 189) ; the forearm being kept midway be- tween pronation and supination, and well supported in a sling. It is in these particular fractures that passive motion should be had recourse to early, some degree of rigidity of the joint being otherwise often left. The motion should be begun in adults at the expiration of a month or five weeks ; in children, at the end of three weeks after the occurrence of the accident. Union usually takes place readily. I have, however, seen one instance of an ununited fracture of the external condyle of the humerus in a boy about ten years old. Period of Union.—These fractures unite quickly, bony union being complete in four weeks, but it is seldom that the patient recovers the use oi his arm before the end of the sixth week. Injury of Nerves in Fracture of the Humerus.—In simple fracture