258 SUPPURATION AND ABSCESS. I grooved exploring needle or a trochar may be introduced. The " aspirator " is of especial service in cases in which it is desirable to withdraw some of the contained fluid for examination. The most common form of aspirator consists of an exhausting syringe from which lead two short nozzles fitted with stop-cocks. To one of these is fitted an india-rubber tube, at the end of which is a sharp hollow needle with a terminal opening. The needle should 7iot have an eye some three-quarters of an inch or more from the point, as is frequently the case. In using the instrument, it should first be tested with a solution of carbolic acid (1 in 20). By this we disinfect and cleanse the needle, and prove that everything is in working order. Both stop-cocks being closed, the piston of the exhausting syringe is raised and retained Fig. 94.—Aspirator, convertible into a Siplion. ^ Brass syi-ingc. b. Glass at lower end. c. Stop cock, putting the syringe into connection ei«>er w'th thf discharge pipe or the needle, d. Needle, e. Small eoek, opening into a side tube, to be use<l as a siphon if required. in its position by giving the handle a quarter turn. The needle is then ' pushed in till its opening is buried beneath the skin, when the stop-cock leading to it is turned on. The vacuum then extends into the needle, and if this be gently and steadily pushed in the direction of the suspected abscess, ,1 the mom'ent its point enters a cavity containing pus the fluid will pass up into the syringe. A piece of glass is interposed in the india-rubber tube, so that the nature of the fluid can be seen, even if the quantity be small. It is the use of the needle in this way, with the vacuum in it, that forms the essential feature of the aspirator as invented by Dieulafoy, and distinguishes it from the old suction-trochar. It avoids the possibility of passing the hollow needlet completely through the collection of pus before the suction is applied, and thus^ fiiilino- to detect the fluid. In chronic abscesses, even when a large needle is: