ENTRANCE OF AIR INTO VEINS: EFFECTS AND CAUSE. 487 utters a few plaintive cries, is convulsed, passes feces and urine, and dies. If the thorax be immediately opened, it will be seen that the heart's action is continuing regularly and forcibly, and that the right cavities, though filled, do not appear abnormally distended. Death occurs, as I have shown in a papei- on this subject, published in the 158th number of the Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, in consequence of the air and blood being beaten up together in the right cavities of the hearD into a spumous froth, which cannot be propelled through the pulmonary vessels ; hence there is a deficient supply of blood to the brain and nervous centres, and fatal syncope comes on, attended usually with convulsions. In addition to this, the frothy mixture in the ventricles has not sufficient resistance to press upon and close the valves of the heart, and the circulation consequently soon comes to a stand-still. Spontaneous Entry of Air into the Veins of Man is attended with local and constitutional phenomena. Local Phenomena.—These consist of a peculiar sound, produced by the entrance of the air, and of the appearance of bubbles about the wound in the vein. The sound is of a hissing, sucking, gurgling, or lapping character, and ue\'er fails to indicate the serious nature of the accident that has occurred. When once heard, whether in man or in the lower animals, it can never be mistaken. It has fortunately fallen to my lot to hear this sound in the human subject on one occasion only, in a patient who had attempted suicide by cutting his throat. The wounded internal jugular was being raised for the purpose of having a ligature passed under it, when a loud hissing and gurgling sound was heard, and some bubbles of air appeared about the wound ; the patient became faint, and greatly oppressed in his breathing. The ligature was immediately tightened, the faintness gradually passed oflP, and no bad consequences ensued. The Constitutional Effects are usually very marked. At the moment of entry of the air, the patient is seized with extreme faintness, and a sudden oppression about the chest ; if he is not unconscious from an anassthctic he screams out or exclaims that he is dying, and continues moaning. There is dyspnoea, purely cardiac in character, for the air enters the lungs freely ; this sense of dyspnoea is due to the an-est of the supply of blood to the lungs. The pulse becomes nearly imperceptible, though the heart's action is laboured and rapid ; the pupils are widely dilated. Death commonly results ; but not instantaneously, in many cases at least, (freene has collected GS fatal cases of this accident: 24 died almost immediately, the rest at periods varying from three hours to seven days, Beauchesne's case lived a quarter of an hour after the occurrence of the accident. If the patient survive the immediate effects of the accident, he may recover without any bad symptons, as happened in the case to which I have referred above, and in an instance recorded by B. Cooper. In some of the cases that survived some days the fatal result is said to have been due to bronchitis or pneumonia. Cause.—The cause of the entry of air into the veins was very com- pletely investigated by the French Commission. If we open a large vein at the root of a dog's neck, in which the venous pulse, or flux and reflux of the blood, is perceptible, we shall see that air rushes in during inspiration only. This is owing to the tendency to the formation of a vacuum within the thorax during inqnration. This suction action, or " venous inspiration," is confined