28 GENERAL REMARKS ON OPERATIONS. a few deep, hurried respirations separating the two. Tlie face now becomes pale, but not livid, the respiration is regular, slow, and shallow, the pulse falls in frequency and force, all the voluntary muscles become flaccid, and reflex movements can no longer be induced by pinching the skin or touching the conjunctiva. The pupil is at first contracted, but afterwards becomes widely dilated and insensible to light; and this is a sign that the administration has been pushed to the furthest limits consistent with safety, and must be sus- pended till the pupil again responds to light. Immediately before this stage is reached the patient may snore loudly ; but in deep anaesthesia, the respira- tion, being slow, shallow, and chiefly diaphragmatic, is usually not sufficiently \-iolent to produce any sound. What may be called the healthy snoring of deep auaBSthesia must be distinguished from the loud inspiratory stertor indicative of closure of the glottis. The latter is a sign of danger, and necessitates the immediate removal of the chloroform until the stei'tor has passed off and has been followed by three or four heal thy Respirations. When fully aneesthetised, the patient is at the verge of death, and requires the most careful watching by the person who administers the chloroform; his fingers should be kept constantly on the temporal artery, as the most convenient point for feeling the pulse, and his eyes should not be taken away from the counte- nance of the patient. He must watch, on the one hand, for lividity indicative of impending asphyxia, and on the other, for pallor showing feebleness of the heart's action. The breathing must be carefully observed, and the adminis- trator must not be content with seeing that the movements of respiration continue, but must feel with his hand that air is actually passing in and out, as in closure of the glottis the respiratory movcmeni^s continue regularly for some time after air has ceased to enter. Many accidents doubtless arise from the patient being thus allowed to become partially asphyxiated, and the heart's action greatly enfeebled ; and when, as usually happens, the obstruction passes off and is followed by a deep inspiration, instead of pure air, which is so greatly needed, a concentrated dose of chloroform vapour is supplied, which suddenly checks the action of the weakened heart. The Secondary Effects of Chloroform differ but little from those of ether (p. 23). Vomiting occurs with about the same frequency and severity, and requires the same treatment. Chloroform seems to be less irritating to the lungs, and consequently gives rise to less secretion and congestion. In old bronchitic patients it may, however, like ether, aggravate the condition, and in this Avay indirectly prove fatal. Excitement on recovery is less com- mon than with ether. Death from Chloroform may occur by Coma, Asphyxia, or Sijncojje. Death by Coma is very rare, and chiefly occurs in epileptics, or in patients suffering from advanced kidney disease. In these cases the breathing becomes stertorous, the face is livid, and the pupil widely dilated. There may be a general convulsion, especially in epileptics. The pulse continues to beat with good force. In spite of the removal of the anassthetic the stertorous breathing and lividity of the face continue, the respiration gradually becoming slower and more irregular till it ceases altogether, the heart continuing to act to the last. These cases are quite exceptional ; the vast majority of deaths from chloroform occur from asphyxia or from syncope. Death by Asphyxia may be produced in at least four ways. 1. It has been shown by experiments on animals that chloroform will with certainty cause