OPEBATIONS liV SCROFULOUS AND TUBERCULOUS CASES. 1103 be very efficacious. In many cases, frictions with the iodide of lead ointment, or pressure by means of strapping and bandages, will be found the most serviceable means that the Surgeon can adopt. In the treatment of local tuberculous disease it should be borne in mind that no external application can have any direct influence upon the bacillus. If the organism is to be destroyed it must be by the living cells surrounding it. It is all important, therefore, to remove every possible source of accessory irritation to the affected part. It should be put at perfect rest, protected from external injury and from cold. If the process is very chronic, counter-irrita- tion may probably be of use in external diseases by causing an afflux of blood to the part. Painting with iodine may occasionally be useful in the same way. Under this treatment a large proportion of tuberculous diseases of bones and joints will undergo spontaneous cure by the processes already described (p. 1(»<)0). If, in spite of this treatment, the disease continues to advance, the morbid growth shoul ' e removed as early and as completely as possible ; thus a joint may be excised, or its synovial membrane dissected away, a carious bone scraped, gouged or removed, or a diseased testicle taken away by castration. One object in this is, by removing the local centre, to diminish the risk of general infection. If the disease cannot be removed, as is often the case in lymphatic glands, the caseous mass should be exposed and scraped away as thoroughly as possible wdth a sharp spoon. The cavity left may often with advantage be forcibly scrubbed with a sponge moistened with some powerful antiseptic. Even if every trace of the disease be not removed, recovery often follows the operation, hvery operation on tuberculous tissues should be performed with the strictest antiseptic precautions, as there is every reason to believe that the presence of septic organisms and their products favours rather than hinders the further growth and invasion of the tubercle bacillus. In the treatment of tuberculous ulceration or abscesses, iodoform has been said to exert a specific curative influence, but this is not definitively proved. It cannot be denied, however, that its free use in the wound and externally is attended with very satisfactory results. The hypodermic injection of carbolic acid, perchloride of mercury, emulsion of iodoform and iodine, has been tried in various forms of local tuberculosis, but not with any uniform success. The further details of treatment of local tuberculous diseases will be given with the alfections of special systems and organs. Operations in Scrofulous and Tuberculous Cases.—In cases of tuber- culous diseases of bones and joints, if the disease is chronic and advancing very slowly, operative interference may be delayed till the effects of simpler measures have been tried. In young children especially we find that very extensive disease may be recovered from under proper constitutional and local treatment without operative interference. If the disease is acti^■ely spreading in spite of rest and milder means operative measures become necessary, and with proper antiseptic precautions there need be no fear of unhealthy suppura- tion occurring in'the neighbourhood of the disease. Infection of the opera- tion wound with tubercle is not a common complication, but occasionally a lupoid condition of the scar is met with. After excision of the elbow, the knee, or the bones of the foot and wrist, the disease will sometimes return in the contiguous soft parts to such an extent as to render a second operation necessary ; the tissues in the neighbourhood of the cicatrix becoming swollen.