817 FOREIGK BODIES IN THE EARS. inside the mouth and the external wound closed. By this means the continuity of the duct is maintained while the wound heals, and at the end of a week the silver wire may be withdrawn by dividing the I0013 in the month. Should a fistula form it must be treated as described in Chapter LV. Besides fistula of the Stenonian duct, other fistulous apertures may be formed in the cheek, as the result of injury or disease, allowing the escape of a small quantity of saliva. These openings are always closed with difficulty ; the edges becoming callous, and not readily taking on reparative action. Closure may be effected in some cases by cauterization with nitrate of silver, or with a red-hot wire. In other cases, the electric cautery may prove successful. If, however, the opening is fi-ee, with much indurated structure about it, it may be necessary to excise a portion of the edges before bringing them together. Nose.—Foreign Bodies, such as pebbles, beads, dried peas, &c., are occasionally met with in the nostrils of children, liaving been stuffed up in play and become so firmly fixed as to require extraction by the Surgeon. In most cases a bent probe or an ear-scoop will remove the impacted body most easily. If it be large and soft it may often be easily removed with a pair of forceps, but a hard smooth body is almost sure to be pushed further up with these instruments. It is always best to administer an anaesthetic, otherwise the involuntary move- ments of the child will greatly add to the difficulties of the Surgeon. If the body be not removed it may give rise to chronic purulent catarrh or even to disease of the bones. The Ears are not unfrequently wounded in injuries of the head and scalp ; a portion of the external ear being sometimes torn down and hanging over the side of the face. In these cases, as in scalp injuries, the part should npver be removed, but, however lacerated and contused, should be cleaned and replaced by means of a few points of suture. When the cartilaginous portion of the ear is divided, nice management is usually required in effecting perfect union. Foreign Bodies are often pushed into the ears of children. When pointed or angular, such as pieces of stick, they may readily be extracted with forceps provided they can be clearly seen ; but when round and small, such as pebbles or beads, they are not so easily removed. The foreign body may occasionally be removed bypassing the bent ear-scoop round it. In some cases I have found an instrument (Fig. 318) made by Coxeter on the model of Civiale's urethral scoop, useful in extracting a foreio-n body from the ear. It can be introduced straight and passed beyond the bodv when, by the action of a screw in the handle, the scoop is curved forwards' and so enables extraction to be readily effected. ]?ut, as a rule, it is bad practice to attempt to extract foreign bodies from the ear by' means of instruments ; in the majority of cases the offending body is best removed by syringing the ear with tepid water, injected in a full stream by means of a large brass syringe, the pinna being drawn up so as to straio-hten the external meatus. In this way the bead or pebble is soon washed out by the reflux of the water striking against the tympanum. It may be laid down VOL. I. 3 G Fig. 318.—Ear- Scoop.