DISLOCATIONS OF THE ASTRAGALUS. 711 was twisted outwards on the vertical axis of the astragalus for about 15°. The lower end of the tibia formed a distinct projection, most marked on the outer side. Beneath this was a corresponding hollow. The heel was thrown slightly backwards. Measured with a pair of calipers the distance from the tendo Achillis to the instep was increased by half an inch. The great toe was over-extended by the stretching of the extensor tendon and could not be flexed. The movements of the ankle were very limited. There was no fracture of either bone. Reduction was easily effected under chloroform. The dislocation Forwards, in which the foot is lengthened, and the tibia rests upon the upper and posterior surface of the os calcis, behind the astragalus, is an accident of extreme rarity. In the Treatment of these autero-posterior displacements of the ankle, trac- tion of the foot in a proper direction, the leg being fixed and flexed upon the thigh, will readily effect replacement. Sometimes subcutaneous division of the tendo Achillis is necessary. The limb should afterwards be put up in a plaster of Paris or starched bandage for at least three weeks. Compound Dislocations of the Ankle-joint are serious and by no means unfrequent accidents, the displacement occurring in the same direction and from the same causes as the simple forms of the injury. In the Treatment of compound dislocations of the ankle an attempt should be made to save the limb in all cases in which the main vessels are sound, the soft parts not too extensively torn oi' the bones too widely splintered. Some efficient antiseptic method must be adopted and a successful result will usually be obtained. The limb should be firmly fixed to a single splint with a rectangular footpiece applied to the side opposite to the wound. If the bones are projecting and comminuted it may be necessary to remove the splinters, and possibly to saw off the malleoli in order to obtain a flat surface to rest on the astragalus, as was originally recommended by Hey, If antiseptic treat- ment is not available an attempt may still be made to save the limb if the soft parts be not too extensively injured. Astley Cooper, who was a strong advocate of conservative treatment in these cases, advised that the wound should be closed by means of a piece of lint soaked in the blood flowing from the wound. Should suppuration occur, the pus usually burrows widely beneath the muscles of the calf and secondary amputation may be necessary. Dislocations of the Astragalus.—The astragalus is occasionally dis- placed from its connection with the bones of the leg above, and with those of the tarsus below, being thrown either forwards or backwards. These disloca- tions invariably happen from falls upon or twists of the foot ; more particularly when it is extended upon the leg. When the foot is in this position, the lower end of the tibia either breaks off on the application of sufficient violence, or the head of the astragalus is forced out of the cavity of the scaphoid and its bed on the os calcis; the particular kind of displacement that occurs depending upon the direction in which the force is acting and in which the foot is twisted. Dislocation of the astragalus differs from dislocation of the foot in this, that when the .foot is dislocated, the astragalus, though thrown out from under the malleolar arch, preserves its connections with the rest of the tarsus; whilst these are always broken through when the astragalus is the bone dislocated, even though it have not completely escaped from between the malleoli. In the dislocation Forwards, the head of the bone may be thrown either