978 SEPTICjEMIA AND FY.EMIA. a healthy superficial granulating sore. When pyemia has set in, the wound usually becomes dry and ceases to discharge pus. Even if the superficial parts remain tolerably healthy, the granulations become pale and healing ceases. In very chronic cases, however, healing may go on while the patient is still suffering from secondary abscesses in different parts of the body. The skin is continuously hot, and has often a burning pungent feel. The breath has that peculiar sweetish, or fermentative smell that is commonly noticed in all febrile diseases of a low type ; this odour of the breath, and indeed of the body generahy, is often noticed early in the disease, and must then be taken almost as a diagnostic, and certainly as a most unfavourable, sign. The secretions are arrested ; the pulse is quick and soft; the face is usually pale, with a very anxious drawn look, but sometimes flushed and the eyes bright; there is hebetude of mind, with slight nocturnal dehrium, but perfect con- sciousness on being spoken to. Rapid wasting of the body sets in about this period ; patches of erratic erythema frequently make their appearance on the surface ; and the skin assames a dull sallow and earthy, or a bright yellow icteric tint, which may extend to the conjunctivse. The symptoms now indi- cate an extreme depression of the vital powers ; the pulse becoming small and fluttering, the tongue, which has been dry, becoming brown, sordes being deposited about the teeth, and low delirium supervening. Usually from the sixth to the tenth day, but sometimes earher, suppuration commences m diflFerent tissues, joints, and organs. The Formation of numerous centres of inflammation and suppura- tion, " secondary " or " metastatic " abscesses as they are termed, is the most marked feature of pysemia. The pus in these abscesses is often thin and oily- looking ; sometimes, however, it is thick and creamy. In the oily-lookmg pus the cells are extremely granular, and sometimes so far degenerated that no nucleus can be recognized even after the addition of acetic acid ; the liquor puris contains large quantities of granular debris. In some cases the pus has been observed to form a firm coagulum, and occasionally it is fcetid. These purulent coUeotions vary greatly in size and in situation. They arc found in the viscera, in the intermuscular and subcutaneous areolar tissue, m the serous cavities, in the joints, and occasionally in the muscles, or at the seat of subcutaneous injuries received at the same time as the wound from which the infection has taken place. Pyasmic abscesses differ from ordinary purulent collections, not only in the peculiar character of the pus that they contain, but more particularly in the rapidity with w^hich they form, a few days commonly sufficing for them to attain a large size. This, with their very widespread character, and the insidious manner in which they occur, often Avith few if any local signs, constitute the distinguishing features of these collections. The visceral abscesses vary in size from a pin's head to a walnut; in many cases the organs aff'ected are studded with them. These collections are most frequently met with in the lungs, being seated at the posterior part and on the surface of these organs, or in the interlobular fissures. They form often without cough or pain, and the area of consolidation is rarely sufficient to be recognized by percussion. They are usually rapidly followed by pleurisy with effusion, which conceals any physical signs of the mischief in the lung tissue. The organ that is most frequently aff'ected next to the lung is the liver. Here also the abscesses are usually small and numerous. They can occasionally be