802 INJURIES OF THE SPINE. ment required. Rest is essential in the treatment of a sprain of the spine, but it is difficult to decide how long the patient should keep his bed. Page finds that this is rarely required for longer than three weeks, and the restora- tion of free mobility may be greatly hastened by systematic massage, and in some cases by faradisation of the spinal muscles. If the symptoms are indicative of intraspinal hgemorrhage, prolonged rest may be necessary, and the nutrition of paralyzed muscles must be maintained by the use of electricity. Retention of urine must not escape notice (see p. 810). The question of operative interference is considered at the end of this chapter. The onset of symptoms of myelitis or meningitis indicates the use of counter- irritation : the actual cautery, mustard poultices, blisters, &c. Dry cupping may be of service. Under these circumstances perchloride of mercury in tincture of quinine or of bark may be given internally. At a more advanced period, and in some constitutions in which mercury is not well borne, the iodide or the bromide of potassium in full doses will be found highly beneficial, more especially when there are indications of the presence of in- flammatory effusion causing pressure. In the treatment of the condition of general nervous shock one of the most important indications is to procure sleep. For this purpose chloral, sulphonal and morphia may each be found most efficacious in different cases. Bromide of potassium or ammonium may be useful, but Page has clearly shown how much harm may result from the persistent use of this drug in large doses. The other indications are a period of freedom from the anxieties of business, the assurance that no serious injury of the spine has occurred, and general attention to diet with a course of tonics. Hysterical paralyses and other purely functional disorders must be treated on general principles. WOUNDS OF THE SPINAL CORD. These injuries may occur from stabs with pointed instruments ; from gun- shot violence ; or, most frequently, from the pressure of fractured vertebrae. In the latter form of injury there is an association of wound and compression, giving rise essentially to the same symptoms as if the cord were divided. Symptoms.—When the spinal cord is coinplpfeli/ divided or crushed sub- cutaneously, certain symptoms occur that are common to all cases, at whatever part of the cord the injury has been inflicted, provided it be not so high as to cause instant death. In the first place, there is complete paralysis of sensation and motion in all the parts below the seat of injury, though the mental state of the patient continues intact. The seat of injury may be diagnosed by the extent of the paralysis. Thus, there may be paralysis of all the parts supplied by the nerves of the sacral plexus, whilst those'from the lumbar are not affected; thus leading to the inference that the injury has been inflicted above the one and below the other set of nerves. When the continuity of the cord is completely interrupted there is, at first, vaso-motor paralysis of the parts below the injury. Owing to the feebleness of the heart's action consequent on the shock of the injury, and to the want of movement in the paralysed muscles, there is soon some degree of venous stao-nation, and the temperature of parts below the injury soon falls con- siderably, so as to give a distinct sensation of coldness to the hand. After a