975 PYuEMIA. PYJEMIA. Pygemia is merely a clinical expression for a pathological process dependent upon the dissemination by the blood-stream of the causes of suppuration derived from a local source of infection. It most commonly, in fact almost invariably, arises as the secondary result of a primary inflammation which has reached the stage of suppuration, and the name was derived from the theory that the disease was due to the entrance of the pus into the blood- stream, or " purulent absorption." Although in the great majority of cases in which pygemia comes under the observation of the Surgeon it occurs as a complication of wounds or injuries in which the discharges are in a state of putrefaction, this is not invariably the case. Thus, in the disease known as acute necrosis of bone, pysemia often sets in before the subperiosteal abscess has been opened, and when the pus is perfectly free from any signs of decomposition. The primary disease in this case is, however, itself an infective process, and not a simple inflammation. Pysemia is frequently met with as a consequence of other specific suppurative inflammations: thus, we see boils, carbuncles, diffuse cellulitis, and phlegmonous erysipelas often precede and lead to its occurrence. Pyaemia was formerly a very common cause of death after operations and injuries, especially those implicating the veins, bones, or joints. The improved hygienic condition of most hospitals, and the introduction of antiseptics and drainage in the treatment of wounds have almost banished it from surgical practice. In properly constructed and well regulated hospitals and in private practice it is rarely met with except as a complication of cases in which efficient antiseptic treatment is impossible, as in operations on the urinary organs, or as a sequence of some specific inflammation, as carbuncle, acute necrosis, or scarlatinal inflammation of the fauces. In some rare cases the symptoms and post-mortem appearances of pysemia are observed without any primary inflammation being found. These cases have been described as idiopathic or spontaneous pytemia. The nature of the poison and its mode of entrance into the system will be discussed with the pathology of the disease. Pyaemia is characterized especially by two series of phenomena : 1. A peculiar train of Constitutional Symptoms attended with a state of great depres- sion of the powers of the system ; 2, the formation of Abscesses, and the occurrence of diffuse inflammations in various parts of the body. The disease may be acute, subacute, or chronic. Usually it is subacute, and often chronic. Whatever form it may assume, the symptoms are essentially tlie same, differing only in degree. Symptoms.—The invasion is as follows : During the period of apparently ordinary febrile disturbance, the patient is seized with a rigor, usually very severe and prolonged. The rigor presents no diffference from that met with in the invasion of many other specific febrile affections (p. 197) except in its severity. In some cases of pyemia the rigor is not repeated, but more frequently it recurs at irregular intervals of from twenty-four to forty-eio-ht hours ; and, as the disease becomes established, even twice or of tener in the day. A single rigor, although a very alarming symptom, may pass off" without the development of the disease. The subsequent sweating is very profuee, the