CUTANEOUS ERYSIPELAS: SYMPTOMS 945 healthy skin. It is accompanied by some slight oedematous swelling, frequently recognizable only by the permanent impression left by the finger-nail pressed on the skin, but often considerable where the areolar tissue is loose, as in the eyelids and scrotum ; and there is usually a sense of stifluess with a burning sensation in the part, and not unfrequently greatly increased sensi- bility. Vesicles or bullae often form, containing a clear serum, which speedily becomes turbid, and dries into fine branny desquamation. The redness may spread rapidly along the limb or trunk, or if the face be affected, may travel quickly from one side to the other, causing such swelling of the eyelids as to close them, and giving rise to swelling and much tensive pain in the ears. The disease is invariably accompanied by enlargement and tenderness of the lym- phatic glands. In some cases this may even precede the rash. A form termed erratic erysipelas has been described occurring in connection with pyasmia, in which the eruption disappears from one part of the body and reappears in another. It is a very dangerous condition, often indicating the approach of death. It is very doubtful if it is in any way related to genuine cutaneous erysipelas. The inflammation in cutaneous erysipelas has no tendency to terminate in suppuration. In some parts in which the areolar tissue is very loose, especially in the eyelids, suppuration occasionally takes place, but it then seems to be the result rather ot the tension caused by the effusion than of the irritation of the specific virus. When the inflammation is passing off the pain abates, the colour fades, the swelling subsides, the cuticle, which has been detached by the serous transu- dation, flakes off in thin layers, and the skin returns to its normal state. In other cases, oedema of the part continues, with some irritability and redness of the skin and peeling of the cuticle ; and in some rare cases the simple ery- sipelas seems to take on a gangrenous or sloughing character, especially about the umbihcus and genitals of young children. Constitutional Symptoms.—The fever of cutaneous erysipelas continues as long as the rash is spreading. The invasion is marked by alternate chills and flushes, but seldom by a distinct rigor. The temperature seldom rises to 106" F., more commonly it keeps below 104° F. There are no marked varia- tions beyond the ordinary morning fall and evening rise met with in all febrile affections. The pulse may at first be full and strong, but it soon falls in force and becomes more frequent. Headache is a common symptom There is frequently some delirium, which in^ the early stages may be violent, but later on becomes feeble and muttering. Delirium is especially marked in erysipelas of the head, and was formerly supposed to be due to affection of the membranes of the bram It has been shown, however, by post-mortem examination of fatal cases that meningitis is very rare except in cases of erysipelas attacking a compound fracture of the skull, or spreading into the fat of the orbit The delirium is usually due to the blood-condition, and is always a grave sign Ihe tongue is at first much coated, and soon becomes dry and bro wn • there IS also in most cases a good deal of derangement of the digestive or«-ans with tenderness about the epigastrium, complete loss of appetite and nausea • the evacuations are dark and offensive, and not unfrequently there is diarrhoea Cutaneous erysipelas is a most depressing disease, the patient beiuo- fre- quently much reduced in strength, an.Bmic, and emaciated even after a comparatively slight attack. . VOL. I. 3 p