7o6 SPECIAL DISLOCATIONS. care of the latter did not relieve the dislocation. The displacement of the patella was stated to be congenital, and there was "an imperfect development of the external condyle of the femur and of the trochlear surface. A perfect cure was obtained by Bilton Pollard as follows :—The vastus externus was divided through an external incision, the trochlear surface was enlarged and deepened with a chisel, and finally through an incision on the inner side a portion of the capsule of the joint was excised. After the operation the patella kept in its proper position even during complete flexion of the knee. 3. A remarkable form of dislocation of the patella is that in which this bone becomes twisted upon its axis in such a way that it is placed Vertically, one of its edges being fixed between the condyles, and the other projecting under the skin, and pushing this forwards into a distinct tumour. Streubel, who has collected 120 cases of dislocation of the patella, states that one-sixth of these w^ere vertical, and in about two-thirds of these the outer edge was forwards. In some cases the bone has been turned almost completely round, the posterior articular surface becoming partly anterior. The signs of this dislocation are evident, manual examination indicating the vertical displace- ment of the patella, with a deep depression ou each side. The limb is completely extended, flexion being impossible. This dislocation has most generally arisen from sharp blows or severe falls upon one edge of the patella, whilst the Kmb has been semiflexed, in conse- quence of which the bone appears to have been semi-rotated and fixed in its new position. Violent muscular contraction, however, conjoined with a twist of the leg, but without any blow, has been known to produce it in some cases. The Reduction of this displacement has sometimes been very difiicult ; in other cases it has been readily effected ; whilst in two or three instances it has been found to be quite impracticable, in spite of attempts, by means of elevators and the section of the muscles or of the ligamentum patellte, to replace the bone. The cause of this difficulty of reduction is not very clear ; it is certainly much greater than can be explained by simple muscular contraction, and may not improbably be owing to the aponeurotic structures which cover the bone becoming twisted or entangled under it, or, as Malgaigne supposes, to the superior angle of the bone being wedged in the subcondyloid space. Forcible flexion of the knee under an anaesthetic followed by sudden extension, while the projecting edge of the bone is forced into its place, appears to have answered better than any other method of treatment, and will probably seldom fail. If this do not succeed, reduction may perhaps be effected by the patient making a sudden and violent muscular effort at ex- tension of the limb, or attempting to walk. In other cases the bone has been readily replaced by bending the leg, and rotating it on the axis of the tibia, at the same time that the patella is pressed into position. In no case in which subcutaneous section of the tendon of the quadriceps extensor and of the ligamentum patella has been practised does it appear to have facilitated reduction, and in one the patient died of septic inflammation of the knee-joint. Should all other measures fail, the Surgeon may expose the bone with strict antiseptic precautions and endeavour to replace it by the use of an elevator and the division of resisting structures. 4. Dislocation of the patella Upwards can occur only in consequence of the rupture of its ligament. This accident, which is always accompauied by