INJURIES OF THE SPINE. 788 Cases of spinal injury divide themselves practically into two great classes : first, those in which there is obvious severe damage to the spinal column, as fracture or dislocation, associated in the large majority of cases with injury to the spinal cord and its branches by bruising or laceration ; and secondly, those in which the signs of severe damage to the vertebral column are altogether absent, but in which, nevertheless, there may be unmistakable evidence of ner- vous derano-ement, the true nature of which it is often most difficult to determine. In the consideration of this latter group of cases, the Surgeon must be reminded that the symptoms presented by the patient may be most diverse in character, and he will be called upon to decide between those due merely to slight damage to the spinal column and those resulting from injury to the nervous structures within it or to some general functional disturbance of the whole nervous system. Our greatly increased knowledge of the physiology and pathology of the nervous system resulting from clinical experience and experimental research, and above all the study of the so-called " functional" diseases by Charcot and others, have enabled the Surgeon to distinguish between many conditions of nervous disorder resulting from injury which were formerly grouped together in one common category. For convenience of description those cases of spinal injury which are not accompanied by the signs of fracture or dislocation will be considered under the following headings :—1. Concussion of the Spinal Cord ; 2. Sprain of the Spinal Column ; 3. Intraspinal Haemorrhage ; 4. Meningitis and Myelitis ; 5. General Nervous Shock or Traumatic Neurasthenia ; 6. Traumatic Hysteria.- Concussion of the Spinal Cord.—By this term must be understood that temporary interference with the functions of the spinal cord which may result from a more or less severe jarring or shaking of the spinal column. The condition is strictly analogous to that w4iich we find in concussion of the brain, and in both the temporary character of the symptoms is good evidence that the nerve tissue has suffered no gross damage. In the more severe cases at least it is probable that capillary hsemorrhages occur in the substance of the cord, and as in the case of the brain, no sharp line of demarcation can be drawn between such a condition and those more serious coarse lesions of bruising and laceration. Cases of this variety are undoubtedly rare, but there is little doubt that simple uncomplicated concussion may result from falls, blows upon the spine, and from the severe shaking of the spine which occurs in railway collisions. The Si/mptoms must necessarily vary according to the part of the cord which is affected, but, speaking generally, they are usually seen as transient motor disturbances in the limbs, less commonly with slight interference with the conduction of sensory impressions, and sometimes temporary paresis of the sphincters. Byrom Bramwell has recently drawn special attention to the occurrence of these symptoms amongst miners, as the result of the fall of heavy masses of coal and " roof" upon the back. Under such circumstances temporary paralysis of the bladder, necessitating the use of the catheter, is not uncommon, and this symptom may be accompanied by temporary numbness and loss of power in the legs. These symptoms usually pass off in a few days, and, according to those who have large experience in mining districts, subsequent symptoms indicative of organic disease of the spinal cord rarely, if ever, follow. Concussion of the brain and concussion of the spinal cord