762 INJURIES OF THE HEAD. exact point to which the trephine is applied must be determined bj the seat of the paralysis. Lncas-Champiouniere gives the following rules which indicate the point to be selected in the combinations of paralysis most commonly met with :— 1. Wlien there is general hemiplegia the trephine should be applied over the middle of the line of the sulcus of Rolando. '2. When the arm and leg are paralysed, the trephine should.be applied to the upper part of that line, but not at its very summit. 3. In paralysis of the upper limb only, the trephine should be applied a little in advance of the middle third of the line. 4. In simple aphasia it must be applied lower down, below and a little in front of the line. 5. When both lower extremities are paralysed, the top of the line and the vertex must be trephined. 6. When the upper and lower extremities are paralysed, the middle and upper part of the line should be trephined. Fig. .307.—Diagram showing the method of marking the sulcus of Rolando, &c., on the surface of the head. (Thane.) 7. Paralysis of one upper extremity with facial paralysis requires trephining in front of the line at its lower third. 8. Paralysis of one upper extremity with aphasia requires the trephine to be applied below and in front of the line. 9. In facial paralysis and aphasia the trephine must be applied in front of the line and below its level. In all cases a large trephine should be used, and if necessary it may be applied in more than one place. Saccharine Diabetes is an occasional consequence of injuries of the brain. A man 43 years of age was admitted into the Hospital under my care with paralysis, the result of a fall on the back of his head. The urine was found to contain sugar in very large quantity. Previously to the accident, he had been perfectly well and robust; and, as the paralytic symptoms im- proved, the sugar lessened in quantity, until it disappeared, and this notwith- standing the continued use of saccharine and amylaceous matter in the food.