1140 VENEREAL DISEASES. admit the great frequency with which it is followed bj secondary symptoms, argue that these are less severe after the simple than after the mercurial plan; and they state—as it appears to me, without one atom of evidence to support their statement—that mercury and syphilis together form a sort of poisonous compound in the system, which produces the most destructive forms of constitutional syphilis. It is doubtless true that, after an ill-regulated mercurial course, constitutional syphilis of a very severe character may occa- sionally appear; but this seems to me to be rather owing to mercury having been improperly administered in constitutions that will not bear it, and in which, by the induction of a cachectic condition of the system, it favours the occurrence of some of the more severe forms of secondary syphilis, in the same way that any other lowering plan of treatment, or simple debility, might occasion them, but without the exercise of any specifically injurious influence. Some of the worst forms of constitutional syphilis that I have seen occurred in patients to whom no mercury had been administered, but in Avhom the syphilitic virus had been allowed to exercise its influence unchecked, save by the so-called simple treatment. Thus I have seen the body covered with immense ecthymatous crusts and sores in one case, rupial ulcers with destruction of the nose and palate in another, the worst kind of syphilitic cachexy with the tuberculo-pustular syphilide in a third, and extensive disease of the cranial bones and the clavicle in a fourth. But, though I cannot admit that the supporters of the non-mercurial treat- ment of syphilis have brought forward any proof of its superiority over the mercurial plan, and though my own experience has taught me that secondary symptoms occur after it with no less severity than they do when mercury is judiciously administered, yet I am quite ready to allow that there are certain conditions of syphihs in which the non-mercurial treatment alone is admissible^ the state of the constitution or the disease being such that mercury cannot be given in any form. In these cases such a treatment must be adopted, in accordance with ordinary medical principles, as will tend to improve the general condition. It is, indeed, especially in individuals who are suffering- from visceral disease of some kind, especially Bright's disease, or whose powers have been broken by habitual dissipation, that this plan of treatment should be adopted. So also in those who, from the nature of their occupations, are subjected to much exposure to wet and cold, a mercurial course cannot be properly or safely administered, and the simple treatment is most advisable. In all other cases I am certainly of opinion that mercury ought to be adminis- tered ; and this opinion appears to be entertained by the most experienced Surgeons of the day in this country and abroad. The first question in connexion with the employment of mercury m syphilis has reference to the principle on which this remedy is administered. Whether mercury exercises a specific action over the poison of syphilis or not, has been much discussed, and is difficult of proof. I certainly think that it does act as a specific in syphilis, but that this action is much influenced by the condition of the system, the habits of the patient, and the mode of adminis- tering the remedy ; these conditions under certain circumstances tending to counteract or otherwise to interfere with its operation. That mercury is antagonistic to the syphilitic poison, appears evident from the fact that in soms instances hard sores will not heal unless it be given internally ; from its influence in speedily curing infantile syphilis and preventing after-