850 INJURIES OF THE CHEST. splintering of the ribs, there is always wound of the contained organs, which becomes the main source of danger to the patient and the chief point to which the attention of the Surgeon has to be directed. Treatment.—In treating fractured ribs, the Surgeon need not concern himself so much about the union of the fracture, as about tlie prevention of pain to the patient in breathiug, and of the subsequent occurrence of serious inflammation or other mischief within the chest. Any displacement that may exist usually remedies itself. The chest-wall, even when extensively flattened, gradually expands under the influence of the respiratory movements. If, however, a portion of the rib continue depressed, it had most certainly better be left so ; the suggestious that have been made for elevating these fractures by means of sharp hooks and screw-probes being more likely than the continuance of the depression to occasion serious mischief to the contents of the thorax. In order to prevent undue motion of the broken bone and the consequent irritation produced by its puncturing the pleura or lung, the movements of the injured part of the chest must be restrained. If one or more ribs be broken on one side, this can usually be accomplished by applying strapping to the injured side only. A sufficient number of strips, two inches broad and long enough to reach two inches beyond the middle line in front and behind, may be firmly applied, overiapping each other in fully half their width. The strips should be applied from above downwards, and each should be adjusted at the end of the movement of expiration. A broad flannel roller may now be carried circularly round the chest, but not so firmly as seriously to hamper the movements of the undamaged side. When the fractures have occurred on both sides of the chest, a broad strip of plaster may sometimes with advantage be carried completely around it. In some cases, however, more parricularly in those in which the fragments are driven inwards, it will be found that the constricrion of the chest by bandage or plaster becomes unbearable, producing great pain and dyspnoea. In these circumstances, all constriction must be removed, and the patient allowed to breathe easily, but he must be confined to bed. If the lower ribs be broken, the diaphragm may become irritated by the projection inwards of the fractured bone; and if the plaster and bandage be applied too tightly, spasmodic action of that muscle may ensue, occasioning distressing hiccup and dyspnoea. The average period of union of a fractured rib is three weeks. Ihere is always a considerable amount of callus thrown out in the repair, on account of the constant movement that necessarily takes place between the broken ends in respiration. In gunshot injuries of the chest, with splintering of the rihs, ail broken spicula of bone must be carefully picked out, and the wound cleaned with an antiseptic lotion when possible. It must then be covered with carbolic o-auze, iodoform, salicylic wool, or some other efficient antiseptic application. In such cases, the grave injuries usually inflicted on the intrathoracic organs will absorb the Surgeon's attention. It occasionally happens that fracture of one or more of the Costal Carti- lages, especially the fifth, sixth, seventh, or eighth, is produced by direct violence. They may be separated from their junction with the rib, or broken across the middle. The existence of fracture may be determined by the pain on pressure, mobility, and irregularity at the seat of injury. The same treat-