394 EFFECTS OF HEAT AND COLD. completely useless. These cicatrices are composed of dense fibrous tissue, and often extend deeply between and bind together the muscles, vessels, and soft structures of a limb, of the face, or of the neck. Constitutional Effects.—When in an ordinary conflagration a person is " burnt to death," the fatal event is occasioned not by the charring of the body, but by asphyxia. Life is mercifully extinguished by suffocation m the smoke before the body itself is consumed. To what particular product of combustion the asphyxia is due, is somewhat uncertain. There is reason to believe that in most cases carbon monoxide rather than carbon dioxide is the cause of suffocation. If the patient is not killed outright, the constitutional effects resulting from burns are most serious and important ; they depend not so much upon the depth of the injury as upon its situation, the extent of surface implicated, and the age of the patient. Thus a person may have his foot completely charred by molten iron, with far less constitutional disturbance and danger than if a larger surface of the body be scorched to the first and second degrees. Burns about the chest, the head, and the face, are thought to be more likely to be attended by serious constitutional mischief than similar iujuries of the extremities. Children generally suffer more severely from burns than adults. The fever that follows a bad burn is partly due to the reaction after extreme depression, but the two chief causes are undoubtedly the inflammation produced by the burn and the absorption of the products of putrefaction from the raw surface. Experiment has shown that the charred surface resulting from a burn, so far from presenting a barrier to the entrance of septic matter into the system, as is sometimes supposed, is in reahty equal in its power of absorption to a raw surface made with a knife. Unless special precautions are taken, therefore, to prevent decomposition in the sloughs, the amount of septic products absorbed is very large, and the resulting fever pro- portionallv severe. After a" severe burn the constitutional disturbance may often be divided into three stages : 1, Depression and Congestion ; 2, Reaction and Inflamma- tion ; 8, Suppuration and Exhaustion. 1. The stage of Depression of the Nervous System and Congestion of Internal "organs, occupies the first forty-eight hours; during which death may occur. Immediately on the receipt of a severe burn the patient becomes cold and collapsed, and is seized with fits of shivering, which continue for some time. He is suff'ering evidently from sJiock, and the severity of the shivering is usually indicative of the extent of the constitutional disturbance. It is more prolonged in those injuries that occupy a great extent of surface, even though the burn be only of the first or second degree, than in those which, being of more limited superficial extent, affect the tissues deeply. In many cases of extensive burn the patient suffers no pain although perfectly conscious. This is a very grave sign, indicating the severest shock. On the subsidence of the symptoms of depression, there is usually a period of quiescence before reaction comes on. At this time vomiting is a common and troublesome symptom, and the patient, especially if a child, not nnfreqnently dies comatose ; death resulting from congestion of the brain and its membranes, with, perhaps, serous effusion into the ventricles or in the subarachnoid space. Besides these lesions, the mucous membrane of the stomach and intestines, as well as the substance of the lungs, may be found congested. In 40 post-mortem examinations made at University College Hospital in