659 CLAVICLE—STERNAL END. must not be allowed to talk, or to eat any solid food, lest the displacement return, which it always has a great tendency to do. Very old dislocations of this bone may be reduced by the process just described. Thus, Stromeyer replaced one'after thirty-five, Donovan one after ninety-eight days, and Pollock after four months. In the cases of suUuxaiion, attention should be paid to the state of the general health. Tonics, more particularly iron, should be administered ; and good diet, the cold bath, and open air exercise enjoiued. If, as frequently happens, there be some tenderness about the temporo-maxillary articulation, a series of small blisters may be applied over it. It is of great importance to prevent the habit of recurrence of the dislocation. This may usually most conveniently be done by letting the patient wear a small silk cap fitted to the chin and attached by four elastic bands on the top of and behind the head, as in the case of a fractured jaw. Congenital Dislocation of one Condyle of the Lower Jaw is a re- markable and rare condition, for a knowledge of which we are chiefly indebted to R. W. Smith. In this condition there is a singular distortion of countenance. The osseous and muscular structures on the dislocated side are atrophied, and the teeth of the upper jaw project beyond those of the lower, contrary to what occurs in the accidental dislocation ; the mouth can be closed, speech is perfect, and there is no dribbling of saliva. Congenital dislocation of both condyles has not yet been observed. DISLOCATIONS OF THE UPPER LIMB. Dislocations of the Clavicle.—When we look at the flat character of the sterno-clavicular articulation and the very small and shallow surface 011 the acromion upon which the outer end of the clavicle is received, and reflect on the violence to which the shoulder is frequently subjected, we might at first imagine that dislocations of the clavicle would be among the most frequent forms of injury in this region. But this is very far from being the case. They are, indeed, rarely met with in comparison with fractures of this bone. This is owing to several causes : amongst these are the presence of the interarticular fibro-cartilage in the sterno-clavicular articulation, the shortness and firmness of the ligaments by which the clavicle is attached to the sternum and acromion, and the fact that any force applied to the bone is usually received in a line which corresponds to its axis, thus causing it to be bent or broken rather than luxated. The mobility of the scapula, also, has a special tendency to j^revent dislocations of the outer end of the clavicle, the two bones easily moving together. Dislocations of the clavicle can be occasioned only by violence applied to the shoulder in such a direction as to drive the bone inwards towards the mesial line. Either the sternal or the acromial end of the clavicle may be dislocated, and the simultaneous displacement of both ends has been observed. 1. The Sternal End of the Clavicle may be luxated forwards, hach- icarcls, or upwards. In the dislocation Forwards, which is the most common form, the end of the bone can be felt in its new position, upon the upper part of the sternum and a litle below the natural level. The point of the shoulder is approximated to the mesial line, and the depressions above and below the clavicle are strongly u u 2