878 INJURIES OF THE ABDOMEN AND PELVIS. In laceration or rupture of the kidney, operative interference is justified by three conditions: First, profuse and prolonged hfemorrhage, filling the bladder with clots, and threatening to prove fatal; secondly, if the symptoms indicate suppuration round the injured kidney ; and, thirdly, if a large fluctuating tumour forms which on aspiration is found to be a collection of urine. (See Rupture of the Ureter.) In these cases the kidney may be exposed by a lumbar incision, and, if necessary, removed. (See Surgical Operations on the Kidney, Vol. II.) AVouNDS OF THE DIAPHRAGM may be occasioned by stabs or by gunshot injury; in rare cases by the fragment of a broken rib, without external wound. The lesion, though not in itself mortal, is usually complicated with so much visceral injury as to be followed by death. If the patient survive, the aperture may be closed by a cicatrix, to which the lung will probably adhere; and thus the separation between the cavities of the chest and abdomen will be main- tained. Should this not happen, and the injury be on the left side, a hernial protrusion of some of the abdominal viscera may take place into the pleural cavity. (See Diaphragmatic Hernia.) Wounds of the Abdomen.—Wounds of the Abdominal Wall that do not penetrate the Peritoneal Cavity, if uncomplicated with internal injury, usually do well, and require merely to be treated on ordinary prin- ciples. If they be incised, and so extensive as to require sutures, the stitches should be introduced deeply through the muscular and tendinous structures, and the parts injured must also be relaxed by careful attention to position. When they are the result of gunshot injury, they often suppurate extensively, and are slow in healing. The epigastric artery is occasionally divided, and this may give rise to free extravasation of blood into the sheath of the rectus ; the wound must then be enlarged, if necessary, the extravasated blood cleaned out, and the artery secured. Wounds that penetrate the Cavity of the Ahdomen are of especial interest, on account of the frequency with which they are complicated with peritonitis, and with injury of the viscera. They may, for practical purposes, be divided into 1, those that are unaccompanied by protrusion of any of the viscera; and 2, those that are complicated by protrusion of one or more of the contents of the abdomen. 1. Penetrating Wounds of the Abdomen, without Visceral Pro- trusion, are often somewhat difficult to distinguish from simple wounds of the abdominal wall, though the escape of a small quantity of reddish serum may reveal the nature of the accident. The distinction can however in many cases be made only by carefully enlarging the superficial wound. Penetrating wounds of this nature are usually complicated with injury of the viscera, but it is a remarkable lact that the cavity of the abdomen may be perforated from front to back by bullet wounds or sword thrusts, without any signs of visceral injury. Senn points out that in gunshot wounds the intestines are more likely to escape if the track of the bullet be antero-posterior than if it traverse the abdomen obliquely or from side to side. Any of the abdominal viscera may suffer from a penetrating wound, whilst fatal hsp.morrhage may result from division of one of the large blood-vessels. Wound of the intestine is a most serious complication, and is very likely to be followed by extravasation of the intestinal contents into the periioueuni. This extravasation is unquestionably one of the greatest dangers that cau