631 FRACTURE OF PATELLA: TREATMENT. results are obtained without the slightest danger to life. In fact it is re- markable how well the patient can use the limb even when the fragments are separated by as much as an inch. It would not seem to be justifiable therefore to recommend this operation as the ordinary treatment of a simple case of recent fracture of the patella. On the other hand it otters the only chance of cure in those cases in which, owing to imperfect treatment, the separation between the fragments is so great that the limb is practically useless. In 40 cases of this kind collected by Jalaguier in 1884 the operation was successful in 22, in 0 the function of the limb was imperfectly restored, in 1 the opera- tion could not be completed, in 11 ankylosis followed, 10 times after suppura- tion of the joint, and died of acute septicaemia or pyaemia. In operating on such cases the fractured surfaces must necessarily be freshened before being brought together, adhesions between the upper fragment and the femur must be freely divided, and in some it has been found necessary to make free iucisions in the extensors before the fragments could be brought into contact, [n compound fractures, whenever it is practicable, the fragments should be united by wire sutures. To sum up, the operation of opening the joint and suturing the bone is not to be recommended as the ordinary treatment of fracture of the patella ; but if the patient be willing to run the risks of the operation for the chance of a more rapid and perfect cure, and if the Surgeon be confident of his ability to prevent suppuration in the joint, it is a perfectly justifiable proceeding. In the case of a useless limb from an old fracture, the patient has the choice of submitting to the operation with its attendant dangers or walking with his limb fixed in some rigid apparatus for the rest of his life. In compound fractures there need be no hesitation in suturing the fragments in all cases. Kocher of Berne h<is suggested another operation which in his hands has given very good results. He passes a thick silver wire beneath the fragments, through the knee-joint, by means of a long and strong curved needle fixed on a handle. He then twists the two ends together, protecting the skin over the patella with a pad of lint. A. E. Barker has used with success the following modification of this method, which according to Gilis has also been employed by Lagneau in France. A puncture is made into the joint with a scalpel immediately below the lower fragment, and as much blood as possible evacuated ; a stout pedicle needle is passed from this puncture through the joint behind the fragments and brought out through the skin at a second puncture above the upper one ; the needle is threaded with stout silver wire and withdniwn ; the unthreaded needle is again passed through the same punctures but in front of the fragments, and after being threaded with the other end of the wire is again withdrawn. The fragments which are thus surrounded by the loop of wire are forcibly drawn together, whilst the ends of the wire are twisted on the lower border of the patella and cut off short. The suture remains permanently. Mayo Robson aspirates the joint and inserts two steel pins, one through the quadriceps tendon above the upper fragment, and a second through the ligamentum patellai below the lower fragment. The fragments are then drawn together by stout silk passed in a figure-of-8 around the projecting ends of the pins. These methods have given excellent results, but are justifiable only if