TUMOURS. io,74 cancerous. The scaly tongue undergoing conversion into epithelioma also offers a favourable opportunity of observing the same process. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of squamous carcinoma from the other forms of cancer is usually easy. The principal points that should guide the Surgeon are : 1. The invariable occurrence of growth on a mucous or cutaneous surface. 2. Its early ulceration—often almost from the very commencement. 3. The rapidity with which ulceration follows on the new growth. 4. The origin of the disease from some evident source of external irritation. 5. The absence of all evidence of contamination of internal organs. The Prognosis of squamous carcinoma is more favourable than that of the glandular varieties. Its superficial origin makes it possible for the Surgeon to recognize it early and remove it before the glands are affected, and even after glandular enlargement has taken place there is hope of completely eradicating the disease by removing the affected glands. Recurrence after Removal takes place in squamous as in glandular cancer in the scar or its immediate neighbourhood, and in the lymphatic glands, and in these situations is due to the same pathological conditions. Distant recurrence is, as before stated, less common, but when it does take place it is due, as in other forms, to dissemination of cancer elements through- out the body. In one case in which I removed an epithelioma of the tongue recurrence took place in one of the toes and in the lung after a lapse of nearly two years. Epithelioma, however, presents the peculiarity of re-appearing in some rare cases in the neighbourhood of the primary growth and yet not in connection with it. In these cases it would appear as if there was a tendency to the disease in the particular region of the Ijody. Thus I have seen after the removal of an epithelioma of the lip on one side, a similar growth appear inside the mouth on the other side. The interval between the appearance of the growth is usually longer than in genuine recurrence. Thus, in the case above mentioned, three or four years elapsed between the removal of the epithelioma on the left side of the lower lip and the appearance of that inside the right cheek. It would appear as if epithelioma were sometimes capable of transplantation or of inoculation so as thus to be locally multiplied. I have seen an epithe- lioma of one labium apparently inoculate an abrasion on the opposite one where a fresh centre of disease developed, and an epithelioma of the tongue infect the lower jaw through the contiguous alveolus of a loose tooth. 3. Columnar Carcinoma or Columnar Epithelioma.—This form of tumour has fi-equently been called " adenoid cancer," but the term " columnar carcinoma " is less likely to lead to confusion and more correctly expresses the nature of the growth. It occurs as a rule at the same age and under much the same conditions as squamous carcinoma. It is confined to those regions which are naturally covered by columnar epithelium, and forms the most common tumour of the pylorus and intestine, including the rectum. During the ten years 1871 to 1880, there were admitted into the surgical wards of University College Hospital twenty-five cases of cancer of the rectum described as columnar epithelioma, and nine in which the form of cancer is not clearly stated, which were probably of the same variety. Four cases are recorded as having been met with in the sigmoid flexure and one in the antrum. It is