66o SPECIAL DISLOCATIONS. defined. It is occasioned by blows upon the shoulder, by bending this part forcibly backwards, or by violence applied to the elbow whilst the arm is raised from the side. In some cases it occurs spontaneously as a secondary consequence of lateral curvature or rotation of the upper dorsal vertebrte. This dislocation may readily be reduced by pulling the shoulder outwards and backwards, while the elbow is brought in front of the mid-lateral line. The principal difficulty in the treatment consists in preventing the return of the displacement, owing to the shallowness of the articular surface upon which the clavicle lodges. With this view the limb may be fixed with plaster of Paris, applied as for fractured clavicle, (p. 581) ; or a figure-of-8 bandage may be used to draw the shoulders -well back, the elbow brought forwards, and a pad over the displaced bone adjusted by a broad strip of strapping passing over the shoulder. An incomplete form of this dislocation, characterised merely by an unnatural projection forwards of the head of the bone, has also been described. It requires no treatment. The dislocation Upwards is extremely rare. In 1879 there were only eight cases on record. It has been well described by R. AV. Smith. In it the shoulder falls in, the sternal end of the clavicle forms a prominence in front of the trachea, the sterno-mastoid muscle has an arched outline, and the axis of the bone is directed upwards, forwards, and inwards, so that the interval between the clavicle and the first rib is veiy considerable. The trachea and oesophagus are compressed when the patient sits up or leans for- wards. Smith found on dissec- tion that the head of the bone lay above the sternum, and rested on the sterno-hyoid muscle and the trachea, the ligaments of the joint being torn through, as was also the costo-clavicular ligament (Fig. 244). He observes that the reason of the rarity of this dislocation is that it can be produced only by force acting on the shoulder in a very unusual direction, viz., downwards, inwards, and probably backwards. The Trmfment consists in placing a pad in the axilla, elevating the elbow, and bringing it well to the side. But I doubt if the bone, though replaced, can be maintained in a good position. The dislocation Backwards is not of common occurrence : though, Nelaton was able to find records of at least ten or a dozen cases. This luxation appears generally to have resulted from the point of the shoulder being driven upwards, or from the hand being violently drawn forwards. It has also been observed to result from direct pressure of the clavicle backwards, as by the kick of a horse. In one case, in which I had the opportunity of examining the parts after death, the clavicle was dislocated at its sternal end by the wheel of a cab passing across the bone, and thus pressing it directly backwards