^53 WOihVDS OF THE LUNG: COMPLICATIONS. injury on an important internal organ, in severe cases amounting to extreme collapse. The patient is at the same time seized with considerable difficulty of breathing, and in consequence of the injury to the parietes, the respiration is as a rule chiefly abdominal; this is followed by much tickling and irritating cough, and the expectoration of frothy bloody mucus ; or, if a large vessel is wounded, great quantities of pure blood may be brought up. On auscultating the chest immediately after the infliction of the injury, loud coarse rales will be heard, caused by the presence of blood in the smaller bronchial tubes. In the least severe cases, in which the surface of the lung is merely pricked by a fragment of a broken rib, the occurrence of subcutaneous em]3hysema may be the only certain indication of the injury. Complications.—In order to save repetition and to make the subject more clear, it will be better first to describe the complications that may attend wounds of the lung. The principal dangers arise from bleeding, both external and internal, the occurrence of HEemothorax, Pneumothorax, Emphysema, Pneumonia, and Empyema. 1. The Haemorrhage varies with the part of the lung wounded, and the extent of the wound. If the large vessels near the root are implicated, death occurs almost instantaneously from loss of blood and suff'ocation. If the sur- face only is injured, the bleeding may be very shght. When it is abundant the patient spits up large quantities of florid frothy blood, a considerable amount of which may be swallowed and subsequently vomited. If it do not prove fatal, this bloody expectoration generally ceases in a great measure in the course of forty-eight hours, giving way to sputa of a rusty character. If there be a free external wound, there may also be copious bleeding from it ; but not unfrequently the blood finds its way into the pleural sac rather than through the external aperture and accumulates in it. If there is no external wound, such blood as is poured out from the surface of the lung must neces- sarily find its way into the pleura. Death may arise either from the exhausting eflFects of this internal and concealed hemorrhage, or from suflbcation through the pressure exercised on the lungs by the blood in the pleura. Although bloody expectoration, to some extent at least, is an almost necessary and in- variable accompaniment of a wounded lung, yet I have seen a laceration in that organ three inches in length, occasioned by the projection of broken ribs, which proved fatal on the seventh day fi-om hsemothorax and pleuritic eftusion] unattended with any expectoration of blood, or other positive sign of wound of the lung. The blood in these cases would probably be infiltrated into the loose tissue of the lung around and above the wound, where it would coagulate so as to offer a barrier against its escape into the bronchi, while it was being poured out where least resistance was offered to it—viz., at the point of injury in the pleura. The symptoms of this internal hasmorrhage, Hemothorax, are those that generally characterize loss of blood, such as coldness and pallor of the surface, small weak pulse, and a tendency to collapse with increasing dyspnoea The more special signs consist in an inability to lie on the uninjured side with, m extreme cases, some bulging of the intercostal spaces, and an ecchy- mosed condition of the posterior part of the wounded side of the chest If there is an open wound there will be occasional gushes of blood from it when the patient coughs. The most important signs are furnished by physical examination of the chest. As the blood gravitates towards the back of the chest, between the posterior wall and the diaphragm, there will be gradually