TREATMENT OF FRACTURED CLAVICLE. wounded, great extravasation of blood taking place about the shoulder and neck, and the circulation through the veins of the arm being so much mter- fered with as to threaten gangrene. The case, however, did perfectly well under the continuous application of evaporating lotions to the shoulder, and attention to the position of the arm. But in another case, gangrene of the arm took place, leading to amputation at the shoulder joint. The patient died of pyaemia, and a fragment about one inch long separated from the posterior part of the clavicle was found lying upon, and compressing, the subclavian vein. Dr. John Ogle relates a case of comminuted fracture of the clavicle from direct violence,'in which the right internal jugular vein was lacerated by one of the fragments, there being great extravasation of blood. I have known only one instance in which the subclavian artery was injured. The left clavicle was broken by direct violence, a cart-wheel having passed over the shoulder. An aneurism rapidly formed in the subclavian artery, whether however by direct injury or as the result of severe strain was uncertain. C. Heath, under whose care the patient was, amputated at the shoulder-joint. Compound Fracture of the Clavicle can of course be produced only by direct violence, and in such cases any amount of injury may be done to the underlying and neighbouring parts by the force that breaks the bone or by fragments driven in. The vein, artery, or nerves may be injured, and their liability to injury will, for obvious anatomical reasons, be in the order named. Treatment of Simple Fracture of the Clavicle.—There are few fe'ac- tures for the cure of which so great a variety of ingenious and complicated contrivances has been devised as those of the clavicle, and there are few in which so much ingenuity has been displayed in vain ; for, however perfect the apparatus may appear to be, it seldom answers the purpose intended, viz., to cure the fracture without deformity. I believe that more may be done, with a little skill and patience, by simple means than by the most elaborate mechani- cal contrivances. When the fracture occurs at the tip of the acromial end of the clavicle, the tendency to rotation of the shoulder forwards may be corrected by fixing the arm to the side with plaster of Paris or strapping in the manner to be described for fractures of the middle of the bone. When the bone is broken between the coraco-clavicular ligaments there is but little displacement and the same treatment will suffice. But when the fracture is situated towards the middle of the bone, or indeed at any point to the inside of these ligaments, the case is more difficult, and numerous methods of treating it have been invented. The objects aimed at in all are to draw the outer ii-agment outwards, to force its outer end back- wards, and by supporting the weight of the limb to correct the displacement downwards. It is impossible to mention here more than the few methods of treatment that seem most practically useful. Treatment by Plaster of Paris.—This may be carried out as follows : The patient lies on his back on a flat table, with his head and shoulders projecting, and supported on a nan-ow board which passes beneath the spine. The shoulders now fall backwards, and by bringing the elbow of the affected limb to the side and usually somewhat forwards, the fragments of the broken clavicle can as a rule be well adjusted. A flannel bandage is now carried around the chest and the affected limb, including the board behind, and over