COMPARISON BETWEEN ETHER AND CHLOROFORM. 33 Death from the administration of laughing gas has occurred only with extreme vAvity. In 1877 it proved fatal to a medical man, apparently from over-distension and paralysis of the right side of a fatty heart, consequent on the obstruction to the pulmonary circulation which always occurs from the partial state of asphyxia which the gas induces. In another case, a patient in the last stage of phthisis failed to rally and died less than one hour after the gas was administered. Several other fatal cases have occurred from the gag used by the dentist breaking or slipping and becoming impacted in the larynx. The only conclnsious to be drawn from these oases are, that it is not advisable to give laughing gas in cases of extreme phthisis or fatty heart, and that it is wise for the administrator to have by his side the instruments necessary for the operation of laryngotoray or tracheotomy whenever the operation is one involving the use of a gag. In certain conditions it is said to have caused somewhat serious after-effects. Thus Lafont says he has seen it cause abortion at the fifth month, and tiie relapse of epilepsy in a boy who had been free from fits for many years. It has also been known to cause a great exacerbation of the disease in diabetes. Nitrous Oxide and Ether.—As has already been stated, each of these agents possesses certain disadvantages—the anaesthesia produced by nitrous oxide not being sufficiently persistent to admit of the performance of prolonged operations, that of ether being slow of production and often attended by considerable excitement. By the successive administration of the two anaes- thetics, these inconveniences are removed, and the advantages of both are secured. The plan adopted by Clover consists in the rapid induction of anesthesia by the nitrous oxide, and .the maintenance of this insensibility by the use of the vapour of ether. In this way one ansesthetic supplements the other, and the rapidity of the one is combined with the persistence of the other. Ethidene, Amylene, Ethyl-bromide, Chlorethylidene, and various other substances possessing anaesthetic propei-ties have been tried, but have not shown any definite advantages over the agents in common use. ComparisonbetweenEtherandChloroform.—Thehistory of Anaesthetics furnishes an illustration of the mutability of professional opinion. Ether was the only anaesthetic employed for the first year after the discovery of its use as an anesthetic. It then so completely gave way to chloroform in this country and generally throughout Europe, that a confusion arose in the public mind as to the real discoverer of Anaesthesia ; and 8ir James Simpson, who was the first to employ chloroform and to whose energy its general adoption was mainly due, was very commonly considered to be the discoverer of Anesthetics. In some hospitals, however, and more especially in those of Boston, the birthplace of surgical Anesthesia, the faith in ether has never been shaken, nor its use abandoned for that of any other agent. In London a change of opinion has taken place, and for the last few years ether has been used as tiie general anesthetic, at least in hospital practice and in the hands of speciaf anes- thetists. In Scotland chloroform still remains the agent chiefly in use. The comparison between ether and chloroform has to be made from three points of view :—1. As to safety ; 2. As to convenience ; and 8. As to suita- bility in special cases. 1. As to saJetn.—Eo anesthetic is absolutely safe, but with ordinary care and some degree of experience, both ether and chloroform maybe administered VOL. I. D