173 CAUSES OF INFLAMMATION. from acute spinal myelitis. In the former case, the paralysed limb is still in connexion with the healthy spinal cord, and ordinary care in avoiding pressure will prevent any formation of bed-sores. In the latter case, the slightest pressure or irritation causes iuflammation, rapidly terminating in sloughing. Loss of connexion with a healthy nerve-centre is also seen not unfrequeutly in cases of division of the ulnar nerve, by which the little finger is com- pletely cut oif from its nervous supply. Under these circumstances, grave changes in nutrition are common, and inflammation is readily set up. That organs to which insufficient rest is given are prone to inflame, is, perhaps, best illustrated by the effects of excessive work on the eye ; and the converse, that organs cut off from the performance of their natural function suffer in nutrition, is seen in the fact that limbs condemned to inaction from disease of a joint are cold and waste, and that inflammation is set up in them by comparatively slight causes. Though every, tissue of the body is susceptible of inflammation, yet some parts, from their anatomical conditions and structure, are more liable to it than others. All cavities are exposed when wounded to the dangers of the accumulation of putrid or irritating fluids, and thus the serous and synovial membranes readily become affected with extensive spreading inflammation. Mucous and cutaneous surfaces, on the other hand, are protected by a strong and thick epithelium, and consequently require more powerful causes to produce inflammation. When a part, having once leen the seat of inflammation, has been left in a weakened or impaired state, it is more liable to a second attack, as it has less resisting power ; hence, also a subsequent attack may be induced by a less active exciting cause than that which at first started the process ; we see this in the inflammatory affections of the eyes and joints. Constitutional Predisposing Causes.—That old age acts as a pre- disposing cause of inflammation, it is hardly necessary to say, the vitality of the tissues being greatly diminished in extreme age. Anything that enfeebles the heart's action to such a degree as to interfere with tlie supply of blood to the tissues, acts as a predisposing cause of inflammation. Thus operation wounds are more prone to become inflamed after great loss of blood, and in patients weakened by long fever or want of food. For healthy nutrition^ it is not only necessary that there should be an abundant supply of blood, but the Hood that is supplied must be in a healthy condition. The blood may be rendered impure by the addition to it of some substance not normally present, or by the imperfect elimination of the products of normal tissue change, or by the deficiency of some of its normal constituents. The most common and most important of the first class of conditions, is the habitual presence in the blood of an amount of alcohol in excess of that which can be easily eliminated or consumed. This is unfortunately the constant condition of but too many of the working classes, especially in large cities. A healthy country labourer, working hard in pure air, may consume and eliminate rapidly a large amount of alcohol ; but the city workman, engaged in a more or less''sedentary occupation in an ill-ventilated workshop, is less able to get rid of the alcohol he takes; while at the same time, the quantity he takes is probably greater as his wages are higher and his opportunities for drinking more abSudant' There can be no doubt that this condition of chronic alcoholism exerts a most prejudicial influence on all operations and diseases of the inhabitants of laro-e