962 ERYSIPELAS. the periosteum of the phalanx. It is said most commonly to follow severe pinches or contusions of the finger. It is characterised by intense throbbing pain shooting up the arm. The symptoms develop rapidly, with a good deal of constitutional disturbance. The pulp of the finger is very tense, and the redness extends to the other phalanges. The treatment consists of a free incision to the bone in the middle line of the pulp. The phalanx will be found bare and already separated from its periosteum. The treatment of a necrosed ungual 'phatanx, either arising from this form of whitlow or the preceding, consists in removal of the dead bone through the incision in the pulp. The phalanx should never be amputated, as a useful extremity to the finger is always left after removal of the bone. 4. Paronychia Tendinosa, Thecal Abscess, or Suppuration in the Sheaths of the Flexor Tendons, is a more serious condition than the preceding, and is fraught with danger to the finger or hand. It may arise as the consequence of a punctured wound penetrating the sheath, or by extension from one of the other varieties of whitlow. The whole finger, both back and front, swells considerably, becomes red and tense, with much throbbing and shooting pain. The afiected finger is semi-flexed, and any attempt to extend it causes intense pain. The sweUing soon extends into the palm at the root of the finger and to the corresponding knuckle on the back of the hand. The swollen palm usually preserves nearly its natural colour, or if soaked m water or poulticed becomes dull white, owing to the great thickness of its cuticle. The most marked redness is usually on the knuckle and at the back of the finger, which may give a false idea as to the situation of the pus. The constitutional disturbance is severe and the temperature considerably elevated. In this condition, unless prevented by treatment, the pus will extend to the limits of the sheath in which it is contained. The sheaths of the index, middle and rino- fingers do not communicate with the common sheath which passes under the annular ligament, but are closed below opposite the heads of the metacarpal bones, and, therefore, in suppuration in these fingers the pus does not extend beyond that point. The sheath of the little finger, on the other hand, always communicates with the general sheath. (Fig. 344.) The sheath of the tendon of the thumb is uncertain : in some cases a special synovial membrane covers the tendon passing under the annular ligament without communicating with the general sheath, in others it joins the common sheath. Thecal abscess in the thumb or little finger is, therefore, far more serious than the same condition in the three middle digits. When the sup- puration extends to the common sheath the most prominent symptom which attracts the attention of the patient is the red puffy swelling at the back of the hand. The Surgeon on seeing this will always turn the hand over and examine the palm. This will be found to be tense and tender on pressure. There will be fulness in front of the wrist above the annular ligament, and often some redness. If much pus is present, fluctuation may be felt from the palm to the swelling in the wrist. The fingers are semi-flexed, and any attempt to extend them^ causes pain, but this is most marked in the thumb and little finger. If an opening exists aU-eady in the digital part of the sheath of the thumb or Httle finger, pressure on the paim will cause pus to flow from it. If an exit be not provided for the pus it may burst through the upper limit of the flexor sheath, and extend between the deep and superficial muscles