UNION OF SIMPLE FE AC TUBES. impacted ; and that the shaft still held together by a iiarrow_ bridge of bone at c, which being broken across subsequently in moving the limb, now heavy with inflammatory infiltration, led to the shortening of the limb and the lateral displacement of the fragments. Union of Fractured Bone—A fractured bone is united by the formation of new bone around, within, and between the fragments. In certain fractures in which the fragments cannot be brought into accurate apposition, as in those of the patella and olecranon, union is effected by fibrous tissue, and, under various abnormal or constitutional conditions that will be hereafter considered, the same form of union may occur in any part of the body. The new bone that constitutes the bond of union is termed Callus. Tn most cases a larger quantity of this is developed than is permanently left. This temporary Ibrmation of bone goes by the name of the provisional callus. It is formed partly externally to the fracture, encasing the broken ends, and partly in the medullary canal, so as to include the fragments between layers of new bone, and thus maintain them in contact. That which is permanently left, and which intervenes between the broken ends, is called the dejanitive callus. The process of nnion varies somewhat in smiple and in compound ft'actures. Union of Simple Fractures.—Our knowledge of the production of callus and the mode of union of a broken bone is derived from experiments on animals, but there is no doubt that the process is essentially the same in man, slightly modified in some cases by the more perfect immobility which is ob- tained by treatment in the human subject. The subject has been investigated during the last 150 years by numerous observers, amongst whom the following- are perhaps the most important : Duhamel, Haller, Bordenave, John Hunter, Dupuytren, Breschet, Yillerme, Stanley, Paget, Bihroth, Gurlt, Bajardi, and Bruns. All observers may be said to be more or less closely agreed as to the coarser changes observed in the union of a bone, but there is still considerable difference of opinion with regard to the essential nature of the process and the histological appearances accompanying it. The process of union of a broken bone, as it is observed experimentally in an animal, may be divided into distinct stages. First, the period of inflam- mation and exudation lasting from the time of fracture to about the end of the third day. Secondly, the period of growth of the soft provisional callus externally from the periosteum and surrounding structures, and internally in the medulla ; this lasts till about the tenth to the fourteenth day. Thirdly, the period of ossification of the provisional callus, lasting to about the end of the fourth or fifth week. Fourthly, the period of the formation and ossifica- tion of the definitive callus between the actual broken ends of the bone. This commences after the provisional callus has become firm, and is not completed till a late period. Lastly, the excess of callus is absorbed, and any irregu- larities are rounded off. This is not completed till many months after the bone has been firmly united. These processes must now be considered more in detail. If tlie part be examined within a few hours of the fracture, it Avill be found to be surrounded by an abundant extravasation of blood ; this not only sur- rounds the actual fracture, but extends some distance in the intermuscular spaces of the limb, and frequently also in the areolar tissue beneath the deep fascia. The muscles which lie in close contact with the bone, or arise from it,