1040 TUMOURS. of blood, and if of aay sizs, then* central parts are opaque and yellow from, the effects of fatfcy degeneration. They yield more or less transparent viscid juice on scraping, mixed with fragments of the growth. They may be distinctly circumscribed and encapsuled, but not unfrequently they invade surrounding parts. They often contain cysts of some size, sometimes filled with straw- coloured fluid and sometimes with blood or a blood-coloured liquid. These tumours frequently form in connection with bones, especially commencing under the periosteum of the shafts of long bones or about the bones of the face or nose. I once amputated a thigh at the hip-joint in University College Hospital, for a large tumour of this kind growing beneath the periosteum of the femur ; and in another case the arm was removed by Heath for a similar growth. Both had caused spontaneous fracture of the bone, and both ulti- mately proved fatal from secondary internal growths. These tumours when affecting bone, must not be confounded with the myeloid, which they closely resemble. Large-spindle-celled sarcomata also grow in fasciae and intermus- cular spaces, and not unfrequently in glands, especially the mamma ; and they may be found in rare cases in almost any situation. They very often run a malignant course, giving rise to secondary growths in internal organs. Their tendency to local recurrence after removal is very great. From what has been said above, it will be seen that the spindle-celled sarcomata form a very large and important group of tumours, varying greatly in chnical characters and structure, but all resembling each other in the broad feature of the spindle cell forming the predominant element. As to their prognosis, it may be stated generally that the more they approach the structure of the spindle-celled growth found in cicatrizing wounds, the less likely they are to give rise to general infection of the system ; but that even the simplest may recur locally after removal, and consequently too guarded a prognosis cannot be given in such cases. Oval-celled Sarcoma (Fig. 378) may be looked upon as merely an extremely rapidly growing and malignant spindle- celled tumour. Thus we saw in the case above mentioned, that, as the rapidity of the growth increased with each recurrence, the spindle cells were replaced by large oval cells with two or i^'Skw^ more nuclei. But similar growths may occur ff;f^(2'^i| primarily. They are soft, rapidly growing, rarely • completely circumscribed. They are of a delicate l^E P^'^^^^^ colour, and yield an abundant slimy albu- ^ mi nous fluid on section. I have twice had occasion Fig. ^'•'^•"^'^'^^^^^'j^^llj''')^ Sarcoma. j.^ pguiovc such growths from the neighbourhood of the mamma. In one case the disease recurred locally after the wound had healed, and in a short time formed an enormous tumour, larger than the patient's head. She refused a second operation, and the case soon terminated fatally. In the other, although a large portion of the pectoral muscle was removed with the tumour, it recurred before the wound healed, and, in spite of the free appHcation of caustics, grew with enor- mous rapidity, in a few weeks forming a fungating mass as large as a foetal head. Myeloid or Giant-celled Sarcoma was formerly often classed under fibro- plastic tumours, and sometimes probably as soft cancer. It was described by Abernethy under the name of "albuminous sarcoma." It was first fully