178 LOCAL DISTURBANCES AND INFLAMMATION. ance. They are very commonly spoken of collectively as " bacteria," though the name " bacterium " belongs more properly to one special form. The term Schizomycetes {(tx^(<^, I cleave, and ^iVKrjs, a fungus), or fission-fungi, is employed for the whole order. The fission-fungi are divided into classes according to their forms, the chief being the Micrococci, or round organisms ; Bacilli, or rod-shaped organisms ; and Spirilla, or corkscrew-shaped organisms. All these organisms are composed of a mass of protoplasm, without a nucleus, enclosed in^a delicate cell-wall. They multiply chiefly by fission, but some varieties grow from spores. Micrococci are round or slightly oval organisms, varying from -jx-?roT) to -roh-^ of an inch in diameter, and are often recognisable only by the highest powers of the microscope. They occur singly or grouped in pairs (diplococcus), chains (strepto-coccus), or clusters (staphylo-coccus). When in colonies they are often bound together by a homogeneous substance termed " Zoogloea." There is no reason" to believe that they ever lengthen out into rod-shaped organisms, as they can be cultivated for many generations in various media without changing their form. They are non-motile, and are reproduced chiefly by fission, but under certain circumstances some members of a colony or a whole generation are said to assume the characters of spores, at the same time undergoing Kttle or no change in their external appearance. This would explain the persistence of the virus of some of those diseases which are supposed to be due to micrococci. The rod-shaped organisms are generally divided into bacteria and baciUi. Bacteria are minute fungi having the form of very short cylinders with rounded ends. They are often so short that they are more correctly described as oval than as rod-shaped. They exhibit active movements, but occasionally a group become united together by a jellylike substance or zoogloea, which limits or arrests their motion. Their movements are in many varieties produced by a flagellum at one or both ends. This can only be recognised by the very highest powers of the microscope. Bacteria multiply by fission, and spore formation has not been demonstrated. Bacilli are cylindrical in form, like bacteria, but their length is greater in proportion to their breadth. They vary greatly in size, some forms not being more than ^n inch in length, while others may reach ^^Vo- In foi'"^ some varieties are straight, others slightly curved. They are mostly non-motile, but some kinds are provided with a flagellum and are capable of movement. All multiply by fission, and the separate segments may remain attached to each other, forming long jointed filaments. Most, if not all, also propagate themselves by spores under special conditions. The spore first appears in the substance of the bacillus as a bright spot, which gradually increases in size, consuming a certain proportion of the protoplasm in so doing, till it may form a slight thickening of the rod at the point at which it lies. Several spores commonly form in each rod. Finally, the remaining proto- plasm perishes, the sheath gives way, and the spores become free. The spores stain feebly or not at all with most aniline dyes, and are thus recognised without difiiGulty. The term leptothrix is applied to very long thread-like organisms. These are constantly present in the mouth. Spirilla are spiral filaments, possessing active powers of movement. They are believed to form spores like bacilli. When the corkscrew-like turns are