CONTUSION OF THE ABDOMEN. S71 the jejunum, and the large intestine ruptured in diiTerent cases; the mesentery Ukewise may be lacerated, and the spermatic cord torn across. The Symptoms of a severe contusion of the abdomen necessarily vary according to the nature of the accident and the extent of the damage to the abdominal viscera. The injury is usually followed by more or less profound shock, which may of itself prove fatal, though there be but little apparent internal mischief; thus, I have seen a man die collapsed eight hours after a buffer accident, in whom no injury was found except a small rupture of tlic mesentery, attended with but very slight extravasation of blood. The severity of the shock, amounting often to prolonged and complete collapse, is one of the most remarkable phenomena attending these injuries. It is difficult to account for it, except on the supposition that it is due to wound or concussion of the sympathetic nerves and the large abdominal ganglia. To whatever cause it may be referred, it is certain that it is greater than that which follows a corresponding injury, unattended with loss of blood, of any other part of the body except the central portions of the cerebro-spinal nervous system. So far as my experience goes, I woiild say that the shock is most severe in injuries of and about the stomach, probably from damage to the solar plexus. It has been pointed out that the persistence, rather than the severity, of the shock, is an indication of severe internal injury. In many cases of abdominal contusion, the patient presents symptoms characteristic of internal haemorrhage, and in certain instances, the presence of an extensive effusion of blood is revealed by dulness in the flanks, shifting with change of posture. The most usual source of severe abdominal hsemor- rhage is a ruptured liver or spleen. Vomiting is a very variable symptom after abdominal injuries, and is of little value as a means of diagnosis. It frequently occurs in cases followed by recovery, and on the other hand it may be absent throughout in cases of rupture of the stomach or intestines. At a later stage, repeated bilious vomiting may be a symptom of peritonitis. Bloody vomiting may be, as we shall see, a symptom of rupture of the stomach. A careful examination of the abdomen should be made, and the presence of bruising or abrasion of the skin may be of value in forming a conclusion as to the probable nature of the injury. Thus, if in a case presenting the general symptoms of internal haemorrhage there be marked bruising in the right hypochondrium, the diagnosis of rupture of the liver is justified. The possfble presence of dulness in the flanks as the result of intraperitoneal hsemorrhage has already been mentioned. The presence of free gas in the peritoneal caviiy may be shown by general tympanites and especially by a resonant note over the liver. This symptom can only be due to rupture of some part of the digestive tract. Careful palpation of the abdomen may, if the patient be not too deeply collapsed, elicit marked tenderness definitely localised to one spot ; this may be of value in determining the probable seat of an internal injury.' In every case of severe abdominal contusion it is the duty of the Surgeon to pass a catheter ; he may thus detect evidences of rupture of the bladder (p. 8!)3), whilst the presence of blood in the urine may be the result of bruising or laceration of the kidney. It has already been stated that intense shook may follow a,n abdominal contusion unattended with any serious lesion of the viscera. Although intense the shock is in such cases usually of short duration, and severe internal iniurv