DISLOCATIONS OF THE SPINE: SYMPTOMS. 813 placed bone carries with it the whole of that portion of the vertebral column which is above it. In dislocations, the articulations between the two vertebrae are torn open. The supraspinous and interspinous ligaments, the ligamenta subflava, and the common posterior ligament, are torn through, so that the spinal canal is opened. The intervertebral fibro-cartilage may be torn, or it may be entire, a scale of the body of the subjacent vertebra being detached with it. When the spine above the dislocated part is bent forwards, a wide gap is visible jiosteriorly, at the seat of injury. Causes.—The causes of dislocation are numerous, and the following may be given as examples. A person standing in a cart and driving under an arch- way finds, too late, that he is too tall to clear the arch ; he bends forwards, but miscalculating the distance, his head is pressed violently downwards. A person takes a " header " into shallow water; his head comes against the bottom, is forcibly flexed, and his spine is broken or dislocated. Such accidents are not very unfrequent. I have seen several cases of paralysis and death resulting from this kind of injury. These accidents most commonly happen from forcible flexion of the neck, though traction and rotation conjoined have occasioned them. In a case of luxation of the sixth and seventh cervical vertebrae, recorded by J. Roux, the accident happened to a sailor plunging into the sea for the purpose of bathing, and coming head foremost against a sail which had been spread out to prevent the attack of sharks ; he died on the fourth day. In a patient of mine, who fell out of a window in such a way that the head was doubled forwards upon the chest, and who was brought to the Hospital with supposed ft-acture of the spine, we found after death, which occurred on the fifth day, that the seventh cervical vertebra, carrying with it the upper portion of the spine and the head, had been dislocated forwards from the first dorsal, the intervertebral substance detaching with it an extremely thin and small layer of bone from the body of the seventh vertebra. There was a wide gap posteriorly between the laminae. There was no fracture about the articular processes, which were completely separated from one another. In the instance already referred to, in which a man fell on his head from a van, and death resulted in twenty-four hours, a similar displacement was found of the fifth from the sixth cervical vertebra, with compression of and hemorrhage into the substance of the medulla, and disorganization of it to the extent of nearly an inch opposite the seat of dislocation, wiiere it had been injured by the forward pressure of the dislocated vertebra. In the Dorsal Region, dislocation of the spine, though excessively rare may occur ; seldom, however, without being accompanied by fracture. The last dorsal vertebra has several times been found dislocated from the first lumbar with rupture of the intervertebral fibro-cartilage. In these cases however, there has usually been found fi-acture of the transverse processes of the first lumbar vertebra, or, as in an instance recorded by Charles Bell fracture of its body. ' The Symptoms caused by dislocations of the spine are, like those of fracture, dependent on the degree and seat of the injury inflicted on the spinal cord. And death will ensue at varying periods, according to whether the dislocation is above or below the origin of the phrenic nerves, in accordance with the rules laid down at p. 809.