664 SPECIAL DISLOCATIONS. of tlie last edition of his work shows clearly that the head of the boue had formed a new articular cavity for itself in the subscapular fossa, being apparently thrown completely out of the glenoid cavity. There are three specimens in the London museums, two at St. Bartholomew's and one at Guy's Hospital, in which complete dislocation inwards of the shoulder has occurred without rupture of the capsule. There is here less deformity than in the other luxations, the acromion not forming so distinct a projection (Fig. 250). The alteration in length measured from the acromion to the olecranon is never great, and often none can be detected. It may be either in the direction of shortening or lengthen- ing, but is not enough to be of any diagnostic value. The elbow is generally carried backwards and always slightly away from the side ; the head of the bone is placed deeply in the upper and inner part of the axilla, and cannot always be very distinctly felt, owing to its being thickly covered with soft parts, by the coraco-brachialis as well as by the pectorals ; rotation of the arm and elevation of the elbow are usually required in order that it may be detected. There may be pain from the pressure of the head of the bone on the nerves or from stretching, and if the vein be pressed on, oedema of the whole limb will occur. 2. In the dislocation Forwards, or the Subclavi- cular (Fig. 247), the head of the bone is throA^m on the inner side of the coracoid process, lying upon Fig. •2.00.—subcoraeoid Disio- sccoud and third ribs under the pectoral cation of Humerus. musclcs, and immediately below the clavicle. This dislocation is merely an increased degree of the preceding one, the head of the bone, which at first lies under the coracoid process, being readily drawn inwards, so as to be placed to the inner side of that process under the clavicle. In these cases the capsular muscles are much stretched or torn. In a case recorded by Curling, the infraspinatus and sub- scapularis muscles were torn away from the tuberosities of the humerus, and the teres minor partially lacerated ; the capsule being completely separated from the neck of the bone, which pressed forcibly upon the axillary vessels and nerves. In three cases which I have had an opportunity of dissecting, the great tuberosity was torn away from the head of the bone, with much laceration of the capsule and extensive extravasation, but without rupture of the external rotator muscles in two instances ; whilst in the third the supra- spinatus, the infraspinatus, and the teres minor, were all torn across near their insertions. In fact, in these cases it appears to be a question of strength between muscle and bone ; either the muscles are torn across, or the great tuberosity is torn away, leaving its attached muscles unruptured. In this dislocation, the head of the humerus can be felt and seen under the pectoral muscles beneath the clavicle ; the arm is shortened, the axis of the limb being directed towards the head of the bone, and the elbow is a good deal separated from the side and thrown back. 3. In the dislocation Backwards, or the Subspinous (Figs. 2.")!, 252), the head of the humerus lies behind the glenoid cavity, and below the spine of the scapula, beneath the infraspinatus and teres minor muscles. Key found