921 CARBUNCLE. the thin undermined skin gradually melt into each other, and the slough slowly separates. In most cases, the whole thickness of the subcutaneous fat is not destroyed ; but occasionally when the slough comes away the deep fascia or even the muscles may be exposed. The size of the swelling varies from one to six inches in diameter ; most commonly it is about two inches across. Carbuncles are generally met with on the posterior part of the trunk, more especially about the shoulders and the nape of the neck ; being rarely seen anteriorly, or on the extremities. I have, however, had to treat very large carbuncles on the abdomen, and have met with them on the shin, forearm, and forehead. A carbuncle is almost invariably single ; but some years ago I had under my care a patient in whom a large carbuncle was followed by the appearance of about a dozen smaller ones scattered over the back, in spite of which he finally recovered. The Constitution! Disturbance attending this disease is always of the asthenic type; the complexion is often peculiarly sallow or yellow, the pulse feeble, and the tongue loaded ; and if the carbuncle be large, or be seated on the head, death may take place, the patient frequently sinking from septicaemia or pyaemia. Causes.—A carbuncle arises usually without any assignable local exciting cause; but in some cases it is evidently occasioned by the introduction of some poisonous matter into a puncture in the skin or into a hair-follicle. In all cases it is associated with and dependent upon a disordered state of the constitution, and any condition that lowers the powers of the system will pre- dispose to it. Habitually bad and insufficient food, the exhaustion induced by chronic wasting diseases, especially diabetes, or the debility resulting from acute febrile diseases—more particularly typhus—may all occasion it. Car- buncles are more common in men than in women, and in the old than in the young, being very rare under twenty. They occur more frequently in some years than in others. Micrococci are abundantly present in the diseased tissues, but no specific organism definitely related to the disease has been discovered. Diagnosis.—A carbuncle resembles a hoil in many points, yet differs in its greater size, in the dusky-red colour of the inflamed integument, in its broad flat form, and in the large quantity of contained slough in proportion to the small amount of purulent discharge in the numerous openings on the surface as well as m the conditions in which it generally occurs. It differs from a boil also m Its tendency to spread. A boil "comes to a head," bursts, and dis- charges pus and slough; a carbuncle will be discharging and sloughino- at one part, whilst It spreads, hard and brawny, at another. A carbuncle is almost invariably single; boils most commonly appear in crops. The Prognosis in carbuncle will depend on its size and situation, and on the state ot the patient s constitution, more particularly on that of his kid- ueys. The most dangerous carbuncles are those that are large, and situated or encroaching on the scalp ; m fact, the more this structure ^is involved the greater the danger. If the constitution be good, even these may be re- covered from; but If the kidneys be unsound, or if there be saccharine wm usu^ll^^ ""'"''"^ ''^"^"^ P^*^i«^t Treatment—The Constitutional Treatment of carbuncle must be guided by the constitutional state that accompanies the local disease. If the