EFFECTS OF HEAT AND COLD. 400 Similar contractions may occur in tlie foot, leaving groat deformity, as in Fig. 118, where the heel is shown to be retracted, and the whole of the toes spread out in a fan-shape. In this case PirogofiP's amputation was the only means left of securing an useful limb. Corrosive fluids, such as strong sulphuric acid, produce effects very similar to those that result from the more severe degrees of burn ; the cicatrices are irregular and contracted, and often rugged and warty. In the treatment of the granulating surface left by a burn, much may be done to limit the amount of contraction by employing the method of skin-grafting recommended by Tliiersch. This has already been described on page 278 ; it is a most valuable method of treatment, and is especially applicable to burns about the fiice in which deformity of the lips or eye-lids is likely to follow. During the healing process the part must always be fixed in a proper position by means of bandages, splints, and mechanical contriv- ances adapted to counteract the tendency to contraction of the cicatrix, and the consequent deformity. The contracted cicatrices resulting from burns may, if of recent date, be stretched out by the pressure of strips of plaster or elastic bandages, the traction of india- rubber bands, or the action of rack-and-pinion apparatus. ^SoifB^rnS™ The good effect of this plan of treatment is especially and Fifth Degrees. marked In contractions at the elbow, or in those that fix the arm to the side. These means are particularly useful in children, and indeed are so in all cases, provided the cicatrix be not too old—not more than a year ; after that time, it will seldom yield with- out division. Operations for the Biemoval of the Effects of Contraction consequent upon burns are occasionally required, and may do much to improve the patient's condition. The operations are of two kinds : 1. Simple division of the Faulty and Contracted Cicatrix ; 2. The Transplantation of a flap of adjacent healthy Skin into the gap left after the division of the cicatrix. 1. In the first operation, that of simply Dividing the Cicatrix, three points require special attention : 1st, that the division extend completely through the cicatrix from side to side into the adjacent healthy skin ; 2ndly, that the incision be carried through the whole depth and thickness of the cicatrix into the healthy adipose tissue beneath it, which may always be recognised by its yellow colour ; 3rdly, that all contracted bands lying in this layer be fairly divided. The great obstacle to the success of this operation, however, consists in the fact that the new granulations, which spring up after the division of the contracted cicatrix, in their turn contract whilst healing. After the division of the cicatrix, also, it may be found that the subjacent structures have been so rigidly fixed in their abnormal position as not to admit of extension. It may then be necessary to employ screw-apparatus, or even to divide fasciae and tendons, before the part can be restored to its normal shape. Care must, however, be taken in doing this, that subjacent structures of importance, such as large blood-vessels, or nerves, be not so closely con- nected with the cicatrix as to render wound or division of them unavoidable. In the neck, cicatricial bands will often come into very dangerous proximity