I094 TUBERCULOSIS. and some forms of chronic osteomyelitis ; fungous disease of sheaths of ten- dons, and some forms of chronic teno-synovitis. This long list shows the truth of A^olkmann's remark that since the true nature of these diseases has been recognized, the Surgeon may almost be said to have more to do with tubercle than the Physician. Predisposing Causes of Tuberculous Disease.—Tubercle being a specific infective disease it follows, as in the case of the infective diseases generally, that the predisposing causes are of two kinds : first, those which favour the entrance of the specific virus into the body ; and secondly, those which lessen the resistance of the tissues, either locally or generally, to the growth of the virus. The path by which the virus originally enters the body is somewhat doubtful. The bacillus can be cultivated out of the body only with considerable diffi- calty, requiring a temperature of from 80° to 105° F., and growing only on blood-serum. It is probable, therefore, that it is a genuine parasite, and exists out of the body only in the form of spores. These spores are contained in the sputa of phthisical patients, in the fseces of those suffering from tuber- culous diseases of the bowels, and in the urine of those affected with genito- urinary tuberculosis. Many of the lower animals are also liable to tubercle, and may disseminate the virus. Thus the milk of cows saffering from tuber- culous disease of the udder is undoubtedly a most important source of infection ; tubercle bacilli have been demonstrated in the milk, and tuber- culosis has been produced by inoculation. Tiie risk of infection by meat from tuberculous animals is probably small. Judging from the analogy of the bacillus anthracis, the spores in all probability retain their vitality for years when dried, and may be diffused everywhere where dust is carried, and there can be little doubt that they are abundant in the dust wherever human beings are crowded together. In all probabihty we have all frequently taken them into our bodies, but fortunately they can develop only where they find favouring general and local conditions. A considerable number of cases have now been recorded in which direcl monclation of wounds by the tuberculous virus has occurred. Elsenberg has collected thirteen cases in which tubercle appeared to have been directly inoculated during the rite of circumcision. Eve has recorded a remarkable case of the same kind. A child aged five months was admitted into the London Hospital with a large abscess containing caseous pus in each groin, and a small sore on the fraenum which had remained unhealed since circum- cision had been performed on the eighth day after birth. Inoculation of a guinea-pig with pus from one of the abscesses produced tuberculosis. The individual who had performed the circumcision had died of phthisis a week before the child was admitted to the hospital, and another child whom he had circumcised a year previously had died of tubercle. A striking case of direct inoculation is recorded by Tscherning of Copen- hagen, A healthy woman aged twenty-four cut her finger with a broken glass vessel containing the sputum of a man dying of phthisis. A small fungatiug mass of granulation tissue formed, and was scraped with a sharp spoon. The disease recurred, and subsequently the finger was amputated, and swollen glands at the elbow and in the axilla excised. The sputum which was the source of inoculation was rich in tubercle bacilli, and the granulation tissue from the finger and the enlarged glands contained tubercle nodules and bacilli.