FOREIGN BODIES IN AIE PASSAGES. It is not in every case that an aerial fistula can safely be closed. In some instances the larynx becomes contracted either by drawing in of the wound, or by thickening of the mucous membrane above the artificial opening to such an extent that the fistula becomes essential, for the purposes of respiration. In such circumstances, any attempt at closing it will be followed by symptoms of impending asphyxia ; and it may be necessary to leave the opening free, or even, as happened in a case under my care, in which an opening was left in the crico-thyroid membrane of a girl who had attempted suicide by cutting her throat, to enlarge the opening and introduce a silver tube. Intubation of the larynx (see Chap. LVIII.) is a mode of treatment which should be given a trial in such cases. Foreign Bodies in the Air-Passage.—A great variety of substances have been found in the air-passage : such as nut-shells, beans, cherry-stones, teeth, meat, money, buttons, pins, fish-bones, bullets, pills, pebbles, and pieces of wood. These foreign bodies are not introduced into the air-passage by any effort of deglutition, for no substance can be swalloived through the glottis. They are inhaled; thus, if a person, whilst holding anything in his mouth, make a sudden inspiration, the current of air may draw it between the lips of the dilated glottis into the larynx. The symptoms vary, according to the situation in which the foreign body is lodged, its nature, and the time that has elapsed since the occurrence of the accident. The foreign body may lodge in one of the ventricles of the larynx ; if light, it may remain in the trachea, and be carried up and down by the move- ment of the air in expiration and inspiration ; if too heavy for this, it will fall into one or other of the primary divisions of the trachea, and, as Aston Key has observed, will most commonly be found in the right bronchus. The explanation of this has been pointed out by Gray, who states that on making a transverse section of the trachea, and taking a bird's-eye view of the bifurca- tion, the septum will be seen to be considerably to the left of the middle line ; and further it has been shewn by Aeby that the right bronchus is in a more direct line with the trachea than the left. The greater size of the right bronchus would also favour the entrance of a foreign body into it. If the substance be small, it may pass into one of the secondary divisions of the bronchi ; and, if it continue lodged here for a sufficient length of time, it may make a kind of cavity for itself in the substance of the lung, where it may either excite suppuration round it or become encysted. The Symptoms may be divided into three stages : 1. 01)struction, immediately following the introduction of the substance; 2. Irritation' produced by its presence ; and 3. Inflammation, coming on at a later period. 1. Symptoms of Obstruction.—The immediate symptoms vary somewhat according to the size and nature of the foreign body, and the part "of the air- tube that it reaches. In all cases there is a feeling of intense suffocation with great difficulty of breathing, and violent fits of spasmodic coughing often' attended by vomiting, during which the foreign body may be expelled Indeed Its partial entry and immediate extrusion by coughing are not uncommon In some cases immediate death may ensue at this period from obstruction of the glottis. If the body have entered the air-passage fully, there is violent coughing, with a feeling of suffocation for an hour or two, accompanied by hvidity of the face, great anxiety, and a sense of impending death There is