9^ RESULTS OF AMPUTATION. show that in 18G1 the amputation death-rate in Parisian hospitals was 3 m 5, and more recently Le Fort gives the mortality at 58 per cent. In Germany matters were no better. Billroth's published amputation mortality was at one time from 43 to 46 per cent. In the United States, however, the death- rate was much smaller : the mortality in the Pennsylvania Hospital being- only about 24 per cent., and that in the Massachusetts General Hospital 26 per cent. In military practice, the result of the experience deduced from the mortahty following amputations during the great modern wars is at least equally un- favourable. But here there are so many modifying and disturbing elements that it may be well to exclude these cases from consideration. In fact, then, on taking the average mortality after amputation in the largest hospitals in the great centres of civilisation, we come to this result, that it commonly varied' from 60 to 35 per cent., and did not fall below 24 per cent. ; and that in certain of the larger amputations, as in the upper third of the thigh and at the hip-joint, it ran up to from 70 to 90 per cent. Widely extended statistical returns showed but too plainly that these figures were trustworthy and constant. So constantly did these figures come out in hospital returns, that Surgeons had almost come to regard them as representing the necessary, or, so to speak, the natural rate of mortality after amputations. But that it was not necessary —that it was dependent on preventible causes, was maintained by Callender, Lister, Speiice, and others who, by different methods of treatment, but all having in view attention to the hygienic conditions of the wound and of the patient, obtained results far better than those formerly prevaihng. Such results are now no longer exceptional. The statistics quoted in a former page from Max Schede's work on ampu- tations show what can be accomplished by the antiseptic treatment. The system adopted by the Surgeons, from whose practice those statistics were collected, was that recommended at the time by Lister. It matters little, however, what method of dressing is adopted, so long as the decomposition of the discharges is absolutely prevented. This is the principle of antiseptic surgery ; but the best means of carrying it out has probably yet to be dis- covered. Whenever antiseptic treatment is efficiently carried out, by whatever means it may be accomphshed, the wound ceases to be a source of infection and of contamination to the surrounding atmosphere, and the results of hospital practice then equal the best that can be obtained in private. Up to 1869 Surgeons had no opportunity of obtaining a knowledge of the results of amputations on a large scale, except such as had been furnished by the statistical reports of hospitals; but in that year Sir James Simpson collected from small country hospitals, and from private practice in manufacturing and mining districts, in which amputations are of common occurrence, statistics which proved satisfactorily that in the time before the modern improved methods of treating wounds were fully understood, the aggregation of patients sufi'ering from open wounds in one building exerted a powerful influence on the proportion of deaths. Simpson collected the particulars of 2,098 amputations of all kinds occurring in the country and in private practice in towns; of these 229 died, or 1 in 9-2; whilst of an almost equal number, viz., 2,089 amputations, performed in the large city hospitals of Great Britain, 855 died, or 1 in 2*4.