958 CELLULITIS. whole of the scrotum may slough away, leaving the testes and cords bare ; in these unpleasant circumstances, however, the parts will often with great rapidity become covered with new integument. The oedema of the penis usually subsides of itself, or after making a few punctures in it; should its integuments, how- ever, threaten to slough, a free incision must be made into it, or the prepuce must be slit up. Erysipelas of the Pudenda is occasionally met with in ill-fed unhealthy children in whom cleanliness is neglected. The parts become dusky red, swell considerably, and quickly run into gangrene, which spreads up the abdomen or down the nates. It may prove fatal by inducing peritonitis or exhaustion. In the Treatmeiif, ammonia, bark, and chlorate of potash, with good nourish- ment, and a little wine, are the principal means, at the same time that the parts are bathed in a warm antiseptic solution and well fomented. Diffuse Cellulitis of tlie Ischio-Rectal Fossa is not uncommon in old and feeble subjects, as the result of exposure to cold. The symptoms are those of cellulitis in general, a brawny hard swelling by the side of the rectum, with redness of the skin, and great pain and tenderness. The fat of the ischio-rectal fossa rapidly sloughs, and a foul, foetid abscess, the pus of which is mixed with shreds of gangrenous tissue, rapidly forms. The Treatment consists of free and early incisions. At a later stage it may be necessary to divide the sphincter before the cavity will heal. INTEENAL EEYSIPELATOUS INFLAMMATIONS. By Internal Erysipelas we mean those forms of diffuse inflammation which affect the Mucous or Serous Surfaces. Erysipelas of Mucous Surfaces.—The mucous tract that is chiefly affected by this disease is that covering the fauces, the pharynx, and the larynx. Erysipelas of the Fauces may be due to extension of the disease from the head and face to these parts ; or it may commence as a primary affection, occurring perhaps at the same time that the rash appears on the cutaneous surface of some distant part of the body. When the fauces are erysipelatous, they present a bright crimson or scarlet colour, with some swelling and thickening of the soft palate and uvula ; the patient also most commonly has huskiness or complete loss of voice, and occasionally some croupy symptoms. The glands at the angle of the jaw are always swollen and tender. At the same time there is a good deal of febrile disturbance, with a pungent hot skin and quick pulse. This form of erysipelas is pecuharly contagious, and occurs not unfrequently in the attendants of those who are labouring under some of the other varieties of the disease ; of this I have seen numerous instances. In many cases, also, it is epidemic, spreading through a house and affecting almost every inmate. Treatment.—The best results are obtained by sponging the inflamed parts freely with a strong solution of the nitrate of silver ; and, if there be much constitutional depression, by administering full doses of ammonia, with cam- phor or bark. Should the disease go on to sloughing (which not unfre- quently happens), constituting one of the forms of " putrid sore throat," the mineral acids and bark, with chlorinated gargles, and the brandy-and-egg mixture for support, will be found most useful. In many cases, this disease continues limited to -the palate and fauces ; but in others it extends upwards