ioi8 TUMOURS. The typical lipoma is simply a mass of fat, usually differiDg in structure in no way from the ordinary subcutaneous adipose tissue (Fig. 358), but it is not uncommon to find crystalline deposits of the fatty acids in the cells. It is enclosed in a fine thin capsule of areolar tissue, having small vessels ramifying over its surface. This capsule is adherent to the surrounding structures, but loosely connected with the tumour itself; so that, in removing these growths, it is important to open the capsule thoroughly before attempting to enucleate the tumour. These tumours, which present the least possible deviation from the normal structure of the parts in which they grow, are derived from the connective tissue by an increased development of fat. They present occasionally some minor varieties of structure. Thus the fibrous tissue may be in excess, giving rise to the so-called fibrous lipoma," or the tumour may be permeated by numerous dilated vessels, as in the "erectile lipoma" or " nasvo-lipoma." These conditions are, however, rare. Occasionally mucous tissue may be found intermixed with the adipose, forming the " myxo-lipoma." This will be mentioned again under myxoma. The diagnosis of a fatty tumour is usually easy. It is not adherent to the muscles over which it is lying. This can easily be ascertained by making the patient throw the muscles into contraction, when the mobility of the tumour will be found to remain unaltered. It is more easily confounded with a soft sarcoma or a chronic abscess. The sarcomata usually spring from, or early become adherent to, the deep fasciae or muscles. On pinching up the skin over a fatty tumour, it will be found to dimple in several places, although it is quite freely movable over the growth. This sign is wanting in a sarcoma. A fatty tumour is distinguished from a cyst or chronic abscess by pressing on its edge, when the solid tumour will be felt to roll away from under the finger ; in a collection of fluid, the finger sinks through the edge without the sensation of anything slipping away from beneath it. When the tumour is lobulated, there can be little doubt as to its nature. If any doubt should remain, the mass may be punctured with a grooved needle or a fine trochar. In the Treajment of fatty tumours nothing can be done except extirpation with the knife. The tumour, being but loosely adherent to its capsule, readily turns out if the latter be freely opened, so that the smooth shining surface of the tumour is seen in the bottom of the wound. Great care must be taken that none of the lobules frequently found in these tumours are left behind, as they would certainly serve as starting points for new growths. b. ribroma: Fibrous or Fibroid Tumours, Desmoid Tumours, Areolar and Fibro-cellular Tumours.—In the healthy body, fibrous tissue is found either dense and firm as in tendons, or loose and filamentous as in areolar tissue, and between these two extremes every variety of density is observed. In healthy areolar tissue two kinds of fibres are almost invariably present : the white fibrous and the yellow elastic tissue. In tumours composed of fibrous tissue, similar variations in density are met with. Thus we have fibrous tumours as dense in structure as ligaments, and others as loose as areolar tissue, but in all it is extremely uncommon to find any yellow elastic fibres. Fibrous tissue enters very largely into the composition of many tumours besides the true fibromata. Thus the stroma of almost all cancers is composed of fibrous tissue, the intercehular substance of a sarcoma may be abundantly fibrous, and in a lipoma the lobules of fat are bound together by areolar tissue.