rOISONED WOUNDS. occurs in from ten days to three weeks. When incisions are made into the brawny tissue, it is found to be infiltrated with tliin pus, and in a sloughy state. If tlie patient live, large circumscribed a])scesses form under the pectoral muscles, in the axilla, and above the clavicle, accompanied by much exhaustion and depression of the system. The convalescence is tedious and prolonged, and the constitution is often shattered for life. , In other cases a diffuse inHammation, identical in all its characters with the so-called phlegmonous or cellular erysipelas, spreads directly from the seat ot inoculation. That this form of dissection-wound is of a truly specific character, is evident from the fact that patients labouring under it may communicate fatal erysipelas to their nurses and attendants ; as happened in the case ot the late J. P. Potter, of University College Hospital, whose early death was much to be lamented. It is this kind of dissection-wound that is especially apt to occur after infection from patients who have died of diffuse inflamma- tion of the serous membranes. -f Sometimes the intensity of tlie spreading inflammation is such that it terminates rapidly in gangrene of the affected part, and the disease then resembles in most of its features genuine spreading or traumatic gangrene. A case of this kind occurred in a nurse under the care of Christopher Heath in University College Hospital in 1880. It resulted from the prick of a pin received in laying out the body of a lady who had died of puerperal fever. The patient's life was saved only by amputation at the shoulder-joint on the sixth day after the accident. In this case, as is usual in this form of disease, there was no enlargement of the lymphatic glands in the axilla. The symptoms produced by contact, independently of any wound, with the bodies of persons who have died of erysipelatous diseases or pyemia,^some- times vary, though still referable to the introduction of a poison. Thus I have known a body to infect seriously in different ways six students who were working at it. Two had suppuration of the areolar tissue under the pectorals andin the axilla; one was seized with a kind of maniacal delirium; a fourth had typhoid fever ; and the remaining two were seriously, though not danger- ously, indisposed. . . Treatment.—On the receipt of a puncture in dissection or m making a post-mortem examination, the best way to prevent injurious consequences is to tie a string tightly round the finger above the injury, thus causing the blood to flow, and perhaps to carry the virus out with it. The part should then be well washed in a stream of cold water at a tap, or better still m a solution of carbolic acid (1 to 20 of water), or of perchloride of mercury (1 in 500), and sucked for some minutes ; in this way any poisonous matter that has been introduced may usually be got rid of. It is better not to apply nitrate of silver ; it irritates the finger, and fails to penetrate to the deep parts of the puncture. Dissectors should bear in mind that the state of the consti- tution exercises great influence upon the effects of the puncture ; and that, in proportion as the health is sound and the body not exhausted by overwork, there is less likelihood of any injurious consequences ensuing. In the slighter forms of dissection-wound, attended by a moderate amount of inflammation, the whole finger should be thickly painted with extract of belladonna diluted with an equal quantity of glycerine ; this should be covered with cotton-wool, or with warm fomentations of boric acid lint, while the hand should be elevated and kept at absolute rest in a sling or in a splmt. If