GEXERAL REMARKS OF OPERATIONS. 14 be followed almost certainly with a speedy cure ; there the consequent symp- toms are triflinfr, nearly the whole internal surface of the wound unites by the first intention, the suppuration consequently is small." . . . " Many hospitals are so tainted by unwholesome effluvia that they are rather a pest than a relief to the objects thejr contain." (Op. cit., pp. 89—1)2.) Then follow sixteen distinct paragraphs or heads of the most useful sanitaiy advice, which " are humbly recommended to those who have the care of hos- pitals in want of such attention." This code of regulations deserves careful study. In it Alanson advises : That no ward should be inhabited for more than four months at a time ; that it be cleansed, whitewashed, and purified. That the "bed-stocks" be of iron ; the bedding frequently changed, and made of inexpensive materials so that it may easily be renewed ; and that when the weather admits, it be ex- posed to the open air for several hours a day. That dirty patients be stripped of their clothing before admission ; that they have a warm bath and then be clothed in dresses provided by the hospital. That the infected clothes be baked in a properly constructed oven. That newly admitted patients be put into clean, well-ventilated wards. That all incurable and infectious cases, and especially chronically ulcerated legs, be refused admission. That offensive gangrenous and putrid sores be placed in distinct rooms, and not suffered to infect a whole ward. That there should be particular rooms provided for patients who ha^-e undergone operations ; that they should be airy, never long inhabited, and afterwards cleansed and ventilated. That a hospital should never be crowded on any accoimf, and always so large that a part may be uninhabited. That the windows be opened for a certain number of hours daily. And lastly, that every hospital should have a " house in the country," in other words, a " convalescent home," attached to it. Modern science has enabled us to determine the true nature of those conditions that lead to hospital infection, but sanitary practice has not as yet gone in advance of the admirable precepts laid down by Alanson more than a century ago. The mortality arising from inattention to these various hygienic conditions, whether want of cleanliness in the wound or want of pure air in the ward, is not a necessity of the operation, but rises and falls according as the treatment of the wounds, or the circumstances in which the patient is placed, depart more or less widely from those conditions that are necessary to the maintenance of health. The frequency of the occurrence of erysipelas in an institution may be taken as an indication of neglect in its sanitary arrangements. Pysemia and septicaemia as a rule indicate, in addition to general neglect, a want of cleanliness in the wounds, and reflect to a certain extent upon the Surgeon as well as the institution. These diseases are preventable, and ought to be pre- vented. Surely the first and most essential requisite of a hospital is that it be not a source of disease to its inmates—that those who are compelled to seek its aid shall not suffer from its effects. The exposure of a patient after an operation to the contagious einanations of septic diseases from other sick or wounded patients, is attended Avith the most fatal consequences. Whenever it is practicable, every case of septic disease, such as pyaemia, erysipelas, inflamed lymphatics or veins, or hospital o-angrene, should be rigorously excluded from the ward or room in which other patients with operation-wounds happen to be lying ; and, if possible, the same nurses, dresSers, or surgeons should not be allowed to go from the infected to