93 SPEC I A L A MP UTA TIONS. CHAPTER III. SPECIAL AMPUTATIONS. There are, as has already been stated at pp. 59, 61, 70, three distinct methods of amputating limbs, viz., the flap, the circular, and the oval. A skilful Surgeon will be able to produce a satisfactory stump by any one of the three methods, and it is desirable that he should be able to practise all. For although, as a general rule, one method may be more applicable than another, yet excep- tional cases occur in which it may be advantageous to depart from the method usually adopted, and employ one of the others. In fact, the Surgeon should select that which is most suitable to the circumstances of the case before him. The flap method, or the combined flap and circular, is that to which most Surgeons give the preference in this country. In describing any method of amputating, precise rules may be laid down for its performance through sound structures ; but it often happens, especially in cases of injury, that the destruction of tissue is so irregular as to compel the Surgeon to shape his flap as best he may from the uninjured parts ; but so efficient is the moulding process of nature, that provided sufficient covering be left on the muscles and bones, a stump that at first looks irregular and uusurgical, will soon acquire a regular outline, and may be eventually in all respects as useful as one fashioned at first more artistically. Amputations of the Hand.—The Fingers often require amputation for injury or disease, more especially as the result of bad whitlow. When the ungual phalanx becomes necrosed, it may usually be removed without amputa- tion, by an incision through the pulp of the finger, thus saving the nail and pulp, which will form an excellent end to the finger. If the operation be done in early childhood, a new and movable phalanx may form. Should amputation be required, it may either be done by openmg the joint from its dorsal aspect with a narrow-bladed bistoury, and making the flap from the palmar aspect by cutting from within outwards : or the flap may be made from the palmar sur- face by transfixion, and the joint opened from the palmar aspect (Fig. 33). In amputating the ungual phalanx from the dorsal aspect, the Surgeon niust stand facing the hand ; the finger must be flexed forcibly, so that the last phalanx is at a right angle to the next. The incision to open the joint must be made in continuation of an imaginary line drawn along the side of the second phalanx midway between the dorsal and palmar aspects. It must commence at the crease opposite the joint, and finish at the corresponding point on the other side, the Surgeon cutting from his left to his right side of the fino-er 4s the joint opens, the lateral ligaments must be touched with the point of the knife As these are divided, the first two phalanges must be extended whil- the ungual phalanx is still further flexed. The knife is then passed with a sawing motion towards the palmar surface of the phalanx, the edge being turned slio-htly