INFECTIVE PROCESSES. 929 been already described in Chapter XI.; tetanus will be considered in a subsequent Chapter. It is impossible here to discuss fully the evidence for and against the micro- parasitic origin of these diseases. It is essential to bear in mind the four postulates which, according to Koch, must be fulfilled, before the causal relation of a micro-organism to any given disease can be taken as proved. First, the organism must be constantly present in cases of the disease ; secondly, the organism must be capable of cultivation outside the body ; thirdly, the disease must be capable of production by inoculation with the pure cultivation : and fourthly, the same organism must be capable of demonstration in the disease thus produced. Anthrax and cutaneous erysipelas may be quoted as instances in which these necessary conditions have been fulfilled, and, judging by analogy, the probability is great that in allied diseases the same proof will eventually be forthcoming. Farther, the course of such diseases, the modifications produced by altered conditions in the body and in its surroundings, and lastly, the modes of prevention are all in keeping with the hypothesis of a hving virus. The chief arguments urged against it are the following. In the first place, it has been urged that many processes, dissimilar in every respect, are found to be associated with the presence of organisms apparently perfectly similar. Thus micrococci are found in a simple acute abscess, in erysipelas and in pyaemia ; but with bodies of such extreme minuteness differences may readily exist which it is beyond our power to recognize. Cohn, while referring to this question, called attention to the external similarity of the sweet and bitter almond, which yet differ from each other so widely in their chemical pro- perties. A much more important objection, which is pointed out by Koch himself, is that in many cases in the human subject the number of micro- scopic organisms found has been singularly small, so small in fact as to make it difficult to understand how they could be the cause of such grave disease. Lastly, it has been maintained that the microscopic organisms are merely an accidental accompaniment of the process and not the cause, or that at most they serve merely as carriers of the virus and are not the producers of it. It is difficult to refute this assertion with the means at present at our command. When, however, as in the case of erysipelas, the organism may be cultivated for twenty generations out of the body in an artificial medium, and finally, on being inoculated on another individual will produce a genuine attack of the disease, It seems difficult to regard it as other than an essential factor in the production of the specific inflammation. It must be acknowledged therefore, that, although it is highly probable that all the diseases in this group arise directly from the action of micro-organisms, the evidence is not as yet sufficient to furnish in every case demonstrative proof of the truth of this theory. Supposing, however, that the fungoid theory of infective processes in wounds were proved beyond a doubt, this would in no way disprove the facts previously known as to the influence of bad hygienic conditions in the develop- ment of these diseases. The experience of generations of Surgeons has taught us that, although mflammation and suppuration with febrile disturbance result from contact with the raw surfaces of wounds of such simple septic products as must form in all dead tissues or putrescible animal fluids exposed to the ordinary air of a dwelling-house, the graver infective processes are of VOL. r. „ ^ 3 0