298 THE PROCESS OF REPAIR. or superficial wounds. A circular scar round a tubular organ or excretory duct as in the intestine, oesophagus, or urethra, leads to narrowing or stricture <)t the canal, and many of the worst oesophageal strictures result from the accidental swallowing of caustic alkaline fluids. These strictures in most cases gradually become narrower as time goes on, the process of contraction continuing long after the sore has healed. Further changes are wrought by time in the texture of a cicatrix. When a scar is first formed, it is thin, reddish, or bluish and shining, being composed of imperfectly developed fibrous tissue, covered by a thin epidermic layer. As it becomes older, it assumes a dead-white colour, and becomes depressed, and gradually, but slowly, many years being perhaps required for the change, it "wears out;" that is to say,its structure more closely resembles that of the texture of the part in which it is seated. It never, however, becomes developed into true skin, as neither sebaceous nor sudoriparous glands nor hair form in it. Comcidently with these changes, the scar loosens its deep attachments, so that It can be moved more freely upon subjacent parts. It is a long time before the scar attains the vitaHty of the older structures, if ever it do so com- pletely ; and the larger it is, the less its power will usually be. Under the influence of scurvy or syphilis, an old scar is apt to open up again ; so also, if a fresh ulcer be formed on the old cicatrix, it will take a longer time to heal than the original one. 5. Union by Secondary Adhesion.—It not unfrequently happens that, although granulations spring up over the sides of a wound, union between the opposed surfaces does not take place. We endeavour to accomplish this by bringing the granulating sides together, and retaining them in that position, when they will cohere; this constitutes union by " Secondary Adhesion:' In some amputations, and in many plastic operations, cases of hare-lip, cleft- palate, &c., union is occasionally brought about in this manner. The conditions necessary for this mode of union are, 1st, that the granulat- ing surfaces be perfectly healthy; 2nd, that they be smooth, so that they can be brought evenly into apposition without leaving cavities between them in which pus may accumulate; and 3rd, that after they are brought together they shall be kept at perfect rest. Circumstances affecting the Eealing Process.—In concluding this general description of the process of union of wounds, it will, perhaps, be well to recall briefly some of the conditions essential to rapid and certain healing. In the first place, two conditions are absolutely essential: perfect rest and perfect drainage. No wound can heal by the first intention if its surfaces are frequently rubbed against each other, either by the movements of the injured part or by the clumsiness of the Surgeon in changing the dressings; nor can early union occur if the surfaces are separated from each other by pent-up serous discharge. The third great source of irritation to which wounds are exposed is the presence of decomposing matter between their surfaces. In order that this should occur it is hardly necessary to say that there must be some dead matter there to decompose; living tissues do not putrefy, and amongst living tissues must be reckoned the Aplastic exudation that glazes a wound, and forms the preliminary bond of union. On the other hand, the serous discharge which is poured out in the first twenty-four hours is decomposable. A perfectly-drained wound with no foreign body in it