THE ENTRANCE OF MICRO-ORGANISMS. i8i aiitly in the air of houses than in that of the open country, and more in great cities than smaller towns (see p. 8). The number and nature of the organisms which develop after exposure of artificial cultivating media to the air have been found by Miquel to vary considerably with the composition of the fluids used. Thus, he states that a measured quantity of air containing 200 organisms capable of developing on a weak neutralised solution of Liebig's extract of meat might only contain one capable of growing in a neutralised infusion of hay. This he terms a difference of " sensitiveness " or " putrescibility," It would seem that pus, blood-serum, and more especially blood, have a low degree of putrescibility, and may be exposed to unpurified air with much less risk of decomposition than was at first supposed, the great majority of air-borne organisms being incapable of developing in albuminous fluids of so high a degree of concen- tration. Although by applying the results of experiments made with highly sensitive fluids directly to serum and blood an exaggerated idea of the putres- cibility of these fluids was at one time entertained, it cannot be denied that organisms may be present in the air which are capable of growing and setting up fermentative changes even in those concentrated albuminous fluids, and it would seem wiser not to run into the opposite extreme of ignoring air-borne organisms altogether as a source of infection of the discharges of wounds or abscesses. In our damp climate especially it is certain that the ordinary septic bacteria are usually present in the dust of the air. If instead of exposing the putrescible fluid to the air a small quantity of unpurified water be added, bacteria make their appearance with almost absolute certainty, and ordinary fetid putrefaction most commonly follows. From this it is to be concluded that water is the special habitat of the ordinary bacteria of putrefaction. However much, therefore, we may feel justified in relaxing some of the precautions which were at first recommended for the exclusion of the dust of the air from wounds, we cannot be too careful to avoid the use of water which has not been rendered innocuous by boiling or by the admixture of some eificient antiseptic. It having been clearly proved therefore that these micro-organisms are the cause of the process of putrefaction, by what means can they gain access to the putrescible matter in wounds, abscesses or cavities containing animal fluids ? Only two modes of entrance need be considered : 1. The organisms migJit he conceived to enter ly the lungs and alimentary canal, and thus find their way into the circulation and enter the dead matter from within. That this mode of entrance does not occur with the ordinary saprophytes or organisms of putrefaction, is evident from the fact that subcutaneous accumulations of putrescible fluids, such as pus and serum, or portions of dead tissue, such as a part of an organ cut off' from its blood supply by a simple embolus, do not undergo putrefaction. It has, moreover, been shown by experiment that the fungi which cause ordinary putrefaction, even if injected into the blood- stream, speedily perish, and thus no such organisms are present in the tissues of a healthy animal. That other forms of organisms can enter in this way must be acknowledged, for in all acute infective inflammations and acute abscesses, microscopic organisms are found at the seat of disease even when there is no external wound. 2. The lacteria are admitted directly from ivithoid. Of this there can be no