227 CAUSES OF CHRONIC INFLAMMATION. No sharp line can be drawn between chronic and acute inflammations ; and the term " subacute " is often used to signify processes in the border-land between the two. Chronic inflammations, like the acute, may be simple or infective. Syphilis, tubercle and leprosy are examples of infective diseases of which chronic inflammatory processes form the essential pathological features. Causes.—The causes of chrouic inflammatiou are Hke those of the acute process, predisposing and determining. The predisposing causes are the same as those of acute inflammation ; anything that tends to lower the vitality and interfere with healthy nutrition, either generally or locally, predisposes to one as much as to the other. Perhaps passim congestion forms the most common of all predisposing causes, and it is often difficult to draw a distinct line between the non-inflammatory changes, the induration and pigmentation resulting from congestion, and those produced by true chronic inflammation. Certain congenital or hereditary constitutional states form important predis- posing causes, the most important of these being probably the condition commonly known as scrofula or the scrofulous diathesis. This is sometimes defined as a predisposition to tubercle in all its forms, but probably Virchow's definition of scrofula as an " abnormal vulnerability of the tissues " is the best. It is a condition of low vitality in which the tissues do not offer the normal resistance to external injurious influences of all kinds. Scrofulous subjects offer a feeble resistance to the invasion of all parasites, not only to the tubercle bacillus. {See Chapter on Tubercle and Scrofula.) Amongst the acquired constitutional conditions, syphilis, rheumatism and gout form fre- quent predisposing causes ; so much so that in all chronic inflammations it is the duty of the Surgeon to bear in mind the possibility of one of these being present. The importance of the predisposing causes is undoubtedly relatively greater in the chronic than in the acute form of the inflammatory process, and this fact must be borne in mind in the treatment of the affection. The immediate causes of chronic inflammation are of the same nature as those of the acute process, but they act with a less degree of intensity and more continuously. So long as the cause of the inflammation is present the process cannot subside. In chronic inflammation it often happens that the cause which starts the process is of a temporary character, the persistent effect being due to other causes which come into play at a later period. Thus in a common ulcer of the leg the history of the case is frequently as follows : The patient, possibly ill-nourished and feeble from want of proper food, suffers from varicose A-eins, which interfere with the return of blood from the skin of the leg, giving rise to a condition of passive congestion. As a result of this the skin of the leg is badly nourished and of low vitality, and incapable of withstanding the effects of even mild degrees of irritation. Sooner or later some slight injury, such as a scratch or blow, which would be harmless to healthy tissues, gives rise to inflammation of sufficient intensity to reach the stage of suppuration. The pus raises the cuticle, forming a small pustule which bursts, leaving a raw surface beneath. The discharge decomposes and irritates the surface, the clothes rub the ulcer, the muscles working beneath in walking move it about, the dilatation of the vessels and the exudation, added to the obstruction in front which originally gave rise to the congestion, produce tension ; and all these causes combined, maintain the inflammatory process, the suppuration continues, and the soi-e slowly spreads by ulceration. Q 2