TREATMENT OF ULCERATION. 275 part must be placed iu such a position as will favour the return of blood from it. 3. Proper local applications adapted to the nature of the case must be employed, conjoined with uniform pressure, to support the dilated and weakened vessels of the part. The Constitutional Treatment must be carefully attended to. Unless this be done, the best regulated local measures may be employed in vain. Attention to the digestive organs, and improvement of the constitution, if it be strumous or syphilitic, will do more in these cases than any other means can accomplish. The nutrition of the patient requires due care. VARIOUS FORMS OF ULCERS. When ulcers occur in the skin, as the result of non-specific disease, they may be arranged under the following heads : the Healthy ; the Weak ; the Indolent ; the Irritable ; the Inflamed ; the Phagedtenic or Sloughing ; and the Varicose. Besides these varieties, each of which is marked by distinct characteristics, various other forms of ulceration depending on specific causes, as the Syphilitic, Tuberculous, Lupoid, Cancerous, &c., are met with ; all of which will be treated of in their special chapters. The varieties presented by ulcers are by no means dependent on local conditions merely, but are in a great measure owing to constitutional causes. Indeed, the aspect of the ulcer, and the character of its granulations and of Its discharge, are excellent indications of the general condition of the patient as well as of the local disease. In studying an ulcer clinically, we have to pay attention to the following pomts : 1. The surrounding skin. 2. The edges of the sore. 3. The surface of the sore. 4. The base of the sore. 5. The nature of the discharge ; and t!. Pain and tenderness. The Healthy Granulating Sore.—The surrounding skin is free from oedema ; there is no change in it beyond slight hyperemia close to the margin ot the sore ; the edges are regular in outline, shelve gradually down to the surface of the sore, and are marked by three zones of colour, an outer opaque white, a middle opalescent blue, and an inner dark red, as described in the chapter on Kepair. The surface is slightly depressed, and thickly studded with florid red granulations, firm in structure and uniform in size, each beino- about as large as half a mustard seed. The Use of the sore is soft, and not adherent to deep-seated structures, as bones or fascia3. The discharne will under ordinary circumstances, be thick, creamy, laudable pus ; but by care- tully excluding every source of imtation, it may be made to assume a more or less serous character. There is no favn or tenderness. It is the Object of our treatment in all cases to bring the other forms of ulcer into this condition. t of "«= l^althy granulating sore, the treatment should to as simple as possible ; the application of some simple ton h f^-ble it to cic tTl Perhaps the best of all antiseptics for this purpose is a concentrated solution the In . . "'Tv, ''f •"'^'^ "f ™°i«tenrf with «k or IM r ■' ""'^ be placed a piece of oiled silk or thm guttapercha tissue, overlapping the lint in all directions for about T 2