773 CHRONIC ENCEPHALITIS. entirely by stupor, from which the patient is roused with difficulty, the pupils gradually dilating, the breathing becoming heavy and stertorous, the pulse sometimes continuing with its former rapidity, at others becoming slow and oppressed. The skin is hot but clammy ; the patient falls into a heavy, dull, unconscious state, which alternates with convulsive twitchings or jerkings and occasional delirious outbreaks. As death approaches, the sphincters relax, the pulse becomes slower and more feeble, the surface cooler, the coma more intense and continuous, until the patient sinks from exhaustion and com- pression conjoined. Diagnosis.—Acute meningitis is distinguished from pressure of extravasated blood by the later time at which it appears, by the elevation of temperature and the quick pulse. From spreading oedema (p. 750) extending round a laceration it is recognized by the presence of fever, but the distinction is not always easily made. Treatment.—The preventive treatment is of the greatest importance, for when the symptoms of acute meningitis have set in, the patient seldom recovers, whatever may be done for him. The most scrupulous attention to the prevention of decomposition in all cases of wound of the scalp or compound fracture is the most efficient means at our command for the prevention of meningitis. Should the symptoms manifest themselves, active treatment should at once be adopted. The head must be shaved, and cold applied. In the use of cold, great care must be taken that the application is constant; intermittent cold is worse than useless. One of the best modes of application is the india-rubber ice-cap, which can be secured to the head by a strap passing under the chin ; or Ijeiter's soft metal tubing, which can be moulded to any form, and through which a stream of cold water is kept constantly flowing, is even more efficient. Should these not be available, a bladder filled with ice may be used, but care must be taken that it is firmly secured in its position by bandages, and not, as is too often done, allowed merely to lie against the head, so that it is displaced by the slightest movement of the patient. A mackintosh cloth must be placed beneath it to protect the bed-clothes from being wetted. Bleeding from the arm, repeated as ofcen as the pulse rises, as well as cupping, or leeches, may be had recourse to ; the bowels should be freely opened, and rigid abstinence must be enjoined, the patient at the same time being confined to a quiet and darkened room, and removed from all causes of excitement of the special senses. Chronic or Subacute Encephalitis is a most interesting and important affection following injuries of the head. Its pathology is not very clearly understood. In some cases after death the arachnoid is found opaque and thickened. In other cases the symptoms have been due to chronic inflam- matory changes, or softening taking place round the site of a severe cortical laceration. The symptoms may come on within a few days of the injury or not until months have elapsed. The patient in many cases has apparently recovered entirely from the accident, though in others it will be found that some one symptom indicative of the brooding mischief still continues, such as headache, or impairment of sight or of hearing. Occasionally, the coming mischief is foreshadowed by unusual irritability of temper, by loss of mental vigour, or by some other functional disturbance of the brain. In such cases the subacute encephalitis may suddenly come on, ushered in perhaps by an aggravation of the persistent symptom, or by an epileptic fit. The sub-