2o8 LOCAL DISTURBANCES AND INFLAMMATION. silk is prepared from refuse material, and was introduced by McGill of Leeds ; it is very absorbent and elastic. All these preparations contaui a proportion ,>f the acid varying from 8 to 10 per cent. They should be moistened with a little o-lycerine to prevent the dust of the acid from flying about when they are used, as it causes violent sneezing. Salicylic acid in solution corrodes instruments. PercMoride of Mercury.—Attention was first directed to corrosive sublimate as an antiseptic by Koch, who showed that in the extreme dilution of 1 in 20 000 it was capable of killing, in ten minutes, the spores of the hacillus anikracis, one of the most resisting of all known organisms The results of these experiments cannot, however, be applied without modification to the prevention of decomposition in albuminous fluids, for corrosive sublimate forms with albumen a compound known as " mercuric albuminate " which, although not inert, possesses far less active antiseptic properties than the watery solution. Thus, Mikulicz found that the addition of one part of corrosive sublimate to 2,000 parts of a mixture of equal parts of blood and water entirely failed to retard putrefaction and the development of bacteria • when added in the proportion of 1 in 1,000 these processes were retarded but not prevented, and it was not till the proportion of 1 m 400 was reached 'that the development of bacteria was completely excluded. From these observations it is evident that the addition of perchloride of mercury to water in the proportion of 1 to 5,000 will certainly destroy every living oro-anism in it Such a solution may therefore be used to wash fresh wounds without any fear of infecting them either with septic or pathogenic organisms. ^ watery solution of this strength would, however, be quite inefficient as an antiseptic should it become mixed with any albuminous fluid, and consequently it is safer to use a solution of 1 in 2,000, or 1 in 1,000, for irrigating wounds durino- an operation, and the same strength is employed for cleaning the Surgeon's hands and for washing sponges. A solution of 1 m 500 may with safety be used to clean a foul abscess, but it must be applied with a sponge and the cavity afterwards dried with another sponge squeezed as dry as possible For cleaning unbroken skin 1 in 500 may be used with impunity, but it must be remembered that, unlike carbolic acid, it will not act efficiently on a greasy skin. The grease must be removed by abundant washing with soap and hot water followed by a weak solution of ammonia. Solutions of corrosive sublimate prepared with ordinary water, deposit, after some time, an insoluble precipitate containing a considerable proportion of the mercury, amountino- to more than 50 per cent, of that present if the water be very hard If"the solution is to be kept for any time, it is therefore usually recommended to prepare it with distilled water. Angerer of Munich has, liowever shown that the precipitation may be prevented by the addition of an equal quantity of common salt to the perchloride. He recommends that the salt and sublimate should be fused together into small cakes containing enouo-h to make a definite quantity, as a quart or more of the 1 in 1,000 solution. In this form the antiseptic can be readily carried in military ''^Tn m'eparino- dressings to absorb the discharges of wounds or abscesses a laro-er proportfon of sublimate must be added, for the reasons above given ; the'proportion most commonly adopted being about \ per cent, of the weight of the material used. For instance, to prepare gauze or wool, a solution is