1036 TUMOURS. names, and grouped in other divisions: and the term "sarcoma," which has now received a definite meaning, was formerly applied to almost any soft fleshy growth. Almost all soft sarcomata of bones, the glioma or glio-sarcoma of the eye, sarcomata of secreting and lymphatic glands, were formerly called soft cancer; the melanotic sarcoma,—melanosis or melanotic cancer ; the ossify- ing sarcoma,—osteoid cancer ; and the chondrifying sarcoma,—malignant enchondroma. Many firm sarcomata have been described as scirrhus, and soft sarcomata broken down by haemorrhage as blood-cysts. Lastly, the tumours known as fibro-plastic, fibro-nuclear, recurrent fibroid, malignant fibroid, and myeloid, have all been brought into the great class of sarcomata. These tumours may grow in any part of the body. They may present every variety of consistence, colour, and shape ; they may be circumscribed or diffuse : they may be as innocent as a fatty tumour, or as malignant as the worst form of cancer. The anatomical type of sarcoma is found in embryonic tissue, a description of which has been given in a former page (p. 1002). Its patho- logical analogue is seen in the products of inflammation, but between these and sarcoma are many differences. The products of inflammation, supposing they live, show a tendency towards development into some more perfect tissue ; but in a sarcoma the older parts of the growth show no higher deve- lopment than the most recent, the same type of structure being as a rule maintained throughout. The ossifying and chondrifying sarcomata and some fibro-sarcomata are, however, exceptions to the rule. Inflammatory new growths tend speedily to limit themselves, sarcomata to grow indefinitely. In sarcoma, the individual elements are often larger than those seen in inflammation. The cells of sarcomata vary greatly in shape and size, and it is chiefly according to these variations that this group is subdivided. The cells consist simply of a mass of protoplasm surrounding one or more nuclei, and not en- closed in a cell-wall. They may be small and round, exactly resembling the white corpuscles of the blood, or large and round, looking almost like epithelium cells ; they may be oval, spindle-shaped or fusiform, stellate or tailed ; giant cells crammed with nuclei may be found, and occasionally the cells are pigmented. The intercellular substance may be scanty or abundant, homo- geneous or fibrous, but whenever it is recognizable it is seen to penetrate ^between the individual cells in the greater part, if not in the whole of the tumour, and thus a broad distinction is established between these growths and carcinomata, in which the stroma forms alveolar spaces, the cells lying free within them. Occasionally the growth may ossify or chondrify. The blood- vessels of sarcomata are usually abundant and thin-walled, resembling those of newly formed granulations ; whilst in some tumours the blood-vessels are little more than clefts bounded by the actual cells of the tumour. This makes these tumours prone to bleed, both into their own substance and externally, and may perhaps account for the readiness with which many sarcomata propa- gate themselves in the direction of the circulation. In some forms the vascularity is such that the whole mass pulsates expansively, and on ausculta- tion a loud bruit may be heard, and thus the tumour may easily be mistaken for an aneurism. No lymphatics have been demonstated in sarcomata. These growths are usually prone to early degeneration. They most commonly undergo fatty degeneration in their central parts, but occasionally they may calcify ; mucous softening also may take place. When they reach the surface