MYOMA—FIBRO-MYOMA. 10 2 J enchondroma, or adenoma. The tumours are spoken of as myxo-sarcomata, myxo-chondromata, &c. Myxo-chondroma, frequently containing portions of adenoma, forms the ordinary parotid tumour. Occasionally a development of true fat cells may take place in the central parts of a myxoma, thus indicating, as Yirchow thinks, the relation of these tumours to embryonic fat. A few years ago I saw a case of an enormous abdominal tumour which proved after death to be a pure myxoma, weighing at least thirty pounds, the central parts of which contained an abundance of true adipose tissue. Such tumours as these have been spoken of as myxo-lipomata. I have since seen a similar abdominal tumour in a young man. After death it was found to be composed almost entirely of pure myxoma tissue. A few small nodules of spindle-celled tissue were found in it, but no fat. Myxomata may occur in any part of the body. When superficial they often assume a polypoid form, as in the ordinary mucous polypus of the nose. Myxomata are not unfrequent in the sub- cutaneous cellular tissue ; in nerves they form one variety of false neuroma, and they are occasionally met with in glands. They are usually non-malignant, but occasionally they occur locally after removal. If left untreated, they may cause death by ulceration of the skin taking place over them, leading to the sloughing of the tumour with profuse hsemorrhage and foul discharge. Occasionally they may prove fatal from pressure on important organs, as in the case of the abdominal tumour above mentioned. The Treatment consists in the removal of the growth whenever possible. III. TUMOURS WHICH RESEMBLE IN STRUCTURE, MORE OR LESS PERFECTLY, ONE OF THE MORE COMPLEX TISSUES OF THE BODY. A. Myoma. Muscular Tumour.—These tumours are of two classes : those containing striated muscular fibre, or rhabdomyoma, and those contain- ing non-striated muscular fibre, or leiomijoma. Striated muscular fibre has, at present, been found only in a few congenital tumours, chiefly in large growths in or near the kidney, in which it is mixed with spindle-celled sarcoma and cysts lined with epithelium. Non-striated muscular fibre is found in abundance in the so-called fibroid tumours of the uterus and of the prostate, but it is always associated with large quantities of fibrous tissue, so that the tumour is more properly spoken of as a fibro- myoma. The older tumours are found to be composed almost entirely of fibrous tissue, the muscular fibre cells having undergone atrophy. Pure myomata have, in very rare cases, been found in connection with the muscular coat of the alimentary canal and urinary passages. Fagge has recorded an interesting case of myoma of the oesophagus, which was accidentally discovered after death, at Guy's Hospital. It gave rise to no symptoms during life, although the tumour was as large as a good-sized egg. Myomata are always non-malignant. Pibro-Myoma of the Uterus.—These tumours are composed of lono- spindle-shaped muscular fibre cells and fibrous tissue in varying proportions'" According to the position of the tumour in the wall of the uterus they are described as subserous, interstitial or submucous. In the tumours of old women the muscle cells often atrophy, and the growth then presents the appearance of a pure fibroma. They are liable to softening and ulceration and are often accompanied by much hfemorrhage when they assume the 3 u 2