I032 TUMO URS. altogether superficial, and showing no tendency to burrow between the papillas into deeper parts, the tumour is non-malignant. In other cases, such as the common warts or gonorrhoeal warts, the growth is always simple. Papillomata vary in hardness and softness, according to the parts on which they grow, and the amount and nature of epithelium with which they are covered. Thus the common corn or wart, being thickly covered with horny epithelium, is hard, while the papillomata of the rectum, being thinly covered with columnar epithelium, are soft. The chief forms of papilloma are :—corns, simple warts, condylomata and mucous tubercles, and some forms of polypi and villous tumours. Corns consist of an undue development of cuticle, with slightly increased vascularity of the subjacent cutis; subsequently the papillae themselves become enlarged, especially when the irritation has been prolonged or con- Fig. 373.—Papilloma of Soft Palate. (40 diam.) (I. Superficial epithelium. b. Younger epithelium: in the deeper parts the cells are more deeply stained and radiate from the centre. c. Connective tissue forming the papillae, into the ramification.s of which it is prolonged. d. Vessels cut obliquely. siderable. A soft corn is merely one which from its situation is kept con- stantly moist, so that the newly formed scaly epithelium, instead of forming a dense crust, peels off, leaving the vascular and sensitive papillae but thinly covered. Warts are the result of a primary hypertrophy of the papillae, accompanied by the formation of new vessels, and a great increase in the development of the epidermis, which forms laminated strata, and sometimes produces, in the hollows between the papillse, masses with a concentric arrangement of the cells, closely resembling the nest-like structures seen in squamous carcinoma. The true warts are most commonly found on the skin, and are then often very hard and horny ; sometimes they may develop a long horn-like growth. Softer varieties are, however, found on the muco-cutaneous surfaces, especially of the prepuce and vulva, and are usually of specific origin. Tliey may also occur on the mucous membrane of the mouth or soft palate (Fig. 373), and they are not uncommon in the larynx. Warty growths on the vulva, the result of gonorrhoeal irritation, may reach the size of a fcetal head. Simple cutaneous warts are often pigmented, being of