1003 CLASSIFICATION OF TUMOURS in this tissue observable in tumours are seen both in the cells and in t^e intercellular substance. The cells may be of great size, almost resembling epithelial cells with a large oval vesicular nucleus : they may be spindle- shaped, oval, or stellate. The intercellular substance may be small m quantity and homogeneous, or it may be increased in amount without apparent change in its nature. The most common modification is a development of fibrous tissue between the cells. In other cases it may be developed into bone or cartilage. It must be remembered, however, that in tumours classified undei- the type of embryonic tissue, with rare exceptions, a recognizable intercellular substance, either homogeneous or fibrous, extends between the individual cells, and this serves as an important point of distinction between some modifica- tions of embryonic tissue and epithelium. Epithelium is composed of cells united together by a homogeneous material or cement, which is not sufficient in quantity to be recognizable under ordinary circumstances. No vessels ever penetrate amongst the cells, nor do the fibres of the surrounding or subjacent connective tissue extend between the individual elements. Consequently if, on washing a microscopic section so as to remove the cells, a reticulate fibrous stroma is seen forming spaces in which single cells have lain, the tissue is not epithelial. It will be seen hereafter that some forms of tumour, composed of one of the modifications of embryonic tissue, may so closely resemble epithelial growths that it is only by carefully observing a washed specimen that the distinction can be made. Epithelium cells vary much in shape and size, and their outline is sharply defined. They possess usually one nucleus, sometimes two, with one or more highly refracting nucleoli. The nucleus is frequently eccentric. The form of epitheUum met with in a primary tumour is always similar to that normal to the part in which the tumour is growing : thus in the skin it is squamous, in the intestines columnar, and in glands it is spheroidal. In secondary tumours, the type of epithelium con-esponds to that of the primary growth. Primary tumours containing epithelium never originate except in connection with parts in which epithelial cells are normally present. This fact has led to another classification, accord- ing to the origin of the part in which the tumour grows, from one or other of the three layers into which the blastoderm divides in the first stages of deve- lopment. From the superficial layer or epiblast are developed the central nervous system, the organs of sense and the cuticular covering of the body, and the glands of the skin ; from the lower layer or hypoblast arise the epithelial lining of the air-passages, and of the alimentary canal with the epithelial lining of ducts opening into it, and the special epithelium of the glands themselves. The rest of the body arises from the middle layer or mesoblast. It is supposed that, after this early differentiation of the embryonic cells, the tissues which belong to one layer can never be developed from the cells of another. Thus tumours such as carcinomata, in which epithelium forms the active and essential element, can never develop primarily in those parts which arise from the mesoblast. Tumours have, therefore, been classified as epiblastic, mesoblastic, and hypoblastic. The following classification may be adopted as possessing clinical convenience, and, at the same time, presenting, as far as possible, an anatomical uniformity. I. Cystic Tumours generally. II. Tumours composed of one of the modifications of fully developed Con- nective Tissue.