778 INJURIES OF THE HEAD. the base of the third frontal convolution. If the abscess be deeply seated, a small drainage tube must be inserted into the cavity, otherwise the swollen brain substance will prevent drainage. Macewen uses a decalcified chicken bone tube, but in the treatment of an acute abscess he usually dispenses with the drainage tube altogether, the cavity being rapidly obliterated by the brain bulging into it. The difficulties in the diagnosis and treatment of these cases are, however, often very great, as the following cases will show. A man was admitted into University College Hospital with an extensive lacerated wound of the scalp, denuding the pericranium. He continued free from all cerebral disturbance until the tenth day after the accident, when he complained of headache, and had a quick pulse and a hot skin ; at this time it was observed that the pericranium had separated from the skull. Active antiphlogistic treatment was followed by subsidence of symptoms, and the patient went on fatourably until the thirty-fourth day, when he suddenly became delirious and then unconscious, though easily roused when spoken to loudly, and then answering rationally ; his pulse fell to 48. He died on the thirty-ninth day, comatose. On examination after death, the pericranium was found detached at the seat of injury ; under this the dura mater was thick, yellow, and opaque, but no pus was observable. On separating the hemispheres, however, a large abscess was found situated deeply in the anterior lobe on the injured side, and protruding into the median fissure. It contained about one ounce of pus. Another case admitted into the Hospital was that of a man who had received a large lacerated wound on the left side of the scalp in consequence of a fall. There was no injury to the bone, and the patient went on perfectly well until the seventy-seventh day, the wound having cicatrized. He was then suddenly seized with hemiplegia of the right side, from which he re- covered partially on being bled ; some twitching of the muscles, however, continued. On the ninety-ninth day after the accident he became comatose, and was trephined by S. Cooper, but without relief, dying with symptoms of compression of the brain on the third day after the operation. On examination thick yellow lymph was found, covering the whole of the upper surface of both hemispheres, lying between the arachnoid and pia mater, and extending into the sulci between the convolutions. There was an abscess in the substance of the brain near the surface of the right hemisphere—the side opposite to the seat of injury. Here also, though the symptoms were well marked, and the diagnosis as to the existence of pus correct, trephining was useless, as the pus could not be evacuated. These cases serve to indicate the difficulties that surround any operation undertaken with the view of evacuating matter from within the cranium. Hernia or Fungus Cerebri.—In those cases in which a laceration of the brain and dura mater communicates with a fracture of the skull, it is occasionally found, more particularly in children, that a dark brown or bloody fungus-looking mass of cerebral matter protrudes from the wound. The period after the receipt of an injury at which this protrusion takes place, varies from a few days—eight or ten—to several weeks. It was remarked by Guthrie, and the observation has been fully confirmed, that hernia cerebri is more likely to take place through small, than through large, apertures in the cranial bones. The protrusion is usually the result of abnormal intracranial pressure, from