TUMOURS. I052 becomes more severe during ulceration. The lymphatic glands are affected most commonly at an early period in the case, but sometimes not until after ulceration of the cancer has commenced. In external cancers, such as come under the care of the Surgeon, the general health as a rule suffers but little until the presence of the foul ulcerating sore gives rise to chronic septic poisoning, or to exhaustion from pain and want of rest, and sometimes also from loss of blood. In fact at the time the patient first presents himself he is often in the rudest health except for the local disease. In cancers of internal organs, and in the later stages of external cancers when secondary internal growths have formed, the general health becomes gravely affected, and the condition known as the cancerous cachexy is developed. In this cachexy the countenance is peculiarly pale, drawn, and sallow, so that the patient has a very anxious and care-worn look. The general surface of the body commonly acquires an earthy or yellowish tint, and not unfrequently large spots of chloasma make their appearance on various parts of it ; the appetite is im- paired, the voice enfeebled, the muscular strength greatly diminished, and the pulse weak. The patient complains of pains in the limbs, of lassitude, and of ioability for exertion, and he emaciates rapidly ; and at last dies from exhaus- tion, induced by the conjoined effects of weakening discharges, general debility, and pain. Various views have been held concerning the nature of this can- cerous cachexia. It has been assumed that it is an indication of a constitu- tional condition or blood-disease of which the tumour is merely a local manifestation. It has also been suggested that it may be due to the entrance into the blood-stream of some noxious material generated in the cancerous growth ; and lastly, that it is merely the effect of the pain of the tumour, the want of rest, the exhausting discharges, and the implication of important in- ternal organs by secondary growths. The first theory is negatived by the fact that cachexia is certainly wanting in the early stages of all external cancers, and in squamous carcinoma is often absent till near the end of the case. The second theory is a pure hypothesis ; and the last is therefore that which seems most worthy of acceptance. Causes.—The causes of cancer, as of all other diseases, may be divided into two great classes, viz. : the constitutional or predisposing, and the local or exciting. Constitutional or Predisposing Causes.—It is difficult to connect any distinct or recognizable constitutional condition with a tendency to this disease. Cancer, indeed, commonly shows itself in persons apparently in perfect health, of florid complexion, and robust habit of body. The hereclitariness of cancer has, however, been established beyond a doubt. Velpeau states, as the result of his researches, that it is traceable hereditarily in one-third of the cases. Paget, amongst hospital patients, found evidence of here- ditariness in about 1 in G, but amongst private patients, whose family histories are better known, it amounted to 1 in 3 ; thus agreeing with Velpeau's estimate. The hereditary tendency is in some cases not only to cancer generally, but to the same form of cancer. Thus, Paget records a case in which three gene- rations were affected by uterine cancer. Sibley records an instance in which a mother and five daughters suffered from cancer of the left breast. It is not, however, by any means always so. Paget states that it is only in about one half of the cases of hereditary cancer that it is thus transmitted, and then almost exclusively in the breast and uterus. He relates one striking instance