259 TREATMENT OF SUPPURATION. used, it often becomes choked immediately by the flakes of cheesy matter floating in the fluid, but this rarely happens before enough fluid has been obtained to indicate its nature. Fig. 94 represents Coxeter's aspirator, which can be converted, if necessary, into a siphon. One stop-cock c, as represented in the drawing, closes both tubes. The piston A being withdrawn, and a vacuum so produced, the cock c is turned on so that it is parallel to the syringe, and the vacuum is thus put in connection with the needle d. AYhile doing this, the small cock at e must be closed. If it be determined to use the apparatus as a siphon, the cock e must be opened, and the handle of the piston forced down so as to fill the long tube passing downwards from e with the fluid already drawn from the cavity. The cock c now being turned off, the fluid will continue to flow. The diagnosis of an abscess having pulsation communicated to it by a subjacent artery from an aneurism will be discussed when we come to speak of that disease. Prognosis.—Abscesses vary greatly in danger according to tlieir nature, situation and cause. Pysemic abscesses are necessarily very fatal, as they com- monly occur in the viscera, and are a part of a most dangerous general infective process. An acute abscess is not in itself a serious disease when it can be opened and properly treated; it becomes serious when situated in an important organ as the brain, lung, or kidney ; when so situated as to be likely to burst into one of the large serous cavities, or to implicate a joint; or it may become serious by giving rise to general infection. Chronic abscesses are frequently very serious affections, as they are often associated with progressive tuberculous disease of bones or joints. Their size is another source of danger, especially if the large cavity is allowed to become septic after opening. Death from septicemia is then very common. The age and state of general health are also important. In old or very feeble persons the pain, fever and discharge, even from a comparatively small abscess, may prove fatal. ^ ' Treatment.—The treatment of suppuration presents three points requiring attention. The first object should be to pi-event the formation of matter ; the next to take steps for its evacuation when formed ; and the last to endeavour to close the cavity that results. The treatment necessary to prevent suppura- tion in open wounds, or, in other words, to obtain union by first intention will be fully described in Chapter IX. ' In cases in which there is no open wound, the preventive treatment of acute suppuration is nothing more than the preventive treatment of inflammation already described (p. 204). In chronic inflammations threatening to end in suppuration, the constitutional treatment described on p. 229 is of the o-reatest importance in preventing its occurrence. Time of Opening.—In an Acute Abscess, the matter should in all cases be let out as soon as its presence is recognised. When this is done, the patient at once experiences great rdief ; the fever and general irritation subside materially, the free incision not only letting out the pus, but removing tension and relieving pain. The rule of opening an acute abscess early is especially imperative when the pus is formed in the sheaths of the tendon«^ and under fibrous expansions where there is much tension ; also when it is situated deeply in the areolar planes of a limb, under the larger muscles where It has a tendency to diffuse itself extensively. In those cases, likewise, in which pus IS lodged in close proximity to a joint or under the periosteum, it S 2