INJURIES OF THE SPINE. occurs independently of severe damage to the spinal column. Haemorrhage within the spinal canal may occur : (a) between the vertebrse and the dura mater ; (b) into the membranes ; (c) into the substance of the spinal cord. In these respects intraspinal extravasations closely resemble those which occur as the result of injury within the cranium. In the more severe forms of sprain of the spine it is probable that hsemorrhage between the bones and the dura mater is not an unfrequent occurrence, especially where partial separation of vertebras has occurred with laceration of the intervertebral substance. This, no doubt, in some cases accounts for the symptoms indicating slight damage to the nerve-roots, which we have already seen are occasionally met Avith in severe cases of sprain. The exact way in which intraspinal hasmorrhage is produced by injury without serious damage to the spinal column is somewhat doubtful. According to one view the cord is bruised by the severe shaking within the canal to which it has been subjected ; whilst others would explain the hsemorrhage by supposing that the cord is acutely bent at the time of the injury by the "partial dislocation with recoil" which occurs. Thorburn points out that the definitely localized characters of many haemorrhages into the spinal cord favours the latter view, as well as the fact that in cases of extravasation into the cervical portion of the cord, the favourite seat is that part which corresponds to the fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebrae where the curve is most pronounced. Effusions of blood into the membranes may be more or less widely diffused, whilst an effusion into the substance of the cord— " hasmatomyelia"—usually occurs as a single focus. This is much more common in the cervical than in either of the other regions, and the central grey matter suffers more severely than the more superficial white substance. In the slighter forms of intraspinal hemorrhage, especially of the menin- geal variety, the eff'used blood is slowly absorbed and the symptoms corre- ^ondingly disappear. In the more severe cases, however, especially if the haemorrhage be in the substance of the nervous tissue, permanent damage of varying degree results and manifests itself by a corresponding persistence of the symptoms. A gradual extension of the symptoms due directly to the haemor- rhage indicates the occurrence of a myelitis spreading from the affected area. The Symptoms must necessarily vary according to the part of the spinal cord which is affected and the extent to which it is damaged by the effusion of blood. In many cases the symptoms will be found immediately after the accident, although, as in the case of intracranial hsemorrhage, they will often not reach their maximum for a variable period, that is to say, not until the bleeding finally ceases. In other cases, especially of the meningeal variety, an interval will elapse before the quantity of effused blood is sufficient to cause any recognizable disturbance of function ; whilst the evidence that hEemorrhage has occurred may first declare itself after the temporary symptoms due to concussion have passed away. The symptoms of meningeal hcmiorrhage, as pointed out by Gowers, bear some resemblance to those of meningitis. Pain in the back is common, with paroxysmal pains referred along the course of the nerves, which take origin in the affected area. Spasmodic contraction of the muscles supplied by the nerve- roots which arise at the seat of the extravasation takes place, and is followed by paresis. If the hiemorrhage be extensive there may also be weakness and lessened sensitiveness in the limbs below the lesion. Meningeal hsemorrhage