22 GENERAL REMARKS ON OPERATIONS. with the ether-chamber, but without the bag, and with the indicator pointing to " no ether." The patient is allowed to breathe through it a few times to get accustomed to it. Then the bag is applied, and he commences to breathe the same air over and over again. This soon produces a slight stupe- fying eftect, and after a few respirations the ether-vessel is rotated so as gradually to allow more and more ether-vapour to be mixed with the air. After a few more respirations the full amount of ether should be tui-ned on. In this apparatus there is purposely no provision for the admission of fresh air, and if it Avere held firmly to the face for a sufficient time death from asphyxia must ensue. The administrator judges by the appearance of the face when air is needed, and removes the whole apparatus for one or more respirations as he may think necessary. Clover recommended that it should be removed at every sixth inspiration. The administration of ether by this apparatus gives rise to less choking than when the vapour is gi^'en from a hollow sponge. The first effect of the administration of ether is to cause some irritation of the air passages indicated by coughing and a sense of suffocation, often very distressing to the patient, especially if the vapour be at first administered m too concentrated a form. This is very much diminished or completely avoided by using Clover's apparatus in the manner above described. After a few inspirations the sense of irritation subsides, and the vapour may then be given in full strength. The face soon becomes flushed, the breathing more deep and rapid, and the pulse is increased in frequency and fulness. At this time the patient feels a sense of warmth and tinghng throughout the body. This stage is quickly followed by one of excitement, in which the patient may struggle, often violently, with the administrator and his assis- tants. His movements are more or less purposive, like those of a drunken man. This stage of excitement is most marked when the vapour is con- siderably diluted with air, as when it is given by means of a cone. The use of a good inhaler tends to shorten it, or to abolish it altogether. The patient frequently remembers what has happened during the stage of excitement, and the surgeon and his assistants should avoid any unguarded expression which might leave on the patient's mind an idea that he was roughly used. The face now becomes dusky, the skin is covered with perspiration, the respirations are hurried and deep, the pulse strong and full, and the pupil contracted. At this time a bright red rash not uncommonly appears on the chest and neck. The stage of excitement is usually followed by one of general muscular rigidity, the hmbs are forcibly extended, the respiration may be temporarily suspended, and the duskiness of the face increased. The inhaler should now be removed for a few seconds till another breath has been taken. If the inspiration is delayed, the chest may be squeezed and the chin forcibly pulled up, which will usually have the desired effect. The stage of rigidity is quickly followed by complete muscular relaxation, the respiration becomes slower and shallower, the pulse falls slightly in frequency and force, the face becomes less dusky, the pupil dilates and the conjunctival reflex is abolished. The patient is now ready for the operation. A smaller quantity of ether is required to maintain the desired condition, and if Clover's apparatus is being used, it may be turned to " one-third " or one-half ether." From the earhest stage of adminstration, the flow of saliva and mucus from the mouth and air passages is increased, often to such an extent as to cause considerable embarrassment in breathing, the respiration, both abdominal and thoracic, being violent and laboured. Under