3 V OSTEOMA. IC25 S In Fig. 37 may be seen the kind of hand left after operation in the case from which Fig. 364 was taken. If, in these circumstances, excision of the tumom- only be attempted, it will be found that the whole mass cannot be removed, and that it rapidly grows again ; or that the wound formed by the operation remains fistulous and open. Eemoval of a pure chondroma is followed by a permanent cure. The mixed cartilaginous tumours, as chondro-sarcoma or adeno-chrondro-sarcoma, some- times return after removal, both locallv and in internal organs. d. Osteoma. Exostosis. Bony Tumour.—To render the review of the difterent tumours complete, it will be necessary to mention the osteomata here, though their clinical characters will be more fully treated of in the Chapter on the Diseases of Bones. In the first place, it is necessary to distinguish mere calcification from the formation of true bone. The former is extremely common, the latter some- what rare. Bone appears in tumours under four chief conditions : 1st, as the result of the ossifi- cation of a fibroma; 2ndly, of a sarcoma; 3rdly, of a chondroma; and 4thly, as a special growth covered by a firm layer of periosteum. Only the last two of these forms are properly spoken of as bony tumours or exostoses. They differ from each other in their seat and consistence, as well as in their mode of growth. Those developing from cartilage— spongy exostoses—are situated almost invariably in the immediate neighbourhood of an epiphysis, and rarely, if ever, start into growth after the twenty- fourth year; those developing from a fibrous periosteal covering—ivory exostoses—are of extreme and remarkable density, and are usually seated on flat bones, such as those of the head, face, scapula, and pelvis. Both these growths closely resemble normal bone in structure, the spongy exostosis exactly agreeing with the cancellous tissue of the extremity of a long bone, and the ivory or hard exostosis corresponding to the petrous portion of the temporal, or the compact tissue of a long bone. Both forms are non-mahgnant. Spongij Exostoses, sometimes called from their shape pedunculated or cauli^ flower exostoses, are most common at the upper end of the humerus and the lower end of the femur, and on the ungual phalanx of the great toe (Fig. 364 A). If observed during the stage of growth, they are found to be covered by a perfectly developed hyaline cartilage, which apparently grows fi-om the perichondrium covering it, and quickly undergoes ossification at its deep surface. If the tumour be observed when all growth has ceased, it will be found to be completely bony, being composed of a pedunculated mass of cancellous tissue, thinly covered by a layer of compact bone. The cancellous tissue of the tumour is continuous with that of the bone upon which it o-rows the compact tissue of the shaft being absorbed beneath the base of the tumour' Sometimes these tumours are hereditary and multiple. They scarcely ever reach a great size, and probably cease to grow if they become completelv ossified. Fig. 366.—Pedunculated exo.s- tose.i (natural size). A. From femur of a boy. B. From .scapula of a child three years old. ((• Hyaline cartilage. l>. Layer of imperlect ossifica- tion. c. Well-formed spongy bone. d. Periosteum. The drawing illustrates the dif- ferent proportions which the va- rious constituents of the tumour may bear to one another. VOL. L