262 SUPPURATION AND ABSCESS. slipping into the cayity. This precaution is very important, as many accidents have happened from its not being taken. A few years ago, a patient threatened an action for damages against the authorities of a hospital, because through the neglect of this detail on the part of a dresser, the tube had slipped into the cavity of an abscess, and had been lost and forgotten ; by which accident the cure was considerably delayed. In deep abscesses the drainage-tube is used in the following way. Ihe abscess having been opened, the depth of the cavity is measured with a pair of " sinus-forceps " (Fig. 95), and a piece of tube of the necessary length is cut off. The bottom end is then seized in the sinus-forceps, and pushed in till the open mouth with the threads attaclied is exactly level with the skin. If the tube passes in obliquely beneath the skin, its mouth must be bevelled so as to correspond accurately to the surface. If a long piece of tube be allowed to hang out, its end is folded over under the dressing, and thus the lumen is completely obstructed. In some large abscesses it will be found convenient to pass in two tubes at different openings. This is much better than passing a single tube through the cavity, as it allows thy middle part to heal, and di- minishes the chance of a troublesome suppurating track being left. A drainage-tube in a small superficial acute abscess may b", removed in twenty-four hours, but from a large or deep cavity it had better not be removed for three days, otherwise there may be some trouble in putting it in again ; but by the third day, it has usually made a track for itself, into which it can readily be passed Avhen it has been taken out for cleaning. " If the case does well, as the abscess gradually closes from the bottom, the tube becomes pushed out; when this begins to take place, it must be gradually shortened to accommodate it to the diminished size of the cavity. A tube of smaller diameter may also be used with advantage as the dis- charge diminishes. After the opening of an abscess it may happen that the cavity fills with blood from the small vessels in its walls ; this hfEmorrhage, however, speedily ceases on the application of pressure or on elevation of the part. Provided the incision has to be carried only through the superficial structures, there can be but little danger of heemorrhage from any blood-vessel of importance ; and, should bleeding^ occur, it will probably be venous, and may be arrested by pressure. It is wiser, however, for a Surgeon to make it a rule never to open even a superficial abscess without having the necessary means at hand for the arrest of arterial hsemorrhage. When the abscess is more deeply seated, lying under the superficial muscles, the incautious use of the knife may lead to the most serious arterial hsemorrhage. This is more particularly apt to occur in subperiosteal abscesses of the thigh or buttock. In order to avoid this dano-er Hilton advised that abscesses so situated should be opened m the foUowiiio- way. An incision is made through the integuments and fascia so as \ to expose the muscle under which the pus lies ; a director is then pushed I Fig. 05.—Sinus forceps.