/ 100 TVBERCVLOSIS. quantity of claret or bitter beer : and, unless the patient have been accus- tomed to the use of stimulants, even these had better be dispensed with. Small doses of mercury with chalk, of soda and rhubarb, should be occasionally administered at bed-time, with some of the compound decoction of aloes on the following morning ; and a few grains of the carbonate of soda or of potash may be given twice or thrice a day in some light bitter infusion, as of cascarilla or calumba. In many cases of tuberculous disease, more especially that affecting the joints and bones, the liver will be found to be enlarged and sluggish in its action, the patient every now and then becoming bilious, sallow, and jaundiced; in these circumstances, small doses of blue pill, carried off with the compound decoction of aloes or a rhubarb draught, will be found necessary fi'om time to time. When all gastric irritation has been removed in this way, or if it have not existed in the usual marked degree from the first, the patient being pale and flabby, with a weakened condition of the pulse, of the skin, and of the mucous surface, then tonics may be administered, and the more specific treat- ment adopted. The great remedies which are employed in the constitutional treatment of scrofula are iron, iodine, the preparations of potash, and cod-liver oil. These are all extremely useful, either singly or conjoined, as they serve to carry out distinct indications in the management of this affection. Iron is most useful in improving the nutrition of pale, flabby, anaemic sub- jects. The best preparations for children are, I think, the vinum ferri and the syrup of the iodide of iron. In older persons the tincture of the perchloride, and some of the forms of the citrate or the phosphate of iron, appear to be most serviceable ; in other cases, again, the natural chalybeate waters will be found to agree best. Iodine is universally believed to promote the absorption of tlie chronic inflammatory products which so commonly form in scrofulous affections. The preparation usually employed is the iodide of potassium. In order that this may produce its full effects, it should be given as freely as the patient will bear it, continued for a considerable length of time, and especially adminis- tered in combinations with other preparations of potash. With the view of preventing it from irritating the stomach, it should be given in a considerable quantity of some bland fluid. Its combination with the other salts often renders it more efficacious. For this purpose I have found the following form extremely useful for adults, the dose being proportionately diminished in the case of children:—R Potassii iodidi, Potassae chloratis, aa 5j ; Potassae bi- carbonatis, 5iij. Divide into twelve powders, of which one is to be taken night and morning in half a pint of warm milk. In other cases, the liquor potassae, Brandish's alkaline solution, or lime-water given freely in milk, are serviceable ; but I prefer the above prescription. Cod-liver oil, which may be looked upon rather as an article of diet than as a medicine, is of essential utility in improving the nuti'ition of the body in cachectic and emaciated states of the system, more particularly in growing children, or in individuals who are suffering from the wasting effects of chronic suppuration ; it not only fattens but strengthens the system, increas- ing decidedly the muscular power and the quantity of red corpuscles in the blood. It may often very advantageously be administered in combination with the iodides of potassium or iron, and given after meals. Of the other tonic remedies which may be employed in this affection, such