PIROGOFF'S AMPUTATION. 125 sponding point on the other side ; when operating on the left foot the direction of the incision is reversed. This incision should not be made directly trans- verse to the foot, but should incline forwards obliquely at an angle of about 45° to the line of the leg, the foot being held at right angles to the limb, so that the centre of the incision in the sole may (Fig. 66) reach a little beyond the anterior extremity of the os calcis. The knife should then be sunk in down to the bones, care being taken in crossing the sole of the foot that the blade is not turned at right angles to the sole, but is slanted obliquely backwards in the line of the incision from the malleolus. The ankle joint is then opened, as in Syme's operation, by an incision across the front. The foot is now forcibly extended to the greatest possible extent, a common amputation-saw or a jaw-saw is applied immediately behind the astragalus, and the bone cut obliquely downwards and forwards in the line of the incision in the soft parts, so that the saw should come out immediately behind the articulation of the os calcis with the cuboid (Fig. G7) ; the malleoli are then removed, together with a thin slice of the tibia, including the whole articular cartilage (Fig. 68). Fig. 08.—Piiogoff's Atiiputiition. Appearance of Parts Fig. G!).—Stump after Piroi'off's after Removal of Malleoli. Amputation. ° The opposed osseous surfaces must then be accurately adjusted, and the limb laid on the outer side, with the knee placed so as to take off the tension of the tendo Achillis. The advantages of the long oblique section of the os calcis over the shorter almost vertical cut originally made by Pirogolf are, as Busk pointed out, that a larger surface of the os calcis is brought into contact with the sawn end of the bones of the leg ; that the piece of bone left in the flap does not require to be tilted so much on its own axis, and that consequently the tendo Achillis is not put so much on the stretch ; and that the thick skin of the plantar surface of the heel still serves as the basis of support instead of the thin skin of the back of the heel, which is turned downwards in the other method. The alleged advantages of this operation over Syme's amputation consist in the stump being longer, to the extent of the thickness of the portion of the OS calcis left in it, and being better adapted for pressure (Fig. (IS)) ;