34 GENERAL REMARKS ON OPERATIONS. with very trifling danger, so trifling indeed, that many a surgeon goes through a long hospital experience without meeting with a fatal case. There are no data at present before the profession from which the relative danger of the two agents can be deduced with anything like certainty, but it is generally acknowledged by those who have much experience of both that ether is safer than chloroform. In University College Hospital ether has been used as the ordinary antrstlietic for many years, yet during that time the few deaths which have occurred during anaesthesia have all been from chloroform. In the hands of an unskilled or careless administrator there can be little doubt that chloro- form is more dangerous than ether. It kills more suddenly, and gives less time for restorative measures to be taken. The extreme view taken by some advocates of chloroform, that that agent is absolutely safe if undivided attention be given to the respiration, and that every fatal case is more or less the fault of the administrator from not doing so, may be true of dogs and monkeys, but there is abundant chnical evidence that it is not true of man. There is equally insufficient evidence to justify the opinion of some of the supporters of ether that to give chloroform is so dangerous as to be scarcely justifiable. Both agents are sufficiently safe in the hands of a careful administrator to justify "their use, but circumstances may make one or the other preferable. Where no special conditions are present to determine the choice, ether should be preferred as the safer. 2. As io convenience.—Chloroform is more convenient than ether in many ways, and, indeed, it was this that led to its general adoption. It can be more easily administered without any special apparatus ; it induces anassthesia more rapidly, and the quantity required is much smaller. These advantages are most important in military and naval practice, where the large bulk of ether required would often render its employment difficult. So, also, in country practice, where Surgeons have often to work single-handed, or with imperfect assistance, chloroform is the more convenient aufesthetic. In hot climates, the extreme volatihty of ether makes its use practically impossible. To the patient, chloroform is usually pleasanter, causing less coughing and sense of suffocation. Under favourable circumstances, however, all these advantages of chloroform over ether disappear. With a proper inhaler angesthesia is induced as quickly with ether as with chloroform, and can be kept up as easily. The quantity required is not so great as to be an inconvenience in most cases, and all unpleasantness may be avoided by giving laughing gas first. In fact gas and ether is by far the least unpleasant anaesthetic that a patient can take for a major operation. The after-effects of the chloroform and ether are so much alike that on this ground there is little to choose between them. Excitement on recovery is more common after ether. The penetrating and long persistent odour of ether is often very annoying to the patient on recovery, and in this respect it is more unpleasant than chloroform. During the operation, putting the question of safety on one side, chloroform is undoubtedly more convenient to the Surgeon. Ether frequently causes o-reat venous congestion, and in this way increases the oozing from the wound. It is said, also, to increase bleeding by causing vaso-motor .paralysis. It is more difficult to get perfect muscular relaxation with ether, and clonic spasms are not uncommon, which, combined with the violent respiratory movements, are often most embarrassing to the Surgeon.