TREATMENT OF GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. 353 inefchoclical treatment, the influence of the shock and pain should be counter- acted by the administration of a little brandy-and-water and opium, and plenty of cold water should be given to relieve thirst. Gun-shot Wounds in the Extremities may be divided into two great classes in reference to treatment :—I. Those that do not require amputation ; II. Those in which amputation is necessary. I. Those cases of gun-shot injury which do not require amputation must be treated on the principles that guide us in the management of other wounds ; the Surgeon bearing in mind, however, that these injuries, unless they can be kept aseptic, are especially apt to be followed by severe diffuse inflammation, and that sloughing is very prone to occur in the track of the ball. The first point to be attended to in these cases is the Arrest of Haemor- rhage. In general, this may not give much trouble ; but, if a large vessel be injured, the loss of blood will rapidly prove fatal. The bleeding may in the first in- stance be stopped by direct pressure with the fingers on the bleeding part, followed by the application of the tourniquet, the most convenient form being the simple elastic band. If this be not at hand, some substitute must be made use of, such as a pebble, of about the size of an egg, I'olled in the middle of a pocket-handker- chief and laid over the artery, the hand- kerchief being knotted round the limb, and then twisted up tightly with a piece of stick or the hilt of a sword passed under it (Fig. 109). The wound in the artery may render amputation of the limb neces- sary ; if not, haemorrhage must be arrested by making an incision down to the bleed- ing vessel, and applying a ligature on each side of the wounded point, for reasons that ,09.-Gun..i,oi wound of TWgiK Mode will be stated when we come to speak of compressing Artery temporarily. Injuries of Arteries. In military practice, however, such operations for primary htemorrhage appear to be very rare. The fact is that, if a large artery be wounded, the patient usually dies irom li^morrhage before anything can be done to arrest it. If a small vessel only be divided, the ha3morrhage will speedily cease of itself. The second point to be attended to is the Extraction of Foreign Bodies, such as shot, slugs, or bullets, wadding, pieces of clothing that have been carried in with the ball, splinters of bone, and other matters of a like kind. This, for the reasons already given, should not be undertaken on the field of battle, nor is it necessary to examine the wound as soon as the patient arrives at the hospital in all cases if it is known that the bullet has not lodged. If an antiseptic first dressing has been applied and is drying on the wound, it may be left in the hope of scabbing taking place, unless a rise of temperature and increased pain show that suppuration is commencing. 'J'he modern rifle bullet, owing to its conical form and its great velocity, does not in the