1104 ACTINOMYCOSIS. spongy, and infiltrated with a qnantity of gelatinous semi-transparent granula- tion tissue, running into unhealthy suppuration, with fistulous tracts leading through it that cannot be brought to heal. If the disease be but partially removed, local recurrence is naturally not uncommon. If the patient is suffering from pulmonary phthisis as well as local tuberculous disease of a bone or joint an operation should not be undertaken if it can be avoided, but even in advanced phthisis the patient may survive an amputation for a diseased joint, and even be benefited by it if he pre- viously were suffering much from pain and discharge. If the patient is being exhausted by prolonged suppuration from a tuberculous bone or joint, removal of the source of the mischief, if possible, is the only chance of relief. ACTINOMYCOSIS. Actinomycosis is a chronic infective disease caused by the invasion of the tissues by a microscopic fungus to which the name of actinomyces or ray fungus has been given. It was first recognised as a specific disease in cattle by Bollinger in 1877, and in the same year Israel first described its occurrence in man. It was further investigated in 1879 by Ponfick, and subsequently by Moosbrugger, Bosfcrom, Crookshank, M'Fadyean and many others. Pathology.—The disease is characterised both in animals and in man by the formation of tumour-like masses of granulation tissile invading the tissues in which they he. The fungus can be seen with the naked eye as small yellowish bodies about the size of hemp-seeds, scattered through the granulation tissue. It is the presence of this fungus that sets up the inflammation and causes the formation of the granulation tissue ; the large tumour-hke masses being formed by the coalescence of numbers of small nodules. In some of these nodules a zone of epithelioid or giant cells may be seen surrounding the fungus, and in others a varying amount of fibrous tissue may be found apparently developed in the granulation tissue furthest removed from the fungus ; the changes, indeed, closely resembling those produced by the growth of the tubercle bacillus. After a time, varying from a few weeks to a few months, the granulation tissue round the fungus softens and breaks down into pus. According to Moosbrugger, this occurs only when the diseased tissue becomes infected with the micrococci of suppuration. The abscess thus formed reaches the surface and discharges pus in which the yellow bodies above mentioned can be recognised. As the disease advances new masses of granulation tissue spring up in the neighbourhood of the first, apparently by invasion through the lyjnphatics. If one of the small yellow^ bodies found in the pus or granulation tissue be subjected to microscopic examination, it will be found to consist of a central mass of interw'oven threads, and an outer part made up of club-shaped bodies radiating from the centre, giving the whole the appearance of a rosette. In the cases of actinomycosis recorded in man, the club-shaped bodies have usually been little developed ; there is, however, every reason for supposing that the fungus is identical with that found in cattle. Opinions difi'er as to the true significance of the clubs, and accordingly as to the real nature of the fungus. According to the older view, which is also supported by the more recent researches of Crookshank, the clubs are reproductive bodies in which spores are formed, the general plan of the fungus being, indeed, that of the higher mould fungi. Bosti'om, however, regards the clubs as evidence of