REDUCTION OF DISLOCATED HUMERUS. 671 fully reduced one at three weeks, two at five weeks, three at seven weeks, four at three months, and two at four months. In one case, an old woman of 70, with an unreduced dislocation eight weeks old, fracture of the arm took place, and reduction became impossible. 3. The reduction of the dislocation hij the heel in the axilla is a most efficient procedure in ordinary cases. In adopting this plan, the patient is laid on his back upon a low bed or couch, or on the ground ; the Surgeon, seating himself on the same side as the dislocated arm, takes the limb by the wrist, and places one foot, covered merely with the stocking, well up into the axilla, so that the heel may press against the lower bordei- of the scapula, and the foot act upon the humerus (Fig. ^U^t). He then draws the hmb steadily down- wards, and, when it is disengaged to a sufficient extent, brings the hand across the front of the patient, the foot acting as a fulcrum, by which the head of the bone may be reduced by being pushed upwards and outwards. This mode of reduction is very successful in ordinary dislocations into the axilla, and in those under the clavicle. In the latter, how- ever, it will be necessary to draw the arm more obhquely downwards and back- wards, and to press the foot somewhat forwards upon the head of the bone, after it has been disengaged by being brought below the coracoid process. 4. The reduction hy the Iiiiee in the axilla (Fig. 256) is precisely the same in principle as the last, though not by any means so good a plan, the knee being too large, and not following the movements of the humerus so readily as the foot. In effecting the reduction by this means, the patient is seated on a chair ; and the Surgeon, standing by his side and resting one foot upon the chair, places his knee in the patient's axilla. He then seizes the patient's arm above the elbow with one hand, and, steadying the acromion with the other, draws the limb well away from the body and then depresses it across the knee ; the head of the bone is thus reduced. If these simpler methods fail, or if the dislocation be of old standing, it may be necessary to have recourse to the ^mlkz/s in order to effect reduction. In applying these the scapula must be firmly fixed, the counter-extension being made by passing the patient's arm through a slit in the middle of a jack-towef, which should be fixed firmly to a hook or staple in the wall. The extending force may then be applied immediately above the elbow ; traction being- made slowly and steadily in the direction of the axis of the limb. The head of the bone should be directed to the glenoid cavity by the pressure of the Surgeon's hands, as soon as it has come on a level with it. In this way dislocations of the humerus of many weeks' or even mouths' standino- have Fig. 2r)().—Reduction of a Dislocation of the Humerus by the Knee in the Axilla.