ENCEPHALOID, i°^7 of structure, as to merit the name of encephaloid is in fact of rare occurrence in surgical practice. During the ten years 1871 to 1880, there were admitted under the care of the Surgeons of University College Hospital only_ eignt cases which were classed as encephaloid cancer. Five of these were m the breast, two in the testicle, and one was believed to have originated in the tonsil or the glands in its neighbourhood. Encephaloid cancer, like scirrtius, arises only in structures containing glandular or spheroidal epithelium. It commences as a tumour, which though occasionally somewhat hard, is usually from the first, or at all events soon becomes, soft and elastic, being more or less lobulated, growing rapidly, and having an elastic and at last a semi-fluctuating feel. The skin covering it is usually at first pale and loose, with a large net-work of dilated veins spreading over it. In some cases,^ how- ever, at a" very early period, a species of inflammatory oedema occurs m the integuments covering a rapidly growing encephaloid tumour. As the tumour Fig. 392. —Encephaloid of Breast (ISS diam.)- The large-celled variety. Attention is directed to the much larger spaces in this than in Scirrlms. enlarges, the skin becomes adherent, discoloured, of a purple brown tint, and at last ulcerates at one point. AYhen once the tumour has made its way through, and is relieved from the pressure of the integuments, it may form a large soft fungous mass, rugged, irregular, dark-coloured, and bleeding pro- fusely. This resembles the same condition occurring in some rapidly growing soft sarcomata to which the term fungus Immatodes was applied by Hey. In other cases the tumour may slough, forming a deep irregular cavity. In either case death rapidly ensues from exhaustion and hsemorrhage. Pulsation from extreme vascularity, accompanied by a loud bruit, to be heard on auscultation, has been described as occurring in encephaloid cancer, but in most cases in which this symptom has been recorded, the tumour was probably not a cancer, but a soft sarcoma, as these morbid growths were formerly confounded together. The constitutional cachexy in encephaloid occurs early and is well marked, and secondary growths speedily make their appearance in the lymphatic glands and viscera. Structure.—After removal the tumour is found to be very vascular, dis-