496 INJURIES OF NERVES, MUSCLES, AND TENDONS. condition, which may perhaps be felt ; the lower end is often atrophied and more difficult to find. The ends of the nerve may then be pared, so as to remove the dense scar-tissue with which they are covered, but no more should be taken away than is absolutely necessaiy. After this they are sutured as in a fresh wound. Great care must be taken to relax the nerve by a suitable position of the limb. The operation of nerve-grafting has met with sufficient success to justify its trial in cases where it is found impossible to approximate the ends of the nerve. Prognosis.—Bowlby has collected 78 cases of secondary nerve suture, in 32 of which the result was successful, in 26 partially successful, whilst in 15 no improvement followed. The ultimate results were, however, probably more favourable than these figures indicate, as many of the cases, especially the partially successful ones, may have continued to improve later. Great im- provement may be confidently expected, and no case must be despaired of until several years have passed. The operation should be undertaken, how- ever long the time may be that has elapsed since the injury, and however marked may be the atrophy of the paralysed muscles. 2. Treatment of the Paralyzed Liml).—In all those cases in which the nerve is not completely divided, treatment of the paralyzed parts is alone possible, the object being to prevent wasting and to maintain the nutrition of the limb in such a way that, when restoration of the nerve takes place, the muscles shall be in a state to respond to the influence of the will. Much can be done by judicious treatment to maintain the temperature, to avoid the formation of chilblains and other sores, to prevent the development of de- formities, and in children or young subjects to keep up the growth. In order to keep up the nutrition and to overcome the congestion which is always met with in the, paralyzed part, it must be made of a healthy red colour at least twice a day. There is no more efficient means of doing this than the use of the continuous electric current. The sponge connected with the positive pole of the battery may be applied over the course of the nerves, while the limb is freely sponged with the other. At the same time each separate muscle should, if possible, be made to contract by slow interruptions of the current. In a minute or more the whole paralyzed part will become bright red. In the absence of the battery, much may be done by properly applied rubbing. The ])art should be carefully protected by warm clothing, and the patient should be encouraged to use it as much as possible. If only a single group of muscles is paralyzed, properly designed apparatus may be required to overcome the deformity which ensues, but this should never be used if it can be avoided, as it interferes to some extent with the use of the limb. TEArMATic Neuritis.—This disease may follow almost any injury of a nerve. It is most common in civil practice as the result of bruises or strains, and is sometimes connected with gout or rheumatism. In wounds it seldom arises unless union has taken place by the second intention with inflammation and suppuration ; and, consequently, it is a rare aficction in amputation stumps. In gunshot wounds, in which the nerves are often contused and partially divided and in which the wound almost always heals with suppuration, it is more common. Pathology.—Acute inflammation may affect a nerve-trunk in the neigh- bourhood of a suppurating wound ; the nerve is swollen and congested, there is infiltration of its connective tissue with inflammatory products, and the