426 AEBEST OF ARTERIAL HAEMORRHAGE. torsion to a large vessel, it is better not to twist the end completely olf; three or four sharp turns usually suffice, during which the inner and middle coats are felt to give way and all resistance to cease. Smaller vessels may be twisted till the part included in the forceps comes olf. Even with small vessels it will be found that the more cleanly the vessel can be isolated the more certainly will the bleeding be stopped. Torsion is most easily applied to large vessels, which can be accurately seized in the forceps ; it is most difficult with small vessels, especially if they are situated in dense structures, or in tissues infiltrated with inflammatory products. Bryant states that degenera- tion of the inner and middle coats in no way increases the difficulty in securing the artery, fewer turns in fact being required to close a diseased than a healthy vessel. In torsion an artery is placed in the condition of one that is lacerated or torn through. The inner and middle coats are ruptured immediately above the part seized in the forceps, and are turned upwards into the lumen of the vessel ; the external coat is twisted into a kind of screw beyond them (Fig. 127). If a large vessel be treated in this way in the dead body and cut off about half an inch above the twisted part, it can be seen by looking down the lumen of the vessel that the inverted inner and middle coats completely close the vessel in a manner roughly resembling the closed aortic valves. A coagulum forms, adherent at its lower end to the injured coats, and the subsequent changes within the vessel are identical with those already described (p. 414) as occurring in permanent occlusion of a divided artery. The twisted end becomes absorbed after being embedded in the coagulable exudation that unites the surface of the wound in the first few hours, but it may separate as a slough if exposed to unfavourable conditions, as in an ill-drained wound with decomposing discharges, or on an open surface. Torsion and Ligature Compared.—The employment of torsion as a substitute for the ligature is advocated on three grounds : 1, that, whilst equally safe, it is more easy of application ; 2, that it is less likely to be followed by secondary hemorrhage ; and 3, that when an artery is closed by torsion, no foreign body is left in the wound that could interfere with its direct union. Let us briefly examine the advantages claimed for torsion over the Ugature. 1. As far as ease of apphcation is concerned, there can be no doubt that the advantage is in favour of the ligature. This is very markedly the case with small vessels and those that cannot be drawn out of their sheaths. In the case of the larger arteries, that can be denuded and drawn out of the neigh- Fig. 127.—A Femoral Artery irom a fresii dead body, twisted freely and laid open. Tlie inner and middle coats are turned up into the lumen of the vessel for half-an- inch.