CONSTITUTIONAL TREATMENT OF SYPHILIS. 1139 the ■non-mercurial or simple treatment, as it is termed—a mode of practice that obtained great favour and was extensively tried. On the definite separa- tion of the simple non-infecting chancre from the true syphilitic sore, however, a reaction took place in the minds of most Surgeons, and mercury is now almost invariably employed in the treatment of the latter, and is administered more moderately and scientifically, and consequently more successfully, than before. The argaments in favour of the non-mercurial plan of treatment were briefly these : that the constitution of the patient is saved the introduction of a mineral which occasionally acts injuriously, and which, as the disease can be cured without it, may at all events be looked upon as unnecessary ; that secondary affections less frequently follow this plan than they do the administration of mercury : and, lastly, that those distressing cases of constitutional syphiHs which are common after mercarial courses, and which are said to depend upon a peculiar combination of the syphilitic poison with the mineral in the system, are never met with in persons who have under- gone the simple treatment. These arguments, however, on closer examination and further experience, have been proved to be not quite so conclusive as the supporters of the simple treatment appear to believe. Before the simple sore was clearly distinguished from the initial manifestation of syphilis, the early healing of the chancre and the absence of secondary symptoms after it were taken as evidence of the efficacy of the non-mercurial treatment of syphilis. Now that the two forms of sore are clearly separated from each other this fact has of course no bearing on the question, and experience has undoubtedly shown that althouo-h the true indurated sore will heal in time without the administra- tion of mercury, yet the process of cicatrization is slow and often imperfect, the scar readily breaking down again for some time after apparent healing; whereas if mercury be given the healing is rapid and permanent. This is, however, but a small part of the question. It is a most serious error to con- found the healing of the primary sore with the cure of syphilis. The test of the relative value of the two plans of treatment must depend rather on the influence they have over the course of syphilis, aad on the character that the symptoms assume under one orother of these methods, than on the mere skinning over of the ulcer. I cannot agree with the statement that secondary symptoms are less frequent after the simple than after the mercurial treatment. In fact, since the separation of the simple chanci*e from the true syphilitic sore the fact has become clearly recognised that no mode of treatment can prevent the appearance of secondary symptoms ; mercury may diminish their severity or delay their appearance, but constitutional syphilis must unavoidably follow the indurated sore, though sometimes the symptoms may be so slight as almost to escape detection. I have seen the non-mercurial plan of treatment very extensively employed at University College Hospital ; indeed, it was formerly almost invariably practised there, more particularly in the syphilitic cases occurring among the out-patients under Morton, who strongly advocated it ; and I have had repeated occasion to observe the frequency with which it was followed by secondary symptoms. In private practice, also, I have had considerable op- portunities of comparing the two methods, and I can safely say that I have seen the simple treatment more frequently followed by severe secondary symptoms than the mercurial plan has been when properly and judiciously employed. The supporters of the non-mercurial treatment, when obliged to 4 D 2