1048 TUMOURS. left. Its alveolar nature will then be distinctly apparent, and the fibrous stroma will be seen to bound spaces which by their communication form a cavernous system. The stroma is composed -of coarse fibres, sometimes almost hyahne in appearance. Between the fibres are flattened or elongated cells, like ordinary connective tissue corpuscles. In some cases it is less perfectly developed, and may contain numerous small round cells, or even be composed almost entirely of spindle cells. The vessels traverse the stroma in all directions. They vary much in number and size. In some very rare forms of cancer they are so abundant that the whole growth may pulsate ; in others they are compara- tively scanty. In all cancers as the growth advances the vascular supply becomes insufficient to maintain the vitality of the central parts of the tumour, and fatty degeneration, first of the cells and subsequently of the stroma, takes place. If the tumour is superficial the tissues break down, and ulceration results. The process above described is now acknowledged to be that by which cancer arises and spreads. It was first clearly described by Thiersch and Waldeyer. It explains the fact, that primary cancer never arises except in connection with pre-existing epithelium. The branching columns of cells pro- bably invade the surrounding tissues by the lymphatic spaces and vessels. The proliferating epithelium, having burst through the wall of the acinus when the disease commences in a gland, or having forced its way into the deeper parts when it starts from a surface, enters the lymph-spaces and grows into them. This view is confirmed by the general arrangement of the epithelial colnmns, and Waldeyer believes that he has demonstrated lymphatic endothelium lying on the surface of the advancing processes of epithelium. It also explains the great readiness with which carcinoma infects the lymphatic glands. The microscopic appearances of the tissues surrounding the advancing columns of cells are identical with those of inflammation. The vessels are dilated and full of blood, and the normal structures are concealed by an abundant small cell infiltration before which the original tissues disappear as in the process of ulceration. The quantity of lymph returning from the hyperasraic tissues will necessarily be greatly increased in quantity, and the lymph-spaces and lymphatic vessels will be dilated, and thus the dissemination of the cells of the cancer will be greatly facilitated should any of them become disengaged from the general mass and enter the lymph-stream. From the above remarks it will be seen that a carcinoma is characterized by the absence of any definite surrounding capsule. It is indeed intimately connected with the tissues in which it lies, and around the tumour there is a zone of variable extent in which infiltration is progressing but which to the naked eye does not necessarily appear to be diseased. The cells of a carcinoma always more or less accurately resemble those of the normal epithelium of the part from which the primary tumour springs. Thus the cells of carcinoma of glandular organs belong to the type of spheroidal or glandular epithelium ; those of the skin are squamous, and those of the intes- tine columnar. In rapidly growing cancers or secondary growths the cells may show a tendency to revert to the primitive type of epithelium, a simple rounded or irregular cell with a large oval nucleus. Thus the cells of a rapidly growing squamous carcinoma may be oval, or even rounded, and show but little flattening, or in a columnar carcinoma they may be shorter and oval and lose their wedge-shaped form. Still, in the great majority of cases,