SCIRRHUS, scirrhiis and encephaloid is made nob by the size of the cells, but by the relative proportions of cells and stroma. All cancer cells are prone to early degeneration, usually becoming filled with fat granules, and ultimately break- ing down and in great part disappearing, so that what was once a considerable mass of cells may be represented by a few granules. This is most marked in scirrhus. The stroma in glandular cancers is almost invariably fibrous, but in the softer forms it may be composed partly of spindle cells. The alve- olar arrangement is always clearly marked. The cells lie loosely in the spaces, often separated from each other by a small quantity of fluid. This fluid, with the cells, forms the " cancer juice." In the degenerating parts of the growth the stroma frequently contains numerous fat granules, and in very rare cases patches of calcification are met with. The 'blood-vessels are usually abundant, especially in the softer forms. In some rare instances they show curious bud - like processes and dilatations projecting from their walls into the alveolar spaces of the tumour. These may give way and distend the alveoli with blood, thus forming small rounded clots dotted through the growth. The unaided eye of the experienced Surgeon may in many cases recog- nize a cancer without difficulty, but in every case the tumour should be examined microscopically in order to determine without a doubt what its true nature is. Hard Glandular Carcinoma. Scirrhus.—This is met with more commonly in the female breast than in all other parts of the body put together, and the cases that come under the care of the Surgeons are almost exclusively in that situation. Thus of cases of scirrhus admitted into the surgical wards of University College Hospital during the ten years 1871 to 1880, 113 were situated in the female breast, 1 in the male breast, 4 in the skin near the female breast, 1 in the kidney, and 3 in the prostate. Nine other cases were admitted as " scirrhus of the rectum," and two as " scirrhus of the sigmoid flexure," but these were not submitted to microscopical examination, and were most probably columnar carcinomata. Scirrhus is also met with in the stomach and pancreas, and a soft form—between the hard and soft cancer, and conse- quently sometimes called scirrho-encephaloid—is the ordinary primary cancer of the liver. Secondary scirrhus may occur in almost any part of the body, but the most common situations are the lymphatic glands, liver, lungs, kidneys, and bones. Scirrhus occurs in two forms, the circumscribed and infiltrating. In either case it forms a hard, craggy, incompressible, and nodulated tumour, at first movable and unconnected with the skin, but soon acquiring deep-seated attachments and implicating the integument. It grows slowly, seldom attain- Fig. 3S8. A. Cells from a large Enceplialoiil of the Breast. B. Cells from Scirrhus of the Breast. a. Stained. h. Unstained. (454 diam.)