774 INJURIES OF THE HEAD. sequent symptoms are very variable. There is usually pain in the head with heat of the scalp and irregularity of the pupils or contraction of both. There may be squinting, intolerance of light, convulsive twitchings, or epileptiform, fits. At the end signs of compression may set in, terminating in coma. There may be a slight persistent elevation of temperature when the symptoms become pronounced. This affection is most dangerous and unmanageable, being very apt to terminate in loss or impairment of the senses, in diminution of intellectual power, or in local paralysis. The best results are obtained by the proper administration of mercury and the employment of counter- irritants. The best mode of administering the mercury is to give half a grain or a grain of calomel every four or six hours until the gums are affected, and to keep up the effect with diminished doses of the drug. The repeated application of blisters over the shaven scalp is perhaps the most useful form of counter-irritation. So long as any symptoms of inflammation continue, this plan of treatment must be steadily kept up. In the more chronic forms of cerebral irritation following injury, more especially if there be any tendency to convulsive movements, bromide of potassium in moderate doses will be found of essential service. It soothes and secures sleep more effectually than any other remedy. Intracranial Suppuration following injury may occur in three situa- tions : {a) Between the bone and the dura mater ; {h) in the membranes ; and (c) in the brain itself. In the large majority of cases the suppuration is the result of the direct infection of the interior of the skull by pyogenic organisms which gain an entry at the seat of injury. Exceptions to this rule are apparently presented by those rare cases in which an abscess developes in the brain substance opposite the point struck, and possibly by recorded instances of intracranial suppuration, the result of injury without an open wound. The nature of the injury itself differs widely. In not a few cases suppuration has followed a wound of the scalp, exposing the bone, but not fracturing it. Under these circumstances it is probable that septic phlebitis occurs in the diploe, and that thence the infective process spreads inwards along the small blood vessels. More frequently, however, the bone is fractured, and thus a ready entry for pyogenic organisms afforded. Punctured fractures are especially likely to be followed by intracranial suppuration. In such cases the brain may be directly infected at the time of injury ; but, apart from this, suppuration is favoured by the splintering of the inner table, and the accumulation of blood on the inner surface of the bone, as well as by the imperfect escape for the discharge afforded by the small size of the external wound. Macewen points out that extensive compound fractures are less dangerous in this respect, as they allow a free exit for discharges, whilst being obviously serious they are likely to be more efficiently treated. The danger of the punctured fracture lies in its apparent simplicity. A cerebral abscess may be occasioned by the lodgment of a foreign body, such as a bullet, in the brain substance. a. Subcranial Abscess forms between the bone and the dura mater. It occurs beneath the seat of injury, and is the result of infection from a scalp wound, with or without fracture. It usually occurs early, before the wound has healed, but an interval of several weeks may elapse and the scalp wound maybe healed before the symptoms of intracranial suppuration manifest themselves. Subcranial abscess necessarily involves a localized inflammation