MATERIAL FOR LWATURES. 437 wounds have diminished the frequency of secondary h£emorrhage in the same proportion as they have diminished pyasmia and other unhealthy processes. Shoiild the ligature be composed of an irritating material which has to cut its way through tlie hgatured vessel by ulceration, a localised inflammation with suppuration is kept up in the immediate neighbourhood of the injured part of the artery. As a rule this process is closely limited to the immediate neighbourhood of the ligature ; and, by the time the noose ulcerates through the external coat, repair is sufficiently advanced within the vessel to render it capable of withstanding the force of the blood-stream—the firm adhesion of the clot to the inner coat serving under these circumstances the important purpose of breaking the direct impulse of the wave of blood upon the new tissue closing the vessel. There are two sources of danger in connection with the coming away of the ligature : either the sloughing may be too extensive, or the ulceration through the artery may take place before the reparative material within is sufficiently firm. Too extensive sloughing may arise when the artery is tied in its continuity, from the vessel having been separated from its sheath to too great an extent during the dissection required to expose it, and its nutrient vessels consequently being divided in great numbers, so as to deprive that portion of the coats of the vessel of its vascular supply ; hence the danger of passing a spatula, director, or the handle of a scalpel under the artery, and also of applying several ligatures or a single wide one. When the artery has been divided, sloughing is most commonly the result of septic processes going on in the wound, especially if the artery have been cut long, so that its free end is bathed in the decomposing discharges. Premature ulceration of the vessel may occur from the use of too thick a ligature, which, by causing greater irritation, hastens the process of separation ; from excessive degeneration or inflam- matory softening of the artery at the point ligatured ; or from unhealthy processes occurring in the wound, especially the pressure of pent-up decom- posing discharges. As soon as the ligature has ulcerated through that portion of the artery which is included in its noose, it becomes loosened and separates ; frequently being thrown off with the discharges, or becoming detached on the sHghtest traction. The period of the separation of the ligature depends upon the size of the artery and the thickness of its coats and of the ligature itself. From the radial or ulnar arteries, it is usually detached by the eighth day ; from the femoral, iliac, or subclavian, about the sixteenth or twentieth day. In some cases the ligature may remain attached for a much longer period, owing to the inclusion within its noose of a bit of fascia, nerve, or muscular substance. In order to hasten the separation in these cases, moderate traction and occasional twisting of the ligature used to be practised. The Ligature.—The best material to use for tying an artery has been the subject of much experimental injury and abundant discussion, and can hardly yet be said to be finally determined. Ligatures may be divided into two chief classes : first, those intended to cut through the artery by a gradual process of ulceration, and then to be removed from the wound ; and secondly, those intended to become enclosed in the wound during the process of heahng, and either to remain permanently encapsuled or to be absorbed. 1. Until about twenty years ago, when absorbable ligatures were reintro-