676 SPECIAL DISLOCATIONS. The forearm is flexed and very slightly suj^iuated. When the coronoid process is not broken ofip, it is fixed against the posterior surface of the humerus, the forearm being immovably placed in its new position. In the rare cases in which this process is fractured, there is great mobility about the joint, and crepitation may be felt as the arm is drawn forwards. Dislocation of both bones Forwards without fracture of the olecranon is an extremely rare accident, but a few undoubted cases have been recorded. In this injury the elongation of the forearm, the projection of the condyles of the humerus, the presence of the sigmoid notch in front of the arm, and the depression of the posterior surface of this bone, render the diagnosis sufficiently easy. In one case at University College Hospital, the injury was produced by the patient, a man 20 years of age, slipping on the pavement and falling on his elbow. In this instance the elbow was much bent; it could be brought to a right angle, and straightened considerably. The forearm was three quarters of an inch longer than its fellow. The condyles of the humerus were on a level with the olecranon ; the tendon of the triceps was very tight, whilst the sigmoid, notch and the head of the radius could be plainly felt on the fore part of the arm. In the case recorded in the Lancet, 1872, by Date of Crew- kerne, the dislocation was forwards and outwards, so that the head of the radius lay outside the external condyle. At the same time, the epiphysis at the inner condyle was separated. When the olecranon is broken off, there is elongation of the forearm with great mobility, but the detached fragment can be felt behind the humerus. The Lateral dislocation of the bones of the forearm is almost invariably incomplete ; either the head of the radius hitching against the trochlea, or the ulna coming into contact with the capitellura. Complete lateral dislocation of the bones of the forearm is excessively rare. Nelaton has given a woodcut of a complete luxation outwards. The ulna or radius alone may be displaced ; and in some cases both bones are dislocated, but in opposite directions. 2. Ulna.—The only dislocation to which the ulna alone is subject is that in a direction Backwards. This displacement may be uncomplicated, but is more frequently associated with more or less dislocation of the head of the radius. When it occurs, it may be recognized by the projection of the olecranon backwards, and by the head of the radius being felt in its normal situation, or nearly so, during the movements of pronation and supination. In some extremely rare cases the coronoid process is fractured at the same time, causing ready disappearance and recurrence of the dislocation, with crepitus. 3. Radius.—The radius alone may be dislocated forwards, lacTctvards, or outwards. The dislocation Forwards is by far the most common. In the many instances of it I have seen, it has resulted from a fall on the palm of the hand, by which the lower end of the radius is driven backwards, while the upper end is tilted forwards with the whole force of the leverage of the bone, and in this way, rupturing the orbicular ligament, is thrown against the external condyle. The signs of this displacement are the following : The fore- arm is slightly flexed, and in a position midway between pronation and supination ; any attempt at completing the latter movement occasions great pain, as does also the endeavour to straighten the arm. The elbow can be bent only to a right angle, in consequence of the head of the radius being