i82 LOCAL DISTURBANCES AND INFLAMMATION. doubt. We have already seen that they mny be present in the air, although not in such numbers as was at one time supposed ; they are more abundant, however, in the neighbourhood of decomposing matter, as in a ward containing many wounds the discharges of which are in a state of decomposition. They arc carried into wounds, abscesses, or other cavities by the Surgeon's hands, by instruments, and more especially by water, unless some means are adopted to destroy them ; and they are abundantly present in the unpurified skin of the human body. Still it cannot be too clearly understood that even when they are carried into the body, or into a wound, the ordinary bacteria of putre- faction can do no harm unless they come in contact with dead matter. They speedily perish in the blood, and they exert no influence on living tissues. Amongst living tissues we must class the coagulable lymph that covers the surface of a wound ; while the serum is dead matter. In a wound or abscess cavity, therefore, which is perfectly drained, the bacteria soon perish ; and wereperfect drainage always possible, we need not fear their ]3resence. This is not always possible, however; and consequently it becomes in most cases a matter of great importance to exclude all micro-organisms from wounds or abscesses, and to destroy any which may have found admission. 4. Organised Irritants or Parasites—This class of irritants includes those organisms wliich have the power of growing as true parasites in the living tissues of the animal body. Among them must be included certain animal parasites, such as the itch insect (acarus scabiei), the chigoe (pulex penetrans), the trichina spiralis, &c., which bury themselves in the living tissues and there excite a greater or less degree of inflammation. These are of little importance hoAvever, compared to the vegetable organisms which are the direct cause of many forms of inflammation, as erysipelas, malignant pustule, and other specific affections. It is probable that the inflammation set up by these parasitic fungi is the result of the formation of irritating chemical products by a process analogous to putrefaction and fermentation ; still it is important to make a v^ry clear distinction between the effects of simple putrefaction and the inflammation caused by these more potent organisms. In simple putre- faction the irritating material is formed as the result of changes occurring in the dead matter only, and may be regarded as being developed outside the body: and, when it gives rise to spreading inflammation, this is due merely to the chemical products of the process soaking into the surrounding tissues, just as any soluble irritating salt, such as corrosive sublimate, might do ; but the irritant does not increase in quantity amongst the liviug tissues, and its effects are directly proportional to the quantity developed locally. There is, in other words, no infection of the surrounding tissues. With the organisms of which we are now speaking, however, the case is different, for they grow into the surrounding living tissues, and excite inflammation as they spread ; they enter the circulation ^by the lymph-stream or by the blood-vessels, and may multiply in the circulating blood, giving rise to changes in its composi- tion incompatible Avith life, or they may lodge in distant parts, and there grow and set up local inflammation similar to that at the original seat of disease. From their direct power of exciting unhealthy processes, these organisms are spoken of as " pathogenic fungi." They cause a true infection both locally amongst the tissues adjoining the part first affected, and genercdlij in the whole St/stem.. The poison multiph'es in the body of the affected individual, and the effects it produces are not directly proportional to the quantity of the original