INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 78o the treatment is extremely unsatisfactory. If the tumour be shaved off, as is usually recommended, it generally sprouts again, although in some fortunate cases this treatment is satisfactory. All that can be done is to slice off the growth on a level with the brain, and to apply firm pressure to the part. This may be done by means of a pad of antiseptic gauze, or a flat disc of lead or decalcified bone may be slipped beneath the edges of the opening in the skull. SECONDAEY OR REMOTE EFFECTS OF HEAD INJURIES. Effects of Cerebral Injury on the Mental Powers.—The mental con- dition of patients who are recovering or who are supposed to have recovered from head injury, is one that deserves attentive consideration. It will fre- quently be found that the mental powers are weakened, either generally or in one special direction. The memory will often be found to be weakened in a very remarkable manner on the recovery of the patient from the unconsciousness resulting irom severe concussion. Not only is the mind a complete blank as to all that occurred during the period of the unconsciousness, but the memory may be lost for those events which immediately preceded it. Thns a driver will remember his horses taking fright ; but he will never be able to recall to his recollection the various events that occurred before he was thrown from his box, and received that blow on the head which produced concussion of the brain and rendered him unconscious—events which had certainly produced impressions upon the brain before it was injured, impressions which were permanently obliterated by the concussion of the cerebral sub- stance. The chain of memory is broken abruptly at some occurrence— often of a very trivial character—antecedent to the accident, and the gap then left can never be filled by any subsequent effort on the part of the patient. The memory may be impaired in other ways, as for words, persons, or dates. The mind cannot grasp a subject or pursue a continuous train of thought, and is incapable of fixed attention or reasoning. Delusions of various kinds may occur, especially in connection with the mode of occurrence of the accident. I have known a patient give the most consistent and detailed accounts of the mode in which his head was injured, varying them from day to day—every one being false, but believed in by the patient at the time. The patient could be led, by a process of questioning and suggestions combined, to give almost any version that the interrogator desired ; and this with great circumstantiality of detail. This is a matter of great interest and importance in a medico-legal aspect, as it is evident that an individual who has received a severe injury of the head might, in perfect good faith, give an entirely false account of the mode of infliction of the injury, by which an innocent person might be seriously compromised. Epilepsy is not an uncommon conseq.uence of injury of the head, especially when the blow has been inflicted in the region of the cortical motor centres. The form of epilepsy thus produced is that known as "focal" or " Jacksonian," Hughlings Jackson having maintained twenty years ago th^t it resulted from some organic lesion in the cortex. The attack is characterized by the definite spread of the convulsions, the spasm beginning in the part in con-