TREATMENT OF ACUTE INFLAMMATION. 20I sipelas, although, as before stated, there may be sthenic fever for a^ short time, the signs of exhaustion rapidly set in. As the asthenic form of fever depends so frequently on general infective processes it is often accompanied by secondary complications, as pleurisy, pneumonia, visceral abscesses and the like. When the asthenic form comes on as a sequel of the sthenic, the symptoms of the one gradually merge into those of the other, the weakness increases, the pulse becomes feebler though its frequency is kept up, the tongue becomes brown and dry, and there is tendency to delirium of a muttering kind. When the fever assumes the asthenic form from the very first, depression is often strongly marked during the period of invasion ; and, even when the febrile state is fully established, the symptoms are not very active. There is through- out an appearance of heaviness and stupor about the patient, and an early tendency to delirium of a low and muttering form, especially at night; the pulse is feeble and very frequent; the skin may be hot and dry, or sometimes moist aud clammy ; the temperature is from 2° to 5° Fahr. above normal, and shows a marked evening rise and morning fall; the tongue is brown and dry, and sordes rapidly accumulate about the lips and teeth ; the cheeks are often flushed, and the eyes may be bright and staring. If the patient recover, there may be a critical evacuation, as sweating or diarrhoea ; the pulse subsides in frequency and increases in strength, the tongue gradually and slowly cleans from the sides aud tip, the temperature falls often below normal for some days, and the patient slowly and imperfectly regains his strength. Owing to the extreme feebleness of the heart's action that often accompanies this form of fever there is a great tendency to local congestions, especially hypostatic pneumonia, which may interrupt progress towards recovery. If the disease take an unfavourable course, the weakness of the pulse and the dark incrustation of the tongue increase ; the temperature often falls below normal; the skin becomes cold and clammy ; hiccough, subsultus and dyspnoea supervene ; the muttering delirium gives way to insensibility or even to coma, and death occurs from exhaustion, or as the result of visceral complication. It is this condition that is frequently described as the " setting in of typhoid symptoms." In patients whose nervous systems have been shattered by intemperance, or who have been exhausted by excessive mental work or excitement, the nervous symptoms that accompany the febrile disturbance may form so prominent a feature of the case as almost to justify the description of a third type, as has been sometimes done, under the name of Irritative Fever. In these cases, if the fever assume the sthenic form there is high delirium, often of a furious kind, with wildness of the eye, flushed face and heat of head. More often the fever is from the lirst of the asthenic type, especially in habitual drunkards, in whom it resembles delirium tremens ; there is the same tremor, clammy perspiration and foul tongue, and the delirium is not violent but busy and muttering, the patient being restless and constantly trying to get out of bed ; he is sleepless, and unless relief be obtained, signs of debility rapidly show themselves, and death takes place either from exhaustion or coma. TREATMENT OF ACUTE INFLAMMATION. The knowledge we obtain of the causes and nature of inflammation in the dead-house and in the pathological laboratory serves to some extent to guide us