ALVEOLAR SARCOMA. neighboi:rinfr parts. They commonly run a malignant course, and the secondary tumours may show the same tendency to the development of cartilage. They are met with almost exclusively in connection with bone, and most commonly commence under the periosteum of one of the long bones near its articular end. They are also not uncommon in the upper and lower jaw, and are occasionally seen in the testicle. They are distinguished from simple chondromata by their more rapid growth and their tendency to invade surrounding parts. Alveolar or Large-Round-celled Sarcoma.—In this rare tumour, which was first clearly described by Billroth, the cells are of considerable size, sharply defined, and each contains a large round nucleus (Fig. 383). They thus closely resemble epithelium cells in appearance. They are separated from each other by a distinct and somewhat abundant fibrous stroma, but on careful examination this will be found to penetrate between the individual cells. In some parts, probably from the pressure of the growing cehs, the stroma may be partially absorbed, so that the cellular elements seem to lie in alveolar spaces in immediate contact with each other, but further examination of the tumour will always show parts where the stroma and cells are closely intermixed. On carefully pencihing out the cells from a thin section, a delicate stroma is brought into view, passing between the indi- vidual cells and subdividing the spaces formed by the bands, which' give the growth its alveolar and cancer-like appearance (Fig. 383b). In some cases, however, the distinc- tion between these tumours and scirrhus is very difficult. Alveolar sarcomata occur chiefly in the cutis, bones, and muscles, and occasionally in the breast. In the cutis they form hard rounded tumours, often multiple, of tolerably slow growth, and free from pain. They lead ultimately to ulceration of the skin and the formation of an intractable sore. In the bones, they are more often sino-le and of more rapid growth. Three cases affecting the cutis have occurred in University College Hospital during the last few years. In the first, three amputations were performed for recurrence of the growth after removal by Christopher Heath, commencing with one finger and ending with the forearm. The tumour, when first removed, was supposed to be a specimen of sciiThus of the skin. Finally similar tumours appeared on the cheek and scalp, and two further operations were performed. The man died shortly after- wards, and there was reason to believe that the cause of death was a similar growth in the lung. The whole history of the case lasted more than seven years, and at no time had the lymphatic glands been affected. In the second case, Berkeley Hill amputated the leg for a number of similar tumours situated below the knee, from one of which the accompanying drawing (Fig. 383) is taken ; and in the third, half the foot was amputated for a similar growth which commenced at the roots of the second and third toes, and had recurred three times after removal. Fig. 383. A ^ B -Alveolar Sarcoma from Skin of Leg (188 diam.) A. To show geueral arrangement. B. After prolonged pencilling shows the inter cellular as well as the alveolar stroma. 3x2