TREATMENT OF GANGRENE. 913 out by the administration of opium; and although this drug may not act as a specific, as Pott supposed, yet in many cases, and especially in the gangrene of the toes and feet of old people, it is undoubtedly a remedy of the greatest value. K grain of solid opium may advantageously be administered every sixth, eighth, or twelfth hour, according to the effect which it is found to produce; care being taken that the bowels do not become confined. The hiccup, which is often depressing, is best remedied by the administration of spn-its of chloroform and camphor. The effect of opium in diabetic gaiigrene is often most striking. It must be given in the largest amount the patient can bear, and in most cases as soon as the patient is fully under its influence, the progress of the disease ceases. Local Treatment.—Gangrene, when threatening as the result of inflam- mation, may often be prevented by free incisions into the inflamed and tense tissues. Punctures are not sufficient, but free incisions two or three inches long, should be made, which by gaping widely allow the escape of blood and other fluids, and thus effectually relieve the vessels and the tissues. This is more especially the case where there is much loose areolar tissue, as in the penis or scrotum; or indeed in any part in which much tension results from the inflammation. The relief of local tension is of the first importance in cases ot inflammation threatening to terminate in gangrene. By a free incision through the structures so affected, as in phlegmonous erysipeias, not only may the vitality of the affected tissues be preserved, but the extension of gangrene, it it have already set in, may be arrested, and the constitutional disturbance at once lessened. By incision, also, irritating effusions and infiltrations are discharged, and thus one cause of sloughing is removed. In_ the non-inflammatory form of the disease, as soon as it is evident that a part is about to become gangrenous it should be carefully washed with warm carbolic acid lotion (1 in 40). This solution is not of sufficient strength to cause any irritation of the unbroken skin. Having thus rendered the surface as far as possible aseptic, the whole limb should be thickly wrapped in sahcyhc wool, or it may be sprinkled with iodoform and afterwards covered with lodoform-wool. By this treatment offensive decomposition may often be prevented Carbolic acid dressings should not be applied, as they are too irritating and might cause extension of the mischief. The dressing should not be disturbed unless the smell indicates that decomposition is taking place beneath 1 . At a later stage the same treatment may be continued, or the parU that are aJready gangrenous may be enveloped hi lint soaked in warr^ solutions of carbolic acid, boric acid, chloride of zinc, or creasote or thev may be dusted with charcoal powder and covered with a layer of waddC So poultices should be applied if the sloughs be large, for heat and moisture hasten decomposition. The separation of the sloughs hould be left as much a possible to nature The vitality of the tissues in the proximity and aW he hue of separation is very low, and may readily be destroyed by any operl- tive interference Hence no attempt should be made to remove sSs not already separated nor should stimulants be applied to the living tissues I matters little what is done to parts already dead, which, when 00sled may be cut away; but we must not meddle with those that are S ' H^moiThage seldom occurs before the separation of the sloughs, but there is a ways danger of its happening during that process. If it occu , pres u'e 0 the actual cautery will be found tlie best means to arrest it; and, VOL, I, > 3 N