SQUAMOUS CARCIiSOMA. 1073 frequently dry and hard, and show no signs of active growth. Similar globes are not unfrequently formed in simple warty growths, and must therefore not be considered diagnostic of epithelioma. The fully formed cells often present beautifully serrated edges, the serrations of one joining those of its neighbours. This is well shown in Fig. 397, taken from a small epithelioma of the anus which I removed from a middle-aged man. The individual cells of an epithelioma, as obtained by scraping, diflPer but little from the healthy scaly epithelium that may be got from the mucous membrane of the cheek or lip. They are often larger, and sometimes contain more than one nucleus. In the older parts of the growth, they arc usually filled with fat granules. When an epithelioma has undergone ulceration, the surface is frequently covered with prominent masses like large granulations, and the diagnosis of the nature of the growth can often be made by removing one of them and submitting it to microscopic examination. If in a simple ulcer the skin be completely destroyed, epithelium is never found except at the margins ; in an epitheiiomatous ulcer, on the contrary, it is found at every part of the ulcerating surface. The vessels of epithelioma are abundant, but not so plentiful as those of scirrhus or encephaloid. As to the relation of the growths to the lymijliatics, there is some difference of opinion. Thiersch and Waldeyer believe that they have demonstrated a lymphatic endothe- lium covering the cylinders of cells, and consequently are of opinion that the epi- thelium is actually within lymph-spaces. The anastomosis between the cancer cylinders is said exactly to resemble that normally seen between the lymph-spaces. The secondary tumours present the same general characteristics as the primary growth, but they are usually softer. The cells are sometimes thicker and less distinctly squamous, but most commonly their type is easily recognized. Epithelial nests are always less abundant and sometimes wanting. The mode of growth of squamous carcinoma can often be observed without difficulty. If, for instance, a small warty epithelioma from the lip be removed in an early stage and examined microscopically, it will be found to be composed of hypertrophied papilla covered with an exuberant growth of scaly epithelium. The papillae increase in size as the centre of the growth is approached. The cutis vera beneath the large papillas and the papillee themselves are infiltrated with small round cells. In the circumferential parts of the growth the epithelium will be found to be entirely superficial, but in the central part", between two or more papillae, a process of epithelium cells will be seen forcino- itself into the cutis vera, which is very abundantly infiltrated at that spot with small round cells. So long as the epithelium is all superficial, the growth cannot be said to be malignant, and would be classed as a simple wart; whenever the epithelium cells can be seen bursting through between the papillae and extending into the tissues beneath, the growth is undoubtedly VOL. I. 3 2 Pi^;. 397.—Squamous Carciiioiiia of Anus (ISS diaiii.). Illustrates the structure of an epithelial globe, and shows the " prickle cells" whicli occur normally in the Mal- pighian layer of tlie skin.