DISLOCATIONS OF LOWER JAW. 657 CHAPTER XXIII. SPECIAL DISLOCATIONS. DISLOCATIONS OF THE LOWER JAW. Dislocations of the Lower Jaw are not common accidents. They occur more frequently in women than in men, and have very seldom been met with at either extreme of life ; but Nclaton and Malgaigne relate cases occur- ring in edentulous subjects of (i8 and 72years of age, and Astley Cooper has seen the accident in a child, occasioned by another boy thrusting an ap}3le into its mouth. These dislocations are most frequently occasioned by forcible action of the depressor muscles of the jaw—by opening the mouth too widely, as in laughing and gaping, or in attempting to take too large a bite. Occasionally the accident has resulted from blows or kicks upon the chin when the mouth was open, or from violent strain upon the part in tooth-drawing, or in removing stumps with an elevator. The mechanism of the dislocation is simple. When the mouth is opened, the interarticular fibro-cartilage with the condyle glides forwards on to the articular eminence ; if this movement be continued too far, and the external pterygoid muscle contract forcibly, the condyle slips forward over the articular eminence into the zygomatic fossa, the axis of the ramus being directed obliquely backwards, and the dislocation thus being complete. In this Avay both condyles may be dis- placed, or only one. Maisonneuve and Otto Weber, by producing dislocation on the dead body, found that the condyle lies in front of the root of the zygoma. The coronoid process rarely reaches the malar bone, but usually lies below it, being completely surrounded by the tendon of the temporal muscle. From original observation, Heath confirms this view of the position of the coronoid process. The interarticular fibro-cartilage is attached to the condyle, and follows its movements. The capsular ligament is stretched, but not ruptured ; the external lateral ligament is tense, and passes from behind forward instead of from before backward ; the internal lateral and stylo-maxil- lary ligaments also undergo stretching, which is increased by raising the chin. The temporal muscles are stretched, according to Maisonneuve, or partly torn, according to Weber. When the dislocation is Bilateral, as most frequently happens, the signs are as follows : The incisor teeth of the lower jaw are separated from those of the upper by an interval yarying from half an inch to an inch and a half. Deglutition and speech are impaired, the labial consonants not being pro- nounced ; there is dribbling of saliva over the lower lip ; the chin is lengthened, and the lower line of teeth advanced about half an inch beyond those of the upper jaw ; the cheeks are flattened, and there is a depression in front of the meatus auditorius externus. There is also an oblong prominence in the temporal fossa between the eye and the ear. If the dislocation be left