II14 VENEREAL DISEASES. skin is first slit up along its dorsum ; the surface of the glans and the prepuce are then thoroughly cleaned with carbolic lotion (1 in 20), and the sores wiped out with chloride of zinc solution (40 grs. to 5]). The surface of the sore may be rubbed forcibly with a dossil of lint soaked in this solution, to remove any adherent slough. Everything being thus thoroughly cleaned the circumcision may be completed ; after ligaturing any bleeding vessels, the parts must be thoroughly sprinkled with iodoform and wrapped in iodoform wool. By these means infection of the wound can generally be avoided. There should be no delay in performing the operation. When pus comes from under a long foreskin and its source cannot be seen the patient should always be advised to submit to circumcision, unless there is some very marked improvement, following the apphcation of fomentations and the injection of antiseptic solutions, by the third day at the latest. If the pus is offensive the operation should be performed at once, as it probably arises from a sloughing chancre. If the chancres be situated round the orifice of an elongated and tight prepuce, circumcision is the best means of removing the disease and the inconvenience at the same time. The precautions just described must be adopted to prevent infection of the cut surface. In the Sloughing Chancre, when the prepuce is greatly swollen, in a state of inflammatory phimosis, and of a deep red or purplish colour, with threatening of extensive gangrene, a director should be passed between it and the glans penis, and the swollen prepuce slit up. In this way tension is removed, and the sloughing arrested. The chancre when exposed will be found to be covered with a pulpy grey tenacious slough. This is best removed by forcibly rubbing the surface with a piece of sponge or lint soaked in a solution of chloride of zinc (gr. 40 to 1]), after which iodoform must be applied. The application of nitric acid is seldom necessary. If the state of the parts is such as to admit of it, the operation of circumcision may be at once completed. If there be much sloughing of the prepuce it is better to delay the completion of the operation till the sloughs have separated, when perhaps it may be found unnecessary. During the separation of the sloughs the penis should be wrapped in lint soaked in some warm antiseptic solution, as boric acid or permanganate of potash. The patient should sit in a hot hip-bath (98° F.), to which some solution of permanganate of potash (Condy's fluid), or some boric acid, may be added, for half an hour or more twice a day. A little haemorrhage need cause no anxiety, and is usually easily arrested by dry cotton-wool and pressure, but if it be profuse, the patient should be put under chloroform, and the actual cautery freely applied. This not only stops the bleeding, but arrests the progress of the sloughing. When once the chancre is healthily granulating, it must be dressed in the same way as any common ulcer. The local treatment of the Phagedsenic Chancre depends on the form it assumes. If it be the eroding ulcer without slough, iodoform will often arrest it, but its action is by no means certain. If it fails, perchloride of mercury (gr. ij to 5]), diluted if it is too painful, is often of great service. Should this fail, the strong nitric acid may be applied, after which it may be dressed with a dilute nitric acid and opium lotion. If the jDhagedjenic process be spreading rapidly with a white or black slough, the sore must be treated like hospital gangrene. The slough must be scraped aAvay, and fuming nitric acid, or in