6 GENERAL REMARKS ON OPERATIONS. expediency ; but fatty degeneration, as indicated by its feeble action, by irregularity and want of power in the pulse, by breathlessness, and by a distinctly marked arcus senilis, should make the Surgeon cautious about undertaking any operation attended with much loss of blood or shock. Such a condition of heart is hable to occasion great depression of strength, syncope, and death—often sudden—some days after the operation. In cases of chronic disease that it would otherwise be proper to submit to operation, this conditi(.)n of the heart becomes a serious obstacle, but it need not be a bar to operation in acute cases that would be speedily fatal if left to them- selves, and certainly not in one of the four conditions of primary surgical urgency. Tubercular Disease of the Lvngs, when active or advanced, is prejudicial to the success of an operation ; but under certain circumstances, as will be explained when speaking of diseases of the joints and fistula in ano, an opera- tion is justifiable, even though the patient be consumptive. If the Liver be affected by cirrhosis, and more especially if any symptoms of ascites have supervened, no operation but for the relief of disease that instantly threatens life should be undertaken. Amyloid degeneration does not counter-indicate an operation if, by that means the cause of the condition can be removed, as in some cases of chronic joint or bone disease. Perhaps, however, the affection that militates more than any other against the success of an operation, is disease of the Kidneys, with albuminuria :^ m this condition the local inflammation that is set up is apt to assume a diffuse and sloughing form, and this is especially the case in all operations about the pelvic and genito-urinary organs. Saccharine Diabetes is another condition which seriously endangers the success of any operation. In acute diabetes no operation should ever be. undertaken but for the immediate preservation of life. The tendency to the occurrence of carbuncle and spontaneous gangrene is a well-known feature of the disease, and this shows itself after an operation by want of repair, or sloughing of the surfaces of the wound. The feeble tissues readily become infected by septic organisms, which set up widely-spreading diffuse inflam- mation followed by septicb^mia and death. In chronic diabetes of middle life, when the patient is Avell nourished and often gouty, operations may be undertaken vdth a fair prospect of success. The conditions indicating the possibility of operating are, first, the amount of sugar should not exceed 2 per cent., and should be easily reducible below this by*' the administration of opium and proper diet ; secondly, the general symptoms, thirst, hunger, loss of flesh, &c., must not be marked, and the " knee-jerk," which is often lost in diabetes, should be present : and thirdly, the proposed operation must be one in which asepsis can be ensured with certainty. Even in such selected cases death will frequently follow a severe operation, either from exhaustion or from the supervention of coma. The patient should be kept gently under the influence of opium till the wound is healed, and the diet should, as far as possible, be that ordinarily employed in the treatment of diabetes, all starchy and saccharine matter being excluded. Should the wound become septic, the patient's chance of recovery is small, even from a comparatively slight operation. Albuminuria and diabetes form, in fact, such serious complications, that no operation, even the most trivial, should be undertaken, except in cases of