DIRECT FEESSURE. 423 to get into the tube, or a flame would flash from the instrument ; this is best avoided by filling the bottle with pieces of sponge. The blade can be replaced it' necessary, by cauteries of various shapes. In removing very vascular growths, such as an epithelioma of the vulva, the knife, if at a glowing red heat, arrests the flow of blood from the smaller vessels only, leaving the larger arteries spouting from a perfectly dry surface, and they can thus be seized and tied without difliculty, or, if preferred, touched with the cautery at a dull red heat. The surface left is veiy superficially charred, and heals with little or no sloughing. If it be desired to arrest the flow of all vessels completely, the knife must be used at a dull red heat ; it then cuts more slowly and chars more deeply. 5. Direct Pressure upon the bleeding part is a very eflicient mode of arresting haamorrhage from small arteries. It is not, however, equally applic- able to all parts of the body. It can be most readily applied when the vessel has a bone subjacent to it, so as to aftord a point of counterpressure, and it cannot be so readily employed in soft and movable parts, as the throat or peringeum. Pressure may be practised in various Avays. Sometimes the uniform compression of a bandage is suflicient ; thus oozing from an amputa- tion wound may often be stopped by laying down the flaps and applying a bandage firmly over them. In the cotton-wool dressings the elastic pressure is of great use in arresting oozing. In the case of bleeding from hollow cavities, as the rectum, vagina, or nares, the haemorrhage may be arrested by the pressure of a plug of sponge or lint, to which sometimes a styptic may advantageously be added. When the hsemorrhage proceeds from the puncture of a small or moderate-sized artery, as the temporal, pressure should be made against the subjacent bone by means of a graduated compress and bandage, and should be continued until a suflicient time has elapsed for the vessel to be firmly plugged on each side by an adherent coagulum. The graduated compress should be at least an inch in thickness, and made of a series of pledgets of lint of a circular shape, gradually diminishing in size. It should be applied with its pointed end resting over the wound in the vessel. Care should be taken that the part on which the pressure is to be exercised has been thoroughly dried of all blood, and that the artery is commanded on the proximal side of the wound by a tourniquet or by the pressure of an assistant's finger. A thick slice of a phial-cork, or a threepenny piece, wrapped in lint, being placed on the wound, the graduated compress should be bandaged tightly over the whole. When applied in this way, pressure acts by encouraging the formation of an adherent clot on each side of the part of the vessel closed by the force applied. The subsequent changes are the same as those already described as occurring after spontaneous arrest of bleeding (p. 414). Whenever pressure is used to arrest arterial bleeding, it must not be for- gotten that the whole area pressed upon is rendered absolutely bloodless. We have before seen (p. 175), that if a part be deprived of blood for a suffi- cient time—probably in the human subject for between twelve and twenty-four hours—the readmission of blood is accompanied by all the phenomena of acute inflammation, the intensity of the process varying with the length of time during which the part has been kept bloodless ; and we are all of course fomiliar with the fact that, if the pressure be applied with suflicient force for a sufficient length of time, death of the part must follow. It is very important, therefore, that pressure should not be appHed for a single hour longer than