lOI AMPUTATION AT THE WRIST. thoroughly aseptic by immersion in a bath of carbolic acid lotion (1 in 20J, or some other efficient antiseptic solution, for a few minutes, and then dressed with some antiseptic dressing for a week or more, and a secondary amputation performed when the limits of the injury are clearly defined. If the pre- vention of decomposition is successfally accomplished, no constitutional or local trouble is caused by this mode of treatment, and the amount saved is often more than was at first expected. The mortality after amputation of the fingers and metacarpal bones is very trifling. Should death occur after such a slight operation, it would probably be by the occurrence of some infective disease, such as erysipelas, pyaemia, or tetanns. An excellent stump may in some cases be obtained by amputating between the carpus and metacarpus. All the move- ments of the wrist-joint remaining perfect, a very useful artificial hand can be easily applied. The covering may be taken chiefly from the dorsal or palmar surface, the latter being preferable when possible. Amputation at the Wrist is not very often required. In performing disarticula- tion at this joint, its shape, with the con- vexity looking upwards, must be borne in mind. The operation may be performed in three ways, the chief flap being cut either from the dorsal or palmar surface or from the radial side of the hand. In the first case, it is best performed by Teale's method (Fig. 43). A perfectly square flap, whose four sides are each equal in length to half the circumference of the hmb at the level of the wrist-joint, is raised from the back of the hand. It must consist of skin and fat only, the extensor tendons being left on the hand. A short palmar flap, also composed of skin and fat only, and equal in length to one- quarter of the dorsal flap, is next raised. The extensor tendons may now be divided at the level of the wrist, and the joint opened and disarticulated Lastly both flaps being held well back, the flexor tendons are smoothly divided with a single sweep of the knife. The flaps must be brouo-ht accurately together m the way described on p. G8, Fig. 26. By this method t he dorsal flap is somewhat long and thin, and is consequently liable to slouo-h unless It be very carefully raised, care being taken not to turn the edge of the kuife to the flap, but to keep it constantly directed towards the parts to be removed. ^ In amputation by the long palmar flap, the operation has been performed either by cutting the flap from within outwards after opening the wrist-joint' ')r by shaping the flap from the palm first and disarticulating afterwards' Lhe former method is objectionable, as the prominence of the pisiform bone and the hook of the unciform on the inner side render its performance Fig. 44.—Auiimtation at tlie Wrist by Long Palmar Flap.