OSSIFICATION OF CALLUS. 5^9 enclose spaces containing the vessels and cellular elements, and so-called osteoid tissue is formed. In that part of the callus, on the other hand, which lies opposite the line of the fracture, true cartilage is formed ; whilst in that portion which is intermediate between these two extremes a transitional tissue is produced, the cells of which resemble those of cartilage, but the matrix of which diflFers from that of cartilage in that it stains deeply with carmine. The formation of true cartilage invariably occurs in animals, but only under certain circumstances in the repair of fractures in man. This fact and the relation of the cartilage, when present, to the line of the fracture, suggest that its formation is in some way determined by want of rest. Changes similar to those above described occur in the medullary canal, true cartilage being formed only at the immediate seat of fracture. The complete ossification of the provisional callus.—The formation of new bone in the soft callus commences by the appearance of yellowish-white points or streaks, first seen in the part in contact with the bone at the point furthest removed from the seat of fracture. These points and streaks gradually in- crease till the callus becomes converted into soft spongy bone, containing wide cancellous spaces filled with red vascular medullary tissue. The ossification gradually spreads from above and below, towards the seat of fracture, till the process of conversion of the soft callus into bone is complete. The changes that occur within the medullary canal are of the same character. The new bone thus formed differs from normal compact tissue in being softer, more vascular and spongy. If a longitudinal section of the bone be made, it will be seen that the callus is covered by a thick vascular periosteum which can be stripped off without difficulty ; it leaves the surface of the callus rough and spongy, with wide Haversian canals containing some red medullary tissue. The trabeculse of the callus are set at right angles, or nearly so, to the surface of the compact bone beneath, from which the callus can at first be separated without difficulty. If this be done, however, the surface of the compact bone is seen to be slightly more spongy than natural, the openings of the Haversian canals being enlarged. Microscopic examination shews that when ossification occurs in that part of the callus which has undergone conversion into osteoid tissue, the process consists in the deposit of bone by osteoblasts, layer by layer, on the surfaces of the trabeculas of lime salts which have already been formed in the ground- substance. The spaces around the vessels are thus gradually narrowed until they assume the form of Haversian canals, whilst many of the osteoblasts become imbedded in the osseous tissue as bone-corpuscles. In that part of the callus in which true cartilage is developed, the process of ossification is preceded by the penetration of vessels into the cartilage from the periosteum and from the bone beneath, whilst the further changes observed are similar to those met with in the normal process of ossification in cartilage. The ossification of the callus in the medullary canal proceeds in the same way. The development and ossification of the intermediate or definitive callus proceed in the same way as in the formation of the provisional callus. The time at which it forms will depend greatly upon the perfection of the apposition, and the immobility attained by treatment. It is evident that no process of repair can take place between two surfaces of compact bone so lon<i- as they are grinding against each other at each movement of the limb. The