VENEREAL DISEA,)>ES. it66 When the parents are syphilitic, the foetus frequently fails to arrive at maturity. This may be due to disease of the placenta, or of the umbilical cord, or to the direct action of the syphilitic virus on the foetus itself. In the placenta extravasations of blood, fatty degeneration, and the formation of caseous, and occasionally of calcareous masses, are the most common abnormal conditions observed. In the cord the vessels are occasionally found to have undergone changes identical in character with those already described as taking place in the arteries of the adult (p. 1132). The foetus itself also shows evidence of disease in the great majority of cases in which it perishes before arriving at maturity, or is born dead at the full time. Mewis states that an examination of ninety-two syphilitic foetuses showed the spleen to be diseased in seventy-two, the bones in sixty-four, the liver in fifty-six, the pancreas in fourteen, the suprarenal bodies in eleven, the lungs in three, and the skin in one only. In consequence of these diseases of the placenta and the foetus, it often happens that early abortion or miscarriage takes place. Many consecutive miscarriages may take place in consequence of the parents being affected with constitutional syphilis. It is a common history in these cases that the period at which miscarriage takes place becomes later in each succeeding pregnancy, until at last, perhaps after a dead foetus has been delivered at full term, a living child may be born bearing evidence of inherited syphilis. Such a history is very characteristic of syphilis, even if the parents have ceased to show any visible signs of the- disease. When the parents are known to be syphilitic, if they be treated by a mercurial course, miscarriage can frequently be prevented, though the child may show some signs of the disease. The offspring of syphilitic parents as a rule develop symptoms resembling in most points the acquired form of the disease. It is not impossible, however, that the taint may manifest itself by an impaired state of the constitution, and that syphilis may thus be a predisposing cause of scrofula or rickets. There is, however, no satisfactory evidence that this is the case. The Period at which the Symptoms manifest themselves varies greatly. As a rule, a syphilitic child when born alive, though often small, badly developed, and cachectic in its appearance, shows no definite manifesta- tions of the disease ; but in the course of a few weeks, usually from two to eight, the symptoms declare themselves. Diday and De Meric collected a large number of cases, in most of which the signs of the disease developed in the fifth or sixth week. Many betrayed their disorder in the first month ; and in some few it was delayed until the child had attained the age of three months. The earlier the disease shows itself, the more fatal are its effects. Children who manifest no symptoms till they are two or three months old usually recover their health in a short time. The effects of inherited syphilis may also manifest themselves even in adult age. Hutchinson believes that this may take place without any signs of syphilis during infancy; this view, however, is not entertained by Berkeley Hill, and most other writers on the disease. They assert that though they may have been slight, some symptoms have in every case been present during the early months of life. These cases are rare, and the following which fell under my own observation is a good instance. The patient w^as a young woman, ■aged seventeen, who w^as covered with a marked squamous syphilide, with which she had been affected for several years. The mother told me