66i CL A VICLE- A CROMIA L END. at the same time fracturing- the second rib, and separating the first from its cartilage. All the ligamentous structures around the end of the bone were torn through, with the exception of the costo-clavicular hgament, which had preserved its attachments unbroken, and had carried away the cartilage of the first rib in the direction of the displaced clavicle. Dislocation backwards has also occurred as a secondary consequence of curvature of the spine. The Signs are those that usually indicate a dislocation of the sternal end of the clavicle—shortening of the shoulder, and deformity about the upper^ part of the sternum ; but, besides these, a special train of symptoms is occasioned by the pressure of the displaced bone upon the trachea, oesophagus, and vessels of the neck. Difficulty in breathing and swallowing, with congestion of the liead giving rise even to a semicomatose state, may be produced to such an extent as to necessitate removal of the end of the bone, as happened in a case of gradual dislocation from deformity of the spine related by Astley Cooper, in which the Surgeon was obliged to saw off the dislocated end. In some cases, the end of the bone is tin-own upwards as well as backwards ; in others, it takes rather a downward direction. In the Trcaiment of this dislocation, it is easy to effect the reduction of the bone by making a fulcrum of the fist in the axilla, and then bringing the elbow well to the side, at the same time that an assistant puts his knee between the patient's shoulders and pulls them back ; but it is difficult to retain the bone in proper position. To attain this object, the figure-of-8 bandage applied to the points of the shoulders, and crossed over a large pad placed in the middle of the back, will give the most efficient support to the part, the elbow being at the same time well fixed to the side and drawn back. 2. The dislocations of the Outer End of the Clavicle, or more correctly, the dislocations of the Acromion from the clavicle, are more commonly met with than those just described. The most frequent accident of this descrip- tion is that in which the bone is thrown upon the Upper Surface of the Acromion, or upon the Anterior Fart of the Spine of the Scapula. It is usually caused by violent falls upon the shoulder, and is not an uncommon accident at football. The prominence formed by the displaced bone upon the upper surface of the acromion, the narrowing of the distance from the mesial line to the point of the shoulder to the extent of from an inch to an inch and a half, the facility of the reduction of the dislocation, and the prominence of the clavicular portion of the trapezius muscle, indicate the nature of the acci- dent (Fig. 245). The Trcalymnt is by no means satisfactory. Reduction may easily be effected by raising the shoulder, drawing it backwards, and carrying it outwards by placing a pad or the hand in the axilla and bringing the elbow well to the side. But, notwithstanding the facility of reduction, there is in many cases an unconquerable tendency to the return of the displacement. This is owing partly to the shallowness of the articular surface of the acromion, partly to the tension of the trapezius, by which the acromial end of the bone is drawn upwards, and in a great degree to the mobility of the shoulder. In every movement of the body or neck there will be found to be a tendency to rising upwards of the end of the dislocated bone, and in the majority of cases this will be insurmountable by any mechanical means that can be employed. It is best limited, if not obviated, by a pad and gutta- percha plate laid on the projecting clavicle, and strapped tightly down by a band passing parallel to the arm and under the flexed forearm, this beino-