BOILS. The inflammation starts in connection with a hair, l^ut whether from the folhcle itself or from the sebaceous gland is uncertain ; probably it may commence in either situation. It begins as a small red pimple, through the middle of which the hair may often be seen protruding. From this the inflammation extends into the subcutaneous tissue ; it is accompanied by abundant coagulable exudation, so that the inflamed area becomes raised above the surrounding parts, forming a hard circumscribed tumour of a purplish-red colour, conical in form, but flattened at the top. On the summit of this a vesicle forms which bursts, leaving a grey slough exposed, which is gradually loosened by suppuration around it, and discharged usually by a single opening, al"ter which the small cavity heals rapidly. In the early stages there are itching and tenderness, but as the tension and hardness increase the boil becomes extremely painful. Boils are always seated on parts jDrovided with hair, the most common situations being the back of the neck, the shoulders, nates, and hands. They seldom occur singly, one usually following another for some weeks or even months. The nearest lymphatic glands are usually swollen, but very rarely suppurate. In some cases the inflammation subsides without suppuration, and the boil is then said to be Mind. Predisposing Causes.—Boils most frequently occur in young people, but are common enough at all ages. They are met with sometimes in very plethoric, and sometimes in enfeebled, constitutions, often following some of the more severe febrile diseases, and attending convalescence from them; they are not uncommon in diabetic subjects. The boils which often break out during training for athletic contests are supposed to be due to a too exclusively animal diet. Sometimes boils may be traced to exposure to sewer- gas. In other cases, the system appears to have fallen into a cachectic state, often without any evident cause, and this terminates by a critical eruption of boils. A sudden change in the habits of life, as from sedentary to active pursuits, a course of sea-bathing, &c., will also occasion them. They are commonly met with in the spring of the year, but may occur at all seasons, and are occasionally epidemic. Iniinediate Causes.—Many years ago Pasteur showed that a micrococcus was always present in the discharge that could be obtained from a boil by puncturing it and squeezing it at an early stage. This organism has since been identified as the staphylococcus pyogenes so commonly found in all acute suppurations. That it can act as a cause of boils has been shown by Garre, who rubbed a gelatine cultivation of the staphylococcus obtained from a case of acute necrosis of bone into his own arm, with the result of producino- a closely set crop of boils. Boils are also well known to be common on the hands from the contact of decomposing animal matter in post-moriem examina- tions. Friction seems an important local cause, as they are most common on the neck at the part rubbed by the collar, and are often met with on the nates from rowing. Treatment.—If any definite constitutional condition can be discovered upon which the boils seem to be dependent it must be attended to. The urine should always be tested for sugar and albumen. The drains of the house in which the patient lives should be examined as the disease may be due to poisoning by sewer-gas. Boils may occur in the most opposite conditions of health, and different modes of treatment are consequently necessary. If the patient be debilitated and cachectic, iron, quinine, and cod-liver oil; if he be