363 AMPUTATION IN GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. position in the act of firing, is peculiarly liable to gun-shot injury; the bullet either lodging in the head of the humerus or traversing it, and perhaps frac- turing some of the bony processes of the scapula in its immediate vicinity; or, as in the case of fragments of shells, carrying away a large part of the deltoid muscle. It is especially in bullet-wounds of the shoulder and elbow-joint that conservative surgery has been most successful. In such cases, when the bones are penetrated, and even shattered by a bullet, provided the main blood- vessels and nerves of the limb be not injured, amputation will seldom be required ; and indeed, it should be laid down as a rule in surgery, that excision should be preferred to amputation in all cases in which the large blood-vessels and nerves are not wounded, or the soft parts too extensively disorganised. The wound having been enlarged, loose spicula must be removed, and the splintered and jagged ends of the fractured bone sawn smoothly off. If the bullet be still lodged in the head of the humerus, as in Fig. 110, the same course should be adopted. It has been a question with Surgeons whether excision or amputation should be done when the upper end of the shaft of the humerus has been much splintered, with or without penetration of the joint. In these cases the head of the bone is often uninjured. Guthrie advised amputation ; but the result of the experi- ence of the war in America has been that five or six inches of the shaft of the humerus may be removed with perfect safety, and that no good comes of leaving the uninjured head, which should also be excised. The results of excision of the joints of the upper extremity are in the highest <legree satisfactory. Thus Baudens states that he saved 13 out of 14 cases of excision of the shoulder. According to Thornton, in the British army in the Crimea, the shoulder was excised 12 times with 2 deaths; the elbow in 17 cases, of which 2 were fatal ; and partially in 5 other cases, all of Fig. 110.—spherical which were successful. These results were more successful ^/g|.u^'^^ than those that followed amputation of the corresponding parts. Of GO disarticulations at the shoulder, 19, or 31 per cent., were fatal; and of 153 amputations of the arm, 29, or 19 per cent., died. The result of resection of these joints has not been quite so satisfactory elsewhere ; thus, in the Confederate army in America, Chisholm states that up to February, 1864, of 59 cases of excision of the shoulder, 20 proved unsuccessful; and of 45 cases in which the elbow was excised, 9 were unsuccessful. In the official report of the Surgeon-General of the United States army, of 286 cases of excision of the elbow in which the results were known, it is stated that 62 died, and in 16 amputation became necessary. Of 210 primary excisions of the shoulder-joint death occurred in 50 ; and of 298 secondary excisions 115 were fatal, giving a mean mortality of 32-48, against 39*44 for amputation at the shoulder, and 44-4 for cases treated on the expectant plan, Gurlt has collected 1,661 cases of excision of the shoulder in mihtary surgery with 1,067 recoveries, 567, or 34'7 per cent., deaths, and 27 uncertain ; and 1,438 of excision of the elbow, with 1,054 recoveries, 349, or 24*87 per cent., deaths, and 35 doubtful. The operation of excision of large portions of the shaft of the humerus, as well as of its head, was carried much further by the American military Surgeons in the Civil War than had pi-eviously been done. Fig. Ill taken