764 INJURIES OF THE HEAD, dura ruater and the skull when it proceeds from a wounded meningeal arterv, or more rarelj, a sinus. 2. In the subdural space. 3. In the subarachnoid space and in the meshes of the pia mater on the surface of the brain ; and 4. In^ the substance of the brain or in its ventricles. In the last three situations the blood is derived from the vessels of the pia mater, oi- the substance of the brain. Intracranial extravasation is most commonly met with on the surface of the brain from laceration of the cortex, but here it is seldom very abundant. It is much less common between the dura mater and the bone, but when occurrino: in this situation the quantity is often large, but even then seldom exceeds four ounces, although I have seen a clot from rupture of the middle meningeal artery weighing five ounces and a half. Results.—The extravasation of blood into a closed cavity such as that of the cranium necessarily causes pressure on its contents, varying with the amount poured out. It is thus one of the most frequent causes of death iji injuries of the head, giving rise to fatal compression of the brain and coma. In smaller amounts on the surface of the bvain it may cause serious effects by interfering with the venous return from the injured area from which the hsemorrhage proceeded (p. 750). When of moderate amount it most fre- quently causes no evil consequences. The blood that is so extravasated may undergo various changes: 1. It may be absorbed entirely; 2. The serous portion, and a great part of the colouring matter, may be removed, leaving a fibrinous buff-coloured layer, which may occasionally become organized. This occurs only in arachnoid hemorrhage. Such layers are sometimes double, and then, forming a flattened cyst, the cavity of which is merely moistened by a little fluid, are occasionally found unexpectedly in the subarachnoid space many years after the injury which gave rise to the extravasation ; 3. The exterior of the clot may become consolidated, whilst the interior contains fluid and disintegrated blood. This occurs in the cerebral substance, and the cysts thus formed are permanent. Symptoms.—The only definite symptom of extravasation of blood is gradually increasing insensibility, ending in coma within twenty-four hours of the injury. It is, however, a matter of the greatest practical importance to determine, if possible, whether the hgemorrhage is taking place between the dura mater and the bone, or whether it arises from a laceration of the brain substance, or is taking place into the membranes. In a typical case of Extravasation between the dura mater and the hone there are three distinct stages : viz., concussion, a return and some continuance of consciousness, and then gradual supervention of coma. In exceptional cases in which the injury is very slight, more especially in children, concussion may not occur, and in a considerable proportion, the interval of consciousness between the concussion and the commencement of the symptoms is absent or very imperfectly marked. Jacobson. who has published a most exhaustive paper on this subject in the Guy's Hospital Reports, states that in 63 cases collected by him it was wanting in 21, and so little marked that it might easily have been overlooked in 10. The duration of the interval of con- sciousness is very variable, but it seldom extends beyond an hour or an hour and a half. The following cases illustrate these various conditions. A lady going into the opera stumbled on some stairs and struck the side of her head against the wall. She felt giddy and confused, returned home, went to bed, and was found comatose next day. I was sent for, but before