83 SEPTIC DISEASE FOLLOWING AMPUTATION. The foregoing statements justify us in believing tbat, if septic diseases could be prevented, no patient, who at the time of the operation is in good general health, should die of an amputation if he survive the period of shock, unless it be from the weakness of extreme old age. Secondary hemorrhage is almost as preventible as pygemia by the exclusion of septic influences. The value of the majority of amputation statistics is greatly impaired by all the cases being put together with no further separation than into primary and secondary, and we thus get a very false notion of the mortality occurring in ordinary cases. Some very valuable statistics have been published by Max Schede, in his work on Amputations, in which this source of error has been eliminated by following the classification of cases suggested by Volkmann. The cases are divided first into " Complicated " and Uncomplicated." The Com plicated cases, which are classed separately, are—Multiple or Double Amputa- tions; cases complicated with other severe injuries; cases in which the patient was suffering from severe surgical fever, septicemia, pyaemia, spreading gan- grene, or tetanus, at the time of the operation; and, lastly, cases which terminated fatally, or in which the cure was incomplete after many months, on account of acute intercurrent diseases, such as delirium tremens, acute pneumonia (not of septic origin), or chronic diseases, such as phthisis, Bright's disease, amyloid degeneration, secondary cancer, &c. Secondly, the cases are divided into those treated antiseptically and those belonging to a period before the introduction of antiseptics and systematic drainage into the treatment of amputation wounds. The former are taken from the published statistics of Socin of Bale, Volkmann of Halle, and Max Schede in Berlin ; the latter from those of Bruns of Tiibingen, Bardelebeu, then of Greifswald, and Billroth, then of Ziirich. The cases treated by the older methods showed the followincf results :— [ 1 CASES. DIED. PER CENT. Uncomplicated cases 377 110 29-18 10 3 30-00 Complicated by other injuries .... 5 4 80-00 ., by Septicaemia, Tetanus, &c. . . . 48 40 83-33 ,, by constitutional diseases . 21 21 100-00 Total 4f)l 178 38-83 These are not worse than the average statistics of amputations twenty or twenty-five years ago. The cases treated antiseptically by carbolic acid dressings and all the pre- cautions recommended by Lister, show the following results :-- Uncomplicated cases ..... Double amputations Complicated by other injuries by Septic;emia, Pyasmia, Tetanus, &c „ by constitutional diseases . Total .... CASES. DIED. PER CENT. 321 13 14 4-4 ' 11 3 S 23-8 72-72 45 30 {!(;-6(; 27 i<; 59-2(i 417 71 17-02 G 2