466 TRAUMATIC ANEURISM. or weakening of the pulse in the vessel below the wound, all indicate the nature of the case. The greatest difficulty arises at a later period when acute inflammation has set in and the swelling presents many points of resemblance to an acute abscess. The true nature and gravity of the tumour may usually be recognised by observing that the pulse in the arteries at a lower point is absent, that there is great oedema of the limb from pressure on the veins accompanying the artery, and that the tumour is situated in the line of one of the main arterial trunks. The immediate relief experienced by the patient when the main trunk above the tumour is compressed may in some cases aid in the diagnosis, but too much reliance must not be placed on this, as the pain of an acute abscess may be to some extent relieved in the same way. In cases in which the diagnosis cannot be otherwise made, the aspirator may be used. If pure blood is withdrawn in large quantities, the diagnosis of aneurism would be confirmed ; if only a few drops of blood escaped it would be uncertain, as these might come from the inflamed tissues round an abscess; if pus mixed with blood appeared in the syringe it might still be an aneurism if the tumour had existed any length of time, as suppuration might be taking place round the extravasated blood. In any case in which there can be any possible doubt the Surgeon must not venture to make an incision without having everything ready for the more serious operation. Treatment.—The treatment must be the same as for an open wound of an artery, viz. to expose the vessel and apply a ligature on each side of the wound. The reasons for this are: first, the only difference in the two conditions is, that in the one case the blood is shed superficially and in the other it is poured out into the tissues ; secondly, unlike a spontaneous aneurism, it has no sac, which, as will hereafter be shown, is essential to successful treatment by proximal hgature or compression ; thirdly, all the arguments against the appHcation of a proximal hgature at a distance in the case of an open wound of an artery (p. 450), apply with equal force to a subcutaneous wound : hgemorrhage would probably recur when the anastomosing vessels dilated and, in the absence of a hmiting sac, the blood would continue to diffuse itself amongst the tissues ; fourthly, the pressure of the extravasated blood upon the veins combined with a proximal ligature of the artery would almost certainly lead to gangrene; and lastly, as the artery is presumably healthy at the injured spot there is no necessity to go higher in the hope of finding a healthier part. I doubt whether there is a case on record in which the Hunterian operation has been successfully adopted in this condition. The proper treatment is to lay open the cavity, turn out the clots, clean the artery and tie it above and below the wound. This operation, easy in descrip- tion, is often most difficult in practice. The bleeding is often profuse ; the cavity that is laid open is large, ragged, and partially filled Avith coagula ; it is often with much difficulty that the artery is found in the midst of infiltrated and blood-stained tissues ; and when it is found, it is not always easy to get a ligature to hold. It wih be convenient to divide the operation into two stages :—1. Exposing the artery ; 2. Passing the hgature. First Stage.—The limb should be rendered bloodless and a tourniquet applied when possible. A screw tourniquet is more convenient than the elastic band as it can readily be relaxed and tightened when required. In wounds of the axillary artery the subclavian must be compressed on the first rib, and, if necessary, an incision may be made through the deep cervical fascia