55° FRACTURES. cold, no time should be lost in cuttino; down npon the injured vessel, a pro- ceeding which has been attended with a very considerable amount of success, even before the introduction of antiseptic treatment «nd bloodless surgery. If the vessel cannot be tied it may possibly be seized in forcipressure-forceps, which may be left on for twenty-four or forty-eight hours. Failing this, the wound may be plugged. Amputation should be the last resource. Venous Thrombosis and Embolism.—Wounds of veins in simple frac- tui'es rarely give rise to any extensive extravasation of blood, the rare examples of laceration of the subclavian vein in fractures of the clavicle being almost the sole exception. Thrombosis of the deep veins of a fractured limb, espe- cially of the leg, is, however, probably far from uncommon. When we con- sider the bruising they must frequently suffer, the readiness with which coagulation takes place in the injured veins, and tne interference with the venous flow by the prolonged rest of a fractured limb, it is surprising that extensive thrombosis is not more common. It occurs most frequently in the lower limb, though cases are occasionally met with in the arm. As the throm- bosis is almost invariably limited to the deep veins, the only evidence of its occurrence is some oedema of the extremity, and perhaps some fulness of the superficial veins. As long as the patient is confined to bed, the elevated posi- tion of the limb and the pressure of the sphnts keep this oedema within very moderate limits, but when the patient begins to move about the swelling becomes more evident. It is probable that the persistent oedema, which is a not uncommon and very troublesome sequela of fracture of the leg, is due to this cause. Accidental dislodgment of the clot and embolism of the heart or lungs is a very rare complication of simple fractures. Bruns has, however, collected the records of 35 cases, of which 80 were fatal. Thirty-two of these occurred in fractures of the lower extremity. Only one such case has occurred in Uni- versity College Hospital in the last twenty years, and in that the patient, who had nearly recovered from a compound fracture of the internal malleolus, was suddenly seized with dyspnoea and great cardiac distress, followed by shght htemoptysis. The symptoms subsided in a few hourSj and recovery took place. Injuries of Nerves in Simple Fractures.—Nerves may suifer a variety of injuries in fractures of the limbs. They may be bruised by the same force that causes the fracture ; they may be crushed, or in rare oases even divided, by the sharp edge of a splinter ; they may be compressed by a displaced frag- ment; and they have even lieen known to become interposed between the broken ends. As the fracture unites, a neighbouring nerve may occasionally become imbedded in the callus, and thus compressed. The most frequent complications of this kind occur in the upper limb, the musculo-spiral, from its intimate relation to the humerus, being peculiarly liable to suffer. Tlie brachial plexus is occasionally injured in fractures of the clavicle and of the upper end of the humerus, the ulnar nerve in fractures of the lower end of that bone, and the external popliteal in injuries of the upper part of the fibula. Other nerves are but rarely affected. The symptoms are those already described in the chapter on injuries of nerves as occurring in consequence of wounds or pressure. If the impairment of function comes on at a later period, during repair of the fracture, it may be concluded that it is due to the pressure of callus. It is wiser, in all fractures in which an injury to a nerve is likely to