DIVISION THIED. SUEGICAL DISEASES. DISEASES AFFECTING THE TISSUES GENERALLY. CHAPTER XXX. MORTIFICATION, OR GANGRENE. The death of a part of the body is, in surgical language, termed Mortifi- cation or Gangrene. In pathological language the term Necrosis is apphed to local death generally, in whatever part or tissue it occurs ; but in surgical practice it is customary to confine it to affections of the bones or cartilages : when limited to the soft tissues of a limb it is spoken of as Spha- celation; and when accompanied by ulceration, it is called Sloughing Many other varieties of gangrene are recognized, by Surgeons. Like most other diseases, it may be Acute or Chronic in its duration. As the parts affected are moist and swollen, or dry and shrivelled, it may be divided into the Moist and the Dry or Mummified gangrene ; so again, according to its cause, it is spoken of as Spontaneous or Traumatic; and very frequently, it is arranged according to the nature of its cause under the denominations of Constitutional and Local. Besides these, various Specific forms of the disease are met with which will require special consideration. ' Local SiGNS.-Certain local phenomena are common to aJl varieties of foThTV I than natural, the temperature fal ing to_ that of the external air. Its sensibility is lost, and it inay be touched pncked or cut without feehng. In some cases the sensibilL isTeatlv increased just before gangrene sets in, agonizing pain of I hmJTov neuralgic character being experienced, whi?h sooS gives way to co^le? insensibihty. The natural functions of the affected parts L abohsh d Thus the muscles no onger contract, and all motion of the part itseirceases mr f^^"^^/^^^^\«"bs^q^^.^tly take place in the tissues of the gangrenous part are of two kinds, giving rise to the division of gangrene iSo Z and mo^.t In the moist variety death of the part takes place wW e the tissues are engorged with blood, either from inflammation or f^m obst uct on to the circulation through the veins or capillaries. In this form the tkin of the dead part becomes discoloured, usually greyish or grTen th te