NITROUS OXIDE GAS. 31 sometimes useful in irritable or feeble patients. The ether is intended to prevent the depressing action of the chloroform upon the heart, the chloro- form to diminish the irritation of the air passages by the ether, and the alcohol to dilute the anaesthetics. It must b'e administered on lint or on a folded towel, in order that the three vapours may be given off in the proper proportion. If the mixture were administered from an ether apparatus, in which the anaesthetic is put in a liquid form into a chamber in the instru- ment, the ether would be given off at first most abundantly, being by far the most volatile of the three, and the proportion of chloroform vapour would be gradually increased as the administration continued. For the same reason, if the mixture be not freshly prepared, the proportion of ether is apt to be diminished. Chloroform and Morphia. In very long operations, ansesthesia may be maintained with a smaller amount of chloroform if a quarter of a grain of morphia be injected subcutaneously immediately before commencing the ad- ministration. In cerebral surgery this plan is recommended by Horsley, as the morphia temporarily constricts the vessels of the brain and thus diminishes haemorrhage during the operation. It must be remembered that morphia, although it is safely administered with chloroform, increases the dangers of ether. Tripier of Lyons recommends the addition of a small quantity of atropine to the morphia injection. Bichloride of Methylene was recommended as an anaesthetic by Richard- son, and a substance which passed by this name was extensively used in Guy's Hospital and at Moorfields Ophthalmic Hospital. In 1883, however, Regnauld and Villejean published a paper, in which it was shown that the liquid sold under this name is nothing more than a mixture of four parts of chloroform with one part of methylic alcohol. The advantages claimed for this mixture over pure chloroform and ether were, greater rapidity of action, complete and rapid recovery, and the absence of muscular rigidity during administration, and of unpleasant after-symptoms. The rapidity of action was, however, obtained by giving the vapour in as concentrated a state as possible, all un- necessary admission of air being avoided. It is evidently not a safe pro- ceeding to administer any preparation of chloroform in this way. If it be used at all, it must be given in the same way, and with the same precautions us pure chloroform. Nitrous Oxide Gas was the first anesthetic used, but its employment was soon discontinued, ether, and subsequentlv chloroform taking its place It was re-introduced in 1863 as an anaesthetic by the American dentists. It is an admirable anesthetic, rapid in its action, safe in its administration, and seldom giving rise to any unpleasant after-effects. The class of cases in which nitrous oxide is applicable is restricted, owing to the short duration of the anaesthesia produced by it, and the suddenness of the return to consciousness, making the after-smart of the operation almost as severely felt as the cut it- self could have been. Nitrous oxide is chiefly of use in operations which involve no cutting, as in the forcible bending of stiffened joints, the avulsion of toe-nails, extraction of teeth, &c. ; or in those cutting operations which are completed by a single stroke of the knife, as the opening of an abscess. In order to produce the desired effect, without causing that violent ex- citement which gained it the name of "'laughing gas,"^ it must be ad- ministered pure, without admixture of air. In order to do this, a proper