COMPLICATED DISLOCATIONS. 653 3an be subiected. Not only is there such extensive laceration of the soft parts^ that cover and enter into the formation of the joint as to give rise to the most severe forms of traumatic arthritis, but the bones are often fractured, and tiio main vessels of the limb perhaps greatly stretched or torn. The Treatment of a compound dislocation must be conducted on the same principles that guide the Surgeon in the management of a wounded joint, viz, rest, drainage, and the prevention of decomposition. Owing to the rupture of the ligaments and muscular attachments, there is usually no difficulty in the reduction; but the danger consists in the destructive inflammation that so frequently follows in the joint. This, as was before pointed out, is due chiefly to the accumulation of decomposing discharges in the cavity ; but in the case of a compound dislocation, it is aggravated by the severe bruising and laceration of the surrounding structures. Consequently extensive inflammation and suppuration with sloughing may follow the injur}. In all cases it is better not to make any attempt to close the wound by suture, as this would only interfere with the drainage, and union by the first intention is practically impossible. Cleaning the wound and dressing it must be conducted on the principles laid down in the chapter on wounds of joints (p. 513). If the joint be a large one, the line of practice will vary according to circumstances other than the mere dislocation. Thus, if it be in the upper extremity, the patient being healthy, and the soft parts not very extensively contused or torn, the bones may be replaced, after the joint has been properly cleaned with carbohc acid lotion (1 in 20), or some other antiseptic solution, and may then be dressed by one of the antiseptic methods already described. Dry cold may be applied over the dressing if possible. The limb must be placed on a sphnt to ensure rest for about two weeks, after which, if all goes well, passive motion may be commenced with care. Should suppuration take place, passive motion would only ensure the destruction of the joint ; the limb must then be firmly fixed on a splint in the hope of obtaining ankylosis. If there be fracture conjoined with the dislocation, resection should be practised, as was successfully done by Hey in several cases of injury of the elbow of this description ; but if the soft parts be greatly injured as well, and especially if the blood vessels and nerves of the limb have suffered, amputation must be performed. In the lower extremity, amputation is more frequently necessary ; in the knee, almost invariably so. Yet there are exceptions to this rule ; thus, White had a case of compound dislocation of the knee-joint in a boy, nine years of age, at the "Westminster Hospital, in which he saved the limb by sawing off the condyles of the femur and reducing the bone. In compound dislocations of the ankle and the astragalus, an attempt should generally be made to save the limb, in the way that will be more specially pointed out when we come to treat of these injuries. After recovery from compound dislocation, the joint will often remain permanently stiffened ; hence attention to position during the treatment is essential. In many cases, however, very good motion is ultimately obtained, though the stifl'ness may continue for some length of time. Complications.—Fracture of the Shaft of one of the Long Bones with Dislocation of its Head considerably increases the difficulty of reduction. In these circumstances, it has been recommended to let the fracture consolidate first, and then to attempt the reduction. But to do this is only to defer and increase the difficulties. At least seven or eight weeks must elapse