397 TEE AT ME A'T OF BURNS. these accidents, 73 proved fatal before the eighth day ; 42 of these dying on the first day. Of the remaining 27 cases, 12 died in the second week, 9 in the third, 3 in the fourth, 2 in the sixth, and 1 in the ninth. Teeatment.—The treatment of burns must have reference to the constitu- tional condition, as well as to the local injury. A vast variety of local appli- cations have been recommended by difterent Surgeons, such as flour, starch, cotton-wadding, treacle, white paint, gum, solution of india-rubber, &c. ; the principle of all these applications is, however, the same, viz., the protection of the burnt surface from the air. I shall here content myself with describing the methods that are usually followed with much success at the University College Hospital. The Constitutional Treatment is of the utmost consequence. We have seen how death occurs at various periods after these accidents from different causes, and we must modify our treatment accordingly. The first thing to be done after the infliction of a severe burn is to bring about reaction ; the patient is trembling, in a state of extreme depression, suffering great pain, and cold and shivering, and he may sink from the shock unless properly supported. Under such circumstances the local treatment of the burn must be postponed until the shock has been relieved. A full dose of liquor opii, varied according to the age, should be given at once in some warm brandy-aud-water, and repeated, if necessary, in the course of an hour or two ; and the patient should be wrapped in hot blankets. When the body is extensively but superficially burnt, the immersion of the patient in a warm bath gives instantaneous relief, soothing the pain and removing the depression. When reaction has fairly set in, the patient's secretions should be kept free by the administration of an occasional mild purgative. Should any inflammatory symptoms about the head, chest, or abdomen manifest themselves, appropriate treatment is required. I have certainly seen patients saved in these circumstances by blood-letting and the application of leeche^. But, in the vast majority of instances, the visceral complications are of a congestive type. In such cases our great reliance must be on stimulants. Ammonia and bark, brandy and wine, require to be given freely, with a sufficiency of nourishment; and the irritability of the nervous system must be soothed by frequent and full doses of opium. At a later period, when the strength has become impaired by the profuse discharges, this tonic and stimulating plan must be actively continued. Local Treatment.—In all cases of extensive burn the charred clothes must be removed, and the patient laid upon a blanket and protected as far as possible from exposure to cold. The objects aimed at in the further treatment are the protection of the raw surface, which in all degrees of burn below the fourth is acutely sensitive, the prevention of decomposition, and the exclusion of cold. In burns of the first degree no treatment is necessary beyond pro- tecting the surface from the air. In cases where scorching of the face results from a gas explosion, Heath recommends that the skin be painted with a mixture of one part of collodion and two of castor-oil. In burns of the second degree the blisters may be punctured and the fluid allowed to drain away, but the cuticle should not be removed. The whole part may then be wrapped in cotton-wool and left untouched for a few days, by which time it will have quite recovered. In the third and succeeding degrees of burn, sloughs