942 ERYSIPELAS. account of the somewhat uncertain state of our knowledge concerning these affections, the patient should if possible be isolated. 2. Predisposing Causes.—Certain local and constitutional intrinsic causes predispose the patient to receive the virus. Local.—Of these the most important is certainly the presence of a wound or raw surface. The statistics of University College Hospital show that erysipela- tous inflammation may attack a wound at any time from its infliction to its healing. This is especially true of the cutaneous forms ; other varieties of erysipelatous inflammation more commonly start from recent wounds. The presence of decomposing discharges in the wound is undoubtedly an important predisposing cause, and antiseptic treatment has done much to prevent it. When erysipelas is epidemic, it is well for the Surgeon not to perform any operation that can conveniently be postponed ; and in no case should a patient on whom an operation has recently been performed be put in a neighbouring bed to a case of erysipelas, or even in the same ward. The size of the wound has little influence on the occurrence of erysipelas, which will as readily follow a puncture as an amputation wound. Lacerated wounds are, however, more liable to be followed by erysipelas than clean-cut incisions. The depth of the wound also influences in an important manner the kind and the degree of the erysipelatous inflammation, the phlegmonous and the cellular forms arising most commonly from those injuries that penetrate the deep fascia of a limb. In such cases the disease may spread widely and fatally through the deeper subaponeurotic and intermuscular planes of areolar tissue. It is important in these cases not to confound a simple septic inflammation due to the presence of decomposing matter in an ill-drained wound, with genuine erysipelatous inflammation. Injuries about the head and hands are said to be more liable to be attacked by erysipelatous inflammation than those of other parts. Constitutional.—Some persons appear to be uaturally predisposed to erysipelas to such a degree that it readily follows the application of cold, or stomach disorder, or a trivial superficial injury. This predisposition is most generally acquired by habitual derangement of health, more especially as the result of the excessive use of alcoholic stimulants. The condition is met with amongst the labouring poor as the result of privation of the necessaries of life, and amongst the wealthier classes as a consequence of high living, want of exercise, and luxurious habits. Some morlid states of the Mood, consequent upon visceral disease, appear to predispose, in the highest degree, to the supervention of erysipelas. This is especially the case in diabetes, and in disease of the kidneys attended with albuminuria. As a consequence of renal disease, erysipelas often occurs from the most trivial causes; such as a scratch, the sting of an insect, or any of the minor operations in surgery, more especially about the lower part of the body. Not only is it readily induced in this way, but it will extend in an uncontrollable manner in these states of the system, and will often assume a gangrenous form, there being apparently an utter want of power in the tissues to resist the influence of the virus. Persons of a plethoric habit, with a tendency to gout, are predisposed to erysipelas. The blood-degeneration that attends malignant disease peculiarly disposes to erysipelas, which accordingly more frequently takes place after operations on persons suffering from such diseases than after the removal of simple tumours.