SPECIAL DISL 0 CA TIONS. scaphoid, carrying with them the rest of the foot, are dislocated from the astragalus, which is left in situ under the malleolar arch. The displacement is most commonly in a direction 'backwards, with an inclination inwards or outwards. In these cases the nature of the injury is recognized by the back- ward displacement of the heel, whilst the astragalus retains its normal relations to the malleoli. The Treatment consists in flexion of the leg and attempts at reduction by extension applied to the foot in a direction forwards. If moderate extension fail, division of the tendo Achillis, andif necessary of other tendons, may be practised, on the same principle as in dislocation of the astragalus. Dislocations of the other Tarsal Bones are of extremely rare occur- rence. Most of these bones, however, have been found luxated at times. The Calcaneum has been dislocated laterally from its connection with the cuboid in consequence of falls from a height, the suflerer alighting upon his heel. Chelius mentions a case in which this bone was dislocated by the effort of drawing off a tight boot. Reduction seems to be readily effected by relaxing the muscles, and pressing the bone back into its proper position. The Scaphoid and Cuboid Bones have been dislocated upwards, in con- sequence of a person jumping from a height and alighting upon the ball of the foot. In these instances the limb is shortened and curiously distorted, the toes pointing downwards, and the arch of the instep being increased so as to resemble closely enough the deformity of club-foot. Reduction may be effected by drawing and pressing the parts into position. The Internal Cuneiform Bone has occasionally been found to be dislocated. Astley Cooper mentions an instance of the kind. If reduction be not effected by pressing the bone into its position, no great evil appears to result to the patient, the motions of the limb not being seriously interfered Avith. Sometimes the tarsal joints are extensively torn open without any one bone being distinctly dislocated. I have seen this accident in the case of a young man who caught his foot between the spokes of a revolving wheel ; the foot was violently bent and twisted, and all the tarsal joints more or less torn open, so as to necessitate amputation. Dislocation of the Metatarsal Bones, though excessively rare from the manner in which they are locked into the tarsus, and retained by short and strong ligaments, yet occasionally occurs. Instances are recorded by Dupuytren and Smith ; Liston mentions a case of luxation of the metatarsal bone of the great toe from direct violence ; and Tuffnell records a case of luxation downwards and backwards of the inner three metatarsal bones, in a man whose horse fell and rolled over him. Two cases have occurred in my practice, in one of which, by the pressure of a " turn-table " on a railway, the outer three metatarsal bones were dislocated downwards. In the other, in consequence of a horse falling and rolling on its rider, there was a compound dislocation of the first, with a simple dislocation of the fourth, metatarsal bone. The question of amputation will always present itself in these cases, and must be determined on general principles, by the age of the patient, and the extent of injury to the soft parts. Luxations of the Phalanges of the Toes but rarely happen, and present nothing special in nature or treatment.