CAUSES OF DISLOCATION. 643 CHAPTER XXII. DISLOCATIONS. Dislorahon is the more or less sudden and complete displacement of one of the bony structures of a joint from the other. In the ball and socket joints, as the hip and shoulder, the osseous structures are completely separated from one another, the dislocation then being Complete. In the hinge- joints, as the elbow and knee, the osseous surfaces commonly remain partially in contact, though displaced from their normal relations to one another : here the dislocation is Incomplete. In most dislocations the integumei:ts covering the displaced bones are put greatly on the stretch ; but in some they are ruptured, and then the dislocation is Compound. Besides these varieties. Surgeons recognize Spontaneous dislocation, in which the dis- placement does not occur from external violence. In other cases aa-ain, the dislocation arises from Congenital malformation of the joint, in consequence of which the bones cannot remain in proper apposition ; and finally, dislocation may take piace as a result of disease in the articulation and surrounding tissues. This is termed Pathological dislocation. It is now customary to describe dislocations of the distal bone or the mo]-e movable bone ; formerly, dislocation of the proximal bone was often spoken of. Causes.—Dislocation is Predisposed to by various conditions, amongst which the nature of the joint appears to exercise most influence ; ball and socket joints being more liable to dislocation than any of the other articula- tions, whilst in some of the synchondroses it never occurs. Kronlein states that 51 per cent, of all dislocations occur at the shoulder-joint, 27 per cent, at the elbow, and 2 per cent, at the hip. These statistics have been obtained from the combined records of the in- and out-patient practice of the hospitals in Berlin, whereas those published by Malgaigue and some others have been derived from in-patient practice only, and are consequently very erroneous. Dislocations arc seldom met with in children, in whom separation of the epiphysis fi'om the shaft more readily takes place. When they do occur it is most frequently at the elbow-joint. Kronlein states that out of 400 disloca- tions treated in the Berlin hospitals, 22 were met with in this situation in children under ten years of age. I have had under my care a child, just one year old, with dislocation of the head of the femur on the os pubis, occasioned by another older child dragging it along the ground by its leg;' Kirby and Madge have both seen dislocations of the femur on the dorsum ilii in children of three and three and a half years old ; and Travers has seen the hip dis- located in a boy five years of age. In old people the bones are so brittle, and the ligaments so tough, that violence causes fracture rather than dislocc4iou Hence it is principally in young and middle-aged subjects that dislocations are met with. This is well illustrated by an analysis of 84 cases of dislocation T T 2