845 (ESOPHAGOTOMY. the coafcs of the oesophagus, may seriously injure neighbouring parts of im- portance. Thus, in a case admitted into University College Hospital, a juggler, in attempting to push a Wanted sword down his throat, perforated the oesophagus and wounded the pericardium; death resulted in a few- days. The Symptoms occasioned by the impaction of a foreign body in the food- passages are sufficiently evident. The sensations of the patient, who usually complains of uneasiness about the top of the sternum, difficulty in swallowing solids, and perhaps an urgent sense of suffocation, lead to the detection of the accident. Should any doubt exist, the Surgeon may, by introducing his finger, explore nearly the whule of the pharynx, and may examine the oesophagus by the cautious introduction of a well-oiled pr'obang. If the impaction be allowed to continue unrelieved, not only may deglutition and respiration be seriously interfered with, but ulceration of the oesophagus will take place, and an abscess form either behind it or between it and the trachea; or fatal haemorrhage may ensue by perforation or ulceration of neigh- bouring blood-vessels. The Treatment must depend upon the nature of the foreign body and its situation. Should it be large, blocking up the pharynx so as to render respira- tion impracticable, it may be hooked out by the Surgeon's fingers. Should asphyxia have been induced, it may be necessary to perform laryngotomy at once, and to keep up artificial respiration until breathing is fully re-established, when the foreign body can be removed. If it be small or pointed, as a fish- bone or pin, though it have lodged high up, the Surgeon will usually experience great difficulty in its removal, as it becomes entangled between, and is covered in by, the folds of the mucous membrane, where from its small size it may escape detection. In these cases an expanding probang will be found useful. Emetics have been recommended and have been used with success ; but it would not be safe to employ them if the foreign body was of any size or firmly impacted, lest the oesophagus should be ruptured during the act of vomiting. After the foreign body has been removed, the patient will for some time experience a pricking sensation, as if it were still fixed. If the impacted body have passed low down into the oesophagus, the Surgeon must deal with it accord- ing to its nature. A coin can usually be caught by the instrument known as a "coin-catcher," and removed without difficulty. If the body be smooth and soft, as a piece of meat for instance, it may be pushed down into the stomach by the gentle pressure of the probang. If, however, it be rough, hard, or sharp-pointed, as a piece of earthenware or bone, or a metallic plate with false teeth attached, such a procedure would certainly cause perforation of the oesophagus, and serious mischief to the parts around ; in these circumstances, therefore, an attempt at extraction should be made by means of long slightly- curved forceps, constructed for the purpose. ^ The foreign body occasionally becomes so firmly impacted in the pharynx or oesophagus, that the employment of any force for the purpose of extracting it would be attended with danger of perforating the oesophagus or transfixing the large vessels of the neck ; in these circumstances it may become necessary to open the tube and thus remove it. The operation of Pharyngotomy or (Esophagotomy is seldom called for ; if required, it may be performed by making an incision about four inches in length along the anterior border of the left sterno-mastoid muscle, the oesophagus naturally curving somewhat towards