EFFECTS OF HEAT AND COLD. cannot manifest itself ; but as soon as the vessels dilate on the restoration of the natural heat of the part, inflammatory phenomena occur varying with the deg-i-ee of impairment of vitality that the part has sut'ered during- its exposure to cold. If it have been completely killed, the blood ftiils to enter the vessels of the dead part, which consequently remains white and cold till decomposition sets in. If the damage have been short of this, the blood enters the vessels, and all the phenomena of inflammation are developed. If, from the too sudden thawing of the frozen part, a large quantity of blood be admitted at a high degree of pressure, abundant exudation takes place from the damaged vessels, great swelling and tension ensue, and the circulation may again be arrested, partly by the pressure caused by the exudation, which may extinguish such remains of vitality as are left in the tissues, and partly by the obstruction to the circulation within the vessels from adhesion of the corpuscles. Thus a part which had escaped death from the direct action of the cold may rapidly become gangrenous after a short period of apparent restoration. If it escape gangrene the inflammation gradually subsides, often being accompanied by vesication. If the damage done be still less, the restoration of warmth is followed merely by some redness and possibly a little swelhng with much burning pain. The effects of cold, in fact, form one of the best illustrations of the facts that inflammation is the direct result of damage of a part to a degree short of causing death, and that the degree of inflammation is propor- tional to the extent to which the vitality is lowered. When gangrene results it is most commonly of the moist variety ; the part is swollen and black, finally it becomes dry and shrivelled, and separates by the formation of a line of ulceration around it. The Constitutional Effects of a low temperature need not detain us. It is well known that, after exposure to severe or long-continued cold, a feeling of Heaviness and stupor comes on, and gradually creeps on to an overpowerino- tendency to sleep, which, if yielded to, terminates in coma, and a speedy^ though probably painless, death. Teeatment of Frost-Bite.—This consists in endeavouring to restore the vitality of the frozen parts. The great danger is that the circulation may again become arrested, as above described, by the sudden admission of a large quantity of blood at a high degree of pressure. In order to prevent this accident, the temperature must be elevated very gradually and with extreme care. The patient should be placed in a cold room, without a fire, any approach to which would certainly lead to the destruction of the frost-bitten members. These must then be gently rubbed with snow, or with cloths dipped in cold water, and held between the hands of the person manipulating ; as reaction comes on, they may be enveloped in flannel or woollens, and a small quantity of some warm liquid or spirit and water may be administered. In this way sensibility and motion will be gradually restored, often with inuch burning and stinging pain, redness, and vesication of the part. If gangrene have come on, or if sloughing follow the restoration of the circulation, the slough, if of small size, should be allowed to detach itself by the natural'pro- cess of separation, which should be interfered with as little as possible, the vitality of the parts continuing at a low ebb, and extension of gangrene beino- readily induced. If the gangrene be extensive, amputation may be required. This should be done at the most convenient situation, as soon as the line of separation has fully formed.