INJURIES OF THE CHEST. 866 The Treatment of these cases of wound of the pericardmm should be con- ducted as far as possible on antiseptic principles. In cases of a punctured Avound, should the external opening close, and the pericardium become distended with effusion to such an extent as to embarrass the action of the heart and threaten to prove fatal, the fluid must be removed by means of the aspirator. (See Tapping the Pericardium, Yol. II.) The general treatment must be con- ducted on those ordinary medical principles that guide us in the management of pericarditis arising from other causes. Wounds of the Heart.—The heart may receive a wound which does not penetrate through the walls; or one or more of its cavities may be opened by the agent that inflicts the injury. Most commonly the wound is inflicted by stab or gunshot, and then generally no foreign body is lodged in the cardiac cavities or substance. But in some instances bullets, pieces of stick, needles,^ iron pins, and other substances, have been lodged and encysted in the walls of the ventricles. In the vast majority of cases, wounds of the heart are immediately fatal, but they are not necessarily or invariably so. Much will depend on whether or not they penetrate into the cavities, and on the extent of the injury that the heart has sustained. Non-Penetrating Wounds may be fatal at once from direct shock to the heart ; or the patient may survive a few hours or days and then die of peri- carditis ; or he may recover and live for years, as in a case reported by West of Birmingham, in which the man lived for four and a half years. After death, evidences of extensive and severe pericarditis were found, and there was a hnear cicatrix half an inch long in the anterior part of the right ventricle. Penetrating Wounds of tlie Heart are almost invariably at once fatal from loss of blood and shock to the organ and system. This is especially the case if the cavities be largely opened, or much of the heart substance destroyed. But there are many exceptions to this general law of fatahty. Jamain has cohected 84 cases in which people lived for considerable periods after having received a wound of the heart. Of these, in 35 cases the right ventricle was womided, and the sufferers lived from four and a half hours to twenty-three days. In 19 cases the injury was to the left ventricle ; and of these life was prolonged to periods varying from half an hour, in two cases, to six months in one instance. Both ventricles were wounded in five cases in patients who lived from one hour to niue and a half months ; the right auricle in seven cases, the patients living from seven hours to twenty days ; the left auricle in two cases, in which the patients lived respectively one and two days. In many cases, the patient has been known to walk or run some considerable distance after the receipt of the injury. Ollivier and Samson have collected 29 cases of penetrating Avounds of the heart Avhich did not prove fatal in the first forty- eight hours after the receipt of the injury. On analysing these, it would appear that the rapidity of death depends greatly on the direction of the wound and the part of the organ injured. When the wound is parallel to the axis of the heart, it is not so speedily fatal as when in a transverse direction, and wounds of the auricle are more immediately followed by death than those of the ventricle ; the irreo-ular contraction of the diiferent planes of muscular fibre that enter into the^rmation of the wall of the ventricle tending to obstruct the free passage of the blot)d through the wound, and perhaps to close it entirely. The size