SECONDARY EFFECTS OF ETHER. n these circumstances, the pharynx must be cleaned out occasionally with a spont.-c on a holder, and the head may be turned to one side to allow tne secretion to flow from the mouth. However inconvenient these violent respiratory movements may be to the surgeon, he must not be tempted to chano'e the anaesthetic to chloroform, as in the semi-asphyxiated state ot the patient, there is great danger in so doing. _ Experiments on animals have shown that the blood-pressure is at hrst increased during the administration of ether, and only falls when the animal is very deeply under its influence. The temperature is slightly reduced by prolonged administration. The time required for the induction of anassthesia varies, averaging aboiV five minutes if the ether is administered without an inhaler, but much less if Clover's apparatus be used. Habitual drunkards often require a large amount of ether to produce anjBsthesia. Secondary Effects of Ether.—Headache and prolonged drowsiness may follow the administration of ether, especially in the aged. In young and nervous women, hysterical excitement may appear and continue for some hours, or even days, but this need not excite uneasiness. The IwKjs probably always become slightly congested during the adminis- tration of ether, but as recovery takes place, the pulmonary vessels unload themselves, and no inconvenience usually results. This is facilitated by admitting an abundant supply of fresh air to the room, and desiring the patient to breath several times fully and deeply after consciousness returns. In some cases the lungs do not unload themselves of the accumulated blood and of the excess of bronchial secretion that accompanies the congestion, and a process of slow asphyxia may set in, and prove fatal in a period varying from twenty-four hours to four or six days. This occurs in old patients sufl'ering from chronic bronchitis and emphysema, and is not an uncommon cause of death after operations for strangulated hernia, as the strangulation is frequently caused by violent straining in coughing. It is also especially apt to happen in those cases in which it becomes necessary to bandage the chest, or in which deep respiration is attended with pain, as after amputation of the breast. Great care must, therefore, be taken not to constrict the chest-walls too tightly after such operations. Continual nausea and vomiting are sometimes very distressing after-effects of ether, and may be productive of serious and even fatal results. Vomiting is less likely to occur if the patient can be left undisturbed and allowed to sleep off the effects of the anaesthetic. In many instances it is caused by the patient taking the ether too soon after a meal, and is then purely gastric, and usually occurs early in the administration. In other cases, it appears to depend upon cerebral disturbance of some kind, and in others, again, it is connected with kidney disease. But in any case, and from whatever cause arising, it is a serious symptom, and, if it continue, may turn the scale against the patient by the exhaustion to which it gives rise. It is best treated by ice or weak iced brandy and soda-water. Strong iced black coflee with bromide of potassium is occasionally useful, and in extreme cases a mustard plaster or even a bhster to the epigastrium may be tried. Dudley Buxton recommends sipping hot water from a feeder or cup. About a teaspoonful should betaken at a time,and the temperature must be as high as the patient can bear. Tepid water increases the vomiting. For prolonged nausea, he advises