ACTINOMYCOSIS. I io6 ray fungus in abundance. The boy, Avho was nine years of age, died after about nine months' iUness. At the post-mortem examination the most exten- sive disease was found in the right pleura, from which it had extended through the diaphragm. The right lung was extensively diseased ; the left con- tained scattered nodules, varying in size and having, on section, the " charac- teristic canary-coloured appearance." Actinomycosis may occur primarily in the abdominal viscera : thus in at least two cases the first symptoms were those of perityphlitis. In one of these, recorded by W. H. Ransom, it seems probable that the disease began in the vermiform appendix ; the case terminated fatally, and in addition to extensive disease in the region of the caecum, there was a large secondary deposit in the liver. W. B. Ransom was able to diagnose a case by the detection of the spherules of actinomyces in the urine and in the fasces ; here it was thought probable that the primary deposit was in the anterior wall of the rectum, and that the prostate and prostatic urethra were secondarily involved. The liver also may be the seat of the primary deposit, and in cases in which the disease becomes generalised, secondary foci may be found in the brain, kidneys, sub- cutaneous tissue, and other parts. Diagnosis.—The chief interest of this rare disease to the practical Surgeon consists in the fact that clinically it may closely resemble other more common affections. Thus actinomycosis occurring in the neighbourhood of the jaws may closely simulate a sarcomatous or other malignant growth, or possibly a breaking down syphilitic gumma. We have already seen how, in the chest, the disease may be mistaken for an empyema, whilst the resemblance in its course to a new growth or tuberculous affection of the lung may be very close. Actinomycosis occurring in the abdominal viscera is likely to be confounded with different varieties of new growth and other causes of chronic suppuration. The remarkable tendency of the disease to spread beyond the limits of the organ or structure in which it commences, as, for instance, from the lung through the diaphragm into the liver, has been especially insisted upon l)y several observers. The only certain means of diagnosis consists in the detection of the fungus with the naked eye or microscope in the discharges or other material obtained from the seat of disease. The careful routine examination of these in all doubtful cases will indeed often materially assist the Surgeon in arriving at a correct opinion. Treatment.—If the disease is superficial, as when it conmaences in or near the lower jaw, the tumour must be freely incised, and the unhealthy granu- lation tissue scraped away with a sharp spoon. This operation is often successful in effecting a cure. In cases of deep-seated disease no surgical interference is likely to be indicated until the disease has gradually worked its way to the surface ; free incision, with scraping and drainage, should then be resorted to. The administration of iodide of potassium in full doses has been thought to be beneficial.