ADMINISTRATION OF MERCURY IN SYPHILIS. 1141 manifestations; and from the fact that, when properly administered in healthij constitutions, it may almost to a certainty be expected to dissipate the various symptoms of constitutional syphilis. When it fails, as it doubtless does in many cases, to prevent severe constitutional symptoms, the failure may usually be traced either to want of care in the administration of the medicine, or to the existence of an impaired state of the patient's health. The essential practical point in the treatment of primary syphilis by mercury is to keep the patient under a prolonged and mild course, rather than a short and active one. Administration of Mercury in Syphilis.—In discussing this question tlie following points require consideration :—1. The cases in which mercury is inadmissible. 2. Cases in which it is required. 3. The effects of mercury and the degree to which its use should be pushed in treatment. 4. Its effect in different stages of the disease. 5. The time during which its use should be continued. 6. The mode of administration. 7. The general management of the patient during the time he is taking the drug. 1. Cases in ivhicli mercury is inadmissible.—Mercury is especially dangerous in all forms of Bright's disease, so that it is well> if there be any suspicion of an unhealthy state of the kidneys, to examine the urine for albumen before com- mencing to give the drug. It is not well borne by those also who are exhausted by habits of dissipation, by insufficient food, or by bad hygienic surroundings. Lastly, some patients are peculiarly intolerant of mercury, apparently from some idiosyncrasy, and in these it may be impossible to give it with safety. 2. Cases in ivhich mercury is required.—There is no doubt that the natural tendency of syphilis is to spontaneous recovery ; this has been clearly proved by the effects of the non-mercurial treatment. It is equally certain, however, that mercury shortens the stages and lessens the severity of the disease, and that if carefully administered, it cannot do any harm. The administration of mercury is therefore advisable in every case of syphilis in which its use is not contra-indicated by one of the conditions above mentioned. As age increases, its use becomes more essential, for, as before stated, the disease becomes more obstinate in proportion to the age of the patient at the time of infection. In patients of the scrofulous diathesis, or in those suffering from active tuberculous disease, mercury must be administered with great caution, but its use is not contra-indicated. 3. The general effects of mercury, and the degree to ivhich it should be pushed in treatment.—The observations of Liegeois, Hughes Bennett, and Keyes, show that mercury administered to a healthy subject in very small doses acts as a tonic. Under its influence the red corpuscles increase in number, and in animals a gain in weight has been noted. In larger doses it diminishes the red corpuscles. In syphilis, in which the red corj)uscles are diminished in number, it causes an increase if administered in moderate doses. All forms of meroury administered by the mouth tend to act upon the bowels, and unless this tendency be checked, the desired alterative effect is not easily produced. The most marked sign of the action of the mercury is the effect upon the gums and mouth. The first sign that the drug is affecting the constitution is the appearance of a red line along the gums, close to the teeth; there is at the same time a slight sense of tenderness on biting any hard substance. In the present day the administration of mercury is not pushed beyond this point, and in the primary stage of syphilis, it is not even necessary in most cases to carry it so far before its good effects are apparent on the sore. Should the