ioi6 TUMOURS. thin purulent fluid. The cyst-wall often becomes loosened and partially disin- tegrated. Finally the abscess may possibly burst superficially, and the whole cyst be discharged. I once opened a very large abscess in the adductor region of a youcg woman's thigh, and gave exit to nearly a pint of pus, containing dozens of hydatid cysts about the size of gooseberries. The diagnosis of these cysts when seated in the subcutaneous or muscular tissues cannot be made with certainty, except by withdrawing some of the fluid with the aspirator, and submitting it to microscopic and chemical examination. If it be of low specific gravity and free from albumen, it is almost certain to have come from a true hydatid cyst, and if booklets are found no doubt remains. The Treat- ment of these cysts when seated in an external part, such as a limb, is complete removal of the parasite by a free incision. In this way I removed a hydatid cyst of the size of a fist from the muscles at the back of the neck of a young man. In internal organs, if enucleation be impossible, aspiration is the best treatment, and is said to cure about half the cases operated on. In spite of antiseptic precautions, aspiration is not uncommonly followed by suppura- tion. If this occur, or if the aspiration fail to cure, the only efficient treatment is to open the cavity, to attach the walls of the pseudo-cyst to the skin when possible, and to insert a drainage-tube. The parasitic cyst may sometimes be removed from the cavity, but more often this is impossible owing to the soft- ness of its walls, and the small size of the opening that can be made. The operation should be performed with the strictest antiseptic precautions, as the dead parasite and the watery fluid contained in the cyst are highly putrescible, and owing to the size of the cavity septic poisoning is very likely to occur, especially if the drainage and asepsis be imperfect. II.—a?UMOURS COMPOSED OF ONE OP THE MODIFICATIONS OF FULLY DEVELOPED CONNECTIVE TISSUE. The structures included under the term " connective tissue and its modifica- tions," are fat, fibrous and areolar tissue, cartilage, bone, and mucous tissue. The tumours composed of any of these tissues in a state of perfect develop- ment are uniformly benign. Occasionally a cartilaginous tumour assumes a mahgnant form, but it will then be found that, instead of being covered by a firm fibrous membrane at the margin of the growth, there is a zone of em- bryonic tissue which is infiltrating the surrounding parts on one side and becoming developed into cartilage on the other—in fact, that the tumour is not a chondroma but a chondrifying sarcoma. It is from this tissue, probably, that the system becomes infected, and not from the fully developed cartilage. In the same way, tumours which to the naked eye seemed to be composed of bone may assume all the characters of malignancy ; but on microscopic exami- nation it will be found that they do not grow as normal bone does, either from a fibrous membrane (periosteum) or from cartilage, but are in fact ossifying sarcomata. These will be described amongst the sarcomata. Again, there is no absolute boundary between sarcoma and fibroma. Many tumours composed almost entirely of spindle-cells contain a large proportion of fibrous tissue between the cells. If the fibres very much exceed the cells, the growth would be called a fibroma ; if the reverse a sarcoma ; and one between the two is often spoken of as a fibro-sarcoma. As a broad rule, it may be said that