902 MOETIFICATION, OR GANGREJS'E. cuticle separates, and when pressed upon obliquely slides away under the finger, leaving the moist and slippery cutis exposed. The colour gradually darkens to a "dull purplish greenish black, mottled in patches with reddish- brown spots ; and after a time an odour of putrescence is evolved, very commonly with an emphysematous crackling from evolution of gas in the gangrenous tissues. This shows that putrefactive changes have taken place in the dead tissues. The drij variety occurs as a consequence of some obstruc- tion to the supply of blood to the part, so that at the time it sets in the tissues contain less blood than natural. In it the colour is often at first of a pale tallowy white, mottled, with dusky spots. The skin soon becomes dry, horny, and semi-transparent, and eventually assumes a brown wrinkled appearance, and the whole gangrenous part becomes shrivelled and dry like the limb of a mummy. Constitutional Symptoms.—These vary greatly. When the disease is strictly local, affecting a part of but limited extent, and perhaps of no great importance to the economy, they are not very strongly marked. If, however, the gangrene, although hmited, impHcate important organs, as a knuckle of intestine for example, marked symptoms declare themselves. The full invasion of the gangrene, if it affect any considerable extent of tissue or any important organ is always attended with gi'eat depression of the system. The countenance is dull and anxious and the pulse feeble, quick, and easily compressible ; the tongue is brown, and the lips and teeth loaded with sordes. In moist gangrene the constitutional disturbance is aggravated in some cases by absorption of the products of the unhealthy inflammation from which the death of the part has resulted, and in others of the products of putrefaction from, the decomposing slough. Death may in fact occur from this cause with all the symptoms of septic poisoning. In dry gangrene these symptoms are usually much less marked. When gangrene affects an internal organ the depression is always very great, and the special symptoms will vary with the part affected. Causes.—The causes of gangrene are predisposing and immediate. Any- thing that tends to lower the vitality of the tissues must necessarily bring them into a state in which a comparatively slight injury may cause their death. These conditions have already been fully discussed in the chapter on inflam- mation (p. 172 et seq.). The predisposing causes of inflammation, when acting more powerfully, predispose to gangrene. Immediate Causes of Gangrene,—These may be divided thus :— 1. Causes acting primarily hj arrest of tlie Circulation.—These may again be divided into :— (a.) Arrest of the Supplij of Arterial Blood to a j?«r/.—This is a common cause of gangrene. It may be produced by accident, by hgature or other surgical operation, or by thrombosis or embolism of the arteries. (h.) OMriidion of the CircvMion through a ^?ar^.—This is seldom a pri- mary cause of gangrene, and as such arises only from pressure either from within, as from the growth of a tumour, or from without, as in the formation of bed-sores or sloughs beneath splints. Obstruction to the capillary circu- lation necessarily accompanies all acute inflammations, and often forms an important element in the production of gangrene ; but in inflammation it is not a primary cause, being secondary to the damage done to the tissues directly by the irritant causing the inflammatory process.