FRACTURES. the arm to seize something- that was falling ; and the clavicle has been fractured by a rider giving his horse a back-handed blow. In these cases, however, muscular action may not have been the sole cause, the weight of the Hnib also tending to fracture the bone. Muscular action also aids in the fracture of bones by indirect violence ; thus we see that a sober man who makes a violent effort to save himself more often breaks a bone in a fall than a drunken man who falls like a log. Predisposing Causes.—Some l)ones are especially liable to be broken in consequence of their serving as points of support Thus, when a person falls upon the hand, the shock is transmitted from the wrist through the radius, humerus and clavicle, to the trunk ; the radius and clavicle, being the weaker bones, are then especially liable to be fractured. So again, the sifuation of a bone, irrespectively of any other circumstance, may predispose it to fracture ; the prominent position of the nasal bones, and the exposed situation of the acromion, render these parts peculiarly liable to injury. The shape of some bones disposes them to fracture ; thus, a long bone is necessarily more readily broken than a short and thick one ; hence the tibia and femur are more often fractured from falls on the feet than the os calcis. Certain p)arts of hone are more commonly fractured than others. Those parts especi ally i nto which power- ful muscles are inserted, or that are in exposed situations and hence liable to injury, or have to receive the weight of the falling body, are often broken. Hence the clavicle, the olecranon, and the neck of the femur, are commonly fi-actured. Age exercises considerable influence, not only on the general occurrence of fractures, but on the liability of certain bones to be broken. Fractures may occur even in intra-uterine life, and many cases have been recorded in which one or more bones have been broken in the foetus by blows upon the abdomen of the mother during the later months of pregnancy. Intra-uterine fractures may also occur as a consequence of syphilis; thus Chaussier dissected a syphihtic foetus that had 113 fractures and another with 43. Fractures may occur also during birth, most commonly of the humerus or femur but occasionally of the bones of the skull. These are usually the consequence of instrumental delivery. Some cases that have been described as congenital fractures appear to me father to be instances of arrest of development or f^iilure of union between the various parts of the bone. These show no disposition to union or the formation of callus and I have never seen any operation such as wiring, scraping, &c. undertaken for their cure with success. In early age, as the bones are elastic and partly cartilaginous, fractures occur less readily than in advanced life when they have become brittle and earthy. In children fractures frequently occur at the line of junction of the shaft with the epiphysis where ossification has not as yet become perfect. This separation of the epiphysis occurs chiefly at the lower ends of the humerus and femur, sometimes in the radius and other long bones. As age advances, the compact tissue of the shaft becomes denser and harder, but the cancellous structure of the extremities more dilated and looser ; hence fracture of the neck of the femur is especially common in old people. In young persons the bone is usually broken transversly, but fractures taking place at a more advanced period of life are generally oblique, and often comminuted ; in adults they also more commonly extend into joints than when occurring in early age. In children, more than one half the fractures