I050 TUMOURS. carcinoma, squamous epithelium, and those from a columnar carcinoma, columnar epithelium. The epithelium may be slightly modified from growing in a situation where it is far less exposed to surrounding pressure, or more abundantly supplied with blood, but its general characters always remain the same. In like manner the stroma of the secondary growth may be less abun- dant than that of the primary, and may thus cause some modification in the consistence of the tumour ; but the broad fact remains—that the secondary tumours are of the same structure as the primary. The mode of origin of the secondary tumours has given rise to much diversity of opinion. The view now usually accepted is that the secondary growths arise from the entrance of the cells of the cancer into the lymphatics or blood-vessels, by which they are carried to distant parts, and there lodging develop into tumours of the same nature as that from which they sprung. According to this theory, the cells of the new tumour are the descendants of the original cell which started from the primary growth. Simon, Creighton, and others believe that the new growth arises from the cells of the part in which the cancer cell has lodged, and upon which it exerts what they term a "spermatic influence," but this view is not generally accepted. The view of the direct transference of the cells of the tumour to different parts of the body is known as the implantation theory. Opposed to it is the infection theory, according to which the system is poisoned by the juices of the primary growth. There is yet another theory maintained by those who believe cancer to be a primary " disease of the blood," of which the tumour is merelv the local manifestation. Those who hold this view believe that the secondary growths are merely a further effect of the constitutional condition from which the primary growth originated. Thus Paget is of opinion that in some cases, in which a rapid multiplication of cancers takes place, this may arise from an increase in the cancerous diathesis or morbid condition of the blood. But he believes that in most of these cases there has been a conveyance of cancerous material by the blood, in the form of emboli, which have determined the local seat of the secondary growth ; and he supports this view by referring to the analogy pointed out by Walshe as existing between the secondary deposits in cancer and the secondary abscesses in pyaemia ; the liver and lungs in both cases being principally affected. He, however, thinks that it is not necessary to suppose that entire cancer cells are thus transferred ; cancer juice, or minute fragments of cancer-plasma, may be as efficient as entire cells. Virchow considers that the fact that the secondary deposit does not necessarily occur in the organ through which the blood must first pass, militates against the theory that cancer cells are carried onward by the circula- tion, and become impacted in the smaller vessels of the part, in the manner of emboli. He inclines to the belief that the cancerous juices are absorbed and enter the circulation either directly by the veins or indirectly through the lymphatics, and that they give rise to changes in the nutrition of certain parts, leading to the development of cancerous growths. In favour of the simple transplantation theory is the important fact that in the secondary growths epithelium arises in situations in which it is not normally present, as in the lymphatic glands and bones; and when the growth is situated in an organ in which epithelium is normally present, as in the liver or kidney, the cells of the new growth are not those natural to the organ, but correspond to those of the primary cancer. Thus the tumours in the liver secondary to