PRODUCTS OF PUTREFACTION. 179 most markedly developed the curved organism is termed a vibrio. This classi- fication is extremely imperfect, but in the present state of our knowledge, neither botanists, bacteriologists, nor pathologists seem to be able to agree on any definite arrangement of these organisms. It is probable that the same organism under different conditions of growth may vary considerably in form, and this adds another difficulty in the way of accurate classification. All these organisms being destitute of chlorophyl, consume oxygen in their growth and give off carbon dioxide. Some require free oxygen, and are for that reason termed " aeroMc " by Pasteur; others derive their oxygen from the organic compounds in which they grow, and cauuot develop in the presence of free oxygen, and are then termed " anaerobic; " others again are aerobic or anaerobic, according to the circumstances in which they are placed. All require an abundant supply of water, without which they cannot grow. All these micro-organisms are killed by boiling the liquid in which they ate growing, and most by a temperature of 140° F. Freezing is also fatal to many forms, and few survive prolonged drying. All chemical substances classed as antiseptics, such as carbolic acid, salicylic acid, perchloride of mercury, &c., when in solutions of sufficient strength, destroy their vitality ; in weaker solutions they inhibit their growth. The spores of the bacilli, however, exhibit the most remarkable resisting powers. They are not affected by boiling unless it be prolonged for some minutes ; they are uninjured by drying or freezing, and only the most powerful antiseptic solutions will destroy their vitality. None, however, are supposed to be capable of withstanding a dry heat of 250° F. maintained for one hour. Among these various fungi some are capable of developing in dead matter only ; others can attack living tissues and grow amongst them like true para- sites. The former are termed septic organisms, saprophytes, or carrion fungi ; the latter parasitic, wpathogenicfungi. It is Avith the septic fungi only that we have to deal at the present moment. Each fungus which acts as a ferment is supposed to set up a special process accompanied by the formation of definite chemical compounds, but this subject is at present very imperfectly worked out. In putrid animal fluids many forms of fungi, belonging to all the classes above mentioned—micrococci, bacteria, bacilli, vibriones and spirilla—are always met with, and the products of ordinary putrefaction are consequently extremely numerous and complex. It is impossible to name a special organism for every product, and there is no doubt that one may give rise to many. The chief products of putrefaction of animal matter are the following :—Gases: Nitrogen, Carburetted hydrogen. Hydrogen sulphide. Hydrogen phosphide. Ammonia, Ammonium carbonate' Acids: Formic, Acetic, Butyric, Propionic ; Ammonium sulphide. Tyrosin and Leucin are also present. In addition to these, substances chemically allied to Alkaloids, and known as Ptomaines, are developed. Amongst the most important of these are neuridine, saprine, cadaverine and putrescine, which are almost constantly found in the putrefaction of proteids. These substances are locally irritating to the tissues, and when absorbed are intensely poisonous. Bergmann also isolated a crystalline substance, to which he gave the name of Sepsin, and which he believed to be the special toxic agent in septic fluids : but the poisonous and irritating properties of putrid matter are not due to a single substance, and in the present state of our knowledge it is more conve- N 2