TREATMENT OF FRACTURE. 53t found exactly opposite the seat of fracture, where there will necessarily be the greatest disturbance from movement. Modification of Union of Simple Fracture.—The amount of callus formed in the union of a bone varies considerably. It is greater in children than in adults. In transverse fractures which are kept steadily in apposition, but little callus is formed ; externally it may be scarcely perceptible, and internally it may be merely a thin tube^ not obliterating the medullary canal. Ft is greater in those bones and those parts of a bone which are thickly covered by soft parts, being formed as before stated not only from the perios- teum and bone, but also from the surrounding tissues. The influence of the neighbouring soft parts in determining the formation of new bone is well marked in the tibia. In a fracture of this bone we find that, at i:he anterior and inner part, which is thinly covered, union takes place by the direct formia- tion of intermediate callus ; but at the posterior and outer side, where there is a thick envelopment of tissue, a large mass of provisional callus will often be found, filling up even the interosseous space. Occasionally we find that the inflammation set up around a fracture has extended to a neighbouring bone, and caused a formation of new bone upon it. The formation of callus is also greatly influenced by tbfe nature of the frac- ture. If the fracture be comminuted and the fragments displaced, there may be an abundant formation round the splintered fragments, welding them together. If there be great displacement, one end riding far over the othei-, the callus will be found chiefly between the tAvo fragments, connecting them together by a bridge of bone. So also, in cases of great angular deformity, when the final process of partial absorption and moulding of the new bone 1ms taken place, a larger amount is left in the angle, partly filling it up, and form- ing a sort of buttress to strengthen the bent bone. Lastly, the amount of callus is influenced very greatly by treatment; the more perfectly rest is maintained, the smaller will be the amount of callus formed. Union of a separated Epiphysis takes place in the same way as union of a transverse fracture. It almost invariably causes complete ossification of the epiphysial cartilage and consequent arrest of growth from that end of the bone. Clinical Course of a Simple Fracture.—The great majority of simple fractures of the larger bones are followed by slight febrile disturbance. This is very rarely sufficient to give rise to the general symptoms of fever, such as heat of skin, thirst, headache, &c. ; in fact without the thermometer its exist- ence could seldom be recognized. The temperature rarely exceeds 101° F., and in fact seldom reaches this point, unless there be considerable tension of the limb from extravasated blood. Tlie nature and causes of the fever which accompanies simple fractures have already been discussed (see p. 30()). The temperature usually becomes normal alwut the end of the first week, and from that time to the end of the case the patient suffers from no disturbance of health save such as may be caused by want of exercise if the fracture be situated in the lower limb. TREATMENT OF FRACTUBE. In the treatment of an uncomplicated simple fracture, all that the Surgeon has to do is to place the fragments in proper position and to retain them there, M M 2