354 GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. majority of cases carry any portion of the clothing with it. If foreign bodies are carried into the wound they will generally be found near the aperture of exit, through which they may often be more easily extracted. If the bullet lodge, it, together with any foreign bodies accompanying it, must be extracted through the wound, or cut out by a counter-opening. This second opening is often of great utility in affording a ready exit for subsequent discharges. Palpation of the hmb or region struck will often lead to the discovery of the bullet, when it lies among the muscles or beneath the skin. A consideration of the direction whence the bullet came, and the position of the patient when hit, will often direct attention to the spot where the ball has lodged. If possible, the same position of body or limb should be assumed ; the track of the bullet will thus be straightened, and the finger or probe can be carried down to it more readily. In searching for bullets and other foreign bodies, care should be taken not to probe the wound unnecessarily from mere curiosity, or so as to excite irritation ; in many cases, the introduction of the finger is far more useful than that of the probe. The advice given by Ambroise Pare, three hundred years ago, with regard to the examination of gun- shot wounds, can scarcely be improved upon. After recommending that the examination of the wound be made as soon after the injury as possible, before swelhng and inflammation set in, he says : " This is the principal thing in the performance of this work, that you place the patient in just such a posture as he was in at the receiving of the wound ; for otherwise the various motions and turnings of the muscles will either hinder or straiten the passage forth of the contained bodies. You shall, if it be possible, search for these bodies with your finger, that you may the more certainly and exactly perceive them. Yet, if the bullet be entered somewhat deep in, then you shall search for it with a round and blunt probe, lest you put the patient to pain." The extraction of the hullet should be accomplished without delay, before inflamma- tion has set in, and the lips and sides of the wound have become swollen. As Macleod justly observes, the extraction of the ball removes a source not only of physical irritation and suffering, but also of mental disquietude. Bullets cannot, as a rule, be allowed to remain lodged in the body with impunity. It is true that in some cases they become encysted, and so cease to irritate ; but in the great majority of instances they produce suffering and constitutional disturbance, and may at last occasion fatal mischief; for, although a bullet may continue fixed for years, yet it may at last, under the influence of muscular action, gravity, or the absorption of fat, begin to move and give rise to injurious consequences. The bullet should, therefore, always be removed when possible, but if it is not readily found the attempt to discover it should not be continued too long, as more harm may result from this than from leaving it. If any foreign body be very tightly fixed, so that it cannot easily be removed, it must be left till loosened by suppuration. Sometimes a bullet is firmly fixed in the cancellous structure of the articular end of a bone, and must be removed by means of an elevator. Various instruments are used for the detection and removal of bullets and other foreign bodies. There is usually no material difficulty in detecting the presence of a bullet, by means of an ordinary steel probe of sufficient length. When, however, the bullet is lodged deeply in the cancellous structure of a bone, or amongst swollen and infiltrated tissues, the difficulty may be great. Nelaton, in the case of Garibaldi, adopted the ingenious device of passing a