COMPRESSION OF BRAIN. ^745 latter condition. The brain is surrounded by the incompressible cerebro-spinal fluid, and hence it follows that the shghtest diminution of the capacity ot the cranium, as by the introduction of a foreign body, must raise the intracranial pressure, unless the fluid has a ready means of escape. Such an escape does undoubtedly occur, chiefly into the theca vertebralis, and the experiments of Dean show that the slightest pressure on the dura mater of a trephined animal does actually cause a corresponding rise in the pressure of the subarachnoid space. We must therefore conclude that an increase of intra- cranial pressure produces symptoms only when it reaches a degree sufficient to interfere with the circulation through the brain. In whatever way occasioned, the Symptoms, although presenting some diflferences, are tolerably constant. The patient lies in a state of coma, stupor or lethargy, being paralysed more or less completely, heavy and drowsy, or insensible, not answering when spoken to, or only when addressed in a loud voice, and perhaps shaken at the same time. The breathing is carried on slowly and deeply, with a stertorous or snoring noise, and usually a peculiar blowing of the lips. The stertor appears to be owing to paralysis of the soft palate, which is thrown into vibrations during expiration by the passage of the air ; the dis- tension of the cheeks and blowing of the lips are due to the paralysis of these parts. One or both pupils are dilated and insensible to light ; the pulse is full, often slow—in fact, a full, slow, laboured pulse is one of the most marked features in these cases ; the fseces pass involuntarily from paralysis of the sphincter ani, and the urine is retained from paralysis of the bladder; the skin may be cool, but in many cases, on the contrary, is rather hot and perhaps perspiring ; the temperature may rise to 106° F. If the pressure be unilateral, Horsley has observed that the temperature of the extremities is often higher on the side opposite that on which the pressure exists, probably as a conse- quence of vaso-motor paralysis. In some cases, on the other hand, there appears to be depression of temperature on the side of the body opposite to the lesion. Not unfrequently during this condition of stupor violent fits of convulsions may occur. This state of coma may become complicated by symptoms of inflammation ; and, unless the cause that produces the compres- sion be removed, it usually terminates speedily in death, the patient gradually sinking into more complete unconsciousness, and dying in an apoplectic con- dition. In other, but much rarer cases, the insensibility may continue almost an indefinite time, for many weeks or even months, until the compressing cause is removed, when the patient may recover consciousness, and the symptoms disappear. The Diagnosis between concussion and compression has been sufficiently indicated in the preceding description not to require special mention here. But it must be remembered that, in many cases, one state merges into the other, so that the symptoms are not so distinctly marked as has been indicated; and they are more especially obscured when associated with inflammation. With regard to compression it may be broadly stated that whenever the symptoms ibilow an injury to the head within twenty-four hours they are due to the pressure of fragments of bone in depressed fractures, foreign bodies in penetrating fractures, or extravasated blood in simple injuries. Compression from inflammatory exudation does not occur till the third day at the earliest, 3. Cerebral Irritation.—The third form of primary cerebral disturbance