934 INFECTIVE DISEASES OF WOUNDS. infiltrated with migrating cells, which press upon the vessels, some of which are obliterated, and others filled with clots. Micrococci are recognizable m this region also, and are almost certainly directly concerned in causmg the unhealthy process. Koch succeeded in inducing in mice a gangrenous process closely resembling hospital gangrene by the inoculation of a form of micrococcus which showed a regular mode of growth in chains. The infec- tive process was purely local, death occurring without infection of the blood. The micrococci were originally obtained from putrid blood, but subsequent inoculations from one animal to another were constantly followed by the same form of gangrenous inflammation, and the development of the same definite form of micrococcus. Treatment.—The preventive treatment of hospital gangrene may be deduced from a consideration of the causes that give rise to it. The experience of many German surgeons, and especially of Nussbaum, of Munich, has shown, that by the introduction of the antiseptic treatment the disease has been banished from hospitals in which, owing to faulty hygiene, it formerly existed to a fearful extent. On the other hand, it had practically been banished from English hospitals by attention to ordinary cleanliness, and general hygienic rules as to cubic space per patient, ventilation, drainage, &c., long before the introduction of antiseptic surgery, although occasional outbreaks still occurred. Now it is unknown in any properly managed civil hospital. In mihtary practice antiseptic treatment is often impossible, and overcrowding unavoidable. The disease may then be prevented almost to a certainty by treating the wounded under canvas, in " hut hospitals," or in the open. Should it break out, the building in which it has developed itself should at once be abandoned or destroyed. The spread of the disease may be prevented by at once isolating the affected patient, treating him in the open, and allowing no contact between his attendants and other patients. Should it have broken out m a civil hospital the first point to attend to is to prevent the extension of the disease to patients who are not as yet affected. This may be done by separating those who have been seized with it from the healthy, by preventing over- crowding of the hospital, ventilating the wards, washing the floors with a solution of chloride of zinc, whitening the walls, and fumigating the apart- ment with chlorine gas. Local Treatment.—The first step in the local treatment is, to clean away the slough till the hving tissues are exposed, the patient being under the in- fluence of an anaesthetic. This must be done by means of scissors and forceps, by scraping with a sharp spoon, and by forcibly rubbing the surface with a sponge or a piece of tow. The metal instruments used for this purpose must afterwards be disinfected by being held in the flame of a spirit lamp, or put m a bath of carbolic lotion (1 in 20) ; the sponge or tow must immediately be burnt The raw surface must then be freely cauterized by the application of iTiming nitric acid, chloride of zinc, or the actual cautery. I prefer nitric acid, if strong and freely apphed, the surface and edges being well sponged with it. The actual cautery is, however, very useful in those cases in which the surface to be destroyed is very extensive, or if there be a tendency to hgemorrhage. Should it not reach the deeper portions of the sore, nitric acid may be freely sponged into them. It is important to bear in mind that these escharotic applications will be fruitlessly expended in charring the tenacious grey pulpy slough, unless this have been previously cleared away. After the