56o FRACTURES. renders it necessary to change the dressing at the end of twenty-four hours. Often, however, the first dressing can be left undisturbed for two weeks or more, when the wound will be found to have healed as if under a scab. If no discharge have soaked through tlie dressing, and if there be freedom from pain, no excessive elevation of temperature and no impairment of the circula- tion tlirough the extremity of the limb, the Surgeon will be wise to leave the dressing quite uudistui-bed. Frequent dressing may undo much of the good done by the prevention of decomposition ; for the greatest care cannot prevent some damage to the superficial blood clot and the growing granula- tion tissue. The splints applied to a compound fracture should, as far as possible, be so arranged that the dressing can be changed without removing them. With this object the method suggested by Paul of Liverpool will be found most useful. Strips of soft iron covered with india-rubber are bent so as accu- rately to fit the contour of the limb. These are fixed to the limb by a paraffin or plaster of Paris bandage interrupted at the position of the wound, the edges being sealed with a mixture of bee's-wax and carboUc oil to prevent discharge from getting between the splint and the skin. The wound and the skin around-it are thus exposed for the application of the antiseptic dressing. Splints made of perforated zinc may in the same way be purified and enclosed in the dressing. Packing the limb in a fracture-box with sawdust impregnated with perchloride of mercury is a cheap and efficient mode of treatment recommended by Thomas. The open treatment, the iodoform treatment, and the application of terebene and oil, or carbolic oil, will also give good results if carefully carried out. The dressings may be changed with little or no disturbance to the limb, and thus good rest is maintained, but the prevention of putrefaction is not so certain as in the methods mentioned above. If decomposition be prevented by one of the above means, and good drainage and rest be maintained, suppuration will be prevented entirely or reduced to an insignificant amount in the great majority of cases, and recovery will take place with but little more constitutional disturbance than in a simple fracture. Union is, however, in many cases delayed for a week or two beyond the time which is sufficient for the cure of a simple fracture even in cases that do well in other respects. Complications of Compouxd Feactuees.—Septic Inflammation and Suppuration.—This may arise from failure of the antiseptic means employed, or the Surgeon may be so placed that he has not the necessary materials at hand with which to undertake efficient antiseptic treatment. Under these circumstances the progress of the case will depend very much upon the nature of the injury. If the wound be of insufficient size to affbrd good drainage the intermuscular planes may become widely infiltrated with blood and inflammatory exudatiou ; and as decomposition spreads in this, diffuse suppuration, with great swelling, pain and tension will be set up, accompanied by severe constitutional disturbance, possibly ending speedily in fatal septic poisoning, or at a later period in pyaemia. If the wound be larger, allowing free exit to the extravasated blood and the subsequent inflammatory exudation, the suppuration may remain limited to the wound, and be accompanied by but shght swelling of the limb or constitutional disturbance. It is, I believe, in consequence of the free vent thus afforded to the discharges that some of the