898 INJURIES OF THE ABDOMEN AND PELVIS. away all blood-clot and arresting such haBmorrbage as may be still continuing. The staff is now withdrawn and a full-sized catheter passed along the urethra and guided if possible into the proximal end. This is often extremely difficult. If the floor of the urethra only have been torn, it may be accomphshed by keeping the point of the catheter well against the upper wall of the canal ; but if "the urethra have been completely torn across, it will tax all the skill of the Surgeon to direct the instrument into the vesical end of the canal. Teale of Leeds recommends that a director should be first introduced into the proximal end of the opening in the urethra, over which a dilator may be passed ; the director being then withdrawn, the catheter is readily introduced through the dilator. In some cases the difficulty appears to arise from the proximal end of the urethra being drawn upwards by the distended bladder. If this happens the bladder maybe partially emptied by suprapubic aspiration. Should the Surgeon fail to introduce a catheter he will usually find tha,t the urine drains away from the perineal incision, so that he can wait a day or two before making another attempt. It may however be found necessary to aspirate the bladder once or twice above the pubes. Failing all other means suprapubic cystotomy has been performed and the proximal end of the divided urethra found by passing a curved staff along it from the bladder. This is how- ever a severe measure, to be avoided if possible. Suture of the urethra over a catheter should be practised, whenever practicable. Yagina and Rectum.—Foreign Bodies are occasionally thrust forcibly into or impacted in the vagina or rectum. When a foreign body, such as a stick, or a broom-handle, or the leg of a chair, is thrust forcibly up the rectum by a person falhng on it, two injuries may result—extensive laceration of the sphincter ani and the perineum, with hemorrhage ; or transfixion of the gut and wound of the peritoneum, with consecutive inflammation of that mem- brane, which almost invariably terminates fatally. The consequences of such an iniury present nothing very special, and require to be treated on ordinary principles If in the fall the foreign body have been forcibly thrust into the vagina, there may be injury to the bladder or peritoneum; but the most common source of danger is laceration of the labium, and free hemorrhage from this source. I have several times seen enormous quantities of blood thus lost This hemorrhage is best aiTested by plugging firmly with Imt soaked in a solution of the perchloride of iron, and by the pressure of a bandage. , , ^ , -ui A variety of things, such as pieces of stick, glass-bottles, galhpots, tumblers, &c have been introduced into and impacted in these canals. Their extraction is often very difficult, in consequence of the swelhng of the mucous membrane over and around them, and the depth to which they have been pushed. In order to remove them, the use of lithotomy or necrosis forceps may be required. In some cases the foreign body produces ulceration into the bladder ; and it has been found to transfix the wall of the canal in which it is lodged, and, by penetrating the peritoneum, has speedily caused death. A remarkable case of this kind occurred in my practice, in which a cedar pencil, five inches lono- and cut to a point, had been forced up by the patient herself, a young woman, through the posterior wall of the vagina into the abdominal cavity. Here it transfixed two coils of the small intestine, and after being fixed there for eight months, I extracted it by an incision through the anterior abdominal wall midway between the umbilicus and Poupart's ligament, where its point