FRACTURE OF PATELLA. 625 can usually be recognised by seizing the shaft of the femur in one hand and the knee in the other, when lateral movement will be recognised, accompanied by the soft crepitus characteristic of a separated epiphysis. The treatment consists simply in supporting the limb for a few days on a back splint, till the swelling has subsided, when a starched bandage or plaster of Paris splint may be applied. Union usually takes place by bone, and is followed by some shortening from interference with growth. The Period of Union of Fractures of the Shaft and Lower end of the Pemur is between seven and eight weeks in the adult, at the end of which time the patient may dispense with artificial support. It is, however, always about three months before full use of the limb is regained. In children under ten, union is usually firm at the end of the fifth week. Practnres in the Knee-joint.—It occasionally happens that a small frag- ment of one of the condyles of the femur may be chipped oif by a violent blow, and become loose in the cavity of the joint. After the inflammation and effusion have subsided, the fragment may be recognised as a loose body in the joint. (See Diseases of Joints : Loose Bodies.) In violent blows on the upper part of the tibia, or in forcible and extreme flexion of the knee, it sometimes happens that the bony attachment of one of Pigs. 221, 222.—Fracture of Condyles from fall on tlie Bent Knees. the crucial hgaraents is torn up. In the case from which Figs. 221 and 222 were taken, the patient fell from a great height on the bent knees. In one knee, the anterior crucial ligament had torn up the part of the tibia to which it was attached. In the other, the posterior crucial ligament had torn out a piece of the femur, and the bone was fissured a long way up between the condyles. In the case from which Fig. 223 was taken, the anterior crucial ligament was torn from its attachment, bringing with it a scale of bone from the tibia. These injuries cannot be diagnosed during Hfe. The treatment would be that of a sprain of the knee, with eflusion of blood into the joint. Fracture of the Patella may be the result of direct violence, when the bone is often comminuted, or even broken longitudinally, being split, and the joint being injured. But most frequently it occurs as the consequence of the sudden action of the extensor muscles of the thigh in the attempt a person makes to save himself from falling when he suddenly slips backwards. The knee being semi-flexed, the patella rests on the femur only in its transverse axis, and is readily snapped across, much in the same way as one breaks a stick across some resisting object. All fractures of the patella from muscular action are transverse (Fig. 224). The patient does not break his patella in these cases by falling upon it, but he falls because the patella has been broken by the violent action of the extensors of the thigh in his VOL. I. „ „