MORTIFICATION, OR GANGRENE. 9o6 inflammatorr form there is usually considerable constitutional disturbance with some fever at first, subsequently sinking into marked depression with subnormal temperature as the patient becomes poisoned by absorption of the products of putrefaction ; and the disease may thus often prove fatal in from a month to six weeks. On the other hand, in the dry form of gangrene, I have known the disease to continue with very little constitutional disturbance for more than twelve months, slowly creeping on during that time. In all forms of spontaneous gangrene there is a marked improvement in the constitu- tional state as soon as a distinct hne of demarcation forms between the dead and the liviug tissues. The thin skin on the anterior part of the leg at its middle and lower third is apt to fall into a state of gangrene in old people as the result of very slight injuries, and occasionally without any obvious external cause. In these cases a bleb forms which on breaking leaves a slough which gradually dries, becomes black and extends as the neighbouring parts are killed by a process of painful inflammation. Diabetes is a fertile cause of gangrene of the toes and feet. It most commonly occurs in middle-aged well-nourished diabetics, and is rarely met with in the acute form of the disease in young subjects. Diabetes is associated with a general state of malnutrition of the tissues, but it is probable that this alone is never the cause of gangrene, although it favours the spread of the disease when it has once started. Cellulitis is especially liable to follow slight wounds in patients suffering from diabetes, and in some cases this is the starting point of the gangrenous process. Further, it has been shewn by Billroth, Frerichs and others, that diabetes is frequently associated with extensive arterial degeneration. This is undoubtedly a most important element in the causation of diabetic gangrene, which is thus closely allied to senile gangrene, differing chiefly in its greater tendency to spread on account of the unusually feeble vitality of the tissues. Lastly, it is now recognised that diabetes is occasionally a cause of peripheral neuritis, and this may be one element at least in the production of gangrene, particularly of the slowly- spreading variety which begins in a perforating ulcer similar to that occurring in locomotor ataxy. The disease usually commences with a large bleb which forms on the under surface of the foot or at the end of one of the toes. This bleb contains fluid which speedily becomes turbid, and is surrounded by a dusky purple areola. From this the gangrene slowly spreads, and unless the diabetes can be checked, may largely invade and destroy the foot. Thrombosis of an artery (Fig. 335) occurs only as a consequence of pre- vious disease of its inner coat, so, although it is frequently the immediate cause of gangrene, by obstructing an atheromatous or otherwise diseased vessel, it is never the primary cause of the disease. Embolism is more frequent as an immediate cause of gangrene. An embolus is a solid body, which, having entered the circulation, is carried onwards by the blood-stream until it lodges in some vessel which is too narrow to allow it to pass. Emboli, if of any size, almost invariably lodge at the point at which a main trunk bifurcates or gives off a large branch. If very small they may pass on into the capillaries, causing capillary embolism. When an embolus has lodged in an artery, a clot forms upon it, reaching as high as the first branch above the point of obstruction. Fibrin which has been deposited