AMPUTATIONS. 62 The operation was at first performed only in the leg, and the flap which was made from the calf was cut hj dissection, and was composed chiefly of the integuments and subcutaneous tissues. In IGDB, Verduin, of Amsterdam, independently invented a similar operation, but his method differed from that of Lowdham in the flap being cut by transfixion, instead of being raised by dissection. Both Lowdham and Verduin hoped to be able to arrest haemor- rhage by pressing the flap against the ends of the bones and securing it by bandages. The result was, that although in a few cases, especially in the hands of Yonge, who understood the necessity of drainage, union by first intention seems to have taken place, in the great majority the discharges were pent up and set up violent inflammation. In consequence of the unsatisfactory nature of the results obtained, the method was completely abandoned till 1739, when it was reintroduced by a French Surgeon named Ravaton, who modified the operation by making two rectangular flaps, one from each side of the limb, and securing the vessels by means of the ligature. A similar operation was performed by Vermale, of Mannheim, in 1767, in the lower part of the thigh. That the flap method still did not yield very favourable results, on account of the tendency to accumulation of discharges between the flaps in the absence of any proper system of drainage, is evident from the fact that in 1765, O'Halloran, " surgeon and man-midwife " at Limerick, who amputated by a single long flap, recommended that the flap and stump should be dressed as separate sores, and that they should not be brought together till the surfaces were covered by granulations. This plan did not, however, find much favour, and at the end of the last century Surgeons preferred the circular amputation in most cases, the flap operation being limited almost entirely to the upper part of the leg, the lower part of the thigh, and the distal parts of the foot. Alanson and Hey, whose names have already been mentioned in connection with the circular method of amputation, practised and improved the flap operation in those situations. During the first fifty years of this century, however, the flap operation came greatly into favour in this country, and was during the latter part of that time supported by the able advocacy of Liston, who invariably amputated by that method, and who certainly did it with wonderful rapidity and precision. Amputation by the double flap, as it is still practised, is thus performed (Fig. 23). The two flaps may be made either by dissection, cutting from without inwards ; or by transfixion, cutting from within outwards. Trans- fixion is adapted only to fleshy parts, as the thigh or arm ; but cutting from without inwards will be found to afford the best result, and is indeed the only mode of forming the flap in some situations in which the bones are naturally thinly covered, as on the dorsal aspect of the fore-arm, the anterior part of the leo-, or just above the ankle-joint, or Avhere the soft parts have been wasted by chronic disease. The flaps in transfixion should be made by a steady sweeping cut, so that the soft parts may be evenly and smootlily divided. Their length must, of course, be proportioned to the thickness of the limb. If they be cut too long, too much muscle will be left on the stump, and the flap itself is usually badly fashioned and pointed. Should the Surgeon feel that he has made this mistake, the wiser plan will be at once to round off the ends of the flaps. Should they have been cut too short, the soft parts must be forcibly retracted, and the bone cleared by circular sweeps of the knife, and sawn as high up as possible.