674 SPECIAL DISLOCATIONS. Fracture of the ribs, by the pressure exercised against the wall of the chesty is supposed to have occurred in some cases. The extravasation of a large quantity of blood into the areolar tissue of the axilla has occasionally occurred, without any evidence of the rupture of one of the main vessels. In these cases the swelling has gradually subsided under ordinary treatment, by rest and evaporating lotions. More serious by far than this is the rupture of one of the large Mood-vesseh in the axilla. This may happen from the pressure of the Surgeon's heel, as in a case recorded by Hamilton, in which the Surgeon unfortunately forgot to remove his boot ; but more often it has occurred from the humerus having become adherent to the vessel, and lacerating it when torn away, as in Lister's case in which the artery was adherent to a fibrous band passing from the coracoid process to the dislocated head of the bone. The instances of lacera- tion of the axillary artery, and subcutaneous arterial extravasation in the axilla, in the reduction of old dislocations, are so numerous—there being at least twenty on record—as to be a warning to the Surgeon not to employ too much force. In the great majority of these cases, the arterial extravasation appeared immediately after the employment of forcible and long-continued extension. In four instances, the aneurismal tumour did not appear until after the lapse of some time. In Dupuytren's case a dislocation into the axilla of six weeks'" standing was reduced in a woman GO years of age. Two or three months after this, a tumour appeared in the armpit. This was mistaken for an abscess, and opened ; arterial bleeding ensued, and the patient died on the eighth day, from secondary haemorrhage. In Nekton's case the patient, also- an old woman, had a subglenoid dislocation which was easily reduced. But. an aneurism appeared in the axilla, which, three months after the reduction,, compelled that distinguished Surgeon to tie the subclavian. Both these aneurisms were probably circumscribed. Dupuytren's case was not the only one in which the fatal mistake was com- mitted of opening the aneurism in the axiha ; the same thing was done by Pelletan, who mistook the tumour for an " emphysema" ; the result being of necessity fatal. In cases reported by Yerduc, Petit, Platner, and Leudet, the aneurism was allowed to run its course unchecked by efficient surgical treat- ment, and in every instance proved fatal by the sac giving way, and secondary hasmorrhao-e ensuing. Charles Bell records a case that occurred at the Newcastle Infirmary, in which the pectoral muscles as well as the artery were torn, and immediate amputation became necessary. In six cases at least the subclavian artery has been ligatured, twice by Gibson, and once by Blackman,. WaiTen, Panas, and Gunther, respectively. Four of them proved fatal by secondary haemorrhage, and one from suppuration, Warren's being the only case in which recovery took place. What Treatment should be adopted for this distressing accident ? If the aneurism be left to itself, or be treated by inefficient means, it must necessarily prove fatal by its rupture or by sloughing and secondary liEcmorrhage. The ligature of the subclavian is not very promising, as a fatal result occurred in five out of the six cases in which it has been tried for diffused aneurism, Nelaton's case having probably been circumscribed. In these circumstances, it appears to me that it would be wiser to apply to these cases the usual principle of treatment that is adopted in cases of diffused axillary aneurism from other