1087 STRUCTURE OF TUBERCULOUS TISSUE. epithelium ; they are large and consist of granular protoplasm, containing usually a single clearly defined oval nucleus, similar to those of the giant cell. The branching processes of the giant cell can often be recognized amongst the cells of this zone. The outer part of the tubercle is composed of ordinary lymphoid corpuscles, differing in no respect from the migrating leucocytes observed in other forms of inflammation. These cells are readily distinguished from the epithelioid cells by their small size and their behaviour to staining reagents, by which they are much more deeply coloured than the epithelioid cells. Some difference of opinion exists as to the presence of a reticular stroma between the cells of the outer zones ; Watson Cheyne, who has paid especial attention to this point, has not been able to demonstrate any reticulum beyond such as is formed by the branching processes of the giant cells and by " bands of fibrous tissue in connection with the Avail of the tubercle." The appearance of a fine reticulum may also be produced by coagulation of a homogeneous intercellular substance by the reagents used in hardening the specimen. No vessels penetrate amongst the cells, and this want of vascularity forms one of the most important and distinctive features of tubercles. In the condition known as "tuberculous infiltration" no discrete tubercles are present, but epithelioid cells with or without giant cells are scattered irregularly or in broad tracts through the affected tissue. Baumgarten and Cheyne have independently arrived at the conclusion that the epithelioid cell is the most characteristic element of tuberculous tissue. The lymphoid cells differ in no respect from those met with in simple inflammation, whilst the giant cells are not invariably present. The epithelioid cells on the other hand are constantly present, and, as we shall see, it is in association with them that the bacillus is most usually found. It must, however, be remembered that very similar cells are met with in other chronic inflammatory processes. Ziegler and Tillmanns have also shewn that similar cells are produced when granulation tissue is made to grow between two thin glass shdes inserted into the peritoneal cavity or beneath the skin of a rabbit ; these cells, which Ballance and Sherrington, in repeating Ziegler's experiments, speak of as "plasma cells," have already been described in the chapter on Eepair. Fig. 400.—A group of Tubercle Noilules in a mass of soft granulation tissue from a tuberculous knee. Fig. 401.—A Tubercle Nodule more highly magnitied, sliowiug a giant ceU surrouniled by epithelioid cells and lymphoitl corpuscles.