FRACTURE OF UPPER JAW. 573 may be remedied by the use of a spring-clip (Fig. 171), which presses the dis- torted eud of the nose back to the straight line. Tf the septum alone be broken, the same treatment mnst be adopted ; the nose being supported and moulded into shape. As a rule, after it has been re- placed, the position is maintained: but in some cases, where there is a tendency to sinking of the soft parts of the nose, the introduction of a plug of oiled Imt round a piece of catheter, left open for breathing, will be required to retain the organ in proper shape. The haemorrhage, which is usually rather abun- dant at first, may be stopped by the application of ice ; but occasionally the nostrils require plugging, in order to prevent it from continuing to a dangerous extent. If the lachrymal bone be broken together with the nasal, the ductus ad nasum may be obstructed, and the course of the tears diverted. In an injury of this kind, I have seen extensive emphysema of the eyelids and fore- head occur on attempting to blow the nose. In some cases, the injury inflicted on the nasal bones extends through the ethmoid to the base of the brain, and may thus occasion death. This I have seen happen from a severe blow on the face with a piece of wood. Malar and Upper Jaw-Boxes.—These are seldom broken except by great and direct violence ; and their fracture is usually accompanied by external wound, as in gunshot injuries of these parts. More commonly the alveolar processes are detached, and the teeth loosened. The treatment then consists in binding the teeth together with silver wire. In fractures of the zijgoma, which are very rare, there will be difficulty in mastication from injury to the origin of the masseter, and possibly from fragments, which may require re- moval, being driven into the temporal muscle. In some rare cases, all the bones of the face appear to have been smashed, and separated from the skull by the infliction of great violence. Thus, South relates the case of a man who was struck on the face by the handle of a crane, and in whom all the bones were separated and loosened, feeling Hke beans in a bag." KSome years ago I had under my care a patient who had fallen thirty feet over the balusters of a spiral staircase and had struck his face in the fall. He lived about two hours after the accident and on examination the following injuries were found. The lower jaw was frac- tured through the left ramus, and through the body between the right molar teeth. In the upper jaw a transverse fracture ran completely across from one side of the face to the other, at about the level of the inferior border of the anterior nares. It passed through both superior maxillary bones, the vertical part of the palate bones, the pterygoid processes of the sphenoid on both sides, and the vomer ; so that the whole of the alveolar portions of the superior maxilla and the palate formed one piece. This was displaced backwards into the pharynx. The zygoma was fractured on both sides, and a vertical frac- ture ran on each side from the margin of the orbit through the walls of the antrum ; so that on each side there was one large fragment composed of part of the zygoma, the malar bone, and the part of the superior maxillary bone with which it is articulated. The nasal bones, the nasal processes of the superior maxillary bones, the os unguis on each side, and the ethmoid, were smashed into numerous small fi-agments. There was no fracture visible from the interior of the skull; and no other injuries of importance were found. In another case a woman falling out of a third story window struck her face against the area-railings. The superior maxillge Avere broken across trans-