963 TREATMENT OF WHITLOW. Sloughing of of the forearm nearly to the elbow. Owing to the close proximity of the synovial membrane to the interphalangeal articulations and the wrist-joint, it not uncommonly happens that these are opened and destroyed by acute septic arthritis ; and thus this condition may necessitate amputation of a finger, or if the common sheath is affected, of the whole hand the flexor tendons is a very common occurrence in thecal abscess, some inches of the ten- don coming- away after prolonged suppuration, leaving the finger stiff and useless. Treatment.— It is most im- portant in all cases of thecal abscess that the pus should be let out early and by free incisions, in order to avert the complica- tions above mentioned. To do this the patient should be put under an anassthetic, and the limb rendered bloodless by eleva- tion and the application of a tourniquet. A median incision on the finger, not opposite one of the interphalangeal articula- tions, is then carefully made towards the affected sheath. It may be that the pus is in close contact with the sheath and not in it; if the limb be bloodless this can usually be recognized, and the complication of opening the synovial membrane avoided. If the swelling extends from the finger to the palm the thecal abscess may be opened, without danger of wounding the palmar arches or any important nerves, by cutting towards the head of a metacarpal bone upon the bone itself and parallel to its axis, so as to avoid the interdigital spaces. Heath and Morrant Fig. 344. — Preparation showiiif; tlio arrangement of the Sheaths of the Flexor Tendons at the Wrist, n, Slieath of flexors of fingers ; the part wliich lies in contact with the annular ligament and the upper limit of the part behind the flexor profundus are represented by dotted lines. /), Sheath of flexor longus pollicis ; the i)art whieli lies in contact with the annular liganient is represented by a dotted line- m, median nerve : /p, llexor profundus digitoruin : Hf'xor carpi uliiaris ; s.t., styloid proce.ss of ulna. f.n, Baker have especially insisted upon the advantages of this method of opening a thecal abscess and thus avoiding the median incision on the finger. They recommend that incisions on the finger in cases of whitlow should be placed laterally so that a healthy sheath may not be accidentally opened. If the common sheath is affected it must be opened above the annular ligament at the wrist. If the little finger has been the starting point of the mischief the incision 3 Q 2