I I 206 LOCAL DISTURBANCES AND INFLAMMATION solution. Tlie elficient strength of the watery solution as an antiseptic is about 1 in 50, below which it must not be reduced. Carbolic acid is readily soluble in oil or o-]ycerine in any proportion up to equal parts. The preparations used in surgery are :—Wafer?/ solutions, I in 20 and 1 in 40. The former is applied to foul wounds for the purpose of cleaning them, to wounds which have l)een exposed to the air for some time, and to the unbroken skin round the region in which an operation is to be ])erformed ; the latter is used to wash the operator's hands and the sponges, and all instruments used during the opera- tion, and to irrigate the wound during the perf(.)rmance or to wash it out at the end before closing it. The 1 in 20 solution is used for the spray, as will hereafter be described. Both the 1 in 20 and the 1 in 40 solution whiten any raw surface to which they may be applied, but their action is very superficial, and does not interfere with primary union of a wound. At the moment of application they cause severe smarting, but this is soon followed by a sensation of numbness. Oily solutions act much less powerfully than the watery. For preserving catgut ligatures a solution of 1 in must be used. In the strength of 1 in 10 it may be applied on lint to a wound as an antiseptic dressing, but it loses its acid rather quickly, especially if there is much discharge, and con- sequently must be renewed at least twice or three times a day. Glycerbu solutions. The pharmacopceial solution of 1 in 5—one part of carbolic acid to four of glycerine—is too strong for application to a raw surface, but may be used on the unbroken skin ; for wounds the solution may be reduced to 1 in 10 by the addition of an equal quantity of water or glycerine. If used as an antiseptic dressing it must be changed frequently, as it is readily washed out of lint by the discharge, (■arbolic gauze. This is a coarse gauze impregnated with carbolic acid dissolved in a mixture of paraffin and resin. It contains about yV^h part of carbohc acid. It forms an absorbent dressing, and possesses the great advantage of yielding up its carbolic acid slovvly, and thus retaining its antiseptic properties for a long time. Carlolised cotton-wool and totv have also been used, but are somewhat inefficient preparations. Carbolic acid may act injuriously both locally and generally. If the solution be not properly prepared, small globules of the undissolved acid may be, floating in it which will cauterise both the patient's tissues and the Surgeon's hands. To avoid this it is better always carefully to measure the acid and to prepare the solutions some hours before they are used. If the solution is prepared immediately before use it must be well stirred ; and, if it is not required to be cold, warm water may be used to ensure perfect solution. Carbolic acid is, even in the strength of 1 to 40, an irritant to the living tissues ; when applied to a wound it exaggerates the serous discharge for the first twenty-four hours, and consequently increases the necessity for good drainage. In using it as a dressing the object of the Surgeon must be to prevent direct contact of the acid with the raw surface as far as possible after the wound has been once washed out ; otherwise it may give rise to suppura- tion. In washing out a wound also it is important to take care that the lotion used escapes freely. If it remains in hollows and cavities of the wound its absorption may cause poisoning; and if it be forced into the spaces of the areolar tissue, considerable local inflammation may supervene. In some patients the skin is singularly intolerant of the acid, and the gauze may cause even vesication. Its use must then be abandoned, and some other anti- septic agent employed in its place.