CLOSURE OF CUT ARTERIES. 417 consist in a gradual absorption of the internal coagulum, with development of cicatricial fibrous tissue for a greater or less distauce from the divided end, the artery being for a corresponding distance converted into a dense fibrous cord. In some cases the complete obliteration of the vessel reaches as high as the next branch ; but in others an extremely narrow channel may be found extending some distance into the contracted part of the vessel. _ If these processes be followed microscopically in specimens obtained at different periods from animals, the following appearances may be observed : The first exudation which forms at the cut end of the artery and infiltrates the base of the clot differs in no respect from the early exudation in union of a wound by first intention ; it is composed of migratory white corpuscles entangled in the meshes of coagulated fibrin. This exudation commences immediately after the injury. By the third day the base of the clot will be more extensively decolorised and the microscope shows that this is due to the growth of new cells which have occupied the place previously filled by the lower part of the clot. The origin of those new cells has been a matter of dispute. Those which infiltrated the base of the clot in the first twenty-four hours are undoubtedly migratory corpuscles ; but it seems probable that as soon as the artery has recovered from the damage done it by the wound, growth commences from the endothelial cells of the inner coat. These are described by Cornil and Eanvier as multiplying rapidly and penetrating into the substance of the clot. The investigations of Ballance and Edmunds give strong support to this view. These observers find that in the carotid of the rabbit proKferation of the endothelial cells can be demonstrated as early as twenty-four hours after the application of a ligature to the vessel. Proliferation was also found to occur in the other connective-tissue cells of the arterial wall; the elastic lamina being eventually broken up by the multiplication and migration inwards of the cellular elements of the middle coat. The coagulum is thus slowly absorbed and replaced by a mass of cells, which are partly migrated leucocytes, but chiefly "plasma-cells" derived from the endothelial and other connect'-ve- tissue cells of the arterial wall. By the end of a few days the new tissue replacing the clot is in direct contact with the elastic layers of the inner coat ihe mass of cells thus formed is soon penetrated by new vessels springing from the vasa vasorum of the artery at the wounded part. The further course of development is identical with that already described in the chapter on Repair as occurring in the conversion of vascular "granulation-tissue " into cicatricial fibrous tissue. The final result of the process is that the lumen of the artery for a variable distance becomes filled with fibrous tissue continuous with the coats of the vessel. The development of the cicatricial tissue from the granu- ation-tissue is necessarily accompanied by considerable contraction, while at the same time the muscular coat atrophies from want of use ; and thus after some weeks or months the end of the artery becomes converted into a thin wound ^""""^ ^""^^ ^^^^"1^1 This development of fibrous tissue in the site of the clot has been described as organisation of the thrombus." This term is, however, somewhat mis- ^ading; and it must be clearly understood that, according to the views held by modern pathologists, the thrombus takes no more share in the production of the fibrous tissue than does the layer of blood-clot which cements together the VOL. I. E E *