333 CONT.USED AND LACERATED WOUNDS. obtaining union. If the wound is aseptic, which is rarely the case, the relief of tension alone may suffice to mitigate the symptoms; if the discharges are decom- posing, some warm moist and antiseptic application should be used. The best of these is boric acid lint, or simple lint, three or four layers thick, moistened in a solution of boric acid, and applied as hot as the patient can bear it. The surface of the lint next the wound may be sprinkled with iodoform to render it more antiseptic. It must be covered with oiled silk and cotton-wool, and changed every four hours. A very efficient antiseptic fomentation may be made by wringing out a mass of salicylic wool in boiling water, and applying it in a similar way. Should these not be available, lint may be soaked in warm carbolic lotion (1 in 50) ; or a hot solution contahiing two grains of chloride of zinc to the ounce may be used. Simple warm-water dressings and poultices should be avoided, as they tend powerfully to encourage putrefaction. If the discharge is very abundant, the actual wound may be protected with a piece of lint dipped in carbolic oil (1 in 10), and the whole part surrounded with a mass of oakum wrung out of jjiot water and apphed like a hot fomentation. If the wound be at all foul, the cavity must be syringed out at each dressing with some antiseptic solution, or a small quantity of iodoform may be powdered into it. When the signs of acute inflammation have subsided, strips of lint dipped in lead lotion (Liq. Plumbi Bss, Sp. Eect. 5i, Aq. Oj), and applied like straps to bring the surfaces together, will be found a very useful dressing. When granulations have sprung up and suppuration has fairly set in—that is to say, by about the tenth day—the granulating surfaces may, if possible, be brought together again by plasters and bandages, with a view to their uniting by " secondary adhesion." If this should be impossible, the raw surface becomes a " healthy granulating sore," and must be treated in accordance with the principles that guide us in the management of ulcerated surfaces (p. 274 ef seq.). During the period of suppuration, the patient's strength must be well supported by proper diet, and his general health carefully attended to. Inflammation may occur at a later period of the case, owing to a failure in the drainage and the accumulation of septic matter in the cavity, or to the infection of the wound with one of the specific infective processes, as hospital gangrene, erysipelas, wound-diphtheria, &c. Under these circumstances any union that may have taken place breaks down. The symptoms and treatment of these specific inflammations will be fully described in the chapters specially devoted to them. Inflammation from accumulation of decomposing discharo-es must be treated by partially opening up the wound and inserting drainage- tubes. CONTUSED AND LACERATED WOUNDS. These are wounds attended with more or less bruising or tearing about the edges and sides, and present every possible variety in degree from a cut on the shin to the crushing and laceration of a limb by a cannon-shot. They are commonly inflicted by blunt instruments, as by stones, bludgeons, etc. Lacerations b'y machinery, in which parts are torn ofl' or crushed, the bites and gorino's of animals, and gun-shot injuries of all kinds, come under this denomination Characters.—Whatever the mode of infliction, these wounds present certain characters in common. Their lips are iiTegular and torn, less o-apino- than incised wounds, and surrounded by more or less ecchymosis There