COURSE AND SYMPTOMS OF CEREBRAL INJURY. 757 Rolando. This centre being immediately above those for the face, it is com- mon to meet with a combination of facial palsy and paralysis of the arm. 4. Paralysis of the Lower Limb indicates a lesion of the upper extremity of the ascending parietal convolution, and of the posterior parietal lobule lying behind it, and reaching to the margin of the longitudinal fissure. The above facts may be made more clear by a few typical cases. In 1881, a young man, aged 20, was admitted into University College Hospital on the second day after he had received a rather violent blow on the left temple in a fall from some steps. On manipulating his head, a sensation wvas felt as if a small round piece of the thin part of the bone in that region had been broken loose ; it was not depressed, and as further manipulation seemed dangerous, pressure was not repeated on it. He was not stunned by the accident, or at most for a few seconds only, bat immediately lost the power of speech; he could understand what was said to him, and could say " yes," and " no," but nothing more. On the third day there was distinct paralysis of the lower facial muscles on the right side ; on the fifth day, a clonic spasm commenced in the lo.wer facial muscles, and gradually extended to the upper, and he lost consciousness. This lasted nearly half an hour, when he recovered, and was leeched over the injured spot, after which he fell into a soimd sleep, and from that time rapidly improved, being practically well by the fifteenth day. A gentleman, aged 39, was thrown from his horse, striking his head violently on the gronnd, He was taken up insensible, and was found to have a considerable extravasation in the right occipital region ; there were no signs of fracture. He soon partially regained consciousness ; he was quite unable to speak, and did not seem to recognize anyone, but from the first he got out of bed to make water, and showed signs of discomfort when he wanted to use the bed-pan. On the second day he was restless and his mental condition the same. On the fifth day, he could give the right or left hand when asked, though his mind was very far from clear ; his speech was, however, evidently worse than the state of his mind could account for; he used only a few words, repeating them frequently ; there was no paralysis. On the sixth day, he had violent convulsions, commencing with twitching of the right side of the face, followed by turning of the head to the right, a rigid spasm of the right arm, then of the leg ; the spasm then became clonic and affected the left leg and arm, and finally the left side of the face. Between 10.80 a.m. and 2.30 p.m., he had twenty-one convulsions ; his head was shaved, and he was leeched, and the convulsions ceased. The following day it was noticed that the right side of the face was paralysed. From this time his recovery was slow, but uninter- rupted. It was many months before he regained the full use of words, and during that time he was haunted by an idea which he could not explain. Six mouths after, he had a violent epileptiform fit, preceded by aphasia, lasting some minutes, but he recovered without any evil consequences ; he was sufi'er- ing at the time from dyspepsia and constipation. On the first anniversary of his accident, he had a similar fit, and since that time several more have occurred at gradually increasing intervals. They have always been preceded by aphasia, lasting some time. On one occasion he signed an important cheque during the aphasic period, knowing the fit was coming on. In the surgical history of the American war is recorded the case of a man who received a bullet w^ound which grazed the skull from the upper part of