INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 752 venous sinus. The diagnosis of this latter condition will be referred to further on (p. 767). If soon after the injury cerebral irritation (p. 745) sets in, we may be certain that aceration of the brain is present, probably in the frontal region. Violent convulsions occurring within twelve hours of an injury to the head are almost invariably due to hemorrhage from a laceration of the brain, either tearing down the brain substance in the region of the motor centres or diffusing itself widely beneath the arachnoid. Lastly, impairment of function in any part of the brain with the function of which we are acquainted, occurring as the direct result of injury, may be looked upon as evidence of bruising or laceration of that part. On the second day the temperature rises to about 100° P. in all cases of laceration of the brain, and by the third day it is usually 101° F. or 102° F., even when the air is excluded fi'om the injured part. In many cases of lacerated brain the patient recovers after having regained consciousness without any further trouble than a fixed headache for some days or weeks over the injured spot. This is especially common when the laceration is in the frontal lobes. In cases of compound fracture with laceration, septic meningo-encephalitis is a frequent complication, though at the present time much less common than formerly owing to the more efficient treatment of the wound. Should this occur, the symptoms of this affection (p. 772) mask all those specially indicative of laceration. Even if the patient escapes this danger he is still liable to local inflammation possibly terminating in suppura- tion, or to spreading oedema (p. 750) round the injured area. These com- plications when they occur usually manifest themselves by definite signs from the third to the fifth day. If the lesion is not seated in the region of the cortical motor areas the only symptom may be increasing insensibility with gradual development of the signs of compression of the brain. If the region of the cortical motor centres is implicated, convulsions usually form a promi- nent feature of the case. These, though very alarming to the Surgeon and to the friends of the patient, are by no means to be looked upon as hopelessly fatal. If the fits are not accompanied by gradually spreading paralysis, and if consciousness returns between them, there is a good hope of recovery, especially if the patient be young and otherwise healthy. Suppuration is a very rare complication of laceration without an open wound, but it is sometimes met with, coming on occasionally some weeks aftei- the accident. It is indicated by elevation of temperature and a gradual increase in the disturbance of function—as spreading paralysis, loss of con- sciousness, and convulsions if the motor area is affected, with the special symptoms subsequently to be given in describing intracranial suppuration (p. 774). The recovery after laceration of the brain is often incomplete, localised paralysis or permanent loss of some mental faculty not uncommonly remaining. These being the general symptoms of laceration of the brain, it remains to be considered how they may be varied or modified by the nature of the injury and other circumstances. The Nature of the Injury. If the brain be injured directly by some sharp- pointed or cutting instrument, as a sword or hatchet, the symptoms of con- cussion may be entirely wanting ; the patient may not suffer from even momentary loss of consciousness. The same may occur when a blow with some angular body is received on the thin portions of the skull. Thus a young