870 INJURIES OF THE ABDOMEN AND PELVIS. CHAPTER XXIX. INJURIES OF THE ABDOMEN AND PELVIS. INJURIES OF THE ABDOMEN AND ABDOMINAL VISCEBA. Injuries of the abdomen may be divided into Contusions, with or without Rupture of Internal Organs ; Non-penetrating Wounds ; and Penetrating; Wounds, either uncomplicated, or conjoined with Injury or Protrusion of some of the Organs contained in this cavity. Contusions of the Abdomen derive their great importance from the fre- quency with which the various organs contained within the abdominal cavity are injured. Contusions of the Abdominal Walls from blows or kicks usually terminate without serious inconvenience. In some cases, however, th(! muscles of the abdominal wall may be ruptured subcutaneously. 'A man was admitted under my care into the Hospital who had received a blow fi'om the buffer of a railway carriage upon his abdomen. He complained of great pain at one spot; and, on examination after death, we found the rectus muscle torn across without injury either to the integuments or the peritoneum. li' the patient live, an injury of this kind is apt to be followed by a ventral hernia. Occasionally the contusion is followed by abscess in the abdominal wall, which has a tendency to extend widely between the muscular planes. The abscesses should be opened early, lest they burst into the peritoneal cavity and occasion fatal inflammation. Contusions of the Abdomen with Injury of some of the Viscera commonly result from blows and kicks, the passage of a cart-wheel over the abdomen, or a squeeze of the body between the buffers of two railway car- riages. These ''buffer accidefits" are of common occurrence in hospital practice, the usual victims being railway porters, who, in trying to pass between carriages in motion, are caught and squeezed between the buffers. In these cases the most fearful internal injuries occur, without any external wound. A man was admitted under my care into University College Hospital, in whom the liver, stomach, spleen, and kidneys -were crushed and torn ; the heart was ecchymosed on its surface, and one of the lungs was lacerated, without any rupture of the skin or fracture of the ribs. The particular organ injured depends on the situation of the blow. The organ that is most frequently crushed in this way is the liver, owing to its large size and the unyielding nature and ready lacerability of its structure ; the other solid organs, such as the spleen and kidneys, do not suffer so frequently. Among the hollow organs, the stomach most commonly suffers, and it is especially likely to do so if struck while distended by food. Any portion of the intestinal canal may be lacerated. I have seen the duodenum, the ileum,