VENEREAL DISEASES. IT08 causes which are not fully understood, the intensity of the virus is greater ; it then extends more deeply, causing more rapid destruction, the dead tissues not being removed by ulceration, hut remaining as an adherent pulpy slough. This'form is described as the phagedsenic or sloughing chancre. The virus of a simple chancre may be taken up by the lymphatics and carried to the nearest lymphatic glands, where it may set up an inflanmiation of the same character as that at the primary seat of disease. Beyond this it never goes, and although we must suppose that it is possible that it may enter the blood-stream, it certainly produces no general infection under any circumstances. Of the exact nature of the virus we know but little. Chancrous pus is said to lose its activity after drying, or after being kept for some time in capillary tubes. Its infectivity is readily destroyed by alcohol, corrosive sublimate, and many other chemical substances. No specific organism has as yet been shown to be con- stantly present in the discharges from a chancre. Eicord and numerous other observers have shown clearly by experiment that pus from a chancre, during its first period, if inoculated into any part of the surface of the body, will produce a specific sore of the same character. After the inoculation has been repeated a certain number of times the indivi- dual seems to become insusceptible to the poison, and no chancre follows the introduction of the pus. Boeck states that this occurs usually after three or four months of repeated inoculation, but the time varies in diflFerent indivi- duals ; some never acquire an immunity, and in all it is only temporary. No pus that is not chancrous can occasion the specific venereal ulcer. Whatever the appearances presented by a chancre, there can no longer be any doubt that the disease arises from one kind of virus only : the modifica- tions in the sore depending on its situation, on the constitution of the patient, and occasionally on that of the individual who communicates the infection. That this is so, is evident from the facts that every chancre, when inoculated, reverts to one typical form ; and that, however much chancres may ultimately differ, they all present the same characters during their early stages. Origin and Progress.—A chancre is necessarily contracted in most cases during sexual intercourse with a person already contaminated by the disease. It is almost invariably met with oii the genital organs, being much more rare on other parts, such 'as the fingers or face, than the primary sore of syphilis. The reason of this is that in the simple chancre the discharge from the sore is the only source of infection, while in syphihs, the secretions from the mouth, the discharges from secondary syphilitic sores, and even the blood, possess infective properties. In some cases, the disorder is contracted from the contact of filthy clothes or dirty utensils with the person ; and not un- commonly, it is said, chancres are contracted in public water-closets. Although the latter mode of infection is not impossible, it should be received with doubt, as it is an explanation not uncommonly adopted by those who desire to account for the consequences of an act of immorahty, in a way that does not expose them to reproof. In speaking of the mode of propagation of syphilis, Wiseman says : " It is frequent to mention other secondary ways of the pro- pagation of it; as lying in the same bed with an infected person, lying in the same sheets after them, or wearing their cloaths Drinking with one so diseased, or sitting on the close-stool after them, are likewise numbered amono- the causes of infection. These are all such convenient excuses for the more shie and coy patients, who will not otherwise be brought to confess their