COXDITIONS OF PUT RE FACTION. 177 necessary conditions of these fermentative processes, taking as the type the ordinary putrefaction of animal matter. Decomposition or putrefaction of animal matter is a process of fermenta- tion, the essential conditions of which are, 1, the presence of dead animal maUer; 2, a siifficieM suppli/ of oxygen; 3, the presence of ivater; 4, the main- tenance of a certain iemperattire; and o, the ferment. These may be considered more in detail. 1. The presence of dead animal matter.—We have already seen that in acute inflammation a coagidable exudation takes place ; when this coagu- lates it entangles in the meshes of the fibrin a vast number of white cor- puscles which have migrated from the vessels, thus forming the so-called inflammatory lymph, while the serum either flows away by the lymphatics or accumulates in the spaces natural to the part. In the case of an open wound the exudation accumulates on the surface and forms, as will afterwards be seen, the first bond of union ; while the serum drains away, unless, from any imperfection in the treatment, it is allowed to accumulate in the cavity of the wound. In compound fractures and wounds opening the natural cavities of the body, perfect drainage is not always possible. The exudation is composed to so large an extent of living cells that it may be looked upon as living tissue, and consequently incapable of undergoing putrefaction. It is otherwise with the serum, which is dead matter. Extravasated blood, either in the spaces of the areolar tissue, as in a bad bruise, or in the cavity of a wound or other inji^rj. as in a compound fracture, is also decomposable, although less readily than the serum which is squeezed out of the clot as it contracts. The pus contained in an abscess, or the urine in a distended bladder, are other examples of putrescible animal matter in the living body. -• sufficient supply of oxygen.—The tissues themselves, and the blood circulating in them, contain quite enough oxygen for the process of putrefaction. This is shown by the fact that ofi'ensive decomposition fre- quently takes place in wounds from which, immediately after the injury, the air has been excluded by some external apphcation, such as styptic colloid, collodion, or the like. 8. The presence of water.—All living tissues and the fluids of the body contain enough water to putrefy readily, but the proportion is not that most favourable to the process. The more watery an exudation, the more readily will it decompose. 4. The maintenance of a certain temperature.—Experience shows that the temperature of the human body is one highly favourable to the process of putrefaction. 5. The presence of the ferment.—The four previous conditions of putrefaction have been universally recognised for a long time past; but the necessity for the action of a ferment as the starting-point of the process is amongst the modern discoveries of science. Ferments are of two kinds, organised and non-organised. The organised ferments are microscopic vegetable organisms belonging to the class of fungi ; the non-organised are chemical substances, such as diastase, pepsin, ptyalin, &c., which give rise to definite chemical changes in the special substance upon which they act. The process of putrefaction is a fermentation, dependent on the presence of veo-e- table organisms belonging to the lowest class of fungi. ° In all putrefying animal fluids these organisms are found in great abund- VOL. I.