NATURAL ARREST OF HjEMORRHAGE. 413 CHAPTEE XIV. ARREST OF ARTERIAL HEMORRHAGE. The arrest of arterial hasmorrhage is perhaps the most important matter that can engage the Surgeon's attention, for on the acconipHshment of this the success of every operation is necessarily dependent. In studying this subject we must first consider the Means adopted by Nature for the Suppression of Haemorrhage; and, secondly, the imitation of these by Surgical Art. NATURAL ARKEST OF HiEMORRHAGE. The history of the investigatious into the means adopted by nature for the arrest of hfcmorrhage is full of interest to the Surgeon, and is excellently given in J. F. D. Jones's work on Haemorrhage. No subject in surgery affords stronger evidence of the advantage of the application of " Experimental Pathology " to practice than this, as our knowledge of it has been wholly gained by experiments on the lower animals; and by the sacrifice of the lives of a few dogs, donkeys, and calves, those of hundreds—probably of thousands —of human beings are annually preserved. Petit, who published several memoirs on the subject in 1731 and following years, stated that haemorrhage was arrested by the formation of two clots—one outside the vessel, which he called the " Couvercle,'''' or Cover; the other inside, the " Boudion,''' or Plug—the former being formed by the last drops of blood that issue, the latter by that within the vessel. These clots, he said, by their adhesion to the internal coat of the vessel and to the orifice stopped the bleeding. When a ligature is applied, a similar clot forms above it. He recommended compression, and the support of the clot. Morand, in 1736, added much of interest. He admitted the formation of coagula, but insisted on the importance of the changes in the artery itself; which, he showed, became corrugated, contracted, and retracted. Morand entertained erroneous views as to the structure and functions of arteries, but he established the great fact that changes occur in the artery itself. Sharp, in the second edition of his work on Operative Surgery, published in 1739, supported the same doctrine. Kirkland, in 17(53, wrote an excellent treatise on the subject. He showed that hemorrhage was lessened by swooning, and that an artery contracted up to its nearest collateral branch; and he was of opinion that the coagulum did not arrest the bleeding. His views were adopted and supported by White, Gooch, Aikin, and other surgeons of his day. J. Bell took a retrograde step by denying the retraction and contraction of the artery, and the importance of the internal coagulum, and by attributing the arrest of haemorrhage solely to the injection of the surroundiiig areoluT tissue with blood.