863 WOUNDS OF THE LUNG: TREATMENT. seem to have been such as to justify any reliance being placed upon them. In the Crimean war the Russian Surgeons administered digitalis ; but according to the present views of the action of that drug, its use could be productive only of harm. Pleurisy and Empyema—ii the patient survive to the third day, the danger to be apprehended is no longer from hfemorrhage, but from inflammation and suppuration in the cavity of the pleura, consequent upon the decomposition of the discharges accumulated in that cavity. This is in some cases compli- cated by inflammation of the lung spreading from the track of the wound. Military Surgeons formerly recommended venesection as a means both of preventing and of reducing inflammation. Since, however, the part played by the decomposition of the discharges in the pleural cavity has become fally recognised, much more importance has been attached to draining and cleaning the pleural cavity than to any efforts by means of blood-letting or drugs to subdue the local inflammation and constitutional disturbance. Possibly, in civil practice, if a case were met with in which the inflammation was confined to the lung substance, and attended with much dyspnoea in a healthy young subject, some relief might be given by venesection ; but such a- condition is so rare that it may practically be excluded from our consideration. When the dyspnoea arises from pleuritic effusion, bleeding must necessarily be useless, and in fact could only be injurious by still further weakening the powers of the patient. The inflammation must be combated by removing its cause as far as possible. In the first place every effort should be made to prevent the occurrence of decomposition, either of extravasated blood or of inflammatory exudation in the cavity of the pleura by the adoption of some efficient method of antiseptic treatment. Should these endeavours fail, and the pleura become distended with decomposing discharges, the freest possible drainage must be provided by enlarging the original wound, and if necessary, making a counter-opening at the most convenient spot. All counter-openings must be made on a probe passed from the original wound and made to project between two ribs, as the relations of the walls and contents of the cavity are often much altered in these cases, and unless a guide is obtained in this way, either the diaphragm or the lung might be accidentally wounded. Large drainage-tubes should be inserted at the wound and the counter-opening if one has been made. If any difficulty is experienced in doing this, a piece of rib may be cut away. If the discharges are offensive, the cavity of the pleura must be cautiously washed out with some antiseptic solution. Konig reports that he obtained very good results in the Franco-German war by using a strong solution of chloride of zinc. It will always be necessary in these cases to support the patient's strength by abundant liquid nourishment and stimulants when they are obtainable. Pain and cough may often be relieved by opium. If any extraneous body, such as a bullet, a piece of wadding or of clothing, have penetrated too deeply into the chest to be readily extracted through the external wound, it would not be safe to make incisions or exploratory researches, with a view to extracting it ; for, though its presence would increase the patient's danger, yet attempts at extraction would not only add to this, but would in all probability be fatal. In many cases, bodies so lodged become surrounded by pus, are loosened, and eventually are spat up, or appear at the external wound. In other cases, they remain permanently fixed in the chest,