A LB UME NO ID DEGENERA TION. unopened; but it may supervene with great rapidity when once its contents are discharged. I have known large abscesses to exist unopened for several years, without any constitutional disturbance ; but, as soon as they were opened, well-marked hectic set in, which speedily carried otf the patient. For hectic to occur it is not necessary that the pus should be stinking; it occurs quite as frequently when the discharges are undergoing some fermentation unaccompanied by the formation of fetid gases. The more essential con- dition is that the pus shall be confined in a cavity from which the drainage is imperfect, so that it accumulates at a slight degree of pressure sufficient to cause absorption of the products of the fermentation from the granulating- surface. This view of the nature of hectic is supported by the facts, that no hectic occurs till after the abscess is opened, that improvement of the drainage will in very many cases relieve all the symptoms, and that very large superficial ulcers may exist for years and discharge abundantly without inducing the signs of hectic. Moreover, some of the symptoms of hectic resemble those known to be caused by the absorption of the products of putrefaction, as the profound anaemia and the tendency to diarrhoea. But few cases of hectic remain in surgical practice, if ail that depend on this cause are excluded. It is probable that any continued febrile disturbance, from whatever cause, would tend to assume the form usually described as hectic if it lasted long enough and its course were suificiently slow and wanting in intensity. Albumeuoid or Amyloid degeneration consists in the deposit, first in the walls of the small vessels, and at last possibly in the tissues around them, of a peculiar hyaline, albumeuoid substance, insoluble in acids or alkalies, and staining a dark brown with iodine. The exact chemical nature of this substance and its source are unknown. It interferes with the transudation through the walls of the vessels and absorption by them, and is not uncommonly associated with fatty and other degenerations of the surrounding tissues, especially in the liver and kidney. The organs chiefly affected are the liver, spleen, kidneys, and the intestinal mucous membrane. The chief symptoms are gradually increasing antemia and emaciation, not necessarily accompanied by any fever. The liver slowly but steadily increases in size till it may reach from the fifth rib to the right iliac fossa. Its surface is smooth, and its sharp, hard edge can often be felt through the thin abdominal walls almost like a piece of india-rubber. There is neither jaundice nor ascites. The spleen is increased in size, but is seldom ^ery large. When the kidneys become affected, the urine usually contains a small quantity of albumen and a few hyaline casts. As the villi of the intestines become implicated, the emaciation becomes extreme, and attacks of diarrhoea are common. Towards the end of the case oedema of the ankles is a frequent symptom, arising from feebleness of the heart's action and the watery state of the blood. Death occurs from exhaustion or from some intercurrent disease. The cause of this peculiar degeneration is unknown, but it is highly probable that it is the result of a poison derived from some fermentative process going on in the discharges of the wound. It is not met with as the result of a purulent discharge from a surface, as, for instance, an ulcer of the leg, however large or prolonged, but it commonly occurs where pus is partially confined in an ill-drained cavity and has undergone putrefactive changes. Under these circumstances it may develop after two or three months' dis-