WOUNDS OF THE VERTEBRAL ARTERY. 475 at least six instances of the kind, in each of which the common carotid was tied, and the patient ultimately'recovered. Aneurismal Varix in the Neck, dependent on puncture of the Internal Jugular Vein and Carotid Artery, usually the result of sword-thnists, is apparently of more frequent occurrence than traumatic aneurism m this region: probably owing to the close proximity of the vein rendering it difficult for the artery to be wounded on the outer or anterior sides, without that vessel being first perforated. The symptoms offer the general characteristics of aneurismal varix, but have several points that are worthy of special remark. The wound of the vessels has been in every instance followed by the effusion of a large quantity of blood into the loose areolar tissue of the neck ; the extravasation acquiring even the size of a child's head, and threatening immediate suffocation. As this extravasation subsided, the ordinary characters of aneurismal varix began to manifest themselves. The period at which these symptoms first made their appearancie varied somewhat in the different cases, but they always occurred within four or five days of the receipt of the injury. In none of the cases did the disease appear to shorten life, or to occasion any dangerous or inconvenient effects, with the exception of some difficulty in lying on the affected side, and occasional giddiness or noise in the head on stooping. No operation is admissible in these affections. Varicose Aneurism of the internal jugular and carotid artery is rare. Playette has collected IG cases, all of which tended to amelioration or spon- taneous cure. Three cases were operated upon ; two of these died, and the third was not improved. Temporal Artery.—Traumatic Aneurism of the Temporal Artery, and of its branches, has occasionally occurred as the result of partial division of these vessels in cupping on the temple. I have met with two cases of this kind, in both of which the disease was readily cured by laying the tumour open, turning out its contents, and tying the artery on each side of it. Internal Maxillary.—This artery is occasionally injured and wounded in gunshot wounds. If the hemorrhage be too copious to be restrained by hot water, cold or styptics, the external or common carotid must be tied. Lingual Artery.—This vessel is occasionally injured in gunshot wounds. If the bleeding point cannot be seized by forcipressure-forceps from the mouth and the Surgeon can be perfectly certain that the blood is coming from the lingual, he may tie that vessel above the hyoid bone (see Diseases of the Tongue), otherwise it is better to ligature the external or common carotid—the external for choice. Vertebral Artery.—Wounds of the Vertebral Artery occasionally occur as the result of stabs or gunshot wounds in the neck. In these wounds there is a danger of mistaking the source of the hiemorrhage, as pressure on the carotid, if made below the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra, arrests the flow of blood in the vertebral as well, which, up to this point, lies immediately beneath it. This transverse process is at least two inches above the clavicle, and lies much higher than one is apt to think. There are no fewer than sixteen cases on record in which the carotid has been tied for a wound of the vertebral, in consequence of this mistake. Of nineteen cases of wound of the vertebral collected by Matas, only two recovered, and in both the haemorrhage was arrested by plugging the wound, the plugs in one case being dipped in a styptic solution. If the wound of the vessel be sufficiently high