SPECIAL DISLOCATIONS. 682 the forearm, is a rare accident. In one such injury under my care, inflicted by machinery, the hand was thrown forwards, the radius projecting backwards, and the soft structures on the palmar aspect of the joint were so extensively torn as to necessitate amputation. The Treatment of such a case will depend on the amount of injury done to the soft parts. If these be not very extensively injured, an attempt may be made to save the limb ; but if they be widely torn through, the arteries and nerves lacerated, and the tendons hanging out, am- putation will be required. Congenital Dislocation of the Wrist may take place either forwards or backwards. The limb is in either case greatly deformed. The bones are shortened and altered in shape, more especially the lower end of the radius. The muscles are also shortened, the extensor tendons forming a sharp angle as they pass over the carpus. Dislocations of Single Bones of the Carpus are by no means frequent. The bone that is most commonly displaced is the Os Magnum. This accident is usually caused by falls, in which the hand is violently bent forwards, in consequence of which this bone starts out from its articulations, projecting as a round hard prominence on the back of the wrist opposite to the metacarpal bone of the middle finger. It may readily be reduced by being pressed upon while at the same time the hand is extended. There is, however, a great tendency for the bone to slip out again, leaving considerable weakness of the joint ; so much so, that in two cases recorded by Astley Cooper, the patients found it necessary to wear artificial supports. The Pisiform Bone is occasionally dislocated upwards. In a case under my care, it was displaced by an effort to lift a heavy weight, and drawn up the arm to a distance of nearly an inch by the flexor carpi ulnaris. A case some time ago occurred to me, at the Hospital, in which the Semi- lunar Bone was dislocated. The patient had fallen from a height, injuring his spine, and doubling his right hand under him. On examining the wrist, a small hard projection was felt on its dorsal aspect; this readily disap- peared on extending the hand and employing firm pressure, but started up again as soon as the wrist was forcibly flexed. It was evident that the bone belonged to the first row of the carpus ; and from its size, position and shape, there could be little doubt that it was the semilunar bone. TaafFe, of Brighton, has related a case in which the semilunar bone was dislocated anteriorly, so that it projected upwards and forwards between the radius and ulnar. Dislocations op the MbtacarpaJj Bones. — The Metacarpal Bones may very rarely be dislocated from the carpus. This accident happens usually to a single metacarpal bone ; which, in consequence of some extreme degree of violence, is forced out of its bed and thrown backwards on the carpus. Most frequently, it is the result of injury and shattering of the hand by gun-barrel or powder-flask explosions ; and in such cases the metacarpal bone of the ThumTi commonly suffers, the dislocation being compound, and complicated with extensive laceration of the palm, and possibly with fracture of the bones. Except in such cases dislocation of the metacarpal bone of the thumb is rare, though the articulation between this bone and the trapezium appears at first sight not to be of a character to resist great external violence. This is probably owing in a large measure to the powerful muscles by which the bone is supported in all cases in which the force is applied upon its palmar aspect, as it most frequently is, as well as to the little leverage afforded