770 INJURIES OF THE HEAD. seen is a profuse flow of blood pouring out of the opening in the skull, and apparently in some cases threatening to be almost immediately fatal. Under these circumstances all that can be done is to raise the patient into a sitting position, to compress the carotid, and to apply ice to the side of the head and neck. Under this treatment the bleeding usually ceases rapidly and does not recur. If the actual wounded spot can be seen, a fine catgut or carbolized silk ligature must be passed round it with a sharp needle. If the artery lie in a canal, and its torn end can be seen bleeding where the trephine has cut through it, the haemorrhage may be arrested by inserting a small plug or by touching it with the cautery. If the situation of the wound can be recognised at some distance from the trephine opening, more bone may be cut away either upwards or dow^nwards so as to expose it. The operation should, of course, be performed with the strictest antiseptic precautions. In some cases the haemorrhage is due to the tearing of a large number of small vessels, and not to the wound of any special branch. Thus, in one of the fatal cases in University College Hospital, a child, aged seven, the most careful examination failed to detect any wounded artery. The haamorrhage was in this case situated behind the region of the large branches of the meningeal artery, and the clot was reached by cutting away a portion of the skull behind the trephine hole with bone-forceps. The instances in which the symptoms are sufficiently definite to guide the Surgeon with precision to a wounded meningeal artery are not numerous. Out of many hundred cases of serious and fatal injury to tne head that were admitted into University College Hospital during the time I had charge of wards in that institution, in four cases only, I believe, was it found advisable to have recourse, to trephining for the removal of extravasated blood. In three of these cases death speedily ensued, the coma being unrelieved by the operation. In the fourth case, recovery took place. This case was that of a man admitted comatose, three days after receiving an injury of the head by a fall from a cab. There were no serious symptoms for some hours after the accident; but then stupor gradually came on, amounting at last to complete coma. On examination, a bruise of the scalp was found on the left temple; through this I made an incision, and, finding a starred fracture over the sinus of the middle meningeal artery, trephined the bone, when a large coagulum was found lying upon the dura mater, and, on removing this, fluid arterial blood freely welled up. The coma was relieved, and the patient made a good recovery. From 1870 to 1881 four cases were trephined in University College Hospital for meningeal heemorrhage ; three by Beck, all of which terminated fatally, and one by Godlee, which was successful. In this case the bleeding artery was seen and secured by a ligature. In cases in ivhich the diagnosis of middle mmingml Juemorrhage cannot he made the indications for trephining are not so clear. If the signs are those of general compression, without any localizing symptoms, it is certain that operation can do little if anything to relieve them. The effused blood is, under these circumstances, usually most abundant about the base of the brain^ which cannot be reached by any operation ; and, even if it be situated chiefly over the convexity of the hemispheres, the Surgeon has no guide for the application of the trephine, and no means of removing the blood which spreads widely in every direction.