446 ARREST OF ARTERIAL HAEMORRHAGE. passed as in the last cases, but on the opposite side of the artery. The loop of iron wire is thrown over the point of the needle ; it is then passed across the artery, drawn tight so as to compress the vessel, and secured by a half twist round the eye end of the needle (Fig-, 145). In order to remove this apparatus, all the Surgeon has to do is to pull the twisted wire with which the needle is threaded; this, in withdrawing the needle, liberates the loop, which may then easily be removed. The foiirih melliod consists in dipping the needle into the tissues close to the artery, then making a turn with the point, and pushing this into the soft parts beyond, so as to fix it there, and tlius to I compress the artery (Fig. 146). Ill The Condition of tlie Artery after having ry^ been subjected to acupressure has been determined both by experiments on animals and by observations on the human subject. It has thus been ascertained that the pres- Fig. 14H.—Acu]iressiue. Fourth Method. gure of the needle is ucvcr sufficient to divide the internal and middle coats. Occlusion of the artery is effected first by the formation of an adherent clot within the vessel between the point compressed and the nearest collateral branch. The orifice is at the same time sealed by the plastic exudation uniting the surfaces of the wound. It has been shown that in arteries tied without injury to their coats, proliferation of the endothelium takes place in the neighbourhood of the ligature, the new cells growing into the adherent clot, and no doubt the same process occurs after closure of a vessel by acupressure. The time during which the needle should be left in will vary, according to the size of the artery, from thirty to sixty hours. The needle must not be left in too long, lest irritation be set up and ulceration induced along its track. At the time that acupressure was introduced hsemorrhage was almost exclusively arrested by silk or hemp ligatures which necessarily formed a barrier to complete union by the first intention. By the early removal of the acupressure pins and wires it was hoped that the wound, being freed from all foreign bodies, would heal without suppuration, and in many cases this result was obtained ; but the introduction of the antiseptic treatment and the use of absorbable ligatures brought about the desired result in a much simpler and more certain manner, and acupressure never came into general use. Sufficient experience was obtained, however, to show^ that even large vessels may be safely obliterated by these means, and circumstances may occasionally arise in which a knowledge of them will be of use to the Surgeon. Collateral Circulation.—When the main artery of a limb has been ligatured, or in any other way occluded, it is only the direct flow of blood that is interrupted ; the indirect supply which is conveyed into the part, by the free communication between the anastomosing vessels of the difi'erent portions of the arterial system, is sufficient to preserve its vitality and to prevent the occurrence of gangrene. So free are the inosculations between difi'erent portions of the arterial system, that, after the largest arteries in the body, such as the subclavian, the iliac, and even the abdominal aorta, have been ligatured, sufficient blood to support life is at once conveyed into the parts supplied by them. This collateral circulation is most active in early life, when the