286 THE PROCESS OF REPAIR. The means of observation in the time of John Hunter were inferior to those of Macartney, yet there seems little doubt that his description, erroneous as it is, contains far more truth than that of the later observer. During the last twenty or thirty years the means of studying such processes have been greatly improved ; and there can now be no doubt that such a mode of union as that described by Macartney never takes place. It is impossible to make a wound in any vascular part without damaging sufficiently the tissues to cause a coagulable exudation to take place, which, mixed with wandering cells, forms the first bond of union between the opposed surfaces. The quantity of this exudation may, however, be so small that it can be recognised only in micro- scopic preparations, cut, stained, and mounted, according to the modern methods ; and it is not surprising, therefore, that it escaped the notice of former pathologists. 2. Union "by primary adhesion (Paget), primary union, union by adhesive inflammation (Hunter), or, as it is more commonly called, Union "by the First Intention, is that form of union which occurs without the formation of pus, and in which the accompanying inflammation is purely traumatic, being strictly limited to the tissues directly injured in the pro- duction of the wound. It is the form of union which the Surgeon aims at obtaining in all wounds unaccompanied by extensive loss of substance, or by such a degree of injury of the surface as to cause sloughing. In order that primary union may take place, the following conditions are necessary : 1. That the wound be not contused or lacerated to such a degree as to cause visible sloughing of the surfaces. 2. That the interposition of any foreign bodies be carefully guarded against. 3. That the wound be closed, and its sides brought into accurate apposition. 4. That the surfaces after being brought together be kept at perfect rest. 5. That no cause of inflamma- tion be introduced which shall tend to prolong the process beyond the period necessary for the effusion of healthy plastic exudation, or to make it spread beyond the area actually injured by the knife. In studying union by first intention, it is essential to bear in mind the con- dition of the surface of a clean incised wound immediately after its infliction. The mechanical violence inflicted on the tissues by the instrument by which the wound was made, the exposure to cold air, and in the present day in many cases the application of some irritating chemical antiseptic, have all combined to damage the exposed tissues, and to lower their vitality to a degree sufficient to give rise to the process of inflammation. Here and there in individual cells or microscopic layers of tissue the damage is sufficient to cause actual death. In the whole of the immediate surface of the wound the vitality is lowered to a degree sufficient to cause stasis ; immediately beyond this we find retarded flow with exudation of liquor sanguinis and migration of the white corpuscles, and beyond this again is an area of simple vascular dilatation—the degree of damage necessarily diminishing as we recede from the parts directly touched by the cutting instrument. The thickness of the layer of tissue thus injured must necessarily vary with the sharpness of the instrument with which the wound was made, the original vitality of the tissues, the amount of violence done in cleaning the wound, the duration of exposure to cold air, and the nature of any chemical antiseptic that may be applied to it ; but in most cases of cleanly cut wounds, it is in all probability merely microscopic. This condition of lowered vitality is merely temporary ; and, if no further cause of damao-e