FO RCIPRESSURE-LIGATURE. 42 7 bouring tissues, it is at least as easy to ligature the vessel as to twist it ^^Tmtlx reference to the comparative freedom from secondary b^^o^^j;;^^^' we have few data; but all those Surgeons who ^^'^^^^^tensivcly employed torsion agree in stating that it is very rarely followed ^7 secondary hcBmo^^ rhage. The same may, however, be said with equal truth of the ligatuie as used at the present time. i n j- ,„v,n-iat- 3. The torsiou of arteries was strongly advocated on the ground tha , whilst quite as safe as the ligature, there would after its employment be less liability to inflammation and suppuration, as no foreign body was left m the_ wound This argument was used especially by Amussat; Manec and others mamtamecl that the twisted end, of a large artery at any rate, is in reahty a foi-eign body. At the present day, when the treatment of wounds is so much better undei- stood than it was in their time, these arguments are of but little practical im- portance. We know that a piece of dead tissue, the size of the twisted end ot an arterv, becomes speedily buried in the exudation that forms during the first twentv-four hours after the infliction of a wound, provided that the cavity is properly drained, and the surfaces brought accurately together and kept at rest; and that under these circumstances it is readily absorbed without causing inflammation or suppuration. In fact, it acts as an irritating foreign body only when it remains uncovered and undergoes decomposition. The same is true of the Mgatures in common use at the present day. On the other hand, the old silk ligature, the ends of which were left hanging out of the wound, infallibly acted as an irritant, and excited suppuration in its track. Torsion, therefore, undoubtedly presents advantages over the old silk ligature, and is equally safe and no more likely to interfere with primary union than an absorbable ligature. The latter possesses, however, the advantage of much greater ease of appHcation, and is therefore preferred by the majority of Surgeons. 8. FoRCiPRESSURE is a mode of arresting hgemorrhage which has been recommended as of use in certain cases by Spencer Wells, Koeberle, and Pean. It consists in seizing the end of the vessel in a pair of forceps having strong short blades somewhat deeply serrated, and long scissor handles pro- vided with a catch (Fig. 128). The forceps can be closed with sufficient force to crush the end of the vessel between the blades. The form of forceps represented in the figure is that invented by Spencer Wells, which is certainly the most convenient and efficient. The use of these forceps as a temporary means of arresting htemorrhage has already been alluded to. When used in this way it will frequently be found that, on relaxing their hold after a few minutes, no bleeding takes place. Under these circumstances, experi- ence shows that the closure of the vessel is as safe as that effected by torsion. Should the Surgeon wish to make the arrest of bleeding still more certain, he may give the forceps a few turns Avhile removing them, and thus apply torsion. Forcipressiire is occasionally useful in deep wounds in which a ligature cannot be applied. In these cases, in order to make the closure of the vessel more certain, the forceps may be left in the wound for twelve or twenty- four hours and then carefully removed. 9. Ligature is the means to which Surgeons commonly have recourse for the arrest of haemorrhage from wounded arteries. The Ligature was undoubtedly employed to a considerable extent by the