756 IFJUEIES OF THE HEAD. motor centres. In other cases again, the superficial motor centre may be affected at a much later period by the formation of an abscess in the substance of the brain. It is in these cases, perhaps, that the study of the localization of the functions of the cerebral hemispheres is of the greatest importance, enabling the Surgeon to determine the exact seat of the secondary lesion. In the primary lesion, the external injury of the scalp or skull will often suffice to lead the Surgeon to a correct conclusion as to the seat of the injury to the brain ; but in secondary or consecutive disease, such guides may be entirely wanting. The following is a short summary of the combined results of experimental, clinical, and pathological observations as applied to the human brain : Fig. 306.—Cast of Head, showing the Coiivolntions of the Brain and their relations to the Skull. (From a preparation by Cnnningliam.) R, sulcu.s of Rolando ; Sy, Sylvian lissure ; P, parallel sulcus ; I.P, intraparietal sulcus; P.C, lu-ecentral sulcus; a.f, ascending frontal gyrus; a.f, ascending parietal ; s.p.l, superior jiarietal lobule; o, angular gyrus; s.m, supraniarginal; s.f, superior frontal; s.t, superior temporal. 1. Aphasia is dependent on a lesion of the posterior extremity of the third or inferior frontal convolution of the left side—Broca's convolution. 2. Facial Paralysis depends on a lesion of the lower third of the ascend- ing frontal convolution, and the contiguous part of the posterior end of the second frontal. The anterior part of this area is chiefly concerned in the movements of the upper part of the face. The posterior part, which extends to the lower third of the ascending parietal convolution, controls the movements of the lip and mouth. The fact that these centres are close to Broca's convolution, explains the frequent combination of facial palsy and aphasia. 3. Paralysis of the Upper Limh or brachial monoplegia indicates an affection of the middle portion of the ascending frontal convolution, and the contiguous part of the ascending parietal on the other side of the sulcus of