SPECIAL DISLOCATIONS. 688 ment. Gimn of Chicago, Busch. Yon Pitha, and, more recently and fully, Bigelow, have insisted on an exact knowledge of this important ligament as constituting the basis of a correct understanding, not only of the mechanism of the various forms of dislocation of the hip, but also of the proper methods to be adopted for their reduction. Bigelow, to whom we are especially indebted for a most lucid exposition of the subject, has shown that the four commonly described dislocations of the hip could be demonstrated in the dead body after the whole of the muscular and ligamentous structures round the joint had been divided except the iho-femoral ligament and the obturator internns muscle, which suffice to direct the limb into the position peculiar to each dislocation and to fix it there, the muscle being concerned only in the production of the dislocation described by Astley Cooper as " into the sciatic notch." The importance of the obturator in this form of dislocation had previously been pointed out by Malgaigne, but his observations seem to have been singularly overlooked. The ilio-femoral ligament is of great strength. Bigelow has found its breaking strain in the dead body to range from 250 to 750 pounds. It is single above where it is attached to the anterior inferior spine of the ihum and divides below into two strong bands, one inserted into the upper and the other into the lower end of the anterior intertrochanteric line, from which fact Bigelow gives it the name of the Y-ligament. The obturator internus muscle is also, as pointed out by Bigelow, a structure of great strength, owing to the intermixture of tendinous fibres with its muscular substance. In consequence of this arrangement it becomes practically an accessory ligament to the joint. The observations of Bigelow have shown that whenever one or both of the branches of the iho-femoral hgament remain untorn the head of the bone falls into certain definite positions giving rise to characteristic signs ; when the ligament is completely ruptured the position assumed by the bone is uncertain, being due chiefly to accidental circumstances. He, therefore, divides disloca- tion into Regular, in which one or both branches of the ilio-femoral ligament remain untorn ; and Irregular, in which the whole ligament is ruptured. For convenience of description, and with a view to practical utility, the regular dislocations may be divided into three chief groups, to which must be added certain exceptional forms which are so rare as only to require mention. 1. Dorsal Dislocations, or Dislocations Backwards and Upwards.— Of these there are two varieties : a, when the head of the bone passes above the obturator internus (dislocation on to the dorsum ilii) ; h, when the head passes below that muscle (dislocation into the sciatic notch of Astley Cooper) (Figs. 267, 268). 2. Thyroid Dislocations, or Dislocations Downwards.—These disloca- tions present four varieties, of which one only is common—obliquely inwards and downwards on the thyroid foramen (Fig. 269). In addition to this, there are three exceptional forms : a, inwards and downwards as far as the perinaeum ; l, vertically downwards below the acetabulum ; c, outwards and downwards as far as the tuberosity of the ischium. 3. Dislocations Upwards, or Pubic Dislocations.—Of this form there are two varieties : a, when the head of the femur is displaced on to the pubic bone (Fig. 270); b, when it hes beneath the anterior inferior spine of the ilium, or the subspinous dislocation. The exceptional forms of dislocation are the following:—