502 INJVRIEiS OF NERVES, MUSCLES, AND TENDONS. of cases by careful examination and by noting exactly what movement causes the pain, will be able to ascertain which is the affected muscle. A displaced superficial tendon may be felt moving in its abnormal situation. Callender laid down the following rules for the treatment of this injury. First, guided by the pain, decide as to the muscle, or digitation of a muscle, which is probably the seat of the injury. Secondly, relax the muscle as far as possible by putting the part in the position which would be induced by its full con- traction. Thirdly, by firm manipulation, such as by rubbing with the hand, or by kneading with the thumb, endeavour to replace it. Fourthly, if this fail, make pressure over the part whilst you make the patient contract the muscle, or if he cannot do this, put the part suddenly ni such a position as to stretch the muscle. These manipulations must be .done without an antesthetic, as we need guidance from the sensations of the patient and the action of the affected muscle. Replacement is seldom possible after two or three weeks. If the condition is left unrelieved the parts seem to accommodate themselves to their new positions, and the pain subsides, but some permanent weakness niay remain. The accident is always likely to recur, even if the displacement has been successfully reduced. The following are the chief situations in which this accident has been met ^^The Long Tendon of the Biceps. In a case of this kind described by Callender, there was great pain and inabiUty to move the biceps or even the shoulder-joint. The shoulder seemed to droop forwards. The tendon could be felt lyino- at the inner side of its groove. It could be replaced, but no treatment w^ould keep it in position. It is probable that some at least of the cases of so-called subluxation of the shoulder have been examples of this '^^'^vlir'ious Tendons at the Wrist have been displaced. They are usually replaced without difficulty by the means above described. The parts must be kept fixed for about two weeks, by means of splints and properly arranged pads. The Small Muscles of the Back, or of the back of the neck, are occasionally displaced. Eeplacement can best be effected by firm pressure over the painful spot, while the patient carries out the movement that gives The^Tendon of the Peroneus Longus may slip out of its sheath behind the outer ankle, which is torn in some violent twist of the foot inwards. The accident is liable to recur, and is often a source of much discomfort and temporary lameness. The treatment consists in the first instance of absolute fixation of the foot for some weeks in plaster bandages or splints, to give time for the sheath to consolidate. To prevent recurrence, a spring clip should be worn, so as to press the tendon against the fibula. Rupture and Division.—Subcutaneous rupture of muscles and tendons not unfrequently occurs, not so much from any external violence as from the contraction of the muscle rupturing its own substance. The rupture may occur at one of four points : in the muscular substance itself; at the line of junction between the muscle and the tendon ; through the tendon ; and, lastly at the point of insertion of the muscle or tendon into bone. Sedillot found that, in 21 cases, the rupture occurred at the point of origin of the tendon from the muscle 1^] times ; and in the remaining 8, the muscle itself was torn.