i62 LOCAL DISTURBANCES AND INFLAMMATION. under the stiniulatino- influence of some positively chemiotactic substance attractino- them from without, the condition of the vessel-wall being- a matter of minor importance. But it is well known that migration is the immediate effect of all injuries, whether mechanical, physical, or chemical, which damage the tissues to such an extent as temporarily to suspend their activity without actually destroying their vitality. No better example of this can be given than Cohnheim's experiment of simply excluding the blood from the ear ol a rabbit for a sufficient length of time to cause a distinct impairment of vitahty. On readmitting the blood abundant migration takes place. It is easy to say that during the exclusion of blood bacteria have invaded the tissues or that the tissues have themselves produced a positively chemiotactic substance, but there is no proof that anything of the kind takes place, and there is no reason at present to abandon the view that a damaged condition of the walls ot the vessels is a most important factor in the process of migration. It seems equally certain that migration cannot take place in the presence of a chemical substance which arrests the amoeboid movements of the corpuscles, whatever may be the condition of the walls of the vessels. It is clear also that the same substance in a hi-h degree of concentration may arrest migration, while m a lower deo-ree it may stimulate the movements of the corpuscles. While acceptino" therefore chemiotaxis as an established fact, there seems no reason to regard it as more than one of the factors concerned m the process ot migration. , With the migration of the corpuscles occurs another process of equal importance—the escape of an abundant liquid exudation. It has before been stated (see Congestion) that an increase of the intravascular pressure, such as is produced by any obstruction to the return of blood through the veins, causes an abundant liquid exudation from the distended vessels. ;\^ hilethe vessels themselves are healthy they continue to act as filters to the fluid passing throuo-h, and the effused liquid contains but little albumen, with a large pro- portion of salts, and is not spontaneously coagulable. In inflammation, the power of filtration is diminished, till in the higher degrees the damaged vessels allow the plasma to pass through almost if not absolutely unchanged. In- flammatory exudation is therefore much richer in albumen than the simple transudation from pressure, and is spontaneously coagulable. Its ready coao-ulability is due not only to its containing a larger proportion of fibri- noo^en but to the presence in it of the white corpuscles which contain the other'element necessary for coagulation—the "fibrin-ferment." As this exudation takes place into tissues, the vitality of which is lowered by the damao-e done to them by the cause of the inflammation to such a degree that they are behaving for the time being as dead matter, all the essentials for coao-ulation are present, and the inflammatory effusion tends to coagulate in the^'affected area. In the process of coagulation some of the migrated white corpuscles break up, yielding their ferment to form the coagulum ; but a vast number remain unchanged entangled in the meshes of the fibrin. The coao-ulated exudation contracts, just as the ordinary blood-clot does out of the body, and the serum finds its way by the lymphatics back into the circulation. The 'remaining clot, entangling in its meshes the wandering leucocytes, forms the so-called inflammatory lymph, which distends the spaces of the tissue into which the exudation has taken place. The formation of this inflamma- tory lymph is limited to the area of inflammation, for any of the effused plasma