REMOVAL OF TUMOURS. and having a to-and-fro movement, acts likea saw. That which is now some- times employed (see Vol. ii., Diseases of the Tongue) acts as a simple con- strictor ; and its use is therefore less likely to be followed by hgemorrhage. This instrument was at one time largely employed in the removal of car- cinomata of the tongue, but in this and other instances it has been almost entirely superseded by improved methods of excision with the knife or scissors. Experience has not shown, as was once believed, that pyasmia is less likely to follow removal by this instrument than by the more ordinary means. A modification of the ccraseur in which the wire was heated by electricity at the same time that the noose was gradually drawn in was much in use a few years ago. The galvanic ecraseur has, however, fallen somewhat into dis- repute. The increased rapidity with which it cut the tissue, and the perfect absence of hsemorrhage during the operation, seemed at first great points in its favour ; but experience showed that the wound left was more likely to slough, and secondary hemorrhage occurred much more frequently than after the use of the simple ecraseur. The ecraseur is undoubtedly a useful and valuable instrument, but it should never be employed when the knife can be safely used. Paquelin's Cautery is in some cases employed in the removal of tumours. The red-hot knife of this instrument divides the tissues cleanly, and efiiciently arrests haBmorrhage. The heat at which it can be used may be easily regulated, and if not raised above a dull red heat secondary haemorrhage rarely follows its employment. . In removing superficial growths, such as a carcinoma of the vulva, it can be used at a higher temperature. It then arrests the parenchymatous oozing, but leaves the large vessels spouting, so that they can easily be secured by ligature. When used at this temperature it cuts more quickly and cleanly, and chars the tissues more superficially, and leaves a surface on which a scarcely appreciable layer of slough is formed. One great disadvantage in the use of the cautery is that the charring of the divided tissues prevents the detection of fragments of an infiltrating tumour which have escaped removal. The Ligature is now never used except for pedunculated growths or for naevi. It was formerly applied to small epitheliomata of the tongue, but the presence of the foul sloughing tumour in the mouth was not only unpleasant but a positive source of danger to the patient. When the ligature is applied, the part, having been well insulated, and eficctually strangled by a stout whip- cord ligature, sloughs and separates in a few days. A modification known as the elastic ligature was introduced into practice by Dittel some years ago. It consists of a thin band of india-rubber, which is tied round the mass to be removed, and gradually tightened as it cuts its way through. It is possible that such a means may be useful in certain small pedunculated growths, which dry on being strangled ; but its application to large tumours, as of the breast, is simply a revival of medieval barbarism with the aid of modern appliances. The slowness of its action, the pain as it cuts through, the large wound that is left, the foetor from the necrosed tumour, and the chance of septic infection from this cause, all tend to make it a method that should be avoided whenever the knife can be employed. Far more tedious, and certainly not safer than the knife, it is also inferior to caustics, which at all events arrest putrefaction, and many of which, as chloride of zinc have a powerful antiseptic action.