420 ARREST OF ARTERIAL HjEMORRHAGE. thumb. Thus, in amputation at the hip or shoulder joint, the assistant readily controls the rush of blood from the femoral or axillary artery by graspino- them between his fingers. Above all, the Surgeon should never dread h£emorrhage, nor lose his presence of mind when it occurs. If recourse be had to proper means, it can always be, at least temporarily, arrested. On no account should anyone who pretends to the character of a Surgeon employ inefficient means to stop it, and imagine that he can, by covering up the wound with rass, handkerchiefs, &c., prevent the escape of blood. These procedures only hide the loss that is going on, and, by increasing the warmth of the parts, prevent the contraction of the vessels, and favour the continuance of the bleed- ing. Under all circumstances, therefore, bleeding wounds should be opened up" the coao-ula gently removed from their surface by means of a piece of soft sponge or a stream of cold water, and the part well cleaned. In this way "you look your enemy in the face," and can adopt efficient means for the permanent arrest of the hgemorrhage. The methods of controlKng the flow of blood temporarily by digital com- pression and by the various forms of tourniquet have been fully described on p 45 et seq. It is usually necessary to have recourse to some of these during the application of means intended to produce permanent arrest of the bleeding. The screw tourniquet and digital compression will usually be found the most convenient, as the pressure can be rapidly relaxed, m order to guide the Surgeon to the bleeding-point, and reapplied if necessary. The different means that may be employed for the permanent arrest of haemorrhage are : 1, The Application of Cold ; 2, the Application of Hot AVater ; 3^ Styptics ; 4, Cauterisation with a Hot Iron : 5, Pressure ; 6, Flexion ; 7, Torsion ; 8, Forcipressure ; 9, Ligature ; and 10, Acupressure. 1 Application of Cold is sufficient to arrest the general oozing of arterial blood which is always observed on a cut surface. The mere exposure to the cold air of a wound, which has bled freely so long as it has been covered up by pledgets and bandages, is often sufficient. When this does not succeed, the application of a piece of lint, soaked in cold water, will usually arrest the flow of blood In cases of bleeding into some of the cavities of the body, as the rectum, vagina, or mouth, the application of ice is advantageous Its use should not, however, be too long continued, lest sloughmg occur. Indeed, it cold do not speedily arrest the bleeding, it is better to have recourse to more efficient means. 2 The Application of Hot Water is a most valuable means of arrest- ino-oozing during or immediately after an operation. It is especially useful inVrations about the face and trunk in which it is impossible to adopt any bloodless method of operating, and yet in which it is important that the view of the operator should not be obscured by persistent oozing of blood. It im- mediately arrests the free bleeding from small vessels which follows the removal of Esmarch's bandage. This mode of treatment was introduced m America m 1879 by Hamilton, Brown, and Hunter. Hamilton apphed water at a tem- perature of between 150° F. and 160° F., by means of sponges, held in forceps. Brown recommended washing the whole wound with water of the same temperature Hunter applied the water at a lower temperature, 125° F. to 130° F which can just be endured by the Surgeon's hands. All these plans act very well, and although the heat is sufficient to whiten the surface of a divided muscle, no evil consequence results, and union by first intention is