APPLICATIOX OF THE LIGATURE. 429 applied so slackly as merely to compress the artery, in order to avoid too great a degree of pressure at any one point ; and the artery was denuded, so that a spatula could be passed under it. Although in his subsequent operations Hunter contented himself with employing but one hgature, yet sometimes the vein was included in this ; and he did not draw the noose tight for fear of injuring the coats of the vessel, in accordance with the doctrine of the day- Surgeons generally at this time being haunted by the dread of injuring, and thereby weakening, the coats of the artery ; and, in order to avoid doing so, they adopted modes of treatment that almost infallibly led to ulceration of the vessels and consecutive heemorrhage. The employment of several ligatures of reserve, applied slack, the use of broad tapes, the interposition of plugs of cork, wood, agaric, or lead, or of rolls of lint or plaster, between the thread and the vessel, were some amongst the plans that were in common use. And how can we be surprised that the patients perished of hemorrhage, and that ligature of the vessel was nearly as inefficient and fatal a means of arresting l)leeding as the use of a cautery, or of a button of white vitriol ? Jones, by a series of admirably conducted investigations on living animals, showed that the very point which Surgeons were anxious to avoid—the division of the coats of the vessel by the tightening of the noose—was that on which the patient's safety depended ; he also pointed out the form and size of liga- ture that was most safe, the degree of force with which it should be applied, and the processes adopted by Nature for the occlusion of the vessel. Thus a more rational practice was introduced, and then, for the first time. Surgeons had full contidence in the use of the ligature. Application of the Ligature.—The mode of application of the ligature varies according as (1) the cut end of the artery has to be tied in an open wound, or as (2) the vessel has to be secured in its continuity. 1. When the divided vessel in an open wound has to be tied, as after an amputation, the mouth of the artery must be seized and drawn forwards (Fig. 129). For this purpose a tenaculum, or sharp hook, was formerly used, and answered the purpose very well. There were, however, objections to this